{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Contact Info ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 50%">'''Personal Contact Info'''
|-
| Website:
| http://www.shannonodam.com
|-
| Email:
| shannon AT theodams DOT com
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 50%">'''Social Media'''
|-
| Google+:
| <nowiki>[[http://google.com/+ShannonOdam|Shannon on Google+]]</nowiki>
|-
| Linkedin:
| <nowiki>[[https://www.linkedin.com/in/ShannonOdam|Shannon on LinkedIn]]</nowiki>
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 50%">'''Other Ways to Contact Me'''
|-
| Launchpad:
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~g-shannon|g-shannon]]</nowiki>
|}
== About Me ==
Hello.  My real name is Shannon.  I am 42 years old, and I have a BS in Information Systems.  

I have been developing software/data mining since 1996.  I have worked my way up the corporate ladder, and now I manage a team of developers for a healthcare company.  We process the Rx and Medical Claims for individuals and identify them for chronic conditions.  We manage those individuals to improve their health and help them manage their condition.

I have always been intrigued with computers since my dad bought me a <nowiki>[[http://www.obsoletecomputermuseum.org/lsr3000/|Laser 3000]]</nowiki> computer in 1986.  Later on I got a 286 IBM Clone with a 300 baud modem.  I thought it was the best thing ever to connect to my college to browse the web.  
== Why Me ==
I have been using Linux since 2006 and thought it was time for me to contribute back to the Linux community.  I have used Ubuntu, Arch, Debian, and Fedora.  I finally stopped distro hopping and picked Ubuntu Gnome as my desktop of choice. 
