{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Agathe Porte, apply for upload rights for packageset <kernel-dkms>.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Agathe Porte
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~gagath
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gagath
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==

My name is Agathe Porte. I am based near Paris. I have been a Debian Developer with full upload rights since about two years. I have joined Canonical a year ago. 

== My Ubuntu story ==

I have been using Ubuntu since I was a teenager. Kept using it because I accidentally erased the Windows that came with my very first laptop. I then distro hopped, stayed a long time on Archlinux, before settling back on Debian unstable. A new laptop arrived, the Debian kernel was not supporting it well, so I had to switch back to Ubuntu for good hardware support. The loop is complete.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
I <nowiki>[[https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=gagath|currently maintain about 40 packages in Debian]]</nowiki>.  Most of them arrive in Ubuntu in ''universe''. I did not check, but maybe some of them are also in ''main''.

I have also <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gagath/+uploaded-packages|uploaded packages in Ubuntu]]</nowiki> to fix bugs as I encounter them. They span various sections: uvtool, plymouth, xkeyboard-config, autopkgtests, ...
See also <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=agathe.porte%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email|my ubuntu-sponsorship page]]</nowiki>.

=== Areas of work ===

* SRU bug fixes when I find them during day-to-day usage
* Uploads related to the Canonical Kernel Team
* Upload of Ubuntu-specific tooling when they do not make sense to upload in Debian first

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

I will be in charge of uploading MOFED DKMS packages to the Ubuntu archive and keep them up to date.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I recently <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sbuild/+bug/2077547|found a bug with sbuild on Ubuntu chroots without universe enabled]]</nowiki>. The problem is that one package is in universe instead of main. One solution would be to move it in main. But then all of ocaml is in main. I dislike this kind of separation between universe and main, because it can cause this kind of problems with no clear path to resolution other than "install universe". In debian everything is in main, and the problem does not occur.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
