{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Agathe Porte, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Agathe Porte
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~gagath
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gagath/
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.
* I am already a Debian Developer
* I want to help the Canonical Kernel Team with some tasks that can only be performed by coredevs

== Who I am ==

My name is Agathe Porte. I am based near Paris. I have been a Debian Developer with full upload rights since about two years.  I have joined Canonical a year ago.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I have been using Ubuntu since I was a teenager. Kept using it because I accidentally erased the Windows that came with my very first laptop. I then distro hopped, stayed a long time on Archlinux, before settling back on Debian unstable. A new laptop arrived, the Debian kernel was not supporting it well, so I had to switch back to Ubuntu for good hardware support. The loop is complete.

Working in the Kernel Team at Canonical makes me a heavy user of different build tools in Ubuntu. I find various bugs, report them and fix them using the SRU process.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I <nowiki>[[https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=gagath|currently maintain about 40 packages in Debian]]</nowiki>.  Most of them arrive in Ubuntu in ''universe''. I did not check, but maybe some of them are also in ''main''.

I have also <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gagath/+uploaded-packages|uploaded packages in Ubuntu]]</nowiki> to fix bugs as I encounter them. They span various sections: uvtool, plymouth, xkeyboard-config, autopkgtests, ...
See also <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=agathe.porte%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email|my ubuntu-sponsorship page]]</nowiki>.

=== Areas of work ===

* SRU bug fixes when I find them during day-to-day usage
* Uploads related to the Canonical Kernel Team
* Upload of Ubuntu-specific tooling when they do not make sense to upload in Debian first

=== Things I could do better ===

I will need to learn how to use the SRU exceptions for hardware enablement if I want to be able to update MOFED into oracular. 

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

I will be in charge of uploading MOFED packages to the Ubuntu archive and keep them up to date. I also plan to use my coredev rights to upload packages for other people in the kernel team if the packages are outside of the kernel team upload rights, as well as upload fixes to the bugs I encounter when using the development release myself.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I recently <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sbuild/+bug/2077547|found a bug with sbuild on Ubuntu chroots without universe enabled]]</nowiki>. The problem is that one package is in universe instead of main. One solution would be to move it in main. But then all of ocaml is in main. I dislike this kind of separation between universe and main, because it can cause this kind of problems with no clear path to resolution other than "install universe". In debian everything is in main, and the problem does not occur.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Sebastien Bacher ===

I've sponsored some plymouth updates for Agathe
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/23.360.11-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/24.004.60-1ubuntu1

The package is non trivial and Agathe did a solid job merging with Debian, refreshing the patches and adapting some of the packaging/initrd integration to be compliant with a newer systemd. She also did proper testing of the upgrade which allowed her to find a problem/ask about it/resolve it before requesting sponsoring.

I haven't worked enough with her to have an opinion on whether she understand the Ubuntu processes enough for a coredev application but I'm confident she understands package and know when to ask questions if unsure that I would trust her for upload rights.

=== James Page ===

==== General feedback ====

I've been Agathe's mentor as she works toward Core Developer membership over the last year or so.

She has great technical packaging knowledge (as demonstrated by her work in Debian and Ubuntu to date) and she has awareness of the Ubuntu cadenced release cycle and the processes that support it.

I believe she understands the limits of her knowledge at this point in time and is happy to ask for guidance or help when needed.  As such I think she is ready for upload rights to Ubuntu.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I specific sponsored a number of SRU updates to the uvtool for Agathe under this bug:

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/uvtool/+bug/2039441

Agathe used this as an opportunity to learn and execute package updates under the Ubuntu SRU process which she picked up both technically and process wise quickly.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I think Agathe has all of the right skills to be a great core developer; on the assumption that she is granted core-dev membership I would like to see her increase the breadth of her experience in Ubuntu on top of the experience she already has from working in Debian. I think she can probably do this quite rapidly :).

=== Timo Aaltonen ===

I've sponsored a handful of uploads for Agathe:

https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Timo*&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=agathe*&sponsoree_search=name

They have been of good quality and she also understood how the SRU process works. 

The kernel team is severely lacking of people with packaging skills and upload rights, so I'm all for granting uploads rights for Agathe!

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
