{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Agathe Porte, apply for upload rights for packageset <kernel-dkms>.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Agathe Porte
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~gagath
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gagath
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==

My name is Agathe Porte. I am based near Paris. I have been a Debian Developer with full upload rights since about two years. I have joined Canonical a year ago. 

== My Ubuntu story ==

I have been using Ubuntu since I was a teenager. Kept using it because I accidentally erased the Windows that came with my very first laptop. I then distro hopped, stayed a long time on Archlinux, before settling back on Debian unstable. A new laptop arrived, the Debian kernel was not supporting it well, so I had to switch back to Ubuntu for good hardware support. The loop is complete.

=== My involvement ===

I <nowiki>[[https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=gagath|currently maintain about 40 packages in Debian]]</nowiki>.  Most of them arrive in Ubuntu in ''universe''. I did not check, but maybe some of them are also in ''main''.

I have also <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gagath/+uploaded-packages|uploaded packages in Ubuntu]]</nowiki> to fix bugs as I encounter them. They span various sections: uvtool, plymouth, xkeyboard-config, autopkgtests, ...
See also <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=agathe.porte%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email|my ubuntu-sponsorship page]]</nowiki>.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

The work detailed below is specific to the DKMS packageset. For a global overview of my work see the pages listed in the previous section.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Type'''
| '''Sponsor'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Distribution '''
|-
| NEW
| Timo Aaltonen
| mofed-modules-24.07
| 24.07.0.6.1.0+ds1-0ubuntu2
| oracular-release
|-
| SRU
| Timo Aaltonen
| mofed-modules-24.07
| 24.07.0.6.1.0+ds1-0ubuntu2.1
| oracular-updates
|-
| RM
| Timo Aaltonen
| mofed-modules-24.07
| 24.07.0.6.1.0+ds1-0ubuntu2
| plucky-release
|-
| NEW (SRU)
| Timo Aaltonen
| mofed-modules-24.10
| 24.10.0.7.0.0+ds1-0ubuntu1~24.10.1
| oracular-updates
|-
| update
| Timo Aaltonen
| mofed-modules-24.10
| 24.10.1.1.4.0-0ubuntu2
| plucky-release
|-
| merge
| Paolo Pisati
| tp-smapi
| 0.44-1.2ubuntu1
| plucky-release
|-
| merge
| Paolo Pisati
| rapiddisk
| 9.1.0-4ubuntu1
| plucky-release
|-
| sync
| Timo Aaltonen
| vhba-module
| 20240917-1
| plucky-release
|-
| sync
| Paolo Pisati
| lttng-modules
| 2.13.16-1
| plucky-release
|-
| sync
| Timo Aaltonen
| openrazer
| 3.10.0+dfsg-1
| plucky-release
|-
| sync
| Paolo Pisati
| lenovolegionlinux
| 0.0.19+git2025-02-20.43f2ad0e+ds-0.2
| plucky-release
|-
| patch
| Paolo Pisati
| lenovolegionlinux
| 0.0.19+git2025-02-20.43f2ad0e+ds-0.2ubuntu1
| plucky-release
|-
| sync
| Timo Aaltonen
| osmocom-dahdi-linux
| 0.0~git20241003.b2ea348-4
| plucky-release
|-
| rebuild
| Paolo Pisati
| osmocom-dahdi-linux
| 0.0~git20241003.b2ea348-4build1
| plucky-release
|}

As I am already uploading DD, sometimes it is easier to directly fix packages from the DKMS packageset in Debian and ask for a sync:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Type'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Link'''
|-
| NMU upstream import + patch
| lenovolegionlinux
| 0.0.19+git2025-02-20.43f2ad0e+ds-0.2
| https://tracker.debian.org/news/1622938/accepted-lenovolegionlinux-0019git2025-02-2043f2ad0eds-01-source-amd64-all-into-unstable/
|-
| reportbug + patch
| osmocom-dahdi-linux
| 0.0~git20241003.b2ea348-3
| https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=1100050
|}

=== Areas of work ===

* SRU bug fixes when I find them during day-to-day usage
* Uploads related to the Canonical Kernel Team
* Upload of Ubuntu-specific tooling when they do not make sense to upload in Debian first

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

I will be in charge of uploading MOFED DKMS packages to the Ubuntu archive and keep them up to date.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I recently <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sbuild/+bug/2077547|found a bug with sbuild on Ubuntu chroots without universe enabled]]</nowiki>. The problem is that one package is in universe instead of main. One solution would be to move it in main. But then all of ocaml is in main. I dislike this kind of separation between universe and main, because it can cause this kind of problems with no clear path to resolution other than "install universe". In debian everything is in main, and the problem does not occur.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

=== Andy Whitcroft (apw) ===

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

==== General Feedback ====
Agathe is our internal maintainer for the Mofed DKMS packages which are part of
the `kernel-dkms` packageset.  They are also already an ubuntu-kernel-uploader
and a Debian DD.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have worked with them extensively on a number of projects (both around Ubuntu
packages and internal tooling efforts) and they have always shown a thoughtful
approach for the effect of their changes and actions.  Agathe is a diligent and
careful person with an eye for detail, whome I trust to think before they act
and to know when they are beyond their knowledge.  I have no qualms in
supporting their application for membership of the `kernel-dkms` packageset.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
While there are areas in which knowledge could be deeper on things Ubuntu
I trust them to stop and ask.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQIzBAEBCgAdFiEEPzPfI+MJemyDh9JAT/vk6S796nIFAmeGTrQACgkQT/vk6S79
6nJ24A//dCC++ZR8Lp2fOCp0QaNshRiU9NYcilEaX9ek6dQdbxpd1b28iTJGIpEl
nnaIWgo+yGJsw3rwdPZVMTYjSbb+TE9WcqWTQ0cDTArbuV6aRlz1I1qhPXQNetnq
NeqSy131EzWkABz+zo+f3T0OPtTyM7Zm+xes2nQZGyFHbIcsa1M8H0I22+XhwhPb
rOsqwQ/QbnU+wyQTsN55xA+pC4pxmgXbxubngWOJLekhTt3d/yx425A1vl7MtYOf
RgLwAgwcoWSABcFik4eVQ56ZOh1L04CWqNwSeSCd8ug8bfJ9OT/83IbducfHLdA3
PpR7Pozt6RO3yxdaoL3UA4ePHwHBFzymlHMSLDYkDq5ZU9feDXLDBezEtOzAcWzC
Id4fUozuS1MF9lX+ld898B3QRZ21ejxnUZ+Fr/BxTp83/DU/DCOATzrl3/J47b7g
UZQraj6PTA5DgLHQi+UIXpY+kLi0i21yxteFWfy5ArvOa4WDZOi8LhETZqevX40h
PxwdqsSbch7ZrYC/yMG31oGCM3pZPBf0pMR7K+SD2Xs3jl+aGOifT2dv3QQXVZq2
Ddiengoued6/8sGhV8O52rgepxptvdKeKvG8QbKacKUppIGtWByfKGJMd7bwyA9g
ylExP+xf6XdqPTNyNzWzPU0MvadhKso3ru9rIVvTpGXqANCcHGk=
=aQiA
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== Paolo Pisati (ppisati) ===

==== General feedback ====

I have uploaded multiple dkms fix-ups from Agathe. There have been some cosmetic changes needed, but nothing major.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Many. She was a huge help, and a pleasure to work with.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Can't think of anything.

=== Timo Aaltonen ===

I've sponsored a handful of uploads for Agathe:

https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Timo*&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=agathe*&sponsoree_search=name

They have been of good quality and she also understood how the SRU process works. 

Adding Agathe to kernel-dkms uploaders is the logical next step.

{{{

----
