{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/galago-in-ubuntu
* '''Created''': Thu, 08 Jun 2006 12:53:21 +0200 by DanielHolbach
* '''Contributors''': DanielHolbach, MichaelVogt
* '''Packages affected''': `libgalago`, `galago-daemon`, `libgalago-gtk`, `eds-feed`, `gaim-galago`, `galago-gtk-sharp`, `galago-sharp`, `galago-python`, `galago-gtk-python`

=== Summary ===

We want to make sure we have the latest and greatest of the Galago framework in Ubuntu. The current versions in <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/cgi-bin/search_packages.pl?suite=unstable&subword=1&exact=&arch=any&section=all&case=insensitive&keywords=galago&searchon=sourcenames|Debian]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/cgi-bin//search_packages.pl?version=dapper&subword=1&exact=&arch=any&releases=all&case=insensitive&keywords=galago&searchon=sourcenames|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> are quite old and not complete at all. Pushing them out to users will get us working closer with upstream and improve the Desktop Experience.

=== Rationale ===

<nowiki>[[http://galago-project.org/|Galago]]</nowiki> is a desktop presence framework, designed to transmit presence information between programs. It takes information on who is online and their away/idle states from an instant messenger (such as gaim) or other similar programs and lets other programs (such as Evolution) to make use of it.

=== Use cases ===

Oliver receives an e-mail from a friend who is in his buddy list. He'll be able to immediately tell their online status.

=== Scope ===

The aim of the spec is to integrate <nowiki>[[http://www.galago-project.org|Galago]]</nowiki> into Ubuntu and get it updated regularly. Once all the modules are in place we can get it tested and evaluate its usefullness for `main`

=== Design ===

The implementation of this spec just involves packaging tasks as outlined below.

=== Implementation ===

First the <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki> will merge and update the following source packages to the newest upstream version (0.5.0 on Jun 20th):
* `galago-sharp`
* `libgalago`

Then use the following source packages from Debian and update them to the newest version:
* `galago-daemon`
* `libgalago-gtk`

The next step will be to package these modules:
* `eds-feed`, 
* `gaim-galago`, 
* `galago-gtk-sharp`, 
* `galago-python`, 
* `galago-gtk-python`
 
==== Data preservation and migration ====

For evaluation purposes and for a probable period of maturing, most of the modules can stay in Universe.

=== Outstanding issues ===

None.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

None.

----
CategorySpec
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
