{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:games-for-ubuntu
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Actually, Ubuntu Linux offers a lot of posibilities for develop a game. This is very good for homebrew software, because there is a lot languajes, audio libraries, graphics libraries, network libraries, GUI libraries and so... But for the game industry this is bad, because they never know when a library comes out of support from their creators, or simply, their creators redesign it and broke the game code.
This Spec want to address this problem, offering a common denominator for develop a game that runs in Ubuntu Linux.

=== Release Note ===

The first complete release of 'GamesForUbuntu' platform/package must include an Integrated Development Environment for C/C++ languaje, the OpenGL SDK, the OpenAL SDK, the SDL SDK and a few code samples  'compile&run' compliant.
The standard end-user Ubuntu Desktop distribution don't be impacted, this will be only an add-on package that makes simpler the thing of install and configure the libraries that makes posible develop a game for Ubuntu.

=== Rationale ===

A stable development platform for games will make Ubuntu Desktop a good target for games from the game industry. With more comercial games, the Ubuntu Desktop will gain weight in the Operating Systems balance. This Spec address directly the bug #1, too.

=== Use Cases ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.radicalgames.com/|RadicalGames]]</nowiki> want to develop linux games, but his programmers is tied to Directx platform. They want a VisualStudio&Directx-like solution for develop a brand-new game for Ubuntu.

=== Assumptions ===

* The Ubuntu Desktop must have the OpenGL, OpenAL and SDL libraries installed.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
