{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

master-page:Unknown-Page
master-date:Unknown-Date

== Free and Open Source Gaming Network ==

=== Summary ===

During a conversation on IRC Brainstormed an idea to create a gaming network to connect players and developers, distribute games and content, and provide a central point for which to market FLOSS games.  

This is also planed to me a way to monetize FLOSS games to generate income for developers and content creaters to promote completion of projects.

The Platform Should Include:

1. A game lobby server that provides a rankings, achievements, and friend directories for players to use for all games connected to the network.
  a. Examples and pre-existing projects...
   i. XMPP
   i. A <nowiki>[[http://libre.fm/|Libre.fm]]</nowiki> style system
   i. <nowiki>[[http://apps.sourceforge.net/mediawiki/glou/index.php?title=Main_Page|The Glou Project]]</nowiki> (Based on MXPP)
1. A central platform to download games and content.
  a. Examples and pre-existing projects...
   i. <nowiki>[[http://en.djl-linux.org/|DJL]]</nowiki> (Based on Python)
   i. <nowiki>[[http://dustfs.zekjur.net/doc/|DustFS]]</nowiki>
  a. Game engines that provide possible integration
   i. <nowiki>[[dev.ryzom.com-projects-nel|the NeL Project]]</nowiki>
1. User-generated content (Allow users to share in the game's success).
  a. Examples and pre-existing projects...
   i. 
1. Advertising on Official Forums/Wikis/Clients

The Platform May Include:

1. A micropayment type system for user-developed content that is well integrated into the client.
  a. Examples and pre-existing projects...
   i. <nowiki>[[http://www.whirled.com/|Whirled.com]]</nowiki>
1. A subscription based model to pay for servers and other infrastructure as well as pay the developers of FLOSS Games.
