{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by Lcawte at 11:38:06 UTC.  The full logs are available
at http://meetings.touchlay.com/ubuntu-gaming.2011-06-14.log.html .

=== Meeting summary ===

''HELP:''   (Lcawte, 11:40:02)
* Website

* Goals and Values of the Ubuntu Gaming Team

* Goals

* Goals and Values of the Ubuntu Gaming Team

* Membership
''ACTION:'' Check to see if Ubuntu CoC must be signed  (Lcawte, 11:54:46)
''ACTION:'' Find out what position we are in to change goals of the team  (Lcawte, 11:55:03)
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-uk   (AlanBell, 11:59:02)
''ACTION:'' We should decide on some chairing system  (Lcawte, 12:01:40)

* Purpose of the team? Marketing/Promotion?
''ACTION:'' We do not become purely promotional  (Lcawte, 12:11:33)

* Website, Games (and Games Database)
''LINK:'' http://www.phpbb.com/   (Mkaysi, 12:21:50)
''ACTION:'' Create a games database connected to a site in the nearish future  (Lcawte, 12:28:58)
''ACTION:'' Vote on further database details at a later point  (Lcawte, 12:29:38)

* Game Servers

* Meetings

Meeting ended at 13:10:48 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* Have the team completely open
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 2

* Do we want to create a games database of some kind, either if supported games (by us) or all games we know about
   For: 3 Against: 2 Abstained: 2

* Do you think Lcawte did an ok job as chair (first attempt)
   For: 3 Against: 1 Abstained: 1

* Do we want to have some form of chair or leadership?
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 1

* Staying a purely promotion/marketing team
   For: 0 Against: 5 Abstained: 0

* Are you happy for Lcawte to continue as acting chair until a replacement is found or considered
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* Weekly - Saturdays 2PM UTC
   For: 3 Against: 1 Abstained: 1

=== Action items ===

* Check to see if Ubuntu CoC must be signed
* Find out what position we are in to change goals of the team
* We should decide on some chairing system
* We do not become purely promotional
* Create a games database connected to a site in the nearish future
* Vote on further database details at a later point

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Lcawte (150)
* MootBot-AT (100)
* Mkaysi (83)
* Core_UK (76)
* hamitron (56)
* MichealH (47)
* hakimsheriff (46)
* BigRedS (41)
* AlanBell (10)
* AndrewMC (4)
* popey (1)

=== Full Log ===

 11:38:06 <Lcawte> #startmeeting

 11:38:06 <MootBot-AT> Meeting started Tue Jun 14 11:38:06 2011 UTC.  The chair is Lcawte. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 11:38:06 <MootBot-AT> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 11:38:16 <Mkaysi> After someone starts meeting where did we left?

 11:38:59 <MichealH> Lcawte: If you want it on the wiki... I suggest re-doing

 11:39:28 <Core_UK> I do not mind restarting

 11:39:37 <Core_UK> good practice to use the bot :)

 11:39:41 <Mkaysi> Did we decide anything?

 11:39:42 <MichealH> Indeed so.

 11:39:49 <Mkaysi> #vote Restart the meeting?

 11:40:02 <Lcawte> #help

 11:40:18 <Mkaysi> <MootBot-AT> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 11:40:45 <Lcawte> Wow, I'll need some time to learn this..

 11:40:53 <MichealH> Lcawte: #chair MichealH

 11:40:57 <MichealH> I can take it from there

 11:40:58 <Lcawte> #chair MichealH

 11:40:58 <MootBot-AT> Current chairs: Lcawte MichealH

 11:41:10 <MichealH> So... We are restarting?

 11:41:14 <Lcawte> All in favour?

 11:41:14 <Core_UK> yes

 11:41:21 <Core_UK> o/

 11:41:30 <MichealH> #topic Website

 11:41:30 <MootBot-AT> TOPIC: Website

 11:41:39 <Lcawte> Really?

 11:41:50 <Lcawte> (The agenda is not in order)

 11:41:56 <MichealH> Oh?

 11:42:09 <MichealH> What should I do first then?

 11:42:12 <Core_UK> goals was the topic

 11:42:14 <Core_UK> :)

 11:42:23 <Lcawte> #topic Goals and Values of the Ubuntu Gaming Team

 11:42:23 <MootBot-AT> TOPIC: Goals and Values of the Ubuntu Gaming Team

 11:42:23 <MichealH> #topic Goals

 11:42:23 <MootBot-AT> TOPIC: Goals

 11:42:27 <MichealH> Gah

 11:42:30 <Lcawte> lol

 11:42:30 <Core_UK> haha

 11:42:36 <MichealH> #topic Goals and Values of the Ubuntu Gaming Team

 11:42:36 <MootBot-AT> TOPIC: Goals and Values of the Ubuntu Gaming Team

 11:42:39 <MichealH> There :P

 11:42:45 <Lcawte> ok

 11:43:00 <MichealH> OOhhh The logs will be messy xD

 11:43:04 <Lcawte> Yep..

 11:43:17 <Lcawte> I'm tempted to edit into the wiki version all the old logs and clean it up a bit

 11:43:31 <Core_UK> hello AlanBell AndrewMC

 11:43:36 <Lcawte> It suddenly got busier..

 11:43:36 <AndrewMC> hello!

 11:43:53 <Core_UK> Okay so we were discussing the goals

 11:44:13 <Core_UK> the ultimate goal being to attack gamers to ubuntu?

 11:44:18 <Core_UK> attract*

 11:44:19 <Lcawte> So, does anyone remember some of the points we came up with or shall I scroll and copy/paste

 11:44:31 <Lcawte> I think that was about right

 11:44:43 <hakimsheriff> Copy and paste to be sure

 11:45:13 <hakimsheriff> Sorry im having probs with my internet

 11:45:17 <Core_UK> and the focus on foss gaming to be expanded into gaming in general

 11:45:29 <Mkaysi> hakimsheriff: No problem

 11:45:53 <Core_UK> the focus being foss but encouraging gaming in general to be beneficial and not out of the question?

 11:46:22 <Lcawte> Yep, something like that...

 11:46:25 <hakimsheriff> Correct

 11:46:41 <Lcawte> #topic Membership

 11:46:41 <MootBot-AT> TOPIC: Membership

 11:46:43 <hakimsheriff> ;)

 11:47:11 <Lcawte> Membership... Currently, membership has been open, and its been an inactive, unorganised team... I guess we still want it open, but do we want to assign supervisors to certain areas/a chair etc?

 11:47:36 <hakimsheriff> Maybe a chair team

 11:47:37 <hamitron> do we get to vote? :D

 11:47:56 <BigRedS> some figurehead would make sense

 11:48:02 <MichealH> Lcawte: To start a vote.. do #vote Thing to Vote for

 11:48:15 <MichealH> AlanBell: Crash course is full of course :)

 11:48:24 <Core_UK> Well

 11:48:37 <Lcawte> (we'll vote on goals after we've discussed this bit, just to stop that much disruption)

 11:48:51 <Mkaysi> Lcawte: Don't worry, MichealH  is always talking about crash course when someone is using meetingology clone

 11:49:02 <Core_UK> :)

 11:49:22 <MichealH> He says he has no experience with a meeting bot :P

 11:49:25 <Lcawte> I'm in favour of some sort of leadership or chairing, especially in meetings

 11:49:39 <Lcawte> MichealH: I'm mostly new to this ubuntu team stuff :P

 11:49:49 <hamitron> be useful if we have some "work" planned too

 11:49:49 <AndrewMC> ( its really not my place since I am not a team member but I have a suggestion) allow anyone to join but have a process they have to complete for them to be able to join. I am the leader of Ubuntu Youth and our process is that people make a LP page, wiki page and sign the CoC before they can get approved

 11:50:17 <Core_UK> AndrewMC: none of us are member as such, as the team has been inactive for a while (like a year+?)

 11:50:26 <MichealH> Lcawte: Im afk, when I get back I can show you the ropes or something :)

 11:50:33 <MichealH> See ya

 11:51:35 <Lcawte> AndrewMC: that made me kind of want to not join it.. that, and the mentor bit... I'm a youth and I've signed CoC and made my Wiki page... so I'm not so keen on that much of a vetting procedure...

 11:52:00 <Lcawte> And, its an open discussion, this team hasn't been active in ages, so its kind of a relaunch

 11:52:17 <Lcawte> #vote Have the team completely open

 11:52:17 <MootBot-AT> Please vote on: Have the team completely open

 11:52:17 <MootBot-AT> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 11:52:26 <hakimsheriff> I say no membership process

 11:52:33 <Lcawte> +1

 11:52:33 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Lcawte

 11:52:45 <Mkaysi> +0

 11:52:53 <hakimsheriff> +1

 11:52:53 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from hakimsheriff

 11:52:56 <hamitron> open?

 11:53:01 <BigRedS> +1

 11:53:01 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from BigRedS

 11:53:05 <AndrewMC> +0

 11:53:07 <Mkaysi> Is MootBot-AT ignoring me?

 11:53:08 <hamitron> like no hoops?

 11:53:09 <AndrewMC> 0

 11:53:09 <MootBot-AT> 0 received from AndrewMC

 11:53:10 <Lcawte> (Anyone can join / leave as they wih)

 11:53:11 <hamitron> :/

 11:53:13 <Mkaysi> 0

 11:53:13 <MootBot-AT> 0 received from Mkaysi

 11:53:15 <hamitron> +1

 11:53:15 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from hamitron

 11:53:31 <Core_UK> well

 11:53:43 <Lcawte> #voters

 11:53:43 <MootBot-AT> Current voters:

 11:53:48 <Mkaysi> AlanBell: Bug: it says  "by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel" and it's "0"

 11:53:48 <Core_UK> is it not mandatory for any ubuntu team for members to have signed the CoC?

 11:54:05 <Core_UK> +1

 11:54:05 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Core_UK

 11:54:17 <Lcawte> Hmm, maybe... I'm not sure, I know I've signed it though

 11:54:27 <Core_UK> that can be an action to find out

 11:54:30 <BigRedS> I've not signed it. I've no idea if I'm a member of ubuntu-uk

 11:54:31 <Lcawte> Yeah

 11:54:46 <Lcawte> #action Check to see if Ubuntu CoC must be signed

 11:54:46 * MootBot-AT Check to see if Ubuntu CoC must be signed

 11:55:03 <Lcawte> #action Find out what position we are in to change goals of the team

 11:55:03 * MootBot-AT Find out what position we are in to change goals of the team

 11:55:03 <Core_UK> along with defining the scope of power members in the ubuntu team have

 11:55:10 <Core_UK> yes

 11:55:14 <Core_UK> u said it already

 11:55:24 <popey> dont forget to #endvote

 11:55:29 <Lcawte> #endvote

 11:55:29 <MootBot-AT> Voting ended on: Have the team completely open

 11:55:29 <MootBot-AT> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:2

 11:55:29 <MootBot-AT> Motion carried

 11:55:31 <Core_UK> there is probably a document/wiki page outlining it - never read it myself

 11:56:31 <Lcawte> Ok, now.. what else have we got

 11:57:01 <hamitron> we voting on the CoC requirement?

 11:57:17 <Lcawte> Got to check if thats required by Ubuntu first...

 11:57:24 <hakimsheriff> I think it is

 11:57:25 <Core_UK> hamitron: we cannot as we are not sure if we have the power to do so

 11:57:27 <BigRedS> I'd guess that 'open' is now 'as open as possible'

 11:57:29 <Mkaysi> hakimsheriff: We voted for it already.

 11:57:33 <Lcawte> #vote Do we want to have some form of chair or leadership?

 11:57:33 <MootBot-AT> Please vote on: Do we want to have some form of chair or leadership?

 11:57:33 <MootBot-AT> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 11:57:35 <Mkaysi> Oh, it wasn't that.

 11:57:46 <hamitron> +1

 11:57:46 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from hamitron

 11:57:47 <Mkaysi> +1

 11:57:47 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Mkaysi

 11:57:48 <Lcawte> +1

 11:57:48 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Lcawte

 11:57:49 <BigRedS> since we might be unable to vote on whether to require CoC

 11:57:50 <Core_UK> topics not covered: website, games, database

 11:57:56 <AlanBell> BigRedS: you are, there is no CoC requirement for the LoCo

 11:57:59 <Lcawte> (going to get to them)

 11:58:01 <hakimsheriff> 0

 11:58:01 <MootBot-AT> 0 received from hakimsheriff

 11:58:05 <MichealH> +1

 11:58:05 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from MichealH

 11:58:07 <MichealH> They do it at my loco :)

 11:58:08 <BigRedS> whoo!

 11:58:11 * BigRedS revels in membership!

 11:58:22 <Core_UK> as per the wiki page Lcawte posted

 11:58:43 <Mkaysi> AlanBell: How to join LoCo? Are they open teams?

 11:58:52 <Lcawte> UK loco team is :)

 11:58:53 <AlanBell> -uk is an open team

 11:58:57 <Mkaysi> Ok

 11:59:02 <AlanBell> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-uk

 11:59:03 * Mkaysi checks is -fi open

 11:59:13 <Lcawte> Any more votes on chair?

 11:59:14 <Lcawte> #voters

 11:59:14 <MootBot-AT> Current voters:

 11:59:23 <Core_UK> +1

 11:59:23 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Core_UK

 11:59:25 <MichealH> Mkaysi: There is a Finnish one?

 11:59:31 <Mkaysi> "restricted" :(

 11:59:34 <MichealH> Lcawte: #endvote :P

 11:59:37 <Mkaysi> MichealH: I just found it

 11:59:51 <Lcawte> MichealH: why, how many  votes have we got?

 11:59:57 <Lcawte> Last vote there were 7

 12:00:08 <MichealH> It tells you when it finishes

 12:00:10 <MichealH> :p

 12:00:26 <Lcawte> Final call for votes on chair/leadership

 12:00:39 <Core_UK> AlanBell: it should give a tally to know when to #endvote :)

 12:01:18 <Lcawte> #endvote

 12:01:18 <MootBot-AT> Voting ended on: Do we want to have some form of chair or leadership?

 12:01:18 <MootBot-AT> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:1

 12:01:18 <MootBot-AT> Motion carried

 12:01:19 <AlanBell> Core_UK: the general principal is that it keeps it's mouth shut most of the time

 12:01:40 <Lcawte> #action We should decide on some chairing system

 12:01:40 * MootBot-AT We should decide on some chairing system

 12:02:00 <Lcawte> #topic Purpose of the team? Marketing/Promotion?

 12:02:00 <MootBot-AT> TOPIC: Purpose of the team? Marketing/Promotion?

 12:02:20 <Core_UK> AlanBell: I meant a command to do so

 12:02:31 <AlanBell> Core_UK: good suggestion

 12:02:36 <Lcawte> So, we're "part of the Ubuntu Marketing Team"... do we want to stay purely that?

 12:02:48 <AlanBell> the #voters command allows you to restrict the eligible voters to a small list, good for council votes with a big audience

 12:03:12 <Core_UK> I say no :)

 12:03:38 <AlanBell> do you want more games in the software centre?

 12:03:39 <Core_UK> in hindsight it can be said that did not work (as the team became inactive)

 12:03:44 <Lcawte> Any suggestions of whatelse? I know there was a gaming clan at some point

 12:04:09 <Core_UK> AlanBell: do you mean packing them like the debian-gaming team does?

 12:04:15 <Core_UK> sorry packaging*

 12:04:21 <hamitron> organised game events can certainly help keep an interest

 12:04:29 <Lcawte> Yeah...

 12:04:34 <hamitron> with different "supported" games

 12:04:43 <Core_UK> well I was going to bring that up with the website

 12:05:01 <hakimsheriff> Any idea how much before the meeting ends?

 12:05:08 <hakimsheriff> Time

 12:05:12 <Lcawte> And I was going to bring up what hamitron said with "games and database"

 12:05:29 <Lcawte> hakimsheriff: not sure.. thats why I didn't say anything in the email...

 12:05:40 <Core_UK> creating a more community approach such as, events for games, multiplayer matchs etc

 12:05:59 <hakimsheriff> Agree

 12:06:00 <Core_UK> depending on participation tournaments, achievements etc etc

 12:06:37 <Lcawte> #vote Staying a purely promotion/marketing team

 12:06:37 <MootBot-AT> Please vote on: Staying a purely promotion/marketing team

 12:06:37 <MootBot-AT> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 12:06:40 <Lcawte> -1

 12:06:40 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from Lcawte

 12:06:46 <hamitron> -1

 12:06:46 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from hamitron

 12:06:48 <Core_UK> -1

 12:06:48 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from Core_UK

 12:07:00 <BigRedS> -1

 12:07:00 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from BigRedS

 12:07:01 <Mkaysi> About that keeping this team open or not, we can't have PPAs, if this is open.

 12:07:18 <Mkaysi> -1

 12:07:18 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from Mkaysi

 12:07:34 <BigRedS> that earlier vote should perhaps have been more informed

 12:07:34 <Core_UK> Mkaysi: you mean for packages?

 12:07:41 <Mkaysi> Core_UK: Yes

 12:07:53 <MichealH> Mkaysi: Have you seen PlayDeb? :P

 12:07:53 <Lcawte> Mkaysi: we could of course, have a subteam..

 12:07:54 <Mkaysi> LaunchPad says that open teams can't have PPAs

 12:08:03 <Core_UK> well if we are organising the structure of the team, that section does not need to be open

 12:08:09 <Mkaysi> MichealH: Yes I have, and I have also seen GetDeb

 12:08:10 <Core_UK> or could be delegated

 12:08:15 <Core_UK> ahh Lcawte beat me again ><

 12:08:18 <Lcawte> Vote will run untul 5 past

 12:08:22 <Lcawte> until*

 12:08:50 <hamitron> I guess we need to decide what is been done, then tweak things when the time comes?

 12:09:05 <Mkaysi> +1

 12:09:05 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Mkaysi

 12:09:09 <Mkaysi> What?

 12:09:24 <Mkaysi> What did I vote?

 12:09:24 <Lcawte> Mkaysi: the vote was to being purely marketing

 12:09:29 <Mkaysi> -1

 12:09:29 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from Mkaysi

 12:09:32 <Lcawte> :)

 12:09:33 <hamitron> :D

 12:09:45 * Mkaysi meant to +1 that what hamitron said

 12:09:50 <Lcawte> Just a question, does anyone have much wiki experience (Ubuntu Wiki)?

 12:09:53 <Core_UK> I have never seen that playdeb before, that is really cool!

 12:10:19 <Mkaysi> Core_UK: Add GetDeb too.

 12:10:32 <Lcawte> And does anyone have anything they would like to be discussed?

 12:11:18 <Lcawte> #endvote

 12:11:18 <MootBot-AT> Voting ended on: Staying a purely promotion/marketing team

 12:11:18 <MootBot-AT> Votes for:0 Votes against:5 Abstentions:0

 12:11:18 <MootBot-AT> Motion denied

 12:11:33 <Lcawte> #action We do not become purely promotional

 12:11:33 * MootBot-AT We do not become purely promotional

 12:12:15 <Lcawte> I don't think I'm using that command right

 12:12:26 <Lcawte> #topic Website, Games (and Games Database)

 12:12:26 <MootBot-AT> TOPIC: Website, Games (and Games Database)

 12:12:45 <Lcawte> Right.. a few things, and I feel like they all clash..

 12:13:28 <Lcawte> Games Database is mainly... do we want to only support certain games, and if so, do we then build a database of info (graphics, genre of game etc)...

 12:14:20 <BigRedS> surely supporting whatever we can to start with makes more sense? A games db sounds alarminly close to replicated work

 12:14:50 <Lcawte> Yeah, its an idea I'm not huge on, but I thought I'd bring up before anyone else did

 12:14:57 <Mkaysi> Question: Where to host it? And what program it should run on? MediaWiki?

 12:15:09 <hamitron> it depends what information is there and what the overall target it

 12:15:10 <BigRedS> what's 'it'?

 12:15:15 <hamitron> is*

 12:15:26 <Lcawte> I like MediaWiki :D But that will come in next

 12:15:45 <Core_UK> yeah there is a wealth of options there

 12:15:48 <Mkaysi> And should everyone be able to edit it or just team members?

 12:16:08 <BigRedS> if it's a wiki, everyone

 12:16:08 <Core_UK> There should be a forum

 12:16:14 <BigRedS> (with a captcha)

 12:16:16 * Mkaysi has seen closed MediaWikis like http://fosssnet.info(

 12:16:18 <Lcawte> I don't know, I guess, Genre, License, PPA Support, Cost, Download Links, Awards... (database)

 12:16:38 <Lcawte> Ok, website wise...

 12:16:51 <BigRedS> Lcawte: that must exist already sans the PPA field. We should just get whoever's got that db to add a field for us :)

 12:17:27 <Mkaysi> I think that if we create a (closed) subteam, we can get PPA to launchpad

 12:17:33 <MichealH> I can do a nice website for you guys

 12:17:50 <Lcawte> I personally, am a huge fan of MediaWiki, I know a bunch of the developers, but I've worked with WordPress, Joomla and Drupal... I'm no web designer though

 12:18:04 <hamitron> would this database include just information on "supported" games? or bits of whatever people want?

 12:18:27 <Lcawte> hamitron: that comes down to a decision I'm not going to make by myself

 12:18:29 <Mkaysi> And would it include only FOSS games?

 12:18:50 <BigRedS> surely before working out which CMS or whatever to use it should be decided what the site should contain, and before that what it's for? Which would require presumably some small dedicated team?

 12:19:08 <Lcawte> hmm... good point

 12:19:20 <Core_UK> yes

 12:19:34 <Core_UK> forum with sections for each game we run events for

 12:19:47 <Core_UK> or multiplayers etc

 12:19:48 <Lcawte> I don't really think there is any point in a forum if we have a mailing list.. or vise versa..

 12:19:59 <BigRedS> It just seems that there's a lot of "we need a db and a website and I want to use wordpress and have a PPA field and index the game names" and not so much "right, what do we do?"

 12:20:06 <Lcawte> Gaming events can be announced via mailing list and say, blog

 12:20:26 <Mkaysi> Forum could be easily created with Google Groups and if we need open source forum, I'm sure that they exist.

 12:20:44 <BigRedS> yeah

 12:20:50 <Mkaysi> What forum is that which is used by Ubuntu Youth forum?

 12:20:53 <BigRedS> there's loads of oss forums

 12:21:10 <MichealH> Mkaysi: PhpBB

 12:21:20 <MichealH> Mkaysi: Ask phillw about the Details :P

 12:21:36 <BigRedS> ew

 12:21:50 <Mkaysi> http://www.phpbb.com/

 12:23:28 <Core_UK> i think gamers generally are more familiar with forums as opposed to mailing lists

 12:23:33 <Lcawte> So, I think somewhere where we can say what we do, announce things, and if we're going to be doing some promotional stuff, like screenshots, some artwork, posters etc... we should be able to share that somehow

 12:23:40 <Lcawte> Yeah

 12:24:10 <Mkaysi> hakimsheriff: We have choosed to be more than only marketing team and we are now discussing about creating game database and/or forum

 12:24:15 <MichealH> Yup

 12:24:32 <MichealH> The Minecrafters are Generally more Forum freindly, I have noticed

 12:24:32 <hakimsheriff> Great :)

 12:24:45 <Mkaysi> MichealH: Is it down?

 12:24:46 <Core_UK> forum does have to be used for announcements

 12:24:48 <BigRedS> tbh, a game database seems like a dumb idea right now

 12:24:52 <MichealH> Mkaysi: Dunno :D

 12:24:58 <Lcawte> #vote Do we want to create a games database of some kind, either if supported games (by us) or all games we know about

 12:24:58 <MootBot-AT> Please vote on: Do we want to create a games database of some kind, either if supported games (by us) or all games we know about

 12:24:58 <MootBot-AT> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 12:25:00 <Core_UK> doesn't*

 12:25:01 <Lcawte> 0

 12:25:01 <MootBot-AT> 0 received from Lcawte

 12:25:07 <Mkaysi> +1

 12:25:07 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Mkaysi

 12:25:14 <MichealH> +1

 12:25:14 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from MichealH

 12:25:20 <BigRedS> -1

 12:25:20 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from BigRedS

 12:25:24 <MichealH> Game Database about all FOSS games :D

 12:25:27 <BigRedS> Perhaps in the future, but not now

 12:25:38 <Core_UK> 0

 12:25:38 <MootBot-AT> 0 received from Core_UK

 12:25:43 <Mkaysi> hakimsheriff: voting do we create a game database +1/0/-1

 12:25:49 <hamitron> that is 2 different questions

 12:25:51 <hamitron> :/

 12:25:52 <Mkaysi> <MootBot-AT> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 12:25:53 <hakimsheriff> 0

 12:25:53 <MootBot-AT> 0 received from hakimsheriff

 12:25:56 <Mkaysi> fIL

 12:25:58 <hakimsheriff> ahh okay

 12:26:04 <Mkaysi> <MootBot-AT> Please vote on: Do we want to create a games database of some kind, either if supported games (by us) or all games we know about

 12:26:13 <Lcawte> -1

 12:26:14 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from Lcawte

 12:26:17 <Lcawte> Changed my mind...

 12:26:18 <BigRedS> -1

 12:26:18 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from BigRedS

 12:26:27 <BigRedS> hah, so the two who voted are now -1s...

 12:26:30 <hamitron> all games would be a copy of existing information

 12:26:34 <BigRedS> yeah

 12:26:43 <hamitron> +1 for supported

 12:26:47 <hamitron> +1

 12:26:47 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from hamitron

 12:26:52 <BigRedS> there's no way to do it without replicating someone else's work, and who's going to populate it initially, and then maintain it?

 12:26:56 <Lcawte> Vote ends in 2 minutes

 12:27:24 <Lcawte> website / forums etc wise, any conclusions?

 12:27:25 <hamitron> to have a list of games that don't work, or partially work would be silly

 12:28:12 <Lcawte> #endvote

 12:28:12 <MootBot-AT> Voting ended on: Do we want to create a games database of some kind, either if supported games (by us) or all games we know about

 12:28:12 <MootBot-AT> Votes for:3 Votes against:2 Abstentions:2

 12:28:12 <MootBot-AT> Motion carried

 12:28:12 <hamitron> imo, an active IRC channel is more important

 12:28:23 <MichealH> We could appoint people to maintain it

 12:28:58 <Lcawte> #action Create a games database connected to a site in the nearish future

 12:28:58 * MootBot-AT Create a games database connected to a site in the nearish future

 12:29:07 <Lcawte> Yeah, that'll go up with the website...

 12:29:38 <Lcawte> #action Vote on further database details at a later point

 12:29:38 * MootBot-AT Vote on further database details at a later point

 12:29:54 <Lcawte> Ok, so website, forum, blog, stuff..

 12:30:52 <Lcawte> Yes, gamers like forums... blog posts would be good to use occasionally... I think keep the mailing list for team discussions (like meeting announcements?)

 12:31:10 <Lcawte> and have a public list of members?

 12:31:12 <BigRedS> mailing list *and* a forum?

 12:31:39 <BigRedS> would people use both

 12:31:40 <BigRedS> ?

 12:31:48 <Mkaysi> Lcawte: Don't we already have public list of members at launchpad?

 12:31:59 <Mkaysi> BigRedS: What about IRC?

 12:32:14 <BigRedS> that's more immediate. Forums and mailing lists are very similar, for the same sorts of things

 12:32:23 <BigRedS> I prefer lists, so if there's both I'd not be on a forum

 12:32:36 <BigRedS> and I'd suggest that, while growing, one or the other would give a better sense of community

 12:32:51 <Core_UK> I think the team could organise the forum/site and have it as a meeting place for gamers to find other gamers and talk about games (ubuntu games sub-forum seems to be more support oriantaned)

 12:33:07 <BigRedS> the purpose of the site is probably a whole other meeting in its own right

 12:33:18 <Lcawte> I wouldn't use a mailing list for discussing gaming tactics and stuff, and I personally, would not use a forum for organising team events, my mail box is so much easier to navigate.. but I agree with the split community bit

 12:33:59 <hakimsheriff> I think forums would work better, even for organising team events

 12:34:13 <Core_UK> they can be announce there

 12:34:27 <hakimsheriff> everything in the forums and chatting on irc

 12:35:22 <Mkaysi> What if that same happens that is at UY forums? It's very inactive

 12:35:23 <Lcawte> Oh, and who is going to host this etc? I would of, in the past offered my LAMP server space for this, but my router seems to not like ports, and other things... Would Ubuntu be able to provide us with a subdomain or domain and hosting?

 12:36:20 <BigRedS> I can probably do some hosting. There'll be people with spare VPS space, surely?

 12:37:14 <Mkaysi> VPS?

 12:37:27 <Lcawte> Would anyone be brave enough to contact the relevant people at Ubuntu to talk about all these questions and things we've brought up?

 12:37:45 <Core_UK> I would if I knew who

 12:37:46 <hakimsheriff> I heard phillw does hosting for ubuntu teams

 12:37:58 <hakimsheriff> not sure though

 12:38:24 <Lcawte> AlanBell: who hosts the Ubuntu LoCo site, is it paid for by LoCo/any of its members?

 12:38:41 <BigRedS> Mkaysi: Virtual Private Server, it's a relatively cheap way to rent server space

 12:38:54 <Mkaysi> BigRedS: Ok

 12:39:10 <Lcawte> I wouldn't say cheap, but compared to dedicated server and stuff, yeah

 12:39:29 <BigRedS> well, relative to most sorts of hosting...

 12:39:42 <BigRedS> it's only really rent-a-~ that's cheaper isn't it?

 12:40:14 <hamitron> need a plan, before worrying about hosting it ;)

 12:40:30 <hakimsheriff> hamitron, agreed

 12:40:58 <Lcawte> I think, a nice WordPress based home page with a blog... the homepage would be static (possible) and the blog would be for announcements, with a forum of some kind intergrated?

 12:41:29 <hakimsheriff> yes, good idea

 12:41:48 <AlanBell> Lcawte: it is hosted by a community member

 12:41:57 <AlanBell> who happens to work for Canonical now

 12:42:05 <Lcawte> oh, cool

 12:42:31 <AlanBell> server space is easy to get hold of

 12:42:48 <BigRedS> yeah. working out what to do with it is the harder bit

 12:43:24 <Lcawte> Ok, so, I don't think its worth putting a vote up for that... we'll discuss that bit on the mailing list a bit more...

 12:43:29 <Lcawte> #topic Game Servers

 12:43:29 <MootBot-AT> TOPIC: Game Servers

 12:43:59 <Lcawte> An interesting bit... do we want to create official team game servers? Even just if for events?

 12:44:26 <hamitron> if there is enough interest, and someone has the resources: yes :)

 12:44:47 <Lcawte> resources, at the start of this is going to be a problem

 12:44:59 <hamitron> some games don't take much

 12:44:59 <Lcawte> I'd love to see a nice community minecraft server btw :P

 12:45:03 <Lcawte> And openttd

 12:45:11 * hamitron pokes popey

 12:45:14 <Core_UK> yeah

 12:45:15 <BigRedS> isn't there one already?

 12:45:27 <Core_UK> there are some linux based servers

 12:45:29 <hakimsheriff> Minecraft servers can even be hosted on someones computer

 12:45:32 <Core_UK> such as linux rebals

 12:45:39 <Core_UK> rebels*

 12:45:50 <Core_UK> openttd can be hosted on a computer also

 12:45:57 <Lcawte> Yeah, cool games

 12:46:11 <Lcawte> Minecraft (client) is a RAM hog though

 12:46:15 <hamitron> bandwidth is the biggest problem for some games

 12:46:15 <Core_UK> warzone doesnt need a server dont think

 12:46:16 <BigRedS> yeah

 12:46:29 <BigRedS> it needs a good amount of ram and nothing else particularly wanting a go with it

 12:47:12 <Lcawte> Right... I have to go in a bit, any unsolved things we want to wrap up...

 12:47:18 <Lcawte> oh, right... hang on, I have one

 12:47:19 <hamitron> in my experience from other groups, choosing a game is also hard work

 12:47:40 <Lcawte> #vote Do you think Lcawte did an ok job as chair (first attempt)

 12:47:40 <MootBot-AT> Please vote on: Do you think Lcawte did an ok job as chair (first attempt)

 12:47:40 <MootBot-AT> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 12:47:42 <Lcawte> -1

 12:47:42 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from Lcawte

 12:47:49 <hamitron> 0

 12:47:49 <MootBot-AT> 0 received from hamitron

 12:47:50 <Core_UK> lol

 12:47:52 <hamitron> ;)

 12:48:00 <Core_UK> -1

 12:48:00 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from Core_UK

 12:48:02 <Mkaysi> +1

 12:48:02 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Mkaysi

 12:48:07 <Core_UK> 0

 12:48:07 <MootBot-AT> 0 received from Core_UK

 12:48:11 <Lcawte> (this one is for my own feedback more than anything)

 12:48:12 <Core_UK> +1

 12:48:12 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Core_UK

 12:48:16 <hakimsheriff> +1

 12:48:16 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from hakimsheriff

 12:48:25 <Core_UK> you had the balls to do it :P

 12:48:47 <Lcawte> (You guys can say no to this, I won't eat you)

 12:49:23 <hakimsheriff> Lcawte, I think you did a pretty good job

 12:49:40 <Lcawte> Improvements are welcome :)

 12:49:59 <Lcawte> #endvote

 12:49:59 <MootBot-AT> Voting ended on: Do you think Lcawte did an ok job as chair (first attempt)

 12:49:59 <MootBot-AT> Votes for:3 Votes against:1 Abstentions:1

 12:49:59 <MootBot-AT> Motion carried

 12:50:27 <Lcawte> #vote Are you happy for Lcawte to continue as acting chair until a replacement is found or considered

 12:50:27 <MootBot-AT> Please vote on: Are you happy for Lcawte to continue as acting chair until a replacement is found or considered

 12:50:27 <MootBot-AT> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 12:50:37 <Mkaysi> +1

 12:50:37 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Mkaysi

 12:50:42 <hakimsheriff> +1

 12:50:42 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from hakimsheriff

 12:50:43 <Lcawte> One of you guys can have chair if you want it!

 12:50:50 <Mkaysi> MichealH: Are you willing to replace him?

 12:50:53 <hamitron> +1

 12:50:53 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from hamitron

 12:50:53 <Mkaysi> :ï¿½

 12:50:59 <Mkaysi> *:P

 12:51:11 <hakimsheriff> WHat about a chairing team?

 12:51:12 <Core_UK> +1

 12:51:12 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Core_UK

 12:51:51 <Lcawte> Eventually, I think all of you guys who are here, should make it onto a chairing team if we had one.. but at the moment, I think we're too small to have more than 2/3 people on the chair

 12:52:32 <Lcawte> #endvote

 12:52:32 <MootBot-AT> Voting ended on: Are you happy for Lcawte to continue as acting chair until a replacement is found or considered

 12:52:32 <MootBot-AT> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 12:52:32 <MootBot-AT> Motion carried

 12:52:38 <hamitron> imo, 1 is enough for now ;)

 12:52:41 <hakimsheriff> We should advertise that this team is back to get ineterest

 12:52:51 <hakimsheriff> *intrest

 12:52:59 <Lcawte> Yeah, I'm going to contact Ubuntu first... to see what we can and can't do etc

 12:53:08 <hakimsheriff> Lcawte, Great!

 12:53:25 <hamitron> I'd suggest we get things a little more focused before advertising

 12:53:41 <hamitron> can be bad to launch a "product" before it is ready

 12:53:56 <MichealH> Mkaysi: Hmm?

 12:54:01 <Core_UK> true

 12:54:03 <hamitron> I still dunno what we are aiming to do :/

 12:54:03 <Lcawte> Also, if we want to fund say, servers, how could we generate money for that? I could think of some cool tshirts but I can't produce them, or afford them :(

 12:54:13 <Mkaysi> MichealH: I thought that you wanted to chair :P

 12:54:28 <Lcawte> I'm going to tidy up the wiki a bit as well... that might help

 12:54:32 <Mkaysi> MichealH: <MootBot-AT> Voting ended on: Do you think Lcawte did an ok job as chair (first attempt)

 12:54:50 <hamitron> Lcawte: depends on the game

 12:54:51 <hakimsheriff> and send the meeting logs to the rest of the e-mail list

 12:54:52 <hamitron> :)

 12:55:10 <MichealH> Mkaysi: Lcawte: Im just doing something else atm, but yeah I want to chair

 12:55:15 <Core_UK> i can host openttd

 12:55:34 <Mkaysi> openttd?

 12:55:37 <Lcawte> hamitron: yeah, for more heavy games, or popular servers

 12:55:50 <Core_UK> Mkaysi: its a transport game

 12:55:53 <Lcawte> MichealH: I think we can work something out

 12:56:08 <Mkaysi> Core_UK: Ok. I thought that it's VPS program

 12:56:19 <Core_UK> its cool

 12:56:23 <Core_UK> really fun ^^

 12:56:29 <Lcawte> Oh, and how often are you guys happy to have meetings like this (or improved), there will still be discussion on the mailing list and things

 12:56:39 <Lcawte> OpenTTD doesn't have a Natty package :(

 12:56:50 <Core_UK> well we can package one :)

 12:57:05 <Lcawte> Yeah, Launchpad Recipes don't like me

 12:57:07 <Mkaysi> With checkinstall?

 12:57:16 <Lcawte> so I'll let you do the packaging of that

 12:57:22 * Mkaysi can package only by using checkinstall

 12:57:37 <Mkaysi> make && sudo checkinstall -D

 12:57:45 <Lcawte> #topic Meetings

 12:57:45 <MootBot-AT> TOPIC: Meetings

 12:58:10 <Mkaysi> By the way, why isn't MootBot-AT opped?

 12:58:13 <hamitron> once or twice per week imo

 12:58:29 <hakimsheriff> Since this is a restart, as soon as we get the info we need

 12:58:30 <Lcawte> Mkaysi: because I don't have any flags here

 12:58:39 <Mkaysi> Ok

 12:58:39 <Lcawte> And neither does anyone else

 12:58:55 <Lcawte> I memoed the dude with +F, he's read it (earlier today) but not done anything

 12:59:13 <Mkaysi> Suggestion: keep meeting little more early if it's possible.

 12:59:17 <Mkaysi> *meetings

 12:59:21 <hakimsheriff> after the team is fully restarted goals and everything we should have meeting every 2 weeks

 12:59:26 <hamitron> earlier?!?!?!

 12:59:34 <Mkaysi> ti 14.6.2011 23.54.01 +0300

 13:00:10 <hakimsheriff> this time or any earlier is not possible for me unless it is the weekend

 13:00:11 <Lcawte> How often shall we have them is the main thing on my mind... times, can't finish later than 23UTC ish...

 13:00:14 <Mkaysi> I'm on summer holiday so now it doesn't matter, but if I have school I might not be able to be here at 23.54 :)

 13:00:46 <hakimsheriff> ohh wait, yeah i will be availble on weekdays too

 13:00:50 <Mkaysi> Or then I just don't attend to some meetings and I'll just read the logs

 13:00:57 <hakimsheriff> at any time

 13:01:10 <Mkaysi> TIME

 13:01:43 <Mkaysi> Where is MootBot-AT hosted?

 13:01:43 <hamitron> most meetings won't be 2 hours, with 40 mins working out the bot? ;)

 13:01:51 <MichealH> Mkaysi: My server

 13:01:53 <MichealH> :P

 13:02:00 <Lcawte> Do you guys want to meet weekly, fortnightly or monthly? Not daily though lol

 13:02:00 <MichealH> Right next to me

 13:02:01 <Mkaysi> MichealH: Where is it?

 13:02:11 <Mkaysi> MichealH: -MootBot-AT- TIME Tue Jun 14 13:01:10 2011

 13:02:11 <MichealH> Mkaysi: Right next to me, as I said

 13:02:14 <hamitron> weekly +1

 13:02:20 <Core_UK> weekly is cool with me

 13:02:23 <MichealH> WTH, That can't be right :o

 13:02:27 <Mkaysi> Weekly

 13:02:33 <Mkaysi> MichealH: I think so too

 13:02:34 <hakimsheriff> I think for now, as soon as we get all the info we need, after that weekly

 13:02:46 <Lcawte> Any preference on day of the week?

 13:02:57 <Mkaysi> Saturday

 13:03:04 <hakimsheriff> Lcawte, weekends, sunday

 13:03:28 <hakimsheriff> every other staturday i am busy

 13:03:28 <MichealH> Lol its 10pM here

 13:03:31 <Mkaysi> Sunday might be little hard if some people must go to school.

 13:03:33 <MichealH> Almost

 13:03:42 <Lcawte> MichealH: United Kingdom?

 13:03:48 <Mkaysi> MichealH: Almost wednesday here

 13:03:54 <hamitron> not Thursday, Friday or Saturday

 13:03:57 <MichealH> Lcawte: Yup

 13:04:01 <hamitron> they are drinking days

 13:04:03 <hamitron> ;)

 13:04:12 <hakimsheriff> what about saturday or sunday but earlier

 13:04:14 <Lcawte> MichealH: same

 13:04:36 <MichealH> Lcawte: nICE

 13:04:36 <Lcawte> Weekends any time (except later than this on sundays)

 13:04:40 <MichealH> *Nice

 13:05:06 <hamitron> 8am UDT Saturday?

 13:05:19 <MichealH> hamitron: You meant UTC?

 13:05:22 <hamitron> yeh

 13:05:28 <hamitron> begins with U

 13:05:29 <hamitron> ;/

 13:05:41 <Mkaysi> hamitron: That would be little too early for me.

 13:05:44 <hakimsheriff> to early for me

 13:05:47 <Lcawte> I can do 8AM UTC Saturday providing its cool with people

 13:05:56 <hakimsheriff> it is 4 am my time

 13:06:02 <Mkaysi> Same here

 13:06:04 <hakimsheriff> much too early

 13:06:12 <Lcawte> how about, like 3PM UTC on Saturday?

 13:06:42 <hakimsheriff> Lcawte, 2pm utc would be better but 3 is fine

 13:06:57 <Lcawte> Yeah, 2PM UTC is good for me as well

 13:07:04 <Mkaysi> It's good to me

 13:07:22 <Lcawte> #vote Weekly - Saturdays 2PM UTC

 13:07:22 <MootBot-AT> Please vote on: Weekly - Saturdays 2PM UTC

 13:07:22 <MootBot-AT> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 13:07:25 <Lcawte> +1

 13:07:25 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Lcawte

 13:07:32 <Lcawte> (easier to track)

 13:07:32 <hamitron> 0

 13:07:32 <MootBot-AT> 0 received from hamitron

 13:07:33 <hakimsheriff> +1

 13:07:33 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from hakimsheriff

 13:07:47 <Mkaysi> +1

 13:07:47 <MootBot-AT> +1 received from Mkaysi

 13:07:51 <Core_UK> -1

 13:07:51 <MootBot-AT> -1 received from Core_UK

 13:08:06 <Lcawte> hamitron: so I'm guessing you can make it? but not sure if every week?

 13:08:10 <Mkaysi> I am in tomorrow! :D

 13:08:18 <Lcawte> Core_UK: any better times?

 13:08:18 <Mkaysi> ke 15.6.2011 00.02.53 +0300

 13:08:20 <hamitron> I should make it 20% of the time

 13:08:29 <Lcawte> :S

 13:08:39 <Core_UK> id prefer week day evenings

 13:08:51 <hamitron> weekday evenings are easier for me

 13:09:05 <hamitron> apart from Friday

 13:09:07 <Lcawte> Hmm, shall we take this to mailing list?

 13:09:12 <hamitron> hehe

 13:09:25 <hamitron> what we need is a game of UT

 13:09:26 <hakimsheriff> hamitron, weekday evenigs works for me now but in a few months i have school

 13:09:26 <Lcawte> Infact, there is a tool Wikia uses, i'll register us for that so you guys can mark down times

 13:09:32 <hamitron> last man standing decides ;D

 13:09:50 <hakimsheriff> Lcawte, Great!

 13:10:43 <Lcawte> Ok guys, thanks for coming out, I've gotta run, enjoy your sleep or whatever!

 13:10:46 <Lcawte> #endvote

 13:10:46 <MootBot-AT> Voting ended on: Weekly - Saturdays 2PM UTC

 13:10:46 <MootBot-AT> Votes for:3 Votes against:1 Abstentions:1

 13:10:46 <MootBot-AT> Motion carried

 13:10:48 <Lcawte> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
