{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
We hold monthly <nowiki>[[..-Meetings|Team Meetings]]</nowiki> as well as <nowiki>[[Tournaments|Tournaments]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Matches|Matches]]</nowiki>, and  <nowiki>[[Fundraisers|Fundraisers]]</nowiki> on a semi-regular basis.  We also do other events for advocacy, education, outreach, media, etc on an ad-hoc basis. 

You can find more information about these events by clicking on the link below:
* <nowiki>[[Tournaments|Tournaments]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Matches|Matches]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Fundraisers|Fundraisers]]</nowiki>

== Upcoming ==
Here are upcoming events we are holding or will be present at.

== Other Events ==
There are many gaming conventions and LAN parties which we may participate in. 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.quakecon.org/|QuakeCon]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://lanfest.intel.com/|Intel Lan Feses]]</nowiki> 

== Planning ==
Below are events and meetings that are in the planning stages.  
* 

== Past Events ==
=== 2009 ===
* 

== Event Calendars ==
Team Events & Meetings: 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/render?cid=u07tromdjq2f29j5spf60tro50%40group.calendar.google.com|Google Calendar (Subscribe)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=u07tromdjq2f29j5spf60tro50%40group.calendar.google.com|HTML]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/feeds/u07tromdjq2f29j5spf60tro50%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic|XML]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/ical/u07tromdjq2f29j5spf60tro50%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics|iCal]]</nowiki>
