{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Various parts of this page are out of date, as we are currently undergoing a relaunch of this team. Interested, or want to help out, check below for the next meeting!'''

The Ubuntu Gaming Team recognizes the importance of FOSS gaming for the adoption of Ubuntu and exists to give the open source gaming world a boost! Why an Ubuntu Gaming Team? This team was set up to tap into the Ubuntu community to gather FOSS gamers around promoting Ubuntu through FOSS games and FOSS games through Ubuntu. 

'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GamingTeam#Why FOSS?|FOSS Games Only!!!]]</nowiki>'''

All in accordance with the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/1.0.1|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. We are a branch of the <nowiki>[[MarketingTeam|Marketing Team]]</nowiki>. 

The Ubuntu Gaming Team does NOT do packaging, development, programming, etc. We are a strictly a marketing and advocacy effort. You may be looking for the '''<nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Games/Development|Debian Games Team]]</nowiki>''' or '''<nowiki>[[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Games/|Freedesktop Games]]</nowiki>''' 

== Mission ==
The Gaming Team strives to promote Ubuntu through FOSS games and FOSS games through Ubuntu. 

Our objectives are:
* Connect FOSS gamers on Ubuntu
* Promote FOSS gaming on Ubuntu
* Bridge the gap between users and Debian/Ubuntu Games Team or Freedesktop Games
* Assist LoCo's involved with FOSS gaming
* Help organize gaming events
* Address barriers to the development of FOSS Games
strictly from and within a marketing and advocacy standpoint. 

== Join Us ==

To join the ''Ubuntu Gaming Team'':
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-gaming
* '''IRC channel:''' <nowiki>[[http://java.freenode.net//index.php?channel=ubuntu-gaming|#ubuntu-gaming on irc.freenode.net]]</nowiki>
* '''Mailing list:''' Subscribe on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-gaming|Launchpad]]</nowiki> Mail us here: ubuntu-gaming@lists.launchpad.net View here: http://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-gaming

If you are interested in participating in this team, please scroll down to read more. 

== Getting Involved ==

The team is always looking for more people to help out. We have huge plans to bring the wonder of FOSS gaming to the world and the more people helping to do that the faster we can make progress. Please read through the pages linked to from this page to get an idea of what we are currently working on. 

See Also: ActivismHowTo

== Why FOSS? ==
This team is dedicated to the advancement Free Software and the promotion of Ubuntu and FOSS games for that. If you believe that FOSS games have no future, or, as some of our members may agree with, that proprietary software titles running natively on Ubuntu are needed, that is fine, but simply outside the scope of this team. There is not a great need for an organized effort to promote proprietary gaming on Ubuntu as such pressure on software vendors is occuring naturally and Wine development is going strong to pick up the slack. 

== Founding ==

* Inspired by: http://pinstack.blogspot.com/2009/04/linux-needs-games-games-need-you.html
* Original Announcement: http://pinstack.blogspot.com/2009/04/announcing-ubuntu-gaming-team.html

'''All Subpages:''' ---
CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryMarketing CategoryMarketing
