{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ganyani Khosa ===

I am keen on implementing Linux based server solutions. I have not been too enthusiastic about Linux Desktops until a few years ago when Ubuntu got the best of me. Ever since, I have been working to implement Ubuntu desktops first in the <nowiki>[[http:www.parliament.gov.zw|Parliament of zimbabwe]]</nowiki> and gradually to Government departments.

Coming from a training background, I am interested in facilitating the widespread use of OpenICDL in Zimbabwe.

Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) is the way to go for Zimbabwe and the bundle that comes with Ubuntu is the humane thing to do for human beings.

<nowiki>[[http://allafrica.com/stories/200909240057.html|The Zimbabwe Herald Article on Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.mail-archive.com/loco-contacts@lists.ubuntu.com/msg02194.html|Presentation to the World e-Parliament Conference 2008]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ictparliament.org/worldeparliamentconference2007/contributi/Khoza_zimbabue.pdf|Presentation to the World e-Parliament Conference 2007]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.zw/node/22|On Ubuntu Zimbabwe website]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.sadcpf.org/2009-guidelines_OSS_migration-v.03.pdf|On www.sadcpf.org website]]</nowiki>

Email: 
...

----
CategoryHomepage
