{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello. My name is Anton Kolchunov aka Garfeild. I was born in 1987. Nowaday I'm a student of Moscow State Institute of Electronics and Mathematics.  At the same time I am working as a software developer. My interest to Linux has taken beginning near 2004 year. My native language is Russian, but I know English too.

I think that the Open Source is the future. And it's a very powerful kind of programming. Today I'm interested in <nowiki>[[http://gnome.org|Gnome]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://gtk.org|GTK+]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://gentoo.org|Gentoo]]</nowiki> projects. Nowadays I'm using several Linux distribution: Ubuntu 8.04 and Gentoo.

=== My current Ubuntu activity ===
* Nowadays I'm one of moderators on <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ru|Russian Community's Forum]]</nowiki>

=== My current Ubuntu interest's ===
* First - help to make good wiki.
* Also I want make Ubuntu more popular between PC users
* Create new education program in Russia

=== Contacts ===

 Jabber ID: garfeild.ubuntu (at) gmail.com
 
 E-mail: garfeild.ubuntu (at) gmail.com

 IRC: You can find me as ''[Garfeild]'' or ''Garfeild'' on <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net|Freenode Network]]</nowiki> at ''#linux-russian'' channel

 Homepage: http://garfeild.ru
 
 Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~garfeild-ubuntu

----
CategoryHomepage
 
