{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Why I Am Abandoning Ubuntu ===

I have used Ubuntu since Jaunty. I have now reached the point where I can no longer, in all good conscience,  use it. Below are some of the reasons:

** Ridiculous Amazon/Facebook/BBC et al searches - ill-thought out and ill-implemented.

** Canonical riding roughshod over user's (read The Community's) privacy and concerns therein.

** Mark Shuttleworth: SABDFL - now becomes less tongue-in-cheek and decidedly more sinister.

** Unity.

** Lenses - get in the way and hinder me.

** HUD - I want a proper menu. If I wanted bells, whistles and shiny, shiny I'd have a Mac - and God knows I hate Apple!

** Mark Shuttleworth/Canonical have lost the plot and are no longer listening to the needs and concerns of its user base and are doing what they want regardless. This seems completely against their former ethos and smacks of Microsoft mentality - treat your customers with contempt and dictate to them how they use their software.

I have moved over to <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxmint.com|Linux Mint Debian]]</nowiki> - and how refreshing it is!

Head over and see how much more of a productive environment this distro is.

'''I doubt I will ever use Ubuntu again.'''
