{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/dolphinaura/|dolphinaura]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''carlee/dolphinaura''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Forums (carlee)''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=717412|carlee]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Forums (dolphinaura)''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1005426|dolphinaura]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|}
== About Me ==
Hi, were names are Gary and Carlee. Were both from Toronto, Canada. We discovered ubuntu during the 6.04 release, when we were looking for an alternative operating system for windows. Since then, weve both been dual booting Windows/Ubuntu.

As of December 5th, 2009, weve moved to L.A., California.
We both work as IT professionals there now.

== Stuff I do on my free time ==
We both like traveling and tinkering w/ computers.
Oh,and I forgot to mention, although small, we are in a band.

== Things I Do for the Community ==
I provide local support for Ubuntu, and regularly promote it to my classmates, friends, and the other people in my school.
Im also a frequent poster on the Ubuntu Forums and sometimes on Ubuntu Questions
I also build DEBS in my PPA for software that I find useful.
