{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



==== Informazioni personali ====

Name: Andrea Gasparini

Birthdate: 1/09/1979

Job: Developer for http://www.imavis.com

==== Contacts ====

irc: gaspa at freenode

jabber: iogaspa at gmail dot com

launchpad account: https://launchpad.net/~gaspa

=== Activities in Ubuntu ===
* I'm an active member of the Italian community: 
*** I partecipated at two Ubuntu-it Meeting, helping for the organization of the second meeting in Bologna, <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20090328|in March 2009]]</nowiki>
*** I organized and attended at the first <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoSviluppo/BugDay|Ubuntu-it bugday]]</nowiki>, where we helped in about forty bugs.
* I'm currently an Ubuntu Developer Contributor: for further purposes, I maintained a <nowiki>[[Gaspa2-BugsList|list of almost all bugs handled till Karmic releases]]</nowiki>

* From june,26th I'm part of the MOTU team.

==== Qa works: ====

** NBS page, with a list of all package that depends on nbs. At the moment the page is hosted here: <nowiki>[[http://gaspa.yattaweb.it/issues/reverse_nbs.xml]]</nowiki> and gets refreshed once a day.
** maint_upload is a script for searching informations on upload for a given ubuntu release. It can search in "changed-by" stanza or in gpg signature names of maintainer, given in form of regular expression.
** I set up also a <nowiki>[[http://gaspa.yattaweb.it/issues/edos|server]]</nowiki> that runs edos-(build)debcheck daily. The results could be found ATM only in raw plain-text.

==== Packaging from Scratch ====

** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/gedit-latex-plugin.html|Gedit-Latex-Plugin]]</nowiki>
** Smile:  <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/506920|ITP #506920]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/python-poppler| Python-pypoppler]]</nowiki>

==== Messy Notes ====

* <nowiki>[[Gaspa2-UbuntuThoughts|Raw comments]]</nowiki> on various blames heard on Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[Gaspa2-ToDo|Todolist]]</nowiki> for ubuntu related work.
* <nowiki>[[Gaspa2-Mobile|Mobile]]</nowiki> about studies on embedded supports of ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[Gaspa2-DoubleCheck]]</nowiki> contains notes about MOTU usual work.
* <nowiki>[[Gaspa2-BehMo]]</nowiki>

==== Other Projects I work for/with ====

* I'm a developer of View-OS, a process with a view: http://wiki.virtualsquare.org/index.php/Main_Page
*** I developed part of umview and I worked at the port of umview for amd64
*** I did kmview kernel module (now is device 10 231) with a great Renzo effort
* Video4Linux: i worked also with video4linux and bttv.
----
CategoryHomepage
