{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is my example /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. The only sections I changed when using the Gateway 21" LCD flat panel were the "Monitor" section, and the appropriate reference in the "Screen" section. I also added some of the higher supported resolutions to the "Screen" section, according the printed manual. The monitor section was obtained from following instructions on <nowiki>[[http://john.fremlin.de/programs/linux/read-edid/|how to read EDID information]]</nowiki> from such displays.

'''Do not use this configuration file as-is''', it's for an ATI Radeon 9500 Pro graphics card only. Look at the "Monitor" and "Device" sections and use examples from there.

<pre>

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
##### paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"v4l"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9500 Pro (R300 NE)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
	Option		"NoDDC"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
##### Block type: 2:0 3:fc
        Identifier "FPD2185W"
        VendorName "GWY"
        ModelName "FPD2185W"
##### Block type: 2:0 3:fc
##### Block type: 2:0 3:fd
        HorizSync 31-81
        VertRefresh 56-76
##### Max dot clock (video bandwidth) 160 MHz
##### Block type: 2:0 3:ff
##### DPMS capabilities: Active off:yes  Suspend:yes  Standby:yes

        Mode    "1680x1050"     # vfreq 60.003Hz, hfreq 65.344kHz
                DotClock        146.370000
                HTimings        1680 1784 1960 2240
                VTimings        1050 1056 1086 1089
                Flags   "+HSync" "+VSync"
        EndMode
##### Block type: 2:0 3:fc
##### Block type: 2:0 3:fd
##### Block type: 2:0 3:ff
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9500 Pro (R300 NE)"
	Monitor		"FPD2185W"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"

	Mode	0666
EndSection
</pre>
----
CategoryHardware
