{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

"An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest." -- Benjamin Franklin

Greetings and Salutations,

I deliver solutions to clients based on open-source technology. My professional interests center around the political, financial, and technical issues involved in the adoption of open-source into business. Other than that, all I am interested in is trying to make my wife smile.

<nowiki>[[http://www.gautier.org/identity|Adam T. Gautier (aka "Adam Gautier", "gautada")]]</nowiki>

=== Community Activity ===

* '''Forums''': <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=374940|Profile]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?do=process&showposts=0&starteronly=1&exactname=1&searchuser=gautada|Threads]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?do=finduser&u=374940|Posts]]</nowiki>
* '''Projects''': <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net/~gautada|Lanchpad]]</nowiki>

=== Networking ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntero.org/gautada|Ubuntero]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linkedin.com/in/gautada|LinkedIn]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=724628196|Facebook]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.myspace.com/gautada|Myspace]]</nowiki>

=== Projects ===

Specs and information on projects that I am interested in.

* <nowiki>[[LifeRing]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UEUtils]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[VCIO]]</nowiki>

=== Notes ===

Notes from projects, forum posts, or bug reports that get reused over time.

==== Package Delete and Reinstall ====

<pre>
%>sudo apt-get check <package name>
%>sudo apt-get remove --purge <package name>
%>sudo apt-get install <package name>
</pre>

==== MySQL ====

===== Create Database =====

<pre>
%>mysqladmin --user=root --password create [database_name]
</pre>

===== Create User =====

<pre>
%>mysql --user=root --password mysql
mysql>GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON [database_name].* TO 'monty'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '[password]' WITH GRANT OPTION;
</pre>

===== Reset Password =====

<pre>
%>sudo /etc/init.d/mysql stop
%>sudo mysqld --skip-grant-tables &
%>mysql -u root mysql
%>UPDATE user SET Password=PASSWORD('YOURNEWPASSWORD') WHERE User='root'; FLUSH PRIVILEGES; exit;
</pre>
==== Postgresql ====

===== SSL Certificates on Server =====

To setup postgresql to use SSL for connection set:
* ssl = on in postgresql.conf
* Create the server.key and server.crt files in "/var/lib/postgresql/<version>/main/"

Generate self-signed certificate for testing

<pre>
%>openssl req -new -text -out server.req
</pre>

Remove password

<pre>
%>openssl rsa -in privkey.pem -out server.key
%>rm privkey.pem
</pre>

Generate certificate:

<pre>
%>openssl req -x509 -in server.req -text -key server.key -out server.crt
%>chmod og-rwx server.key
</pre>

==== OpenSSL ====
===== Generate a Private Key =====
<pre>
%>openssl genrsa -des3 -out server.key 1024
</pre>
===== Generate a Certificate Signing Request =====
<pre>
%>openssl req -new -key server.key -out server.csr
</pre>
===== Remove Passphrase From Key =====
<pre>
%>openssl rsa -in server.key -out server.key.nocrypt
</pre>
===== Generate a Self Signed Certificate =====
<pre>
%>openssl x509 -req -years 10 -in server.csr -signkey server.key.nocrypt -out server.crt
</pre>

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsXPPrinter|Windows XP Printer]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu|Network Printing]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHomepage
