{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/gchildcare/+spec/time-management|Time Management]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': didrocks
* '''Packages affected''': gchildcare

=== Summary ===

Make accessible to different computer the same protection rules without having to redo the same action again.

=== Release Note ===

Network share profiles configuration and user association.

=== Rationale ===

In a dedicated network, people may want to only configure one time all the profiles and the association user - profile if the user has the same nickname on different hosts.

* If the 3 PC doesn't have the same filtered users, what happens?
-> proposal: a simple warning...
Some people may want that their child do not access the Internet all the time, making, for instance, their homework force and limiting the time they will chat on all instant messaging networks.

=== Use Cases ===

** Stacy has multiple computers with two users to each one (one sudoer and one for each child). She wants her configured profiles to be shared but sje is not in favor of having user - profile association to be broadcasted as there is not on all computers the same user.

** Peter has 3 computers: A, B and C. He spent a lot of time to configure his Internet filtering A pc and doesn't want to make it again for B and C, he wants to have no or limited action to copy/paste exactly the same rule, having the same user to every computers. He also wants its updated rules on cumputer B (association user - profile or profile changes) to be repercuted to the other computers as soon as they are available again on the network without any action.

=== Design ===

Relying on some frameworks like <nowiki>[[http://telepathy.freedesktop.org/wiki/|Telepathy]]</nowiki> can be a great thing here to enable such kind of configuration sharing, using last modified configuration (anyway, all profiles will be shared).

Maybe a popup can be displayed when launching (but this enforces to launch gchildcare administration GUI so that the update is completed) and this breaks case 2.

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

This feature should be as transparent as possible with no impact on the GUI appart from an import asking for enabling/denying the automatic changes in configuration. Maybe for the QT one, an export configuration option should be great.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

* Change the configuration on a computer with every cases: all profiles with the same users on both machines
* Confirm that the new configuration is imported and all linked updated
* Take the same test with unexisting user in the destination host and see that profiles and existing user only are associated
* Removing one profile linked to an user on another host.

=== Need further discussion ===

* Finishing the design as it is still in under discussion (cf update process) to make it as light and consistent as possible for the final user.
* Removing one profile linked to an user on another host. What happened? See this link to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gchildcare/Specprofile#Still%20need%20discussion|this discussion]]</nowiki>

----
CategorySpec
