{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Gediminas Paulauskas, apply for upload rights for Zope packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Gediminas Paulauskas
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~menesis
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GediminasPaulauskas
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a 29 year old software engineer from Lithuania.

I work at a small company <nowiki>[[http://pov.lt|POV]]</nowiki> that uses Python and Zope 3 to develop web applications. My job since last year is to maintain, release and package <nowiki>[[http://schooltool.org|SchoolTool]]</nowiki> and its many dependencies for Ubuntu.

Before that, I was a Java EE programmer developing proprietary web applications. See <nowiki>[[http://lt.linkedin.com/in/menesis|my LinkedIn profile]]</nowiki> for more about my work experience.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I started using Linux back in 1998 while still at school, when we were compiling 2.0.38 kernel and waiting for Debian Potato... I was active on os_linux mailing list and helped others trying to use Linux. Back then we had to solve problems with Lithuanian language support. I have fixed a few i18n bugs in GNOME, and was a co-author of gtranslator. I was the first to start translating GNOME and Mandriva into Lithuanian and was the LT translations coordinator for a few years. I have tried Mandriva or Fedora, but always came back to Debian, and switched to Ubuntu when it became available, not sure what version, since I had to use Windows or OS X at work. In 2007 I went to work for <nowiki>[[http://pov.lt|POV]]</nowiki> that uses Ubuntu on all desktops and servers.

=== My involvement ===

I am packaging and maintaining around 150 packages in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~schooltool-owners/+archive/ppa/|SchoolTool PPA]]</nowiki> for all supported Ubuntu releases. I was working on getting them <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/schooltool/+spec/schooltool-in-lucid|into Lucid]]</nowiki> through REVU but was late, so only 15 packages were added to universe. I have been filing bugs for packages already in Ubuntu and got some of them fixed. I was at <nowiki>[[UDS-M]]</nowiki> to meet the people and discuss the future of <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-maverick-zope-packages|Zope in Maverick]]</nowiki>, and they all seemed to be happy for me to become the maintainer. We also met with Edubuntu people who offered help to include <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-maverick-schooltool|SchoolTool in Maverick]]</nowiki>.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

The sheer size of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~schooltool-owners/+archive/ppa/|SchoolTool PPA]]</nowiki> makes me proud. SchoolTool is running in several schools so I know my work is production ready.

The <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/schooltool-project|SchoolTool Project]]</nowiki> pages on Launchpad are maintained by me, as well as all the releases in them. I also administer the schooltool.org server. The list of bugs <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~menesis/+assignedbugs?search=Search&field.status:list=NEW&field.status:list=CONFIRMED&field.status:list=TRIAGED&field.status:list=INPROGRESS&field.status:list=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status:list=FIXRELEASED|assigned to me]]</nowiki> has more examples what I've been working on.

=== Areas of work ===

DanielHolbach has helped me to get some Zope packages uploaded, other people that advocated <nowiki>[[http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/u/menesis|my packages in REVU]]</nowiki> were JonathanCarter, AlessioTreglia, and MatthiasKlose. I started filing needs-packaging bugs and uploading to REVU shortly before Lucid FeatureFreeze and initially did not get any reviewers, but after packages started being uploaded I did not have enough of them ready, so not much was done. Then <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~canonical-isd-team|Canonical ISD hackers]]</nowiki> have uploaded a few incompatible packages and I was trying to get them usable for SchoolTool as well, but that was not done in time for Lucid release. However we agreed with AnthonyLenton that it would be better that in the future I maintain the Zope packages.

=== Things I could do better ===

I often do not communicate enough and people do not know what I am working on. Should send updates more often and reply to emails faster.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

My goal is to become the maintainer of Zope and SchoolTool in Ubuntu, this is part of my job at the company. I will coordinate with <nowiki>[[http://pkg-zope.alioth.debian.org/|Debian Zope Team]]</nowiki>; I am a member of that team, but not a Debian Developer. If needed, will work on Zope issues upstream, I have signed the Zope Contributor Agreement; so far I have only followed the zope-dev mailing list. I will help solve bugs in other Python packages when they are important for SchoolTool and maybe I had to solve similar issues already.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I am a happy Ubuntu user for many years. The worst is PulseAudio problems that I still encounter sometimes, but this is a known problem that is being solved.

----

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Fabio Tranchitella ===
==== General feedback ====
I reviews a lot of zope packages we uploaded both in Debian and Ubuntu, and I can confirm they meet the high quality requirements set by the Debian/Ubuntu Zope Team. Gediminas is very active in maintaining the Zope packages in Ubuntu, thus I believe granting him upload rights can boost his productivity.

=== Jonathan Carter ===
==== General feedback ====

I reviewed a few of the zope packages that Gediminas uploaded to REVU. They were in good shape, and where improvements were required they were done quickly. I believe that he has the dedication required to maintain these packages.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I fully support Gediminas' request to work on Zope packages in Ubuntu. He has a good grasp of what's going on upstream, what's happening in Debian and works with all those groups. He put a lot of energy into making the required bits for School Tool available.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I reviewed a dozen of his new packages. All in good shape. Tiny changes necessary only.

=== Brian Sutherland ===
==== General feedback ====
I fully support Gediminas' application. I have reviewed a few of his packages and packaging decision and found them of a high quality and well thought out. His collaboration with the Debian Zope team in our efforts to build a solid set of basic zope related dependencies has been excellent.

He also has an solid grasp of the zope code and actively uses it in a programming environment. That is a massive plus when managing these packages.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Gediminas' providing useful comments on changes made to the zope packages maintained by the Debian Zope team: http://lists.alioth.debian.org/pipermail/pkg-zope-developers/2010-February/006214.html

==== Areas of Improvement ====
It is sometimes hard to know what he is working on or why he wants a specific change. Also I think his long term planning could have been better for the Lucid release, it takes a long time to get 150 packages uploaded (not for technical reasons).

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
