{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== PHP editing ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.micahcarrick.com/11-14-2007/gedit-symbol-browser-plugin.html|Gedit Symbol Browser plugin]]</nowiki> - for easy overview of PHP code
* <nowiki>[[http://www.stambouliote.de/projects/gedit_plugins.html|Class browser plugin]]</nowiki> - also for easy overview of PHP code

=== Windows linebreaks ===

By default gedit displays both windows and unix linebreaks properly, but it creates unix linebreaks. This can even give a resulting file with a mix of windows and unix linebreaks. It can be a problem if you e.g. want to create .bat files on linux and execute them on windows. But it's possible to convert all linebreaks in a file to windows linebreaks, by enabling the external tools plugin and using a simple script.

Script for converting all linebreaks to windows linebreaks:
<pre>

s/\r//g
s/$//g
s/$/\r/
</pre>

Script for converting all linebreaks to unix linebreaks:
<pre>

s/\r//g
s/$//g
</pre>

==== Tip ====

If you replace the two first tools from the external tools list, you can let windows linebreaks have ctrl+F8 as shortcut and let unix linebreaks have ctrl+F7 as linebreaks. That makes it easy to press ctrl+F8 and then ctrl+F9 to close the shell output window.
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
