{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

My own standard responses. For copy/paste (setup from <nowiki>[[Bugs-Responses]]</nowiki>)

These standard responses among with other amazing scripts are also available as a Firefox extension in a PPA at:

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gm-dev-launchpad/+archive/ppa|https://launchpad.net/~gm-dev-launchpad/+archive/ppa]]</nowiki>

And they can be used when replying to a bug report if it is ...

=== Closing bugs with no recent activity ===
<pre>
This bug report has been inactive for quite some time and in the meantime Ubuntu has moved along. I hope the reported problem has been resolved in the current version of Ubuntu. If it has not and there are people willing to follow up with information collecting and testing, it is best to file a new bug report with the latest Ubuntu development version (10.04 still works, but soon 10.10 is better), using the ubuntu-bug command if possible. Feel free to mention the bug number of this bug.

We are sorry that we are not always have the capacity to look at all reported bugs in a timely manner. Occasionally we have to purge old bug reports where no progress has been made. Whether it is due to the reporter not being able to respond or lack of manpower on the Ubuntu side, the reality is that after a while the attached information is outdated and it is better to close this bug report. Sorry for the inconvenience this may cause.

Here are a few general tips that will make it easier for triagers and developers to process your bug:
* Read https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Reporting
* Browse https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X and see if there is some relevant information for you problem
* Respond quickly to questions from triagers
* Try changing things to see if the behaviour changes, e.g.
** A new mainline kernel from http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/?C=M;O=D (more information at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/MainlineBuilds)
** The xorg-edgers PPA: https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa
** Various options in `/etc/X11/xorg.conf` (see `man intel`)
* Browse other bug reports to see if you find a similar one and provide the information that is being asked for there.
</pre>

=== GPU hangs in Lucid ===
This particular one is subject to update as the situation changes.
<pre>
There has been some progress upstream with respect to GPU hangs after Lucid was released. We would like to find out if this is one of those bugs or if it is still present in the latest code. In the former case we may test patches and see if it is possible to find one or more that fixes the problem. In the latter case, we will report the problem to the intel developers. 

In order to test the newer code, please add the xorg-edgers PPA [1] and the newest 2.6.35-rcX mainline kernel from [2] (see also [3]). Note that since this is very recent code it may contain other bugs. Install the package ppa-purge from xorg-edgers PPA to remove it again with the command `sudo ppa-purge -p xorg-edgers`.

If the computer still freezes with the newest code, please install the openssh-server package which enables ssh login. Add the kernel parameter drm.debug=0x02 [4]. When the computer freezes, ssh in from another computer and run the following commands (copy and paste if you want):
datestr=$(date +%Y%m%d)
mkdir dri_debug-$datestr
cd dri_debug-$datestr
intel_error_decode >intel_error_decode.txt
dmesg > dmesg.txt
cp /var/log/Xorg.0.log .

Then attach the files in dri_debug_2010MMDD (where MM and DD are month and date) to this bug report.

In Maverick we will hopefully start generating bug reports with this information automatically soon. There is some general information about this kind of bugs at [5].

[1]: https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa
[2]: http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/?C=M;O=D
[3]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/MainlineBuilds
[4]: You can bring up the boot menu by holding shift during boot. Select the kernel and press 'e' to edit the kernel command line and Ctrl+X to boot with that command line. Another way is to add it in /etc/default/grub, add it to GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT and run `sudo update grub`.
[5]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze
</pre>
