{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I'm '''Geir Ove Myhr'''. 

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gomyhr|Launchpad page]]</nowiki>

In September 2008 I reported <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/273306|bug 273306]]</nowiki> and like many other bug reporters I was disappointed that nobody was doing anything about it. 
Since the problem seemed to be too many bug reports and too few people to triage, I started triaging other xserver-xorg-video-intel bug reports.

In May 2009 I became a member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bugcontrol|Ubuntu Bug Control]]</nowiki>. I can <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors|mentor]]</nowiki> bug triagers in xserver-xorg-video-intel.

== 845G and 855GM freezes ==

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bugs?field.tag=845g%20freeze&field.tags_combinator=ALL|Open bugs with tags 845g and freeze]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bugs?field.tag=855gm%20freeze&field.tags_combinator=ALL|Open bugs with tags 855gm and freeze]]</nowiki>

=== Checklist ===
* Does it happen on the login screen? gdm or kdm?
* Does it happen when desktop effects/compositing is turned off?
* Does it help to use the kernel option acpi=off?
* Does it help to use the kernel option nomodeset?
* Get batchbuffer dumps with xorg-edgers and xorg.conf option !DebugFlushCaches

==== Links ====
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/447892/comments/23]]</nowiki>
