{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Gema Gomez-Solano
|-
| IRC
| gema
|-
| Find me in:
| freenode - #linaro
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~gema
|}
&nbsp;

=== About Me ===

I like to tinker with software and it normally breaks before I realise. I used to be a developer back in the day, but I broke more code around my components than creating great software, so a colleague back then suggested that maybe I would be more suited for QA. He was right. 

I started breaking software for a living doing security audits, which are mainly manual testing, and then moved on to do test automation for a living. I like to write test cases that are future proof, and I like to report test results in a way that they are useful for developers to be able to fix the problems. 

I am as worried about development&testing processes as I am worried about the testing itself, because good testing is normally at the heart of any good development&testing process. 

At some point I got involved in OpenStack testing and now I am a contributor to that project also.

=== Contributions ===

* Was a member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/|QA Team]]</nowiki> for 3 years.
* I started the efforts around <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting|Automated testing wiki]]</nowiki>.

==== Main projects ====
Led technically:

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/utah|Ubuntu Automation Test Harness]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/qa-dashboard|QA Dashboard]]</nowiki>

==== Reporting ====

* <nowiki>[[http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/|QA dashboard]]</nowiki> in production.

 

=== Future Goals ===

Currently working for Linaro, so my current involvement in Ubuntu is about making it work smoothly on ARM64, report bugs if necessary, keep in sync with Ubuntu. 

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 
