{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

A script to do audio performance testing on system automatically and gather all relevant data from that machine.

Use <nowiki>[[generic_vs_lowlatency_testing|generic vs lowlatency testing]]</nowiki> as inspiration.

=== Script jobs ===

* Check for prerequisites
** Check for kernels installed
** Check for user realtime privilege
* Install prerequisites
** Add PPA if needed and install -lowlatency
** Add user to audio group and overwrite /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf
* Do tests
** Choose audio interface
** Each test run uses a different frames/period, count xruns per test run 
* Produce results into text file (and perhaps send it)
** System info
** xruns per test run

'''System Info'''

* arch (i386, amd64)
* Ubuntu version
* Kernel version
* Info on chosen audio card
* /proc/interrupts (irq)
* /proc/asound/cards (audio devices)
* The output of lspci -vv |grep -A 5 -i  audio

=== User input ===

* choose audio device for the test
* maybe ask for "test name" and "run number" (to add as a suffix to test results - see below in Outputs)

=== Outputs ===
Results could be aggregated into a text file along with all the system info.  It would be nice for human readable headers to be inserted.

For example:<<BR>>
<code>Test Run on : 2011-04-14</code><<BR>>
<code>=== KERNEL ===</code><<BR>>
<code>blah, blah, blah-linux-2.6.39-PREMPT built on blah, blah, blah</code><<BR>>
<code> </code><<BR>>
<code>=== XRUNS ===</code><<BR>>
<code>3 xruns over 1.9E+0092 hours run</code><<BR>>

Additionally, if the user added a "test name" and "run number" the output file could include this.

For example:<<BR>>
<code>xruntest-scott-1.txt </code> <- would be the first test run by scott
<code>xruntest-scott-2.txt</code>  <- would be the second test run by scott

Additionally, if the user added a "run number" the output file could include this.
