{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===
==== Ubuntu Box Locations ====
Some members of the team are going to try to place some out in stores.

==== June Face to Face Meeting ====
The meeting topic will be discussed more next week.

==== NECC Event ====
No one seems to be in town for this event.  Volunteers and Computers are always needed.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<JonReagan> alright - the first topic up are the ubuntu boxes
<jsvh> fill me in, what has been going on with these?
<JonReagan> I got one in the snellville borders
<silver2> latest version?
<JonReagan> yup
<JonReagan> I went to refill it yesterday
<jsvh> very nice
<JonReagan> it was missing 7 CDs, which were taken over the past 6 days
<silver2> vg
<jsvh> very good, it seems to be popular
<silver2> how many do you have available?
<JonReagan> thx - what I was thinking, was if someone else could take a box, and go try to get it in another borders
<silver2> There is a Barnes & Noble near me
<jsvh> I could set one up
<JonReagan> I have several, but they can be made using a home printer, and heavy paper
<JonReagan> that would be great
<silver2> and a Staples
<voidmage> hey
<JonReagan> any place that we can get as a reliable place for these boxes would be good for other members looking to put a box in
<silver2> hi void
<JonReagan> hey
<JonReagan> just to catch you up, we have been talking about ubuntu boxes... I got one in a borders, so now we are looking for a second location
<silver2> I wonder if they think it'd take away from their windows business
<JonReagan> it depends on what place you go to... the borders manager said "cool" when I put the box in.... so it depends on where you go
<silver2> I can check a couple of places on Monday or Tuesday
<JonReagan> that would be awesome... just let them know you have a stand w/ free CDs that you want to give out
<silver2> k
<silver2> I work near Ga Tech also
<JonReagan> that would be a good place to put one as well
<silver2> I'll let you know if anything happens with it
<JonReagan> cool... thanks
<JonReagan> ju
<JonReagan> *just let me know what happens, everyone
<JonReagan> *stupid enter button*
<silver2> hehe
<JonReagan> so... anything else on the boxes?
<silver2> :x
<JonReagan> alright... next topic - July F2F meeting
<JonReagan> I am not sure if we have enough folks here to put that together...
<silver2> where would it be held
<voidmage> when will it be?
<JonReagan> July 7th is the planned date
<jsvh> I should be able to make it
<voidmage> I can't make it then, will be out of town
<JonReagan> I *think* I can
<jsvh> We can discuss it a future meetings also
<jsvh> a = at
<JonReagan> alright... that sounds good
<JonReagan> next topic, then?
<silver2> k
<JonReagan> NECC computing conference
<JonReagan> does anyone want to volunteer or take a computer to help w/ the conference?
<silver2> what kind of help and for how long?
<JonReagan> just helping set up.... the conference goes on for about 4 days
<JonReagan> the computer would be for setting up edubuntu on
<JonReagan> it is on the 23rd, so this is sorta last call for this kind of stuff
<JonReagan> alright... that does it for the topics... anything else on the NECC conference
<jsvh> I dont really have time to make to the NECC thing
<JonReagan> neither do I
<JonReagan> it's too bad we were unable to get a booth... that would have been really cool
<JonReagan> well... that does it for the meeting, is there anything else you all want to talk about?
</pre>
