{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Georgia LUGs (Linux User Groups) ===

==== Atlanta Linux Enthusiasts (ALE) ====
http://www.ale.org/

Meetings are held monthly at Emory University. See their web site for more information.

==== Atlanta Linux Enthusiasts (ALE) Weekly Meetup ====
http://www.meetup.com/ALE-Atlanta-Linux-Enthusiasts/

ALE-Atlanta Linux Enthusiasts meetups are held every Sunday. See Meetup site for details.

==== Classic Hackers University of Georgia Linux User Group (CHUGALUG) ====
http://www.uga.edu/chugalug/

The Linux User Group for Athens, Georgia. Meetings have traditionally been held the last Thursday of the month at 7:30pm. Meetings usually have an informative speaker on a related Linux topic, and lots of time for open discussion and help.

==== Linux Users Group at Georgia Tech (LUG@GT) ====
http://www.lugatgt.org/

Meetings are held on Georgia Tech Campus in downtown Atlanta. See their web site for more information.

==== Middle Georgia Linux User Group (MGLUG) ====
http://www.mgalug.org/

Monthly meeting are held in Macon and Warner Robins. See http://mgalug.org/event/ for more information.

==== Lowndes County Linux - Unix Enthusiasts (LCLUE) ====
http://www.lclue.org/

Meetings are held on the 2nd and 4th Saturday if each month. See their web site for more information.

==== Central Savannah River Area Linux Users Group (CSRALUG) ====
http://www.csralug.org/

See http://wiki.csralug.org/index.php/Meetings for meeting information.

==== Dublin Georgia Linux Users Group (DUGALUG) ====
http://members.tripod.com/~carrere/linux/

See web site for more information.

==== Savannah Linux User's Group (SAVLUG) ====

http://www.savlug.org/

Meetings are held the 2nd Saturday of the month in room 128 of University Hall on the Armstrong Atlantic State University campus.  Our group's interests go beyond Linux into anything open source.  See our web site for more information and http://www.armstrong.edu for a campus map and directions.

==== Augusta Linux User's Group ====

http://groups.google.com/group/augusta-linux-user-group

Meetings are held in downtown Augusta once a month. See their website for the calendar and mailing list.

==== Linux User Community in Decatur ====

http://www.meetup.com/LucidMeetup/

Monthly meetups.

==== Lanier Tech Linux User's Group ====

Meets on the Forsyth campus.

=== Distribution-specific LUGs ===

==== Georgia Ubuntu Local Community ====
http://ubuntu-georgia.org/

==== openSUSE Georgia ====
http://en.opensuse.org/Local_User_Groups/United_States/Georgia

=== Other Linux related Georgia Organizations ===

==== Free IT Athens ====
http://www.FreeITAthens.org

Free IT Athens is a group of like-minded citizens who realize that computers are a necessary component of everyday life. We believe that everyone deserves access to low-cost computer equipment and computer-related services. Our goal is to provide access to information technology resources to Athens-Clarke County residents and organizations. We also aim to create well informed advocates in free software and open information technology.

Free IT has many on going and upcoming projects. Most of which involve refurbishing older computers, installing Ubuntu on them, and returning them to the community.

Open hours are held Sundays 1-5 pm and Wednesdays 6-8 pm. Open hours are a time for people to come in to help or get help. See web site for more details.

==== Goon Squad ====
http://www.connectsavannah.com/news/archive/10851/

Goon Squad, or G-Squad, is a program of All Walks of Life Inc., a non-profit in Savannah, GA. They take donated computers and teach young people how to repair them and install Ubuntu. The computers are then distributed to low-income residents of Savannah.

==== Kantowski Foundation ====
http://www.kantowski.org/

In Atlanta. Bringing computers to children in low-income households and those with special needs.

==== Mike's Computer Club ====

In Covington. Accepting donations of old computer equipment/junk and looking for teenagers that like working with computers, or want/need a computer. Teenagers build two computers from donated equipment. Builder keeps one computer. The other one gets donated to a needy person or sold real cheap to cover expenses. For more information call (404) 496-5160

==== Students for Open Source ====
http://cs.gsu.edu/~sos

Students for Open Source is a group that promotes and supports Linux and other Open Source initiatives at Georgia State University.  We are trying to help integrate Linux, OpenOffice, Firefox, and other FOSS into the Georgia State University Community.

----
* Organizations, Feel free to correct any details. Please contact us if we have not listed your organization, or missed any details.

<nowiki>[[CategoryGeorgiaUSTeam]]</nowiki>
