{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===
=== January F2F Meeting ===
Date, time, and location for the February F2F meeting have been set.

=== Logs ===
<pre>
<heathen> herro!
<antdedyet> hiya
<heathen> hows it?
<heathen_> interesting...
<heathen_> boredandblogging: ping
<antdedyet> good.
<antdedyet> heathen_: you?
<nomasteryoda> oy!
<nomasteryoda> i wiped a windows vista dell box and put ubuntu gutsy on it... man its way nice now
<boredandblogging> hello
<boredandblogging> nomasteryoda: awesome
<boredandblogging> hi
<kevinf311-lap> hello
<boredandblogging> kevinf311-lap: how's life?
<kevinf311-lap> meh
<kevinf311-lap> it's going
<kevinf311-lap> you?
<boredandblogging> ehhh, could be worse I suppose
<boredandblogging> kevinf311-lap: how's school going?
<boredandblogging> hello
<JonReagan> hey everyone
<JonReagan> who's here?
<Matir> hi
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: hi
<JonReagan> hello!
<antdedyet> hey.
<JonReagan> good stuff... I'm not the only person here!
<boredandblogging> heh
<boredandblogging> how's everyone doing today?
<antdedyet> good. I was thinkng it would be nice to put together a advent ubuntu calendar in 2008.
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: thats a good idea
<JonReaga1> i'm back. stupid connection quit
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: we could put the 2 upcoming install fests on it
<boredandblogging> plus the monthly IRC and f2f meetings
<JonReaga1> ?
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: how would those fit into an advent calendar?
<boredandblogging> wait
<boredandblogging> whats an advent calendar?
<boredandblogging> thought you meant event
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: it's the countdown to Christmas
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: give me an example
<boredandblogging> because I'm confused
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: starts December 1 and goes through the 25 and every day something new can be released (details, summarized, introduced, or presented) about ubuntu or ways to do something in ubuntu, or specific features of ubuntu
<boredandblogging> ahhh
<antdedyet> it's too late this year, that's why i said 2008.
<boredandblogging> do we post this on the mailing list, wiki, site?
<antdedyet> it would normally live on a dedicate site and have many volunteer contributors
<antdedyet> er, dedicated
<boredandblogging> its a real interesting idea
<boredandblogging> JonReaga1: what do you think?
<JonReaga1> why am I signed in twice!? Anyone know how to get my other name off the channel?
<JonReaga1> oh
<JonReaga1> it sounds good to me... I like it!
<boredandblogging> so maybe we can come up some ideas of what to post
<JonReaga1> will we be doing this in 2008? that would be the 8.10 release
<antdedyet> well, there might be some very interesting new features in the next two releases of Ubuntu that we don't know until the second IF of 2008
<antdedyet> especially the stuff that might come out of UDS-type meetings
* ** ChanServ sets mode: +o boredandblogging
* ** JonReagan was kicked by boredandblogging (boredandblogging)
* ** boredandblogging sets mode: -o boredandblogging
<boredandblogging> yeah, we don't need to come up with specifics
<boredandblogging> right now
<boredandblogging> but I think if we can just come up with a list of the type of material we want to cover
<antdedyet> maybe we can introduce distinct features of ubuntu, possibly drilling down to new features in the most recent release at that time of the calednar
<boredandblogging> right
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: you want to head up this project?
<antdedyet> or old releases is good too. the first thing that comes to mind is the way to use upstart
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: sure. do we have a loco calendaring solution that will do alerts at a given time (say the first week of November in 2008 so I can ping the mailing list and get volunteers and ideas) and such?
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: we do have a general google support account, something like ubunutgeorgia@gmail.com or something that we were going to use to publish iCal, but it never went anywhere
<boredandblogging> so no
<antdedyet> is revisiting calendaring a consideration? has history shown enough potential interest for use?
<antdedyet> I can always do something personal
<antdedyet> but I was trying to avoid that. :)
<antdedyet> Should probably just do it; if you build it and it does not suck, they will come.
<antdedyet> it's enough use for me for that single project... reminder alerts alone.
<antdedyet> I'll start by checking out my personal google account
* antdedyet &s
<boredandblogging> yeah...
<boredandblogging> we should
<antdedyet> so Ubuntu 8.10 will be out next November?
<boredandblogging> 8.10 would be october
<boredandblogging> year.month
<antdedyet> oh, nikce
<tannerld> thats the versioning scheme?
<tannerld> heh
<boredandblogging> yeah, thats how it work
<boredandblogging> s
<tannerld> neato
<boredandblogging> hi SiafuLinux
<Matir> 8.04 should be nice
<SiafuLinux> Hey, sorry I'm late...
<boredandblogging> SiafuLinux: you have access to that gmail account right? the ubuntugeorgia@gmail or something
<SiafuLinux> yup
<SiafuLinux> galocosupport@gmail.com
<JonReagan> I'm back
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: let us know what kind of calendaring solution you think would be good
<boredandblogging> or what exactly the requirements are
<JonReagan> calendar?
<JonReagan> event calendar for the year?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: that would be sweet
<JonReagan> ah
<JonReagan> maybe add one to the wiki, such as events/EventSchedules
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: so you are in charge of the calendar thing and advent calendar thing in general
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: ok.
<boredandblogging> let us know what you'll need
<boredandblogging> btw, we do have the drupal site if we want to post stuff on it
<boredandblogging> or if we want to create a subdomain or other junk
<JonReagan> I forgot about that...
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: we should probably keep an EventSchedule pages as well as provide an iCal solution
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: does it do alerting?
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: drupal?
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: yeah, drupal
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: LOPSA has one that I don't think does alerting.
<JonReagan> iCal is good... how do we do that?
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: but it's an old install
<boredandblogging> ummm, don't think so, I think you need a separate calendar plugin or something
<boredandblogging> I really don't know
<boredandblogging> all i can do is create a post on drupal, thats about it
<antdedyet> JonReagan / boredandblogging: perl iCal module ... or something else.
<JonReagan> ah
<boredandblogging> ok, iCal must be a requirement, just in case we want to use something other than drupal down the road
<JonReagan> alright
<boredandblogging> or be able to have some kind of iCal output/export whatever
<JonReagan> so are we talking about a yearly calendar of events? Sorry, I'm still trying to catch up.
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: for the format yeah; an operational requirement needed is scheduled alerting
<antdedyet> JonReagan: hehe, we are talking about two things at once. 1) A yearly iCal formatted calendar solution with alerting and also the previous discussion was about 2) an advent calendar showcasing Ubuntu distinctions and the like for Christmas 2008
<JonReagan> oh... ok, thanks!
* JonReagan smart.
<boredandblogging> hi jimpop
<JonReagan> hey jimpop
<jimpop> hi
<jimpop> what'd I miss?
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> so I think antdedyet idea is good start for 2008. What else can we do?
<JonReagan> hrmmm....
<dendrobates> hey all
<JonReagan> we have been talking about calendar solutions
<boredandblogging> hi dendrobates
<JonReagan> hey dendrobates
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: you want to tell jimpop and dendrobates your idea?
<jimpop> please
<antdedyet> Sure. We are planning a 2008 advent calendar featuring Ubuntu's distinctions and features, such things as upstart and a light intro to it, plus whatever comes along in the next two releases between now and then.
<jimpop> cool
<dendrobates> cool
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: you are set with what you need to do for it?
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: yeah, I am set with a big timeline.
<boredandblogging> after the install fest josh and I were talking about maybe doing an Ubuntu presentation at high schools...
<boredandblogging> kinda showing all the eye-candy and passing out CDs for kids to try it out themselves
<JonReagan> good idea!
<jimpop> geeky guys handing out candy at highschools.... hmmm, that don't sound right.
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> heh
<SiafuLinux> lol
<JonReagan> lol
<boredandblogging> i'm wondering if it would be better if a high school student did the presentation though
<boredandblogging> more of a peer thing
<JonReagan> hrmmm...
<boredandblogging> its just a thought
<JonReagan> that would work great if I went to a high school
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: lol, right
<JonReagan> yeah...
<boredandblogging> i just don't want any parents complaining its inappropriate or something
<JonReagan> right
<jimpop> yeah, that's gonna be a problem. Someone probably should contact school Science teachers/administrators and work from that angle
<JonReagan> it's gonna be hard. I'm not sure how they handle stuff like this...
<jimpop> parents will complain... it's easier than getting involved in their kid's education ;-)
<SiafuLinux> What if you got with the teachers and then got with the geeky students who may be interested and get them around the event to help... kinda put some of the other students at ease?
<JonReagan> Boy Scouts are one thing, but an operating system hardly anyone has heard of... I dunno
<jimpop> perhaps the best first approach is to just get the word out to teachers/administrators/principals/scout-leaders/etc, that we can offer something (need to pre-define this) if they are interested
<boredandblogging> thats interesting, if maybe there is a computer club or something
<JonReagan> I can help with scout leaders... there's a computer merit badge
<antdedyet> perhaps you should hit the technical / trade schools computing classes and not general high schools
<boredandblogging> i bet the first thing someone is going to say is that Linux is communist
<SiafuLinux> That's also what I'm thinking, try to get some of the students involved and get them interested, with the support of some of the teachers. After that one can maybe hold events and such.
<JonReagan> lol!
<jimpop> RedFlag linux :-)
<SiafuLinux> lol
<JonReagan> hey siafu
<SiafuLinux> yeah?
<JonReagan> didn't know you were in... :P
<SiafuLinux> how's that?
<JonReagan> line colors for you and another guy are the same
<SiafuLinux> Ohhh :-)
<JonReagan> default in pidgin (gaim)
<SiafuLinux> Thought I had been booted without know it... ;)
<JonReagan> hehe
<SiafuLinux> *knowing
<boredandblogging> ok, so who wants to take a stab at the high school angle?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: you want to hit up the boy scouts?
<jimpop> lol
<jimpop> first I think we need to define the goals of the preso/course
<SiafuLinux> I had actually tried to get in with the schools here before... they're not too interested in my area.
<boredandblogging> jimpop: thats a good idea
<JonReagan> no problem... a couple of guys in my troop use Ubuntu as well... I could get them to help!
<boredandblogging> SiafuLinux: are there many any after school computer clubs or anything? there used to be when I was in HS
<jimpop> JonReagan: can you q&a with them to get some bullet points that we work into our preso?
<JonReagan> hehe! I'll see 'em Monday! I'll talk to them then.
<boredandblogging> ok, excellent
<SiafuLinux> boredandblogging: I need to check again. This was a little while back, but I had tried to get in touch with the "in-charge" of the computer system in our area and nothing.
<boredandblogging> SiafuLinux: sounds good
<jimpop> one thing to consider is that the "in-charge" person may not know a thing about Linux... perhaps we should offer to reach out to leaders/teachers to educate them on Ubunut
<SiafuLinux> Oh, I do have a convert to Ubuntu in my area and he's trying to get a very large Church here in Savannah involved with Ubuntu.
<jimpop> we could do regular saturday classes for educators
<JonReagan> boredandblogging: I might not be able to do the merit badge until early next year due to scheduling... there's a lot of stuff going on from this month through a little after New Years. I'm thinking late January.
<SiafuLinux> Well after this conversation I'm thinking that looking for already established groups like boredandblogging suggested is a good way to go.
<antdedyet> jimpop: good idea
<boredandblogging> there is a company that is moving atlanta schools to fedora or linux...
<boredandblogging> i wonder how they are doing training
<boredandblogging> i mean fedora or red hat
<JonReagan> atlanta schools are moving to linux?
<SiafuLinux> I wonder if they are making money... nice idea :-)
<jimpop> a couple of the guys on ALE are working on that, don't recall who they are at the moment
<boredandblogging> i remember aaron mentioning it
<JonReagan> brb
<boredandblogging> i believe there was a pilot done and now they are rolling it out, but I don't remember any specifics
<antdedyet> rpm-based distros. :(
<SiafuLinux> They need to apt-get Ubuntu :-)
<boredandblogging> http://www.linux.com/articles/55632?tid=37&tid=138
<boredandblogging> we should probably try to figure out who is rolling around out LTSP
<boredandblogging> in schools
<antdedyet> NComputing does some of that thin client stuff.
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: is that the thing aaron had at the install fest?
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: I didn't see it or meet Aaron, so I don't know.
<JonReagan> speaking of that link, there's an Ubuntu server ad on the site
<antdedyet> There are a couple more distributions, that was is based in the UK
<antdedyet> JonReagan: hehe. I got the Windows Server 2003 ad :(
<antdedyet> how does Edubuntu compare to LTSP?
<JonReagan> lol
<JonReagan> what is ltsp?
<boredandblogging> i believe edubuntu has hooks for LTSP, but I could be wrong
<boredandblogging> linux terminal server project
<JonReagan> ah
<dendrobates> edubuntu is dependant on ltsp
<boredandblogging> ok, so lets try to make contact with schools/clubs/scouts this week and talk more about the presentations next week?
<JonReagan> ok
<boredandblogging> SiafuLinux: you will try to contact places around you?
<SiafuLinux> I sure will
<boredandblogging> excellent
<boredandblogging> what else do we want to do next year?
<JonReagan> 12 F2Fs, 2 Release Parties, and 2 InstallFests
<JonReagan> that looks like the basic numbers for events
<dendrobates> There is a new Canonical employee in GA.
<JonReagan> there is?
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: oh yeah?
<dendrobates> His name is Jason Lawrencem and he works on the server team, starting monday.
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: who was the guy that you met at the vmware show?
<dendrobates> lawrence without the m
<dendrobates> Brian
<dendrobates> He is an ISV packager.
<JonReagan> ah
<boredandblogging> thats right
<dendrobates> I expect Jason will be active in the Loco.
<antdedyet> dendrobates: what's his focus on the server team?
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: excellent
<jimpop> antdedyet: hopefully getting Wifi and Dbus off of the server release :-)
<boredandblogging> lol
<dendrobates> I haven't decided for sure yet, he will start by helping mathiaz.
* jimpop understands how Server became what it is, just hope to see it improve over time.
<antdedyet> just curious ... I didn't find any references to open source for that name via google or launchpad. :)
<dendrobates> He comes from the closed source world.
<antdedyet> Ah, ok
<dendrobates> He lives in Dawsonville.
<boredandblogging> hopefully he can make it to some of the f2f meetings
<dendrobates> He was a python programmer for Secure computing in Alphjaretta.
<antdedyet> dendrobates: ah, I know where that place is. I have driven by Secure Computing on N. Point Pkwy in Alpharetta several times since moving here this year.
<dendrobates> That is it, they make security appliances using freebsd and some other tools. But like most companies, thay give nothing back.
<JonReagan> so, is there anything else we need to discuss for what we want to do next year?
<jimpop> 4th July cookout at boredandblogging's place?
<jimpop> :-)
<jimpop> wow, i thought I would get at least one laugh out of that.
<antdedyet> JonReagan: maybe we can have more input next week?
<dendrobates> I have an idea.
<JonReagan> yeah.
<JonReagan> jimpop: hahahahaa!!!
<jimpop> ty
<SiafuLinux> lol
<boredandblogging> lol
<boredandblogging> ummm
<JonReagan> I just now saw that
<dendrobates> We should collect info about ATl to convince Canonical to have UDS here next year.
<antdedyet> jimpop: Sure, if someone in Alpharetta wants to car pool by picking me up.
<dendrobates> ATL
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: that would kick ass
<antdedyet> Yep. I'd go to UDS in Atlanta.
<dendrobates> We are switching back and forth between europe and NA.
<boredandblogging> but frankly it would be more fun attending UDS in europe :-)
<boredandblogging> actually a cookout isn't a bad idea
<dendrobates> We should come up with some good reasons to have UDS Hardy+2 in Atlanta.
<boredandblogging> big honkin' airport
<jimpop> in the US, ATL is an easy city to get to ;-)
<boredandblogging> ok sightseeing with the acquarium, new world of coke
<dendrobates> jimpop: and it is cheap to fly here.
<boredandblogging> nobody better mention the underground
<JonReagan> hehe
<jimpop> ... and the aquarium has penguins ....
<boredandblogging> is it me or do a lot of whales seem be dying at the aquarium?
<jimpop> thank god Linus didn't pick beluga whales
<jimpop> ;-)
<JonReagan> lol... yeah.
<boredandblogging> can beluga whales be cuddly like tux?
<antdedyet> hrm, I wonder how we can integrate a conference with other atlanta tech groups, like atlanta perl mongers, ale, etc
<jimpop> they are sorta cute, but no tux
<JonReagan> no... unless the penguins start biting...
<dendrobates> antdedyet: that is perfect.
<boredandblogging> maybe do something like they did in portland, UDS + O'Reilly or something
<dendrobates> boredandblogging: that will be in portland every year.
<antdedyet> I know atlanta pm is looking for a meeting place since TEK Systems quit hosting
<JonReagan> pm?
<antdedyet> JonReagan: perl mongers
<antdedyet> and then I am involved with starting the local chapter of LOSPA
<antdedyet> er
<antdedyet> LOPSA
<boredandblogging> so should we get in contact with some of the local groups and see if they are interested?
<boredandblogging> maybe then present the package deal for UDS?
<dendrobates> I wouldn't yet. But the fact that they exist might benefit us.
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: so just come up with reasons to host in ATL for the moment?
<antdedyet> there's also a atl asterisk group
<dendrobates> boredandblogging: over the next year. We could get info on hotels that would be big enough, etc...
<antdedyet> ... which could put ubuntu further into the telecom market
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: maybe we can make a wiki page with all the stuff we want to do and have some kind of schedule for doing things
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> like come up with reasons to host UDS over the next couple of months, and then look at hotels after that, etc
<antdedyet> I need an espresso machine.
<boredandblogging> maybe post to the mailing list asking about good reasons for hosting here
<JonReagan> that sounds like a good plan
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: anything else on the agenda?
<JonReagan> December f2f?
<JonReagan> do we want to hold one?
<boredandblogging> why not
<boredandblogging> hopefully everyone won't be busy with christmas shopping
<JonReagan> year
<JonReagan> *yeah
<boredandblogging> 2nd saturday would next weekend
<boredandblogging> should we do athens pizza again or a different place?
<JonReagan> shoot... I won't be able to come next weekend
<boredandblogging> thinking it would be too hectic after that
<JonReagan> yeah
<dendrobates> boredandblogging: can we do something in the Dunwoody area? Or anywhere closer to me?
<dendrobates> It is a long drive from Alpharetta to Athens Pizza
<JonReagan> I don't even know where dunwoody is... :P
<dendrobates> 400 and 285
<JonReagan> oh... dang, you do have to go a good ways to get to decatur
<jimpop> There's an AP in Chamblee :-)
<JonReagan> where's chamblee?
<boredandblogging> doesn't matter to me
<dendrobates> There are Mellow Mushrooms all over, that might be nice.
<jimpop> Buford Hwy ITP
<boredandblogging> maybe something around the perimeter
<JonReagan> ah!
<boredandblogging> perimeter mall
<JonReagan> wow... I should know where all these places are... I've only been living here all my life.
<jimpop> Maggionos at Perimeter mall.... 'cept the mall is going to be packed in Dec
<JonReagan> good point
<jimpop> there's a great italian restaurant on Roswell Rd at Abernathy (Ippilitos?)
<boredandblogging> there is a mellow mushroom off roswell road
<jimpop> that too
<boredandblogging> 6100 roswell road
<boredandblogging> how about we do that?
<dendrobates> Do we know where everyone lives? Some one should write an app that uses google maps to find the best place. :)
<boredandblogging> there is a page on the wiki where we had asked people to post their addresses
<antdedyet> == dendrobates
<antdedyet> I am in Alpharetta as well, and despise driving.
<boredandblogging> or a place close to their homes
<boredandblogging> is roswell rd ok for everyone?
<dendrobates> mm on Roswell works for me.
<dendrobates> antdedyet: what part of Alpharetta?
<boredandblogging> antdedyet, jimpop, Matir, 6100 Roswell Rd ok?
<jimpop> sure.
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: lets do that then
<jimpop> We should all do Andretti Speedway in Alpharetta once
<jimpop> perhaps in the spring
<boredandblogging> jimpop: yeah, or a cookout or something
<dendrobates> jimpop: expensive but fun.
<antdedyet> dendrobates: John's Creek ... near Old Alabama Rd & Jones Bridge Rd intersection
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: yeah, that's fine with me
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: do you have a canonical credit card that we could expense stuff on? :-P
<dendrobates> antdedyet: I hate driving too, lets get Jason to pick us both up. :)
<dendrobates> boredandblogging: No.
<antdedyet> dendrobates: alright. does Jason IRC?
<boredandblogging> bummer
<JonReagan> I g2g guys... I'll check the IRC logs for details and post 'em up!
<dendrobates> antdedyet: He will soon.
<boredandblogging> what was Brian's handle?
<boredandblogging> hope he is on the mailing list
<antdedyet> awesome.
<boredandblogging> anyone have anything else they would like to discuss?
<antdedyet> does mellow mushroom have wifi?
<antdedyet> checking corp site
<boredandblogging> i would hope so
<boredandblogging> even kystals has free wifi nowadays
* ** dendrobates is now known as dendro-away
<SiafuLinux> i'm going to get going... take care
<JSVH> hi all
<boredandblogging> hi john
<antdedyet> http://developers.sun.com/events/techdays/2008/US_ATL.jsp
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: will be attending that
<JSVH> boredandblogging: were you in the meeting today?
<boredandblogging> JSVH: yeah
<JSVH> good meeting? Did future ideas get covered and all?
<boredandblogging> JSVH: yeah, it was a very good meeting, check out the logs: http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2007/12/02/%23ubuntu-georgia.html
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: you doing the Java developer stuff?
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: yeah, I do java for a living
<antdedyet> *nod* ... that's why I was able to make such a good guess.
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: I'm going for the OpenSolaris info
<boredandblogging> hi endperform
<endperform> heya boredandblogging, long time no talky :) how's things going?
<boredandblogging> endperform: not too bad? how about you? how's the baby?
<endperform> Things are well here. Baby just passed the two month mark and she's doing fine. With things settling in, I should be able to start being somewhat social again
<boredandblogging> haha
<boredandblogging> awesome man
<boredandblogging> endperform: weren't you getting hitched?
<endperform> That's in July of 08 :)
<boredandblogging> ahh, congrats
<endperform> thanks :)
* endperform hugs his dual-core desktop
<endperform> I've got some video encoding going and I'm still able to do stuff... heh
<boredandblogging> hehe
<endperform> yeah, I figured now that I got that 250GB drive into my modded Xbox, I might as well rip some of my favorite DVDs and encode em
<boredandblogging> true true

Generated by irclog2html.pl 2.1 by Jeff Waugh - find it at freshmeat.net! 
</pre>
