{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Discussion Points ===
==== Ubuntu Boxes ====
** Talked about an alternative of putting something on mailboxes. Decided against this.
** Jon updated some of the fliers.

==== Posters and stickers ====
** Discussed buying some stickers and posters that we can purchase. Still evaluating.

==== Meetup ====
** Agreed on May 5th at the Vortex in Little Five points.

    
=== Log ===
{{{
<bandb> jon, you wanna give us an update on the box?
<JonReagan> sure... I have not been able to make a prototype, it's been a CRAZY week
<bandb> thats ok
<JonReagan> I will try to get one together this week
<bandb> ok
<bandb> i'm getting some 40 CDs shipped from another LoCo this week
<JonReagan> !
<bandb> we'll need to stick some CD labels on them
<JonReagan> cool
<bandb> and put them in sleeves
<bandb> also, I'm going to order a boat load of stickers
<JonReagan> Ubuntu has sleeves avail. on their marketing page
<JonReagan> where can you get the stickers?
<bandb> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/DIYWebsite/Get/
<JonReagan> sweet
<JonReagan> I have been looking at some alternatives for the ubuntu box
<JonReagan> I was thinking maybe something to stick in mailboxes
<JonReagan> I have made some fliers, including some new ones w/ more graphics
<Corvix__> grrr ... this stupid network :-)
<Corvix__> last thing i read was about the cd-labels ...
<Corvix__> last week i designed one, as i didnt find an official label
<Corvix__> http://tim.oh7eleven.de/temp/Ubuntu-7.04-cd-orange.png
<JonReagan> wow... looks good!
<Corvix__> thanks ...
<Corvix__> and towards Burning Man: this is where it's at
<Corvix__> http://maps.google.com/?ie=UTF8&z=13&ll=40.775082,-119.230328&spn=0.080857,0.159645&t=k&om=1
<JonReagan> what is Burning man?
<jsvh> hey everyone
<bandb> hey
<JonReagan> hey
<bandb> my network connection is boing nutty
<jsvh> sorry I am late. busy week
<Corvix__> http://www.burningman.com/whatisburningman/
* ** Corvix__ is now known as Corvix
<JonReagan> thx
<bandb> i'm not sure we should be sticking anything on mailboxes
<Corvix> theres another label design with brown nackground
<Corvix> http://tim.oh7eleven.de/temp/Ubuntu-7.04-cd-brown.png
<Corvix> but thats easy to change ...
<bandb> right, we'll definitely do the CD labels stuff
<Corvix> stickers on mailboxes? isn't that rather annoying?
<bandb> I need to try printing them out and seeing how it all looks
<Corvix> those are both colors from the standard ubuntu platte ...
<JonReagan> well, maybe we could make some different colors
<Corvix> i can send you the svg for printing them ...
<JonReagan> what program did you use to make them?
<bandb> Corvix, yeah, that might be good
<Corvix> inkscape
<bandb> I'm going to order those stickers, like 1000 of them
<bandb> just cheaper that way
<Corvix> http://tim.oh7eleven.de/temp/Ubuntu-7.04-cd.svg
<bandb> and we can stick them all over the place!
<bandb> thanks Corvix
<bandb> JonReagan: you think you can keep doing the box?
<Corvix> what stickers? picture?
<bandb> http://flickr.com/photos/menza/190241486/
<bandb> i believe the small ones
<bandb> think they are called case stickers
<Corvix> isn't that the same size as those "Intel inside" stickers?
<bandb> Corvix, I believe so
<Corvix> would be good to have some stickers with www.ubuntu.com on them ...
<bandb> have you seen anyplace we can get something like that?
<Corvix> ill have a look around ... just a moment
<bandb> i think they need to have the logo on them, that just looks look and attracts attention
<Corvix> im not too shure if thats effective ... itll only work for computer people, the usual people wont recognize the logo and wont know what it is at all
<bandb> true, if we can find some big stickers, we'll try to get a hold of them
<bandb> all I ask the marketing team if there is any place to get stickers with URLs on them
<Corvix> good idea
<bandb> i was going to get some shirts with the ubuntu logo but they are bit expensive
<bandb> we'll work on that later
<bandb> is it me or are most ubuntu channels dead today
<Corvix> im just in here ... no idea
<bandb> ok, so I'll order some stickers, find out if we can find some better stickers
<bandb> JonReagan: upload the fliers so we can take a look at them and keep plugging away at the box
<bandb> ok, the meet up for next Saturday
<bandb> how about the Vortex on Peachtree?
<bandb> JonReagan: would you be able to make it?
<Corvix> yea.. id vote for vortex ..
<bandb> voidmage: can you make it?
<bandb> lordikyiky: I think you said you couldn't make it, right?
<bandb> i think heathen said he couldn't make it till 2:30 or something
<bandb> lets do the Vortex then
<Corvix> we could start later ... 1300 is a bit early anyway ..
<bandb> is 2pm better?
<Corvix> 1400 vortex sounds good to me ...
<voidmage> can't make it for next saturday
<bandb> voidmage: ok
<bandb> fignew: next saturday?
<bandb> ok, I'll send out the email for 2pm Saturday May 5th at the Vortex on Peachtree
<bandb> and I'll bug people as they come on IRC through out the week ;-)
<Corvix> anything important left? I'll get some sun then ... hope that helps with my cold ...
<bandb> no, I think thats it, we are done}}}
