{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== George Farris ==

=== George Farris ===
''I am the author of Gfax.''

'''Email'''
  george AT gmsys DOT com

'''About''' 
  I am cyurrently the System Administrator at the Cowichan Campus of Malaspina University-College, located on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada.  We have two labs of 20 computers each that all run Ubuntu Warty. I have been involved in using GNOME since pre 1.0 days.  My interests include GNOME, Linux, Ham Radio and Microcontrollers. I have used many distributions of Linux starting with SLS and going through Slackware, Caldera, Red Hat and finally Ubuntu.

'''Current Ubuntu Package'''
  I am the author of Gfax. Gfax (very old version) is currently included in Warty and Hoary universe.
  
'''Goals'''
  I would like to be able to administer Gfax and upload new versions to universe.  The current version that is included in universe is horribly outdated.  I have recently been sending packages to Jeff Waugh as he was my initial contact.  I'm sure Jeff would like to pass me on to someone else.:-)

  I also closely work with the author of Gspy and we are both interested (as hams) in updating many of the ham radio applications so they more closely fit Ubuntu.  

  The computer labs I have installed at the college all dual boot Windows and Ubuntu and authenticate to Linux servers.  Last summer I put an LDAP server in and now I have students authenticating to the LDAP server for Samba, Linux, Apache and custom forum and databse apps.  I have an interest professionally to furhter the setup and administration of centralized authentication.

'''Interests'''
* Gfax.
* Testing.
* System administration / LDAP authentication.
* Desktop Linux.
* Many Linux Ham radio apps.

'''Availability'''
  Part-time

'''MOTU Archive of my packages'''
  http://gfax.cowlug.org/motu/

----
CategoryHomepage
