{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting Points ===

==== Two New Sub-Teams ====
The idea for two new different sub-teams was discussed.  More information will be posted on the mailing list, as well as the forums.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: go ahead and cover it
<bill__> 4 11 18
<AjsNigrutin> well guys cya
<bill__> bye Ajs
<JonReagan> alright
<JonReagan> I have this idea for sub-teams
<JonReagan> and now I realize I didn't put the paper on the wiki
<boredandblogging> you want to do that?
<JonReagan> sure
<JonReagan> sry, I am having trouble typing... multitasknn
<boredandblogging> while we wait, the photos are up at http://www.flckr.com/photos/ubuntugeorgia
<boredandblogging> in the All Meetings set
<bill__> no pics came up on my screen
<pablo7> http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntugeorgia
<bill__> ah, typo
<boredandblogging> bill__: no pictures at all?
<boredandblogging> a couple of the pictures have notes with irc names identifying them
<JonReagan> Alright... I have the file uploaded
<JonReagan> nice pics, btw
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: url?
<JonReagan> it is in the /meetings page in the attachments
<JonReagan> hold on, I'll get the address
<bill__> nice pics
<JonReagan> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Meetings?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Sub-Team+Proposals.odt
<JonReagan> that should download the file to your computer
<jsvh> Good pics Nick
<JonReagan> so, here's my idea: two new teams, a marketing team and a support team
<JonReagan> just skip on down to the job requirements for the job descriptions
* JonReagan is back
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: wow, pretty detailed there
<JonReagan> well, I wanted a good descritpion... I wasn't sure if I would be able to make it to the meeting today (busy, busy, busy!)
<boredandblogging> i'm wondering if we have enough people to support it though
<JonReagan> yeah... I wasn't sure about that either
<JonReagan> there really are only 2-3 positions needed to be filled
<JonReagan> and I cand do some work on those as well
<JonReagan> *cand = can
<boredandblogging> right, so need some volunteers and motivate them to contribute
<JonReagan> yup
<JonReagan> that's about the just of it.
<boredandblogging> ok, so can we put it out ont the mailing list and forums and see if some folks are interested in helping out?
<JonReagan> sure that sounds good
<pablo7> i'm new to the LoCo, but would be willing to help with support.
<JonReagan> that would be great
<boredandblogging> pablo7: cool!
<boredandblogging> i'm thinking we probably need to do marketing first, that way when people need help the support team can kick in
<JonReagan> I hate to say this guys, but I g2g... if there are any questions about the positions or team email me at: jreagan19902gmail.com
<JonReagan> agreed
<JonReagan> sorry, wrong email... jreagan1990@gmail.com
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: later dude
<JonReagan> c'yall
<bill__> bye Jon
<boredandblogging> i think thats all we had for the agenda today
</pre>
