{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Georgia US LoCo Team ==
 
We are the Ubuntu Georgia Local Community Team, a growing group of Ubuntu enthusiasts brought together with one goal: spread Ubuntu to others!  Our team was created in early 2007.  Since then, we have held several events and face-to-face meetings. 

We have a team leader who presides over the council which is comprised of the sub-team managers.  The team leader provides the final say on subjects discussed by the council.  Our team has sub-teams that organize tasks to each team's specific purpose.

We work through individuals and organizations in the community to share Ubuntu, Linux, and Open Source with the all who we come in contact with. We have great plans for the future, and see a great opportunity in giving Ubuntu to others.

=== Key Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| 19 November 2007
|-
| '''Team Contact'''
| Joshua Chase <joshua.d.chase@gmail.com>
|-
| '''Membership'''
| 103 as of 28th May 2008
|-
| '''Mailing List'''
| ubuntu-us-ga@lists.ubuntu.com
|-
| '''IRC'''
| #ubuntu-georgia on Freenode
|-
| '''Forum'''
| http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=210
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-ga
|}

=== Roadmap ===
 
* '''Sub-Teams:''' Created sub-teams dedicated to specific team tasks, including new user support, website design and support, wiki pages, intra-team communication, new user support and education, and marketing.
** See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Meetings/2007March25]]</nowiki> for New User Sub-Team creation.
** See <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=497886]]</nowiki> for Marketing and Support Sub-Team creation.
* '''Collaboration with LUGs:''' Contact Georgia LUGs and user groups to coordinate joint events emphasizing an adoption of Ubuntu as the desktop and/or server environment of choice. We have already begun this process with the <nowiki>[[http://www.ale.org|Atlanta Linux Enthusiasts]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.freeitathens.org/|Free IT Athens]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.uga.edu/chugalug/|CHUGALUG]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.mgalug.org/|Middle Georgia LUG]]</nowiki>.
* '''Civic/Community Advocacy:''' We will provide media and strategic marketing to help further the Ubuntu into the mass market.  We will use different means to help speed the adoption of Ubuntu.  One example in action is the UbuntuBox project, where we provide CDs and additional information in CD stands in popular stores in Georgia.  So far (11/13/07), we have provided over 100 CDs to the public in only 4 months. See<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/UbuntuBox]]</nowiki> for more information.
  
=== Experience ===

* '''Communication Channels'''
** We have created and maintained our online presence and lines of communication, including a mailing list, a Georgia Team subforum, an IRC channel, and a wiki.
** As part of our communication, we hold weekly IRC meetings to plan future events and help new members get started with advocating Ubuntu.  See the <nowiki>[[GeorgiaUSTeam/Meetings|Meetings]]</nowiki> page for more information.
* '''Team Website''' 
** We have a web site maintained by community members that is a first-stop for new members of the Ubuntu community.
* '''Feisty Release Party'''
** The Feisty Fawn Release Party was done April 19th 2007
** Forum Discussion: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=407738]]</nowiki>
* '''Gutsy Gibbon InstallFest'''
** The Gutsy Gibbon InstallFest was held on Nov. 10, at Emory University.
** Wiki Page: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Events/GutsyGibbonInstallFest]]</nowiki>
** Pictures: <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntugeorgia/tags/installfest/]]</nowiki>
** Discussion Threads: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ga/2007-November/thread.html]]</nowiki>
** Forum Discussions: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=547886]]</nowiki>
* '''Face to Face meetings'''
** Face to face meetings and forum discussions:
** 05/05/07 @ The Vortex in Atlanta - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=428022]]</nowiki>
** 07/07/07 @ Rocky Mountain Pizza in Atlanta - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=487284]]</nowiki>
** 08/11/07 @ Athens Pizza House in Decatur - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=511146]]</nowiki>
** 09/15/07 @ Athens Pizza House in Decatur - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=543521]]</nowiki>
** Pictures: <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntugeorgia/sets/72157600183716106/]]</nowiki>

* '''New Team Member Support'''
** A sub-team is responsible for the welcoming of new members and assisting in helping them become active and productive advocates of Ubuntu, as well as contribute to the team as an approved member.
** Wiki Page: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/NewUser]]</nowiki>
* '''New User Support'''
** We are compiling <nowiki>[[XXXXXXX|Documentation]]</nowiki> to assist users new to Ubuntu and/or the region.

* '''Ubuntu Boxes'''
** CD holders full of Ubuntu CDs with info on Ubuntu placed in public locations
** Forum Discussion: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=443219]]</nowiki>
** Wiki Page: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/UbuntuBox]]</nowiki>
** We have set up UbuntuBoxes in the following stores:
** Snellville Borders Bookstore

* '''Gutsy Release Party and Install Fest Planning'''
** Release Party planned for October 20th
** Install Fest planned for November 10th
** Promotional Material: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3119058#post3119058]]</nowiki>

* '''Ubuntu Members'''
** <nowiki>[[NickAli|Nick Ali]]</nowiki> (BoredandBlogging)
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryGeorgiaUSTeam]]</nowiki>
