{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Description ==
This is on our on-going <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Projects|project]]</nowiki> attempting to contact news outlets (ex the AJC) about Ubuntu. Plans and documents go here.

Time frame: Have a press release ready to coinside with the release of 8.04 in April 2008.

=== Press Releases ===
==== Future Release ====

April 24, 2008 (the Internet) - ''The Ubuntu project has released the latest version of their desktop operating system, Ubuntu 8.04 Long Term Support.''

Ubuntu 8.04, codename Hardy Heron, includes several new features in this release.  One of the largest improvements is the inclusion of the Windows Ubuntu Installer available on the LiveCD menu. The Windows Ubuntu Installer runs off the LiveCD to install Ubuntu inside your Microsoft Windows file system, and allows you to dual boot Windows and Ubuntu without having to perform a full installation.  You can also uninstall Ubuntu as any other application in Windows after installed with Windows Ubuntu Installer. 

Other updates include a new version of the desktop environment, GNOME 2.22, which includes several application improvements.  The web browser, Mozilla Firefox, has also been updated to Firefox 3 Beta 5.  OpenOffice.org has also been upgraded to the latest version, 2.4.  The virtualization application KVM has also been included by default.

This release of Ubuntu is 8.04 LTS is supported for three years on the desktop and five years on the server.  Ubuntu is based on Debian, one of the most highly regarded Linux distributions, with a large package database as well as superior stability.  As a result of it's Debian base, Ubuntu is also extremely secure.  Ubuntu's release cycle is a new version every six months, with an Long Term Release (LTS) release every two years.  

Ubuntu is an ancient African word that translates roughly to “Humanity towards others.”  It is this thinking that drives Ubuntu's large community of users devoted to helping others get started with Ubuntu.  Ubuntu provides the best Open Source Software available, as well as the ease-of-use that Ubuntu is famous for delivering.

About Ubuntu:

Ubuntu has become the world's most popular Linux distribution in the past few years.  Ubuntu and all official derivatives are and always will be available for free, including long term releases.  Ubuntu is sponsored by London-based Canonical Ltd.  Free Cd's are available upon request.  You can visit Ubuntu's site at http://ubuntu.com

About the Ubuntu Georgia Local Community Team: 

We are the Ubuntu Local Community Team (Georgia LoCo). Our job is simple: provide support and promote Ubuntu and Open Source Software in the state of Georgia. We are active in the Open Source community, working with new users to ensure that they have a good experience while using Ubuntu. It is our goal to spread Ubuntu to others, giving people the best that OSS has to offer, all for free. You can visit our site at http://ubuntu-georgia.org.

Contact:

Jon Reagan - jreagan1990@gmail.com

Ubuntu Georgia LoCo Council Member

==== Current Release ====

London, October 18, 2007 – ''The Ubuntu project has released the latest version of their operating system for desktops, laptops, servers, and now mobile devices.''

	The Ubuntu project has released Ubuntu 7.10, codename Gutsy Gibbon.  The focus of this release was new features, including improvements in speed and reliability.  Compiz, the window manager that includes transparency and animated desktop switching, has been included by default in Ubuntu 7.10.  Other new features includes an all-new version of OpenOffice.org, version 2.3, with many new features including support for useful extensions available from OpenOffice.org web site.  Firefox has also been updated to the latest version with an all-new plugin browser that allows all the necessary plugins for flash, java, and others to be downloaded and installed automatically.  Printing could also not be any easier, with plug-n-play support for most printers.  Ubuntu also includes a new version of the Gnome Desktop Environment, version 2.20.  

        This release of Ubuntu is supported for 18 months, with paid support from Canonical Ltd., or with free support from the Ubuntu community.  Ubuntu is based on Debian, one of the most highly regarded Linux distributions, with a large package database as well as superior stability.  Ubuntu's release cycle is once of every six months, with an Long Term Release (LTS) release every two years.  

        Ubuntu is an ancient African word that translates roughly to “Humanity towards others.”  It is this thinking that drives Ubuntu's large community of users devoted to helping others get started with Ubuntu.  Ubuntu provides the best Open Source Software available, as well as the ease-of-use that Ubuntu is famous for delivering.  

About Ubuntu:

	Ubuntu has become the world's most popular Linux distribution in the past few years.  Ubuntu and all official derivatives are and always will be available for free, including long term releases.  Ubuntu is sponsored by London-based Canonical Ltd.  Free Cd's are available upon request.

About the Ubuntu Georgia Local Community Team: 

	We are the Ubuntu Local Community Team (Georgia LoCo). Our job is simple: provide support and promote Ubuntu and Open Source Software in the state of Georgia. We are active in the Open Source community, working with new users to ensure that they have a good experience while using Ubuntu. It is our goal to spread Ubuntu to others, giving people the best that OSS has to offer, all for free. 

John Von Hollen - jsvh84@gmail.com
Georgia LoCo Team Founder, Council Member

Jon Reagan - jreagan1990@gmail.com
Georgia LoCo Team Council Member

Nick Ali - nali@ubuntu.com
Georgia LoCo Team Council Member, Ubuntu Member

http://ubuntu-georgia.org/

=== Press Release Database ===
* <nowiki>[[/710]]</nowiki> - 7.10 Release

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryGeorgiaUSTeam]]</nowiki>
