{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===
==== August F2F Meeting ====
The August face to face meeting will be on August 11, at Athens Pizza in Decatur.  The meeting time will be 2:00pm.

==== Fixed Dates for F2F Meetings ====
All F2F meetings, unless otherwise noted, will be the second Saturday of every month.

==== Gutsy Release Party ====
Several ideas were tossed around.  More information will be made later on, closer to the release.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<JonReagan> alright... the first topic is the August F2F meeting 
<boredandblogging> lets try to nail this one down today 
<JonReagan> k 
<JonReagan> How about we start with a date? 
<boredandblogging> i can't do the 25th, any other Saturday is ok with me 
<boredandblogging> the 4th maybe to soon for some folks 
<JonReagan> the 4th isn't good for me 
<JonReagan> any other is good for me 
<JonReagan> maybe the second sat.? 
<boredandblogging> thats fine with me 
<JonReagan> the 11th 
<JonReagan> is that good w/ everyone else? 
<boredandblogging> *crickets* 
<boredandblogging> let just say the 11th unless a boat load of people complain later 
<JonReagan> lol... yeah. It's quiet 
<JonReagan> k 
<JonReagan> that sounds good 
<boredandblogging> time...lets say 2pm 
<JonReagan> that sounds good 
<boredandblogging> noon saturdays seem to be bad for people because of other plans 
<boredandblogging> ok, so location? 
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: you have suggestions? 
<JonReagan> anyone been to athens pizza in decatur.. more than pizza - greek stuff 
<JonReagan> gyros, wraps, salads, and (of coarse) pizza 
<boredandblogging> thats fine with me 
<JonReagan> they have good food. 
<jsvh> I like 
<boredandblogging> excellent 
<JonReagan> :) 
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: you want to send out something to the mailing list and post it on the forums? 
<JonReagan> sure 
<boredandblogging> with maybe a map link to the place as well 
<JonReagan> that sounds good 
<boredandblogging> alright, next 
<JonReagan> fixed date for F2F meetings 
<boredandblogging> ok, i think some of the other locos are doing this... 
<boredandblogging> basically setting the monthly meetings to the 2nd saturday or something similar 
<JonReagan> that sounds good 
<boredandblogging> so everyone knows exactly when the next meeting will be... 
<boredandblogging> sure we can change the locations, but the date and time should be set 
<boredandblogging> hey joshua 
<JonReagan> yeah... that would make it easier 
<JonReagan> hey jchase 
<f> Hi there 
<f> sorry I"m late 
<jsvh> i agree with fixed date 
<boredandblogging> is the 2nd saturday good for everyone? 
<JonReagan> it's ok, we just set a date and location for the August F2F meeting 
<JonReagan> sure 
<f> ok, when and where? 
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: add the 2nd saturday thing to your email and post 
<boredandblogging> athens pizza in decatur 
<boredandblogging> augh 11th @ 2pm 
<boredandblogging> HTSJacket: will you be able to make it? 
<JonReagan> will do 
<f> ok, cook 
<HTSJacket> will be out of town on the 11th, but will try to make the Sep. meeting 
<f> cool 
<boredandblogging> HTSJacket: sounds good 
<boredandblogging> ok, next topic 
<JonReagan> gutsy release party 
<jsvh> when does it release again? 
<boredandblogging> gutsy comes out in october 
<boredandblogging> that gives us some time 
<JonReagan> yeah 
<boredandblogging> do we want to plan something slightly big for it? 
<JonReagan> :) 
<JonReagan> you have my attention... 
<boredandblogging> on a related note, maybe we can do that press kit thing to prepare for gutsy 
<f> SOunds like a plan to explore 
<JonReagan> si... it is in progress... added some stuff into the press kit 
<f> Nick, would you be able to hook me up with where you are ordering posters from and what images you are using to ordeR? 
<boredandblogging> f: right, thats your shindig now :-) 
<f> I dunno how my name is "f" 
<f> I put it in as jchase 
<f> weird 
<boredandblogging> f: sure, lets talk about it after the meeting 
<f> sounds good 
<JonReagan> I don't know how my profile in IRC says my name is "purple" 
<boredandblogging> so I'm no party planner, anyone have any ideas what we could do for a gutsy party? 
<boredandblogging> lol 
<endperform> sorry, I fell asleep lol 
<endperform> Installfest? 
<endperform> Upgrade-fest perhaps 
<JonReagan> maybe get in a place like a store... maybe a borders 
<f> or a pub :) 
<nomasteryoda> borders would be good 
<boredandblogging> endperform: better get as much sleep as you can now, won't be getting any for a while soon :-P 
<nomasteryoda> as smugness abounds there 
<nomasteryoda> =D 
<endperform> boredandblogging: two months... trust me, I'm planning naps when I can 
<JonReagan> lol 
<boredandblogging> installfest and upgradefests sound good 
<boredandblogging> then we need to book look some kind of conference place? 
<f> we would probably want to do it someplace that would accomodate setting up computers / laptops then? 
<boredandblogging> with set up networking, power, etc, etc? 
<endperform> yeah, if we go that route 
<JonReagan> that would be good... we would have to find one somewhat cheap... many are expensive 
<f> or we could have just a launch party, wear propoganda, spread stickers / cds and what not 
<f> look like crazy people 
<JonReagan> lol 
<boredandblogging> i would hope we could get something on the Tech campus, installation over their network would be crazy fast once gutsy is in their repos 
<JonReagan> yeah... something where we could get the general public involved.... 
<JonReagan> tech may have something 
* JonReagan thinks 
<boredandblogging> f: where would be do a launch party? 
<f> Fado ' Fado' of course 
<f> :D 
<f> I don't know 
<JonReagan> lol 
<boredandblogging> f: too crowded on weekends usually 
<f> I like the idea of a luanch party, but also an install fest / upgrade fest also 
<JonReagan> basically a gutsy fest 
<f> riight 
<f> what about like the patio of fox sports lounge in atlantic station 
<f> or someothing like that 
<f> just tossin ideas 
<boredandblogging> wouldn't that be expensive? 
<f> expensive, for food and drinks? 
<boredandblogging> nm, brain fart there 
<JonReagan> we have until at least the beginning of October to settle in on a location 
<boredandblogging> right, but we should probably decide what kind of event we want to do relatively soon... 
<boredandblogging> install/upgrade-fest vs. launch party at a restaurant type tying 
<JonReagan> yeah 
<f> true 
<boredandblogging> if we can find somewhere cheap to do the install-fest, I think we should do that 
<boredandblogging> we can get some pizza and drinks 
<boredandblogging> and do all the geeky stuff as well 
<JonReagan> :) 
<endperform> can always take up a collection and order pizza 
<endperform> LUg back in PA would do that... get pizza, then decided the approximate cost per slice 
<endperform> collected cash and boom... pizza 
<boredandblogging> endperform: agreed, maybe we can papa johns to give us some free food if we put up a banner for them :-P 
<endperform> heh 
<JonReagan> sponsors! 
<boredandblogging> yeahh 
<boredandblogging> so would colleges be the cheapest places to hold an install-fest? 
<boredandblogging> maybe look into Tech, Emory, KSU, or SPSU? 
<boredandblogging> and get the respective college LUG involved as well? 
<JonReagan> that would certainly help us out 
<boredandblogging> i don't know if anyone here goes to any of the schools except Tech 
<jsvh> yea, the Fiesty release party we did with CHUGALUG here in athens 
<boredandblogging> jsvh: right, it might be easier with another LUG involved 
<nomasteryoda> one thing to consider is parking 
<nomasteryoda> cause people will need to be able to carry equipment to/from 
<boredandblogging> right 
<nomasteryoda> knowing how limited that is in Atl proper 
<boredandblogging> yeah, a campus on a saturday might be easier? 
<nomasteryoda> yup 
<nomasteryoda> and good place to get converts 
<nomasteryoda> college students are more easily swayed to the cause 
<f> so we are talking about something like Octovber 20th then? 
<boredandblogging> we don't necessarily need to do it that soon, what if gutsy gets delayed 
<f> true.dat 
<JonReagan> Rick Clark said he would get the CDs 
<boredandblogging> maybe early or mid november? 
<JonReagan> that might be a safer option 
<f> Oct 27th? Nov 3rd? 
<f> ok 
<boredandblogging> f: yeah, i'm travelling after nov 14th, so I won't be around 
<f> I think it would be cool to have a luanch party though, then maybe and install fest at a campus or something 
<boredandblogging> f: it would be great if we could swing both 
<f> so how about Nov 3rd, or pssibly Nov 10th for an install / upgrade fest 
<f> and maybe do the luanch party around end of October? 
<boredandblogging> f: yeah, those dates sound good 
<f> Maybe do a Launch Party like October 27th, and an Install / Upgrade fest Nov 10th ? 
<f> that way we have a couple of cool events that people can try to make 
<boredandblogging> good idea 
<f> Maybe to the install fest at a campus where we have more resources 
<boredandblogging> and they are far enough in the future so people can plan for them 
<f> yeah, defintiely 
<boredandblogging> so are we generally agreed on the plans and dates? 
<f> If we can lock in the time, date, location of the install fest I can have some cool fliers made up, both for print and HTML email for spamming mailing lists :) 
<boredandblogging> right 
<f> oI can also do some for the release party 
<boredandblogging> we should spam all the LUGs in georgia 
<nomasteryoda> they might even give drinks and food 
<f> most definitely 
<JonReagan> that would be awesom 
<f> suweetness 
<boredandblogging> f: do you feel like running with these plans? obviously we are all going to have to be involved in this. 
<f> yeah, no problemo with that at all, 
<boredandblogging> f: most excellent 
<f> I'm the marketing Manager right? might as well do something that manages the marketing :) 
<boredandblogging> haha 
<JonReagan> lol 
<boredandblogging> did we want to mention this on the lists or forums? or wait till some of the plans are more definitive? 
<JonReagan> that might be a good idea 
<f> uhm, I suppode what I might do is put together a couple locations and send out a link to a poll or something 
<f> like in the forums 
<boredandblogging> maybe some folks might have contacts that could help us out? 
<f> yeah, that would be awesome 
<boredandblogging> f: maybe some of the people in ALE could help out 
<boredandblogging> with locations especially 
<boredandblogging> might be good to spam ALE's list 
<f> so is Everyone pretty cool with the dates so far? 
<JonReagan> yeah 
<boredandblogging> i'm good with the dates 
<f> ok, well, we will roll with the dates for now, and I will start working the logistics for locations and details and what not 
<boredandblogging> sounds good 
<f> rawk 0n 
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: whats next? 
<JonReagan> that's it 
</pre>
