{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===
==== September Face-to-Face Meeting ====
The September face to face meeting will be held at Athens Pizza in Decatur, on the 15th at 2:30pm.  Athens Pizza is located at 1341 Clairmont Road, Decatur, Georgia.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<silver2> f2f?
<JonReagan> the face to face meeting, I think there is supposed to be one on the 8th or 15th
<silver2> got a location yet?
<JonReagan> the time and location also has not been decided
<JonReagan> durn. be back in 2 sec
<silver2> k
<silver2> you in Athens, jsvh?
<jsvh> I just got back from Athens actually
* JonReagan is back
<silver2> ah ok
<silver2> welcome back
<jsvh> I am in Atlanta
<JonReagan> ah
<silver2> me 2
<JonReagan> so, did you guys want to plan another F2F meeting for sept.?
<silver2> It is ok with me
<jsvh> Yea
<JonReagan> I guess we could do it, and then run it buy some other folks on the mailing list and in the forums
<silver2> can always change it if there are conflicts
<JonReagan> alright... how 'bout a date?
<JonReagan> which saturday's are good for y'all?
<jsvh> Are we thinking Saturday early afternoon?
<JonReagan> yup
<JonReagan> 8, 15, 21, 28
<jsvh> 8th?
<jsvh> wait
<jsvh> no
<jsvh> 15th may be better?
<silver2> tomorrow? lol
<JonReagan> that sounds good to me
<JonReagan> the 15... lol
<jsvh> lol
<silver2> 15 is good for me
<jsvh> 15th is good. I will have freinds in town next weekend, but any of the others should be good
<JonReagan> alright
<JonReagan> time?
<jsvh> Do we want to do at a restaurant type place?
<jsvh> late lunch maybe?
<silver2> anywhere, open to ideas
<JonReagan> sure
<JonReagan> last time we did it at 2:30
<JonReagan> it seemed to work out well, about 14 people showed up
<silver2> has it always been pizza?
<jsvh> 2:30 sounds cool
<JonReagan> not always
<JonReagan> the first time there were burgers... I think
<JonReagan> locations?
<jsvh> Do we want a new one?
<jsvh> or just one of the ones from b4?
<JonReagan> good question
<silver2> Athens was good
<JonReagan> not bad stuff indeed
<silver2> and now I know where it is
<jsvh> I missed that one, I am in for it
<JonReagan> lol... yeah
<JonReagan> awesome
<silver2> only passed by it twice
<JonReagan> lol... yeah, I would have too. It comes up quick
<silver2> the chairs were kinda hard but that's ok
<JonReagan> lol... yeah they are
<jsvh> It is off of Clairmont correct?
<JonReagan> yup
<JonReagan> that's the one
<silver2> I was looking on the wrong side of the road
<JonReagan> there are actually several Athens Pizza places on clairmont
<JonReagan> lol
<jsvh> I know where it is already then
<jsvh> oh really
<silver2> yeah, I stopped in Express and wondered what was going on
<JonReagan> hehe
<silver2> only 2 tables and 4 chairs
<JonReagan> wow
<silver2> thought y'all were pranksters
<JonReagan> alright, so Athens Pizza in Decatur @ 2:30 on the 15th
<JonReagan> that sound good to y'all
<silver2> sounds good
<jsvh> sounds great
<JonReagan> awesome
<JonReagan> I'll post it up on the forums
<silver2> k
<JonReagan> and I will send out an email to the list
<silver2> invite ALE too?
<jsvh> sounds good
<jsvh> Yea, how?
<JonReagan> yeah
<jsvh> mailing list?
<silver2> post in #ale
<JonReagan> ubuntu-us-ga
<silver2> if you're on it, jsvh
<JonReagan> ale came to the last one as well
<silver2> ale has a list of their own
<jsvh> ah
<jsvh> I think I am on their mainling list
<jsvh> But it stays really busy
<JonReagan> I think they have a link on their site
<JonReagan> somehow the last one got on their mailing list, and a couple of members live over that way
<JonReagan> and they came
<silver2> good deal
<silver2> it was hard to hear in that place, however
<silver2> fwiw
<JonReagan> yeah, it was... with such a long table, it was hard to hear some of the folks down the table
<silver2> might have that anywhere if that many folks show up
<JonReagan> lol... yeah, there were a few more than I anticipated
<silver2> did you notify the place in advance?
<JonReagan> si
<silver2> k
<JonReagan> I told them twelve would be coming
<silver2> they did a good job
<JonReagan> yeah they did
<silver2> thought it was cool that the staff spoke Greek
<JonReagan> oh yes
<JonReagan> very cool
<silver2> you have a celll phone, jon?
<JonReagan> si
<silver2> k
<JonReagan> wow.. this has been great
<silver2> :)
<silver2> hey jon, do you think we have too many meetings?
<JonReagan> we finally got something done, so I can put it up on the wiki.
<JonReagan> too many?
<JonReagan> like IRC
<silver2> ya
<JonReagan> or F2F
<JonReagan> oh
<silver2> considering the number of topics we have to discuss usually
<JonReagan> hrmmm. it all depends
<silver2> I guess it doesn't matter. people can attend as they please
<JonReagan> these past few weeks have been sorta slow
<JonReagan> yeah
<silver2> did ya watch the Tech game?
<JonReagan> I heard it on the radio
<JonReagan> tech OWNED notre dame
<silver2> I have a friend whose son playes
<silver2> yeah they sure did
<JonReagan> really?
<silver2> ya #22
<JonReagan> ah
<silver2> work with his mom and step dad
<JonReagan> 33-3... not a bad way to start the season
<JonReagan> oh
<JonReagan> I see now
<silver2> had to be embarassing for ND
<JonReagan> lol
<JonReagan> definately
<silver2> tried to call them during the game but got voice mail
<JonReagan> ah
<JonReagan> well guy's... I g2g do some work around the house
<JonReagan> getting ready to move
<silver2> you're moving?
<jsvh> cya Jon
<JonReagan> yup, finally
<silver2> hi pablo7
<jsvh> where to?
<jsvh> hey pablo7
<silver2> moving is fun
<pablo7> hey, how was the meeting?
<JonReagan> don't quite know yet, but it will be somewhere along hwy78
<silver2> good pablo7
<JonReagan> hey pablo
<jsvh> Good meeting
<JonReagan> it went well, there really wasn't much to it
<jsvh> We set the date for the f2f
<JonReagan> we scheduled the next F2F meeting
<silver2> :)
<pablo7> sounds good.
<JonReagan> 15th @ 2:30 - Athens Pizza in decatur
</pre>
