{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Discussion Points ===
==== Logos ====
** Discussed which logos we could potentially use.

==== Meeting Time ====
** IRC "official" meeting time is set for an hour at 3pm on Sundays.
    
=== Log ===
{{{
<jsvh> Shall we start covering some of the topics for the meeting?
<jsvh> hello Bakey
<Bakey> hello
<ClinicalMistake> it'd be nice ;) I could go do what I needed to do!
<ClinicalMistake> hello Bakey
<Bakey> Hi clinical
<Bakey> *clinicall
<Bakey> hmm, my l key seems to be acting a little wonky
<jsvh> What is the status of the "Ubuntu box" and the flyers and what not
<ClinicalMistake> it's fine, you can just call me CM ;)
<ClinicalMistake> for easy
<ClinicalMistake> short typing*
<Bakey> kk
<Bakey> I'd be willing to put out some boxes in Albany, btw
<jsvh> very nice
<jsvh> Are we going to try to distubute mostly 7.04 shipit CDs?
<Bakey> Are we waiting until the final Feisty release for this?
<jsvh> I guess it can be done on a person by person basis. I have heard good things about Fiesty
<Bakey> I have too, but if I'm putting out Feisty CDs, I'd rather wait until the final release to do it
<jsvh> It is only, what 11 days away now?
<Bakey> is it?
<jsvh> I agree, wait for the final for sure
<Bakey> and if so, how much of a backlog will there be for the new cds for a while?
<Bakey> I mean, how hard are they gonna be to get?
<jsvh> Ship CDs take forever to get regardless
<Bakey> I'd be willing to burn some of my own even, but they'd be sharpie labeled
<jsvh> True, we should try to make them look professional however. Someone mentioned lightscribe burnner
<Bakey> i saw
<ClinicalMistake> that or a label maker would be nice
<Bakey> ugh, I'd rather avoid stick on labels
<ClinicalMistake> I havent used them before
<Bakey> I'd rather not have someone have a label unstick itself while that CD's spinning around at what, 30k RPM in their CD drive?
<ClinicalMistake> that's why we monkey glue em on ;)
<Bakey> haha
<jsvh> haha
<Bakey> I've done CDs for my band that were plain white and we had a stamp made with our logo at the local Staples
<Bakey> it looked OK
<Bakey> Burn the cd, stamp on the logo
<jsvh> "stamp on" was it a lable? or ink or something?
<Bakey> yeah, just a custom ink stamp
<Bakey> it wasn't the best, but better than a sharpie
<ClinicalMistake> can the folks at ubuntu HQ send us like 200 CDs?
<robertj_> ClinicalMistake: yes, you go to the top of the ship-it cue
<jsvh> Ship-it is down right now while they get ready for Fiesty
<jsvh> I will try to check in with them though
<Bakey> I expect the wait is gonna be a while when Feisty's release
<Bakey> I'm gonna request some CDs though
<jsvh> yea, they defenanatly look professional. I would be willing to pay for them too. I dont want to freeload from Ubuntu, they dont have them availible to buy, with faster shipping
<jsvh> There are other places that "sell" Ubuntu CDs but the CDs dont look near as nice
<robertj_> jsvh: your not freeloading, Canonical most-likely isn't going to lose money forever
<jsvh> hopefully
<robertj_> i'd expect you will get them within 30 days of release if you order them when shipit opens and send a follow up email to the address listed there explaining that its for a lOCO
<jsvh> Nice Logos ClinicalMistake
<jsvh> What do people think of these logos for the LoCo: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=379048&page=3
<Bakey> I like #2
<ClinicalMistake> thanks, I'm gonna work on finishing up the others today
<ClinicalMistake> I like 2 a lot more honestly
<jsvh> They both look good to me
<jsvh> You have some others in the works?
<ClinicalMistake> yeah, I want to make the logo a bit more colorful
<ClinicalMistake> and less bland
<jsvh> sounds good, If we plan to decide on our logo at next Sundays meeting will that give you enough time?
<ClinicalMistake> should yeah
<ClinicalMistake> I mean
<ClinicalMistake> it shouldn't be "set in stone" yanno? If a real designer pops up later on I'm sure he/she could do something awesome
<jsvh> yea, we can change it down the road if we want to, I just mean for now
<ClinicalMistake> hey btw, where's the ubuntu font located? I think you pasted it in here yesterday robert
<ClinicalMistake> ahh yeah
<ClinicalMistake> :]
<Bakey> yeah, I do think that the Georgia in the logo should be the same font as the ubuntu logo
<Bakey> I'd like to see a version of it like that anyway
<ClinicalMistake> the only problem with that
<ClinicalMistake> from what I've seen at least
<ClinicalMistake> is that letters like g and i dont look good in that font
<Bakey> oh really?
<ClinicalMistake> they aren't very rounded
<ClinicalMistake> like
<ClinicalMistake> ubuntu flows pretty well
<ClinicalMistake> so would bonnaroo
<ClinicalMistake> I dunno though, I haven't looked at it yet :D
<ClinicalMistake> http://www.bonnaroo.com/ <- see how flowy their logo is though?
<ClinicalMistake> btw I hate 2007's lineup
<Bakey> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DIYMarketing?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Ubuntu-Title.ttf
<Bakey> ubuntu font, btw
<ClinicalMistake> thanks :D
<Bakey> yeah, nice logo @ bonnaroo
<jsvh> ah ha! you can buy CDs from Ubuntu in bulk
<jsvh> 1.50 EUR a disc, min 100 CDs, + shipping
<Bakey> ouch
<ClinicalMistake> damn
<ClinicalMistake> that is expensive :/
<jsvh> Other places sell ubuntu discs for like $3-5 each, and they are not as nice IMO
<jsvh> I have been talking with people in CHUGALUG and Free IT Athens, we are going to try to host a Launch party for Fiesty here in Athens.
<jsvh> We could host it at Free IT's place, on Campus, or at a bar/ restuarnt downtown
<jsvh> what do people think?
<ClinicalMistake> depends on crowd
<ClinicalMistake> I think that a bar might be a bad idea
<Bakey> I wouldn't be able to make it, so whatever you guys think.
<ClinicalMistake> I also dont like bars
<ClinicalMistake> same ehre
<ClinicalMistake> here*
* robertj_ votes for Carrabas :)
<jsvh> haha I like the way you think Robert
<ClinicalMistake> Carrabas would be pretty sweet
<ClinicalMistake> hey
<ClinicalMistake> do yall know of any things you really want out of a design?
<ClinicalMistake> like
<ClinicalMistake> highlighting GA
<ClinicalMistake> like
<ClinicalMistake> what do we really want people to focus on?
<robertj_> design for the party?
<ClinicalMistake> haha no
<ClinicalMistake> for the logo :D
<jsvh> haha, I dont know, "Ubuntu" and "Georgia" are what we are going for. I am not picky
<Bakey> i think you're on the right track so far CM
<jsvh> yea
<ClinicalMistake> here's what I was moving towards
<robertj_> how about the ubuntu logo with georgia behind it and the word "Ubuntu" on it?
<ClinicalMistake> lemmie upload it to the forums
<robertj_> err georgia
<Bakey> i think maybe even just georgia un the ubuntu font with the logo for the "o" in georgia
<robertj_> we could put a peach in Georgia
<Bakey> *in not un
<robertj_> (creative i know)
<ClinicalMistake> I'd like to add a peach
<ClinicalMistake> but I'm not sure yet how to do it and not make the logo too busy
<ClinicalMistake> http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=29305&d=1176062596
<ClinicalMistake> ^ playing with colors in the logo it self
<ClinicalMistake> er word*
<jsvh> ah, nice
<jsvh> I like the "loco" part
<Bakey> yeah, i like that one best so far
<Bakey> gj
<robertj_> how about just a picture of the state and the ubuntuloco logo?
<ClinicalMistake> for like a stamp type thing? that'd be fun :D
<ClinicalMistake> lemmie see
<jsvh> I dont know Robert, how good are people at Geography? will they know it is Georgia? haha
<robertj_> I don't think it needs to include the word Georgia necessarily
<robertj_> jsvh: the audience for the Georgia loco mostly lives in georgia, so we are probably safe in that regard
<jsvh> maybe ;-)
<ClinicalMistake> we can only hope
<jsvh> haha
<robertj_> anyeway, I'm going to be off, but I'd recommend in the future you guys pick 1 hour to do agenda stuff and let the other time just be generic talk time
<jsvh> not a bad idea
<jsvh> cya
<jsvh> anyone have anything else?
<Bakey> not me
<ClinicalMistake> http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=29306&d=1176063610 <--- there's a pretty basic implementation of the stamp idea
<jsvh> looks good CM
<Bakey> +1, nice!"
<ClinicalMistake> awesome :D
<jsvh> I am going to head out, good meeting all}}}
