{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===

==== Sept. F2F meeting reminder ====
A reminder for the Sept. F2F meeting.

==== Install Fest ====
Some brainstorming on the upcoming Install Fest, with ideas around setup, marketing, and display.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<heathen> meeting time?
<boredandblogging> yeah...
<silver2> any topics?
<boredandblogging> first, just quick reminder the next f2f is next saturday, 2:30pm at Athens Pizza
<heathen> and im actually here... yay for me
<silver2> I'll try to be there
<boredandblogging> second, (wish jchase was here for this)...
<boredandblogging> we have a location for the installfest in november...
<boredandblogging> so we need to figure out a few things...
<jimpop> Cool
<boredandblogging> first, how to get the word out...
<boredandblogging> and second, we need to plan for the event itself
<boredandblogging> equipment, food...
<heathen> am i allowed to show? since i dont run ubuntu?
<boredandblogging> should we maybe have a local repository on a server in the room instead of sucking up emory's bandwidth, etc, etc
<boredandblogging> heathen: only if you behave
<silver2> :)
<heathen> thats questionable
<heathen> how would we go about a local repo?
<boredandblogging> so I'm wondering if we can come up with any plans to get the word out
<silver2> college newspapers?
<boredandblogging> heathen: there are instructions on the wiki somewhere
<silver2> GT, GSU, E
<heathen> fair enough, ill shutup
<jimpop> local server isn't necessary of we use CDs
<boredandblogging> jimpop: there will probably be updates that we should do
<jimpop> true, but that's not much bw
<boredandblogging> we can spam the mailing lists
<SiafuLinux> What are we discussing?
<heathen> installfest
<SiafuLinux> ok
<boredandblogging> jimpop: probably, I'm not saying we should do it, but maybe have it in the back our minds
<SiafuLinux> thanks
<boredandblogging> ok, spam college lists, ALE...
<boredandblogging> get dendrobates to mention it when he does his ALE presentation
<boredandblogging> what else?
<silver2> creative loafing, great speckeled bird
<boredandblogging> what is great speckled bird?
<boredandblogging> i assume creative loafing costs money
<heathen> onpe
<silver2> used to be a hippie newspaper
<heathen> well
<heathen> to add in it might
<silver2> sometimes ads for free stuff are free
<silver2> craigslist.com
<heathen> heh
<boredandblogging> silver2: can you find out if it would be free?
<silver2> k
<boredandblogging> craigslist is good
<silver2> news groups?
<silver2> alt.atlanta
<boredandblogging> silver2: yeah
<boredandblogging> any brick and mortar places?
<silver2> campus bulletin boards?
<boredandblogging> i think aaron was saying there was some place by emory that was ubuntu friendly
<silver2> gorilla suit and a sign?
<boredandblogging> or at least linux friendly
<SiafuLinux> lol
<heathen> oo can i be the gorilla?
<boredandblogging> heathen: there you go
<silver2> lol
<heathen> boredandblogging always wanted me to be the "poster boy"
<heathen> this is close enough
<boredandblogging> so true
<boredandblogging> how about wearing the gorilla suit on your bike with a sign on your back?
<heathen> heh
<silver2> hahaha
<boredandblogging> fignew: ping
<boredandblogging> voidmage: ping
<boredandblogging> we do need to figure out a time for the event...
<heathen> beer 30
<boredandblogging> so as soon we do that, we can probably start spamming everyone
<heathen> speaking of...
<jimpop> No spam please
<heathen> i think we use the term figuratively
<boredandblogging> heh, yeah
<jimpop> just making sure
<heathen> boredandblogging just likes being annoying, you gotta watch him sometimes
<boredandblogging> i am weird like that
<boredandblogging> I'm wondering if we need to get a couple machines...not sure what they would be used for...
<heathen> boredandblogging: can you shoot me a quick email?
<heathen> jibberish is fine
<boredandblogging> here are some guidelines from previous installfests: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoRunningInstallfests
<boredandblogging> heathen: whats your email?
<heathen> rsolenberg@gmail
<boredandblogging> sent
<heathen> thanks
<heathen> trying to work out the kinks in mutt
<boredandblogging> so the big thing is coming up with ideas of letting everyone know about it
<boredandblogging> I think we can handle the actual event ok
<boredandblogging> does anyone have an extra computer we could borrow for the event? just in case
<heathen> i probably do
<heathen> it's not the fastest but it should work
<boredandblogging> speeed shouldn't matter
<heathen> k
<jimpop> Need to have plenty o working U boxes so newbies can see what they are getting
<boredandblogging> right, make one with gnome, one with kubuntu, one with xubuntu
<heathen> one *box
<jimpop> it's somewhat disheartening to see just a plain jane install
<heathen> or edubuntu... for any parents that may be around
<boredandblogging> we should get multiple boxes
<boredandblogging> edubuntu is a good idea
<jimpop> Give folks a chance to see what iis possible with customizations
<heathen> see, then my arch install wouldnt be so bad to have around..
<boredandblogging> jimpop: good idea
<jimpop> I'll see if I can bring some of $WORK U distros
<heathen> although, realisitcally, if we have our computers already set up to our likings, we can show those off and let people mess with the "clean" machines
<heathen> or a few of us anyhow
<boredandblogging> yeah, it would be great if people brought in their personal machines
<heathen> i had planned on it..
<boredandblogging> cool
<boredandblogging> maybe have compiz running on some
* heathen shudders
<heathen> :P
<boredandblogging> heh
<boredandblogging> thats all I had today
<boredandblogging> any ideas for advertising would be great
<boredandblogging> are there any local IT mags?
<heathen> rent a billboard on the connector
<heathen> i'd only cost 3k or so for a week
<heathen> lol
<heathen> boredandblogging: i know you have money :P
<boredandblogging> pfft, I have nothing, wife, the accountant, is in charge of it all
<SiafuLinux> lol
<heathen> boredandblogging: i feel your pain
<SiafuLinux> Me too
<heathen> heh
<boredandblogging> i get a small weekly allowance
<heathen> all us married guys are so jaded
<heathen> of*
<boredandblogging> with good reason
<SiafuLinux> I was about to say something along those lines... actually mine is every 2 weeks.
<heathen> better than me, i averaged out what i actually recieve out of my paycheck, it ammounts to about $6 a month
<jimpop> you guys get allowances?
<SiafuLinux> ouch... I get around $20 every 2 weeks. Guess I have it good.
<jimpop> :-(
<heathen> +/- $6
<SiafuLinux> lol
<heathen> usually -
<boredandblogging> well, today is my bday, maybe I'll get a couple extra bucks
<heathen> pft
<heathen> so boredandblogging you're what 12 today?
<boredandblogging> 13 thank you
<heathen> heh, just going by your "terrorist" photo
<heathen> :P
<heathen> ok, i'm gonna shut up now... gnight
* heathen goes and stands in corner
<boredandblogging> hah
<heathen> will we have a working net connection at emory?
<boredandblogging> had some guy leave a comment that everything on the planet should be ubuntu related
<boredandblogging> heathen: I'm assuming so
<heathen> i dunno about that...
<boredandblogging> otherwise it would be an issue
<boredandblogging> but I should check
<heathen> just curious
<boredandblogging> heathen: yeah, apparently the guy missed posts about iron maiden and pizza recipes
<heathen> heh
<heathen> every time i hear mention of iron maiden i think of that "teenage dirtbag" song that came out a few years back
<boredandblogging> don't think I heard that
<boredandblogging> ok, so thats all I had
<boredandblogging> anything else you guys want to talk about for the meeting?
<heathen> l5p
* heathen runs for cover
<boredandblogging> jimpop: did you see jon's email to the ALE list about the meeting next saturday?
<boredandblogging> just making sure it went through
<boredandblogging> bastid
<heathen> heh
<heathen> sigh, ok, since mutt didnt work the way i wanted it to...
<boredandblogging> heh
<silver2> badges?
<boredandblogging> silver2: ahh, good call
<boredandblogging> badges have been ordered
<jimpop> B&b, no
<boredandblogging> they should be mailed sometime this month
<heathen> badges? we dont need no skienking badges!
<silver2> iou $ at next f2f
<boredandblogging> silver2: cool
<heathen> woo, i remember how to compile...
<heathen> god im an idiot
<boredandblogging> jimpop: i checked the ale mail archives, jon's email is there
<jimpop> I just havent checked email yet
<jimpop> Slacker that I am
<silver2> anybody know how to install a kitchen sink?
<silver2> OT
<boredandblogging> hire someone?
<silver2> sounds good
<heathen> i know
<heathen> :P
<silver2> caio
<SiafuLinux> Me too... later
</pre>
