{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===

==== Install Fest ====
Preparations are being made such as fliers, slideshows, etc.

==== October F2F meeting ====
Early plans have been made for the October F2F meeting, targeted for early October.

==== Log ====
<pre>
<fignew> lol, my bank was giving me 74 cents in interest and charging 20 bucks to do it...
<Taladan> That's how they screw you at the drive through.
<ClinicalMistake> heyo~
<boredandblogging> ClinicalMistake: hey
<boredandblogging> hi gwossaphira
<gwossaphira> hi how are you?
<boredandblogging> Matir: couldn't make it today?
<boredandblogging> not too bad, we had a f2f meeting today
<gwossaphira> i'm sorry, i didn't know
<gwossaphira> i'd of shown up
<boredandblogging> bah
<boredandblogging> compilekernel is useless
<gwossaphira> lol
<gwossaphira> no, he's not useless.... he's forgetful
<boredandblogging> gwossaphira: are you on the ubuntu-ga mailing list? if not, please sign up
<boredandblogging> we post stuff like that on it
<boredandblogging> and its pretty low traffic
<gwossaphira> i'm not and i will
<boredandblogging> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-us-ga
<gwossaphira> done, maybe ?
<gwossaphira> I'm braindead tonight, i probably did that wrong
<ClinicalMistake> hey hey
<boredandblogging> gwossaphira: did you get an email confirming?
<boredandblogging> ClinicalMistake: how's life?
<ClinicalMistake> not bad just busy : )
<boredandblogging> better than being bored
<ClinicalMistake> haha yeah
<ClinicalMistake> for sure
<ClinicalMistake> this programming class is insanely easy
<boredandblogging> ClinicalMistake: whats the class?
<ClinicalMistake> just programming principles I
<ClinicalMistake> oo new metalocolypse sept 23
<gwossaphira> THANKS BORED AND BLOGGING
<gwossaphira> sorry, taking a test
<boredandblogging> np
<ClinicalMistake> I keep forgetting that for some reason there's a library that doesnt install with java
<boredandblogging> ClinicalMistake: there is?
<ClinicalMistake> yeah
<ClinicalMistake> if you dont install libgcj7-awt
<ClinicalMistake> you cant call any JOptionPane's
<boredandblogging> this happens if you are using the sun jdk?
<ClinicalMistake> yeah
<ClinicalMistake> 1.4
<ClinicalMistake> not sure about 1.6
<boredandblogging> wow
<boredandblogging> that is odd
<ClinicalMistake> yeah
<ClinicalMistake> mm and home movies is awesome
<boredandblogging> hello
<jsvh> hey out there
<boredandblogging> hey jsvh
<boredandblogging> how's it going?
<boredandblogging> Matir: ping
<boredandblogging> hi JonReagan
<JonReagan> hey guys
<jsvh> hey hey
<JonReagan> how's it goin'?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: can you start looking into the October F2f?
<boredandblogging> lets try somewhere different than Athens Pizza
<JonReagan> October F2F? sure
<JonReagan> any preferences?
<jsvh> I dont care
<JonReagan> alright
<boredandblogging> o cam
<boredandblogging> oops
<jsvh> same area of town?
<boredandblogging> I can't do the 13th
<boredandblogging> and the 27th is supposed to be the release party
<boredandblogging> so, maybe earlier in the month?
<JonReagan> how about the 20th?
<JonReagan> the 6th?
<boredandblogging> maybe the 20th would be better so we can do some last minute planning for the install fest?
<JonReagan> sure
<boredandblogging> decatur is fine
<JonReagan> I know some folks in decatur, I'll ask them where some nice places to go are
<boredandblogging> jchase, aaron and I were talking about putting up some stuff about the install fest on the wiki...
<boredandblogging> like general info...
<JonReagan> that sounds good
<boredandblogging> like if you want to dual boot, make sure to defrag the hard drive before coming to the install fest, etc...
<boredandblogging> and putting a URL in the flyers...
<boredandblogging> but...
<JonReagan> ?
<boredandblogging> putting something like https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Installfest/blah/blah
<boredandblogging> might be too intimidating or too long for some people
<JonReagan> yeah
<boredandblogging> so maybe we can pull out of the one ubuntu-georgia.org sites I got...
<JonReagan> ahh... I have an idea!
<boredandblogging> and put links there to the wiki
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: shoot
<JonReagan> The support email is a gmail. so they would have googlepages!
<JonReagan> They could just put stuff up on there, and share the site so others in the team could edit it
<boredandblogging> thats an idea
<boredandblogging> so thats what we talked about
<JonReagan> it would be something like galocosupport.googlepages.com/InstallFest
<JonReagan> kinda long, but at least not as many slashes
<boredandblogging> yeah, I would still prefer to say just go to http://www.ubuntu-georgia.org
<JonReagan> that would be nice
<boredandblogging> either way, we shouldn't be spending that much time on it
<JonReagan> right
<JonReagan> wait, could we get ubuntu-georgia.org early, ahead of loco approval?
<boredandblogging> i already own it
<JonReagan> really...
<JonReagan> :)
<boredandblogging> its just not being used
<JonReagan> ah
<boredandblogging> because of the loco approval issue
<JonReagan> oh
<boredandblogging> but I think this would be an excellent use of it
<boredandblogging> and I don't think anyone will care
<JonReagan> I wouldn't think so either
<boredandblogging> yeah, not worried about it
<JonReagan> good stuff
<boredandblogging> i should probably put this on the agenda
<boredandblogging> but someone should work on a presentation
<boredandblogging> like an intro ubuntu presentation
<JonReagan> that sounds like a good idea
<boredandblogging> maybe we can still some content from rick's presentation next month
<JonReagan> is he going to be presenting at ALE
<boredandblogging> also we should make some general slides with URLs, directions to bathrooms, network info
<JonReagan> the important stuff
<boredandblogging> yeah, will be presenting at the October meeting
<JonReagan> ah
<boredandblogging> not sure what else we need to do
<JonReagan> I have an idea of what we can do for flyers
<JonReagan> For those at the install fest, at least
<boredandblogging> jchase said something about having flyers soon
<boredandblogging> anything else we need to do?
<JonReagan> sounds good
* JonReagan thinks
<JonReagan> I can't think of anything at the moment
<JonReagan> I'm sure something will hit me at 2 am
<boredandblogging> hah, thats fine
<boredandblogging> thats pretty much all I had for today
<JonReagan> yeah, I don't have anything either
<boredandblogging> hi aaron
<JonReagan> hey aaron
<arx> hey all
* boredandblogging is nick
<jsvh> hey aaron
<arx> josh I'm asuming
<boredandblogging> joshua should be here, he shows up as jchase
<JonReagan> that's john von hollen
<jsvh> <-- John
<arx> thanks for the introductions. Is there a moderator assigned?
<JonReagan> nick, I think
<boredandblogging> its kinda fluid
<arx> good. we can blame him then.
<boredandblogging> as long as we don't get too rowdy :-)
<boredandblogging> arx: damn you!
<JonReagan> lol
<jsvh> haha
<boredandblogging> ok, I was telling everyone about the ubuntu-georgia.org domain maybe for the flyers
<boredandblogging> and adding links to the wiki or whatever on it so its easy for people
<arx> all good. you saw my reply and opinion in email
<boredandblogging> and some slides we should come up with basic info
<boredandblogging> arx: yeah, I saw it
<boredandblogging> slides with maybe some URL, directions to bathrooms, network connectivity info, blah, blah
<boredandblogging> should be pretty straightforward
<arx> Nick: do you want to post an outline and we can help flesh out the content?
<boredandblogging> arx: I can do that...on the google docs thing, you said you had some slides already?
<boredandblogging> i'll throw up an outline today and invite everyone through google docs
<arx> No slides here yet. Map and info for parking and such are on ale.org, though
<boredandblogging> arx: btw, I think Matir is the one who is doing the user group at GSU
<boredandblogging> is there an ALE logo we can use for the slides?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: would you have time to work on the slides?
<JonReagan> sure
<boredandblogging> great
<JonReagan> documentation is over, for the most part, so I am pretty free
<boredandblogging> aaron, is there anything else we are forgetting?
<arx> re ale logo: there is a Tux with atl skyline image that we would be welcome to use
<JonReagan> thats great!
<boredandblogging> the pic on the upper left hand of the ALE site?
<arx> nick: haven't seen the outline yet :-)
<arx> don't know! ;-)
<boredandblogging> lol, fair enough
<boredandblogging> ok, shall we discuss how to market?
<JonReagan> sure
<boredandblogging> fignew: ping
<boredandblogging> fignew and voidmage are current Tech students
<JonReagan> ah
<boredandblogging> maybe get their help getting the word out
<jsvh> Sky writing?
<JonReagan> lol
<boredandblogging> and with Matir being at GSU...
<arx> TAGGING!
<JonReagan> lol
<boredandblogging> sky writing would be fun
<JonReagan> try spelling ubuntu
<boredandblogging> or the logo
<boredandblogging> or tagging a picture of tux
<JonReagan> lol... even harder
<jsvh> haha
<arx> I have contacts with a few area users groups - Lug@gt -- asterisk - AUUG
<arx> I can offer to solicit them
<boredandblogging> i think LUG@GT just had an installfest, can't believe I missed that
<JonReagan> dang
<JonReagan> I g2g guys
<arx> yeah - LUG@GT is pretty active and are good about regular install fests
<jsvh> cya JonReagan
<arx> later then
<boredandblogging> later JonReagan
<JonReagan> before I go, how long do you wnat the slideshow to be
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: as long as their useful content...
<boredandblogging> does it matter?
<JonReagan> sounds good
<JonReagan> not really, maybe just long enough to introduce people to Ubuntu
<boredandblogging> aaron, if we can spam the ug lists or get them to mention it at their meetings, it would be great
<JonReagan> cy'all later
<arx> before we go too far -- are we going to give this thing a more publicly interesting name than "install fest"?
<boredandblogging> umm, if we can come up with something we can agree on
<boredandblogging> the name of the new release is gutsy gibbon if that helps
<arx> I like the "Ubuntu Upgrade" headline idea I offered in email. We would just need to flesh out a "tag" line
<arx> like "
<arx> like "Computer Improvement Party"
<boredandblogging> hah
<arx> -- correction -- that was supposed to be "Upgrade to Ubuntu"
<boredandblogging> Upgrade to Ubuntu Freedom Festival
<arx> yes
<boredandblogging> doesn't roll of the tongue, but I think its a start
<arx> though I would got with "Computer freedom festival" so there is a context that people can see
<arx> s/got/go
<boredandblogging> i see where you are going with it
<boredandblogging> how about we open it up to some discussion? Maybe post it on the ubuntu-ga list
<boredandblogging> and forums and see what people think and if they can come up with some ideas?
<arx> sure
<arx> the more the merriet
<arx> merrier
<boredandblogging> ok, but I do think you are right, we need a better name
<boredandblogging> i'm sure Mr. Marketing could come up with something
<arx> just something that josephine Q public can identify with and might find interesting
<boredandblogging> exactly
<arx> "install fest" says nothing unless you are already part of the click
<boredandblogging> true
<boredandblogging> aaron did you say you could throw up some talks up on the projector?
<boredandblogging> i wonder if we would want to throw up some of the screencasts
<arx> I have some videos on hand, like "revolution OS"
<boredandblogging> i've heard of it, but never actually seen that
<arx> and Lawrence Lessig keynote at 2006 Linux world
<arx> We can also do live demo and instructional stuff -- computer can go to projector as easily as dvd
<boredandblogging> right, ok, we probably need to figure out what the demos and instructional stuff we want to do and who will do it
<arx> I also have RGB switch and signal distro to support switching between 2 or 3 demo boxes
<arx> We could cherry pic the "best of
<arx> from the screen casts
<boredandblogging> yeah, that might be the best way to go
<arx> just walking through a basic install live
<arx> lots of possibilities
<boredandblogging> yeah, I just want to plan it out as far as ahead as possible
<boredandblogging> we should also set a time
<boredandblogging> 10am to 6pm or something...at least officially
<boredandblogging> if some stragglers come in, its fine
<arx> we have the room from 8 to 6. I would say 9 to 5:30
<boredandblogging> perfect, ok
<boredandblogging> should we set up that morning or can we do it the night before?
<arx> setup has to be same day.
<arx> configuration of the room means there's not much to set up, though
<boredandblogging> ok, so everyone has to show up by 8am
<boredandblogging> right
<arx> that looks to be the case
<arx> most work will be helping people get their systems in and out.
<boredandblogging> also, I want to see if we can get some Ubuntu shirts for the people helping out and some to give away
<boredandblogging> right
<arx> swag is a given :-)
<boredandblogging> having a printer would nice too
<arx> I have a network laser jet that I can bring.
<boredandblogging> that would be awesome
<arx> a 5 p
<boredandblogging> as long as we can print some text, we are golden
<arx> yeah... but then to access it we are looking at setting up a LAN ??
<boredandblogging> can we not not stick into one of the ethernet ports and set up a machine to find it by IP if necessary?
<boredandblogging> but I guess we may not know the IP it gets
<arx> re - the old in out - we should probably set up a volunteer "bucket brigade" for this -- greeter at entrance - had off at elevator bottom - hand off at elevator top - hand off to room assistane
<boredandblogging> good idea, we could just have signs to the room once they get off the elevator to the room
<arx> actually - I'm suggesting hand hold em off all the way - right into the next available room volunteer to get them set up and started.
<boredandblogging> ahhh
<arx> if we have at least 5 dedicated helpers we can rotate to the spots, that is...
<boredandblogging> i guess since I'm unsure how many people will show up and how many volunteers we'll have
<boredandblogging> right
<boredandblogging> i think right now, it will definitely be me, you, jchase, maybe JonReagan, probably jsvh
<boredandblogging> and I'm sure we can get a couple of other people
<arx> I think I'll be able to get commitment from a couple more ale folks
<boredandblogging> that would be awesome
<boredandblogging> I'll try to wrangle some more folks as well
<boredandblogging> not sure if rick can make it
<arx> anyway, I've got to move on here... so you clear on what you want to attack?
<arx> NAME & OUTLINE ?
<boredandblogging> yeah, think I've got a good idea
<boredandblogging> yeah, I'll come up with a doc
<boredandblogging> thanks for all the help aaron
<arx> last comment is that I'm all for being ahead on things, but lets be careful not to publish before it's all confirmed and vetted
<boredandblogging> i agree
<arx> always happy to help bring freedom to folks!
<boredandblogging> :-)
<arx> bye now!
<boredandblogging> later
<boredandblogging> jsvh: do you know if you can make the install fest for sure?
<jsvh> What is the date again?
<jsvh> Nov 11th?>
<jsvh> I got it on my Calender for the Nov 10th
<jsvh> I should be able to make it to that. I think I will still be on the client in Florida but I should be back up here on the weekend
<boredandblogging> cool
<boredandblogging> just need to make sure we have enough volunteers
<jsvh> I will defiantly be helping out unless something comes up
<boredandblogging> awesome
<heathen> stupid computer
<Matir> lo
<heathen> lo
<heathen> my computer crapped out on me yesterday
<heathen> it let the magic smoke out
<Matir> ouch
<heathen> yah
<Matir> from which component?
<heathen> dunno
<heathen> i dont have the tools to open it up here
<Matir> ah
<heathen> and it will be over 3 hours before i can put linux on this puter
<Matir> why so long?
<heathen> slow download at the rotel
<heathen> unfortuenatly
<Matir> ah, where at?
<heathen> hotel in asheville
<Matir> fun
<heathen> blast
<heathen> and i cant even install linux here
<heathen> :P
<Matir> heh
<Matir> i
<Matir> err
<heathen> i'm downloading knoppix
<Matir> i'd probably just find a bookstore and go buy a magazine with a linux cd in it :) even if it's not ubuntu.
<heathen> no car
<Matir> ah
<Matir> fair enough
<heathen> yeah, up shit creek
<Matir> that sucks
<heathen> just a little
<heathen> thank god for bit torrent
<heathen> mark that down to 30 minutes
<Matir> nice
<heathen> yeah
<Matir> man, notebook shopping is a PITA... i guess i have unreasonable desires
<heathen> you and me both
<heathen> now that i'm looking for a replacement
<heathen> it's impossible to find what i want
<Matir> what all are you looking for?
<boredandblogging> hello
<boredandblogging> Matir: are you going to be able to make the install fest?
<boredandblogging> trying to find people who can help out with it
<boredandblogging> I know heathen will be there since Ubuntu is far more important than any stinkin' job
<Matir> yeah, i will be there
<heathen> lol
<heathen> boredandblogging: my computer let out the magic smoke :(
<Matir> i'm beginning to wonder if i should try to stretch the life of my current notebook more
<silver2> boredandblogging, did the pix get posted yet?
</pre>
