{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Discussion Points ===
==== LoCo LoGo ====
The logo poll in the forums is now over, and the winner is #3 by Clinical Mistake.  Congratulations to the winner and thanks to all that have participated, both in voting and submitting proposals.

==== FLOSS Event ====
It looks like most people are going to be unable to attend, and unfortunately, we will not have a booth.

==== Ubuntu Box Locations ====
Heathen is going to go by Vision Computers and ask for a box location.

==== Map ====
The Ubuntu Georgia map is growing, and all that attended this meeting have put their name on it.

==== Log ====
<pre>
<JonReagan> well... it's time for the meeting... is anyone else here?
  <ssd7> well, if it's just the three of us, that is one more than last week
  <JonReagan> lol
  <endperform> I'm tryin to get more involved... honest!
  <JonReagan> lol. I know. Don't worry about it
  <JonReagan> well... there really isn't that many topics for today
  <JonReagan> I am guessing that we have a new logo
  <endperform> yeah, I did see the voting on that and cast my vote
  <JonReagan> cool.
  <endperform> I'm curious as to how close we are to being approved
  <JonReagan> pretty darn close
  <JonReagan> we just need to get a box or two out
  <JonReagan> The new Logo for our Loco is #3 by P.Will
  <endperform> Ah, cool :)
  <JonReagan> sorry- I mean clinical mistake... too many names on that page
  <JonReagan> anyways, I guess we will get it pinned up on the wiki
  <JonReagan> well. That takes care of one topic
  <JonReagan> the second one is the box location
  <JonReagan> do y'all know of any places that might take a box?
  <heathen> i still hate moving
  <heathen> just so yall know
  <endperform> I'm pretty new to the area, but I've been keeping my eyes open
  <JonReagan> lol
  <heathen> i thought the meeting needed that
  <heathen> sorry
  <JonReagan> :P
  <ssd7> I have one place that may be interested, but I have to go back and ask when a manager/owner-type is there
  <JonReagan> lol... well. we need to figure out where to put boxes, and how to approach the locations to make a request
  <heathen> have book stores been discussed as a box location? they seem like they would be open to the idea, as long as the CD's looked offical
  <JonReagan> Borders has been mentioned
  <endperform> Borders, maybe Barnes and Noble
  <heathen> ok
  <heathen> just curious
  <JonReagan> that sounds good
  <JonReagan> any other suggestions?
  <ssd7> what are the dimensions of these boxes, I'm guessing most will want to know that before they agree to placing a box in their place
  <JonReagan> they are just big enough to hold 10-15 CDs
  <ssd7> ok
  <endperform> Any local computer shops around? I might have seen one or two I could possibly ask
  <JonReagan> so, basically, the design is made to where you can grab CDs from the top
  <JonReagan> there are a few... computer solutions and monarch computers
  <JonReagan> just a few that I have seen
  <ssd7> there is a "geek stop" by me, but it seems like they are pretty dead
  <JonReagan> oh
  <JonReagan> I think if we can start getting locations to go after, we could get a good start on how we will get these boxes into stores
  <heathen> I'm not too far from Vision Computers... I could ask them
  <JonReagan> that would be great!
  <JonReagan> Just ask them, and if they accept, we have all the supplies you need to get started
  <heathen> can do
  <heathen> probably tomorrow
  <ssd7> Who should we contact if a person says yes?
  <heathen> I used to know a few of the guys that worked there. I dunno if any are still around, but if they are they'd prolly let me do it no questions asked
  <JonReagan> Nick, John Von Hollen, or myself... word will get around. Basically anyone who has CDs and stuff
  <heathen> all my CD's are edgy
  <JonReagan> @ heathen: awesome
  <JonReagan> k... we have feisty as well
  <JonReagan> whichever you want to use is fine
  <heathen> I havent ordered my 7.04 cds because (sadly) I still dont know my address
  <endperform> I may order some to hand out at work
  <JonReagan> once you run out of edgy we could send you feisty CDs
  <endperform> I keep my laptop sitting there and people always ask what I run on it
  <JonReagan> sweet! that would be great to get it moving across your work
  <endperform> That's what I use on my desktop there too... everyone else is using Fedora... not me hehe
  <JonReagan> so... who do we have one the list for boxes? vision computer, anyone else
  <JonReagan> *on the list - forgive me... I am typing w/ one hand
  <heathen> i did get one of the guys at work to load ubuntu
  <heathen> i helped him upgrade it yesterday (edgy cd)
  <JonReagan> awesome!
  <JonReagan> :)
  <JonReagan> alright... so we have vision computers on the list of contacts... anyone else?
  <JonReagan> if not, then lets move on to the next topic
  <heathen> where's boredandblogging?
  <JonReagan> he has family over... so he was unable to make it
  <JonReagan> next up - the computing education event @ the Georgia World Congress Center
  <JonReagan> some stuff I found out: we won't have a booth
  <heathen> I will be out of town that weekend, going to do retarded things on the motorcycle
  <JonReagan> lol
  <JonReagan> sounds like fun
  <heathen> it will be
  <JonReagan> they need volunteers for the event, and computers... so we can show off Edubuntu, but we will not have any place to hand out CDs, ect.
  <heathen> we can walk
  <heathen> erm
  <heathen> you can
  <heathen> lol
  <JonReagan> just anyone who can come... sory I am used to there being more people here
  <endperform> hmm, what's the dates again
  <endperform> ?
  <JonReagan> alrighty then.... next topic - the member map
  <JonReagan> the note Nick gave me was to ask everyone who hasn't put themselves on the map, should do so (y'all can fudge your addresses for security reasons)
  <JonReagan> dates?
  <JonReagan> oh... June 24-27
  <endperform> ah, gotcha... I think I'm out of town then
  <endperform> and I'm on the map already :)
  <JonReagan> cool
  <heathen> lol, i told my kid i was going to rip his arms off.. he promtly came back with "It's only a flesh wound!" im slowly, but surely, turning my kid into a geek
  <JonReagan> lol!
  <heathen> sorry, that was off topic
  <JonReagan> but very enjoyable, none the less
  <JonReagan> wow... that soes it for the meeting
  <JonReagan> *does - I hate multitasking
  <heathen> is it bad that my kid quotes monty python and he's 4?
  <JonReagan> hahaha!!!
  <JonReagan> wow... I didn't see it until last year
  <JonReagan> so... you live near vision computers... are they a windows only shop?
  <heathen> not exactly
  <heathen> they are a hardware shop
  <heathen> they sell their own oem computers, you can get a clean drive or you can have them load windows
  <heathen> i dont believe they have any dealings with mac
  <JonReagan> ahhh. well... waht a perfect place to give some Ubuntu
  <heathen> but it's been probably 2 years since i've been in there
  <heathen> i agree
  <heathen> and last time i was there, those guys are pretty cool
  <JonReagan> awesome
  <JonReagan> so... If you ask them about an Ubuntu box, just let us know what you need and we will get it to you
  <heathen> k
  <heathen> i'll drop by tomorrow, i dunno if they'll be open or not
  <heathen> but it wont hurt
  <JonReagan> right
  <JonReagan> well... I have to head out. My best friends graduation is in just a little while and I have to head out
  <heathen> enjoy
  <heathen> damn
  <heathen> my little brother graduated yesterday... i forgot to call
  <heathen> crap
  <endperform> enjoy Jon :)
  <JonReagan> lol... that can't be good... bye!
  <heathen> later
</pre>
