{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===

==== InstallFest Planning ====
More InstallFest planning has been finished as the smaller details are being worked out.

==== October F2F ====
The October F2F reminder has been sent out.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<boredandblogging> hello
<nomasteryoda> yo
<boredandblogging> nomasteryoda: how's it going?
<nomasteryoda> nice one... 323pkgs to update on the other laptop
<nomasteryoda> lol
<nomasteryoda> been like 2 wks since last update
<boredandblogging> hah
<nomasteryoda> oh and kid one 1st place for a dragon pencil drawing
<boredandblogging> updates have been coming fast recently
<nomasteryoda> in the fair in perry
<boredandblogging> awesome!
<nomasteryoda> ya
<ClinicalMistake> I did something odd today
<ClinicalMistake> or rather, came to a decision
<ClinicalMistake> I was at target, and I was going to buy a CD
<ClinicalMistake> but it hit me about the recent law suit the RIAA won over 24 cases of pirated music
<ClinicalMistake> and how the defendant has to pay out over 200,000 dollars
<ClinicalMistake> and how they're now claiming ripping CDs to your computer is illegal
<ClinicalMistake> and right then and there I put back the CD :/
<ClinicalMistake> I feel sad and dumb
<`Matir> they're claiming ripping cds to your computer is illegal?
<ClinicalMistake> 's what a studio exec was saying
<ClinicalMistake> Id link you, but it doesnt even matter anymore I guess
<`Matir> eh... bunch of bulls*
<ClinicalMistake> it all is really
<ClinicalMistake> buying a cd shouldnt be an ethical decision
<boredandblogging> yeah, read that too
<boredandblogging> who cares, music will be free one day
<ClinicalMistake> we can hope
<boredandblogging> its inevitable
<ClinicalMistake> mm :)
<ClinicalMistake> hah man ive no idea how to start a website project : )
<boredandblogging> ClinicalMistake: what do you mean?
<boredandblogging> trying to find something to work on?
<ClinicalMistake> haha kind of
<ClinicalMistake> I want to start building my ownsite
<ClinicalMistake> but im not sure where to start at
<ClinicalMistake> if I want to make a basic idexpage, or make the individual components first and expand
<ClinicalMistake> index
<boredandblogging> whats the site for?
<boredandblogging> like a blog or just a general site?
<ClinicalMistake> mmm
<ClinicalMistake> well the current code for my college newspaper's website is abysmal
<ClinicalMistake> like, it makes me want to bang my head into the wall
<ClinicalMistake> so I want to begin working on a local project
<ClinicalMistake> so that I can basically know what the hell im doing with theirs
<ClinicalMistake> it has to be flexible in delivering up to date news
<ClinicalMistake> allow comments, and user names for readers/editors
<ClinicalMistake> and I want to set up a way for people to upload their own works
<ClinicalMistake> in a nutshell
<ClinicalMistake> though, Im using RoR and not php for my own projects
<boredandblogging> RoR is nice
<boredandblogging> but it seems like you are replicating some work
<boredandblogging> couldn't you make joomla or drupal to do something like that?
<ClinicalMistake> in a sense, but I'd like to do it from scratch
<ClinicalMistake> ehh
<ClinicalMistake> they have an interesting CMS in place
<ClinicalMistake> the problem with using drupal is that I want to basically figure out how to set up the systems myself
<ClinicalMistake> and those make me lazy :)
<boredandblogging> set up, as in create, right?
<ClinicalMistake> yep
<boredandblogging> i get that, thats pretty cool
<ClinicalMistake> haha this is interesting, its defiantly different than java or php
<ClinicalMistake> mmm
<ClinicalMistake> and very clean
<ClinicalMistake> but a different way to think of things to be sure
<ClinicalMistake> holy crap, in order to say hello world in console it's 1 line of code
<ClinicalMistake> puts ("Hello") <-
<boredandblogging> yup
<boredandblogging> for web apps, its a very interesting alternative
<boredandblogging> man I'm liking kde
<ClinicalMistake> kde...
<boredandblogging> anyone know how to turn on compiz in kde?
<ClinicalMistake> I dont :/
<ClinicalMistake> sorry!
<boredandblogging> nm, I got it
<`Matir> lo all
<heathen> what time is the irc meeting?
<tannerld> 3pm
<heathen> noon
<heathen> damn
<heathen> i hate being on the other side of the country...
<tannerld> heh
<boredandblogging> hello
<tannerld> hi
<boredandblogging> whats up guys
<tannerld> homework :E
<boredandblogging> thats no fun
<tannerld> not today
<tannerld> wait...today it isn't fun
<boredandblogging> jeje
<boredandblogging> wha
<boredandblogging> can't type today
<boredandblogging> hi
<tannerld> ya'll are having a gusty install fest right?
<boredandblogging> tannerld: yes
<tannerld> nifty
<boredandblogging> hello
<heathen> mmmmm..... jessica alba
<boredandblogging> lol
<boredandblogging> heathen: did you go see the chuck movie?
<heathen> billisnotnice!
<Billisnice> is this the ga ubuntu meeting?
<boredandblogging> hi Billisnice
<heathen> boredandblogging: no
<boredandblogging> Billisnice: yeah
<heathen> i want too
<Billisnice> hey
<heathen> but not any time soon
<heathen> hiya Bill
<silver22> hi Billisnice
<heathen> i see you got irc+windows figured out
* ** silver22 is now known as silver2
<Billisnice> i live in holly springs, ga been using ubuntu for about 6 moths
<Billisnice> i got on
<Billisnice> Thanks for the help getting on
<heathen> im hungry
<heathen> it's noon here
<silver2> dang, where are you, heathen
<silver2> online hearing test (i must be a bat)
<silver2> http://www.freemosquitoringtones.org/
<heathen> Portland, OR
<silver2> hi BillinGA
<silver2> your job involve travel?
<heathen> unfortunatly
<boredandblogging> Billisnice: where is holly springs?
<Billisnice> in canton, ga
<boredandblogging> ah, ok
<boredandblogging> Billisnice: are you going to be able to make it out to the release party and install fest?
<Billisnice> i hope so
<heathen> i will be around for release party
<Billisnice> i have been using 7.10 since tribe 1
<heathen> thats saturday 20 right?
<Billisnice> i think so
<boredandblogging> we are also going to have a face to face meeting sometime this month
<Billisnice> great
<silver2> went to skool in Waleska....loooong time ago
<Billisnice> long ago
<silver2> '70 or so
<Billisnice> i notice that gusty had a new repository open up, it only lasted about 30 min and went down...tons of updates more
<Billisnice> i went to school in blairsville, ga
<Billisnice> up in the mts
<Billisnice> grad from north ga college and UGA
* tannerld waves to anyone he didn't say hello to yet.
<heathen> blairsville has some great bbq places
<Billisnice> my parents still live up in the hills
<jsvh> hey everyone
<silver2> o/
<heathen> i;ve been known to terroize round uo there,
<heathen> motorcycles are fun
<jsvh> have we started?
<heathen> jsvh: there's a name i havent seen in a while
<heathen> brb
<jsvh> hehe
<jsvh> yea, I stay busy
<boredandblogging> crap, there seems to be some confusion
<boredandblogging> on the release party date
<boredandblogging> I see the 20th and 27th
<jsvh> I have it as the 20th
<jsvh> where is it the 27th?
<heathen> i hate this computer
<boredandblogging> jsvh: on Jon's ALE email
<boredandblogging> crap
<jsvh> anywhere else?
<boredandblogging> no, its 20th on the wiki
<boredandblogging> and on the site
<jsvh> Lets just send out a correction email to ALE
<boredandblogging> i want to make sure with joshua
<boredandblogging> hopefully he shows
<boredandblogging> left him a message on his cell phone
<jsvh> sounds good
<boredandblogging> ah crap
<boredandblogging> nope, I sent out an email to the list saying 27th as well
<heathen> ok, im missing something about playing dvds
<boredandblogging> ok, joshua says 27th
<jsvh> we could just have 2 release parties
<boredandblogging> well, we spammed the loco and ale list as 27th
<boredandblogging> so lets just all the references to the 27th
<heathen> i dunno if i can make that
<heathen> oh well
<boredandblogging> heathen: we'll do this for all the releases, so no worry
<jsvh> I wont be able to make that
<jsvh> should we see what date is better for the most people?
<boredandblogging> i'm a little worried about doing that since we've sent out the emails to the list and ALE already
<silver2> boredandblogging, many responses yet?
<boredandblogging> silver2: not really, but most people don't reply, they just show up
<jsvh> If we do decide to go with the 20th we should still send out an email to confirm that in case anyone got the date off the wiki
<boredandblogging> jsvh: good idea, we should spam everyone again this coming week
<boredandblogging> ok, so jchase has created a flyer for the install fest
<boredandblogging> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Marketing
<boredandblogging> scroll down to Gutsy Gibbon Install Fest
<boredandblogging> thoughts? criticisms? feedback?
<jsvh> I like it a lot
<jchase> hola
<boredandblogging> hi jchase
<jchase> whats shakin?
<boredandblogging> just mentioned your poster on the wiki
<boredandblogging> jchase is goint to put an ALE logo on it as well later
<jchase> ok
<jchase> yeah, and their URL
<boredandblogging> right
<jchase> http://www.ubuntu-georgia.org/files/installfestdft2.jpg
<jchase> that's what I will be updating
<jchase> also, Paul and Bill, I've got your case badges set aside for you each
<Billisnice> thanks
<jchase> no problemo
<jsvh> nice work jchase
<boredandblogging> do we need to put any more info on the poster?
<jchase> we can
<jchase> I'm open
<boredandblogging> hi paulc
<jchase> I figure if we have most of the info on the -g.org site, then they can reference that?
<jchase> paul c
<jchase> whats shakin
<jchase> I just mentioned I have your case badges set aside for ya
<paulc> hey hey!! just got home!
<boredandblogging> jchase: i think so
<jchase> oh, I also go thte go ahead to put a box of ubuntu cds at ITT Tech in Duluth !
<jchase> and, also working on all the libraries in Fulton
<paulc> what about Athens Tech up here on 29 ??
<jchase> go for it :)
<boredandblogging> i'm thinking we might need to look at burning some CDs ourselves
<boredandblogging> we simply aren't going to be able to get that many from shipit
<boredandblogging> hi JonReagan
<paulc> CDs for the install fest, or just to hand out
<boredandblogging> paulc: to hand out and put in locations are ITT tech and athens tech
<JonReagan> sorry I'm late
<JonReagan> just got back from lunch
<jsvh> Hey Jon
<JonReagan> hey
<JonReagan> has the meeting already started?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: yeah
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: did we set an october f2f date last weekend?
<JonReagan> I'm not sure
<JonReagan> I haven't hat a chance to read through the IRC log
<boredandblogging> yeah, now I don't remember
<boredandblogging> back to the CDs issues
<boredandblogging> I'm not sure how many we can get from shipit
<boredandblogging> they seem to have gotten thrify with them
<JonReagan> VERY thrifty
<jsvh> I have not heard back from ship it
<jsvh> I noticed they now sell them through ubuntu.com
<boredandblogging> so do we want to look into making our own CDs?
<boredandblogging> jsvh: they are kinda expensive, aren't they?
<JonReagan> sortof
<JonReagan> I got 100 CDs and 100 cases for $70
<JonReagan> without labels and inserts
<JonReagan> making cd inserts is only about $20
<jsvh> anyone know the pound/ dollar conversion?
<boredandblogging> it would be nice if we could burn a nice image on the CDs
<boredandblogging> make it look professional
<JonReagan> yeah
<jsvh> the CDs go for 16.50 pounds for 20.
<JonReagan> oh...
<JonReagan> that adds up to at least $20 per 20?
<jsvh> ah, that is ~$33 for 20 cds
<boredandblogging> ouch!
<JonReagan> hrmmm
<jchase> that's a lot
<jsvh> yea
<JonReagan> yup
<jchase> is there anyway we can get the cost down?
<boredandblogging> bulk
<jchase> bullk order?
<boredandblogging> jchase: kinda like the badges thing
<boredandblogging> yeah
<jchase> sounds good
<boredandblogging> might have to check in #ubuntu-us and see if anyone is tackling something like that
<jchase> I'm sure we aren't the first to inquire
<boredandblogging> exactly
<boredandblogging> i'll send out some emails and see if anything is happening with it
<jchase> Is anyone else plannign on going to the ALE meeting this coming Thursday?
<boredandblogging> jchase: me
<jchase> w3rde
<boredandblogging> we need to discuss a couple of things
<boredandblogging> where to put posters
<boredandblogging> or flyers
<JonReagan> ah
<jchase> yeah.. good idea
<boredandblogging> and the wiki page to tell people what they should do before they show up
<boredandblogging> like prepping for dual-booting and stuff
<boredandblogging> so where should be put flyers?
<boredandblogging> anyone want to do the spray painting that aaron wanted to do?
<jchase> whoa.. spray painting?
<JonReagan> !
<jchase> I missed that..
<JonReagan> I think that's what he meant by "tagging"
<boredandblogging> right, tagging
<boredandblogging> at least thats what I assume he meant
<jchase> uhm.. tagging what?
<JonReagan> that might not be such a good idea... it would get the logo out, but we would be at odds with the local authorities...
<boredandblogging> hehe
<jchase> someone start workin on a stincle.. stat!
<jchase> haha
<boredandblogging> whats the probability they figure out what it is?
<jchase> yeah, I don't want to do anything illegal
<boredandblogging> they'd probably think it was a gang symbol
<boredandblogging> so we can put them up around campuses
<JonReagan> lol
<jchase> 7.10 Crew was h3r3 !
<boredandblogging> lol
<boredandblogging> distribute to the school LUGs
<jchase> Freed0m f0r a!!
<boredandblogging> distribute flyers
<jchase> yeah, sounds good
<boredandblogging> where else?
<paulc> UGA has their own user group, chugalug..
<boredandblogging> yeah, we'll email them
<JonReagan> gt has one... what about Ga state>
<JonReagan> *?
<boredandblogging> Matir is starting the one at gsu
<boredandblogging> what we can do besides schools?
<boredandblogging> maybe some small mom and pop computer stores?
<boredandblogging> any linux friendly?
<JonReagan> libraries, stores
<paulc> malls by computer stores
<silver2> GIM
<jchase> there is on on 120 I can stop by at
<jchase> ComputerZone I think
<jchase> something liek that
<boredandblogging> paulc: where in malls?
<jchase> there is Micro Center
<boredandblogging> libraries are good
<jchase> Vision Computers
<paulc> Athens has Bestbuy & CC that sell computers..
<paulc> not to mention Office Depot
<boredandblogging> paulc: would the big retailers allow us to put up flyers?
<paulc> dunno, have to ask.
<boredandblogging> true
<paulc> probably not if they only do W$, but I think Best buy is into Linux
<JonReagan> maybe a bookstore of some sort?
<paulc> Borders
<jchase> I'm working on the libraries angle
<boredandblogging> yeah, bookstores might be good
<boredandblogging> how are we going to do the posters? like is everyone going to print them out themselves?
<paulc> chase, libraries all have computers, but they run windows..
<JonReagan> I could stick CD-sized flyers in the Cds at my borders ubuntu box
<jchase> Yeah, that's why I'd like to get boxes in there with cds
<boredandblogging> i think libraries might like the idea of linux more than best buy or circuit city
<JonReagan> agreed
<boredandblogging> but we have to contact everyone and make sure
<jchase> Yeah, my fiancee is getting me the director contacts for the libraries
<JonReagan> good stuff
<boredandblogging> so printing the posters
<boredandblogging> err, flyers, whatever
<jchase> yeah, for the install fest?
<jchase> specifically?
<boredandblogging> yeah
<jchase> depends on the sizes we want
<jchase> i was thinking, I'd love to get one general Ubuntu - Georgia banner made that we could reuse for all sorts of events
<jchase> that was mroe of a side note
<jchase> so we can put that in the parking lot
<boredandblogging> that would be nice
<jchase> yeah
<boredandblogging> jchase: do we just want like regular letter sized flyers?
<boredandblogging> letter paper sized
<jchase> I was thinking that would be the esiest
<jchase> 8 and a half x 11
<boredandblogging> right
<jchase> would be easy to put in builletins in schools and stuff
<jchase> staple to posts, or bulletins where ever we can find
<jchase> that we would want peole to see
<boredandblogging> right
<jchase> so what else is brewing? looks like a lot of roles are being identified
<jchase> that's good
<boredandblogging> is anyone else going to ALE thursday night? dendrobates will be doing an ALE presentation
<JonReagan> where will the meeting be at?
<boredandblogging> emory law
<JonReagan> ah
<silver2> http://www.ale.org
<boredandblogging> ok, if we mail out flyers, can you guys check out stores where they can be posted?
<boredandblogging> libraries, computers shops, etc?
<jchase> sounds good
<jchase> I'll have the finalized flyer ready tonight
<jchase> I will have a print .png version avail
<jchase> and make that avail as well
<jchase> as a lower res version
<JonReagan> awesome
<boredandblogging> cool
<boredandblogging> ok, I think we are done for this week
<boredandblogging> anything else we need to talk about?
<jsvh> I think I am good
<jsvh> anyone got anything with the roles or any of that?
<JonReagan> no...
<jchase> im goods
<boredandblogging> looks like its set
<jchase> oh
<jchase> when and where is the next f2f?
<jchase> I think I missed that
<boredandblogging> i think we discussed it last week...
<JonReagan> good question. From what I had been hearing, some folks were planning one at taco mac -- or something like that
<jchase> thats the last i heard
<boredandblogging> yeah
<boredandblogging> but I don't remember the date
<JonReagan> the only other we we could do it is before the release party... next weekend.
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: yeah, the 13th or the 20th
<jchase> im down with sat?
<jchase> maybe like 2ish?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: can you check the logs from last week? if we didn't set a date, lets do it next saturday at taco maco
<boredandblogging> up by perimeter, right?
<JonReagan> will do
<jchase> yeah @22 perimetr
<boredandblogging> sounds good
<jsvh> should we set up a calender as part of our google group?
<jchase> yeah.. thats a great idwa
<boredandblogging> jsvh: is there a calendar in it? yeah, that would be great
<boredandblogging> jsvh: actually no
<boredandblogging> we have an ubuntu-georgia@gmail address
<boredandblogging> that we use for support
<boredandblogging> lets do it with that
<jchase> ooh sweet
<jchase> dang, it'slike we are getting organized here or somethign
<jchase> :)
<boredandblogging> lol
<boredandblogging> i don't see a calendar with the groups
<boredandblogging> think siafulinux can do the calendar
<boredandblogging> and then we can publish the calendar feed so people can subscribe to it
<boredandblogging> jsvh: great idea
<JonReagan> I think the F2F was for next Sat, the 13th
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: thats fine
<jchase> sounds good
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: go ahead and send out an email about it
<JonReagan> alright
<jchase> rock on
<jchase> I'm good then
<boredandblogging> i probably won't make next week, going to BarCamp
<jchase> whoa.. where is bar camp?
<jchase> dude, I'm missing out on the info here
<boredandblogging> BarCampAtlanta?
<boredandblogging> http://barcampatlanta.com
<jchase> is it open invite?
<jchase> oh, dang
<jchase> registration is closed
<boredandblogging> it was an open invite
<boredandblogging> but it closed within 2 days after it was announced
<boredandblogging> but you can sign up to be on the waiting list if you are interested
<boredandblogging> just in case
<jchase> its cool, I'll just be at the f2f meeting
<JonReagan> which location is the taco mac at?
<jchase> at perimeter?
<JonReagan> there are 9 inside and around the perimeter
<jchase> 1211 Ashford Crossing, Atlanta, Ga. 30346
<JonReagan> thx
<jchase> no problemo
<JonReagan> what time do y'all want to meet?
<jchase> I'd like to meet a little earlier than normal, maybe like 1 or 2 ?
<jchase> so that I'm eating lunch and not messing up dinner
<JonReagan> lol
<jchase> wwhhaatt??
<jchase> hahah
<jchase> :P
<JonReagan> so... 1:30-ish?
<jchase> sounds good
<jchase> I'm down
<JonReagan> alright, 1:30 it is.
<jchase> rockin
<jchase> I will bring badges for those who paid up
<jchase> So Far Bill, and Paul
<jchase> if anyone wants any feel free to let me know
<jchase> I will bring them all for you
<silver2> which bill
<boredandblogging> jchase: i think you mean silver2 bill
<jchase> you bill :)
<jchase> silver2 bill
<jchase> sorry
<JonReagan> darnit! I will be busy that weekend, would someone else like to take over that f2f meeting?
<silver2> np
<jchase> I can do it
<JonReagan> great!
<jchase> I'll get there early
<JonReagan> I am about to send out the email... do you need folks to email you back for "reservations"?
<jchase> yeah, if possible
<JonReagan> k
<jchase> but I'll try to get a table for at least 10
<jchase> or more
<jchase> i I can
<silver2> I'll try to come.
<jchase> okie dokie
<silver2> cobb salad sounds good
<jchase> tasty
<JonReagan> the email's out
<silver2> so, you can exit off 400?
<jchase> I think so
<jchase> coming from north or south?
<silver2> s
<jchase> yeah, you can hit exit 5, which is abernathy, and turn left heading east
<silver2> k thanks
<jchase> and it's a few lights down on the left, ther is a bunch of stuff there
<jchase> target flemings, as you turn in, the taco mac is back and off to the left
<silver2> oh ok.
<silver2> had a hard time finding the other place
<jchase> if anyone gets lost, my cell is 404-578-6381
<silver2> got it
<jchase> ok
<jchase> i gotta roll out for a bit
<jchase> be looking for the flyers tonight
<jchase> or tom moring
<JonReagan> I g2g everyone
<JonReagan> I'll update the meeting wiki tonight
<JonReagan> cy'all later
<silver2> later
<Corvix> heiho!
<Corvix> how was your So meeting?
<Corvix> I'm back home in Germany, handed in my thesis .. and now I'm just relaxing ...
<jsvh> Hey Corvix
<jsvh> Germany eh?
<Corvix> yeah rigbt
<jsvh> school over there?
<Corvix> ugh sorry ... a bit drunk ;-) just came back from a pub
<Corvix> nothing at the moment ... i handed in my final thesis for my diploma and thats it ...
<Corvix> now im waiting how thau uni in switzerland responds to my application for a phd position
<Corvix> i think the interview went pretty well
<Corvix> just came back from hiking a mountain: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pilatus_(mountain)
<Corvix> me and some friends from highschool stayed in that hotel you see in those pictures .. really nice with the morning sun and the fog in the valley
<jsvh> that is awesome
<Corvix> but my feet hurt ...
<Corvix> yesterday we hiked up there .. but i only made it 2/3
<Corvix> 1000m in height, about 3000ft
<Corvix> my friends did the last part as well, another 600m, about 1800ft
<Corvix> my stay in atlanta didnt really help my fitness ;-)
<heathen> fastfood america will do that
</pre>
