{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===

==== InstallFest Planning ====
More plans for the InstallFest included presentations have been set.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<fignew_> shoot
<fignew_> Its the strangest thing
<fignew_> I'm trying to install Debian onto my Dell Poweredge server (500mhz)
<fignew_> and it's super slow
<fignew_> as in top take 30% of my CPU
<fignew_> but what
<fignew_> 's even stranger is how the #debian people are being complete asshats
<nomasteryoda> oh my god this is funny
<nomasteryoda> http://photos-a.ak.facebook.com/photos-ak-sf2p/v79/123/32/797020226/n797020226_351604_2115.jpg
<nomasteryoda> i laughed my ass off
<nomasteryoda> or ROTFLAMFAO
* ** tannerld_mac is now known as tannerld
<fignew_> http://lucasmanual.com/mywiki/SambaDomainController
<fignew_> that is very likely the best howto that I have ever read
<nomasteryoda> thanks fignew needed that.. friend needs it rather...
<fignew_> lol
<fignew_> glad my randomness could be of use
* tannerld_mac always keeps reading this "Brian Pitts" in the mailing list as "Brad Pitts"
<boredandblogging> tannerld_mac: uh huh
* ** tannerld_mac is now known as tannerld
* ** tannerld is now known as tannerld_mac
* ** tannerld_mac is now known as tannerld
<boredandblogging> hello
<boredandblogging> whats up kevinf311
<kevinf311> not much, working on (starting) the presentation that I have to give tomorrow
<boredandblogging> kevinf311: anything interesting?
<kevinf311> we're doing it on Key Logging
<kevinf311> i'm going to demonstrate lvl in class on my laptop :D
<boredandblogging> nice
<kevinf311> i just need to fix my VGA clone scripts resolution
<kevinf311> 1280x800 down to 640x480 on clone O.o
<kevinf311> methinks I missed a line when making it
<boredandblogging> heh
<heathen> hello
<CosmicPizza> hi
<heathen> how's it?
<boredandblogging> i need a nap
<heathen> i need a brain
<heathen> guitar hero has ruined me
<boredandblogging> lol
<jon_> hey folks
<boredandblogging> hi jon_
<jon_> hey nick
<boredandblogging> jon_: whats the url for the presentations page on the wiki?
<jon_> oh... hold on. I'll get it
<jon_> there are two. The one that has the presentation link is at wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Marketing
<boredandblogging> cool, thanks
<jon_> np
<jon_> It's three, should we go ahead and start the meeting?
<boredandblogging> was jimpop going to installation and customization?
<jon_> I think so, but I am not sure if that ever got confirmed
<boredandblogging> if he doesn't show up here today, lets send him an email and verify
<jon_> k
<boredandblogging> i think we need to send out a couple emails this week...
<boredandblogging> maybe Tuesday a reminder about the release party
<jon_> *writes it down
<boredandblogging> and another team asking for volunteers to pass out flyers
<boredandblogging> s/team/email
<jon_> k
<boredandblogging> and mentioning the release party and install fest on their blogs
<jon_> got it
* ** tannerld_mac is now known as tannerld
<boredandblogging> lets expand the FAQ as well
<jon_> alright
<boredandblogging> maybe put it on its on wiki page
<boredandblogging> and just provide more detail
<jon_> ok
<boredandblogging> i added some dual booting links to it
<boredandblogging> I'm wondering if we should copy of the content onto the faq
<jon_> that might be a good idea
<jon_> maybe add it to a sub-page
<boredandblogging> right
<jon_> good shtuff
<boredandblogging> and we'll copy all that to the ubuntu-georgia site
<jon_> ok
<jon_> could you do that? I don't have an account
<boredandblogging> i can create an account for you
<boredandblogging> or just email it to saifulinux
<jon_> do tell....
<jon_> k
<jon_> hey bill
<silver2> hi jon
* silver2 waves at room
<boredandblogging> hi silver2
<boredandblogging> jon_: you should get an email about your account
<jon_> thanks!
<silver2> hi nick
<boredandblogging> how's it going Bill
<silver2> all's well, ty
<ant> hey ya'll.
<jon_> hey
<CosmicPizza> hi
<boredandblogging> hi ant
<silver2> <- lagging some
<jon_> hey cosmic
<boredandblogging> hi CosmicPizza
<CosmicPizza> hi jon_
<boredandblogging> ant: i'll put your flyers in the mail tomorrow
<silver2> hi ant
<silver2> hi cosmic
<ant> boredandblogging: cool. i will watch for them.
<ant> will there be any ubuntu t-shirts / hats / apparel to wear at the Install Fest?
<jon_> that's a good question
<boredandblogging> umm...
<boredandblogging> honestly I hadn't thought about it
<jon_> I know some folks that can make us some
<boredandblogging> the stuff that canonical sells is expensive
<JSVH> hey all
<boredandblogging> jon_: can you find out prices?
<boredandblogging> hi JSVH
<jon_> hey john
<JSVH> sorry im late
<jon_> sure
<CosmicPizza> do you know if there' s a equivalent program of image ready (adobe) ?
<jon_> image ready?
<CosmicPizza> yes
<silver2> hi JSVH
<CosmicPizza> it able to make animated gif easily
<CosmicPizza> or other animations
<CosmicPizza> hi JSVH
<boredandblogging> i know nothing about graphics
<boredandblogging> CosmicPizza: where are you located
<CosmicPizza> i' m from france
<boredandblogging> ahh cool beans
<boredandblogging> jon_: so if you could find out prices
<boredandblogging> and see if we can get them in time for the install fest
<ant> Comhave you tried the gimp?
<ant> er, CosmicPizza
<jon_> I would definately think so, I will have to act on it this week just to be sure
* ant defers later answers until after $meeting
<boredandblogging> jon_: should we get started?
<jon_> sure
<silver2> hi CSills
<jon_> the first topic is "Organize Presentations/Demos - Where is everyone with presentations"
<boredandblogging> Matir: ping
<boredandblogging> hmm
<boredandblogging> maybe we can email them and find out where they are
<boredandblogging> and jimpop
<boredandblogging> hi billnix
<billnix> hey
<jon_> brb... gotta let the dog in
<silver2> hi billnix
<boredandblogging> billnix: how is your linux experience going
<billnix> going great so far
<jon_> me back
<silver2> wb
<jon_> thx
<boredandblogging> so lets do the email thing for jimpop and matir
<jon_> k
* jon_ heads to gmail
<boredandblogging> jon_: whats next?
* boredandblogging wonders how much the cafepress ubuntu stuff costs
<billnix> dell and ubuntu have works hours on DKMS at http://www.linux-watch.com/news/NS7536907294.html
<billnix> for ver 7.10
<billnix> is the technology in our version too?
<jon_> sent one to Jimpop
<boredandblogging> billnix: yeah, its the universe repo for 7.10
<JSVH> that is cool
<jon_> and that's one to Matir
<jon_> screencasts are next
<jon_> which ones do we want to show?
<boredandblogging> is there any way we can get some input for this?
<boredandblogging> how do we get people to give us some feedback on this?
<jon_> hrmmm...
<jon_> we could just use the presentations to deliver this info
<boredandblogging> right
<billnix> how do i screencast?
<boredandblogging> i was wondering if we could just play some in between presentations
<jon_> we could
<boredandblogging> billnix: you can see them at screencasts.ubuntu.com
<boredandblogging> hmmm
<billnix> help movies?
<boredandblogging> billnix: basically, yes, tutorials
<jon_> I am sure that it would work
<boredandblogging> yeah, maybe we can pick some on the fly
<boredandblogging> jon_: ok, lets move on
<ant> I used http://www.debugmode.com/wink/ to produce some FLV screencasts for linux.
<ant> (in case anyone is looking for apps on doing that)
<jon_> alright, the next topic is the InstallFest FAQ
<boredandblogging> jon_: did you want to do the new wiki page?
<boredandblogging> or separate it out
<jon_> sure
<jon_> should I add it as a sub-page of the InstallFest page
<boredandblogging> jon_: yeah, thats fine
<jon_> k
<jon_> next topic?
<boredandblogging> yeah
<jon_> next topic: banner
<boredandblogging> um
<boredandblogging> yeah, we just need to get one
<jon_> k
<jon_> do we have a supplier
<boredandblogging> i think jchase and I were supposed to track it down
<jon_> ah
<boredandblogging> ok, next
<jon_> handing out flyers
<boredandblogging> i've sent out some flyers, does anyone need more flyers
<boredandblogging> ?
<boredandblogging> or want to send out flyers
<jon_> *crickets chirping*
<boredandblogging> hehe
<boredandblogging> guess it will be another email
<boredandblogging> jon_: next
<jon_> hold on
<jon_> oh, that's it
<boredandblogging> really?
<boredandblogging> ok
<jon_> yup (sorry, I acc. closed firefox :P)
<boredandblogging> guess thats it
<boredandblogging> some emails need to get sent out
<jon_> yup
<boredandblogging> and it would be nice if we can get some shirts for the install fest
<jon_> I have it all written down
<boredandblogging> cool
<billnix> Where do you add irc.freenode.net and how do you connect in chatzilla?
<jon_> I g2g... c'yall later
<silver2> bye jon
<boredandblogging> billnix: there should be a server setting
<ant> the ubuntu stickers that came with 6.10 CDs wash off. *shrug*
<boredandblogging> ant, I think the case badges we got are a bit better
<ant> boredandblogging: is the Georgia Team LoCo official now?
<boredandblogging> ant: as in approved? not yet, we'll go up for approval after the install fest
<ant> boredandblogging: ok... I am catching up on the LoCo forums.
<boredandblogging> thats cool
<ant> hopefully going to catch the Server discussion tomorrow at Noon.
<ant> bummer, see I just missed Rick's presentation
<boredandblogging> which server discussion
<boredandblogging> yeah, it was listening to dendrobates talk
<ant> boredandblogging: the open edu week discussion
<boredandblogging> ant: ahh, cool
<ant> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
<boredandblogging> yeah, there is some interesting stuff
<ant> any insign on Ubuntu Studio?
<ant> s/insign/insight/
<boredandblogging> think I've heard some good things aobut it
<ant> I work a little with a instrumental music group - http://www.dejunair.com/
<ant> all free legal mp3s
<boredandblogging> oh cool
<ant> if you like music, try it out ... the goal is to reach a different style of music with each song
<ant> </shameless plug off>
<boredandblogging> haha, its all good
<boredandblogging> join planetgeorgia.org and blog about it
<ant> oh yah, great idea.
<jimpop> what'd I miss from the meeting :-)
<boredandblogging> hi jimpop
<jimpop> hi
<boredandblogging> not a whole lot
<boredandblogging> we are going to look into getting some shirts and/or hats
<boredandblogging> for the install fest
<jimpop> k
<boredandblogging> jon has finished up his presentation
<jimpop> i'm still working on mine
<boredandblogging> jimpop: thats cool, let us know when you are done
<boredandblogging> and post it to the wiki
<jimpop> will do
<jimpop> ok
<boredandblogging> that was pretty much it
<boredandblogging> and flyers
<boredandblogging> we are urging people to get them out
<boredandblogging> thats pretty much it
<jimpop> jon sent me an email earlier, but I was out running errands and IM on my mobile wasn't working
<jimpop> i've got the flyers printed and ready to go
<boredandblogging> no big deal
<boredandblogging> awesome
<jimpop> i was going to wait until the first of Nov to start distributing them.. didn't want to get them out there too soon
<boredandblogging> ok
<boredandblogging> i can send you a whole bunch if needed
<jimpop> got plenty now
<jimpop> thx though
<boredandblogging> cool
<boredandblogging> jimpop: you coming to the release party?
<jimpop> yep
<boredandblogging> cool
<jimpop> who's driving me home?
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> lol
<boredandblogging> we'll get you a cab
<jimpop> :-)
<jimpop> i should be fine.
* ** dendro-away is now known as dendrobates
<ant> hey boredandblogging ... how interested would you be in me checking into a co-sponsor for the install fest?
<boredandblogging> ant: see PM
* ant responded ...
<ant> ah PM blocked for unregistered users, sec
* ** ant is now known as antdedyet
* ** antdedyet is now known as ant00
</pre>
