{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===

==== Ubuntu Box Locations ====
Several people are going to ask around at local computer shops to place CD stands.

==== July F2F Meeting ====
The location chosen for the July face to face meeting is Rocky Mountain Pizza (www.rockymountainpizza.com), at 1:30 on July 7th.

==== Publicizing Ubuntu ====
One of the members is over in London and will see about getting his hands on some CDs.  A new project has been started, called PressKit, which aims to make a kit for sending to the press.

==== Approval Application ====
Work will continue on the approval application.  We will see what it looks like in about a week.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<JonReagan> the first topic is the Ubuntu box locations
<JonReagan> was anyone successfull at finding a place for a second box?
* ** heathen_ is now known as heathen
<BillG> didn't try yet
<JonReagan> that's ok... no rush
<heathen> i asked vision, the crew is diffrent and the looked at me rather funny
<heathen> so i think that's out
<JonReagan> lol
<dendrobates> I found a computer shop up here in alpharetta that said they would be willing as long as the owner approved.
<JonReagan> that's great!
<jsvh> I can build try to get time to build one soon
<dendrobates> I haven't been back to check, but they thought he would agree.
<JonReagan> probably so
<JonReagan> @jsvh: I have the template available if you want it
<jsvh> thats on the wiki site correct?
<jsvh> I saw them before, they look really good
<JonReagan> yup... I did make a new one... the first kind that is on the wiki says "Georgia Support Team"
<JonReagan> I didn't know LoCo stood for local community team until rather recently
<JonReagan> thanks, I recommend making them out of card paper
<JonReagan> the one at the Borders is holding up fine... I went to refill it today
<dendrobates> I can buy card stock, but I am all thumbs.
<JonReagan> it's not that hard, really
<heathen> i need to run
<JonReagan> you just cut along the dotted lines and glue it together with a glue stick
<jsvh> cya heathen
<heathen> but i wanted to add that we should have the july 7th meet at the Rocky Mountain pizza over by tech
<jsvh> where is a good place to get card stock?
<heathen> any craft store
<heathen> (dont ask how i know)
<JonReagan> any office store will have it
<heathen> computer stores
<JonReagan> yup
<BillG> I know where that is, heathen
<heathen> its goooooooood food
<heathen> and a little less vortexish...
<BillG> City Grille is across the street
<JonReagan> :)
<jsvh> That sounds good to me
<heathen> well, a lot less vortexish
<heathen> more suited to go and talk anyhow
<JonReagan> I am not sure where that is yet, but I will look it up
<BillG> Hemphill and 10th
<heathen> yeah
<dendrobates> crap, I won't be able to come.
<JonReagan> sounds cool
<JonReagan> thanks
<heathen> and its gooooooooooooooooooood
<BillG> lol
<heathen> sorry, this diet has done wonders for me, but i crave pizza all the time now
<jsvh> haha, is it low carb or something?
<heathen> no
<heathen> just healthy
<JonReagan> good
<heathen> and pizza doesnt qualify aparently
<JonReagan> lol... I wonder why...
<dendrobates> do the have wireless access?
<heathen> i lost 40lbs though
<JonReagan> !
<BillG> the krystal at 14th does
<BillG> wtg heathen
<heathen> www.rockymountainpizza.com
<JonReagan> krystal has wifi!?
<BillG> yup, that one does
<jsvh> the one near us in Athens does too
<BillG> I dont' eat their food, tho
<JonReagan> wow
<BillG> wonder if Krispy Kreme has it
<JonReagan> lol... yeah, I've heard people tell me they can't eat krystal food as well
<JonReagan> I like krispy kreme
<heathen> i know there is a large ammount of free wifi around tech
<heathen> you would probably beable to hit one of those as this is right off campus
<JonReagan> lol
<JonReagan> how did you find out they have wifi?
<BillG> they have a sign
<jsvh> who doesnt like krispy kreme? It is pure delicious unhealthiness
<heathen> i work most summers at tech
<JonReagan> ahh
<dendrobates> If you can connect to IRC, than those of us that can't be there can still participate.
<heathen> lol
<heathen> i need a copy of ubuntustudio and my burner has crapped out
<heathen> gah
<heathen> anyhow, rocky mountain pizza... now i really must go..
<jsvh> you can install ubuntustudio from synaptic
<heathen> dont have ubuntuinstalled
<jsvh> from a regular ubuntu install
<JonReagan> sounds good... any other suggestions while we're at it?
<jsvh> oh
<heathen> lol
<heathen> i use arch
<heathen> and my other computer has been hijacked by the wife and windows
<JonReagan> geez
<heathen> yeah
<jsvh> @Jon I know some great places around Athens haha
<JonReagan> lol
<heathen> but i really really want to try ubuntustudio
<JonReagan> yeah... It looks really cool.
<JonReagan> shiny
<BillG> what does it do?
<jsvh> music studio stuff
<BillG> ah ok
* BillG needs a new ring tone
<JonReagan> lol
<JonReagan> wow. So I guess that took care of the July 7th meeting?
<JonReagan> and the ubuntu box topic?
<jsvh> who can make it to the meeting?
<jsvh> I am going to try to be there
<BillG> I probably can
<BillG> who pays?
<JonReagan> I should be able to come
<JonReagan> I think everyone pays separately... I think
<JonReagan> I haven't been to one of these meetings, so I do not know
<jsvh> Unless you want to buy BillG? :-D
<JonReagan> lol
<BillG> maybe next time, jsvh
<BillG> can we bring a date?
<jsvh> as long as you share Bill, lol
<BillG> no prob
<JonReagan> lol
<boredandblogging> hello
<JonReagan> hey
<jsvh> hey Nick!
<BillG> hi bored
<boredandblogging> i've got a cold, was taking a nap
<JonReagan> we were just discussing the july meeting
<jsvh> we were wondering if you were there
<JonReagan> sorry to here that
<jsvh> ah, I had a cold last week
<boredandblogging> keep going, I'll catch up on the scrollback
<JonReagan> alright... should we decide on a time later?
<BillG> now is good
<BillG> or next sunday
<jsvh> what day of the week is the 7th?
<boredandblogging> saturday
<JonReagan> saturday
<JonReagan> thx bandb
<boredandblogging> how about 1:30?
<JonReagan> 1:30 sounds good
<boredandblogging> so if people have lunch plans, they can still make it aftewards
<jsvh> that sounds good
<BillG> np
<JonReagan> good stuff
<jsvh> do we have an email out about the meeting yet?
<boredandblogging> there was one just asking about the date
<boredandblogging> and it seems ok
<JonReagan> not that I know of... I sent it as a topic about today;s meeting
<boredandblogging> we'll have to send out another one with the location and time
<JonReagan> yeah
<boredandblogging> does that wrap up the meeting topic?
<JonReagan> yeah... I guess so
<jsvh> I think so, back to the boxes Jon?
<JonReagan> oh... well, I didn't really have anything else
<jsvh> oh, ok
<JonReagan> I refilled the box today.. that's about it
<JonReagan> so, next topic
<jsvh> sounds good, I will try to set one up soon hopefully
<jsvh> publizing ubuntu?
<dendrobates> I will see if I can bring back a big stack of CD's from the sprint.
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: that would be great
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: any schwag would be great
<dendrobates> How many do we need?
<JonReagan> lol... yeah
<boredandblogging> as many as you can get your hands on
<dendrobates> I don' tknow how much swag will be around, but I'll look.
<boredandblogging> cool
<JonReagan> so, were you thinking about us contacting journalists, nick?
<BillG> good idea
<boredandblogging> there were a couple people who had contacted journalists
<JonReagan> really?
<boredandblogging> but they aren't here today
<boredandblogging> had or were thinking about
<JonReagan> I saw ubuntu mentioned in the AJC
<BillG> ajc is always looking for a good story ;)
<JonReagan> yeah
<boredandblogging> if anyone knows someone at jac who would write a story on ubuntu, it would be great
<boredandblogging> i just tend to have little faith in the ajc
<JonReagan> lol
<jsvh> yea, that would be great, if they need people to interview get them to contact us
<boredandblogging> anyone want to contact the ajc?
<BillG> I don't know enough about Linux yet
<JonReagan> who should we contact?
<BillG> that guy who writes the computer articles
<boredandblogging> they must have a technology editor or something
<BillG> technobuddy
<JonReagan> technobuddy mentioned it in one of his "free alternatives to office" columns
<JonReagan> he has an email
<BillG> a lot of the reporters have emails
<JonReagan> good point...
<JonReagan> should we make a "team" email to be sent to reporters?
<BillG> something to consider
<boredandblogging> i've asked the ubuntu marketing team if they had something that we could use to contact reporters, but they don't
<jsvh> I may add this to our "projects" page
<boredandblogging> so yes, we would need to come up with our own email
<jsvh> who else wants to be listed as working on it?
<dendrobates> I'll help.
<JonReagan> me me me!!
<boredandblogging> awesome
<JonReagan> this is going to be good!
<boredandblogging> so maybe someone write up the template on the wiki?
<BillG> can you still get free CD's from Ubuntu?
<boredandblogging> BillG: yes
<BillG> ty
<dendrobates> I'm looking at the canonical wiki, and there appears to be some marketing data that might be useful.
<JonReagan> that sounds good... and maybe for the tech-reporters we could offer to send them a free CD to test out on their computer
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: thats a good idea, maybe come up with a kit for them
<JonReagan> sweet!
<BillG> very good idea
<dendrobates> The press is more likely to be interested if we are doing something interesting so that it can be tied to local happenings.
<jsvh> lets put up a wiki page on this stuff, what shall we title it?
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: like an installfest or something?
<JonReagan> ummm....
<dendrobates> something...
<jsvh> PressKit?
<JonReagan> yeah... that sounds good
<jsvh> PublicizingUbuntu?
<boredandblogging> jsvh: yeah presskit sounds good
<dendrobates> also we can get marketing support from canonical if we write up a briefing document.
<JonReagan> I can't think of anything creative atm, I'm just a little too tired. P
<JonReagan> *:P - my keyboard doesn't like me
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: are there some examples we can look at?
<jsvh> I guess we can go with PressKit for now, if we think of something better we can rename it
<JonReagan> sure
<dendrobates> I'm looking at a template, but I don't know if it is for the public, I will have to ask.
<dendrobates> I might have to make the request.
<JonReagan> that sounds good
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: ok, then let us know what the next step should be
<dendrobates> I'll have alot more info when I get back from the sprint on July 14.
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: sounds good
<JonReagan> good shtuff
<voidmage> brb restarting X
<dendrobates> I will also talk yo Jono again, about what other groups have done, and see if he has any recommendations, I meet with him on July 4th.
<JonReagan> cool
<jsvh> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/PressKit now exists
<JonReagan> sweet
<JonReagan> welcome back
<dendrobates> Hopefully, having a Canonical employee as a member wil lbe some advantage to us.:)
<boredandblogging> hah, that would be great
<JonReagan> yeah
<boredandblogging> alright, JonReagan, next topic?
<JonReagan> alright... this one is jsvh's topic: getting approved
<jsvh> yea, this has been talked about before
<jsvh> we have had it tabled till we got some more stuff going with the LoCo
<jsvh> we have the application in the workes here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/ApprovalApplication
<boredandblogging> since there are no clear guidelines for approving LoCos, we kinda have to guess...
<boredandblogging> if we are ready...
<JonReagan> ahhh
<boredandblogging> but I've heard that its ok to apply for approval once we have done 3 events
<boredandblogging> with the boxes, we have our 3
<boredandblogging> so hopefully its enough
<JonReagan> that's good
<JonReagan> what are the other two?
<jsvh> yea, plus we are now talking about the press kit thing
<boredandblogging> the feisty release party and the regular meetings
<jsvh> we had the Fiesty launch party
<BillG> Ubuntu tee shirts
<JonReagan> ahh. the ubuntu tees sound cool
<jsvh> I think the worse thing they would say is to tell us to work on something more
<boredandblogging> true
<JonReagan> lol. yeah. that wouldn't be fun.
<boredandblogging> i believe we are supposed to ask jono or someone if we are ready for approval before actually applying to CC
<jsvh> should we try to get the application filled out and submitted in the next week or so?
<JonReagan> sure. That sounds good
<boredandblogging> i say lets fill out the application and see how it looks
<dendrobates> What are we doing to drive up membership?
<dendrobates> I know Jono will ask that?
<JonReagan> good question
<dendrobates> have we put up fliers at UGA or tech?
<boredandblogging> well, school is out now for the most part, so that won't help
<BillG> is there a flier available?
<dendrobates> talked to their computer clubs?
<JonReagan> no... we have some available... should we make some up for the LoCo - like "come joint the Ubuntu LoCo"?
<dendrobates> I mean a flier for our loco,
<JonReagan> *join
<dendrobates> no if is says joint more people will show up.
<BillG> "We party
<jsvh> "free beer"
<jsvh> that will get some people
<JonReagan> lol... i meant join
<BillG> wine-o's
<boredandblogging> we need to contact and start working with ALE
<jsvh> yea
<JonReagan> yeah. that sounds like a good idea
<BillG> yeah, get them to publicise us
<jsvh> I move to Atlanta at the end of July and I plan to start working with ALE alot then
<JonReagan> cool
<boredandblogging> we actually had a plan to put the boxes out with the GT LUG, but then school was over for the sumemr
<dendrobates> yeah we should attend their meetings with stacks of cds.
<JonReagan> that's a good idea
<boredandblogging> we should probably start requesting CDs again
<BillG> most Tech students have high speed ethernet and can download their own CD's
<boredandblogging> right
<dendrobates> Yeah, but sometimes people are lazy.
<JonReagan> tech also has their own distro server... not a bad setup
<dendrobates> and will install it if it is handed to them.
<JonReagan> yeah. the CDs do look good.
<BillG> tech student members would be a plus
<dendrobates> especially newbies.
<BillG> ding, I know a tech student
<boredandblogging> ok, so lets start filling out the application, lets order more CDs from shipit so that we can hand out at ALE
<boredandblogging> lets get in touch with ALE
<boredandblogging> i don't know if the Tech or UGA lugs are active during the summer
<JonReagan> alright!
<boredandblogging> dendrobates: if you can squeeze shipit to give us more CDs, it would be great. since we aren't approved, we get like 50
<dendrobates> I will do my best. I think I should be able to get quite a few when I'm in london.
<boredandblogging> excellent
<jsvh> I am going to the UGA lug (CHUGALUG) meeting next week
<boredandblogging> so even working with the lugs, the method of increasing membership is to hand out CDs to the lug members?
<dendrobates> I wouldn't necessarily say that, ut it wouldn't hurt to always have some on hand.
<jsvh> we have been getting a steady stream of members as is
<jsvh> I think just doing stuff in the community will help
<jsvh> when people here the "Ubuntu Georgia LoCo" did that they will get interested
<dendrobates> I agree.
<JonReagan> good stuff
<JonReagan> so... anything else on this topic?
* JonReagan 's back
<JonReagan> my network sneezed.
<jsvh> you did not miss much
<JonReagan> ah. good.
<jsvh> just talking about getting more members
<JonReagan> that sounds good
<boredandblogging> jsvh: are you going to take a stab at filling out the applicaiton
<jsvh> getting more involved in the community is our plan
<boredandblogging> ?
<BillG> surely some ale people would join
<JonReagan> as of yeaterday, I saw that our team had 34 members on the launchpad site
<jsvh> boredandblogging: I am going to try to work on it. If anyone else wants to work on it also they are welcome to. But I should have time (*knock on wood*)
<boredandblogging> cool
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: anything else on the agenda?
<jsvh> who is going to put this up on the wiki?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan will
<JonReagan> no.. that's it
</pre>
