{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===
==== Support Position ====
This position has not yet been filled.  We will attempt to fill this position at the August F2F meeting.

==== Updated Logo ====
The new logo has been added, and is now the official logo.

==== August F2F Meeting Reminder ====
The August face to face meeting will be held at Athens Pizza in Decatur, on August 11 @ 2:00pm.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<JonReagan> alright... Ill pull up the agenda 
<JonReagan> alright... the first topic is the support position 
<JonReagan> does anyone want this position? 
* JonReagan hears crickets 
<boredandblogging> lol 
<JonReagan> anyone? 
<boredandblogging> maybe we should harass someone at hte august meeitng 
<JonReagan> lol... yeah. I could take it 
<boredandblogging> we could use some peer pressure tactics 
<JonReagan> lol... yeah, stuff like "support is da bomb!" 
<boredandblogging> right, so we'll bring it up during the f2f meeting 
<JonReagan> k 
<heathen_> what does it entail? 
<JonReagan> hovering on the irc channel 
<heathen_> lol 
<heathen_> i do that anyway 
<JonReagan> answering support email 
<JonReagan> lol 
<heathen_> that i'd prolly not be good at 
<boredandblogging> we haven't really encourage people do that... 
<heathen_> unfortunatly, being a blue collar worker means i dont spend much time at the computer during the day 
<boredandblogging> maybe we should require how to get people to ask more questions 
<JonReagan> oh... geez... don't put my hopes too high heathen! :P 
<JonReagan> lol 
<heathen_> sorry 
<JonReagan> no... /me jk 
<heathen_> im told im good at that Jon, 
<JonReagan> lol 
<JonReagan> @bandb... like monitor the forums? 
<heathen_> geh, i need a new job, thanks for reminding me 
<boredandblogging> ugh, didn't mean require, i meant we should figure out how to encourage users to ask more questions 
<boredandblogging> and possibly direct them to us 
<JonReagan> ohhh... I see. Icould add support slips to the CDs I am giving out... 
<paulc> for a good time call.... Ubuntu Forums!! 
<heathen_> that might not be the best phrasing... 
<heathen_> although, i like it 
* ** heathen_ is now known as heathen 
<paulc> I already monitor ubuntu forums development, hardware, DELL and laptop.. 
<JonReagan> yeah... the forums are one of the best places to get help, albeit a little hard to keep up w/ your post 
<JonReagan> in the new user section 
<JonReagan> should we move on to the next topic? 
<heathen> i hate it when i forget to subscribe to a thread.. reply to it, only to lose the thread a few hours later 
<JonReagan> lol... yeah. happens to me all the time 
<paulc> right, the RSS threads only show you new THREADS, not new messages in an existing thread.. not good. 
<JonReagan> yeah. that doesn't help 
<heathen> im not smart enough to figure out the whole RSS thing 
<heathen> so it doesnt help me anyway 
<JonReagan> I haven't even used much of the rss feature yet 
<paulc> wave of the future, get used to it:) I'm 55 and love it!! 
<boredandblogging> i recommend google reader 
<boredandblogging> i can't live without it 
<JonReagan> good stuff 
<boredandblogging> even though you can't search, which is plain odd for something coming from google 
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: ok, lets move on 
<JonReagan> alright 
<heathen> i really try to limit my dependance on google 
<JonReagan> next topic is an updated logo 
<JonReagan> *checking it out* 
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: can you post the url? 
<JonReagan> oh. it's mine. lol! I forgot I put it there 
<JonReagan> sure: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3090810#post3090810 
<boredandblogging> with the US part in there, I think its to be the official logo. Any thoughts? 
<JonReagan> crickets are back 
<boredandblogging> lol 
<paulc> why ubuntu & logo in black?? maybe they could be the OTHER orange colors?? since US is in dark orange.. 
<boredandblogging> this might be a another spam the mailing list issue 
<boredandblogging> paulc: we don't want to change the logo a whole lot anymore, the logos got voted on and this one won... 
<paulc> can we vote now & make it official?? I vote YES! 
<boredandblogging> then someone pointed out that we should add "U.S." in there somewhere to differentiate from the country Georgia 
<JonReagan> yeah 
<paulc> I remember that.. we are the REAL Georgia:) 
<JonReagan> hehe 
<JonReagan> yeah 
<JonReagan> I'll smooth out the second period 
<JonReagan> it's a little off 
<boredandblogging> ok, unless someone complains before the end of this meeting, these will be the final look 
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: let me know when you get done (doesn't have to be today), we'll update the wiki pages and launchpad 
<boredandblogging> ok, anything else? 
* heathen complains 
<boredandblogging> thats a surprise 
* heathen hides 
<boredandblogging> :-P 
<heathen> l5p? 
<boredandblogging> listen buddy 
<boredandblogging> hehe 
<heathen> ok 
<heathen> ill shut up 
<paulc> back to the crickets... wutz next? 
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: you have anything else? 
<boredandblogging> jsvh: you have anything else? 
<JonReagan> no... that's it 
<boredandblogging> ok, reminder... 
<boredandblogging> august 11th, 2pm, athens pizza in decatur for the next F2F meeting 
</pre>
