{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting Notes ==

=== Discussion Topics ===

==== UbuCon Atlanta 2008 Details ====

Date:  Nov. 14-16, 2008 (Sunday has not yet been decided, but reserved just in case we hold it from 12-6 or something like that)

Location:  Jim Popovitch (jimpop) is going to work with Nick Ali (boredandblogging) to nail down a location.  Jim thinks he has a good place, but will have to ask permission to use the building.

Sponsors: Not too much progress here.  Some suggestions like Google or local computer shops were brought up. 

Target Audience:  Not geeks, or at least not Linux-geeks.  Basically the effort is to get outside the Linux universe.

=== Meeting Log ===
<pre>
<boredandblogging> hello
<heathen> hello
<boredandblogging> heathen: how is life?
<heathen> upsidedown...
<heathen> my mother just told me she's getting divorced
<heathen> not sure how to deal with that
<heathen> not that i have a relationship with my stepfather, but my kids have a great relationship with my stepsisters kids... i dunno what to do about it, let alone how to explain it to a 5 year old
<boredandblogging> oh wow
<boredandblogging> that sucks
<heathen> yeah, its entertaining...
<heathen> so, how are you doing?
<boredandblogging> ehh, not bad
<boredandblogging> usual crap, different day
<heathen> yeah...
<boredandblogging> hi reya276
<reya276> wazz up
<reya276> meeting starts at 8 right?
<boredandblogging> reya276: yeah
<reya276> cool, going to get a bite to eat and I'll be back
<boredandblogging> awight
<JonReagan> hey folks!
<JonReagan> who's in?
<JonReagan> anyone...
<dantalizing_car> morning
<JonReagan> hey
<JonReagan> welcome... you're the first one to show up!
<dantalizing_car> lies
<dantalizing_car> i'm still pon the road
<dantalizing_car> :-(
<JonReagan> ah
<dantalizing_car> 6 miles...
<JonReagan> I just sent out another reminder. Folks should be showing up soon.
<dantalizing_car> 5 miles...
<dantalizing_car> oops
<dantalizing_car> 2
<boredandblogging> hello
<boredandblogging> dantalizing_car: yo
<boredandblogging> linuxcrypt: ping
<boredandblogging> jimpop!
<jimpop> ola!
<boredandblogging> how is venezuela?
<jimpop> doing well
<reya276> you guys start yet?
<jimpop> it is surviving my visit
<jimpop> :-)
<dantalizing_car> 1 mile...
<boredandblogging> reya276: don't think so
<jimpop> the bars here are amazing... they let *you* pour your own drink, then bill accordingly :-)
<boredandblogging> where is JonReagan
<reya276> cool :-D
<boredandblogging> jimpop: lol, thats awesome
<dantalizing_car> reya276 can you ping the fl channel?
<reya276> sure
<dantalizing_car> 100 yds
<boredandblogging> seems like we are missing a couple people still
<dantalizing_car> 50
<dantalizing_car> 20
<reya276> hum...seems like no one is in the channel
<dantalizing_car> these roads are too curvy
<dantalizing_car> 0
<boredandblogging> heh
<jimpop> where's Jon?
<dantalizing> he was just in here
<JonReagan> I'm here
<boredandblogging> ahh
<jimpop> ahh
<JonReagan> had a little emergency...
<dantalizing> thx reya276 for pinging fl
<reya276> NP
<boredandblogging> linuxcrypt might be taking engagement pics
<JonReagan> engagement pics?
<jimpop> JonReagan: when you get done with the emergency, would it be possible for you to enable a 1 hour notification for the u-g.org calendar
<boredandblogging> linuxcrypt is getting married in august
<JonReagan> lol.. yeah, it's over. Sure, I'll add a 1 hr reminder
<jimpop> woohoo!
<JonReagan> oh, that's cool
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: you wanna kick it off?
<jimpop> linuxcrypt: still going along with the plan?
<jimpop> nm
<jimpop> go ahead Jon
<boredandblogging> hi PaulATL
<JonReagan> ok... the reminder is up!
<PaulATL> Hi all
<JonReagan> won't really help now, but it looks like we have quite a few folks in
<jimpop> Hi PaulATL, Thx JonReagan
<JonReagan> hey paul1
<dantalizing> i dont see anyone named all
<JonReagan> *! shift key skips...
<reya276> hello PaulATL
<dantalizing> but hi PaulATL
<PaulATL> it would suck to be named "all"
<PaulATL> people would keep talking about you
<jimpop> hehe
* jimpop does s/all/boredandblogging/ all the time
<JonReagan> alright, so should we get this ball rollin'?
<jimpop> yep
<boredandblogging> hehe
<boredandblogging> so from a high-level
<boredandblogging> basically its a 2 day thing
<boredandblogging> very loosely like a barcamp
<boredandblogging> but not really
<jimpop> when is it?
<reya276> location?
<boredandblogging> we haven't picked a date yet
<jimpop> you talking about UbuCon-Atlanta, right?
<JonReagan> good question!
<boredandblogging> somewhere around Atlanta
<jimpop> i thought 2-day things had to end in "camp".
<reya276> big venue or small venue?
<boredandblogging> at the minimum, there will be an install fest since it will be after 8.10 is released
<jimpop> a con is a 3+ day thing, right?
<boredandblogging> reya276: that depends on what else we have
<jimpop> :-)
<reya276> oh, what do we have?
<boredandblogging> and thats what we need to figure out
<boredandblogging> lol, pretty much nothing so far
<jimpop> we could do a live vidcast
<boredandblogging> live vidcast would be nice
<JonReagan> yeah, live streaming of the event would be cool
<reya276> K, what is the purpose of FL-GA ubucon?
<JonReagan> to make it bigger and better
<jimpop> reya276: to showcase Fedora?
<boredandblogging> show off Ubuntu
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> help people learn more about Ubuntu
<reya276> right but besides that
<jimpop> linuxcrypt: just kidding
<boredandblogging> basically promoting Ubuntu
<JonReagan> yeah
<boredandblogging> besides that, I have nothing
<JonReagan> are we talking about the 2009 event?
<jimpop> i see 3 things coming out of UbiCon-ATL: 1) fun 2) learning 3) socializing
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: not yet
<reya276> I can have a Ubucon in my back yard if it is to showcase Ubuntu, My point is what types of events will we have to draw people in, Guess speakers, music, food, swag etc...
<JonReagan> oh, the 8.10 one... nevermind!
<boredandblogging> reya276: thats why we are having this meeting
<boredandblogging> would be great to have at least a keynote speaker
<jimpop> reya276: food, speakers/presenters, games, etc
<JonReagan> yes
<reya276> oh I though you guys had something in drawing board, sorry
<jimpop> swag is hard to come by unless we open it up to Vendors... and it really ain't that kind of show
<jimpop> deathmatch anyone?
<JonReagan> yeah, the 8.10 event is really about installations
<JonReagan> help, and support
<reya276> ok now you are on to something Jimpop
<jimpop> :-)
<reya276> so what kind of show is it, or what kind of show do we want it to be
<jimpop> ground rules: no Xbox. Q3/UT200x on Linux only
<boredandblogging> oh god
<JonReagan> basically, an awesome installfest
<jimpop> reya276: it's more a get together than a "show"
<reya276> oh ok
<reya276> gotyah
<jimpop> boredandblogging: addicted to that x-box, ain't ya?
<reya276> so are we going to try and promote it?
<JonReagan> yeah
<jimpop> do we need to do this event before school starts back?
<JonReagan> we need lots of marketing
<reya276> or will this be more just for the Ubuntu community
<jimpop> the event is focused on those who want to know more abt Ubunut
<JonReagan> well, it's a "for everyone" event
<jimpop> u
<boredandblogging> jimpop: its probably going to be in november
<reya276> well the marketing part I can help, we can try and create a nice campaign
<jimpop> ahh, november, when coolness returns
<JonReagan> that would be great
<PaulATL> Have you guys thought about having an openspace format as part of this? (http://www.martinfowler.com/bliki/OpenSpace.html) - also known as an "unconference"?
<JonReagan> the event will be focused on the Ubuntu 8.10 release
<reya276> yeah November sounds good, people seem to be more relax because of upcoming holidays
<JonReagan> looks like a barcamp
<PaulATL> JonReagan - I've never been to a barcamp, but my understanding of barcamp is that there are still presentations. openspace generally has no presentations.
<PaulATL> the agenda is self-organized on the spot
<jimpop> so we could combine the words BarCamp, Ubuntu and InstallFest and call it a Bub-Fest.
<dantalizing> i thought we were aiming higher than an installfest
<JonReagan> no presentations?
<JonReagan> lol!
<JonReagan> higher is better
<reya276> right which is what I thought too
<jimpop> semi-organization is good
<jimpop> too much organization leads to less fun
<PaulATL> I do think openspace wouldn't work if you have a lot of ubuntu newbies, though
<JonReagan> basically, we need to figure out what will make it bigger and better than an average installfest
<jimpop> less fun leads to less return on investment
<jimpop> I think Ubuntu Gaming should be a big draw
<jimpop> also Ubuntu@Work could be a session
<jimpop> OO, etc
<reya276> right PaulATL has good point, is this just for existing Ubuntu users or general public
<PaulATL> I think there should be something for both
<reya276> right I agree 100%
<jimpop> "general public" ain't going to hang around for 48 hours of fraggin
<boredandblogging> jimpop: umm, have you seen kids today? yes, they will!
<JonReagan> it may not be considered "general public" but I'm sure some will!
<jimpop> but we could apease them with some flashy presos and talking points
<reya276> well you never know if we provide something for them to show up they just might
<boredandblogging> lol, giveaway a free xbox? :-P
<JonReagan> that would be good. demos, demo machines would even be better
<JonReagan> hehe
<reya276> hah
<reya276> LOL
<jimpop> boredandblogging: :-)
<reya276> free Xbox
<boredandblogging> and I don't even play games
<boredandblogging> but the giving away thing is a good idea
<JonReagan> well, we could offer the 3rd edition of the official Ubuntu book
<JonReagan> and maybe some other stuff
<reya276> oh that sounds good
<boredandblogging> like giving away a pre-loaded Ubuntu machine
<JonReagan> yeah!
<reya276> along with an install CD of Ibex
<jimpop> boredandblogging: that get's expensive
<JonReagan> not if we find an older computer that can run it
<JonReagan> *can
<boredandblogging> "gently used"
<reya276> well if we can get the publisher of the book to donate a couple of copies
<jimpop> i like the idea of "bring your box and we'll turn it into an ubuntu game/work machine"
<boredandblogging> we can definitely get a few copies of the book
<boredandblogging> jimpop: assuming they don't have any weirdo ATI card
<jimpop> yeah, but we can be honest at that point
<JonReagan> my ati card isn't a weirdo... it's just... different.
<jimpop> plus Fedora will be around somewhere
<reya276> different, LOL
<jimpop> lol
<boredandblogging> ok, so do we want to pursue a giveaway? we can decide later on what
<JonReagan> sure
<endperform> JonReagan: what card do you have? I got me a HD 2600 Pro in this thing
<JonReagan> ati radeon xpress 200m
<boredandblogging> depending on what we give away, we could attract different crowds
<JonReagan> it works perfectly with the new drivers through restricted manager
<JonReagan> yeah
<PaulATL> does the loco have anyone who could get their business to donate something?
<boredandblogging> *cough* jimpop *cough*
<reya276> right, the greater the number the better, and you know how much people like free stuff
<boredandblogging> *cough* linuxcrypt *cough*
<jimpop> lol
<jimpop> boredandblogging: my company can/will match linuxcrypt's company
<JonReagan> is that something or nothing? :P
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: exactly
<jimpop> the problem with corporate sponsorship is: the lawyers get involved, and then the fun goes right out the window
<JonReagan> it's a good question... it would be great to get a sponsor to donate something
<JonReagan> lawyers?
<dantalizing> how about canonical
<jimpop> with sponsorship comes expectations, and with expectations comes contracts and with contracts come no-fun
<boredandblogging> maybe find a mom and pop store that will donate a machine (even if its older)
<PaulATL> it doesn't necessarily have to be a big corporate sponsorship - perhaps there's a business that's getting ready to upgrade some of their computers and are ready to let go of their old machines
<reya276> right, they might be able to provide some kind of swag
<JonReagan> canonical seems pretty stingy about giving stuff out
<jimpop> linuxcrypt works for a company that (still) makes PCs
<JonReagan> hp i think
<boredandblogging> yeah, I wouldn't really wait for Canonical
<boredandblogging> lol
<dantalizing> they're stingier than canonical
<JonReagan> lol!
<CSills> money is in tight supply everywhere
<jimpop> true dat
<CSills> Same where I work
* jimpop makes a mental note to order another b4 happy hour ends
<dantalizing> i can get my wife's company to donate something
<boredandblogging> dantalizing: really?
<dantalizing> if anyoen wants womens clothing
<boredandblogging> lol
<jimpop> lol
<PaulATL> ha!
<JonReagan> hehe
<boredandblogging> ok, lets discuss this thing a bit later
<jimpop> lol
<boredandblogging> what else do we need to figure out?
<JonReagan> k
<reya276> hey to be honest women are the ones we need to promote Ubuntu, they can bring in the crowds no joke
<jimpop> excelent point reya276
<reya276> Location?
<PaulATL> :)
<jimpop> hehe
<CSills> yo have a point
<jimpop> JonReagan: he will need them by November
<JonReagan> lol!
<jimpop> :-)
<jimpop> where is Josh?
<boredandblogging> think location is still dependent on what else we'll be doing
<reya276> right
<jimpop> location is tricky when it's more than 8/10 hours
<JonReagan> yeah
<boredandblogging> jimpop: he said they took engagement pics yesterday, but they didn't come out well, so he might be busy retaking them
<reya276> guest speakers?
<jimpop> boredandblogging: ahh
<boredandblogging> reya276: yeah, would love to have some guest speakers
<reya276> can we get one of the Ubuntu Desktop team guys to speak
<boredandblogging> maddog hall would be nice
<JonReagan> maybe we could get the canonical employee here in Ga
<JonReagan> it might be hard to get him, but heck, it couldn't hurt to ask
<jimpop> hehe
<reya276> well we need someone who can travel and that is somewhat close
<JonReagan> I was talking abou JMH
<boredandblogging> I've asked him if he is interested in doing stuff with us, he never answered
<JonReagan> oh
<jimpop> how about what's his name at Google?
<jimpop> Google's open source director
<reya276> Zbrown?
<jimpop> no
<reya276> oh sorry
<reya276> LOL
<boredandblogging> boredandblogging: i was talking about the canonical employee
<boredandblogging> leslie hawthorn?
<JonReagan> I think that's it
<jimpop> nah
<JonReagan> that would be awesome to get a google employee
<reya276> http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/au/3157
<rcaskey^> how about Scruffy?
<jimpop> i'm thinking of a guy, he use to work for SF.net
<dantalizing> lol reya276
<rcaskey^> if I could have anyone it would be Michael Meeks, although he is a Novel guy
<boredandblogging> one obvious problem is that we have no budget
<boredandblogging> as is no money
<rcaskey^> so you might as well get the one you realy want then
<JonReagan> hrmmm... this is a difficult one to answer
<reya276> well I was telling dantalizing today that the only way to get funding other than sposorship is by getting donations
<boredandblogging> true
<JonReagan> we don't have to determine who the speaker is now, but we can search around
<boredandblogging> well, if we want to get donations
<reya276> the cheapest way I can see to do this is for someone to donate the Venue space, the printing/Advertising and the swag
<rcaskey^> what about a virtual speaker :)
<boredandblogging> that will require some planning too
<reya276> Virtual speaker could work, but if we go that route then we should have several
<rcaskey^> reya276, I don't see why you would need any more/less
<boredandblogging> wonder if we can get a university to give us some space
<JonReagan> maybe
<JonReagan> maybe the ga tech lug could help us out?
<rcaskey^> I'm sure someone at UGA could help you out but tech is more convenient to the airport
<reya276> well think about it this way, if you have the speakers travel to the site is going to cost us or them money, but if they are doing it virtually all they will be putting up is time
<reya276> and thus we can have more guest speakers
<JonReagan> good point
<JonReagan> maybe we could have a mix
<JonReagan> there has to be someone local
<reya276> right, that is an excellent Idea
<dantalizing> how about the loco team
<jimpop> reya276: it's hard to virtually wake up a speaker who's 2000km away
<jimpop> at 2am
<jimpop> :-)
<reya276> anyone in the GA team got connections to canonical employees
<JonReagan> there's one that I have worked with in the past... but he's not really active on the loco side
<reya276> well that depends if they really want to participate they will do it
<JonReagan> I'm not sure if he does want to participate... I kinda brought it up, and got nothin
<reya276> hey if they can stay up all night cranking out code then they can spare 1 or half hour to speak
<dantalizing> so i have a more fundamental question ...
<JonReagan> si?
<dantalizing> i was thinking this was gonna more than a loco thing
<rcaskey^> JonReagan, is that the guy from eTrade
<boredandblogging> dantalizing: it is meant to be more than a loco thing
<dantalizing> ok
<reya276> right that is what I thought too
<boredandblogging> if we have a good marketing campaign
<JonReagan> etrade? I do not know
<JonReagan> marketing is key
<dantalizing> because we're gonna be doing at least 2 installfests in fl
<boredandblogging> hopefully we can attract some newbies
<JonReagan> the question becomes, who do we want to attract
<rcaskey^> who keeps letting the floridians in here?
<jimpop> hehe
<reya276> well the marketing part in terms of the campaign itself we can crank that out, the issue will be printing and promoting
<boredandblogging> rick clark, who is the ubuntu server project manager since to live in the Atlanta burbs
<dantalizing> rcaskey^: we were invited...never invite a floridian into your house, you lose all your power
<boredandblogging> he moved up to st. louis recently
<rcaskey^> boredandblogging, to work or just cus?
<boredandblogging> if we had some idea of how much it would cost
<boredandblogging> might help
<reya276> But with a bit of help from everyone I can easily create a kick ass campaign
<boredandblogging> rcaskey^: rick wanted his kids to be closer to family
<boredandblogging> reya276: definitely
<rcaskey^> boredandblogging, I need to give him a hard time about Canonical & Universe
<boredandblogging> back to dantalizing's point...
<reya276> well lets see , we want to target, radio, print and web right?
<boredandblogging> there will be an install fest, but thats not meant to be the main focus
<rcaskey^> want to ask him if I get the gold-plated tech-support from Canonical if they can get IBM to authorize their warantee on an LTS release :)
<boredandblogging> if we can get some speakers, do some demos, presentations
<rcaskey^> I highly doubti t but thought it would be fun to ask
<boredandblogging> have some swag and stuff, it would rock
<JonReagan> definitely
<reya276> well those thing are very duable
<JonReagan> if we could find a large enought space, we could split the demos, presentations and such and the installations and support
<boredandblogging> rcaskey^: wouldn't be suprised if they are already working on it
<boredandblogging> i guess the first thing to figure out really is are we all on the same page?
<reya276> right, we need to find a venue that is close to hotels, food markets and transportation
<CSills> I am new to this
<JonReagan> well, so are we.
<CSills> So would like to learn more about how you guys organize
<JonReagan> :)
<dantalizing> so would we
<rcaskey^> boredandblogging, I would be, IBM's Uni* series doesn't exactly have a forward-looking outlook
<CSills> cool
<jimpop> lol
<reya276> well again the focus of Ubucon is 1.promote ubuntu 2.educate users 3. ?
<jimpop> rcaskey^: there is no Outlook in IBM
<dantalizing> profit!
<dantalizing> oh
<endperform> 3 is always ???
<endperform> 4 = profit!
<endperform> hehe
<reya276> LOL
<dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/RunningAnUbucon
<JonReagan> 3. Make their computers rock?
<reya276> ah hah
<reya276> yeap
<rcaskey^> <3 the unconference BTW
<JonReagan> unconference?
<jimpop> bub-fest?
<boredandblogging> fignew: you around?
<boredandblogging> fignew is part of the GT lug, wonder if he could find out about getting some space at Tech
<JonReagan> bub-fest lol
<JonReagan> he is?
<endperform> boredandblogging: how much space is needed?
<boredandblogging> yeah, josh and I went to see him give an Arch presentation at one of the meetings
<boredandblogging> endperform: one room for an install fest minimum
<boredandblogging> maybe 2 or 3 for sessions, hacking, whatever
<endperform> boredandblogging: hmmm... I can see what Intec has
<rcaskey^> guest-wise mdz & scott are probably the only staffers I'd make a drive to see
<reya276> I think the space will be determine based on what we will be having/offering at Ubuncon
<rcaskey^> mjg as well I suppose
<endperform> doubt I can get anything, but I can see if they'd be willing to open a conference room or two
<jimpop> i doubt we could get 48hours of space at GT w/o being in a frat house
<jimpop> or on the tennis courts
<JonReagan> lol
<boredandblogging> jimpop: true, and school will still be in session
<jimpop> we need some place like an un-used warehouse
<jimpop> etc
<dantalizing> google has donated space in the past
<reya276> hum...is there a public School or Chamber of Commerce which might give us the time/space
<CSills> What location/city are you looking at
<dantalizing> how big are the atl offices?
<endperform> well, if it's on a weekend, hardly anyone is there
<jimpop> CSills: me?
<CSills> yess
<jimpop> Caracas
<jimpop> :-)
<CSills> ahh ok
<jimpop> but only until Saturday
<boredandblogging> endperform: well, initially we were thinking friday and saturday, not sunday because people usually have other committments
<reya276> Friday/Saturday would usually work best for most people
<endperform> boredandblogging: hmmm yeah, that might be out of the question then
<jimpop> friday evening/night throught to Sun AM
<jimpop> that rules out the "have-to-go-to-church" crowd ;-)
<rcaskey^> also remember this
<rcaskey^> if you are getting donated conference space
<JonReagan> yeah, and after a week in my house, I need church
<jimpop> JonReagan: :-)
<rcaskey^> the people who are working it are probably on salary
<jimpop> party at Jon's
<JonReagan> lol
<rcaskey^> which means they aren't going to come back on Saturday
<CSills> what about food
<JonReagan> well, it would be great if we could get someone to cater, but that costs money
<jimpop> i actually know of a place where we might be able to have this... just need a week to "ask" permission (I already have a key)
<CSills> that usually helps bring a crowd
<JonReagan> jimpop: how big is it?
<jimpop> big empty room, lots of tables/chairs
<jimpop> could hold 200
<boredandblogging> holy crap
<jimpop> it's actually 5 rooms
<JonReagan> wow
<boredandblogging> that would work
<jimpop> big room could hold 100+
<JonReagan> !
<CSills> where at?
<jimpop> it just hit me that this would be a great place
<jimpop> plus plenty of safe parking
<jimpop> it's near the king+queen buildings off 285 @ 400
<JonReagan> cool
<CSills> I go to work that way every day
<endperform> same here
<endperform> I see those buildings every day during my commute
<CSills> lol
<jimpop> no promises... i just need to ask the right person for permission
<boredandblogging> jimpop: awesome
<CSills> I go up Mansell road
<CSills> exit 8
<endperform> I hop off 285 at exit 29 to go to Hades... errr... work
<CSills> Is that Windward Parkway
<CSills> nope
<boredandblogging> jimpop: ok, so let us know when you find out?
<CSills> I know where you are talking about
<CSills> I know the area pretty well
<CSills> let me know if you need help
<dantalizing> i drove down 285 once
<jimpop> -)
<jimpop> :
<JonReagan> lol
<reya276> what do you guys think of getting indie artist to do a performance that would be a great way to bring in the crowds
<JonReagan> indie?
<jimpop> hmmm
<dantalizing> reya276: for the last time, metallica is not indie
<boredandblogging> LOL
<jimpop> lol
<dantalizing> ;-)
<JonReagan> hehe! exactly what I was thinking
<rcaskey^> GWAR is always popular
<rcaskey^> And John Williams has a great appeal to the demographic
<reya276> I mean any music artist whom is trying to get some publicity would do it, specially if they get to distribute some of their swag in the process
<endperform> CSills: that's Ashford-Dunwooody
<jimpop> yeah, but those would be no-name bands
<CSills> you are right
<CSills> I am tired
<CSills> sorry
<jimpop> CSills: yes, A-D road
<boredandblogging> not like we can afford name band
<boredandblogging> s
<jimpop> we have some "unused" space there
<reya276> I was thinking something more generic like alternative rock or something like that
<CSills> lol
<CSills> my son can play some base guitar
<CSills> but does not have a band
<CSills> is 16
<reya276> well....that is a start
<boredandblogging> any type of entertainment would be great
<jimpop> hehe
<reya276> right
<rcaskey^> doesn't sound good to me
<dantalizing> i'll dance
<CSills> I can't play a lick
<rcaskey^> "I'm at a conference with interesting people, let's all sit in a dark room and watch a stage"
<CSills> just the radio
<jimpop> rcaskey^: lets all sit in a cark room and frag?
<jimpop> s/cark/dark/
<reya276> well I mean besides install fest, guess speakers what else can we provide
<jimpop> q&a
<jimpop> real-world experience
<boredandblogging> BOF stuff?
<jimpop> hands-on time to assist w/ problems (ahem ATI + hibernation)
<PaulATL> BOF is a good idea
<PaulATL> gamers BOF, web developers BOF, etc.
<CSills> been using linux for quite some time here
<CSills> always loved it
<CSills> what is the latest news on gaming for linux
<jimpop> it works
<boredandblogging> reya276: hopefully we can get some books and swag
<dantalizing> i can break down the desktop linux course and do that
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> dantalizing: cool
<dantalizing> is ga an oreilly user group?
<dantalizing> they offer speakers
<dantalizing> and swag
<boredandblogging> dantalizing: yeah, think I signed us up
<dantalizing> if yall want oreilly banners everywhere
<CSills> well It would not hurt
<boredandblogging> yeah, think we are, because someone sent me the o'reilly linux kernel book
<reya276> oh great, I had forgot about Oreilly
<rcaskey^> that kernel book cracks me up
<JonReagan> that's right... I forgot about that
<reya276> well if they can provide some Ubuntu books etc. why not
<rcaskey^> like anyone who hax0rs the kernal is gonna trust that info to be current for them
<dantalizing> its the least they can do since they tried to steal $2000 for oscon
<boredandblogging> hahah
<reya276> who tried to steal what?
<reya276> you kdding me
<dantalizing> just my commentary on the oscon highway robbery prices
<CSills> lol
<JonReagan> hehe
<reya276> oh LOL
<JonReagan> so, maybe get oreilly to send us some stuff
<CSills> who do you contact at Oreilly
<dantalizing> stick that in your back pocket. ... we need a day & place first
<reya276> well they might, but we will have to put up some banners for sure
<dantalizing> CSills: they have a user group contact
<CSills> so I assume you can email them
<JonReagan> I think that's how we signed up
<CSills> ok
<dantalizing> CSills: yes..i have teh email in my gmail
<CSills> i also have a gmail account
<boredandblogging> yeah, we used to have the oreilly banner on the site
<dantalizing> they probably have the email on their website too
<JonReagan> I think most folks around here do
<JonReagan> gmail... i mean
<boredandblogging> I'll look through their site and see what I can find out about speakers
<CSills> I will too
<CSills> curious about that
<CSills> Unfortunately I have to run
<CSills> I am on the mailing list
<CSills> and would like to attend in person
<jimpop> nite CSills
<CSills> family is calling
<JonReagan> cya
<CSills> thanks
<CSills> I will be back with ya
<JonReagan> cool
<JonReagan> we'll send out more info, and probably create a wiki for the event
<boredandblogging> ok, so the next step is finding some speakers and maybe a marketing campaign?
<CSills> ok sounds great
<reya276> dantalizing: what was that Radio thing you found for like $500 a week
<JonReagan> basically, but we need to nail down the location, or at least the date
<dantalizing> reya276: google ads
<reya276> oh google ads
<jimpop> JonReagan: I will work w/ boredandblogging on the location
<JonReagan> k
<reya276> for location, I would look into the Chamber of commerce or a big public school
<dantalizing> jimpop: i will try to find a king & queen building on google earth
<jimpop> dantalizing: just google for them
<dantalizing> sorry..i'm bound by principle to use marble
<JonReagan> now for the date... if we're lookin at November, then 1, 8, 15, 22, 29 are all saturdays
<dantalizing> finding them migh take some time
<reya276> I say 15
<dantalizing> thats 2 weeks after ibex launches
<reya276> because we don't want to make it too close to the holiday
<JonReagan> we want to avoid thanksgiving, which the closest would be the 29
<JonReagan> the 1st is really close to the ibex release as well
<reya276> so the target date should be within the Ibex launch?
<boredandblogging> soon after the launch
<JonReagan> that would be the goal... we need some time to pick up some ubuntu ibex swag
<dantalizing> dont forget falcon football if sundays are in play
<dantalizing> or gatech
<rcaskey^> 26th is my Birthday
<reya276> right, so around the 8th or 15th
<rcaskey^> so traffic is usually bad
<boredandblogging> the location that jimpop is talking about is away from any sporting event
<jimpop> we need to do this on a weekend when there are no sports
<reya276> well Happy B-day to yah rcaskey^
<dantalizing> boredandblogging: k
<dantalizing> but if there are 'big' games, tahts gonna potentially cut into the audience
<reya276> ooh that is going to be extremely tough as football with be getting started
<JonReagan> it could
* rcaskey^ has a 1.8ghz Core Duo w/ 1gig ram, Ethernet, VGA, device available if anyone needs a home-server ;)
<JonReagan> checking schedule now
* rcaskey^ wonders if anyone else has 3 personal laptops for sale at any given time
<boredandblogging> there are no games on the 15th
* jimpop wonders what he'd get for selling his "personal" laptop
<boredandblogging> no Tech, UGA, or Falcons
<boredandblogging> no home games at least
<JonReagan> that was fast
<jimpop> boredandblogging: the 15th it is
<jimpop> wait is that Thanksgiving?
<rcaskey^> jimpop, I'd also take a trade, I'm worrying about my fertility w/ the heat this thing puts out
<boredandblogging> TMI!
<JonReagan> thanksgiving's always on the 27th, right?
<rcaskey^> JonReagan, no
<jimpop> rcaskey^: hmmmmm
<jimpop> "puts out" and "fertility" should never be mentioned in the same sentence
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> the 15th looks good
<JonReagan> lol
<JonReagan> yeah, the 15 looks good to me
<jimpop> the 15th it is
<boredandblogging> dantalizing, reya276, 15th ok for you guys?
<jimpop> October?
<JonReagan> november
<jimpop> or November?
<jimpop> ok
<boredandblogging> november
<jimpop> just shecking
<jimpop> checking
<reya276> 15th sounds good to me
<dantalizing> works for me
<jimpop> shecking is when you turn green and... no that's shrecking
<boredandblogging> excellent, so we have possible location and date set
<jimpop> JonReagan: need to put the 14th 6pm -> Sun 6am on the calendar
<reya276> oh just had another idea, should we get the folks at Ubuntu Magazine to Cover the event
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> reya276: you mean full cirlce mag?
<reya276> yes
<boredandblogging> we should probably get them to mention it beforehand as well
<boredandblogging> build some hype
<jimpop> yes
* jimpop wonders who will turn up and trash his office
<reya276> I'm in contact with the editor, we are working on some marketing stuff, so I can certainly ask him to promote the event and also cover it
<JonReagan> definately, an online campaign would not hurt alongside one with fliers and such
<boredandblogging> reya276: that would be great
<reya276> yeah, I will start that process once we get something on paper for a formal submission
<JonReagan> what should we call this event?
<jimpop> UbiCon-ATL
<dantalizing> -1
<reya276> sounds good
<jimpop> or ATL UbiCon ..... @LubiCon for short
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> Ubi?
<jimpop> Ubuni?
<JonReagan> UbuCon Atlanta 2008?
<reya276> no UBI too close to Ubi soft the game company
<jimpop> good point
<boredandblogging> just call it ubucon
<dantalizing> i vote for something more southeasternish
<reya276> "UbuCon Atlanta 2008" sounds pretty good
<rcaskey^> Chitlincon?
<rcaskey^> Gritcon?
<dantalizing> add grits and you got my vote
<reya276> But I would go with UbuCon Atlanta
<JonReagan> If we move it around, we can change the name of the city and year
<rcaskey^> ChiltinAndGritsCon
<jimpop> UbuCon Atlanta
<dantalizing> but then there is no consistency
<reya276> consistency?
<dantalizing> for next year
<dantalizing> an dthe year after
<dantalizing> if its atl, i'm not gonna die
<boredandblogging> lol
<reya276> well we can alternate between cities, between florida and Georgia
<dantalizing> i'll just grumble about it being wrong and move on
<boredandblogging> lol
<JonReagan> reya276: exactly
<rcaskey^> Who doesn't like Chitlin & Grits?
<jimpop> which city in Florida?
<jimpop> it all depends
<reya276> take your pick
<JonReagan> the eventual goal (like for 2009) would be to get all SE loco's involved and have a full-blown event
<jimpop> hmmmm
<dantalizing> which is why i think it should be a SE thing
<reya276> Tampa, Orlando, Miami, Fort Myers, Naples, Coral Gables, Miami etc...
<boredandblogging> not orlando
<reya276> LOL
<jimpop> Tampa is good
<jimpop> Orlando is bad
<reya276> oops I forgot Gainsville
<jimpop> JAX is Great!
<reya276> or Palm beach, JAX too
<dantalizing> Orlando is central for florida
<jimpop> Miami not so good for Linux
<dantalizing> unfortunately
<jimpop> Orlando is tourist hell
<boredandblogging> my parents live in orlando, we'd have to visit them, and then the wife will get pissy
<reya276> why not, I live here
<jimpop> Orlando?
<reya276> Miami
<jimpop> ahh Miami is great to live in
<jimpop> don't get me wrong
<jimpop> I love Miami
<dantalizing> anyway thats for later
<reya276> no not really is fun if you are visiting
<jimpop> it's just not a "geek" town
<reya276> right
<jimpop> i was in MIA last week
<JonReagan> boredandbloggin: lol!
<jimpop> fun town
<reya276> see this is exactly what I was explaining to dantalizing, it should not just be about geeks, we need to really hammer this thing home and change this mentality of only geeks would use Ubuntu
* ** kevinf312 is now known as kevinf311
<reya276> Ubuntu is for EVERYONE
<boredandblogging> true
<JonReagan> typically, folks who are semi-technical come to Ubuntu the easiest now
<reya276> geeks are well and a plus, but we really need to focus on the general public, hell we geeks already use it and don't need to be pushed to do so
<JonReagan> it used to be linux only folks, but since Ubuntu gobbled up the linux market... there's not many of them left
* rcaskey^ ponders a "Lost City of Atlanta" theme
* ** hamsterhuey-lap is now known as kevinf311-lap
<dantalizing> buried under grits?
<jimpop> "burg"
<jimpop> BurgCon
<jimpop> :-)
<rcaskey^> no, sunk into the sea by an overly-large Ted-Turner statue if I recall correctly
<rcaskey^> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Deep_South_(Futurama)
<boredandblogging> reya276: how do you think we should market it for non-geeks?
<jimpop> OMFG!
<jimpop> The DeepSouth includes Texas!?!?!?!?
<JonReagan> lol!
<jimpop> say it ain't so, joe
<rcaskey^> only for religious discrimination purposes
<jimpop> lol
<dantalizing> +1 tx
<dantalizing> just fyi
<reya276> well before we can even attempt to market it for non-geeks we need to change the mentality, then we can move on to that, but seriously
<dantalizing> texans dont consider themselves part of the 'deep south'
<dantalizing> they consider themselves a whole different country
<rcaskey^> LA doesn't count either
<JonReagan> lol
<rcaskey^> protestant is neccessary but not sufficient for being considered part of the deep south
<reya276> we need to focus on the simplicity of Ubuntu to attract non-geeks, the fact that there are virtually no spyware, viruses, mal-ware etc... those are just a few
<boredandblogging> reya276: sounds good
<dantalizing> plus we have dark themes
<boredandblogging> ugh
<dantalizing> lol
<jimpop> :-)
<reya276> then we have an abundant software repository, which provides virtually any type of app that anyone would need
<JonReagan> yeah, the alpha 1 artwork could use some help
<reya276> I mean there are a few specific pieces of software but Wine is fixing that for everyone
<boredandblogging> reya276: are we going to fit all that info onto a flier?
<reya276> hell, why not
<reya276> we could
<boredandblogging> most of the fliers have seen are pretty simple and straightforward
<reya276> I think that we should make the marketing campaign around three key pieces, print media, web and word of mouth
<JonReagan> agreed!
<jimpop> yep
<jimpop> word of mouth gets you more value for the cost
<boredandblogging> print as in buying ads in newspapers?
<reya276> by word of mouth I mean Blogging, there are so many of us that already write about everything
<JonReagan> for the logo, I was thinking we could hold a competition
<reya276> no I mean print as in leaflets, postcards etc...
<boredandblogging> reya276: got it
<JonReagan> (to kick start marketing, that is, and drum up support for the event)
<JonReagan> how's that sound?
<boredandblogging> should we kick off something like that this early? or wait till sept or oct?
<boredandblogging> the print media thing
<dantalizing> +1 wait
<JonReagan> print media, maybe... starting too early might make people forget
<dantalizing> well
<dantalizing> we need to get it organized and artwork done
<dantalizing> but 'launch' should wait
<JonReagan> cough *logo* cough
<jimpop> lol
<rcaskey^> dantalizing, +1 -studio-look
<jimpop> ASCII only logo
<dantalizing> '/o
<JonReagan> lol... here come the nerds
<dantalizing> (o)(o)
<JonReagan> what!?
<dantalizing> my logo entry
<dantalizing> worked for hooters
<JonReagan> lol... nice
<boredandblogging> i have no art skills
<JonReagan> I could set up a competition in the forums... kinda get things started. It may even help get some other folks involved
<boredandblogging> if anyone can make us a logo, it would be great
<boredandblogging> otherwise, a competition is fine
<reya276> that sounds like a good Idea, make sure artwork is done in GIMP or Inkscape (SVG)
<boredandblogging> right
<JonReagan> I've got a submission to get things rollin. open source guidelines are a must
<reya276> well I can crank out some stuff, but we can always do both
<JonReagan> can't say the logo was created in PhotoShop, afterall
<reya276> yeap all open source
<boredandblogging> yeah, its possible all the submissions might suck
<dantalizing> lies
<JonReagan> maybe keep the submission open for a week or two, and then hold a poll
<JonReagan> lol!
<jimpop> hehe
<reya276> that would work
<boredandblogging> ok, so date, location, and logo plans
<reya276> no there are a lot of talented folks out there whom are non-programmer
<dantalizing> all that apple stuff may look nice, but its just shine on shit
<JonReagan> lol... yeah
<jimpop> hehe
<JonReagan> system is ok, but for me, linux is better. strangely I'm stuck with vista
<dantalizing> i'll take a gimp generated logo every day over a polished apple logo
<dantalizing> but thats just me
<dantalizing> apple ran over my cat
<boredandblogging> lol
<JonReagan> lol... what!?
<dantalizing> and by 'cat' i mean 'digital rights'
<reya276> well I don't know Apple has a great marketing campaign, trust me that is what the general public is all about BLING for sure
<JonReagan> they like it
<boredandblogging> no doubt
<reya276> yeah, but the OS sucks big time
<reya276> LOL
<JonReagan> hehe
<dantalizing> i'm gonna go find out which hd is broken in my server
<dantalizing> gn yall
<dantalizing> the squeaking noise is bothering me
<JonReagan> good luck with that
<reya276> but if we can make this thing attractive enough to get the general public to notice and participate we can potentially get more Ubuntu users in both states for sure
<dantalizing> ubucon se ftw!
<JonReagan> heck yeeeaaaahhhhh!
<reya276> ok is anyone going to make notes on what we got so far?
<JonReagan> sure
<JonReagan> I'll take care of it
<JonReagan> I g2g folks, it's late, and my left eye is beginning to twitch
* jimpop 's battery is running out
<reya276> k can you email me what we got so far reya276@gmail.com so that I can start brain storming a campaign theme and submit some mockups
<JonReagan> sure1
<jimpop> JonReagan is going to make a pizza
<JonReagan> dangit shift key fails
<JonReagan> pizza is good
<jimpop> :_)
<jimpop> :-)
<JonReagan> c'yall later!
<reya276> now one thing I forgot to ask, what color scheme do we want to go with? for promotional materials
<rcaskey^> white-on-yellow!
<reya276> LOL
<kevinf311> Go Tech!
<reya276> no something more neutral
<rcaskey^> white on tan
<reya276> something towards the Ubuntu color spectrum
<kevinf311> coffee and poo?
<rcaskey^> I'm very fond of the color scheme from http://www.strangebanana.com/generator.aspx
<reya276> nope it needs to stand out but at the same time be subtle, Ok Chaps I will leave you pondering on that, I will catch up with you guys tomorrow
<jimpop> apparently my battery gains power when I shutdown IRC
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> lol
<jimpop> i am in the cheeziest bar in town (my hotel bar) and Men @ WOrk is blaring from the bar TV
<jimpop> this is sad
<jimpop> really sad
<boredandblogging> its amazing how much 80's music you here out there
<jimpop> the things I do for $DAYJOB
<jimpop> it's an 80s town
<jimpop> literally
<jimpop> they actually say the word "discotech" (sp?) here
<boredandblogging> lol
<jimpop> all in all it's been interesting so far. 4 more days to go ;-)
<boredandblogging> is work actually going well?
<jimpop> the people here have it rough
<jimpop> it's a shame too
<boredandblogging> yeah?
<jimpop> great people
<jimpop> can only spend $5k/year in "personal" spending (non-large purchase)
<rcaskey^> I thought they discotech was only in germany ;)
<jimpop> tracked by gov
<boredandblogging> really?
* rcaskey^ has awesome $DAYJOB
<boredandblogging> :-)
<jimpop> yes, really
<jimpop> every credit card transaction is monitored
<boredandblogging> jeebus
<jimpop> you can only spend/withdraw 5000 BEF/year
<jimpop> if you go over you are cut off
<rcaskey^> that's why you need a seperate training budget
<rcaskey^> with consultants who get paid and then take you out to dinner
<jimpop> :-)
<jimpop> and I am doing my best to offset to balance
<boredandblogging> haha
<jimpop> sushi's not the same here
<jimpop> taste's funny
<boredandblogging> HAHA
<jimpop> :-)
<jimpop> i'm drowning it with T&T's... so should survive
<boredandblogging> haha
* jimpop says 10 mins of batt left
<jimpop> oooh vidcast #10 is out
<boredandblogging> haven't checked it out
<jimpop> took me 2 hours to dig though my rss backlock
<jimpop> er, backlog
<boredandblogging> google reader kills me
<boredandblogging> if I don't clear it out every few days
<boredandblogging> its just too overwhelming
<jimpop> yep
<jimpop> then there is this: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1030611/Prince-Charles-converts-Aston-Martin--run-wine.html
<jimpop> and this: http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&ct=res&cd=1&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DoHg5SJYRHA0&ei=d-lqSIOgMp3GhAT05ZCsDA&usg=AFQjCNEcy3X8QxEz3ZqmxAznmt4YfNijBQ&sig2=TjSV7XMmQc4XQlQg6qmqAA
<boredandblogging> tinyurl dude
<jimpop> lol
<jimpop> i need one of these: http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&ct=res&cd=1&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DoHg5SJYRHA0&ei=d-lqSIOgMp3GhAT05ZCsDA&usg=AFQjCNEcy3X8QxEz3ZqmxAznmt4YfNijBQ&sig2=TjSV7XMmQc4XQlQg6qmqAA
<jimpop> err
<jimpop> these: http://www.hackaday.com/2008/07/01/ssd-hard-drives-tank-laptop-battery-life/
<boredandblogging> that would be nice
<jimpop> yep
<jimpop> batt dying.... now!
<CSills> Hey! have a good day
<CSills> I am off to work again
<linuxcrypt> morning all
<boredandblogging> linuxcrypt: yo
<linuxcrypt> sup man
<boredandblogging> not much, usual crud
<boredandblogging> linuxcrypt: how's life with you?
<linuxcrypt> been good man
<linuxcrypt> we had our photo thing yesterday
<linuxcrypt> went super well
<linuxcrypt> taken all over Marietta square, very cool shots
<linuxcrypt> some of them came out looking like magazine stuff
<linuxcrypt> ill post the final stuff soon
<boredandblogging> very nice
<linuxcrypt> I'm meeting our HOA pool guy, he is moving and he is going to teach me how to test the water, I guess the chemicals
<linuxcrypt> tonight at 7
<linuxcrypt> but I don't have anything going on tomorrow night
<linuxcrypt> I'm going to start a new podcast series as well
<linuxcrypt> focused just around ubuntu
<boredandblogging> heading to FL tomorrow
<linuxcrypt> oh you are? ugh
<boredandblogging> linuxcrypt: oh yeah? gonna repleace LUGRadio?
<linuxcrypt> replace it?
<linuxcrypt> they ween't an exclusive ubuntu podcast though were they?
<linuxcrypt> still going to keep LC going, just change it up a little
<linuxcrypt> then going to start a new podcast exclusive to ubuntu
<boredandblogging> got it
<boredandblogging> so it looks like jimpop might be able to get us a place to hold ubucon in the fall
<linuxcrypt> GTFO
<linuxcrypt> are you aserious?
<boredandblogging> yeah, not absolutely 100% yet, but he is looking into it
<linuxcrypt> ok, lovely
<boredandblogging> the date that everyone seemed to agree on was Nov. 15th
<linuxcrypt> have you seen this ? http://ubuntuos.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=blogsection&id=1&Itemid=2
<linuxcrypt> I was thinking baout registering ubuntupodcast.net
<boredandblogging> cool
<linuxcrypt> i also have
<linuxcrypt> ubunturadio.com
<linuxcrypt> i also already have ubuntutv.net
<linuxcrypt> and ubuntutv.tv.
<linuxcrypt> of course too
<linuxcrypt> so not sure
<boredandblogging> quite the collection
<linuxcrypt> thank you :)
<linuxcrypt> i dont know if I should renew ubuntu-ga.com
<boredandblogging> nah
<boredandblogging> don't bother
<linuxcrypt> right now its just redireting to our loco site
<boredandblogging> thats cool, but I really wouldn't bother renewing
<boredandblogging> i let go off all the ubuntu-georgia.com/net
<linuxcrypt> yeah, thats cool
<boredandblogging> morning dantalizing
<dantalizing> morning
<robertj> FYI: apparently there is now an always-on-top hotkey in Metacity, I don't know what it is though ;)
<dantalizing> alt-tab
<Ax3> anyone have minutes from the meeting last night, im from #ubuntu-us-fl, but interested in the discussion about Ubucon
<Ax3> dantalizing, shh
<dantalizing> i wouldnt announce yourself as being from fl.... rcaskey^ will likely attack
<Ax3> O_o
<boredandblogging> lol
<boredandblogging> Ax3: nah, the minutes haven't been writeen up yet
<boredandblogging> but you can read the logs: http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode5/2008/07/02/%23ubuntu-us-ga.html

Generated by irclog2html.pl 2.1 by Jeff Waugh - find it at freshmeat.net! 
</pre>
