{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Discussion Points ===
==== Feisty CDs ====
** John has received some and will be sending some to Jon. Some will go to IT Athens.
** Jon will be ordering some from shipit to use as well for the boxes.

==== Ubuntu Boxes ====
** Jon has uploaded the instructions he used to create the box. Get it <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Marketing?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=CDStand.tar.gz|here]]</nowiki>.
** No update from Matt about his design.
** Jon is going find some locations for his boxes. John has some ideas for them as well. We'll try to find some other places too.

==== CD Label ====
** No update from Matt.

==== Logos ====
** The poll looks to be going ok. It will be open for one more week.

==== LoCo Approval ====
** John and Nick will start working on it.

=== Log ===
{{{
<boredandblogging> lets get started either way
<JonReagan> ok
<boredandblogging> I still haven't gotten CDs which is annoying me
<boredandblogging> jsvh: have you gotten CDs yet?
<boredandblogging> I think nomasteryoda ordered CDs from shipit and has already gotten them
<JonReagan> I haven't ordered any yet... should I go ahead and try to get some?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: yeah, tell them its for the Georgia US Team LoCo
<jsvh> I got my CDs the other day
<JonReagan> k
<JonReagan> I will order them this week... :)
<boredandblogging> i didn't check the mail yesterday, hopefully I got mine
<boredandblogging> jsvh: can you possibly send yours to JonReagan
<JonReagan> how many did he get?
<jsvh> I got like 30
<jsvh> Yea I can send you some Jon
<JonReagan> cool
<boredandblogging> excellent
<jsvh> I am also going to give some to Free IT Athens so we can distribute them through there
<boredandblogging> thats cool
<JonReagan> that sounds like a good idea!
<boredandblogging> once I get mine, I'll send some to you JonReagan and some to Bakey
<jsvh> just email me and let me know where you want them sent to
<JonReagan> ok
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: did you up instructions on how to build your box?
<JonReagan> I think so... hold on... I will check the wiki
<JonReagan> nope... I will go ahead and load 'em up
<boredandblogging> ok...
<boredandblogging> i hope Bakey comes on and tells us how far he got with his boxes
<boredandblogging> Ok, locations...
<boredandblogging> I think compiledkernel had some locations he thought might be ok with having the boxes
<boredandblogging> i can email him and get a list from him
<boredandblogging> do we have any other ideas where we want to put them?
<JonReagan> it's up!
<jsvh> Places with tech-savy people will probably be the best way to spread it
<boredandblogging> are we thinking schools and like coffeehouses?
<boredandblogging> or linux friendly computer stores?
<JonReagan> those sound like good places to start
<jsvh> yea
<jsvh> Once I get back I will try to find some places around athens to put some boxes, I already have a few ideas
<JonReagan> CDStand.tar.gz is the name of the file for the cd stands
<JonReagan> same here
<boredandblogging> i'm wondering if we should take pictures of them once we put them out...
<boredandblogging> kinda for the LoCo approval application?
<JonReagan> I will have to look around and see if I can't get some places to agree to place the boxes in their stores
<JonReagan> that sounds good
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: you have some ideas of where you might want to put them?
<JonReagan> maybe... they may be a longshot
<JonReagan> I will see what I can do - emails, phone calls, ect.
<boredandblogging> hey joshua
<jchase> Hi there
<JonReagan> hey
<jsvh> hello
<jchase> sorry I'm a bit late
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: so the utah loco did the stands?
<boredandblogging> jchase: no problem
<JonReagan> I guess so... I found it on the DIY page
<boredandblogging> very cool
<JonReagan> yeah... it looks like it will work out ok
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: let us know what you need to help get these things out
<JonReagan> k...
<boredandblogging> or any problems you run into...it would just be nice if we can roll it out to a couple of places
<boredandblogging> ok next...
<JonReagan> maybe should we set up a place on the forums for places where we want to put them?
<JonReagan> sry... next
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: thats a good idea, maybe also the mailing list?
<JonReagan> sure!
<boredandblogging> maybe see if anyone would be interested in putting one in their office...not sure how professional that would be, but who knows
<boredandblogging> like in the breakroom or something
<heathen> i just saw spiderman
<JonReagan> cool
<JonReagan> how was it?
<boredandblogging> heathen: tell us in a couple of minutes, we are almost done
<jchase> I work at HP, I think I can probably get a box somewhere where there is a lot of traffic
<boredandblogging> jchase: that would be great
<JonReagan> that would be good
<boredandblogging> jchase: you can order some CDs from shipit
<jchase> sounds good
<boredandblogging> jchase: tell them its for the Georgia US Team
<boredandblogging> they should give a few
<boredandblogging> don't know how many, but hopefully more than a couple
<jchase> I can also burn some, and print out some cd covers on my photosmart printer
<JonReagan> that would be good
<jchase> they print pretty nice
<boredandblogging> dude
<boredandblogging> that would be great
<boredandblogging> that was our next topic
<boredandblogging> we need to print some CD labels
<JonReagan> labels?
<JonReagan> on the cd... or in the cd case?
<boredandblogging> yeah, I might have gotten confused there
<boredandblogging> Bakey was supposed to ask if he could use his work one
<boredandblogging> I'll shoot him an email this week and see how thats going
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> but overall, we should some stuff to at least get started with the boxes
<jchase> ok, so what are the "boxes" all about
<jchase> ?
<jchase> testing, dev, hosting aplications, ?
<JonReagan> boxes to put CDs in
<jchase> oh, duh,
<jchase> I was thinking computers
<jchase> :)
<boredandblogging> yeah, maybe we should have called it something different
<jchase> you literally mean, 'boxes"
<JonReagan> lol... yeah... that could be confusing
<jchase> haha, nah, what else are you supose to call them?
<boredandblogging> this is part of the LoCo approval process, evangelizing Ubuntu, getting the word out
<heathen> sorry boredandblogging
<heathen> i forgot about meeting
<boredandblogging> heathen: np
<boredandblogging> ok, so I think we have enough to get moving on the Ubuntu boxes, right?
<JonReagan> right
<boredandblogging> ok, logos
<boredandblogging> ick, only 11 votes so far
<boredandblogging> might need to send out another email
<JonReagan> yup...
<jchase> I put my vote in
<boredandblogging> looks like #3 is the popular one so far
<boredandblogging> ok, last thing...
<boredandblogging> posters and stickers, take a look at some of the stuff here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/DIYWebsite/Get/
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> I would like to buy some stickers and posters
<boredandblogging> that we can pass out
<boredandblogging> if you think you could use some to pass out to people or know of places where you want ot put up posters, tell me...
<boredandblogging> I'm buying some for nomasteryoda already
<boredandblogging> and no, I will not buy any of the clothing
<jchase> the clothing so far has been sub-par
<jchase> I haven't seen any that I like, let alone buy and wear
<boredandblogging> and expensive for its quality
<JonReagan> right
<jchase> I think my favorite t-shirt that I have is "Software is like sex, it's always better when it's free" Use Open Source
<jsvh> there is all this: http://www.cafepress.com/ubuntushop/
<boredandblogging> i've seen some on cafepress, but I know the guys in ubuntu will put the money back in ubuntu
<jchase> yeah, but even the cafepress ones are weak
<heathen> biggest problem with cafe press is it's serious lack of quality
<jchase> I would love to get my hands on some posters though
<boredandblogging> jchase: tell me what sizes and how many
<jchase> at a buck fifty each, its not a abd way to get the word out
<boredandblogging> exactly
<jchase> do you guys have stickers on your cars or anything?
<JonReagan> not yet
<JonReagan> hopefully I will soon.
<boredandblogging> i'll order some of those too
<jsvh> I have the "powered by Ubuntu" one on my laptop
<jchase> I used to be in car clubs, and when we were parked someplace where there were a lot of cars, we would leave business cards under our windshiel wipers, maybe we could like put a couple cd's under our windshield wipers when we park at places
<jchase> hoping people will take them
<JonReagan> under ours....
<heathen> jchase: do you have any idea how many people hate that?
<heathen> for every 1 you get you piss off 100 more
<jchase> no, I mean leave them under MY windshield wipers
<jchase> not other peoples cars
<jchase> that would be a waste
<heathen> ah
<jchase> liek put three under it
<JonReagan> not to mention... how many people will want to break into your car
<jchase> no no no, would never do that
<heathen> ooo
<heathen> they can steal my car
<jchase> I'm anal about my car, I would knock someone out doing tha to me
<JonReagan> lol
<heathen> (id get more out of insurance that way)
<jchase> hahah
<JonReagan> :D
<boredandblogging> ok, so let me put in the order for posters and stickers and we can talk about distributing them next week.
<heathen> i hate it when people touch my car/bike
<heathen> sorry... touchy subject for me
<JonReagan> ah... :P
<jchase> have there been any walpapers made for GA-US team?
<JonReagan> I dont think so
<jchase> I can't spell today to save my life, sorry
<jchase> keep switching between screens
<heathen> jchase: i cant spell anyway... i win
<JonReagan> don't worry about it... I can rarely spell good nomatter what
<jchase> sweet, ok, I wont sweat it then
<JonReagan> welcome to the club...
<jchase> so what else do we have on the agenda?
<JonReagan> hmmm... i'll check
<heathen> party at boredandblogging's house
<jsvh> yea!
<JonReagan> lol!
<jchase> sweet, I'll bring some guinness, and boddingtons
<jsvh> how many kegs?
<heathen> (or atleast little 5 pizza)
<jchase> so is there a picture of the boxes?
<jchase> are they decorated or anything/.
<jchase> ?
<JonReagan> yup... it's on the wiki
<jchase> oh?
<JonReagan> download the tar.gz file from /marketing on our site. It's under attatchments
<boredandblogging> stupid comcast
<boredandblogging> what was the last thing I said?
<heathen> aaaaawwwwwwwwwwww
<heathen> you missed it!
<JonReagan> lol...
<heathen> boredandblogging> ok, so let me put in the order for posters and
<heathen> stickers and we can talk about distributing them next
<heathen> week.
<boredandblogging> ah, ok
<JonReagan> ok... sounds good
<heathen> that didnt quite work the way i hoped
<JonReagan> ?
<boredandblogging> one idea I had...I know jsvh sent email to all the lugs around Georgia about the the Georgia LoCo...
<heathen> funky spacing
<boredandblogging> I'm thinking we could spam them and let them know about free CDs from shipit...
<jchase> so is that our logo?
<JonReagan> ah
<jchase> in the attachments section?
<heathen> boredandblogging: when is the party at your house again?
<boredandblogging> or we could mail them some CDs ourselves
<JonReagan> actually, it's the official logo
<jchase> ah
<JonReagan> ours is till in the voting process
<boredandblogging> heathen: lol, ummm
<jchase> is it too late to submit any new ones?
<boredandblogging> haven't planned the next one yet
<heathen> or atleast littl5 pizza
* heathen ducks
<boredandblogging> grrr
<heathen> you love me
<boredandblogging> uh huh
<heathen> lol
<boredandblogging> jchase: if you want to make wallpapers go for it
<heathen> next meet cant be june 8th
<JonReagan> hehe
<jchase> okay, will do
<jchase> june 8th
<jchase> location yet?
<heathen> little 5 pizza!
<boredandblogging> as far as logos go, I've been dealing with the issue long enough, lets just pick one thats up for a vote
<heathen> not june 8th
<boredandblogging> why can't you make it june 8th
<heathen> brittish in the blueridge...
<boredandblogging> ok, if no one has anything else, thats its for the agenda
<JonReagan> k
<heathen> been planned for a while
<jchase> so june 8th in stone?
<heathen> jchase: dont make me throw the sink at you
<boredandblogging> haha
<jchase> my bad
<heathen> lol
<jchase> so ...sometime in June ? :)
<heathen> me and a bunch of crazy britt bike riders are going to tear up the blueridge mountains...
<heathen> should be fun weekend
<jchase> can I bring my Vespa and come "tear it up" with ya ?
<boredandblogging> yeah, june is definitely good
<JonReagan> lol
<boredandblogging> hey heathen, jchase is a cigar smoker
<JonReagan> yeah june sounds good for me too
<heathen> jchase: sure
<boredandblogging> we should get together and do something
<heathen> mmmm....
<jchase> alsso, me and Eric, anothe rbuddy who will becoming to the loco meets, are going to start podcasting on http://linuxcrypt.net, we plan to really promote ubuntu
<jchase> should be a bi-weekly release
<heathen> 6 days and counting...
<JonReagan> sweet!
<jchase> w3rd
<heathen> bi-weekly? It's about SCAD?
<heathen> sorry....
<heathen> that was bad
<jchase> hahaha
* heathen goes and stands in corner...
<boredandblogging> with a dunce hat
<JonReagan> lol
* heathen takes dunce hat
<jchase> hence the word "heathen" the expectation is set for you to be bad, so really, you're just being good
* heathen wears proudly
<jchase> hahah
<heathen> jchase is my hero...
<boredandblogging> lol
<boredandblogging> jsvh: i think we should start working on the approval application
<jsvh> Sounds good
<boredandblogging> i'll take a stab at this week
<JonReagan> cool
<jchase> approval applications?
<jsvh> I will work on it from china
<boredandblogging> if anyone is free Tuesday morning, I'm up for Ubuntu member...would love a fan club
<heathen> bored doesnt know that ubuntu will say no... he's gonna have to boot me first..
<heathen> boredandblogging: i may be... i dont think i'm working this week...
<boredandblogging> heathen: if thats what it takes...j/k
<heathen> boredandblogging: anything to stop the l5p comments right?
<boredandblogging> damn straight
<heathen> lol
<JonReagan> wow
<jsvh> jchase: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/ApprovalApplication
<JonReagan> JSVH > I will send you my sending info tomorrow... the rest of my day today is going to be nuts... I g2g
<boredandblogging> later JonReagan
<jsvh> ok, cya Jon
<boredandblogging> jchase: have you guys started podcasting yet?
<heathen> wow
<jchase> well, we've been podcasting for a while on other things
<jchase> we jsut finally were like "why aren't we doing linux casting?"
<jchase> so we are doing our first recording this week
<heathen> ubuntu-ky (jelly) has 52 members as of april 12.. we only have 21 as of april 21
<jchase> I listen to http://linuxactionshow.com
<boredandblogging> i think we are up to 26 or something
<jchase> they are great, and huge pushers of ubuntu
<jsvh> yea
<jchase> a couple shows ago they interview Mark Shuttleworth
<boredandblogging> we need to show we are organized and making progress...and we are, so we should be good
<jchase> great cast
<heathen> i got to the blueridge june 8th... and the wife goes out of town that monday!
<boredandblogging> jchase: plug us on the podcast!
<jchase> Oh, every week we will be plugging it :)
<boredandblogging> most excellent, I slap a link to you on the wiki
<boredandblogging> and on the webpage once we get approved
<jchase> wow.. excellent
<jchase> we are also going to be doing a fully detailed how to on setting up Linux MCE / mythTV on ubuntu
<jchase> with video, pics, and written how tos
<boredandblogging> very nice
<jsvh> I am going to head out soon, going to visit mom. Have we covered everything for this week?
<boredandblogging> jsvh: yeah, I think we are done}}}
