{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Home page: http://www.georgemulak.com/
* Email address: georgemulak@gmail.com
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~gmulak
* IRC: george and gmulak@ircfreenode.net

=== About me ===
I am a computer hardware technician who currently works for TierraTek and George Mulak Enterprises helping people with hardware and installing and using Ubuntu in their computers.  I learned some basic programming in college and have been doing hardware since the days of the 286 processor!  

I am a fierce and fearless advocate of open source and Linux.  I often get "hand-me-down" computers and renewed them with Ubuntu.  I then give them out to someone who needs a computer for learning, working, or personal reasons.  I have even purchased computers for people who didn't have the resources and got them started!  That is how much I love helping.  

I'm an active member of the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam|California LoCo]]</nowiki>. I enjoy helping others and spreading the word about Ubuntu and other useful Free and Open Source solutions.  I enjoy helping others install Ubuntu and answering any questions they might have.  I have been a major part of the Ubuntu booth at SCaLE for well over 10 years partnering with Nathan Haines in that process.  

=== Plans and Goals ===
I have tried several version of Linux, many of them very nice.  However, I find the development schedule of Ubuntu and their management style amazing.  It is widely recognized that Ubuntu is one of the easiest "distros" to install and use.  In addition, I have found, for the most part that the Ubuntu team members have been extremely giving and helpful.  This was partly responsible for solidifying my theory that people in an organization reflect the management when I met Mr. Shuttleworth in 2016 at SCaLE in 2016.  He was very generous with his time with me, even though he was obviously busy.  

I plan on getting the California Loco team more active again.  I want to extend the education of what Ubuntu can do and how it can contribute to peoples lives.  More teams throughout California that are active and sharing.  More "install parties".  More Ubuntu hours I think would be part of that effort.  

In addition, I plan to start learning server administration.  I have purchased business internet and server hardware.  I have also installed Business internet with 5 static IP addresses and will pass on that knowledge to the community as I learn it.  

=== Contributions ===

I have been making and handing out Ubuntu CD's for well over 12 years now.  I am now making pen drives and handing them out and helping to install them.  I actively promote Ubuntu in the community and at work by engaging people in conversation about technology.  

I have been an active member of the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam|Ubuntu California Local Community Team]]</nowiki> since 2008 and have been an active contributing member of SCaLE since then. I have had private computer labs in different venues that have featured Ubuntu in a learning lab environment.  

=== Upcoming Activities ===

=== Completed Activities ===
