{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Discussion Points ===
==== Logos ====
** Nick is going to ask about trademark issues with some of the potential logos. 

==== Meeting Time ====
** IRC meeting time is 3pm on Sundays.

==== LoCo Approval ====
** Jon has started working on the application. Looks like we need three good events. Should have the third one with the Ubuntu boxes.

==== Publicizing Georgia LoCo ====
===== CD distribution =====
** Shipit is accepting pre-orders. John and Nick have sent in requests. They can be used to at least start the Ubuntu boxes. 
** Jon and Bakey are going to keep working on the design and hopefully come up with a prototype by the next meeting. 

===== Newspaper articles =====
** Tabled for the moment

==== Feisty Release Party! ====
** Thursday, April 19th, 7:30pm to 9 or so, upstairs at Transmetropolitan (145 E. Clayton St) in Downtown Athens.
    
=== Log ===
<pre>
<jsvh> first, meeting time?
<jsvh> anyone have problems changing it to one hour?
<JonReagan> noope
<Bakey_> not me
<gossar> sounds more productive
<boredandblogging> but ti would be nice to point out that its ok to hang out here other times
* ** Bakey_ is now known as Bakey
<jsvh> defenatly, they room is always open
<JonReagan> right. hold it open from 1-5, but have the meeting at around 3 (or whenever is best)
<boredandblogging> yeah sounds good
<jsvh> 3-4pm for the official meeting time sound good then?
<JonReagan> yeah
<boredandblogging> yeah
<Bakey> maybe include the proposed start time (if different from 3) in the weekly agenda on the wiki?
<JonReagan> like, get everyone wanting to attend the meeting send in the time that they can attend the meeting?
<boredandblogging> also, is Sunday good for everyone?
<Bakey> no, like if you or jsvh or one of the "leaders" won't be around at 3 and need to get started at like 2, you post that on the wiki's agenda so that everyone knows
<Bakey> and Sunday's as good as any for me
<jsvh> that sounds good, We can plan them to be at 3 on Sundays at post up in it will be different. We will also note that the IRC channel is always open for chat
<JonReagan> that sounds good
<jsvh> at= and
<Bakey> right, that's what I meant
<boredandblogging> i like it
<jsvh> ok next topic then...
<jsvh> "Publicizing Ubuntu"
<jsvh> "James has access to the Lightscribe burner, let's decide on a design. Where are we with journalists?"
<jsvh> is this related to the Ubuntu box project?
<boredandblogging> and I think heathen just dropped out
<boredandblogging> kinda, just making CDs in general
<JonReagan> I think so
<JonReagan> sort-of... the cd's could be used in the boxes project
<jsvh> ah, that sounds good
<boredandblogging> the people doing the journalists aren't here
<jsvh> ok, well we will put that off for now then
<jsvh> and segway into the Ubuntu Boxes...
<JonReagan> alrighty then
<jsvh> have we actually set up any yet, or where do we stand?
<jsvh> we are waiting for feisty cds?
<Bakey> I'm waiting on Feisty CDs
<JonReagan> I think we are waiting for CDs.
<boredandblogging> we should build a prototype
<JonReagan> that's a good idea
<Bakey> if I get the 20 I ordered from ShipIt, I'm planning on putting one up at work
<JonReagan> a prototype could then be tested for overall reception
<jsvh> sounds good, we could take picures to add to the web site
<boredandblogging> Bakey, can you take pictures once you build it?
<JonReagan> over a week's period
<boredandblogging> should we just burn CDs just to get started or wait for shipit?
<JonReagan> I believe that there are CD papers available from Ubuntu to stick inside the CD cases
<Bakey> sure I can take pics of the one I build
<JonReagan> pics - that would be great
<JonReagan> If we make a chart and track how may CDs are taken in a week, it would be a good indication of how well these things work
<JonReagan> perhaps place one on the wiki?
<Bakey> jon, you know where i can find those cd papers?
<gossar> but if there's only a prototype to start with, location will be VERY influential
<JonReagan> I think it is under /UbuntuArtworl
<boredandblogging> staples or office depot should have them
<JonReagan> that l was supposed to be a k.. sorry
<JonReagan> location location location - is very important
<Bakey> i'd love to take the AOL cds at the local Target/WalMart and replace them with Ubuntu CDs
<Bakey> not sure how legal that is
<boredandblogging> haha
<boredandblogging> ok, so where do we want to put them? maybe some offices?
<JonReagan> the boxes?
<boredandblogging> yeah
<JonReagan> we could place CD stands at offices, if they would stand up better
<boredandblogging> ok
<Bakey> here's a good starting point maybe for a CD insert/label: http://www.zimagez.com/zimage/ubuntu610desktopi386.php
<JonReagan> it kinda depends on the location of the box, and what would work best in that environment
<jsvh> that lable looks nice Bakey
<Bakey> i'm going to modify that one I posted and make it English/Feisty
<boredandblogging> awesome
<JonReagan> cool. it looks like it was personalized for the French loco
<JonReagan> we could add our info in there...
<Bakey> yeah, maybe add our logo if we ever decide on one :)
<JonReagan> right. I think that was one of the topics for this meeting
<jsvh> do we want to segway to the logo now?
<jsvh> any more on the boxes?
<JonReagan> sure
<boredandblogging> wait
<boredandblogging> so what have decided on the boxes?
<JonReagan> so the idea is to have a prototype in place when fiesty comes out?
<jsvh> that sounds like a good goal
<boredandblogging> ok, got it
<jsvh> anyone want to take the lead with the prototype?
<JonReagan> I would, but, seriously bad location
<Bakey> I can do that, I think
<JonReagan> that would be great!
<boredandblogging> awesome Bakey
<Bakey> Yeah, I don't have a good location, necessarily, but I can build one
<Bakey> are we looking for a tabletop thing? wallmount? free standing?
<boredandblogging> Bakey, where are you?
<Bakey> Albany, GA bored
<Bakey> down south
<boredandblogging> tabletop or freestanding
<JonReagan> oh. If we can't find a location to do this today, I will see about finding a place for the prototype
<Bakey> I can definitely cope up with a tabletop design before the next meeting, i think
<boredandblogging> i agree that location is important, but lets get the prototype done and then figure it out
<JonReagan> agreed
<Bakey> ideas on building materials?
<Bakey> a simple wooden design would be the easiest for people to reproduce on their own
<boredandblogging> jon, did you have some ideas on how it was to be built?
<JonReagan> yup
<Bakey> but something out of plexi would looks cool
<JonReagan> really there was not to be much building
<Bakey> ahh, ok
<JonReagan> exactly, we could use the boxes that home ads are placed in. They are clear, and if you buy the right one should be about the right size
<JonReagan> the boxes w/ a flap on top
<JonReagan> alternatively, we could use wood and make our own, but I was hoping for something that people could see into easily
<JonReagan> then they would see the free CD inside!
<JonReagan> no one can resist a free CD :P
<jsvh> The key is to have them look professional, that will give them a lot of crediablity
<boredandblogging> maybe we should throw in free candy ;-)
<JonReagan> yup. let's not have anything that says "pirated junk"
<jsvh> exactly jon :-p
<boredandblogging> ok, so jon and Bakey , you guys want to illustrations of boxes?
<Bakey_> sorry guys, another power glitch
<Bakey_> yes, i'd like some further direction on that
<JonReagan> sure. I will draw one up tonight
<boredandblogging> quick simple illustrations
<JonReagan> right
<JonReagan> do you want me to upload it to the wiki?
<Bakey_> Jon, maybe we can get together about this outside of a regular meeting time?
<JonReagan> k
<JonReagan> what channel?
<JonReagan> is Ubuntu -georgia up all the time?
<boredandblogging> you guys can do it here
<boredandblogging> JonReagan, yes
<Bakey_> this one, or using some other chat program if you want
<JonReagan> sweet
<boredandblogging> i would suggest doing it here
<JonReagan> sounds good
<boredandblogging> all conversations are logged so you can look back at it
<Bakey_> ok, that's doable for me
<JonReagan> that works
<JonReagan> so. what time is good for you?
<Bakey_> any weekday after about 4:30 PM really
<JonReagan> k
<Bakey_> and the earlier in the week the better if I'm going to get a prototype together and documented before next week's meeting
<JonReagan> how about on either tuesday or Wednesday ?
<Bakey_> Tuesday would be better for me
<JonReagan> k
<JonReagan> tuesday at around 5:00?
<Bakey_> sure
<JonReagan> cool.
<Bakey_> I'll join this channel and start idling it when I get in from work
<boredandblogging> Bakey, thats what quite a few of us do
<boredandblogging> alright, so we done with this topic?
<JonReagan> I guess so
<Bakey_> i think so
<jsvh> ok, what do people think about logos?
<Bakey_> I like ClinicalMistake's ones so far
<jsvh> see: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=406502 and http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=379048
<JonReagan> same here
<boredandblogging> i agree, i like CMs logos
<jsvh> this one? http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=29305&d=1176062596
<Bakey_> the 3rd one he did, to be specific: http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=29450&d=1176263152
<Bakey_> yeah
<Bakey_> that's the one
<gossar> I kind of like nomasteryoda's invisible peach
<jsvh> which one gossar?
<jsvh> err I guess he has just one
<jsvh> nm, they are differnt
<JonReagan> yeah. both the 3rd one by clinical mistake and the one by nomasteryoda look good
<gossar> ew, I didn't see the one with the flag
<jsvh> http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=27028&d=1173480685 and http://bp1.blogger.com/_fqEVoqQa9zs/Rhxo9uuBSVI/AAAAAAAAACw/S3VBp4leuxg/s1600-h/ubuntuloco.jpg
<gossar> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ga/2007-April/000023.html
<JonReagan> there's one with the flag?
<JonReagan> ah
<boredandblogging> alright, can we push for a decision on this? think we've talking about this for a while
<jsvh> Yea, is it between these two? http://bp1.blogger.com/_fqEVoqQa9zs/Rhxo9uuBSVI/AAAAAAAAACw/S3VBp4leuxg/s1600-h/ubuntuloco.jpg http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=29450&d=1176263152
<Bakey_> maybe put a poll up for the choices on the wiki and the winner becomes the logo?
<JonReagan> sure
<jsvh> Is there a good way to put a poll on the wiki?
<JonReagan> I am not sure...
<boredandblogging> don't know, but you can with launchpad
<gossar> I like ClinicalMistake's 3rd one ok, but I think the orange for the word Georgia may cause problems
<Bakey_> yeah, we can do it there
<jsvh> what about on the forum?
<boredandblogging> jsvh, thats a good idea
<JonReagan> that would be easier
<jsvh> it is easy to make a poll on the forum, that is where most of the discussion is any ways
<JonReagan> yeah, that sounds better
<Bakey_> yeah, i think forums is a better idea too
<jsvh> ok, I will try to get that set up.
<JonReagan> cool
<jsvh> shall we just have the two most popular choices for now?
<jsvh> or what other ones?
<JonReagan> well, I can't think of any others
<Bakey_> maybe all 3 that CM has done, and the one that yoda did
<JonReagan> that sounds like a good idea
<boredandblogging> maybe a playoff...poll with a few, then widdle it down? and keep widdling it down
<JonReagan> we could do that... maybe if the poll come in close?
<boredandblogging> right
<JonReagan> bandb: youre a mod there too, right?
<boredandblogging> this only matters if there isn't a clear favorite, maybe there is a favorite
<boredandblogging> JonReagan, yeah, just on the georgia forums along with jsvh
<JonReagan> could you change the poll after we move on, that way we wouldn't open up a bunch of topics
<jsvh> do we really have that many logos to do a playoff? what if we just do a tie breaker if it is close?
<boredandblogging> yeah, good idea
<JonReagan> cool
<jsvh> do we just want CMs 3 and yoda's 1, any other nominations?
<voidmage> Where are the icons, farther up
<voidmage> ?
<JonReagan> further up the list. you can find them on the forums
<voidmage> alright
<voidmage> I've looked at them before
<JonReagan> sure, those logos seem to be the most favorite
<jsvh> let me know if anyone want to nominate another and we can try to add it
<voidmage> Which ones are nominated now?
<jsvh> This one http://bp1.blogger.com/_fqEVoqQa9zs/Rhxo9uuBSVI/AAAAAAAAACw/S3VBp4leuxg/s1600-h/ubuntuloco.jpg ....
<jsvh> and the first 3 by CM on this page http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=379048&page=3
<voidmage> Is the fourth one against canonical policy?
<JonReagan> good question... I'll take a look at it
<JonReagan> by the fourth one you mean, the 3rd one by clinical mistake?
<voidmage> Actually, never mind.
<jsvh> voidmage, yea, that is one of the reasons it was not nominated
<voidmage> Looking at it again I don't like it much anyways
<JonReagan> k
<voidmage> Still makes me wonder what exactly it is
<JonReagan> lol
<voidmage> If someone looked at it: "Okay, but what is it?"
<jsvh> should voting end by Sunday?
<voidmage> I'm not sure what the thing in yoda's logo is though
<boredandblogging> lets give it a couple of weeks
<JonReagan> k
<jsvh> ok, two Sundays from today then?
<boredandblogging> yeah
<JonReagan> sounds good
<boredandblogging> is that good time with the prototype?
<JonReagan> sure
<boredandblogging> ok
<JonReagan> prototype logo?
<JonReagan> sorry for my temporary stupidity... :P
<boredandblogging> i thought maybe we could slap the logo on there somewhere
<voidmage> About CM's second one
<voidmage> How does this part of the policy affect it?
<voidmage> Additional text may not be added in such a way that it appears to be part of the logo itself.
<JonReagan> oh. hmm. that looks like that could be a problem
<boredandblogging> sigh
<JonReagan> it was a good logo...
<boredandblogging> weird rules
<boredandblogging> well, the text isn't part of the logo
<boredandblogging> logo is part of the text
<jsvh> does that mean CMs third is out also?
<JonReagan> I don't know... I am getting confused fast.
<jsvh> the Ubuntu trade mark rules
<JonReagan> oh.
<gossar> maybe we should run the final candidates past trademarks@ubuntu.com before putting the poll up?
<voidmage> Probably a good idea.
<JonReagan> good idea
<jsvh> yea
<gossar> just to be sure
<jsvh> what if on the two in question we just move the ubuntu logo out of the text into the lower left corner
<JonReagan> right. we dont wnat to have any issues after we roll out our marketing material
<JonReagan> *want
<JonReagan> and just add an "o" to Georgia
<jsvh> yea
<JonReagan> that sounds good
<boredandblogging> alright, john, did you wano to email ubuntu or you want me to do it?
<jsvh> ok, I will add to the thread and see if CM can change his logos. Someone want to email trademarks@ubuntu.com with these?
<jsvh> what ever
<boredandblogging> i'll email them
<jsvh> sounds good
<boredandblogging> so CM's 3, and yoda's one?
<jsvh> yea
<boredandblogging> ok
<JonReagan> k
<jsvh> we will hold off on the poll for now, till we figure out these issues
<JonReagan> that's a good idea
<jsvh> on to the next topic?
<JonReagan> sure
<boredandblogging> yeah
<jsvh> Jon, would you care to talk about Georgia Domination 101?
<JonReagan> sure
<JonReagan> so, did everyone get a chance to look the paper over
<JonReagan> *?
<boredandblogging> yeah
<jsvh> yes, very good read
<JonReagan> what did you all think about it?
<JonReagan> thx
<boredandblogging> I'm specifically concerned about getting all the permits
<jsvh> for anyone that missed it: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ga/2007-April/000023.html
<JonReagan> you will only need to get one permit
* voidmage is reading it now
<JonReagan> thanks for psoting that, jsvh
<boredandblogging> one per county, right?
<JonReagan> right
<JonReagan> or at least, it should be, it could be by city, but as far as I know, it is by county gov't
<JonReagan> the laws are governed by Georgia, and the permits are handled by local govenments
<boredandblogging> i think this process needs to be simplified as much as possible if we want to do this widespread
<JonReagan> right
<boredandblogging> like get all the links together, figure out what needs to be filled out
<JonReagan> right
<boredandblogging> so people can follow some steps
<boredandblogging> because trying to deal with the gov't makes me not want to do it
<boredandblogging> so the easier it is, the better
<JonReagan> If we decide to go with such a plan, I will contact my county gov't and find out whre to go from there
<jsvh> lets do some research on it
<boredandblogging> yeah
<jsvh> Jon, you want to check on what all is involved exactly?
<JonReagan> we will need the right clearance, because a bad start w/ the government is not a good way to go
<JonReagan> yup
<jsvh> I agree
<JonReagan> I will contact my county and find out what is involved in getting such a permit
<jsvh> We can break this down into steps to be handled on our project page ( https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Projects ) if we need to
<JonReagan> sounds good
<JonReagan> it should only take a couple of minutes to get the permits
<jsvh> sounds good
<boredandblogging> would be great if its that easy
<JonReagan> it should be. like I said, I will get all the details from my county gov't
<jsvh> ok, so we are going to look into this plan and come up with the setps we need to take? break it down into parts/ steps each person can take on
<JonReagan> sure. That sounds good to me
<boredandblogging> yeah
<jsvh> hello robert
<jsvh> ok, so onto the next topic?
<JonReagan> sure
<boredandblogging> yeah
<jsvh> "Feisty Release Parties"
<JonReagan> I won't be able to make it :(
<jsvh> I will be helpping to host one here in athens with CHUGALUG and Free IT Athens
<JonReagan> that's cool
<jsvh> thats ok, it is not requered
<JonReagan> oh, good.
<boredandblogging> we should try to set up something maybe in a couple of months
<jsvh> But details are on the wiki and were sent out to the mailing list, for anyone who is. When: Thursday, April 19th, 7:30pm to 9 or so
<jsvh> Where: Upstairs at Transmetropolitan (145 E. Clayton St) in Downtown Athens
<jsvh> Why: Why not? The new version of Ubuntu is our main excuse, but it is for all who support open source and are interested.
<jsvh> How: I will bring some Ubuntu 7.04 CDs, my laptop and some random Ubuntu stuff. It is pretty informal, You can buy drinks and food there if you want.
<jsvh> this is more of a informal social meet anyways
<boredandblogging> something where people can plan for...maybe on a saturday night or something
<heathen> did i miss it all?
<boredandblogging> right
<jsvh> that sounds good
<jsvh> hey heathen
<JonReagan> welcome back
<jsvh> not all
<heathen> hey, sorry, i fell asleep, and the comp shutdown..
<boredandblogging> its something we can put in a todo list and come back to later
<jsvh> sounds good
<JonReagan> agreed
<jsvh> ok, next topic?
<boredandblogging> yesh
<JonReagan> sure
<jsvh> "Getting Approved"
<jsvh> I think we are ready to be an official LoCo
<JonReagan> alright!
<boredandblogging> really?
<boredandblogging> i think they want us to spread the ubuntu word before being approved
<jsvh> read https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved for more info on it
<jsvh> well we have alot of project in the works
<JonReagan> we will
<jsvh> I was talking with people in the Kentuky LoCo they seem to be simmilar level
<JonReagan> are they approved?
<jsvh> they are rqeusting it this week
<boredandblogging> i agree we will, but I don'tt hink we have the experience, what 3 pieces of experience do we have?
<boredandblogging> the release party is one...
<boredandblogging> i think the box will be two
<JonReagan> hmmmm.
<JonReagan> support?
<boredandblogging> getting the permits would be huge step, taking special inititative, and that would look great and that should be enough
<jsvh> ok, well we can hold off on applying then
<boredandblogging> wonder what kentucky has
<JonReagan> that would be... it would the first widespread campaign
<boredandblogging> I'm thinking once we deploy a box, we should go for it
<JonReagan> right
<jsvh> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/ApprovalApplication - kentucky's application
<jsvh> I started one for us here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/ApprovalApplication
<boredandblogging> nm John, I think you are right, if you Kentucky gets approved, then we should try as well
<JonReagan> right
<boredandblogging> i think if we put out a box, we are definitely set
<jsvh> The advantages would be nice
<jsvh> like being about to get 300 ship it CDs at a time
<JonReagan> that sounds good
<boredandblogging> defniitely
<jsvh> that would help us out with our Box project
<JonReagan> that would help greatly
<jsvh> *about = able
<JonReagan> well, approval seems to be a straight forward process
<jsvh> ok, I think that covers everthing on the agenda, anyone have anything else?
<jsvh> Hey Nick, how have you been posting the meeting transcript to the wiki?
* ** fasdfas__ is now known as bandb
<jsvh> Hey Nick, how have you been posting the meeting transcript to the wiki?
<bandb> sorry my connection has been crapping out
<bandb> john, yeah
<JonReagan> nope... nuthin' else here. I g2g, talk to yall later
* ** bandb is now known as boredandblogging
<jsvh> cya Jon
<boredandblogging> ok, so what did we decide on the approval thing?
<jsvh> We will work on our application and send it in, the worst that can happen is "not yet"
<gossar> sounds like we need a little more documentation on the experiences front
<boredandblogging> jsvh, sounds good
<jsvh> yea, probably once we get a box or two out
<boredandblogging> cool
<jsvh> Nick , do you have time to put up the meeting trascript?
<gossar> g2g
<boredandblogging> yeah, I'll do it
</pre>
