{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===

==== InstallFest ====
Mainly marketing and presentation planning was discussed. Marketing with flyers, as well as the possibility of getting a banner was discussed.  Presentations are now going to be organized by time slots. 

==== PressKit ====
The decision was made to send out the email/packet after the Gusty release.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<`Matir> hello
<ClinicalMistake> A sleek system, no doubt. I love white electronics though, so I am biased : )
<ClinicalMistake> System includes everything that comes with the new system.
<ClinicalMistake> Barely used, works great.
<ClinicalMistake> The touch pad screen has some smudge marks from fingers/stylus. Outside of that, the system is in virtually indistinguishable from a new one.
<ClinicalMistake> I take great care of my electronics and I see that they stay in great shape. If you would like to see the system prior to purchase, simply ask and I will oblige.
<ClinicalMistake> ^ Nintendo DS Lite - $60 bucks for my friends at the ubuntu loco : )
<ClinicalMistake> I know yall might not want it, but I know some of you have kids, so I figured I'd maybe help out a little and make some cash : )
<nomasteryoda> cool
<`Matir> lo
<boredandblogging> hello hello
<ClinicalMistake> up late ;)
<boredandblogging> ClinicalMistake: yeah, I am
<boredandblogging> went out to dinner with some friends
<boredandblogging> after spending all day at barcamp
<boredandblogging> hello hello
<boredandblogging> Matir: ping
<boredandblogging> hi jimpop
<jimpop> boredandblogging: hi
<boredandblogging> how's life?
<jimpop> boredandblogging: good. next-week should be low stress
* jimpop has a problem with Ubuntu Server installing USB, NetworkManager, BlueTooth and Cups by default
<boredandblogging> jimpop: did you make it to the ALE meeting last thursday?
<boredandblogging> dendrobates had talked about that
<jimpop> no, i was out of town
<jimpop> i wanted to be there
<jimpop> :-(
<boredandblogging> yeah, he said they need reconfigure some of that stuff
<jimpop> i haven't heard any updates.... that's good to know
<boredandblogging> basically they've morphing the desktop into the server distro and they need to split it up
<jimpop> right. good to hear
<boredandblogging> which might get done in the LTS release
<jimpop> makes sense
<jchase> boogie woogie jam slam
<boredandblogging> jon will be around shortly
<boredandblogging> and get the meeting started
<tannerld> oh is there a irc meeting today?
<jchase> yup
<jchase> every Sunday
<jchase> 3:00
<tannerld> hmm
<tannerld> nifty :)
<jchase> the man of the hour
<JonReagan> hey guys
<jchase> what's up JR ?
<JonReagan> not much...
<tannerld> I guess I get to be at this one :P
<JonReagan> just talked to nick, he should be here in a few
<jchase> he's in
<jchase> like Flynn
<JonReagan> lol
<jchase> has everyone seen the updated http://ubuntu-georgia.org sire?
<JonReagan> yup
<JonReagan> looks good
<JonReagan> :)
<tannerld> very nice
<jimpop> very nice indeed
<jchase> rock on.. good times
<JonReagan> brb
* JonReagan back
<JonReagan> I guess we'll start the meeting here in the next 5 minutes
<jimpop> how stable is 7.10 now?
<jimpop> is it a simple upgrade from 7.04?
<JonReagan> it's in rc now, so it should be stable, or at least, stable enough
<JonReagan> most of the bugs have been removed at this point
<jimpop> the reason I ask is I need libopensync0 (>= 0.22) and 7.04 only has 0.19-1.2
<jchase> I haven't tried the upgrade, just a fresh install, but it rocks
<JonReagan> I think the only thing will need to worry about is a slow download... the servers were SLOW after the rc release
<jimpop> one other question (while I have an audience :-) )....
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: have you tried the torrents?
<jimpop> when I vi/gedit a file on my Desktop... it always re-sorts that file to the left-hand side of the Desktop. strange indeed, anyone else have his prob?
<JonReagan> I think so... I can't remember
<boredandblogging> jimpop: try posting that on the ubuntu tech support mailing list
<boredandblogging> i've seen it too
<boredandblogging> but I don't keep a whole lot on the desktop
<jimpop> boredandblogging: but I want georgia-ubuntu support :-)
<jimpop> will do, thx
<boredandblogging> hehe, I've seen the issue, no clue how to fix it
<JonReagan> should we go ahead and start the meeting?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: go for it
<JonReagan> *pulling up agenda*
<JonReagan> The first item is: Organize Presentations/Demos - Who is presenting what?(BoredandBlogging)
<boredandblogging> ok, so we are less than a month from the install fest
<JonReagan> :)
<boredandblogging> we need to figure out who will be presenting what
<boredandblogging> JonReagan already has one done
<jimpop> presenting in what format?
<jimpop> isn't an installfest more like a social gathering?
<boredandblogging> just go up to the front and talk and/or do a demo
<JonReagan> it's in google docs, but it would not take me long to convert it to other formats
<boredandblogging> pretty much any topic is fine
<jimpop> i can do a short preso on what $DAYJOB is doing w/ U in general
<Matir> does anyone have ideas/requests for a presentation? I would enjoy giving one, but I don't know what on
<boredandblogging> jimpop: what is $DAYJOB?
<jimpop> boredandblogging: big blue
<jimpop> we have 4 different internal U releases :-)
<boredandblogging> jimpop: that would be cool
<boredandblogging> oh wow
<boredandblogging> yeah, that would kick ass
<boredandblogging> Matir: gaming?
<jimpop> 3 are ground-up initiatives, 1 is an overlay
<boredandblogging> jimpop: can you come up with slides that we can look at?
<JonReagan> wow... that's good stuff
<jimpop> boredandblogging: i can. I will also bring my lappy which has ibm-ubuntu on it
<boredandblogging> jimpop: awesome!
<boredandblogging> ok, so we have jimpop and JonReagan
<jchase> gaming / firewalls / security / encryption / samba integration with windows /
<jchase> wwe can even leverage prsentations from
<jchase> http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/
<boredandblogging> samba would be good
<Matir> firewalls/security/encryption would be fairly easy
<jimpop> gaming would be good too ;-)
<jchase> yeah, even just customizing your dekstop
<Matir> or maybe something on remotely accessing your desktop system? (ssh, VNC, x forwarding, etc.)
<jchase> icons, themes
<jchase> compiz -fusion
<jchase> Matir, that's a great idea
<boredandblogging> Matir: maybe tie in the firewall security with vnc'ing and sshing?
<jimpop> compiz is default in 7.10 now... so should be nice to see a few PCs there with it running
<Matir> I could do something combining those.... setting up your firewall and remote access or something similar
<boredandblogging> Matir: very cool!
<Matir> ok, put me down for that then :)
<boredandblogging> cool
<jchase> We should start a wiki entry or something for different presentaitons, and putting names and timeleines to them
<boredandblogging> anyone want to tackle desktop customizations?
<jchase> so we can plan an agenda sort of for the install fest
<boredandblogging> jchase: good idea
<jimpop> boredandblogging: define desktop customizations
<boredandblogging> i don't know, changing themes, desktops, icons
<boredandblogging> might not be completely obvious coming from windows
<jchase> how to "backup" dvds on linux :)
<jchase> hahaha
<boredandblogging> heh
<jimpop> ibm-ubuntu is an overlay of desktop customizations, I can showcase that too.
<boredandblogging> jimpop: excellent
<Matir> how about even how to enable multimedia? (dvd playback, mp3, etc.)
<jchase> fantastic
<JonReagan> ah
<jchase> that's a great one
<boredandblogging> Matir: yeah
<jchase> without using the evil unmentionable third party app
<jimpop> usplash, login window, desktop, theme, ect
<JonReagan> lol
<boredandblogging> wow, didn't IBM was so into this
<boredandblogging> you think we could get IBM to sponsor our next install fest?
<boredandblogging> :-P
<jimpop> boredandblogging: very much into Ubuntu. I'll see what I can find out
<boredandblogging> it would be awesome if we could get some sponsorship
<jimpop> Note: my job isn't directly tied to Linux dev, more just a user
<JonReagan> usage in companies is always good too
<boredandblogging> right
<jimpop> but there are lots of different Linux dev groups internally, quite a few
<boredandblogging> yeah, its awesome hearing about how and what people are doing with Ubuntu
<boredandblogging> gaming is huge thing for windows users
<jchase> We run an ubuntu server internally at HP to run our wiki, vmware server, and misc other tasks
<boredandblogging> anyone interested in tackling tha
<boredandblogging> t
<JonReagan> so, should we compile a list of the presentations needed, and put them up on the wiki?
<jchase> yes
<jchase> keep it somewhat organized
<jimpop> yes
<jchase> we technically have the room at 8:30 am, tunil 5:30 or 6:00 pm
<boredandblogging> jchase or JonReagan: someone want to get the wiki page started?
<JonReagan> sure
<jchase> so maybe we could start the first presentation around say 10:00 am ?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: maybe just put it on the install fest page or a subpage
<boredandblogging> called planned agenda or something
<boredandblogging> i say 10:30, give people a little time to come in
<Matir> hopefully the projector will work well this time :)
<boredandblogging> it will be a saturday
<boredandblogging> Matir: sigh, I hope so too
<boredandblogging> dendrobates couldn't get his dell laptop to work with the projector
<boredandblogging> at the ALE meeting
<JonReagan> oh
<JonReagan> hrmmm...
<Matir> do you know if that was a projector or laptop issue?
<boredandblogging> but he had it set up for dual monitors
<JonReagan> should we get a back-up just in case?
<boredandblogging> so that might have been messing with it
<JonReagan> I had a projector working once, on feisty.
<Matir> because i know my works well with mirrored out, which might be all that was needed
<boredandblogging> yeah, not sure what do do about that
<jchase> I might be able to "liberate" a projector from my ofice
<jchase> for the install fest
<boredandblogging> LOL
<boredandblogging> if you can, awesome
<JonReagan> hehe
<jchase> I'll try
<boredandblogging> ok, gaming
<boredandblogging> can anyone cover that?
<boredandblogging> at the minimum just show the games running in Ubuntu
<Matir> what gaming aspects are you looking for? wine? or linux native?
<jchase> cedega
<boredandblogging> good question
<jchase> I can demo gaming, I just need a place to plug in my xbxo 360
<jchase> :)
<jimpop> NO!
<boredandblogging> oh man
<jimpop> shame shame
<jimpop> :-)
<jchase> pphst
<jchase> no shame in awesome gaming
<jchase> Halo 3 owns you
<jchase> haha
* tannerld suggest "bzflag" for a nice little cross-platform game
<Matir> a friend of mine is into gaming a lot and has been getting a lot of games working... like KOTOR
<Matir> and he was running a bzflag server for a while
<jchase> oh awesome
<jchase> Eric can demo Quake 4
<jchase> he woudl have been on today, but he's out of town
<JonReagan> maybe even... marathon
<JonReagan> :P
<Matir> I can ask him if he would be interested in presenting... I don't know if he would *shrug*
<boredandblogging> Matir: think he would be interested in doing a presentation?
<boredandblogging> Matir: yeah, it would be great
<jchase> So I think Jon Regans presetnation would bea good one to start off
<boredandblogging> jchase: good idea
<jchase> like what is Ubuntu .. a brief overview
<jchase> then go into installation / customization of desktop
<jchase> then how to install applications
<jimpop> Matir, if he doesn't want to present, then perhaps one of us could do the stand-up talk/q&a and Eric could do the hands-on
<jchase> congifure video card.. then how to get codecs installed
* ** kevinf311-lap is now known as kevinf311X_X
<jchase> from there take a break, help people get stuff up and running
<jchase> then move on to security, gaming, installing printers
<jchase> then using samba
<jchase> just trying to think of a flow
<JonReagan> is there going to be a separate room for the presentaitions and installations?
<jchase> no, all in the same room
<boredandblogging> jchase: sounds good
<JonReagan> k
<jchase> it's a large room though, two big white boards, huge screen, podium
<jchase> we could do one side of the room for installs and upgrades
<JonReagan> oh... sounds nice
<jimpop> who is catering this event? beer vendor?
<Matir> is it about the same size as 1C?
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> Matir: yes
<boredandblogging> jimpop: yeah, we'll need to talk about food at some point
<Matir> food is good
<JonReagan> :-D
<jchase> ok, did anyone take customizing ?
<jchase> I can do that
<jchase> icons, themes, wallpapers, how to configure menus
<jchase> shortcuts, using app launcher
<jchase> maybe using AWN
<jchase> I can do that oneif no one else has it
<jimpop> jchase: sounds good, I can help some too if needed
<jchase> did you claim it already? I can do something else
<JonReagan> I hat multitasking... brb
<JonReagan> *hate
<jchase> I figure if one person is giving presentation, others can be helping people with install issues
<jchase> ok
<jchase> another thing, we really need a FAQ put together for the install fest ont ehs ite
<jchase> hi there silver!
<jimpop> jchase: i didn't claim it, other than saying I could show some customizations
<silver2> hi ya jchase
<silver2> hi all
<JonReagan> i'm back
<jchase> me and silver represented yesterday at Taco Mac
<silver2> :)
<silver2> wb
<jchase> we were converting everyone in the restaurant, one beer at a time !
<JonReagan> hey bill
<JonReagan> lol
<silver2> hey jon
<silver2> ya, people were staring at us
<boredandblogging> lol
<jimpop> silver2: were they staring because of Ubuntu or the number of beers?
<silver2> tech game was on too
<silver2> beers, jimpop
<jimpop> ;-)
<boredandblogging> so we are done with the presentations topic?
<silver2> or cokes, whichever
<jchase> hey silver, what did you think of the venue ?
<JonReagan> I guess so
<jchase> yeah, we can continue the presentation stuff individually
<silver2> It was great, jchase
<jchase> we will start the wiki page, start populating, and assigning time slots
<JonReagan> I'll compile the list from the IRC notes and upload them to the wiki page
<silver2> would be noisey with a large group.
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: can you put up the planned presentations and email the list about it?
<JonReagan> sure
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: cool, alright
<JonReagan> next topic?
<jchase> So who all is planning to come to the release party?
<jchase> October 27th
<JonReagan> I won't be able to make it... :(
<boredandblogging> me
<jchase> me
<jimpop> is that the one at Meehans?
<jchase> correct
<silver2> I'd like to try and come....can't commit tho
<jimpop> i can't commit, but will try
<Matir> I plan to come
<jchase> sweet, 3 definties, and 2 maybes
<jchase> tanner? you down?
<boredandblogging> hopefully we'll get some folks from ALE as well
<boredandblogging> tannerld lives way down south
<jchase> yeah, that would be sweeet
<jchase> aaww, bummer
<ClinicalMistake> mm late again
<ClinicalMistake> : /
<boredandblogging> maybe we can get fignew, compiledkernel, and some other folks
<boredandblogging> ClinicalMistake: hey dude
<silver2> hey CM
<jchase> hola CM
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: whats next
<jchase> next.. ? good question
<jchase> ooh
<JonReagan> screencasts... are these the presentations?
<jchase> Distribution of info about the install fest
<ClinicalMistake> halo ~
<jchase> did he say halo?
<JonReagan> !?
<boredandblogging> ok, screencasts.ubuntu.com has some demos
<jchase> halo 3 ?? ::)
<jchase> hahaha
<ClinicalMistake> haha whopse
<boredandblogging> we could throw up some of them on the projector
<ClinicalMistake> my roommates are playing now
<ClinicalMistake> but I meant to say hallo ~ : )
<jchase> ive been playing all morning
<jchase> so unproductive
<boredandblogging> I was wondering if people would want some of them shown during the install fest
<jchase> I think it would be a good background filler
<jchase> Nick, maybe we can compile a dvd, of stuff like
<ClinicalMistake> it can do that jchase ; )
<jchase> ubuntu live videos, interviews, screencasts, barcamp stuff
<jchase> I can work on a background dvd filler
<jchase> also, I plan to take videos and pictures of the install fest, and compile our own event video
<boredandblogging> i ahven't seen much video, there is some audio out there
<Matir> it would be nice to record all the presentations
<jchase> actually, there is quite a bit of video out there
<boredandblogging> jchase: really?
<jchase> I will pull some stuff together, maybe I can have a preview ready by the release party to show?
<boredandblogging> jchase: excellent
<ClinicalMistake> the release party is in ATL I'm guessing?
<boredandblogging> ClinicalMistake: yeah
<jchase> correct, at Emory University
<boredandblogging> you should get one going at statesboro
<ClinicalMistake> ahh alrighty
<ClinicalMistake> haha
<jimpop> ClinicalMistake: the release party is in Roswell at Meehans Pub
<ClinicalMistake> I know a few folks down here who run it
<jimpop> The installfest is at Emory U
<ClinicalMistake> I wont be able to make it to atlanta sadly
<JonReagan> next topic?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: yeah
<JonReagan> alright... InstallFest flyers
<boredandblogging> yes, we need some volunteers to get the flyers
<boredandblogging> out
<jimpop> out where?
<JonReagan> I will be placing flyers in the CDs with my Ubuntu Box
<boredandblogging> libraries, schools
<boredandblogging> bookstores
<Matir> I'll be distributing @ GSU
<boredandblogging> electronics stores
<jimpop> i can plaster a few starbucks and book stores
<boredandblogging> jimpop: did you want to print out the color flyers? or I can mail out a bunch to you
<jimpop> that would be good
<boredandblogging> jimpop: mail?
<jimpop> jimpop@yahoo.com
<boredandblogging> cool
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: did you want me to mail you some?
<JonReagan> well, I can make out my own, and I will have those for my CDs, so it isn't necessary
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: ok, cool
<JonReagan> If you have a surplus, let me know...
<JonReagan> :)
<boredandblogging> i might send out an email asking if anyone else is interested and mail them
<JonReagan> that sounds like a good idea
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: next topic?
<JonReagan> PressKit
<boredandblogging> right
<boredandblogging> do we have some people we could send these out to?
<boredandblogging> maybe with a CD?
<JonReagan> by the looks of the wiki, we only have 1 major contact.
<jchase> is there anyone here that can get some fliers on bulletin boards at Georgia Tech, or Southern Poly Tech, or KSU
<JonReagan> and it's email-only as well.
<JonReagan> :(
<JonReagan> we need more
<boredandblogging> i can probably get fignew to do tech or at least go down there myself
<JonReagan> that would be great
<boredandblogging> i don't know my way around ksu or southern poly
<jchase> ok, Nick, let me know, maybe you and I can go plaster the ciy
<boredandblogging> jchase: ok
<boredandblogging> also the emory campus
<Matir> definitely need to get emory
<boredandblogging> jimpop: you think any folks at IBM would be interested in the install fest?
<boredandblogging> jchase: how about folks at HP?
<boredandblogging> maybe post a couple a flyers around there
<boredandblogging> probably not too professional though
<jchase> yeah, I will put some up at HP on Tuesday
<jimpop> boredandblogging: I can try. Most of the Atlantans are sales'y or mgmt... but I know of some that might be interested
<boredandblogging> jimpop: excellent
<jimpop> do we have a standard email with details?
<ClinicalMistake> hey bnb, can you send me an email with the flyer (its telling people about the new release right?)
<boredandblogging> we should probably come up with something a bit more detailed
<boredandblogging> we just have something with location and date
<JonReagan> yes, there is one. you can check it out at wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/PressKit
<jchase> hey its on the main page of http://ubuntu-georgia.org
<ClinicalMistake> kk will do
<ClinicalMistake> thanks
<boredandblogging> ClinicalMistake: yeah, see JonReagan's link and jchase's for the flyer
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: you think you can come up with a detailed email post combining the press release and install fest info?
<JonReagan> sure
<jimpop> how is it that the PressKit has a future announcement dated 19-Oct ?
<jimpop> :-)
<JonReagan> it's for the release. I figured we would not have time to come up with a press release on release day
<boredandblogging> yeah, smart thinking
<jchase> good call
<jimpop> gotcha
<boredandblogging> ok, anyone have any more ideas for the install fest, marketing, etc?
<JonReagan> hmmm
<jchase> besides tagging?
<JonReagan> I've got nothin'
<jchase> not realyl
<jchase> at the moment
<silver2> airplane with banner?
<JonReagan> lol
<ClinicalMistake> haha, that's always a great way
<boredandblogging> oh right, banner
<jchase> ooh yeah
<boredandblogging> jchase had mentioned that we should get one
<jchase> I did indeed
<ClinicalMistake> go gorilla with the flyers btw
<JonReagan> oh yeah... I kind of skipped that one
<boredandblogging> that we can also reuse for future events including the installfests
<jchase> like a general one, we could use for all events
<ClinicalMistake> if you want to have fun at elast
<boredandblogging> somone want to wear a gorilla suit outside the emory law building?
<boredandblogging> lol
<jchase> defintiely go gorilla
<JonReagan> hehe
<silver2> mines at the cleaners
<JonReagan> lol
<JonReagan> that's it for the topics
<boredandblogging> jchase: maybe we can come up with a banner?
<JonReagan> where could we get a banner?
<jimpop> Kinkos?
<jimpop> i can help fund if someone does the design
<JonReagan> we may need to go to a sign store to get a good banner
<ClinicalMistake> hhaha
<silver2> we need a sponsor or source of income
<jimpop> Kinkos does some serious banner work... just need high-quality logos & layout
<jchase> no, kinkos is a rip
<jchase> there is a sign place down the street, I'll hit them up
<ClinicalMistake> they are stupid costly
<jchase> I'll do some shopping around for 6 and 8 feet banners
<ClinicalMistake> I can still get some printed here btw (if need be) the prices arent bad
<jchase> oh? a banner?
<ClinicalMistake> I can drop em off at yoda's and then he can bring em to yall whenever he meets (does he?_
<ClinicalMistake> )
<ClinicalMistake> and yes
<boredandblogging> ok, so lets do the design first and then we'll figure out the printing
<JonReagan> alright
<boredandblogging> is that it?
<jchase> sounds groovy
<JonReagan> yup... that's it
<boredandblogging> awesome...
<boredandblogging> the install fest is gonna rock
<JonReagan> oh yeah!
<boredandblogging> glad to see everyone pitching in
<boredandblogging> and very appreciated
<JonReagan> glad to help
<jimpop> yep
<JonReagan> I g2g folks, I'll update the wiki here in the next few minutes
<JonReagan> c'yall later
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: cool
<silver2> later jon
<boredandblogging> alright, I need some coffee bad
<jchase> rockin
<jchase> me too
<boredandblogging> bbiaw
<ClinicalMistake> hmm
<ClinicalMistake> that would be wonderful to be honest
<silver2> later Nick
<boredandblogging> later guys
<ClinicalMistake> bye~
<jchase> laters
<fobnicat> hey folks... anyone around?
<JSVH> hey all
<JSVH> how did the meeting go today?
<fobnicat> not sure i wasn't on for it...
</pre> 
