{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===

==== July F2F meeting ====
July 07, 2007 at 1:30.  We will meet at Rocky Mountain Pizza(www.rockymountainpizza.com).

==== Ubuntu Box Update ====
The Snellville Borders box is going well.  No others have been placed out since then.

==== PressKit ====
The first version (alpha) version has been released, with the basis of the "about" section.

==== Getting the word out ====
Some members will begin talking to local LUGs, informing them about our team.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<JonReagan> alrighty then! The first topic is justa remeinder for the july 7th meeting 
<silver2> what time 
<JonReagan> was it 1:30? 
<Corvix> and where? 
<JonReagan> rocky mountain pizza 
<heathen> rocky mountain pizza 
<heathen> 10th and hempill 
<heathen> www.rockymountainpizza.com 
<JonReagan> yup 
<heathen> basically get off 85/75 at 10th go west.. it will be on the right 
<JonReagan> erm... anything else on this topic? 
<jsvh> hooray pizza! 
<heathen> be there or ill hunt you down! 
<jsvh> that is all 
<heathen> you coming josh? 
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: can you send out an email to the mailing list aobut it? 
<JonReagan> sure 
<heathen> how are we gonna recognize eachother? 
<boredandblogging> and ask them to tell us if they will be attending so we can have a head count 
<silver2_> darn it 
<JonReagan> alright 
<Corvix> well ... the recognizing thing somehow worked the last time ;-) 
<boredandblogging> it will be saturday during summer break, can't imagine the place will be that busy, we'll find each other 
<heathen> yeah, i guess we all look like geeks 
<jsvh> heathen: look for the guys with the Ubuntu stickers on their foreheads 
<heathen> lol 
<boredandblogging> Corvix: lol, yes it did 
<jsvh> haha 
<Corvix> lets all wear pirate hats ;-) 
<silver2_> I'm drop dead handsome 
<JonReagan> lol.. the large lump of people in the middle of the room 
<JonReagan> lol! 
<heathen> Corvix: you do that 
<jsvh> haha 
<JonReagan> next topic? 
<jsvh> sure 
<Corvix> wait a sec 
<JonReagan> Ubuntu boxes: did anyone get some more out? 
<JonReagan> oh... sory 
<Corvix> what about visiting the robocup afterwards? 
<JonReagan> *sorry - stupid keyboard 
<JonReagan> robocup? 
<silver2_> $ 
<heathen> robot soccer 
<Corvix> http://www.robocup-us.org/ 
<JonReagan> wow 
<Corvix> held at the GATech campus 
<boredandblogging> i would like to go, but it does cost $20, so anyone interested can come 
<JonReagan> ah 
<Corvix> who is GATEch? we could just share the price, I got a Buzz Guest Card, don't know if that'll get me in for free 
<JonReagan> *crickets chirping* 
<heathen> lol 
<silver2_> ribbit 
<boredandblogging> we can figure it out Saturday, see if people are in the mood 
<JonReagan> lol 
<Corvix> right 
<boredandblogging> i think fignew is the only one here who attends tech at the moment 
<Corvix> lets do it the politician way, defer till later ;-) 
<boredandblogging> exactly 
<boredandblogging> ok, next topic? 
<JonReagan> ubuntu boxes - did any more get out? 
<heathen> can we do that with the whole meeting? 
<JonReagan> ? 
<heathen> joke 
<heathen> jeez 
<boredandblogging> no, I haven't had a chance to do the boxes 
<jsvh> defer till later? lol 
<heathen> you people have no sense of humor (or im just not funny, but that cant be the case) 
<JonReagan> oh... yeah. I'm tired, so I'm slow today. 
<heathen> what's new? 
* heathen ducks 
<heathen> ok, back to buisness 
<JonReagan> lol 
<JonReagan> alright... so I guess no more got out. next topic? 
<Corvix> if we had a box, I'd suggest to place it at the RoboCup venue ... 
* JonReagan thinks 
<jsvh> JonReagan: hold on 
<JonReagan> k 
<jsvh> We should put the ubuntu box stuff on one wiki 
<JonReagan> yeah... map and statistics? 
<jsvh> I was looking the other day and could not find the desingns 
<JonReagan> instructions... 
<jsvh> yea 
<JonReagan> they are in the /attachments part of the page, unless they went *sizzle* 
<jsvh> and we can keep everything centrally located on it, map and stats too 
<heathen> speaking of maps 
<JonReagan> sweet! 
<heathen> can we do a diffrent map that i dont have to put my address in? 
<jsvh> I set up this place holder page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/UbuntuBox 
<JonReagan> thx 
<JonReagan> sure, you don't need your address for this map 
<JonReagan> next topic? 
<jsvh> sure 
<JonReagan> this one is about the presskit... I uploaded it to the wiki 
<jsvh> I looked over it, looks like good stuff. We will want to do formatting of course 
<jsvh> Link: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/PressKit 
<JonReagan> thx.. yeah, it's sorta just the base of the line now 
<JonReagan> I was hoping to elaborate some more on the "about us" section... I couldn't think of anything else to really say 
<boredandblogging> stupid comcast 
<JonReagan> lol 
<silver2_> ... 
<Corvix> :-) 
<jsvh> @ JonReagan: yea, we will work on the about us section some more 
<JonReagan> k 
<JonReagan> sounds good 
<JonReagan> next topic? 
<jsvh> yea 
<JonReagan> it's yours! 
<JonReagan> :P 
<jsvh> hooray! 
<jsvh> I added some things to the projects page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Projects 
<JonReagan> good stuff 
<jsvh> that we need to work on to get the loco in shape to be approved 
<boredandblogging> jsvh: what is the website thing? 
<jsvh> Most all other locos have a web site 
<JonReagan> and they look good too... 
<jsvh> I think we talked about setting up one before 
<jsvh> yea, they do look good 
<boredandblogging> this is tricky, since we aren't supposed to have one unless we are approved 
<boredandblogging> we are supposed to concentrate on the wiki till then 
<boredandblogging> once we are approved, we can do whatever 
<jsvh> really? I was reading trascripts and they were asking for the web sites when they were looking over the approval app 
<jsvh> I rember that though boredandblogging 
* JonReagan is confuzzed 
<boredandblogging> if they are country LoCos, they are given a bit of lewway 
<boredandblogging> leeway 
<boredandblogging> but not for US ones 
<boredandblogging> because most countries have one LoCo... 
<jsvh> maybe your right 
<heathen> how do i add myself to the map? 
<jsvh> looking now, Kentucky did not have one 
<boredandblogging> whereas every state in the US would need to set up their own sites and it is considered too much of a hassle 
<boredandblogging> right 
<jsvh> heathen: just add your info to the wiki page 
<jsvh> ok, lets defer the web site till later then 
<boredandblogging> it is confusing because none of the rules are written in stone 
<boredandblogging> jsvh: i agree 
<JonReagan> yup. 
<boredandblogging> for the launchpad logo, we can use what we have on the on the wiki 
<jsvh> yea, defiantly confusing 
<boredandblogging> even though clinicalmistake still needs to edit it 
<JonReagan> did the logo get updated? 
<jsvh> well, it needs a little icon thing 
<jsvh> and square 
<JonReagan> ah 
<jsvh> It would be nice if it was based on the main logo 
<jsvh> the closer they look the better 
<boredandblogging> can anyone change the logo that we have on the wiki to fit in launchpad? 
<jsvh> we need three logos for the launchpad page 
<JonReagan> 3? 
<jsvh> 14x14pix, 64x64 pix, and 192x192 pix 
<JonReagan> ahh 
<jsvh> a "icon, Logo, and Mugshot" 
<Corvix> 14x14?! thats even smaller than most icons! 
<JonReagan> lol 
<jsvh> yea, i know 
<boredandblogging> thats just retarded 
<JonReagan> hehe... yeah, that getting down there in size 
<jsvh> a lot of the other loco have one that is bassicly just the state 
<jsvh> look at the other locos for ideas 
<boredandblogging> thatss probably a good idea 
<JonReagan> that might be the easiest thing to do 
<jsvh> who want to take on this project? 
<boredandblogging> i can take a stab at it 
<boredandblogging> should all 3 be an outline of the state? 
<jsvh> I guess so 
<jsvh> see what others have done for ideas 
<jsvh> we could put a thread in the forum 
<heathen> does anyone read the GA loco forum? 
<jsvh> we got good logo desgns for our main logo from there 
<JonReagan> yeah.. I do every now and then 
<jsvh> I check it some, not as often as I should 
<boredandblogging> maybe the state for the icon and logo, and try to make the wiki logo into the mugshot 
<Corvix> what forum? 
<JonReagan> that sounds good 
<Corvix> ah .. i see 
<JonReagan> georgia.ubuntuforums.org 
<heathen> we're up to 35 members on launch pad 
<heathen> las time i looked it was 22 
<JonReagan> lol.. yeah, its grown 
<heathen> im still lost on how to add myself to the map 
<JonReagan> do you have a launchpad account? 
<heathen> yup 
<JonReagan> just go to the "map" page, and at the top you will see menu opt's 
<JonReagan> one will be "edit" 
<JonReagan> click on it, and go to the bottom of the page, and add your info in (you can smudge you address for security reasons) 
<jsvh> JonReagan: dont u mean wiki? 
<JonReagan> don't worry about the look of it, the info is all that's needed 
<JonReagan> yup 
<jsvh> instead of launchpad 
<heathen> yeah, i got wiki, not launchpad 
<jsvh> go here heathen: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Map 
<heathen> that's where i be 
<jsvh> ok, on that page see "edit" at the top? 
<jsvh> or it may be "Log in to edit" 
<heathen> yeah, working on that 
<heathen> wiki.ubuntu.com never seems to like me 
<JonReagan> yeah... it can be slow at times 
<JonReagan> especialy when editing 
<jsvh> ok, once you get there, just edit it to add your address (or approximate address if you dont want your exact one) at the bottom and we will add you to the map 
<heathen> if it will accept city ill be good with that 
<JonReagan> sure 
<heathen> this is ungodly slow 
<heathen> im still waiting on it... 
<jsvh> JonReagan: I added you as an admin to the launchpad page 
<JonReagan> cool... thanks 
<heathen> ok, guess i did what i was supposed to 
<JonReagan> yup 
<heathen> spiffy 
<JonReagan> good stuff. I'll add you to the map after the meeting 
<heathen> cool 
<silver2_> . 
<heathen> .. 
<silver2_> thought I fell off 
<heathen> lol 
<boredandblogging> whats next? 
<heathen> unpackig 
<heathen> oh, meeting wise? i dunno 
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: ? 
<JonReagan> your topic, nick - getting the word out 
<JonReagan> getting the word out 
<boredandblogging> at the moment with school being out for the summer, contacting those LUGs probably won't be of much use 
<boredandblogging> we still need to make a push to contact ALE. 
<jsvh> yea, the lug here is pretty slow 
<boredandblogging> jsvh: are you going to get a chance to talk to them? 
<boredandblogging> ALE I mean 
<jsvh> we had a meeting Thursday, but only 5 people were there 
<jsvh> no, this was a CHUGALUG meeting 
<boredandblogging> ok, we should probably decide on how we want to approach ALE 
<jsvh> I am going to start going to ALE meetings once I move to atlanta in August 
<JonReagan> after school gets back in, 7.10 will be released soon after - this could work out well 
<jsvh> I can talk to them then 
<boredandblogging> jsvh: sounds good 
<JonReagan> cool 
<boredandblogging> so maybe in the next couple of months we can plan on doing some stuff with the LUGs? 
<boredandblogging> either ALE or the Tech one 
<heathen> i forgot all about ale 
<heathen> i should try to get to their meet this week 
<silver2_> join #ale 
<heathen> never active 
<heathen> unless something has changed in the last month or so 
<silver2_> I got them to talk once 
<heathen> i;ve talked to boredandblogging in there a few times 
<JonReagan> is #ale on freenode? 
<heathen> yeah 
<silver2_> yes 
<JonReagan> ah 
<boredandblogging> yeah, #ale has practically no activity 
<boredandblogging> just a bunch of people idling 
<JonReagan> lol 
<boredandblogging> also, I think sometime this week, there might be more discussions about a SouthEast linuxfest for next year. 
<boredandblogging> jsvh, JonReagan: do you guys want to be involved in the meetings for that? 
<JonReagan> sure 
<jsvh> with the lugs? 
<heathen> just them? 
<jsvh> Yea, I will 
<jsvh> heathen: anyone can be involved 
<boredandblogging> its going to have to involve a lot of people, the locos from florida, us, alabama, and we will need a lot of help from LUGs 
<heathen> could be interesting 
<JonReagan> si 
<heathen> although, unless i get a new job, it probably wont happen 
<boredandblogging> its a huge project 
<jsvh> yea, defiantly cool stuff 
<boredandblogging> the idea is being kicked around, but hopefully we can decide soon IF we are actually going to go forward with it 
<JonReagan> This could be good 
<boredandblogging> ok, I'll send you guys an email once I find out more 
<heathen> id like to stay informed 
<boredandblogging> heathen: noted 
<heathen> i wont know about my schedule until much closer to then 
<boredandblogging> thats all I got 
<boredandblogging> yeah, I wouldn't worry about that now, its a long way off 
<heathen> yep 
<heathen> new job would be nice though 
<JonReagan> yeah. something this big takes a while 
<boredandblogging> ok, whats next? 
<jsvh> anyone know where I can find when ALE meeting are held? 
<heathen> ale.org 
<JonReagan> erm... that's it for the topics 
<jsvh> I am look there 
<heathen> which do you want to go to? 
<jsvh> I found it 
<JonReagan> which one? 
<jsvh> the cental is the main one correct? 
<jsvh> "second Thursday of the month" 
<jsvh> hmmm, But what time? 
<boredandblogging> yes, central 
<heathen> i believe they start around 7 
<boredandblogging> might want to check the mail archives for announcments of meetings 
<JonReagan> where are these meetings going to be held for the SE linux show/install fest/thing? 
<heathen> prolly tech 
<JonReagan> dangit... not sure if I could make those 
<heathen> why not? 
<heathen> are you in london too? 
<boredandblogging> i think the first one might be in florida 
<heathen> boo 
<boredandblogging> and then hopefully atlanta the year after 
<heathen> but 
<silver2_> what toppings do we want on our pizza? 
<heathen> florida is the place where old people go to die 
<heathen> silver2_: they have personal pizzas 
* silver2_ heads to florida 
<JonReagan> lol 
<heathen> i should rephrase that 
<heathen> florida is the place where old yankees go to die 
* silver2_ heads back to GA 
<JonReagan> rofl! 
<jsvh> haha 
<boredandblogging> heathen: true, but orlando and miami are among the fastest growing places in the country and they aren't old people, lots of technology jobs going down there 
<heathen> right, htey' are old jews 
<silver2_> Cuban boat people 
<JonReagan> lol 
<heathen> lol 
<boredandblogging> awright, whats next? 
<heathen> like robin williams said. First we go to israel, the land for gods people, then miami to screw up an election! 
<JonReagan> lol 
<heathen> anyhow 
<JonReagan> there's nothing else on the agenda 
</pre>
