{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Discussion Points ===
==== Ubuntu Boxes ====
** Jon has updated pictures of what his boxes will look like and Jon and Matt will try to post pictures of the prototypes.
** Jon will update some of the fliers to simplify them.

==== CDs ====
** CDs have been ordered from shipit, so just waiting.
** Light``Scribe isn't a realistic option for burning since it takes 15 to 20 minutes to burn each one.
** We need to look through the DIY``Marketing and see if there are other options

    
=== Log ===
<pre>
<boredandblogging> jsvh, lets go ahead and start the pseudo-meeting, think we can discuss most of the stuff now
<jsvh> yea, anything new with the Boxes?
<jsvh> still designs?
<boredandblogging> crap, Bakey had sent me a picture that I'll upload to the wiki
<boredandblogging> he was talking about making it out of thin plexiglass
<JonReagan> that sounds cool
<jsvh> sounds cool
<boredandblogging> give me one sec while I upload it
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> ok, head over to the marketing page
<boredandblogging> under designs
<boredandblogging> thats what Bakey wants to make
<boredandblogging> he said he was going to take stab at making it this weekend
<Corvix> whats your team in launchpad?
<boredandblogging> ~ubuntu-us-ga
<boredandblogging> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-ga
<JonReagan> wow!.. so his design is sort of like a stand
<boredandblogging> JonReagan, its not meant to be stand, meant to sit on a counter or desk
<JonReagan> right... that's what I meant. sry
<boredandblogging> JonReagan, your is meant for the outdoors, so lets go with both of them
<boredandblogging> we'll try them both out and see how it goes
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> i do wonder about the fliers, like daynah had mentioned on the forums, people don't like to read, so will a flier with so much text be interesting?
<JonReagan> that's a good question
<boredandblogging> maybe more stickers or just graphics in general?
<boredandblogging> or logos or something
<JonReagan> the fliers are meant to give enough info for them to get started
<JonReagan> I am thinking something that will lead them to www.ubuntu.com
<boredandblogging> so maybe just enough text to send them to a URL that will help them get started?
<boredandblogging> or enough text to actually get them started?
<JonReagan> perhaps a screenshot or two would not be bad either
<boredandblogging> thats a good idea
<JonReagan> right... maybe include our team page link in there
<JonReagan> I have some smaller fliers that we can place in mailboxes or w/ CD's for the stand
<boredandblogging> ok cool
<boredandblogging> JonReagan, you want to make another flier with some screenshots, maybe more graphics and the URL?
<JonReagan> sure
<boredandblogging> we can still mention stuff like less virii, safer, etc, etc
<boredandblogging> lets go with that
<JonReagan> k... some good stuff to get them interested, anything else?
<boredandblogging> i think nitpicking on the details isn't going to help, we'll just have to put them out there and see what works
<boredandblogging> there is still the issue with the CDs
<boredandblogging> john and I are getting some feisty cds from shipit
<JonReagan> oh... right.
<JonReagan> that's good
<boredandblogging> i think only 80 total, but it will be a good start
<boredandblogging> problem is we don't know when they'll get there
<JonReagan> I think the delivery takes something like 6 weeks?
<boredandblogging> if by the time you are done we don't have CDs, we'll just burn some and stick some stickers on the CD
<boredandblogging> i read a bit on the lightscribe CDRs, takes like 20 minutes to burn images, thats insane
<JonReagan> that sounds like a good idea
<JonReagan> wow
<JonReagan> is that for 1 cd?
<Corvix> though I havent seen the fliers yet, I the idea a less text more graphics... like you said maybe screenshots or so ...
<boredandblogging> sorry 20 minutes to burn the graphics on top of the CD, not burning the ISO
<boredandblogging> Corvix, look under the marketing page, you'll see the fliers we have at the moment
<JonReagan> 20 min. is still long to burn the image on top
<boredandblogging> but doing the whole stickers and labels thing, I don't know if it will look professional and thats a big deal
<JonReagan> stickers and labels?
<boredandblogging> like putting a label on the CD, does that look tacky?
<JonReagan> cd or cd cover?
<JonReagan> if it is the cd itself, I would say that it would be somewhat tacky
<JonReagan> they have fliers for the inside of CD covers from Ubuntu's marketing department
<boredandblogging> i was talking about the CD itself
<JonReagan> oh
<JonReagan> if it were one that went all the way around the cd, it would probably look more prof.
<boredandblogging> ahh, thats right
<Corvix> i just realised there is an error on the flyer page ... both GT fliers link to the odt ... even the pdf one
<boredandblogging> hah, Jon can you fix the links?
<boredandblogging> the labels that go all around the CD is a good diea
<boredandblogging> yeah, I guess if we do that it would like fine
<JonReagan> that way it would not be all lumpy in a certain place
<boredandblogging> yup, you are right
<JonReagan> then again, I have no idea where to get the stickers
<boredandblogging> neither do I
<boredandblogging> maybe we can get something like that at staples
<JonReagan> probably
<boredandblogging> let me look around and see what I can find
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> for now, just deal with the fliers and the stand
<JonReagan> k... that sounds good
<boredandblogging> so I'm hoping by next Sunday, you and Bakey will have some pictures of the prototypes, is that a good timeline?
<Corvix> i used these CD labels at home ... worked really well and looked ok http://www.herma.com/cgi-bin/index.cgi?sid=21679126564&action=sparte_p::artikeldetails&ARTIKELNUMMER=8683&KATEGORIEID1=1000&KATEGORIEID2=1300&KATEGORIEID3=1300&EBENE=2
<Corvix> im not shure if herma sells over here or which would be the choice over here
<boredandblogging> thats exactly what we need
<boredandblogging> we just need to figure out a way to make them Linux
<Corvix> probably have alook at office max or something similar
<boredandblogging> the designs that will go on them
<boredandblogging> Corvix, yeah
<JonReagan> sure, I will see what I can do
<Corvix> isnt there a semi official cd label ...
<Corvix> i think i used one from the forums or so last time ..
<JonReagan> nice, corvix!
<boredandblogging> Corvix, you might be right, there is a DIY marketing site for ubuntu, might be something on there
<Corvix> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DIYMarketing
<JonReagan> if I can't get a prototype together, I will at least give some instructions on how to build it. They are really meant to be flexible in design, so that you can personalize it to fit the area that it is in
<JonReagan> sorry, guys, I have to go. see y'all next sunday
<Corvix> an option for the cdcase could be http://www.papercdcase.com/index.php
<Corvix> works nicely ...
<Corvix> cya
<jsvh> Do we have anything else to cover?
</pre>
