{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===

==== InstallFest Final Prep ====
InstallFest final planning was made, including what needs to be brought, printed, and done in order to begin the InstallFest.  The schedule has been finalized and the presentations are ready to go.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<nomasteryoda> trying out sidux now
<nomasteryoda> finally got that dvd burner
<nomasteryoda> very cool
<nomasteryoda> running the new 2.6.23 kernel
<antdedyet> hey.
<antdedyet> ... nomasteryoda
* antdedyet mentally notes tomorrow's #ubuntu-georgia IRC meeting
<antdedyet> @ 3pm.
<nomasteryoda> hey
<nomasteryoda> i'm sure i'll be doing some yard work... my computer time at home is nil
<nomasteryoda> 3hrs a day
<nomasteryoda> therebouts
<nomasteryoda> using sidux for a spell
<nomasteryoda> latest version
<boredandblogging> hello
<GNine> lost some of my compiz settings, but after fiddlint with it, it is up and running again.
<boredandblogging> GNine: cool
<boredandblogging> how are you liking compiz?
<GNine> always have. except that it breaks to often for no apparent reason
<GNine> and when it does.. yah, i have to have a long talk with it
<GNine> i left Xscreensaver out of the loop. maybe that was one. the other might actually be xgl breaking cuz i dont like running the propietary driver but just the xgl thru nvidia-glx from repo
<boredandblogging> right
<boredandblogging> never had to deal with those issues luckily
<GNine> its very annoying.. on the other hand, the failsafe mode is indeed bulletproof
<antdedyet> re all
* GNine waves a Foster at antdedyet
<antdedyet> time change tonight, we gain back an hour.
<GNine> ditto, but i always count on wolfie for timing
<boredandblogging> i could use the extra sleep
<boredandblogging> man I felt old tonight
<boredandblogging> went to the fall out boy concert
<boredandblogging> kinda scary when you are closer to the parents age than the kids
<GNine> time is irrelevant .. for most things
<boredandblogging> right
<boredandblogging> except when you are surrounded by screaming teeny-bops
<GNine> this is wolfie next to pax cow: http://www.flickr.com/photos/14801624@N06/1647715984/
<GNine> :)
<antdedyet> went to Dave & Buster's tonight
<GNine> i should update the title .. wolfie is gnome/gutsy now
<boredandblogging> nice
<GNine> that sounds like the name of a bar? antdedyet
<boredandblogging> been a long time since I've been to D&B
<GNine> thanks.. spray painted by myself too.. they run just fine
<GNine> (except for compiz breakin wolfie (black one) from time to time)
<GNine> found paxcow (the white gateway) by a garbage bin. had windows 98 on it .
<GNine> i want to use photo paper to print out couple of ubuntu and suse stickers for 'em
<boredandblogging> GNine: if you show up to the install fest
<boredandblogging> we can get you some stickers
<GNine> sweet
<antdedyet> GNine: it's actually a large restuarant / arcade room ... all ages welcome
<GNine> if i can legally buy beer .. i bet i could pass installfest security
<GNine> am making mental notes to attend
<boredandblogging> heh
<boredandblogging> awesome
<GNine> matter of fact .. one of my widgets is a sticky note on the desktop.. its there
<GNine> is there free parking
<boredandblogging> GNine: yeah
<boredandblogging> its on a saturday
<boredandblogging> should be fine
<boredandblogging> but its a good question
<boredandblogging> I'll find out
<boredandblogging> but I'm pretty sure its free
<boredandblogging> there is a deck behind the building
<GNine> k
<antdedyet> http://fukung.net/v/807/project-vi.jpg
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: so true
<antdedyet> i tend to spend way too much time on image sites.
<antdedyet> urg: http://fukung.net/v/66/cubicle.gif
<antdedyet> time change, click
<ClinicalMistake> man I forget how easy ubuntu is sometimes
<ClinicalMistake> image boards are additive
<antdedyet> 20 minutes wasted on that site, heh
<antdedyet> er, more then that
* antdedyet goes to check Sunday's meeting agenda
<ClinicalMistake> haha
<ClinicalMistake> 4chan is bad too
<GNine> beep
<ClinicalMistake> ~~
<GNine> starship comparison chart is off the hook
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: its just installfest stuff
<GNine> *spaceship
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: ah, yes. two items for the install fest.
<boredandblogging> we are going to go up for approval aal after that
<antdedyet> cool
<heathen> morning
* ** bonestock is now known as shane_m
* ** tannerld_ is now known as tannerld
<boredandblogging> hello
<boredandblogging> Matir: how's it going?
<ClinicalMistake> afternoon ~
<boredandblogging> hi ClinicalMistake
<ClinicalMistake> alot of great looking articles on slashdot today
<boredandblogging> yeah?
<ClinicalMistake> yep, some advanced tech, social tech issues, and general happenings
<boredandblogging> good stuff
<ClinicalMistake> ssh is a bit interesting
<boredandblogging> ClinicalMistake: why?
<ClinicalMistake> well, I have it installed on my server
<ClinicalMistake> and my laptop
<ClinicalMistake> and the setup is kinda odd
<ClinicalMistake> im sure for those who've done it, it's easy, but right now making it to where i can connect is a pain
<boredandblogging> what do you mean?
<boredandblogging> do you have it set up so that only certain machines can connect?
<ClinicalMistake> heh well, I cant seem to figure out on the server side how to set it up to where I can connect -- at all even
<boredandblogging> you have ssh server setup?
<boredandblogging> openssh-server or something
<boredandblogging> it isn't installed by default
<ClinicalMistake> yeah I do
<boredandblogging> can you connect locally?
<ClinicalMistake> nope
<ClinicalMistake> I can ping it
<boredandblogging> does it just say connection refused when you try?
<ClinicalMistake> yep
<ClinicalMistake> I have a user allowed in the confid
<ClinicalMistake> config*
<boredandblogging> try removing it so anyone can get in
<ClinicalMistake> hmm
<ClinicalMistake> negative
<boredandblogging> try telnetting to port 22
<boredandblogging> do you have anything in deny hosts?
<boredandblogging> hi jimpop
<ClinicalMistake> not that im aware of
<jimpop> yo b&b
<ClinicalMistake> and telnet is saying that it's connection is refused as well
<ClinicalMistake> hello jimpop~
<jimpop> hello CM
<boredandblogging> the ssh conf has its port set to 22?
<ClinicalMistake> yeah
<ClinicalMistake> and I have the router forwarding 22 to that computer
<boredandblogging> well, if you cant do it locally
<boredandblogging> another machine probably won't be able to connect
<boredandblogging> and sshd is running?
<boredandblogging> see if you have anything in /etc/hosts.deny
<JonReagan> hey everyone
<jimpop> ClinicalMistake: what does "ssh -v <host>" say?
<boredandblogging> hi JonReagan
<ClinicalMistake> heh yeah
<jimpop> hi Jon
<ClinicalMistake> well, the server returns some information
<ClinicalMistake> but my laptop returns connection refused
<JonReagan> it's about time to start the meeting, who's all here?
<jimpop> me
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> i would like to watch the colts/pats game, so hopefully we can wrap this up by 4pm
<JonReagan> k
<JonReagan> lol... hi jimpop
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: ping
<boredandblogging> GNine: ping
<boredandblogging> heathen: ping
<JSVH> hi all
<boredandblogging> hi john
<JonReagan> hey
<JSVH> Just got in from Athens
<JonReagan> ah
<JSVH> good meeting I assume?
<JonReagan> well, we haven't had it yet
<JonReagan> it's about to start
<JSVH> oh, time change issues?
<JSVH> I got here just in time then. Horray!
<JonReagan> yup
<JSVH> I was worried I would miss it
<boredandblogging> it is 3pm, right?
<JonReagan> I forgot to add that part in the email
<JonReagan> yup
<JonReagan> 1st topic?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: go for it
<JonReagan> Presentations!
<JonReagan> how is everyone doing w/ the presentations (for those who are doing them)
<boredandblogging> Matir: ping
<jimpop> i'm still working on mine... but will be ready
<JonReagan> good stuff
<jimpop> no PPT though. ;-)
<JonReagan> hehe
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: you already uploaded yours to the wiki right?
<JonReagan> yup
<boredandblogging> jimpop: how is yours going?
<JonReagan> it's up on the marketing page
<boredandblogging> ok
<jimpop> boredandblogging: see 8 lines back
<boredandblogging> jimpop: ahh, ok
<jimpop> ;-)
<boredandblogging> Matir: how is yours going?
<boredandblogging> i dont' see jchase, but I'll shoot him an email
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> or JonReagan, yo uwant to do that?
<JonReagan> sure
<boredandblogging> haven't heard anything from Matir about his
<boredandblogging> who is byteman?
<boredandblogging> says he is doing gaming
<JonReagan> good question
<boredandblogging> looks like Matir added byteman
<JonReagan> ah
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: shoot him an email as well?
<JonReagan> sure... where's his email?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: emailed it to you
<JonReagan> thx
<boredandblogging> thats it for presentations?
<jimpop> how many presos do you need for an InstallFest?
<jimpop> is this marketing or enablement ? :-)
<JonReagan> I just sent the emails to jchase and matire
<boredandblogging> jimpop: a bit of both
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: cool
<JonReagan> alright, that's it for the presentations
<JonReagan> on to the next topic
<JonReagan> alright, so, from last week we have the doors open at 8 for us to set up, and 9 for the public
<JonReagan> 10:00 start presentations with 15 min. breaks
<JonReagan> still sound good?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: maybe include that info when sending out emails to the lists?
<jimpop> yep
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> are any of you bringing laptops or machines?
<jimpop> laptop
<JSVH> laptop
<JonReagan> I don't have anything to bring
<boredandblogging> maybe we can show off some compiz and stuff?
<boredandblogging> awesome!
<JSVH> do we need more?
<JonReagan> hrmm. maybe we could set up some VMs?
<boredandblogging> i was hoping something with gnome, kde, and xubuntu
<boredandblogging> what do you all have running on the lappys?
<boredandblogging> just remember to remove all the pr0n off your desktop!
<boredandblogging> :-P
<JSVH> haha
<ClinicalMistake> hah
<JonReagan> lol!
<jimpop> boredandblogging: I have Ubuntu on my laptop
<jimpop> :-)
<JonReagan> that takes care of GNOME
<boredandblogging> lol, thanks jimpop
<jimpop> Gnome/
<boredandblogging> its no big deal, it was just an idea
<boredandblogging> we'll have what we have
<jimpop> also have Fiesty in a vm.. no gusty though
<JSVH> I am running Gnome also
<JSVH> <--- 7.10
<boredandblogging> JSVH: cool
<boredandblogging> ok
<JonReagan> good
<boredandblogging> weren't we talking about maybe getting some coffee for people in the morning?
<boredandblogging> or doughnuts
<JonReagan> yeah
<JSVH> I have a small desktop I could bring, but no Monitor for it
<JSVH> I can pick that up
<JonReagan> that could work
<boredandblogging> JSVH: can you bring the desktop? we can probably get a monitor
<JSVH> We can decide what we want the moringin of
<boredandblogging> yeah, true
<JSVH> can do
<JonReagan> sure, it wouldn't take long to go get stuff
<boredandblogging> i'll bring the CDs
<boredandblogging> does anyone have a printer?
<boredandblogging> we might want to print off some signs
<JonReagan> me me me!
<boredandblogging> like "Ubuntu InstallFest this way -->
<JonReagan> I'll take care of that. How many will we need?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: maybe 5 for the doors that we can just tape
<JSVH> <--- going to bathroom
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> and a few more with "Restrooms -->"
<boredandblogging> or something similar
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> aaron and jchase will be bringing networking equipment
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> somone from ale contacted me about setting up a network share with ISOs
<JonReagan> alright
<JonReagan> this is shaping up nicely! :)
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: can you move the install fest faq to the front page of the wiki?
<JonReagan> sure
<JonReagan> hey robert
<boredandblogging> siafulinux is posting the FAQ and some of the wiki pages over to ubuntu-georgia.org
<boredandblogging> what else do we need?
<JonReagan> hrmm...
* JonReagan thinks
<boredandblogging> didn't we have a google doc about all this?
<JonReagan> yes, actually
<JonReagan> we probably need to update it...
<boredandblogging> waiver forms
<JonReagan> yes
<JonReagan> I was thinking about the installs, how should we handle what people want - will they be with us as we install, or will they need to fill out a form with what they want?
<boredandblogging> wonder where we can find one
<boredandblogging> they can just tell us, can't they?
<JonReagan> yeah
<JonReagan> just wondering in case we end up with more than one being installed by the same person
<JonReagan> we may have to make our own waiver form
<boredandblogging> ugh, ok
<JonReagan> something along the lines of "we are not responsible for killing your computer..." :P
<boredandblogging> exactly
<jimpop> hehe
<boredandblogging> Maybe we just mention it to everyone as they come in and sit down?
<boredandblogging> or should we get it on paper?
<JonReagan> ?
<boredandblogging> or write it up on the board
<JonReagan> IDEA!
<boredandblogging> what?
<JonReagan> how about making an install form, so we can keep track of 1) installs and 2) waiver form
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: excellent
<boredandblogging> can you do it?
<JonReagan> no problem
<boredandblogging> should we make flyers with the Georgia LoCo info on it?
<boredandblogging> maybe give it to people as they come in or leave?
<boredandblogging> or just post the link on the board?
<JonReagan> the link would save some cash...
<boredandblogging> ubuntu-georgia.org is easy enough to remember
<boredandblogging> ok
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> does that cover pretty much everything?
<JonReagan> yeah
<JonReagan> oh, what about lunch? I guess that will be the only divider in the day
<JonReagan> what time?
<boredandblogging> yeah, I think its good enough for our first install fest
<boredandblogging> we can order some pizzas around noon
<JonReagan> sounds good
<boredandblogging> ask people to pitch in a buck or two
<JonReagan> that sounds good
<boredandblogging> awesome
<JonReagan> if we come up with anything else that needs to be discussed, we can send out an email
<boredandblogging> yeah
<boredandblogging> now just gotta hope some people show up :-)
<JonReagan> hehe, yeah. same here!
<boredandblogging> ok, everyone please try to show up by 8:30
<JonReagan> 8:30 or 8:00?
<boredandblogging> i mean 8:30 at the latest
<JonReagan> oh it was 8:30... nevermind
<JSVH> I need to get back on the road heading to Alabama. I will bring my Laptop and Desktop (w/out monitor) and can get breakfast. I will read over the meeting notes, but let me know if I can do anything else. Email, call or text (404.734.9096). I'll see you all Saturday if not before then!
<JonReagan> sounds good. Have a nice trip to Alabama!
<JonReagan> next topic?
<JonReagan> shirts for installfest!
<boredandblogging> yes!
<JonReagan> tomorrow I am going to call a local embroider for the prices, but it looks like it will be around $15 a shirt
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: how quickly can we get them?
<JonReagan> I am going to try to have them in the next few days
<boredandblogging> like if emailed everyone and had a number by lets say tuesday
<boredandblogging> can we get them by saturday?
<jimpop> boredandblogging: 8:30? I thought it started at 10?
<JonReagan> should be able to
<JonReagan> the presentations start at 10:00
<jimpop> whew. ;-)
<boredandblogging> jimpop: open to public at 10
<boredandblogging> or 9...whenever
<jimpop> hehe
<JonReagan> doors open to us to setup at 8:30
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: you want to send out an email to the list asking if people are interested?
<boredandblogging> I'd like one
<JonReagan> alright
<JonReagan> like i said, I will call embroider-me or whatever it's called tomorrow and get some prices, and possibly make an order as long as it's not too expensive
<boredandblogging> yeah, I have no idea how many we'll need
<boredandblogging> so I think emailing the list would be a good idea
<JonReagan> I will probably need to make the order to the size of how many people need them, and then maybe order two more.
<boredandblogging> right
<boredandblogging> yeah, I just don't want anyone getting screwed money-wise
<JonReagan> yeah
<boredandblogging> lets do the email and see
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> hopefully we'll know by Monday night
<boredandblogging> at the latest
<JonReagan> btw, should we set up a ceiling price for the shirts?
<boredandblogging> per shirt?
<JonReagan> yeah
<boredandblogging> how about $15? :-)
<JonReagan> k
<JonReagan> I'll see if I can get that
<boredandblogging> anything else
<JonReagan> no, that's it
<boredandblogging> awesome
<JonReagan> and just in time for you to catch that game.
<boredandblogging> exactly
<JonReagan> I love it when a plan comes together. :P
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: shoot me an email if anything else comes up
<JonReagan> will do
<JonReagan> c'yall later! (expect an email shortly)
<boredandblogging> football time
<jimpop> later
<robertj_> well err, I'm here for the meeting now ;)
<robertj_> does anyone know how I can make the default mount option for ntfs-3g volumes include -force?
<GNine> i dont think there is a meeting in progress
<robertj_> GNine: I know, I logged in shortly after 3 then got pulled away
<GNine> i was just practicing the showcasing of compiz
<GNine> just in case i have to ever 'sell it' to someone
</pre>
