{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===

==== Support Position ====
Planning surrounding the direction of the position has been completed, with new email and wiki page.

==== LoCo LoGo ====
The official logo for hte Georgia Loco team has been decided.

==== August F2F ====
Reminder for the F2F meeting at Athens Pizza.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
* ** boredand1logging is now known as boredandblogging
<boredandblogging> hi paulc
<paulc> hello!
<boredandblogging> how's it going?
<paulc> finally decided to try the IRC group, see whats happening.
<boredandblogging> cool, cool
<boredandblogging> we'll be having our weekly meeting at 3pm
<paulc> I didn't remember the time, couldn't remember if it was 1 or 3.. I'll try to either stay or come back..
<boredandblogging> we used to say the meeting was between 1 and 4, but that was too big of a range of time and lot of people couldn't hang out that long, so now its 3pm
<paulc> I just got myseld a new Sandisk Cruiser, with U3 technology. plugged it into my linux box and... it brought up the file manager. plugged it into my XP laptop and it brought up the U3 launchpad with all the neat applications on it, sudoku, skype...
<boredandblogging> u3?
<paulc> Welcome to an entirely new generation of Mobility. Going beyond typical
<paulc> memory devices, U3 Smart USB drives give you the power to take your
<paulc> favorite applications wherever you go. Now, in addition to storing
<paulc> music, photos, and documents you can store and run actual applications
<paulc> right from your U3 device on any PC. We are constantly adding to our
<paulc> application download library so visit us at http://www.sandisk.com/u3 to
<paulc> see what's new.
<boredandblogging> interesting idea
<paulc> it has a password manager, a firefox version for U3.... virus program ( yeah, we always need that for windows:)...
<boredandblogging> nice
<boredandblogging> gonna get some lunch, bb
<paulc> have fun, I made fried rice!!
<paulc> anyone else here running the Gutsy tribe 3 ???
<ssd7> I'm running Gusty
<ssd7> Unfortunately, I'm having some major, MAJOR, battery life problems
<paulc> I rarely run mine on battery, I keep it plugged in mostly..
<ssd7> Battery life was OK in fiesty. Ever since I updated I'm looking at 1hr battery life. In windows I get 4-5 with moderate use
<ssd7> I mean, that is just embarrassing.
<paulc> I just unplugged mine, I'll let you know..
<paulc> just saw an RSS feed about a new battery app, but it is for KDE.. Kthinkbat http://www.kde-apps.org/content/show.php/KThinkBat?content=31529
<ssd7> I mean, I got used to low battery life, but I'm trying to figure out what about the upgrade would have caused this
<paulc> not being a programmer, I am clueless, but if you put in a bug report, I'm sure they will look at it!!
<boredandblogging> ssd7: have you had any other problems with gutsy besides the battery?
<ssd7> nope
<ssd7> at least not that I have run into
<paulc> weird.. just tried to do a ./confifgure on kthinkbat, and it failed- error C++ preprocessor "/lib/cpp" failed sanity check
<ssd7> yike, powertop is showing wakeups-from-idle per second from 180-255
<ssd7> yikes
<paulc> mine shows 144.8 interval 15.0s
<paulc> it also shows Power usage (ACPI estimate) 16.7W (2.6 hours)
<ssd7> this is what is wierd
<paulc> it says suggestion: disable Hal from polling CDROM with: hal-disable-polling /dev/sdc
<ssd7> powertop shows: Power usage (ACPI estimate): 13.0W (4.2 hours)
<ssd7> which would be nice
<ssd7> if it actually happened
<ssd7> most of my wakeups are coming from i915 which is my graphics card...that should be fixable I set "noDRI" in xorg.conf
<ssd7> but, I still wonder why it would change
<paulc> I don't have a DRI in my xorg.conf, what is it ???
<ssd7> It stands for Direct Rendering Infrastructure, and all I know about it is that it has to do with OpenGL and 3d stuff
<ssd7> brb
<paulc> ouch, just hosed up my desktop by running: compiz --replace. Now I don't have any "X" boxes to close windows....
<ssd7> well, I got the wakeups per second down to about 75 during idle time
<paulc> mine says 78 :)
<ssd7> But gnome-power-manager is still showing really crappy battery life.
<ssd7> hmm
<heathen_> my batery really has a crappy life
<heathen_> im lucky to get 10 minutes off it
<ssd7> I mean, I wouldn't mind if (a) it wasn't better before the upgrade and (b) windows wasn't owning linux in this area
<heathen_> blame acpi
<paulc> I restarted and now I lost my battery meter thingie in the tray, how do I get it back, or how can I monitor battery?? powertop?
<boredandblogging> heathen_: hello
<ssd7> try just running gnome-power-manager
<ssd7> now this is wierd
<heathen_> hi
<paulc> powertop says to enable HPET ( multimedia timer) in your BIOS, to allow Linux to have longer sleep intervals..
<ssd7> I just added a separate battery monitor and it says I have 3 hrs remaining
<ssd7> yet gnome-power-manager says 35
<ssd7> minutes
<paulc> gnome-power-manager worked, Now I have 78% and it has been 30 minutes...
<JonReagan> hey everyone
<boredandblogging> hey JonReagan
<JonReagan> how's it goin'?
<paulc> ok, why can't I configure this kthinkbat thingy!!! ./configure still says configure: error: C++ preprocessor "/ib/cpp" fails sanity check
<paulc> "lib/cpp", but you knew that:)
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: not too bad, lets wait a few minutes before starting, I wanna see if jchase is going to stop by
<JonReagan> k
<JonReagan> kthinkbat?
<paulc> just saw it on an RSS feed, battery monitor..
<JonReagan> ahh
<heathen_> kde sucks, that's why
<paulc> I'm still trying to get used to gnome....
<jsvh> hello all
<boredandblogging> hi john
<JonReagan> hey
<boredandblogging> nomasteryoda: ping
<boredandblogging> robertj: ping
<boredandblogging> voidmage: ping
<boredandblogging> meeting soon
<voidmage> pong
<heathen_> gnome sucks too
<paulc> xfce?
* heathen_ is strange, just ignore
<heathen_> no
<JonReagan> lol
<heathen_> right now, im playing between openbox/fluxbox... and the occasional punnishment of ratpoison
<JonReagan> lol... yeah, I tried those before
<ssd7> brb
<boredandblogging> alright, maybe we should go ahead and start
<heathen_> ill prolly miss any f2f for the rest of the year
<JonReagan> oh
<JonReagan> alright... Ill pull up the agenda
<JonReagan> alright... the first topic is the support position
<JonReagan> does anyone want this position?
* JonReagan hears crickets
<boredandblogging> lol
<JonReagan> anyone?
<boredandblogging> maybe we should harass someone at hte august meeitng
<JonReagan> lol... yeah. I could take it
<boredandblogging> we could use some peer pressure tactics
<JonReagan> lol... yeah, stuff like "support is da bomb!"
<boredandblogging> right, so we'll bring it up during the f2f meeting
<JonReagan> k
<heathen_> what does it entail?
<JonReagan> hovering on the irc channel
<heathen_> lol
<heathen_> i do that anyway
<JonReagan> answering support email
<JonReagan> lol
<heathen_> that i'd prolly not be good at
<boredandblogging> we haven't really encourage people do that...
<heathen_> unfortunatly, being a blue collar worker means i dont spend much time at the computer during the day
<boredandblogging> maybe we should require how to get people to ask more questions
<JonReagan> oh... geez... don't put my hopes too high heathen! :P
<JonReagan> lol
<heathen_> sorry
<JonReagan> no... /me jk
<heathen_> im told im good at that Jon,
<JonReagan> lol
<JonReagan> @bandb... like monitor the forums?
<heathen_> geh, i need a new job, thanks for reminding me
<boredandblogging> ugh, didn't mean require, i meant we should figure out how to encourage users to ask more questions
<boredandblogging> and possibly direct them to us
<JonReagan> ohhh... I see. Icould add support slips to the CDs I am giving out...
<paulc> for a good time call.... Ubuntu Forums!!
<heathen_> that might not be the best phrasing...
<heathen_> although, i like it
* ** heathen_ is now known as heathen
<paulc> I already monitor ubuntu forums development, hardware, DELL and laptop..
<JonReagan> yeah... the forums are one of the best places to get help, albeit a little hard to keep up w/ your post
<JonReagan> in the new user section
<JonReagan> should we move on to the next topic?
<heathen> i hate it when i forget to subscribe to a thread.. reply to it, only to lose the thread a few hours later
<JonReagan> lol... yeah. happens to me all the time
<paulc> right, the RSS threads only show you new THREADS, not new messages in an existing thread.. not good.
<JonReagan> yeah. that doesn't help
<heathen> im not smart enough to figure out the whole RSS thing
<heathen> so it doesnt help me anyway
<JonReagan> I haven't even used much of the rss feature yet
<paulc> wave of the future, get used to it:) I'm 55 and love it!!
<boredandblogging> i recommend google reader
<boredandblogging> i can't live without it
<JonReagan> good stuff
<boredandblogging> even though you can't search, which is plain odd for something coming from google
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: ok, lets move on
<JonReagan> alright
<heathen> i really try to limit my dependance on google
<JonReagan> next topic is an updated logo
<JonReagan> *checking it out*
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: can you post the url?
<JonReagan> oh. it's mine. lol! I forgot I put it there
<JonReagan> sure: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3090810#post3090810
<boredandblogging> with the US part in there, I think its to be the official logo. Any thoughts?
<JonReagan> crickets are back
<boredandblogging> lol
<paulc> why ubuntu & logo in black?? maybe they could be the OTHER orange colors?? since US is in dark orange..
<boredandblogging> this might be a another spam the mailing list issue
<boredandblogging> paulc: we don't want to change the logo a whole lot anymore, the logos got voted on and this one won...
<paulc> can we vote now & make it official?? I vote YES!
<boredandblogging> then someone pointed out that we should add "U.S." in there somewhere to differentiate from the country Georgia
<JonReagan> yeah
<paulc> I remember that.. we are the REAL Georgia:)
<JonReagan> hehe
<JonReagan> yeah
<JonReagan> I'll smooth out the second period
<JonReagan> it's a little off
<boredandblogging> ok, unless someone complains before the end of this meeting, these will be the final look
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: let me know when you get done (doesn't have to be today), we'll update the wiki pages and launchpad
<boredandblogging> ok, anything else?
* heathen complains
<boredandblogging> thats a surprise
* heathen hides
<boredandblogging> :-P
<heathen> l5p?
<boredandblogging> listen buddy
<boredandblogging> hehe
<heathen> ok
<heathen> ill shut up
<paulc> back to the crickets... wutz next?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: you have anything else?
<boredandblogging> jsvh: you have anything else?
<JonReagan> no... that's it
<boredandblogging> ok, reminder...
<boredandblogging> august 11th, 2pm, athens pizza in decatur for the next F2F meeting
<heathen> nope
<heathen> enjoy
<boredandblogging> I'll change the channel topic
<JonReagan> fixed the period!
<boredandblogging> heathen: not going to be able to make it?
<JonReagan> I'll upload it to the forums
<heathen> will be out of town for the rest of the year...
<heathen> i hate my job
<JonReagan> what job do you have?
<boredandblogging> anywhere fun?
<heathen> A/V installation
<jsvh> sorry, I have been busy
<jsvh> I dont have anything
<heathen> boredandblogging: Blueridge Parkway, asheville, nc
<heathen> then colorado
<heathen> then im not sure
<jsvh> I will have more time next week
<JonReagan> dang
<boredandblogging> colorado? wow
<boredandblogging> jsvh: no biggie
<heathen> not looking forward to it
<heathen> i left indy to get away from the cold..
<paulc> I leave 8/12 for a fun week in Fort SMith, Arkansas... lucky me!
<paulc> bang, bang! so the meeting is over??
<boredandblogging> arkansas, eeesh
<JonReagan> yeah... that's it
<paulc> at least I got a direct flight, last time I had to transfer in Memphis!!
<boredandblogging> haha, everytime you step off the plane at memphis, it smells like bbq
<JonReagan> lol
<heathen> mmmmm bbq
* JonReagan likes bbq
<boredandblogging> not that its bad, its just surprising the first time
<heathen> i miss gtsouths
<paulc> the only place to eat within 10 miles of me is Mikes BBQ on 29, in Hull :)
<JonReagan> yeah.. most of the places near me burned down
<JonReagan> crispy
<heathen> lol
<heathen> bbq burnt down
<paulc> ok, so help me figure out why I can't install kthinkbat!!!
<heathen> actually, there's a good place in lawrenceville.. little mom&pop place
<JonReagan> luckily there are a few left... Sonnys, some place near the hospital...
<JonReagan> really?
<JonReagan> do tell
<JonReagan> I know there is a sonnys in lawrenceville
<heathen> it's off lawrenceville-suanee rd... by the new walmart, i cant remember the name of the place
<heathen> and sonnys is crap
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: the upload logo is final?
<heathen> better than jrs, but still crap
<JonReagan> kthinkbt may have an error in the code that is stopping it from compiling
<boredandblogging> i can't stand jrs
<JonReagan> yup, its on the forums, in the place of the old one
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: cool, thanks
<JonReagan> they're corn bread is good
<boredandblogging> the dreamlands up in norcross isn't bad at all
<JonReagan> good to know
<JonReagan> :)
<boredandblogging> fat matt's is a bit overrated, its not bad, but nothing like the hype
<JonReagan> fat matt's! wow... I like the name!
<heathen> fat matts?
<heathen> there's a place over by the tag office on 141 that always smells good when im getting my tags renewed
<boredandblogging> there is a new place of cobb pkwy, called thompsons bbq which is supposed to be good
<boredandblogging> thompsons brothers bbq
<heathen> but its in cobb
<heathen> i cant ride in cobb
<JonReagan> *sigh* is there a way to get the logo for the wiki page to be the right size, or do I need to make another version that is smaller?
<boredandblogging> i'll resize it
<JonReagan> thx... I am not very good at that stuff
<JonReagan> I uploaded it to the wiki as ubuntugaloco.png
<boredandblogging> alright, let me try to fix it
<JonReagan> thanks. I g2g... I'll send out the reminder about the f2f meeting sometime today or tomorrow
<paulc> by Jon!
<boredandblogging> paulc: how long have you been using ubuntu?
<heathen> paulc: that's your problem, you're using ubuntu
<paulc> on and off, since 6.X , not long really, I just involved this year. I run SUSE on my desktop at home, since 9.01
<heathen> VISTA!!!
<boredandblogging> lol
<paulc> I R an old UNIX AT&T bigot, finally got my wife over to the OTHER side about 2 years ago..
<paulc> I have a Vista upgrade CD, came with my DELL... anyone want it??
<heathen> i need a new shooting target
<heathen> let me have it
<paulc> I got plenty of CDs for you... burned, badly..CDs..
<heathen> lol, those would go nicely with my AOL CD collection
<heathen> many spent some time in the microwave
<paulc> I hang em from trees in my back yard and fire at em for fun:)
<paulc> have fun in Asheville, my bro-in-l;aw lives near there, Bat Cave.. just up from Chimney rock..
<boredandblogging> haven't been up to NC in a while
<heathen> im gonna be busy
<heathen> i want to take my bike with me
<heathen> blueridge parway is almost motorcycle heaven
<paulc> yeah, for sure!! a maze of twisty....
<paulc> if you want a good road, take 74 down to Lake Lure... where they filmed Dirty Dancing
<heathen> ill stick with most of the roads in the n.ga mountains
<paulc> well... I guess its time to move on, y'all have a great afternoon, its time to roll up the pastures here in Athens:)
<paulc> By Nick, Heathen.. John, Jon...
</pre>
