{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===

==== InstallFest Planning ====
More InstallFest planning has been conducted, including a basic schedule.  T-Shirts have also been discussed.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
<bill6> ..........
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: got the fliers today
* ** irc.freenode.net sets mode: +o ChanServ
<boredandblogging> hello hello
* ** antdedye1 is now known as antdedyet
<antdedyet> heya.
<boredandblogging> hi antdedyet
<nomasteryoda> nice split
<antdedyet> indeed.
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: how do the flyers look?
<boredandblogging> nomasteryoda: flyers?
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: bright and shining
<boredandblogging> antdedyet: awesome
<nomasteryoda> nope
<nomasteryoda> monday i'm hoping
<boredandblogging> hmm
<boredandblogging> nomasteryoda: if you don't get them Monday, I'll try mailing some more
<nomasteryoda> ok
<nomasteryoda> i'm sure the'll be here by then...
<nomasteryoda> you mailed last week right?
<boredandblogging> nomasteryoda: yeah
<boredandblogging> picture from the release party tonight: http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntugeorgia/1782468277/
<nomasteryoda> 9 people in alll
<nomasteryoda> pretty good
<nomasteryoda> we had 8 counting my kids and me
<nomasteryoda> =D
<nomasteryoda> no pics
<boredandblogging> silver2 was there, but left just a bit earlier
<boredandblogging> if some slackers, *cough* heathen *cough* would quit using halloween as an excuse
<boredandblogging> we would have had a better turnout
<nomasteryoda> hehe
<nomasteryoda> trying to install gimp 2.4 into windows in my virtualbox
<nomasteryoda> to convert some photoshop brush sets
<nomasteryoda> i found
<nomasteryoda> seems the script in linux just won't work
<nomasteryoda> dangig
<nomasteryoda> dangit
<nomasteryoda> now if installing that version in ubuntu was as simple
<nomasteryoda> =D
<nomasteryoda> we 're using the rc3 it think
<boredandblogging> people have been complaining plenty about gutsy
<antdedyet> boredandblogging: people get used to stuff working and forget what all they went through to make it functional before. so they complain.
<antdedyet> but that's just a fact of life.
<antdedyet> (the complaining heh ... with some effort it could change on mass scale ... like take away tv that you turn on and sit empty mindedly and watch)
<antdedyet> I had to get compiz fusion working, heh ... about 3 hours worth of digging
<antdedyet> fixed it by relative movement for fixing another circumstance
<antdedyet> pretty worth it though, i spent about 30 minutes cycling through the different options provided with compiz settings manager and things seem to be chipper now
<boredandblogging> yeah, the first month after a release, lots of hand wringing
<antdedyet> heh, found something annoying ... my windows aren't raising on select
<antdedyet> gotta fix
<boredandblogging> ewww
<antdedyet> what's a common firewall config utility you guys are using in ubuntu?
<antdedyet> now fade window conflicts when my mouse pointer's in another window opposed to the one i've just selected with window switcher.
* antdedyet tinkers some more
<boredandblogging> isn't firestarter the basic one?
<boredandblogging> not that I have one really
<boredandblogging> excluding the stuff in the router
<antdedyet> yeah, firestarter's the basic deal I saw after dapper
<antdedyet> or thereabouts
<antdedyet> some others I've played with that were essentially meta rule languages and then *shreek* fwbuilder
<antdedyet> *crickets churping*
<boredandblogging> sorry, haven't dealt with firewalls a whole lot
<boredandblogging> i basically block everything at the router level
<boredandblogging> no random incoming requests
<antdedyet> hi.
<antdedyet> mmm, there is some tempura left from dinner
<kevinf311-lap> <--drunk
* antdedyet starts a brawl with compiz
<antdedyet> that'll make it feel more like a saloon.
* kevinf311-lap throws a chair
<antdedyet> "compiz, you're an s-o-b"
<antdedyet> "that'll teach you not to raise my windows upon keyboard command"
<kevinf311-lap> tell 'em!
<antdedyet> er, chit, that's backwards. 'raise my windows upon command, compiz!'
<antdedyet> not having an assigned control sequence is not the user's fault, compiz
<kevinf311-lap> i keep not making data backups
<antdedyet> so the release party was good?
<antdedyet> kevinf311-lap: at least you're consistent
<kevinf311-lap> i'm actually in MD now
<kevinf311-lap> yeah
<kevinf311-lap> i use release day to force me to make data backups\
<kevinf311-lap> i could upgrade, but this keeps me regular
<antdedyet> they got a decent GUI in Ubuntu for backups yet?
<boredandblogging> dude
<boredandblogging> you don't need no stinkin' GUI
<boredandblogging> rsync all the way
<antdedyet> backuppc. :)
<antdedyet> (which is based on rsync + ssh)
<antdedyet> 'dd' or 'ddrescue'
<antdedyet> cpio ... tar ..
<kevinf311-lap> i just burn my important docs and files to DVD and do a dpkg get whatever > file and then dpkg set whatever < file
<kevinf311-lap> i'd remember, but the not soberness prohibits
<antdedyet> s'ok. It's not time critical.
<antdedyet> just remember it next time you're drunk.
<kevinf311-lap> k
* kevinf311-lap sets Kevin init 0
<antdedyet> interesting, there's a wikipedia fs plugin
<heathen> hang over = bad
<murray_> hello
<heathen> hi
<murray_> heather, I am looking for some fundamental support on ubuntu
<murray_> is this a good pace to start?
<heathen> my name is heatheN
<heathen> lol
<heathen> depends
<heathen> what's the problem?
<murray_> i am a very competant mac/win user but each time i post a question in the ubuntu beginners forum, i get responses that just raise more questions..
<heathen> welcome to linux
<murray_> i have been using 7.04 with great success and just did the upgrade to 7.10 and it has become so slow and lethargic
<heathen> yeah, i dont care what anyone says, the upgrade process in ubuntu is borked
<murray_> so would you suggest I save all the data, and do a full install from a cd?
<heathen> that would be my suggestion
<heathen> but it's been a while since i actually used ubuntu
<murray_> and download the cd from the ubuntu site?
<heathen> i usually use www.isohunt.com (torrent site) it downloads faster
<murray_> heather thank you for your help... let me try that and maybe come back for more help
<heathen> n
<heathen> n
<heathen> n
<heathen> heatheN
<heathen> lol
<heathen> tab complete is your friend
<heathen> :P
<heathen> dont mind me
<murray_> :)
<heathen> im somewhat hungover
<heathen> and generally annoying
<murray_> but in georgia right ?
<heathen> yes
<heathen> well
<heathen> i live here
<heathen> i'm frequently elsewhere
<murray_> i am in savannah, the machine in question is at a non-profit in brunswick
<heathen> stupid job travel
<heathen> I went to brunswick once
<heathen> that's a long drivee from north atlanta
<murray_> nce i hit 2 million with delta i stopped biz travel !
<heathen> nice
<murray_> i dont fly no more !
<heathen> i wish i didnt have to
<murray_> all i am doing with this ubuntu machine is using it as a music player
<murray_> dont know what possessed me to upgrade it !
<heathen> what is your player of choice?
<murray_> i have tried a couple but the stock player seems fine
<heathen> rhythembox?
<heathen> cool
<heathen> rb is ok
<murray_> yes thats the one
<murray_> kinda looks like itunes and does have a way to run last.fm in it
<murray_> banshee was too complicated
<heathen> heh
<heathen> when i used graphical players i liked exaile
<heathen> or however it's spelled
<murray_> right i have seen that
<heathen> i've become a bit of a commandline whore...
<murray_> well heather ... thank you for the guidance i will see what that does... and i will try isohunt
<heathen> yep
<heathen> sorry im not more usefull
<murray_> no its a good start,... i assumed the upgrade had been a success as it displayed no errors... and I didi it right from within ubuntu
<heathen> yeah
<murray_> k ... well thanks and maybe we will speak again
<heathen> the upgrades work... but the 2x i did it everything sorta went outof wack
<murray_> its just slow....you enter a url in firefox and it takes 2 mins to think about it
<murray_> you open a progrm and it takes forever
<murray_> 7.04 was 'sprightly'
<murray_> ok here we go...
<murray_> what software do i need to download from isohnt?
<heathen> are you on windows or linux?
<murray_> jmac
<murray_> mac
<heathen> ahh, right
<heathen> i have no idea what torrent programs work with mac...
<heathen> but bittorrent or the like
<murray_> i will download it from the ubuntu site
<murray_> ftp
<heathen> k
<murray_> thnx
<boredandblogging> hi heather!
<boredandblogging> heathen: dude, he did that 3 times
<heathen> i know
<heathen> after the second time i was just to hung over to care
<boredandblogging> how was the halloween party
<heathen> not bad
<heathen> i have no pictures though
<heathen> did the catholic schoolgirl/priest sort of thing...
* kevinf311-lap endeavors to call heathen "heather" at all possible junctures
<heathen> kevinf311-lap: /ignore is my friend
<heathen> boredandblogging: i did have a good cigar last night...
<heathen> i'd have to rummage around my truck to find the name of it though...
<boredandblogging> heathen: oh yeah? what as it?
<heathen> the logo had an A and V on it... the design was simialr to the masonic square and compas
<boredandblogging> heathen: avo? http://www.avo.com/html/en/e_home.htm
<heathen> yep
<boredandblogging> they are pretty good
<heathen> better, it was free
<heathen> and he gave me 2 more
<boredandblogging> sweet
<heathen> anything good for the meeting today?
<boredandblogging> not really
<boredandblogging> install fest crud
<heathen> ahh, yes
<heathen> hopefully, wednesday i will have a new lappy
<boredandblogging> which one are you getting?
<heathen> torn between a toshiba again or a sony that was on clearence
<kevinf311-lap> Toshiba
<kevinf311-lap> they're easier to get into
<heathen> lol
<heathen> kev, believe me, i can take anything apart
<kevinf311-lap> i hate trying to work on Sonys
<kevinf311-lap> i know, but Toshiba makes it easier on you
<heathen> I've been told that the sony build quality is good
<heathen> cant be any worse than this compaq... god
<heathen> that was a nightmare
<kevinf311-lap> lol
<heathen> i love it when people ask for relationship advice online...
<kevinf311-lap> hmm
<kevinf311-lap> i did a gdm restart on my desktop
<kevinf311-lap> like 10 minutes ago
* kevinf311-lap wonders what is causing it to hang
<heathen> it's gdm
<heathen> that's whats causing it to hang
<kevinf311-lap> i knew i should have stuck to the tried and true Ctrl Alt Backspace
<kevinf311-lap> my S-video out was funky
<kevinf311-lap> it happens when it's disconnected during a session and the reconnected
<heathen> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_y36fG2Oba0
<JonReagan> hey everyone
<jimpop> hello
<boredandblogging> hello
<jimpop> yo
<boredandblogging> how is everyone doing today?
<jchase> hola
<boredandblogging> hi josh
<jimpop> how was Meehans last night?
<boredandblogging> pretty good
<jimpop> sorry i couldn't make it
<boredandblogging> 10 people showed up
<jchase> it was pretty rad
<boredandblogging> jimpop: maybe next time
<jimpop> certainly the Install Fest
<JonReagan> alright, so who's all here?
<heathen> it takes a long time to download a dvd sized distro
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: go ahead and start
<JonReagan> alright, looks like quite a few folks here. Let's start the meeting (anyone not ready?)
<JonReagan> *pulls up agenda*
<JonReagan> first topic: presentations
<JonReagan> where is everyone?
<JonReagan> on the presentations?
<jimpop> i have a question abt that
<JonReagan> k
<jimpop> someone is already doing a customization preso
<jimpop> i wanted to showcase some of IBM's customizations
<jimpop> overlap?
<JonReagan> no
<boredandblogging> jimpop: doesn't matter
<jimpop> can we combine the presos?
<boredandblogging> its good know what companies are doing
<jimpop> should we combine?
<boredandblogging> with ubuntu
<boredandblogging> is jchase doing the other presentation?
<JonReagan> we could, but that's pretty darn cool that IBM's using Ubuntu
<JonReagan> I think JChase is doing one on gaming...
<JonReagan> I'll check
* JonReagan can't remember
<boredandblogging> jimpop: go ahead and do your thing
<JonReagan> definately
<jimpop> ok
<boredandblogging> i don't think the overlap is an issue
<boredandblogging> just stick an IBM logo on it and it will be cool
<JonReagan> no... besides, I think customization has to do with the graphical stuff like Compiz/Metacity
<jimpop> k
<JonReagan> good shtuff
<boredandblogging> jimpop: not to rush, but you think you can put up something on the wiki about your presentation soon?
<jchase> more pics of Release Party http://www.flickr.com/photos/joshuachase/sets/72157602766849310/
<jchase> I was doing one on gaming?
<jchase> crap
<jimpop> boredandblogging: what would you be looking for?
<boredandblogging> jimpop: is it going to be a live demo or slides/
<jchase> so I should just bring my 360 then ? :)
<JonReagan> lol
<jimpop> live (on my laptop)
<jchase> live > slides
<jimpop> only sales guys do slides :-)
<JonReagan> I wasn't sure... I still have to see which one you are doing, I can't remember worth heck today
<boredandblogging> jimpop: nm then, maybe just put something on wiki with some details of what you'll be covering?
<jimpop> k
<JonReagan> nevermind jchase, you were doing customization
<jimpop> i can do that
<boredandblogging> jimpop: thanks
<jchase> aah, okie
<jchase> sounds good
<jimpop> where is the install fest wiki... not listed here:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam/Meetings
<JonReagan> you'll find the info on the /marketing page
<JonReagan> the info for where to put your slideshow, etc.
<jimpop> nm, found it under Events ;-)
<JonReagan> we've got two weeks until the big day, so we need to at least have all the presentations ready to go by then
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: can you put your stuff under the /events page?
<JonReagan> done
<JonReagan> fast, eh? :P
<boredandblogging> nice
<jimpop> jchase: what sort of customization are you covering?
<jimpop> could I propose that we split that into 2 topics: Extreme Customization, and Corporate Customization?
<JonReagan> maybe corporate usage?
<jimpop> works for me
<JonReagan> doesn't matter to me, it's whatever you want to do with it! :)
<JonReagan> next topic?
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: yes
<JonReagan> alright: does anyone need any more flyers?
<boredandblogging> i've put up a few at libraries
<boredandblogging> anyone else put some up yet?
<jimpop> i'm slowly covering all the intown starbucks ;-)
<JonReagan> I put some in the CDs at the Border's Ubuntu box
<boredandblogging> jimpop: excellent!
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: do you need any extra flyers?
<jimpop> these folks ( http://fastermustache.org/) discuss U every now and then... I'm going to post an invite to them.
<jimpop> http://fastermustache.org/search/node/Ubuntu
<boredandblogging> nice
<JonReagan> sounds good
<JonReagan> next topic?
<jimpop> but expect that they will try and convert you to giving up your car and riding a bike ;-)
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: yeah
<boredandblogging> lol
<boredandblogging> less cars on the road would be better
<boredandblogging> heathen: did you want some flyers?
<jimpop> new slogan: Less Cars, More Ubuntu!
<jimpop> :-)
<boredandblogging> damn straight
<JonReagan> alright, well, I was going to go over the smaller details of the InstallFest, but I'll start with t-shirts
<JonReagan> how many will we need
<JonReagan> what design
<JonReagan> what kind of shirt
<JonReagan> just the basic stuff, before I can get a price
<jimpop> thick t-shirts always last longer
<jimpop> what are logo options?
<JonReagan> our teams logo, the Ubuntu logo, basically anything
<jimpop> k
<boredandblogging> yeah
<JonReagan> basically, we need to get a number on how many people are coming, and then get a few more for new members
<JonReagan> the next thing we need to figure out is what do we want (t-shirt, polo shirt, etc.?)
<boredandblogging> i think if we knew how much they would cost, we could do a better job of figuring things out
<boredandblogging> maybe we can raffle a few away
<boredandblogging> sell a few
<boredandblogging> something along those lines
<JonReagan> :)
<jimpop> what's the possibility of resurrecting a past ALE logo for the back of the shirt.. along with our colo logo on the front?
<jimpop> http://www.linuxshowcase.org/2000/images/davinci.gif
<jimpop> that shirt (from ALS) was in high demand back then... people still ask if they can get one
<jimpop> if we could take that and morph U into it, it would be sorta cool
<boredandblogging> if we could get them to help pay for it, I'd be open to it
<JonReagan> we could use that, but it would really work out better in the long term if we keep it default (although a few with the davinci logo would be nice, to give away)
<jimpop> ALS is done with, sadly. ALE might contribute... do we have an idea on the cost yet?
<JonReagan> no, I need to get a lock on order size
<JonReagan> and a design (or two)
<boredandblogging> does 20 sound like a reasonable number?
<JonReagan> before I can get a price
<boredandblogging> (just throwing something out)
<JonReagan> sure.
<jimpop> is there a minimum order size?
<JonReagan> possibly, but I would think 20-30 would be fine
<jimpop> k
<JonReagan> alright, so t-shirt or polo shirt
<JonReagan> ?
<boredandblogging> no clue
<jimpop> if we make them generic (and not fest specific) then see what 50 would cost ;-)
<JonReagan> that would be good
<jimpop> good t-shirts are nice, polo's are better ;-)
<boredandblogging> maybe not install fest specific, but at least Ubuntu specific
<JonReagan> any that we could use again (and again, and again) would be great
<jimpop> long sleeve polo too :-)
<JonReagan> @ boredandblogging: exactly
<JonReagan> we need a vote...
<JonReagan> t-shirt or polo shirt?
<JonReagan> (long-sleeve or short-sleeve later)
* jimpop says polo
<JonReagan> k
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: can you find out prices for both?
<JonReagan> sure
<JonReagan> that would be easier
<JonReagan> in that case, I will need a design
<JonReagan> the Ubuntu logo, perhaps Georgia LoCo logo
<boredandblogging> whatever is cheaper
<boredandblogging> :-P
<JonReagan> less is cheaper, t-shirts are cheaper, but I will get the prices of both
<boredandblogging> frankly, I would like just the ubuntu logo
<JonReagan> k
<jimpop> cheaper is relative... if t-shirts are $5/per and polos are $6 per....
<boredandblogging> i think the ubuntu logo in the Georgia logo is too small to be noticeable
<boredandblogging> jimpop: yeah, you are right
<jimpop> where is the latest Georgia logo (hi res?)
<boredandblogging> i think its on the forums somewhere
<JonReagan> I think it's on the forums
<JonReagan> durnit... I hat being a slow typer :P
<JonReagan> *hate
<JonReagan> alrighty then, so do we want a n Ubuntu logo on the front and back of the shirt?
<jimpop> which one would we use... the one with the state outline or the one with the big "Georgia"?
<JonReagan> It should be towards the bottom of that thread
<boredandblogging> http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=435077
<JonReagan> thx
<boredandblogging> number 3
<boredandblogging> but its slightly different
<boredandblogging> its got u.s. onit now
<JonReagan> we should probably use the one with "us" on it, since it is our current logo
<boredandblogging> right
<jimpop> boredandblogging: hmmm, i don't see it on that url
<boredandblogging> jimpop: do you see any logos?
<boredandblogging> you probably have to be logged in
<JonReagan> you can find it at wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgiaUSTeam
<jimpop> i see just the one with the state outline
<boredandblogging> jimpop: yeah, log in
<jimpop> i am logged in :-)
<JonReagan> launchpad?
<boredandblogging> no, forums have a separate login
<jimpop> ahh i see it now
<JonReagan> oh... the forums... nevermind... did I mention I was slow today?
<jimpop> hmmm... Georgia **** loco... some people may think we are crazy :-)
<JonReagan> hehe
<nomasteryoda> you guys should try out Flock
<nomasteryoda> excellent browser
<JonReagan> in the Ubuntu repos?
<nomasteryoda> nope
<JonReagan> ah
<jimpop> #2 is nice, but too busy.... I'd have to say I vote for #5 or #4 (if we put the text Ubuntu in orange)
<JonReagan> alrighty then, so do we want the loco logo on the front, perhaps where a pocket would normally be, like a company logo
<jimpop> the word "Ubuntu" should definitely be bigger than the word "Georgia"
<JonReagan> and maybe the Ubuntu logo on the back?
<JonReagan> nice n' big?
<jimpop> JonReagan: sounds good
<boredandblogging> lets stick with #3 since we've started using it already
<JonReagan> k
<jimpop> boredandblogging: ok ;-)
<nomasteryoda> http://www.flock.com/1.0/help/advshar.html#preparePhotos
<nomasteryoda> this is awesome!!
<boredandblogging> nomasteryoda: yeah, flock has come a long way
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: do you have everything you need for the shirts?
<jimpop> what about sizes ?
<JonReagan> hey jsvh
<JSVH> hey all
<JSVH> is the meeting over?
<JonReagan> we were just discussing the t-shirt/polo shirts for the InstallFest
<JonReagan> nope.. we still have some stuff to cover
<JSVH> Ah nice
<JSVH> I just got in from my drive
<JonReagan> ah
<JSVH> where are we getting shirts from?
<JonReagan> I know this guy who does them for a living
<JonReagan> He's does quite a few, so I was going to check the available shirts, and then prices
<JSVH> nice, and it is "legal" for us to do Ubuntu shirts?
<JonReagan> I believe so, as long as we do not change the official logo in any way.
<JonReagan> does anyone know who to check with for logo info?
<JonReagan> or logo usage rights?
<boredandblogging> our logo is fine
<boredandblogging> since it is unaltered
<JonReagan> k
<JSVH> yes, I know we talked about when making our logo
* jimpop concurs
<boredandblogging> meaning the ubuntu trademarked logo is unaltered
<JonReagan> alright, so we shouldn't have any problems there
<boredandblogging> sizes, can we just get a bunch of larges?
<JonReagan> that would probably work
<JSVH> what prices are we looking at?
<JonReagan> I am not sure
<jimpop> large is ok... if it is large and not medium after one dryer cycle ;-)
<JonReagan> I will have to find out, after I send in the design info, as well as the number we will need, and what kind of shirt
<jimpop> JonReagan: i suggest you present the logo to your t-shirt guy and get his advice on what sizes, shapes, etc... then come back to everyone for decisions ;-)
<JSVH> I am in assuming the prices are close to reasonable
<JonReagan> I am sure they will be
<JonReagan> @ jimpop: I will show him the stuff, I am sure we will be able to get what we are looking for
<JSVH> I was thinking about getting a Ubuntu shirt anyways
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: next?
<JonReagan> alright, so the next item involves the schedule of the installfest
<JonReagan> what times (generally speaking) will we open the doors, and begin the InstallFest?
<JonReagan> and from there, we need to figure out how we will handle moving between presentations, installations, and the most important part... lunch. :P
<JSVH> Lets take the points one at a time. opening time?
<jimpop> not everyone will come and stay all day... so we should split the day up (possibly re-doing presos in the afternoon) so that everyone attending gets out of it what they want in the minimal amount of time
<JonReagan> we should give ourselves enough time to get set up
<JonReagan> @jimpop: good idea
<JSVH> we have 9am listed on the wiki
<JonReagan> alright, so how long will we need to get set up?
<JonReagan> before 9:00 am
<JSVH> hour?
<jimpop> how about setup and OJ (or should we do bloody marys?) at 9am and presos start at 10?
<JonReagan> that should give us enough time
<jimpop> :-)
<JSVH> or 30mins, and we could still be setting up while the first people arrived
<jimpop> true
<boredandblogging> aaron said we can open the room at 8:30
<boredandblogging> so we can set up then
<jimpop> what time will our target audience stomach arriving?
<JonReagan> hrmmm... doughnuts.
<JonReagan> :)
<jimpop> mmmm donuts
<JonReagan> It's hard to say that we will need a whole lot of stuff, seeing as to we will be starting at 9, which is past breakfast for most folks
<JonReagan> but some donuts and coffee/orange juice would do.
<JonReagan> 8:30? sounds good to me
<jimpop> JonReagan: 9am on a Saturday is "past breakfast" ?!?!?
<jimpop> :-)
<JSVH> 8:30 sounds good
<JonReagan> alright, so 8:30 for setup, and 9:00 to open doors to public
<JonReagan> should we start the presentations at 9:30?
<boredandblogging> i say later, not before 10
<boredandblogging> let people come, settle down
<JonReagan> k
<JonReagan> should we space them apart so people can go check out some systems in between?
<JonReagan> say, 10-15 min.?
<JSVH> yea, I agree 10:30, 10-15 breaks work out ok?
<JSVH> how many presentations, and how long?
<JonReagan> mine is about 20 min.
<jimpop> Mine will be about 20 or 30mins
<boredandblogging> lets see how many presentations get done
<jimpop> could go longer with Q&A etc
<JonReagan> so if I started at 10, the next one will start at about 10:30-25
<jimpop> could go one-on-one too
<JonReagan> true... Q/A... I didn't think about that
<JonReagan> perhaps allow 5 min. after presentation for Q/A?
<JonReagan> 10 min for breaks?
* jimpop wonders if it can be so rigidly structured... it may be precise... and it may be all over the map.
<jimpop> planning is good... but lets not set up a schedule that is hard to follow
<JonReagan> It will probably be all over the place
<JSVH> I agree jimpop
<jimpop> I think if we state that sessions start at 10:30 then we are good
<jimpop> we should also say that sessions re-start at 2:30 (or such)
<JonReagan> maybe say when different ones will start?
<jimpop> and then just play it by ear
<JonReagan> that sounds good
<jimpop> it's not like there will be 500 people at a doctors convention needing to be told what to do and when ;-)
<JonReagan> tell folks after we are done that the next pres. will begin in x amount of time
<jimpop> JonReagan: sounds good
<JSVH> lets get an order and some estamates so things come out about right, but no firm start times, except for maybe the first presentation
<JonReagan> k
<jimpop> k
<JonReagan> like mine will end at about 10:30, so say the next one would start at about 10:45?
<JSVH> including QA?
<JonReagan> yeah
<JSVH> sounds good, we can play it by ear
<JonReagan> that allows some time for people to ask questions
<JSVH> what time do we want to start presentations?
<JonReagan> 10 or 10:30?
<JonReagan> at least get a few in before lunch
<jimpop> if we shoot for 10 we might make 10:30 :-)
<JonReagan> lol
<JSVH> I like it, we can also see how many people are there
<boredandblogging> we can discuss this next week as the presentations get done
<boredandblogging> we'll have a better idea of how long everything is
<JSVH> ok, timing next week
<JonReagan> sounds good
<JonReagan> we can hold off all the technical details as well, since more info will be available next week as well. besides, it's almost 4:25
<boredandblogging> JonReagan: anything else?
<JonReagan> that's all the topics
<boredandblogging> awesome, lets get out as many flyers as we can
<jimpop> sounds like a plan
<JSVH> want me to put some out down here in Florida? :-)
<jimpop> only at I-75 reststops
<jimpop> :-)
<JSVH> haha
<JSVH> maybe I will spray paint some billboards
<JonReagan> lol
<jimpop> i can see the headlines now....
<JonReagan> I g2g folks
<jimpop> same here
<jimpop> later folks
<boredandblogging> bye
<JonReagan> nice exit message
<JSVH> bye all
<JonReagan> c'yall later, I will have more info on the shirts next week
<silver2x> yo
<silver2x> ////
<silver2x> k
<jchase> nick, did you get my flickr link of the pics?
<boredandblogging> jchase: I did
<boredandblogging> i'll copy of them of them into the ubuntu-georgia flickr account
<heathen> blah blah blah
<jchase> w3rd
<nomasteryoda> so you guys get flock running?
<nomasteryoda> had to run to the store
<boredandblogging> nomasteryoda: I use it
<nomasteryoda> cool
<nomasteryoda> uploading to flicker is a breeze
<nomasteryoda> i love that feature
<nomasteryoda> but...
<nomasteryoda> need to setup the thing so flash and other stuff works
<nomasteryoda> i put it into /usr/lib/mozilla/flock
<nomasteryoda> and combined with the coolness of my flashgallery....
<nomasteryoda> that i found
<nomasteryoda> very nice
<nomasteryoda> boredandblogging, you get to see that ?
<boredandblogging> the flashgallery? no, what is that?
<nomasteryoda> nomasteryoda.homelinux.org:8081/fgallery
<nomasteryoda> pulls from as many sources as you can setup
<nomasteryoda> quite cool
<boredandblogging> badass
<nomasteryoda> ya
<nomasteryoda> very
<nomasteryoda> the link in the upper right takes you to the guy's home page
<boredandblogging> gonna have to try it out
<nomasteryoda> you just make a folder in your /var/www and extract it there...
<nomasteryoda> edit the setting /config file and boom... live
<boredandblogging> does it just download all the images and cache everything?
<nomasteryoda> good question
<nomasteryoda> let me look at my folder
<nomasteryoda> i think it just pulls them by request of the client
<nomasteryoda> so they exist not in your server
<boredandblogging> right
<nomasteryoda> unless they are the ones as defined by your local images
<nomasteryoda> which is also cool
<boredandblogging> interesting stuff
<nomasteryoda> ok, just determined the best way to setup links for mozilla plugins
<nomasteryoda> ln -s /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins ../flock/plugins
<nomasteryoda> justs freeaking works
<nomasteryoda> wonder if there is an xchat like client that integrates into flock
<nomasteryoda> =D
<nomasteryoda> that would be cool i think
</pre>
