{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Gerfried Fuchs, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Gerfried Fuchs
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~rhonda
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GerfriedFuchs
|}

== Who I am ==

I am a Debian Developer since June 2000 and was involved in various different areas since. I maintain a fair amount of <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=rhonda@debian.at|packages]]</nowiki>, am part of the Debian Webmaster team and am trying to minimize the amount of <nowiki>[[http://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/status/release/stable-backports|open security issues in lenny-backports]]</nowiki>. I am also admin for the Games Team (<nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Games/Team|Games Team in Debian wiki]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pkg-games|Games Team in Launchpad]]</nowiki>).

== My Ubuntu story ==

I maintain a fair amount of packages within Debian and got feedback from some users about issues with my packages in Ubuntu. This got me interested to subscribe to the derivates keyword on the Debian PTS to receive ubuntu diffs for my packages, and started to go through the launchpad bugs of my packages, closing them when they were invalid and try to address them in my packages. I also approached people who were producing Ubuntu diffs for my packages to be invited to forward them to me so the diff isn't needed and reduce the workload in Ubuntu.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I am tracking the bugreports of my packages not only in Debian but also in Ubuntu. I managed to convince some people that it is actually worthwhile to forward bugs to Debian to recude the workload within Ubuntu because there is no need for merge requests anymore and checking wether they still apply cleanly. Also I am known for regularly answer questions on IRC (<nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-motu|#ubuntu-motu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.oftc.net-debian-ubuntu|#debian-ubuntu]]</nowiki>). I also do some translation work through launchpad.

=== Areas of work ===

I have a fair amount of package in Debian to care of, but I am also admin for the Games Team (combined Debian/Ubuntu group), both in Debian and in Launchpad, and I joined the German translation team in launchpad, taking care of at least gtg translation but scanning through others too from time to time.

=== Things I could do better ===

I am still in learning stage of the procedures but I am usually quickly picking up stuff that I use regularly, and am not afraid to ask before potential doing something not reversible.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

I'd like to reduce the diversity between Ubuntu and Debian more, especially in the packages that I maintain or am interested in (e.g. the Games Team packages). Along that lines I try to track bugreports against said package groups and suggest backports where they are considered helpful to the user base.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

That the packages.ubuntu.com website still doesn't properly offer maverick support (or lucid-proposed and lucid-backports, FWIW), even though the fix is pretty straight forward. ;)

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

=== EmmetHikory ===
Since the Gutsy cycle, Rhonda has shown consistent interest in maintaining the quality of packages of interest (with a very wide scope), has supported the integration of the Debian/Ubuntu Games Team, and been a force in ensuring the quality of a wide variety of packages in the archive.  Since Karmic (or so), activities have included assisting in answering questions in <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-motu|#ubuntu-motu]]</nowiki>, and coordination of SRUs and backports to ensure the best availability of packages.  Most recently, as a member of the Derivatives Front Desk, Rhonda has been a significant force in the restoration of coordinated Debian-Ubuntu coordination discussion.

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== ScottKitterman ===
==== General feedback ====
I have had general contact with Rhonda for quite some time in Debian and on matters of Debian/Ubuntu integration.  I've also observed a lot of helpful and positive interactions on <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-motu|#ubuntu-motu]]</nowiki> with people trying to learn packaging for Ubuntu and people wanting to connect with Debian.  As a long time DD, I've no doubt at all of Rhonda's technical skill.  I see good social integration and a clear willingness to ask questions when needed.  Definite +1 from me.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Recently we worked together on getting wesnoth-1.8 into Ubuntu Lucid befor release and then backported for Karmic.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
There are still elements of Ubuntu specific procedure that could no doubt use more experience, but I'm comfortable with where things are now.

=== IainLane ===
==== General feedback ====

I've no doubt advocating this MOTU application. Rhonda is a very experienced DD who shows a clear willingness to improve maintained packages in Ubuntu. We need more DDs willing to do this, and should encourage such folks to join us wherever they show interest. In addition, there is solid evidence of excellent social integration; Rhonda hangs out in <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-motu|#ubuntu-motu]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.oftc.net-debian-ubuntu|#debian-ubuntu]]</nowiki> and gives valuable advice to those seeking help. Clear +1.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
We are going to give a joint session at the upcoming UDW; that Rhonda volunteered (or was volunteered ;) for this speaks to a positive attitude towards Ubuntu development.

I'm sure there have been other interactions that I can't remember too.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Get to know the Ubuntu development processes better. I've no doubt that Rhonda will ask questions if unsure and that this experience will come with time.

=== ReinhardTartler ===
==== General feedback ====

I know Gerfried in person as I've met him at debconf7 in Edinburgh. There and also before I've workend with him together inside the pkg-games team.  His technical contributions to Debian have always been excellent, from what I've seen.

I have to admit that I didn't work on specific topics with Gerfried in ubuntu. This report is based on my interactions with him on IRC. I have the impression that Gerfried would be a very valuable addition to the ubuntu development team, as he managed to integrate into the team on IRC very well from what I've seen so far.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I'd love to see him more active on our mailing lists, but I know that ubuntu generally uses irc much more than mail for communication. So that fits as well :-)

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
