{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 2012-06-22
* '''Team Contact''' JuliusBloch, TorstenFranz
* '''Membership''' - 207 as of 2012-06-18
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-de on lists.ubuntu.com and loco-de on lists.ubuntu-eu.org
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-de, #ubuntu-de-loco on freenode
* '''Launchpad''' - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-de-locoteam

=== Roadmap ===

* We will continue with our conference appearances at the main events in Germany and hope also to attend the smaller events. The conference appearances are planed at http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/LocoTeam/Messen and discussed at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-de-events
* Run a German speaking Ubucon every year and improve it from year to year.
* Continue in maintaining ubuntuusers.de, our online-community with forum, wiki, planet and news-section; and our IRC channel
* Reorganize ubuntu-de.org, the portal for all activities in Germany.

=== Experience ===
==== Release parties, meetings, Local User Groups ====
===== Ubuntu Berlin =====
Since 2006, release parties were organized in Berlin. Starting with April 2007 they are located at the hackerspace <nowiki>[[http://c-base.org | c-base]]</nowiki>, having 150 to 300 visitors each party. 

Links to previous release parties from <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de | Ubuntu Berlin]]</nowiki>:
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperBerlinReleaseParty|Dapper]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyBerlinReleaseParty|Edgy]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeistyBerlinReleaseParty|Feisty]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyBerlinReleaseParty|Gutsy]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de/hardy-heron-releaseparty_26.4.2008_c-base|Hardy]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de/ubuntu-berlin-intrepid-ibex-release-party|Intrepid]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de/jaunty-release-party|Jaunty]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de/karmic-release-party|Karmic]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de/lucid-release-party |Lucid]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de/maverick-release-party |Maverick]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de/natty-release-party |Natty]]</nowiki>

Every year <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de |ubuntu-berlin]]</nowiki> organizes a <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de/linuxtag-bbq-2012-english | barbecue sponsored by Canonical]]</nowiki> after the <nowiki>[[[http:--linuxtag.org | LinuxTag]]</nowiki> which is well known by the participants of the fair.

Regularly there are meetings on second Wednesday of the month where members and new peoples come together to speak about Ubuntu and give Ubuntu support.

Sometimes there are Lightning talks on these meetings and if someone wants to make workshops, it is possible to make this, too.

===== Ubuntu Leipzig =====

The Ubuntu Leipzig Group was formed in 2007. We organized many user meetings with talks about different topics in the open source sector. So we have talks about BSD, Gimp, Android, Linux4Afrika and many more. Beside these technical events we also organize Social Events like Ubuntu BBQs were the family can also be a part of. We present Ubuntu at the large Jaunty-Releaseparty (that was the biggest one) at the University Leipzig and at several other smaller Events. In 2010 and 2011 was the Ubucon at the University Leipzig and was organize by the Ubuntu Leipzig Group.

===== Ubuntu Essen =====

In Essen is an Ubuntu group too. The meetings are monthly for Ubuntu and every week as a linux user group. Sometimes there are presentations about free software and how to use it. The last presentations were about ssh. Sometimes there are Ubuntu installations and workshops too.  

===== Other groups =====

There are about 20 many smaller meetings for users all around Germany, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-de.org/projekt/Anwendertreffen.html|this site]]</nowiki> gives an overview.

==== Conference Appearances ====

* <nowiki>[[http://chemnitzer.linux-tage.de/ | Chemnitzer LinuxTage]]</nowiki>, 2006 - 2012
* <nowiki>[[http://www.cebit.de/homepage_e | CeBIT]]</nowiki>, 2006 - 2009 and 2012
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtag.org/ | LinuxTag]]</nowiki>, 2006 - 2012
* <nowiki>[[http://www.systems.de/en/Home | Systems]]</nowiki>, 2006 - 2008
* <nowiki>[[http://www.froscon.de/index.php?id=15&L=1&no_cache=1 | Froscon]]</nowiki>, 2008-2010
* <nowiki>[[http://www.come2linux.org/ | Come2Linux]]</nowiki>, 2005-2006
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxinfotag.de/ | LinuxInfoTag Dresden]]</nowiki>, 2008
* LinuxWorldExpo, 2006
* Linux Tage Oldenburg, 2007
* Webinale, 2007
* Augsburger Linux Infotage, 2008
* <nowiki>[[http://www.openrheinruhr.de/ | OpenRheinRuhr]]</nowiki>, 2009-2011
* <nowiki>[[http://blit.org/ | Brandenburger Linux-Infotag]]</nowiki>, 2010, 2011
* <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/ | Software Freedom Day Berlin]]</nowiki>, 2010

==== Ubucon ====
Since 2007 we are running our own German speaking Ubuntu conference called Ubucon. We started with two days in 2007 and since 2008 we have a two and half day event. Every year in October from Friday midday until Sunday afternoon.
The Ubucon takes place in different cities in Germany.
In 2007 it was Krefeld, 2008 and 2009 Göttingen, 2010 and 2011 Leipzig. The plans for 2012 are not yet finished.

==== ubuntuusers.de ====

===== Forum =====

Currently there are more than 125,000 registered users who have written more than 4 Mio. posts. The forum is maintained by currently 38 volunteers. Those are divided into moderators and supporters, where the first often also double as the latter. The <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/ubuntuusers/Moderatoren|9 moderators]]</nowiki> keep the forum clean of Spam, move threads into the right subforums and intervene in situations where a discussion gets out of hand. They also decide on penalties against users who repeatedly or heavily violate the forum rules.

The main task of the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/ubuntuusers/Supporter|36 supporters]]</nowiki> is to help users in the areas that they specialize in. They too act as moderators in the subforums that correspond to their specialties, but they do not participate in decisions regarding actions against users.

===== Wiki =====
The Wiki of ubuntuusers.de has currently over 6000 pages covering all topics from getting started and installing Ubuntu over using software up to advanced topics like setting up and operating server systems (see also <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/wiki/tags | tag cloud]]</nowiki>). The Wiki covers Ubuntu as well as official and recognized derivates. Everybody registered (and non-registered) at ubuntuusers.de can contribute to the Wiki.

Quality and consistancy is supervised by the ubuntuusers.de Wikiteam with currently <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/ubuntuusers/Wikiteam | thirteen volunteers]]</nowiki>.

===== Ikhaya =====
This is the news part of ubuntuusers.de. As <nowiki>[[http://ikhaya.ubuntuuser.de|Ikhaya]]</nowiki> means "home" in the Zulu tongue, it serves as the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuusers.de|portal site]]</nowiki> of ubuntuusers.de to greet the users and present them with the most actual information about Ubuntu, Linux, Open Source and the ubuntuusers.de portal itself. Users are invited to discuss and comment on the published news and suggest new articles and topics to add to the friendly environment.

Another part of the portal is our <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuusers.de/calendar/|Calendar]]</nowiki> in which we collect dates all around Ubuntu and Open Source. Examples for this are meetings of Local User Groups, Exhibitions and Congresses where Ubuntu is represented in the German-speaking region. The most actual dates from the Calendar are also presented on the portal site.

We also provide a <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntuusers.de/|Planet]]</nowiki> that aggregates Blogs from German-speaking Ubuntu users.

Calendar and Planet are also maintained by the Ikhayateam, which currently consists of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/ubuntuusers/Ikhayateam#Teammitglieder|10 active members]]</nowiki>.

===== Inyoka =====

Before Inyoka was written, ubuntuusers.de used a mix of phpBB2, MoinMoin and a small Django news application. Obviously, things like user sync between these apps became horrible and the Webteam decided to write a custom application tailored for the needs of ubuntuusers.de. Inyoka is now running since 2007 and covers everything, from wiki over planet to the forum. At the moment, the webteam reworks it to release it as open source software and make it usable for other communities as well.

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/ubuntuusers/Webteam | ubuntuusers-webteam]]</nowiki>

===== Project management =====

The project management of ubuntuusers.de permanently consists of three members elected once a year. It is the place to go for every sort of request, either from the users, other team members or from the outside. Its main task is the coordination of every team of ubuntuusers.de in collaboration with their team leaders. Thereby periodic meetings are as important as working together in a friendly way according to the ideals of Ubuntu.

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/ubuntuusers/Projektleitung | ubuntuusers-project-management]]</nowiki>

===== IRC =====

Since January 2012 the ubuntuusers.de project is also an official group on the freenode IRC network. In addition to several private channels for team internal management, a public channel is available for our users and community to ask questions related to our portal: <nowiki>[[irc:--chat.freenode.net-ubuntuusers|#ubuntuusers]]</nowiki> 

For general ubuntu support, the #ubuntu-de* channels on freenode can be used. They are described in detail <nowiki>[[#ircchannels|here]]</nowiki>.

==== IRC Channels ====

The #ubuntu-de* Channels on freenode are operated by the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-de-irc-op | German IRC Loco Team]]</nowiki>. The following channels are currently available: 

* <nowiki>[[irc:--chat.freenode.net-ubuntu-de|#ubuntu-de]]</nowiki> The main support channel which is existing up to now for about seven and a half years. With an average of almost 200 users, it is a very active channel providing ubuntu related support every day. 
* <nowiki>[[irc:--chat.freenode.net-ubuntu-de-offtopic|#ubuntu-de-offtopic]]</nowiki> The offtopic channel used to get the support channel free of non-support topics and to have a place where people from the community can take part in sane, civil discussions on many kinds of topics.
* <nowiki>[[irc:--chat.freenode.net-ubuntu-de+1|#ubuntu-de+1]]</nowiki> The channel for handling support requests on non-stable versions. They usually could not be handled well in the main channel, due to the heavy changes found in them.
* <nowiki>[[irc:--chat.freenode.net-ubuntu-de-op|#ubuntu-de-op]]</nowiki> The operators channel. Users can join it in case of problems with how the channel is managed, if they want to report something or if they disagree with a decision taken by one of the operators. 

More details on channels and channel rules are available in german on the ubuntuusers wiki:  

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/LocoTeam/IRC | LocoTeam IRC]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu-Jabber.de ====

<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-jabber.de|Ubuntu-Jabber.de]]</nowiki> is a German instant messaging service based on the open standard XMPP (Jabber) and aims to offer an open and free communication platform for Ubuntu users. It was created in 2007 and has around 3800 registered users on its domains ubuntu-jabber.de and ubuntu-jabber.net. In addition there is a multi user chat for support and general communication at <nowiki>[[xmpp:ubuntu@conference.ubuntu-jabber.de?join|ubuntu@conference.ubuntu-jabber.de]]</nowiki>.

==== ubuntu Deutschland e.V. (German Ubuntu association) ====

In 2005 we have founded a German Ubuntu association to support the Ubuntu communities in Germany. 
This support means that the foundation is helping in organisational, logistical and financial objects.

==== Ubuntu German Translators ====

We are working on translations for Ubuntu as well as Upstream projects essential for Ubuntu. With our Community Team (https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-de-community) we try to get as many people into translations as possible and give everybody the opportunity to take part in translations and fix translation bugs.

In the forum on ubuntuusers.de we also try to solve problems concerning translations. Other communication methods are our Mailinglist (ubuntu-l10n-de-community@lists.launchpad.net) and our IRC (#ubuntu-translators-de) where we hold a public meeting once every month.

With our Wiki (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGermanTranslators) we try to collect information and provide those for everyone.

Two years ago we held a talk at the Ubucon to let others know, how translation work is done and how they can become a part of it.

There is also many other projects to come …
