{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/get-rid-of-etc-resolv-conf
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

=== Rationale ===
DNS configuration in /etc/resolv.conf gets clobbered by automatic network management tools (dhclient, network-manger, etc).  There needs to be a mechanism to handle DNS updates that does not destroy custom changes in /etc/resolv.conf.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

* Whatever approach is taken it needs to allow chroot environments to get online. Copying /etc/resolv.conf into the chroot used to work, but since the /etc/resolvconf stuff this has been difficult in situations such as automatically setting up a chroot system on a non-root partition, since linking (hard or soft) the file doesn't work and it must be done manually (which therefore is not "automatically setting up") I hope this is the right place to air my concerns. -- Warbo
* We also need to make sure that the world doesn't blow up if `/var` hasn't been mounted yet. This ''should'' be OK since `dhclient` currently isn't run until after all filesystems have been mounted, but it should be checked. -- ColinWatson

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
