{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Gigabyte 945GZ GA-81945GZME-RH ==

6.10 (edgy) installation fails using onboard video card because it goes into some weird mode that my fancy Dell LCD monitor won't handle.  Since the LCD should support every mode known to man, I expect it means that the card is just getting screwed up.

Installing the server CD version of 6.10 (http://mirrors.csumb.edu/ubuntu/edgy/ubuntu-6.10-server-i386.iso) works, however, giving a text-mode installation.  Then you can install xorg.  For some reason xorg.conf thinks a Wacom tablet should be there?!  Weird.  Anyway, use dpkg-reconfigure to create a reasonable mouse section in xorg.conf, choose "vga" as the video driver.  I had to edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf manually and delete the wacom references, then make sure it was using 8 bit color at 640x480.  Then I changed "vga" to "intel" in the framebuffer setup:
<pre>
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Generic Video Card"
        Driver          "intel"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection
</pre>

I have that working at 1024x768, 16-bit color depth:

<pre>
Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Generic Video Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    16
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection
</pre>
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
