{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

My name is Gilbert Mendoza, and I'm a network and information security engineer based out of Southern California, USA.

=== GNU/Linux ===

I have been a GNU/Linux enthusiast since 1999, spending much of my early days learning and hacking away on the Slackware and Debian platforms.  I've always made a conscious effort to work with as many distributions as possible, eager to learn how each project is working to make the GNU/Linux platform ever more accessible and easy to use both for home users and the enterprise.  Like many others, this is why I appreciate Ubuntu, Canonical and the community that makes the distribution so successful.

Over the years I have valued the ideals of the FOSS community, and now make every effort to help others discover the free and open world of technology.

=== Contributed Documentation ===

* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SinglePacketAuthorization|SinglePacketAuthorization]]</nowiki>

=== Relevant Pages ===

Launchpad Profile: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gmendoza]]</nowiki>

GilbertMendoza.com: <nowiki>[[http://gilbertmendoza.com]]</nowiki>

Personal Tech Website: <nowiki>[[http://savvyadmin.com]]</nowiki>

Twitter: <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/gilbertmendoza]]</nowiki>

Facebook: <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/gmendoza]]</nowiki>

Identi.ca: <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/gmendoza]]</nowiki>

Linkedin: <nowiki>[[http://www.linkedin.com/in/gilbertmendoza]]</nowiki>

Ubuntu wiki: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GilbertMendoza]]</nowiki>

=== LoCo Teams ===

* CaliforniaTeam
----
CategoryHomepage
