{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Julien Lavergne, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Julien Lavergne
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~gilir
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gilir
|}

== Who I am ==
I am 25 years old. I lives in France. I works as an accountant for a company, not really on the IT market. All my work on IT is done on my spare-time, after the work.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started with Hoary as a simple user, searching for a Linux distribution easy to use. Well, it's more the look and the wallpaper which convince me first.

I was primary a user and since Dapper unstable releases, an adventurous tester, building some programs to test/crash them. My first compiled was compiz, and I keep the interest for eyes-candies and goodies.

With Edgy, I began to report bugs. With no knowledge for coding or packaging, my help was quite limited. I first good experience was testing/patching/building synaptic to fix a <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/synaptic/+bug/62298|segfault]]</nowiki>.

Next step was to try to create Debian packages, for both Debian and Ubuntu. My first upload on Ubuntu was avant-window-navigator, a <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/avant-window-navigator/0.2.1-0ubuntu1|new package]]</nowiki>. I am now part of the upstream team.

Now, I have severals packages maintained on <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=julien.lavergne@gmail.com|Debian]]</nowiki>, and some packages I try to keep as clean as possible on Ubuntu (see below). I also try to help during some French Ubuntu Parties. 

=== My involvement ===
* Keep my packages on Debian and Ubuntu in sync and as clean as possible, including bug triaging, patches, and uploads :
** avant-window-navigator and awn-extras-applets (+ I am part of the upstream team)
** screenlets (no upstream activity, many patches)
** moap
** desktop-data-model
** gnome-launch-box
** nautilus-image-converter (newly adopted)

* Keep an eye on others packages on Ubuntu :
** cairo-dock (Uploaded with REVU, and some updates)
** conduit (some bug triages and bugfix uploads)
** ogmrip and related packages (mkvtoolnix, gpac)

* Some "QA" activities, like updated packages with not many activity (penguinTV, phat). Recently, I also tried to re-sync with Debian as many packages as I can for Karmic, forwarded some changes to Debian to avoid a merge.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
Some examples of my works :
* Maintaining <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/avant-window-navigator|avant-window-navigator]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/awn-extras-applets|awn-extras-applets]]</nowiki>.
** Bug triaging (247 opens, 38 still open for Awn, 160/36 for Awn-extras, with help of upstream)
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/300683|Sync]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/327443|Update]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/avant-window-navigator/0.3.2-0ubuntu2|Upload]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/awn-extras-applets/0.2.6-2ubuntu4|patches]]</nowiki>
* Sync for karmic : average of 30s packages to re-sync with Debian.

=== Areas of work ===
* Bug triage
* Patches (C and Python)
* Forwarding patches/changes
* Merges/Syncs
* New packages.

=== Things I could do better ===
* Improve my knowledge about packaging other than python and C + autotools
* Search more on other distributions fixes/improvements (like patches)
* Improve my communication and my English.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I have 2 goals for the future :
* Continue to work on my preferred packages.
* Continue QA activities:
** Try to work better with Debian by reducing the merges, forwarding changes etc ...
** Try to to add patches from downstream distribution or users (I was amazed by the numbers of bugs with attached patches on Launchpad).

To be general, I would like to add as much as possible works done by people around Ubuntu development (Debian, upstream, downstream, users ...).

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I think Ubuntu have a very big potential, but it's not fully exploited. Debian make a very good job and I think being in sync with them for most of the packages is important. Also, I am sure downstream distributions have opportunities to offer (like patches, or idea to improve packages). There is also some patches posted directly by the users which can improve the state of some packages. And of course, upstream is the most important part. I think Ubuntu can improve in this areas, and I'll try to help to improve this aspect (see my Plans for the future).

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== JamesWestby ===
==== General feedback ====
I fully support Julien's application. I have sponsored many changes from him since I became a MOTU, with very few issues that I could spot. He has a keen grasp of the release cycle, with his changes always perfectly in-line with what should be uploaded at the time. In addition his integration with upstream is exemplary. I would be comfortable with Julien being able to upload any package that MOTU can upload, and glad to know that he could work on the packages that he knows well without having to wait for a sponsor. I will also be glad to not have to try and keep up with the number of sponsor requests that he generates.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/screenlets/+bug/256329
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/awn-extras-applets/+bug/256166
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/awn-extras-applets/+bug/269994
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ogmrip/+bug/247826
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ogmrip/+bug/268063
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/awn-extras-applets/+bug/282510

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I can't think of anything specific that Julien could improve on, any improvement would come from experience.

=== Iulian Udrea ===
==== General feedback ====
Julien has been doing a fantastic job with the patches I sponsored for him.  I cannot remember any issues with them.  I have only sponsored a few patches made by him so I cannot say much regarding his technical skills.  Having said that, I'm sure that he will pay more attention and double-check when uploading to the official archive.

Other than that, he is a nice guy and I look forward to seeing him approved as a MOTU.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/awn-extras-applets/+bug/340260
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/conduit/+bug/362643
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/avant-window-navigator/+bug/352950

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Regarding bug#352950.  It seems that he forgot to test-build the package on his system.  It wasn't really a big problem as it first had to be approved by a Release team member.  I was happy to see that he found the problem and fixed it quickly.  The point is that you should always test-build the package before uploading. 

In this situation, awn was depending on bug#350016 so it wasn't much to do about it.

=== Andrew Starr-Bochicchio ===
==== General feedback ====
Since recently becoming a MOTU, I've had the opportunity to sponsor a few packages for Julien, but I've been familiar with his work for sometime before as well. I have full confidence in his packaging skills. I've been extremely impressed by his efforts forwarding Ubuntu changes back to Debian, getting quite a number of packages back into sync. 

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rkward/+bug/381765
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk-nodoka-engine/+bug/358886
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cairo-dock/+bug/390053

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Nothing specific. 

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
