{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I'm a computer engineer student, who loves open-source and free software.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| gcollura
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gcollura|~gcollura]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email
| 
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://gcollura.github.io|gcollura.github.io]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

'''Ubuntu Telegram (libqtelegram)'''<<BR>> 
I've been contributing since October 2014 in the Telegram app project for Ubuntu for Phones. I've implemented several features and improved the general appearance of the app.
<<BR>> 
'''Calculator App (reboot)'''<<BR>> 
I've contributed to the development of the reboot of the well-known calculator app for Ubuntu for Phones.

=== Future Goals ===

I want to keep contributing to the Ubuntu project, especially to the Telegram App and the other core apps.
I'll continue to host talks with the Italian Ubuntu Community about the development of apps for Ubuntu.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
