{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== How to Participate in the Global Bug Jam ==

== Responsibilities of Local Teams and Participants ==

=== Venue ===

You should pick a venue ahead of time and announce it on your local mailing list to garner interest and participation. Ensure that an internet connection is available

=== Promotion ===

Local Team members should be blogging/twittering about the Global Bug Jam.
Make it a topic in your local IRC channel
Add your LoCo to "The List" of participating groups on the GlobalBugJam wiki page.
Communicate with other LoCos in your region to see what they're doing.
LoCos should be reaching out to local Linux User Groups and asking for participation.
Get in Touch with your local media outlets to do stories on the event also.

=== "Before the Jam" ===

* Ask participants to ensure they have a Launchpad account before they show up and joined the 5-a-day and LoCo team.
* Get feedback on what kind of packages they're interested in:
** Look at the lists of bugs that the bugsquad generated and start working on them. (TODO: Get these from bdmurray)
** Ensure at least some people are in #ubuntu-bugs to coordinate with other teams. (So we don't have a bunch of teams working on the same bugs) 
* Make sure everyone knows about the #ubuntu-bugs IRC channel along with your LoCo's channel
** The IRC channel is a great place to paste links and other information.
** If you need help during the jam, feel free to ask questions in #ubuntu-bugs
** Try to keep your specific Jam's talk in your loco's channel

=== Running it ===
* short introduction (bug statuses, lifecycle of a bug)
* list of bugs that "should be easy"

=== "After the Jam" ===
* Take pictures and add the link to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GlobalBugJam/Stories
** Tag photos with "ubuntu" "global-bugjam-february-09" and some LoCo specific tags like "berlin"
* Get feedback from participants
* Think about planning regular bug jams in the future
* Blog about it, add stuff to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GlobalBugJam/Stories
* Ensure you include participation in your next team report.
* If the venue that you participated in was good (or terrible), document it on the wiki and/or your report.

=== Tutorials on how to run a bug jam ===

==== Purpose ====

IRC Sessions targetted towards community team members who are interested in participating in the Global Bug Jam but have never run one before. These should be targetted for people who want to /run/ bug jams; they aren't actual bug jams. They should be about an hour long and run in the same style as an OpenWeek session.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GlobalBugJam#Need%20Help?

=== References ===
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RunningBugJam
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GlobalBugJam
