{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== London BugJam ====

21st/22nd February 11:00 until 22:00

<pre>
Minnie Business Systems
Finsbury House
23 Finsbury Circus
London
EC2M 7UH

07930 345432

Please use the buzzer on the main door for 1:Redmayne Bentley
</pre>

Direct link to <nowiki>[[http://openstreetmap.org/?lat=51.51774&lon=-0.0842&zoom=15&layers=B000FTF|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.co.uk/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=Finsbury+House,+23+Finsbury+Circus,+London,+London+EC2M,+UK&sll=51.519011,-0.084822&sspn=0.003926,0.013819&gl=en&ie=UTF8&ll=51.519639,-0.085788&spn=0.007851,0.027637&t=h&z=15&iwloc=addr|Google Maps]]</nowiki> and should anyone need help getting round London; see <nowiki>[[http://journeyplanner.tfl.gov.uk/|this page]]</nowiki>.

==== Details ====
 
Hi all, I (#ubuntu-uk: selinuxium) have been allowed to use the conference rooms at work for the bugjam.
There are two rooms, one seats 8 with a projector and the other seats 10 with a plasma allowing for 'led' sessions.
We could squeeze a few more in, but it will be a squeeze.
Tea and Coffee will be provided and there are plenty of watering holes nearby.

I am looking for someone that knows bug triaging fairly well and can handle questions and some of the unexpected likely to come up. Ideally they would have participated in past Bug Days and regularly visit #ubuntu-bugs or the mailing lists.
Hopefully this person would be able to lead some sessions.
If you can, please mark yourself as a possible leader.

Could you please update the list if you are wanting to attend.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''IRC Nick'''
| '''Day/s Attending'''
| '''Leader?'''
|-
| James Thomas
| selinuxium
| 21 - 22
| No
|-
| Steven Marsden-Broad
| Meligoggles
| 21 - 22
| No
|-
| JonathanDavies
| jpds
| 21 - 22
| No
|-
| Johnathon Tinsley
| kirrus
| 21-22
| No
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Chris|Christopher Swift]]</nowiki>
| ianto
| 21 - 22
| Willing to lead transcription session for ubuntu-uk podcast with bzr.
|-
| AdamBagnall
| Bagnaj97
| 21-22
| No
|-
| Alfie Day
| CShadowRun
| both [maybe]
| No
|-
| Julian Burgess
| 
| 21
| No
|-
| Joseph W-R
| webpigeon
| 22 [maybe]
| No
|-
| Nafallo Bjalevik
| Nafallo
| 21-22
| Not up-to-date
|-
| James Westby
| james_w
| 21 (maybe 22)
| Yes
|-
| Simos Xenitellis
| simosx
| 21 (maybe 22)
| No
|}
