{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Birmingham BugJam ====

20th - 22nd February 09:00 until 17:00

<pre>
The Linux Emporium,
Bridge House,
17a Maybrook Road,
Sutton Coldfield,
Birmingham.
B76 1AL
</pre>

This is near ASDA at Minworth, just off the A38 Kingsbury Road. It is on the left hand side near the end of Maybrook Road and opposite Unit 11. There is a white bridge from road level to the top floor of our offices.

Direct link to <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=b76+1al&sie=UTF8&ll=52.536534,-1.786823&spn=0.015767,0.036049&z=14&iwloc=addr|Google Maps]]</nowiki>. should anyone need help getting round Birmingham; see <nowiki>[[http://www.travelinemidlands.co.uk/JourneyPlanner.jsp?vm_Reset_str=true|this page]]</nowiki>.

==== Getting there by public transport ====

The easiest way is to take a train to Chester Road Station, and get picked up from there: give us a ring on 0121 313 3850 say 15 minutes before arriving at Chester Road and someone can pick you up. But ''please'' try and organise things so that a group arrives at the same time as we don't want to spend all morning going back and forth.

==== Facilities ====

* Free Wifi (Of Course!)
* Projector
* Two rooms
* Space for up to 15 (maybe a few more at a push)
* There will be water to drink (fresh from the tap)

==== Details ====
 
Hi all, John Pinner from the Linux Emporium has kindly donated his conference room for the use during the bugjam. 

Times are flexible at the moment, and will depend on when people want to turn up/go home. I'm not adverse to starting later, but I think we'll have to stick to Office Hours. It'd also be nice to try and link up with the other UK bugjams. Please indicate below the times you'd prefer to attend

I am looking for someone that knows bug triaging fairly well and can handle questions and some of the unexpected likely to come up. Ideally they would have participated in past Bug Days and regularly visit #ubuntu-bugs or the mailing lists.
Hopefully this person would be able to lead some sessions.
If you can, please mark yourself as a possible leader.

"I suggest we start at 10 or 10.30 on Saturday or Sunday. John."

Could you please update the list if you are wanting to attend.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''IRC Nick'''
| '''Day/s Attending'''
| '''Preferred Time(s)'''
| '''Leader?'''
| '''Food Requirements, eg Veggie'''
| '''@ train station'''
|-
| Martin Meredith
| Mez
| 20 - 22
| 9 - 5
| If needed
| 
| 
|-
| Ciarán Mooney
| CMooney
| 21-22
| 9 - 5 (don't mind staying longer)
| No
| 
| 9.30AM
|-
| Chris Bagley
| Baggers
| 20-22
| 9 - 5 (don't mind staying longer)
| No
| 
| 
|-
| PaulBroadhead
| pjbroad
| 21
| 9 - 5
| No
| 
| 09:30am
|-
| John Pinner
| pinner
| 20-22
| 9 - the end
| No
| 
| 
|-
| Nick Booker
| nickbooker
| 20,21
| 10 - 4
| No
| 
| 
|-
| Quentin Wright
| qwright
| 20-22
| 10 - 5
| No
| 
| 
|-
| Mark Croft
| n/a
| 20 - 22
| 10 - 5
| No
| 
| 930AM
|-
| Dave Morley
| davmor2
| 20
| 9 - 5
| NO
| 
| 
|-
| Josh Holland
| madmartian
| 20-21
| 9 - 5 (ish)
| No
| 
| 8.18
|-
| Dave Walker
| Daviey
| 20, maybe 21
| 9 - 5 (ish)
| Being harrassed to be
| 
| 
|-
| Scott James Remnant
| Keybuk
| 20 maybe
| Possibly at some point
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Zeth
| zeth
| 21
| Afternoon
| No
| 
| 
|-
| Tim Williams
| Flossie
| 21 possibly
| morning
| No
| 
| 
|}

* andylockran can no longer attend due to other commitments, apologies.
