{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Southend on Sea Linux User Group (SoSLUG) Jam ====

3rd - 4th October - Times 10am to 4pm

<pre>
Southend on Sea Linux User Group (SoSLUG)
TAP (Old Water Works),
North Road,
Southend on Sea,
Essex SS0 7AB
</pre>

TAP (Temporary Art Project) is a new venue located in Southend on Sea for we have some 60 members on our mailing list and growing all the time, with about 15 to 20 that attend regularly. We currently hold weekly Linux User Group meetings on a Wednesday between 8pm and late but you should check with our website <nowiki>[[http://wiki.soslug.org/wiki/tap| SoSLUG wikisite]]</nowiki> for any changes to our weekly meeting days and times.

Direct link to <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.co.uk/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=ss07ab&sll=51.546299,0.653985&sspn=0.047932,0.154324&ie=UTF8&ll=51.546675,0.70231&spn=0.001498,0.004823&z=18&iwloc=A|Google maps to TAP]]</nowiki>.

==== Getting there by public transport ====

The closest Railway Station is Prittlewell Station which is on the Liverpool Street line from London it is approximately 5 minutes walk from this station to the TAP facility. 

From Prittlewell Station (Directions) - Liverpool Street Line

On exit from Prittlewell Station go to the top of the filter road look for "The Railway" Pub East Street and face it this is on the opposite side of the road to which you face. Turn right along East Street towards "Westcliff" you should pass "The Royal Naval Association" on your journey, head towards the "Traffic Lights" at the end of the road.
Cross at the lights continue straight on, walk as far as the BP garage and to your left is North Road. The TAP facility is then a short walk as far as "The Nelson" Pub directly opposite the Pub is the TAP building.

From Southend Central Station (Directions) Fenchurch Street Line

From Southend Central your route is a little longer to walk but from from this Station you could also walk to the Central Bus Depot and get a bus that goes along Victoria Avenue alighting at the "Blue Boar". This Pub is on the corner of Victoria Avenue and West Road walk along West Road as far as the BP garage on your right and to your left is North Road. The TAP facility is then a short walk as far as the Nelson Pub and located directly opposite.

==== Facilities ====

* Free Wifi (Of Course!)
* Two Projectors (One for tutorials the other for IRC)
* Two spacious rooms
* Space for up to 40 in Training room and 60 in the workshop area (maybe a few more at a push)
* There will be food and refreshments
* Parking for approximately 20 Vehicles with additional parking on North Road

All important watering holes include "The Nelson" opposite the TAP facility and "The Blue Boar" on the corner of Victoria Avenue and West Road. Also for those with a more varied diet at the end of North Road is the BP Garage for crisps, sandwiches along with hot and cold drinks.

==== Details ====
 
Hello all Derek Shaw of SoSLUG here, Emma Emmerton and Amy McKenny from TAP have kindly donated gallery space for SoSLUG's first Global Jam all in the team are looking forward to an exciting couple of days, we all look forward to meeting you.

The Global Jam is between 10am and 4pm both Saturday and Sunday the 3rd and 4th October the projection room will be used for planned tutorials ad hoc training could be available in the gallery at the discretion of the attendees.

We are looking for Ubuntu developers and someone that knows bug triaging fairly well that can handle questions and training. Ideally they would have participated in past Bug Days and regularly visit #ubuntu-bugs or the mailing lists.
Hopefully this person would be able to lead some sessions.
If you can, please mark yourself as a possible leader or get in touch with derek AT soslug.org

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''IRC Nick'''
| '''Day/s Attending'''
| '''Preferred Time(s)'''
| '''Leader?'''
| '''Food Requirements, eg Veggie'''
| '''@ train station'''
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}
