{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Gmail ***TECHNICAL support number 1-888-898-7342-=-=-=-Gmail customer service phone number 1-888-898-7342@@ USA Canada

== Initial statement ==

First, let me tell you that I haven't got gmailfs running yet! - I'm just editing this page whenever I get further...

Please feel free to edit the wikipage, or email me with your changes, if you don't have an account (danielklejnstrup@gmail.com)

== Setting up GmailFS ==

First, get SuperUser priviledges:
<pre>
sudo -s -H
</pre>

Install the needed packages:

<pre>
aptitude install gmailfs python-setuptools
</pre>

Upgrade libgmail:
<pre>
easy_install --upgrade libgmail
</pre>

Create the directory for the filesystem:
<pre>
mkdir /mnt/g
</pre>

Adjust the priviledges: 

/!\ REMEMBER TO REPLACE "USERNAME" WITH YOUR USERNAME!

<pre>
chmod 777 /mnt/g
chown USERNAME:USERNAME /mnt/g
</pre>

Open /etc/fstab and insert this in the bottom:
<pre>
vim /etc/fstab
</pre>

/!\ REMEMBER TO REPLACE "USERNAME" AND "PASSWORD" WITH YOUR ACCOUNT INFORMATION! - fsname should be set as something hard to guess!

<pre>
/usr/share/pycentral/gmailfs/site-packages/gmailfs.py /mnt/g gmailfs username=USERNAME,password=PASSWORD,fsname=RANDOM
</pre>

Run "mount -a" to see if everything is fine: (This will be done automatically after reboot!)
<pre>
mount -a
</pre>

== Troubleshooting ==

=== HTTP Error 400: Bad Request ===

The HTTP 400 error is probably due to bugs in libgmail, please go to their homepage and manually upgrade to the newest version:

http://sourceforge.net/projects/libgmail/

=== Proxy??? ===

If you are behind a proxy, gmailfs will probably fail to work...

You will get garbage like this:

<pre>
Ignored option :rw
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/sbin/mount.gmailfs", line 166, in <module>
    main(mountpoint, namedOptions, useEncfs)
  File "/sbin/mount.gmailfs", line 92, in main
    gmailfs.main(mountpoint, namedOptions)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/gmailfs.py", line 1175, in main
    server = Gmailfs(namedOptions,mountpoint,version="gmailfs 0.8.0",usage='',dash_s_do='setsingle')
  File "/usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/gmailfs.py", line 611, in __init__
    self.ga.login()
  File "/usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/libgmail.py", line 320, in login
    raise GmailLoginFailure("Login failed. (Wrong username/password?)")
libgmail.GmailLoginFailure: 'Login failed. (Wrong username/password?)'
Error in sys.excepthook:
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.5/apport_python_hook.py", line 42, in apport_excepthook
    binary = os.path.realpath(os.path.join(os.getcwdu(), sys.argv[0]))
IndexError: list index out of range

Original exception was:
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/sbin/mount.gmailfs", line 166, in <module>
    main(mountpoint, namedOptions, useEncfs)
  File "/sbin/mount.gmailfs", line 92, in main
    gmailfs.main(mountpoint, namedOptions)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/gmailfs.py", line 1175, in main
    server = Gmailfs(namedOptions,mountpoint,version="gmailfs 0.8.0",usage='',dash_s_do='setsingle')
  File "/usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/gmailfs.py", line 611, in __init__
    self.ga.login()
  File "/usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/libgmail.py", line 320, in login
    raise GmailLoginFailure("Login failed. (Wrong username/password?)")
libgmail.GmailLoginFailure: 'Login failed. (Wrong username/password?)'
</pre>

== News ==

Check out the GmailFS page, to see if there's been any changes lately:

http://richard.jones.name/google-hacks/gmail-filesystem/gmail-filesystem.html

---- 
CategoryDocumentation
