{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Default mail application ===

To set Gmail as the default mail application, go to "System -> Preferences -> Preferred applications" and set the mail reader to one of the following:

==== The easy way ====

Install gnome-gmail from http://gnome-gmail.sourceforge.net/ and Gmail will appear as a mail reader in the list.

==== Setting by hand ====

Set the following command as a custom mail reader:

<pre>
bash -c 'sensible-browser "https://mail.google.com/mail?view=cm&tf=0&to=`echo %s | sed 's/mailto://'`"'
</pre>

If the above doesn't work for you, as hasn't for some on 10.10, put the following in a script somewhere in your /home/username folder:

<pre>
chromium-browser "https://mail.google.com/mail?view=cm&tf=0&to=`echo $1 | sed 's/mailto://'`"
</pre>

then set the script's permissions to executable:
<pre>
sudo chmod +x script.sh
</pre>
then point preferred apps to the script.

This can also be done if you have Google Apps, with the following command (remember to replace ''example.com''):

<pre>
bash -c 'sensible-browser "https://mail.google.com/a/example.com/mail?view=cm&tf=0&to=`echo %s | sed 's/mailto://'`"'
</pre>

=== Mail notifications ===
To get notifications about new messages (and also a Launcher icon with unread messages count), install <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/unity-mail|Unity Mail]]</nowiki> application:

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:mitya57/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install unity-mail
</pre>

See also <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/08/unity-mail-gmail-count-desktop-launcher-ubuntu/|this OMG! Ubuntu! post]]</nowiki> for details.
