{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:gnome-soundcard-configuration-gui
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

The sound internals of the ubuntu system is presently very complex and contains multiple components such as alsa and esd, depending on applications used also arts and jack. This is more or less to complex for the end user, and takes courage and time to attempt to configure if it does not operate as one might wish, especially if you have more than one sound device (which is not too uncommon).

A GUI to give on overview over how the sound system works, with application interfaces, alsa internals, io-ports and such to visualize the system and make it configurable by the user itself. You could then remap things, in a fairly easy way, to avoid the cluttered mixer and apply only the everyday functions one might want. This would also help users with complex soundcards, with remapable output and such, and might give an opportonity for loading preconfigurations for standard machines (like laptops). Contribution and understanding of the sound system for intermediate users would increase, and we might even have a working ekiga one day.

I see this as a somewhat critical step towards usability of the ubuntu system.

=== Release Note ===

A GUI to give on overview over how the sound system works, with application interfaces, alsa internals, io-ports and such to visualize the system and make it configurable by the user itself. You could then remap things, in a fairly easy way, to avoid the cluttered mixer and apply only the everyday functions one might want. This would also help users with complex soundcards, with remapable output and such, and might give an opportonity for loading preconfigurations for standard machines (like laptops). Contribution and understanding of the sound system for intermediate users would increase, and we might even have a working ekiga one day.

=== Rationale ===

Contribution and understanding of the sound system for intermediate users would increase, and we might even have a working ekiga one day.

=== Use Cases ===

Anna wants her music to play at the same volume as her movies. And the sound level should be set the same way for the two.

Bernd has a multichannel sound system. He want to be able to configure a good surround balance for his movies, but still have his stereo music through all his speakers.

Celine wants to know how various applications are using alsa and sound daemons to access the sound system.

David wants to rename his three soundcards so that the naming makes sense (aliases).

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
