{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

Starting from Gnome 3.x the old user interface of this desktop environment evolved in a new UI called '''Gnome Shell'''. On Ubuntu this shell is not available by default, since Unity is the main shell presented after a new installation. Luckly the Gnome Team is maintaining an updated PPA that aims to integrate Gnome in Ubuntu. 

== Installation ==

To install Gnome Shell on Ubuntu (only Ubuntu >= 11.04 is supported) just execute these commands:
<pre>
 sudo add-apt-repository ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3
 sudo apt-get update
 sudo apt-get install gnome-shell
</pre>
This will install the '''Gnome Shell 3.2''' on your Ubuntu distribution.

=== Installing Gnome Shell Extensions ===

The Gnome Shell comes with no extensions installed, the updated one are packaged in a different PPA. To install them execute the following commands:
<pre>
 sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ferramroberto/gnome3
 sudo apt-get update
 sudo apt-get install gnome-shell-extensions-common
 sudo apt-get install gnome-tweak-tool
</pre>

== Note (please read) ==

Some people are asking me: '''why a PPA? Gnome 3 is in Oneiric already!'''
It's not exact. First of all the version shipped with Oneiric is not updated, then some packages are missing and even extensions are packaged separately.
