{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

GNUMP3d is a lightweight but powerful streaming media server. This howto will describe how to get GNUMP3d up and running on Ubuntu 5.10.

=== Assumptions ===

This howto assumes that you want to allow internet users to both access and contribute to your music collection. As such, instructions for securing the setup while providing access for remote users are included.

== Installation ==

To install GNUMP3d, run the following in a terminal window (you need to have the Universe repository enabled).

<pre>
$ sudo aptitude install gnump3d
</pre>

== Configuration ==

The installation creates a new user: gnump3d. By default, GNUMP3d expects your media to be placed in /var/music. That location is fine unless you want others to be able to upload music, which we do in this case. So, our first step will be to create an unpriveleged user that can be used to login via ssh.

<pre>
$ sudo adduser musicuser
</pre>

Be sure to give the new account a secure password. Now we want to make sure that GNUMP3d uses our new /home/musicuser folder as the source of the streaming media. To do so, open the /etc/gnump3d/gnump3d.conf file with your favorite text editor. Change the line that looks like 

<pre>
root = /var/music
</pre>

to this

<pre>
root = /home/musicuser
</pre>

Make sure to restart the GNUMP3d daemon whenever you make changes to the configuration. To do so, run the following command.

<pre>
$ sudo /etc/init.d/gnump3d restart
</pre>

Now, in order for the gnump3d user to access these files, we need to add that user to the musicuser group, like so:

<pre>
$ sudo adduser gnump3d musicuser
</pre>

At this point, others can login to your computer via an sftp client and upload music. But there is one problem: *anyone* can access your GNUMP3d website and listen to or download music. So, we need to restrict access using GNUMP3d's simple password protection.

== Securing Access ==

== Modifying Settings ==
== Accessing Your Media ==

To test things out, point your web browser to port 8888 (the default) of your computer's IP address. You should see the main GNUMP3d page. 
----
CategoryNetworking
