{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

<nowiki>[[http://www.gnutelephony.org|GNU Telephony]]</nowiki> is a meta project dedicated to the development and use of free software for telephony.  The <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net/~gnutelephony|Ubuntu GNU Telephony team]]</nowiki> was created to make it easier to deploy and use our packages to create telephony services and support desktop integrated telephony services within Ubuntu.  We choose to focus in particular on the creation of secure VoIP networks as part of the GNU Telephony's <nowiki>[[http://www.gnutelephony.org/index.php/Secure_Call|Secure Calling]]</nowiki> project.

== Contact ==

* The GNU Telephony Meta site: http://www.gnutelephony.org
* The Ubuntu GNU Telephony Team: http://www.launchpad.net/~gnutelephony
* We are found on irc at: #bayonne on irc.freenode.net

== How to Contribute ==

* Packaging and testing
* Bug reports and upstream patches
* Ubuntu specific Faq's and howto guides
* Voices for our phrase library
* Artwork, configurations, and applications for packaging with Ubuntu

== Projects ==

The <nowiki>[[GNUTelephony-SipwitchClientAndServerDeploymentHowTo|SIP Witch Client and Server Deployment How To]]</nowiki> is being created and maintained to make it easier to understand how to create and deploy secure VoIP networks using SIP Witch and Twinkle in Ubuntu.

== Launchpad Membership Policy ==

Team membership is open to anyone interested.

----
'''Sub-pages :''' ----

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
