{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Gobuntu 8.04.1 and future of Gobuntu ===

Gobuntu 8.04.1 is the final release of Gobuntu. The project has merged back to mainline Ubuntu, so there is no need for a separate distribution. Also, Ubuntu cannot reach the level of <nowiki>[[http://www.gnewsense.org/|gNewSense]]</nowiki> since it has restricted + multiverse repositories, but it should aim to incorporate changes from gNewSense to the extent possible.

The new "Free software only" installation option in the normal Ubuntu (press F6 in the boot menu twice) basically achieves what Gobuntu is aiming for, as long as the general goal of having "clean" main and universe repositories is fulfilled (which is goal of the Ubuntu as a whole). Given that many goals Gobuntu has are goals of Ubuntu in general also, and the fact that <nowiki>[[http://www.gnewsense.org/|gNewSense]]</nowiki> is anyway doing the work that can also benefit Ubuntu (knowledge of problematic packages), the mission of Gobuntu is a bit up in the air. There's discussion <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gobuntu-devel/2008-April/000650.html|initiated by Mark Shuttleworth]]</nowiki> on the gobuntu-devel mailing list, continuing also <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gobuntu-devel/2008-May/thread.html|in May]]</nowiki>. Feel free to participate in the discussion so that some conclusion of what'll be done can be made.

=== Download Gobuntu 8.04.1 ===
Gobuntu 8.04.1 is out in alternate install CD version only.

Get it here: <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/gobuntu/releases/8.04.1/release/]]</nowiki>

=== Description ===
Gobuntu is a new flavour of Ubuntu that is aiming to apply the strictest
possible interpretation of the Free Software Foundation's <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html|"Four Freedoms"]]</nowiki> to all content, both code and media, on the disk. The
Gobuntu install disk should include nothing that is not modifiable and
redistributable, and for which source elements are not
available in their entirety. For example, if a PDF is on the disk, then the original
document should also be available with modification rights.

=== Use Cases ===
* A likes Ubuntu technically, but is concerned about her freedom.
* B is a system administrator at an organization, which has a commitment to use only free software.
* C runs a system with high security requirements, allowing only software with source code available to be used.
* D is choosing parts for a commercial hardware platform. He wants to make sure that his company has access to all necessary bits of code so they are able to support their product in future.

=== Relation to Ubuntu ===
Gobuntu is a flavour of Ubuntu, just as Kubuntu and Xubuntu are flavours
of Ubuntu. Gobuntu development happens as part of the broader Ubuntu
project and shares the same archive, so work done to identify
problematic content in the archive and benefit the users of
Ubuntu and Kubuntu as well.

=== Hardware Support ===
At this stage, we recognize that Gobuntu will work with relatively few
laptops and desktops, because of the widespread use of binary-only
firmware. Running Gobuntu on your laptop will be quite an achievement, however we are working with hardware manufacturers to encourage them to make
it possible to use their hardware with an entirely free platform.

=== Importants Links ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gobuntu_logo|Gobuntu logo suggestion]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gobuntu/pkg-non-free|List of all the software that isn't free]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Gobuntu-devel|Gobuntu mailing list]]</nowiki>
* GobuntuHardy
* <nowiki>[[Ubuntu-libre]]</nowiki> early discussion on the project
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-system-distribution-guidelines.html|Guidelines for Free System Distributions]]</nowiki>
