{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Package non-free ==
This page include a list of the software that isn't free software.
We thank you, if you collaborate, but we thank more if you collaborate in the respect  of the table.
Note that there is no need to mention software here that is not in the `main` component of Ubuntu, as Gobuntu will not ship anything outside that component. Non-free software in `main` should be moved to `restricted`.

Additionally, all software in `universe` component should be free software, and if not, should be moved to `multiverse`.

At the current point of time, Gobuntu's definition of free software has not been entirely clarified (see note about software patents in the bottom part of the page) yet however many seem to think it logical that the definition should follow closely with Debian (The OS Ubuntu is based on). The 'what is Gobuntu' webpage says "Gobuntu... endeavors to adhere to the Free Software Foundations four freedoms and intends to provide a base for other free software platforms to build upon with minimal modification required". Compare the idea of restricted usage because of software patent laws in specific countries, but otherwise completely Free code, vs. simpler non-free because the code does not fill the freedom definitions from FSF, OSI or DFSG.

The table is composed as follows:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Name of Software'''
| 
| '''Submitter'''
| 
| '''Cause of Submit'''
|}
'''''Please, put the software in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latin_alphabet#The_English_alphabet|alphabetical]]</nowiki> order.'''''

'''''Please, cite a reference for the "Cause of Submit".'''''

=== Package to remove ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Name of Software'''
| 
| '''Submitter'''
| 
| '''Cause of Submit'''
|}

=== Package to replace ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Name of old Software'''
| 
| '''Name of new Software'''
| 
| '''Submitter'''
| 
| '''Cause of Submit'''
|-
| firefox
| 
| Epiphany or IceCat
| 
| ZX227
| 
| The Charlton Company & Mozilla trademark restrictions on Firefox icon
|-
| Flash Plugin
| 
| Gnash
| 
| HennR
| 
| If you visit youtube or something that requieres flash, you still get the option to install flash or gnash.
|-
| thunderbird
| 
| IceDove
| 
| ZX227
| 
| Mozilla trademark restrictions on Thunderbird icon
|}

=== Package to check ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Name of Software'''
| 
| '''Submitter'''
| 
| '''Cause of Submit'''
|}

==== Packages with possible patent problems ====

Software patents are a threat, but they don't make a software non-free as such. Software patents are legal only in some countries, and it can be argued that the software patent system is so flawed that it impossible to create any software without possibly violating some patent. The following packages are examples of packages which have been reported because of potential patent-related problems:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Name of Software'''
| 
| '''Submitter'''
| 
| '''Cause of Submit'''
|-
| Gnash
| 
| RyanP
| 
| patents
|-
| gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg
| 
| HennR
| Software patents in some countries
|-
| Samba
| 
| F4l3
| 
| patents
|-
| Mono
| 
| anonymous
| 
| patent encumbered with untrustworthy RAND clause from Microsoft
|-
| Mono dependants (ex. Beagle)
| 
| anonymous (clarified by Gegio0)
| 
| unmet dependencies
|}

In Samba and Gnash, also "reverse engineering" was mentioned by the original submitter as the cause, but reverse engineering is a completely legal way and when done without violating anything, produces entirely free software, too. Like eg. with Gnash.

Gnash is one of the <nowiki>[[HighPriorityFreeSoftwareProjects]]</nowiki> and should be supported instead.

tenshu: please consider that software patent does not exists in many countries.

<nowiki>[[LunaTick]]</nowiki>: From <nowiki>[[Gobuntu-Policies]]</nowiki>:

"Gobuntu does not have or need a separate attitude to software patents to that of the Ubuntu project.

In the current software world it is common to see accusations of patent violation which do not specify what patents are affected or how the software violates them. While Ubuntu is prepared to take evidenced and specified allegations of patent infringement seriously, without proof of the patent infringement such accusations are worthless."
