{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== What is it? ===

The goetveld package enables <nowiki>[[http://golang.org|Go]]</nowiki> programs to interact
with the Rietveld code review server.

It was developed within Canonical so that some projects can make use of
Rietveld for managing code reviews of Bazaar branches in Launchpad.

=== API documentation ===

The API documentation is currently available at:

    http://goneat.org/lp/goetveld/rietveld

=== Installing ===

To make use of goetveld, just run the following command:
<pre>
$ goinstall launchpad.net/goetveld/rietveld
</pre>

And then import "launchpad.net/goetveld/rietveld" in your Go source code.

=== Example ===

The following example will create a new issue and send the difference between
the two Bazaar branches for review.
<pre>
        delta, err := rietveld.BazaarDiffBranches(parentPath, branchPath)
        if err != nil {
                panic(err)
        }

        issue := &rietveld.Issue{
                Subject: "Change subject",
                Description: "The change description.",
        }

        err = rietveld.CodeReview.SendDelta(issue, delta)
        if err != nil {
                panic(err)
        }
</pre>

=== Reporting bugs ===

Please report bugs at:

    https://launchpad.net/goetveld

=== Running tests ===

To run tests, first install <nowiki>[[http://labix.org/gocheck|gocheck]]</nowiki> with:
<pre>
$ goinstall launchpad.net/gocheck
</pre>

Then run gotest as usual:

<pre>
$ gotest
</pre>

=== License ===

goetveld is licensed under the LGPLv3 with an additional exception allowing static linkage.

See the LICENSE file for details.

=== Contact ===

To get in touch, send a message to <gustavo.niemeyer@canonical.com>.
