{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

----'''Dhastha Gheer'''----

----'''Contact information'''----
 . Your Name: Dhastha Gheer
 . Email Address: dhasthagheer [at] gmail [dot] com 
 . IRC nickname: dhastha 
 . Launchpad ID: Dhastha 
 . Skype username: dhasthagheer 
 . Webpage/blog: http://dowithlinux.wordpress.com
 . College-University: Pallavan Engineering College, Kanchipuram, Tamilnadu, India 
 . Major: Computer Application
----'''Project'''----
----'''Project Name'''----
Full Launchpad Translations API
----'''Project Description'''----
The aim is to implement a Full API for the Launchpad Translations component. This will allow accessing translations-related data from Launchpad through launchpadlib. The API can be subdivided in several components (e.g. reporting -already being developed-, imports queue, translations, etc.). It will open the door to a broad range of uses of Launchpad Translations, and it has more automated management of Ubuntu Translation. 
-----'''API COMPONENTS'''-----

'''1. Setup projects with translations using API'''

This will perform Register a project in LP, enable all LP features, get templates imported, approved, set up bazaar branches and permissions

'''2. Manage project and Ubuntu translations'''

We can translate our project almost any language using this application. The data's from launchpad will be access by integrating launchpadlib. All we need are Launchpad account. This project will manage import and export GNU gettext's file format (.pot, .po, .mo) , automatic import queue management, Reporting, etc.

'''3. Manage translators and translation groups'''

The Launchpad Translators group is a set of teams and individuals working on translating software hosted in Launchpad. This project will manage Translator details, we can check the status of Launchpad Translator groups

----'''4. Template approval and review (in the import queue)'''----

We can import our translating file from a Bazaar branch. When importing translation files into Launchpad from a tarball or a Bazaar branch, we must follow launchpad's translations import policy. So our API must check tarball or branch
* Contain at least one .pot file with English strings, rather than message IDs or another language. We cannot upload a .po file on its own.
* Give each template its own directory

So using this component we can follow the constraints of Launchpad importing guidelines

'''5. Develop client-side translation tool that integrates with LP'''

This tool will integrate with Launchpad, providing review, translation and suggestion capabilities, including ability to do mass operations like "revert to upstream translations".To revert a string to its upstream version, look it up in its translation page and select the "Packaged" translation (and then save the changes on that page, of course). It will then "stick" to the upstream version: when a new upstream translation for that string is uploaded, the package will automatically upgrade to the new translation.

'''6. Provide ability to report on the status of Ubuntu translations through API'''

This tool picks the status of a project in Launchpad translation.Following are the staus of a project Translation unchanged since last synchronized,
* Changed in Launchpad ,
* Newly translated in Launchpad ,
* Untranslated.

----'''Miscellaneous tools'''----

* Navigation of the site in custom applications
* Requesting downloads, fetching individual messages or suggestions, etc.

----'''Do you have any other project to do instead, which ones?'''----

I will focus on this project only. I will not be spending time on other projects during the summer

----'''Why did you like this idea?'''----

Because:

* I keen interest in Launchpad Translation
* API is very interesting one

----'''Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it'''----

* Modify the launchpad-lib to access the Launchpad Translation
* Setup client side online translation
* Launchpad web interface shall be modify to expose fetching individual messages or suggestion

----'''Give us details about the milestones for this project'''----

* Before June: Get knowledge of Launchpad core development process.
* First week of June: Learn Launchpad Translation policies and rules and regulations
* Second week of June: Understand the function of Launchpad Translation Components
* End of June: Implement the items mentioned in the API components 
* First week of July: Implement Miscellaneous tools
* Second week of July: Submitting the code for mid-term evaluation.
* Third week of July: Testing and Documenting.
* End of July: Complete all other pending work, test the code, fix the bug, submitting the code for final evaluation. 

----'''Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?'''----

* It will help to translate more project in our own language in Launchpad
* It will reduce the wastage of time
* If more project translated the user of ubuntu will increase

----'''Open Source'''----

----'''Please describe any previous Open Source development experience'''----
'''1. Multi youtube file downloader'''

I have created a python script to download multiple youtube file at running once. It is command line application integrated with youtube-dl. At running we have to give youtube vedio file link. It will download all files one by one.
Here is my code  http://code.google.com/p/autoyoutubedown

'''2. Multi Pdf file downloader'''

There are some website having lots of pdf file. If we need it all it is so hard to download. We have to click one by one. This is a simple python script in wich webscrabing technique is used. It is also command line tool. This script will search pdf file download link in a user specified website and it will download all the pdf file one by one. Through this we can save our precious time. Here is my code http://code.google.com/p/autopdfdown/

'''3. A simple address book in php'''

This is a simple address book managing script using php mysql. This script manage our contact list and stored it in a database. Here is my code http://code.google.com/p/managecontact/

4. I am currently translating "Getting started with Ubuntu 10.04" manual guide into Tamil with Kanchi linux user group members. http://kanchilug.wordpress.com/2010/03/21/translating-ubuntu-manual-into-tamil/

----'''Why are you interested in Open Source?'''----

Open source providing software freedom. I using Ubuntu for the last one year. You can understand my interest in open source by the following of my activity
* Me and my friends joined together started a Linux user group called Kanchilug and spreading awareness about FOSS. And we are conducting weekend lug meeting from the past one year.
Here is the blog http://kanchilug.wordpress.com/
* To make awareness about open source application I am creating OAOD (One application One day) which means that In ubuntu operating system there are thousands of applications are available. So I started to send mail to all linux users about ubuntu software applications from synaptic package manager. On this am sending about a application and its features and the way of installation. 
Here is the Blog: http://dowithlinux.wordpress.com/

----'''Availability'''----

----'''How long will the project take? When can you begin?'''----

This project takes two months to complete. I can begin after my current semester ends that is may 3rd week

----'''How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)'''----

Around 6 to 7 hours per day. So totally More than 30 hours weekly i can dedicate to this project

----'''Where will you based during the summer?'''----

Tamilnadu, India

----'''Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)'''----
No

----'''Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)'''----

I don know any other student who having interest in Launchpad translation

----'''Others'''----

----'''Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)'''----

No

----'''Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?'''----

No

----'''Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?'''----

Google Summer of Code is a global program that offers student developers to write code for various open source software projects. I want to spend my summer in useful way. And i can also get paid for working

----'''Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?'''----

For the last one year i am using Ubuntu operating system only. I am interest in Ubuntu Launchpad. So i gave first preference to Ubuntu as a mentoring origanisation.

----'''Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?'''----

I want to use this summer in a productive way. So i want to participate in this. I have open source experience as i mentioned above. I have experience with Python, C/C++, PHP, open source application.
