{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

To enable you to do most of the tasks listed, you are going to need to have an Ubuntu SSO account. This will enable you to login to Launchpad in order to push code, the wiki for editing, the QA trackers for reporting - in fact all of Ubuntu's infrastructure is available to you with this account.

=== Ubuntu SSO/Launchpad Login ===

To create your account go to the <nowiki>[[https://login.launchpad.net/+new_account |login]]</nowiki> page and enter your details. Follow the instruction you will receive in your confirmation e-mail.

Once you have confirmed your SSO account, go to the Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/+login|login]]</nowiki> page and complete your Launchpad account.

=== Git ===

Information about setting up Git can be found <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/git.html|here]]</nowiki>

=== Launchpad and Bazaar ===

So you can pull code and push when you are ready, you will need to upload an SSH key and integrate bzr with your local machine. Details for doing both of these can be found on the QA Team Tools <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/DevelopmentToolsSetup | Setup]]</nowiki> page.

Information related to working with branches on Launchpad can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/DevelopmentToolsUsage |here]]</nowiki>.
