{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Google Code In Contest 2010 ==

I am trying to get support to have Ubuntu participate in the Google Code-in contest for k-12 students.
http://code.google.com/opensource/gci/2010-11/index.html

It is a great opportunity to expose new students to the wonderful world of Ubuntu, get some exciting projects off the ground and get good exposure for the projects, students and organisations alike.

The main goal for this program is to encourage K-12 (ages 13 - 18) student participation in the open source world. It is a great opportunity for students in any area to become involved in different areas of the Ubuntu project.  Google has outlines the following areas for involvement:

   1. Code: Tasks related to writing or refactoring code
   2. Documentation: Tasks related to creating/editing documents
   3. Outreach: Tasks related to community management and outreach/marketing
   4. Quality Assurance: Tasks related to testing and ensuring code is of high quality
   5. Research: Tasks related to studying a problem and recommending solutions
   6. Training: Tasks related to helping others learn more
   7. Translation: Tasks related to localization
   8. User Interface: Tasks related to user experience research or user interface design and interaction

The program is open to students ages 13 - 18.

 

=== Participating ===

We are looking for both students and mentors.  See the appropriate page below for more information.

* <nowiki>[[Students|Information for Students]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Mentors|Information for Mentors]]</nowiki>

Participants must be eligible according to the rules of the Summer of Code programme available from Google's Code-in <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/opensource/gci/2010-11/index.html]]</nowiki>.

=== Project Ideas ===

We need exciting project ideas - preferably with detailed specs.  Ideas can be related to all parts of the Ubuntu landscape.

If you have a project idea, and would like it to be considered, please add a project headings with a brief description to  <nowiki>[[Ideas|Ubuntu Project Ideas]]</nowiki>.

'''Remember''' : A good idea that has been discussed with a mentor beforehand, will give that proposal a priority. If we are of the opinion that Ubuntu would benefit from the project and there's a mentor willing to mentor your project, you will be paired up with them. The mentors then will rank the applications and submit the ranked list to Google. Google then, decides how many projects each organization gets, and selects the ''top n'' applications for that organization, where ''n'' is the number of projects assigned to them.

=== Important links ===
* <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/opensource/gci/2010-11/index.html|Project's website]]</nowiki>
* 

=== Who to contact ===
If you are interested in an specific Ubuntu project or if you have your own idea, apply at http://code.google.com/opensource/gci/2010-11/index.html - however you might want to discuss with Ubuntu Mentor first, so you can see how much interest there is and what you might want to bear in mind before you apply:

* http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityTeam
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/Contact

If you have any problems, send us an mail to: dinda@ubuntu.com
----
CategoryEducation
