{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Improving Harvest
** DanielHolbach
** <nowiki>[[http://harvest.ubuntu.com/|Harvest]]</nowiki> should be the number-one to-go place to find out what needs to be done in Ubuntu. A few things make this still a bit hard. One is searches and being able to bookmark them, the generated URLs are a bit problematic right now. This and some general cleanup would be a great project, Django and Javascript knowledge are important.
* Implement syslog namespace
** SergeHallyn
** <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/lxc|Containers]]</nowiki> share the host's syslog, and so can read, write, and clear them.  A syslog namespace should prevent the container from accessing or clearing kernel messages.  Userspace-generated messages should go to the container's own syslog.  Ideally, a new ns_printk() kernel function should be provided to target certain kernel-generated messages (like iptables messages).
* Improved multiple devpts mounts support
** SergeHallyn
** The current devpts mounts support is insufficient.  <nowiki>[[https://lkml.org/lkml/2012/1/23/532|Linus]]</nowiki> has proposed a very simple solution - make all devpts mounts newinstances.  To do this requires some work both in kernel and userspace.
* Implement cgroup fake root
** SergeHallyn
** Ideally, when a container mounted cgroups, it would see a namespaced view where the cgroup of the container's init was shown as the root ('/') cgroup.  See https://lkml.org/lkml/2012/1/23/532 for previous post and discussion.
* Communtu appliance system and library
** TorstenFranz and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~till-mossakowski|Till Mossakowski]]</nowiki>
** Current <nowiki>[[http://www.communtu.org|Communtu]]</nowiki> LiveCDs are based on the Ubuntu Desktop edition. Appliances (like a LAMP, Joomla or Wikimedia installation) will by based on Ubuntu Server edition. An appliance library will store LiveCDs, DVDs and virtual machines, with discussion and support. Note that the CD for the server edition is technically very different from the CD for desktop edition. Required skills: ruby on rails; bash; Ubuntu internals 
* Dialogue system in Communtu
** TorstenFranz and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~till-mossakowski|Till Mossakowski]]</nowiki>
** The modern way of installing your computer should not be via endless googling and asking your friends what software you need, but through a dialogue system that asks you some questions about your needs, and based on that, makes suggestions for suitable software (which then can be bundled to a LiveCD or virtual machine using the other parts of <nowiki>[[http://www.communtu.org|Communtu]]</nowiki>). We have some existing linguistic ontology and some dialogue framework in mind that could be used, but are not commited to this. Required skills: ontologies; a bit of linguistics; AI; a bit of ruby on rails (where the latter could also be learned during the project) 
* Improving Clicompanion  
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bdfhjk|Marek Bardoński]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/clicompanion|Clicompanion]]</nowiki> is a tool to store and run Terminal commands from a GUI. People unfamiliar with the Terminal will find CLI Companion a useful way to become acquainted with the Terminal and unlock its potential. Required skills: none (Learning basics of python is a goal of this project)
* Expanding tasks in Algorithm School 
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bdfhjk|Marek Bardoński]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/as|Algorithm School]]</nowiki> This program is designed for novice programmers, who want to test and improve their skills. Currently we have only about 30 tasks for training. We need to expand tasks database, and add additional functions for program. Optional desired skills: QT, C++

For Bazaar project ideas, see <nowiki>[[http://wiki.bazaar.canonical.com/SummerOfCode2012|this page]]</nowiki>.
