{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

----'''Dhastha Gheer'''----

----'''Contact information'''----

* Your Name: Dhastha Gheer
* Email Address: dhasthagheer [at] gmail [dot] com
* IRC nickname: dhastha
* Launchpad ID: Dhastha
* Skype username: dhasthagheer
* Webpage/blog: http://dowithlinux.wordpress.com
* College-University: Pallavan Engineering College, Kanchipuram, Tamilnadu, India
* Major: Computer Application 

----'''Project'''----

----'''Project Name'''----

----'''Sound theme creator for ubuntu'''----

----'''Project Description'''----

The ability to allowing the user to have custom sounds was removed in karmic. GNOME sound themes are a good idea, but are badly implemented/documented and a lack of utilities do not allow users to simply create a sound theme. Most of  sound themes are buggy, are changing and have not taken off yet.

This project main aims to 
* Create a utility to make sound themes 
* Allow users to specify per event sound files.

----'''Its Components'''----

----'''1. Setup tool'''----

This will perform installation with necessary sound packages

----'''2. Sound preference tool'''----

It will give complete solution for sound preference.  It will allow user to volume control, Hardware selection,
input output device selection and it will provide settings.

----'''3. Custom themes selection'''----

This package will contains some default themes with 100 of possible events. User can also choose what they like

----'''4. Sound theme creation'''----

The main idea of this projects is that utility to create custom theme for user with their own sound files

----'''5. Sound file manager'''----

This tool will allow user to save their collection of sound file in a index.theme file. And a stereo folder with all the sounds (converted to .oga format if needed). We can add or remove sounds to possible events. The main idea of this tools is that it will accept any sound file format and will convert into required file format.So user can not worry about importing file format.

----'''6. Manual crop tool'''----

There is a possible that user can assign big sound file to a single events. This tool allow user to crop sound file. It will assign to specified events

----'''Miscellaneous tools'''----

* A tool to search sound file from internet
* Enable disable option of sound themes 

----'''Do you have any other project to do instead, which ones?'''----

I will focus on this project only. I will not be spending time on other projects during the summer

----'''Why did you like this idea?'''----

Because:

* I have interest in sound editing
* Creating user interface is very interesting one 

----'''Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it'''----

* Modify the gnome-volume-control of 8.10
* Collecting sound files 
* Create graphical user interface

----'''Give us details about the milestones for this project'''----

* Before June: Get knowledge of sound packages in ubuntu.
* First week of June: Collecting sound files for default themes
* Second week of June: Create User interface
* End of June: Implement the items mentioned in the Its components
* First week of July: Implement Miscellaneous tools
* Second week of July: Submitting the code for mid-term evaluation.
* Third week of July: Testing and Documenting.
* End of July: Complete all other pending work, test the code, fix the bug, submitting the code for final evaluation. 

----'''Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?'''----

* It allow custom sound theme, various people like different sounds so people will be happy with this
* Ubuntu will looks like more amazing one. The user of ubuntu will increase more and more.
* This will improve sound effects of ubuntu  

----'''Open Source'''----

----'''Please describe any previous Open Source development experience'''----

'''1. Multi youtube file downloader'''

I have created a python script to download multiple youtube file at running once. It is command line application integrated with youtube-dl. At running we have to give youtube vedio file link. It will download all files one by one. Here is my code http://code.google.com/p/autoyoutubedown

'''2. Multi Pdf file downloader'''

There are some website having lots of pdf file. If we need it all it is so hard to download. We have to click one by one. This is a simple python script in wich webscrabing technique is used. It is also command line tool. This script will search pdf file download link in a user specified website and it will download all the pdf file one by one. Through this we can save our precious time. Here is my code http://code.google.com/p/autopdfdown/

'''3. A simple address book in php'''

This is a simple address book managing script using php mysql. This script manage our contact list and stored it in a database. Here is my code http://code.google.com/p/managecontact/

----'''Why are you interested in Open Source?'''----

Open source providing software freedom. I using Ubuntu for the last one year. You can understand my interest in open source by the following of my activity

* Me and my friends joined together started a Linux user group called Kanchilug and spreading awareness about FOSS. And we are conducting weekend lug meeting from the past one year. Here is the blog http://kanchilug.wordpress.com/

* To make awareness about open source application I am creating OAOD (One application One day) which means that In ubuntu operating system there are thousands of applications are available. So I started to send mail to all linux users about ubuntu software applications from synaptic package manager. On this am sending about a application and its features and the way of installation. Here is the Blog: http://dowithlinux.wordpress.com/

----'''Availability'''----

----'''How long will the project take? When can you begin?'''----

This project takes two months to complete. I can begin after my current semester ends that is may 3rd week

----'''How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)'''----

Around 6 to 7 hours per day. So totally More than 30 hours weekly i can dedicate to this project

----'''Where will you based during the summer?'''----

Home town

----'''Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)'''----

No

----'''Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)'''----

I don know any other student who having interest in Launchpad translation

----'''Others'''----

----'''Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)'''----

No

----'''Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?'''----

No

----'''Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?'''----

Google Summer of Code is a global program that offers student developers to write code for various open source software projects. I want to spend my summer in useful way. And i can also get paid for working

----'''Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?'''----

For the last one year i am using Ubuntu operating system only. I am interest in Ubuntu Launchpad. So i gave first preference to Ubuntu as a mentoring origanisation.

----'''Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?'''----

I want to use this summer in a productive way. So i want to participate in this. I have open source experience as i mentioned above. I have experience with Python, C/C++, PHP, open source application. 
