{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

A Little About Me:

* 27 years old
* Ameircan living in Hyvinkää Finland
* studying at a secondary school, final year

My Family:
* I am Married to my wonderful wife Katri
* We are expecting our first child to be born at any day now.
* In my immediate family I am the oldest of 5 Children.  I and my Brother Joey use Linux every day.  My Father is the greatest challenge for me as he feels Linux is a toy.  Grr.

Interests
* Computers, algorithms, programming
* Living languages
* Literature of the 20th century
* East Asian culture

Programming Languages I Use.
* Bash
* Python, PyGTK
* a little PHP,XHTML,CSS
* JAVA
Programs I have made:
Phimagefront : A program that runs phimage a program created by Pete Savage of Edubuntu
CamServFront : A Poweful collection of webcam server, webserver, and a java app glued together with my python program. For live webcam broadcasting.  Very cool program I use often with my family.
MeMaker : An avatar creation program that can take svg files and place them together easily so that you can amke a scalable Avatar image.  This is my current pet project.

My History With Linux:
In 1999 I purchased a discount rack version of Mandrake Linux.  I had no idea what it was.  I followed the instructions and erased everything on my computer.  But Linux looked pretty cool!  So I kept it and slowly learned to where I am today.  I have converted many many people to Linux.  I haven't used windows since then.  And love every moment I use gnome and Ubuntu.  I am avid about Linux and Open source ideology.  This last year I created the first Linux club in Haaga-Helia University... we have just been accepted for school credit.  I have also created a seminar, with sponsership and all, that spoke to students about Linux and how powerful open source tools are in the community and in business.  I am currently organizing another seminar on Linux for Business.

Contact Information:
* Ubuntuforums.org: encompass
* Email: encompass%&gmail?com
* Jabber: same as above... feel free to add me, I love to chat.
* Irc: encompass- @ -freenode.net; ussually in #phimage

On another note: If I am excepted for GSoC it will be my full time job this summer.  It WILL be completed there is no doubt about it.
