{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Google Summer of Code 2009 ==

Ubuntu has applied for the Google Summer of Code 2009.

It is a great opportunity to expose new students to the wonderful world of Ubuntu, get some exciting projects off the ground and get good exposure for the projects, students and organisations alike.

SoC 2009 starts this year, with applications being accepted during the month of March, so there are even better chances to get projects for the second Ubuntu release this year (around October 2009).

=== Participating ===

We are looking for both students and mentors.  See the appropriate page below for more information.

* <nowiki>[[Students|Information for Students]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Mentors|Information for Mentors]]</nowiki>

Participants must be eligible according to the rules of the Summer of Code programme available from Google's Summer of Code <nowiki>[[http://socghop.appspot.com/document/show/program/google/gsoc2009/faqs|FAQ]]</nowiki>.

=== Project Ideas ===

We need exciting project ideas - preferably with detailed specs.  Ideas can be related to the following broad topics:

* Ubuntu
* Edubuntu
* Kubuntu
* Accessibility

If you have a project idea, and would like it to be considered, please add a project headings with a brief description to <nowiki>[[Ideas|this page]]</nowiki>.  Selected projects will be tracked on Blueprint.

If you are ready to create a detailed spec please add it to <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu|Blueprint]]</nowiki>.  We would encourage members of the community who have been thinking of a cool new feature or plan to seize the opportunity to get it   into the idea pool, as it might just get selected and implemented.
