{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Google SoC 2010: Information for Mentors ==

Thank you for your interest in volunteering as a mentor. 

Without your commitment, it would be impossible for us to participate. You will be mentoring a student! This is a great opportunity for you to learn management skills and to gain experience in guiding people. 

Mentors will choose a student and provide guidance to help the student bring their project to completion. It is very important to consider common interests in projects and working in a similar timezone. 

Prospective mentors should be active Ubuntu developers who have been able to make a useful and sustained contribution to Ubuntu, and have demonstrated an ability to lead the community in further development of the distribution. You need to be an <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu member]]</nowiki>.

You'll be responsible for answering any questions the selected students have, and help them to settle into the community for the duration of the SoC.  You will also be responsible for providing feedback to Google, the Student and Ubuntu on the project progress, as well as evaluating the project at the end of the programme.

If you think you would be interested, please let us know! Add your name and project <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GoogleSoC2010/Mentorslist|here]]</nowiki> or write to us:

Consider this opportunity if you have experience as a manager, project manager, a team coordinator, teacher or something similar. If this is the first time you are going to guide a student, please ask for help and read the manuals below.

* Make sure you have the time to mentor a student (It is suggested that you dedicate 4 to 5 hours a week)
* Designate a back up in case you can no longer participate
* Keep in touch with your student
* If you can't reply, please advise the administrator or your back-up
* Note that you might be requested to travel to Google Headquarters (California) for the Mentors Summit
* Manuals to read:
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/wiki/AdviceforMentors|Google Advice for Mentors]]</nowiki>
** Suggested <nowiki>[[http://people.gnome.org/~federico/docs/summer-of-code-mentoring-howto|Guide for Mentors]]</nowiki>

For your time and trouble you will receive a cool limited edition t-shirt!

If you would like to volunteer to be a mentor, please contact ubuntu-soc@lists.ubuntu.com

You can register directly by following these steps:
* Sign up as a mentor: <nowiki>[[http://socghop.appspot.com/gsoc/org/apply_mentor/google/gsoc2010|Mentors Application]]</nowiki>
* Until April 9th, engage with students on <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-soc|the ubuntu-soc mailing list]]</nowiki>.
* From April 9th to April 21st choose projects here: http://socghop.appspot.com/
* '''<nowiki>[[http://socghop.appspot.com/document/show/gsoc_program/google/gsoc2010/faqs#timeline|More timeline.]]</nowiki>'''

'''WARNING: If you attempt to register as a mentor, you WILL NOT be able to register as a student.'''
