{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/word-puzzle-generator
* '''Packages affected''': None

=== Summary ===

This is an application that helps children to learn how to write and practice many words. Trying to improve and getting a more dynamic method to learning. Helping the teachers to provide one more fun class.

=== Rationale ===

The children needs one more interesting and dynamic mode how learn to read and write. 

=== Use cases ===

* The '''teacher''' can ''generate'' a crossword, word search, hangman and print these;
* The '''child''' can ''practice'' its '''write and read skills''' ''playing'' in the software one of the following games:
     1. crossword puzzle;

     2. word search;

     3. word scramble;

     4. hangman; 
 

=== Scope ===

* '''It generates crossword puzzle - ''' the child can play the crossword game; 
* '''It generates word searches - ''' the child can play the word search game;
* '''It generates word scramble -''' the child can play the word scramble game;
* '''It generates hangman -''' the child can play the hangman game;
* '''It prints games -''' the crossword, word search and hangman generated games will be printed;
* '''It registry new words -''' there are the possibility to store new words 

=== Design ===

A PyGTK fronted will interact with the main parts of the program. 

=== Implementation ===

Desired solution in Edubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.edubuntu.org/TeacherRecommendedProjects?highlight=%28teache%29|wishlist]]</nowiki>.

==== Code ====

Code will be entirely Python Programming. Created using the Python Plugin for Eclipse.

==== Data preservation and migration ====

Data will be storage in SVN of Google and I will always have a copy on my laptop.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
