{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

We need good people to help us moderate G+ as the amount of spam and noise is increasing. I would like for this to be an inclusive lightweight process, so I don't think there's a need for a governance board or anything. 

I think that ideally a candidate should be an Ubuntu Member, but this isn't a requirement, but you do need to sign the <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/100275/how-do-i-sign-the-ubuntu-code-of-conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. If you're not a member consider applying for this anyway, all forms of contribution in the project is welcome. 

If you want to moderate the G+ community please fill in the following form and put it at the bottom of the list. Then myself (Jorge Castro) and Jacob Petticord will pick moderators and we'll go from there.

* Name: 
* Launchpad-id:
* Ubuntu Member: [y/n]
* Timezone: (For coverage reasons) 
* Why would you be an awesome moderator?:

== Applicants ==

* Name: Jorge Castro (example application)
* Launchpad-id: http://launchpad.net/~jorge
* Ubuntu Member: [y/n] y
* Timezone: Eastern US
* Why would you be an awesome moderator?: Put things in here that you've done, maybe links to other places/forums you've moderated, your theory of moderation. This isn't rocket science, just show us you're a trustworthy person that won't ruin the community on G+. 

----

 
