{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Google SoC 2007: Information for Mentors ==

Ubuntu is participating in the <nowiki>[[GoogleSoC2007|Google Summer of Code 2007]]</nowiki>, and is looking for mentors for its student participants.

Prospective mentors should be active developers who have been able to make a useful and sustained contribution to Ubuntu, and have demonstrated an ability to lead the community in further development of the distribution.

You'll be responsible for answering any questions the selected students have, and help them to settle into the community for the duration of the SoC.  You will also be responsible for providing feedback to Google, the Student and Ubuntu on the project progress, as well as evaluating the project at the end of the programme.

For your time and trouble you will receive a cool limited edition t-shirt!

* <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/wiki/AdviceforMentors|AdviceforMentors]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://primates.ximian.com/~federico/docs/summer-of-code-mentoring-howto/index.html|HowTo on Mentoring]]</nowiki>

If you would like to volunteer to be a mentor, please contact ubuntu-soc-owner@lists.ubuntu.com.

You can register directly by following these steps:

1. Login to your Google Account.
2. Visit http://code.google.com/soc/mentor_step1.html and update your profile.

'''WARNING: If you attempt to register as a mentor, you WILL NOT be able to register as a student.'''
