{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/history-creator
* '''Packages affected''': None

=== Summary ===

Educational Software where the student creates his own histories based on interpretation and knowledge using pictures and texts enabled by teacher. The same teacher can create a history which the student has to finish with his point of view, estimulating the student's creativity and making the learning more dynamic and collaborative. 

=== Rationale ===

Based on constructivist pedagogical approach, this application proposes a environment which the own student is responsible for his learning process, exposing their ideas, experiences and point of views of the presented content or wished.

=== Use cases ===
* The teacher can make an history for his alumns. 
* The student can make a new history
* The student can accomplish a history already exists
* The student can test his skills running the graphical puzzle option. 
* The teacher can view the results of graphical puzzle and define different levels for his students.

=== Scope ===

* '''Graphical puzzle - ''' the student can test his skills accomplishing the history through of graphical puzzle.  
* '''History Creator Window -''' the student put the pictures on the History window in way to explore his point of view or to accomplish the teacher's reasoning. 
* '''Teacher Manager Window -''' The teacher can set up the pictures and history template to turn available for the students.
 
=== Design ===

A PyGTK frontend will interact with the main parts of the program. 

==== Code ====

Code will be entirely Python Programming and MySQL. Created using the Python Plugin for Eclipse.

==== Data preservation and migration ====

Data will be storage in SVN of Google and I will always have a copy on my laptop.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
