{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/math-test-for-children
* '''Packages affected''': None

=== Summary ===

This program "mtc" solves difficulties and help children to exercise some questions about different topics. The system generate quiz tests and take grade for each test. In few words, a Math system test for Edubuntu/Linux.

=== Rationale ===
When I was child I had many difficulties to learn math. My difficulty , Edubuntu, python and gtk gave me the idea to create a software for children   learn math as simple as possible.

=== Use cases ===

* The child needs exercise "multiplication". The child open the "mtc", mark the checkbox multiplication and solve questions about multiplication. 
* The child needs exercise "division". The child open the "mtc", mark the checkbox division and solve questions about division. 
* The child needs exercise "one variable algebra". The child open the "mtc" , mark the checkbox one variable algebra and solve questions about one variable algebra. 

=== Scope ===

* '''Select how many questions in the test''' - The child can choose how many questions had in each test
* '''Generate automatic tests for math addition'''
* '''Generate automatic tests for math subtraction'''
* '''Generate automatic tests for math multiplication'''
* '''Generate automatic tests for math division'''
* '''Generate automatic tests for one variable algebra'''
* '''Generate automatic tests for two variable algebra'''
* '''Generate answers for each create test'''
* '''Generate a grade for each solved test'''

=== Design ===

A PyGTK frontend will interact with the main parts of the program. 

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

Code will be entirely Python Programming. Created using the Python Plugin for Eclipse.

==== Data preservation and migration ====

Data will be storage in SVN of Google and I will always have a copy on my laptop.

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
