{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contact Information'''<<BR>><<BR>> - eMail: vincenzo.ampolo&#064;gmail.com<<BR>> - IRC: goshawk on Freenode<<BR>> - Jabber: vincenzo.ampolo&#064;gmail.com
|}

=== About Me ===

* Name: Vincenzo Ampolo (aka goshawk)
* Born 1987 in Italy, living in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milan|Milan]]</nowiki> since 2006.
* Languages: Italian and English.
* GNU/Linux user since 2000 starting with mandrake 8.2 (now mandriva), then red hat and then debian for 4 years. From 3 years i'm using ubuntu for both servers and desktops.
* Websites: <nowiki>[[http://vincenzo-ampolo.net|Italian blog]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://goshawknest.wordpress.com/|English blog]]</nowiki> 

=== Activities ===
* Ex project leader of <nowiki>[[http://splashy.alioth.debian.org/wiki/|Splashy]]</nowiki>
* Working on ubuntu/debian arm port for embedded devices like <nowiki>[[http://www.openmoko.com/| Openmoko Freerunner]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://openpandora.org/| Openpandora]]</nowiki>
* Working on <nowiki>[[http://www.digitalmars.com/d/|D programming language]]</nowiki> integration on ubuntu/debian.
* Active member for ubuntu release parties
** <nowiki>[[http://i3poli.org/2009/04/16/jaunty-release-party/ | Italian Jaunty Release Party]]</nowiki>
=== Development Skills ===

I started programming in C at 14, doing a little irc bot called Karrarmato. At 15/16 years old i learned C++ and developed splashy, when it was ported to C, i left the project leadership. At 18 i learned python and i focused on web applications developing with <nowiki>[[http://pylonshq.com/|pylons]]</nowiki>

At 20 years old i discovered the <nowiki>[[http://www.digitalmars.com/d/|D programming language]]</nowiki> and i'm working for it's integration in ubuntu with my packages.

=== Wiki Pages ===

=== Translations ===

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NGO/CaseStudy/PortoSeguro| Ubuntu Case Study: PortSeguro ]]</nowiki> translated from Italian to English.

=== Testimonials ===
