{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Personal To Do List for JaredNorris ==

This is just a place for me to list off the things I need to work on. They will be in no particular order with no set dates. It will probably not be of any interest to anyone but <nowiki>[[JaredNorris|me]]</nowiki> but feel free to browse

=== AustralianTeam ===

==== AustralianTeam/Projects ====
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects]]</nowiki>
** Create a wiki page on running Ubuntu-AU promo events from LCA2011 experience
** List any physical resources available and link any internet resources.
** Try to fold the enAU translation team back into the main team
** Work on learning and implementing Inkscape in some <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-Artwork|artwork]]</nowiki>

==== AustralianTeam/ContactUs ====
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-ContactUs]]</nowiki>
** List all current admins for all different areas - IRC, website, mailing list, any wiki people willing to be contactable. 

==== AustralianTeam/TeamReports ====
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-TeamReports]]</nowiki>
** Keep the Team Reports up to date.
** Reconfigure Main <nowiki>[[AUstralianTeam-TeamReports]]</nowiki> page to show previous month and current "in progress" month.

=== Lubuntu ===
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu]]</nowiki> - work on creating more help.ubuntu.com information

=== UbuntuDocs ===
* Learn how to use DocBookXML correctly
* Work on tagging and fixing up tagged pages

= Completed Items = 

=== BeginnersTeam '''''COMPLETED!''''' ===
* <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam]]</nowiki> - work on putting changes back into their wiki header

=== Ubuntu Membership! ===
* Continue to work towards Ubuntu Membership ''achieved at EMEA board meeting 05/04/11''

