{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:gphoto-ltspfs
* '''Packages affected''': ltspfsd

=== Summary ===

Implement accessing cameras as a local device for thin client environments.

=== Rationale ===

Some cameras require accessing through a special protocol (PTP), and such cameras are currently unsupported in thin client environments.

Cameras should be supported in thin client environments just like other devices such as USB sticks.

=== Use Cases ===

* A local school uses digital cameras to take photos of their field trip and write a small story about them.

* Sam's uncle just gave him a digital camera. He checks his email at an internet cafe down the street, and would like to email pictures to friends and family at the internet cafe.

=== Scope ===

* <code>ltspfs</code>
* <code>gphotofs</code>

=== Design ===

* Use <code>gphotofs</code>, a fuse based filesystem, and some udev glue to mount camera locally, just like a regular memory stick.  The standard LTSP localdev support should handle it after that.

=== Implementation ===

* Add <code>libfuse2</code>, <code>fuse-utils</code>, and <code>gphotofs</code> to the chroot.
* Use the udev detection in 45-libgphoto2.rules.
* Modify "add-fstab-entry" to add a gphotofs mount to the fstab, notify LTSP localdev that mount exists.

----
CategorySpec
