{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Graham Inggs, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Graham Inggs
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ginggs
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GrahamInggs/
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a sysadmin for the Faculty of Engineering and the Built Environment at the University of Cape Town.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I've been using Ubuntu as my primary desktop operating system since Gutsy Gibbon.  I started contributing to Ubuntu in late 2012 fixing bugs in packages we use at our university; cntlm, (open)motif and CUDA.

=== My involvement ===
Packaging, SRUs, syncs, merges and bug triaging.
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=graham@nerve.org.za|List of packages maintained and co-maintained by me in Debian]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Graham+Inggs&sponsoree_search=name|List of uploads sponsored for me in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
=== Areas of work ===
I try to keep in contact with the upstream developers of the packages I maintain.

=== Things I could do better ===
I would like to be able to do more in bug control such as being able to nominate bugs for series and setting their status and importance.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I will be applying for Debian Maintainer soon, and if successful, will apply for Debian Developer within the next 6 months.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Sometimes bugs are fixed in the development release and those fixes never make it into the stable release, leaving users to live with annoyances for 6 months and wondering why the bug status is "fix released" while it is still broken for them.  I think there should be more SRUs.  
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Stefano Rivera ===
==== General feedback ====
Reviewed and sponsored a lot of Motif related packages for Graham, in both Debian & Ubuntu. Also helped Graham improve the state of CUDA and OpenCL packaging in Ubuntu, which gets rather hairy (complex tangles of virtual packages). In the process, there have been FFes, quite a few SRUs, and I don't recall any breakage.

For the last while, I've had very little feedback to offer on sponsorship - the work was all pretty good.
I trust Graham to ask when he needs help with something, or review on a complex issue.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've worked with Graham quite a bit over the last couple of years, helping him get involved in Debian & Ubuntu, and mentoring.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
My only criticism is an over-eagerness to SRU. We can't achieve perfection evenrywhere.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
