{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Graham Inggs, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Graham Inggs
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ginggs
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GrahamInggs/
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a sysadmin for the Faculty of Engineering and the Built Environment at the University of Cape Town, South Africa.
I support staff and post-graduates who use Linux-based desktops (primarily Ubuntu) and an HPC cluster running Rocks/CentOS.  I also look after an under-graduate teaching lab of 30 PCs with NVIDA GPUs that run Ubuntu.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I've been using Ubuntu as my primary desktop operating system since Gutsy Gibbon.  I started contributing to Ubuntu in late 2012 fixing bugs in packages we use at our university; cntlm, (open)motif and CUDA.

=== My involvement ===
Packaging, SRUs, syncs, merges and bug triaging.
I was accepted as a MOTU in December 2013 and since then have sponsored a few syncs and merges, and fixed some FTBFS that were stuck in -proposed.  I became a Debian Maintainer in February 2014 and a Debian Developer in August 2015.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=graham@nerve.org.za|List of packages maintained and co-maintained by me in Debian]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Graham+Inggs&sponsoree_search=name|List of uploads sponsored for me in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1327753|A complicated merge of nvidia-settings (main)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1222747|Lesstif2 to Motif transition]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1158182|Eclipse-rse / Javatools shipping a broken symlink]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ginggs/+uploaded-packages|List of packages I have uploaded to Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ginggs/+synchronised-packages|List of packages I have synchronized in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Graham+Inggs&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=&sponsoree_search=name|List of uploads sponsored by me in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
=== Areas of work ===
While supporting users of Ubuntu desktops, I end up reporting and fixing bugs in all kinds of packages.
I am also involved with packaging in the Debian-Science and Debi-Chem teams.

=== Things I could do better ===
I'd like to do more in main without having to take up the time of a sponsor.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
There are several science-related packages I intending packaging for Debian for use at the university and I also plan to make these work well in Ubuntu.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Sometimes bugs are fixed in the development release and those fixes never make it into the stable release, leaving users to live with annoyances for 6 months and wondering why the bug status is "fix released" while it is still broken for them.  I think there should be more SRUs.

I wrote the above for my MOTU application, and since becoming a MOTU, I've done fewer SRUs.
I think I've gotten better at fixing bugs before the release date.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I wholeheartedly support Graham's application. In the past years I had enough chances to see his work and I'm very happy how he works with other projects, helps others and takes extra good care of everything. It looks like I sponsored around 20 of his uploads, but feel like I reviewed a good deal more. :-)

=== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ===
==== General feedback ====

I have worked with Graham on the nvidia packages (which I maintain), and he has been a huge help, always providing  useful insights and actual code in the form of patches, especially for CUDA support.

I absolutely trust Graham, and I wholeheartedly support his application.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I can safely say that most (if not all) of the CUDA and OpenCL related changes in the nvidia packages were either made or recommended by Graham. This has made my life as a maintainer much easier.

You can consider <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1327753|this merge]]</nowiki> the icing on the cake ;)

=== Stefano Rivera (tumbleweed) ===
==== General feedback ====

I've worked with Graham for years in Debian and Ubuntu. He drove cleanup of the CUDA and Motif stacks, with sponsorship from me and others.

I'm very glad that Graham is now a DD, and would welcome him as a core-dev.

I don't have any sponsored uploads to main that I can point at, but I have sponsored one nvidia drivers upload to restricted for him.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
