{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a personal page of notes and links.  Feel free to use the links but don't edit or publicize this page without permission.

* Ubuntu (<nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu_(philosophy)|definition]]</nowiki>) in many forms
** ActivismGuide
** <nowiki>[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/11/business/11ubuntu.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1|NYTimes.com]]</nowiki> Jan 2009 - creeping toward $30 Million in revenue, 200+ full time employees, 1/2 of Google's 20k seats are Goobuntu, 180,000 seats in Macedonian education, 195,000 seats in Spanish school systems, 80,000 seats for French military police.  Look, I have a very privileged life, right? Mr. Shuttleworth said. I am a billionaire, bachelor, ex-cosmonaut. Life couldn’t easily be that much better. Being a Linux geek sort of brings balance to the force.
** Officially supported: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download|desktop]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download-netbook|Netbook Remix]]</nowiki> (UNR), <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download-server|server]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://edubuntu.org/Download|edubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org/getkubuntu|kubuntu]]</nowiki>
** Recognized, Canonical sponsored or localized <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/derivatives|derivatives]]</nowiki> by  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DerivativeTeam/Derivatives|DerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://www.xubuntu.org/get|xubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org/downloads|Ubuntu studio]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.mythbuntu.org/downloads|mythbuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/gobuntu|Gobuntu]]</nowiki> merged <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gobuntu|back]]</nowiki> to Ubuntu, JeOS (just enough OS, pronounced "juice") for virtual appliances seems to be co-sponsored with vmware
** Other derivatives: <nowiki>[[http://www.geteasypeasy.com/|Easy Peasy]]</nowiki> for asus eeepc, <nowiki>[[http://crunchbanglinux.org/|Crunch Bang]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.gnewsense.org/index.php?n=FAQ.FAQ|gNewSense]]</nowiki> for more purely Free Software advocates
** Independent sites: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/|ubuntugeek.com]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-news.net/|ubuntu-news.net]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuweblogs.org/|ubuntuweblogs.org]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://distrowatch.com/table.php?distribution=ubuntu|Distrowatch Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MarketingTeam-Materials]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MarketingTeam-Campaigns]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[Presentations]]</nowiki>
** Other LoCo best practices - <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam| AU]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam| AZ]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[ColoradoTeam| CO]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam| FL]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam| MI]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://linuxmafia.com/faq/Linux_PR/newlug.html|New LUG]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/User-Group-HOWTO.html|Linux User Group Howto]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.datasync.com/~rogerspl/Advocacy-HOWTO.html|Linux Advocacy mini-howto]]</nowiki>
** Don Marti's <nowiki>[[http://zgp.org/~dmarti/linuxmanship/|Linuxmanship]]</nowiki>
** ESR's <nowiki>[[http://catb.org/~esr/writings/sfshows.html|Conventions at Light Speed]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://linuxmafia.com/faq/Linux_PR/kinder-myths.html|Linux Myth Dispeller]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Mark Shuttleworth color
** <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Shuttleworth|Shuttleworth]]</nowiki> gained worldwide fame on 25 April 2002 as the second self-funded <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spaceflight_participant|spaceflight participant]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://distrowatch.com/|distrowatch.com]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.slackware.com/|Slackware]]</nowiki>
** Fedora Marketing's <nowiki>[[http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Marketing/TalkingPoints|TalkingPoints]]</nowiki>, CentOS is fedora based
** Mandriva & PCLinuxOS
** Novell's OpenSUSE <nowiki>[[http://en.opensuse.org/How_to_Participate#Spread_it|Spread_it]]</nowiki>
** Debian
*** Debian 2009 <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/PressCoverage2009|Press Coverage]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Utnubu|Utnubu]]</nowiki>
*** Ubuntu for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu/ForDebianDevelopers|Debian Developers]]</nowiki>
*** Other Debian based distros:
**** <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxmint.com/download.html|mint]]</nowiki> - was Ubuntu based, still compatible
**** Knoppix
**** Linspire
**** MEPIS
**** Xandros
* Linux ROI/TCO story
** <nowiki>[[http://www.cioupdate.com/article.php/10493_1477911|CIO Magazine]]</nowiki>, October 2002 TCO is 40% of Windows
** <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxplanet.com/linuxplanet/reviews/5876/1/|LinuxPlanet]]</nowiki> May, 2005 Only Valid TCO is your own TCO yet also cited are other studies with 30-60% savings
** <nowiki>[[http://www-03.ibm.com/linux/RFG-LinuxTCO-vFINAL-Jul2002.pdf|IBM pdf]]</nowiki> final study - July, 2002 Linux server deployments have "notable cost savings"
** <nowiki>[[http://www.freeformdynamics.com/fullarticle.asp?aid=678|Desktop Deployment Survey]]</nowiki> May 2009
** <nowiki>[[Opportunity for Linux in the New Economy|http:--www.linuxfoundation.org-sites-main-files-publications-Linux_in_New_Economy.pdf]]</nowiki>IDC & Linux foundation, April 2009
* Linux in the marketplace
** <nowiki>[[http://news.cnet.com/8301-13505_3-10390361-16.html|The difference a few years makes to open source]]</nowiki> from cnet.com by Matt Asay, Nov 2009
** OS News <nowiki>[[http://www.osnews.com/story/22217/New_Moblin_Netbooks_in_the_Pipe|New Moblin Netbooks in the Pipe]]</nowiki>, September 2009
** Michael Tiemann on <nowiki>[[http://opensource.org/node/458|Open Standards]]</nowiki>, September 2009
** Glynn Moody on <nowiki>[[http://www.computerworlduk.com/community/blogs/index.cfm?entryid=2408&blogid=14|A Jesuit's Guide to Open Standards]]</nowiki>, August 2009
** "In the new economy, Linux is expected to be a long-term winner in the OS market, rebounding more aggressively than other platforms. Read the white paper by IDC." from linux-foundation.org <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxfoundation.org/sites/main/files/publications/Linux_in_New_Economy.pdf|PDF]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.oracle.com/linux|oracle.com/linux]]</nowiki> for business cases
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ibm.com/linux|ibm.com/linux]]</nowiki> for business cases
** <nowiki>[[http://www.hp.com/linux|hp.com/linux]]</nowiki> for business cases
** <nowiki>[[http://www.dell.com/linux|dell.com/linux]]</nowiki> for business cases
** Linux Sucks from NW Linuxfest 2009 <nowiki>[[http://lunduke.com/?p=429|video]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[http://lunduke.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/04/linux-sucks.odp|slides]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.sdtimes.com/OPEN_SOURCE_UPTAKE_ON_THE_RISE_ACCORDING_TO_FORRESTER/About_OPENSOURCE/33430|Soft Dev Times]]</nowiki> "Open-source uptake on the rise" with statistics April, 2009
** <nowiki>[[http://blog.linuxtoday.com/blog/2009/05/linux-and-foss.html|Linux and FOSS: Living a Conscious Life]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtoday.com|LinuxToday.com]]</nowiki> May 2009
** The Economist looks at the <nowiki>[[http://www.economist.com/business/displaystory.cfm?story_id=13743278#top|growth of free software]]</nowiki> during the recession. "For years, this software commons was no more than an obscure sideshow. But then the internet provided volunteer programmers with a way to co-operate cheaply. IBM and Oracle, two industry giants, threw their weight behind the Linux operating system, in part to weaken their rival Microsoft. After the dotcom bubble burst in 2001, many firms turned to Linux and other open-source software to save money."
** QuickBooks Enterprise Solution server <nowiki>[[http://lwn.net/Articles/238261/|runs on Linux]]</nowiki> but no desktop software, June 2007
** <nowiki>[[http://www.gnucash.org|GnuCash]]</nowiki> runs on both Linux and Windows.
* Linux advocacy
** <nowiki>[[http://www.dwheeler.com/oss_fs_why.html|Why OSS?]]</nowiki> by David Wheeler
** <nowiki>[[http://zgp.org/~dmarti/linuxmanship/|Linuxmanship]]</nowiki> by Don Marti
** ESR on the <nowiki>[[http://esr.ibiblio.org/?p=882|active harm]]</nowiki> of using the FLOSS term
** SVLUG <nowiki>[[http://www.svlug.org/press/|Press Kit]]</nowiki>
* Women in open source
** <nowiki>[[http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/columns/ten_easy_ways_attract_women_your_free_software_project|10 Ways to Attract Women to projects]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.debianadmin.com/|Debian Admin]]</nowiki> website

* Michael Tiemann (Cygnus founder) on <nowiki>[[http://opensolutionsalliance.org/osa/osaalert(apr09)-tiemann.html|bugs]]</nowiki>
* Linus 2008 on GNU/Linux <nowiki>[[http://news.oreilly.com/2008/07/linux-torvalds-on-linux-distri.html|distributions]]</nowiki>
* ESR's <nowiki>[[http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html|Smart Questions]]</nowiki>
** important for those needing support from the community
** setting expectations
** teaches skills to answer their own questions
** not licensed, copyright reserved
** very technical perspective
* recommended <nowiki>[[http://www.albion.com/netiquette/|netiquette]]</nowiki> from the <nowiki>[[http://lxr.linux.no/linux/Documentation/HOWTO|HOWTO]]</nowiki> of the Linux Kernel community
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/how-land-spot-spotlight-part-i|How to Land a Spot in the Spotlight]]</nowiki> - Linux Journal Aug 2009
* <nowiki>[[http://linuxmafia.com/isos/hardy/fresh-ubuntu-hardy|sn9 post-install script for the Hardy Heron]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://linuxmafia.com/pipermail/conspire/2006-June/002071.html|End-user instructions for the above (Dapper Drake version)]]</nowiki>
* rww's cd burning script <nowiki>[[http://www.rww.name/scripts/cdwrite.sh|cdwrite.sh]]</nowiki>
* Thomas Jefferson <nowiki>[[http://press-pubs.uchicago.edu/founders/documents/a1_8_8s12.html|quote]]</nowiki> - "He who receives an idea from me, receives instruction himself without lessening mine; as he who lights his taper at mine, receives light without darkening me. That ideas should freely spread from one to another over the globe, for the moral and mutual instruction of man, and improvement of his condition, seems to have been peculiarly and benevolently designed by nature, when she made them, like fire, expansible over all space, without lessening their density in any point, and like the air in which we breathe, move, and have our physical being, incapable of confinement or exclusive appropriation."
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/bonnie_bassler_on_how_bacteria_communicate.html|TED Video]]</nowiki> re: bacteria & quorum sensinc
* Eye Candy
** <nowiki>[[http://www.junauza.com/2009/04/15-beautiful-ubuntu-gdm-themes.html|Beautiful Themes]]</nowiki>
** Interactive maps of a Linux <nowiki>[[http://www.makelinux.net/system/|system]]</nowiki> and the Linux <nowiki>[[http://www.makelinux.net/kernel_map|kernel]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://turnkeylinux.org|TurnKeyLinux]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCfkgzUhmJU|YouTube]]</nowiki>
* Firefox <nowiki>[[http://labs.mozilla.com/2009/05/introducing-jetpack-call-for-participation/|Jetpack]]</nowiki>
* Ashoka <nowiki>[[http://www.ashoka.org/audioroom|audioroom]]</nowiki> re: Social Entrepreneurs & <nowiki>[[http://www.changemakers.net|Changemakers]]</nowiki>, interview <nowiki>[[http://bloggingheads.tv/diavlogs/17331|video]]</nowiki>, MIT Press <nowiki>[[http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/abs/10.1162/itgg.2006.1.1.80|article]]</nowiki>
* DoctorMo <nowiki>[[http://doctormo.wordpress.com/2009/07/09/ubuntu-classes-poster/|poster]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/TeamMember?action=diff&rev2=25&rev1=24|TeamMember]]</nowiki> old wiki page
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.com/news/hardware/peripherals/180950-udev|udev]]</nowiki>
