{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Created <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-AcerTimeline4810TZ]]</nowiki> for a more official take on this laptop and hopefully to solicit input from others.

Just before the Lucid Lynx UDS held in Dallas in November 2009 my thinkpad video card died.  I went out to Radio Shack and bought an Acer Aspire 4810TZ-4696 laptop.  The following are my notes, good and bad, and the related notes.  Related pages: <nowiki>[[http://us.acer.com/acer/seu30e.do?kcond61e.c2att101=61740&LanguageISOCtxParam=en&link=ln400e&CountryISOCtxParam=US&acond125e=61740&sp=page18e&ctx1g.c2att92=447&ctx2.c2att1=25&ctx1.att21k=1&CRC=3436664271|acer page]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://support.acer.com/acerpanam/notebook/2009/acer/aspire/Aspire4810TZ/Aspire4810TZsp2.shtml|specs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne|community/AspireOne]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acer_Aspire|wikipedia]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.amazon.com/Acer-Aspire-4810TZ-4011-Timeline-14-0-Inch/dp/B0029U151M|amazon]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireTimeline|help.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> with great links too, <nowiki>[[http://quail.southernvaleslug.org/debian_acer_aspire_timeline_4810t.html|Debian report]]</nowiki>

* Nice 14.0" screen, 3 GB RAM, 320 GB disk, <nowiki>[[http://processorfinder.intel.com/details.aspx?sSpec=SLGS8|Intel Pentium SU2700]]</nowiki> processor, camera, dvd burner, bluetooth, media card reader, 802.11 b/g/n, "8 hours battery life", intel GS45 express graphics, suspend and resume seem to work well.
* trackpad placement is too far right and causes problems
* ath9k wifi with default packages was very unreliable.  used a PPA to fix it.
* wubi failed during 1st boot - still need to track down the problem
* irssi suggest irssi-scripts, but package is not available.  Testing for this kind of bug should be automated and easy to do.
* stuck alt/ctrl keys after running Xephyr, long standing issues are involved.
** work around is to disable compiz for now.
* no backlight control
* trackbad no re-enabling when dedicated button pushed a second time.
** work around is to sudo modprobe -r ; modprobe
* trackpad not disabled when typing as described in control panel
* disable ipv6 as a kernel option
* cannot use KVM (kernel based virtual machine) to test (such as with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/testdrive|Test Drive]]</nowiki>)since this CPU doesn't support VT though Virtualbox works OK.
