{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Scratchpad for all information about all kinds of graphics tables. These are not computers, these are the pen/stylus devices that people use to draw and paint electronically.

=== Wacom Tablets ===

==== Intous3 ====

<nowiki>[[PTZ-431W|PTZ-431W]]</nowiki> - Wacom Intuos3 4 x 6-Inch Wide Format Pen Tablet.

=== Wizardpen Tablets ===

This is for documentation about Waltop and other wizardpen based tablets.

==== Genius EasyPen i405 ====

<nowiki>[[EasyPen-i405|EasyPen-i405]]</nowiki> - Genius !EasyPen i405 slim line 5,5 x 4-inch design tablet.

==== Genius MousePen 5x4 ====

<nowiki>[[MousePen-5x4|MousePen-5x4]]</nowiki> - Genius !MousePen 5,5 x 4-inch design tablet.

==== Genius MousePen 8x6 ====

<nowiki>[[MousePen-8x6|MousePen-8x6]]</nowiki> - Genius !MousePen 8 x 6-inch design tablet.

==== TrustTB5300 ====
<nowiki>[[Trust-TB5300|Trust-TB-5300]]</nowiki> - Trust-TB-5 300 slim line 5.5 x 4-inch design tablet
==== Trust-TB6300 ====

<nowiki>[[Trust-TB6300|Trust-TB-6300]]</nowiki> - Trust-TB-6300 slim line 8 x 6-inch design tablet.

==== Trust-TB7300 ====

<nowiki>[[Trust-TB7300|Trust-TB-7300]]</nowiki> - Trust-TB-7300 Wide Screen Design Tablet.

==== Monoprice 6251 ====

<nowiki>[[Monoprice 6251|Monoprice 6251]]</nowiki> - Monoprice 10x6.25 Inch Graphic Drawing Tablet .

==== Monoprice 6814 ====

<nowiki>[[Monoprice 6814|Monoprice 6814]]</nowiki> - Monoprice 10x6.25 Inches Graphic Drawing Tablet w/ 8 Hot Key.

----
CategoryTestingReport
