{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Simplified Launchpad Links ==

=== Problem ===
A bug is reported to package Abba.  The bug reporter or someone else references this bug on their blog with the link of the form: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/abba/+bug/38244  However, after triage it is found that the bug is not in Abba, but instead in Baab.  So package affected by the bug is changed to Baab thus changing the URL for the bug to: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/baab/+bug/38244   However, when someone goes to the original URL they are presented with the statement "Bug #38244 is not in baab" along with asking the user if they would like to mark the bug as affecting Abba.  This is not only a cluttered interface but creates the situation where a user might reassign the bug to Abba needlessly.

=== Possible Solution ===
Create a button labeled "link to this bug" or similar which has a simple pop-up with a highlighted simplified link to that bug.  For the above example it would provide the link as "https://launchpad.net/bugs/38244"  The interface could be something similar to what Google Maps uses for their "link to this page."

=== Rationale ===
Every bug in Launchpad has a unique number even among and between the various hosted projects.  Utilize this property to provide both cleaner looking and less error prone URLs.
