{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 20.10 Groovy Gorilla ==

Please see <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/groovy-gorilla-release-notes/15533]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

Ubuntu Studio shares some of the desktop features with Kubuntu. Please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GroovyGorilla/ReleaseNotes/Kubuntu|Kubuntu release notes]]</nowiki> for additional information.

<<BR>>
== Getting Ubuntu Studio 20.10 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/20.10/release | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your installation goes smoothly. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/20.10/release/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

=== Upgrading to Ubuntu Studio 20.10 ===
'''Due to the change in desktop environment, direct upgrades to Ubuntu Studio 20.10 from any previous version of Ubuntu Studio are unsupported. Only supported method is via clean install by backing up your /home directory and restoring it on a fresh install of Ubuntu Studio 20.10. If this is too disruptive, we recommend staying with Ubuntu Studio 20.04 LTS which is supported until April 2023.'''
<<BR>>

Some users have reported issues when coming from Kubuntu and copying their ~/.config folder. It is recommended that you do *not* copy your configurations, but rather restore the documents from your home folder manually. 
<<BR>>
== Changes for this release (compared to 20.04 LTS Focal Fossa) ==

* '''New Desktop Environment''': Ubuntu Studio has moved to the KDE Plasma Desktop Environment.
* '''New Installer''': Ubuntu Studio now utilizes the Calamares installer for system installation.

=== Audio ===

* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/UbuntuStudioControls|Ubuntu Studio Controls]]</nowiki>''' Is now an upstream project known as '''<nowiki>[[https://github.com/ovenwerks/studio-controls|Studio Controls]]</nowiki>'''. Version 2.0.8.
** Firewire device support is now back. Switching between the ALSA Firewire driver and the FFADO driver requires restart.
** Multiple bug fixes
** For more information about Ubuntu Studio Controls, see:
** https://github.com/ovenwerks/studio-controls
** The README
** The manpages for studio-controls, autojack and studio-system
* '''<nowiki>[[https://linuxaudio.github.io/new-session-manager/|New Session Manager]]</nowiki>''', the continuation/fork of Non Session Manager, is now included with its classic interface, verison 1.3.2
* Ardour has been upgraded to version 6.3
* New utility for viewing Mackie Control Protocol information, mcpdisp, is now included.
* RaySession has been upgraded to version 0.9.2
* Audacity upgraded to version 2.4.2
* Hydrogen upgraded to 1.0.0-rc1
* Carla upgraded to 2.2
* jack-mixer has returned, version 13
* lsp-plugins upgraded to 1.1.26
* New plugins this cycle:
** add64 (3.9.3)
** geonkick (2.3.8)
** dragonfly-reverb (3.2.1)
** bsequencer (1.4.2) - 1.8.4 was released after feature freeze but contains new features. It's available in the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/BackportsPPA|Ubuntu Studio Backports PPA]]</nowiki>.
** bslizr (1.2.8)
** bchoppr (1.6.4)

To reduce image bloat, Calf Studio Gear (Calf Plugins), which also is incompatible with Ardour 6, has been removed from the default installation in favor of LSP plugins. However, the Calf Plugins are still in the Ubuntu repositories and can be easily installed.

=== Graphics ===

* Krita upgraded to version 4.3.0
* Blender upgraded to version 2.83.5
* Darktable upgraded to 3.2.1
* Inkscape upgraded 1.0.1
* Digikam is now included by default, version 6.4.0

To reduce image bloat, Rawtherapee has been removed from the default installation in favor of Darktable. However, Rawtherapee is still in the Ubuntu repositories and can easily be installed.

=== Publishing ===

* Calibre upgraded to 4.99.12

=== Video ===

* OBS Studio upgraded to 26.0.2
* KDEnlive upgraded to 20.08.1

To reduce image bloat, Openshot and Pitivi have been removed from the default installation in favor of Kdenlive. However, Openshot and Pitivi are still available in the Ubuntu repositories and can easily be installed.

<<BR>>
== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blender | Blender]]</nowiki> v2.83.5
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdenlive | KDEnlive]]</nowiki> v20.08.1
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/krita | Krita]]</nowiki> v4.3.0
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp | Gimp]]</nowiki> v2.10.18
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ardour | Ardour]]</nowiki> v6.3
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scribus | Scribus]]</nowiki> v1.5.5
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/darktable | Darktable]]</nowiki> v3.2.1
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/inkscape | Inkscape]]</nowiki> v1.0.1
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/carla | Carla]]</nowiki> v2.2
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/studio-controls | Studio Controls]]</nowiki> v2.0.8
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/obs-studio | OBS Studio]]</nowiki> v25.0.8
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mypaint | MyPaint ]]</nowiki> v2.0.0
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/digikam | DigiKam ]]</nowiki> v6.4.0

<<BR>>
== Known Problems ==

* There exists a popular application for managing JACK called '''Cadence'''. This application conflicts with '''Studio Controls''' and will cause Studio Controls to be removed if Cadence is installed. Additionally, '''if Cadence is removed later and Studio Controls is reinstalled, Studio Controls still will not work.''' Please avoid using Cadence. Additionally, Cadence is not in the Ubuntu repos and is completely unsupported.

* Ubuntu Studio uses the same KDE Plasma desktop environment as the official Kubuntu release, and thus, may be affected by some of the same issues.  This is also true of the core packages of the mainline Ubuntu release.  You can see their release notes <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GroovyGorilla/ReleaseNotes/Kubuntu|here]]</nowiki> (Kubuntu) and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Groovy/ReleaseNotes|here]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu)

<<BR>>
== Support ==

Ubuntu Studio 20.10 (Groovy Gorilla) will be supported for 9 months until July 2021.
'''Direct upgrades to Ubuntu Studio 20.10 from any previous version are not supported.'''

<<BR>>
== Contact Us ==
Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are listed <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | here]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryUbuntuStudio
