{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I'm a web developer by day, and a Free Software contributor by night. I started using Ubuntu in early 2008, starting with 7.10, and I've been involved in the GNU/Linux community ever since. I also contribute to other Free Software projects like WordPress, elementary, etc.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Full Name
| Gaurav Pareek
|-
| IRC
| grvrulz
|-
| Slack
| grvrulz on ubuntu.slack.com
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~grvrulz|grvrulz]]</nowiki>
|-
| Github
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/grvrulz|grvrulz]]</nowiki>
|-
| Google+
| <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/+GauravPareek|GauravPareek]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email
| me@grv.rocks
|-
| Website
| https://grv.rocks
|}

=== Contributions ===

* I've been involved in various FOSS projects in and around Ubuntu since 2009. I was a part of the local LUG in my city for 4 years, and helped organize various seminars around Ubuntu and Debian.

* From 2009 to 2014, I volunteered as part of a government program to teach accessible Free/Open Source Software to visually impaired children. During this time, I also built and distributed a custom Ubuntu based distro in schools for visually impaired children.

* I successfully migrated a large portion of the local computer dealers' association to Ubuntu in the summer of 2013.

* I continuously hold workshops and seminars in colleges, teaching people about Free/Open Source software and Ubuntu based cloud technologies.

* I joined the Ubuntu GNOME team as a web contributor in November 2014, and I've been part of the Marketing(previously Design) team ever since. I've been involved in design decisions, feedback loops, etc. I'm currently working on the new website of Ubuntu GNOME.

=== Future Goals ===

* I intend to keep working as part of the Ubuntu GNOME team, and I plan to expand my contributions to other parts of the desktop as well.

* I intend to keep attending and speaking at conferences related to Ubuntu and other Free Software.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

Gaurav's our web developer who I work with closely on our website.  I consider his presence in the team vital to our collective growth due to his vast experiences in UX and the web.  Aside from being an enthusiastic Ubuntu user you could also hear him speak about Wordpress, GNOME and FOSS in general. I like working with Gaurav because I know I can trust his expertise, experience and knowledge when making important UX decisions and I strongly recommend him for an Ubuntu membership.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:inoki]]</nowiki>
Principal Designer, Ubuntu GNOME

Gaurav joined the Ubuntu GNOME team about a year (or more) ago now, as our web development guru! He has been instrumental in development of the new website, which is now undergoing code review by Canonical IS, and hopefully will launch soon! I highly recommend him for an Ubuntu membership!

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:darkxst]]</nowiki> Technical Lead, Ubuntu GNOME

Gaurav has been an incredible asset for the Ubuntu GNOME comunity and specifically the Marketing Team. When we first started doing very early mockups for our new website Gaurav would be there and come up with a fully coded page in no time. His experience both in coding and UX has been crucial for us in the design process of our upcoming website. Gaurav is definitely the kind of man you like to work with. The Ubuntu community needs more people like him, which is why I recommend him for an Ubuntu membership.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:aldomann]]</nowiki> Marketing Team Lead, Ubuntu GNOME 
