{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I fill this with more tomorrow'''

== Robert Åkerblom-Andersson ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Robert Åkerblom-Andersson
* Email Address: Robert.nr1@gmail.com
* IRC nickname: Scorpiion
* Launchpad ID: Scorpiion
* Skype username: Robert.a-a
* Webpage/blog: 
* College-University: Umeå University
* Major: Electronics and Computer Science (double major)

=== Project ===
* Project Name: Package Manager Improvements
* Project Description: Extending KPackageKit with some futures *to be edited later*
* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones? Port of Ubuntu Software Center
* Why did you like this idea? ......
* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it: ....
* Give us details about the milestones for this project ...
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu? ...

=== Open Source ===
* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience
* Why are you interested in Open Source?

=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
* Where will you based during the summer?
* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)
* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?

From IRC:

Kpackagekit

Improve KpackageKit
Add "application view"
Application filter

"instead of listing all the packages it should list only applications like software centre does, as glatzor says that might be quite complex because it needs packagekit changing to filter for only applications"

"and to match software centre it would include stuff like application icons, screenshots and reviews (which would be very tricky to do through packagekit)"

"<glatzor> Riddell, software-center shows both packages and applications."

"dantti> Riddell: reviews and screenshots are the most "complex" because it needs a break in API but it's definetly simple"

"<dantti> the hardest part is finding a good design that Richard likes :P"

"<Riddell> so maybe the place to start is by asking on the packagekit list what needs done for application data support and if that's likely to be accepted"

"<Riddell> we'd want support for application listing in packagekit (rather than package listing) which includes application details like icon and screenshots and nice things like that
[21:53] <Riddell> then adding the UI for than in kpackagekit"

"<dantti> yup, basically the first thing imo would be to know how that work on sw center and see how to change it in PackageKit, then adding support for that in kpk should be quite easy"

[22:24] <Riddell> dantti, Scorpiion: app-install-data .desktop files include packagename, popularity, and section (supported/not) which would all be nice to feature
