{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact information ===
'''Your Name:''' Amreesh Tyagi

'''Email Address:''' tyagi.amreesh@gmail.com

'''IRC nickname:''' tyagiboyz

'''Skype username:''' tyagiboyz

'''Webpage/blog:''' http://www.techrelay.co.nr, http://www.greycoder.co.nr

'''College-University:''' Jaypee Institute of Information Technology

'''Major:''' B.Tech in Computer Science

=== Project - Device Driver Creator(DCC) ===

* '''Project Name:''' Device Driver Creator

* '''Project Description:''' I am having a idea of creating a separate IDE for building device drivers in linux. Using this IDE anyone(who knows some device drivers basics) can build and insert his/her drivers for his/her own hardware. The only thing a developer has to know is "How to make drivers in LINUX". This IDE can provide I/O memory map, I/O port map, interrupts and shared interrupts and other informations needed for creating drivers. It can be further divided into separate modules like drivers for storage devices, wired networking, wireless networking, sound devices, display devices etc.

* '''If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?'''
Object oriented structure of phpmyadmin

* '''Why did you like this idea?'''
When I first started using Linux and mounted a hard disk, I thought that how a file is connected to the hardware and then I started to explore the things and I found device drivers. It really helps me in robotics and configuring routers.

* '''Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it'''
Module 1: Qt based GUI with Drag and Drop features
Module 2: Application build on core compiling and linking libraries like gcc

* '''Give us details about the milestones for this project'''
1. GUI design
2. Text editor for user code input
3. I/O memory and ports mapping to UI controls
4. Code generation using drag and drop
5. Temporary file creation for and after debugging
6. Error handlers
7. Module insertion and removal on kernel level using GUI

* '''Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?'''
Since Ubuntu is the most famous flavor of Linux, so large number of students and beginners use it. Because of large community support it will continuously grow. Second thing is that if a beginner who have interest in hardware-software linking and he/she find this IDE default with Ubuntu distribution then he/she would be happy.

=== Availability ===

* '''How long will the project take? When can you begin?'''
It will take about 2.5 months and I will start it on last week of may, when my semester ends.

* '''How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)'''
35 - 40 hours a week or more

* '''Where will you based during the summer?'''
I will be at home (Noida/Ghaziabad, India)

* '''Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)'''
Have a few internships which I will drop in case of being selected

* '''Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)'''

=== Open Source ===

* '''Please describe any previous Open Source development experience'''
TODO

* '''Why are you interested in Open Source?'''
TODO

=== Other ===

* '''Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC?'''
No

* '''Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?'''
No

* '''Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?'''
I don't want that the problems that I faced, nobody would face those problems again. And second thing is that GSoC gives an opportunity to develop the skills by giving us motivation and we can channelize our work during the project.

* '''Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organization?'''
TODO

* '''Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?'''
TODO

----
CategoryCoreDevApplication
