{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Damir Gilyazov ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Damir Gilyazov
* Email Address: nbdarvin@gmail.com
* IRC nickname: nbdarvin
* Launchpad ID: nbdarvin
* Skype username: In_Gold_We_Trust
* Webpage/blog: - 
* College-University: MTUSI

=== Project #0: Conduit's Palm-Pilot Synchronization ===

* Project Name: Conduit's Palm-Pilot Synchronization
* Project Description: Goal of this project is to create Conduit's DataProvider to synchronize with Palm OS-based devices (such as Palm TX, Palm Pilot or Palm Treo).
* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
   I would to do any other end-user's projects, which can be realised on python-gtk, such as:
** GNOME centralized file sharing administration
** Hardware device manager and hardware database
** Splash screen customization
** Sound theme creator (and sound improvements)
** Upstart compatible services-admin
** Home User Backup Spec
** Testdrive Front End
* Why did you like this idea? 
** I need modern way to synchronize my Palm PDA with online services, evolution, etc 
** I want to get an experience of programming
** I want to make Conduit better, I believe – it can become industry-standard synchronization solution. World will be better, if separate programs like SynCE, gnome-pilot at Linux and Active Sync/etc at another OSs will die.
* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it: 
   I will develop Conduit's DataSink and DataSource using python, python-pisock library (current stable library to get/push data from/to palm devices). At first stage of project, i will develop DataProviders for contacts, calendar, todo and memos. At second stage, i will develop additional DataProviders for non-main and third-party software, also i will develop necessary Coviniersions
* Give us details about the milestones for this project 
** April 26: start work
** (1.5 weeks) Learning libpisock/python-pisock
** (few days) Writing small test programs to understand
** (2 weeks) Learning Conduit internals
** May 24: all preparations done; start coding
** (few days) Writing program that fetch PIM information from Palm PDA. Writing program that write PIM information to Palm. (with python-pisock)
** (1.5 week) Writing DataSources for Palm's calendar, contacts, memos and tasks using code of program
** (1.5 week) Writing DataSinks for Palm's calendar, contacts, memos and tasks
** (few days) Testing/debugging
** (few days) Testing non-English languages support, debugging
** (3 weeks) Adding additional features, such as photo/music/etc synchronization. Adding necessary Conversions
** (week) Testing additional features, debugging
** (half-week) Writing documentation
** (half-week) Writing developers documentation for adding “conduits” (Palm term)
** August 9: application done
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu? 
** It extend Conduit – modern, well-designed tool for synchronization to support old Palm devices. I think, common synchronization framework is necessary today. Conduit may become it.
** Someone think, that Palm OS PDAs is old and unnecessary in modern world, but there is many pure countries, where old PDAs are cheap and useful for many people
** Ubuntu may will have modern system-wide synchronization tool — Conduit in future.
** Ubuntu may will be more friendly to people from pure countries

=== Project #1: Better Empathy Integration ===
* Project Name: Better Empathy Integration
* Project Description: project consists of two parts:
   1. Evolution plugin to get contacts from Empathy (like Automatic Contacts) and store they in evolution's address book (may be Automatic Contacts will do it?)
   2. Beagle search engine plugin to search in Empathy's logs

* Why did you like this idea?
   I use Evolution and Empathy every day, and want to have their contacts synchronized. Also I like Beagle and I want to make it default application on Ubuntu.
* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
   1. Evolution plugin, written on Python
   2. Beagle plugin written on Python
* Give us details about the milestones for this project
   1. Evolution plugin:
*** to make plugin fetch single contact
*** to make plugin fetch all contacts
*** to make plugin write contacts in evolution's address book
*** to make plugin sync
*** to make setting's GUI for plugin
   2. Beagle integration:
*** to make search
*** to make GUI extension
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?
   It will make Ubuntu more integrated and comfortable. Evolution and Empathy is defaults programs, they MUST work together!

=== Project #2: Font settings improvements ===
* Project Name: Font settings improvements
* Project Description: 
   Windows font settings utility is better. Propose is to add some features to Ubuntu font settings, such as draggable ruler to determine correct dpi setting, and visual tests (as in MS Windows) to determine anti-alias settings. Also, may be add global font-size setting (e.g. "Big fonts", "Small fonts" etc). May be create wizard to make some settings of fonts at first start

* Why did you like this idea?
   I think font settings are weak in current GUI.

* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
   This is only idea, I should think about it...
* Give us details about the milestones for this project
   This is only idea, I should think about it...
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu? 
   It make easy to get best fonts ever to end user.

=== Project #3:  Launchpad Offline Bug Client ===
* Project Name:  Launchpad Offline Bug Client
* Project Description:    
   Project aim is to allow my mother (she have not internet) to report bugs by saving it offline. Sometime I will come to she and will send reports to server via mobile internet :)
* Why did you like this idea?
    Often, I have not internet, by want to be able to post bugs
* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
    To patch current apport-gtk, apport-qt, apport-cli, to add "Save report" button, patch apport libs to have save report function. Save reports to folder in $HOME. Utility on pygtk to view saved reports, send or delete all of them or one by one 
* Give us details about the milestones for this project
*** Hack in apport-gtk, -cli, -qt to add save report button (done)
*** Hack in apport libs to give save to file functionality
*** Test saving
*** Test loading and sending of saved reports
*** Write view saved reports app
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?
    It make offline usage of Ubuntu more comfortable

=== Open Source ===
* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience
   Some of my projects:
** http://code.google.com/p/adium2pidgin-themes/  - converts and installs Adium icon and sound themes to Pidgin. Most content of http://www.adiumxtras.com may be installed. Written on Python.
** http://code.google.com/p/pidgin-cairo-dock/  - Cairo-dock plug-in for Pidgin IM. It simulates Adium behaviour on OS X. Written on Python.
** CodeXWars is project of multiuser online game for programmers. Users will develop small programs that play in own small games. Any language that can read write to stdin out are supported. Every user's program runs on separate virtual machine for security. There are rating of users. Many games available: NES Tanks like game , Quake 3 Arena -like game, some another games. There are SDK for new games development. old page: http://code.google.com/p/python-robots . New repository (it no public, and not-realise-state (it not work now)) http://darkv:23a8qEWqaa321@77.120.117.14:8022/codewars
** One of my first programs on python: http://code.google.com/p/galaxypy/  Galaxy PLUS client (early alpha)
** http://code.google.com/p/darvin-ddenn-plugin/ open source plugin for X-Plane avia simulator. written on c++
* Why are you interested in Open Source?
   I like open source ideas. Community make soft, and every member of community use it.

=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
   I have already begun
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
   Full time: I have not work )
* Where will you based during the summer?
   at my city
* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)
   no
* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)
   looking for it ) really I can be backup student )

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)
   no
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
   no
* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
   -
* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
   I use Ubuntu, my wife uses Ubuntu and I want to make it better
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?
   I want to integrate into Ubuntu developers community and raise my developer's skills. I will maintain my project after GSoC, and would like to participate in another Ubuntu development.
----
CategoryGoogleSoC2008
