{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== antonio081014 ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Yi Ding
* Email Address: dingyihamigua@gmail.com
* IRC nickname:
* Launchpad ID:
* Skype username: dingyi861210
* Webpage/blog: antonio081014.blogspot.com
* College-University: Purdue University Calumet
* Major: ECE

=== Project ===
* Project Name: Qt 4 Quickly, Quidgets
* Project Description: Refactor Quickly and/or Quidgets as necessary to handle both GTK+ 2 and Qt 4. There has been moderate "opportunistic developer" interest in a Qt 4 form, but movement has been slow to make it happen. The most fascinate part is to improve the efficiency of the Qt4, and make the Qt4 easier to use.

=== Open Source ===
* Open Source is the way for the future, which can be used to make developers easily use others' work directly rather than develop all of the stuff from the very beginning. It will save tons of time for the developers and improve the efficiency of the development.

=== Availability ===
* The whole project will take about 2 month or above. I will start it from the end of the May.
* About 18 hours a week I will spend on the project.
* Hammond, IN.
* No. Thus, I probably can spend more time on the project.
 
=== Other ===
* Google Summer of Code is a fantastic for the programmers who are still students. We can get a lot of benefit from experiencing how to work on a project and how to develop our project step by step. Ubuntu, as the most popular platform under Linux, is very easy to use, and so far, it has given the users lots of good experience on it.
