{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Please name this wiki page http://wiki.ubuntu.com/GSoC/2010/YourName'''

=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Michael Faille
* Email Address: michael.faille@gmail.com
* IRC nickname: DarkMike
* Launchpad ID: https://launchpad.net/~mikefaille
* Skype username: b.mike
* Webpage/blog: http://capra.etsmtl.ca/?categorie=l'%C3%89quipe&page=Logiciel&lang=fr
* College-University: École de technologie supérieur (University)
* Linkedin: http://ca.linkedin.com/in/michaelfaille

=== Project ===
* Project Name: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GoogleSoC2010/Ideas#Hardware%20device%20manager%20and%20hardware%20database|Hardware device manager and hardware database]]</nowiki>
* Project Description:In the long run, a hardware device manager(1) and hardware database website(2) should improve harware support, identify, confirm and resolve hardware issues and bring clarity to driver development and packaging.
(1) Expanding on the current gnome-device-manager which allows the user to view what devices are in their computer, this project proposes a utility which identifies hardware which either not recognized, not supported or requires additional module (in which case it would propose a package or call jockey). Users are not currently notified when there are devices present that are not under control of a module.
(2) This project proposes the creation of a web site that will replace what we currently have: a hardware wiki page, and checkbox/hwdb submition page. Hardware Testing (checkbox) is currently testing hardware and uploading results, yet it is not parse into a user-readable usable/usefull format. Combining the Device manager with the testing capabilities on checkbox and the world viewable hardware compatibility database/website would be the ultimate solution simplifying any hardware pre/post-purchase research.
* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
* Why did you like this idea? This subject has always interested me, but I had never a chance to work on a datamining project. Moreover, since I planed to do a similar project for my science club, working on this project is a good opportunity to deeper knowledge on this subject. 
* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it: I worked on implementing a computer vision that requires some feature like artificial intelligence such as pattern recognition.
* Give us details about the milestones for this project: Tout d'abord on devait implémenter la vision ordiné pour notre robot. Don, moi et l'équipe dont j,ai fait partie avons produit une vision étant capable de reconnaitre un object dont il a déja vue dans un nouvelle environnement.
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu? . I know how the hardware is classified. Also, I have a good experience with databases and I think this is something that will help the project.

=== Open Source ===
* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience / Why are you interested in Open Source?: I have a good experience with Open Source software. In the last 4 years, I spend many hours configuring, modifying, manually patching and searching on the web, etc. So, I`d like to make a step further and participate officially in a open source software project. 

=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
* Where will you based during the summer?
* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)
* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation? I think that in the 21th century, everyone should have access to a computer.  Computers allow people to communicate, share knowledge and to entertain themselves. That`s why computer should be affordable for every one. However, cheapness is usually complicated and that why I think Ubuntu is the way to go.
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?
