{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Fedor Korotkiy ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Fedor Korotkiy
* Email Address: dartslon@gmail.com
* IRC nickname: DarthSlon
* Launchpad ID: https://launchpad.net/~slon
* Skype username: darth_slon
* Webpage/blog:
* College-University: Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology
* Major: Mathematics and Computer Science

=== Project ===
* Project Name: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GoogleSoC2010/Ideas#Upstart compatible services-admin|Upstart compatible services-admin]]</nowiki>
* Project Description: 
* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
* Why did you like this idea? 
* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
* Give us details about the milestones for this project
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?

=== Open Source ===
* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience
     None
* Why are you interested in Open Source?
     Because want to become an awesome software engineer.
=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
     Don`t know yet.
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
     30-60 hours.
* Where will you based during the summer?
     Moscow(GTM+3)
* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)
     No
* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)
     No
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
     Not yet.
* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
     Because I use ubuntu on my PC, laptop and server.
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?
