{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Sean McNamara ==

=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Sean McNamara
* Email Address: smcnam gmail com
* IRC nickname: allquixotic
* Launchpad ID: https://launchpad.net/~smcnam
* Skype username: allquixotic '''(please use text chat first before attempting a voice call)'''
* Webpage/blog: http://tiyukquellmalz.org/blogs
* College-University: University of Maryland, University College
* Major: Computer Science

=== Project ===
* '''Project Name:''' The "DesktopOne" Audio Experience (prospective)
* '''Project Description:''' Because many important Ubuntu applications use JACK, the aim is to bring support for the JACK API to Ubuntu out of the box. Simultaneous interoperability with PulseAudio and ALSA apps is required, enabling apps to use JACK, ALSA or PulseAudio APIs for their audio I/O. Furthermore, since running JACK all the time would impose a memory and CPU overhead on users who never use JACK apps, the audio stack should be designed so that JACK loads on demand.
* '''If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?''' Ubuntu One KDE Client; Kubuntu File Sharing; Nautilus Improvements
* '''Why did you like this idea?''' Because I had a similar idea myself a while ago: http://tiyukquellmalz.org/blogs/blog5.php/2009/08/23/dreaming-of-universal-audio-stacks
* '''Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:''' The approach will be to investigate possible ways to seamlessly rebase PulseAudio's streams to use JACK instead of raw ALSA devices. module-jack-{sink,source} in PulseAudio already provide PulseAudio->JACK indirection; the remaining work revolves around testing proper mixer/volume control (does module-jack-{sink,source} work correctly with flat volumes?) and seamless transition from PA to JACK at runtime while streams are active.
* '''Give us details about the milestones for this project:''' The biggest milestone would be the ability to use apps such as Ardour "out of the box" on Ubuntu, while playing other audio and system event sounds through PulseAudio using e.g. Rhythmbox. The user expectation would be that the audio stream of existing PA apps would be uninterrupted, even during the transition to Jack. It will be interesting to investigate whether that is feasible, and if so, would be a major milestone. 
* '''Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?''' Supporting more audio APIs out of the box and simultaneously means that users unwilling or unable to configure the audio stack by hand (e.g., editing configuration files or manually starting jackd) will be able to use those audio APIs transparently. Since we do ship applications that use JACK, it makes sense to support them without requiring user intervention or introducing an "either-or" situation.

=== Open Source ===
* '''Please describe any previous Open Source development experience:''' 
** Author of rbpitch, a Rhythmbox plugin written in Vala for pitch/tempo shifting: http://tiyukquellmalz.org/cgit/rbpitch
** Minor patch contributor to alsa-plugins (ALSA<->Pulse bugfix)
** Minor patch contributor to mpd (Partial Win32 support)
** Active participant in the PulseAudio, Gnome, Ubuntu, Fedora, and Fink communities, helping to test the bleeding edge
** Modest traffic offering (mostly user-level) consulting on various FOSS mailing lists (alsa-devel, pulseaudio-discuss, gstreamer-devel, etc)
** I once implemented a rudimentary JDBC driver for Microsoft Access, but have since abandoned the project.
* '''Why are you interested in Open Source?''' I'm interested in Free Software. But to the extent that Open Source folks cooperate with Free Software folks on the same projects under the same license, I'm on board with that. In my spare time I am a Free Software advocate to my friends and family, and a USB Card-carrying associate member of the FSF (#5321) ;)

=== Availability ===
* '''How long will the project take? When can you begin?''' The project will take the full length of the GSoC session, and perhaps a little more to polish off any rough edges. I can begin at any time.
* '''How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)''' 35 to 50 hours, variable depending on whether I'm stalled. But generally, something full-time-ish.
* '''Where will you based during the summer?''' At my home in Maryland, USA.
* '''Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)''' Part-time student at my university. The max number of credits during the (short) summer session is only 6, so it should still leave plenty of time for GSoC.
* '''Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)''' -- None yet.

=== Other ===
* '''Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)''' No, I have not.
* '''Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?''' No, I have not. I may submit an application for the Gnome project due to some interesting ideas cycling there.
* '''Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?''' For many reasons. It's a mutual benefit type of thing. I can contribute to a project I use every single day (Ubuntu); make users' lives easier; build my software portfolio for the resume; and make a cool $5000. I could probably snag more money with a paid internship (I've done many of those before), but I think highly visible open source work on a major operating system is a better career choice, and harmonises with my ideals.
* '''Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?''' Because Ubuntu is my primary operating system, and because my core competencies are mostly in system integration, high-level application development and most other "desktop-y" stuff. I have taken a particular interest in the audio domain however, and already have a great deal of experience with ALSA, PulseAudio, and JACK2 as a "power user" of each.
* '''Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?''' GSoC provides an excellent opportunity for projects to move forward without paying out any of their own money. The whole program demonstrates amazing foresight and FOSS advocacy. When I have previously tried to get in at the bottom level of contributing to Ubuntu, I have received such little feedback that I did not know how to proceed further. GSoC provides a semi-rigid framework that helps assure that the novice developer will receive dedicated assistance and mentorship, in order to learn and become more self-sufficient. I have no doubt that, after being hoisted over the social barriers by GSoC, I will be a long-term committer to various Ubuntu and/or Gnome projects after this summer is over.
