{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== DominicLyons ==

=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Dominic Lyons
* Email Address: domlyons (.at.) googlemail.com
* IRC nickname: sixtripleeight
* Launchpad ID: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~domlyons]]</nowiki>
* College-University: <nowiki>[[http://hs-esslingen.de|University of Applied Science Esslingen]]</nowiki> (HS Esslingen, former FHTE, Germany)

=== Project: Bring Qt Language Selector in line with the GTK version ===

==== Project Description: ====

The Qt Language selector Kubuntu uses isn't in line with the GTK version from Ubuntu. The Qt version should provide the same features as the GTK one and also implement it (where possible) in the same way to stay compatible.

There is a bunch of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/?action=fullsearch&value=languageselector&titlesearch=Titel|specifications]]</nowiki> here on the wiki, especially <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Specs/Lucid/LanguageSelector|Language Selector Lucid]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FutureLanguageSelectorImprovements|Future Language Selector Improvements]]</nowiki>. This seems to be quite that what the Qt version should also offer. Till now it more or less still seems to be at the same state as on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KubuntuFeistyLanguageSelector|Feisty specification]]</nowiki>.

==== If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones? ====

===== Adapt the C++-based Printer Manager to Kubuntu =====

The Python based printer manager could be replaced by the <nowiki>[[http://dantti.wordpress.com/2010/03/15/printprogress/|c++ version]]</nowiki> initiated by Daniel Nicoletti (the developer of KPackageKit). This likely would save some memory and also could help increasing startup time.

I would get it running on Kubuntu, patch or extend it where it is needed and make a DEB package.

===== KDE 4 replacement for outdated "Keep" (KDE Backup Tool) =====

Since years Kubuntu has no essential, easy to use backup tool pre-installed. On KDE 3 I used (and in fact still use) Keep. But this tool isn't developed any further and has some glitches, for example auto-backups don't work (only for me?).

It was my idea to make some sort of follower of Keep basing on KDE 4/Qt 4. The aim should be a backup system that is

** reliable(!)
** easy to use (especially for new users that just wont to backup their data without the need of background information about thing like increments, diffs and so on)
** decent (as long as everything works fine the user won't be disturbed, only unintrusive notifications will indicate the start and stop of the automatic process)
  
So for the beginning it will be a quite a simple backup tool but I guess it will fit the needs of a majority of average users. As backend I would use rdiff-backup (as Keep did, too) because it allows space efficient incremental backups and usually is very fast after the initial backup. Also it is known to work very well and it preserves filesystem-specific attributes.

==== Why did you like this idea? ====

The language selector is one of the first tool many users will see. So it should be representative. I liked to do something KDE/Qt related and I thought this could be a good chance to learn more about that.

==== Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it: ====

There already exists a Qt Language Selector. I will take it as a base and build on top of it. As the name already says I will use Qt as Toolkit and C++ as programming language.

For the GTK version of the language selector there are useful <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/?action=fullsearch&value=languageselector&titlesearch=Titel|specifications]]</nowiki> on the wiki. I will use them, too, to build a Qt language selector that offers the same as the GTK version.

==== Give us details about the milestones for this project ====

===== May 24th (or even early if I'm sure that I get this project) =====

Evaluation work:
** How does the GTK version work?
** What are the conditions? What do Qt and other APIs offer?
** What documentation is offered?

===== May 31st =====

Design & Conception:
** How can things be implemented?
** How should the the code be structured? Modularization
** Usability

** Parallel: Try out specific API functions or background tools I will need, getting used to them

===== June 7st =====

Starting "real" programming work

=> Can everything be done as planned and designed? What has to be re-engineered?

===== June 30th =====

Documentation

Testing

===== Bug-fixing =====

=> Usability: Does everything work as an unexperienced user expects? Maybe let some people try it out.

===== (July 25th - August 9th: Vacation, probably not much time...) =====

===== August 9th =====

Final bug-fixing
=> application should be installable and usable by unexperienced users without problems, application should run reliable

If there's still some time: Advanced features

===== August 16th, 19.00 UTC: Deadline! =====

==== Why will your proposal benefit Kubuntu? ====

Kubuntu shouldn't keep back behind Ubuntu - especially not in so essential things as the language selector.

=== Open Source ===

==== Please describe any previous Open Source development experience ====
In the past I haven't directly taken part in open source development yet. But I wrote a bunch of bug reports and also fixed some of them (Brother printer driver for DCP-/MFC-Series).

==== Why are you interested in Open Source? ====
Since the time I've got a PC I were using open source software. Well, I have to concede that at the beginning the pint that it is free of charge was the main pint. But it didn't take long that I was impressed by the opportunities open source projects gave and how dynamical and fast they developed. So I participated in some way by helping other people in forums and later also took part in fixing bugs. Well, maybe time has come to take the next step... ;-)

=== Availability ===

==== How long will the project take? ====
I assume there's always something to make better :-) So the project could take the whole GSoC phase.

==== When can you begin? ====
I can start as soon as I've got a commitment to a project.

==== How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly ) ====
Depending on project status and other tasks between a few hours and more than 20 hours a week.

==== Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses) ====
I am studying and will have some exams. Also there will be two weekends I will have nearly no time for working on my GSoC project. In the summer rime I will be on vacation for two weeks. It is possible that I will have no/not much time for my project in this time.

Of course I took respect of that in making my time schedule.

=== Other ===

==== Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code? ====
I think GSoC is a great opportunity to step in to serious open source development. On the one side there's a mentor who hopefully makes this a little easier and on the other side the payment allows me to ''not'' have to take a job besides studying and therefore having enough time for my project. This will give me some experience in open source development and to see how it works "in real".

==== Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organization? ====
Before I chose Kubuntu Dapper Drake some years ago I experimented a lot with other distributions, mainly Suse, Debian and Xandros. But they all were not my favored operating system. So Kubuntu got my first Linux-based main operating system. Now I'm using it consequently since then and on the whole I'm very satisfied with it. But of course I know about the problems others describe about Kubuntu (especially in comparison with other KDE distributions). And I'm not blind enough to not see myself some glitches Kubuntu still has and I'm willing to improve it a bit, step by step.

==== Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you? ====
I assume Ubuntu and I have a common interest: Making Ubuntu better. I'm passionate, willing to learn and I'm sure I can contribute to reach this aim if I have the opportunity to take part at GSoC.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryGoogleSoC]]</nowiki>
