{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Under CONSRTUCTION ==
== Shahansad KP ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Shahansad KP.
* Email Address: shahansad@gmail.com.
* IRC nickname: shahansad (freenode.net).
* Launchpad ID: shahansad
* Skype username:
* Webpage/blog: www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~shahansad
* College-University: Indian Institute of technology Bombay.
* Major: Computer Science.

=== Project ===
* Project Name: Home User Backup and System Restore.

* Project Description
   Create a utility which can back up files/folders and restore them individually or as a whole. Also the  utility will have some trouble shooting capability by restoring configuration files as a whole or by parts of it depending on the problems the user is facing.

   In case some one reinstalls Ubuntu the utility can attempt to restore all the files,settings and reinstall all the application(from repository) that was installed at the time of back up.

* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
   I am also considering few ideas of my own. They will be up here as i have a bit more clarity on them.

* Why did you like this idea?
   I have felt one time or the other the problems this project is to solve. I have always found it hard to back up data in Ubuntu.
   

   The very nature of Ubuntu as in it gives all the power to user encourage them to experiment with it, many times causes pleasant disasters. It normal with beginners to have executed some exotic sudo commands or changed some configuration files to end up with a system with doesn't work as it should be. Some of the times after hours of googling i had to decide on reinstalling the os. This utility can help solve this problem. Making learning Ubuntu lot more fun for many.

* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
   Working on it.
   I feels that this project can be implemented by shell scripting. Various utilities already available could be used in conjuration to achieve what i need. Of course the utility will have a GUI as well.

* Give us details about the milestones for this project
`  Working on it

* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?
   Ubuntu as of now lacks a good back up utility which is a must for many users. No one wants to loose their data and this project can make sure that no Ubuntu user one.

   The very nature of Ubuntu as in it gives all the power to user asks them to experiment with it, many times causes pleasant disasters. It normal with beginners to have executed some exotic sudo commands or changed some configuration files to end up with a system with doesn't work as it should be. Most of them after hours of googling decides on reinstalling the os. This utility can help solve this problem and thus make LEARNING UBUNTU LOT MORE FUN and save precious time and effort of many.

=== Open Source ===
* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience
   Unfortunately none.

* Why are you interested in Open Source?
 
=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
   This project can be completed in 2-3 moths. Time left if any can be used to include more troubleshooting info.
   My 4th semester which is currently running will be over by April 27. I will be completely free from then on to the first week of Augest.

* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
   Sine i wont be having having any other commitment during this project i can give 25-30 hours a week.

* Where will you based during the summer?
   I will be staying at my institute

* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)
   If i am doing this project then i won't be having other commitment.

* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)
   No. I didn't have enough skill or information then.
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
   No
* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
   The GSOC gives me an opportunity to create a program that will actually be used by people. That is an opportunity that students like seldom gets. 
   Under a mentor i think i will able to break the ice and get into open source projects which are use full for many users. This will get me acquitted with culture of open source development communities and thus help me to fit in better.
* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
   Ubuntu have touched lives like no other open source project ever has. If i was make an utility for Ubuntu then it will be used by many and what more can a programmer ask for.
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?
