{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Google Summer of Code ===
== Bertan Guven ==
=== Contact information ===
* '''Name:''' Bertan Guven
* '''Email Address:''' bertanguven@gmail.com
* '''IRC nickname:''' bertan
* '''Launchpad ID:''' bertan
* '''Webpage/blog:''' 
* '''College-University:''' University of Toronto
* '''Major:''' Software Engineering

=== Project ===
* '''Project Name:'''
** '''Implement an Archive Crawler (#33)'''
* '''Project Description:'''
** There will be need for a good data structure for this archiving project. Sorting and finding according to the item that is been searched, is the key component of this project. 
** Have to find out all the searchable objects like; icons , source-codes, mails, documents and other type of files.

* '''If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?'''
** Even though my main interest is to help with any of the projects, there was one specific project that sparked my interest other then my first choice: 
    Improve MuseScore playback. 
* '''Why did you like this idea?'''
** I am very interested in this project because I love data structures and run times of the structures for any given problem. I find tweaking the code for this purpose extremely fun.

** The reason I chose the second project is because as a musician myself, I always felt the need to have this kind of programs in the operating systems. I am already familiar with windows based softwares such as Finale, Sibelius , notes creator and Nota.
* '''Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:'''
* '''Give us details about the milestones for this project'''
** The big challenge in the Implement an Archive Crawler project is to chose the right type of augmented data structure and test it thoroughly for the best run time.

* '''Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?'''
** I wanted to help Ubuntu community because as a user my self I would love to have an operation system that doesn't limit my capabilities.
=== Open Source ===
* '''Please describe any previous Open Source development experience'''
** This will be my first opportunity to work in a open source project.

=== Availability ===
* '''How long will the project take? When can you begin?'''
** I would like on this project until I get it done. 
** I can begin immediately.
* '''How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)'''
** I am thinking of putting in 30 - 50 hours per week.
* '''Where will you be based during the summer?'''
** I will be teaking a summer course at the University of Toronto located in Toronto,Canada.
* '''Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)'''
** I will be taking a summer course at the university.  

=== Other ===
* '''Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)'''
** No, I have never participated.
* '''Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?'''
** No, I haven't applied for any other projects, I only found the Ubuntu's project most suitable for my self.
* '''Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code?'''
** I always wanted to participate in an open source community and I finally think I have all the qualifications to actually help.
** Also I wanted to work this summer and get as much as experience to help my career. 
* '''Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organization?'''
** Ubuntu projects seemed more interesting to me then any other organization and my qualifications seemed most fit for this project.
* '''Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?'''
** I have taken courses about the project that I want to do, and I am sure I can finish this project with the best solution. I also have good communication skills, so communicating with other people over the internet will not be a problem for me. Since I will be at the university over the summer, I will be able ask question to my professor and my colleagues other than my mentor.

=== PAST EXPERIENCE ===
* As a team of four we have designed Dr.Scribe, which was an application in J2ME for mobile phones that records conversations and sends them to a central database over the internet.
* As a hobby I created my own client bot to go through news papers to archive and link all the related articles together.
* I have experience in C,C#, C++, java, php, perl, javascript, HTML, MYSQL, python, shell programming, R,  assembly (very little).
