{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== GiorgosLogiotatidis ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Giorgos Logiotatidis
* Email Address: seadog@sealabs.net
* IRC nickname: glogiotatidis@freenode
* Launchpad ID: seadog
* Skype username: -
* Webpage/blog: http://www.sealabs.net/seadog
* College-University: Technical University of Delft
* Major: Computer Engineering
* LinkedIn: http://nl.linkedin.com/in/glogiotatidis

=== Project #1 ===
* Project Name: 
** Wubi migration to a dedicated partition
* Project Description:
** Wubi provides an elegant solution to the linux newcomers who don't want to repartition their hard drive to install linux. Using Wubi users can install the complete linux operating system in a virtual disk, which is a normal file in their windows partition. This way they can try linux, work as normal -with the downside of some speed overhead- and if they decide to delete it they can just remove the file from their window partition and it's gone. Since the odds not to like their shiny brand new Ubuntu are minimal and on the other hand the odds to fall in love with linux and want to have a real installation are high, we must be able to provide a nice transition tool from one stage to the other. The project will feature a Ubiquity plugin which will give the option to users to transfer any detected Wubi installations to a real hard drive partition, instead of reinstalling everything.

* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
** I equally like my two proposals, the other one being to construct a Hardware Database website

* Why did you like this idea?
** It's a nice technical challenge, requires python coding which I love, and will help bring more people to the platform.

* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
** Implementation details are in WubiMigration webpage written by Wubi developer AgostinoRusso. I agree with this approach and I plan to follow it.

* Give us details about the milestones for this project
** Milestone 1: Get to know the tools. Make some installations on various windows machines with Wubi. Study Ubiquity installer and plugin architecture. (~ 2 weeks)
** Milestone 2: Build a working transition tool from a windows file to a real partition. (~ 1 week)
** Milestone 3: Refactor the code as a Ubiquity plugin. Take into account the partition manager and the grub installation. Create a clean UI with Ubiquity look and feel. (~ 4 weeks)
** Milestone 4: Heavy testing with various installations and computers. Bug fixing (~ 2 weeks)
** Milestone 5: Documentation and code cleanup (~ 1 week)
** There is a week extra (GSoC is 11 weeks of coding) which will be used for any non scheduled issues.

* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?
** People can easily try Ubuntu using Wubi and this is a missing part of the puzzle to make Wubi a great newcomer solution. More users, more benefit for Ubuntu.

=== Project #2 ===
* Project Name: 
** Hardware database website
* Project Description:
** Currently Ubuntu features wiki pages with hardware compatibility reports created from users. Ubuntu comes with the 'checkbox' tool which collects information about the host system and interacts with the user about the hardware compatibility of his/hers machine with Ubuntu Linux. The generated reports are send back to Ubuntu. Currently there is no tool which can parse these reports and create a meaningful output which Ubuntu users can refer to before buying new hardware or before installing Ubuntu. The project proposal is to create a new website which will replace the existing wiki pages with a new more helpful and better visualised hardware list. The website will feature multiple entry methods, and besides the manual entry which is currently the only option, will also parse 'checkbox' reports. The website will form to became the ultimate hardware compatibility list for Ubuntu Linux and possibly other distributions, so users can safely buy  known to work hardware and get a guaranteed smooth Linux experience.

* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
** I equally like my two proposals, the other one being to construct a "Wubi to partition migration tool"

* Why did you like this idea?
** Hardware compatibility has always been an issue in the FLOSS world. Although Linux and Ubuntu have come a long way to increase the compatibility as much as possible there is still a lot of hardware that does not work as expected. Having an up-to-date trustworthy database of compatible hardware, will minimize the hardware related user frustration and provide a smooth experience to the users. Helping the community in a project like this is an idea to go for!

* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
** Being a strong python programmer, I first plan create a robust parser for the 'checkbox' reports in python. The parser will take the reports and insert them into a RDBMS, taking care of duplicate reports and hardware similarities.
** The second phase of the project will be to create a Django website. Besides me having experience building Django websites (more on the 'About me' section) I find that Django provides good structured web framework to quickly produce a basic web site for our needs. The Django "MVC" like model and the fact that is Python increases the maintainability and extensibility of the code for the future. Especially this part of the project should involve end-user testing and feedback, to ensure that the displayed information is actually understandable by computer users.

* Give us details about the milestones for this project
** Milestone 1: Read required documentation, understand 'checkbox' reporting format (~ 1 week)
** Milestone 2: Create a 'checkbox' parser that saves the data into a RBDMS (~ 2 weeks)
** Milestone 3: Create a mockup of the website and gather user feedback (~ 2 weeks)
** Milestone 4: Code the website engine: Users can view existing hardware reports, submitting new manually or using checkbox. (~ 3 weeks)
** Milestone 5: Heavy testing with checkbox and manual user input. Bug fixing (~2 weeks)
** Milestone 6: Documentation code clean up. (~1 week)

* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?
** A trustworthy hardware compatibility list will help convince more people to do the switch and will in general provide a better experience to all Ubuntu users.

=== Open Source ===
** Why are you interested in Open Source?
** I'm interested in Open Source and in the Free software movement for both ideological and technical reasons. I believe that the software should be free as in speech and easily accessible to everyone, since it is today a tool used in almost every aspect of the human life. Technically I believe that sharing the source code has many advantages over the older proprietory way for software development, some of them being better code quality, standards and security. Being a long time Free and Open Source software user I'm interested that the FLOSS world grows and evolves.

=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
** I will follow the GSoC Schedule, starting at May 24th, except if we decide with the mentor(s) that a different time schedule is required.

* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
** I will work 30 hours per week. If the milestones are not met I can add another 10 hours per week, making it full time.

* Where will you based during the summer?
** In the Netherlands

* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)
** I will be finishing my Master graduation project.

* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)
** None

=== Other ===
 
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
** No

* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
** It's a great opportunity to develop an interesting and useful project during my summer break, while being paid. I like the way GSoC works, enabling more people to get involved in the FLOSS communities.

* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
** I have been active in the Ubuntu since the 'no-name-yet' era, by using, bug reporting, fixing, translating, promoting and helping my local group (Ubuntu-GR) as an official Contact Member. Ubuntu does a great job bringing Linux and FLOSS philosophy to the masses. By developing for Ubuntu as a GSoC student I help to promote further Ubuntu popularity and usage.

* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?
** I'm active in the Ubuntu community mostly by supporting fellow ubuntuers, participating in my local group and reporting bugs. I have randomly worked submitted patches for bug fixing or feature adding to Ubuntu and to the projects it depends on (e.g. gnome). I feel it's time to get more involved into the development process, get to face real technical challenges developers deal with daily and get something more done for the community. My strong programming skills in python and the mentality of "getting things done" ensure that I will deliver the best. I'm the man for the job! ;)

=== About Me ===
I'm currently doing my masters in Computer Engineering in Technical University of Delft in the Netherlands. I have a strong programming background with low and high level languages and I have worked as a web developer in various projects, coding in PHP and Django. 

* Among other projects I have worked on the Grub crawler project, implementing a python client.  http://www.grub.org
* I created a fully featured portofolio engine using Django which is actively used by photographers and photojournalists (http://www.ilogios.gr http://www.nikospilos.com)
* I'm currently working on my graduation project at Tribler.org coding for the next generation P2P networks in Python.
