{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Work in progress ====

== Joey Adams ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Joey Adams
* Email Address: joeyadams3.14159@gmail.com
* IRC nickname: joeyadams (FreeNode)
* Launchpad ID: https://launchpad.net/~joeyadams3-14159
* Skype username: n/a
* Webpage/blog: http://joeyaa.blogspot.com/
* College-University: Florida State College at Jacksonville
* Major: Associate of Arts (plan to major in computer science afterward).

=== Project ===

* Project Name: One of our Ideas, or your own
* Project Description: Your own description of the project
* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
* Why did you like this idea?
* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
* Give us details about the milestones for this project
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?

=== Open Source ===
* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience

Most of my open source development experience 

* Why are you interested in Open Source?

=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
* Where will you based during the summer?

St. Augustine, FL

* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)

If I am accepted, I will quit my part-time job to ensure that I can put full time into my project.  I plan to help in my church's Vacation Bible School for a week, and I might also go on a two-week vacation.

* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?
