{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Francesco Marella ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Francesco Marella
* Email Address: <nowiki>[[mailto:francesco.marella@gmail.com|francesco.marella@gmail.com]]</nowiki>
* IRC nickname: fmarl
* Launchpad ID: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~francesco-marella|francesco-marella]]</nowiki>
* Jabber username: francesco.marella@jabber.org
* Skype username:
* Webpage/blog:
* College-University: <nowiki>[[http://www.uniba.it/|Università degli Studi di Bari Aldo Moro]]</nowiki>
* Major: Computer Science

=== Project ===
* Project Name: 
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GoogleSoC2010/Ideas#Upstart compatible services-admin|Upstart compatible services-admin]]</nowiki>
* Project Description:
Create a services admin for human beings, functional, usable and sleek.
* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
* Why did you like this idea?
I like this idea because it allows me to practice my knowledge in the field of FLOSS development and contribute to the Ubuntu's development.

* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
** Backend:
*** Abstract the services, wrap them in objects with attributes and actions. argument them.
** Management:
*** Show the services in a list (and their respective statuses).
**** Different services for different user types:
***** normal user should not see eg. dbus (reason: stopping it can lead to a crash/unstable system)
**** Different options for different user types:
***** normal user should not see (at first) all the available options, but relevant. (reason: lower the complexity).
*** Start,Stop, Reload, Disable a service.
*** Install/uninstall services.
** Configuration:
*** Use Augeas:
       "Augeas is a configuration editing tool. It parses configuration files in their native formats and transforms them into a tree. Configuration changes are made by manipulating this tree and saving it back into native config files."
** Log modifications to services config files:
*** replicate settings on other machines.
** Provide a GUI to be written in pyGTK.
** Provide a textual interface based on curses (optional: not requested but useful in ubuntu server, may take some time to study curses usage)
** Gui interface: Argument options with tips from the community.
** Use <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/|Python]]</nowiki> (or Vala), GTK+ toolkit.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PolicyKit|PolicyKit]]</nowiki> integration for controlling system-wide privileges.

* Give us details about the milestones for this project
*** milestone 1:
1. Extend the UbuntuCentralizedServiceAdministrator specification
2. Produce short analysis' documentation: identify the stakeholders, context, capability and constraints.
3. Produce short project's documentation: identify the architecture and the classes, produce diagrams and specifications of the classes.
     
*** milestone 2: Provide a functional backend/core and tests.

*** milestone 3: Produce a GUI interface and tests.

* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?
Ubuntu distribution main goal is to make GNU/Linux human friendly. This project will provide an easy way to accomplish a difficult and boring activity: services administration.

=== Open Source ===
* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/cgmail|cGmail]]</nowiki> - as developer
** <nowiki>[[http://kaizer.se/wiki/kupfer/|kupfer]]</nowiki> - as opportunistic developer (some plugins)
** <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~francesco-marella/evolution-indicator/2.30-compat|Evolution indicator]]</nowiki> - as opportunistic developer, changes to make it compatible with Evolution 2.30
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/entertainer|Entertainer Media Center]]</nowiki> - as opportunistic developer (ported it from glade to gtk-builder)
** <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/PhoneManager|GNOME phone manager]]</nowiki> - I've sent some patches
* Why are you interested in Open Source?
Closed source things make me unhappy and nervous :)

=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
Immediately.
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
~40h per week
* Where will you based during the summer?
Italy (GMT + 1:00)
* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)
I have to do 2-3 exams in June-July.
* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)
No, I don't.
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
Not yet.
* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?

[1] a working <nowiki>[[http://imagebin.org/90627|preview]]</nowiki>
