{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Contact information ==
* '''Your Name:''' DmitrijsLedkovs
* '''Email Address:''' dmitrij.ledkov@ubuntu.com
* '''IRC nickname:''' xnox
* '''GSoC LinkID:''' <nowiki>[[http://socghop.appspot.com/user/show/xnox|xnox]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad ID:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dmitrij.ledkov|dmitrij.ledkov]]</nowiki>
* '''Skype username:''' dmitrij0309
* '''Webpage/blog:''' http://surgut.wordpress.com
* '''College-University:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.hull.ac.uk|University of Hull, UK]]</nowiki>
* '''Major:''' Electronics, MEng Mobile Telecommunications Technology

== Open Source ==
* '''Please describe any previous Open Source development experience:'''
I'm maintaining Xiphos and Sword in Debian/Ubuntu. Due to this effort I've also became upstream developer of Xiphos. I did a few fixes in Ubuntu & bzr plugins. I'm currently Ubuntu Contributing Developer see my  <nowiki>[[DmitrijsLedkovs-ContributorApplication| contributor application]]</nowiki>. Most (if not all) of my development experience is on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dmitrij.ledkov|launchpad]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=dmitrij.ledkov@gmail.com|PTS]]</nowiki>.

* '''Why are you interested in Open Source?'''
Hmmm... Because I'm a geek? I've started using Open Source apps because they were free, ad/malware free, stable and usually had more features. After I've switched to Ubuntu and started contributing I've learned a lot from Open Source apps.

== Availability ==
* '''How long will the project take? When can you begin work?'''
2.5 - 3 months. Can start part time before June. Full time from June.
* '''How much time do you expect to have for this project? (weekly)'''
~ 40 hours. Hoping to start coding early.
* '''Where will you based during the summer?'''
UK (UTC+1) or Latvia (UTC+2)

== Other ==
* '''Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)'''
2-3 weeks for exams & dissertation. 1 week in August + a few weekends for linejuding Volleyball (world tour & national league).

I'm hoping to start early to minimise impact. And merge milestones separately.
* '''Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC?'''
No.
* '''Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?'''
No. But I might apply for a couple of Ubuntu projects.
* '''Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?'''
I see this as opportunity to experience what is it like to be Open Source full-time developer. In the future I would like my career to involve developing open source software.
* '''Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?'''
** I am using ubuntu since 2007. I am ubuntu developer. I want to fix Bug #1. I love ubuntu.
** I like the friendly developer & user community around ubuntu. During my previous work on ubuntu I've met and worked with awesome and cool developers =) some of which are mentors for GSoC.
** Every ubuntu developer has cool Brainstorm ideas which would be really amazing to have for ubuntu development and/or ubuntu users. These cute ideas are often put aside to the when-I-have-spare-time box of each developer. With GSoC they can become reality.
* '''Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?'''
I want to make a significant contribution to Ubuntu. GSoC will give me opportunity to do that. Ubuntu should choose me because I am passionate, have sufficient knowledge and ready to learn fast. I want to become Motu/CoreDev in the future.

== Projects ==
Projects I'd like to do in alphabetical order.

You can view each application separetly.
To edit / leave comments use above links. Below are wiki page includes ;-)
== Automated optimistic merging and testing of new upstream releases. ==
== Integrating Bzr with 3.0 (Quilt) packages ==
== USB-creator Improvements ==
