{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Sorry for being so late for mirroring this here... I overlooked that step, and have been busy with school.

== Joshua Washburn ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Joshua Washburn
* Email Address: jdwashburn89@att.net or jwashburn2@indstate.edu
* IRC nickname: aroni125
* Launchpad ID: aroni125@gmail.com
* Skype username: aroni125
* Webpage/blog: inactive at http://jwashburn.phozofree.net
* College-University: Indiana State University
* Major: Information Technology

=== Project ===
* Project Name: Ubuntu "System" Restore and Backup utility (provided idea)
* Project Description: Your own description of the project
* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
Launchpad Offline Client
* Why did you like this idea?
It could, if done correctly, improve ease of use of Ubuntu and make certain recovery efforts easier (like GNOME settings if they become corrupt).
* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
It would be a GTK application. It could backup configuration (located in /etc and ~(all)/.*), and be able to control what configuration gets backed up (If one did not care to back up their Firefox settings, extensions, and cache, they could decide to exclude Firefox by deselecting it, which would prevent ~/.firefox from being backed up.) Also, the utility can avoid backing up temporary files (/tmp and caches). The restore could be controlled as well in the same way... If they only wanted their Firefox settings restored, then they could deselect everything, then select Firefox. There could be Light and Normal settings for backup. The light setting would not save files in installed packages. It would instead keep track of what was installed. This could be made to be a restore point, or  saved to media.
* Give us details about the milestones for this project
•	Creation of GUI
•	Creation or selection of backup format(s)
•	The ability to come up with an correct file listing.
•	The ability to create a restore point.
•	The ability to create a backup.
•	Testing (creating restore points, creating backups, restoring the restore points, restoring backups, ease of use)
•	Creation of an application definition format (probably XML based) that would tell what paths contain caches, temporary files, and program files for the Light backup and control settings. It would also control what icons appear.
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?
It would provide a backup/restore utility

=== Open Source ===
* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience
I do not have experience in open source development. I have read the GPL quite a few times, though.
* Why are you interested in Open Source?
I am interested in open source because of my curious nature (how things work), and the openness of open source (how people can submit patches). Also because of what has resulted from OS. 

=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
I am uncertain of the length of time. 
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
15 - 35 hours / wk.
* Where will you based during the summer?
I intend to be based at Indiana State University. '' I will not be at ISU for classes this summer. This was determined after the proposal deadline ''
* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)
Taking 9 credit hours over two summer semesters (6 and 3 ch. hrs.) (planned) '' (no longer applies, see above) ''
On-campus work (planned) '' (no longer applies, see above) ''
* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)
I myself don't know of an alternate right now.

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)
No. I registered for 2009.
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
Not at this point. '' (I did not apply for another) '' 
* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
I wanted to try and work on something.
* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
I am fairly familiar with Ubuntu, and this seemed to be a good project to work on.
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?
I want to help if I can. I have some experience with C++ programming (several classes), more experience with shell scripting, and have spent time learning Linux, mostly on my own, some help to/from friends, and in three college courses and one high school course. I might need help with some libraries, but other than that, I should know what I am doing.
