{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Madhukara Phatak ==

=== Contact information ===
* '''Your Name:''' Madhukara Phatak
* '''Email Address:''' madhukaraphatak@gmail.com
* '''IRC nickname:''' madhu
* '''GSoC LinkID:''' madhukaraphatak
* '''Launchpad ID:''' https://launchpad.net/~madhukaraphatak
* '''Skype username:''' phatak_madhukara
* '''Webpage/blog:''' http://computegeeken.blogspot.com/,
                       http://osum.sun.com/group/ubuntu
* '''College-University:''' http://www.vtu.ac.in/
* '''Major:''' Computer Science and Engineering

=== Project ===
* '''Project Name:''' Home User Backup Spec
* '''Project Description:'''
We cannot trust our hard disks.They may fail at any time.So a good backup tool is very essential. Being a very popular distro ,Ubuntu lacks the good  backup tools.This project aims to create a very user friendly backup tool for the Ubuntu 
  
* '''If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?'''
** Splash screen customization
** Clipboard Improvements
** Nautilus Improvements
** Quickly factoring boiler plate

* '''Why did you like this idea?'''
I moved from Windows to Linux and found that Ubuntu is one of best Linux distro out there. But whenever my hard disk becomes full, I wanted to backup ,I had a hard time with the command line tools.Though some of GUI tools are there, they are just a wrapper around the command line tools. So this idea looks cool, since it will ease life of many Ubuntu users like me 

* '''Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:'''
* Studying existing ubuntu home backup speck
* Creating a PPA for the existing code
* Implementing core features like peripheral backup,network backup etc
* Improvising user interface

* '''Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?'''
Good backup tool is an essential part of any OS.This project will help the Ubuntu to have one of best backup tool

=== Open Source ===
* '''Please describe any previous Open Source development experience:'''
I am working on porting some of GNU open source tools to the GNV , which is a GNU type environment for HP openVMS OS

* '''Why are you interested in Open Source?'''
Because I love computers.I like to play with softwares.Open source gives the chance to play with programs without caring much about copyright,patent like issues.

=== Availability ===
* '''How long will the project take? When can you begin work?'''
2.5 - 3 months.
* '''How much time do you expect to have for this project? (weekly)'''
30 hours.
* '''Where will you based during the summer?'''
 India  (UTC+5:30)

=== Other ===
* '''Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)'''
2-3 weeks for exams . But I hope i can minimize the impact by starting early
* '''Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC?'''
No.
* '''Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?'''
No. But I might apply for a couple of Ubuntu projects.
* '''Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?'''
It is the best opportunity for the students to involve with the open source. Having mentors from great organizations it will be great learning experience
* '''Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?'''
** I am using Ubuntu from last years. I am a big Ubuntu fan
** Ubuntu is one of most innovative Linux distros 
** A big community around the Ubuntu is very helpful for a newbie. 
 
* '''Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?'''
I want to contribute to my faviroute distro. I am very passionate about open source and programming as general. GSoC will give a chance to contribue to ubuntu and open source.

Ubuntu should choose me since 
* I am very passionate about open source
* Very easy going and quick learner
 
