{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Jan Molnár ==
=== Contact information ===
* '''Name:''' Jan Molnár
* '''Email Address:''' jan.molnar@gmail.com
* '''IRC nickname:''' zomp
* '''Launchpad ID:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jan-molnar|zomp]]</nowiki>
* '''Skype username:''' jan-molnar
* '''Jabber:''' zomp@jabber.cz
* '''Webpage/blog:''' <nowiki>[[http://zomp.wz.cz]]</nowiki>
* '''College-University:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.cvut.cz/en?set_language=en|Czech Technical University in Prague]]</nowiki>, Czech Republic
* '''Major:''' Software Engineering

=== Project ===
* '''Project Name:'''
** '''Ubuntu One KDE client'''
* '''Project Description:'''
** I would like to port <nowiki>[[http://one.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu One]]</nowiki> client for syncing files from Ubuntu (GTK) to Kubuntu (Qt) and integrate it into the system (integration into applications through KIO slave, use of system notifications, setting in system settings...) and implement system settings syncing (bookmarks, chat history, Akonadi, shortcuts and other things from and outside ~/.kde folder). I would also like to draw inspiration from Apachelogger's abandoned <nowiki>[[http://apachelog.wordpress.com/2009/11/25/ubuntu-one-kde-tech-preview/|implementation]]</nowiki>.
* '''If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?'''
** I would be willing to do almost everything which would improve KDE/Kubuntu and make it more stable and/or usable. 
* '''Why did you like this idea?'''
** This seems to be perfect idea to me, I would like to do something relative to KDE and Kubuntu at once - I want to learn how both work inside and have working Ubuntu One in Kubuntu.
* '''Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:'''
** The architecture will be similar to the one in Ubuntu but it will be more tighter integrated into KDE through e.g. KIO slave and system settings.
* '''Give us details about the milestones for this project'''
** Gathering requirements (week 1 - 4)
** feature requests gathering (community, mentor, me...)
** familiarizing with Ubuntu Ubuntu One client implementation
** familiarizing with Apachelloger's Kubuntu Ubuntu One client <nowiki>[[http://apachelog.wordpress.com/2009/11/25/ubuntu-one-kde-tech-preview/|implementation]]</nowiki>
** Design (week 5 - 7)
** Implementation (week 8 - 11)
** Validation (week 12 - 13)
** functionality testing
** user interface testing
** Packaging and releasing (week 14)
** Time allowance
** Maintenance

** In fact, I hope the development will be a little bit more spiral and I will test it during the whole development, but spiral timeline would be really hard to describe.

* '''Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?'''
** Ubuntu is a huge leap ahead Kubuntu at some areas and Ubuntu One is one of them, having this feature would significantly push Kubuntu forward.

=== Open Source ===
* '''Please describe any previous Open Source development experience'''
** Reporting bugs in many project I am using (sometimes with patch if I know how to fix it).
** Member of jHearts development team
** Hearts card game - nice graphics, multiplayer, AI...
** available at http://werehub.org/trac/FEL/jhearts/wiki
** source code at <nowiki>[[http://werehub.org/trac/FEL/jhearts/browser|svn://werehub.org/FEL/jhearts]]</nowiki> (Java)
** Snake-like games developing
** a few snake implementation in a few languages
** available at http://haduv.hustej.net/
** source code at http://haduv.hustej.net/stahnout-hru.html (Qt, C++/Java/Turbo Pascal)
** Specialized Joomla! authentication plugin
** not yet officially released
** source code at http://zomp.wz.cz/zbytek/soubory/skautis.zip (PHP)
** The Student's Guide to the Faculty
** cell phone navigation system, focused on simple browsers and usability
** my 'bachelor thesis', not yet finished - until the end of May
** source code at http://webdev.felk.cvut.cz/~molnaja2/ (ECMAScript)
* '''Why are you interested in Open Source?'''
** I think this is the only way to do things morally correct - you can do almost everything you want to do (share, change, study the code...) and it is all allowed.
** I like the human attitude of Open Source developers and being a part of the community of similar people.
** I like the opportunities and possibilities Open Source offers.
** I love the freedom. And OS is all about that. :)
  

=== Availability ===
* '''How long will the project take? When can you begin?'''
** It depends on the complexity of the project, most probably till the end of GSoC - testing never ends.
** I can begin immediately, but I have to finish my 'bachelor thesis' until the end of May.
* '''How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)'''
** Approximately 40+ hours, the project would be my full-time job.
* '''Where will you based during the summer?'''
** Mostly at home, I have no plans (except the one mentioned below).
* '''Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)'''
** I am going to travel for 10 days in late summer.
  

=== Other ===
* '''Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)'''
** No, I have never participated.
* '''Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?'''
** No, I haven't applied, I wasn't excited about the most of proposed ideas and I had no own idea.
* '''Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code?'''
** It seems to be a great opportunity to me to switch from being a common user of Kubuntu to be a developer.
** I also need a summer job and this is the perfect one - you are doing the things you love and you are payed.
* '''Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?'''
** Because it is perfectly organized organization and has many things to offer. I also want to improve Kubuntu and Ubuntu is the best organization for this. :)
* '''Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?'''
** I have been using Kubuntu for many years but I have not joined the developer community yet, GSoC is the very best moment. In my opinion, Kubuntu's KDE deserves more care, I acknowledge it is not possible to Canonical to take care of all Ubuntu derivates, but Kubuntu can be improved also by the community and then is GSoC one of the best chances.
