{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== KamranKhan ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: <nowiki>[[http://inspirated.com/about/|Kamran Riaz Khan]]</nowiki>
* Email Address: krkhan [at] inspirated [dot] com
* IRC nickname: krkhan
* Launchpad ID: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~inspirated|~inspirated]]</nowiki>
* Skype username: ikrkhan
* Webpage/blog: <nowiki>[[http://inspirated.com/|inspirated.com]]</nowiki>
* College-University: <nowiki>[[http://nu.edu.pk/|National University of Computer & Emerging Sciences]]</nowiki>, Pakistan
* Major: Electrical Engineering

=== Project ===
==== Project Name ====
Bug Triaging Improvements for Launchpad/Arsenal
==== Project Description ====
The features mentioned below were originally part of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GoogleSoC2010/Ideas#Arsenal%20bug%20auto-triaging%20tools%20(Python)|Arsenal bug auto-triaging tools]]</nowiki> proposal. However, a useful implementation of some of these features requires modifications in the Launchpad API. Similarly, some of the features retain their usability in the web-interface as well. For these reasons, the title of this proposal was changed to reflect the fact that the will not just be limited to Arsenal.

===== Attachment Search =====
Currently, there is no easy way of searching through a project's bug attachments because of the following reasons:

* The REST API does not expose a <code>bug</code> collection for a <code>project</code>.
* For a particular <code>bug</code>, an Arsenal search through the attachments requires downloading each attachment locally and then searching through it.

The solution would be to:
* Create <code>bug</code> collection attribute for <code>project</code>s, e.g.:
{{{#!python
class IProduct(...):
    ...
    bugs = exported(
        CollectionField(
            title=_("List of bugs for this project."),
            value_type=Reference(schema=IBug),
            readonly=True))
}}}
* Create <code>bug_attachment</code> collection search methods for <code>bug</code>s, e.g.:
{{{#!python
class IBug(...):
    ....
    @operation_parameters(
        text=TextLine(title=_("Search text"), default=u""))
    @operation_returns_collection_of(IBugAttachment)
    @export_read_operation()
    def findAttachments(text=""):
    """Return all attachments which contain <text>."""
}}}
* Create a command-line attachment grepper.
* Create a graphical helper for searching using pygtkmozembed.

===== Automatic Upstreamer =====
Add the functionality to forward a bug along with attachments to a remote tracker. General summary of the approach:

* Collect bug information in an <code>ArsenalBug</code> instance.
* Use <nowiki>[[http://www.bugzilla.org/docs/3.0/html/api/Bugzilla/WebService/Bug.html|Bugzilla::Webservice::Bug]]</nowiki> over the XML-RPC interface to create a remote bug and upload attachments.

===== Bug Matchmaker =====
For a given Bugzilla bug, add the functionality to search the remote tracker. However, depending solely on a web-service API or parsing HTML pages will again bring in the issue of 'one trip for each item' for the search. Therefore:

* Launchpad plugin for Bugzilla will be used to help with the searches remotely.
* ''If'' the user has opted to search for private bugs, use authentication procedures.

===== Automatic Patcher =====
For a given bug, generate an automatically patched package from an attachment. The procedure would be to:

* Download the Deb/Tar package
* For Deb, unpack and use the <code>dpatch</code> rules to generate a patched version
* For Tar, unpack and patch the source code.
* Report any errors which have occurred during the process.

The functionality will be built directly in Arsenal.

==== If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones? ====
I shall be focusing only on these improvements. They will require lot of polish and testing to reach a level of productivity where compatibility issues among the API's will not hinder the bug triaging process. Therefore, I will not be spending time on other projects during the summer.

==== Why did you like this idea? ====
Because:
* I love Python.
* I like playing with web service API's to create interesting interoperating applications.

==== Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it ====
* Launchpad core shall be modified to include functionality for bug attachment searching.
* Launchpad web interface and the Bugzilla plugin shall be modified to expose attachment searching, automatic upstreaming and matchmaking.
* Launchpad's REST API and <code>launchpadlib</code> shall be modified to expose attachment searching.
* Arsenal shall be modified to include the ability of searching for attachments and automatically creating patched packages.

==== Give us details about the milestones for this project ====
* Before June: Get up to speed with Launchpad core development process, bond with the community.
* Second week of June: Implement attachment searching.
* End of June: Update Arsenal to use attachment searching.
* First week of July: Implement automatic upstreaming.
* Second week of July: Implement matchmaking.
* Third week of July: Modify Arsenal to generate automatically patches packages.
* End of July: Test the changes extensively, merge into main branches.

==== Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu? ====
* It will help ordinary users easily report back more bug information to Launchpad.
* It will increase the cohesion among different project's bug tracking processes. Considerable time is currently wasted because of lack of interoperability among upstream trackers and Launchpad.
* It will greatly speed up the bug triaging process for maintainers and developers.

=== Open Source ===

==== Please describe any previous Open Source development experience ====
* Worked on following open-source projects:
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/pidgin-countdown|Pidgin Countdown]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/fbfriendsgraph|Facebook Friends Graph]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bmundertaker|Bookmark Undertaker]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~arsenal-devel/arsenal/master/annotate/head%3A/AUTHORS|Arsenal]]</nowiki>
* Wrote the following applications:
** <nowiki>[[http://code.inspirated.com/pys60/inbox-stats/|Inbox Stats (Symbian)]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://code.inspirated.com/pys60/csvautoresponder/|CVS Auto-Responder (Symbian)]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://code.inspirated.com/pygtk/emu8086-hardware-interrupt-editor-generator/|Emu8086 Hardware Interrupt Editor & Generator]]</nowiki>
* Worked on <nowiki>[[http://code.inspirated.com/misc/bug-fixes/|fixing bugs]]</nowiki> in various open-source projects
* Wrote various <nowiki>[[http://code.inspirated.com/misc/articles/|articles]]</nowiki> related to programming

==== Why are you interested in Open Source? ====
Because trusting closed source is akin to having an unpublished and unreviewed block cipher as the AES.

=== Availability ===
==== How long will the project take? When can you begin? ====
The project should take around two months for releasing the features in a production-ready state. I can begin after May 19, i.e., after my current semester ends.

==== How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly) ====
Around 7-8 hours per day for 4-5 days each week.

==== Where will you based during the summer? ====
Islamabad, Pakistan.

==== Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses) ====
I have 37 movies — and 2 seasons of Flying Circus pending — on my wishlist, that's about it.

==== Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application) ====
I don't personally know anyone interested in Launchpad development so any designation would be a random guess at best.

=== Other ===
==== Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project) ====
No.

==== Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones? ====
Going to apply for the LSB project of cross-distribution dependency translation tool.

==== Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ? ====
* Getting paid for working on something I love is too good an idea to pass.
* In my country there aren't (m)any opportunities for paid open-source work. So I'd prefer spending the summer in my room working on Launchpad instead of at a company working with crippled Java written by someone else.

==== Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation? ====
Because I have worked with Launchpad before and I use it for managing all of my tiny open-source utilities. My project is essentially concerned with Launchpad and Ubuntu is the organization associated with it.

==== Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you? ====
I want to participate in order to have some productive fun during the summers and contribute to the open-source world. Ubuntu should choose me because I have a great deal of enthusiasm for working on Launchpad with some open-source experience already at my hands. I have a fair amount of experience with Python, GTK+, C/C++, PHP and x86 in particular; and POSIX, open-source and web development in general.
