{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== James Holland ==

=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: James Holland
* Email Address: modestforagenius@googlemail.com
* IRC nickname: blazemore
* Launchpad ID: modestforagenius@googlemail.com
* Skype username: rory.j.holland
* Webpage/blog: 
* College-University: University of Nottingham
* Major: Computer Science

=== Project ===
* Project Name: Ubuntu Backup Utility 
* Project Description: A simple wizard and front-end for a powerful rsync based Backup utility. This project should match and surpass the excellent backup facilities in Windows 7, without emulating them.
* I liked this idea because I feel there is no easy-to-use backup facility available. There is also no recommended, officially supported utility.
* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it: 
Frontend in Python/GTK, daemon in Python, grunt work done by rsync/bash
* Mockups available shortly (http://www.facebook.com/photo.php?pid=30608964&l=f52435aa39&id=1103514920), frontend available next month, project finished by SoC
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?
Users need backup. Ubuntu doesn't provide backup. It's a massive problem, and a simple solution.

=== Open Source ===
* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience
No previous experience, only programming at University
* Why are you interested in Open Source? 
Allows others to benefit from your work, and you to benefit from others.

=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
Immediately
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
Roughly 4-5 hours for a very powerful and polished product
* Where will you based during the summer? 
In the UK
* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses) 
Not at the moment, however, I will not have any at all that will conflict with this work

=== Other ===

* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
I am an Ubuntu user with experience in using the system, and want to learn more about coding for it
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?
I am scratching my own itch with this project, and I'll write it even if I don't get picked for SoC. However, I'd appreciate the help that SoC provides.
