{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Please name this wiki page http://wiki.ubuntu.com/GSoC/2010/YourName'''

== YourName ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name:VIPIN T.M
 
* Email Address:tmvipinster@gmail.com
 
* IRC nickname:tmvipinster
 
* Launchpad ID:
 
* Skype username:
 
* Webpage/blog: www.vipitm.blogspot.com
 
* College-University:Vishwesharaya Technological University
 
* Major:Computer science engineering

=== Project ===
* Project Name: GUI troubleshooting guide for ubuntu
* Project Description: 

   I plan to develop a graphical troubleshooting guide for
   ubuntu distributions which leads users through a sequence
   of troubleshooting steps.Steps mentioned in ubuntu wiki will
   be taken as primary source. The gui app can be updated with 
   server from time to time..

* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
   backup creator utility for ubuntu
 

* Why did you like this idea?
   As a beginner I had a lot trouble in Troubleshooting linux and 
   even though there were enough documentation none of them helped me
   and now i want to develop an application that help every novice or
   starters to troubleshoot their systems easily
 

* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
* Give us details about the milestones for this project
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?
   it is difficult for a beginner to comprehend ubuntu and even though there is well supported documentation a beginner wants to just
   have his/her problem sorted out through some basic troubleshooting steps.
=== Open Source ===

* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience

   I have developed some simple applications such as a music player and a dozen of small utilities intended to provide
   service for smaller audience like my friends
 

* Why are you interested in Open Source?

    its just sheer desire for freedom.I am a sort of person who wish to open things up.may it be   a    gadget or a software.i love to open code explore and resuse it.

=== Availability ===
 
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
   
  As per my calculation it will take around 6-8 weeks.Later time can be used for testing and debugging..
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
   
   Anywhere between 28-40 hours ..

* Where will you based during the summer?

   Karnataka, India
* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)
   
  In fact we do not have summer holidays right now but there is considerable number of holidays in may and june..

* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? (describe your project)
   No
 

* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
   No
 

* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
   Its my ambition to contribute something to FOSS world and i think doing this under a well know event like gsoc will help to raise my career graph.

* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
  I have been a active user of ubuntu since 2007 and wish to contribute something to this community.
  Also I will be pleased if a piece of my code goes into next ubuntu distribution 

* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?
