{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Please name this wiki page http://wiki.ubuntu.com/GSoC/2010/Evgheni'''

== Babinciuc Evgheni ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Babinciuc Evgheni
* Email Address: babinciuc.eugen@gmail.com
* IRC nickname: Evgheni
* Launchpad ID: Evgheni
* Skype username: babinciuc.eugen
* Webpage/blog:
* College-University: "Alexandru Ioan Cuza", Iasi, Romania
* Major: Computer Science

=== Project ===
* Project Name: GNOME centralized file sharing administration
* Project Description: 
Create a graphical tool that will allow to centralised view,edit,remove samba and nfs shares. In this tool I want make very user-friendly edit of this shares.
Also, edit some global Samba configurations.
* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones?
* Why did you like this idea?
I work with Ubuntu since 5.10 version, it was 5 years ago, when I start to learn Linux administration. I start samba administration using vi to edit config, and I remember that it was very hard for me. This why I want to contribute with my experince and with my work, to help other people avoid this problems. Because, Linux is not only for administrators, but for simple users, that want easy share their information with their friends for example. 

* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
* Give us details about the milestones for this project

Before project start I will discuss more with my mentor,for get more specific details about project.

1,2 Week - make arhitecture of the program, after feedback from mentor.

4 Week - finish gui interface without any functionality

8 Week -  finish all functionality 

8-12 Week - testing 

12 Week - finish project
* Why will your proposal benefit Ubuntu?
Because my project will improve System of Sharing in Ubuntu. This will help users more easy work with this Linux distribution.
=== Open Source ===
* Please describe any previous Open Source development experience
I didn't have experince in big Open Source project, but I developed a lot of applications in my faculty using C/C++,Java,Assembler,YACC,LEX and using Mercurial versions control.

* Why are you interested in Open Source?
I love idea of Open Source Software, because from Open Source everyone can benefit and improve it. GNU/Linux is the best example of this, how a open source Operating System can have such big number of users. For me Open Source is about freedom, about choices and a community, because a little contribution of a lot of people can became a big benefit for the society.

=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? When can you begin?
Project will take about 2 months. I can start at the begging of the summer.
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? (weekly)
I think about 20 hours per week.
* Where will you based during the summer?
I will be in Iasi,Romania. At an apartment. This is Town where I am studying now.
* Do you have any commitments for the summer? (holidays/work/summer courses)
I have a one week holiday at sea with family. This is only one commitment for this summer for me.

* Please designate a back up student (in case you need to withdraw your application)

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? 
No.
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? If yes, which ones?
* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ?
I see this as a opportunity to have a contribution in my favourite distribution, and also develop myself.
* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation?
Because as I previously mentioned I use Ubuntu since 5.10 version, and I like very much this distribution. I use Ubuntu as Desktop and as Server. Every day, I use Ubuntu, this is why I want have a contribution to my favourite distribution.
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you?
