{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Nikos Kokolakis ==
=== Contact information ===
* Your Name: Nikos Kokolakis
* Email Address: kokolakisnikos@gmail.com
* IRC nickname: -
* Launchpad ID: kokolakisnikos
* Skype username: n.kokolakis
* Webpage/blog: -
* College-University: <nowiki>[[http://www.di.uoa.gr/en/|Athens University's Department of Informatics and Telecommunations]]</nowiki>

=== Projects ===
* Project Names: <nowiki>[[Hardware device manager and hardware database|https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-GoogleSoC2010-Ideas#Hardware%20device%20manager%20and%20hardware%20database]]</nowiki>, Cheaper-mirrors or Nautilus Improvements preferably the Hardware database.
* If you would be willing and able to do other projects instead, which ones? Launchpad Offline Bug Client, Home User Backup Spec
* Why did you like this idea?  The creation of a hardware database will make it easier for solutions to be found and will automate the solution of common installation problems.  Cheaper-mirrors is going to make the mirroring of apt repos faster and easier compared to rsync mirroring. As for the Nautilus Improvements, I think that it is important for Ubuntu to provide a really usable interface and the improvements proposed by the Nautilus Improvements project are going to make the user experience a lot better.
* Please describe a tentative project architecture or an approach to it:
    For the cheaper mirrors project:
     After a little bit of research, I found that in each apt repository, there is a Packages.gz and possibly a Sources.gz file. These files describe the repository's available packages, binary and/or sources. To mirror an existing repo, the local Packages.gz and the server's corresponding file should be compared in order to determine different package versions, package additions and/or package removals. If a difference is found in the version, the server package will be downloaded and replace the local one. On package addition, a new file will be created and on removal the local package would be removed. This way the server's directory tree is not traversed to check against the local tree, as rsync would do. I think that the above should be done but if I haven't understood the project's purpose, please feel free to correct me!
* Give us details about the milestones for this project:
    For the Cheaper-mirrors:
*** Learn more about apt repositories (~ 1 week)
*** Implement parsing of Packages.gz and Sources.gz files and a way of representing the packages (~ 2 weeks)
*** Implement comparison of packages (~ 1 week)
*** Implement downloading of packages needed (~ 1 week if a library like libcurl is used)
*** Implement an interface which "glues" all the above in a nice front-end (~ 1 - 1.5 week)
*** Spend the rest of the time on solving bugs and optimizing!
    For the Nautilus:
*** Decide which improvements are important
*** See how to implement them
*** Patch the nautilus code

=== Open Source ===
* The main reason for applying for GSoC is to get me started in contributing to open source projects. I haven't the courage to get involved till now.
* I have created a little application that is called gNotify (available <nowiki>[[http://bitbucket.org/kokolakisnikos/gnotify/|here]]</nowiki>) and it notifies the user for any new email in his gmail account. It's no big deal, but it works..

=== Availability ===
* How long will the project take? I think it will take about 3 months, the whole summer.
* When can you begin? I can begin as soon as I get accepted, with a two week break for my summer exams (11/6-25/6)
* How much time do you expect to dedicate to this project? I am really excited about contributing, I plan working on it daily
* Where will you based during the summer? I am going to stay in Greece.
* Do you have any commitments for the summer? Not really, everywhere I will be, I' ll have my laptop!

=== Other ===
* Have you ever participated in a previous GSoC? No
* Have you applied for any other 2010 Summer of Code projects? No
* Why did you apply for the Google Summer of Code ? I really want to contribute to the open source community and do something useful in the summer
* Why did you choose Ubuntu as a mentoring organisation? Ubuntu is the distribution I use since 2006, so..
* Why do you want to participate and why should Ubuntu choose you? I am really excited about this and I think I can do some good work!
