{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



<pre>
Estas en el wiki.ubuntu.com/Guendelman/
</pre>

Bienvenido al Newsletter Ubuntu, Issue ## for the week MONTH DAY - DAY, YEAR. In this issue we cover ...

'''UWN Translations'''

* Español - Start one! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/IssueXX/Es

=== En esta Edicion ===
C.U.P.I.E. (Charlas ubunteras por IRC en español), es un proyecto divulgativo que nace con la intención de ayudar a la gente a comprender y optimizar el uso de su sistema operativo Ubuntu, así como la filosofía que define al mundo del soft libre. 

Se realizaran tanto charlas practicas como informativas, siempre de forma publica y abierta, cualquiera puede asistir, y también participar preparando o sugiriendo nuevas ponencias.

Soporte en  IRC  Servidor  IRC.FREEENODE.NET

=== General Community News ===

=== Nuevo en en Gutsy Gibbon ===
Lo nuevo , lo Increible.

=== In The Press ===

=== In The Blogosphere ===

=== Meetings and Events ===

=== Community Spotlight ===

Esta Semana

=== Updates and security for 6.06, 6.10, and 7.04 ===

==== Security Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 7.04 Updates ====

=== Bug Stats ===

*** Open (#) +/- # over last week
*** Critical (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unconfirmed (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unassigned (#) +/- # over last week
*** All bugs ever reported (#)  +/- # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

==== Infamous Bugs ====

=== Translation Stats ===

1. Language (#) +/- # over last week
2. Language (#) +/- # over last week
3. Language (#) +/- # over last week
4. Language (#) +/- # over last week
5. Language (#) +/- # over last week

Remaining string to translate in Ubuntu 7.10 "Gutsy Gibbon", see more at: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy/

=== UWN #: A sneak peek ===

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Your Name Here
* And many others

=== RSS ===

You can subscribe to the UWN feed at: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Feedback ===

If you would like to submit an idea or story you think is worth appearing on the UWN, please send them to ubuntu-marketing-submissions@lists.ubuntu.com.
This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page. If you have any technical support questions, please send then ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com.
