{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== OverView ==
Specification page for Luciole blueprint dedicated to <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/luciole/+spec/gui-improvements|GUI improvements ]]</nowiki> after release of luciole 0.7.2. 

The following GUI impovements are proposed :
# On tree view add right click feature --> select all
# Add widget for reading video in loop mode.
# in capture and montage Treeview add Drag and Drop to Trash
# Add more flexibility for import and acquisition from jpeg/png/tga formats

== Specification ==
=== On Treeviews add right click feature ===
Modify treeviews to allow right click signal emission and display menu pop up. Take a look on '''quodlibet'''  code for that point.

=== Add widget for reading video in loop mode. ===
Add a check button for allowing / not allowing loop mode read.
* Work on gui to find a position to this check button. 
* Take a look in gstreamer for 'loop' mode ( When EOS detected go to play state ?)

=== In capture and montage Treeview add Drag and Drop to Trash ===
How to do it ? Analysis needed based on DnD feature for treeviews. Play on targets_source / targets_dest  stuff.

=== Add more flexibility for import and acquisition from jpeg/png/tga formats ===
* Import : allow import of several file formats jpeg/png/tga/gif
* In gstreamer : look for several decoders. to allow image store in several formats or store image as pixbuf than convert into the specified format.
* In project prefs allow the choose of wanted format

== Implementation ==
