{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


===== General =====

'''1. The goal is to make people try Ubuntu.'''  After trying it the choice is theirs.

'''2. Be assertive. Take initiative. ''' If you come up with a good idea, you still need to nurture it until it takes off. If you don't work on your own ideas don't expect anybody else will.

'''3. Never criticize other operating systems''' Never make people feel bad about their decision, let people know they have a choice and what are the benefits of it.

'''4. Know your audience.''' Average users may be intimidated by technical news while others may prefer them. See how your audience reacts and choose the more suitable type of news.

'''5. Never oversell and never cover up weaknesses.'''  Encourage people to try it and let Ubuntu surprise them in a positive way.

'''6. Let people know the advantages of FOSS ''' Being free and open source is what sets us apart from other OSs, when letting people know about it it's important to tell the advantages it conveys.

===== About independent sites and social networks =====

'''1.  Know your audience.'''  See how your audience reacts to different topics and choose the most suitable type of news.

'''2 Your site's name and info must transmit the content it issues''' LuvUbunt can be a great name for a site oriented for average users, UbuntGeek not so much. If your audience is already defined you should adapt to it.

===== About Activism and LoCo Teams =====

'''1. Don't play solo. ''' Find and join your local team at the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamList|LoCo Team List]]</nowiki>

'''2. Always have Ubuntu Live CDs with you.''' Giving away CDs has proven to be the most effective way of making people try Ubuntu, you can't go out without them.

----
<nowiki>[[themkpledge-resources|Resources]]</nowiki>
