{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~smarter|smarter]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''smarter''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''GPG''':
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0xC55B78503AA736D6|3AA736D6]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Member''':
| since 2007-12-22
|}

== About me ==
I'm a 15 year old French student. I started using Linux in May 2005 with a Knoppix Live-CD and I've been a fan of KDE since then.
I installed Hoary on my laptop back in September 2005 and decided to gave a try to Gnome since it was Ubuntu's default environnement but I quickly switched back to KDE/Kubuntu and I'm running Kubuntu since then(even if I tried various other Linux and *BSD distributions).

== Contributions to Free Softwares ==
=== Launchpad ===
* In the past, some bug Reports and triaging on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~smarter|Malone]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu.
* Some translations made with <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~smarter|Rosetta]]</nowiki>, mostly for <nowiki>[[http://medibuntu.org|Medibuntu]]</nowiki> now

=== Ubuntu-fr ===
* I'm admin of the <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org|French Ubuntu forums]]</nowiki> and a regular poster.
* I contributed to some wiki pages like <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/adept]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/radeon]]</nowiki>.

=== Packaging ===
* I'm a <nowiki>[[http://medibuntu.org|Medibuntu]]</nowiki> packager, I maintain the KDE packages(only Amarok at the moment) and some other packages like aacplusenc.
* I've done quiet a lot of packaging for Ubuntu(mostly Kubuntu stuff): https://launchpad.net/~smarter/+uploaded-packages, I maintain most of my packages in <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~smarter|Bazaar branches]]</nowiki>.

=== Coding ===
* I'm currently working on a KDE4 port of Kvkbd(a virtual keyboard for KDE), available in Intrepid repository and on http://websvn.kde.org/trunk/playground/utils/kvkbd

----
CategoryHomepage
