{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> ''Guillem Hernandez Sola''
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~guillemhs|guillemhs]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''guillemhs''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Website''':
| http://www.hernandezsola.com
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://www.hernandezsola.com/blog
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/guillemhs|guillemhs]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Identi.ca''':
| <nowiki>[[https://www.identi.ca/guillemhs|guillemhs]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''LinkedIn''':
| <nowiki>[[http://es.linkedin.com/in/guillemhernandezsola|guillemhernandezsola]]</nowiki>
|}

== About Me ==
I am 28 years old and I live in Barcelona (north of Spain).
I received my M.Sc. degree in telecommunications engineering (a 5 years degree) in
2007 from the Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC). 

=== Contributions ===
I am dedicated to detect software failures so that the corresponding defects regarding to the  <nowiki>[[http://zet.aluzina.org/index.php/Zet_processor|Zet Processor]]</nowiki>. The Zet processor is an open implementation of the so widely used IA-32 architecture (generally called x86). Mainly, I am the Zet bios software tester and the coordinator of the most stable applications that ZET can properly execute. Additionally,
I also report the discovered bugs to the ZET community in order to be corrected.

I am also a certified software tester by ISTQB and I am an external advisor for the Judicial Court as telecom expert part on legal disputes. Specifically, I provide an expert opinion on the technological matters raised in a legal dispute between two parties. Those parties are companies like Telefonica, Vodafone or Telecom Italia.
----
CategoryHomepage
