{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Gunnar Hjalmarsson, apply for upload rights for package ubuntu-docs.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Gunnar Hjalmarsson
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~gunnarhj
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| GunnarHj
|}

<<BR>>
Last spring <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2013-April/001035.html|I was granted upload rights for language-selector and accountsservice]]</nowiki>. This is a request to add ubuntu-docs to the list, and as regards the description of me and my Ubuntu work, please see <nowiki>[[GunnarHj-PerPackageUploaderApplication|the previous application]]</nowiki> at first hand.

Since then I have become more involved in the Documentation Team. There is currently noone in the team that has upload rights for the ubuntu-docs package. We just had a meeting, and it was considered desirable that at least one of us has. So here I am. :)

''Edit:'' An extra upload of ubuntu-docs was made in order to identify possible issues in good time before DocumentationStringFreeze. The translators were <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-translators/2014-February/006406.html|informed about the implications]]</nowiki>. With that I can now refer to a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-docs/14.04.1|sponsored upload of the package]]</nowiki>. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:gunnarhj]]</nowiki> 
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

The ubuntu-docs project almost died out a couple of years ago. While significant challenges remain, the current team is proud of how the project has been revived. The one area of particular weakness is the conversion of the project version of ubuntu-docs (the Desktop help guide) to the package version and the sponsored upload thereof. Currently, there is only one person on the team that even knows how to convert to the package version or knows of someone with upload rights they can ask to sponsor uploads. As Gunnar mentioned, nobody on the currently active team has upload rights. Gunnar's work for the doc team is always thorough and accurate, encompassing the overall standards and bigger picture view of the entire project. It would be good for the project to have at least one of its members fill this gap in the overall workflow. Gunnar is the ideal candidate, as he already has upload rights for some other packages and is familiar with the requirements, standards and expectations that comes with such rights.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dsmythies|Doug Smythies]]</nowiki>-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dsmythies]]</nowiki> 
----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Sebastien Bacher ===

Gunnar has been contributing to Ubuntu for a while, he knows the processes and is usual careful with the changes he's doing/ask when in doubt. The recent ubuntu-docs update he did was fine and I trust him to do a good job on this package, +1 from me to give him ppu rights.

=== Daniel Holbach ===
This is easy. Gunnar has done fantastic work over many cycles, he's very diligent, happy to work with upstreams, goes the extra mile and gets things done. Big +1.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication
