{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Gustavo Franco, apply for universe-contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Gustavo Franco
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~stratus]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
* Debian contributor since 2001, DD since 2005.
* Google Systems Administrator.
* Working in some <nowiki>[[http://alioth.debian.org/users/stratus|Debian projects at alioth]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=stratus@debian.org|Maintaining, Co-Maintaining and Sponsoring]]</nowiki> some packages in Debian
* Debian Python Modules Team founder (python-modules) and Python Apps admin.
* <nowiki>[[http://alioth.debian.org/projects/pkg-ltsp|pkg-ltsp]]</nowiki> founder (with otavio, ogra, pere and others).

== My Ubuntu story ==
''I've attended the BoF in debconf 4 and use Ubuntu since its first release months after.'''

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
=== Areas of work ===
=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''I think QA in 6 months release cycles is hard. I hope I can help with QA and automation on this area in the future.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
