{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Disse udgivelsesnoter dokumenterer kendte fejl som findes i version 7.10 af Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu, Xubuntu og Gobuntu.

== Systemkrav ==

Mindstekravet til hukommelse for Ubutnu 7.10 er 384MB ved brug af desktop CD'er og 256MB for andre installationsmetoder. (Bemærk at noget af din hukommelse måske ikke er tilgængelig fordi det bruges af dit grafikkort.)

Hvis dit system kun har præcis mindstekravet for hukommelse, vil installations-processen tage længere end normalt, men den vil bliver gennemført uden problemer, og systemet vil give en nogenlunde ydelse når det er installeret. Lav-hukommelsessystemer kan muligvis bruge desktop CD'en til at installere med, ved at tilføje opstartstilvalget `only-ubiquity` således at kun installationsprogrammet startes op og ikke hele systemet.

== Installation ==

=== AACRAID i Dell PowerEdge 2650 ===

* "server"-kerne varianten virker ikke på Dell Power``Edge 2650 servere på grund af en fejl ved initialisering af aacraid driveren. Som en måde at arbejde uden om problemet kan brugere bruge "generic"-kerne varianten i stedet. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/149071|Bug #149071]]</nowiki>

== Opgradering ==

Ubuntu 7.04-brugere kan nemt opgradere til Ubuntu 7.10 ved hjælpe af en fuldstændig automatiseret proces. Opgraderings-instruktioner findes på følgende side http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading.

=== /etc/papersize eksistere ikke ===

* Hvis du har installeret en før-udgivelsesversion af Ubuntu 7.10 fra Desktop CD'en som er ældre end beta-udgaven vil filen `/etc/papersize` ikke eksistere, og dette kan give udskrivningsproblemer. Denne fejl kan rettes ved at oprette denne fil med den papirstørrelse som du oftest bruger. Det vil normalt være "a4" eller "letter" afhængigt af hvor du bor, f.eks: <pre>
echo letter | sudo tee /etc/papersize >/dev/null
</pre>

=== Route-metrik (metric) ===

* ifupdown sætter nu standardmetrikken til 100 for grænseflader der ikke har en indstilling sat i /etc/network/interfaces for dette. Denne ændring vil ikke betyde noget for de fleste brugere, men vil måske have en indflydelse for folk med specielle netværks-konfigurationer. Hvis du er afhængig af den gamle adfærd hvor metrikken som standard var sat til 0 (nul) kan du redigere din /etc/network/interfaces og sætte metric-tilvalget eksplicit for din grænseflade, f.eks: <pre>
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.0.2
        network 192.168.0.0
        broadcast 192.168.0.255
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        gateway 192.168.0.1
        metric 0
</pre>

=== Network Manager ===

* I Ubuntu 7.10 vil network-manager kun vise de grænseflader som er markeret til roaming. Derfor vil alle grænseflader der blev håndteret af network-manager bliver sat i roaming-tilstand ved opgradering. Teknisk betyder det at alle grænselade-"stanzas" som bruger `dhcp`-metoden uden nogle tilvalg, og som er markeret som `auto`, vil blive fjernet fra /etc/network/interfaces. Hvis du er afhængig af at din grænseflade skal startes af ifupdown, når systemet starter op, bliver du nødt til at slå dem til igen i /etc/network/interfaces manuelt, eller slå "roaming" fra i  '''System''' -> '''Administration''' -> '''Netværk'''.

=== NFS monterings-understøttelse ===

* For at montere NFS-filsystemer skal du nu installere `nfs-common`pakken.

=== Commercial/partner-arkivet ===

* "Commercial"-arkivet på `archive.canonical.com` er blevet omdøbt til "partner". Hvis du opgraderer direkte fra en tidligere udgivelse af Ubuntu 7.10 ved hjælp af den dokumenterede opgraderingsproces, så vil dette bliver håndteret automatisk. Men hvis du opgradere via via betaen og/eller manuelt så bliver du nødt til selv at redigere din `/etc/apt/sources.list`. Den korrekte syntaks er: <pre>
deb http://archive.canonical.com/ gutsy partner
</pre>

=== UltraSPARC disk label changes ===

* Users upgrading to Ubuntu 7.10 on UltraSPARC should manually re-run fdisk on all disks. fdisk will warn if the disk label needs to be updated; follow its instructions. New installations of Ubuntu 7.10 will automatically use the new disk label format.

=== PlayStation 3 changes ===

* The kernel flavor for Play``Station 3 systems has changed from `powerpc64-smp` to `cell`. Users upgrading their Play``Station 3 from Ubuntu 7.04 to 7.10 should run this before or after the upgrade: <pre>
$ sudo apt-get remove linux-image-powerpc64-smp linux-powerpc64-smp linux-restricted-modules-powerpc64-smp
$ sudo apt-get install linux-cell
</pre>
* In addition, the block device names have changed from the normal `/dev/sdX` naming to `/dev/ps3dX` (e.g. `/dev/sda1` will now be known as `/dev/ps3da1`). Standard installs should not be affected by this, since they use UUID naming. However, if you changed `/etc/fstab` to refer to hardcoded device names, you will need to adjust these for the new kernel.

=== GnuPG agent integration missing on upgrade from Ubuntu 7.04 ===

* If you are upgrading from Ubuntu 7.04, the file `~/.gnupg/gpg.conf` may have failed to be created by default in your home directory due to a bug in the gnupg package.  In that case, GPG agent integration will not be enabled by default.  If you have not created your own gpg.conf, you can correct this issue by running `cp /usr/share/gnupg/options.skel ~/.gnupg/gpg.conf`. If you do have a gpg.conf and are affected by this issue, correct it by running `echo use-agent >> ~/.gnupg/gpg.conf`. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/76983|Bug #76983]]</nowiki>

== Other known bugs ==

=== Blank screen with some ATI hardware ===

* People with ATI display adapters may get a blank screen when loading X due to the driver being unable to initialize certain hardware. Upstream is working on it, and hopefully we'll be able to release an update for 7.10 soon after the release. In the meantime, add 'Option "LVDSBios``Native``Mode" "false"' to the driver section of xorg.conf. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/132716|Bug #132716]]</nowiki>

=== Dual-head (multi-screen) setups ===

* The ati driver has dropped MergedFB / Xinerama support in favour of xrandr 1.2 support, and old multi-head xorg.conf setups will break. To set up dual-head see the guides at http://www.intellinuxgraphics.org/dualhead.html or http://wiki.debian.org/XStrikeForce/HowToRandR12
* As xrandr and xinerama are incompatible, you cannot mix some graphics cards using xrandr-enabled drivers with others that are still limited to using xinerama.  In this case, you will need to revert to pre-xrandr versions of the respective drivers: for Intel cards, use the old "i810" driver instead of "intel", for ATI cards, use the old <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/1:6.6.3-2ubuntu6|6.6 version]]</nowiki>.
* With xrandr, it is now possible to use Compiz in a multi-screen setup, however it is dependent on available video card memory.  The workaround for this issue is to switch to a lower virtual resolution.

=== Compiz and session management ===

* Users who enable desktop effects will find that they are unable to use the "Remember currently running applications" feature.  The workaround for this issue is to disable the use of the Compiz compositing window manager by turning off desktop effects in the '''System''' -> '''Preferences''' -> '''Appearance''' menu.

=== Suspend to RAM with fglrx ===

* Attempting to suspend to RAM using the proprietary `fglrx` ATI video driver from the restricted component will hard-lock the system due to changes in the kernel's memory allocator (which will be the default in Linux 2.6.23) that have not been followed by ATI in a timely fashion; this is the vendor's responsibility and is beyond our control due to the proprietary nature of the driver.  Workarounds include using Ubuntu 7.04, avoiding suspending to RAM, or using the free ATI driver. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/121653|Bug #121653]]</nowiki>

=== Printing with AppArmor ===

Ubuntu 7.10 introduces an additional security layer called App``Armor, whose support for CUPS printing is not yet complete.  This will result in printing failures in certain corner cases described below.  The workaround in each of these cases is to disable the App``Armor CUPS profile by running `sudo aa-complain cupsd`.  App``Armor support may be re-enabled by running `sudo aa-enforce cupsd`.

** Printing to bluetooth printers does not work with App``Armor enabled. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/147800|Bug #147800]]</nowiki>
** Many third-party printer drivers (especially from printer manufacturers) do not work. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/152537|Bug #152537]]</nowiki>

=== Fax on HP multi-function devices does not work ===

* Due to a bug in HP's driver software, faxing on all of HP multi-function devices does not work. No workaround is currently available, but HP has been informed of the issue. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/153152|Bug #153152]]</nowiki>

=== No printer admin rights for added users ===

* Users must be in the printing administration group, "lpadmin", to be able to configure printer settings. The first system user created during installation is added to this group, but users added or modified with the `user-admin` tool at '''System''' -> '''Administration''' -> '''Users and Groups''' will not be added to this group. As a workaround, you can grant "lpadmin" privileges to users by running the command `sudo adduser <user> lpadmin` in a terminal window. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/152107|Bug #152107]]</nowiki>

=== User management tool may lose user privileges ===

* It is reported that the `users-admin` user management tool ('''System''' -> '''Administration''' -> '''Users and Groups''') will in some cases remove the group memberships of all users when adding a new user, which means that all existing users lose their administrator privileges, possibly leaving the system with no administrator access at all.  The nature of this issue has not yet been established, and therefore no fix is presently known for this issue.  If you experience this problem, you can recover by booting in recovery mode and using command-line tools to restore group memberships: for example, `adduser joe admin` will give the user `joe` administrator privileges. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/26338|Bug #26338]]</nowiki>

=== Kopete crashes when connecting to MSN ===

* Kubuntu's instant messenger application Kopete crashes when connecting with an account using MSN.  A fix should be available from gutsy-updates soon.  <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdenetwork/+bug/153500|Bug #153500]]</nowiki>

=== CPU fan no longer runs on Dell Latitude L400 ===

* On a Dell Latitude L400, the CPU fan no longer runs and the CPU overheats under stress. Add `acpi=off` to the grub boot command for a workaround. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/127772|Bug #127772]]</nowiki>

=== Boot splash screen does not display ===

* With some monitors the resolution is wrongly detected when installed from a desktop CD and the boot splash screen is not displayed.  You can fix the resolution by editing `/etc/usplash.conf`.  <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/150930|Bug #150930]]</nowiki>
