{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Summary ==
/!\ ''This is a work in progress.  Please update based on your ability to get the procedure working.''

On Gutsy system, the proprietary NVidia drivers installed via the repositories are broken for users with a 7300 GPU class chipset and a dual core based system.  This applies to both amd64 and ia32 architectures.

== Symptoms ==
Once installed, the system will freeze at irregular moments.

== Workaround ==
The following procedure will attempt to guide you through installation of the updated NVidia proprietary driver and keep your restricted drivers package intact.

=== Download the Official Drivers ===

==== 64 bit Ubuntu Installations ====

X86_64 version 169.07:
http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_169.07.html

==== 32 bit Ubuntu Installations ====
x86 version 169.07:
http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_169.07.html

=== Adjust Scripts to Avoid Restricted Driver ===
''OliverP has the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.22/+bug/145112/comments/20|beginnings]]</nowiki> of this from the main <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.22/+bug/145112|bug report]]</nowiki>.  TODO:  Can we confirm this and clean it up for the wiki?''

=== Install the Linux Kernel Sources Required ===
Use whatever method you choose to install the <code>linux-source</code> package.

=== Install the Build Tools ===
Use whatever method you choose to install the <code>build-essential</code> package.

=== Boot Into Recovery Mode ===
Installation of the NVidia proprietary driver requires X to be in a non-running state.  Recovery mode will accomplish this.

=== Run the NVidia Script ===
Where you downloaded the driver, <code>chmod +x</code> the downloaded file to make it executable.  Execute it and follow the text based installation procedures.

== Finish ==
This should result with the NVidia driver installed on your system.

== Attention ==
'''Any time the restricted drivers are updated or a kernel update comes down the repository pipe, you will need to redo the building of the driver and the adjustment of the script as per OliverP's posting.  (Steps 2-6)'''  This is one of the many unfortunate consequences of proprietary drivers.

== Comments ==
I had problems (x would not start, bullet-proof-x config panel shown instead) until I removed linux-restricted-modules, and all the modules with names starting with nvidia.
