{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''
* '''Please nest a reply when you are responding on another reaction. Otherwise it will grow in a mess.... Thank you.'''

== WARNING ==
Known issues:
* Dolphin is very nice, but there are some very important features missing. The integration with archives should be the same as in konqueror, where i can do a right click on every type of archive and extract it with ark into the current folder or a subfolder. This currently works only with .tar.gz. and .tar.bz2 in dolphin, but not for any other type of archive. Also the "create new.." menu entry has fewer entries, and if i want to open a konsole in the current folder, i have to open the "extras" menu in dolphin instead of a rightclick and open it through "actions". If dolphin will be the default (which would be very nice), it should have the same integration as konqueror. I threat this as critical (at least for me), so i add this to the known issues. -- Jan

== Feedback ==
* I like the new KDM theme, it should definitely be kept the way it is with the exception of the Kubutu being moved up to allow the gears to be seen better -- FreddyMartinez
** I second this, though I find the shade of blue a bit irritating. I don't know why exactly. Maybe it's too bright, maybe some more contrasting lines would do the  wallpaper good. Regarding the wallpaper, I simply love how the lines on the right side are somehow reminiscent to a palm leaf. It's great! -- Sokraates
** I really like the new background, but the KDM theme need a little fixing. Using square white boxes in a box with rounded edges stings in my eyes, the box's layout isn't too good either. A different solution should be used to place so few items in such a large box. Does the box really need to be that large? -- ehamberg
* Please make further look and feel improvements. Please replace default KMenu icon with something more interesting. Or if you go further it can be an option to use Kickoff menu by default. Personally I love Kickoff but you can do some study (poll) to define if it should be enabled by defaul.
* The kmix master channel is not being used by kmilo for volume adjustments using multimedia keyboard keys, only the left-most kmix control is being used. This is a regression from fiesty. -- dystopianray
** Tested in a Compaq C500 laptop. The volume keys works, but if the headphones are plugged in, both (the speakers and the headphones) have sound -- ApuX
* The migration assistant fails to detect my windows xp installation. Please note that Migration assistant works perfectly on the same machine when I install Ubuntu, so I guess     this problem could be something Kubuntu specific maybe. -- WitoldKrakowski
* Like usually, I tested this GutsyTribe3 on my ASUS A6Q007H Laptop using the x86_32 LiveCD. 
** microcode bcm43xx_microcode5.fw for bcm43xx wifi chipset is still missing and asked during boot ; it would be nice to include it by default.
** When using SolarWinds OpenGL screensaver setup, Xorg crashes. 
** Reboot doesn't work.
** there is no tools to manage grub settings for  boot. I think it is really missing and should be included in System Settings panel (advanced tab, for example).
** the security tab of settings:/Security/ of KDE Configuration should also be linked to your System settings panel. It is also missing I think. Since Kubuntu is supposed to be a true-KDE distribution, it would be nice to link most of KDE Settings menus to Kubuntu System settings. 
** Dolphin's nice, but the "sort-by-type" display option is missing I think. Besides Dolphin isn't the default filemanager, despite what is said in the Tribe3 announcement 
** Verify that System settings and other menus properly resize when their windows are opened, because sometimes we can't reach easily the lowest part of the windows (this problem is already in Feisty) //Nikoo, August 2nd 2007
* Katapult can not find superkaramba (installed) -ApuX
* some issues on the installer: doesn't fit on 800x600, IDE hard drives are marked as SCSI (must be something with the new libata..) and a "HorizSync" is missing in the xorg.conf so my ati rage mobility m4 could display a resolution of 1024x768 when booting from the liveCD. Suspend doesn't work as usual (r128 + e100).  -- Knusperfroschn choosing Dutch as your language. This should be US International with dead-keys. -- Jeroen69   * The installer still gives the Netherlands keyboard-layout whe * OpenOffice doesn't start (just show the splash), by the way, the splash is brown like in Ubuntu, does'nt have to be blue? -ApuX // it did work with me though :S Nikoo August 2nd 2007 // it is doing this for me as well, and hasn't been fixed by updating from the repositories // MitchGolden  * The update I just did removed Amarok - my favorite app!  What's going on? // MitchGolden 