{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is proud to announce version 7.10 of the Ubuntu family
of distributions.

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, and
servers, with a fast and easy install and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and
an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Read more about the features of Ubuntu 7.10 in the following press releases:

  Ubuntu 7.10           http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu710
  Desktop edition       http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-desktop710
  Server edition        http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-server710
  Ubuntu family         http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-family710
  Kubuntu                http://www.kubuntu.org/announcements/7.10-release.php
  Edubuntu              http://www.edubuntu.org/news/7.10-release

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

Ubuntu 7.10 will be supported for 18 months on both desktops and servers.
Users requiring a longer support lifetime on servers may choose to continue
using Ubuntu 6.06 LTS, with security support until 2011, rather than upgrade
to or install 7.10.

To Get Ubuntu 7.10
------------------

To download Ubuntu 7.10, or obtain CDs, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu

Users of Ubuntu 7.04 will be offered an automatic upgrade to 7.10 via
Update Manager.  As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu
are entirely free of charge.  For further information about upgrading,
see

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/710

Find out what's new in this release with a graphical tour:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/710tour

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but 
aren't sure, try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel, on the
Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

## ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/
  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of
ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Developers should consider attending the upcoming Ubuntu Developer
Summit in Cambridge, Massachusetts (US) starting 29 October.  More
information is available at

  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Boston

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this release on our
website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's 
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
</pre>
