{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the Release Candidate for version 7.10
of Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu, Gobuntu, and Xubuntu codenamed "Gutsy Gibbon". The Release
Candidate includes installable live Desktop CDs, server images, alternate
text-mode installation CDs, and an upgrade wizard for users of the current
stable release.

We consider this release candidate to be complete, stable, and suitable
for testing by any user.

The final release of version 7.10 is scheduled for 18 October 2007 and
will be supported for 18 months on both desktops and servers. Users requiring
a longer support lifetime on servers may choose to continue using Ubuntu 6.06
LTS, with security support until 2011, rather than upgrade to 7.10.

Before installing or upgrading to Ubuntu 7.10 please read
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyReleaseNotes

About The Release Candidate
---------------------------

The purpose of the Release Candidate is to solicit one last round of
testing before the final release. Here are ways that you can help:

* Upgrade from Ubuntu, Kubuntu, or Edubuntu 7.04 to the Release
   Candidate by following the instructions given above.

* Participate in installation testing using the Release Candidate CD
   images, by following the testing and reporting instructions at
   http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO

Desktop highlights
------------------

Compiz Fusion: This innovative compositing window manager enables 3-D
desktop effects that let users work with, and see, their desktops in
completely new ways.

Printer installation: In GNOME, printers are automatically configured for
use as soon as they are connected.

Free Flash support with Gnash: Ubuntu 7.10 leads the pack with a preview of
this Flash browser plugin. Although still actively in development and not
yet fully supported by Ubuntu, Gnash gives a glimpse into the future of free
Flash, bringing partial Flash support to 64-bit desktop systems.

Automated Firefox plugin installation: Beyond the addition of Gnash, Firefox
in Ubuntu now supports automatic installation of popular plugins through the
standard Ubuntu package repositories, for a richer web-browsing experience
with the integrated security support of the rest of the Ubuntu system.

Server highlights
-----------------

AppArmor: This easy-to-deploy kernel technology limits the resources an
application is allowed to access and can be used to provide an added layer
of protection against undiscovered security vulnerabilities in applications.

Pre-configured installation options: Mail Server, Print Server, Database
Server, and File Server options join existing LAMP and DNS options for
pre-configured installations, easing the deployment of common server
configurations.

Edubuntu highlights
-------------------

Faster thin clients: Thin clients have been sped up significantly through
the use of compressed images.

Updated login manager: The thin-client login manager has been completely reworked,
with themes for all Ubuntu flavors, support for autologin, and optional unencrypted
graphics transport for improved performance on slower hardware.

Kubuntu highlights
------------------

As well as the above desktop highlights, the following new features are
specific to KDE users:

Dolphin file manager: This updated file manager gives Ubuntu users a glimpse
of the upcoming KDE 4.

Strigi desktop search: Another pillar of KDE 4 available now in Kubuntu.

Restricted-manager: Kubuntu 7.10 includes a KDE front-end for easy
installation of proprietary drivers, complementing the existing GNOME
front-end.

Please see https://wiki.kubuntu.org/GutsyGibbon/RC/Kubuntu for details.

Gobuntu highlights
------------------

Gobuntu 7.10 is the debut full release of the Ubuntu version that is entirely composed of open source non-restricted software. For experienced Linux enthusiasts, Gobuntu will act as the test bed for developing a user-friendly operating system with no compromise in terms of the open source philosophy.

This initial release comes without any software from the restricted component and artwork for usplash and the isolinux CD bootloader.

The full release notes can be found at
http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/710rc

To Get the Ubuntu 7.10 Release Candidate CD
-------------------------------------------

To perform a new installation or try out 7.10 "live" from CD, download
the Ubuntu 7.10 Release Candidate (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Europe:

    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Sweden)
    http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (The Netherlands)
    http://ftp.snt.utwente.nl/pub/linux/ubuntu-releases/7.10 (The Netherlands)
    http://ie.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Ireland)
    http://it.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Italy)
    http://pt.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Portugal)
    http://de.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Germany)
    http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (France)

  Asia/Pacific:

    http://tw.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Taiwan)
    http://mirror.optus.net/ubuntu-releases/7.10 (Australia)

  Africa:

    http://za.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (South Africa)

  North America:

    http://ca.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Canada)
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (United States)

  South America:

    http://br.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Brazil)

  Rest of the world:

    http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Great Britain)

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.  See
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BitTorrent for more information about
using Bittorrent.

Upgrading from Ubuntu 7.04
--------------------------

To upgrade from Ubuntu 7.04 to Ubuntu 7.10 Release Candidate, follow these
instructions:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GutsyUpgrades

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu to better meet your future
needs, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches, and suggestions will help turn
this release into the best release of Ubuntu ever. Please report bugs
through the Launchpad bug tracker:

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode,
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for your desktop, laptop, thin client, and
server, with a fast and easy install. Ubuntu comes in several variants,
including Ubuntu Desktop, Server, Kubuntu, Edubuntu, and Xubuntu. The Ubuntu
project makes no distinction between a free edition and an enterprise
edition - this is our best work and it is freely available.

Used by businesses, home users, schools, and governments around the world,
Ubuntu offers regular releases, a tight selection of excellent packages
installed by default and professional commercial technical support from
Canonical Ltd and hundreds of other companies.

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on our
website, IRC channel, and wiki. If you are new to Ubuntu, please visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
