{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="border: 1px dashed; background-color: #f0eee9; text-align: center">'''''~+KUBUNTU GUTSY GIBBON TRIBE 6 HAS NOT BEEN RELEASED - UNDER CONSTRUCTION+~'''''<<BR>><<BR>>This page is being worked on by <nowiki>[[RichardJohnson|Richard Johnson]]</nowiki> <code>aka nixternal</code> - Please send all communications (i.e., suggestions, comments, and/or feedback) to
|}

== Introduction ==
On April 12th, 2007, Mark Shuttleworth stated that "''the Fawn has found her legs,''" and <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2007-April/000276.html|announced]]</nowiki> the next development cycle codename for the 7.10 release, the Gutsy Gibbon. As with previous releases, the users had made it clear that usability and stability are the things they look for the most. Well, we are happy to say that the goals for the Kubuntu developers for 7.10 will be to increase the usability following the guides created by recent audits from the KDE community, increase stability while using the latest applications for the Linux desktop, and increasing the ease of installation.

Some of the things you can look forward to is better power management, desktop installation improvements, better data migration, and plenty of fixes to the K Desktop Environment. One thing you might be able to look forward to is the possibility of packages created in time for release, the new KDE 4 desktop. However, KDE 4 will not be the default desktop environment for Kubuntu 7.10, but you can guarantee the development team will work hard to bring you installable packages as soon as they possibly can.

Gutsy will '''__not__''' be the next LTS (Long Term Support) release, but it will nonetheless see a lot of server work and be useful for fast-moving server deployments.

Tribe 6, the sixth in a series of milestone CD images that will be released throughout the Gutsy development cycle, represent the very latest snapshots of Gutsy. The pre-release images are known to be reasonably free of CD-build or installer bugs, however they are not recommended for use in stable environments. These releases will be for those who are developing, documenting, and testing. Tribe 3 releases can be downloaded from the following URL:
* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/gutsy/

'''NOTE:''' ''This is an alpha (pre-) release. Pre-release version of Gutsy are '''__NOT__''' encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or for anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent, breakage. Pre-release versions of Gutsy '''__ARE__''' recommended for Kubuntu developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and fixing bugs.''

Screenshots will be available at: http://www.thecodingstudio.com/opensource/linux/?q=node/55

Previous Kubuntu 7.10 Releases
* <nowiki>[[GutsyGibbon/Tribe1/Kubuntu|Tribe 1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[GutsyGibbon/Tribe2/Kubuntu|Tribe 2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[GutsyGibbon/Tribe3/Kubuntu|Tribe 3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[GutsyGibbon/Tribe3/Kubuntu|Tribe 4]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[GutsyGibbon/Tribe3/Kubuntu|Tribe 5]]</nowiki>

== New In Tribe 6 ==
Gutsy Gibbon Tribe 6 CD release brings with it many updated, new, and exciting applications. For this latest release of Kubuntu 7.10, the usability standards have improved and there have already been some aesthetic changes. Besides these changes, there have been updates to many common applications as well as bug fixes to some of those annoyances you may or may not have run into. With every new pre-release, updates will be documented allowing you to thoroughly test your Kubuntu 7.10 installation. Remember that all of these features are part of a pre-release version of Kubuntu, and may still have issues. We ask that any problems you come across that you file a bug, if one has yet to be filed for your problem.<<BR>>
https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug
 
=== Strigi by Default ===

In KMenu and Konqueror local search

=== Konqueror and Flash ===
Konqueror and Flash (Adobe, flashplugin-nonfree) are working once again. Thanks to the patch over at Mandrake, the Kubuntu developers have patched up the application ''nspluginviewer'' which was causing the freeze and CPU temperature increases.

=== New Color Scheme ===
The color scheme has received another update and this time it should remove all of the purple remnant's from the 7.04 release.

=== LiveCD Documentation Update ===
Back again with Kubuntu 7.04, Tribe 6, is the ''About Kubuntu'' document. This document has always been there, just not on the desktop since the days of Dapper. The reason behind this move was it was voiced by community members that it would be great to easily access documentation and information about not only Kubuntu, but also about what they can expect, a bit of information letting the user know they are safe and not damaging their system by running the LiveCD. Hopefully one of these days, this will be replaced by the ''Ubiquity Slideshow''.

The ''About Kubuntu'' document can be accessed via a few different routes. You can either open up Konqueror and type <code>help:/kubuntu/about-kubuntu</code> or go into Help from the KMenu, select the Kubuntu Documentation, and on the left hand side will be a link for the About Kubuntu document.

=== KvKbd ===
'''INFO:''' <nowiki>[[GutsyGibbon/Tribe5/Kubuntu#head-af6f6c5a5c7bd8ffd08cbeb673067c56340af571|Tribe 5 KvKbd Topic]]</nowiki>  <<BR>>
''KMenu -> Utilities -> Kvkbd''

Kv``Kbd is now located in the main repository. What does this mean? It simply means that Kv``Kbd will be installed from the CD or DVD making it easier to use and access for those with limited mobility that would need to use this virtual keyboard.

== Feedback ==
We want to hear what you think about the current release of Kubuntu 7.10, The Gutsy Gibbon, Tribe 6 CD Release. We want to know if it Rocks, if it is just OK, or it is flat out wrong. No matter the feedback, as long as it is in line with the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> we would like to hear it.

So what are you waiting for, head on over to the <nowiki>[[GutsyGibbon/Tribe6/Kubuntu/Feedback|Feedback Page]]</nowiki> and let us know!
