{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:gutsy-forumideas
* '''Created''':  * '''Packages affected''': 
* '''Contributors''': Bastanteroma, Justy, lazka, AnRa, shirishAg75, mech7, pengu, wersdaluv, Bou, goethe, wedderburn, aysiu, brim4brim, christian.convey, junior aspirin, Raptor45, UbuntuDemon, MuratGunes, PriceChild

=== Summary ===
This blueprint sums up several ideas to improve Ubuntu submitted by the Ubuntu Forums community in the three week period leading to UDS after the Feisty release. The Forum Ambassadors team have collected ideas to improve Ubuntu from the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=253|Gutsy Gibbon Idea Pool]]</nowiki> on the forums. The aim of the Forum Ambassadors team is to improve the communication and integration between the forums and the rest of the community (most importantly, developers).

ForumAmbassadors/GutsyCommunityIdeas lists the most interesting ideas. Ideas related to Ubiquity are covered in a separate spec, UbiquityForumIdeas.

=== Rationale ===

The tens of thousands of users who frequent the official Ubuntu Forums provide a huge volume of ideas for each upcoming release of Ubuntu, as well as providing potentially valuable feedback on what works and what doesn't. However, various problems inherent to highly populated web forums prevent the rapid discourse from giving birth to ideas that can be acted upon. Many ideas that come from forum users lack a good sense of feasibility, and many mishaps spotted and discussed in the forums do not shape into bug reports.

One of the goals of the newly founded Forum Ambassadors team is to amend this situation to the greatest extent possible. The team has kept an eye on the most realistic and feasible ideas, tried to steer the discussions in <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=253|Gutsy Gibbon Idea Pool]]</nowiki> subforum in a way that would produce the greatest amount of actionable items (blueprints, bug reports, bounties, etc.), as well as providing basic feedback on feasibility, consulting to the developers where necessary. This blueprint, along with UbiquityForumIdeas and a few others written by individual forum users, is the result of the process.

=== Use Cases ===

=== Scope ===

The proposals include possible enhancements and modifications to:

* USplash
* Rhythmbox
* File Roller
* Apport
* gnome-volume-manager
* gnome-terminal / /bin/sh
* libgksu
* libnotify
* upstart
* firefox
* gnome-app-install
* gnome-keyring-manager
* network-manager
* GDM
* GTK+ 

=== Design ===

The table below is a simplified snapshot of the one in ForumAmbassadors/GutsyCommunityIdeas as of May 7th. Aliases are working titles; some also point to separate specs written by individual forum users. First posts in each forum thread offer a more detailed description of the ideas.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.8em;"> '''~+Forum Community Ideas for Gutsy+~'''
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc"> '''Alias'''
| '''Forum URL'''
| '''Summary'''
| '''Submitted By'''
|-
| usplash-indeterminate-progress
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=422229|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> usplash should use an indeterminate progress display element, such as a throbber
| Bastanteroma
|-
| usplash-font-color
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=419953|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> usplash should use a lighter (brownish?) font color when the "quiet" kernel option is disabled
| Justy
|-
| gtk-filechooser-size
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=410769|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> The GTK file chooser should use a different metric for a more sensible (larger!) window and/or GtkScrolledWindow widget
| lazka
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/apport/+spec/apport|apport-improvements]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=412936|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> Add privacy, resumability and reliability features (with an ETA & upload speed display) to apport
| shirishag75
|-
| windows-partition-name
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=421819|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> A more descriptive name should be given to Windows partitions detected upon installation
| mech7
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/12154|nautilus su mode]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=417441|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> Display a notification icon or different Metacity theme during sudo period (not exactly as outlined in thread; see spec)
| pengu
|-
| terminal-tutor
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=410929|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> gnome-terminal should offer basic command line tips or a (link to?) a tutor/primer at first run or until dismissed (thread not exactly relevant)
| wersdaluv
|-
| easy-unrar
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=410317|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> Handle adding of RAR support to file-roller with a GUI, possibly UbuntuCommonHooker
| Bou
|-
| admin-actions-pass-request
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=409852|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> When the user tries to do something that needs root privilege, a password request should come up instead of an error message
| goethe
|-
| fancy-libnotify
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=410973|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> libnotify popups should use transparency in composited environment
| wedderburn
|-
| gdm-diskspace-bug
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=409822|link]]</nowiki><nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=432951|2]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> GDM should be able to complete login successfully regardless of available disk space
| aysiu, brim4brim
|-
| parallel-boot-fsck
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=419430|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> fsck upon boot should check multiple drives simultaneously
| christian.convey
|-
| firefox-openwith-integration
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=421156|link]]</nowiki>
| <#ffeb99> "Open with" in Firefox should offer a DE-native list of installed apps
| junior aspirin
|-
| PersonalizedPackageRatings
| 
| <#ffeb99> personalized package ratings in gnome-app-install instead of general popularity.
| UbuntuDemon
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-cdimage/+spec/segmented-downloading|metalink-iso-downloads]]</nowiki>
| 
| <#ffeb99>Officially support .metalink format for ISO downloads
| shirishag75
|-
| more GUI Copying Options in GDM
| 
| <#ffeb99> GDM should ask "wanna overwrite nothing (or) only newer files" and "not overwrite exsisting folders and files in this folder but copy newer or not exsisting ones"
| rafi
|}

=== Implementation ===

** '''usplash-indeterminate-progress''': The current skippy behavior of the progress bar does not provide reliable information on the boot progress, and makes the user feel uneasy. This has the psychological side effect of making the boot process seem longer than it actually is.  A "ricocheting" indeterminate progress bar, or other indeterminate display element will remove this disadvantage. 
** An obvious alternative would be to fix the skippy behavior and keep the determinate progress bar.

** '''usplash-font-color''': Should be trivial to fix with a simple color change. Proposed colors: 
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#ffcc33> #FFCC33
| <#FDD99B>#FDD99B
| <#FC9800>#FC9800
|}

** '''gtk-filechooser-size''': This is an upstream issue, but it's such a common complaint that a simple modification to make it remember the last adjusted size may be in order. (More details <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2461803&postcount=3|here]]</nowiki>)

** '''rhythmbox-codec-installer''': <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=338308|GNOME bug #338308]]</nowiki> indicates progress

** '''apport-improvements''': Limitations with Python modules httplib and urllib make it non-trivial to implement the ETA feature; see spec for more details. 

** '''windows-partition-name''': Perhaps a trivial gnome-volume-manager change?

** '''apport-improvements''' : we should talk to Martin Pitt

Missing implementation details will be added after the BoF. Separate specs and/or bug reports can be created as well.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* we should take actions as listed in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyForumIdeas/Notes

----
CategorySpec
