{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe GutsyForumIdeas/Notes here.

from GutsyForumIdeas gobby session :
<pre>
More information with links to forum threads at : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyForumIdeas

usplash-indeterminate-progress
* usplash should use an indeterminate progress display element, such as a throbber
	- A wishlist bug could be filed.
	- this has already been done, and then changed.  It's not smooth, as each bit increments where in the boot cycle you are.
	- paul sladen : yeah, this should definately go into usplash [in *some format*].  Feature request (related to fsck-progress).
	- paul sladen : This can be done within a custom theme, if this were done, the different variations could be shown to SABDFL.
	- 

usplash-font-color
* usplash should use a lighter (brownish?) font color when the "quiet" kernel option is disabled
	- Art is decided by art team, a theme spec is set for UDS-Sevilla.
	- paul sladen : feature request, ultimately SABDFL gets the say on artwork issues and need to make a demostration theme(s) to show.

gtk-filechooser-size
* The GTK file chooser should use a different metric for a more sensible (larger!) window and/or GtkScrolledWindow widget
* this is an upstream issue, but it's such a common complaint that a simple modification to make it remember the last adjusted size may be in order. (More details [WWW] here
* being discussed by gnome developers list
* daniel holbach : upstream wishlist bug
* paul sladen : upstream, Ubuntu wouldn't want to carry the patch, so better if fixed at gnome.org

apport-improvements
* Add privacy, resumability and reliability features (with an ETA & upload speed display) to apport
* apport should be sanitising all information anyway
* imitations with Python modules httplib and urllib make it non-trivial to implement the ETA feature; see spec for more details.
* spec link : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apportexpanded
* look at what happened at summit and to Martin Pitt

windows-partition-name
* A more descriptive name should be given to Windows partitions detected upon installation
* Perhaps a trivial gnome-volume-manager change?
* how often does it happen ??
* paul sladen : Depends on the vendor, eg. my MS Windows partitions is "IBM_PRELOAD".
* paul sladen : Policy issue: needs deciding when to use the name on the disk (eg. IBM PRELOAD) and when to override it with eg. "MS Windows Parition" style name. cjwatson. 

nautilus su mode
* Display a notification icon or different Metacity theme during sudo period (not exactly as outlined in thread; see spec)
* spec needed with rationale, use cases
* paul sladen : need to find out the root cause of the issue.

terminal-tutor
* gnome-terminal should offer basic command line tips or a (link to?) a tutor/primer at first run or until dismissed (thread not exactly relevant)
* paul sladen : Two issues, perhaps a unix emulator to introduct 'cd' and 'ls' (the tutor)... a separate issue is a message in the same place as the 'sudo' message.
* paul sladen : Issue one: find/write a tutor/educational programme (hard, not ubuntu related)
* paul sladen : Issue two: enable it. (easy, pitti?)
* paul sladen : needs googling. there might be something we can use.

easy-unrar
* Handle adding of RAR support to file-roller with a GUI, possibly UbuntuCommonHooker
* paul sladen : There are a legal issues with installing 'unrar' by default.  But with UCH, the user will have the choice.
* somebody needed to implement Ubuntu Common Hooker spec

admin-actions-pass-request
* When the user tries to do something that needs root privilege, a password request should come up instead of an error message
	- Many programs do this. Bug reports should be programs that need this function added (i.e. https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nmap/+bug/106378)
* paul sladen : Teach more packages about 'sudo', file one bug per package if it has a menu entry.  (see how ethereal does it?)

fancy-libnotify
* libnotify popups should use transparency in composited environment
* paul sladen : file feature request bug against libnotify for it to request transparency from the composition manager.

gdm-diskspace-bug
* GDM should be able to complete login successfully regardless of available disk space
* paul sladen : it's a ***bug*** in GDM.  file it! :)

parallel-boot-fsck
* fsck upon boot should check multiple drives simultaneously
* paul sladen : Fairly sure this already happens.  /etc/fstab there is a priority field for those that can be parallelised
* paul sladen : Perhaps the issue is setting that number in 'etc/fstab' at the number
* paul sladen : First do root partition, then do based on priority---
* paul sladen : fscking multiple partitions on the same physical disk slows things down (opposite to desired)

firefox-openwith-integration
* "Open with" in Firefox should offer a DE-native list of installed apps
* File translations, (easy if you speak German)
* who should we talk to ?????? firefox team ?

PersonalizedPackageRatings
* personalized package ratings in gnome-app-install instead of general popularity.
* Micheal is interested. seperate launchpad spec.
* paul sladen : Needs spec to explore issues (pro/cons---if the spec says *what to do*, codifying is the "easy" bit).
* there's already a spec

metalink-iso-downloads
* Officially support .metalink format for ISO downloads
* URL to say what a ".metalink format" is?  This probably wants to go into GNOME/nautilus (if it's what I think it might be).
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-cdimage/+spec/segmented-downloading
* paul sladen : http://www.metalinker.org/ " Metalink is an Open Standard that bundles the various ways (FTP/HTTP/P2P) to get files into one format for easier downloads."
** paul sladen : Maybe also could be used for APT if it catches on.
 
</pre>
