{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Gobuntu 7.10 is the debut full release of the Ubuntu version that is composed entirely of open source non-restricted software.  For experienced Linux enthusiasts, Gobuntu will act as the test bed for developing a user-friendly operating system with no compromise in terms of the open source philosophy.

This initial release comes without any software from the restricted component, and with custom artwork for usplash and the isolinux CD bootloader.

Gobuntu 7.10 can only be installed using the alternate installer.  A live environment and graphical installer CD will be available in Gobuntu 8.04.

To Get Gobuntu 7.10
--------------------------

To download Gobuntu 7.10, visit:

http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu

Helping Shape Gobuntu
------------------------------

If you have a question, or would like to participate in its development, take a look at the Gobuntu IRC channel, #gobuntu on irc.freenode.net, and the development mailing list, gobuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com.

Developers should also consider attending the Gobuntu session at the upcoming Ubuntu Developer Summit in Cambridge, Massachusetts (US), which starts on October 29th.   More information on this event is available at

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Boston
</pre>
