{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''
* '''Please nest a reply when you are responding on another reaction. Otherwise it will grow in a mess.... Thank you.'''

== WARNING ==
Known issues:
* Icons on the desktop, fixed in newer kdebase
* Font DPI is not set on startup, to be fixed in Guidance
* Digikam offers two options when inserting a USB disk
* KDM theme is not set, fixed in newer kubuntu-default-settings upload
* OODrawing is in Lost and Found
* fsview has a menu entry (should only be in Konqueror), fixed in newer kdeutils upload
* Amarok can freeze when starting to play music
* Ubiquity causes an exception during manual install (causes Apport to show, no other problems to the user)
* Apport crashes during upload, fixed in newer apport upload
* knetworkmanager does not start on login, fixed in newer knetworkmanager upload
* knetworkmanager overwrites /etc/resolv.conf. Can be nasty if you happen to run pdnsd like me

* new kdm list : not appropriated text size for french kdm texts, "Mot de passe" (password) goes under the password area (by donpaco) 

== Feedback ==
* Everything is fine so far... i resized my partiton for ubuntu and installed kubuntu with it. it works awsome! great bea guys. matthew160
* I think that the user list for KDM is an essential feature, because it simplify a lot the experience of a new user.
* I've only seen the image (I haven't tried it), but I agree, the user list is nice. Animated Avatars would be a cool addition though :)
* I got some errors during install about "Disk is damaged or unclean". But the ISO was perfect!
* Consider Codeine to be the default video player in kubuntu
* I think that the user list feature in KDM is nice and I hope that it is kept as a new feature.
* I like this new userlist feature in KDM, it's very useful for new users. Also a translated KDM interface would be cool, at current feisty it is untranslated.

** The KDM interface is traslated, but set to English by default. You should edit the string "Language" in /etc/kde3/kdm/kdmrc
* The userlist feature makes it much easier to have a useful guest account.
* The display os user list is both cool and useful especially when there are many users or when users have long user names..
* The absence of the userlist in Feisty's Kubuntu KDM theme is the primary reason that I disabled it and went to the stock KDM theme. It's just friendlier to list the users with a picture that they can control (if you let them) than everyone having to remember their login name.
* Keep the user list, it is a great feature for people sharing one machine among multiple users (i.e. families) - FreddyMartinez
* I like the KDM list but think there should be an option to use the old style as well.
** I second that. I also think it would be nice if there wasn't a big white space where the user list is. It would be good if the list could be centralised and the white space removed. Adding more users should automatically expand it from the center out.
** Afaik the KDM in Suse allows a transparent userlist. The standard KDM (like in Kubuntu) does not. Also the list must be defined in a certain position. So expanding is not possible -- H1bakusha
* glxinfo doesn't work on a fresh install with dri drivers : libgl1-mesa-dri isn't installed by default - LaurentCarlier
* There ''must'' be an option to disable the userlist. Machines that are not completely secure should not give away the usernames of accounts on the computer. Displaying those names reduces the security of machines in public places whose limited circumstances make Kubuntu attractive, such as libraries -- DavidSzentGyörgyi   * Make it possible to disable the userlist this as part of automated installation. Otherwise, the IT person who deploys these shall have to figure out how to do this and then apply the procedure to each machine. The reaction of IT staff doing such things to the numerous computers deployed in classrooms begins with a comment about needless work and finishes with expletives not fit for polite company :-) -- DavidSzentGyörgyi  * I administer media labs  where shared computers are a fact of life. To me, the lack of a userlist has forced me to hack the kdm config file/theme in a most ugly fashion. Not having a userlist is not an option, especially when people whose first language is not English misspell their usernames more often than not. - Kream
* The user list is great. I second the concerns about having all users visible in a public environment, so this shoucold be optional but default. For SOHO-users (the majority, I think) this feature makes login easier and more familiar, since it is closer to the way windows works. Also the users have to type less with a user list. They already need to enter a password and that's enough for them. After my experience (family, friends), the regular user does not want to type. She/he wants to klick (talk about habits). I admit to fall in the same category. I always edited /etc/kde3/kdm/kdmrc and set "UseTheme" to "false" as a workaround. --Sokraates
* I think this is an important improvement. The possibility to disable the list should also be included. - Ferranrius
* Imho the best solution is to add both, the 'userlist' and the 'no userlist' KDM themes. So its easy to choose. Therefor KDM theme Manager should be installed by default. But which theme should be the default theme? -- H1bakusha
* Both, with userlist as default. Echo Sokraates. --Godzilla8NJ2Day
* Is there any data on who uses Ubuntu most? Home users, enterprises (including internet cafés) etc? My gut feeling tells me it's home users but anyway, the choice on the default should be based on the majority of users. Home users shouldn't mind, probably even like the list, enterprises won't want it. --Sokraates
* A better home page for helpcenter in kubuntu.It would be nice to have a better helpcenter for kubuntu similar in some way to ubuntu helpcenter. For home page: '''welcome to help center''', '''common questions''', '''can't find answers''', '''how to contribute''' . For the Contents pane(on the left hand side of the window), a direct access to tasks (adding aplications, files, folders and documents, internet...etc) --guillaume
