{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

FIXME, this has no download URLs for variants, and does not point to the release info pages.  We could remove the download URLs and point to release pages instead, jriddell

Subject: Ubuntu 7.10 Beta released

The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the beta release of Ubuntu 7.10
and its variants, Kubuntu, Edubuntu and Xubuntu.  Codenamed "Gutsy
Gibbon", 7.10 continues Ubuntu's proud tradition of integrating the
latest and greatest open source technologies into a high-quality,
easy-to-use Linux distribution.

Ubuntu 7.10 on the desktop features a cutting-edge graphical experience
with composited desktop effects, fully automated printer
installation and superior support for Firefox browser plugins.

Ubuntu 7.10 server edition brings enhanced security-in-depth with AppArmor
and easy install-time options for multiple common server configurations.

Desktop highlights
------------------

Compiz Fusion: This innovative compositing window manager enables 3-D desktop
effects that let users work with, and see, their desktops in completely new
ways.

Printer installation: In GNOME, printers are automatically configured for use
as soon as they are connected.

Free Flash support with Gnash: Ubuntu 7.10 leads the pack with a preview
of this Flash browser plugin.  Although still actively in development and not
yet fully supported by Ubuntu, Gnash gives a glimpse into the future of free
Flash, bringing partial Flash support to 64-bit desktop systems.

Automated Firefox plugin installation: Beyond the addition of Gnash, Firefox
in Ubuntu now supports automatic installation of popular plugins through the
standard Ubuntu package repositories, for a richer web-browsing experience
with the integrated security support of the rest of the Ubuntu system.

Please see http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/gutsybeta for details.

Server highlights
-----------------

AppArmor: this easy-to-deploy kernel technology limits the resources an 
application is allowed to access and can be used to provide an added layer 
of protection against undiscovered security vulnerabilities in applications.

Pre-configured installation options: Mail Server, Print Server, Database
Server and File Server options join existing LAMP and DNS options for
pre-configured installations, easing the deployment of common server
configurations.

Edubuntu highlights
-------------------

Faster thin clients: thin clients have been sped up significantly through
the use of compressed images.

Kubuntu highlights
------------------

As well as the above desktop highlights, the following new features are
specific to KDE users:

Dolphin file manager: this updated file manager gives Ubuntu users a glimpse
of the upcoming KDE 4.

Strigi desktop search: another pillar of KDE 4 available now in Kubuntu.

Restricted-manager: Kubuntu 7.10 includes a KDE front-end for easy
installation of proprietary drivers, complementing the existing GNOME
front-end.

Please see https://wiki.kubuntu.org/GutsyGibbon/Beta/Kubuntu for details.

Other
-----

* On the Desktop: KDE 3.5.7, GNOME 2.20, OpenOffice.org 2.3.0rc1, X.org 7.2

* On the Server: Apache 2.2, PostgreSQL 8.2, PHP 5.2.3, LTSP 5.0

* "Under the hood": GCC 4.1.2, glibc 2.6, Linux 2.6.22, Python 2.5

The full release notes can be found at
http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/gutsybeta

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for your desktop, laptop, thin client
and server, with a fast and easy install.  Ubuntu comes in several variants, 
including Ubuntu Desktop, Server, Kubuntu, Edubuntu and Xubuntu.
The Ubuntu project makes no
separation between our free edition and our enterprise edition - this
is our best work and it is freely available.

Used by businesses, home users, schools and governments around the
world, Ubuntu offers regular releases, a tight selection of excellent
packages installed by default and professional commercial technical
support from Canonical Ltd and hundreds of other companies.

To Get Ubuntu 7.10 Beta
-----------------------

Download Ubuntu 7.10 Beta here (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Europe:

    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Sweden)
    http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (The Netherlands)
    http://ftp.snt.utwente.nl/pub/linux/ubuntu-releases/7.10 (The Netherlands)
    http://ie.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Ireland)
    http://it.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Italy)
    http://gb.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Great Britain)
    http://de.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Germany)
    http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (France)

  Asia/Pacific:

    http://mirror.optus.net/ubuntu-releases/7.10 (Australia)
    http://tw.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Taiwan)

  Africa:

    http://za.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (South Africa)

  North America:

    http://ca.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Canada)
    http://us.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (United States)

  South America:

    http://br.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Brazil)    

  Rest of the world:

    http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10 (Great Britain)

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

To upgrade from Ubuntu 7.04 to Ubuntu 7.10 Beta, follow these
instructions:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GutsyUpgrades

The final version of Ubuntu 7.10 is expected to be released in
October 2007.

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of
ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn
this Beta into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please report bugs
through the Launchpad bug tracker:

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
are not sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode,
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on
our website, IRC channel and wiki. If you are new to Ubuntu, please
visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to
Ubuntu's very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
