{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''
* '''Please nest a reply when you are responding on another reaction. Otherwise it will grow in a mess.... Thank you.'''

== WARNING ==
Known issues:
* Add issues here
* Static IP configuration does not work unless you close KNetworkManager. The same problem is in Feisty. -- Orkanspec 
== Feedback ==
* Start Here and add ``@``SIG``@ to the end of your post so we know who you are. It will look like this when you save your changes -> -- nixternal  * Kubuntu website too needs a face lift.  It is just a bunch of news items.  It must be redesigned in the same way Ubuntu's has been.  --Chandru
* Why on earth is this discrimination againt KDE users?  While Ubuntu has included compiz by default in the CD, Kubuntu doesn't have it.  Is this a sign for how Canonical is abandoning Kubuntu/KDE?  --Chandru
** If I recall correctly a previous response to this question (then asked by myself) was, that it simply was not a goal for Kubuntu. Please correct me if I'm wrong. -- Sokraates
** In my opinion, beside all the bling, KWin is the far superior windowmanager. Wait until KDE4 for the bling. -- SvenThiele    * However much we try to convince ourself to hide the fact, it is true that KWin DOES NOT provide a 3D desktop environment.  At a point when desktop has started competing with Vista, 3D desktop is unavoidable.  If it is not included in the Kubuntu, it just means that Canonical focuses a lot more on Gnome than KDE.  In fact, compiz-gnome was in "main" while "compiz-kde" was dumped under "universe" in the feisty repos.  Even KDE 4 is not going to bring 3D desktop capabilities.
** KWin may be more stable but stability alone won't impress people. Also KDE4 won't be available per default either for some time in Kubuntu and the new KWin might have it's own set of bugs while still not being as impressive as Compiz Fusion. So it would be best to give Compiz Fusion some priority. In my experience it is '''the''' application to make peolpe try Linux. -- Sokraates
*** To be honest I care much less about getting people to try linux, than having people using linux on a daily basis as production system. -- SvenThiele       * Why don't u understand?  Any user who might use Linux on a daily basis must '''TRY''' it for the first time.  --Chandru
***** I do understand your argument, but still a lot of people are already using linux. Don't get me wrong ,if there is an option to easily switch compiz on, I'm all for it, but I dont think compiz should be the default. However I'm experienced enough to change a default. Anyway,  seems we have different opinions on that and I have no reason to convince you.  -- SvenThiele          * I agree with it too.  Let it not be enabled by default, as Linux lacks 3D capable drivers for many graphics cards.  However, let it get installed by default but turned off.  If the user wants he should be allowed to turn it on by some system setting, rather then downloading compiz after he requests.  --Chandru
****** In my opinion the real problem is not whether Compiz Fusion should be enabled by default but rather, why Kubuntu should miss features that are available and highly advertised in Ubuntu (Ubuntu allows to easily switch Compiz Fusion on, the "Default" part remains to be seen). If Ubuntu has set some mayor goals or advertises new features, then Kubuntu and Xubuntu should at least strive (with their limited means, in comparison to Ubuntu) to meet / incorporate them as well. Otherwise Kubuntu and Xubuntu will always be regarded as Ubuntu's smaller siblings, rather than it's equal with just a different desktop environment. -- Sokraates
****** U hit the nail on the head.  This situation is especially strange considering the fact that Mark Shuttleworth himself has been cited to prefer KDE.  In every stage of development Ubuntu has always introduced cool features leaving behind Kubuntu.  Examples include, the hardware-database which was in Ubuntu long before Kubuntu got it.  Migration assistant which was there in Ubuntu feisty but Kubuntu is yet to get it.  At the most basic level, have a look at Kubuntu's home page, it is nothing more than a bunch of news items.  Ubuntu's on the other hand is far better designed.  If Kubuntu doesn't get the same amount of attention as Ubuntu gets, Kubuntu's future is bleak.  --Chandru

* On Dell Dimension C521 desktop using the 64bit live cd, sound is played through the speakers even if headphones are plugged into the front audio output jack.  On feisty fawn when headphones are plugged into the front the speakers won't play, which is good, and how it ought to be.  (nVidia Corporation MCP51 High Definition Audio (rev a2))  -- BrianBeck2  * Nice to see adept catching up to Synaptic in terms of features. However, Adept still doesn't remove unused dependencies, which means the hard drives of Kubuntu users clog up very fast with unneeded packages. All the other packaging tools (Apt, Aptitude, Synaptic) are better than Adept in this regard. --VladCodrea 
* Don't like the combination of the black "kubuntu" text on the relatively dark/staturated blue background. I think either the text should be changed to white / silver / light blue or the background become lighter. Also the purple highlight in the user list clashes with the more greenish blue of the background and other elements. -- DavidStächele    * I like the new black kubuntu text, i think it is an improvement
*** I like the black Kubuntu logo, but the purple used in various widgets doesn't go well with the shade of blue used in the wallpaper and the window decorations.  Widgets should also use the same shade of blue to present a consistent desktop appearance.  --Chandru

* What I noticed so far.
** Kontact crashed on startup.
** CPU frequency scaling not supported see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/132271]]</nowiki>
** And still I got a "Malformed URL trash:/" message if i click "Open in New Window" on the trash applet, Maybe due dolphin integration ?
** I like the new splash. ;) -- SvenThiele   * ''kde-guidance still depends on python2.4 while most of the other stuff already requires python2.5. Is that really necessary?'' -- SvenThiele   * I added vga=791 or vga=0x0346 to menu.lst of grub, then the screen remained black on my Lenovo Thinkpad T60. -- JHoffmann
** Like all other Kubuntu or Ubuntu Live CDs this Live CD DID NOT RESTART or SHUTDOWN my pc afterwards, I hit ENTER several times but I'm forced to use RESET or POWER button to restart or shutdown. --  JHoffmann
** Works for me. Tribe 4 had this error on my HP nx6110, but the Tribe 5 live-CD restarts and huts down as it should. -- Sokraates
** OK, now I am more precisely, after installing Kubuntu with Live CD then Restart or Shutdown is not possible. -- JHoffmann

* On a Compaq Presario R3240us Laptop, I ran the live CD.  I was prompted to install restricted drives (for my Nvidia card and my Broadcom 43xx wireless device).  I installed the    Nvidia drivers (while still in LiveCD mode), and then installed Kubuntu itself to the hard drive.  After rebooting, it failed to completely boot because it kept getting hung on "bcm32xx:  Error:  Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed."  I didn't even install this, but it won't get past it.  I hit the Enter key, and was prompted with a command line login.  So I logged in, and tried to startx, but it failed because it was looking for the proprietary Nvidia driver that was installed.
** After wiping the drive clean and reinstalling, I installed the restricted drivers afterward and it worked fine.  Might want to warn against installing restricted drivers prior to installing the OS.
** Also, I'd still like to see the System Menu replaced by Dolphin. -- Digimars

* I tried Kubuntu herd 5 i386 live cd on 2 computer (my desktop and my laptop), and this is my feedback: -- franceskop   * when I choose 'start or install kubuntu', the screen becomes black and there isn't a progress bar... After some minutes appears some messages and the desktop is loaded. A black screen, without a progress bar isn't a good choice...
** some software is duplicated in K menu (for eg. 'KDE Groupware Wizard' and 'Kontact'). I think that this can make confusion...
** When I open some directory by Dolphin, on the right column, under the images, all the operation are duplicated ('compress here', 'open as root', are listed twice)
** if there is a directory that contains space in the name (for example 'New Folder'), and I open this directory by 'open a root' option (in Dolphin), Dolphin will open 2 directory: a directory named 'New' and another named 'Folder', and than alert me that this directorys doesn't exists.
** when I want rename a file (in konqueror or dolphin), all the old name is selected. It would be better if the extension doesn't will selected.
** In my opinion, Rank, in Adept, would be visible without click on programs. In the actual situation I have to click on all software to see their rank... It would be better if there is another column, for example next to the software's name, that contains the application's rank.
** in grub menu, it would be better if the operating system is called Kubuntu (and not Ubuntu) :P 
** This is something which everyone would love.  Canonical is just too focused on Ubuntu.  The argument that Kubuntu also uses the Ubuntu kernel is not suitable for a newbie distro.  Kubuntu and Xubuntu must be given the same status as Ubuntu.

* On Macbook V2, no sound, only pcm chanel in kmix, worked until tribe 4 and on feisty.

* I am still seeing lots of problems with Tribe 5.  I am testing on an old Sony Vaio PCG-XG19 with a neomagic graphics card
** When I tried to check the CD, instead of checking, it just threw two errors about the floppy drive (which the machine does not have attached) and then booted - I saw this on alpha 4 but not before.
** When KDE comes up, I get an error from kbluetooth about no bluetooth adaptor found (though this error disappears when Adept updates the packages)
** When the install finishes and I shut down, I see
** umount2: Device or resource busy
** umount: /cdrom busy - remounted read only
** segmentation fault
** When I plug in or unplug the ethernet cable KNetworkManager doesn't pick up the status change.  In fact, when I resume from hibernate, KNetworkManager shows that the cable is disconnected when it is in fact connected.  I think this is the same bug as https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/105234 or https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/123914 but I am not sure.
** When I resume from hibernate, the screen isn't black - I can see everything on my desktop.  I think this is a security bug. https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/124973
** The map still doesn't work during install.  It did in alpha 3, oddly.  https://launchpad.net/bugs/97690

* When I start the live cd - on the first screen where you can choose between normal mode, safe graphics, etc. - I can't use my usb keyboard on a Dell Dimension 5150. At KDE it works good. This worked fine with Kubuntu 7.04, but not in Tribe5. Also, this bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/knetworkmanager/+bug/96097 is still there.. -- Corné 
* I can't use wifi anymore on my Latitude D810 Dell laptop (with : 0c:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection (rev 02)), also, strigidaemon is using 99% CPU and I need to kill him.
EDIT : Seems to be fixed since new kernel-modules package...
