{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:gvfs-in-hardy
* '''Packages affected''': GNOME

=== Summary ===

GVfs is the upcoming gnome-vfs replacement that will at some point be part of glib under the name "gio". For now it is a seperate package called gio-standalone. It is very likely that nautilus 2.22 will have been ported to gvfs and ship with dependency on gio-standalone. There also is an early gvfs version of a fileselector backend available. It is very likely that a few but for sure not all applications will have been ported to gvfs.
==== Updates ====
As of November 26, gio has been merged into glib (see http://blogs.gnome.org/alexl/2007/11/26/gio-standalone-merged-into-glib/). It is likely Nautilus will depend on glib-gio and not gio-standalone. Gedit is also being ported to GIO as a part
of Gnome 2.22.

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

There will be a very quick overview of gvfs and the implication for applications and how gnome-vfs and gvfs will coexist. It also should be the platform for discussion about the pro and contra of shipping gvfs in hardy especially since hardy is going to be the next LTS version of ubuntu and gvfs and the nautilus gvfs port are lots of new lines of code.

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

* package gvfs and gio now and make them available
* some upstream components are being ported to gvfs, upload them to hardy as soon as upstream consider those ready

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

----
CategorySpec
