{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Cesare Falco, apply for upload rights for packages:'''
* btpd
* mame
* mess (not in Ubuntu yet, will soon need syncing from Debian)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Cesare Falco
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~c.falco
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| None yet, sorry!!!
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm 41, living in Mantua, a small town in northern Italy. I'm currently employed as Application Developer in the ICT branch of an italian financial group.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I've been an Ubuntu user since warty, moving from Debian. After some "private" packaging experiments, I started working as a contributor back in 2007. Time is always hard to find, but I'd like to help the community more, maybe even become a MOTU one day (but I still have '''so''' much to learn before!).

=== My involvement ===
Official maintainer for btpd and mame (formerly sdlmame) packages.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
The mame package. It takes a constant effort to keep it in sync with upstream, but I've really learned a lot with it. So I'm both proud of and grateful to it!

== Endorsements ==
=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Cesare has been maintaining these packages for years and interactions with him now are very smooth and he takes good care of everything. I would definitely trust him with upload rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/158447
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sdlmame/+bug/190041
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sdlmame/+bug/231223
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mame/+bug/927941

----
=== Stefano Rivera ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored 3 uploads for Cesare, all for the packages he's requesting PPU rights for. He seems to have a good handle on these packages and be looking after them well for several years. I've usually been able to sponsor the uploads without any questions. Bug:671358 had quite a bit of back and forth before I was the one to finally upload it.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Version
| Bug
| Action
| Notes
|-
| SourcePackage:btpd
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-btpd-0.16-0ubuntu1- | 0.16-0ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:613652 Bug:619691
| upgrade
| Required FFe.
|-
| SourcePackage:mame
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-mame-0.139-0ubuntu1- | 0.139-0ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:612070
| upgrade
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:mame
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-natty-+source-mame-0.141-0ubuntu1- | 0.141-0ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:657102 Bug:671358
| upgrade
| 
|}

----
=== Fabrice Coutadeur (fabrice_sp) ===
==== General feedback ====
Last time I sponsored an upload from Cesare was more than one year ago (mame), but I remember trusting him for mame, as I uploaded 4 times mame package for him, with no issues. I would also definitely trust him with upload rights for mame. I can't tell for btpd, as I did only one upload, more than 2 years ago.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/btpd/+bug/335440
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sdlmame/+bug/403212
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sdlmame/+bug/502191
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sdlmame/+bug/554444
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mame/+bug/605337

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
