{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~c0nsaw|c0nsaw]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''c0nsaw''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| http://twitter.com/c0nsaw
|-
| '''Forums''':
| http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=769591
|-
| '''Interest'''
| Desktop Bugs/Gnome
|-
| '''Timezone'''
| GMT
|-
| '''Triage time availability'''
| 10 hours+ weekly
|}

=== About Me ===

I'm a 31 year old Dad of one. I'm from <nowiki>[[http://http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ennis|Ennis]]</nowiki>,  <nowiki>[[http://http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/County_Clare|Co. Clare]]</nowiki> on the west coast of <nowiki>[[http://http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republic_of_Ireland|Ireland]]</nowiki>. I worked as a carpenter for 13 years. I gave it all up in January 2010 due to the recession. I have returned to college where I have been given a second chance to try and achieve what I should of done 13 years ago. 
I have just finished my first year in University of Limerick, where I am studying for a degree in Computer Science and Information Systems LM051.
I've been using Linux since 2008. I fell in love with Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron. I fell sucker for it after seeing a Beryl Compiz video on youtube. !!
Ive tried many distros, but I always fall back on Ubuntu. Its the unbelievable community behind it, that really makes it what it is !

=== Things I do for Ubuntu ===
Regrettably up to now I haven't contributed much, maybe a few posts on the forum, as I have been learning really up to now, but as I am off on college holidays now for nearly 4 months I hope to get a BugSquad Mentor to show me the ropes. I aim to donate a lot of time to the project now

==== Community ====

* I am a member of Ubuntu Ireland

==== Development ====

 I'm am currently studying OO development, in first year we have done java, aiming to learn some scripting myself over the summer. And next year in college I'll be learning C as part of my course.
 I have a keen interest in assembly language and low level hardware.

==== Support ====

 I aim to have this spot filled in a few months :-)

=== External Stuff ===

 Member of <nowiki>[[http://www.skynet.ie/|Skynet]]</nowiki>, my university's computer society

=== Future Work ===

* I would like some day to be a developer contributing to Ubuntu and Gnome projects.
* Become an Ubuntu Member
 
=== Room for Improvement ===

There are areas where I'd like to improve myself and my own knowledge:-

* Increase my Ubuntu knowledge and experience.
* Understand linux more
 
