{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


----
CategoryHomepage

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Tarun Kumar Mall
|-
| '''IRC'''
| c2tarun
|-
| '''Launchpad ID'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~c2tarun|c2tarun]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG key'''
| F52EDC93
|-
| '''SSH key'''
| tarun@tarun-laptop
|-
| '''Ubuntu forums'''
| http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1132621
|-
| '''Email'''
| c2tarun@gmail.com
|-
| '''Current Ubuntu Version'''
| Kubuntu Maverick 10.10 (32 bit)
|}

=== About Me ===
Hello, I'm Tarun Kumar Mall from Uttar Pradesh State, India. I am pursuing Computer Science Engineering from my state college. I like programming very much. C and C++ are my favourite programming languages, and I am pretty much familiar with web designing in JAVA and HTML. I m working on a software that can accept a po file and generate a po file from english to hindi translation, by using google translator in C and JAVA. <<BR>>
My one friend introduced me to Linux. I was windows user before it and was extremely frustrated by viruses and poor performance of C compilers. Initially I had little bit problems with Linux, but slowly i started liking it. Fast working, free from virus environment and geeks at ubuntu forum made me to switch to Linux completely and now I use only Linux. <<BR>>
Only thing I still don't understand is why people are not using Linux even if it is completely free.

=== My Contribution ===
I usually help my friends who are new to linux and ask them to try it once, and help them so that they keep on trying for sometime. After that they'll never go back. ;)

'''Packages Activity'''

This list isn't fully up to date, since it changes very often. More infos can be found on https://launchpad.net/~c2tarun/+related-software

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| oxygen-icons
| Ubuntu Natty
| 4:4.6.2-0ubuntu1
|-
| kdeedu
| Ubuntu Natty
| 4:4.6.2-0ubuntu2
|-
| cb2bib
| Ubuntu Natty
| 1.4.5-0ubuntu1
|-
| darksnow
| Ubuntu Natty
| 0.6.1-3ubuntu1
|-
| rekonq
| Ubuntu Natty
| 0.6.95-0ubuntu1
|-
| koffice
| Ubuntu Natty
| 1:2.3.3-0ubuntu1
|-
| bfm
| Ubuntu Natty
| 0.6.4-4ubuntu1
|-
| dares
| Ubuntu Natty
| 0.6.5-5ubuntu1
|-
| dma
| Ubuntu Natty
| 0.0.2010.06.17-6ubuntu1
|-
| clips
| Ubuntu Natty
| 6.24-3ubuntu1
|-
| atom4
| Ubuntu Natty
| 4.1-4ubuntu1
|-
| bastet
| Ubuntu Natty
| 0.41-6ubuntu1
|-
| ivtv-utils
| Ubuntu Natty
| 1.4.1-1ubuntu1
|-
| kbarcode
| Ubuntu Natty
| 2.0.7-3ubuntu1
|-
| aiccu
| Ubuntu Natty
| 20070115-14ubuntu1
|-
| bsdiff
| Ubuntu Natty
| 4.3-10ubuntu1
|-
| chaplin
| Ubuntu Natty
| 1.10-0.2ubuntu1
|-
| glest
| Ubuntu Natty
| 3.2.2-2ubuntu1
|-
| spyder
| Ubuntu Natty
| 2.0.6-0ubuntu1
|-
| pympd
| Ubuntu Natty
| 0.08.1-0ubuntu1
|-
| sbuild
| Ubuntu Natty
| 0.60.9-1ubuntu1
|-
| epdfview
| Ubuntu Natty
| 0.1.7-5ubuntu1
|-
| kdocker
| Ubuntu Natty
| 4.5-0ubuntu1
|-
| ccscript
| Ubuntu Natty
| 4.2.0-0ubuntu1
|-
| bibshelf
| Ubuntu Natty
| 1.6.0-0ubuntu1
|-
| bangarang
| Ubuntu Natty
| 2.0-0ubuntu1
|-
| bluedevil
| Ubuntu Natty
| 1.0.2-0ubuntu1
|}

=== Areas of Interest ===
As I mentioned earlier I like coding. I am trying to learn python and Qt/C++. <<BR>>
My hobbies are: Programming, Learning new Programming languages, Travelling and Cooking. <<BR>>
I am very much interested in cryptographic algorithms.

=== IRC ===
Internet Relay Chat (IRC) is the best place I am spending my time these days. <<BR>>
The channels into which I mostly look are: #ubuntu, #ubuntu-devel, #ubuntu-motu, #ubuntu-packaging, #kubuntu, #kubuntu-devel

=== Future Plans ===
As I am learning Qt/C++ I am trying to fix some bugs from bugs.kde.org

=== Time ===
My time zone is UTC +5:30.
