{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Yuxuan Luo, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Yuxuan Luo
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://www.launchpad.net/~cache-use-only
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/cache-use-only
|}

== Who I Am ==
I am a Kernel Engineer on the <nowiki>[[KernelTeam|Ubuntu Kernel Team]]</nowiki> at Canonical. I graduated from Boston University College of Engineering as a computer engineering major student in 2022. 

I helped triage and backport patches for kernel CVEs in the kernel security team and turned the crank for certain kernels since October 2022.
=== Activity ===
https://bugs.launchpad.net/~cache-use-only

=== Sponsoring ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| '''Sponsor'''
| '''Sponsoree'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Distribution'''
|-
| 2022-10-24 16:52
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1079.85
| focal
|-
| 2022-10-24 17:40
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1079.75
| focal
|-
| 2022-10-24 18:30
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1079.85
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-13 22:34
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-azure
| 5.4.0-1124.131
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-13 23:11
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-azure
| 5.4.0.1124.117
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-13 23:11
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-azure
| 5.4.0-1124.131
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-23 23:16
| Tim Gardner
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-azure
| 5.4.0-1125.132
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-23 23:32
| Tim Gardner
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-azure
| 5.4.0.1125.118
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-24 01:13
| Tim Gardner
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-azure
| 5.4.0-1125.132
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-24 01:14
| Tim Gardner
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-restricted-modules-azure
| 5.4.0-1125.132
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-17 14:53
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1109.116
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-17 15:04
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1109.105
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-17 15:04
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1109.116
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-19 05:24
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1110.117
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-19 05:51
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1110.106
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-19 05:53
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1110.117
| focal
|-
| 2024-04-05 21:04
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0-1058.64~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-04-05 21:56
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0.1058.64~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-04-05 21:57
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0-1058.64~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-01 20:40
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1064.73~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-01 20:55
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-restricted-modules-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1064.73~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-01 20:55
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0.1064.73~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-01 20:56
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1064.73~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-24 23:37
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1065.74~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-24 23:37
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1065.74~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-24 23:37
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0.1065.74~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-24 23:37
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-restricted-modules-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1065.74~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-07-10 15:19
| Philip Cox
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1064.72~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2024-07-10 15:38
| Philip Cox
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0.1064.72~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2024-07-10 15:38
| Philip Cox
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1064.72~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2024-07-17 14:55
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1049.56~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-07-17 19:41
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0.1049.56~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-07-17 19:41
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1049.56~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-07-29 17:29
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1050.57~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-07-29 19:02
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-meta-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0.1050.57~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-07-29 19:02
| Andrei Gherzan
| Yuxuan Luo
| linux-signed-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1050.57~20.04.1
| focal
|}

And 30+ more Expanded Security Maintenance (ESM) packages that don't show up in the public Ubuntu Sponsorship Miner.

=== Upload Rights ===
I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

== Endorsements ==

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Andrei Gherzan ===

==== General feedback ====
I have reviewed a good couple of kernels from Yuxuan, and with the exception of one case, there were no major issues. I like that his communication in the relevant Jira tickets is standard, easily parsable and clear, making the life of a reviewer easier. I have no doubt that Yuxuan will continue to prepare kernels with care, and I support granting him upload rights for all kernel packages.

==== Suggestions for Improvement ====
Honestly, not much.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=CgOk
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader (smb) ===

==== General Feedback ====

I was reviewing those ESM kernels mentioned. From my recollection
there was not much to discuss recently. Issues in the beinning
were quickly resolved. Suggestions were quickly picked up and turned
into fixed uploads. I would trust Yuxuan to act responsibly and to
use his power responibly.
I am therefore recommending Yuxuan to receive per-package upload (PPU)
rights for the kernel set.

==== Suggestions for Improvement ====

Just as a recommendation: never hesitate to ask first if anything
looks odd or is unclear. Even once upload rights are in place.
Things are/became rather complicated.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=V9qB
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Philip Cox (philcox) ===
==== General feedback ====

Even though I only sponsored a couple of Yuxuan's kernels, I have reviewed a quite a few of his kernel cranks, and I have worked with him closely over the last few months.  The early kernels I had reviewed occasionally had a small issue, but Yuxuan was quick to resolve them, and he did not make the same mistakes over and over.  The most recent kernels I have reviewed didn't have any issues, and where done correctly.

I trust Yuxuan dy to be able to upload the kernels he has cranked, and to help review the kernel cranks of other new crankers.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Don't be afraid to reach out and ask for help when you don't know something, or when you are spinning on something.  There are a lot of knowledgable people on the team, and getting feedback, or help may help speed things up, and keep your work moving more smoothly.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=IBzC
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
