{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== What is cairo? ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.cairographics.org/introduction|Introduction on the cairo website]]</nowiki>

=== Building cairo and pycairo ===
Just for your info if your interested in programming with cairo on ubuntu. I wanted to add svg, ps and pdf support to cairo (the ubuntu packages don't support these cairo render backends yet.)

I installed these packages with gnome-app-install:

* build-essentials 
* libxml2-dev
* libjpeg62-dev 
* libpng12-dev 
* libfreetype6-dev
* libfontconfig1-dev
* libx11-dev
* python2.4-dev
* python-gtk2-dev
* libglade2-dev

I build from sources:

* cairo (1.0.2)
* libsvg (0.1.4)
* libsvg-cairo (0.1.6)
* pycairo (1.0.2)
* pygtk (2.8.2)

Its working fine over here (on a x86 Box and an Apple G4 Ibook.)

Just be careful to add "--prefix=/usr " to all ./configure calls and make sure you have got the necessary *-dev packages installed.

Be carefull and make sure you know what you are doing when you install from the sources: Python is an important dependency of your ubuntu-desktop and I have learned quite a few things about aptitude and an ubuntu/debian  gnu/linux to get my desktop back, because i am quite a newb to these things. (For example make sure pygtk is build with all modules, else gnome-app-install and a few other things will stop working)

I just wanted to pass the info to other interested people.

Have fun with cairo!

==== Pycairo Examples ====

<nowiki>[[http://www.ralph-glass.homepage.t-online.de/clock/readme.html|a simple pycairo clock]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ralph-glass.homepage.t-online.de/shogi/readme.html|shogiban for gnushogi]]</nowiki>

The clock is working with the stock packages on Breezy Ubuntu 5.10. You do not need to build cairo source packages for this example

The shogiban needs cairo svg support, so you have to build from sources (Be careful!) 
