{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| Anthony Papillion
|-
| '''Location:'''
| NE Oklahoma, USA
|-
| '''Profession:'''
| Software Developer
|-
| '''Timezone:'''
| US/Central (-5)
|-
| '''Availability:'''
| 17:00 to 01:00 UTC
|-
| '''Languages:'''
| English, French
|-
| '''IRC Nickname:'''
| CajunTechie
|}

==== Introduction ====

Hello! My name is Anthony Papillion, a software developer and entrepreneur from NE Oklahoma. I've been an avid Linux enthusiast for years after getting my first taste of Linux from Redhat way back in 2001.  I've been hooked ever since and have absolutely fallen in love with Ubuntu - both the operating system and the community. I use Linux in both my personal and business life and, while I did initially find it hard to part with Windows, I've hardly ever looked back to my days spent in the prison of proprietary systems.

==== Areas of Interest ====

My primary area of interest within the Linux community is user experience. Even though I'm a developer, I remember those times when I spent hours bumping my head against the wall trying to get something to work on Linux that 'just worked' on Windows. I see it as my personal mission to help make the os as user friendly as possible so fewer and fewer people have bumps on their head!

My other area of interest lies in networking and audio development/troubleshooting. I think Linux has come a long way since my early days in 2001, but I know we still have places to go and I'm excited about helping the community get there!

==== Education ====

I'm far from as educated as many of my fellow community members. I hold a B.Sc degree in Computer Science and am working on a combination M.Sc/Ph.D program now. One day, I will be able to sit back and say 'enough' but, right now, there's more to learn!

==== Current Projects ====

Currently, I'm working on creating some graphical front ends to some great command line tools and investigating ways to make things a little better for brand new users. I'm also working on developing an integrated front end between Ubuntu and Google Storage.

==== Contacting Me ====

I'm pretty easy to find on the net. I use 'CajunTechie' just about everywhere so just dig me up using that name.  You'll find me on places like Facebook, Twitter, MySpace, Launchpad, and a whole bunch of other services. Don't be a stranger: stop in and say hi!

You can also find my blog (which is about...just about everything) at http://www.cajuntechie.com/
