{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===
I'm a self-taught PHP web developer, and have been interested in technology since youth. I started using Linux with Debian on an old desktop, about 3-4 years ago (perhaps 2006). I'm entirely self-taught, and have been working exclusively in PHP/XHTML/CSS for at least 5 years now, and also try to learn anything new when possible. I also currently comprehend Python, C, and some Assembly; but haven't really used such languages for a project yet, I intend on doing more with Python however. I'm also very familiar and comfortable with the bash command line; I can jump to a virtual terminal and unfreeze a frozen ''GUI'' system using the command line easily, as well as maintain a web server remotely via SSH.

I'm generally always open to helping anyone. I currently support +7 people in my local area with Ubuntu/Linux, and have a couple more potential people interested as well. I also support one VPS and one dedicated server. I've recently graduated from high school (early June of 2010) and am currently looking for employment in my area and for college as well. In the meantime I'm almost always available, but also have an unpredictable schedule (generally awake around noon or earlier; 17:00 UTC?).

=== Contact Information ===
* IRC: '''takyoji''' on '''irc.ubuntu.com'''/'''irc.freenode.net'''
* Launchpad: '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~takyoji|takyoji]]</nowiki>'''
* Email: takyoji@gmail.com
* Jabber/XMPP/Google Talk: takyoji@gmail.com

=== Goals ===
* Become more active with the <nowiki>[[MinnesotaTeam|Ubuntu Minnesota LoCo]]</nowiki>, as well as bring it back to life.
* Assist with triaging Ubuntu bugs (perhaps with web technologies including: web browsers, server-side applications, PHP (and web apps written in it), instant messengers/web clients, etc)
* Assist with software packaging
* Contribute materials to SpreadUbuntu
* Write documentation and diagram things (since there's a lack of diagrams for visually explaining information, in some areas)
