{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

Support a calendar server which allows users to easily share appointments using Ubuntu Server.

=== Rationale ===

Calendaring is becoming more important to organizations as they schedule appointments and share these appointments with their colleagues. We do not offer an easy way for our users to share calendars. There are several versions of software in universe including darwin calendar server, egroupware, obm, zimbra, <nowiki>[[http://www.davical.org/|DAViCal]]</nowiki> and open-xchange.

The purpose of this spec is to evaluate several calendar servers and choose which one is most appropriate for the intrepid release.

=== Use Cases ===

** Homer is a busy CIO of a company and Maggie, his secretary updates his calendar so that he knows that he is meeting with the Unix Server Administrators team.

** Bart opens up his calendar and knows that he has a monthly re-occuring meeting with his Network Administrator team and has to prepare his status report before the meeting.

** Frodo is traveling to a conference in California and opens up his client to check what conference call he has on Monday to remind him.

** Alice wants to schedule a group meeting : she uses the calendar to determine what is the best time for the meeting, as it shows all participants busy/free time.

=== Assumptions ===

All of these packages that will be evaluated are already apart of universe and have a well supported upstream.

=== Design ===

The first thing to do is to come up with a matrix that compares the various features of the calendar servers. This matrix will include the following:

** Availability
** Upstream Support
** Dependencies
** Security
** Debian support
** Client support
** other

The reason why the matrix would be structured this way would be easier to write the MainInclusionReport. After a decision has been made then the necessary legwork would need to be done.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users. Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working. This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta. 

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

----
CategorySpec
