{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

We will be celebrating the <nowiki>[[TrustyTahr-ReleaseSchedule|release of Ubuntu 14.04 LTS (Trusty Tahr)]]</nowiki> which is happening in April, 2014. Physical and virtual (IRC & other) Trusty events were scheduled.  Each release cycle a number of efforts happen focused around the release.  Globally, <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki> events happen a month or two before the release focusing on new contributors.  Parties (listed below) and <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki> happen near or after the release.  If you are thinking about organizing one, <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningReleaseParty]]</nowiki> has some hints more hints are described in a video <nowiki>[[http://www.ustream.tv/recorded/6181333|how to do a release party.]]</nowiki> "... can be organized in literally 10 minutes."

=== Trusty Release Parties ===

We will plan release parties in future IRC meetings and on the mailing list.

These events are listed chronologically. Details have yet to be confirmed. World wide events are listed on the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/|LoCo directory]]</nowiki>.

==== Parties ====

===== San Francisco =====

* Date: Thursday April, 24, 2014
* Time: 6-9PM
* Location: <nowiki>[[http://www.adroll.com/|AdRoll]]</nowiki>, 972 Mission St
* Event page and RSVP: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2761-san-francisco-trusty-release-party/
* Mailing list thread organization: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2014-March/002398.html

Discuss at <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-TrustyRelease-SanFrancisco|dedicated project page]]</nowiki>.

===== San Diego =====

* Date: Thursday April, 24, 2014
* Event page: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2765-ubuntu-san-diego-1404-release-party/

===== Brainstorming =====

==== Installfests ====

===== Orange =====

* Date: Saturday, May 24, 2014
* Location: California State University Fullerton, !McCarthy Hall Room 606
* Time: 10am - 2pm
* Event web page & notes: http://www.oclug.org/installfest.html

Plans:

Discuss at <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-OCLUGInstallFestMay2014|dedicated project page]]</nowiki>.

=== Disk Distribution ===

Canonical no longer produces DVDs for non-LTS releases.

==== Southern California ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 64-bit Desktop
| 64-bit Server
|-
| 150
| 25
|}

==== Northern California ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 64-bit Desktop
| 64-bit Server
|-
| 150
| 25
|}

For large conferences please contact Elizabeth K, Joseph at lyz@ubuntu.com to request an UbuntuAtConferences conference pack plus DVDs ''at LEAST 6 weeks prior to the event'' and you can request 14.04 LTS DVDs.

=== General Info ===
* '''<nowiki>[[TrustyTahr|Trusty Tahr 14.04 LTS]]</nowiki> started after the release of 13.10 Saucy Salamander. See <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-UsingDevelopmentReleases]]</nowiki>.  The final stable version was <nowiki>[[TrustyTahr-ReleaseSchedule|released]]</nowiki> on April 17, 2014.'''
* For general Ubuntu information please see <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|www.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> or ask in one of Ubuntu's <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support/communitysupport|community support areas]]</nowiki>.
* The <nowiki>[[UDS|Ubuntu Developer Summits]]</nowiki> for Trusty Tahr were held online <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1311/ Tuesday, 19 November - Thursday, 21 November]]</nowiki> 2013 and <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1403/ Tuesday, 11 March - Thursday 13 March 2014]]</nowiki>. A Technical Overview and <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty|Blueprints]]</nowiki> will be used as guides for producing this release.
