{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Sunday, November 4th, 2007, 7:00pm (1900) PDT

=== Summary ===
# Not many people were around, and DST had just happened, so this meeting was rather informal :-).
# Some photos from the Installfest made it to flickr
   a. Maybe we should make an ubuntu-california tag on flickr for our photos?

=== Original Agenda ===
1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-GutsyRelease|Installfest post-mortem]]</nowiki>

=== Log ===
<pre>
19:23 < Flannel> Hey guys
19:23 < Flannel> Look what time it is!
19:24 < Flannel> Anyone here for the meeting?
19:24 < Flannel> If no one is, we (well, I) might as well wait until 8, incase anyone missed DST
20:46 < Flannel> Howdy Yasumoto
20:47 < cactaur> Hey Flannel, Yasumoto.
20:47 < Yasumoto> heya guys :)
20:48 < Yasumoto> how was the rest of your weekend?
20:49 < Flannel> Pretty good
20:49 < cactaur> Amazing!
20:51 < Yasumoto> chill
20:51 < Yasumoto> I decided to go bug my friend over at pepperdine, so I just got home
20:51 < cactaur> hahahhaha
20:51 < cactaur> Yasumoto: Did you stay for the whole Barcamp?
20:51 < Yasumoto> I want to ask nhaines how his meeting with richard stallman went
20:51 < Yasumoto> no, I left a bit after Flannel did
21:03 < Flannel> So, anyone get a chance to check out the flickr photos form yuesterday?
21:04 < Flannel> couple of us
21:05 < cactaur> WHERE?!?!
21:06 < Flannel> let me see if I can find them again
21:06 < Flannel> I just checked the slideshow, on fast, and skimmed through them
21:12 < Yasumoto> here are a bunch
21:12 < Yasumoto> http://www.flickr.com/photos/eecue/with/1866553071/
21:13  * cactaur still has his tic tacs.
21:15 < Yasumoto> but this is better: http://www.flickr.com/search/?q=barcampla4&w=all
21:15 < cactaur> So THAT'S where our geek portraits went!
21:16 < Yasumoto> haha :)
21:16 < Flannel> http://www.flickr.com/search/show/?q=BarCampLA4
22:07 < Yasumoto> Flannel: should we have a single flickr tag we use for all of our event photos?
22:07 < Yasumoto> heya Gareth
22:10 < Flannel> No idea
22:11 < Flannel> I don't do flickr, so... no clue
22:13 < Yasumoto> kk, fair enough
22:13 < Yasumoto> I know it's like, way-way-way long term planning
22:14 < Yasumoto> but I snapped two pics of nhaines, so I was jw if you had a preference
22:16 < Flannel> You're welcome to start whatever precidence you'd like
22:17 < Yasumoto> it'll probably just be ubuntu-california
</pre>
