{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, July 14th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. None.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jul 15 02:00:32 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting? :)
[02:00] <grantbow> o/
[02:01] <eps> o/
[02:01] <MarkDude> \o
[02:01] <rhernand> o/
[02:01] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13July14
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13July14 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <pleia2> nothing on the agenda :)
[02:01] <MarkDude> Moar Geeknics
[02:01] <pleia2> MarkDude: cool, have a date to report?
[02:02] <MarkDude> What time next month- I needs some help
[02:02] <MarkDude> Last event was full fail
[02:02] <MarkDude> Due to me
[02:02] <MarkDude> It was fun- but had smallest attendance
[02:03] <pleia2> the link from geeknic.org you shared had a broken link to the actual info and rsvp stuff about the event :\
[02:03] <pleia2> so it was tricky for me to share around
[02:03] <eps> Someone should organize an August picnic in Sunnyvale's Baylands Park. ;-)
[02:03] <pleia2> eps: can you help MarkDude plan the next one?
[02:04] <MarkDude> Yay
[02:04] <MarkDude> Yes- multiple levels of fail
[02:04] <grantbow> thanks for volunteering eps
[02:04] <eps> It's probably too late to reserve Baylands. :-(
[02:04] <MarkDude> As well as links sent out that I was not aware of :D
[02:05] <pleia2> MarkDude: yeah, it ended up being a bit confusing :)
[02:05] <MarkDude> I was confused- so Imagine it was a hassle for ithers
[02:05] <pleia2> hehe
[02:05] <pleia2> ok, so MarkDude needs help planning for the next geeknic
[02:06] <pleia2> MarkDude: feel free to post to the list to ask for help too, I'll ask around and see if anyone can
[02:06] <MarkDude> Ok
[02:06] <pleia2> I'm not available the saturdays of the 10th or 17th in august (have events)
[02:06] <pleia2> (fosscon in philly is the 10th, woo!)
[02:06] <MarkDude> Ok, eps - lets see if we can plan it- and have you email lest once we are set
[02:07] <MarkDude> +1 FOSScon
[02:07] <MarkDude> OLPC Summit in OCTober- towards end of month, otherwise thats all I have :)
[02:07] <grantbow> 18, 19 and 20th
[02:07] <pleia2> cool
[02:08] <grantbow> downtown at SFSU
[02:08] <pleia2> grantbow: PM me your phone number so I can get you access to olpcsf stuff
[02:08] <grantbow> k, thanks
[02:08] <pleia2> so, CLS and OSCON next week
[02:08] <pleia2> who all is going?
[02:08] <pleia2> I know philipballew is going up to help with the Ubuntu booth
[02:08] <pleia2> I'll be attending both afterall (speaking at oscon)
[02:10] <pleia2> MarkDude: will you be there?
[02:11] <pleia2> alright, so what else...
[02:11] <pleia2> we've lost access to our identi.ca account for now :( they switched to a new authentication system, in doing so they reset all passwords and if you account doesn't have an email address associated with it you're locked out of your account :(
[02:12] <pleia2> I'll keep an eye on it in case they end up finding a mechanism for us to solve this, a lot of other people are in the same position, it's not good
[02:12]  * MarkDude will miss his 1st OSCON in 8 years
[02:12] <MarkDude> :(
[02:12] <pleia2> aw, bummer
[02:13] <MarkDude> Evan is reachable via Identica from last I rememebr
[02:13] <MarkDude> The only way I know of to really solve Identica issues
[02:16] <pleia2> MarkDude: he works for identica?
[02:16] <pleia2> if you could lend a hand here, it'd be appreciated
[02:17] <grantbow> I think he started it
[02:18] <pleia2> I think that's pretty much all I had team update wise
[02:18] <pleia2> ubuntu hour last week was great :) had like 12 people and we did a keysigning!
[02:19] <pleia2> in san francisco
[02:19] <grantbow> nice
[02:19] <MarkDude> Yep he started it-
[02:20] <pleia2> anyone else have anything to discuss?
[02:21] <grantbow> Evan P, not our Evan B :-)
[02:21] <pleia2> I'm going to be traveling during our next meeting in 2 weeks, our meetings have been pretty lean lately so we can either decide to 1) cancel it 2) someone else volunteer to announce and run it
[02:22] <pleia2> thoughts?
[02:22] <grantbow> I'll do it
[02:22] <pleia2> ok, thanks grantbow :)
[02:22] <rhernand> I got a question...  I recently relocated from San Jose, CA to San Antonio,TX and there doesn't appear to be a group in this city
[02:23] <rhernand> any recommendations?
[02:23] <pleia2> rhernand: have you spoken with folks on the state-wide team?
[02:23] <grantbow> try /join #ubuntu-us-tx and /topic :-)
[02:23] <pleia2> groups in the US are organized on the state level, in texas I think they then have subteams
[02:23] <pleia2> if one doesn't exist, you can typically propose to run an event and see who comes :)
[02:24] <rhernand> i might have to do that...
[02:24] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TexasTeam has info about parts of the team though
[02:24] <darthrobot> Title: [TexasTeam - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:24] <pleia2> I met with the Dallas folks once, but that was 5 years ago at this point ;)
[02:26] <pleia2> any upcoming events to announce?
[02:27] <grantbow> nothing out of the ordinary comes to mind - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UserGroupContacts/Groups
[02:27] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UserGroupContacts/Groups - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:27] <pleia2> alright, thanks everyone :)
[02:28] <rhernand> thanks
[02:28] <pleia2> rhernand: lots of folks involved with event coordinating here, so if you need help planning something in your area please feel free to ask :)
[02:28] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
