{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

This list is to help Ubuntu booth staff during the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-OSCON2009-|OSCON]]</nowiki>show.  It will be used as a reference so if we get asked questions about staffers we have a chance of answering them well.  We will add names to this page as we know about them.  Please add your name if you are involved with Ubuntu or Canonical and are attending.

=== Presentations ===

Ubuntu Track: <nowiki>[[http://en.oreilly.com/oscon2009/public/schedule/topic/Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Person'''
| '''Session Date & Time'''
| '''Session description'''
|-
| John Pugh
| Mon Jul 20 @ 7:00
| <nowiki>[[http://en.oreilly.com/oscon2009/public/schedule/detail/7837|Private Cloud BOF]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Staffers (alphabetically) ===

* Jono Bacon, Ubuntu Community Manager
* Nick Barcet, Ubuntu Server Prouct Manager,  Canonical UK Ltd
* Rick Clark, Engineering Manager, Ubuntu Server Team,  Canonical USA
* Ken Drachnik
* Kenneth Edwards, Mkt Mgr,  Canonical
* Karl Fogel, Launchpad
* Steve George, Director of Corporate Services,  Canonical UK Ltd
* Søren Hansen, Lead (server) Virtualisation Engineer,  Canonical Ltd.
* Stuart Langridge
* Gary Poster, Senior Web Engineer,  Canonical, Ltd.
* John Pugh, Software Partner Manager
* Simon Wardly
