{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, August 11th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. None

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>#IRC
[02:08] <philipballew> hey everyone! Anyone want a meeting?
[02:08] <eps> ooh! ooh!
[02:09] <philipballew> eps, welcome!
[02:10] <philipballew> there is nothing on the agenda today, but the floor is open if someone has something
[02:11] <eps> SF Ubuntu Hour on Wednesday: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2468-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
[02:11] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:15] <philipballew> eps, nice, that looks pretty good.
[02:15] <philipballew> I think that is the only hour on our state currently.
[02:16] <philipballew> I think Pasadena had one this past week. I assume it went well.
[02:16] <eps> Someone should hold one in San Diego. ;-)
[02:18] <philipballew> It's true. Someone should. :)
[02:33] <eps> It's been half an hour ... if no one else has anything to add, I think we should wrap this up, and reconvene on the 25th.
</pre>
