{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, February 13th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PST ===

==== Original Agenda ====
1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale9x|Scale9x]]</nowiki> planning

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent.

Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:01] <jdeslip> Ok, everyone here for the meeting raise your hand
[03:01] <akk> o/
[03:01] <MarkDude> \o
[03:01] <grantbow> o/
[03:02] <jdeslip> Ok, hopefully some people trickle in during the hour.
[03:02] <jdeslip> The 0th topic is (as always) announcements.  Anyone have anything to announce?
[03:02] <philipballew> hand raised!
[03:03]  * eps tries to figure out which left is my left
[03:03] <Eureka> wiki: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects edited | http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x edited
[03:04] <jdeslip> David Wonderly mentioned that the week for Feb 28 is Ubuntu developer week
[03:04] <jdeslip> If you want to attend, please check out the mailing list
[03:04] <jdeslip> and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek
[03:05] <ishimeru> Good evening everyone.
[03:05] <jdeslip> Any other announcements?
[03:06] <jdeslip> If not, we will move on to our only agenda item for tonight.  SCALE9X planning.
[03:06] <jdeslip> SCALE is less than 2 weeks from tonight
[03:06] <jdeslip> We will have booth at the expo on Saturday and Sunday the 26th and 27th
[03:07] <jdeslip> And on friday their will be an Ubucon.
[03:07] <jdeslip> If nhaines is around, perhaps he can briefly discuss the ubucon and what (if anything) is needed.
[03:07] <jdeslip> (Thanks A LOT nhaines for making this happen and taking the lead)
[03:10] <jdeslip> OK, if nhaines pops in later, we can disucss the ubucon, if not - I'm assuming enough speakers got back to him and we can disucss any necessary planning on the list.
[03:10] <jdeslip> Moving on to our booth...
[03:10] <jdeslip> The main thing we want to confirm tonight is the demo boxes
[03:11] <jdeslip> MarkDude: Can you confirm the demo boxes you are bringing and whether they will be at the ubuntu table
[03:11] <jdeslip> I know you are contributing to other tables as well
[03:12] <MarkDude> Sry yes
[03:12] <jdeslip> Also for those following along the scale planning is found on the wiki here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x
[03:12] <jdeslip> Please add your name if you are coming and bringing anything
[03:12]  * MarkDude has 2 machines- the other has iied and most likely needs pats
[03:12] <dragonoid> o/
[03:13] <jdeslip> Can you describe the two machines?  And will they be at the Ubuntu table the entire expo?
[03:13] <jdeslip> or are they on a timeshare ;)
[03:13] <MarkDude> both of the machines are there full time
[03:14] <jdeslip> OK, can you add them to the wiki page with a description
[03:14] <MarkDude> The Dell and the the compaq on the page already
[03:14] <MarkDude> I may need to scratch the Strata
[03:15] <iheartubuntu> are CD sleeves still needed? I can update the old artwork to be for 10.10 discs (or whatever is needed)
[03:15] <jdeslip> Ah, I see, guess they are not in the table
[03:15] <jdeslip> iheartubuntu - yes, we still need the sleeve design to be updated.
[03:15]  * MarkDude will move them to correct place- as pleia2 reminded me to- and I forgot :P
[03:15] <grantbow> iheartubuntu: that would be greatly appreciated
[03:15] <iheartubuntu> ok - i will do it.
[03:16] <iheartubuntu> are these printed in b/w or color?
[03:16] <jdeslip> basically we just want the sleeves to include checkboxes for the next several releases (instead of last several releases)
[03:16] <jdeslip> iheartubuntu: both
[03:16] <jdeslip> I am going to try to pring about 100 in color
[03:16] <jdeslip> but often they are printed in black and white for cost
[03:17] <iheartubuntu> on what sort of paper?
[03:17] <jdeslip> 8-1/2-11
[03:17] <jdeslip> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/CDSleeves
[03:17] <jdeslip> You can just modify the design
[03:17] <grantbow> it's in bzr
[03:18] <iheartubuntu> got it thx
[03:18] <jdeslip> Once you modify it, please send an email to list; so, I can get them printed.  :)
[03:19] <iheartubuntu> will do. i will get this done sometime tonite
[03:19] <Eureka> wiki: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x edited
[03:19] <jdeslip> erichammond1: are you still on track for burning 200 discs?
[03:19]  * erichammond1 wakes up
[03:20] <jdeslip> on the wiki page it says you are down for 200 discs - it is in the blank category, but I seem to remember you saying it would be 200 burned discs
[03:20] <erichammond1> um, my name is in the "blank cds" row
[03:20] <erichammond1> jdeslip: wishful thinking.
[03:20] <rww> hehe
[03:21] <grantbow> haha
[03:21] <grantbow> 6 minutes or so each x200 is quite a bit
[03:21] <jdeslip> true
[03:21] <iheartubuntu> what version #'s do we want on the sleeve? right now its 8.04, 9.04, 9.10, and 10.04
[03:21] <erichammond1> I did spend a little time looking around for a CD printing company that would print the CDs for free with a little advertising space on them.
[03:21] <jdeslip> So, can anyone volunteer some burned cds?
[03:22] <erichammond1> Didn't make much progress, but it seems that there might be somebody out there for future events.
[03:22] <jdeslip> iheartubuntu: I think 10.04 10.10 11.04 11.10
[03:22] <iheartubuntu> are we burning them on CD or DVD?
[03:22] <rww> iheartubuntu: CD
[03:22] <jdeslip> CD
[03:22] <iheartubuntu> i ask because i have better luck with burning to DVD :)
[03:22] <grantbow> erichammond1: Canonical will gladly ship CDs at minimal cost for a modest donation, especially for versions they have extra of like 10.04 right now.
[03:23] <grantbow> I've looked into getting CDs made too and the costs are quite high in relatively low volumes
[03:23] <jdeslip> grantbow: We also have a conference pack that includes pressed cds
[03:23] <grantbow> jdeslip: I hadn't forgotten :-)
[03:24] <grantbow> shipit will work with us to act as a CD replicator at cost
[03:24] <grantbow> their cost is much lower than anything I could find
[03:24] <grantbow> I can check my notes
[03:24] <jdeslip> OK, well, it seems like we will have a lot of blank cds on hand and I believe a burning box - DarkwingDucks
[03:25] <erichammond1> grantbow: I'd love to hear what "cost" is.
[03:25] <philipballew> would anyone just have a multiple cd burner they can lend for the weekend?
[03:25] <iheartubuntu> I can commit to 50 CDs. let me know what speed you want them burned to and any other info like what ISOs
[03:25] <grantbow> erichammond1: np
[03:25] <erichammond1> I did say I could print some color sleeves (100+?) if the design is updated and somebody contacts me about it more than a day in advance.
[03:26] <philipballew> i can do cds as well. just need the number, version and speed
[03:26] <grantbow> marking CDs, printing sleeves, folding sleeves, stuffing, all of these are factors we take for "granted" in low volumes.
[03:26] <iheartubuntu> erichammond1 - i will post the CD sleeve file to the mailing list sometime tonite
[03:26] <jdeslip> iheartubuntu: thanks! can you add your name to the wiki page?
[03:27] <jdeslip> philipballew: the number is however much you can commit to 50? Mostly i386 desktop edition.
[03:27] <jdeslip> Does speed actually matter?  I mean, as long as your burner can handle it?
[03:27] <rww> jdeslip: Higher speeds means more chance of failures. On modern equipment, I usually go with 8x.
[03:27] <philipballew> i can do 50. i assume this is 10.10? not to show up looking like an idiot with the wrong version
[03:27] <iheartubuntu> are we in need of any computers? i have an acer aspireone netbook with ubuntu 10.10 on it (desktop, unity, 2D). i can have it avail when im around.
[03:27] <grantbow> I do x16 speed for higher reliability - I found speed does matter.
[03:28] <philipballew> i have a dell studeo 10.10 ready for use if need be
[03:28] <iheartubuntu> not slower than 16x ?
[03:28] <grantbow> rww: your script rocks
[03:28] <jdeslip> Yes, please do 10.10
[03:28] <philipballew> exelent
[03:28] <iheartubuntu> so 50 of 10.10?
[03:28] <DarkwingDuck> Hey guys, sry I'm late
[03:28] <jdeslip> OK, if the expert say speed matters, do 16x and lower
[03:28] <rww> grantbow: come to think of it, I don't remember if I merged in those changes you sent me... will go check now.
[03:29] <jdeslip> iheartubuntu: that would be awesome.  please add your name to the wiki if you can do it. :)
[03:29] <grantbow> http://rww.name/scripts/cdwrite.sh
[03:29] <philipballew> yes. i will do 50 of 10.10 32 bit
[03:29] <jdeslip> great
[03:29] <grantbow> rww: I think it was minor, like using the configured device on all commands as I recall.
[03:30] <jdeslip> Does anyone have anything else to add about SCALE planning?
[03:30] <grantbow> short meetings are not bad - work can still get done at other times :-)
[03:31] <philipballew> is there a section in the wiki for burned cds or should i add one?
[03:31] <jdeslip> philipballew: on here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x
[03:31] <philipballew> thanks
[03:31] <jdeslip> there is a table and row for "pre-Burned cds"
[03:32] <jdeslip> OK, I think we have pretty much everything covered (I will add myself as bringing the banner).
[03:33] <erichammond1> It would be smart for somebody to bring a backup network switch in the event EricHammond doesn't come through or his switch fails.
[03:33] <jdeslip> Does anyone have anything else to add before we end the official meeting?
[03:33] <jdeslip> erichammond1: ya, I heard that guy is unreliable ;)
[03:33] <erichammond1> ;-/
[03:33] <erichammond1> I'm a fan of redundancy
[03:33] <jdeslip> If anyone else can bring a switch, please add your name to the wiki
[03:34] <grantbow> erichammond1: good idea
[03:34] <jdeslip> (thinks I have spare linksys router I can bring)
[03:34] <grantbow> jdeslip: the one that looks best on Android from a quick inspection as a tally counter is from Nuvera Apps named T-Counter
[03:34] <rww> grantbow: looking at the diff, it 1) makes a couple of changes to eject calls that I think were because my burner needs some ejects that yours didn't, 2) switches the speed from 8x to 16x, and 3) disables MD5SUM checking (that I don't think we got working fully anyway?). I'll leave it for now and see if I can improve the MD5SUM stuff instead of commenting it out and cut down on the eject usage.
[03:35] <iheartubuntu> im too slow to update the wiki. i'll do my updating after the meeting (sorry)
[03:35] <rww> I'll add optional arguments for speed etc. too
[03:35] <jdeslip> iheartubuntu: no worries
[03:36] <jdeslip> erichammond1: you bringing some cat5 cable too?
[03:36] <DarkwingDuck> I have a single CD/DVD burner on my laptop. I will have all of the ISOs you can think of.
[03:36] <jdeslip> MarkDude: will you be providing your own cat5 cable for demo boxes?
[03:36] <iheartubuntu> will there be wi-fi available?
[03:36] <MarkDude> Sure what osrt of assortment should I bring?
[03:36] <grantbow> rww: I think I explained in my email that I didn't expect all of that to get merged - some of the need for the ejects depends on the type of burner you use (manual or automatic tray, etc).
[03:37] <DarkwingDuck> iheartubuntu: there is but... bandwidth is really bad
[03:37] <MarkDude> GK has all sorts of cables and wires and such
[03:37] <iheartubuntu> ok
[03:37] <jdeslip> MarkDude: Maybe a few 5" cables?
[03:37] <rww> grantbow: ah, I didn't look at the email body. indeed you did.
[03:37] <jdeslip> err 5'
[03:37] <erichammond1> jdeslip: I don't have spare cables right now.  I could buy some cheap online if needed.
[03:37] <MarkDude> wisdom of sages (akk) NEVER trust wifi at conferences
[03:37] <rww> grantbow: I think the problems with getting console beeps were actually caused by a headachy bug in compiz. I'll ping my compiz contact and see if that's still an issue.
[03:38] <erichammond1> DarkwingDuck: This is a new location with multiple times more bandwidth.  We don't know how good/bad it will be.
[03:38]  * MarkDude can bring 20 or so of that size
[03:38] <iheartubuntu> 64 bit versions of 10.10 needed/wanted?
[03:38] <grantbow> rww: the only important thing was to get all the ejects and calls using the same /dev/ device variable so they all change at once. I tripped on that later and it might not be in the diff
[03:38] <DarkwingDuck> erichammond1: Aye, but if everyone is using the same connection...
[03:38] <MarkDude> a tethered phone would be great for scheduled times
[03:38] <jdeslip> MarkDude: probably 5 or so cables would be good.
[03:38] <jdeslip> I have a tethered phone to bring
[03:38] <jdeslip> MarkDude: can you add the cable to the wiki?
[03:39] <MarkDude> Ok, lets see if any thing else
[03:39] <jdeslip> OK... so, anyone have any other questions about scale?
[03:39] <rww> grantbow: It's not. I'll add an otpional argument for device and default it to /dev/sd0
[03:39] <rww> sr0 **
[03:39] <rww> (and use it in the eject calls)
[03:39] <MarkDude> oh, lets try to Ustream or Justin TV some stuff for Scale
[03:40] <erichammond1> Does our booth have limits on network usage (number of computers, wifi broadcasting, ...)?
[03:40] <DarkwingDuck> Has anyone emailed nhaines to requesting a talking topic for Ubucon?
[03:40] <akk> rww: There's a kernel issue with console beeps too.
[03:40] <jdeslip> DarkwingDuck: I did and pleia2 did I think
[03:40] <MarkDude> tethered phone and ok cheap mic work well even on crappy bandwidth
[03:40] <DarkwingDuck> As did I
[03:40] <jdeslip> erichammond1: I am not sure they released that type of info
[03:40] <rww> erichammond1: If it's the same as last year, number of computers isn't an issue, but wifi wasn't allowed I think.
[03:40] <MarkDude> sound remains good - picture degrades
[03:41] <DarkwingDuck> rww: correct. We were not allowed Wifi
[03:41] <DarkwingDuck> other then provided wifi
[03:41] <erichammond1> so my little switch only has 4 hardware ports which limits it to 4 computers with Internet access.
[03:41] <MarkDude> Tethered worked well withNO wifi at Scale
[03:42]  * MarkDude is just telling all of you to root your phone so tethering can happen
[03:42] <MarkDude> :D
[03:42] <rww> akk: ah. I'll just comment the line out, then.
[03:42] <jdeslip> MarkDude: I can provide tethering if onsite internet fails
[03:43] <jdeslip> Ok. Let's wrap this up.  Please add your name to the wiki if you made a commitment to discs etc. tonight.
[03:43] <DarkwingDuck> MarkDude: already rooted and some of that GingerBread goodness
[03:43]  * MarkDude suggest some sort of videos be made
[03:43] <MarkDude> at least a bit of Ubucon
[03:43] <jdeslip> Can probably do that with various android phones
[03:43] <iheartubuntu> is keeping the sleeve file an SVG format important?
[03:43] <MarkDude> many folks still dont know what the heck it is :)
[03:43] <erichammond1> My Internet access through my 4G phone is an 8 device wifi hotspot,  but I don't know how much I'll be around the booth.
[03:43] <rww> iheartubuntu: yes
[03:43] <DarkwingDuck> Does anyone have a video camera?
[03:43] <jdeslip> iheartubunut: svg would be best since it is scalable
[03:44] <MarkDude> Anyone going to be there for Ubucon with a tether phone?
[03:44] <jdeslip> I will (if needed)
[03:45] <DarkwingDuck> As will I
[03:45] <iheartubuntu> ok
[03:45] <jdeslip> More discussions on details of SCALE setup etc. will happen on the mailing list, channel in the days leading up to the conference. I think we will plan some sort of meeting on the Friday during/after ubucon
[03:46] <DarkwingDuck> +1 for after Ubucon
[03:46] <erichammond1> Is there a meeting next Sunday?
[03:46] <jdeslip> erichammond1: you mean in two weeks?
[03:46] <MarkDude> Alright- lets plan on streaming some of Ubucon-
[03:46] <jdeslip> I am not yet sure - given that a larger fraction of the team will be at scale
[03:46] <erichammond1> jdeslip: oh, nevermind.  SCALE is sneaking up fast.
[03:46] <rww> It got moved to an in-person one on Saturday last year, which I thought was helpful.
[03:47]  * MarkDude can create an acct for Ustream- or the Team can use mine
[03:47] <jdeslip> rww: sounds like a good idea
[03:47] <MarkDude> rww, if everyone had known about it sure :)
[03:48] <jdeslip> How about a meeting on the Friday after Ubucon - which can serve as a meet and greet and a planning meeting for the next two days?
[03:48] <rww> MarkDude: Given all the places that meeting times are posted...
[03:49] <MarkDude> Ustream also allows for remote participation
[03:49] <MarkDude> folks can ask questions
[03:49] <jdeslip> Let's not worry too much about what happened last time, ok ;) I'll send an email to the list proposing a meeting Friday night and trying to get peoples schedules aligned
[03:49] <rww> jdeslip: Saturday was useful as a "We've done one day of booth. What changes do we need to make for day two?". I'm not gonna be there, though, so my preferences don't count ;)
[03:50]  * MarkDude is making sure we get the details set as to when to meet- they shifted last time
[03:50] <MarkDude> No worries, water under the bridge
[03:50] <jdeslip> rww: not a bad point. I'll send the email to the list and see what people want.  Friday or Saturday.
[03:50] <rww> (and as far as I know, ustream only works if you use Flash, so I won't be remote attending)
[03:50] <Eureka> wiki: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x edited
[03:50] <jdeslip> OK... So lets wrap this up for real.  Thanks for coming everyone!
[03:51] <jdeslip> The next official IRC meeting will therefore be in 4 weeks, and we will have an in-person meeting either Friday or Saturday at SCALE
[03:52] <jdeslip> ---------------------- End of Official Meeting ----------------
</pre>
