{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, April 22th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. Ubuntu 12.04 Release on Thursday, April 26th
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/PreciseRelease
 1. Ubuntu Developer Summit: May 7-11
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UDS-Q

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[02:01] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:01] <DonkeyHotei> why do i always forget it's sunday?
[02:01] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting?
[02:01] <DonkeyHotei> me, i guess
[02:01] <jyo> o/
[02:01] <philipballew> 0/
[02:01] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12April22
[02:01] <eps> o/
[02:02] <pleia2> #topic Ubuntu 12.04 Release on Thursday, April 26th
[02:02] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/PreciseRelease
[02:02] <akk> o/ here too
[02:02] <pleia2> so the 12.04 release is coming up this week :)
[02:02] <pleia2> only an event in SF so far: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1615/detail/
[02:03] <philipballew> Who all is going?
[02:03] <pleia2> the link has the RSVP list
[02:03] <pleia2> good crowd so far, and a lot of people don't tend to RSVP (or do it last minute) so I'm hoping for a good turnout
[02:04] <philipballew> yeah. thats how it happens
[02:04] <pleia2> as a reminder to anyone, you can plan your own events elsewhere :) even if it's just an Ubuntu Hour you move to release night to mix things up a bit, or have an installfest in a few weeks
[02:05] <pleia2> unfortunately nothing really came of the noisebridge folks who expressed interest in running an installfest
[02:05] <pleia2> if I have some time this summer I might follow-up with them about leading one
[02:06] <pleia2> anyone else have anything about release stuff?
[02:06] <DonkeyHotei> it is my understanding that the above-linked event is simply a drinking party, so i'm not sure it would be worth it for me to go and just sit there doing nothing
[02:06] <philipballew> I can help out if it is in the city this summer probably. I have nothing going on
[02:07] <pleia2> DonkeyHotei: it's the same as all our thirsty bear events, food, beer, other drinks, talking about ubuntu and open source stuff
[02:07] <DonkeyHotei> i don't think i've ever actually been to thirstybear
[02:07] <pleia2> I wouldn't call it a "drinking party" but it is a party so there isn't really an agenda or anything
[02:07] <dax> DonkeyHotei: I don't drink either and have been to them and did a non-zero number of things, so...
[02:07] <eps> It's a drinking party.
[02:08] <philipballew> if you want to have a release party a post uds party is still not to late
[02:08] <philipballew> the uds mark shuttleworth speech... thats a drinking party
[02:08] <eps> That's a drinking game
[02:08] <pleia2> I think I don't actually know what a "drinking party" is
[02:09] <pleia2> a party where there is drinking?
[02:09] <dax> philipballew: I was under the impression that the entire Ubuntu community went into hibernation for a week after UDS, though :P
[02:09] <pleia2> yeah, we do have the complication of UDS being local, so a few of us are pretty tied up with UDS planning post release ;)
[02:09] <philipballew> dax, yeah, but the release party is not for jusy the uds people. if someone holds one post uds, id crash it
[02:10] <DonkeyHotei> philipballew: when are you actually in town?
[02:10] <pleia2> otherwise I would have tried to do something more than just our standard "hang out at thirsty bear"
[02:10] <philipballew> saturday before uds\
[02:10] <DonkeyHotei> ah
[02:10] <DonkeyHotei> until?
[02:10] <philipballew> august
[02:10] <DonkeyHotei> ohh
[02:10] <DonkeyHotei> but i'm assuming the bulk of that is in sac
[02:11] <pleia2> anything else about release stuff before we talk about UDS?
[02:11] <philipballew> napa for a while DonkeyHotei
[02:12] <philipballew> hum, im spending all of may after uds in napa helping my 80 year old grandmother remodel her house and landscape
[02:12] <DonkeyHotei> oh, right
[02:12] <philipballew> something to do...
[02:12] <philipballew> but I have the ability to go and do whatever i need
[02:12] <pleia2> #topic Ubuntu Developer Summit: May 7-11
[02:13] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UDS-Q
[02:13] <philipballew> totally going to crash this...
[02:13] <pleia2> so the only confirmed thing we're doing for UDS is the Wednesday night tourism night (and I'm running a dinner for Ubuntu Women project members on Thursday)
[02:13] <philipballew> baseball game a no-go?
[02:14] <pleia2> I need to email Michael Paoli about the Debian dinner (he was going to send a save-the-dae)
[02:14] <pleia2> date
[02:14] <pleia2> philipballew: I haven't heard any plans about it yet
[02:14] <philipballew> pleia2, do you not have a ubuntu hour that week i assume?
[02:14] <pleia2> philipballew: want to follow up with MarkDude about it?
[02:14] <jyo> Well, I've been a bit too busy to figure stuff out for an A's outing; anyone else should catch with MarkDude
[02:14] <pleia2> right, no SF ubuntu hour that week
[02:15] <philipballew> ill email mark on behalf of the loco
[02:15] <pleia2> thanks philipballew :)
[02:15] <pleia2> #action pleia2 to email mpaoli re: debian
[02:15] <pleia2> #action philipballew to talk to MarkDude re: A's game during UDS
[02:15] <philipballew> i like that one debian dinner i went to. that food was really good
[02:15] <pleia2> I'll also blog to the Ubuntu Planet this Friday (after release!) about UDS plans so maybe we can get some feedback about what people want to do
[02:16] <pleia2> philipballew: this time he's picking a chinese place in oakland, I'm sorry I'm missing it
[02:17] <philipballew> is there anything we can do to help people with the area? take them around and help them not get lost?
[02:17] <philipballew> teach the sf slang?
[02:17] <eps> Given the proximity to Oakland's chinatown, that's something of a no-brainer
[02:17] <pleia2> eps: indeed
[02:17] <pleia2> philipballew: ah, speaking of which!
[02:17] <philipballew> ill teach them all why hella is a real word
[02:17] <eps> I'm sure there will be plenty of possibilities for the other nights.
[02:17] <pleia2> I got these: http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/7052367909/
[02:18] <pleia2> eps: Monday, Tuesday and Friday are typically sponsored events at the summit itself, people don't have to go but Monday and Friday in particular it's pretty expected that people will be there
[02:18] <philipballew> pleia2, ill carry around maps. I get free aaa maps
[02:19] <pleia2> so those pins are for locals who can be helpful at UDS
[02:19] <DonkeyHotei> richard stallman picks out reasonably good places to eat in oakland's chinatown at random
[02:19] <eps> Wait, we're not all going to AT&T Park Friday night?
[02:19] <pleia2> I'll give them out at UDS to whoever wants them, and your job is to be helpful :)
[02:19] <pleia2> eps: Friday night is the big closing party
[02:19] <jyo> My default advice will be $20 clipper card. :)
[02:19] <pleia2> jyo: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Q/PublicTransit
[02:20] <pleia2> we made a whole page :)
[02:20]  * akk got a clipper card specifically for UDS :)
[02:20] <philipballew> eps, i thought they were out of town that week and not a p-bell?
[02:20] <eps> Friday night is Roger Waters performing The Wall live
[02:20] <DonkeyHotei> my clipper card auto-reloads at the $20 level atm
[02:20] <jyo> The Giants roadtrip starts the Sunday before UDS and ends the Monday after.
[02:20] <jyo> ah
[02:21] <philipballew> Do I need a clipper card if I plam to roam the bay area all week then i assume?
[02:21] <pleia2> you never need a clipper card
[02:21] <pleia2> but it is nice to use one card and one source of payment for all transit
[02:21] <eps> philipballew: Don't worry. You'll get one.
[02:22] <pleia2> instead of buying tickets, making sure you have exact change, etc
[02:22] <akk> philipballew: It just saves time, so you don't have to hassle with ticket machines every time.
[02:22] <akk> . o O ( instead you have to hassle with wondering how much is left on the card and how to refill it? )
[02:23] <pleia2> I think the refill machines (Right next to ticket machines in most places) can give you a balance
[02:23] <pleia2> oh, I'll also follow up with Jack about the tour of NERSC he was offering
[02:24] <pleia2> #action pleia2 to follow up with Jack re: NERSC tour at UDS
[02:24] <pleia2> our next meeting is the day before UDS
[02:24] <pleia2> anyone else have anything for now?
[02:25] <pleia2> I'll firm up the plans in the next two weeks and send some notes to the list about what all ends up being on the schedule
[02:26] <pleia2> #topic Other news, announcements, misc
[02:27] <pleia2> grantbow and I did a BALUG presentation on 12.04 on Tuesday, our 2 page handout detailing some of the changes in 12.04 is available here: http://people.ubuntu.com/~lyz/handouts/12.04BALUGHandout.pdf
[02:28] <pleia2> I think that's all I've got :)
[02:31] <pleia2> ok, thanks everyone
[02:31] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
