{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, March 11th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Your agenda item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you online!
<pre>
[02:08] <pleia2> hello!
[02:08] <pleia2> eps: I was on my way home ;)
[02:08] <pleia2> took a bit longer coming back than expected
[02:08] <pleia2> so, who all is here for the meeting?
[02:10] <eps> I suspect we'll wrap this up while it's still light outside.
[02:10] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12March11
[02:10] <pleia2> nothing really on the agenda
[02:10] <pleia2> MarkDude, grantbow, you guys around? any words of wisdom or encouragement following the walnut creek global jam? :)
[02:11] <pleia2> broder ended up showing up at a coffee shop in SF last Saturday and casually inviting people out for informal jamming, I went, as did my pangolin: http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/6950454233
[02:12] <MarkDude> Jonopaloooza rocked
[02:12] <pleia2> :)
[02:13] <pleia2> ok, as far as upcoming stuff, looks like just the Ubuntu Hour in SF this week: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1580/detail/
[02:14] <pleia2> and iheartubuntu has been working on our Gaming Night wiki page, he's added a bunch of games! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/GameNights
[02:14] <pleia2> akk, iheartubuntu and myself tested out PyScrabble the other day, was fun
[02:16] <pleia2> ah, beta1 came out on march 1st: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2012-March/000899.html
[02:17] <pleia2> probably a bit too early to start talking release parties :)
[02:17] <pleia2> anyone have anything they'd like to share?
[02:18] <eps> Any UDS-Q news?
[02:18] <pleia2> no news really, we started putting together a page of ideas here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UDS-Q
[02:19] <pleia2> and yes, I know they said registration would open March 9th, but it hasn't yet
[02:19] <pleia2> hopefully tomorrow :)
[02:19] <akk> Got a 10.10 CD in my swag bag at PyCon a few days ago.
[02:19] <akk> er, guess that would be 11.10
[02:20] <pleia2> neat, canonical was a sponsor so I assume that's where those came from :)
[02:21] <jyo> Gotta get rid of those 11.10 CDs somehow.
[02:22] <pleia2> alright, anything else?
[02:25] <pleia2> ok, I think that's a wrap then, thanks everyone :)
</pre>
