{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, May 14th, 2017, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
# Final discussion of <nowiki>[[NathanHaines-CaliforniaLeadershipDocument|Leadership document]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NathanHaines/CaliforniaLeadershipDocument?action=diff&rev2=2&rev1=1|diff]]</nowiki>) before beginning a vote.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 02:02:02 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:02:02 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon May 15 02:02:02 2017 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:02:02 <darthrobot`> 
 02:02:02 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:02:07 <nhaines> #chair pleia2 lyn||ian
 02:02:07 <darthrobot`> Current chairs: lyn||ian nhaines pleia2
 02:02:34 <nhaines> Welcome to the May 14th Ubuntu California LoCo meeting!
 02:02:46 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17May14
 02:02:46 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17May14 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:03:00 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:03:18 <nhaines> It's May, Ubuntu 17.04 has been released, and summer's coming up.  What's going on?  :)
 02:03:36 <pleia2> alas, nothing up here so far
 02:04:05 <nhaines> Nor down here.
 02:04:21 <nhaines> Although the Ubuntu Hours in Pasadena continue happily, as I understand it.
 02:04:23 <pleia2> our focus has mostly shifted to LTS for our releases parties
 02:04:40 <dax> (I'm around but multitasking right now.)
 02:04:48 <pleia2> we haven't had an Ubuntu Hour in some time either, but there is someone interested in picking up where I left off
 02:05:12 <nhaines> That's good to hear!
 02:05:42 <nhaines> Ubuntu Hours are good ways to sort of keep up to date with that's going on in the Ubuntu world.
 02:06:01 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:06:11 <nhaines> Are there any other announcements this week?
 02:06:49 * lyn||ian does not have any
 02:07:04 <pleia2> nothing from me either
 02:07:27 <nhaines> Okay then, moving on to agenda items.
 02:07:48 <nhaines> #topic Final discussion of leadership document amendments before proceeding to a vote
 02:08:21 <nhaines> So on February 19th, I proposed an amendment to our leadership document.
 02:08:52 <nhaines> There's been no discussion on the mailing list and therefore I assume 100% unanimous assent from the LoCo.  :P
 02:09:15 <lyn||ian> nhaines, link now I do not remember any complaints to it
 02:09:27 <pleia2> hehe
 02:09:42 <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NathanHaines/CaliforniaLeadershipDocument?action=diff&rev2=2&rev1=1
 02:09:42 <darthrobot`> Title: [Diff for "NathanHaines/CaliforniaLeadershipDocument" - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:09:45 <pleia2> the diff of changes
 02:09:53 <pleia2> nhaines: care to summarize?
 02:10:07 <nhaines> Our current document is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership
 02:10:07 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Leadership - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:10:16 <nhaines> And the proposed new document is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NathanHaines/CaliforniaLeadershipDocument
 02:10:16 <darthrobot`> Title: [NathanHaines/CaliforniaLeadershipDocument - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:10:25 <pleia2> #link https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2017-February/002782.html
 02:10:25 <darthrobot`> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] Proposed amendment to the Ubuntu Californialeadership document.]
 02:10:37 <pleia2> ^ Original email about the proposed changes from February
 02:11:12 <nhaines> The amendments basically just change references to "leadership council" to "leadership role."
 02:11:51 <dax> and make that one person instead of a three person council, obviously
 02:11:52 <nhaines> The intention is to allow a single elected leader rather than an elected triumvirate, but also to allow a group or two or three leaders in the future if needed.
 02:12:03 <dax> i read the document back in February, am in favor of it
 02:12:21 <pleia2> I like increasing the flexibility here
 02:12:40 <lyn||ian> yes increased flexibility sounds good
 02:12:56 <pleia2> I think the trio served its purpose for a time, but we don't want to be locked into something forever if it's not working for us
 02:12:57 <nhaines> There's some other silliness in the document, but I haven't changed any of that.  :)
 02:13:28 <dax> If we had more activity I'd want more pondering of it, but until/unless that happens I think one caretaker/leader is fine.
 02:13:28 <nhaines> pleia2: yes, and with the lack of leader nominations this last time around, I don't think the group is big enough to support three leaders.
 02:13:50 * pleia2 nods
 02:14:03 <lyn||ian> yes nhaines
 02:14:11 <nhaines> Which is different from whether or not we *need* three leaders, but I don't think we do, either.  :)
 02:14:53 <nhaines> In any case, I wanted to give the group a last chance to comment before I called for a vote.
 02:15:11 <nhaines> Once the vote on the changes is finished, we can make another call for nominations and do a leadership vote.
 02:15:50 <pleia2> thank you for your work on this, sorry it's taken so long to finally talk about it :)
 02:15:54 <pleia2> nothing else from me though
 02:16:04 <nhaines> It's okay.  SCALE and then other things were in the way. :)
 02:16:13 <nhaines> Let's vote on whether we should vote.
 02:16:19 <pleia2> hehe
 02:16:29 <nhaines> #vote Put proposed leadership document amendment to a LoCo-wide vote for ratification.
 02:16:29 <darthrobot`> Please vote on: Put proposed leadership document amendment to a LoCo-wide vote for ratification.
 02:16:29 <darthrobot`> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)
 02:16:32 <nhaines> +1
 02:16:32 <darthrobot`> +1 received from nhaines
 02:16:34 <pleia2> +1
 02:16:34 <darthrobot`> +1 received from pleia2
 02:16:37 <dax> +1
 02:16:37 <darthrobot`> +1 received from dax
 02:17:05 <lyn||ian> +1
 02:17:05 <darthrobot`> +1 received from lyn||ian
 02:17:22 <nhaines> #endvote
 02:17:22 <darthrobot`> Voting ended on: Put proposed leadership document amendment to a LoCo-wide vote for ratification.
 02:17:22 <darthrobot`> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0
 02:17:22 <darthrobot`> Motion carried
 02:17:47 <pleia2> just going to toss a simple poll up in launchpad/
 02:17:48 <pleia2> ?
 02:17:56 <nhaines> That or we can send out a condor-seat ballot to the LoCo.
 02:18:34 <pleia2> collecting emails for that is D:
 02:18:48 <nhaines> That's okay though, because I'm not the one who has to do it.
 02:18:51 <pleia2> and it's just a yes/no anyway, right?
 02:18:54 <nhaines> Right.
 02:19:03 <pleia2> so condorcet is not so great for it :)
 02:19:12 <dax> last/only previous amendment was just approved by IRC vote. If you want a non-IRC thing I'd just LP it
 02:19:24 <pleia2> well, I can set that up
 02:19:31 <nhaines> dax: that's something I should've looked up then.
 02:19:43 <nhaines> Do we want to LP it or should we just do an IRC vote next meeting?
 02:20:08 <dax> pleia2: would LP be easy?
 02:20:09 <pleia2> lp is easy and open to more people, irc is hard and I'll be on a train during the next meeting
 02:20:15 <dax> I vote LP then
 02:20:31 <nhaines> Let's vote on how we should vote for the vote.
 02:20:38 <nhaines> Nah.  I think LP works.
 02:20:44 <pleia2> #action pleia2 to set up lp poll for leadership document amendment radification
 02:20:44 * darthrobot` pleia2 to set up lp poll for leadership document amendment radification
 02:21:09 <nhaines> I find that typo especially pleasing and fitting for a California LoCo vote.  :)
 02:21:28 <nhaines> pleia2: you'll be a California native yet!
 02:21:56 <pleia2> hahahah
 02:22:39 <pleia2> raaaad
 02:22:39 <nhaines> Okay, I think everything's all set for that, then.
 02:22:41 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:22:51 <nhaines> Any other business this week?
 02:22:58 * lyn||ian has none
 02:23:18 <pleia2> I don't think so
 02:23:45 <nhaines> Okay, I think that's it for this meeting then.
 02:23:56 <nhaines> Happy Mother's Day to any mothers and aunts and mentors out there!
 02:23:57 <pleia2> thanks for chairing \o/
 02:24:02 <nhaines> Our next meeting will be May 28th.
 02:24:25 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
