{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, July 15th, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 02:00:22 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:00:22 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Jul 16 02:00:22 2018 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:00:22 <darthrobot`> 
 02:00:22 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:00:44 <nhaines> Hello everyone, and welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for July 15th, 2018.
 02:00:54 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18July15
 02:00:54 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18July15 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:01:07 <nhaines> The agenda for tonight is empty, so this will be a short meeting.
 02:01:17 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming Events
 02:02:00 <nhaines> The Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase is underway!  You can submit your Creative Commons-licensed photo to be considered for one of the default wallpapers in Ubuntu 18.10!
 02:02:33 <nhaines> The contest runs until August 13th, and you can view the current submissions, or add your own, via Flickr here: https://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntu-fcs-1810/
 02:02:33 <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu 18.10 LTS Free Culture Showcase - Wallpapers | Flickr]
 02:03:23 <nhaines> Note that we're looking for not just amazing photographs, but also for illustrations.  If you know of local or online photography groups, please feel free to inform them as well.
 02:03:36 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:03:52 <nhaines> There are no LoCo announcements at this time.
 02:03:54 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:04:01 <nhaines> There is no agenda for this meeting.
 02:04:06 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:04:16 <nhaines> Is there any other business to discuss before we wrap things up?
 02:09:35 <nhaines> Okay, that wraps up tonight's meeting.  Our next meeting is July 29th at 7pm.
 02:09:38 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
