{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, January 8th, 2017, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events

1. Announcements
   a. Ubuntu California leadership election discussion

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Votes ===

* Draft a single leader adjustment to our leadership doc and put the amendment to the mailing list for discussion.
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Full Log ===

<pre>  03:00:08 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 03:00:08 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jan  9 03:00:08 2017 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 03:00:08 <darthrobot> 
 03:00:08 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 03:00:15 <nhaines> #chair lynorian pleia2
 03:00:15 <darthrobot> Current chairs: lynorian nhaines pleia2
 03:00:26 <dax> o/
 03:00:33 <lynorian> o/
 03:00:36 <pleia2> o/
 03:00:45 <nhaines> Hi everyone, and welcome to the January 8th meeting of the California Ubuntu Local Community Team!
 03:00:51 <nhaines> Happy new year to everyone, of course.  :)
 03:00:57 <pleia2> happy new year :)
 03:01:25 <nhaines> I hope everyone had a great holiday season and is currently making peace with their normal work schedule again.  :)
 03:01:33 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17January08
 03:01:33 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17January08 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 03:02:18 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 03:02:30 <nhaines> Are there any upcoming events happening in the next couple of weeks?
 03:03:20 <pleia2> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/events/236431693/
 03:03:20 <darthrobot> [403] Title: [Attention Required! | CloudFlare]
 03:03:29 <pleia2> heh, that's for an Ubuntu Hour in Pasadena on the 12th
 03:03:51 <nhaines> They have great Ubuntu Hours.  :)
 03:04:23 <nhaines> I'd go more if the traffic timing was better!
 03:05:04 <nhaines> Okay, that's one to keep an eye on.  And if anyone's sad that there are no Ubuntu Hours near them, it's never a wrong time to start a new one.  :)
 03:05:15 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 03:05:27 <nhaines> Before we go on to our agenda items does anyone have any announcements?
 03:06:22 <pleia2> nothing from me
 03:07:11 <nhaines> Alrighty.  We should be ramping up SCALE planning full-speed ahead.  Next meeting is Thursday, so I suspect there will be more to talk about next meeting.
 03:07:17 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 03:07:30 <lynorian> ok nhaines
 03:07:36 <nhaines> The topic of tonight's agenda is the Ubuntu California leadership elections.
 03:08:31 <nhaines> There was only one nomination offered during the nomination period, for three seats.
 03:08:43 <lynorian> oops I forgot
 03:09:38 <nhaines> We've had trouble finding enough people for an actual election for years.  Last year there were only 3 nominees.
 03:10:21 <nhaines> There are a couple of possible explanations, but I want to put two forward.
 03:11:00 <nhaines> 1. Running the nomination and voting period through December and the various winter holidays is a terribad time to run leadership elections.
 03:11:48 <nhaines> 2. There may not be enough LoCo activity to support a three-person leadership council--this was an experiment that was externally imposed on the LoCo some years ago.
 03:12:29 <nhaines> I'm open to other possibilities, too.  And we should try to decide how we're going to move forward for the short-term future.
 03:13:21 <pleia2> since this happens every year and we've done them earlier (november) I'm inclined to think it's mostly #2
 03:13:33 <pleia2> if you look at the number of active people in the LoCo hosting events, it's quite low
 03:14:08 <pleia2> and the folks who do the ones in SD and Pasadena aren't super involved with day to day running of things (though they do great work in running what they do)
 03:14:26 <lynorian> Yeah I think it might be #2
 03:14:38 <nhaines> I'm inclined to agree.
 03:14:46 <dax> my impression is #2 also, as someone who hasn't really been involved in the day-to-day but has been watching from afar
 03:15:07 <dax> (mailing list archive, irclogs, etc.)
 03:15:18 <nhaines> And a good LoCo exists to let people be super awesome at day-to-day running of things and not necessarily have to worry about the entire state.
 03:16:57 <nhaines> Before the leadership council, the single leadership position was there to sort of coordinate or moderate as necessary, and any member was free to step up if they wanted.  Run a meeting, run an event, etc.
 03:17:06 <nhaines> That hasn't changed with a leadership council.
 03:17:24 <lynorian> Yes nhaines
 03:17:40 <lynorian> what happens if someone ends up just suddenly having no time
 03:18:05 <pleia2> maybe we just need a vice president ;)
 03:18:08 <lynorian> that is what I would worry about with only one person
 03:18:32 <nhaines> Then per the Ubuntu Code of Conduct, they let others know, and others can step in temporarily or more permanently, as needed.
 03:18:45 <dax> add a process to call an election midyear due to inactivity?
 03:18:45 <dax> or lack-of-time-ity
 03:20:15 <nhaines> If there were a serious problem, the LoCo Council could assist.
 03:20:49 <nhaines> But since anyone can update the wiki and the LoCo contact handles requests for event supplies via Canonical, the impact would be pretty minimal.
 03:20:57 <pleia2> yeah, I'm inclined away from too many processes
 03:21:03 <pleia2> right
 03:22:10 <nhaines> Me too.  Processes can be added as needed.
 03:23:07 <pleia2> so, shall we draft a single leader adjustment to our leadership doc and put it to the list for discussion?
 03:23:31 <nhaines> I like that idea.
 03:23:42 <dax> i note that the election process could be adjusted to pick one to three leaders based on how many get above a "no confidence" line
 03:23:50 <dax> i don't care between 1-3 and 1 tho
 03:24:51 <nhaines> I propose that the current leadership team remain in place until we draft an adjustment to the leadership doc and timely elections are completed.
 03:25:11 <lynorian> nhaines, makes sense
 03:25:15 <pleia2> wfm
 03:25:52 <pleia2> dax: that could work too
 03:26:06 <nhaines> I'd also like to not make things too crazy before SCALE, but elections have never had an impact on that anyway.
 03:26:15 <pleia2> yeah
 03:26:29 <nhaines> Okay, let's make it official.
 03:26:56 <nhaines> #vote Draft a single leader adjustment to our leadership doc and put the amendment to the mailing list for discussion.
 03:26:56 <darthrobot> Please vote on: Draft a single leader adjustment to our leadership doc and put the amendment to the mailing list for discussion.
 03:26:56 <darthrobot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)
 03:27:10 <nhaines> +1
 03:27:10 <darthrobot> +1 received from nhaines
 03:27:31 <pleia2> +1
 03:27:31 <darthrobot> +1 received from pleia2
 03:28:52 <pleia2> lynorian?
 03:28:56 <pleia2> dax?
 03:29:05 <lynorian> +1
 03:29:05 <darthrobot> +1 received from lynorian
 03:29:10 <dax> +1
 03:29:10 <darthrobot> +1 received from dax
 03:31:35 <pleia2> I think that's everyone who is around :)
 03:31:57 <nhaines> #endvote
 03:31:57 <darthrobot> Voting ended on: Draft a single leader adjustment to our leadership doc and put the amendment to the mailing list for discussion.
 03:31:57 <darthrobot> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0
 03:31:57 <darthrobot> Motion carried
 03:32:23 <nhaines> Okay, so that's what we'll do.  We'll figure out a voting schedule once we have something that the LoCo likes.
 03:32:33 * pleia2 nods
 03:32:38 <nhaines> Any other thoughts on the situation?
 03:33:01 * lynorian does not have anything
 03:33:02 <pleia2> I will say I probably can't work on this much, just started a new job last week (yay, eek) and I'm off to linux.conf.au on wednesday for 10 days, busy busy
 03:33:19 <nhaines> Ooh, exciting!
 03:33:22 <dax> probably should start the whole process over (including nominations) once amendment is all sorted out
 03:33:31 <nhaines> dax: +1
 03:33:31 <pleia2> dax: nods
 03:33:49 <lynorian> +1
 03:35:01 <nhaines> Okay, there's no sense in *rushing* things, but we should have some substantial progress by next meeting.
 03:35:24 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 03:35:48 <pleia2> I know you said you'll have more news about scale later, but any word on whether we're doing an ubucon?
 03:36:25 <nhaines> Yes, Richard and I are working with Canonical and the SCALE team and we will be putting out a call for speakers pretty quickly.
 03:36:50 <nhaines> We're finishing up the conference format logistics.
 03:37:06 <pleia2> will it be thursday?
 03:37:52 <pleia2> the ubucon, not the cfp ;)
 03:38:08 <nhaines> Thursday and Friday, as before,  :)
 03:38:19 * pleia2 nods
 03:38:26 <pleia2> thanks for your work on it
 03:38:30 <lynorian> yes last time was good
 03:38:58 <nhaines> Thanks!  It was a bit more of a push-start this year but we've got some forward momentum now.  :)
 03:39:38 <nhaines> All right, it's a new year!  Snaps are the thing!  Unity 8s are the thing.  Phones are not the thing, but once snaps hit them, then they'll be the thing again!
 03:39:45 <pleia2> hehe
 03:40:01 <nhaines> So here's to the start of a fascinating new year for Ubuntu and for the LoCo.
 03:40:06 <pleia2> :)
 03:40:18 <nhaines> The next meeting is January 22nd, 2017.  Take care everyone.  :)
 03:40:22 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
