{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, March 6th, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. Add your event information here.
1. Announcements
   a. Add your announcement here.
1. Initial feedback/evaluation of <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/|Meetup.com]]</nowiki> group so far (pleia2)
   a. How it worked for Ubu``Con Summit and related SCALE14x events
   a. How it's working in general as a team resource
1. Add your agenda item here.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 03:00:15 <pleia2> #startmeeting
 03:00:15 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Mar  7 03:00:15 2016 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 03:00:15 <darthrobot> 
 03:00:15 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 03:00:20 <pleia2> #chair ianorlin nhaines
 03:00:20 <darthrobot> Current chairs: ianorlin nhaines pleia2
 03:00:48 <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16March06
 03:00:48 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16March06 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 03:00:51 <pleia2> that's the agenda for this evening
 03:00:57 <pleia2> #topic Upcoming events
 03:01:22 <pleia2> it appears the only thing we have coming up is the Ubuntu Hour in SF that I announced on list today
 03:01:28 <pleia2> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3328-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
 03:01:28 <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
 03:01:37 <nhaines> _o/
 03:01:53 <ianorlin> well also keep in mind next month is April
 03:02:06 <pleia2> ianorlin: already? x_x
 03:02:17 <pleia2> so hopefully we will have release parties soon
 03:02:39 <pleia2> I will chat with nhandler this week to see if Yelp can host again
 03:03:14 <pleia2> for reference, release day is April 21st
 03:03:28 <pleia2> I will actually be in town (only barely)
 03:03:37 <caballero> I am planning with the help of Phil to plan an ubuntu hour in the San Diego area...planning on perhaps the best time would around the release of 16.10
 03:03:54 <caballero> we are very excited....:-D
 03:04:00 <pleia2> caballero: great :)
 03:04:08 <pleia2> sometimes there are doughnuts at those ubuntu hours, I am jealous
 03:04:33 <nhaines> Release day is my bithday this year.  :D
 03:04:40 <pleia2> nhaines: woo, nice birthday
 03:04:51 <pleia2> #topic Announcements
 03:05:00 <pleia2> beyond events, anyone have any announcements?
 03:06:06 <caballero> Sorry...just noticed a typo...should've been 16.04
 03:06:15 <nhaines> caballero: sounds even better.  :)
 03:06:45 <nhaines> I think the next Ubuntu phone OTA is end of March, and that should have some really nice convergence features.
 03:07:01 <nhaines> Which means the bq MX10 tablet shouldn't be terribly far behind.  Will be exciting times.
 03:07:27 <pleia2> yeah, as they have been calling it the first convergence device
 03:08:09 <caballero> FYI: ubuntu user magazine is due 3/25/2016 for the USA
 03:08:54 <pleia2> how often is that released these days? quarterly?
 03:09:03 <caballero> every 4 months
 03:09:14 <pleia2> aha
 03:09:35 <pleia2> alright, we can move on from announcements
 03:09:38 <pleia2> #topic Initial feedback/evaluation of Meetup.com group so far
 03:09:45 <pleia2> #subtopic How it worked for UbuCon Summit and related SCALE14x events
 03:10:02 <pleia2> so I think this was sub-optimal
 03:10:09 <pleia2> everyone had to join the loco in order to rsvp :(
 03:10:17 <pleia2> that was lots of people from all over the world
 03:10:36 <pleia2> and meetup doesn't seem to allow people to join an event and not the group (unless I'm missing a setting)
 03:10:41 <nhaines> It isn't very tidy, administratively.
 03:11:09 <nhaines> I believe that's true.  Meetup is designed for groups to be topics of interests, not actual groups.
 03:11:25 <nhaines> At least, that's the focus.
 03:11:53 <pleia2> I did hear some grumbling about having to join for it, and some people just didn't bother (came to the events anyway)
 03:13:07 <ianorlin> yeah I don't really like meetup that way
 03:13:30 <pleia2> any other feedback from how it worked for these events?
 03:13:40 <caballero> I was getting anywhere form 4 to 7 invitations on a daily basis while Scale 14x
 03:14:03 <pleia2> caballero: for ubuntu california things, or meetup being spammy in general?
 03:14:10 <ianorlin> I think the turning in the everpad notes at unconfrence events did not work the best
 03:14:37 <nhaines> I thought it was interesting to see what other groups people belonged to who joined the Ubuntu California group.
 03:14:51 <pleia2> ianorlin: talking about meetup :)
 03:15:11 <nhaines> And it did seem like it gave UbuCon Summit some exposure.
 03:15:22 <ianorlin> yeah and then I think they might still be getting notificatoins about like say the new ubuntu hour
 03:15:26 <nhaines> I think this will be beneficial for future events.
 03:15:31 <ianorlin> which kind of does not help when you are that far away
 03:15:36 <pleia2> yeah, meetup does help with exposure (I'll get to that in the next subtopic)
 03:16:01 <pleia2> which seems we're kind of in anyway
 03:16:04 <pleia2> #subtopic How it's working in general as a team resource
 03:16:05 <caballero> both: in general it was for everything going on in Scale 14x..and ubuntu too like the party Mark through for the ubuntu community
 03:17:01 <pleia2> I got a complaint from a member in Pasadena about how the SF Ubuntu Hour was too far away http://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/events/228693398/
 03:17:01 <darthrobot> [403] Title: [Attention Required! | CloudFlare]
 03:17:10 <pleia2> heh, bot
 03:17:23 <pleia2> so meetup is also really not designed for states
 03:17:32 <ianorlin> pleia2: +1
 03:17:40 <pleia2> I am sure all you socal people are annoyed at my monthly SF events
 03:18:01 <nhaines> Doesn't bother me.  I'm quite adept at deleting Meetup emails now.  :)
 03:18:11 <pleia2> lol
 03:18:30 <pleia2> also, most of our members are from socal
 03:18:36 <pleia2> I think that's because the location is set as Los Angeles
 03:18:38 <nhaines> And one person did seem to be happy to know that there are Ubuntu Hours up there.  So that was kind of nice.
 03:18:42 <ianorlin> pleia2: less annoying than component mismatches from main that have reverse dependcies in main emails
 03:18:51 <pleia2> it's exciting when I see someone join the group who is bay area
 03:19:36 <pleia2> but we have seen a slight uptick in attendance of Ubuntu Hours here since posting on meetup too, so it is getting to *some* of the right people :)
 03:19:44 <nhaines> That's good news.  :)
 03:19:59 <nhaines> I wish we had more group events.  That would definitely make Meetup.com more useful.
 03:20:05 <pleia2> yeah
 03:20:07 <ianorlin> Yeah meetup tends to give sometimes events you can't go to
 03:20:13 <pleia2> need to make richard add pasadena events
 03:20:32 <ianorlin> or have someone that can add them once they are announced
 03:20:45 <pleia2> are they announced somewher?
 03:20:51 <ianorlin> I don't know
 03:20:58 <ianorlin> but yeah that would be helpful
 03:21:06 <caballero> meetup is very useful to spread the word....at least is the impression i get....
 03:21:28 <nhaines> pleia2: that's right, actually, I do need to do that.  Although I think they're announced on the SGVLUG Meetup group.
 03:21:36 <pleia2> nhaines: ah :)
 03:21:48 <pleia2> just have him Cc: our list!
 03:22:13 <pleia2> anyway
 03:22:24 <ianorlin> it spreads the word but sometimes to people that can't come because it is too long; can't commute
 03:22:46 <pleia2> I'm kind of meh on meetup, it has gotten 1-2 more people at our Ubuntu Hours, and it'll be interesting to see how/if it helps our release party
 03:22:52 <pleia2> but it's got a lot of annoying things
 03:23:22 <nhaines> That's about my feeling, too.  I do think that UbuCon Summit was a great way to jumpstart the group membership.
 03:23:37 <nhaines> So I think that will make the group much more useful than it otherwise would have been.
 03:23:42 * pleia2 nods
 03:23:45 <ianorlin> +1
 03:24:25 <pleia2> ok, any other thoughts?
 03:24:45 <pleia2> I didn't really expect an action item out of this, I'll keep crossposting events to meetup and loco.u.c
 03:25:05 <nhaines> I think it was good to look back and see how it's beginning to shape up.  Good timing on this.
 03:26:02 <pleia2> #topic Any other business
 03:26:13 <pleia2> anything else?
 03:26:40 <pleia2> I'll be in the wrong part of the planet again for our next meeting
 03:27:36 <pleia2> should keep an eye on the loco mailing list for when they start talking about release parties though
 03:27:51 <ianorlin> pleia2: +1
 03:28:08 <pleia2> someone asked in the locoteams channel for them to add the release party event to loco.u.c, but it looks like that hasn't been done yet
 03:28:09 <nhaines> Sounds good to me.
 03:28:09 <caballero> pleia2: as we get closer to our announcement for the ubuntu hour in SD I will emailing you...so expect emails from luis.r.caballero@cox.net
 03:28:22 <pleia2> caballero: ok :)
 03:30:16 <pleia2> alright, looks like we can wrap this up
 03:30:20 <pleia2> thanks for coming, everyone
 03:30:26 <nhaines> \o/
 03:30:32 <pleia2> #endmeeting</pre>
