{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, December 1st, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale12x]]</nowiki> planning

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[03:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Dec  2 03:00:18 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:00] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting?
[03:01] <grantbow> o/
[03:02] <pleia2> philipballew: you about?
[03:02] <philipballew> yeah pleia2
[03:02] <philipballew> thanks for the ping
[03:02] <pleia2> great
[03:02] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13December01
[03:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13December01 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:02] <pleia2> #topic Scale12x planning
[03:02] <pleia2> so this week I updated the wiki page
[03:02] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x
[03:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:03] <philipballew> nice!
[03:03] <pleia2> philipballew: should I put in the request for the conference pack and have it shipped to you or someone down there?
[03:03] <philipballew> pleia2, I am working on that part as we speak.
[03:03] <philipballew> have sent a few emails and will be getting all the stuff we can for the conf.
[03:04] <pleia2> ok
[03:04] <grantbow> great
[03:04] <pleia2> let me know if you need any team contact juju
[03:04] <pleia2> any other updates scale-wise?
[03:04] <philipballew> ubucon is filled, and we are working on speaker gifts now.
[03:06] <pleia2> cool
[03:06] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[03:07] <pleia2> anything else exciting going on? :)
[03:07] <philipballew> nothing in my life.
[03:07] <pleia2> hehe
[03:08] <pleia2> berkeley ubuntu hour coming up on the 8th, san francisco on the 11th
[03:08] <pleia2> #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/
[03:08] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu California | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[03:08] <pleia2> I'll probably see about doing debian dinner too
[03:10] <pleia2> anything else?
[03:11] <grantbow> happy holidays!
[03:12] <philipballew> san diego is open for the holidays if anyone wants to pay a visit ever!
[03:13] <pleia2> yay :)
[03:15] <pleia2> oh, I added an self-signed ssl certificate to our site
[03:15] <grantbow> nice, thanks
[03:15] <pleia2> logging in to wordpress is clear text in non-ssl, that's not great :)
[03:15] <pleia2> so anyone logging in, please use https:// (even though it warns you)
[03:16] <pleia2> otherwise using non-ssl is preferred for browsing and things
[03:16] <philipballew> alright
[03:18] <pleia2> ok, I guess we can wrap up then
[03:18] <pleia2> I'll send a note to the list re: leadership elections since it looks like we snoozed on that
[03:18] <pleia2> thanks for coming grantbow and philipballew!
[03:18] <philipballew> nice!
[03:18] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
