{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, April 10th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====
 1. Global Jam Wrap-Ups
 2. 11.04 Release Party Planning

{{{#!IRC
18:56 < jdeslip> ---------------- Begin Meeting ------------------
18:57 < jdeslip> We usually begin with announcements.  Does anyone have something to share that is relevant to the team?
18:58 < jdeslip> In case anyone is not aware Ubuntu 11.04 is scheduled to be released on the 28th of this month.
18:58 < grantbow> Agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11April10
18:58 < jdeslip> grantbow: thanks
18:58 < philipballew> how did the global jams play out?
18:58 < philipballew> thats the first item
18:58 < jdeslip> So, that is agenda item 1.
18:58 < grantbow> Open Week is coming up May 2nd. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
18:59 < jdeslip> excellent
18:59 < jdeslip> Any other announcements?
18:59 < grantbow> not that I can think of.
18:59 < grantbow> jono did a Global Jam in Walnut Creek on Friday.
19:00 < jdeslip> Can you summarize that grantbow?
19:00 < grantbow> pleia2 did a Global Jam on Sunday in Berkeley
19:00 < grantbow> I attended both.  I wish they could summarize but pleia2 is on vacation.
19:00 < jdeslip> I can summarize the second, but did not attend the first.
19:01 < grantbow> were there others?
19:01 < philipballew> i assume jono isnt here
19:01 -!- Irssi: #ubuntu-us-ca: Total of 31 nicks [1 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 30 normal]
19:01 < jdeslip> Well, at the second event, Sunday in Berkeley, we had 6 attendees total.
19:02 < grantbow> no other events are listed http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/events/history
19:02 < grantbow> Global Jam events at least
19:02 < jdeslip> pleia2 brought some documentation on xubuntu with instructions for testers.  I believe a couple of bugs were file
d against it.
19:03 < jdeslip> I personally spent my time testing Ubuntu and Unity - and filed a couple bugs.  
19:03 < philipballew> my email says there were only two
19:03 < grantbow> the folks in this channel for IRC were helpful at both events - thank you virtual attendees too!
19:04 < jdeslip> I think, in the future, we might be able to make the events even more succesful by coming up with a short list of
 focused tasks ahead of time.
19:05 < grantbow> sounds good
19:05 < jdeslip> pleia2 task list for xubuntu seemed like a good example
19:05 < grantbow> We talked about several bugs including some in Unity and road tested the future release.
19:05 < jdeslip> Any other feedback from anyone who attended one of the two events?
19:06 < grantbow> We had a new MOTU attend the Walnut Creek event.
19:06 < grantbow> We talked about UDS sponsorships which have now been announced. You know if you are going by now.
19:06 < grantbow> That's all I can recall right now.
19:07 < jdeslip> OK, so let's move on to agenda item 2.  Release party for 11.04.
19:07  * kevin6888296 sneaks in
19:07 < jdeslip> Since I missed the last meeting, I am a bit out of the loop (or not?) - are there any plans or locations planned 
yet?
19:08 < grantbow> jono often has something up his sleeve.  I'll email him.
19:08 < jdeslip> For the last few releases, we have met in SF either at the Thirsty bear or nearby
19:08 < philipballew> i dont recal  any being mantoned last meeting
19:08 < grantbow> nothing planned that I am aware of.
19:09 < jdeslip> Usually just an opportunity for people who live nearby to meet eachother person and have fun celebrating the rele
ase
19:09 < kevin6888296> are you doing anything in your neck philipballew ?
19:09 < jdeslip> Ok, I'll talk to pleia2 and see if she wants to host something in SF at Thirsty Bear or nearby again.  
19:10 < jdeslip> Ya, hopefully some of the SoCal folks can put something together.
19:10 < kevin6888296> it's just a matter of finding a venue, i'm starting to sync up with a hacker space in culver city
19:10 < kevin6888296> perhaps that might be an option
19:10 < grantbow> kevin*: cool!
19:10 < eps> I like the concept of "nearby." Thirsty Bear is so noisy it's difficult to converse.
19:10 < JamezQ> So, how about the NorCal guys? Up in the bay? What if someone is there?
19:11 < philipballew> nothing, i might email david as he possibly has something. i personaally have nothing though
19:11 < jdeslip> Cool.  Let us know how that goes by sending an email to the mailing list
19:11 < grantbow> eps: plan an event if you don't prefer the ones that get planned.
19:11 < grantbow> jdeslip: right
19:11 < eps> grantbow: I'm not challenging the event, just the venue
19:11 < kevin6888296> philipballew: ah
19:12 < jdeslip> JamezQ: We will likely have a party in the Bay area (probably SF) - I'll talk to pleia2 and write an email to the
 list. We should sync with jono if he is planning something
19:12 < kevin6888296> eps: finding a venue ain't easy, at least not in my experience.
19:12 < Eureka> wiki: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UbuntuHours edited
19:12 < jdeslip> eps: we'll keep your opinion in mind.  Do you have another suggestion for a place?
19:12 < grantbow> there is no limit to the number of events.
19:12 < philipballew> does the jam have to be on the actual release date or would the weekend work just as well?
19:13 < kevin6888296> well, i suppose an event with just 1 person still counts as an event
19:13 < jdeslip> philipballew: the weekend is fine.  Usually we do it within a week or so of release.  But, there is no reason it 
has to be on the release date.
19:13 < eps> jdeslip: not off the top of my head. Thirsty Bear would work if we had enough attendees to reserve our own area; we'r
e just too small at the moment.
19:13 < grantbow> no hard limits, just around that time.
19:14 < philipballew> excellent
19:14 < grantbow> as the time draws closer people will get more details nailed down as usual.
19:15 < grantbow> 18 days or so left
19:15 < kevin6888296> philipballew: it probably depends on who is attending
19:15 < jdeslip> OK.  So if philipballew, kevin6888296 want to se something up as well as anyone else, please send an email to the
 list with planned location and time so others in the area know
19:16 < jdeslip> Anything from a get-together to an advocacy event would be great.
19:17 < grantbow> sounds good
19:17 < grantbow> installfests are possible too if you are quick with downloads but it's not required
19:17 < philipballew> is doing one just finding a place to have it and a time?
19:17 < grantbow> yes
19:17 < jdeslip> philipballew: that is probably the hardest part.  
19:18 < grantbow> and telling people about it
19:18 < jdeslip> You can basically just make it a get-together for ubuntu users / team-members in the area.  If you want you can a
lso burn some discs, make a sign and do a little advocacy.
19:19 < jdeslip> Can use the teams cd-sleeve design
19:19 < philipballew> for sure. well i can make the sing, find a place. but would people from greater so cal come is the real ques
tion
19:20 < grantbow> ask around
19:20 < jdeslip> I am guessing you would get quite a few.  You can judge by response to the mailing list.
19:20 < eps> Publicity helps. High gasoline prices don't.
19:20 < jdeslip> true story
19:20 < philipballew> bikes ftw!
19:21 < philipballew> i can shoot a invitation out then find a place by the number of people that respond
19:22 < jdeslip> That would be a good plan I think
19:22 < jdeslip> Ok does anyone have something they would like to add to the meeting agenda?  Announcements, proposals etc...?
19:22 < akk> A lot of people won't respond much ahead of time, though.
19:22 < grantbow> Here are a couple URLs I should have mentioned during the global jam wrap-up section. http://princessleia.com/jo
urnal/?p=4196  Jono didn't write much about Walnut Creek specifically but he has a few global jam entries.  http://www.jonobacon.o
rg/
19:23 < aaditya> How about an Ubuntu California biking group?
19:23 < grantbow> the floor is open
19:23 < jdeslip> If you can find other team-members who like biking than why not? ;)
19:23 < philipballew> yes. we ride bikes while holding our laptops!!!
19:24 < aaditya> Would people enjoy going out in the greens and burn some calories than sitting in a coffee shop and consuming mor
e?
19:24 < aaditya> I won't be surprised to see a laptop mounted on a bike.
19:24 < aaditya> There's mounts for smartphones out there.
19:24 < JamezQ> Heh, I don't know if that is legal.
19:24 < aaditya> Everything's legal when you're on a bike ;)
19:24 < aaditya> well almost.
19:24 < jdeslip> JamezQ: was about to say that
19:25 < akk> There's a bill in the works to ban non-handsfree phones (and presumably texting) on bikes, I've read.
19:25 < aaditya> Do people actually do that? o.O
19:25 < philipballew> but the cheeper pay as you go phones rule!
19:25 < grantbow> because that's the most important issue in the state of course...
19:25  * akk would be interested if there was a south bay group going biking
19:25 < grantbow> anything else Ubuntu related?
19:25 < eps> It looks like the next SF Ubuntu Hour will be one week later than customary. http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-cali
fornia/events
19:26 < jdeslip> eps: yes, good find.
19:26 < aaditya> alright akk, that makes two of us.
19:26 < akk> aaditya: Oh yeah, I've seen lots of people riding with 1 or 0 hands while using the other(s) to hold a phone to their
 ear.
19:26 < grantbow> eps: thanks for the reminder
19:26 < jdeslip> OK: Anything else before we close the meeting?
19:27 < grantbow> Ubuntu Hours are coming up - keep an eye on http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/events and/or ...
19:27 < grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UbuntuHours
19:27 < jdeslip> -------------- Meeting Ends ---------------------
}}}
