{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, October 6th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. 13.10 release events

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Oct  7 02:00:06 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting?
[02:00]  * eps waves
[02:00] <pleia2> welcome eps
[02:01] <eps> It's going to be a short meeting if it's just us. ;-)
[02:01] <pleia2> :)
[02:01] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13October06
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13October06 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <pleia2> short agenda!
[02:01] <pleia2> #topic 13.10 release events
[02:02] <pleia2> we'll have one in SF :) http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2583-san-francisco-saucy-salamander-release-party/
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [San Francisco Saucy Salamander Release Party | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:02] <pleia2> thanks to eps for doing the legwork to scout out the location
[02:03] <pleia2> doing it at panera bread near the caltrain station and a couple muni metro stops, so it'll be easy to get to
[02:03] <eps> Unfortunately, I won't  be there due to a scheduling conflict. ("Does that scheduling conflict involve a new episode of _The Vampire Diaries_?" "Maaaaybe.")
[02:04] <pleia2> I thought we aren't supposed to admit that we watch that?
[02:04] <pleia2> :)
[02:04]  * eps smiles
[02:04] <pleia2> I think that's it for release stuff
[02:05] <pleia2> I will say that next release I hope to do something more fancy, perhaps an event at a local tech company with pizza and demos of the new LTS
[02:05] <pleia2> this year has just gotten away from me a bit, was hard to plan much :)
[02:05] <eps> Ot
[02:05] <eps> It's hard to make plans when you don't know what "T" stands for.
[02:06] <pleia2> T sure is late
[02:06] <pleia2> #topic any other business
[02:06] <eps> T is for Tardy
[02:06] <eps> Um, yeah. Registration is open for SCALE.
[02:07] <eps> In the past there have been discount codes for UBUCON attendees, so I wouldn't rush out and drop $60 on a Full Access Pass.
[02:08] <pleia2> oh, I submitted a talk
[02:08] <pleia2> so hopefully I'll be wandering down that way this year again too
[02:08] <pleia2> other upcoming - having an Ubuntu Hour + Debian Dinner this wednesday: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2556-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
[02:08] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:09] <eps> Also in SF: Obligatory plug for BALUG Oct. 15.
[02:10] <pleia2> thanks :)
[02:10] <pleia2> that's all confirmed, need to polish up my talk a little bit
[02:11] <eps> http://www.balug.org/#Meetings-upcoming
[02:11] <darthrobot> Title: [Bay Area Linux Users Group (BALUG)]
[02:11] <pleia2> well, I think that might be it for tonight
[02:12] <pleia2> thanks for coming, eps!
[02:12] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
