{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, August 6th, 2017, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 
 02:01:38 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:01:38 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Aug  7 02:01:38 2017 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:01:38 <darthrobot> 
 02:01:38 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:02:01 <nhaines> Good evening, everyone!  It's time for the Ubuntu California LoCo meeting for August 6th, 2017.
 02:02:11 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17August06
 02:02:11 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17August06 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:02:22 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is empty.
 02:02:27 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:02:37 <nhaines> Are there any upcoming Ubuntu events in California?
 02:04:33 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:04:46 <nhaines> Are there any Ubuntu-related announcements this week?
 02:08:16 <nhaines> Well, Ubuntu 17.10 is progressing and they probably still need testers.  Should be on track for both an adapted and a "stock" GNOME experience in October.
 02:08:23 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:08:28 <nhaines> There are no agenda items for this meeting.
 02:08:33 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:08:47 <nhaines> Is there any other business before we adjourn?
 02:10:31 <nhaines> Okay then.  Our next meeting will be on August 20th.  Enjoy your summer and hope to see you there!  :)
 02:10:34 <nhaines> #endmeeting
</pre>
