{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, April 20th, 2008, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
1. CSU Long Beach InstallFest
  a. It's on Wednesday!
  a. Anyone who hasn't already should let Flannel know they're going so he can organize parking permits.
  a. Flyer: http://art110.wikispaces.com/Installfest
  a. nhaines is going to be presenting. He'll be a little late, but should be there before the movie's over, so it's okay. Flannel is going too, and will also be late.
1. Hardy flavor changes
  a. Mythbuntu and Ubuntu Studio are now official flavors of Ubuntu.  There are mythbuntu-desktop and ubuntustudio-desktop packages in universe.
  a. Edubuntu is now an addon to existing K/X/Ubuntu installations, not a separate installer. There are metapackages for different age groups.
   i. LTSP is now an option in the normal alternate installer, so it's not an Edubuntu-only thing now.
  a. Kubuntu 8.04
   i. ''Not'' an LTS (unlike Ubuntu and Xubuntu 8.04).
   i. KDE4 "remix" for testing Hardy. The official release uses KDE3, though.
   i. The upgrade path for Kubuntu 8.04 is LTS-like (i.e., you can upgrade to it from an older LTS release), even though it isn't an LTS.
   i. Reason for lack of LTS is the KDE3 to KDE4 change: KDE4 isn't ready for LTS, and the Kubuntu team don't want to support KDE3 for the LTS time period.
1. Hardy party
  a. No offers for locations yet, except CSULB. A couple of LUG meetups were mentioned on the mailing list.
  a. Consider making it more pary-oriented than installfest-oriented, considering the installfest at CSULB is close to it.
  a. Discussion moved to the mailing list.
1. Team Reports
  a. Monthly report on the wiki containing a summary of what we've done that month
  a. We're just contributing to the US teams report, so we don't have to make one up every month.
  a. Keeping up with these will help us keep track of stuff on the wiki anyway, which is nice.
1. Lug Radio Live Recap
  a. Photos: http://www.flickr.com/photos/nathanhaines/sets/72157604566288815/
  a. Very laid back. Lots of interest on Sunday. Everyone got an Ubuntu 7.10 Desktop CD in their swag bag. 
  a. We gave out 6 Ubuntu 8.04 Beta CDs, 1 Kubuntu CD plus several official ones donated by the KDE booth, 5 Edubuntu CDs, and 3 Xubuntu CDs. We also received 3 Ubuntu 7.10 Desktop CDs from people who didn't need theirs, 16 Dapper CDs, and the KDE booth donated 61 Kubuntu 7.10 Desktop CDs.
  a. nhaines gave a 5 minute presentation during the "Gong-A-Thon": http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1hZ2kscPlug
  a. Jorge Castro, the External Projects Manager for Canonical, came by and thought the booth was good. Sun's Open Solaris demo was running Ubuntu.
  a. Someone was unhappy with the unofficial, non-pressed CDs: "If you don't start to step up and perform, other people will."

==== Original Agenda ====
# CSU-Long Beach Installfest - April 23, 6pm, University Theater
# Information on flavor changes for Hardy
# Hardy Installfest/Party planning
# Teams monthly report participation
# LugRadio Live post-mortem

==== Log ====
<pre>
19:09 < Flannel> Thanks everyone for coming, in case some of you have been living under a rock for a while, Hardy's release is this Thursday.
19:11 < Flannel> Our agenda so far is: 1: CSULB stuff, 2: a heads-up on some changes in Hardy, 3: Hardy party planning, 4: Team Monthly Report Participation, 5: LRL Recap
19:12 < Flannel> So, before I hand it off to Glenn^Z, I'd like to remind everyone who's planning on coming on Wednesday, that they need to let me know so we can get you free parking.
19:12 < Flannel> With that, Glenn^Z, take it away.
19:12 < Glenn^Z> Well.... I guess we're ready!
19:12 < Glenn^Z> the poster is at
19:12 < Glenn^Z> http://art110.wikispaces.com/Installfest
19:13 < Glenn^Z> we'll have Stage / Tables / Chairs / Power Strips
19:13 < Glenn^Z> bodies!
19:13 < nhaines> Ooh, I totally didn't put up any of the photos I took, gah.
19:13 < Glenn^Z> gah!
19:13 < Glenn^Z> (who are U - michael jackson! :P
19:14 < Glenn^Z> One thing that I think is a nice feature to point up is how much EASIER it is to install whatever software U want
19:14 < Glenn^Z> although tidbits like Codecs & Video drivers can be a bit futsy
19:15 < Glenn^Z> Anyway... have y'all figured out WHO is doing our "demo"?
19:15 < sn9> and a bit hardy
19:16 < Glenn^Z> So I guess you'll get me a parking list 2 morro... and we'll see you Wed
19:16 < nhaines> I intend to do the demo, but I will be driving in from Chatsworth.
19:16 < Flannel> So, we're lookingfor some more peope to be there,
19:16 < Glenn^Z> we're also having a pillow fight at 4p Wed if anybody wants to come early :)
19:16 < nhaines> So I am relieved to hear that Revolution OS is 84 minutes, needless to say.  I'll leave around 4:30 or so.
19:16 < Flannel> but due to a work change with nhaines, he's looking to be a little late, and I've always known I was going to be arriving late (especially depending on traffic)
19:16 < Glenn^Z> That should work!
19:17 < Glenn^Z> I think the timing will work out
19:18 < nhaines> That's what I always count on.  :)
19:18 < Glenn^Z> you can plug your laptop in at the end of the film
19:18 < Flannel> Hopefully it'll be more than me and nhaines, but being on a Wednesday, you never know.
19:18 < Glenn^Z> Have your run your laptop with a data projector?
19:19 < nhaines> Not a projector, but with several external monitors.
19:19 < Glenn^Z> Sounds good... our projector is 1024 x 768
19:19 < Glenn^Z> and stereo mini for audio
19:20 < Glenn^Z> VGA connector
19:20 < nhaines> Yup, I have everything (but may forget an audio cable, heh).
19:20 < nhaines> With the new display support in 8.04, projector should be no sweat.
19:20 < Glenn^Z> For the podium unit our cable bundle should have all the cabling you need...
19:20 < Glenn^Z> ah! display is better?
19:21 < sn9> unless you have an intel video chipset -- xrandr is still ymmv
19:21 < nhaines> Glenn^Z: Yes, it autodetects everything much better.
19:22 < Glenn^Z> nice!
19:22 < nhaines> The installfest will be held here: http://www.flickr.com/photos/nathanhaines/sets/72157604650258213/
19:22 < Flannel> Anyone else have questions regarding it?  Once we get the list of names for parking, we'll get instructions on that too.
19:22 < nhaines> Nice big stage, good connections for the demo laptop, and lots of space.
19:22 < Glenn^Z> Yeah, nathan has the map from Th to the radio station... and I've got a google map to the theater
19:23 < sn9> OT: how apropos -- dr. demento is playing a song called "eula dancing"
19:24 < Flannel> Alright, so moving on to our next item:  Hardy changes to flavor stuffs.
19:25 < Glenn^Z> http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?hl=en&gl=us&ie=UTF8&oe=UTF8&msa=0&msid=114386187063259033023.000001133afcc9a7007a1
19:25 < Flannel> Oh, right, we'll send an email to the list with the maps and stuff, that nhaines is hoarding
19:25 < Glenn^Z> There's the map - to CSULB UT-108
19:25 < Glenn^Z> OK - see you guys WEd -- THANK YOU!!!
19:25 < AlgorithmicContr> Yay!
19:25 < Flannel> Glenn^Z: any word on the radio recording?
19:25 < Glenn^Z> I'll try to grab that by Wed if possible
19:25 < nhaines> Glenn^Z: It'll be a lot of fun.
19:26 < Flannel> Anything else?
19:26 < Glenn^Z> I"ll try to have the radio show recording by WEd if I can
19:26 < Flannel> Glenn^Z: sounds good
19:27 < Flannel> So, now we're moving on:  Next on the agenda: Hardy flavor changes
19:27  * nhaines will take boysenberry.
19:27 < Flannel> Just an update, since I know not everyone is on -announce, figured, especially with Wednesday, we need to keep up.
19:28  * sn9 changes the flavor of boysenberry to cherry
19:28 < Flannel> Mythbuntu and Ubuntu Studio are now official flavors of Ubuntu.  There are mythbuntu-desktop and ubuntustudio-desktop packages in universe
19:28 < nhaines> Brilliant.
19:28 < Flannel> Its a great thing, yeah.
19:28 < sn9> what about edubuntu?
19:29 < Flannel> And then the other change is edubuntu is no longer a standalone thing
19:29 < Flannel> Edubuntu is now an add on, "Ubuntu Education Edition"
19:29 < Flannel> basically, you install Ubuntu (or Kubuntu, although I'm not sure if thats fully functional yet), then you pop in your Edu* CD and add software
19:30 < Flannel> theres a few metapackages for a few different age groups, and then the full blown thing as well
19:30 < nhaines> The Edubuntu branding has been kept, but the seperate release and infrastructure has not.
19:30 < sn9> kinda like how Ubuntu Satanic Edition is an add-on?
19:30 < Flannel> sn9: Not quite, since this brings in more than just artwork
19:30 < nhaines> The differing metapackages for age groups were introduced in 6.10 or 7.04 I believe, so nothing's really changed except there's no dedicated installer.
19:31 < Flannel> Along with this is the LTSP thing, which has been moved to the main ubuntu installer (well, Alternate CD) instead of solely edubuntu
19:31 < sn9> actually, the netinstaller will install an "edubuntu" hardy desktop just fine, with kde3 and/or gnome
19:31 < Flannel> So, now theres more flexibility for all this, and it allows the Edubuntu people to concentrate more on the special stuff, than packaging the normal stuffs
19:32 < Flannel> I think thats everything I had, those three things were the main stuff.  Oh, I assume everyone knows, but...
19:32 < nhaines> And it also allows everyone to benefit from LTSP with no necessary changes.
19:32 < sn9> that brings up the fact that there are now two different kubuntu flavors
19:32 < Flannel> Kubuntu is not an LTS, and you can have both 3 and 4 as stuff
19:33 < nhaines> The official release has KDE 3, but KDE 4 is also available for testing and other fun.
19:33 < Flannel> KDE4 I believe is being referened as the 'remix'
19:33 < sn9> oh? xubuntu is lts, but kubuntu isn't?
19:33 < nhaines> Correct.
19:34 < Flannel> Kubuntu can still be upgraded from Dapper though, it just wont have the long lifespan
19:34 < nhaines> KDE3 won't be supported by the KDE project, and KDE4 isn't ready to go.  So Kubuntu will rejoin LTS status at the next LTS release.
19:35 < Flannel> I... think that's everything.  Anyone else think of anything that we've missed?
19:35 < nhaines> That's all I can think of.
19:36 < Flannel> Alright, so, next item: Hardy Party planning.  I still haven't gotten any offers for locations, except CSULB.  So, if you know of a place, be sure to speak up.
19:36 < Flannel> If you're paying attention to the ML, there are some other ones going on in the next few weeks, up in northern California
19:36 < nhaines> It seems that most LoCos and other groups are planning events that are more about eating than installing.
19:36 < nhaines> We might want to consider this.
19:36 < Flannel> Yeah, a lot of times its just a party thing.
19:37 < Flannel> And we could do that, and then have a mid-summer installfest
19:37 < sn9> eat windows!
19:37 < Flannel> A lot of groups just get together at a pub or whatnot and ED&BM
19:37 < nhaines> That might be the better thing after such a close installfest.
19:38 < Flannel> So, that is a possibility, if we'd prefer to do that instead, and push a Hardy installer back.
19:38 < nhaines> Plus, 8.04.1 comes out in a month...
19:38 < Flannel> that's tentative though, depends on what major bugs/installer bugs get found post release.
19:38 < sn9> 8.04.1??
19:38 < nhaines> Flannel: Yeah, but it happened for 6.06.
19:39 < sn9> i thought that was a one-time thing for dapper, due to the extra two-month delay
19:39 < Flannel> sn9: Yeah, a point release, Just like dapper 6.06.1 and .2, any bugs they find that affect the installer greatly or any other major show stoppers, they roll up into a fix-it release after the fact
19:39 < nhaines> No, that was the version renumbering.
19:39 < nhaines> actually, it may be a 3 month delay now that I recall a recent sabdfl post.  And then a new one every 6 months.
19:39 < nhaines> They intend to add new hardware drivers as well.
19:40 < Flannel> in dapper, if I remember, it was the installer log including the password and being world readable.
19:40 < nhaines> Minor triffling bugs like that.
19:40 < Flannel> Really its designed for bugs that affect installation, and the side-effect is that the ISO has updated packages for everything
19:42 < Flannel> So, getting back on topic, we need to decide what we do want to do for Hardy, over the next few weeks.  If it is just a food/social thing, we should hop to it, so we can do it sometime next weekend, or maybe a week later after we've gotten a chance to play with it.  But we'll move this to the ML.
19:42 < sn9> speaking of the ml...
19:43 < sn9> (gmane)
19:44 < Flannel> what about it?
19:45 < sn9> it got added, but the history wasn't pre-imported
19:45 < nhaines> No, that's done manually by the site admin.
19:46 < Flannel> yeah, its a manual thing, it'll happen.
19:46 < sn9> yes, but if that's not done ahead of time, it can take up to six months (per the faq)
19:46 < Yasumoto> sorry I'm late, heya guys
19:46 < Flannel> Howdy Yasumoto
19:46 < nhaines> Heya, Yasumoto!
19:46 < Yasumoto> yay
19:47 < Flannel> sn9: If that's the case, looks like we don't have a whole lot of choice besides waiting up to six months then, but I don't think it'll take that long.
19:48 < Flannel> but, I don't think it'll take that long, and I don't remember reading about a six months thing.  It'll work itself out though.
19:48 < Yasumoto> Flannel: I'm getting people together to have an "Open Source Awareness" day at Chapman soon
19:48 < Flannel> Yasumoto: sounds good
19:48 < Yasumoto> prolly at the beginning of May
19:49 < Yasumoto> things'll go much better this time than before x_x
19:49 < Yasumoto> it won't be specifically Ubuntu, but I'll be sure to tie in the release and stuff
19:49 < Flannel> Yasumoto: sounds good, we can talk about specifics after the meeting then, see if thats a good candidate for Hardy
19:49 < nhaines> Yeah, that might be nice.
19:50 < Yasumoto> I kinda want to keep this one more informal, because I don't think there'll be much turnout
19:50 < Flannel> Yasumoto: Alright, sounds good
19:50 < Yasumoto> (sorry to hi-jack the meeting, btw)
19:50 < Flannel> Yasumoto: no worries
19:50 < Flannel> Moving on though, next topic is: Team Reports
19:51 < Flannel> The Team reports are a way for the entire community to, at a glance, know whats going on with a Team.
19:52 < Flannel> This helps on a number of levels, resource planning (so they'll understand if we need more swag for instance), just general awareness, and also will help when it comes time to become an approved LoCo
19:52 < Flannel> Basically, the team reports are just a monthly wiki page containing a summary of what we've done that month
19:52 < nhaines> And the March report is due on Tuesday.
19:53 < Yasumoto> Flannel: kinda like the US Teams report, right?
19:53 < Flannel> Yasumoto: Exactly like it
19:53 < Flannel> What we do, is set up a section of our wiki as a scratch pad, and then once the due date comes, copy it over
19:53 < Yasumoto> Flannel: cool
19:54 < Flannel> So its not a one time big job sort of thing each month, just something we work on as time goes by
19:54 < Flannel> and it actually will make it so we don't have to keep track of stuff on our own wiki separately either, since it'll serve that purpose for us
19:55 < Flannel> Or, the scratch areas will, that is.
19:55 < Flannel> Since we're not really an always-active team, we're just contributing to the greater US teams report
19:56 < Flannel> So, we don't have to report that we're not doing anything for whatever month
19:56 < Yasumoto> oh, so we'll just add it in to the US Teams section?
19:56 < nhaines> Basically.
19:56 < nhaines> Okay, so I'll make sure to do a writeup for LRL.
19:57 < Flannel> nhaines: thats for April though, not march
19:57 < nhaines> And we'll commit to keeping the reports up as we go along.  They're fairly new.
19:57 < nhaines> Yes, the LRL writeup isn't due until May 22th, everybody take note!  :P
19:57 < Flannel> Speaking of... our next  topic...
19:57 < Flannel> Oh, wait.
19:58 < Flannel> Anyone have more questions regarding Team Reports?
19:58 < Flannel> I'm sure we'll find some as we go along, but conceptually?
19:58 < Flannel> Alright.  so, moving on (again):
19:58 < Flannel> Lug Radio Live Recap (LR)^2!
19:59 < Yasumoto> *da bum pshhhh*
19:59 < Yasumoto> :)
19:59 < nhaines> Okay, so LugRadio Live USA 2008 was a special show put on by the presenters of LugRadio.
20:00 < Flannel> (who are from the UK)
20:00 < nhaines> Which is a biweekly podcast.  It was a very laid-back, social type of event and they held it here in the US for the first time.
20:00 < nhaines> Jono personally requested that we host a booth there.
20:01 < nhaines> So we did.  From behind the booth, the event looked like this: http://www.flickr.com/photos/nathanhaines/sets/72157604566288815/
20:01 < nhaines> Sunday there was a lot of interest.
20:01 < nhaines> Every attendee received an Ubuntu 7.10 Desktop CD in his swag bag.
20:01 < nhaines> Nevertheless, I gave out 11 burned CDs as well.
20:02 < sn9> one could not see the stage from the booth
20:02 < nhaines> I gave out 6 Ubuntu 8.04 Beta CDs, 1 Kubuntu CD plus several official ones donated by the KDE booth, 5 Edubuntu CDs, and 3 Xubuntu CDs.
20:03 < Flannel> Plus the CD in everyones bag ;)
20:03 < nhaines> We also received 3 Ubuntu 7.10 Desktop CDs from people who didn't need theirs, 16 Dapper CDs, and the KDE booth donated 61 Kubuntu 7.10 Desktop CDs.
20:04 < nhaines> KDE booth also gave us their cardboard CD stands, so we have three official CD stands from Canoical which are awesome.
20:04 < nhaines> We received an offer from Prentice Hall, who will donate Official Ubuntu Books for any large community event in the style of LRL that we put on.
20:05 < nhaines> Jono convinced me to give a 5 minute lightning speech during the Gong-A-Thong, which drove more traffic to our booth on Sunday. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1hZ2kscPlug
20:06 < nhaines> Oh, and Jorge Castro, the External Projects Manager for Canonical (he works for Jono) came by the booth and approved.  So we got a little recognition here and there.
20:06 < nhaines> One person (the name escapes me) came by and criticised us for not having official pressed CDs and derided the burned ones with the sleeves and labels.
20:07 < nhaines> The quote was "If you don't start to step up and perform, other people will."
20:08 < nhaines> Other than that, response was positive.  Almost everyone there knew of and used Ubuntu.  Even Sun's Open Solaris demo was running Ubuntu.
20:08 < nhaines> That's all I can think of.  Questions?
20:09 < Flannel> Looks like a no.
20:10 < Flannel> So, that about wraps it up, unless anyone has anything else?
20:10 < sn9> what? sure, people had questions!
20:10 < sn9> there were even people asking about ubuntu who had never tried linux before
20:11 < nhaines> Flannel meant questions here in the meeting.
20:11 < sn9> oh
20:11 < Flannel> Since, otherwise, I think we're done.
20:11 < Flannel> Or at least, to my knowledge.
20:11 < sn9> is a next meeting scheduled?
20:12 < Flannel> sn9: every two weeks. So... what is that, May 4?
20:12 < nhaines> Yes, in two weeks.  May 4th, 2008.
20:12 < Flannel> Thank you all for coming, keep your eyes peeled to the ML for info for Wednesday, discussion on Hardy, and a link for our radio interview.
20:13 < nhaines> Thanks, Flannel.  :)
20:13 < Flannel> Also, anyone whos planning (or maybe sort of could be planning) on coming, get me your name, so we can get you Free parking.
20:13 < Flannel> That is, for the CSULB thing.
</pre>
