{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, June 2nd, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. None

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:10] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:10] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jun  3 02:10:32 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:10] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:10] <sf_ub> any problems doing the upgrade from 10.04 LTS?
[02:10] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting? :)
[02:10] <philipballew> sf_ub, just wait a few minutes
[02:10]  * philipballew is
[02:11] <akk> o/
[02:11] <eps> hi
[02:11] <pleia2> we don't actually have anything on the agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13June02
[02:11] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13June02 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:11] <pleia2> but Markdude let me know earlier that he's planning a geeknic in a couple weeks
[02:11] <pleia2> #link http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Geeknic_Fedora_Pi_Release_Party
[02:11] <darthrobot> Title: [Geeknic Fedora Pi Release Party - FedoraProject]
[02:12] <pleia2> in spite of the name, he assures me that Ubuntu folks are welcome :)
[02:12] <philipballew> looks good
[02:12] <Markdude> http://geeknic.org/?p=175
[02:12] <pleia2> looking at our events page, the only thing scheduled otherwise is the SF Ubuntu Hour http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/events/
[02:12] <darthrobot> Title: [geeknic.org » Geeknic Fedora Pi Release Party – Los Gatos]
[02:12] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu California Events List | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:13] <pleia2> Markdude: great! want to announce on list? (and say Ubuntu folks are welcome :))
[02:13] <Markdude> It still has wiki foramtting to be fixed later
[02:13] <eps> Whatever happened to Walnut Creek?
[02:13] <Markdude> Of course
[02:13] <Markdude> eps
[02:13] <pleia2> eps: too hot
[02:13] <Markdude> 100+ degrees
[02:13] <Markdude> Went to East Bay Geek BBQ in Concaord yesterday
[02:13] <pleia2> yowch
[02:13] <Markdude> it was awesome but 100+
[02:13] <eps> Funny, I didn't hear anything about it.
[02:14] <Markdude> Its a meetup group
[02:14] <GNUdru_> 100+ in SJ as well
[02:14] <Markdude> I had not been to their event before
[02:14] <Markdude> Well- Vasona lake Park has water
[02:14] <pleia2> so many events, so few consolidated geek calendars :)
[02:14] <Markdude> Well they were gamers
[02:15] <pleia2> ah
[02:15] <Markdude> game devs
[02:15] <philipballew> its 103 in Auburn right now
[02:15] <Markdude> Quite a bit of Pokemon Dubstep
[02:15] <Markdude> And retro gaming
[02:15] <Markdude> Magic cards- cards against humanity
[02:15] <pleia2> back to meeting topics, anyone else have any upcoming events to talk about?
[02:16] <Markdude> I have a raspberry Pi weekend the same time as geeknic
[02:17] <Markdude> Some people are using Fedora there- Raspbian can be used on the Friday part
[02:17] <Markdude> And maybe the other if there is fail ;)
[02:18] <akk> I think there's Ubuntu for the RPi too, but I confess I haven't tried it myself.
[02:18] <Markdude> https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/BAMF_Pi_Fun
[02:18] <darthrobot> Title: [BAMF Pi Fun - FedoraProject]
[02:18] <pleia2> Markdude: I assume that's fedora-focused as well?
[02:18] <sf_ub> any considerations for upgrading from 10.04 LTS to 12.04.2 LTS (novice user)
[02:18] <Markdude> The saturday is
[02:18] <Markdude> The Friday is hacking on Pi
[02:18] <Markdude> With whatever tools you want to
[02:18] <Markdude> Rasbian
[02:18] <pleia2> sf_ub: can you hold on a couple minutes? (you happened to join during our weekly team meeting :))
[02:19] <Markdude> BAMF is not really hungup on folks OS
[02:19] <pleia2> cool :)
[02:19]  * Markdude shuts up now 
[02:19] <Markdude> :)
[02:19] <pleia2> anyone else have events worth noting in the next couple of weeks?
[02:19] <Markdude> But yes the Fri Pi Day is ANY OS
[02:19] <pleia2> I'm planning on tacking a Debian Dinner on to the end of the SF Ubuntu Hour
[02:20] <Markdude> Space Linux ftw!
[02:22] <pleia2> alright, anyone else have anything? :)
[02:24] <pleia2> alright, I guess that's it then, thanks everyone
[02:24] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
