{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, December 16th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Add your item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:10] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:10] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Dec 17 03:10:27 2012 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:10] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:10] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting? :)
[03:10] <grantbow> o/
[03:10] <akk> o/
[03:11] <pleia2> #chair pleia2 grantbow philipballew
[03:11] <darthrobot> Warning: Nick not in channel: philipballew
[03:11] <darthrobot> Current chairs: grantbow philipballew pleia2
[03:11] <pleia2> (in case airport internets go all wrong)
[03:11] <pleia2> alright, so we don't have anything on the agenda
[03:11] <pleia2> hey philipballew!
[03:11] <akk> shh, now we have to stop talking about him!
[03:11] <pleia2> just started (my flight is delayed, in the airport)
[03:12] <pleia2> #topic Announcements, news, any topics
[03:12] <pleia2> so anyone with anything?
[03:12] <grantbow> nine days left to submit shirt designs. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Shirts-2012
[03:12] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Shirts-2012 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:12] <pleia2> I will mention that we decided to skip the last meeting of the year due to the holidays, I'll update the wiki to reflect that later this week (hopefully tomorrow)
[03:13] <pleia2> none yet :(
[03:13] <philipballew> internet trouble
[03:13] <philipballew> I will be emailing the list this week with scale prep plans
[03:13] <pleia2> philipballew: great!
[03:13] <philipballew> I can work with anyone who wants to submit a meeting
[03:13] <pleia2> I heard from Richard Gaskin this week who said that nhaines said that nhaines won't have time to do an ubucon this year
[03:14] <philipballew>  /meeting/tshirt
[03:14] <philipballew> me and richard are gonna try to pull that off
[03:14] <pleia2> so Richard said he and some others might, but that seems uncertain yet
[03:14] <philipballew> I contacted garret about that and am going to try to make that work
[03:14] <pleia2> oh good, you two are talking about that :)
[03:14] <grantbow> philipballew, go for it :-)
[03:14] <pleia2> Gareth?
[03:14] <philipballew> pleia2, yeah, sorry
[03:15] <pleia2> :)
[03:15] <pleia2> (I see, you were just trying not to highlight him!)
[03:15] <philipballew> yeah!
[03:15] <grantbow> considerate
[03:15] <philipballew> Its my new thing
[03:15] <pleia2> I need to see how my new job works out, if I'll be able to go or not (right now planning on "not")
[03:16] <philipballew> I so far have the booth under control and just need to get the booth supplies sooner or later
[03:16] <grantbow> congratulations pleia2
[03:16] <philipballew> +1
[03:16] <pleia2> thanks :)
[03:17] <philipballew> pleia2, if its easier, I can grab them when I am in northern california this month?
[03:17] <pleia2> philipballew: sure, if that works for you
[03:17] <pleia2> both the banner and tablecloth are in a big tube, I've had good luck with checking it on planes (it comes out with the oversized luggage)
[03:17] <pleia2> or you could ship it to yourself
[03:18] <philipballew> yeah, I have an extra suitcase with sw I can check, and Ill be in the bay area this week i think.
[03:18] <pleia2> cool
[03:18] <pleia2> I'll be around :)
[03:18] <pleia2> we don't have any plans to use them in the next couple months, so you're welcome to them whenever
[03:19] <philipballew> the lisa Canonical people would not let me have their banner...
[03:19]  * philipballew asked
[03:19] <pleia2> lol
[03:19] <pleia2> they told me they didn't believe you when you said you'd give me a mug ;)
[03:19] <pleia2> they were happy to hear you came through
[03:19] <pleia2> "uh huh, yeah, 'for elizabeth' right"
[03:19] <philipballew> I thought they seemed odd when they handed it to me.
[03:20] <pleia2> hehe
[03:20] <philipballew> If they knew there community council members they would know!
[03:20] <pleia2> grantbow: do you know any artists we can reach out to for tshirt design?
[03:20] <grantbow> nobody in mind yet
[03:21] <pleia2> ok, I'll ask around and circulate it on social media a bit more
[03:21] <grantbow> ok, thanks
[03:21] <philipballew> tweet something and ill rt it
[03:21] <pleia2> ok, I'll do that tomorrow (more people on twitter on the weekdays)
[03:21] <pleia2> (avoiding work, probably)
[03:22] <philipballew> unlike me, some people stop tweeting
[03:22] <pleia2> you tweet more
[03:22] <pleia2> ok, anyone else have anything?
[03:23] <pleia2> the silicon valley folks still haven't been updating our resources for meetings so you still need to log into meetup.com for event details, but I've been trying to tweet them when I notice them
[03:23] <pleia2> the mt view one is coming up on thursday
[03:23] <pleia2> one == ubuntu hour
[03:24] <philipballew> SD ubuntu hour went well
[03:25] <pleia2> doesn't look like we have anything else on the schedule until next month
[03:25] <pleia2> yes! that was fun :)
[03:25] <philipballew> like 6 or 7.
[03:25] <philipballew> and ill make another one soon.
[03:25] <philipballew> thanks for coming pleia2
[03:25] <pleia2> I got to talk to a fellow I've only ever conversed with via email, he is interested in working on the ubuntu-learning project which we're trying to revive
[03:26] <pleia2> so, win \o/
[03:26] <pleia2> former teacher, so he actually knows what he's doing with this education stuff :)
[03:26] <philipballew> true. He is really qualified it seems.
[03:26] <philipballew> nice person to
[03:27] <philipballew> so any more announcements?
[03:27] <philipballew> items?
[03:27] <pleia2> I think that's it
[03:27] <philipballew> Nice!
[03:27] <pleia2> thanks everyone :)
[03:28] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
