{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, April 6th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. 14.04 Release planning

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you there!

{{{#!IRC
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Apr  7 02:00:06 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <eps> May I assume that nothing of consequence happened last time, as evidenced by the lack of a transcript on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14March23 ?
[02:00] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14March23 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:00] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting?
[02:00] <pleia2> eps: no, I've just been very sick this week and haven't completed it
[02:00] <grantbow> o/
[02:00] <nhaines> _o/
[02:00]  * eps waves
[02:00] <lrcaballero> Hello everyone this is Luis Caballero from San Diego...
[02:00] <pleia2> if someone else wants to paste in the logs, please do :) http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2014/03/24/%23ubuntu-us-ca.txt
[02:00] <darthrobot> Content type: [text/plain] Size: [6894]
[02:00] <pleia2> welcome lrcaballero
[02:01] <pleia2> alright, agenda! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14April06
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14April06 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <pleia2> #topic 14.04 Release planning
[02:01] <lrcaballero> @thank you pleia2
[02:01] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/TrustyRelease
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/TrustyRelease - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <pleia2> notes are starting to come togeher about some release events :)
[02:02] <pleia2> a week after release, we're having a party at AdRoll from 6-9PM
[02:02] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/TrustyRelease/SanFrancisco
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/TrustyRelease/SanFrancisco - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:02] <pleia2> could use some more folks signed up to bring hardware - jyo, rww? :)
[02:03]  * philipballew is here
[02:03] <pleia2> eps: so far I can't find a food sponsor, so it might be Costco and I have no car, so we might need to coordinate some on that
[02:03] <grantbow> pleia2 I will try to bring my Nexus7 with Touch loaded
[02:04] <pleia2> grantbow: awesome! can you update the wiki when you're sure?
[02:04] <pleia2> I am still trying to convince MJ to flash his 2013 N7 too ;)
[02:04] <grantbow> yes
[02:05] <grantbow> I need to do another blog post but at least the onscreen keyboard works now
[02:05] <pleia2> that's all the updates I really have on the SF party, things are coming together nicely, so far AdRoll has been awesome :)
[02:05] <pleia2> nhaines: anything new installfest news wise?
[02:05] <eps> pleia2: do we need to worry about plates, tableware, napkins, etc.? If so, can we make arrangements to drop them off in advance?
[02:05] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OCLUGInstallFestMay2014
[02:05] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OCLUGInstallFestMay2014 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:06] <pleia2> eps: good question, I'll ask
[02:06] <nhaines> Yes.  The installfest is going to put a lot of eyes on OCLUG, since faculty and department heads were extremely excited about it last time and wanted to be more involved this time.
[02:07] <nhaines> So out of scope, I've raised discussions on how OCLUG can prepare for that and be more welcoming.  Updated website, maybe more structure for meetings, and so on.
[02:07] <pleia2> nice
[02:08] <nhaines> The next OCLUG meeting is Saturday, and I'm going to talk about effective advocacy and try to get volunteer commitments for the installfest.  :)
[02:08] <nhaines> I want to have the Ubuntu 14.04 LTS presentation ready by April 15th, so everyone cross your fingers.
[02:08] <pleia2> good, I'll need to steal^Wborrow it for the 24th
[02:09] <pleia2> :)
[02:09] <nhaines> Otherwise, it looks like it's shaping up well and will hopefully boost OCLUG attendance.
[02:09] <pleia2> awesome \o/
[02:09] <nhaines> I'd love to have any volunteers bring laptops or themselves to help with installation.
[02:09] <nhaines> Oh, I'd like DVDs and a conference pack for the event.
[02:10] <nhaines> And if anyone has the banner (does philipballew?) I'd like to get ahold of it before May 24th.
[02:10] <nhaines> That's about it.  :)
[02:10] <lrcaballero> nhaines: when is it going to be? I am from San Diego CA...and I can help with installations...I am currently running 14.04 build from march...solid as rock!
[02:10] <nhaines> I will train anyone who volunteers to be an installfest helper.  It's super simple and we'd love to have you there.  :)
[02:11] <nhaines> lrcaballero: it's May 24th, from 10am to 2pm at Cal State Fulllerton in Orange, California.
[02:11] <lrcaballero> luis.r.caballero@cox.net
[02:11] <philballew> oh nice
[02:11] <philballew> seems cool
[02:11] <lrcaballero> nhaines: email me
[02:11] <philballew> nhaines, yeah, I have one.
[02:11] <philballew> wanna come get it?
[02:11] <philballew> Or mail?
[02:11] <philballew> or could you give me your lat and long and I throw it?
[02:11] <nhaines> lrcaballero: I'll be in touch.
[02:11] <nhaines> philballew: I'll be in San Diego sometime later this month, so we'll make arrangements.  I'll get your phone number or something offline.
[02:11] <lrcaballero> phil: are you driving up to OCLUG?
[02:12] <philballew> lrcaballero, No,  I do not have an easy way there probably anyway.
[02:12] <philballew> nhaines, alright, unless you have a pen and paper I can give it now here?
[02:13] <lrcaballero> phil: You may ride with me if plans changes...
[02:13] <nhaines> philballew: It's going straight into my cell phone via Google contacts.
[02:13] <philballew> ah, so hip.
[02:13] <philballew> lrcaballero, If I am around we'll make it happen.
[02:13] <grantbow> given the mailing costs it might be less expensive to make more banners
[02:14] <nhaines> so cloud   such digital   much convergence
[02:14] <philballew> May I am not sure what I will be doing.
[02:15] <pleia2> grantbow: we've already reduced it some by having a socal and norcal banner, so that's helping
[02:15] <philballew> now if only we could get Central Cal.
[02:16] <nhaines> Let's get some really awesome central California activity, and then we can make another banner.  :)
[02:16] <pleia2> ok, any other release related news? other parties brewing? :)
[02:16] <philballew> Bako, Fresno, Visallia, and Modesto needs to step it up.
[02:16]  * philballew is having a "release meetup"
[02:16] <rww> oops
[02:16] <rww> hi o/
[02:16] <grantbow> true, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UserGroupContacts/Groups
[02:16] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UserGroupContacts/Groups - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:17] <philballew> lrcaballero, gonna be at the starbucks by the 5 and 8 on sports arena.
[02:17] <nhaines> I have half a mind to volunteer to talk at the North Orange County Computer Club.  Flannel and I gave a talk there for Ubuntu 8.04 LTS (I still use the presentation) and it was a huge success.
[02:17] <philballew> Will be announcing this Wednesday probably.
[02:17] <nhaines> But that'll depend on how well everything else is going.  So that *might* be a release talk, but probably more low key.
[02:17] <pleia2> philballew: yay!
[02:17] <lrcaballero> phil: nice, I will email you later...
[02:17] <ianorlin> o/
[02:18] <pleia2> nhaines: oh good, I'm speaking at the Bay Area LUG in SF in May
[02:18] <philballew> lrcaballero, if I forget to respond, did I give you my number?
[02:18] <nhaines> Alternatively, if anyone wants to volunteer to talk at NOCCC, it's the oldest continuously operating computer club in the US and the membership skews old but they are a great crowd.
[02:19] <philballew> I handed out the rest of the 12.04 dvd's last weekend
[02:19] <philballew> Was at a Tijuana Tech meetup and they were well received.
[02:19] <nhaines> pleia2: that's great.  :)
[02:20] <pleia2> philballew: just in time :)
[02:20] <lrcaballero> phil: I didn't get you cell...
[02:20] <philballew> pleia2, Figured it was time to get them out before they all become Frisbees.
[02:21] <philballew> lrcaballero, 530-305-6497
[02:21] <pleia2> sounds like things are really shaping up for this release, I'm really excited, nice job everyone \o/
[02:21] <philballew> call or text anytime.
[02:21] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[02:21] <lrcaballero> phil: got it!
[02:21] <philballew> lrcaballero, perfect!
[02:22] <grantbow> is there a CD version of 14.04 available anywhere or just DVD image?
[02:22] <pleia2> we have a couple Ubuntu Hours coming up, rww is hosting one this week in San Francisco http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2759-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
[02:22] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:22] <pleia2> grantbow: just dvd, Lubuntu is the only one on a CD these days
[02:22] <nhaines> grantbow: DVD only except for minimal and net installs.
[02:22] <nhaines> Even Xubuntu ended up on DVDs!
[02:22] <nhaines> Ubuntu is fragmenting the optical storage ecosystem.
[02:22] <ianorlin> and lubuntu is only with alt installer anymore
[02:23] <ianorlin> other than server
[02:23] <nhaines> I'd like to see the LoCo start to do more talks and presentations.
[02:23] <pleia2> the minimal cd has the alternate installer, fits on a cd, and with that you can install any of them, but you have to download everything during the install so it takes a while
[02:23] <philballew> I personally install all my ubuntu systems via Blue Tooth.
[02:23] <rww> pleia2: is this week a debian dinner week or not? i'm bad at keeping track
[02:23] <philballew> nhaines, agreed.
[02:23] <rww> (calendar-wise, not organized-wise)
[02:23] <pleia2> rww: no one has announced one yet
[02:24] <pleia2> rww: http://bad.debian.net/shotgun_rules.txt
[02:24] <darthrobot> Content type: [text/plain] Size: [7286]
[02:24] <nhaines> I'm going to be working to make my upcoming slides adaptable and then publish them with speaker notes.
[02:24] <pleia2> rww: you can if you want!
[02:24] <rww> pleia2: i know. am wondering if it's been a reasonable amount of time since the last one :P
[02:24] <philballew> happy to coordinate some talks and places to talk with anyone.
[02:24] <pleia2> rww: ah, there was one last month that mpaoli organized :)
[02:24] <pleia2> nhaines: that would be really appreciated
[02:25] <pleia2> nhaines: and blog about it too!
[02:25] <rww> ah, last one was the 12th
[02:25] <nhaines> Yes, blogging is good.  :)  And my people.ubuntu.com page is pretty empty anyway.  :)
[02:25] <pleia2> FeltonLUG always asks us for speakers and we haven't been great about helping them out
[02:25] <nhaines> pleia2: I might ping you about a couple talking scenarios for the presentation.
[02:25] <pleia2> would be nice if we had a slide deck ready for anyone able to head down
[02:25] <pleia2> nhaines: cool
[02:26] <nhaines> Or hey, we could talk in channel, heh.
[02:26] <pleia2> :)
[02:26] <rww> Any other Any Other Business?
[02:26] <eps> There's an event on Tuesday, April 8 in San Francisco that might be of interest: http://www.meetup.com/OpenLate/events/169380612/
[02:26] <darthrobot> Title: [OpenLate @ OpenDNS - "Putting XP Out to Pasture" Edition - OpenLate - SF Evening Hack Lounge (San Francisco, CA)- Meetup]
[02:26] <nhaines> But yeah, I want it to be something you can download, read, delete a few slides that don't pertain, and keep the ones that do, and be confident in about an hour.
[02:26] <eps> It might be fun to show up with copies of Lubuntu 14.04 Beta 2 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/14.04/beta-2/
[02:26] <darthrobot> Title: [Lubuntu 14.04 (Trusty Tahr) Beta 2]
[02:27] <eps> And the Windows XP Theme :-) http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/04/windows-xp-theme-lubuntu
[02:27] <darthrobot> Title: [Windows XP Theme For Linux Is Ideal For New Users]
[02:27] <pleia2> I'll be out of town on the 8th, but that does seem like a good idea
[02:27] <pleia2> (not the theme though, ew :))
[02:27] <pleia2> eps: are you going?
[02:28] <eps> Thinking about it ... I may be "late" due to http://www.benjerry.com/scoop-shops/free-cone-day
[02:28] <darthrobot> Title: [Free Cone Day | Ben & Jerry's]
[02:28] <ianorlin> pleia2 would you mind if I shared the talk you gave in Austrailia about giving talks as a link to it?
[02:28] <pleia2> ianorlin: please do!
[02:29] <pleia2> it wasn't my best talk, I was nervous, spilling my soul about talk insecurities and all :)
[02:30] <lrcaballero> hahahaha
[02:30] <nhaines> pleia2: it's hard to imagine a bad talk from you.  :)
[02:30] <pleia2> nhaines: too much nervous laugh
[02:30] <pleia2> but thank you :)
[02:31] <pleia2> alright, anything else?
[02:31] <ianorlin> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZM7OscJcbl0
[02:31] <darthrobot> Title: ["But the audience won't like me!" and other myths by Elizabeth Krumbach Joseph - YouTube]
[02:31] <jyo> pleia2: Could I get a ballpark figure with regards to $ for food?
[02:32] <pleia2> jyo: drinks are covered by our venue sponsor, but it's hard to say, I'm shooting for under $100
[02:33] <pleia2> also depends on how many people show up, jono is trying to make arrangements to attend and said he'd help bring people in :)
[02:33] <eps> pleia2: $100 = nine Costco pizzas ;-)
[02:33] <pleia2> eps: we need cookies too!
[02:33] <rww> yeah, I'm really liking the Costco pizza idea
[02:34] <eps> pleia2: Uh, why?
[02:34] <nhaines> Why *wouldn't* you need cookies?
[02:35] <rww> !cookies
[02:35] <darthrobot> rww: Error: "cookies" is not a valid command.
[02:35] <Eureka> Cookies are delicious delicacies.
[02:35] <pleia2> eps: because I like cookies, some people may have already eaten dinner dinner
[02:35] <Eureka> Cookies are pernicious privacy stealers!
[02:35] <rww> darthrobot: shows how much you know
[02:35] <darthrobot> rww: Error: "shows" is not a valid command.
[02:35]  * pleia2 applies cookie to darthrobot 
[02:35]  * eps rolls his eyes
[02:36] <pleia2> ok, anything else before we wrap up?
[02:36] <nhaines> Nothing from me.
[02:37] <pleia2> ok, thanks everyone :)
[02:37] <lrcaballero> Thank you guys!
[02:37] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
