{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Sunday, January 25th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. http://ubuntu-california.org/ doesn't do a whole lot aside from provide an easy portal address to give out to folks (which is great!), but do we want to add the Ask``Not tool to it? (pleia2)
** Details: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-community-team/2015-January/000408.html
** Running live: http://community.ubuntu.com/contribute/find-a-task/
** We can keep it as is as an Ubuntu community task finder, or fork the project to add our own California team-specific tasks

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
03:01:17 <nhaines> #startmeeting
03:01:17 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Jan 26 03:01:17 2015 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
03:01:17 <darthrobot`> 
03:01:17 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
03:01:17 <DonkeyHotei> there is one item on the agenda
03:01:27 <DonkeyHotei> o/
03:01:29 <pleia2> o/
03:01:31 <nhaines> #chair ianorlin elky_ nhaines
03:01:31 <darthrobot`> Current chairs: elky_ ianorlin nhaines
03:01:51 <nhaines> Hello everyone!  And welcome to the second Ubuntu California Meeting of 2015!
03:02:00 <nhaines> The agenda for tonight's meeting is found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15January25
03:02:00 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15January25 - Ubuntu Wiki]
03:02:52 <nhaines> Before we begin, it's my sad duty to announce that one of our members, eps, passed away last week.
03:03:25 <DonkeyHotei> it's unclear when
03:03:49 <nhaines> That he passed in his sleep will hopefully hold some small comfort to all of his friends, and it's obvious that he touched quite a few enthusiast communities, of which we were lucky enough to be one.
03:03:55 <DonkeyHotei> i had attempted to reach him by phone around the 5th-6th and he was already gone
03:04:39 <nhaines> I've talked to the person organizing the memorial service and I'll be sure to post to the mailing list once details are available.
03:05:08 <ianorlin> o/
03:05:13 <pleia2> thanks nhaines
03:05:25 <pleia2> it's quite a blow to our community, I'll miss him a lot
03:06:45 <nhaines> It was mentioned that the memorial service has way more people intereted in attending than expected, so that's just one sign of how widely he was respected.
03:06:58 <nhaines> #topic Ubuntu California website improvements
03:07:13 <nhaines> First up on the agenda, pleia2 had some suggestions for our website.
03:07:29 <DonkeyHotei> [Sun 2015-01-25 05:42:31 PM PST] <DonkeyHotei> no one can fill his shoes
03:07:29 <DonkeyHotei> [Sun 2015-01-25 05:46:54 PM PST] <pleia2> yeah, that's for sure
03:07:56 <pleia2> right, so ian-weisser created this find-a-task tool for http://community.ubuntu.com/contribute/find-a-task/
03:07:56 <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu Community | Find a Task]
03:08:31 <pleia2> there's code up on github to make it work, but unfortunately that's not synced up to the community.ubuntu.com site, which sadly is manually updated through the wordpress interface
03:08:52 <pleia2> so I'd proposed to possibly use the same one they do, but we can't
03:09:14 <pleia2> we could use it to create one of our own though, with our own tasks, like suggesting people host an ubuntu hour or go to an event or sign up for our mailing list
03:09:19 <nhaines> It's a pretty neat tool.  A user can use it to find areas of Ubuntu they might be interested in participating.
03:09:45 <rww> o/
03:09:50 <nhaines> I think it sounds like a great idea.
03:09:53 <ianorlin> I like the idea of it
03:09:56 <pleia2> just a thought, it's low maintenance and makes the site a bit more interesting
03:10:00 <rww> Our cat escaped, we're a little late (we got him back, though he's whining now)
03:10:17 <nhaines> rww: he once tasted freedom, and will never forget.
03:10:23 <pleia2> hehe, cats
03:10:49 <elky_> hi
03:11:00 <nhaines> elky_: glad you and the bitey monster could make it.
03:11:07 <elky_> he's been out before. he apparently got scared and sat out in the carpark confused as to what to do
03:11:15 <pleia2> I don't have a lot of time in the next couple weeks (travel next weekend, Global Jam weekend after) so if someone else wants to toss up a more solid proposal for this with ideas please feel free
03:11:19 <nhaines> Well, I don't see any reasons we shouldn't add the find-a-task tool to our website.
03:11:21 <pleia2> otherwise I can get to it later in february
03:11:45 <nhaines> pleia2: do we expect the community.ubuntu.com data to be added to github any time soon?
03:11:49 <pleia2> https://github.com/ian-weisser/asknot
03:11:49 <darthrobot`> Title: [ian-weisser/asknot · GitHub]
03:11:57 <ianorlin> yeah this is nice but not exactly urgent
03:11:59 <pleia2> nhaines: no, I had a ranty discussion about it earlier this week ;)
03:12:20 <nhaines> Oh good!  :)  Please link me after the meeting if it's on a ML.  :)
03:12:22 <pleia2> "they just maintain it through wordpress" "you can view the source code!"
03:12:37 <nhaines> Ah, business as usual.
03:12:49 <pleia2> yeah, it's an irc channel discussion, but I can dig it up later
03:13:09 <nhaines> Great.  Maybe I can poke at people about it because it might be a good general tool for LoCos.
03:13:32 <nhaines> Does anyone feel differently about adding this tool to our website?
03:13:42 <elky_> it'll get better the more places it is used, so i don't have a problem with it
03:13:48 <pleia2> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-community-team/2015-January/000408.html has some info that should help folks add it to their own site
03:13:48 <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu community volunteer board [UPDATE 4]]
03:14:30 <nhaines> Oh, that's super useful.  Perfect!
03:14:55 <nhaines> Semi-related to this topic, does anyone know how the California forums are holding up?
03:15:04 <elky_> on the ubuntu forums?
03:15:08 <nhaines> Right.
03:15:18 <elky_> no clue
03:15:23 <pleia2> they're one of the few loco forums that still exist, mostly because we keep posting meeting minutes
03:15:34 <rww> Mostly dead, pleia2 gets notified when there are updates, and meeting minutes still happen
03:15:34 <pleia2> most loco forums were shut down, but ours was flagged as active
03:15:36 <rww> (this came up recently)
03:15:49 <nhaines> That's basically what I thought.
03:15:59 <nhaines> pleia2: can you get traffic information for ubuntu-california.org?
03:16:08 <elky_> sounds like us touching it is basically flogging a dead horse then
03:16:26 <pleia2> nhaines: sure, action me to set up webalizer
03:16:35 <DonkeyHotei> perhaps it was flagged as active _because_ of the minutes?
03:16:40 <pleia2> DonkeyHotei: yep
03:17:01 <nhaines> #action pleia2 will set up webalizer and report on traffic numbers for ubuntu-california.org
03:17:01 * darthrobot` pleia2 will set up webalizer and report on traffic numbers for ubuntu-california.org
03:17:04 <nhaines> Thanks, pleia2.
03:17:20 <pleia2> sure thing, should be able to get that done this week, pretty straight forward
03:17:28 <nhaines> I'd like to consider closing the forums and maybe spinning up a Discourse instance we could point to through ubuntu-california.org.
03:17:39 <DonkeyHotei> too bad we can't get traffic numbers for the launchpad pages
03:17:44 <philipballew> +1 for Discourse
03:17:51 <nhaines> The mailing list is just for advocacy, and should remain as such.
03:18:06 <nhaines> But a Discourse forum could be for California Ubuntu users.
03:18:14 <philipballew> The Facebook page is the best tool we have currently though.
03:18:16 <DonkeyHotei> well the ML also repeatedly gets people asking for help
03:18:31 <philipballew> It is the best tool for marketing we have
03:18:35 <nhaines> And that's a misuse of the mailing list.
03:19:02 <nhaines> With Discorse, people who hate forums can subscribe in the form of a mailing list, and everyone else gets a really nice Web-2.0 dicussion platform.
03:19:16 <DonkeyHotei> it may be a misuse but it can't realistically be avoided
03:19:17 <nhaines> So I think that's worth looking into.
03:19:32 <nhaines> DonkeyHotei: it can if we have a place for support requests.
03:19:33 <pleia2> philipballew: I don't agree, most of our posts get single digit "views"
03:19:57 <pleia2> facebook is one of our worst tools, twitter is much better, then probably G+ and our mailing list
03:19:59 <ianorlin> Yeah I think mainly people just post minutes there not many read them
03:20:12 <philipballew> pleia2, That is a valid point. Don't we have more subscribers there then twitter though?
03:20:23 <philipballew> subscribers might be the wrong word here
03:20:26 <nhaines> #action nhaines will email the mailing list about retiring the Ubuntu California forum and additionally considering a Discourse forum to replace it.
03:20:26 * darthrobot` nhaines will email the mailing list about retiring the Ubuntu California forum and additionally considering a Discourse forum to replace it.
03:20:31 <rww> subscribers doesn't matter if nobody reads it
03:20:49 <pleia2> rww: ++
03:20:54 <nhaines> rww: ++
03:21:03 <ianorlin> rww++
03:21:03 <philipballew> rww, Of course, but because we already have the subscribers we can easily get them to read it.
03:21:04 <rww> I note that discourse is Ruby, so if we don't have any Ruby stuff set up on ubuntu-california.org yet you'd need to dive into that mess^W
03:21:21 <nhaines> With the way Facebook works today, I'm not sure it'd be easy to improve that.
03:21:27 <pleia2> unless you pay
03:21:37 <pleia2> I'm always getting prompted to "boost" posts with $$$
03:21:48 <elky_> rww: you could probably find somewhere offering ruby hosting for open source projects
03:21:57 <nhaines> pleia2: yes, and that's a waste of money in my opinion.
03:22:11 <pleia2> nhaines: agreed
03:22:24 <pleia2> rww: I don't think nhaines was proposing we host our own discourse forum
03:22:33 <rww> pleia2: okays. I misread, then
03:22:43 <pleia2> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/local-teams
03:22:43 <darthrobot`> Title: [Local Teams Topics - Ubuntu Discourse]
03:22:47 <ianorlin> yes the pay for views is only good for facebook
03:22:47 <pleia2> they have a loco section
03:22:50 <nhaines> Well, first we decide if we want one.
03:23:04 <elky_> i always hated the splintering of communities between fora
03:23:07 <rww> Ah. I see Discourse's subforums are as discoverable as Ubuntu Forums.
03:23:09 <philipballew> I think that its important to use our social media tools we have to market Ubuntu as much as we can. Not just try to cater towards the people who might be at this meeting or the people who care about Discourse.
03:23:26 <nhaines> Discourse isn't social media.
03:23:31 <pleia2> rww: yeah, you really have to be an existing user to understand it, but that's how it goes :)
03:23:41 <pleia2> it's a way to reach discourse members, I'd say
03:24:00 <rww> philipballew: That requires ongoing effort for each social medium, and traditionally some of them have not had that.
03:24:08 <philipballew> Exactly, and shouldn't more time be put into spreading Ubuntu, and not just catering to people who already have their Ubuntu systems?
03:24:11 <nhaines> If we think we could use a discussion forum, I would be willing to self host it, starting in probably April.
03:24:57 <pleia2> right now, G+ is the only social media I get any help with (thanks rww)
03:25:03 <rww> rww stopped doing G+ :P
03:25:07 <pleia2> I'd be delighted if people came up with strategy and offered to help :)
03:25:20 <pleia2> right, so I don't get any help right now
03:25:21 <pleia2> :P
03:25:24 <rww> Facebook has one post this month, three posts last month, nothing in November...
03:25:43 <pleia2> yeah, I don't like facebook so I tend to do twitter and G+ and "oh facebook is loading slow I'll do it later"
03:25:49 <pleia2> then, never
03:26:01 <rww> Not saying we need to do better, saying we're perhaps spreading a bit thin. But I'm totally the wrong person to express an opinion about social networking.
03:26:16 <elky_> how much of this stuff could be solved with a push service (posts to twitter, facebook, etc) and do these exist for g+ yet or are they still unable?
03:26:19 <nhaines> Yeah, I don't use, like, or understand Facebook, so I'm thrilled if someone wants to take that on, but it's not going to be me.
03:26:35 * DonkeyHotei gets a thought that the most literal way to spread ubuntu is by introducing computer-less people to it
03:26:36 <philipballew> I think if we posted more on the posts, showed cool news articles and all around marketing the community for potential people.
03:26:41 <pleia2> elky_: I've tried several revisions of that (one stops working, hunt for another) but then I gave up
03:26:46 <elky_> :(
03:26:53 <rww> philipballew: who is "we" there
03:27:07 <rww> elky_: G+ doesn't have a write API yet as far as I know
03:27:16 <pleia2> G+ still lacks a useful API for such things, facebook pages or groups or whatever we have are horrible at x-posting to (it's easier for facebook user accounts)
03:27:21 <elky_> rww: lol
03:27:36 <philipballew> rww, If we need people to do social media, I am happy to post things to get people more involved or see.
03:27:36 <nhaines> elky_: it's a design decision.
03:27:49 <elky_> nhaines: it's still lol
03:27:57 <philipballew> The Lug I am a part of has five or six posts a day and there are only about 50 or so of us on our Facebook page.
03:28:04 <nhaines> elky_: yes, and annoying, but at least it's on purpose.  :)
03:28:05 <philipballew> But we are a "group"
03:28:38 <elky_> philipballew: is it actual topical stuff or a heap or re-shares of memes and other recycled material?
03:29:03 <rww> Good, sounds like we need to get you added to social media accounts philipballew so that you can help out pleia2 and co with it.
03:29:06 <elky_> i mean, is it original content or not?
03:29:19 <philipballew> elky_, haha, I did not plan to post too many memes no.
03:29:34 <elky_> philipballew: i'm asking about your 50 person group
03:29:46 <ianorlin> I am not sure posting the same thing someone saw earlier will help that much
03:29:52 <nhaines> philipballew: can you look into how our social media groups are being used and come up with a plan to improve them so we can get people assigned to that?
03:30:06 <philipballew> https://www.facebook.com/groups/gultij/10152965388721049/?ref=notif&notif_t=group_activity
03:30:06 <darthrobot`> Title: [Redirecting...]
03:30:16 <philipballew> thats the group I was talking about elky_
03:30:27 <pleia2> on facebook ours is a page, we used to have a group too but it wasn't used so I think it was shut down (or just abandoned)
03:30:31 <elky_> it wants me to log in to facebook, no thanks
03:30:33 <rww> "You must log in to continue."
03:30:38 <rww> lol facebook
03:30:46 <elky_> can you answer my question yourself?
03:30:57 <pleia2> nhaines: I think a proposal is a good idea
03:30:57 <philipballew> nhaines, Yeah, I can do that, and probably by the next meeting easily come up with a paper on all to do.
03:31:05 <pleia2> thanks philipballew!
03:31:08 <nhaines> philipballew: that would be super.
03:31:30 <nhaines> #action philipballew will look into how our social media groups are being used and come up with a plan to improve them.
03:31:30 * darthrobot` philipballew will look into how our social media groups are being used and come up with a plan to improve them.
03:32:17 * philipballew adds that to his tdl
03:32:25 <nhaines> Okay.  So that's good news.  Thanks, philipballew.
03:32:46 <nhaines> I guess I'll bring up Discourse on the mailing list, too.
03:33:01 <rww> i guess we'll
03:33:05 * rww puts on sunglasses
03:33:08 <rww> discourse about it there
03:33:31 <nhaines> rww: should've been "discourse it there".  C+
03:33:38 <nhaines> Does anyone else have any comments on our website or other online presence while we're on the topic?
03:33:58 <rww> I can still read the website with JavaScript turned off so it is not Web 2.0 enough.
03:34:16 <ianorlin> I don't have anything more on website
03:34:20 * DonkeyHotei gets a thought that the most literal way to spread ubuntu is by introducing computer-less people to it
03:34:36 <nhaines> DonkeyHotei: is that somehow related to our online services?
03:34:45 <DonkeyHotei> it is to social media
03:35:03 <elky_> is the rest of the discussion going to be SCaLE?
03:35:09 <nhaines> elky_: mostly.
03:35:19 <elky_> because we haven't eaten yet and dinner is half cooked :3
03:35:21 <rww> can we do the non-SCaLE stuff first so we can stop paying attention :P
03:35:38 <DonkeyHotei> scale wasn't actually on the agenda this time though
03:35:45 <pleia2> the Ubuntu Global Jam in San Francisco is coming up in 2 weeks (earlier in the day from our next meting)
03:35:45 <elky_> wasn't it?
03:35:48 <elky_> i figured it would be
03:35:50 <ianorlin> oops
03:35:55 <pleia2> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2984-ubuntu-california-san-francisco-qa-jam/
03:35:55 <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu California San Francisco QA Jam | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
03:35:55 <nhaines> I think this is all the non-SCaLE stuff other than UGJ.  :P
03:36:04 <pleia2> please RSVP, I think strangers are scared by the empty RSVP list
03:36:31 <DonkeyHotei> doesn't mean nobody will show up
03:36:31 <ianorlin> #topic ubuntu-global-jam
03:36:46 <nhaines> DonkeyHotei: it does mean that the event can't be planned appropriately.
03:36:50 <pleia2> DonkeyHotei: does make it hard to order enough food
03:36:54 * rww doubles the attendee list with elky's help
03:37:02 <pleia2> thanks elky_ and rww :)
03:37:18 <philipballew> Ubucon is going to be hella tight for sure
03:37:32 <philipballew> just so you know
03:37:41 <nhaines> I sent out emails to all North American LoCo teams last night regarding UGJ, so hopefully we start seeing more event popping up.
03:37:48 <pleia2> nhaines: so did balloons
03:37:50 <pleia2> 2 days ago
03:38:04 <rww> which i got because lolidkwhy
03:38:06 <pleia2> I was like "this looks familiar..."
03:38:22 <rww> (probably loco-contacts@)
03:38:25 <nhaines> pleia2: I hadn't heard from him and hadn't received anything so I went ahead and did it, so yay.
03:38:39 <rww> if you didn't get it and i did, maybe his list is out of date
03:38:43 <nhaines> So all NA LoCo teams are on notice.
03:39:01 <pleia2> also, if anyone else in the state decides to do one: http://mhall119.com/2015/01/ubuntu-loco-team-global-jam-packs/
03:39:01 <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu LoCo Team Global Jam Packs | Michael Hall]
03:39:20 <pleia2> I didn't request a pack, I have leftover pens + stickers from another event, and I had already put in a cash request to cover food (approved!)
03:39:48 <nhaines> Canonical *really* wants LoCo teams to take advantage of that, so please do order *early* this week if you want one.  You don't even have to be an Ubuntu member for this.
03:40:17 <nhaines> pleia2: I know your UGJ event will be successful, so I look forward to hearing about it so we can really push harder on that next cycle.  :)
03:40:27 * pleia2 will take many pictures!
03:40:41 <nhaines> \o/
03:41:02 <philipballew> nhaines, Me and the Ubuntu users here in San Diego are not programing wizards. What is the point for us to have a global jam then if we can not "jam " anything?
03:41:14 <philipballew> or maybe pleia2 might know that answer?
03:41:19 <elky_> you can report stuff without being a programmer
03:41:34 <pleia2> we're doing manual testing, no programming remotely involved
03:41:37 <elky_> you don't need to know how to program to know when a UI is confusing
03:41:43 <nhaines> philipballew: I don't know anyone who programs during UGJ, usually it's bug triaging, Q&A testing, documentation jams... there are a lot of different ways to get together and work on Ubuntu.
03:41:53 <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam#Things_to_do
03:41:53 <darthrobot`> Title: [UbuntuGlobalJam - Ubuntu Wiki]
03:41:53 <nhaines> Canonical's trying to convince teams to do Ubuntu App Dev schools...
03:42:02 <nhaines> pleia2: thanks, didn't have that at my fingertips.  :)
03:42:11 <philipballew> nhaines, qa and bug triaging require a knowlege of code.
03:42:16 <pleia2> we're doing it earlier this cycle, Documentation Team *always* needs help
03:42:24 <pleia2> qa requires no knowledge of code
03:42:29 <elky_> philipballew: no they don't
03:42:29 <rww> philipballew: No they don't. But if you think they do, write documentation.
03:42:30 <ianorlin> not always
03:42:32 <nhaines> Bug triaging requires no knowledge of code.
03:42:39 <philipballew> alright
03:42:46 <elky_> philipballew: the last place i worked at, the project manager did bug triage
03:42:59 <nhaines> Triaging starts with finding unverified bugs, reproducing them, and marking them "triaged" if they really exist, or invalid if you need more info.
03:43:07 <elky_> ^
03:43:18 <nhaines> SUPER easy, quick to do, and good low hanging fruit for new members.  Also SUPER useful for developers.
03:43:19 <ianorlin> actually I think it is incomplete if need more info not invalid
03:43:33 <ianorlin> invalid is when the bug doesn't exist
03:43:37 <philipballew> ah, the last place I worked at bug triaging was attempting to fix the bugs.
03:43:41 <nhaines> ianorlin: even better.
03:43:47 <philipballew> Then I quit and got a job as a bus driver. It pays more.
03:43:50 <pleia2> fixing is something else entirely :)
03:43:54 <elky_> philipballew: your last place was misguided
03:44:05 <pleia2> triage == stop bleeding until the surgeon can take a look
03:44:14 <pleia2> anyone can apply pressure to the wound :)
03:44:35 <nhaines> Okay, so now that we've established there's no excuse not to host a UGJ, everyone should think about doing so.  ;)
03:44:52 <pleia2> and I might owe the world a blog post on this topic
03:45:01 <pleia2> in my free time!
03:45:05 <nhaines> pleia2: your blog posts are always jam-packed with information.  :)
03:45:11 <pleia2> I try :)
03:45:13 <philipballew> some locos do an online global jam, and if you can not host one in your area, that is always an option.
03:45:16 <nhaines> #action pleia2 will write helpful things in her copious free time.
03:45:16 * darthrobot` pleia2 will write helpful things in her copious free time.
03:45:22 <pleia2> haha
03:45:23 <elky_> lol
03:45:29 <DonkeyHotei> …
03:45:40 <elky_> ok what's left on the agenda?
03:45:41 <nhaines> Okay, so lots of things to discuss on the list coming out of this meeting.  Let's move on.
03:45:49 <nhaines> #topic Other business
03:46:06 <nhaines> SCaLE's not listed, but it's coming up behind UGJ, and things are coming together nicely.
03:46:18 <elky_> well ok i have an item
03:46:26 <elky_> i have a 1" badge press
03:46:30 <nhaines> Oh yeah.  Go for it, elky.
03:46:35 <elky_> it is probably more useful elsewhere
03:46:48 <elky_> where would be the best place?
03:46:58 <rww> and she's been here 9 months and i've literally never seen it, so it's not like we'll miss it
03:47:18 <elky_> he's seen the box. i'm pretty sure he's tripped over it.
03:47:29 <elky_> rww: it's the one that's a4 size and breaks your toes
03:47:54 <nhaines> Thus depriving everyone else in here of context for size.
03:48:06 <ianorlin> what is a badge press?
03:48:11 <rww> ianorlin: it makes badges
03:48:11 <nhaines> Well, if no one's jumping at it, might be another good ML item.
03:48:25 <elky_> ianorlin: it makes round buttons that have a pin on the back that you attach to things
03:48:29 <nhaines> ianorlin: it crimps laminated lapel pins.
03:48:34 <pleia2> cool
03:48:35 <ianorlin> ah
03:48:54 <elky_> http://www.ecplaza.net/trade-leads-seller/button-pin-press-machine-blank--4110187.html would be an example of a badge press
03:48:54 <darthrobot`> Title: [Button Pin Press Machine, Blank Badge, Button Pin Set Manufacturer, Supplier & Exporter - ECPlaza]
03:49:16 <rww> so you can make badges like "i have made significant and sustained contributions to Ubuntu and all I got was this badge press"
03:49:20 <philipballew> Can we get Mark Shuttleworth to work the booth nhaines ?
03:49:27 <elky_> lolololol
03:49:32 <rww> "and it cost me thousands of dollars in USCIS payments"
03:49:33 <nhaines> philipballew: sure, I'll just call him up on the red line.
03:49:46 <philipballew> Thats off nhaines, he gave me a green line?
03:49:58 <nhaines> I think we have to use the aubergine line now.
03:50:24 <nhaines> Okay, well, thanks muchly for the offer, and let's bring that to the mailing list I think.
03:50:26 <philipballew> "Ubuntu  what can brown do for you"
03:50:32 <pleia2> elky_: I have a tiiiiny home, but I'd be up for craft weekend of creating some team pins for things some day
03:50:48 <DonkeyHotei> brown can deliver installation media
03:50:55 <nhaines> pleia2: luckily they are tiny machines.  :)
03:51:03 <elky_> pleia2: it's the kind of thing we could tack on to an installfest of sorts i think
03:51:11 <rww> ubuntu global button jam
03:51:12 <pleia2> elky_: even better
03:51:14 <pleia2> hehe
03:51:15 <philipballew> I installed ubuntu on this laptop off of my Fedora flash drive.
03:51:25 <elky_> anyway we need to go do domestic things
03:51:26 <pleia2> I wonder if gandi has a color printer we could use
03:51:39 <pleia2> "I attened UGJ"
03:51:48 <pleia2> except with the right spelling, else oof
03:51:52 <elky_> hehe
03:52:11 <pleia2> I need beer^Wfood soon too
03:52:12 <nhaines> Okay, I'll let you two work that out.  :)
03:52:26 <nhaines> I'd like to get this wrapped up by 8, as is my usual wont.
03:52:49 <elky_> we could probably wrap now unless someone else has something
03:52:51 <nhaines> SCaLE's looking good.  Canonical is providing Ubuntu polo shirts for all booth volunteers, assuming that's less than 11.
03:53:11 <nhaines> Which means that if you're going to be at the booth you need to sign up immediately.
03:53:12 <elky_> yay
03:53:52 <pleia2> nice work
03:54:07 <nhaines> Jorge Castro is also bringing an orange box and will be able to talk about Juju, MAAS, and presumably snappy Ubuntu Core, and José will also be around to discuss Juju and snappy Ubuntu Core.
03:54:08 <ianorlin> 5 are signed up currently
03:54:26 <elky_> nhaines: we might even send some badges your way ;)
03:54:34 <nhaines> elky_: lol, that would be nice!
03:54:39 <elky_> i think the magnets in the box are probably pretty useless by now, but we'll see
03:54:45 <philipballew> also dont forget to attend Ubucon.
03:54:50 <nhaines> pleia2: can you handle the conference pack for this?  It's about time for that now.
03:55:00 <philipballew> Because it is gonna be hella tight for sure.
03:55:54 <elky_> so you said.
03:56:04 <nhaines> Ubucon is taking place on Friday, February 20th, and while we're not really involved much with that this year, we're going to be working together a lot more closely in the future.
03:56:08 <philipballew> nhaines, Sometimes they dont send them out as quick when you do it online, so I always just called them.
03:56:12 <philipballew> but we have time.
03:57:04 <nhaines> mhall119 threatened to ship me SCALE things to drive in with, so I'm sure if we need to get expedition they'll be sympathetic.  But we still need to make the request. :)
03:57:06 <philipballew> elky_, heck yeah I did!
03:57:08 <philipballew> :)
03:57:14 <pleia2> nhaines: apply for scale conference pack now?
03:57:50 <nhaines> pleia2: however conference packs are usually done.  You're the team contact.  :)  I'll PM you after the meeting.
03:57:58 <pleia2> okie
03:58:24 <elky_> ok i'm off guys, gotta make dinner
03:58:32 <nhaines> Oh, I have the exhibitor pack for SCALE and we have a stunning booth, so this is the year to make things count.
03:58:34 <pleia2> elky_: enjoy
03:58:49 <nhaines> So I'm going to be working on some booth layout and will post more about it on the ML.
03:58:54 <nhaines> And that's all I've got for now.
03:59:03 <nhaines> Are there any other announcements before we end the meeting?
04:00:35 * ianorlin has nothing more
04:01:42 <nhaines> Me either.  Alrighty, I'd like to thank everyone for attending tonight!
04:01:50 <nhaines> Let's get on the ML and continue being awesome.  :)
04:01:52 <nhaines> #endmeeting
</pre>
