{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, December 4th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

* No agenda items

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:04] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting?
[03:04] <jtatum> o/
[03:04] <pleia2> we don't actually have anything on the agenda :)
[03:04] <philipballew> \0/
[03:04] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11December04
[03:04] <pleia2> so we can just do announcements and whatever other misc stuff people have
[03:05] <pleia2> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california has some upcoming events
[03:05] <pleia2> philipballew: how are things with the san diego ubuntu hour?
[03:05] <philipballew> Not great actually
[03:06] <pleia2> ok, will the planned one for tuesday be happening?
[03:06] <philipballew> I have not herd anything from dave, so i will assume no
[03:06] <pleia2> alright, can you follow up with him and get it removed from loco.ubuntu.com asap?
[03:07] <philipballew> I am not sure what he;s up to. I can see whats up with it. but i dont know whats going on with the thing
[03:07] <philipballew> I can remove it probably
[03:07] <pleia2> ok, thanks :)
[03:07] <jtatum> easy enough to re-add if needed
[03:07]  * pleia2 nods
[03:08]  * philipballew looks into how to remove
[03:08] <pleia2> so the next two events are San Francisco and Mt View Ubuntu Hours, on the 14th and 15th respectively
[03:08] <pleia2> I can't go to the one on the 15th because I'll be speaking to a linux class at ITT Tech again that night :)
[03:09] <jtatum> you will be missed of course :)
[03:09] <pleia2> I'll miss you guys too! I assume jledbetter will be there?
[03:09] <jtatum> i don't think we'll be able to make the 14th. jledbetter is still getting settled in.
[03:09]  * pleia2 nods
[03:09] <pleia2> welcome to california jledbetter!
[03:09] <jtatum> she says hello and thank you :)
[03:10] <pleia2> :)
[03:11] <pleia2> nhaines still has the call for Ubucon speakers open, if you want to speak get your submissions to him by the 12th, details here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2011-October/001849.html
[03:11] <pleia2> this is the Friday of SCaLE, on January 20th
[03:12] <bkerensa> :D
[03:12] <bkerensa> pleia2: Do you know how I would submit a patch to Ubuntu for sponsorship?
[03:12] <pleia2> and speaking of SCaLE, we have a discount registration code: UBUCO
[03:12] <pleia2> and our wiki is coming together here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale10x
[03:13] <pleia2> bkerensa: not sure what you mean by that
[03:13] <pleia2> anyone else have anything they want to talk about?
[03:13] <eps> pleia2: Is that a percent-off?
[03:13] <bkerensa> pleia2: I have a package that I converted to multiarch and I want to have it sponsored
[03:13] <bkerensa> :)
[03:13] <bkerensa> oh my bad
[03:14] <pleia2> eps: 50%, but if you volunteer at the Ubuntu California booth we get a few free passes, so you'll want to sign up as a volunteer for that
[03:15] <pleia2> once we have our booth pack we'll be able to get our volunteers sorted
[03:15] <eps> I want to see what's happening with airfares. Right now I'm seeing ~$169 RT SFO-LAX. That's too high.
[03:16] <pleia2> anything else? upcoming events? ideas? thoughts? :)
[03:17] <eps> Is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/GameNights still under consideration?
[03:18] <pleia2> yes
[03:18] <pleia2> iheartubuntu is the lead on that and I understand he's been quite busy lately
[03:18] <eps> I wasn't terribly enthusiastic ... until I saw this: http://www.lamebook.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/11/you2.jpg
[03:19] <pleia2> lol
[03:19] <akk> heh
[03:20] <pleia2> ok, I think that's a wrap
[03:20] <pleia2> thanks everyone, get your Ubucon submissions to nhaines by the 12th!
</pre>
