{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, June 28th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. Upcoming events
  a. NathanHaines is giving a presentation on writing and publishing books with Ubuntu at the <nowiki>[[http://www.sgvlug.org/ | SGVLUG]]</nowiki> meeting on Thursday, July 9th.
 1. Announcements

=== Full Log ===

{{{#!IRC
 02:00:06 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:00:06 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Jun 29 02:00:06 2015 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:00:06 <darthrobot`> 
 02:00:06 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:00:21 <pleia2> o/
 02:00:21 <nhaines> Welcome to tonight's Ubuntu California meeting!
 02:00:33 <Roguehorse> o/
 02:00:36 <nhaines> Our agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15June28
 02:00:36 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15June28 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:00:55 <nhaines> Glad to see there are a couple people around tonight.  :)
 02:01:11 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events and announcements
 02:01:21 <MajB> You got a visitor from AZLOCO as well.
 02:01:28 <nhaines> MajB: welcome!
 02:01:36 <MajB> Thank you
 02:01:42 <pleia2> hi MajB, I owe you an email (or maybe this meeting can help!)
 02:01:50 <nhaines> So I'm giving a talk at the San Gabriel Valley LUG on July 9th.
 02:02:03 <Roguehorse> cool
 02:02:21 <nhaines> I'll be giving a presentation on writing an open source book with a publisher and also talking about how Free Software can take you through the entire self-publishing process.
 02:02:43 <Roguehorse> oooh......very cool =)
 02:03:10 <pleia2> nice
 02:03:13 <Roguehorse> will the notes be available online after?
 02:03:15 <nhaines> My upcoming traditionally published book has been created with 100% Ubuntu except where I needed a Windows 10 screenshot, with very little difficulties.  So it'll be a fun presentation.
 02:03:48 <nhaines> I might just wing this one, depending on what I manage to do for a presentation, but if I have notes, or if I can get a recording, I'll get it online somewhere shortly thereafter.
 02:04:02 <nhaines> I'll know more about that next weekend.
 02:04:11 <Roguehorse> sweet =)
 02:04:16 <nhaines> Details at http://www.sgvlug.org/ if anyone down in SoCal wants to try and make it!
 02:04:16 <darthrobot`> Title: [SGVLUG]
 02:04:30 <nhaines> Does anyone have any other announcements or upcoming events?
 02:04:40 <pleia2> not in the loco directory yet, but we'll host our regular ubuntu hour next week, on july 8th
 02:04:44 <pleia2> in san francisco
 02:04:55 <pleia2> will likely do a debian dinner after too, but I'll confirm and email the list
 02:05:01 <pleia2> that's it from me
 02:05:04 <nhaines> pleia2: ooh, maybe I should put my talk on the LoCo directory.  Thanks for the reminder.  :)
 02:05:23 <nhaines> And glad to hear that Ubuntu Hour's still going strong up there.  I'll cross my fingers for the dinner.
 02:05:24 <pleia2> sure
 02:06:22 <nhaines> Okay, if no one else has anything upcoming...
 02:06:44 <Roguehorse> I had some stuff lined up but with my health the way it is I don't know much anymore of what's going to happen
 02:07:14 <nhaines> Roguehorse: I hope your health improves.  Don't be afraid to work with others to get help with those events!
 02:07:44 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:07:45 <Roguehorse> nhaines: thanks.....I'm trying to juggle a lot
 02:08:11 <nhaines> That's the end of our agenda items.  Does anyone have any last comments or topics to bring up?
 02:08:41 <pleia2> MajB: the floor is yours :)
 02:09:36 <pleia2> MajB emailed me on thursday to talk about some possible cross-loco activities, but they can likely say more about it
 02:09:43 <MajB> Since we are right next to each other my Team Leader asked me to reach out to you folks to see if we could pool our resources and perhaps do something together
 02:10:16 <MajB> All I really need right now is  a POC from you folks.
 02:10:56 <pleia2> nhaines and ianorlyn are among our team leads this year, so they're both good people to contact
 02:11:09 <MajB> This is something that he has been thinking about for a while and sees that perhaps it is time to start.
 02:11:13 <Roguehorse> second that
 02:11:23 <pleia2> and more generally our mailing list, since we're a very self driven group (don't need permission for things, people just dive in): ubuntu-us-ca@lists.ubuntu.com
 02:11:49 <nhaines> The mailing list is a great idea.  You can email me if you need any specific things but I'm on the mailing list too.  :)
 02:11:52 <pleia2> the last time I saw folks from the AZ LoCo was at SCALE in 2014, we're always looking for volunteers to help with the booth there
 02:11:59 <nhaines> My email address is nhaines at ubuntu dot com.
 02:12:18 <pleia2> and speakers for ubucon that we host :)
 02:12:31 <MajB> Well we run 4 ubuntu hours and 2 install fests every month.
 02:12:36 <nhaines> And SCALE's one big place we can always use volunteers.  Ubucon always needs volunteers.  :)
 02:12:40 <pleia2> MajB: that's wonderful
 02:12:51 <MajB> Yes we had reps attend SCALE
 02:13:47 <nhaines> What's the attendance like on your installfests?
 02:13:56 <MajB> So I will pick a name and continue to email.  I would also like to see something happen
 02:14:29 <MajB> 12-28 this year.  The Ubuntu Hours are of course less.
 02:15:07 <MajB> Unfortunately we only have two LUGs in state but we also do things for them when asked
 02:15:11 <nhaines> That's fantastic!  You should be very proud.
 02:15:25 <nhaines> And let me put my LoCo Council hat on for a moment and second that.  :)
 02:15:34 <MajB> The name of the game is spread Ubuntu
 02:15:47 <Roguehorse> nice =)
 02:16:15 <nhaines> I hope to hear more on our mailing list, where everyone can get involved.  It sounds like we ought to be able to join together.  :)
 02:16:22 <MajB> LoCo council.  Yep.  We have re-validation coming up in September.
 02:16:28 <Roguehorse> MajB: What's your mailing list?
 02:16:37 <MajB> Wait
 02:16:41 <nhaines> I look forward to th evaulation.
 02:17:08 <MajB> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
 02:17:08 <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu-us-az Info Page]
 02:17:10 <nhaines> Boy, this wireless keyboard is just fighting me tonight.
 02:17:25 <nhaines> Great, I'll have to peek at the list archives.
 02:17:35 <nhaines> Okay, is there any other business before we wrap this up?
 02:18:34 <MajB> I would check the wiki  to look at activities https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
 02:18:34 <darthrobot`> Title: [ArizonaTeam - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:18:51 <pleia2> MajB: thanks for coming, the work on your team is really inspiring
 02:19:06 <MajB> Thank you.
 02:19:20 <Roguehorse> MajB: Yeah..very cool! Thanks for coming over.
 02:19:28 <pleia2> nhaines: nothing from me
 02:19:38 <nhaines> pleia2: thanks.
 02:20:13 <Roguehorse> nhaines: sorry dude, my brain is mush.
 02:20:36 <nhaines> Okay, so I think that about wraps things up.  As always, you can bring discussion up on our mailing list, and of course, the channel is always open!
 02:21:26 <nhaines> Our next meeting is Sunday, July 12th, at 7PDT.  By which time https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15July12 will be a thing!
 02:21:26 <darthrobot`> [404] Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15July12 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:21:28 <nhaines> Thanks for coming everyone.  Hope to see you next time!
 02:21:31 <nhaines> #endmeeting}}}
