{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, September 25th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Oneiric Release plans: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OneiricRelease]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>  1. Team Leadership Elections -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki> 
If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:04] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:04] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11September25
[02:05] <pleia2> [TOPIC] Oneiric Release plans: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OneiricRelease
[02:05] <MarkDude> Use of word collaborate makes it clear WHY. Better than any suggestion I could have made
[02:05] <pleia2> so far there aren't any plans for the Oneiric release
[02:05] <philipballew> sd might have a party
[02:05] <pleia2> I'm going to be out of town for the actual week of the release
[02:06] <philipballew> so so cal should have something
[02:06] <pleia2> (actually giving a presentation about it in Philly, and probably going to their release party ;))
[02:06] <MarkDude> DarkwingDuck: ping
[02:06] <pleia2> philipballew: cool :)
[02:07] <pleia2> I'll drop a mail to the list reminding people it's coming up soon
[02:07] <philipballew> pleia2, about how long after do cd's come?
[02:07] <pleia2> philipballew: usually about 2 weeks
[02:07] <philipballew> right.
[02:08] <pleia2> then I ship them everywhere, which takes a day or two
[02:08] <philipballew> DarkwingDuck, should have them and I can meet him at the uh or whatever
[02:08] <pleia2> so I'll send a bunch down to you or DarkwingDuck probably the day after the shipment gets in
[02:08] <pleia2> sounds good :)
[02:08] <philipballew> he's gonna go to uds. will they show up before that?
[02:09] <pleia2> yeah, I think so
[02:09] <pleia2> we'll see how timing works out and go from there
[02:09] <pleia2> any other comments about the release for now?
[02:10] <DarkwingDuck> Hi, I'm here.
[02:10] <pleia2> our next meeting is on the 9th,the release is on the 13th
[02:10] <DarkwingDuck> Got caught up in my Colts game.
[02:10] <pleia2> welcome DarkwingDuck
[02:10] <pleia2> [TOPIC] Team Leadership Elections
[02:11] <pleia2> DarkwingDuck: were you going to handle this?
[02:11] <DarkwingDuck> Yes, I have zero notes. I'm on mobile right now.
[02:11] <bkerensa> pleia2: :) CA could always come visit their Northern Neighbor... We should have a keg, soft drinks and gourmet pizza again (fingers crossed)
[02:11] <bkerensa> :D
[02:11] <DarkwingDuck> However, I get my working laptop tomorrow so, I will be sending an email about it very very very soon.
[02:11] <pleia2> DarkwingDuck: can you put out a call for nominees this week?
[02:11] <pleia2> ok, great
[02:11] <pleia2> we need to get this rolling ASAP
[02:12] <DarkwingDuck> aye, It will happen BEFORE wednesday
[02:12] <pleia2> as a review, we have a team leadership document: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership
[02:12]  * MarkDude nominates nhaines 
[02:12] <jdeslip> Yep. It has been a fun year for me. But, I'm not going to run for reelection :)
[02:12] <pleia2> elections are yearly, and we elect three people from around the state to co-lead
[02:12] <pleia2> it's that time of year :)
[02:12] <rww> o/
[02:13] <pleia2> MarkDude: nominating people is fine, but please confirm they are willing to stand for leadership before formally submitting their name
[02:13] <MarkDude> fair enough, makes sense
[02:13] <DarkwingDuck> I'll be sending an email laying out the procedure.
[02:13] <rww> (as in hi, not as in volunteering)
[02:13] <pleia2> rww: haha
[02:13] <DarkwingDuck> rww: Almost got ya
[02:13] <jdeslip> rww: too bad
[02:13] <MarkDude> He would make a great leader, I hope others encourage him also
[02:13] <philipballew> pleia2, the job pays lots right?
[02:13] <philipballew> haha
[02:15] <pleia2> philipballew: hah
[02:16] <pleia2> thanks for working on this DarkwingDuck :)
[02:16] <pleia2> that's all we have for the agenda
[02:16] <pleia2> [TOPIC] Announcements, etc
[02:16] <MarkDude> it pays with a warm fuzzy from the feeling of helping ;)
[02:16] <rww> That's what that is? I thought it was indigestion.
[02:17] <DarkwingDuck> Libertopia is getting rough... I'm having a hard time witht he funds... Being unemployed sux
[02:17] <DarkwingDuck> But, I've been talking to a couple places for sponsorship.
[02:17] <philipballew> would canonical help?
[02:18] <pleia2> DarkwingDuck: maybe another note to the list asking for help?
[02:18] <DarkwingDuck> pleia2: I was going to.
[02:18] <pleia2> philipballew: they sent a conference pack, they don't give financial funding for booths beyond that
[02:18] <DarkwingDuck> philipballew: I'm not sure... I can ask.
[02:18] <pleia2> philipballew: care to share your blog post about the last SD ubuntu hour?
[02:18] <philipballew> i sent in a request to omgubuntu 4 times to give us an article but no word yet
[02:19] <philipballew> yeah. let me post it right here
[02:19] <philipballew> 1 min
[02:19] <pleia2> they did an article
[02:19] <DarkwingDuck> philipballew: They did do it.
[02:19] <philipballew> hum. you got a link?
[02:19] <DarkwingDuck> Its in a ping back on my blog.
[02:19] <philipballew> https://philipballew.wordpress.com/2011/09/21/ubuntu-hour-success-can-we-do-it-again/
[02:20] <pleia2> hooray san diego
[02:20] <DarkwingDuck> It was awesome. 2 brand new people off the street!
[02:20] <pleia2> :)
[02:20] <philipballew> and that guy matt signed up on the email list
[02:21] <pleia2> ok, I think we pretty much covered everything
[02:21] <pleia2> anything else before we wrap up?
[02:22] <pleia2> ok, I'll email the list reminding about the release, DarkwingDuck will email about leadership and Libertopia help
[02:22] <pleia2> thanks everyone :)
[02:22] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
