{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

We will be celebrating the <nowiki>[[SaucySalamander-ReleaseSchedule|release of Ubuntu 13.10 (Saucy Salamander)]]</nowiki> which is happening in October, 2013. Physical and virtual (IRC & other) Saucy events will be scheduled.  Each release cycle a number of efforts happen focused around the release.  Globally, <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki> events happen a month or two before the release focusing on new contributors.  Parties (listed below) and <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki> happen near or after the release.  If you are thinking about organizing one, <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningReleaseParty]]</nowiki> has some hints more hints are described in a video <nowiki>[[http://www.ustream.tv/recorded/6181333|how to do a release party.]]</nowiki> "... can be organized in literally 10 minutes."

=== Saucy Release Parties ===

We had release parties.

These events are listed chronologically. Details have yet to be confirmed. World wide events are listed on the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/|LoCo directory]]</nowiki>.

==== Parties ====

* San Francisco, Thu, 17 Oct: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2583-san-francisco-saucy-salamander-release-party/
** Blog post summary: http://princessleia.com/journal/?p=8606

===== Brainstorming =====

==== Installfest ====
* Date:
* Location: 
* Time: 
* Event web page & notes: 

=== DVD Distribution ===

Canonical no longer produces DVDs for non-LTS releases.

For large conferences please contact Elizabeth Krumbach at lyz@ubuntu.com to request an UbuntuAtConferences conference pack plus DVDs ''at LEAST 6 weeks prior to the event'' and you can request 12.04 CDs.

=== General Info ===
* '''<nowiki>[[SaucySalamander|Saucy Salamander 13.10]]</nowiki> started after the release of 13.04 Raring Ringtail. See <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-UsingDevelopmentReleases]]</nowiki>.  The final stable version was <nowiki>[[SaucySalamander-ReleaseSchedule|released]]</nowiki> on October 17, 2013.'''
* For general Ubuntu information please see <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|www.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> or ask in one of Ubuntu's <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support/communitysupport|community support areas]]</nowiki>.
* The <nowiki>[[UDS|Ubuntu Developer Summits]]</nowiki> for Saucy Salamander were held online in <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1308/ August]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1305/ May]]</nowiki>. A Technical Overview and <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/saucy|Blueprints]]</nowiki> were used as guides for producing this release.
