{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, April 21st, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. No items

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:03] <grantbow> quiet meeting so far and nothing on the agenda. Who's here for the meeting?
[02:03] <eps> o/
[02:07] <grantbow> ok, the floor is open. Any announcements?
[02:17] <grantbow> well, there's a release coming up April 25th, 13.04 raring ringtail https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/
[02:17] <darthrobot`> Title: [RaringRingtail - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:18] <grantbow> Let's move this roaring discussion to the email list. See you in two weeks. Meeting adjourned :-)
</pre>
