{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, December 18th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. SCALE - Booth signup -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:david.wonderly]]</nowiki> 
If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:02] <Darkwing> Welcome to the meeting.
[03:03]  * jtatum waves
[03:03] <Darkwing> There is only one item on the agenda.
[03:03] <Darkwing> SCALE 10x
[03:03] <Darkwing> Woot! for SCALE
[03:03] <Darkwing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale10x
[03:04] <Darkwing> That is the project page.
[03:04] <Darkwing> We are looking for volunteers for both Ubucon and the Booth.
[03:04] <Darkwing> Manning the booth isn't so bad. Meeting people, handing out CDs
[03:04] <Darkwing> talking to people. Very nice and fun.
[03:05] <pleia2> some photos from last year: http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntu-us-ca/sets/72157626169907536/
[03:06] <pleia2> we also need to pull over our "stuff" list from last year and get people to commit to bring stuff
[03:06] <Darkwing> Aye we do.
[03:06] <Darkwing> You want me to setup getting the conf pack and CDs?
[03:06] <pleia2> were you going to talk to jono about CDs?
[03:06] <Darkwing> Aye
[03:06] <pleia2> that sounds good
[03:07] <Darkwing> I'm gonig to drop him an email plus corner him in IRC
[03:07] <Darkwing> Half of me hopes I can make it and half of me hopes I have a job by then.
[03:07] <pleia2> jobs are good
[03:07]  * Darkwing has visions of an Ubuntu Booth at E3
[03:08] <Darkwing> Does anyone have any questoins about SCALE?
[03:09] <Darkwing> Anyone have any comments about it?
[03:09] <jtatum> I wish I could make it :(
[03:09] <Darkwing> :(
[03:10] <pleia2> we don't have the booth documents yet, but we do have the coupon code and registration instructions for volunteers, so ask one of us if you need them
[03:10] <Darkwing> pleia2: Gareth said I should have those soon.
[03:11]  * Darkwing zaps Gareth with a caddle proad
[03:11] <pleia2> we also have a half off code for folks who want a discount to attend but don't want to volunteer with the booth: UBUCO
[03:11] <pleia2> (anyone can use that)
[03:12] <Darkwing> Does anyone have any other buisness? Questions? Comments? announcements?
[03:13] <pleia2> Ubunth Hour and Debian dinner this past week was a lot of fun :) 7 attendees at each, 9 people total between them
[03:13] <Darkwing> nice
[03:13] <jledbetter> SV was awesome too
[03:14] <pleia2> Darkwing: is the Dec 20th San Diego Hour happening?
[03:14] <pleia2> it's still on the schedule, so it should be removed ASAP if not
[03:14] <Darkwing> As far as I know, yes.
[03:14] <pleia2> who is running it?
[03:15] <Darkwing> I am AFAIK.
[03:15] <Darkwing> Phil is up north.
[03:15] <pleia2> ok :)
[03:15] <pleia2> yeah
[03:15] <Darkwing> I think.
[03:15] <pleia2> I haven't seen kdub in a bit
[03:15] <Darkwing> Neither have I.
[03:15] <Darkwing> He got a girl and his job
[03:15]  * philipballew cant get kevin to text him back also
[03:16] <Darkwing> Neither can I.
[03:16] <Darkwing> Hey philipballew
[03:16] <philipballew> hey Darkwing
[03:16] <Darkwing> pleia2: I'll know for sure by tomorrow morning.
[03:16] <pleia2> ok, great
[03:17] <Darkwing> Biggest issue is no car and its 25 miles away :)
[03:21] <pleia2> sounds like we're doing :)
[03:21] <pleia2> err, done!
[03:21] <Darkwing> Aye, thanks for coming out
</pre>
