{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, November 29th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

 1. Upcoming events
  a. After a 2 month hiatus, Ubuntu Hour San Francisco returns on Dec 9th! http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3261-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
# Announcements
# We have a meetup group now, what should we do with it?

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

{{{#!IRC
18:58 < pleia2> freenode has been subject to ddos attacks throughout the us holiday, so lots of netsplits and connection woes
18:59 < nhaines> Yeah, it's been a shame.
19:00 < nhaines> Hopefully everything stays stable for our meeting.  Which is now!
19:00 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:00 < nhaines> !startmeeting
19:00 < nhaines> Hm.
19:00 < EureCA> Factoid startmeeting not found
19:00 < nhaines> Shush, you.
19:00 < nhaines> Okay, manual logs this time around!  :)
19:00 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:01 < nhaines> Welcome to the penultimate Ubuntu California LoCo meeting this year!
19:01 < nhaines> This meeting's agenda can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15November29
19:01 < nhaines> Can we get a show of hands for attendance?
19:02 < darkwizardjack> Newbie here!
19:03 < nhaines> darkwizardjack: welcome!
19:03 < darkwizardjack> TY
19:05 < nhaines> Hmm, usually the attendance thing is more popular.  :)
19:05 < nhaines> Okay, so first up on the agenda...
19:05 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming Events.
19:05 < nhaines> pleia2: Ubuntu Hour San Francisco is back again, right?
19:06 < pleia2> o/
19:06 < pleia2> yes, we have one coming up the 2nd wednesday in december
19:06 < pleia2> #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3261-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
19:06 < nhaines> That's the 9th.  Sounds like fun!
19:07 < pleia2> and one coming up on our next meeting day (earlier in the day) in berkeley on the 13th
19:07 < pleia2> #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2997-ubuntu-hour-berkeley/
19:08 < nhaines> Oh, that'll be nice.  I hope the weather is pleasant for both of them!
19:08 < pleia2> they're both indoors anyway ;)
19:09 < nhaines> My favorite way to enjoy rain *is* through a window.  :)
19:09 < nhaines> But good weather makes the trip less dreary anyway.
19:09  * pleia2 nods
19:09 < nhaines> Glad UH is back.  Thank sfor that, pleia2.  :)
19:09 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:10 < nhaines> Are there any general announcements before we move on to tonight's agenda items?
19:10 < pleia2> I don't have anything
19:11 < nhaines> Me either.  This meeting might be a victim of the Freenode DDOS attacks, unfortunately.
19:11 < nhaines> Okay, we can always come back to that later.
19:11 < nhaines> #topic We have a meetup group now, what should we do with it?
19:11 < nhaines> So we have a Meetup group now!  http://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/
19:12 < pleia2> right, so we're one of the trial teams for the ubuntu community funds supported meetup groups
19:12 < pleia2> but we also have the loco team portal, which we've always used and have events and RSVPs on
19:12 < nhaines> pleia2: actually, I believe Canonical is funding this without the community funds.  :)
19:12 < pleia2> nhaines: oh, that's nice :)
19:13 < pleia2> admittedly, the loco team portal is not used much, some people have trouble logging in, not much development is happening...
19:13 < nhaines> pleia2: yeah, they didn't want it to be dependant on donation amounts.  :)
19:13 < pleia2> that's good
19:13 < pleia2> still, the loco team portal is open source and I like how clean and non-spammy it is
19:14 < nhaines> So one of the alleged benefits of a Meetup group is that we can use it for external outreach to non-Ubuntu community members.  Which is nice because that's part of our mandate as a LoCo team.
19:14 < pleia2> yeah, and already without much mentioning of it, we have 21 members
19:14 < pleia2> some of whom I recognize from other meetups I go to, not from ubuntu anything
19:14 < nhaines> And we already have 21 new users--right.  :)  Only 3 or 4 of which are Ubuntu people.
19:15 < nhaines> So that's a promising start!
19:15 < pleia2> I'm inclined to duplicate the events I run across both things
19:15 < pleia2> it's messy, but eh
19:15 < nhaines> I think that's a good idea for now.  The plan is to extend the LoCo directory so that creating the event there duplicates it to Meetup.com automatically.
19:16 < ianorlin> wow finally got here
19:16 < pleia2> nhaines: ah, that'd be nice
19:16 < nhaines> But that's work and the loco directory is mostly in maintenance mode.  But if we can show that Meetup is popular, that will probably spur action in that regard.
19:16 < nhaines> So for now we're using it for Ubucon Summit registration.
19:17 < pleia2> I'll add the SF ubuntu hour
19:17 < nhaines> Great!
19:18 < nhaines> I hope to see more public events this next year, and I think Meetup.com will really help get the word out.
19:18 < ianorlin> yes it will and maybe get more people that might offer places
19:19 < nhaines> So I think we're off to a small but very promising start.
19:19 < nhaines> Let's try to get in-person events listed there as we plan them out.
19:19 < nhaines> Any other comments on Meetup.com?
19:21 < pleia2> I think that's it really
19:21 < nhaines> #topic Ubuntu California Leadership nominations
19:21 < nhaines> The call for nominations is still open!  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership/2015
19:22 < nhaines> For another week, actually.
19:22 < nhaines> Until December 5th, which is now reflected on the wiki page.
19:23 < nhaines> Leadership is fairly simple, because all LoCo members in Ubuntu California are basically empowered to work on anything they like.
19:23 < pleia2> so we just need one more brave soul to put their name forward to get the minimum
19:23 < nhaines> So it's more administrative.  Running the meetings, updating the wiki, sending out email notifications, and so forth.
19:23 < nhaines> Yup, it would be nice to have a real election.
19:24 < ianorlin> hmm right no don't we have nhaines and I nominated so hopefully at least one or two people from bay area
19:24 < ianorlin> or farther north asa that is a bit of a commute for say a release party
19:25 < nhaines> Yes, it'd be nice to have the representation.  Although it's mainly symbolic.
19:26 < nhaines> So the day after the nomination period closes, we'll start the election.
19:26 < nhaines> Anyone who is a member of http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/ is eligible to vote.
19:28 < nhaines> The election will end on December 12th, and then we'll announce the results at the December 13th meeting before we break for the rest of the year.
19:29 < nhaines> That's about all I have on that topic.
19:29 < pleia2> we'll also need someone to volunteer who is not running to run the election, if there is one
19:30 < nhaines> Yes, that would be helpful!
19:30 < nhaines> So if you're interested, please volunteer on the mailing list.
19:30 < pleia2> but I guess we'll cross that bridge if we get to it :)
19:30 < nhaines> Yup.  :)
19:32 < ianorlin> How many meetings in new year before scale?
19:32 < nhaines> Just one.
19:32 < ianorlin> ah ok
19:32 < pleia2> unfortunately it's likely much too late to ask my employer for funding for the event
19:33 < pleia2> I really needed that info 2 months ago
19:33 < pleia2> so hopefully whatever funding is needed has come together
19:34 < nhaines> Yes, Canonical's still working on it.
19:35 < nhaines> The sponsorship brochure is finished but I wasn't able to get the address.  It's on the Ubucon site.
19:35 < nhaines> Which is http://ubucon.org/ and is looking great.  It should get fully filled in over the next week.
19:36 < pleia2> hopefully they'll be able to get it together earlier next year
19:37 < pleia2> can't ask for funding less than 8 weeks before an event, particularly with the holidays in the way
19:37 < nhaines> I think so.  The new venue made it difficult to get funding information together.
19:37  * pleia2 nods
19:37 < nhaines> But all the planning is coming together well.  We'll need booth volunteers soon!
19:38 < pleia2> great
19:38 < nhaines> Anyone interested can sign up here  ;)  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale14x
19:39 < nhaines> And that's easy too.  We'll need booth volunteers who can greet SCALE attendees and answer simple questions about Ubuntu.
19:40 < nhaines> We'll also have phones and IoT devices running snappy Ubuntu Core to demonstrate.  So it's worth volunteering, and you'll get to be the first to experience those things hands on.
19:40 < nhaines> Okay, about time to wrap everything up for tonight, I think.
19:41 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:41 < nhaines> Any other business or comments before we wrap up tonight?
19:41 < pleia2> I'm all set
19:41 < pleia2> thanks for charing :)
19:42 < nhaines> Thanks.  :)
19:42  * nhaines assumes pleia2 meant chairing and not charring.
19:42 < nhaines> I already cooked earlier. ; )
19:42 < nhaines> Okay, thanks to everyone for coming tonight!
19:43 < nhaines> #endmeeting
19:44 < pleia2> charring :d
19:44 < pleia2> I woke up on the other coast, it's been a long day :) }}}
