{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, September 6th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3196-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/|Ubuntu Hour San Francisco]]</nowiki>
  a. <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2991-ubuntu-hour-berkeley/|Ubuntu Hour Berkley]]</nowiki>
  a. Add your event information here.
1. Announcements
   a. Add your announcement here.
# Ubuntu 15.10 (Wily Werewolf) Release Party Planning
# Add your agenda item here.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <ianorlyn> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Sep  7 02:00:54 2015 UTC.  The chair is ianorlyn. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:01] <ianorlyn> #chair ianorlin nhaines
[02:01] <darthrobot> Warning: Nick not in channel: ianorlin
[02:01] <darthrobot> Current chairs: ianorlin ianorlyn nhaines
[02:02] <ianorlyn> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15September06 is the agenda
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15September06 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:02] <ianorlyn> #topic upcoming events
[02:04] <ianorlyn> There are two ubuntu hours coming up
[02:04] <ianorlyn> who is here for meeting sorry forgot that
[02:04] <Roguehorse> O/
[02:04] <lrcaballero> LO/
[02:05] <nhaines> _o/
[02:06] <ianorlyn> ok first meeting is ubuntu hour in SAn Francisco On wednesday septemeber 9th
[02:06] <ianorlyn> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3196-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
[02:06] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:07] <ianorlyn> 6pm
[02:08] <ianorlyn> the next http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2991-ubuntu-hour-berkeley/ is on the 17th in berkley
[02:08] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour Berkeley | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:10] <ianorlyn> at at 7:30 to 8:30 pm
[02:10] <ianorlyn> #topic announcments
[02:11] <nhaines> My book should be out in the next couple of weeks: http://amzn.to/1MpbL9V
[02:12] <darthrobot> [R: www.amazon.com] Title: [Beginning Ubuntu for Windows and Mac Users: Nathan Haines: 9781484206096: Amazon.com: Books]
[02:12] <lrcaballero> Nice! Congrats Nathan...
[02:12] <lrcaballero> :-D
[02:12] <nhaines> lrcaballero: thanks!  I'm halfway through reviewing proofs.  Should be finished Wednesday.  :)
[02:12] <ianorlyn> any news on the video from oclug?
[02:13] <nhaines> Yes, I got that yesterday, and pending a couple changes to the slide duration and rerendering, that should also be done this week.  I'll post on the mailing lists and Planet when that's up.
[02:13] <nhaines> It came out pretty good I think.
[02:16] <ianorlyn> #topic release party planning
[02:18] <ianorlyn> We really should start planning now as it is next month
[02:23] <nhaines> Is anyone planning a release party for Ubuntu 15.10?
[02:25] <Roguehorse> Hmm...doesn't look like it
[02:25]  * ianorlyn currently is not
[02:25] <ianorlyn> but should think about places
[02:29] <nhaines> Well, anyone who wants to request a conference pack from Canonical has a week to do so.
[02:30] <nhaines> So think about it this week.
[02:31] <Roguehorse> What else is going on?
[02:33] <Roguehorse> Ooooh .. cool=)
[02:34] <ianorlyn> ok it seems no one is planning one yet
[02:34] <ianorlyn> but one will be nice
[02:34] <lrcaballero> Nathan: what doesthe conference pack include?
[02:35] <nhaines> lrcaballero: we get Pack A here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAtConferences
[02:35] <darthrobot> Title: [UbuntuAtConferences - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:36] <nhaines> Landyards, stickers, pins, writing pens, LTS discs, and usually a couple shirts.
[02:36] <Roguehorse> Wow! Nice pack.
[02:36] <lrcaballero> nhaines: got it...Thank you! I googled it as well
[02:37] <lrcaballero> nhaines: the request will go through you?
[02:38] <nhaines> Yes, email me and pleia2 and I will faclitate it with Canonical.
[02:38] <lrcaballero> Thanks!
[02:40] <ianorlyn> #topic any other busniess
[02:40] <Roguehorse> Yes
[02:42] <Roguehorse> I'm out of state and will be for some time. It was an emergency situation.
[02:42] <ianorlyn> Roguehorse, understood and try to get well
[02:43] <Roguehorse> TY
[02:43] <Roguehorse> Not sure if I will be stopping back from eblug or not.
[02:44] <Roguehorse> Many things are still up in the air right now.
[02:44] <ianorlyn> might be best to tell the lug the truth and not just disapper
[02:44] <Roguehorse> I've talked to someone already.
[02:46] <Roguehorse> Well, I'm not entirely sure what's happening next so it's hard to pass on uncetainty.
[02:48] <Roguehorse> Reality is, I will be absent from CA most likely many months at least. For sure? Not sure.
[02:49] <nhaines> Well we do have a few former Californians out here so you're welcome to stick around and lurk or chime in.
[02:49] <Roguehorse> =)
[02:51] <Roguehorse> That's it from me. TY. =)
[02:52] <ianorlyn> #endmeeting
</pre>
