{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, November 16th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Add your item here

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

==== Log ====

<pre> irc
[03:00] <rww> #startmeeting
[03:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Nov 17 03:00:15 2014 UTC.  The chair is rww. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:00] <rww> #topic Roll call
[03:00] <rww> Raise your hands in the air
[03:00] <rww> like you just don't care?
[03:00] <rww> o/
[03:00] <DonkeyHotei> [Sun 2014-11-16 05:04:05 PM PST] <DonkeyHotei> o/
[03:00] <nhaines> _o/
[03:00] <ianorlin> o/
[03:00] <eps> o|
[03:00] <elky> o/
[03:01] <ianorlin> wait but I am left handed does that mean I should go \o
[03:01] <DonkeyHotei> Ã´
[03:02] <rww> woohoo, people
[03:02] <elky> ianorlin: you should try use your offhand as much as possible so it stays strong :P
[03:02] <rww> alrighty, I'm going to take the topics in reverse chronological order because why not
[03:02] <rww> #topic Next meeting date
[03:02] <rww> Next meeting is scheduled for November 30th right now, which is on the Sunday of Thanksgiving week.
[03:02] <rww> I guess that's sub-optimal. Shall I suggest on the mailing list that we skip/postpone that one?
[03:03] <rww> (and if so, which of skip/postpone)
[03:03] <ianorlin> postpone
[03:03] <elky> skip
[03:03] <DonkeyHotei> maybe the previous sunday?
[03:03] <elky> the last few agendas have been so busy and all </s>
[03:03] <eps> skip until Dec. 14
[03:04] <rww> ianorlin: until the 7th I guess?
[03:04] <ianorlin> yes
[03:04] <nhaines> Skip.
[03:05] <DonkeyHotei> 3 skips so far
[03:06] <rww> If we postpone, it's 7th and 21st. if we skip, it's 14th and 28th
[03:06]  * rww ponders
[03:06] <rww> or 7th and 14th I guess
[03:06] <DonkeyHotei> 21st is close to christmas, 28th is close to new year's
[03:07] <rww> I'll email the mailing list about meetings in december in general, and try to get consensus by the 23rd. Does that work for everyone?
[03:07] <ianorlin> yes
[03:07] <elky> yep
[03:07] <DonkeyHotei> "
[03:08] <eps> abstain
[03:08] <rww> #action rww to email ML tonight about December meetings, decision by 23rd
[03:08] <darthrobot> ACTION: rww to email ML tonight about December meetings, decision by 23rd
[03:08] <nhaines> Sounds good to me.
[03:08] <rww> #topic 2015 leadership election reminder
[03:09] <rww> This is pretty much just a note that we have an election coming up. Based on the timing last year, there should be a nomination period in December and election in January.
[03:09] <rww> jyo did it last year, but I'm not running this year and am fine with doing it instead. Whatever works.
[03:09] <rww> Anyone have any election-related comments?
[03:10] <DonkeyHotei> great because jyo is hereby nominated
[03:10] <rww> I forget whether nominations are self-nominations or not.
[03:10] <nhaines> I approve of elections in general.
[03:11] <DonkeyHotei> i believe both are acceptable
[03:11] <rww> yeah, looks like non-self was fine last year and jyo checked in with nominees before election to see if they actually want to run
[03:12] <rww> however, the nomination period isn't open yet, so hold that thought until it is ;)
[03:12] <rww> anyone have any questions/comments/concerns about that whole process?
[03:12]  * ianorlin doesn't
[03:14] <rww> alrighty, moving onwards
[03:14] <rww> #topic SCaLE
[03:15] <rww> #link http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale13x
[03:15] <darthrobot> Title: [SCALE 13x | scale13x]
[03:15] <nhaines> I also approve of SCaLE in general.
[03:15] <DonkeyHotei> nhaines: you gonna do ubucon again?
[03:15] <rww> Looks like it's scheduled for February 19-22, 2015 this year, at Hilton LAX (again).
[03:16] <rww> If anyone's interested in presenting at SCaLE itself, see https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp and submit a proposal by the 10th
[03:16] <darthrobot> Title: [Call for Papers | SCALE 13x]
[03:16] <rww> Who's planning on going so far? (I'm not, busy at work around then.)
[03:16] <eps> I hope most of you have already made arrangements. Affordable travel and accommodations are going to disappear soon, if they haven't already. Cheap seats on Megabus are already sold out.
[03:17] <nhaines> I'm planning to be there.  I'll take charge of the booth this year.
[03:18] <DonkeyHotei> affordable accommodations never *completely* sold out before, just needed an extra drive
[03:18] <eps> We need a discount code for regular attendees and the usual packet for workers.
[03:18] <rww> nhaines: do you want to coordinate with the SCaLE folks to get the booth registered and such?
[03:18] <nhaines> Ooh, tht's a good idea.  Yeah, I'll handle that this year and get the discount code and stuff.
[03:19] <eps> This year looks different ... the usual overflow hotels are horrendously expensive, suggesting there's another major event on those dates.
[03:19] <nhaines> eps: that all comes together with the packet.
[03:19] <rww> nhaines: ta. CC: the leadership folks on emails so we know status please :)
[03:20] <ianorlin> I am
[03:20] <eps> Note that SCaLE has expanded to four days.
[03:20] <rww> also, I notice that since action can't be taken on non-agendized items, I'll be emailing the list asking for input before making that decision "official"
[03:20] <rww> so hold off about a week
[03:20] <rww> #action rww to email list about SCaLE, recommending voluntelling nhaines to coordinate booth work
[03:20] <darthrobot> ACTION: rww to email list about SCaLE, recommending voluntelling nhaines to coordinate booth work
[03:20] <nhaines> Sounds good to me.
[03:20] <eps> Put SCaLE discussion on the next agenda.
[03:21] <rww> #action rww to add SCaLE to the next meeting agenda when he makes the next meeting agenda tonight
[03:21] <darthrobot> ACTION: rww to add SCaLE to the next meeting agenda when he makes the next meeting agenda tonight
[03:21] <rww> (I'll date it for the 30th, until we decide what date to move it to)
[03:23] <rww> Any other SCaLE comments/questions/discussion?
[03:23] <DonkeyHotei> look for accommodations in the Monterey Park area?
[03:24] <eps> DonkeyHotei: that's a bit of a commute
[03:24] <DonkeyHotei> yep
[03:24] <ianorlin> my commute is from Torrance
[03:24] <ianorlin> at my parents house
[03:25] <DonkeyHotei> torrance is closer
[03:28] <rww> if anyone needs to do rideshare and such, that'd be something to bring up in here pretty shortly
[03:28] <rww> anyways, next topic
[03:28] <rww> #topic Event ideas
[03:28] <DonkeyHotei> personally i can't afford to attend at all without free room & board atm, but if i did, my car seats 5 total
[03:29] <eps> nhaines: Do you approve of events in general?
[03:30] <DonkeyHotei> i approve of NorCal events in particular
[03:31] <nhaines> eps: indeed I do!
[03:31]  * eps does too
[03:32] <rww> any ideas for them? :3
[03:32] <nhaines> Every so often OCLUG talks about the old Linux Day events they used to host at Microcenter.
[03:32] <nhaines> It might be fun to do that sort of thing.
[03:33] <rww> what's a Linux Day?
[03:34] <nhaines> They set up a table inside or in front of Microcenter with Linux on them and showed it off, gave out discs, and probably recommended some systems that were compatible.
[03:34] <ianorlin> ah nice
[03:34] <DonkeyHotei> NorCal no longer has a Microcenter
[03:34] <eps> DonkeyHotei: whaaa?
[03:34] <ianorlin> except I might lose money from spending it
[03:35] <DonkeyHotei> eps: they closed a couple years back
[03:35] <DonkeyHotei> 2010 i think
[03:35] <eps> Darn. Looks like just Tustin now.
[03:36] <nhaines> Oh, bummer.
[03:36] <DonkeyHotei> they didn't even tell the employees not to show up for work at the time
[03:38] <eps> Well, I guess we'll have to find another place to warn people about Bay Trail-based hardware.
[03:38] <nhaines> Anyway, it might be fun to organize these kinds of events at smaller computer shops.  I'm going to try and gather information from those who ran the last ones.
[03:39] <DonkeyHotei> there are smaller computer shops?
[03:40] <nhaines> yes.  When you look at all computer shops, they are of various sizes.
[03:42] <rww> as far as tabling goes, there's also farmers markets and other community gathering type stuff
[03:44] <nhaines> That's true.  I've pondered the idea of exhibiting at swap meets or farmers markets.
[03:46] <rww> #topic Any Other Business
[03:46] <rww> anything else anyone would like to cover tonight?
[03:46]  * DonkeyHotei puts a lid on it
[03:47] <nhaines> I'm good for now.
[03:47]  * eps moves for adjournment
[03:48] <rww> and I think everyone else wandered off
[03:48] <nhaines> I approve of adjourment in general.
[03:48]  * rww bans meeting hammer
[03:48] <rww> #endmeeting
[03:48] <darthrobot> Meeting ended Mon Nov 17 03:48:55 2014 UTC.
[03:48] <darthrobot> Minutes:        http://ihas.5cat.com/~darthrobot/ubuntu-us-ca/2014/ubuntu-us-ca.2014-11-17-03.00.moin.txt</pre>
