{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, March 25th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Your agenda item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:01] <philipballew> Meeting time?
[02:03] <pleia2> yep
[02:03] <philipballew> nice!
[02:04] <pleia2> Darkwing: should be along to chair
[02:04]  * pleia2 on phone
[02:04] <philipballew> if he's busy I can just paste the stuff and let the people talk as i was gonna do the post meeting stuff on the wiki
[02:05] <philipballew> pleia2, need to go have more fun in Phili :)
[02:06] <pleia2> we can start
[02:06] <philipballew> sounds good to me
[02:07] <philipballew> I have the agenda link
[02:07] <philipballew> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12March25
[02:07] <pleia2> thanks philipballew
[02:07] <philipballew> no problem.
[02:09] <philipballew> well if anyone wants to talk about UDS that is coming up soon we can discuss that. Who all is going and what we will be doing.
[02:10] <philipballew> I will be going and Its gonna be a good time for us to you know see other ubuntu users.
[02:11] <pleia2> trying to paste link :)
[02:11] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Q/OtherEvents
[02:11] <philipballew> when were in our "daily lives" finding another Ubuntu user is not always common, however here I will be and thats alwways a nice treat
[02:11] <pleia2> there!
[02:12] <philipballew> we need to have all places to visit accessible by transit I assume
[02:15] <philipballew> well pleia2 I guess the meeting is about over. I can do the post meeting logs monday
[02:15] <pleia2> yeah, we have a good list coning togethr
[02:16] <pleia2> wait, release parties :)
[02:16] <philipballew> oh thats right!
[02:16] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/PreciseRelease
[02:16] <pleia2> so far only san francisco
[02:17] <philipballew> I assume that will stay. SD here is probably bot gonna happen as I will not be able to do anything
[02:17] <pleia2> i need to add it to that page
[02:17] <pleia2> anyone else from ubuntu hours want to do anything?
[02:18] <philipballew> I just got 12 books from oriley for the sd ubuntu hour to pass out a couple each to people who come to the next meeting
[02:19] <pleia2> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1615/detail/ is sf details, thirsty bear as usual ;)
[02:19] <pleia2> sweet
[02:20] <eps> How about a *real* release party, at a place where you can get a seat, it isn't so noisy you can't hear yourself thing, there are power outlets, Wi-Fi, and better food choices?
[02:20] <eps> s/thing/think
[02:21] <pleia2> oh, grantbow and i will be doinf a presentation on 12.04 at balug next month
[02:21] <philipballew> nice!
[02:21] <pleia2> eps: you're welcome to plan one
[02:22] <eps> I thought I already had ... but you tabled discussion at the last meeting, unilaterally dictated something different, and I still can't edit the Wiki.
[02:22] <pleia2> eps: we arent restricted to one night or one venue
[02:23] <eps> I still can't edit the Wiki.
[02:23] <eps> Can we talk about UDS?
[02:23] <pleia2> events go in loco.ubuntu.com now
[02:23] <jyo> MarkDude: We should start figuring out who wants to baseball during UDS.
[02:23] <pleia2> we just add the link to the wiki
[02:24] <eps> OK, move https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Q/OtherEvents to loco.ubuntu.com.
[02:24] <philipballew> jyo, I do!!!
[02:24] <pleia2> if we want to do a panera release too someone needs to take a lead there, i dont have time beyond a simppe thirsty bear thing :(
[02:25] <pleia2> eps: we can once its formalized
[02:25] <eps> Can we discuss UDS now?
[02:26] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UDS-Q
[02:26] <eps> Yes, a page I can't edit.
[02:26] <pleia2> is the ideas page
[02:26] <pleia2> you can share ideas now
[02:26] <philipballew> I assume your logged in eps ?
[02:26] <pleia2> someone who can edit it will add them
[02:27] <eps> philipballew: yes. It's the *only* think my ID doesn't work on.
[02:27] <eps> San Francisco Tourism: can this start any earlier?
[02:27] <pleia2> once ideas are finaluzed we create the loco.ubuntu event like i did for tourism and add it to the non-california uds page
[02:28] <pleia2> eps: no, sessions dontvend until 6pm
[02:28] <philipballew> what is the best way to make a decision for what event/s we should do?
[02:29] <pleia2> we dont needvto decidevreallu, just find someone tovrun it
[02:29] <eps> I'm asking for a reason ... rather than take BART into The City, I was going to suggest the ferry, which leaves at 6:55 p.m. http://www.eastbayferry.com/when/aopm.html
[02:30] <philipballew> well it seems someone is setting up a bball game?
[02:30] <jyo> MarkDude can get tickets or group tickets.
[02:30] <jyo> but need to figure out number of people
[02:30] <pleia2> eps: we can try, but people tend to like to change and freshen up after sessions, so it takes a whhile to gsther everyone
[02:31] <pleia2> 6:55 isvprobably optimistic for getting everyone to a ferry
[02:31] <philipballew> jyo, the Woman running uds details can probably tell you
[02:31] <pleia2> jyo: a uds mailing list exists
[02:32] <pleia2> last uds i had ppl email me for rsvp if tjey couldnt ise loco.ubuntu
[02:32] <eps> The next one is 7:55. The earlier one makes for a better photo op.
[02:33] <eps> I also don't know how late people want to stay up ... ideally you want them to be still functional the next morning.
[02:34] <pleia2> jyo: unfortunately we had to estimate when we got invisivle exhibition ticoets, we were fortunate they were flexible
[02:34] <pleia2> baseball ticketsbare more tricky
[02:34] <philipballew> ubuntu night at the park!
[02:35] <pleia2> people tend to stay out late, coffee is for funtionality :)
[02:35] <eps> The As could be in Toronto for all we know
[02:35] <pleia2> they are home that week
[02:35] <jyo> Blue Jays and Tigers
[02:36] <philipballew> both good teams to watch
[02:37] <pleia2> my battery is dying, i'll read the logs after and update the wiki with more ideas
[02:37] <philipballew> sounds good. someone can close the meeting soon.
[02:39] <philipballew> unless anyone has anything else to say we can close it now?
[02:41] <philipballew> end meeting
</pre>
