{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, August 18th, 2019, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

==== Meeting Logs ====
<pre> 19:01 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:01 < nhaines> Hi everyone!  Meeting time.  :)
19:03 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/19August18
19:03 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming Events
19:04 < nhaines> UbuCon LA is up and running between the 22nd and 24th of August.  It'll certainly be amazing!
19:05 < nhaines> Locally there's not much going on, but we're already in discussions on UbuCon @ SCALE 18x in Pasadena next March.
19:05 < nhaines> Does anyone know of any other upcoming Ubuntu-related events?
19:06 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:07 < nhaines> Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS was released on August 8th, so time to update your ISOs for future deployments!
19:08 < nhaines> LTS point releases offer the same great experience as the original release, but with all updates to that point rolled in.
19:08 < nhaines> And the second point release on includes a Hardware Enablement kernel from future versions of Ubuntu, offering improved hardware compatibility and support.
19:08 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:08 < nhaines> There are no items on tonight's agenda.
19:09 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:09 < nhaines> Is there any other business to discuss at this meeting?
19:09 < Guest50> Hello
19:09 < nhaines> Hello, and welcome to our monthly meeting, currently in progress.
19:09 < Guest50> How does it work?
19:09 < nhaines> Right now we're just discussing any other business before we wrap up.
19:10 < nhaines> It's quiet tonight, so in a couple of minutes we'll be able to discuss anything else you might be interested in.  :)
19:11 < Guest50> I’m new and wondering if there are any upcoming events
19:12 < nhaines> Welcome!  At the beginning of the meeting, I noticed UbuCon LA in Chile happening from Thursday to Saturday, and we've already begun planning for UbuCon at the Southern California Linux Expo in Pasadena in March 2020.
19:12 < Guest50> also is there a video chat or is this all text based? I don’t see other messages?
19:13 < nhaines> It's all text-based.  During the summer, things are pretty quiet, so this meeting is more pro-forma than usual.
19:14 < nhaines> I'm going to go ahead and end this meeting and then we can talk freely.
19:14 < nhaines> Logs will be available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/19August18
19:14 < nhaines> Our next meeting will be held on September 15th, 2019.  I hope to see everyone there!
19:14 < nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
