{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: Moccasin; border: 8px double MidnightBlue; border-collapse: collapse; border-spacing: 0; margin: 1em auto 2em;" style="padding: 0.75em 1.5em 1.5em 1em;">
|}

'''~+__Welcome to the Ubuntu California wiki!__+~'''

Ubuntu California is a group of volunteers who advocate and promote Ubuntu and Free Software in California. We attend and plan events statewide, contact and work with LUGs and other local groups, and act as the public face of the Ubuntu community in California. The group is open to everybody in the state with an interest in spreading and discussing Ubuntu.

If you'd like to join our team, visit our '''Get Involved''' page linked above. It has instructions for joining our mailing list, IRC channel, and Launchpad team. Then, take a look around the rest of our site and find something you'd like to help out with!

==== Headlines ====
* Take a look at our <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-UbuntuHours|Ubuntu Hours]]</nowiki> page and join or start an Ubuntu Hour near you!
* Visit <nowiki>[[https://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/|our LoCo Directory page]]</nowiki> to register for upcoming events

==== Projects ====
* See our <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects|Projects]]</nowiki> page for a list of current and past activities.
* We hold meetings every other Sunday evening in the '''<nowiki>[[https://web.libera.chat/gamja/#ubuntu-us-ca|#ubuntu-us-ca channel]]</nowiki>''' (web client link) on the <nowiki>[[https://libera.chat/|Libera.Chat IRC network]]</nowiki>. Our <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Meetings|IRC Meetings page]]</nowiki> has more information and dates. All interested people are welcome to join us!
* Help us put together our page of LUGs and other <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-UserGroupContacts-Groups|groups]]</nowiki> in California!

==== Goals ====
* Meet with and join up with local <nowiki>[[http://lugslist.com/ctry/usa.php?lg=en|LUGs]]</nowiki> (Linux User Groups)
* Have a presence at conferences and events such as <nowiki>[[https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/|Southern California Linux Expo]]</nowiki>.
* Coordinate with <nowiki>[[USTeams|mentors]]</nowiki>
* Advocate, advocate, and advocate! :)

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
