{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, September 23rd, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

==== Meeting logs ====

<pre> 19:01 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:01 < nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for September 23rd!
19:01 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18September23
19:02 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:02 < nhaines> Are there any upcoming events to announce?
19:03 < pleia2> nothing formal, but Partimus is working with another school (after a few years of low-income housing for adults)
19:03 < pleia2> hopefully will have something more formal event-wise we may need help with soon :)
19:04 < nhaines> Yay!  :)
19:04 < nhaines> We haven't heard back from Canonical about a machine learning event yet, so I'll be following up with them next week.
19:04 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:05 < nhaines> The SCALE 17x call for papers is officiall open.  So if you'd like to talk at SCALE or UbuCon, you can submit your paper via the "Present!" link at https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x
19:05 < pleia2> nhaines: maybe forward the announcement to the list too and add that?
19:06 < nhaines> pleia2: good idea!  They did a much softer announcement than usual this year.  I'll do that after the meeting.
19:06 < pleia2> I got an email from info@
19:07 < nhaines> I think I did.  Usually they open up the CFP in mid-July though.
19:07 < pleia2> yeah, it did feel a bit late this year
19:07 < pleia2> Fri, Sep 14, 7:54 AM
19:07 < pleia2> ^ date of the email that's forward-able
19:07 < nhaines> Thanks!  :D
19:08 < nhaines> My email got really crazy with LoCo Council stuffs this month, so that really helps.
19:08 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:08 < nhaines> There is no agenda for this meeting.
19:08 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:08 < nhaines> Anything else new to talk about tonight?
19:09 < pleia2> we had a volunteer step up to help with social media, I intend on looping him in on accounts (should have done it a week ago, life is getting away from me)
19:09 < pleia2> I haven't done much with it since scale last year :\
19:10 < nhaines> It'll be good to see what he does with them!  I do not remember his latest IRC handle.  :)
19:11 < pleia2> me neither :)
19:11 < nhaines> Well, we'll be sure to thank him on the mailing list when that transition happens.  :)
19:11  * pleia2 nods
19:12 < nhaines> Okay, I suppose that probably wraps things up for tonight, then.
19:12 < pleia2> thanks for running the meeting, nhaines :)
19:12 < nhaines> Thanks, pleia2.  :)
19:12 < nhaines> Our next meeting will be on October 7th.  Thanks for coming!
19:12 < nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
