{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, February 11th, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale16x|SCALE 16X]]</nowiki> status update.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 03:00:15 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 03:00:15 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Feb 12 03:00:15 2018 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 03:00:15 <darthrobot> 
 03:00:15 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 03:00:30 <nhaines> Welcome to the February 11th Ubuntu California meeting!
 03:00:38 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18February11
 03:00:38 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18February11 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 03:01:07 <nhaines> Just a brief SCALE update planned tonight.
 03:01:15 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 03:01:29 <nhaines> Other than SCALE, is any thing going on soon?  :)
 03:01:59 <pleia2> nothing from me
 03:02:26 <nhaines> Nothing from me either.
 03:02:39 <nhaines> We'll have to start thinking about Ubuntu Hours again after SCALE.  :)
 03:02:46 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 03:03:38 <nhaines> If anyone is interested in speaking at UbuCon, we would like to have a backup ready to go as we finalize our schedule.  More on that on the mailing list.
 03:03:53 <nhaines> Anything else going on?
 03:04:11 <nhaines> Oh, LibreOffice 6.0 and VLC 3.0 are available as snaps.
 03:04:33 <nhaines> They install and run great, although VLC can't seem to figure out how to put video pixels on my screen.  Other than that it works great.
 03:04:42 <dax> i managed to get my gnupg private key working again and am now trying to revoke it. so that's a matter of great historical importance *nod*
 03:05:03 <nhaines> I am trying to figure out why I didn't revoke my old GPG key, so that's also a thing.
 03:05:29 <nhaines> #topic SCALE 16x status update
 03:05:54 <nhaines> I just got confirmation of our booth earlier today.  We'll be in booth 303 this year.  :)
 03:06:45 <pleia2> cool
 03:06:46 <nhaines> If you are interested in volunteering for the Ubuntu booth, we would love to have you!  No experience needed, just love Ubuntu.  But you absolutely must sign up at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale16x  :)
 03:06:46 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale16x - Ubuntu Wiki]
 03:07:30 <nhaines> There's also a list of things there that would be helpful to have, so feel free to sign up, pick a slot on the schedule, and get a free full-access SCALE badge good for the entire week.
 03:08:21 <nhaines> Richard and I are busy finalizing our schedule for UbuCon at SCALE, with more info at http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-scale/
 03:08:21 <darthrobot> Title: [UbuCon at SCALE | UbuCon portal]
 03:08:31 <nhaines> That's about it for now.
 03:08:39 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 03:08:44 <nhaines> Anything else before we wrap up the meeting?
 03:08:56 <pleia2> oh
 03:09:04 <pleia2> I made this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/ReVerificationApplication2018
 03:09:04 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/ReVerificationApplication2018 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 03:09:07 <pleia2> we should fill it out
 03:09:22 <nhaines> Oh right, that didn't make it onto my list last week.  But is going on my list for this week.
 03:09:28 <dax> (elky and I will be at SCaLE, but will probably not be volunteering, we'll see)
 03:09:30 <pleia2> great, thanks :)
 03:10:00 <dax> (depending on schedule we might be able to help set up and tear down, I'll need to check with her about it)
 03:10:14 <nhaines> Fortunately, it is not interfering with our plans for SCALE and in fact the conference pack should arrive tomorrow, which is impressive because I think I only ordered it on Friday.  :)
 03:10:28 <pleia2> it'll be nice to see you both :) (even if we normally live close-ish, I am antisocial hermit when I'm in town)
 03:10:39 <nhaines> dax: what significant others love most of all is when you simplify their lives by surprising them with concrete plans.
 03:10:53 <nhaines> In any case, we'll have to hang out and catch up. :)
 03:11:11 <pleia2> nhaines: when will we get to see the schedule? :D
 03:11:20 <dax> yes, it should be quite the party. christel and (I suspect) one or two other staffers will be there too.
 03:11:26 <pleia2> cool
 03:11:34 <pleia2> schedule == ubucon
 03:11:38 <pleia2> not booth
 03:12:04 <nhaines> pleia2: as soon as we put it together, which will be this week.  Very, very soon.  :)  Also, if you could put your talk into the SCALE CFP system, SCALE is telling us no one did that yet.
 03:12:16 <pleia2> sure
 03:12:22 <nhaines> (We can schedule without it, but it makes things easier for SCALE.  Thanks, no rush.)
 03:12:36 <nhaines> Probably Tuesday or Wednesday, it'll be up.
 03:13:25 <nhaines> Okay, that's about it, I think.  Next meeting is February 25th, last one before SCALE!  No meeting during SCALE, so we'll have a month gap.  But come to SCALE and meet us there and have a real-life meeting!
 03:13:40 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
