{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, January 16th, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. Upcoming events
  a. <nowiki>[[http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-summit-us/|UbuCon Summit]]</nowiki>
  a. <nowiki>[[https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/14x|SCALE 14x]]</nowiki>
  a. Add your event information here.
 1. Announcements
   a. Add your announcement here.
 1. Add your agenda item here.
   a. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale14x|SCALE 14x Ubuntu booth volunteers needed]]</nowiki>

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[03:01] <nhaines> #startmeeting
[03:01] <nhaines> #chair nhaines ianorlin pleia2
[03:01] <nhaines> Hello everyone, and welcome to the first Ubuntu California meeting of 2016!
[03:02] <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16January10
[03:02] <nhaines> #topic Upcoming Events
[03:02] <nhaines> Coming up in a week and a half is the world's first UbuCon Summit in Pasadena!
[03:03] <nhaines> The schedule and details are available here: http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-summit-us/
[03:04] <nhaines> UbuCon Summit is a two-day celebration of Ubuntu and community, and is a great time to get together, have fun, and learn about all the crazy new things happening in the project.
[03:04] <nhaines> Thursday at 10am is especially exciting because Mark Shuttleworth is giving the opening keynote.
[03:05] <caballero> Nice! \o/
[03:05] <nhaines> And Thursday at lunch is almost as exciting because then I'm talking!
[03:05] <nhaines> Also I think pleia2 is going to talk or something.
[03:06] <nhaines> Friday has some panels before breaking out into unconference sessions, and I've heard a lot of exciting ideas for those, so you don't want to miss it.  :)
[03:06] <ianorlin> schedule is http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-summit-us/schedule/
[03:06] <nhaines> Anyone who's in Pasadena for UbuCon on Wednesday night can join us for a meet-and-greet with other UbuCon attendees.
[03:07] <nhaines> And Thursday night after the first day of UbuCon, we'll all go out for dinner and pass out some drink tickets and have a proper party.  :)
[03:07] <nhaines> Friday night after UbuCon is the standard SCALE Friday night activities, and all of the organizers will be there, so no special parties then.  ;)
[03:08] <nhaines> So Ubucon will be January 21-22nd in Pasadena.
[03:08] <nhaines> The SCALE 14x expo floor opens at 2pm on January 22nd, and will be open on the 23rd and 24th as well.
[03:09] <nhaines> Ubuntu is going to be represented in a huge way there, too.  I'll be giving a talk Saturday night about book publishing using Ubuntu, and Mark Shuttleworth will give the Saturday morning keynote.
[03:09] <nhaines> Information about SCALE 14x is available at https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/14x
[03:10] <nhaines> Use the coupon code "UBNTU" for 50% off a full-access pass.
[03:11] <nhaines> And be sure to stop by the booth because we'll have a lot of Ubuntu devices on hand to demonstrate.
[03:11] <nhaines> Final details on the UbuCon parties will be on our Meetup group and our mailing list as soon as I get them.
[03:12] <nhaines> Also, if you're going to UbuCon Summit, please RSVP on our Meetup group: http://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/events/227070159/
[03:12] <nhaines> Are there any other upcoming events to announce?
[03:12] <MarkDude> Social media links for sharing for Ubucon? Or just share meetup?
[03:12] <ianorlin> Or should we do something about getting volunteers
[03:12] <DonkeyHotei-mob> MarkDude: are you going?
[03:13] <ianorlin> I am not sure I am the best volunteering at the booth because it is a bit loud for me
[03:13] <ianorlin> and I don't deal well with that noise
[03:13] <nhaines> MarkDude: Just share the Meetup right now.  Might be some links in a day or two.
[03:13] <MarkDude> Nope, but I have a great volunteer ready. A nice cousin lives in LA, just starting Linux
[03:13] <nhaines> ianorlin: volunteer stuff is later, not during event announcements.
[03:13] <MarkDude> Cool, ty nhaines :)
[03:13] <ianorlin> ah ok
[03:14] <nhaines> #topic Announcements
[03:14] <nhaines> Does anyone have any Ubuntu-related announcements to make before we move on to our agenda items?
[03:16] <ianorlin> no
[03:16] <ianorlin> or I shold say I don't
[03:17] <nhaines> #topic SCALE 14x Ubuntu booth volunteers needed
[03:17] <nhaines> We have a SCALE booth signup sheet available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale14x
[03:18] <nhaines> So far we only have one volunteer other than myself and we need more than that.
[03:20] <nhaines> We have four shifts available throughout the weekend, and myself and Canonical employees will be around to train volunteers on the new Ubuntu news and devices so it's a great way to meet people and learn more about Ubuntu at the same time that you're teaching others about Ubuntu.
[03:21] <pleia2> apologies, here now
[03:21] <nhaines> And anyone who works one shift will have their full-access badge taken care of by me.  :)
[03:22] <nhaines> pleia2: welcome!
[03:22] <nhaines> pleia2: how do you feel about being stuck at booths?
[03:22] <pleia2> nhaines: no likey
[03:22] <ianorlin> I personally find the noise the hardest part for me
[03:22] <ianorlin> if you can talk to someone on a crowded convetion floor it would probably work
[03:22] <nhaines> pleia2: probably because you don't want to deprive other volunteers of the room to volunteer!
[03:23] <pleia2> but I might sign up for a shift, need to confirm other goings-on (my employer is sending me, so I have work things to do too)
[03:23] <pleia2> they haven't put me on their booth yet, so ;)
[03:24] <nhaines> SCALE's the friendliest show around and this is one of the biggest ways we like to train new members who want to do Ubuntu advocacy.  :)
[03:24] <pleia2> it's probably my favorite one
[03:24] <pleia2> and I go to a lot of conferences
[03:25] <ianorlin> welcome philipballew
[03:25] <nhaines> So please consider volunteering for the booth.  But I do need to know this week, because we're trying to get shirts for everyone to wear.
[03:25] <nhaines> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale14x
[03:25] <nhaines> pleia2: I'm going to try to convince sabdfl to stand near the booth for a little while, although I get the impression he is going to be incredibly busy.
[03:26] <pleia2> nhaines: cool :)
[03:26] <ianorlin> when isn't sabdfl busy?
[03:27] <nhaines> Okay, any questions at all about SCALE before we warp this meeting up?
[03:27] <pleia2> warp up <3
[03:27] <philipballew> ianorlin, thanks!
[03:27] <philipballew> nhaines, I was gonna get handcuffs for him to make him stay
[03:27] <ianorlin> #topic any other business
[03:27] <ianorlin> when is our next meeting?
[03:28] <ianorlin> I think Sunday people travel back from scale probably won't work as pleia2 will be on a plane
[03:28]  * pleia2 nods
[03:28] <ianorlin> I might be just arriving back and getting dinner
[03:28] <ianorlin> and not sure if nhianes would be home yet
[03:28] <nhaines> The next meeting is scheduled on the wiki for February 7th.
[03:29] <pleia2> wfm
[03:29] <pleia2> I'm hosting an Ubuntu Hour on Wednesday in SF http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3284-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
[03:29] <nhaines> We always skip meetings that fall on SCALE weekend.
[03:29] <pleia2> it's at a different starbucks than usual because our usual one changed their hours (for winter? I don't know!)
[03:30] <nhaines> In the early days we'd get together afterward for an in-person meeting, but everything's become so big that people fly or drive out Sundays sometimes and everyone's exhausted too.
[03:30] <pleia2> yeah, it's really chaotic
[03:30] <pleia2> oh, I forgot one scale thing
[03:31] <pleia2> do we have details for party/get togethers?
[03:31] <pleia2> wednesday and thursday nights
[03:31] <pleia2> Friday night is jono's bad voltage live show http://www.badvoltage.org/live/
[03:31] <nhaines> pleia2: no, and I'm trying really hard to get them.
[03:32] <pleia2> (not music, it's a podcast)
[03:32] <nhaines> But I'll get them on Meetup the moment I get the details.  (I think there are venues selected and there's just last minute details to be set in stone.)
[03:32] <caballero> nhaines: I will email you in the next 1 or 2 days...I plan on volunteering again this year...
[03:32] <pleia2> nhaines: great, thanks
[03:32] <nhaines> Also, Bad Voltage Live is awesome even if they did make me come on stage last year and then pull out my arm hair with tape.
[03:33] <pleia2> http://www.jonobacon.org/2016/01/06/bad-voltage-live-in-los-angeles-why-you-should-be-there/
[03:33] <nhaines> caballero: glad to hear it!  Be sure to sign up on the wiki as soon as you can, and I look forward to your email.  :)
[03:33] <pleia2> ^^ jono's post about it
[03:33] <pleia2> and he also has some questions that need answers for the show: http://www.jonobacon.org/2016/01/08/we-need-your-answers/
[03:33] <ianorlin> what payment methods work for parking?
[03:33] <pleia2> (they're mostly fun questions)
[03:34] <nhaines> Oh right, I need to fill that out.  :)
[03:34] <pleia2> :)
[03:35] <nhaines> ianorlin: no idea.  I'd bring cash and a credit card.
[03:35] <pleia2> I think that was all I had
[03:35] <nhaines> No bitcoin.  :)
[03:35] <ianorlin> I don't have credit card I only have debit
[03:35] <ianorlin> I could bring cash
[03:35] <nhaines> If your debit card has a credit card logo on it, it will suffice.
[03:36] <ianorlin> ok
[03:36] <nhaines> Okay, I think that's all for now.  In two weeks is UbuCon Summit and SCALE!  \o/
[03:36] <ianorlin> nightmare place for a card scimmer though
[03:36] <ianorlin> skimmer
[03:36] <ianorlin> #endmeeting
}}}
