{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

We celebrated the <nowiki>[[RaringRingtail-ReleaseSchedule|release of Ubuntu 13.04 (Raring Ringtail)]]</nowiki> which happened in April, 2013. Physical and virtual (IRC & other) Raring events were scheduled.  Each release cycle a number of efforts happen focused around the release.  Globally, <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki> events happen a month or two before the release focusing on new contributors.  Parties (listed below) and <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki> happen near or after the release.  If you are thinking about organizing one, <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningReleaseParty]]</nowiki> has some hints more hints are described in a video <nowiki>[[http://www.ustream.tv/recorded/6181333|how to do a release party.]]</nowiki> "... can be organized in literally 10 minutes."

=== Raring Release Parties ===

We planned release parties in IRC meetings and on the mailing list.

These events are listed chronologically. Details have yet to be confirmed. World wide events are listed on the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/|LoCo directory]]</nowiki>.

==== Parties ====

===== Brainstorming =====

==== Installfest ====
* Date:
* Location: 
* Time: 
* Event web page & notes: 

=== DVD Distribution ===

Canonical no longer produces DVDs for non-LTS releases.

For large conferences please contact Elizabeth Krumbach at lyz@ubuntu.com to request an UbuntuAtConferences conference pack plus DVDs ''at LEAST 6 weeks prior to the event'' and you can request 12.04 CDs.

=== General Info ===
* '''<nowiki>[[RaringRingtail|Raring Ringtail 13.04]]</nowiki> started after the release of 12.10 Quantal Quetzal. See <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-UsingDevelopmentReleases]]</nowiki>.  The final stable version is <nowiki>[[RaringRingtail-ReleaseSchedule|scheduled]]</nowiki> for release on April 25, 2013.'''
* For general Ubuntu information please see <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|www.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> or ask in one of Ubuntu's <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support/communitysupport|community support areas]]</nowiki>.
* The <nowiki>[[UDS-R|Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki> for Raring Ringtail was held Monday, 29 October - Friday 1 November 2013, in Copenhagen, Denmark. The first online UDS was held in <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1303/ March]]</nowiki> 2013. A Technical Overview and <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/raring|Blueprints]]</nowiki> were used as guides for producing this release.
