{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, April 08th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Your agenda item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting?
[02:01] <eps> eep!
[02:01]  * pleia2 takes that as a "me"
[02:01] <akk> o/
[02:02] <pleia2> alright, well we don't have anything formal on the agenda
[02:02] <greg-g> o/
[02:02] <eps> nothing wearing ... a tux? ;-)
[02:02] <greg-g> I have an update
[02:02] <pleia2> greg-g: go for it
[02:03] <greg-g> pretty simple: I will more likely be able to make it to UDS, my work's In Town Week was cancelled
[02:03] <greg-g> :)
[02:03] <pleia2> yay!
[02:03] <greg-g> now all that is left to keep me away is a 4 month old :)
[02:04] <pleia2> well, you can do half days, or just come to the evening events (babies welcome!)
[02:04] <pleia2> there actually have been a few babies coming to UDS sessions, but they were very quiet
[02:04] <pleia2> I guess we can start with UDS stuff since we're on that topic
[02:05] <pleia2> http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/7052367909/
[02:05] <pleia2> these "I'm a local" pins came in this week :)
[02:05] <pleia2> the idea is that those of us willing and able to give "local stuff" information to UDS attendees will wear them so then people can ask us about transit, sight-seeing and other local stuff
[02:06] <pleia2> even if you're not an absolute expert, you'll probably know who to ask or where to look for the answer
[02:06] <akk> cool!
[02:06] <pleia2> we've also been putting together a local transit page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Q/PublicTransit
[02:07] <pleia2> huge thanks to eps for his help on this, he's a public transit encyclopedia :)
[02:07] <eps> hee hee
[02:07] <pleia2> we also have this page still coming together: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UDS-Q
[02:08] <pleia2> for nighttime events or anything else we wish to plan
[02:08] <pleia2> I'm going to blog about it soon and maybe some people will tell me what they'd most like to see so I can follow-up with people who put stuff on the wiki
[02:09] <pleia2> anyone else have UDS stuff? it's still a month away, we have time :)
[02:09] <akk> Registration isn't open yet, is it? I haven't seen any announcements about that.
[02:10] <pleia2> it is
[02:10] <pleia2> I think the only announcement was in the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter a few weeks ago
[02:10] <akk> I haven't done a UDS before so I don't know how it works ... I was hoping something would be announced on our list for those of us new to it.
[02:10] <pleia2> http://uds.ubuntu.com/register/
[02:10] <pleia2> ok, I can write an email :)
[02:11] <pleia2> #action pleia2 to write mail to list with FAQ and registration info for UDS
[02:11] <akk> Thanks!
[02:11] <pleia2> #topic 12.04 release events
[02:12] <pleia2> so, we already talked about this some at our last meeting (when I was taking the meeting on my phone from my soon to be mother-in-law's living room in philadelphia :))
[02:13] <pleia2> we only really have the standard SF Thirsty Bear event so far: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1615/detail/
[02:13] <pleia2> eps had talked about a quieter event in SF too, which I'm thinking we may want to do that weekend
[02:13] <eps> Is parking still free on Sundays? (sigh)
[02:13] <pleia2> I think so
[02:14] <eps> Not for long, if local politicians get their way :-(
[02:14] <pleia2> yeah :\
[02:14] <akk> Wow, a lot of required irrelevant fields for UDS like arrival/departure info.
[02:14] <pleia2> I expect most people would take MUNI though, since it stops right there
[02:14]  * akk tries to remember when she last arrived in California
[02:14] <pleia2> akk: hah, yeah, well most people aren't locals :)
[02:15] <akk> Maybe not, but why is all that required? Including things like passport expiry date.
[02:15] <pleia2> let me grab what I put for my arrival and departure times (there is a limit)
[02:16] <akk> Many USians don't even have a passport.
[02:16] <pleia2> passport info wasn't a requried field when I filled it out, that's odd since a lot of US folks are coming
[02:16] <akk> Maybe * doesn't mean required like it does on most forms. I'll try leaving them all blank.
[02:16] <pleia2> you can put arrival at 09:00 EDT on Monday, 2010-10-25 and departure 17:00 EDT on Friday, 2010-10-29
[02:17] <pleia2> err
[02:17] <pleia2> I am looking at the wrong UDS
[02:17] <pleia2> https://launchpad.net/sprints/uds-q
[02:17] <pleia2> there, start and end times are there, you can use those :)
[02:18] <akk> Wow, that one's MUCH easier!
[02:18] <pleia2> you'll want to do the proper register form though
[02:18] <pleia2> the register form will get you added automatically on launchpad, but if you join directly on launchpad you won't get properly registered
[02:18] <akk> Now I'm really confused. Which one is the proper form?
[02:19] <pleia2> http://uds.ubuntu.com/register/
[02:19] <akk> Maybe we should do this outside the meeting.
[02:19] <akk> (But it is probably relevant for most locals.)
[02:19] <pleia2> I was just giving the uds-q link so you could grab the start and end dates for the form
[02:20] <pleia2> anyway, someone on the Noisebridge list also randomly suggested having an Ubuntu installfest, someone else suggested talking to us, so I followed up with the mail I Cc:ed to our list: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2012-April/001929.html
[02:20] <pleia2> no reply yet, we'll see where it goes
[02:20] <pleia2> with all this release and UDS stuff, I don't have time to plan an installfest too, so it would be great if the noisebridge folks could do the heavy lifting there
[02:21] <pleia2> (or someone else here :))
[02:22] <eps> akk: visitors from some countries are required to have six months validity on their passports beyond their planned return date
[02:22] <pleia2> ah, good point, maybe there was some incident where someone got stuck ;)
[02:23] <pleia2> the only other thing I really have is SF Ubuntu Hour and Debian Dinner this week: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1657/detail/
[02:23] <pleia2> Wednesday, 6-9
[02:24] <pleia2> anyone else have anything?
[02:26] <pleia2> ok, I think we wrap up then
[02:26] <pleia2> thanks greg-g, akk and eps :)
[02:26] <eps> Our next meeting is on the 22th [sic] according to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam
[02:26]  * pleia2 nods
[02:27] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
