{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, January 30th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PST ===

==== Original Agenda ====
 1. SCaLE planning -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>  1. Your agenda item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent.

Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
18:59 < pleia2> ok, meeting time!
18:59 < jdeslip> I think the last time we used it was the Maker Faire
18:59 < pleia2> Agenda is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11January30
18:59 < pleia2> the only thing we have on it is SCaLE planning
19:00 < pleia2> we've been updating https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x as we get more details
19:00 < pleia2> we just received the booth pack from the SCaLE folks this week, so we have exhibitor badges now
19:00 < dragon> Announcements after this item?
19:00 < pleia2> the exhibitor badge gets you in the conference for free, we have 10 of them and can request more as needed
19:00 < pleia2> dragon: yes
19:01 < pleia2> so anyone who is volunteering at our booth can get one, just let me know and I'll send you the info
19:01 < pleia2> if you want to attend but can't help at the booth much, we also have a 50% off code: UBUCA
19:03 < pleia2> I don't have any news beyond that really, just trying to get together a full list of stuff we're bringing (banner, table signs, etc) and adding them to the wiki as needed
19:03 < dragon> Does this pass include entry to presentations and such sessions?
19:03 < pleia2> dragon: yes
19:04 < pleia2> you just sign up like regular, and at the end to pay for your ticket (including mentoring, whatever else you want) you put in the exhibitor code (different than a coupon code)
19:05 < dragon> (the table of names on the wiki page has four columns for some reason :/)
19:06 < pleia2> I think someone did that to make it easier to read, since it's just names
19:06 < dragon> A bulleted list might be ideal for this. I can make the change, or I can add my name and leave the rest untouched.
19:06 < pleia2> ok, feel free to change it
19:07 < rww> I was wondering about that when I saw it too :\
19:07 < pleia2> anyone else have questions, news, etc regarding scale?
19:08 < pleia2> erichammond: just talking about scale, any news, questions, comments from you?
19:08 < erichammond> I have blank CDs
19:09 < erichammond> And wifi router
19:09 < jdeslip> I can also burn some disks
19:09 < pleia2> jdeslip: when you know how many, can you add to the wiki? ( erichammond already added his)
19:09 < erichammond> Will be able to be in booth some, but can't commit to specific times or amounts in advance
19:09 < pleia2> specific times will be tricky without a speaking schedule
19:10 < pleia2> I suspect we'll play it by ear
19:10 < erichammond> They usually put up a schedule before the event
19:10 < pleia2> that'll be useful
19:11 < jdeslip> pleia2: ya
19:11 < erichammond> Might be useful to put together some talking points for booth volunteers.
19:11 < pleia2> yeah
19:12 < erichammond> Might help get more volunteers as some folks may not be sure what to say when somebody just walks up.
19:12 < pleia2> I'll be printing up some little fliers with all the team info on it too (I'll add to the wiki once I have a better idea what all I'm printing)
19:13 < erichammond> I'm st
19:14 < erichammond> Still thinking about what it would take to put together a security cam demo. No promises there either
19:14 < pleia2> yeah, that would be cool :)
19:14 < icarus> what do you mean?
19:15 < erichammond> Do we know how many computers and monitors will be available?
19:15 < jdeslip> (I can confirm I have the banner)
19:15 < Eureka> wiki: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x edited
19:16 < erichammond> Icarus: one or two video cameras with security recording and monitoring software running on Ubuntu.
19:16 < pleia2> jdeslip: thanks :)
19:17 < grantbow> jdeslip: thanks
19:17 < pleia2> ok, so we've got one more meeting before scale and a few weeks to get things together for the booth
19:17 < pleia2> anyone else have anything, or shall we move on?
19:18 < pleia2> alrighty, announcements & other stuff
19:18 < pleia2> as usual, http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california has our upcoming events
19:19 < pleia2> other announcements, comments, etc?
19:20 < pleia2> dragon: did you have anything?
19:20 < dragon> yes pleia2, a little announcements
19:20 < pleia2> go for it :)
19:20 < dragon> s/s$//
19:21 < dragon> LAMP Meetup group has an open slot for presentations to the community interested in web development and generally not-so-pro at Linux. We have the place reserved for *Thu, Feb 17*, so in case you have something related to LAMP that you'd like to present, please contact me asap. Even better if it relates to Ubuntu. Will give out free Ubuntu CDs at the event as usual.
19:21 < pleia2> dragon: do you need any pressed CDs, or are you good?
19:22 < dragon> pleia2: a few more would be great. ~20?
19:22 < pleia2> sure, we can talk about how to get them to you later :)
19:22 < dragon> sounds good, thanks!
19:23 < pleia2> oh, I almost forgot, for SCaLE canonical shipped out 100 Ubuntu and 100 Kubuntu CDs for us
19:24 < grantbow> nice
19:24 < dragon> That's going to help. How many are we burning for SCaLE, approx?
19:24 < pleia2> DarkwingDuck is bringing all the .iso files on a computer and erichammond is bringing at least 200 blanks, jdeslip said he'd bring some
19:25 < pleia2> if you want to bring more just update the wiki with your totals so we have some idea
19:25 < dragon> And there was that program our team started creating for a CD burning station - 'buntu stand?
19:26 < pleia2> I don't know about that
19:27 < grantbow> https://launchpad.net/buntustand
19:27 < pleia2> neat
19:28 < grantbow> python based distributed but there was a library not checked in for awhile when last I tried to run it.
19:28 < grantbow> distributed meaning many machines burning as a team over the network
19:28 < rww> I think that project's... dormant.
19:28 < erichammond> If we are burning CDs then we also need cd covers.
19:28 < pleia2> yeah, I think it's safe to say it's not something we'll be able to use at scale
19:29  * akk whispers ... copy to USB sticks!
19:29 < grantbow> Maybe someone will get inspired again but I wouldn't count on it.
19:29 < pleia2> are the cd sleeves updated for 10.10 and 11.04?
19:29 < pleia2> akk: even in bulk USB sticks are too expensive for us to give away :(
19:29 < pleia2> CDs are super cheap
19:29 < jdeslip> I can print 300 or cd covers
19:30 < akk> pleia2: I didn't say provide free USB sticks, I said copy to them -- like if somoene comes by with one and wants ubuntu on it.
19:30 < rww> ^ this worked well last year
19:30 < pleia2> akk: oh yeah, that's easy :)
19:30 < akk> It would be way faster than burning CDs, and more useful for most people (except folks with old computers).
19:30 < pleia2> DarkwingDuck will have all the isos
19:30 < jdeslip> sounds good
19:30 < pleia2> also, do we want to update the sleeves with the new branding before scale? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/CDSleeves
19:30 < dragon> Is it just me, or is System > About Ubuntu actually displaying "You are using Ubuntu 11.04 - the Natty Narwhal - released in April 2011..."
19:30 < grantbow> more and more machines boot from USB now, and for those that don't there's a few work arounds, one of which I used a few weeks back
19:31  * akk would quite like natty burned onto a USB stick, if someone's set up at the booth to make them ... way easier than struggling with making one myself
19:31 < erichammond> I can print a hunted or two once the design is updated
19:31 < erichammond> Er, hundred
19:32 < jdeslip> The latest design does have 10.10 I think
19:32 < jdeslip> (at least I got some from grantbow that had 10.10)
19:32 < pleia2> jdeslip: yeah, I think we want to include 11.04 if we're printing up a bunch
19:32 < pleia2> and new font would be nice
19:32 < jdeslip> ah, oko
19:33 < rww> dragon: /msg ubottu !version-bug
19:33 < grantbow> jdeslip: compliments of Mr. Paoli
19:33 < dragon> thanks rww!
19:33 < rww> (join an ubottu channel if you aren't already in one, or that won't work)
19:34 < pleia2> ok, well I'll take a look at the sleeves in bzr this week and see what we need to do to get them ready
19:34 < dragon> rww: figured ;)
19:34 < dragon> I can print hundreds of b/w sleeves. Please let me know if that'll help.
19:35 < pleia2> ok, so jdeslip, erichammond and dragon all are able to do sleeve printing
19:35 < grantbow> dragon: that will help :-)
19:35 < pleia2> I'll let you guys know when I get the sleeve design sorted and you can work out who is printing what
19:35 < jdeslip> sounds good
19:35 < grantbow> awesome
19:36 < dragon> +1
19:36 < erichammond> Scale gets bigger every year. Do we have records of how many CDs we distributed in years past?
19:38 < nhaines> Note that last year's SCaLE attendance was approximately 1400 and the target for this year is only 1500.
19:40 < erichammond> Ubuntu also gets more name recognition so might get a larger share of interest.
19:40 < pleia2> we don't have records AFAIK
19:40 < erichammond> At some point, everybody will have Ubuntu installed so nobody will want a cd :)
19:40 < pleia2> last year there was an Ubucon too, which isn't happening this time
19:41 < grantbow> aha, lp:buntustand should compile now according to the checkin comments
19:41 < grantbow> s/compile/interpret/
19:41 < erichammond> I thought there were several hundred CDs distributed a year or two ago. Not sure, though.
19:44 < grantbow> anything else?
19:44 < pleia2> I'm ready to wrap up
19:44 < nhaines> Note that buntustand is written in Python and cannot be compiled.
19:45 < nhaines> Also note that there are records of the CD numbers for every SCaLE we've attended.
19:45 < pleia2> nhaines: where? ( erichammond was asking)
19:45 < pleia2> I was looking on the past scale pages but maybe I missed it
19:46 < nhaines> pleia2: although the LoCo Council has forbidden post-event debriefing meetings, those logs should contain CD estimates.
19:46 < pleia2> what?
19:46 < grantbow> ?
19:47 < pleia2> post-event debriefings are great :)
19:47 < nhaines> I thought so too and was rebuked.
19:47 < pleia2> I think you misunderstood :(
19:47 < nhaines> I hightly doubt it.
19:47 < rww> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/09March08
19:47 < pleia2> thanks rww
19:47 < akk> Surely it's not forbidden to get together and talk about how well an event went?
19:48 < nhaines> As regards Southern Califoria Ubucon, I'm currently hoping for an independant event this summer.
19:48 < pleia2> akk: no, that's crazy
19:48 < nhaines> akk: that's what they said.  It was a waste of time and should be abandoned.
19:48 < pleia2> nhaines: that's not true :(
19:48 < nhaines> pleia2: It is.  They said if an event is mentioned afterwards in a blog then it should not be discussed at a meeting under any circumstances.
19:48 < pleia2> the didn't like that we had super long meetings which insisted upon attendence of key volunteers for every event to do a wrap-up
19:49  * pleia2 sighs
19:49 < pleia2> I give up
19:49 < nhaines> That's what a  debriefing is.
19:49 < erichammond> Lost me.
19:49 < pleia2> anyway, it's fine to talk about events
19:49  * nhaines shrugs.
19:49 < rww> and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/08February24 for SCaLE7x
19:49 < pleia2> thanks rww :)
19:50 < pleia2> ok, from the 8x notes:
19:50 < akk> So maybe it can't be a formal part of a council meeting that requires attendance of council members ... which isn't quite the same as saying folks can't talk about what worked and what didn't.
19:50 < pleia2> Handed out about 150 CDs (compared to 120 last year), which is notable considering that Canonical was also handing out CDs there. Have about 100 pressed 8.10 desktop 32bit CDs left from the 200 Canonical gave us.
19:50 < rww> it's a shame that nobody ended up doing meeting summaries when I stopped, btw. They're rather useful.
19:50 < grantbow> anything else?
19:50 < pleia2> yeah, if someone could take up writing meeting minutes again it would be great (I already have a giant administrative load)
19:51 < pleia2> I think we're done :)
19:51 < rww> just need a /really/ bored college student to go rampaging through the archive. is what I did ;P
19:51 < pleia2> heheh
19:51 < grantbow> Thanks everyone for participating.
19:52 < pleia2> thanks everyone
}}}
