{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, September 7th, 2008, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
1. SGVLUG meeting recap
  a. We gave a presentation there, and also learned a couple of things: recording with the Eye``Toy, Cal Tech, JPL
  a. Presentation: Good slides prepared, working on recording video/audio for the future (put recordings on the web!)
  a. Flannel and nhaines took turns presenting on each slide
  a. For the future: cut down on the amount of text on the slides, put more images/diagrams/etc; bring copies of all the various ISOs (including alternate, different flavors, etc.); maybe attend a prior meeting and scope out the audience's experience level
1. Wiki site One-A-Week
  a. Several CaliforniaTeam pages need to be updated frequently, and aren't; if people made one edit a week, we'd be able to keep on top of it.
  a. Will make a todo list to coordinate this.

==== Original Agenda ====
1. LoCo Wiki "One-a-week", if everyone makes one change/update/correction a week to our wiki site, we'll be able to keep it up to date without any trouble.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
19:15 < Flannel> Alright, so... while we're waitings, everyone can take a gander at our agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/08September07
19:16 < Flannel> ok!
19:16 < Flannel> so... Welcome everyone.  I'll wake you all up.
19:16 < Flannel> troyready, nhaines, Yasumoto, jbermudes, AlgorithmicContr
19:16 < nhaines> Howdy!
19:17 < Yasumoto> hiya
19:17 < tunys> meeting?
19:17 < Flannel> I hope everyone's had a nice wrapping up of summer.  We didn't have a meeting two weeks ago, so you didn't miss it.
19:17 < tunys> oh, hey Yasumoto
19:18 < tunys> SpaceKimchi: love your nick.
19:18  * tunys lurk
19:19 < Flannel> Our agenda for tonight consists of a few items
19:19 < Yasumoto> heya tunys :)
19:19 < nhaines> Agenda lists one item.  :)
19:19 < Yasumoto> you tell 'em, nhaines!
19:19 < Flannel> First one, since we haven't done it yet, is to exercise our minds and remember what happened out SGVLUG meeting.
19:20 < Flannel> And then we'll get to the actual agenda item, yes.
19:20 < Yasumoto> presentation, learned how to record with the eyetoy
19:20 < Yasumoto> dinner
19:20 < Yasumoto> Yasumoto learned about cal tech and the jpl
19:20 < Flannel> So, waaaaay back on the 14th of August, we had a presentation at SGVLUG.  In Pasadena
19:21 < Flannel> For those of you who don't know, this is our time to discuss what went right, what went wrong, and how we can do it better in the future, etc.
19:21 < nhaines> Well, we had a number of good slides prepared.
19:22 < Flannel> We did learn how to record video/audio, and hopefully we'll be able to do better in the future, to get recordings up on the web.
19:22 < Yasumoto> I just want to mention that Flannel and nhaines did a great job, and I know that the LoCo presentation machine will only get more awesome
19:22 < Yasumoto> (including the technology side of things)
19:23 < nhaines> Oh yeah!  Wii remote controller for our slide clicker!
19:23 < jbermudes> yea, that was awesome, good job guys
19:23 < Yasumoto> Now that I think about it, I liked the "one guy talks, one works the laptop/slides" format of NOCCC
19:23 < Yasumoto> there isn't that disconnect with the audience
19:24 < Flannel> We certainly need to work on our presentation coordination between speakers
19:24 < nhaines> For the record, Neal and I took turns presenting on each slide.
19:24 < Flannel> and also on our slides.  Less text, more images/diagrams/etc
19:24 < jbermudes> and we need to make sure we have the iso files for the different flavors of ubuntu
19:25 < Flannel> Yeah, we were caught by surprise with regard to ISOs, more people wanted a larger variety than we anticipated
19:25 < Flannel> although luckily we were able to use the wireless there to download them.
19:25 < Flannel> Those included alternate CDs, for people to use when upgrading.
19:26 < nhaines> Yeah, a couple people had standalone systems or dialup.
19:26 < Flannel> Apart from the few hiccups, I think we were well received, and hopefully they'll invite us back.
19:27 < Flannel> And a reminder to everyone, while we're wrapping this topic up, feel free to spread the word about our availability.
19:27 < Flannel> I think that about does it in regards to SGVLUG, anyone have anything else?
19:27 < Yasumoto> hm, I hear some kids at Chapman might be looking for some speakers in a bit..
19:27 < nhaines> Feedback we got was that the two person presenter thing worked best when we played off of each other.
19:28 < Flannel> nhaines: I would like to move to less, if any text, and images for everything up there.
19:28 < nhaines> Indeed.  We overthought the slide.
19:28 < Flannel> We basically made slides as if we were outlining a report, and not giving a presentation.
19:29 < Yasumoto> yeah, I see that
19:29 < Yasumoto> Images and representative slides are good
19:29 < Yasumoto> sometimes, powerpoints are just the speeches themselves
19:29 < Yasumoto> so presenters are just reading the slides
19:30 < Yasumoto> but you guys didn't do that, I just wanted to mention it
19:30 < nhaines> We'll have to use a two-person format when we're doing more superficial stuff, and maybe one person format for the more in-depth presentations.
19:31 < jbermudes> it was kind of hard though to judge what to talk about cause there was such a wide range of people at different levels of experience
19:32 < Flannel> In the future it might be nice, given enough time in advance, for someone to attend a prior meeting, and scope it out.
19:33 < nhaines> Yup.  We went in a bit blind and I think we did a good job all in all.
19:33 < nhaines> We'll split our slides into two presentations and be ready for all occasions next time.  ;)
19:33 < jbermudes> although thats hard to do cause a lot of them are once a month deals
19:35 < Flannel> Anyone have anything else?
19:35 < Yasumoto> nope
19:35 < Flannel> Alright, so, next topic is the one actually on the agenda
19:36 < Flannel> I'd like to propose and encourage a sort of "one a week" thing, not for bugs (that's 5-a-day), but for our wiki site.
19:36 < Flannel> And any other sort of media related to our LoCo
19:37 < Flannel> We've got  anumber of pages that ought to be updated somewhat regularly, and many of them aren't.
19:37 < Flannel> But if we all just work a little bit here and there, we should have no problem keeping it up to date, and useful.
19:38 < Flannel> Since, especially if we're trying to get people to ask us to talk places and that sort of stuff, the first thing they'll see is our website.
19:38 < troyready> sounds like a good idea.
19:39 < nhaines> Yup, it's a good goal.
19:40 < Flannel> anyone have ideas/concerns/whatever?
19:41 < jbermudes> not really
19:41 < jbermudes> just edit whatever?
19:41 < Flannel> More or less, yeah.  I'll come up with a to do list.  That'll probably be the easiest way to keep track.
19:42 < Flannel> You can indicate you're working on something (so we don't step on each others toes), and then indicate when you're done, etc.
19:42 < Flannel> So just, whenever you have some freetime, work a little bit more on whatever you've volunteered to do.
19:43 < Flannel> We can, of course, work together on tasks, etc.
19:43 < Flannel> If anyone is familiar with the etymology of the term "tying up loose ends", its like that.
19:44 < Flannel> If anyone isn't, I don't mind explaining after the meeting (which, might be in a few minutes)
19:45 < Flannel> Alright, anyone have any other topic for the meeting?
19:45 < nhaines> Nothing here.  :)
19:45 < Flannel> We didn't have FOSSCON this weekend, does anyone know of anything coming up within the next few months?
19:45 < Flannel> Oh!  Intrepid stuff.  We need to start thinking about our Intrepid shindig.
19:45 < nhaines> SCaLE7X call for papers is on-going through November.
19:46 < jbermudes> what kind of papers?
19:46 < Yasumoto> ack, yeah, intrepid
19:46 < Yasumoto> hm
19:47 < nhaines> jbermudes: for speakes.
19:47 < nhaines> jbermudes: for speakers.
19:48 < jbermudes> nhaines: yea, but papers about what?
19:49 < nhaines> jbermudes: papers for speakers who want to give presentations at SCaLE7X in February.
19:49 < jbermudes> nhaines: yea, but like, what i mean is can i submit a paper about puppies?
19:50 < troyready> Man, does the Scale7x site is quite sparse
19:50 < jbermudes> is it about anything about linux?
19:50 < Flannel> Alright, while that conversation continues, do we have more meeting stuffs?
19:50 < nhaines> jbermudes: pretty much.  There are suggested topics at the site.
19:50 < jbermudes> oh, ok. thanks
19:51 < Flannel> Alright, with that, I guess we'll wrap up.  We'll meet again in two weeks, 7pm.  Thats... the 21st I believe.
19:52 < Flannel> Thank you all for coming, refreshments are in the back.
19:52 < troyready> woot
19:53 < nhaines> Thanks, Flannel.  :)
19:53 < jbermudes> thanks!
19:56 < Yasumoto> I think we already know, but I've already sent in our request for a spot at SCaLE
19:56 < Flannel> Thanks Yasumoto 
</pre>
