{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, January 2nd, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PST ===

==== Original Agenda ====
1. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x|Scale9x planning]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>  1. Team image sharing options -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>   * Discuss thread here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2010-December/thread.html#1518
** And proposal here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2011-January/001538.html

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent.

Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
18:58 < jdeslip> OK ----- Lets Begin -----
18:58 < pleia2> I can't be here for long, nasty headache is making looking at my screen quite unpleasant :)
18:59 < jdeslip> Since pleia2 can't be here long we are going to start with her two agenda items and do announcements at the end
18:59 < jdeslip> The first topic is scale9x planning
18:59 < jdeslip> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale9x/
19:00 < pleia2> I just added this because I'm going to request the conference pack from canonical this week, and that reminded me that we need to flesh out our wiki page and start seeing who is going
19:00 < grantbow> cool
19:00 < jdeslip> We have a basic wiki page here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x
19:00 < pleia2> I bought my scale ticket, will be buying my plane ticket soon (hopefully tomorrow), I know some others are carpooling down
19:00 < sn9> me! me! me!
19:00 < jdeslip> If you are planning to come and work at the booth, please add your name there.  Also, we are looking for volunteers to step up and flesh out that page
19:01 < jdeslip> (I'm hoping to get in on some norcal carpool action)
19:01 < grantbow> I'm not sure if I can go yet.
19:01 < pleia2> also, who should we send the conference pack to? I'm flying so I'm clearly not a good choice
19:01 < pleia2> we can see who down in LA is going, probably send to someoen down there
19:02 < jdeslip> If you haven't registered you can use the code that eric set up for us to get 50% off UBUCA
19:02 < erichammond> What is the schedule for setting up the booth?
19:02 < sn9> only 50?
19:02 < grantbow> erichammond: thanks!
19:02 < jdeslip> sn9: do you have a better code?
19:02 < sn9> no
19:03 < sn9> but last year the cinf pack included tickets
19:03 < sn9> *conf
19:03 < grantbow> well, then...
19:03 < jdeslip> erichammond: I am not sure about the setup schedule yet
19:04 < erichammond> I'm trying to figure out how early I would have to show up if I volunteered to bring anything.  I'm not an early morning person.
19:04 < jdeslip> can anyone from last year tell us what the schedule was like?
19:04  * MarkDude will be carpooling down
19:04 < MarkDude> jdeslip, for the floor?
19:04 < grantbow> last year's wiki page is quite detailed
19:05 < MarkDude> Attending the sessions is hard due to so many to choose from
19:06 < MarkDude> for the floor, it would be much easier this year if people could sort some details around differing sessions
19:06 < pleia2> ok, sounds like we need to get some questions answered these next few days
19:06 < grantbow> MarkDude: eric asked about setup
19:06 < jdeslip> Looks like setup was was 9am on saturday
19:06 < pleia2> who exactly got our booth, it is confirmed right?
19:06 < sn9> grantbow: where is he?
19:06  * MarkDude talked to Gareth a while ago
19:06 < MarkDude> meaning months
19:07 < pleia2> MarkDude: want me to follow up with him?
19:07 < MarkDude> Yes
19:07 < pleia2> ok, will do
19:07 < pleia2> I will add details to the wiki once I confirm
19:07 < MarkDude> He said we were included - since we were so nice
19:07 < pleia2> :D
19:07 < pleia2> so I'll also ask about setup time and everything
19:07  * MarkDude will bring Penguin suit
19:07 < pleia2> yay!
19:07 < jdeslip> Sounds good
19:08 < MarkDude> most likely I may be doing other stuff and cant help much
19:08 < pleia2> no worries
19:08 < pleia2> next agenda item? we can pick up scale stuff throughout the week
19:08 < MarkDude> As always i am willing to talk or speak about some sort of crap
19:08 < MarkDude> :)
19:08 < pleia2> hehe
19:08 < jdeslip> Ok, so, again, add your name to the wiki page if you are coming.  And if you have time, flesh out the page....
19:08 < jdeslip> Moving on.
19:08 < jdeslip> I think I'll just let pelia2 take this one 
19:09 < jdeslip> err pleia2
19:09 < pleia2> ok, so next agenda item is the team images sharing options
19:09 < pleia2> we discussed this on list since our last meeting, and based on responses I came up with this proposal: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2011-January/001538.html
19:09 < pleia2> it gives us local, under our control copies, PLUS picasca/flickr which is good for displaying and from a social media angle
19:10 < pleia2> thoughts?
19:11 < jdeslip> I like the plan.
19:11 < erichammond> I don't know that I'm going to be taking many photos for the group, but my preference would be to have my photos be under my control (Flickr, Smugmug, ...) with some sort of sharing with the group similar to how planet republishes blog entries.
19:11 < erichammond> Not sure if anything like that exists.
19:12 < jdeslip> Once the pics are dumped somewhere safe and controlled and future proof then flickr/picasa adds a nice social layer
19:12 < MarkDude> http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2424094/Demographics%20Cali%20Team.png
19:12 < pleia2> unfortunately the problem we've had is people having them under their control on blogs and flickr have a tendancy of disappearing
19:12 < pleia2> their blog moves, their free number of flickr photos rotate them out of public view...
19:12 < grantbow> both is better :-)
19:12  * MarkDude thinks we should take the media and have it linked so folks can check it from Facebook, etc
19:13 < jdeslip> You can always have your own picasa/flickr account as well
19:13 < MarkDude> that pic is from the Cali Facebook insights
19:13 < Eureka> wiki: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x edited
19:13 < jdeslip> You don't *have* to also contribute the pics to the group pool.  But, you have the option.
19:13 < pleia2> yeah, I'd say this is the option for people who want to contribute to the group pool
19:13 < pleia2> erichammond: I'd say for those photos which stay under personal control, you add a link to the event wiki pointing to them
19:14 < pleia2> jdeslip: does picasca have rss feeds?
19:14 < jdeslip> pleia2: I *think* so
19:14 < pleia2> flickr does, we could always run a second planet for photos too, depending on how flexible the feeds are
19:15 < jdeslip> Yep, it does.
19:15 < pleia2> cool, we should look into that
19:15 < jdeslip> That would be pretty cool
19:16 < pleia2> so have a team flickr/picasca, then maybe see if we can have feeds for individuals who would rather keep them under their own control, add them all the the image planet
19:16 < pleia2> and I'll configure the upload place on the linode so we can store our local copies, just give me a nudge if you want access
19:16 < pleia2> so now the question is... flickr or picasca?
19:17 < pleia2> *picasa
19:17 < jdeslip> - maybe we can add a message encouraging people to add them to the local directory when they add to flickr/picasa for logevity's sake
19:17 < pleia2> I don't care either way
19:17 < pleia2> jdeslip: yeah
19:18 < jdeslip> I don't care a whole lot.  But, I do prefer picasa because I use it already.  (I'm sure others already use flickr)
19:18 < jdeslip> Also, we did say we were going to make an effort to use Google apps
19:18 < sn9> doesn't need to be either. just upload the images to the wiki
19:18 -!- Irssi: #ubuntu-us-ca: Total of 37 nicks [1 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 36 normal]
19:18 < pleia2> I prefer flickr because I'm familiar with the interface, but picasa is probably fine
19:18 < jdeslip> aaditya: have an opinion?
19:19 < pleia2> no google app engine option for this at this time
19:19 < erichammond> Do either have easy automated upload from Ubuntu?
19:19 < pleia2> we spoke before I sent out the ideas list
19:19 < grantbow> I prefer flickr given a choice
19:19 < sn9> works for 'pedia
19:19 < erichammond> (command line)
19:19 < pleia2> erichammond: both can upload easily from fspot
19:19 < pleia2> there is probably a CLI option anyway, they have APIs
19:19 < pleia2> s/anyway/too
19:19 < jdeslip> the google cli stuff lets you upload to picasa
19:19 < jdeslip> (from command line)
19:19 < grantbow> sn9: timtowtdi but we are talking about organizing in a central place
19:19 < sn9> google cli?
19:20 < erichammond> I looked for cli for Flickr a while back (years?) and didn't find anything.
19:20 < pleia2> sn9: the ubuntu wiki does not have unlimited space, it's ok to upload a couple photos per event but it's a huge strain on the wiki which is already limping along
19:20 < jdeslip> (http://code.google.com/p/googlecl/ - it is really sweet in general)
19:21 < pleia2> they semi-routinely clear out big/unlinked/outdated wiki attachments, so its not a permanent solution anyway
19:21 < grantbow> good to know
19:21 < pleia2> grantbow: you know how they are, they probably haven't done it in a year :) but it is a concern to be noted
19:22  * grantbow nods
19:22 < jdeslip> If this is a really just a vote now about picasa-flickr perhaps we should vote on the list.  Or... just vote now officially ;)
19:23 < jdeslip> (but there aren't too many folks here tonight)
19:23 < pleia2> maybe just bring it on list, I'd also like to look into erichammond's comment about the possiblity that there isn't a flickr CLI upload option
19:24 < erichammond> It's not clear to me what Flickr/Picasa would be used for.  If it's for the photo planet, then perhaps multiple services with an RSS feed would fit in.
19:24 < erichammond> Gotta run. Taking the kids to "Tangled".
19:24 < grantbow> looks like a cli exists
19:24 < pleia2> erichammond: loco.ubuntu.com has a display images option that works with flickr or picasca
19:25 < pleia2> plus it gives us a way to go back and browse past event photos, etc
19:25 < grantbow> erichammond: have fun!
19:25 < pleia2> Tangled is great, enjoy!
19:25 < grantbow> one way to flickr cli: http://lifehacker.com/262311/automatically-upload-a-folders-photos-to-flickr
19:25 < jdeslip> OK - so we will vote on the list in the next week or so.  
19:25 < pleia2> does picasca have image tags like flickr does?
19:25 < pleia2> sound good
19:26 < pleia2> I am going to go take care of my head now :)
19:26 < jdeslip> ya, it does - name tags
19:26 < jdeslip> ok, feel better
19:26 < grantbow> pleia2: take care :-)
19:26 < BrightAmbition> hi
19:27 < jdeslip> OK, so those were the only official agenda items.  Does anyone have something to add?  Or should we do the announcements?
19:27 < MarkDude> Add Facebook to the overall plan
19:27 < sn9> why?
19:28 < jdeslip> MarkDude: What do you mean by that?
19:28  * MarkDude suggests that is how a big % of the people I deal with interact
19:28 < grantbow> an important site, but still a walled garden
19:28 < MarkDude> professional types
19:28 < MarkDude> http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2424094/Demographics%20Cali%20Team.png
19:28 < MarkDude> That is from the page
19:29 < MarkDude> Having done this at ZA, we had 1000s of eyeballs seeing what we did
19:30 < MarkDude> Social media worked well to get some folkks involved
19:30 < BrightAmbition> Wow
19:30 < grantbow> it is an important consideration
19:30 < MarkDude> We should take the pics, however we have them, and allow people to consume them on FB
19:30 < BrightAmbition> You guys need more chicks there
19:30 < MarkDude> NOT require ANYONE to go there
19:31 < jdeslip> Is there a way to link pics from flickr/picasa to the facebook page?
19:31 < MarkDude> That stat stands out
19:31 < MarkDude> jdeslip,  yes there is
19:31 < jdeslip> Then we should do it I think
19:32 < BrightAmbition> hmm....
19:32 < jdeslip> Sounds like the best use of the facebook page that I have heard so far :)
19:33 < jdeslip> Any other comments or items of discussion?
19:33 < grantbow> MarkDude: is it easy and automatic to link pics from flickr/pacasa to the facebook page?
19:33 < MarkDude> jdeslip, maybe you can write a disclaimer about FB being a walled garden
19:33 < jdeslip> grantbow: he said yes above
19:34 < grantbow> doing it is one thing, easy and automatic are often another
19:34 < MarkDude> One is easier than the other I believe
19:34 < grantbow> good enough, thanks
19:34 < jdeslip> MarkDude: People know what facebook is... If they choose to use it anyway, so be it.  No need to preach against facebook... on facebook.
19:34  * MarkDude will find the detail, just wanted to make sure the group was copacetic :D
19:35 < grantbow> thanks for mentioning this
19:35 < MarkDude> jdeslip,  that would be for our site - where we have a link
19:35 < MarkDude> FOSS is great - when we dont do it, we should acknowledge it
19:35 < jdeslip> That might be reasonable
19:35 < MarkDude> Not that we are bad, just point out ogg is better than mp3
19:36 < MarkDude> one sentence or two, keeps us honest IMHO :)
19:37 < jdeslip> OK, I think when put the link up you can be in on deciding the language
19:37 < jdeslip> (as well as anyone else that cares)
19:37 < jdeslip> OK, lets move to announcements
19:37 < BrightAmbition> Why can't it be more than 1 language?? idk just saying. Maybe not a good thing idk
19:38 < grantbow> contributions of translations welcomed
19:38 < sn9> BrightAmbition: you can translate english to california-speak, ok?
19:38 < jdeslip> BrightAmbition: Language for what?
19:38 < BrightAmbition> I guess i'm trying to be social but i don't think it's working so i'ma shut up
19:38 < BrightAmbition> lol
19:39 < jdeslip> Anyone have any announcements?
19:39  * BrightAmbition just nods and waves
19:39 < jdeslip> We forgot to mention the date of scale9x before: it is Feb 25-27
19:40 < sn9> good to know
19:40  * BrightAmbition is lost & doesn't wanna bother asking what is being talked about
19:40 < sn9> i will be going several days earlier and leaving several days later, driving down with BrightAmbition and possibly whomever else might tolerate that
19:41 < BrightAmbition> tolerate what??
19:41 < BrightAmbition> ??
19:41 < jdeslip> 11.04 alpha2 is being released Feb 3.  (and banshee should be default then)
19:41 < sn9> BrightAmbition: being in L.A. several extra days
19:41 < BrightAmbition> Oh ok
19:41 < BrightAmbition> Sn9: did you even plan that yet like tickets & stuff??
19:41 < sn9> (and being around us for the drive down)
19:42 < grantbow> BrightAmbition: We are doing announcements before we close the formal part of the meeting I think.
19:42 < BrightAmbition> oh ok
19:42 < icarus_> banshee is standern in 11.04 huh
19:42 < jdeslip> Any more announcements?
19:42 < jdeslip> Ok, this concludes the meeting.  Thanks for coming everyone.  Next meeting is two weeks from today - Jan 19th.
</pre>
