{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, December 19th, 2010, 7:00pm (1900) PST ===

==== Original Agenda ====
1. Website updates -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>  1. More t-shirts? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>   * Our previous supplier is unavailable
** Jono recommended steadfastprinting.com in Oakland
** Christian knows the owner of greenerpromotions.net in San Francisco and <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2010-December/001510.html|offered to get us a quote]]</nowiki>
** Other recommendations?

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent.

Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:00] <pleia2> ok, meeting time!
[03:00] <eps> Much mo' bettah.
[03:00] <pleia2> jdeslip and DarkwingDuck couldn't make it because they ended up having other obligations tonight
[03:01] <pleia2> so who all is here for the meeting?
[03:01]  * eps raises his hand cautiously
[03:01] <pleia2> ok, our agenda is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/10December19
[03:02] <jyo> o/
[03:02] <jtatum> i/
[03:02] <pleia2> first up, any announcements?
[03:02] <pleia2> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california shows that we have a lindependence hour coming up on the 29th
[03:03] <pleia2> erichammond has done a good job getting things rolling for SCaLE in Feburary, we now have a wiki page and a discount code: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x
[03:03] <pleia2> we'll probably firm up SCaLE plans in the next few weeks
[03:04] <akk> o/
[03:04] <pleia2> ok, on to the agenda
[03:05] <pleia2> [topic] Website Updates
[03:05] <pleia2> I made some changes this week and I think we're ready to launch the basic site :)
[03:05] <pleia2> to view the demo site, edit your /etc/hosts file and put this at the end:
[03:06] <pleia2> 207.192.72.66 ubuntu-california.org
[03:06] <pleia2> we pretty much took the text from the wiki and fleshed out a very basic home page, and in the top we link to all our current resources
[03:06] <pleia2> once we get a photo gallery, planet, etc, we'll add the links, but I think we're ready with the basics
[03:07] <grantbow> \o/
[03:07] <pleia2> regarding the planet (blog aggregation), I spoke with dragon and we're going to be just going with some basic Venus software on the linode so jtatum and I will look into that in the coming weeks
[03:07] <akk> Looks nice!
[03:08] <pleia2> no update for photos, we don't have a google apps option for that so our options right now seem like: gallery2, picasaweb, flickr
[03:08] <pleia2> maybe we should bring this discussion to the list?
[03:08] <pleia2> this discussion == photo options
[03:08] <grantbow> sounds good
[03:08] <akk> +1 for discussing on ML
[03:09] <pleia2> ok, I'll send an email out (if not tonight, tomorrow)
[03:09] <akk> Unless anyone has any strong opinions right now, anyway.
[03:10] <pleia2> well, that's it for website updates :)
[03:10] <pleia2> I think I'll nudge erichammond tomorrow to update DNS so we can go live
[03:10] <jtatum> excellent
[03:11] <jtatum> thanks for keeping up the momentum pleia2!
[03:11] <pleia2> currently grantbow, jtatum and myself have access to wordpress, if others are interested in participating please let me know
[03:11] <pleia2> sure thing :)
[03:11] <pleia2> [topic] More t-shirts?
[03:11] <grantbow> I'll talk to you about wordpress later
[03:11] <pleia2> grantbow: ok
[03:12] <pleia2> so, we are almost out of team t-shirts, we have some 2XLs and a few women's sizes left, but we need to order more, we're out of the sizes people actually want
[03:12] <pleia2> grantbow contacted our previous supplier but he's quite busy, so not an option this time around
[03:12] <pleia2> Jono recommended steadfastprinting.com in Oakland
[03:13] <pleia2> today on the mailing list Christian said he knows the owner of greenerpromotions.net in San Francisco and offered to get us a quote
[03:13] <pleia2> anyone have other contacts?
[03:15] <pleia2> I'm thinking we get a few quotes and then go from there (I'm probably bankrolling this, and will accept donations to help, so let me know if you want to pitch in)
[03:16] <pleia2> that's all we've got agenda-wise tonight
[03:16] <eps> Are there any print-on-demand services worth considering?
[03:16] <grantbow> eps: suggestions?
[03:17] <eps> CafePress et al.
[03:17] <pleia2> I've never bought from zazzle or cafepress, so I don't have any suggestions
[03:17] <pleia2> they are considerably more expensive (at least 3 times more than buying in bulk of 50-100 shirts)
[03:17] <eps> Don't get me wrong - I'm a huge fan of traditional printing - but I'm concerned we aren't going to be able to put together an order large enough to get a good price.
[03:18] <grantbow> cafe press was fairly expensive
[03:18] <grantbow> haven
[03:18] <pleia2> I think zazzle is something like $20/shirt
[03:18] <akk> I've always heard bad things about cafepress's quality.
[03:18] <akk> That they're okay if you really need a one-off but not something you'd use for a bulk run where you have a choice.
[03:18] <pleia2> I figure we'll put in an order of 50 shirts, and at local shops we can get that for about $8/shirt
[03:18] <pleia2> but we should get quotes to be more precise :)
[03:19] <eps> My experience with t-shirts -- granted, this was a *long* time ago -- was that you generally needed to order at least 8 dozen to make it worthwhile.
[03:19] <pleia2> jono said he ordered 50 for severed fifth for about $400
[03:20] <pleia2> so maybe we get some estimates, and then compare them to the on-demand printing services?
[03:20] <eps> Set-up charges dominate on small runs.
[03:22] <pleia2> ok, any other meeting things to talk about?
[03:23] <eps> With screen printing, you need to decide if you want something that will survive multiple washings and exposure to sunlight.
[03:23] <pleia2> jono seemed pretty happy with steadfast, and we can ask christian about the quality of greenrpromotions
[03:24] <eps> (i.e. are you dyeing the fabric vs. having something sitting on top that will flake off)
[03:25] <pleia2> seems like the current ones have something sitting on top, but I haven't noticed any flaking yet
[03:28] <pleia2> ok, if no one has anything else I think we wrap this up :)
[03:29] <pleia2> thanks for coming
</pre>
