{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, December 13th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
   a. Ubuntu California leadership results
# Meetup.com group progress
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale14x|Scale14x]]</nowiki> planning

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
19:07 < ianorlin> #startmeeting
19:07 < ianorlin> hmm is there something wrong with teh bot ?
19:11 < Roguehorse> so the bot is dead?
19:14 < ianorlin> not sure
19:14 < ianorlin> nhaines plei2 any clue what to do now?
19:15 < nhaines> Oh hey, my alarm didn't go off!
19:15 < ianorlin> #topic find a failover for when the bot is down
19:15 < nhaines> ianorlin: we just do the meeting manually, no big deal.
19:16 < nhaines> Okay, so welcome to the meeting, everyone!
19:17 < nhaines> Roguehorse, glad you could make it.  :)
19:17 < nhaines> Our agenda this week is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15December13
19:17 < Roguehorse> thanks, finally be k in Cali
19:17 < Roguehorse> back
19:18 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:19 < nhaines> UbuCon Summit and SCALE 14x are in Pasadena on January 21st-24th.  UbuCon Summit is free, and SCALE is $85 for a full all access pass and $15 for just the expo floor.
19:19 < nhaines> Use the coupon code UBNTU to get half of the full SCALE pass.
19:19 < nhaines> Are ther any other events coming up this month?
19:20 < Roguehorse> unfortunately I've been too busy with other things to check
19:22 < nhaines> Okay, apparently nothing planned.  Well, with the holidays that's to be expected.  :)
19:23 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:23 < nhaines> The Ubuntu California leadership nomination passed, with only three nominations.
19:23 < nhaines> As per procedure, this means that the nominees are confirmed without an election.
19:23 < nhaines> So from January 1st, 2016 on, myself, ianorlin, and pleia2 are on the Ubuntu California leadership team.
19:24 < nhaines> I'd like to thank elky for all of her hard work for the team this year, and for continued success in her endeavours.
19:24 < Roguehorse> sounds good üòÜ
19:25 < nhaines> And I'd also like to thank pleia2 for volunteering to help, although truth be told she already helps out a ton, so there shouldn't be much difference now.
19:25 < nhaines> Does anyone else have business to announce?
19:26 < Roguehorse> It looks like I'll still be running EBLUG
19:27 < nhaines> Roguehorse: that's good to hear!  I hope things pick up again in January.
19:28 < Roguehorse> yeah, 3 months away, I suspect not much has changed,but we'll find out
19:29 < nhaines> Okay then, onto our agenda items for tonight.
19:30 < nhaines> #topic Meetup group progress.
19:30 < nhaines> So far, with little advertising, our Meetup group has 57 members and 35 RSVPs for UbuCon Summit.
19:30 < nhaines> I think that's a pretty good start for just a couple of weeks.
19:30 < Roguehorse> This is new to me, will have to check it out.
19:31 < nhaines> The group is located at http://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/
19:31 < nhaines> I'd like to encourage everyone to use it for their events, so do let me or pleia2 know if you're hosting a public event and we can get things set up for you there.
19:32 < ianorlin> ok
19:32 < Roguehorse> cool üëç
19:34 < nhaines> #topic SCaLE 14X planning
19:34 < nhaines> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale14x
19:34 < nhaines> UbuCon Summit planning is proceeding at speed and we're pretty close to done there.
19:35 < nhaines> The Ubuntu booth will be double-sized this year, so we'll still need lots of volunteers.
19:35 < nhaines> Canonical is helping to sponsor the booth, and so we'll finally have that vertical banner that I've wanted for so long.  I've also requested Ubuntu Infographic t-shirts for the booth volunteers this time around.
19:36 < nhaines> Volunteers will need to be able to talk about Ubuntu and answer simple questions, and greet booth visitors.
19:37 < ianorlin> also is the booth bigger ? as last year we almost had so many volunteers it would turn off shy people from visiting the booth
19:37 < nhaines> You don't need to be an Ubuntu expert, and in fact it's going to be a great opportunity to learn more about Ubuntu in the cloud, on phones, and in the Internet of Things.
19:37 < nhaines> ianorlin: yes, as I mentioned, we have twice as much booth space this year.
19:37 < ianorlin> although the show floor can get loud
19:39 < nhaines> Anyone can stop by and greet people for a little bit, but anyone who can fill a 4 hour shift (with a break if desired) will receive a SCALE exhibitor badge the allows access to the entire show for free.
19:40 < nhaines> Also, I expect we'll have some Arizona LoCo members to help us again this year.
19:41 < nhaines> So please feel free to sign up at the wiki page if you can make it.
19:42 < nhaines> We'll have retail and developer phones to show off and we'll also be showing off the phone's convergence features.
19:43 < ianorlin> hmm ok anything else needed for the booth?
19:43 < nhaines> Plus we'll have an orange box and Canonical employees by to talk about some of the details.
19:44 < nhaines> I think the only thing left is incidentals, most of which I'm covering thanks to community funds and with what's left over from last year.
19:44 < nhaines> But the full list is on the wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale14x
19:45 < nhaines> So mostly we need volunteers.
19:45 < nhaines> That's about all I have for that now.
19:45 < nhaines> Any questions?
19:46 < Roguehorse> what would I have to pay for? room and food?
19:46 < ianorlin> and getting there I think
19:46 < nhaines> Roguehorse: everything except admission.
19:47 < Roguehorse> let me think on it. funds are still limited right now.
19:48 < nhaines> Okay, let us know by signing up on the wiki page and also at Meetup!
19:48 < Roguehorse> k
19:48 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:49 < nhaines> This is our last meeting for the year.  Before we wrap things up, is there anything else?
19:50 < Roguehorse> nah
19:51 < nhaines> Okay, our next meeting is on January 10, 2016.
19:51 < nhaines> Happy holidays, everyone!
19:51 < nhaines> #endmeeting
</pre>
