{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, August 26th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

# UbuntuGlobalJam
## <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1918/detail/|San Francisco]]</nowiki>

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:01] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:01] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Aug 27 02:01:43 2012 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:01] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:01] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting? :)
[02:01] <jyo> o/
[02:02]  * eps waves
[02:02] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12August26
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12August26 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:02] <pleia2> our agenda
[02:02] <pleia2> #topic Ubuntu Global Jam
[02:02] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [UbuntuGlobalJam - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:03] <pleia2> so, once a cycle the whole Ubuntu community does an Ubuntu Global Jam
[02:03] <pleia2> we didn't really participate last time (I met up with ebroder at a coffee shop last minute, but that hardly counts :))
[02:04] <pleia2> this time I'm going to host one in downtown San Francisco, focused on teaching folks how to do ISO testing
[02:05] <pleia2> we're 99% sure we have a venue, but I am waiting for a confirmation from andrew_wmf just so I know everything is good to go
[02:05] <pleia2> then we'll announce it all
[02:05] <pleia2> a project page for the team is set up if anyone else around the state wants to plan anything
[02:05] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/QuantalGlobalJam
[02:05] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/QuantalGlobalJam - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:06] <pleia2> anyone have any comments? questions?
[02:07] <jtatum> Happy Sunday :)
[02:07] <pleia2> I'm doing a pretty organized jam this time around, but they can be pretty casual, we've done a couple that were at Bobby G's pizzeria
[02:08] <eps> Checking for conflicts ... well, you're scheduled against a Sumo Wrestling Demonstration: http://www.sfjapantown.org/Events/
[02:08] <darthrobot> Title: [Japantown San Francisco: Calendar]
[02:08] <pleia2> hehe
[02:09] <jyo> sounds good. I'll be busy that Saturday morning/early afternoon but I'll definitely drop by.
[02:09] <pleia2> great, I'm thinking of noon-4PM
[02:09] <pleia2> maybe 5 :)
[02:09] <pleia2> we'll order pizza around 1 probably
[02:10] <jtatum> For some reason I was thinking it was a 24 hour marathon. Hehe
[02:10] <pleia2> well, since it's actually 3 days it's 72 hours ;)
[02:11]  * eps can eat a lot of pizza in 72 hours
[02:11] <pleia2> but how long we can run a physical event it quite limited
[02:11] <toddc> stopped in to say hi!!
[02:11] <pleia2> (partially by the person running it, she doesn't want to do more than a 5 hour event right now)
[02:11] <pleia2> <-- she
[02:11] <pleia2> :)
[02:12] <pleia2> alright, well if anyone else wants to run a jam somewhere and has some questions, you know where to find me
[02:12] <pleia2> #topic Other upcoming events
[02:13] <pleia2> so, fates have conspired so that the next SF Ubuntu Hour lands 4 days after the jam ;)
[02:13] <pleia2> that's coming up on September 12th
[02:13] <pleia2> #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1899/detail/
[02:13] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:14] <pleia2> I emailed Jack to ask if we are participating in the Solano Stroll this year, it lands on September 9th
[02:14] <pleia2> (day after the jam, yikes!)
[02:14] <pleia2> he has been quite busy, but has contacted them to see if it's too late to reserve a table, so we'll see where that goes and do a call to the list for volunteers if needed
[02:15] <pleia2> anyone else have anything coming up? :)
[02:16] <eps> SCaLE in six months?
[02:16] <pleia2> yeah, I know Gareth has been in touch with nhaines about Ubucon
[02:17] <pleia2> I suspect we'll have a table again too (I just hope someone else runs it, speaking and booth running almost killed me last year :))
[02:17] <pleia2> er, this year
[02:18] <pleia2> #topic Any other business?
[02:18] <pleia2> so, anything else?
[02:18] <pleia2> Mt View ubuntu hour the other night was fun, got to see jtatum, jyo and jledbetter (that's a lot of Js!)
[02:19] <jtatum> Thanks for coming, pleia2. If anyone in this part of the world needs CDs, let me know.
[02:20] <eps> Start burning 12.04.1 LTS ;-)
[02:20] <jtatum> Or drop by the next UH :)
[02:21] <pleia2> this is totally on topic because it has penguins: https://www.calacademy.org/events/sleepovers/index.php
[02:21] <darthrobot> Title: [Academy Sleepovers | California Academy of Sciences]
[02:21] <pleia2> one for 21+ coming up on september 21st :)
[02:21] <pleia2> I bought a tauntaun sleeping bag and all
[02:23] <pleia2> ok, I guess that's it
[02:24] <pleia2> thanks everyone :)
[02:24] <pleia2> #endmeeting
[02:24] <darthrobot> Meeting ended Mon Aug 27 02:24:15 2012 UTC.
</pre>
