{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Sunday, September 9th, 2007, 7:00pm (1900) PDT

=== Summary ===
1. Branding
   a. Page to post artwork ideas: <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Logo]]</nowiki>
   a. Remixing other peoples' entries is okay! 
   a. After a while, we'll narrow down the list of entries, then pick a winner.
2. Gutsy
   a. Consensus: release party on the Friday (day after Gutsy comes out), then installfest on the Saturday (should have case badges by then)
   a. Maybe have a couple of events for different parts of the state (LA, SF, SD, etc.)
   a. Things to discuss on mailing list: venue, carpooling, listing who's actually going
3. Map application (by mthaddon)
   a. Launchpad page at https://launchpad.net/locomaps/
   a. Check out code: "bzr branch http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~mthaddon/locomaps/locomaps"

=== Original Agenda ===
1. Branding(Logo/Motto) - Progress Check
   a. Check out our <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Logo|wiki entry!]]</nowiki>
2. <nowiki>[[GutsyGibbon|Gutsy]]</nowiki> Release Event/Installfest(s)
   a. <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningReleaseParty|Running a Release Party]]</nowiki>
   a. <nowiki>[[GutsyReleaseParties|List of Gutsy Release Parties]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===
<pre>
19:08 -!- Flannel changed the topic of #ubuntu-california to: Welcome to the California Ubuntu LoCo Team! | Webpage: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam (has links to mailing list, forum, and more!) | Next Meeting Sept. 9, 1900 PDT -- That's Right now!
19:09 < Flannel> Alrght, so, lets get this started.  Agenda for tonight is....
19:09 < Flannel> Two things.  The logo/etc stuff, and whatever gutsy stuff.
19:09 < Flannel> whatever gutsy stuff we're doing, that is.
19:10 < Flannel> Anyone else have anything to add to it at the moment?
19:10 < Flannel> I expect this'll run rather short then.
19:10 < Yasumoto> nothing that I can think of
19:10 < cactaur> nah
19:10 < Flannel> Welcome everyone, glad you could be here.  As usual, the logs will be available after the meeting on our wiki page.  This particular one is: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/07September09
19:11 < Flannel> So, first thing is logo and stuff.
19:11 < Flannel> We've started a page for people to post their artwork/ideas, it's... https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Logo
19:12 < Flannel> You don't need to have your own hosting, you can upload attachments to the wiki itself.  Took me a little while to figure out how exactly, and Ill be putting nistructions up on that page sometime soon.
19:12 < Flannel> As far as I can tell, there are only three formats supported, jpg, gif, and png. I tried svg earlier, and it didn't go too well.
19:13 < Yasumoto> sounds right to me
19:13 < groundferret> ok.
19:13 < cactaur> awesome!
19:14 < Flannel> I don't think anyone would have problems if you take someone else's idea and add to it or whatnot, If you want the svg source of the flag thing, I can give it to you, no problem.
19:14 < groundferret> This is FOSS, why not? =)
19:15 < Flannel> Once its been up for a while, we'll try and narrow it down to a few ones most people like, and then do a final vote.  Hopefully it'll go as well as the iceweasel thing (even if I don't like the final iceweasel logo)
19:16 < groundferret> Ok. Sounds good. What is next?
19:16 < Flannel> Next item is... our Gutsy party/fest/whatever.
19:16 < cactaur> YAYZ!
19:16 < Flannel> Yay indeed.
19:16 < groundferret> Ok.
19:16 < Flannel> From what I've gathered from the list, we seem pretty supportive of doing a party/whatever on that friday, and then install fest sort of thing on the saturday.
19:17 < groundferret> yes.
19:17 < Yasumoto> seconded
19:17 < cactaur> I have no objections.
19:17 < groundferret> We should probably list who would come.
19:18 < Flannel> I think a wiki page for who can come might be a good idea.  Mailing list would work, but then people organizing would have to muck through their inboxes to get a good feel.
19:18 < Yasumoto> Flannel: yeah, good call
19:18 < groundferret> whom*  =)  True. Wiki it.
19:18 < Flannel> Judging by the loco map (which hopefully you're all a part of) I imagine it'll be somewhere in LA.  Hopefully the southern part of LA.
19:20 < Flannel> I don't foresee a big non-local turn out for the friday thing, just because people work until the evening and stuff, so we might want to think about that as a more local oriented event.
19:20 < Flannel> Where we can have a LA get together, one in SF, one in SD, whereever we've got enough people who want to get together
19:21 < groundferret> Agreed.
19:21 < cactaur> yeah
19:21 < Flannel> I'd like to make it to the Saturday thing though, especially because I think we should have case badges by then.  And I imagine a few of us are eager to get our hands on them.
19:21 < cactaur> hehehehe
19:22 < groundferret> =)
19:22 < cactaur> What's the exact date for Gutsy again?
19:22 < Flannel> The 19th?  Let me check
19:22 < groundferret> 10 Oct?
19:22 < Flannel> The 18th, which is a thursday
19:23 < Flannel> Of course, that's global time.  Usually it releases pretty late thursday, even for us
19:23 < cactaur> ah, ok
19:23 < Flannel> Fridays more likely a better day for a party, especially considering it's well, a friday.
19:23 < Flannel> And it'll give us all time to actually download the iso ;)
19:23 < cactaur> hahahahaha
19:23 < groundferret> It should be on the saturday.
19:24 < cactaur> Well, judging by how overloaded the servers are on release days. I'm not too sure that'll be enough time.
19:24 < Flannel> Saturday (the 20th) is the day we're shooting for for the installfest sort of thing.
19:25  * cactaur took like 14 hours to update to Feisty on the release date.
19:25 < Flannel> We've got some time to discuss it, and find a venue and details and stuff.  I know Yasumoto would like to do it at his school.  I've heard that UCI is pretty friendly to these sorts of things too.  Especially if we had someone who went there to talk to whomever they need to.
19:26 < Flannel> That's Irvine, I don't know what other options there are, I'm sure there's hundreds.
19:26 < Flannel> Anyone have questions/comments/whatever about anything?
19:26 < groundferret> There are.
19:27 < Flannel> I don't really think there's anything we can nail down at the moment, that we haven't already done a pretty good job of.
19:27 < groundferret> I prefer the Pasadena area (CalTech?) I have no transport.
19:29 < Flannel> We might be able to arrange carpools for people.  I'd personally prefer lower LA (anything north of Pendleton is LA to me, sorry).  Or even the east, since 15 is an easy drive.  Although I'm hardly an expert on LA traffic.
19:30 < Flannel> But, we'll see where we have interest, and see what we can do to accomidate people
19:30 < cactaur> yeah. Seems like we mostly need time to sort things out.
19:30 < Yasumoto> yeah
19:30 < Flannel> Any other comments or suggestions or anything?
19:30 < Yasumoto> anyone want to set up a wiki page detailing everything?
19:31 < Yasumoto> because if not, I'll whip one up and post it on the mailing list
19:31 < Flannel> Alright, thanks Yasumoto for volunteering.
19:31 < Flannel> ;)
19:31 < groundferret> That would be good; I am really to lazy to do anything except the edu site.
19:31 < cactaur> hahhaha
19:31 < cactaur> Hooray for Yasumoto!
19:32 < Flannel> Alright, so, if no one else has anything.  (Last chance!) we'll go ahead and draw this meeting to a close
19:32 < cactaur> going once?
19:32 < Yasumoto> sounds good to me
19:32 < cactaur> going twice?
19:32 < Yasumoto> good meeting everyone :)
19:32 < Flannel> Thanks everyone for being here.  Our next one will be in two weeks.  That's the 23rd.  Same Bat time, Same Bat Channel.
19:32 < cactaur> very!
...
19:36 < Yasumoto> heya mthaddon
19:36 < cactaur> hi mthaddon!
19:36 < mthaddon> Yasumoto, hiya, am I too late for the meeting?
19:36 < Flannel> We just finished
19:37 < Yasumoto> has anyone left?
19:37 < Flannel> Don't think so
19:37 < Flannel> mthaddon: did you have anything for the meeting?
19:37 < mthaddon> Flannel, not much, just wanted to talk a little about the map application and where it's going, see if anyone had any comments
19:37 < Flannel> We talked about the logo thing, and then about the parties/install fests
19:37 < Flannel> Oh, right.
19:37 < Flannel> Well, Go ahead!
19:37 < Yasumoto> I should've put the map up on the agenda :X
19:38 < mthaddon> logo looks good from what I saw on the wiki!
19:38 < mthaddon> ok, the map application...
19:38 < mthaddon> I'd be very interested in anyone's feedback on how we could improve it, specifically in the look and feel department and how the data gets there
19:39 < mthaddon> if anyone is interested in contributing, the code's available on launchpad - https://launchpad.net/locomaps
19:40 < Flannel> And if you want to give suggestions at any other time, that's the "blueprints" area.
19:40 < mthaddon> you can bzr branch http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~mthaddon/locomaps/locomaps to hack on the code
19:40 < mthaddon> Flannel, absolutely
19:43 < Flannel> Anyone have anything?
19:43 < cactaur> ummm.... not at the moment, no.
19:43 < Flannel> Alright, you can always post suggestions later through the blueprints on launchpad, or catch mthaddon on the mailing list, or whereever else.
19:44 < cactaur> all right
19:44 < mthaddon> I'm on IRC typically 8-5pm Mon-Fri
19:44 < mthaddon> or email/mailing list is always good
19:44 < Yasumoto> mthaddon: sometime later, can I ask you some questions about setting up a bzr branch and such?
19:44 < Yasumoto> (on launchpad)
19:45 < mthaddon> Yasumoto, absolutely
19:45 < Yasumoto> sweet, thanks :)
19:45 < Flannel> Thanks again to mthaddon for putting together that map.
19:45 < Yasumoto> I'm on a wiki-editing spree, otherwise I'd ask now
19:45 < mthaddon> :)
19:45 < Flannel> We're going to go ahead and re-ajourn.  Again, next meeting is in two weeks, that's the 23rd.  See you all there.
</pre>
