{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

SCaLE8x is February 19-21 (Fri-Sun).  The Expo is open Saturday and Sunday, with Friday being reserved for the mini-conferences.  
Doors open at 9am Saturday for setup, and 10am to the general public (10am is also the keynote) <nowiki>[[http://scale8x.socallinuxexpo.org/conference-info/schedules|See Full Schedule]]</nowiki>.  Parking is $14 per day.

The first day of SCaLE there will be an <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-SCUbucon2010|Ubucon]]</nowiki>, and we'll be running an <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale8x|exhibitor booth]]</nowiki> as well.  We're also hoping to have a few presentations/demonstrations throughout the weekend on various beginners Ubuntu topics.

If you're planning on attending SCaLE (regardless of whether you'll be helping with the booth) please sign up below.  We'll be taking a group picture, and this will help make sure we don't leave you out!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" tablebgcolor="#FFFFF0" 25%: rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">Name
| <25%:>Days Attended (Fri/Sat/Sun)
| <50%:>Misc
|-
| NealBussett
| Sat/Sun
| Might also be there late Friday
|-
| NathanHaines
| Fri/Sat/Sun
| 
|-
| RobertWall
| Fri/Sat/Sun
| 
|-
| Mark Weisler
| Fri/Sat/Sun
| 
|-
| Troy Ready
| Fri/Sat/Sun
| 
|-
| KevinDemarest
| Fri/Sat
| Possibly Sunday, but doubtful
|-
| <nowiki>[[Yasumoto | Joe Smith]]</nowiki>
| Fri/Sat/Sun
| 
|}
