{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, April 21st, 2019, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
   a. Ubuntu "Disco Dingo" 19.04 release.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

==== Meeting Logs ====

<pre> 19:00 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:00 < nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for April 21st!
19:00 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/19April21
19:01 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:01 < nhaines> Let's mix things up a bit and start with the announcements.  :)
19:01 < nhaines> Ubuntu 19.10 is out!  Yay!
19:01 < b-yeezi> 19.04?
19:02 < nhaines> Since I set up a new writing computer about two months ago, I've been running 10.10 with the minimal install and a few snaps.  It's been really solid.
19:02 < nhaines> b-yeezi: yup!  Not sure where .10 came from.
19:02 < nhaines> Ubuntu 19.04 is out.  And it is quite nice.  Linux 5.0 kernel, better GNOME Shell improvements.  Latest LibreOffice.
19:04 < b-yeezi> python3.7 is good (at least for me(
19:04 < nhaines> The next release cycle, "eaon," will begin to set the groundwork for the LTS release after that.  So to have 19.04 be so solid is a pretty start!
19:05 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:05 < nhaines> Are there any events happening in the near future we should know about?
19:05 < nhaines> This is a great time to thinking about release parties, which can be as simple as meeting up at a local restaurant for dinner.
19:07 < b-yeezi> I am a member of the San Diego Python user group. I'm going to suggest having an install party
19:07 < b-yeezi> Which I would lead, but if anyone else is in SD area, I'd be happy to share the load
19:08 < nhaines> It can be a good excuse for a get together!  Ubuntu 19.04 ships with Python 3.7.3.
19:08 < nhaines> If you do decide to have a release party, be sure to list it at https://gettogether.community/ and announce it on the mailing list.  If you have any questions or need any help, please be sure to let us know!
19:09 < b-yeezi> Is a release party separate from an install party?
19:10 < nhaines> A release party is when people get together to say "yay, this thing exists!"  An install party is when people get together specifically to try and get a thing running on hardware.
19:10 < nhaines> They don't have to be separate, but release parties are much easier to organize.  :)
19:10 < b-yeezi> OK
19:10 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:11 < nhaines> The agenda for this meeting is empty.
19:11 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:11 < nhaines> Anything else going on we should know about?
19:14 < nhaines> Okay, we'll keep this meeting short due to the holiday.
19:15 < nhaines> Feel free to discuss more on our mailing list, which you can subscribe to at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-us-ca
19:15 < nhaines> Our next meeting is scheduled for May 19th, and I'll see everyone there!
19:15 < nhaines> Take care, everyone.  :)
19:15 < nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
