{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, March 13th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====
1. SCaLE9x Wrap up
2. Ubuntu Global Jam Parties -- DarkwingDuck
3. Ubuntu Release Parties -- DarkwingDuck
4. Ubuntu-US-CA Training -- DarkwingDuck

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent.

Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <DarkwingDuck> *** START MEETING ***
[02:00] <DarkwingDuck> Greetings fellow team members!
[02:01] <DarkwingDuck> Yes, I'm actually chairing a meeting tonight.
[02:01] <pleia2> *gasps from the audience*
[02:01] <DarkwingDuck> okay smart butt. :P:P
[02:01] <pleia2> at least I didn't say something about kde
[02:01] <DarkwingDuck> Seeing that I just came from one of those meetings... Thank you :P
[02:01] <pleia2> :)
[02:01] <DarkwingDuck> Our agenda tonight is kinda short and sweet. (maybe)
[02:02] <DarkwingDuck> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11March13 for the list of items
[02:02]  * DarkwingDuck pauses
[02:02] <DarkwingDuck> Is anyone here other then pleia2 and myself?
[02:02] <grantbow> o/
[02:02] <akk> o/
[02:02] <DarkwingDuck> Okay, scale fallout
[02:03] <DarkwingDuck> overall i felt that Ubucon was a HUGE success
[02:03] <pleia2> nhaines did an amazing job with ubucon!
[02:03] <DarkwingDuck> +100 to nhaines for ubucon
[02:03] <DarkwingDuck> speaking of...
[02:03] <pleia2> he said he'd update ubucon.org with links to videos and such when he gets them
[02:04] <DarkwingDuck> Okay good.
[02:04] <DarkwingDuck> The booth did very well too
[02:04] <DarkwingDuck> we handed out around 600 CDs
[02:04] <pleia2> http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntu-us-ca << photos from myself and iheartubuntu
[02:05] <DarkwingDuck> and about half of that amount was pressed CDs
[02:05] <grantbow> nice
[02:05] <iheartubuntu> im interested to hand out 1000 next time
[02:05] <pleia2> iheartubuntu was a cd sleeve folding machine :)
[02:06] <pleia2> and erichammond showed us how to fold them (thankfully!)
[02:06] <DarkwingDuck> I have talked to jono about the CD issue we had and he gave me the names of a couple of people to talk to so we can get many many more CDs next year
[02:06] <DarkwingDuck> A BIG shout out to all of you who showed up. It was fun to put a face to these IRC nicks
[02:07] <DarkwingDuck> Any other positive fallout?
[02:07] <iheartubuntu> ive started an ubuntu hour with richard gaskin
[02:07] <DarkwingDuck> Other then loads of people that talked to me about KDE and Kubuntu :D
[02:07] <iheartubuntu> first one in pasadena :)
[02:07] <DarkwingDuck> Oh good.
[02:07] <iheartubuntu> and hope philip and i can do one in claremont when he is up here
[02:08] <iheartubuntu> seidos and i are now talking about one in lakewood area
[02:08] <DarkwingDuck> Awesome. There are rumors of another one down here in San Diego too
[02:09] <DarkwingDuck> Anything else from SCALE?
[02:09] <iheartubuntu> San gabriel LUG wants me to speak
[02:09] <iheartubuntu> not sure what to speak on
[02:09] <DarkwingDuck> +1!
[02:09] <iheartubuntu> i will go there a couple times firts
[02:09] <DarkwingDuck> Unity!
[02:09] <iheartubuntu> first
[02:09] <DarkwingDuck> :D
[02:09] <pleia2> if anyone else has photos and wants them up on the flickr page just let me know (grab me on irc or email lyz@ubuntu.com)
[02:09] <pleia2> this goes for scale, ubuntu hours, etc etc
[02:09] <DarkwingDuck> Sweet
[02:10] <iheartubuntu> jbermudes is excited about pasadena ubuntu hour too! so we should have minimum 3 people attending and enjoying the time
[02:10] <grantbow> great
[02:10] <seidos> when is it again iheartubuntu?
[02:11] <iheartubuntu> 2nd thursday of every month
[02:11] <iheartubuntu> peets coffee - corner of lake ave and california blvd
[02:11] <iheartubuntu> two blocks from cal tech
[02:11] <pleia2> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/778/detail/ is the 1st
[02:11] <iheartubuntu> which is where the LUG meets
[02:11] <seidos> cool
[02:11] <iheartubuntu> ty
[02:11] <DarkwingDuck> Okay, next item on the list...
[02:11] <DarkwingDuck> Ubuntu Global Jam
[02:12] <iheartubuntu> so it will be a ubuntu hour + head over to the LUG after large amounts of espresso?
[02:12] <seidos> sorry i asked, heh
[02:12] <pleia2> jono organized one in Walnut Creek for Friday April 1st: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/701/detail/
[02:12] <seidos> i won't be drinking espresso
[02:12] <DarkwingDuck> From April 1st to the 3rd is the Ubuntu Global Jam. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[02:12] <DarkwingDuck> These Jams can be a host of things.
[02:12] <seidos> i think i'm on the same drug that Sheen is on
[02:12] <pleia2> I have work that day, but jdeslip floated the idea of having one in Berkeley on Sunday, so I'll follow up with him about planning that (we did a Lucid jam there too)
[02:13] <DarkwingDuck> Bug jams, packaging jams, Translation jams, Doc jams, testing jams and Upgrade jams
[02:13] <seidos> spread jam
[02:13] <seidos> ha
[02:13] <DarkwingDuck> I will be holding a doc jam on one of those days via IRC for Kubuntu Docs
[02:14] <pleia2> cool
[02:14] <iheartubuntu> so how does a jam work? people meet in person or online
[02:14] <DarkwingDuck> Both.
[02:14]  * akk was just listening to cartalk, a woman who got jam in her automatic shifter and it wouldn't shift any more :)
[02:14] <DarkwingDuck> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[02:14] <grantbow> akk: different kind of jam here, lol
[02:14] <DarkwingDuck> hehehe
[02:14] <pleia2> the lucid global jam in berkeley worked well for both last year, a bunch of us met for pizza and worked on things, we were working on a flier that we posted to the list and talked about in IRC during the jam :)
[02:15] <DarkwingDuck> Awesome.
[02:15] <pleia2> and grantbow and I did mini presentations
[02:15]  * grantbow nods
[02:15] <DarkwingDuck> The mean reason I won't be able to do much is that the Doc freeze is on the 7th and that is my final crunch time. :/
[02:16] <DarkwingDuck> So, I figured I would host a IRC Kubuntu Doc jam
[02:16] <pleia2> DarkwingDuck: here or with kubuntu people?
[02:16] <DarkwingDuck> Anyone
[02:16] <akk> With all the talk about opportunistic development, how come there are no development jams?
[02:16] <pleia2> I mean, where on IRC :)
[02:17] <DarkwingDuck> Oh, I'll be creating a channel for it.
[02:17] <DarkwingDuck> I'm almost finished drafting that email.
[02:17] <pleia2> akk: global jams can be anything, so a development jam is fine
[02:17] <pleia2> these started out as global bug jams, until one day there were a massive number of newbies around the world triaging bugs and making a mess that the bug squad had to clean up after :\
[02:17] <DarkwingDuck> The doc jam I'm holding will be Kubuntu because the system docs for ubuntu and kubuntu are different on many levels
[02:18] <DarkwingDuck> Anyway, I had forwarded Jorge's email on it to the ML and I will forward it again.
[02:18] <pleia2> so now it's "whatever your expertise is and you want to share it with others" jam :)
[02:18] <grantbow> right, contributing to Ubuntu encompases more than code and bugs but those are certainly welcome
[02:18] <jledbetter> that's cool
[02:19] <pleia2> DarkwingDuck: you can just reply to the same email and say we'll talk about it, no need to reforward :)
[02:19] <DarkwingDuck> Works too. :)
[02:19] <DarkwingDuck> Anyway, if we want to get some jams setup this is the time to plan it.
[02:20] <DarkwingDuck> We can announce finals at the next meeting
[02:20] <pleia2> once you plan a jam, make a loco.ubuntu.com directory about it and add it here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/NattyGlobalJam
[02:21] <pleia2> (ask anyone here if you have questions about using loco.ubuntu.com)
[02:22] <DarkwingDuck> If you have any more questions about Jams please, ask away. :)
[02:22] <DarkwingDuck> If not, we can roll onto release parties.
[02:22] <pleia2> onward!
[02:22] <DarkwingDuck> Now, I know that this is a while out but, I wanted to touch base on this
[02:23] <DarkwingDuck> Normally a release party requires more planning because of the space required.
[02:23] <DarkwingDuck> Natty releases on April 28
[02:23] <DarkwingDuck> So, maybe an install-fest/release parties in the beginning of May will work out nicely.
[02:24] <iheartubuntu> (general questions can be asked at the end of the meeting?)
[02:24] <seidos> oh, i have a question, has anyone considered having a jam at a hacker space?
[02:24] <pleia2> seidos: yep, hackerspaces are fine places for jams :)
[02:24] <seidos> there's apparently a hacker space here in LA
[02:24] <iheartubuntu> what is a hackerspace
[02:25] <seidos> like a space where hackers meet
[02:25] <pleia2> hackerspaces.org
[02:25] <akk> Usually someone who's a member of the hackerspace has to host it -- at least that's how it works with hacker dojo here.
[02:25] <seidos> ah, i knew there would be caveats
[02:25] <pleia2> noisebridge in SF is more open than hacker dojo, you have to check with each space for their policies
[02:25] <seidos> i guess crashing a hackerspace is looked down upon in the hacker community
[02:26] <pleia2> depends on the space
[02:26] <grantbow> depends
[02:26] <seidos> has anyone done it?
[02:26] <pleia2> we had an installfest at noisebridge
[02:26] <grantbow> You don't have to crash if you are a regular.
[02:26] <seidos> did it go well?
[02:26] <pleia2> it went great :)
[02:26] <DarkwingDuck> Unless I can do it from home it is hard for me to get to places... the joys of three young kids
[02:26] <grantbow> I think it went well, yes
[02:26] <seidos> did you ask someone before you started inviting people?
[02:27] <seidos> i can't even do it from home, since i don't have my own place
[02:27] <pleia2> seidos: our experience won't be the same as at other hackerspaces, you need to check the rules of your local one
[02:27] <seidos> the joys of being a loser :)
[02:27] <seidos> pleia2: sorry i asked
[02:27] <pleia2> grantbow is at noisebridge all the time, so we just needed to set aside the space and time
[02:27] <DarkwingDuck> :)
[02:28] <DarkwingDuck> Going back to release parties... if you are setting one up please, please please update the info here. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/NattyRelease
[02:28] <pleia2> thanks to grantbow for putting up the page
[02:28] <DarkwingDuck> Whoot!
[02:29] <pleia2> I'll give jono a nudge and see if he has thoughts on one, he usually likes to host one in SF at thirsty bear brewing
[02:29] <DarkwingDuck> Anything else on release parties? We have plenty of time to get things setup
[02:29] <iheartubuntu> what goes on at a release... jsut a glorified ubuntu hour? :)
[02:29] <iheartubuntu> with the new release of course
[02:29] <pleia2> iheartubuntu: you can have a party, or have an installfest, or do whatever
[02:30] <grantbow> often the party is too close to the release to have media available, so it's usually a social event.
[02:30] <DarkwingDuck> Some people get together for drinks
[02:30] <akk> or combine it with a jam
[02:30] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/LucidRelease shows the variation of our events (Lucid was an LTS so a big release, we did *a lot*
[02:30] <DarkwingDuck> Other help with upgrades and installs
[02:30] <pleia2> )
[02:30] <eps> If we use a hackerspace, we can have our own food, as opposed to whatever a restaurant/bar limits you to
[02:30] <seidos> there's two answers, the simplified one, and the glorified hyped up propagandified electrified stupendous answer
[02:30] <DarkwingDuck> Loads of goody joyness
[02:30] <DarkwingDuck> seidos: +1
[02:31] <DarkwingDuck> Next on the list is something I have been wanting to do for a while now.
[02:31] <DarkwingDuck> Training
[02:31] <DarkwingDuck> If you have ever wanted how to do soemthing. Bug running, docs, packaging, dev ect ect
[02:31] <seidos> you can bring your own drinks and food to a bar, but you gotta' use Jedi mind tricks and stealth
[02:31] <DarkwingDuck> We wnat to help setup training for these things.
[02:31] <pleia2> seidos: most won't allow it (it can get you thrown out)
[02:32] <seidos> pleia2: you will not throw me out *waves hand*
[02:32] <akk> and it's a good way to have your event not welcome there in the future
[02:32] <jledbetter> DarkwingDuck, Great idea
[02:32] <akk> DarkwingDuck: Local in-person training, or online/irc?
[02:32] <seidos> no way
[02:32] <pleia2> DarkwingDuck: the Ubuntu Learning project exists, but it's woefully low on volunteers to write courses, if ubuntu-us-ca wanted to help I'd be grateful
[02:33] <DarkwingDuck> I'll help out with that too pleia2
[02:33] <iheartubuntu> i want to know training :) great idea
[02:33] <seidos> why couldn't the wiki be the course material?
[02:33] <iheartubuntu> see pleia2 ^^
[02:33] <pleia2> seidos: it can be the basis of material, but teaching a class is more than just reading from a book/wiki :)
[02:34] <seidos> pleia2: like what do you have in mind besides reading from a book?
[02:34] <DarkwingDuck> seidos: The wiki is good info... taking packaging for example... Packaging on the wiki is horrible to look at. Once I had someone walk me throughit became a breeze
[02:34] <seidos> so there is no packaging walk through, interesting
[02:34] <DarkwingDuck> Oh there is
[02:34] <seidos> it's just mind numbingly boring?
[02:34] <DarkwingDuck> took me 5 hours to read all of it
[02:35] <seidos> did it take 5 hours to walk through it when you worked with someone?
[02:35] <DarkwingDuck> So, would anyone be interested in learning about things like packaging or bug triage?
[02:35] <akk> Most ubuntu/debian packaging tutorials take the approach "there are 5 different ways to do this, it's a matter of taste which one you pick, here's a bizarre hybrid of 3 of the techniques switching randomly between them".
[02:35] <seidos> energy cannot be created or destroyed
[02:36] <jledbetter> akk, True
[02:36] <DarkwingDuck> akk: +1
[02:36] <jtatum> … what?
[02:36] <pleia2> DarkwingDuck: online or off?
[02:36] <seidos> huh interesting
[02:36] <pleia2> and IRC? video?
[02:36] <DarkwingDuck> both
[02:36] <jledbetter> jtatum, no idea
[02:36] <akk> DarkwingDuck: I'd be interested in learning better packaging (and might be able to teach some other topics).
[02:37] <DarkwingDuck> I was thinking ubuntu-classroom stuff
[02:37] <pleia2> I'd also be happy to welcome california folks to #ubuntu-classroom for anything any time :)
[02:37] <iheartubuntu> packaging of DEBs?
[02:37] <DarkwingDuck> But even beyond that
[02:37] <pleia2> we organize in #ubuntu-classroom-backstage
[02:37] <seidos> why can't we learn in this channel?
[02:38] <eps> packaging _and_ PPAs
[02:38] <akk> Has anybody tried in-person packaging tutorials, like "Let's spend 3 hours and each person will actually get something packaged in that time"?
[02:38] <akk> I've been to a few of the #ubuntu-classroom sessions, and they're helpful but they go way too fast for people to keep up and actually do it right then.
[02:38] <DarkwingDuck> I have, but that was becasue of what I was packaging
[02:39] <DarkwingDuck> So it sounds like this might be something good?
[02:39] <akk> (and I'm not criticising them -- I think they go at the right speed considering there's another class coming up right afterward)
[02:39] <seidos> ah, no wonder i'm not interested in packaging.  i have nothing to package.
[02:40] <grantbow> eps: ppas are not so bad: https://help.launchpad.net/Packaging/PPA/InstallingSoftware
[02:40] <pleia2> DarkwingDuck: sounds good!
[02:40] <iheartubuntu> double good!
[02:40] <DarkwingDuck> Awesome, I'll work on gettig a wiki setup for it and look on the ML for it too!
[02:40] <DarkwingDuck> Okay, that about wraps up the agenda. We now open the floor to anything else?
[02:41] <iheartubuntu> yes
[02:41] <iheartubuntu> uno momento
[02:42] <iheartubuntu> ok. this tuesday i will be placing an order with Ubuntu Store
[02:42] <iheartubuntu> to help save on the shipping
[02:42] <grantbow> we can chat after the meeting too.
[02:42] <iheartubuntu> details I put out on the mailing list here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2011-March/001589.html
[02:42] <iheartubuntu> ordering a big item yourself like a backpack might cost $50
[02:43] <iheartubuntu> or just some stickers along might cost you $10
[02:43] <iheartubuntu> if we group the order, then shipping should be down to $5 a person
[02:43] <iheartubuntu> nhaines brought up that there may be new merchandise soon for Natty release
[02:43] <iheartubuntu> so keep that in mind
[02:44] <iheartubuntu> im still ordering no matter
[02:44] <iheartubuntu> (done)
[02:44] <DarkwingDuck> How do we get the money to you?
[02:44] <jledbetter> iheartubuntu, Thank you :)
[02:44] <iheartubuntu> paypal
[02:44] <DarkwingDuck> Okay sweet
[02:44] <DarkwingDuck> If the store sold up to date Kubuntu items I would :P
[02:45] <iheartubuntu> please IM me and i will give out my email addy. since this is logged i wont post it here
[02:45] <DarkwingDuck> Anything else?
[02:46] <iheartubuntu> i have a few questions, but can wait till the end
[02:46] <iheartubuntu> unless now is a good time
[02:46] <DarkwingDuck> If there is nothing else the meeting ends. Next meeting will be held in two weeks on the 27th of March at 7p
[02:46] <DarkwingDuck> ** END MEETING **
</pre>
