{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, January 15th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Announcement: January 20 is [National] Penguin Awareness Day
# Final SCALE planning -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki> 
If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:00] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting?
[03:00] <ariley> hete
[03:00] <ariley> r
[03:01]  * eps waves
[03:01] <pleia2> Agenda here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12January15
[03:02] <nhaines> Gareth: thanks, I'll ping Jorge again.
[03:02] <pleia2> first agenda item is from eps
[03:03] <pleia2> Announcement: January 20 is [National] Penguin Awareness Day
[03:03] <pleia2> eps: anything to add? :)
[03:03] <eps> There are penguins. Be aware of them.
[03:04] <pleia2> it's the same day as Ubucon :)
[03:04] <pleia2> so I guess we should just move on to that!
[03:04] <pleia2> SCALE starts on Friday
[03:04] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale10x
[03:04] <pleia2> Darkwing: are you here?
[03:04] <pleia2> eps: I fixed your name
[03:05] <pleia2> so far we have 6 volunteers for the booth, I've forwarded along the code they need to use to register so hopefully everyone has done that
[03:05] <pleia2> I figure we'll play it by ear when it comes to staffing it, but I want to make sure everyone is aware of how important it is to be viligant if you're a staffer
[03:06] <pleia2> we have laptops and a tablet on the table, we don't want any of them walking off when we aren't paying attention :)
[03:06] <pleia2> I'll have my cell on me all day, so if there is ever a time when you absolutely need to leave the booth and no one else is around, give me a call: 610-052-7370 and I'll come
[03:07] <pleia2> err 610-952-7370
[03:07] <eps> security locks are your friends
[03:07] <pleia2> we don't have any, and they are difficult for tablets
[03:08] <pleia2> I've updated the wiki page with a bunch of little misc things that we ended up needing last year - tape, scissors, bungees
[03:08] <eps> They don't have Kensington-compatible security slots?
[03:10] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale10x#Stuff_We_Need is the list of stuff so far
[03:10] <pleia2> if there is other things people can think of, feel free to add them and I'll make sure it gets there
[03:10] <eps> Hand sanitizer?
[03:10] <pleia2> I shipped the CDs to nhaines (thanks again!) so my suitcase won't weigh a metric ton :)
[03:11] <nhaines> The CDs were received and are currently being a traffic hazard in my room, safe and sound.  :)
[03:11] <pleia2> eps: for our booth..?
[03:11] <pleia2> lol
[03:11] <jyo> Hello!
[03:11] <eps> Tablets have touchscreens, no?
[03:11] <pleia2> I will be down at the booth at 8:30AM for setup, I ask that others get there by at least 9AM so we can get everything sorted
[03:12] <pleia2> eps: yeah, but I think hand sanitizer would make it worse :)
[03:12] <nhaines> Mints can be helpful for booth volunteers.  I usually bring Listerine breath strips for myself.
[03:13] <pleia2> nhaines: ah, good idea!
[03:13]  * pleia2 adds hand sanitizer and mints to the list
[03:14] <pleia2> I figure a lot of us will be at Ubucon the evening prior, so it would be nice to get together that Friday evening if you don't have other plans
[03:15] <pleia2> I guess we can sort that out at Ubucon though :)
[03:15] <pleia2> nhaines: anything to add about Ubucon?
[03:15] <nhaines> Lightning talks have been *really* hit or miss.  The first year we had to cut them off early, and last year no one would volunteer.
[03:16] <nhaines> So if anyone will be attending on Friday and wants to be helpful, having a lighting talk topic would be useful.
[03:16] <nhaines> We'll be filming and it'll be a friendly audience of about 30-50 or so, so it's a great way to try out public speaking.
[03:17] <nhaines> That's at 10am.
[03:17] <pleia2> great
[03:18] <pleia2> aside from Ubucon, we have akk speaking during the main scale conference: http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale10x/presentations/fun-linux-and-devices
[03:18] <pleia2> yay akk :)
[03:19] <pleia2> I'll also be giving a talk, on saturday at the same time as the keynote about the work that Partimus does: http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale10x/presentations/bringing-linux-public-schools-and-community-centers
[03:20] <pleia2> and philipballew is also speaking! http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale10x/presentations/getting-involved-open-source-young-age
[03:20] <pleia2> should be a fun weekend
[03:20] <pleia2> anything else from anyone before we wrap up? announcements?
[03:21] <pleia2> jtatum apologized for running late so he couldn't attend the meeting, but he's hosting an Ubuntu Hour in Mt View on Thursday: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1499/detail/
[03:22] <jyo> hooray for Red Rock.
[03:22] <pleia2> :)
[03:22] <jyo> pleia2: Coming down this month?
[03:22] <pleia2> I'll be on my flight during it
[03:22] <jyo> aah
[03:23] <pleia2> alright, I think that's it then
[03:23] <pleia2> thanks everyone :)
[03:23] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
