{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, September 21st, 2008, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
 1. Firefox EULA announcement
** Firefox got rid of their EULA. However, the trademarked logo still validates Iceweasel
 1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-ToDoList]]</nowiki> - Up and Running!
** We now have a ToDo functioning as a buglist for the wiki. Feel free to add to or fix issues. But don't delete them as of now, just mark them as done.
 1. Intrepid Activity?
** An installfest/party is plannedfor SoCal, but not too many details.
** Lcafiero is putting together an Intrepid installfest at Cabrillo College up at Santa Cruz. More details for both events later.
 1. !BarCamp CSULB
** Starts at October 16 @ 10 AM PDT until October 17.

==== Original Agenda ====
# Firefox EULA announcement
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-ToDoList]]</nowiki> - Up and Running!
# Intrepid Activity?
# !BarCamp CSULB

==== Logs ====
<pre>
19:14 < Flannel> Alright, so, lets go ahead and get started.  I've kept you all waiting long enough.
19:14 < Flannel> So, We have an agenda that's viewable here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/08September21
19:15 < Flannel> Four things on it so far:  Firefox EULA stuff, our ToDoList thing is working (although my link seems to be broken, but I just fixed it), Intrepid stuff, and BarCamp CSULB
19:16 < Flannel> If anyone else has anything to add, feel free to speak up at anytime, like always.
19:16 < Flannel> So, first item on the agenda is the firefox thing.  This is mostly just an update, in case you find yourself on the street discussing the EULA thing.
19:16 < izinucs> From what I've read, Mozilla did or is doing the right thing with the EULA for FF.
19:16 < Flannel> Its now not a popup thing but a first-run tab thing
19:17 < Flannel> http://lockshot.files.wordpress.com/2008/09/open.png
19:17 < izinucs> and an entirely different license.. I think
19:17 < Flannel> So, no more popup EULA-ish thing, just a tab that talks about it.
19:18 < izinucs> does that sortof finish the debate with iceweasle
19:18 < Flannel> Slashdot actually has an article about it, with links to groklaw, etc.  If you want more information.
19:18 < Yasumoto> rock on, I hadn't seen the new one before
19:18 < Yasumoto> that actually looks awesome
19:18 < Flannel> izinucs: I don't think it does.  Mozilla still retains the trademark thing, so Debian will still continue to rebrand it.
19:19 < Flannel> but I believe it will get rid of "abrowser" in Intrepid.
19:20 < izinucs> that's good
19:21 < Flannel> So, next topic,
19:21 < Flannel> I've fleshed out an initial version of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/ToDoList
19:22 < Flannel> It could use some sprucing up to make it more legible I think. And more importantly, It needs more content.
19:22 < Flannel> For those of you who weren't here last week.  This is the page of pages that we need to look into, and fix, etc.
19:22 < Flannel> Sort of a bug list for our wiki
19:22  * AlgorithmicContr comes in late and sits quietly  
19:22 < Flannel> Actually, that's almost exactly what it amounts to.
19:23 < Yasumoto> cool
19:23 < Flannel> so, feel free to add to it, whether full items or comments on already posted items.  Feel free to fix them, etc.
19:23 < Flannel> If you fix them, I think we'll just change the color of them or something for the time being.  That way people won't have items just randomly disappearing.
19:23 < Flannel> but that may change.
19:23  * Flannel has no idea.
19:24 < Yasumoto> sounds like a work in progress with a good foundation
19:24 < Flannel> Feel free to rewrite that page entirely if you want to make it look better too, I'm not in love with the markup ;)
19:25 < nhaines> Here I am from a moving car!
19:25 < Flannel> nhaines: hopefully not the one driving said moving car
19:25 < Yasumoto> and hopefully you're not doing backflips on top of the car as well
19:25 < Flannel> Especially while typing
19:26 < Flannel> put the phone/whatever down if you're going to do a backflip
19:26 < Flannel> If anyone has questions about items on that list, probably best to ask in IRC or the mailing list (not just editign the page to ask for them)
19:26 < Flannel> Other than that, I think that topic is done as well.
19:26 < Flannel> yes? no?
19:27 < lcafiero> +1 to yes
19:27 < nhaines> Flannel: I'm a very good multitasker
19:27 < izinucs> ditto
19:27 < Flannel> yes it is then.
19:28 < Flannel> Alright, so.  As most of you ought to know, Intrepid is coming out at the end of October
19:28  * izinucs has the score update.. Dal=20 / GB=9
19:29 < Flannel> izinucs: Football doesn't matter until tomorrow night.
19:29 < izinucs> :)
19:29 < Flannel> izinucs: you should know this ;)
19:29 < nhaines> Intrepid will be fun!
19:29 < Flannel> We need to figure out what we want to do to celebrate.  Party, Dinner somewere, Installfest, bugjam, whatever
19:30 < nhaines> We should do a dinner and an installfest!
19:30 < lcafiero> We'll have an installfest around Intrepid's release
19:30 < Flannel> nhaines: Just not dinner during an installfest.
19:30 < Flannel> lcafiero: Up at Cabrillo?
19:30 < nhaines> Flannel: Wipe the BBQ ribs off your hands before reseating that PCI card!
19:31 < Yasumoto> I like dinner
19:31 < Yasumoto> I've been doing so many "real" events that I'm totally down for a laid back party
19:31 < Flannel> nhaines: who needs thermal grease when you have BBQ sauce
19:32 < nhaines> Flannel: is tabasco rated for higher temps?
19:32 < izinucs> mayonaise?
19:33 < Flannel> So, perhaps dinner and party/whatever thing, where arbitrary people could come if they wanted to have us demo/install?
19:33  * Flannel notes we won't be deciding tonight.
19:34 < Flannel> Sounds good, on all accounts.  You should all write emails to the mailing list!
19:34 < nhaines> Do we have much luck with venues that allow both food and computers?
19:34 < izinucs> church socials?
19:35 < Flannel> nhaines: Well, we don't necessarily have to do them at the same time.  If we have 15 people, that's only 4 cars if we carpool.
19:35 < Flannel> But, those are details!  Write your congre^H^H^H^H^H^Hmailing list!
19:35 < nhaines> True!
19:36 < Flannel> lcafiero: I assume we'll hear more about details (dates/etc) when it gets more firm?
19:37 < lcafiero> We will organize a Intrepid installfest at Cabrillo College in Aptos (Santa Cruz) and I'll give you details once we get it organized
19:37 < lcafiero> Our Hardy Heron was probably our best event all year in the spring
19:37 < Flannel> lcafiero: Sounds great.  Thanks.
19:37 < Flannel> One of these times, I'll be able to head up and check it out.
19:38 < Flannel> So, uh, I guess that wraps up Intrepid stuff.
19:38 < Flannel> Yasumoto now has some information regarding a BarCamp at CSULB
19:38 < Yasumoto> Well, not really
19:38 < Yasumoto> but I did want to point out it's coming up soon
19:38 < Yasumoto> https://barcamp.pbwiki.com/BarCampCSULB
19:39 < Flannel> when?
19:39 < Flannel> oh
19:39 < Yasumoto> It's about a month from now, October 18th and 19th
19:39 < Yasumoto> starting 10am on saturday (the 18th)
19:39 < nhaines> Sounds awesome!
19:40 < nhaines> Glenn Zucmann was putting all that together, right?
19:40 < Yasumoto> yep
19:40 < Flannel> nhaines: Looks that way, yeah
19:40 < Yasumoto> here's the initial mailing list post in july: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2008-July/000335.html
19:41 < Yasumoto> so that's about all I have about it, just thought I'd bring it up
19:41 < Flannel> Sounds good.  I had forgotten all about it.
19:42  * Flannel has a calendar now.
19:42 < Yasumoto> and there's also UDS (the Ubuntu Developer Summit) in Mountain View in December
19:42 < Yasumoto> Flannel: noice
19:42 < lcafiero> Cool.
19:42 < lcafiero> Nice there's something up here for a change :-)
19:42 < izinucs> noice = re-joice
19:43 < nhaines> BarCamp LA 6 wil be on October 25-26 as well.
19:43 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDSJaunty  is the page for UDS Jaunty
19:43 < Flannel> And that includes FOSSCamp on Friday and Saturday beforehand (bottom of that page)
19:44 < Yasumoto> Ans I guess if we're talking about events, there's also SCaLE, which we've already registered for. February 20th-22nd
19:44 < nhaines> yay!
19:44 < Flannel> Ah yes.  I'll put that on my calendar as well.
19:44 < Yasumoto> if you know of any Open Source projects that might be interested in attending, lemme know
19:44 < lcafiero> Argh. Lindependence Portland is on Oct. 25
19:44 < Yasumoto> portland?
19:45 < Yasumoto> like Oregon?
19:45 < lcafiero> Oregon
19:45 < Flannel> yes, Portland?
19:45 < izinucs> Nice area..
19:45 < lcafiero> We're trying to find an Ubuntu guy/gal to represent up there.
19:45 < lcafiero> Does anyone know anyone up there?
19:45 < Flannel> I'll ask around.
19:45 < Flannel> lcafiero: Have you tried the oregon and/or PWN teams?
19:45 < nhaines> lcafiero: this came directly from the Felton event?
19:46 < Yasumoto> there's a really big OSS community up there, I was there last week for the Linux Plumbers Conference
19:46  * jbermudes tardily sneaks in like a ninja but trips over something that makes a loud sound and is now embarrassed and sits in the corner
19:47 < izinucs> Plumbers conference?
19:48 < Yasumoto> http://www.linuxplumbersconf.org
19:48 < lcafiero> Thanks, Yasumoto
19:48 < Yasumoto> The kernel and other low-level services, like pulseaudio, hal, dbus, etc
19:48 < izinucs> ah.. now that makes sense.. thanks
19:49 < lcafiero> We've already got OpenSUSE and Fedora reps, but it needs to have an Ubuntu presence
19:49 < Yasumoto> lcafiero: I know there's a canonical kernel guy up there, but he seems to be pretty busy, especially with intrepid coming up so soon
19:49 < Flannel> lcafiero: and these people would be doing what?
19:51 < lcafiero> Grant Bowman and Daniel Gimpelevich did a great job in Felton -- handing out CDs, helping folks get started on Linux
19:53 < Flannel> Alright, anyone have anything else?
19:54 < Flannel> Alright, Thank you all for coming, been a very nice meeting.  Congratulations to lcafiero to breaking out and being able to attend.
19:54 < Flannel> Next meeting will be October 5th, at 7pm.
19:54 < Flannel> Oh, and...
19:55 < Flannel> Stay tuned to the mailing list, I'd like to have a pretty good feel (and maybe more) for what we're doing for intrepid by the next meeting.
</pre>
