{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

We will be celebrating the <nowiki>[[XenialXerus-ReleaseSchedule|release of Ubuntu 16.04 LTS (Xenial Xerus)]]</nowiki> which is happening in April, 2016. Physical and virtual (IRC & other) Xenial events were scheduled.  Each release cycle a number of efforts happen focused around the release.  If you are thinking about organizing one, <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningReleaseParty]]</nowiki> has some hints more hints are described in a video <nowiki>[[http://www.ustream.tv/recorded/6181333|how to do a release party.]]</nowiki> "... can be organized in literally 10 minutes."

=== Xenial Release Parties ===

We will plan release parties in future IRC meetings and on the mailing list.

These events are listed chronologically. Details have yet to be confirmed. World wide events are listed on the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/|LoCo directory]]</nowiki>.

==== Parties ====

===== Berkeley =====

* Date: Thursday, April 21, 2016
* Organizer: Michael Paoli
* Time: 7-9PM
* Location: Berkeley Unix User Group (BUUG) meeting at Au Coquelet
* Event page and RSVP: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3364-ubuntu-1604-xenial-xerus-release-micro-party-berkeley/
* Mailing list announcement: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2016-April/002727.html

===== San Francisco =====

* Date: Thursday July 28, 2016
* Organizer: Elizabeth K. Joseph
* Time: 6:30-9PM
* Location: <nowiki>[[https://www.opendns.com/|OpenDNS]]</nowiki>, 135 Bluxome, San Francisco, CA
* Lo``Co Team Portal page: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3398-san-francisco-ubuntu-1604-release-party/
* Meetup.com page: http://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/events/231970711/
* Mailing list announcement: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2016-June/002735.html

===== Brainstorming =====

==== Talks ====

===== Felton =====

* Felton LUG
* Date: Saturday, June 25, 2016
* Speaker: Elizabeth K. Joseph
* Time: 1PM
* Location: Felton Firehouse
* Announcement: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/felton-lug/b6s7V35jcH0
* Slides: <nowiki>[[http://princessleia.com/presentations/2016/feltonlug_ubuntu_1604.pdf|pdf]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://princessleia.com/presentations/2016/feltonlug_ubuntu_1604.odp|odp]]</nowiki>

===== Mountain View =====

* Silicon Valley LUG
* Date: Wednesday, July 6, 2016
* Speaker: Elizabeth K. Joseph
* Time: 7-9PM
* Location: Symantec vCafe, 350 Ellis Street
* Details on their meeting page: http://www.svlug.org/meetings.php
* Announcement: http://lists.svlug.org/archives/svlug/2016-July/062071.html
* Slides: <nowiki>[[http://princessleia.com/presentations/2016/svlug_ubuntu_1604.pdf|pdf]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://princessleia.com/presentations/2016/svlug_ubuntu_1604.odp|odp]]</nowiki>

===== San Francisco =====

* BALUG
* Date: Tuesday July 19, 2016
* Speaker: Elizabeth K. Joseph
* Time: 6:30 - 9PM
* Location: Henry's Hunan, Natoma Street
* Announcement: http://lists.balug.org/pipermail/balug-announce-balug.org/2016-July/000704.html

==== Installfests ====

=== USB Stick Distribution ===

With this release, Canonical has made the move from distributing DVDs to distributing USB sticks.

They will be shipping 25 Ubuntu 16.04 USB sticks for the team to San Francisco in July 2016. Some of these will be given away at the July 28th release party in San Francisco.

We have not yet determined a distribution mechanism for the rest of the state.
