{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Here are some discussions of how this effort was created and comments about how to proceed.

==== Email Archives ====
<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2008-July/|mailing list]]</nowiki>

==== Link Summary ====

Link from "Local Meetings" to <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-UserGroupContacts-Groups|Groups]]</nowiki> that was added Aug 6, 2008 was removed from <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Menu]]</nowiki> on May 15, 2009 because "We don't have regular local meetings. Having that in the header is misleading."

==== IRC meeting Log Excerpt ====

<nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Meetings-08July13]]</nowiki>

<pre>
19:28 < Flannel> Moving on to the next topic, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/UserGroupContacts is a prototype version of the contacts list we had discussed previously
19:28 < Flannel> GrantBow was nice enough to throw it together for us.
19:29 < gbFelton> yes, comments welcome :-)
19:29 < troyready> Nicely done sir
19:29 < jercos> wikiriffic
19:30 < ryaxnb> perfect
19:30 < symptom> gj gb
19:30 < gbFelton> without objections we can start using it
19:30 < ryaxnb> Capitalization would be nice
19:31 < gbFelton> ryaxnb: good  suggestion, will do.
19:31 < nhaines> ryaxnb: I'm sure that can come in time.
19:31 < Flannel> smaller errors will be corrected over time.
19:31 < ryaxnb> excellent
19:31 < Flannel> The only thing I can think of is it may not be a good idea to put emails of contacts out there like hat
19:32 < jercos> yeah, perfect for web-trawling spambots...
19:32 < troyready> lol
19:32 < jercos> maybe base64 it, and have some javascript change it to cleartext?
19:32 < gbFelton> Flannel: ok, we can remove those, np
19:33 < Flannel> gbFelton: We'll have to figure something out.  Since we do need some sort of method of contacting.
19:33 < ryaxnb> I like jercos sugggestion
19:33 < jercos> or require a captcha before providing email addresses?
19:33 < ryaxnb> that's good too
19:33 < ryaxnb> better even
19:33 < nhaines> jercos: this is not possible with the wiki provided by Cannonical.
19:33 < troyready> Can we put a captcha on the wiki?
19:34 < nhaines> I'm just misspelling everything today.  :)
19:34 < Flannel> We can't do anything like technical like that, due to the wiki... yeah, what nhaines said
19:34 < jercos> simple obfuscation, like php.net does?
19:35 < Flannel> some people may not care.  So, maybe we'll cover it on a case by case basis.
19:35 < Flannel> or at least, in lieu of some better all encompassing solution
19:35 < gbFelton> short term I will  remove them - we can try other solutions for implementing later.
19:36 < Flannel> Alright, so I suppose that ends that topic. </pre>

==== IRC meeting Log Excerpt ====

<nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Meetings-08June29]]</nowiki>

<pre>
19:41 < Flannel> Next topic is: Proposal for creating relationships with the various Linux groups in California
19:41 < Flannel> Grantbow: If you'd like to talk, you're welcome to. If you'd like me to, I don't mind doing that either.
19:41 < Grantbow> I like the idea of a wiki page we talked about just before the meeting.
19:42 < Flannel> Alright, I'll go ahead and explain it, feel free to interrupt and correct me.
19:42 < Grantbow> I'll jump in as the conversation develops :-)
19:42 < Flannel> Grant proposed starting to talk to all the LUGs and other orgs in california (and there's plenty) for a number of reasons.
19:44 < Flannel> to inform them that we exist as a resource (so they can invite us to come talk, etc), to find out what they would like us to be able to provide for them, and also to get our name out there so their members know they can join/help our LoCo
19:45 < Flannel> What was proposed is we set up a table on our wiki with the groups that we've contacted, annotated with a summary of what they need/whatever
19:45 < nhaines> Do we need to determine what services we provide first?
19:46 < Grantbow> I have been reading all the LoCo documents and suggestions on wiki.ubuntu.com.  This kind of organized contact in California seems ideal.
19:46 < Flannel> yeah, we should probably figure out what we have the resources for first.
19:47 < nhaines> That way we can stress it and then keep other requests in mind to investigate in the future.
19:47 < Grantbow> The contactors can probably offer what they have available - keeps it simple to begin.
19:47 < nhaines> Grantbow: That's what I was suggesting--we need to take stock first, so to speak.
19:48 < Flannel> We probably also should write up a how to on contacting them.
19:48 < Grantbow> What headings will be in this table?  contactor, date of last contact, name, email, phone...
19:48 < Flannel> Since it really should be personalized, blanket spam won't work well.
19:48 < troyready> Well, it seems that we can easily describe ourselves as LUG-like
19:48 < Grantbow> no spam
19:48 < Grantbow> hehe
19:49 < nhaines> troyready: that might backfire.  We're not here for "social" type of things, just advocacy, and we don't want to look like we're trying to encroach on the LUG.
19:49 < Grantbow> each contact will need to be somewhat personalized, preferably someone that has attended one of their meetings before
19:49 < troyready> That's a good point
19:49 < Flannel> Yeah, as we do this, we walk a fine line (which those of you who were at our first meeting all remember)
19:50 < troyready> can that be summarized without violating the code of conduct?
19:50 < Grantbow> I think I have a real good idea where that line is after our discussion before the meeting.
19:50 < Flannel> Grantbow: Different line I think.  We didn't talk about it before the meeting.
19:51 < Grantbow> Flannel, ok, that discussion coupled with my recent Ubuntu reading and my past non-profit volunteer recruiting efforts.
19:51 < Flannel> But, if we set up a few pages about how to contact people, what we offer, and then the summary of contactees, we should be pretty well off.  The second one will also allow people to come to us, and have a good view of what they're getting.
19:52 < Grantbow> sounds good
19:52 < Flannel> Grantbow: Ah, no, that's a separate issue.  This one has to do with the fact that LoCos aren't "user groups", they're primarily for advocacy
19:52 < Grantbow> Flannel: ok
19:52 < Flannel> And we need to make sure the LUGs don't feel threatened by our contact.  We're not trying to steal members
19:53 < troyready> Would that second page be maintained more easily by just linking to our general About page?
19:53 < Grantbow> right, we want to support their efforts and even maybe help them grow membership
19:53 < Flannel> troyready: Perhaps
19:54 < troyready> I don't like to be lazy, but I hate to see pages/projects go stale from overcomplexity
19:55 < Flannel> troyready: Aye.  But a more specific abilities page might be more useful. Then again, it might not.
19:55 < Flannel> I propose we bring the implementation detail discussion to the ML, so everyone can chime in.
19:55 < Grantbow> Can we start with a single page and break it up if it gets too big?
19:56 < Flannel> Anyone think contacting LUGs/etc is a bad idea?
19:56 < Grantbow> ML works
19:56 < Flannel> Anyone think its a good thing?
19:56  * Grantbow raises hand for a good thing
19:56 < troyready> I think it's a great idea
19:56 < nhaines> I think it's important.
19:57 < nhaines> And I think we're ready for it.
19:57 < Flannel> Alright, looks like we've agreed to move forward with implementation/etc.
</pre>
