{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, June 17th, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 02:00:14 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:00:14 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jun 18 02:00:14 2018 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:00:14 <darthrobot> 
 02:00:14 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:00:44 <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for Sunday, June 17th, 2018!
 02:00:52 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18June17
 02:00:52 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18June17 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:01:17 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is empty.
 02:01:22 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming Events
 02:01:40 <nhaines> Are there any upcoming Ubuntu events happening in California over the next month?
 02:03:46 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:03:57 <nhaines> Does anyone have any announcements for the LoCo this week?
 02:04:19 <pleia2> sorry, pretty quiet up here :)
 02:04:49 <nhaines> Same down here.  :)
 02:05:01 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:05:11 <nhaines> There is no agenda for this meeting.
 02:05:33 <nhaines> #topic Other Business
 02:05:44 <nhaines> Is there any other business for this meeting?
 02:07:52 <nhaines> Okay, our next meeting is scheduled for July 1st!
 02:07:58 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
