{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, August 9th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. Add your event information here.
1. Announcements
   a. Add your announcement here.
1. Add your agenda item here.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <nhaines> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Aug 10 02:00:16 2015 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <DonkeyHotei> [Sun 2015-08-09 06:48:52 PM PDT] <DonkeyHotei> o/
[02:00] <nhaines> Welcome to tonight's Ubuntu California LoCo meeting!  The agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15August9
[02:00] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15August9 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
[02:01] <nhaines> Does anyone have any events they'd like to announce?
[02:02]  * ianorlin does not know of any
[02:02]  * Roguehorse nope
[02:02] <DonkeyHotei> new horizons getting closer to the kuiper belt? idk
[02:03]  * Nairwolf is listening
[02:03] <nhaines> Well, it is the middle of summer.  :)
[02:04] <nhaines> #topic Announcements
[02:04] <DonkeyHotei> ubuntu-flavored ice cream?
[02:04] <nhaines> I gave an encore presentation of my "Writing and Publishing Books with Free Software" talk at OCLUG yesterday.
[02:04]  * ianorlin saw it and was interesting
[02:04] <Roguehorse> =)
[02:05] <nhaines> It was very well received, I got some great questions after, and it was filmed, so in a week or two I hope to post it to YouTube.
[02:05] <nhaines> So that was fun!
[02:06] <Nairwolf> That's sound great, I could share it with a swiss writer as soon as it would be available on YT
[02:06] <nhaines> Does anyone else have any news or announcements they'd like to share?
[02:06] <nhaines> Nairwolf: fantastic!  I'll announce the link on the mailing list when it's up.
[02:06] <Nairwolf> nhaines : ok ;)
[02:08] <nhaines> #topic Other business
[02:09] <nhaines> Since there are no other agenda items tonight, are there any other topics before we wrap things up?
[02:10] <Nairwolf> Is it the time to ask questions ?
[02:10] <nhaines> If they are related to the LoCo, yes.
[02:10] <DonkeyHotei> maybe lug reports
[02:11] <nhaines> DonkeyHotei: what do you mean?
[02:11] <DonkeyHotei> well if there were any questions about ubuntu coming from lugs
[02:12] <nhaines> DonkeyHotei: those belong on the mailing list unless they are time-critical.
[02:12] <Nairwolf> I would like to know if an Ubuntu Hour is expected next Wednesday at San Francisco. It's supposed to be the second Wednesday of the month : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UbuntuHours
[02:12] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UbuntuHours - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:13] <pleia2> Nairwolf: no one has stepped up to host anything, and I'l traveling on the 12th
[02:14] <nhaines> pleia2: oh, you beat me to checking the LoCo directory.  :)
[02:14] <ianorlin> are there docs on how to host this
[02:14] <nhaines> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour
[02:14] <darthrobot> [R: wiki.ubuntu.com] Title: [Hour - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:14] <Nairwolf> Ok, ok...
[02:14] <pleia2> Nairwolf: sorry, will have one in September (and a Debian Dinner right after!)
[02:15] <Nairwolf> nice ;)
[02:15] <Nairwolf> I supposed it would be annonced on the ml ?
[02:15] <Nairwolf> So, this is the meeting planned at California ? http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/events/
[02:15] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu California Events List | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:16] <Nairwolf> I don't know how much it's updated.
[02:16] <pleia2> yes, all events go there
[02:16] <Nairwolf> ok
[02:17] <nhaines> Not all organizers use the tool, but for those who do, they're pretty consistent.
[02:17] <pleia2> ah, yeah, I don't see the san diego events on there much :\
[02:17] <pleia2> but we try to get folks to use it, since that's what we use for reports and reapproval and things
[02:18] <ianorlin> +1 pleia2
[02:18] <nhaines> Nairwolf: good question, though!
[02:19] <nhaines> Anything else before we wrap up?
[02:19] <DonkeyHotei> [Sun 2015-08-09 07:04:20 PM PDT] <DonkeyHotei> ubuntu-flavored ice cream?
[02:20] <nhaines> Alrighty.  The next meeting is August 23rd, same time.  Have a good evening everybody!
[02:20] <nhaines> #endmeeting
</pre>
