{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Sunday, January 13rd, 2008, 7:00pm (1900) PDT

=== Summary ===
1. Blog links on <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Members]]</nowiki>
   a. Maybe eventually set up a planetubuntu-california
   a. Nobody disagreed, motion passed
1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale6x|SCaLE6x]]</nowiki>
   a. SCaLE is in four weeks at LAX Westin
   a. Things we need: power strip, switch/router (only one power and ethernet port), demo boxes for Ubuntu, tables, tablecloths, chairs, business cards, case badges, rolls of Ubuntu stickers, blank CDs
      i. Going to burn Ubuntu CDs at SCaLE on demand
   a. Banner for booth background (and for future use)
      i. Need to do investigation into price, sizes, settle on design, etc.
   a. Reference links: <nowiki>[[CaliforniaLinuxWorld06]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-UbuntuSCALE5x2007]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningCommunityStands]]</nowiki>

=== Original Agenda ===
# Member Blog Links
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale6x|SCaLE6x]]</nowiki>

=== Log ===
<pre>
19:11 < Flannel> Alright, lets get this meeting started.
19:12 < Flannel> Topics for this evening so far consist of: SCaLE
19:12 < Flannel> Anyone have anything else they'd like to add to the agenda?
19:12 < Yasumoto> I was thinking about adding links to anyone's blogs
19:13 < Yasumoto> on the Member's wiki page
19:13 < Yasumoto> I think it'd be cool
19:13 < Yasumoto> (I remember AlgorithmicContr mentioning his earlier, and I know cactaur has one too)
19:13 < harkonen> that does sound cool
19:13 < Yasumoto> that way we can keep up with everyone
19:13 < Yasumoto> if we get enough, maybe even set up something like planetubuntu-california or something
19:14 < AlgorithmicContr> Yasumoto: http:\\lawrence1992.wordpress.com
19:14 < AlgorithmicContr> I mean
19:14 < AlgorithmicContr> http://lawrence1992.wordpress.com/
19:15 < Flannel> Considering they'd be completely voluntary, I don't see any reason why anyone would be opposed to it.
19:15 < Flannel> member blogs++
19:15 < AlgorithmicContr> planet ++
19:16 < AlgorithmicContr> Flannel: so 2.7.5 is terrible, eh?
19:16 < Flannel> AlgorithmicContr: 2.7.5?
19:16 < AlgorithmicContr> libc6
19:16 < nhaines> I'll have to start blogging again (don't think writing my own is going to happen that soon).
19:16 < AlgorithmicContr> Flannel: I forced a downgrade to the
19:16 < AlgorithmicContr> gutsy-update 2.6.1 versio
19:16 < AlgorithmicContr> n
19:17 < Flannel> AlgorithmicContr: ah, wait until after the meeting
19:17 < AlgorithmicContr> and all works well
19:17 < AlgorithmicContr> Oh shoot, sorry
19:17 < Flannel> So, anyone against blog friendly member page?
19:17 < harkonen> nope
19:17 < adaminla> nope
19:17 < AlgorithmicContr> Nope
19:17 < nhaines> Nope
19:18 < Yasumoto> cool, unless anyone has any cool ideas, I'll just whip together a good template, then you can add them however
19:18 < Flannel> Alright, that's settled.  Anyone have any other topics for the agenda?
19:19 < Flannel> Alright.  So the next item is SCaLE planning
19:19 < Flannel> SCaLE is on February 8-10 (Thats in *four* weeks minus the weekend) in LA.  We've got a booth.
19:20 < adaminla> Where in LA?
19:20 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale6x  That page is our project page.  I encourage anyone/everyone to add/edit it
19:20 < AlgorithmicContr> adaminla: some airport
19:20 < Flannel> adaminla: LAX Westin
19:20 < AlgorithmicContr> well
19:20 < AlgorithmicContr> heh.
19:20 < adaminla> cool
19:20 < Flannel> The Westin inside/next to LAX
19:20 < AlgorithmicContr> what Flannel said
19:20 < adaminla> On Century
19:21 < Flannel> Uh, maybe?
19:21 < Flannel> sure
19:21 < adaminla> yes 5400 Century
19:22 < nhaines> I'm willing to wipe my laptop computer and have Hardy on there.  It might fit in well with the "Future of Ubuntu Desktop" talk on Sunday.
19:22 < Flannel> We've got a booth for Ubuntu (and Ubuntu-California), we're planning on having demo boxes to ooh and aah, as well as general stuff.
19:22 < nhaines> Do we have a network switch available?
19:22 < Flannel> We are hoping to work with Ted Gould (whos giving the "The Ubuntu Desktop: Bling for Usability" talk on Sunday) so we can make sure stuff he talks about, we can show off
19:23 < Flannel> We have 1 network drop, 1 power outlet.  We need to bring a strip(s) and a switch/router/whatever
19:23 < nhaines> Yes, I meant, is anyone bringing a switch.  :)
19:23 < Flannel> I also imagine we'll need to bring more tables and chairs and stuff
19:23 < nhaines> My brother will probably let me borrow the Linksys wireless router that he isn't using since mine powers the house.
19:24 < Flannel> I think Aaron (from the ML) has a desktop he can offer us for that weekend.  But I haven't followed up on it yet.
19:24 < Flannel> We'll need to add these things to the need section, and have a checkist or table or whatnot.  I just whipped that up today
19:24 < Flannel> we need to itemize whos bringing what, etc.
19:25 < Yasumoto> agreed
19:25 < Flannel> I envision a U shaped booth, computers on both sides, in the back is a table with stuff, and a big space in the middle for talking and stuff (?)
19:25 < Flannel> Or, maybe not.  But we certainly can't put a wall of tables across the front
19:26 < Flannel> Thats just a first idea, if anyone else has ideas, please share.
19:26 < Flannel> As for non-hardware, we need to get some stuff made as well.
19:26 < Flannel> Fliers/cards (whatever you want to call them) for people to walk away with, and anything else we can think of
19:27 < harkonen> Me and a friend are working on flyers.
19:27 < nhaines> Do you have content for the flyers or are you working on the logistical side of things?
19:27 < Flannel> I don't believe the package we'll be recieving from Shipit will be enough for the weekend (I'm almost certain it wont be) so it'll be best if we just pretend its not coming, and then use it as an augment
19:27 < nhaines> I hope we have plenty of name badges.
19:28 < nhaines> Case badges!  I mean case badges
19:28 < harkonen> nhaines: i have some content, also looking into printing.
19:28 < Flannel> I was also hinking about maybe having rolls upon rolls of stickers
19:29 < Flannel> with nothing but the ubuntu logo on them.  The kind you get at the dentist/doctors/whatever, that we can have for people to grab
19:29 < Flannel> Although I have no idea if those cost lots or little.
19:29 < Flannel> But the main things in our booth: Demo Boxes, Paperstuffs, CDs
19:29 < nhaines> Looks like I have 4 7.10 Desktop CDs... 2 x86 and 2 x84, and one Kubuntu and one Edubuntu CD.
19:30 < Flannel> I imagine shipit CDs wont cut it.  I'm looking on prices for a big spool of blanks that we can bring and burn there
19:30 < nhaines> Welcome, charlesnw.
19:31 < Flannel> burning there is a plus, because we can burn any arch/flavor, and we can burn whatever people are most interested in
19:31 < harkonen> how many blanks will we need do you think? i can get them pretty cheap from work.
19:31 < Flannel> Not burning on the spot, but to replenish our supplies while we're handing them out
19:32 < Flannel> harkonen: Gareth said there was about 1000 people last year.  We won't be handing out CDs indiscriminately, but I imagine we'll need a good deal.
19:32 < Flannel> I'd rather have blanks left over, than run out.
19:32 < Flannel> What size do spools come in nowadays anyway?
19:32 < nhaines> 100.
19:32 < Flannel> Are those the like 6" tall ones?
19:33 < Flannel> harkonen: answer is I dont know.  I'd say a couple hundred to be safe.
19:34 < nhaines> Flannel: yes.
19:34 < Flannel> Anyone else have ideas? or things they'd like to see us do at the booth?
19:34 < adaminla> How big is the booth (sq. ft.) and does it have a back wall?
19:34 < Flannel> 8'x10'
19:34 < adaminla> back wall
19:34 < Flannel> I dont know if it'll have a wall, but it'll certainly have a curtain (Or, I imagine so).
19:34 < Flannel> Gareth ping
19:34 < adaminla> banner?
19:35 < nhaines> I'm trying to think something up for the banner.
19:35 < Flannel> We have no banner, we're interestd in one
19:35 < Flannel> We'd like to get one to have forever more.  If done properly, it's a one time expense
19:35 < adaminla> dress the booth up nicely
19:36 < adaminla> what would it have on it? Logo and our namew?
19:36 < AlgorithmicContr> How about a Big Penguin!
19:36 < adaminla> name?
19:36 < nhaines> If only I knew what they were planning for Hardy, I would know whether browny sort of background is a good bet.
19:37 < nhaines> Flannel: Do you want to go more in the "Ubuntu" direction or more in the "Ubuntu California LoCo" direction?
19:37 < adaminla> What about our cal logo?
19:37 < Flannel> Not our names, Ubuntu California, our logo.  Maybe some other general stuff?
19:37 < Flannel> nhaines: For the banner?  -california
19:38 < nhaines> Flannel: right, for the banner.  Gotcha.
19:38 < Flannel> I'd think just a regular white background
19:38 < Flannel> But, what do I know ;)
19:38 < nhaines> That's the wonderful thing about layers... ;)
19:38 < Yasumoto> Flannel: I really like that flag you made
19:38 < Flannel> Oh, tablecloths.  We'll need tablecloths for all tables (we'll need to bring more tables, I think I have enough)
19:39 < Flannel> sorry, Im offtopic ;)
19:39 < harkonen> 500 CD-Rs = $104
19:40 < Flannel> harkonen: through your work? or just regular?
19:40 < harkonen> Flannel: thru my job
19:40  * Flannel has absolutely no idea what media costs anymore.
19:41 < Flannel> Oh yeah.  If any of you were here for the meeting, this is all we'll be doing for the rest of it, feel free and leave.
19:42 < Flannel> harkonen: With your paper stuffs, what size are they?  and whats the content?  Is it all Ubuntu?
19:42 < harkonen> 100 cds for $25 seems to be going rate
19:42 < Flannel> (as opposed to being Ubuntu & -california)
19:43 < harkonen> Flannel: I was looking first at 4x6 postcards on postcard stock because a place i print with fairly often does 1000 postcards for 150$, which I actually thought I'd just pay for myself
19:43 < harkonen> kind of make it very general, no dates or anything to date the postcards so we could use it in the future if we have left overs
19:44 < Flannel> harkonen: I agree.  Everything we have should be non-temporal
19:44 < harkonen> Content-wise...not sure.  I am currently working on a hyrid of "Ubuntu is a  great linux distro" and "For support you have a great Local Team that can be found at IRC web wiki etc"
19:44 < Flannel> harkonen: Those DIYMarketing pages might help a lot,
19:45 < harkonen> so both ubuntu and -california
19:45 < harkonen> Flannel: yeah I'll look at it for sure/  have it bookmarked now
19:46 < Flannel> harkonen: If you felt like making it just Ubuntu, I'm leaning towards getting -california business cards made.
19:46 < Flannel> What does everyone think?  Ubuntu fliers, and -california business cards?  (or something?)
19:46 < Flannel> Or just mix it all into the flier
19:46 < harkonen> business cards almost seem handier, actually
19:46 < Yasumoto> personally, I think cards would be cool
19:46 < Flannel> I dont know why I'm stuck on business cards.
19:47 < Yasumoto> but might kinda get 'lost in the sauce'
19:47 < Flannel> Ah good, its not just me being crazy
19:47 < Yasumoto> I think they're pretty slick though, but would their small size make them easier to lose?
19:47 < Flannel> Yasumoto: well, business cards are handy, and people will have bags and stuff to carry stuff in.
19:47 < Yasumoto> I don't know, just a thought
19:47 < Yasumoto> hm, true
19:47 < Yasumoto> and I guess it's like
19:47 < nhaines> I was thinking of designing card-sized -california handouts.
19:48 < Flannel> From my experience (trade shows, not expos) I'm more likely to take a business card just for my own memory than a big flier/pamphlet thing, since I can read all about it later
19:48 < Yasumoto> "Hi! I'm from the LoCo, here's our card. Anyway, Ubuntu is great..."
19:48 < nhaines> I even still have Gareth's card, heh.
19:48 < harkonen> nhaines: me too
19:48 < Flannel> Yeah, we really need to do some use-case scenarios on our booth ideas ;)
19:48 < Yasumoto> haha, well I guess it works out then
19:49 < Flannel> Oh, today I found these: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaLinuxWorld06  and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/UbuntuSCALE5x2007
19:49 < nhaines> haha
19:50 < Flannel> (I haven't read them yet, well, I read the LinuxWorld one like a year ago)
19:50 < Flannel> There are some good guidelines at the bottom, and maybe some other gems in there too
19:51 < Flannel> Earlier when I was babbling on about burning CDs, I didn't mean burn-while-you-wait, but have 10 of each, and burn/verify (verify is important, we dont want to hand out broken CDs) to refill those 10
19:51 < nhaines> I think that's a good idea (I even suggested it earlier on the list to someone else!)
19:52 < Flannel> With CD handouts, we'll be following regular CD guidelines (as if these were ShipIt CDs), hand them out to people who seem interested, after talking with them for a bit, etc.
19:52 < nhaines> CD guidelines?
19:52 < Flannel> Yeah, let me... see if I can find them
19:54 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/RunningCommunityStands
19:54 < Flannel> (thats not it, but looks to be an awesome page)
19:54 < nhaines> haha
19:55 < Flannel> Theres so much hidden stuff in the wiki ;)
19:55 < nhaines> Indeed.
19:55 < Yasumoto> Well I've got to get going, but it's started: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Members
19:56 < Yasumoto> I think we should combine the member list and the blog entry, but then it might be difficult to see who actually has a blog
19:56 < nhaines> Thanks, Yasumoto!  Once we get some blogs listed up there we can always go back and integrate them.
19:56 < Flannel> Thanks Yasumoto.
19:56 < Yasumoto> good idea nhaines :)
19:56 < harkonen> see ya Yasumoto
19:57 < Yasumoto> thanks a bunch guys, I'll talk to you soon
19:57 < adaminla> when's the next irc meet?
19:58 < nhaines> adaminla: in two weeks on January 27th.
19:58 < adaminla> ok
19:58 < cactaur> HOLY! I just realized the meeting is today!
19:58 < Flannel> cactaur: indeed it is
19:59  * nhaines gives cactaur a cookie.
19:59 < harkonen> maybe we should start a sign-up list on our Projects SCaLE page so we can list what we need, and let each item get accounted for as people sign up to bring it.  just wondering about things like table cloths actually getting brought...
19:59 < cactaur> Well, good thing I was here.
20:00  * cactaur just checks logs.
20:01 < nhaines> I know just the think for the name badges!
20:01 < Flannel> harkonen: yeah, stuff and manpower.  I believe Yasumoto and myself are both planning on being there both days (more or less all day)
20:01 < nhaines> Just thing, I mean.  I'll get to work on that.  :)
20:01 < nhaines> Flannel: I plan to be there both days as well.
20:01 < Flannel> although I *will* be taking time away from the booth to watch Teds speech, because I think its important to integrate that
20:01 < nhaines> Unfortunately, my laptop doesn't do Compiz.
20:02 < harkonen> Flannel: yeah, me and a friend will be there both days, I'll be taking off to make my speech, but otherwise I'll be there.
20:02 < Flannel> harkonen: Youre speaking?
20:02 < harkonen> So I'll start a list from this meeting's log on the wiki.
20:02 < harkonen> Flannel: Yeah on Video Codecs.
20:02 < cactaur> WAIT! SCALE IS IN LA!!!?!?!?!
20:02 < Flannel> harkonen: add them to stuff we need, I'll tabelize everything later
20:02 < Flannel> cactaur: yeah.
20:02 < cactaur> I THOUGHT IT WAS IN SD!!!
20:02 < nhaines> cactaur, where have you been?  :)
20:03 < Flannel> cactaur: Nope.  FOSSCon will be, next year.
20:03 < nhaines> harkonen: I already started a list.
20:03 < harkonen> nhaines: good show.
20:03 < nhaines> Wanted to get the jump on Flannel, but please do add anything mentioned since then.  ;)
20:03 < cactaur> In that case I will be ..... MOST LIKELY able to come!
20:04 < cactaur> Is it too late?
20:04 < Flannel> cactaur: no
20:05 < harkonen> too late for early registration i think.  could be wrong.
20:05 < Flannel> Registration for the expo is $10
20:05 < Flannel> And you can do it at the door
20:05 < Flannel> (thats for both days)
20:05 < cactaur> Cool!
20:05 < harkonen> I thought it was $60..??  that's what my friend had to pay.
20:05 < Flannel> harkonen: thats for all the mini-conferences as well
20:06 < cactaur> Do we care about those?
20:06 < Flannel> a "Full Access Pass"
20:06 < harkonen> oh right
20:06 < Flannel> cactaur: no (well, not as a group, no)
20:06 < Flannel> http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale6x/conference-info/social-events/scale-friday-special-events/
20:06 < Flannel> Is what the friday stuff is.  Thats the extra.
20:07 < cactaur> ah....
20:07 < cactaur> Now I'm wondering, how did I go like, two months not realizing SCaLE is in LA?
20:07 < Flannel> cactaur: LA and SD *do* look so much alike ;)
20:08 < cactaur> Oh, that's interesting. If you're a student, you get both half off and the special events free.
20:08 < Flannel> harkonen: you said 4x6 was $150 for 500?
20:08  * Flannel is trying to find it in his buffer.
20:08 < cactaur> Oh, it's free anyways.
20:08 < Flannel> Ah, 1000.
20:08 < Flannel> cactaur: You actually don't get either for just the expo
20:09 < Flannel> Expo is $10 for everyone.  Discounts only apply for the Full Access (or so Im told)
20:09 < nhaines> Flannel: Will I be able to get an exhibitor pass or am I too late?
20:10 < Flannel> nhaines: I'm still a little in the dark regarding exhibitor pass vs non.  I'll get back to you.  I think we get 3, plus more if we need them.  Not sure what the difference between exhibitor and regular is.
20:10 < nhaines> Okay, thanks.
20:10 < cactaur> Yeah, let me know too. I have to catch up from my self-delusion...
20:12 < Flannel> So, Uh, I think the banner printing is one thing we still need to look around for.  Price comparison, etc.
20:12 < adaminla> I'm going to check some sign shops here in Long Beach.
20:13 < Flannel> adaminla: We're unsure what size we want too.  So get a variety of quotes.
20:13 < adaminla> ok
20:13 < Flannel> Anyone else is welcome to as well :)
20:14 < Flannel> adaminla: Are you on the mailing list?
20:15  * Flannel doesn't recognize the nick.
20:15 < adaminla> Flannel: Yes I think so. I'm getting emails re the irc meet tonight.I
20:15 < Kr0ntab> hey...
20:16 < Flannel> Howdy Kr0ntab 
20:16 < Kr0ntab> sorry I missed the meeting guys...
20:16 < Kr0ntab> do we have a log?
20:16 < Kr0ntab> to review..
20:16 < cactaur> Yeah, Flannel has one.
20:16 < Kr0ntab> ah cool...
20:17 < nhaines> Are we done yet?
20:17 < adaminla> Flannel: do we have the art work for the logo?
20:18 < Flannel> nhaines: We're done whenever we feel like it, this is just going to fade out.
20:18 < Flannel> nhaines: Thats why I made sure the SCaLE was last
20:18 < cactaur> Kr0ntab: At 19:00
20:18 < adaminla> for the banner?
20:19 < Flannel> adaminla: yeah, sorry its:
20:20 < Flannel> erm, nhaines, where is it?
20:20 < nhaines> Oh yeah.  http://www.nhaines.com/ubuntu-california-logos/
20:20 < nhaines> I'm working on sprucing that up.  :)
20:20 < nhaines> http://www.nhaines.com/ubuntu-california-logos/Calif_logo.svg specifically
20:21 < Flannel> adaminla: don't feel like you need to put together the banner by yourself either.  Theres a few us of that will help.
20:22 < nhaines> Flannel: do you know what booth we're in at SCaLE?
20:22 < Flannel> nhaines: Nope. Is there an exhibitor map somewhere?
20:22 < adaminla> Flannel: OK, let me check into what we're looking at $ wise.
20:22 < Flannel> adaminla: also ask what file format will be best for them.
20:23 < adaminla> ok
20:23 < nhaines> Flannel: I imagine there is.  Don't recall.
20:23 < Flannel> nhaines: Gareth will know.
20:23 < nhaines> ping Gareth: is there an exhibitor map for SCaLE6X?  When will we be assigned a booth number?  Thanks.
20:23 < Flannel> He'll know where we are too.
20:24 < nhaines> Do we also know dress code sort of stuff?
20:24 < Flannel> We also need to know if we get curtains/dividers or fi we have to provide that ourselves
20:24 < nhaines> Yes, that's true.
20:24 < Flannel> Oh, and we'll want to know which dimension is our 8 and which is our 10
20:24 < Flannel> Although thats not nearly as important
20:24  * Flannel wants to try and plan the floorplan
20:24 < nhaines> :)
20:25 < adaminla> it is for the banner
20:25 < nhaines> We could just get a 8 foot banner.
20:25 < nhaines> So not nearly as important.
20:25 < Flannel> or a 7' or whatever
20:25 < Flannel> erm, 6
20:25 < Flannel> but, 7 is just as good, and just as arbitrary ;)
20:25 < nhaines> haha
20:26 < Flannel> 4'x4', whatever.
20:26 < Flannel> We've gotta decide on banner size/design.   And they're dependant on each other
20:26  * Flannel mutters about circular dependencies.
20:26 < adaminla> I'll check on 6 foot banner price. we can use it in almost any situation.
20:27 < nhaines> That sounds good to me.
20:27 < adaminla> maby 6x2
20:27 < Flannel> Yeah, this is going to be a general purpose banner.  Just happens to be in time for SCaLE
20:28 < adaminla> cool
20:28 < harkonen> well i gotta go home.  see ya later!
20:29 < nhaines> Take care, harkonen.
20:29 < Flannel> bye harkonen, thanks for your input tonight
20:29 < Flannel> Actually, I think this is probably as good of time as any to "officially" end the meeting.  Of course, some of us are still around.  And wiki page edits are timeless ;)
20:30 < nhaines> haha
20:30 < Flannel> Thanks everyone for your input and discussion tonight.  I think we're on track to have a wonderful booth at SCaLE.
20:30 < Flannel> Next General Meeting is in two weeks.  thats the 27th.  Same time, same place.
</pre>
