{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, May 15th, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

 1. 16.04 Release Parties (pleia2)

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you there!

=== Full Log ===

{{{#!IRC 02:00:23 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:00:23 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon May 16 02:00:23 2016 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:00:23 <darthrobot`> 
 02:00:23 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:00:29 <nhaines> #chair nhaines pleia2 ianorlin
 02:00:29 <darthrobot`> Current chairs: ianorlin nhaines pleia2
 02:00:45 <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California LoCo meeting for May 15th.
 02:00:57 <nhaines> Today's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16May15
 02:00:57 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16May15 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:01:19 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:01:43 <nhaines> Are there any events that are being planned at the moment?  (We'll get to release parties soon.)
 02:02:35 * ianorlin is not currently planning any
 02:03:16 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:03:38 <pleia2> nothing from me here eitehr
 02:03:52 <nhaines> The Ubuntu Online Summit wrapped up 10 days ago.
 02:04:21 <nhaines> It was a fun UOS and there was a lot discussed.  Ubuntu 16.04 LTS put a lot of technolgies into place that are going to build the last stages of convergence.
 02:04:48 <nhaines> Tons of plans and roadmaps were revealed, and you can see a track summary session held by all the track leads here: http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1605/meeting/22691/track-summaries/
 02:04:48 <darthrobot`> Title: [Track Summaries - | The Summit Scheduler]
 02:05:07 <nhaines> And you can also view replays of all of the sessions as well.
 02:05:28 <nhaines> Are there any other announcements at this time?
 02:08:32 <nhaines> Okay then, on to our first agenda item.
 02:08:41 <nhaines> #topic 16.04 Release Parties
 02:08:45 <pleia2> so, we haven't had any yet
 02:08:52 <nhaines> \o/
 02:09:05 <pleia2> I couldn't find a venue on release day here in San Francisco, and then had to postpone until I have more time to organize
 02:09:20 <pleia2> I don't have time yet, but I hope to get something set up for July or so
 02:09:32 <ianorlin> pleia2 good idea
 02:10:10 <pleia2> July is when 16.04.1 comes out, which prompts all the upgrades from 14.04, kind of like a 2nd release day ;)
 02:10:31 <nhaines> And now things like the Ubuntu Software Store actually work.  :)
 02:10:58 <pleia2> hah, right
 02:11:10 <pleia2> hopefully we'll know more about the usb sticks for 16.04 release too
 02:11:18 <pleia2> there was never an announcement that they were available for locos to request
 02:12:29 <pleia2> (no word on dvd availability either, but there were murmurs about them dropping them entirely)
 02:12:30 <nhaines> Also they're still not available in the Canonical Store.
 02:12:39 <pleia2> yeah, I saw someone complain about that the other day
 02:12:59 <nhaines> The last I heard from Canonical, there would be no DVDs, and when I complained in an UOS session on video they didn't seem too sympathetic.  :)
 02:13:08 <pleia2> heh
 02:13:26 <pleia2> if anyone has any downtown SF venue ideas, feel free to let me know (or reply on list to the thread where we're talking about it)
 02:13:32 <nhaines> Although there was talk about producing DVD artwork anyway.
 02:13:42 <pleia2> I'll work to reach out to folks and stuff once I have a bit more time
 02:13:47 <pleia2> that's all from me
 02:14:39 <nhaines> Sounds good.
 02:14:41 <DonkeyHotei> why the requirement it be downtown?
 02:16:18 <pleia2> DonkeyHotei: it's where I live and I'm running the party
 02:16:50 <pleia2> also good public transit from all over the bay
 02:17:24 <pleia2> but mostly that I'm the one hauling everything over to the venue, so I don't want to go across town
 02:18:46 <nhaines> Seems reasonable enough.  :)
 02:19:13 <nhaines> No one's volunteered to run a party in SoCal and I'm overbooked, so at the moment there aren't any plans.
 02:19:33 <nhaines> But if somebody *did* want to, they could let me know and I would try to show up with an Ubuntu tablet that does stuff.
 02:21:24 <nhaines> Okay, so that's the end of our agenda.
 02:21:28 <nhaines> #topic Other Business
 02:21:44 <nhaines> Is there anything else anyone wanted to discuss?
 02:24:24 <pleia2> nothing here
 02:25:08 <nhaines> I'm going to start discussions with a local library about giving a couple of talks on Ubuntu and/or my Ubuntu book.
 02:25:13 <DonkeyHotei> the new member moratorium?
 02:25:15 <pleia2> great
 02:25:16 <nhaines> So I'll keep everyone informed if that goes off.  :)
 02:25:23 <nhaines> kicks off!
 02:25:30 <nhaines> (I almost said "goes well.")
 02:25:32 <pleia2> DonkeyHotei: on launchpad?
 02:25:35 <DonkeyHotei> yes
 02:25:42 <DonkeyHotei> any updates?
 02:25:52 <pleia2> we don't really use launchpad, so I wouldn't go as far as calling it a "new member moratorium"
 02:26:13 <pleia2> it's just temporarily paused until some of the wiki stuff can be sorted
 02:26:28 <pleia2> (our team is an open team, so spammers were joining to try to get access to the ubuntu wiki)
 02:26:47 <nhaines> I will note that this seems to have stopped as far as the joining bit goes.
 02:26:54 <pleia2> to be clear, people don't need to be part of the launchpad team, or need to know what launchpad is, to consider themselves a member of this team :)
 02:27:18 <nhaines> Yes, anyone in California who wants to promote Ubuntu is welcome.  :)
 02:28:59 <nhaines> pleia2: if you wanted to set the team back to open, I think it's probably safe to do so now.
 02:29:41 <pleia2> nhaines: I'd rather not, it only stopped because we locked down the wiki even further, as soon as that lets up we'll have to re-mod and I don't have the time to hover over it right now
 02:29:58 <nhaines> pleia2: I'm okay with this, too.
 02:30:05 <DonkeyHotei> thirded
 02:30:22 <lynorian> uh I hate the wiki spammers and can tell from pleia2 reaction at scale was harder
 02:30:24 <pleia2> I'll make sure it's on my list when a long-term wiki solution presents itself
 02:30:29 <lynorian> pleia2, yeah
 02:31:00 <nhaines> We should also maybe discuss changing how Launchpad fits into LoCo membership.
 02:31:22 <nhaines> A little later down the road, anyway.
 02:31:25 * pleia2 nods
 02:31:29 <lynorian> do we need launchpad for say election of new leaders ?
 02:31:40 <pleia2> lynorian: good point
 02:32:02 <pleia2> and for the flyers and cd sleeves, which allows members direct committing to the repository rather than doing a merge request
 02:32:09 <lynorian> can't we manual add people still?
 02:32:24 <pleia2> yep
 02:32:57 <nhaines> We do *not*, but we use it for such now.
 02:32:57 <DonkeyHotei> we could just as easily use the mailing list roster for civs mails for elections
 02:33:17 <pleia2> yeah, we could
 02:34:49 <nhaines> We'll have to consider that carefully before making any policy changes.
 02:36:36 <nhaines> Well, we'll have to see how the wiki drama pans out, too.
 02:36:43 * pleia2 nods
 02:36:46 <nhaines> Any other comments before we wrap things up?
 02:39:05 * lynorian does not have anything
 02:39:57 <pleia2> thanks for chairing :)
 02:40:11 <nhaines> You're welcome.   :)
 02:40:13 <nhaines> Okay then, that wraps up this week's meeting.  We'll see you all on May 29th for our next meeting!
 02:40:16 <nhaines> #endmeeting}}}
