{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, July 29th, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

{{{#!IRC 02:00:13 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:00:13 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jul 30 02:00:13 2018 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:00:13 <darthrobot> 
 02:00:13 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:00:35 <nhaines> Good evening, everyone!  It's the July 29th, 2018 meeting for Ubuntu California tonight.
 02:00:45 <nhaines> The agenda for this meeting is available here:
 02:00:47 <nhaines> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18July29
 02:00:47 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18July29 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:01:23 <nhaines> #Announcements
 02:01:54 <nhaines> The Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase is still around for another two weeks, so do submit your photos or let your photographer friends know: https://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntu-fcs-1810/
 02:01:54 <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu 18.10 LTS Free Culture Showcase - Wallpapers | Flickr]
 02:02:10 <nhaines> The submission period ends on August 13th.
 02:02:32 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:03:05 <nhaines> Are there any conventions we should be looking out for in the near future?
 02:05:27 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:05:31 <nhaines> There is no agenda for this meeting.
 02:05:38 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:06:07 <nhaines> Ubuntu 18.04.1 LTS was released on Thursday the 26th, so 16.04 LTS fans are getting their first upgrade notifications.  :)
 02:07:12 <nhaines> I found a Little Free Library near my home and put a copy of my Ubuntu book inside with an Ubuntu disc and some swag.  The swag keeps disappearing but not the book--so we might have some Ubuntu fans near me.  (I've been replacing the swag every day.)
 02:07:26 <nhaines> Is there any other business to discuss?
 02:18:29 <nhaines> Our next meeting will be in two weeks, on August 12th!
 02:18:32 <nhaines> #endmeeting}}}
