{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, September 23rd, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Leadership Elections

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:08] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:08] <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Sep 24 02:08:33 2012 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:08] <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:08] <pleia2> so, who's here for the meeting?
[02:08] <grantbow> o/
[02:08] <pleia2> eps: thanks for spotting that error on the partimus site today
[02:09] <akk> o/
[02:09] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12September23
[02:09] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12September23 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:09] <pleia2> #topic Leadership Elections
[02:10] <pleia2> so, we had Darkwing step down due to moving out of the state
[02:10] <pleia2> I'll toss my name in again for a leadership spot
[02:10] <pleia2> is there anyone who wants to run the call for leaders and all that? :)
[02:11] <grantbow> where are the rules?
[02:11] <eps> ...and deadlines?
[02:11] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership
[02:11] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Leadership - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:11] <pleia2> eps: the person running it has to determine the deadlines
[02:12] <pleia2> we don't have hard deadlines really, octoberish or novemberish for new leadership going in
[02:12] <pleia2> if you scroll down to the bottom of that leadership page you'll see what we did in years past
[02:13] <pleia2> and I think look in the archives in september & october of last year
[02:13] <pleia2> I really can't do it again this year because 1) it's actually kind of awkward to do it since I'm one of the leaders 2) I'll be gone for a month starting october 10th
[02:15] <pleia2> so, anyone? :)
[02:15] <eps> Where's MarkDude when we need him? ;-)
[02:17] <pleia2> heh
[02:17] <grantbow> lol
[02:17] <pleia2> he's more of an exciting event doer :) less of an administriva running election type I think
[02:17] <pleia2> this really is sending emails, encouraging people to apply, setting up vote (if we have more than 3 applciants)
[02:18] <pleia2> alright, I'll follow up on list and see if I can get someone to handle it
[02:19] <pleia2> that was all we had on our agenda for today
[02:19] <pleia2> #topic Announcements, events, anything else
[02:20] <pleia2> I'm canceling the october and november SF Ubuntu Hours due to aformentioned out of townness
[02:21] <grantbow> unless someone else picks them up?
[02:21] <pleia2> will probably do an Ubuntu Hour+Dinner-ish thing some time the first week of October
[02:21] <pleia2> grantbow: yes, anyone is welcome to run them
[02:21] <eps> I think we're due for a Bay Area Debian Dinner.
[02:21] <pleia2> eps: yes, but I'll be on an airplane during the next one, so someone else has to handle that :)
[02:22] <pleia2> http://bad.debian.net/shotgun_rules.txt details how to go about it, if someone is interested
[02:22] <darthrobot`> Content type: [text/plain] Size: [7286]
[02:22] <pleia2> (and they can look in archives for my past announcements)
[02:24] <pleia2> any other events or thing coming up that anyone would like to talk about?
[02:25] <grantbow> noisebridge.net has a raspberrypi.org event in a week
[02:25] <pleia2> link?
[02:25] <eps> https://www.noisebridge.net/wiki/RaspberryPiEvent
[02:25] <darthrobot`> Title: [RaspberryPiEvent - Noisebridge]
[02:25] <pleia2> tsk, on my birthday :)
[02:26] <grantbow> happy early birthday
[02:26] <pleia2> I shall be celebrating the 6th anniversary of my 25th birthday!
[02:26] <pleia2> thanks
[02:27] <pleia2> I believe jyo still has a few pis around for sale
[02:27] <pleia2> mine is now next to my desktop, chugging away
[02:27] <eps> That's not a conflict. Free ice cream at the Powell and Rockridge BART stations from 1-4 p.m. are the conflict. :-)
[02:27] <grantbow> I have one on order. Who has one for sale?
[02:27] <pleia2> grantbow: jyo
[02:28] <pleia2> eps: haha
[02:28] <grantbow> ah
[02:28] <pleia2> powell isn't so far from noisebridge :)
[02:29] <pleia2> ok, I think we can wrap things up, unless anyone else has anything?
[02:29] <pleia2> #action pleia2 to email list to find someone to run leadership election
[02:29] <darthrobot`> ACTION: pleia2 to email list to find someone to run leadership election
[02:29] <eps> Can we outsource this to the Indiana LoCo?
[02:30] <pleia2> hah
[02:30] <eps> Just asking!
[02:30] <pleia2> I think some indianans still lurk on our mailing list ;)
[02:30] <pleia2> if anyone is in a support mood, this was posted on our forums earlier today: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2061865
[02:30] <darthrobot`> Title: [Software Center problems after Adobe Flash - possibly K3b - Ubuntu Forums]
[02:30] <pleia2> (our forums are rather quiet)
[02:31] <eps> We have forums?
[02:31] <pleia2> sure do!
[02:31] <pleia2> ok, thanks everyone :)
[02:31] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
