{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, January 26th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale12x|SCaLE planning]]</nowiki>

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:00] <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Jan 27 03:00:37 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:00] <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:00] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting?
[03:00] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14January26
[03:00] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14January26 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:01] <philipballew> me
[03:01] <raevol> me
[03:01] <ianorlin> me
[03:01] <rww> me
[03:01] <pleia2> :D
[03:01] <eps> ¡Yo!
[03:01] <pleia2> ok, so only thing on the agenda is scale prep, less than a month away!
[03:01] <pleia2> #topic SCaLE planning
[03:01] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x
[03:01] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:01] <pleia2> I gave rww a bag full of goodies to take down for the booth :)
[03:01] <raevol> i'm excited for SCaLE
[03:02] <raevol> pleia2: are you going to be there>
[03:02] <pleia2> yep!
[03:02] <philipballew> So Michelle has been on holiday, but she is back, and I believe will be sending me a conf pack in the next few days.
[03:02] <pleia2> probably not at the booth a lot, but I have talks at ubucon and main conference
[03:02] <pleia2> philipballew: great
[03:02] <philipballew> I got the exhibitor kit yesterday I think.
[03:03] <philipballew> I emailed Steve, and he confirmed it works.
[03:03] <raevol> excellent
[03:03] <pleia2> \o/
[03:03] <pleia2> do we have a booth number?
[03:03] <philipballew> now I only need to email one other person on the wiki who is not speaking/working and getting in otherwise.
[03:03]  * philipballew looks
[03:04] <philipballew> 17
[03:05] <pleia2> cool, I'll add to the wiki
[03:05] <pleia2> is there a map too? :)
[03:05] <raevol> i didn't get a chance to write up some handouts about FAQs like unity or the shopping lens :(
[03:05] <pleia2> there is still time
[03:05] <raevol> yea
[03:05] <raevol> i will try to sneak it in
[03:05] <philipballew> si pleia2
[03:06] <pleia2> http://spreadubuntu.org/en/material/poster/start-ubuntu-addis-announcement was also interesting, thinking about modifying it to s/mint/xubuntu
[03:06] <darthrobot`> Title: [Start Ubuntu in Addis announcement | spreadubuntu]
[03:07] <eps> Is Mint still relevant with MATE going into 14.04 LTS?
[03:07] <pleia2> it still ships with proprietary codecs and binaries that aren't strictly legal to ship in the US (so Ubuntu can't), so I think there will still be a market
[03:07] <pleia2> not among professional users, but the typical mint userbase
[03:08] <philipballew> pleia2, were you wanting to put up all your posters and candy this year again?
[03:08] <pleia2> philipballew: I'm bringing it and rww is looking into candy, up to you whether you want/need them
[03:09] <pleia2> err eps
[03:09] <pleia2> one of those 3 letter nicknames :)
[03:09] <eps> :-)
[03:09] <raevol> philipballew: we got some system76 laptops?
[03:09] <philipballew> pleia2, nobody needs to spend their money for candy probably.
[03:09] <philipballew> unless they want to I guess
[03:09] <philipballew> raevol, yes, confirmed this week with Ema.
[03:09] <raevol> cool
[03:10] <raevol> what day are you guys getting there?
[03:10] <pleia2> thursday night
[03:10] <rww> thursday night
[03:10] <pleia2> my ubucon talk is the first of the day on friday
[03:10] <rww> driving down from the bay area at like 5pm
[03:10] <rww> so i'll be there late
[03:10] <philipballew> whenever raevol picks me up
[03:10] <ianorlin> not far from my house
[03:10] <raevol> philipballew: ;D hehe. drive up thursday night ok?
[03:10] <pleia2> schedule went up today :) https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale12x/schedule/friday <-- includes ubucon
[03:10] <darthrobot`> Title: [Friday, February 22, 2013 | SCALE 12x]
[03:10] <pleia2> ianorlin: you should come!
[03:10] <philipballew> raevol, perfect
[03:10] <eps> philipballew: do you have a sponsor lined up for candy/other giveaways?
[03:11] <philipballew> eps, No.
[03:11] <philipballew> Does candy bring people to the booth or not?
[03:11] <eps> Well, then not spending money really isn't an option, is it?
[03:11] <eps> Yes, absolutely.
[03:11] <ianorlin> althogh grr parents made dinner ready now
[03:11] <philipballew> eps, would you feel comfortable wearing a shirt that says "free hugs" on it?
[03:11] <philipballew> might bring some people?
[03:12] <pleia2> oh dear
[03:12] <raevol> should we consider getting some candy that's individually wrapped? the m&ms were tasty but i felt kind of weird after a given quantity of people had stuck their hands in the bowl
[03:12] <eps> Depends ... is that like "free tibet" or "free beer"
[03:12] <rww> "open source hug party"
[03:12] <philipballew> haha
[03:13] <raevol> libre hugs
[03:13] <eps> FYI, Hugs are a variant of Hershey's Kisses, and they are individually wrapped.
[03:13] <raevol> the source code of this hug is freely available and any modifications you make to this hug when redistributing must also be freely available
[03:13] <pleia2> hahah
[03:13] <raevol> eps: genius
[03:14] <eps> The M&Ms were two years ago. Last year, we had buttercream mints.
[03:14] <pleia2> ok, any more updates re: scale? action items for the next couple weeks?
[03:14] <raevol> eps: woops
[03:14] <rww> I have a full ISO set for 13.10 now, will get 12.04.whatever when the next one's released early Feb
[03:14] <rww> including Ubuntu Kylin, which is seeded by like nobody
[03:14] <pleia2> the caramel hersey kisses are orange and brown, we could be retro :)
[03:14] <philipballew> Ubuntu shaped cookies would be cool
[03:15] <raevol> pleia2: jono will confiscate them
[03:15] <pleia2> raevol: haha, not on brand!
[03:15] <raevol> xD
[03:15] <eps> rww: Feb. 4, I think.
[03:15] <rww> yep
[03:15] <rww> way before scale, anyway
[03:15] <raevol> (and then he will eat them)
[03:15] <rww> considered 14.04, but i don't think i'm going to bother
[03:15] <philipballew> If you have an ubuntu shit, you should wear it to the booth when working.
[03:15] <rww> lol ^
[03:15] <rww> i have a brown ubuntu shirt, does that count?
[03:15] <philipballew> I do not want to see anyone in a Fedora shirt at the booth
[03:15] <raevol> hahahahahahahahaa
[03:16] <rww> philipballew: so no MarkDude, then?
[03:16] <philipballew> rww, "what can brown do for you."
[03:16] <eps> Has anyone heard from MarkDude lately?
[03:16] <pleia2> he pops up on facebook now and then, so I know he's alive :)
[03:16] <philipballew> I herd he might be going to Manila sometime.
[03:18] <raevol> sweet
[03:19] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[03:19] <pleia2> anything else to chat about?
[03:19] <philipballew> Nope
[03:19] <raevol> life is grand
[03:20] <philipballew> San Diego was 75 today
[03:20] <pleia2> looks like next event in the schedule is Berkeley Ubuntu Hour on the 9th http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2685-ubuntu-hour-berkeley/
[03:20] <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu Hour Berkeley | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[03:20] <eps> Oakland set a record: 73
[03:21] <philipballew> I think Jono is having a app dev school soon with Illin?
[03:21] <philipballew> or something like that right pleia2 ?
[03:21] <pleia2> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2014-January/002355.html
[03:21] <darthrobot`> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] Running an Ubuntu App Dev School - can anyone help?]
[03:22] <pleia2> unclear so far whether it'll be mt view or sf
[03:22] <philipballew> Either one should be good.
[03:24] <philipballew> alright, I think that is it.
[03:24]  * pleia2 nods
[03:24] <philipballew> well see you all later!
[03:24] <pleia2> ok, thanks everyone :) we'll continue planning discussions on list and at our next meeting on the 9th
[03:24] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
