{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, March 23rd, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. 14.04 Release planning

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Mar 24 02:00:42 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting?
[02:00] <ianorlin> o/
[02:01] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14March23
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14March23 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:02] <pleia2> ianorlin: guess it's just you and me!
[02:02] <ianorlin> ok
[02:02] <pleia2> maybe others will trickle in :)
[02:03] <pleia2> #topic 14.04 Release planning
[02:03] <pleia2> so at the last meeting I said I'd email some folks about possible venues for our release party
[02:03] <pleia2> in SF
[02:03] <pleia2> I contacted bkerensa to see about Mozilla's SF office, but haven't heard back yet
[02:04] <pleia2> jyo put me in touch with some folks from AdRoll over on mission between 5th and 6th who have forwarded the request to their events department
[02:04] <ianorlin> I don't know anything about places in SF
[02:04] <nhaines> Hello everyone. :)
[02:04] <pleia2> indeed, socal should also look into some venues if you wish to do one :)
[02:05] <pleia2> that's all the updates from me really, if these two don't pan out I can chat with wikimedia or a few others
[02:06] <pleia2> I should probably send a mail to the list to encourage other areas to get things going planning-wise in case they don't read meeting logs
[02:06]  * ianorlin needs to get added to mailing list
[02:07] <pleia2> ianorlin: can sign up here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca
[02:07] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu-us-ca Info Page]
[02:08] <pleia2> anyone else have any comments re: release parties at this time?
[02:08] <pleia2> less than a month away :)
[02:09] <ianorlin> sounds like a good idea but would get nervous on phone
[02:10] <nhaines> pleia2: installfest in May?  :)
[02:10] <pleia2> I don't know a whole lot about the phone to be honest
[02:11] <pleia2> nhaines: should do!
[02:11] <ianorlin> no I meant making phone calls sorry
[02:11] <nhaines> OCLUG is having a installfest on May 24th.  We'll need CDs and a conference pack if possible.
[02:11] <nhaines> This time they have the support of quite a few department heads so there should be a good turnout.
[02:11] <nhaines> They've agreed to promote Ubuntu, although we'll install anything someone explicitly asks for.
[02:12] <rww> oh, meeting
[02:12] <pleia2> nhaines: can you browse over to https://forms.canonical.com/locopack/ and email me the answers to questions?
[02:12] <rww> o/
[02:12] <darthrobot> Title: [Local Community (LoCo) conference pack request]
[02:12] <pleia2> nhaines: I can put in the request
[02:12] <pleia2> re: conference pack
[02:12] <nhaines> And I'll be giving a presentation.  Probably I'll make the slides available online shortly after 14.04 launch.
[02:12] <pleia2> cool
[02:12] <nhaines> And yes, I'll be happy to get those answers to you, thanks.  :)
[02:12] <pleia2> ianorlin: I never make phone calls, all email :) icky phones
[02:12] <nhaines> Hopefully the slides will be useful to anyone in California (or the world!) who wants to give a similar presentation.  :)
[02:13] <rww> (or Ubuntu Mars)
[02:13] <pleia2> nhaines: 14.04 release-specific?
[02:13] <nhaines> That's about it.  We'll have an Android tablet giveaway and the date isn't announced to the LUG yet.  Should be good fun and anyone near Cal State Fullerton is welcome to pitch in.
[02:13] <nhaines> pleia2: yup.
[02:13] <pleia2> nhaines: cool, I'd love to get an early preview, hope to give a talk around here too
[02:13] <nhaines> I've been using the slides since the 8.04 LTS specific talk I gave at North Orange County Computer Club, so it's time to do a major revamp instead of revisions.
[02:14] <nhaines> pleia2: I'd love any feedback.  I'll get you something early next month.  :)
[02:14] <pleia2> perfect :)
[02:14] <rww> things are slightly different since 8.04 :P
[02:14] <nhaines> rww: it's been updated but I want to make something fancier.
[02:15] <nhaines> rww: read: orange.  :P
[02:15] <rww> with dots!
[02:15] <nhaines> Dots are forthcoming.  :)
[02:15] <nhaines> That's all I have on release parties right now.
[02:15] <pleia2> thanks nhaines
[02:16] <rww> i've got nothing. was going to look at survey thing today but ended up Ingressing and getting a sunburn instead
[02:16] <pleia2> haha
[02:16] <pleia2> spring++
[02:16] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[02:16] <pleia2> any other topics anyone wishes to bring up?
[02:18] <nhaines> Oh, who has the banner down here?
[02:18] <nhaines> I might want to borrow it.  :)
[02:18]  * ianorlin doesn't have a banner
[02:18] <pleia2> I think philip has it
[02:18] <nhaines> Okay.  I'll ping him later.
[02:18] <rww> the one that was at SCaLE? i'd guess philip too
[02:18]  * pleia2 nods
[02:22] <pleia2> ok, guess we can wrap it up then
[02:22] <pleia2> thanks ianorlin, nhaines and rww :)
[02:23] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
