{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, May 22nd, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====
 1. very short meeting

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent.

Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[03:01] <jdeslip> ------------------ Meeting Start --------------------
[03:01] <jdeslip> Raise your hand if you around for the meeting.
[03:01] <jdeslip> Currently we have no agenda items
[03:01] <aaditya> o/
[03:01] <grantbow> o/
[03:02] <akk> o/
[03:02] <icarus81> o/
[03:02] <jdeslip> OK - lets start with announcements.  Anyone have any?
[03:03] <jdeslip> We (pliea2) got a shipment of Natty CDs and they being spread throughout the state.  If you haven't heard about that that, please check out the email list.
[03:03] <jdeslip> You can request some for a good cause of your choice.
[03:04] <jdeslip> Any other announcements from anyone?
[03:05] <MarkDude> \o
[03:05] <grantbow> http://uds.ubuntu.com/ was fun
[03:05] <MarkDude> Maker Faire effin rocked
[03:06] <jdeslip> In case anyone is new or lurking, I want to remind them of the ongoing Ubuntu-hour events around the state: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UbuntuHours
[03:06] <jdeslip> MarkDude: Glad to hear it.
[03:06] <aaditya> Maker Faire +1
[03:06]  * jdeslip wanted to see the Android ADK stuff
[03:07] <aaditya> That would have been nice. I wonder why Google didn't have much of it at Maker Faire.
[03:07] <jdeslip> OK, so if there are no more announcements.  Does anyone want to bring anything else up?
[03:07] <jdeslip> aaditya: I thought Google had a whole booth of it there?
[03:08] <jdeslip> at least I saw lots of picks
[03:08] <grantbow> Google I/O was interesting too from the videos I had time to watch
[03:08] <MarkDude> Jono has a loud music show upcoming next month with the new drummer
[03:08] <aaditya> They did, but didn't have much to show off there, as compared to what they had at Google I/O - e.g. a 20'x16' labyrinth powered by ADK.
[03:09] <jdeslip> OK. If there are no other agenda items etc... let's call this to a close.  (Record?)
[03:09] <MarkDude> June 17th https://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=188586747853015
[03:09] <grantbow> sounds like no more pressing or relevant team business
[03:09]  * MarkDude has nuthin'
[03:10] <jdeslip> Summer is pretty quiet - we will have some more stuff to plan shortly.
[03:10] <jdeslip> ------------------------------  Meeting Ends -----------------------
}}}
