{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, June 17th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Your agenda item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:01] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:01] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jun 18 02:01:43 2012 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:01] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:01] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting? :)
[02:02] <jtatum> I/
[02:02] <jyo> o/
[02:02] <DonkeyHotei> u
[02:02] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12June17
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12June17 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:02] <pleia2> that's our agenda, as you can see it's empty :)
[02:02] <pleia2> #topic upcoming events
[02:02] <pleia2> anyone have some upcoming things they wish to share?
[02:02] <DonkeyHotei> awesome! that means everything is already done!
[02:03] <jtatum> MV hour on Thursday
[02:03] <jyo> hooray for Mt. View
[02:03] <pleia2> #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1822/detail/
[02:03] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour: Mountain View/Silicon Valley | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:04] <pleia2> Ubuntu User Days is coming up on Saturday: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[02:04] <darthrobot> Title: [UserDays - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:05] <pleia2> still fleshing out the schedule a bit, but it's IRC-based in #ubuntu-classroom and #ubuntu-classroom chat
[02:07] <pleia2> app developer sessions are happening soon too, a couple days next week some some the next: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAppDeveloperWeek
[02:07] <darthrobot> Title: [UbuntuAppDeveloperWeek - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:08] <jtatum> Looking forward to it
[02:09] <jtatum> I always learn something at app developer week
[02:09] <pleia2> MarkDude told us last meeting about a geeknic on the 24th too, but I can't seem to find any information about it on geeknic.org and there were no links in the last meeting log
[02:09] <pleia2> so if anyone is interested in that, "Ask Markdude" :)
[02:09] <DonkeyHotei> of june?
[02:10] <pleia2> yeah
[02:10] <DonkeyHotei> one week from today, not much lead time
[02:11] <pleia2> er, 23rd
[02:11] <DonkeyHotei> even less
[02:11] <pleia2> yeah, that's why he told us 3 weeks ago ;)
[02:11] <pleia2> didn't announce it on the list or anything though
[02:11] <DonkeyHotei> and the 23rd overlaps CABAL
[02:11] <pleia2> yeah, overlaps with Ubuntu User Days too
[02:11] <pleia2> https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Release_Party_F17_Bay_Area
[02:11] <darthrobot> Title: [Release Party F17 Bay Area - FedoraProject]
[02:11] <pleia2> actually looks to be the proper link
[02:11] <pleia2> (I was thrown off by the title)
[02:12] <DonkeyHotei> fail.
[02:12] <pleia2> looks like you rsvp via the facebook link
[02:12] <pleia2> #topic Any other comments, questions, ideas
[02:13] <pleia2> anyone? :)
[02:13] <jtatum> Business as usual :)
[02:14] <pleia2> oh, here's a photo from the debian dinner we had with the ubuntu hour in sf last week: http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/7370768128/
[02:14] <darthrobot> Title: [Squeeze and Wheezy enjoyed some beef with broccoli | Flickr - Photo Sharing!]
[02:14] <pleia2> :)
[02:18] <pleia2> ok, I guess we'll wrap up then
[02:18] <pleia2> thanks everyone
[02:18] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
