{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, February 26th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. UbuntuGlobalJam this week! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki> 
If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:00] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting?
[03:00]  * eps waves
[03:00] <MarkDude> Told folks in other Distros to go party with Ubuntu folks, since they have awesome local communities
[03:01] <iheartubuntu> bows
[03:01] <akk> o/
[03:01] <MarkDude> \o meeting
[03:01] <pleia2> ok, agenda here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12February26
[03:01] <philipballew> jumps up and down
[03:02] <pleia2> the Ubuntu Global Jam is coming up on Friday-Sunday :) https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[03:02] <pleia2> so far our only Jam planned is one in Walnut Creek on Friday: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1569/detail/
[03:02] <philipballew> jono has come through once again
[03:03] <pleia2> there is still time to plan stuff is anyone is interested :)
[03:03] <pleia2> does anyone have questions about Global Jams?
[03:04] <philipballew> if some people are unable to attend, is there a way we can participate in a global jam remotely?
[03:05] <philipballew> without just doing bug stuff all on our own
[03:05] <pleia2> at our berkeley events we hop on IRC and tell people what we're working on, I'm not sure what jono is planning
[03:06] <pleia2> and no need to focus on bug stuff, these days global jams are about working together on any project
[03:06] <pleia2> if we wanted we even could plan to all be on IRC at the same time and tackle something :)
[03:06] <philipballew> who knows. That person is way to busy.
[03:06] <philipballew> well we do all live in CA so the timing is right
[03:07] <pleia2> I'm event planned out :( so if someone else wants to organize an in-channel event that'd be great
[03:07]  * pleia2 is taking March off except for the Ubuntu Hour ;)
[03:08] <philipballew> when is that ubuntu hour pleia2 ?
[03:08] <Faqtotum> The hour of the pangolin is upon us!
[03:08] <pleia2> philipballew: March 14th
[03:08] <philipballew> alright!
[03:09] <philipballew> 12.04 is coming up fast
[03:09] <eps> Ubuntu 10.04.4 is out now
[03:09] <pleia2> alright, if anyone wants to do an in-channel jam thing you're welcome to start planning, I can help out if anyone wants some direction
[03:10] <philipballew> please. I'm already on ubuntu 12.10
[03:10] <pleia2> Anyone have any announcements or anything else?
[03:10] <iheartubuntu> how is 1204?
[03:10] <iheartubuntu> 1110 is pretty solid
[03:10] <philipballew> the SD ubuntu hour this week had 4 people
[03:10] <philipballew> 04 is nice
[03:10] <iheartubuntu> awesom
[03:11] <pleia2> beta1 for 12.04 comes out on the 1st
[03:12] <pleia2> when I was at BerkeleyLUG today I spoke with Michael Paoli about a Debian dinner during UDS and Jack about a possible tour of his workplace (has the 8th biggest supercomputer in the world, and it runs linux!)
[03:12] <pleia2> so I started making a wiki page with ideas: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UDS-Q
[03:13] <iheartubuntu> does the computer have a first name? :)
[03:14] <pleia2> maybe Jack will tell us on the tour!
[03:15] <pleia2> iheartubuntu: any updates on the gaming night proposal? anything you need others to do?
[03:15] <MarkDude> Yay, monster computer, will be nice to meet our new overlords
[03:16] <Faqtotum> iheartubuntu: it's o-s-c-a-r
[03:16] <iheartubuntu> i really havent had much time, but do want to still do something. there are new games popping up in ubuntu software center the past few months... The poker game is multiplayer and i was testing it... very nice
[03:17] <iheartubuntu> not sure how many can play at once.... at least 10 at a time
[03:17] <pleia2> cool, can you add some ideas to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/GameNights ? maybe a couple of us can try some out and see what we think
[03:17] <iheartubuntu> there are more options now anyways since i first mentioned so thats a good thing
[03:17] <pleia2> we can start small :) maybe just an hour or so with just a few of us participating
[03:18] <iheartubuntu> ok i will update it tonite
[03:18] <MarkDude> gamenight +1
[03:18] <pleia2> great, thanks!
[03:18] <pleia2> anyone have anything else?
[03:18] <pleia2> remember to RSVP if you're attending the Jam in Walnut Creek on friday :) http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1569/detail/
[03:19] <pleia2> so far it's a jono and grantbow party
[03:19]  * MarkDude will be there
[03:20] <Faqtotum> pleia2: which one is the dog and which the pony in that show?
[03:20] <pleia2> oh, speaking of events, I'll be at the Black Girls Code 2012 launch event on Tuesday: http://launchblackgirlscode2012.eventbrite.com/
[03:20] <pleia2> just learned about the project recently, very cool stuff :)
[03:21] <Faqtotum> but you're white
[03:21] <pleia2> I'm also not a girl
[03:21] <pleia2> anyone can come to support these kids
[03:22] <Faqtotum> do they code?
[03:22] <iheartubuntu> im curious what they have coded
[03:22] <pleia2> Faqtotum: yes, you can learn more about the project here: blackgirlscode.com
[03:23] <MarkDude> Faqtotum, you are not a donkey, or a spoon. Its ok :)
[03:23] <pleia2> anything else?
[03:24] <pleia2> thanks for coming everyone :)
</pre>
