{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

== San Gabriel Valley LUG Meeting ==
=== When/Where/etc ===
August 14 7-9pm, 107 Downs at Cal Tech University, in Pasadena
http://sgvlug.org/

=== Meeting Summary/Speaker Bios ===
Nathan Haines is a computer consultant and instructor who enjoys programming in Python and is a member of the California Ubuntu LoCo team.  Neal Bussett is an Electrical Engineer and leader of the California Ubuntu LoCo team.  Both are Ubuntu Members and advocates of Free software.

Ubuntu is the said to be the biggest thing in desktop Linux at the moment, but Neal and Nathan are here to cut through the hype and show you how Ubuntu can simplify your life and make your computer more fun and simple to use for everyday tasks.  They will discuss various aspects of Ubuntu, from the basics of everyday system maintence, to how to customize your system.  They will also cover the differences that make Ubuntu unique from Debian and other distros; and the differences and benefits of the various flavors that make up the Ubuntu family.

=== Brainstormish topics ===
We get one hour:
<pre>
1. General Information
	Target Audience (Linux for Human Beings)
	One-Edition-Fits-All, Fresh and stable software
	Community/CoCo/et al
	Release Schedule
	Development Codenames
	Different Flavors (sysreq, usage, etc)
2. GUI Tools for system maintenence
	Add/Remove for easy packages
	Synaptic for all packages
	Update Manager for security and bugfix updates
	Network Manager for wireless connectivity (wired Just Works)
	Hardware drivers for automatic proprietary driver installation
	"Restricted codecs... doohickey <- this is just a metapackage for Flash, (no longer) Java, and some weird codecs
		ubuntu-restricted-extras <- that's the one
	Automatic Codec installation support in Totem
	Distro-managed Firefox Plugins.
3. Differentiators from other distro (Debian in particular)
	It "Just Works"
	Sane defaults
	Frequent Updates
	Focus on desktop end-user for extra polish
	Useful derivatives that can be used by installing metapackages
		ubuntu-desktop
		kubuntu-desktop
		ubuntu-studio-desktop (* not just this metapackage)
4. Ubuntu as a server
	LTS**
	JeOS?
	Preconfigured Options: (install CD/tasksel)
		LAMP
		DNS
		Mail
		SSH
		Postgres
		Print
		Samba
	http://www.ubuntu.com/files/server/UbuntuserverBrochure804LTS.pdf
</pre>
