{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Ubuntu has held a <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam|Global Jam]]</nowiki> for the last few releases, and have scheduled one for the weekend of 27th to 29th August. We've participated in all of the previous ones, so we should do so this release cycle also!

=== Locations ===

==== East SF Bay ====
* When: Friday, August 27th. 10am to 5pm
* Where: A'cuppa Tea, <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=A%27cuppa+Tea+Berkeley+CA|3202 College Ave, Berkeley, CA 94705]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/223/detail/|LoCo Directory Entry (we encourage you to RSVP)]]</nowiki>

==== Southern California ====
* When: Saturday, August 28th, 1pm to 6pm
* Where: Caltech, Student Activity Center <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=1306+East+California+Boulevard,+Pasadena,+CA|The building north of the marker labeled "Undergraduate Residence"]]</nowiki> (See Notes below for details)
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/332/detail/|LoCo Directory Entry (we encourage you to RSVP)]]</nowiki>
* Parking: A few lots are free on the weekends.  The closest lot that is free is at the tennis courts, <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=1260+East+California+Boulevard,+Pasadena,+CA|south of this marker (south of tennis courts, east of athletic field)]]</nowiki>
* Notes: Enter on the south side of the building.  Unfortunately, this door requires a key-card to enter.  There will be a sign near the door with a phone number to call for entrance.  We will also be checking the door occasionally (every half-hour?).  The logistics of this haven't been worked out completely yet.
