{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, June 29th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Further discussion and decision on <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Leadership|Leadership document]]</nowiki> amendment: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2014-June/002437.html|Decisions on non-agendized topics during IRC meetings]]</nowiki> (added by rww)

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jun 30 02:00:47 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:01] <pleia2> rww: I'll follow up with philip over email to see where he's been
[02:01] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting?
[02:01] <rww> \o
[02:01] <eps> o/
[02:01] <nhaines> \o
[02:01] <grantbow> o/
[02:01] <ianorlin> o/
[02:01] <pleia2> woo :)
[02:01] <pleia2> Agenda: /data/Photos/20140629
[02:01] <pleia2> oops :)
[02:02] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14June29
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14June29 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:02] <pleia2> #topic Further discussion and decision on Leadership document amendment: Decisions on non-agendized topics during IRC meetings
[02:02] <pleia2> rww: all yours!
[02:02] <rww> whoo, my favorite word
[02:03] <rww> So hopefully everyone had a chance to look at the mailing list post already
[02:03] <pleia2> at the last meeting there was lots of talk about adjusting the time (36 vs 48 or something)
[02:03] <pleia2> but consensus seemed to be that it's a good idea
[02:03] <rww> tl;dr for anyone who hasn't is in the first paragraph of https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2014-June/002437.html
[02:03] <darthrobot> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] Leadership Document amendment: Decisions on non-agendized topics during IRC meetings]
[02:04] <rww> yeah, that's the impression I got too
[02:04] <rww> Anyone have an issue with the amendment, apart from the time?
[02:04] <nhaines> It looks good to me.
[02:05] <elky> o/
[02:05] <ianorlin> I like the idea
[02:05] <pleia2> cool
[02:05] <pleia2> the rationale for 36 hours was that it allows folks to add friday after work
[02:05] <pleia2> which seems reasonable
[02:06] <rww> otoh, they have two weeks to add...
[02:06] <rww> well, 12 days
[02:06] <pleia2> heh, right
[02:07] <rww> does anyone have a preference other than 36 or 48?
[02:07] <elky> and friday night drinks inspired ideas could probably do with a fortnight cooldown ;)
[02:07] <rww> also, does anyone particularly prefer 48 over 36? (I don't)
[02:07] <grantbow> 48 seems right to me
[02:07] <DonkeyHotei> 36 seems like a compromise
[02:08] <pleia2> 48 is fine
[02:08] <elky> i like 48
[02:08]  * grantbow wasn't aware of discussion of less than 36
[02:08] <pleia2> easier on the brain
[02:08] <DonkeyHotei> also, i stand by my recommendation of an 8pm cutoff instead of 7pm
[02:08] <ianorlin> 48
[02:08] <rww> I'd like to call for an everybody-vote on 48, then.
[02:08] <nhaines> It's a bad compromise.  If the point is to allow people time to view the meeting agenda and schedule accordingly, then it's better to allow people to do that on Friday night and not Saturday morning.
[02:08] <elky> nhaines: good point
[02:09] <pleia2> and this is just for decision-making things anyway, if it's "chat about some idea" I think it's fine to add things later
[02:09] <ianorlin> like oclug is saturday morning and 4 hours
[02:09] <pleia2> we don't decide much :)
[02:09] <rww> pleia2: yep. It's specifically taking action on things.
[02:09] <pleia2> #chair rww
[02:09] <darthrobot> Current chairs: pleia2 rww
[02:09] <pleia2> rww: you can make votes!
[02:09] <rww> pleia2: can everyone vote by default?
[02:09] <pleia2> rww: make vote
[02:09] <nhaines> rww: create votes.
[02:10] <pleia2> with zee bot
[02:10] <DonkeyHotei> i vote for 47 hours
[02:10]  * rww checks docs, decides "yes"
[02:10] <rww> #vote Approve amendment as presented on mailing list, with 48 hours (all present may vote)
[02:10] <darthrobot> Please vote on: Approve amendment as presented on mailing list, with 48 hours (all present may vote)
[02:10] <darthrobot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)
[02:10] <rww> +1
[02:10] <darthrobot> +1 received from rww
[02:10] <elky> +1
[02:10] <darthrobot> +1 received from elky
[02:10] <pleia2> +1
[02:10] <darthrobot> +1 received from pleia2
[02:10] <eps> -1
[02:10] <darthrobot> -1 received from eps
[02:10] <ianorlin> +1
[02:10] <darthrobot> +1 received from ianorlin
[02:10] <DonkeyHotei> +0
[02:10] <darthrobot> +0 received from DonkeyHotei
[02:10] <nhaines> +1
[02:10] <darthrobot> +1 received from nhaines
[02:11] <grantbow> +1
[02:11] <darthrobot> +1 received from grantbow
[02:11] <rww> I think that's everyone.
[02:11] <rww> #endvote
[02:11] <darthrobot> Voting ended on: Approve amendment as presented on mailing list, with 48 hours (all present may vote)
[02:11] <darthrobot> Votes for:6 Votes against:1 Abstentions:1
[02:11] <darthrobot> Motion carried
[02:12] <pleia2> thanks rww
[02:12] <rww> I call that rough consensus, so I'll edit the wiki and send to the mailing list.
[02:12] <pleia2> #action rww to update wiki and mailing list with results
[02:12] <darthrobot> ACTION: rww to update wiki and mailing list with results
[02:12] <rww> #topic Any other business
[02:13] <rww> Anyone have anything?
[02:13] <pleia2> ah, upcoming events
[02:13]  * rww ponders mailing list for this month
[02:14] <rww> yep, some discussion about that on there. If anyone has any ideas, even if you think they're not awesome, please go add to that :D
[02:14] <nhaines> Installed Ubuntu 14.04 on a very old laptop and an HP netbook running some HP Linux yesterday.  Ran very well on both.
[02:14] <rww> nice thread about hard disk quality, that was interesting to read
[02:14] <nhaines> OCLUG is planning another installfest for October, so that's a thing too.
[02:14] <rww> same setup as the recent one?
[02:15] <pleia2> cool
[02:15] <nhaines> Yup, but with more proactive advertising from what we've learned from the last one.
[02:15] <rww> nice
[02:15] <elky> make sure you hit up university campuses if nothing else
[02:16] <pleia2> some Ubuntu Hours upcoming, SF and Berkeley: http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/
[02:16] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu California | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:16] <elky> and (lesson learned also) not the week before...
[02:16]  * eps is looking for a "better" installfest worksheet
[02:16]  * rww counts on fingers
[02:16] <pleia2> oh! there may be a Juju workshop at SFSU some time in the next couple of months, hoping to get an Orange Box for the event too (a Canonical employee would bring it)
[02:16] <rww> pleia2: does the one on the 9th correspond with a BAD dinner>
[02:16] <rww> coincide **
[02:17] <pleia2> rww: I am not calling one, but someone might
[02:17] <rww> pleia2: (re: SFSU) awesome! i'd be interested in going to that, the stuff on G+ about orange box has been fun
[02:18] <pleia2> no credit for me, Sameer just Cc:ed me on discussions with Canonifolk :)
[02:18] <rww> also Juju in general. They scaled it up to some ridiculous number of instances recently to test performance
[02:19] <rww> Anyone on utopic?
[02:19] <pleia2> does tablet count? :)
[02:19] <rww> no, but how is tablet going too :P
[02:19]  * rww is all Debian and Android right now, hasn't been keeping track
[02:19] <pleia2> hehe
[02:19] <pleia2> is good
[02:20] <grantbow> fyi https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn
[02:20] <darthrobot> Title: [UtopicUnicorn - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:20] <ianorlin> I have done some lubuntu on utopic
[02:20] <nhaines> eps: what's lacking from the current worksheet?
[02:20] <ianorlin> did three of the tests for the alpha1
[02:20] <rww> oh! Ubuntu One shutdown is almost exactly a month from now, so if you haven't yet pulled your data from that go do it
[02:21] <elky> owncloud is pretty good as a replacement if you have a vps or whatever. really easy to get going
[02:21] <rww> like, go do it now before you forget :P
[02:21]  * rww is out of AOBs
[02:21]  * pleia2 too
[02:21] <eps> nhaines: things like whether a machine has PS/2 ports, or is USB-only
[02:22] <nhaines> I recommend Copy as a U1 replacement, plus you can move your U1 files over for free.  Shameless referral link (extra 5GB) is here: https://copy.com?r=sSPOra
[02:22] <darthrobot> [R: www.copy.com] Title: [Copy]
[02:23] <rww> Someone wrote a GUI client for Microsoft OneDrive recently, but I suspect that will not be a popular U1 alternative.
[02:23] <pleia2> hehe
[02:23] <rww> (OneDrive used to be called SkyDrive)
[02:24] <rww> hasn't PS/2 been legacy since like 2000
[02:24] <ianorlin> it is still on new mobos
[02:24]  * pleia2 just recently replaced her ps/2 keyboard
[02:25] <rww> wow, finally something my work computers are cutting-edge about
[02:25] <nhaines> Not sure it's terribly relevant for an installfest either--no OS doesn't support both.
[02:25] <pleia2> rww: haha
[02:25] <elky> pleia2: was it a M?
[02:26] <eps> nhaines: I'm getting ready to install on a bunch of former XP machines, and it makes a difference for us
[02:26] <pleia2> elky: nah, but a close M successor
[02:26] <elky> so oldschool
[02:26] <rww> nhaines: did the recent installfest discriminate between BIOS and UEFI, or not bother because Ubuntu?
[02:27] <rww> (and Secure Boot on vs. off vs. not present, I guess)
[02:27] <ianorlin> most were vista machines or xp ones
[02:27] <pleia2> ah
[02:28] <pleia2> ok, wrap up time?
[02:28] <nhaines> rww: not because Ubuntu.
[02:28] <rww> pleia2: yep
[02:28] <pleia2> ok, thanks everyone :)
[02:28] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
