{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, August 14th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Picnix20|Picn*x20]]</nowiki> planning -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>  1. CA Team game night planning

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC

19:02 < jdeslip> ----------------------- Meeting Begins ---------------------
19:02 < iheartubuntu2> made it
19:02 < jdeslip> As always lets start with some announcements does anyone have any?
19:03 < grantbow> linuxpicnic.org is coming up soon Aug 27th to be covered in the meting today.
19:03 < jdeslip> The globabl jam date is September 2-4 
19:04 < jdeslip> Which I believe is a long weekedn :/
19:04 < pleia2> yeah, labor day
19:04 < pleia2> I think phil and DarkwingDuck are planning something down in SD
19:04 < jdeslip> I will be probably be down in Florida.  But if anyone is considering hosting an event please let the email list know
19:05 < grantbow> Software Fredom Day.org is coming up
19:05 < pleia2> and add to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/NattyGlobalJam
19:05 < grantbow> they don't have the date for sfd on their front page :-(
19:05 < jdeslip> Ok, any more announcements?
19:06 < bkerensa> Cookie
19:06 < jdeslip> Ok lets move on to the first agenda item.
19:06 < jdeslip> The Linux Picnic Planning
19:06 < grantbow> www.solanoavenueassn.org/strol.htm is coming up Sept 11th
19:07 < grantbow> Picnic!
19:07 < jdeslip> grantbow: yes, thanks for pointing that out
19:07 < pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Picnix20
19:07 < jdeslip> I'll add that to agenda for next meeting.  Hopefully can get some ubuntu volunteers.
19:07 < jdeslip> Ok, about the picnic
19:07 < iheartubuntu2> so picnix is an ubuntu thingy or linux?
19:07 < aaditya> Linux.
19:07 < pleia2> we're the ubuntu table at the linux picnic
19:07 < jdeslip> pleia2 set up a page for our organization here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Picnix20
19:08 < iheartubuntu2> is there a picnix in SoCal?
19:08 < jdeslip> I guess we have a booth (a couple tables) 
19:08 < aaditya> Hi all. I'm just dropping by, barely got back to Cali and should have an answer for everything by tomorrow. That said, I'm present.
19:08 < pleia2> aaditya: any idea when registration will open? and when we'll know the placement of the tables?
19:08 < jdeslip> It would be good to have some CDs to give away.  Can anyone burn ~50?
19:08 < pleia2> oh ok, thanks :)
19:09 < aaditya> :)
19:09 < pleia2> we have pressed ones still, so we can use at least 25 for the picnic (and the rest for solano)
19:09 < jdeslip> For everyone in the Bay Area, please add your name to the wiki if you are planning to attend
19:09 < jdeslip> pleia2: ok great
19:10 < jdeslip> i
19:10 < jdeslip> I have a street fair style tent I could bring if MarkDude is not bringing his
19:11 < pleia2> MarkDude?
19:11 < MarkDude> Um not sure about any of it yet
19:11  * MarkDude knows nothing
19:12 < jdeslip> OK, well, we can figure out the tent closer to the event.  
19:12 < jdeslip> Anything else we need?
19:12 < pleia2> I'll flesh out the list of what we need this week, probably need some ties to put the banner up on the tent
19:12 < jdeslip> MarkDude: let me know if you are going to make it and bring the tent by email etc..
19:13 < grantbow> we could use some help at the registration desk at the beginning of the picnic.
19:13 < pleia2> and I'll send the list to the mailing list so we make sure we have everything (some cheap orange tablecloths would be nice)
19:13 < MarkDude> Ok, well it may be used by Fedora and stuff
19:13 < jdeslip> pleia2: ok, sounds good
19:14 < grantbow> sounds good
19:14 < jdeslip> Any other picnix related stuff to chat about?
19:14 < iheartubuntu2> is there one in so cal?
19:14 < eps> Not this year, not that I'm aware of.
19:15 < pleia2> I think we're good, woo picnic in 2 weeks :)
19:15 < iheartubuntu2> how would be go about getting one going? contacting various distro trams?
19:15 < iheartubuntu2> teams?
19:15 < grantbow> iheartubuntu2: create a day in so cal to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Linux!
19:16 < iheartubuntu2> i'll have to think about this! could be fun
19:16 < jyo> What's up with the picnic RSVP?
19:16 < pleia2> :)
19:16 < pleia2> jyo: aaditya said he'd have info tomorrow
19:16 < jyo> Cool.
19:16 < pleia2> so hopefully soon :)
19:16 < grantbow> yeah, says "Expect the RSVP database open in late Spring or early Summer." now
19:17 < eps> Didn't say which year
19:17 < jdeslip> OK, moving on to topic number 2 - Game night.
19:17 < iheartubuntu2> ok -
19:18 < iheartubuntu2> An Ubuntu game night can be a great way to spend time together as an entire California team.
19:18 < iheartubuntu2> This is something that could expand nationwide or even worldwide eventuall
19:18 < iheartubuntu2> Coming up with the right game or rotating games will be the challenge.
19:18 < iheartubuntu2> Ive done a little research on games.
19:18 < jdeslip> iheartubuntu: you mean like online games right?
19:18 < grantbow> fun idea - open source lan party kind of thing?
19:18 < iheartubuntu2> First person shooters seem to be the most common multi player games
19:19 < iheartubuntu2> online games where we can all join in
19:19 < jdeslip> To be honest there are a lot of nice games for Ubuntu
19:19 < iheartubuntu2> i dont think minecraft is free, but it might be an idea
19:19 < jdeslip> that I have been meaning to try but had no reason
19:19 < jdeslip> Nexuiz etc..
19:19 < aaditya> The site is slightly out of date. Expect updates tomorrow.
19:19 < iheartubuntu2> frozen bubble handles multiplayer, but i dont know how many
19:20 < jyo> Tremulous
19:20 < iheartubuntu2> freeciv, pokerth, and even london law all do multiplayer to some extent
19:20 < jdeslip> iheartubuntu2: Why don't you try to organize something, send invitations out to the mailing list (and wherever else appropriate) and 
see who shows up for the first night
19:20 < iheartubuntu2> there may be chrome games like WTG Golf that can handle all of us at once
19:21 < pleia2> maybe create https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/GameNights to list some of the games
19:21 < iheartubuntu2> right now i was hoping for game ideas
19:21 < grantbow> running under wine is cheating I guess :-)
19:21 < jdeslip> the Linux Action Show just had a show about Linux games :)
19:22 < iheartubuntu2> regnum online (now called realms online in USA) is another game than can handle the entire СA team
19:22 < jdeslip> There were a couple civilization type games shown off (can't remember names though)
19:22 < jdeslip> http://www.playdeb.net/ has a lot of nice games listed
19:22 < grantbow> actually running games under wine for this event might help increase participation and provide teachable moments for Ubuntu
19:23 < iheartubuntu2> would anyone have any multiplayer game ideas?
19:23 < iheartubuntu2> good idea grantbow
19:23 < iheartubuntu2> should this be a california thing or expand bigger?
19:23 < jdeslip> I don't have any specific ones except Nexuiz, OpenArena, FreeCiv and Wesnoth
19:24 < pleia2> maybe start with california?
19:24 < pleia2> see how it goes
19:24 < iheartubuntu2> pleia2 thats what i was thinking
19:24 < grantbow> I would do a strong showing locally before expanding to prove that it's worth it
19:24 < iheartubuntu2> ok
19:24 < jdeslip> The new supertux kart looks pretty flashy
19:25 < iheartubuntu2> which direction should i take this? focus on more questions? more game choices?
19:25 < iheartubuntu2> some games can handle 4 players, some can handle 500
19:25 < jdeslip> iheartubuntu2: I'd just take charge of it if I were you.  Make whatever choices you would like and see how it goes. It is easy to get
 feedback after a first trial
19:26 < iheartubuntu2> so set it up and run it
19:26 < jdeslip> In my opinion, the hard part is just getting started :)
19:26 < pleia2> +1
19:26 < iheartubuntu2> i was also thinking a game night right after our team meetings here since we have a number of people already together
19:27 < jdeslip> not a bad idea
19:27 < pleia2> yeah
19:27 < iheartubuntu2> ok, thats it for me unless someone has something to add
19:27 < MarkDude> Super Nerd Night SF has a great live way they do this
19:27 < iheartubuntu2> i'll move this forward
19:27 < iheartubuntu2> how so markdude
19:27 < jdeslip> iheartubuntu2: great! thanks for this
19:28 < MarkDude> they have all sorts of options for people
19:29 < jdeslip> Browsing playdeb led me to this RISK type game: http://www.playdeb.net/software/TripleA - I like me some RISK
19:29 < pleia2> MarkDude: that's easy to do for an in-person event with a lot of people, this proposal is virtual so we'd need some coordination and p
ossibly servers running to play games, which means we can't offer a ton of options (plus I don't think we'll have a ton of people :))
19:30 < iheartubuntu2> video cards can limit the amount of players too
19:31 < jdeslip> OK - does anyone have anything to add before we end the meeting?
19:32 < iheartubuntu2> 5
19:33 < iheartubuntu2> 4
19:33 < iheartubuntu2> 3
19:33 < iheartubuntu2> 2
19:33 < iheartubuntu2> 1
19:33 < eps> totals 15
19:33 < iheartubuntu2> :)
19:33 < jdeslip> -------------------- Meeting Ends -----------------------
}}}
