{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, November 20th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

 1. No formal agenda items.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[03:00] <pleia2> Meeting time!
[03:00] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting?
[03:01]  * eps waves
[03:01] <akk> o/
[03:02] <pleia2> ok, so we don't have an agenda so it's just announcements and things
[03:03] <pleia2> anyone have anything? :)
[03:03] <eps> Talk about what might or might not be happening in December (Ubuntu Hours, etc.).
[03:04] <pleia2> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california shows upcoming events, which looks to be most of the regularly scheduled hours
[03:05] <pleia2> our team meetings are scheduled for the 4th and 18th, which I'm inclined to keep as scheduled, january 1st maybe not though
[03:06] <eps> I'm assuming nothing interesting is happening on the 1st. Not even the Rose Parade.
[03:07] <pleia2> ok, we can ask others and see what they think
[03:08] <Darkwing> Sup
[03:08] <pleia2> philipballew, Darkwing did you guys want to say anything about scale?
[03:08] <Darkwing> It's awesome and come join us!
[03:08] <pleia2> the call for Ubucon speakers is still out there too: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2011-October/001849.html
[03:10] <pleia2> oh, I created a page for Scale too: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale10x
[03:10] <philipballew> I might be speaking at scale. beyond that i'll be at the booth working. will be be getting exhibitor passes like last year?
[03:12] <pleia2> Darkwing?
[03:12] <Darkwing> AFAIK We will.
[03:13] <Darkwing> I will be working with Gareth and get us passes. Not sure yet how many we will have but, let's start gathering what we want and what all we want to have at the booth.
[03:13] <pleia2> ok, can you look into that, and how people will need to register if using the exhibitor pass?
[03:13]  * Darkwing nods
[03:13] <pleia2> great :)
[03:13] <pleia2> well I think that's pretty much it
[03:14] <pleia2> any other announcements or anything?
[03:14] <philipballew> sounds good to me!
[03:14] <pleia2> Happy Ubuntu Community Appreciation Day :) https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UCADay
[03:14] <pleia2> so thanks for coming akk, eps, Darkwing and philipballew!
}}}
