{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, August 10th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. None

Meeting started by nhaines at 02:00:24 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ihas.5cat.com/~darthrobot/ubuntu-us-ca/2014/ubuntu-us-ca.2014-08-11-02.00.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

Meeting ended at 02:12:17 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* nhaines (10)
* DonkeyHotei (4)
* darthrobot` (3)
* philballew (1)
* philipballew (1)

=== Full Log ===

 02:00:24 <nhaines> #startmeeting Ubuntu California 2014-08-10

 02:00:24 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Aug 11 02:00:24 2014 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 02:00:24 <darthrobot`> 

 02:00:24 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 02:01:13 <nhaines> Acting meeting chair's log, stardate 20140810.  It's time for another LoCo meeting.

 02:01:25 <nhaines> Roll call time.  Who's around for the meeting? :)

 02:01:39 <philipballew> 0/

 02:02:30 <DonkeyHotei> 1/

 02:03:54 <nhaines> Glad you two could make it.

 02:04:06 <nhaines> First up on the agenda: absolutely nothing.

 02:04:13 <DonkeyHotei> yey!

 02:04:29 <nhaines> Well, now that that's wrapped up, I'm leaving the meeting open until 7:10pm, in case anyone has anything they want to discuss.

 02:07:49 <DonkeyHotei> my usb cellular modem has stopped working under trusty

 02:08:49 <DonkeyHotei> it's suddenly not supported where it worked under trusty before

 02:11:10 <philballew> odd

 02:11:43 <nhaines> That's weird.  We should talk about that after the meeting.

 02:11:52 <nhaines> Which speaking of, is now.

 02:12:15 <nhaines> Thanks for coming, everyone.  Next meeting on the 24th at 7!

 02:12:17 <nhaines> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
