{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

The Ubuntu California LoCo has been accepted as an exhibitor at the <nowiki>[[http://socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/|Southern California Linux Expo]]</nowiki>!

SCaLE8x is February 19-21 (Fri-Sun).  The Expo is open Saturday and Sunday, with Friday being reserved for the mini-conferences.  
Doors open at 9am Saturday for setup, and 10am to the general public (10am is also the keynote) <nowiki>[[http://scale8x.socallinuxexpo.org/conference-info/schedules|See Full Schedule]]</nowiki>.  Parking is $14 per day.

The first day of SCaLE there will be an <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-SCUbucon2010|Ubucon]]</nowiki>, and we'll be running an exhibitor booth as well.  We're also hoping to have a few presentations/demonstrations throughout the weekend on various beginners Ubuntu topics.

If you're planning on attending SCaLE (regardless of whether you'll be helping with the booth) please sign up on the <nowiki>[[Attendees|Attendees]]</nowiki> page.  We'll be taking a group picture, and this will help make sure we don't leave you out!

== Booth ==

=== Materials ===
If you think of anything else (large or small) we need, please add it to the list.  If the reason it is needed/wanted isn't obvious, explain the reasoning in the description area.  This should be an all encompassing list, from duct tape to computers to scratch paper.  When in doubt, add it and mention you're unsure in the description.

If you can provide something, please sign your name in the volunteer column (more than one person per item is fine).  If you have anything else to say about it (like, "I'm 60% sure I have one of these") use the comments field.  If you're providing a part of something (a computer but no monitor) make sure you mention that as well.

If you can't figure out the wiki formatting, just add items/comments underneath, and someone else will come wikify it.

Feel free to make any comments/suggestions/additions!

==== Stuff Provided ====
* 8' wide x 10' deep booth, pipe and curtain style
** 8' tall back wall
** 3' tall side walls
* 6' Table (1)
* Electrical Outlet (1)
* Network Drop (1)
* Two Chairs (maybe more)

==== Stuff We Need ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" tablebgcolor="#FFFFF0" 25%: rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">Item
| <30%:>Description/Info
| <15%:>Volunteer
| <35%:>Comments
|-
| Network Switch
| Wireless Router Preferred
| jbermudes
| It's a WRT54GL
|-
| More Tables
| 
| NealBussett
| 
|-
| Demo Box 1
| 
| jbermudes
| Dell desktop (4GB RAM, Quadcore, GT9600 gfx, 24in LCD)
|-
| Demo Box 2
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Presentation Box
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Presentation Monitor
| To be used with presentation box (larger is nice)
| 
| 
|-
| Blank CDs
| To replenish our burned ones as needed
| 
| 
|-
| CD Sleeves
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/CDSleeves|nbusset2 design]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| Pre-Burned/Verified CDs
| Multiple Arch/Flavors
| 
| 
|-
| 'Buntu Stand
| Finish this for CDs!
| 
| 
|}

==== Stuff We (Might?) Want ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" tablebgcolor="#FFFFF0" 25%: rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">Item
| <30%:>Description/Info
| <15%:>Volunteer
| <35%:>Comments
|-
| Fliers/Pamphlets
| Probably general Ubuntu information
| 
| 
|-
| Business Cards
| Ubuntu-California specific (contact info, channels, etc)
| 
| 
|-
| "Cheat sheets"
| Quick topical reference cards
| 
| We use these notes on various topics to jog our memory so we can remember things people will want to know like "What's new in Jaunty" and "How many ways can I install Ubuntu?"
|-
| Stickers
| These were provided in our ConferencePack
| 
| 
|-
| Banner
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Name Tags
| Fun badges to wear in the booth
| 
| 
|-
| Speakers
| 
| 
| 
|-
| CD Burn Box (headless) 1
| Running 'buntustand for CDs
| 
| 
|-
| CD Burn Box (headless) 2
| Running 'buntustand for CDs
| 
| 
|}

== Volunteers ==

Please sign up here if you'll be able to help at the booth at some point throughout the weekend.
Sign up in the first list (we'll be using this to make name badges) and then sign up in the second list if there's specific times you would like to help.

This table will be used to make name badges from:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Name
| Name
| Name
|-
| Neal Bussett
| Nathan Haines
| Robert Wall
| Joe Smith
|-
| Jess Bermudes
| Cactaur
| 
| 
|}

Indicate which times you would like to help if you know/have a preference (this isn't formal, just so we get an idea)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" tablebgcolor="#FFFFF0" 25%: rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">Date
| <15%:>Time
| <15%:>Volunteer 1
| <15%:>Volunteer 2
| <30%:>Others
|-
| Saturday
| 9am - 10am
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 10am - 11am
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 11am - 12pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 12pm - 1pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 1pm - 2pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 2pm - 3pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 3pm - 4pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 4pm - 5pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 5pm - 6pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCC99"> Sunday
| 9am - 10am
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCC99">
| 10am - 11am
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCC99">
| 11am - 12pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCC99">
| 12pm - 1pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCC99">
| 1pm - 2pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCC99">
| 2pm - 3pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCC99">
| 3pm - 4pm
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCC99">
| 4pm - 5pm
| 
| 
| 
|}

== Useful Links ==
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale7x|Last Year's SCaLE Page]]</nowiki>
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ConferenceTopTips
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DIYMarketing
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/RunningCommunityStands
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoComputerFairHowto

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ConferenceAppearances
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAtConferences
