{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, February 9th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. SCaLE12 planning

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Feb 10 03:00:14 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:00] <pleia2> who all do we have here for the meeting?
[03:00] <eps> meh
[03:01] <jyo> o/
[03:01] <pleia2> alrighty
[03:01] <pleia2> only thing on the agenda is scale :)
[03:01] <rww> o/
[03:02] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x
[03:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:02] <pleia2> #topic SCaLE12x
[03:02] <pleia2> 2 weeks away, woo
[03:03] <eps> Are we doing this thing? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects still shows its status as "Proposed"
[03:03] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:03] <pleia2> lol
[03:03] <eps> ...and Philip still hasn't sent me registration information
[03:04] <pleia2> weird, he sent it to others
[03:04] <rww> reminds me, I need to get mine changed over to the shiny free one
[03:04] <pleia2> I'll send an email and loop you in
[03:04] <rww> also I don't think there was a spot for my gnupg key on the registration thing o.O
[03:05] <pleia2> should there be? :)
[03:06] <rww> yes
[03:06] <pleia2> eps: so re: candy, at this point I'm thinking M&Ms
[03:07] <eps> rww: Is this for the Key Signing Party? http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale12x/pgp-key-signing-party
[03:07] <darthrobot> Title: [PGP Key Signing Party | SCALE 12x]
[03:07] <rww> eps: yes
[03:08] <pleia2> ah
[03:09] <pleia2> not sure we have anything else to talk about really
[03:10] <pleia2> I did have a fellow from the AZ team mention they'd be happy to take any 12.04 leftover CDs off our hands at the end of the event
[03:11] <pleia2> and jose from peru will be helping us with the booth!
[03:11] <jose> o/
[03:11] <rww> o/ jose
[03:11] <jose> hey rww! going too?
[03:12] <pleia2> philip said he'd be a few minutes later for this meetnig, might just wait for him to join us and see if there's anything else he wants to talk about
[03:12] <rww> jose: yep :)
[03:12] <jose> awesome
[03:15] <rww> philip's coming online now
[03:15] <rww> much psychic
[03:15] <pleia2> philipballew: about to wrap up un-noteworthy meeting item about scale, anything you wanted to add/announce/etc?
[03:17] <pleia2> rww: I remain unconvinced :)
[03:20] <jose> whoops, he's pinging timeout
[03:21] <pleia2> flooding actually
[03:21] <pleia2> not sure what that's about
=== Corey is now known as Guest62252
[03:22] <rww> client probably doesn't have rate control set up properly, so automatic /who or something is breaking it
[03:22] <pleia2> yeah
[03:23] <pleia2> fun times
[03:23] <rww> yep
[03:23] <pleia2> ok, we'll move on and hopefully he'll get sorted ;)
[03:23] <rww> i've flooded out once that I can remember, but that was freenode's fault :3
[03:23] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[03:23] <eps> Ubuntu Hours?
[03:24] <pleia2> there was one today in Berkeley, hope that went well :)
[03:24] <pleia2> coming up this wednesday we're having one in San Francisco: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2682-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
[03:24] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[03:24] <pleia2> also a debian dinner after
[03:24] <jyo> So hard to support local businesses... but hey, Starbucks stars. ;)
[03:24] <ianorlin> both are too far away for me to attened being in Torrance
[03:25] <pleia2> ianorlin: Pasadena has them sometimes
[03:25] <pleia2> I think that's currently the closest one to you
[03:25] <pleia2> philipb: did you have anything to talk about re: scale?
[03:25] <philipballew> oh hey there
[03:26] <philipballew> pleia2, email sent
[03:26] <philipb> not so far. I will send out a reminder email to everyone at the end of the week
[03:26] <pleia2> thanks
[03:26] <philipb> the conf pack will be here in a few days.
[03:26] <pleia2> from Canonical?
[03:26] <philipb> yes
[03:26] <pleia2> great
[03:26] <philipb> :)
[03:27] <rww> is the debian dinner going to involve repeated voting over what to eat
[03:27] <pleia2> hahah
[03:28] <rww> (also: i will be there unless work is more tiring than usual)
[03:28] <pleia2> yay
[03:28] <pleia2> ok, anyone have anything else?
[03:30] <rww> we should probably start thinking soon about 14.04 release
[03:30] <rww> like, not this meeting, but soon
[03:30] <pleia2> good idea, I'll add it to the agenda for the next meeting
[03:30] <eps> We're still basking in the glow of 12.04.4 LTS.
[03:31]  * ianorlin is already testing 14.04 for lubuntu
[03:31] <pleia2> which will be on March 9, since we're skipping the everyone-coming-home-from-scale night
[03:31] <rww> and there's a global jam coming up, so if anyone is interested in that it'd be something to look into
[03:31] <pleia2> rww: have the details handy?
[03:31] <rww> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/2656/
[03:31] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Global Jam | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[03:31] <rww> it's a weekend, Fri, 04 April 2014 to Sun, 06 April 2014
[03:32] <pleia2> cool
[03:32] <rww> I don't have much to contribute for that, but if someone's been looking for an event idea, there's one
[03:33] <pleia2> it's so close to release
[03:33] <rww> indeed, timing's a bit odd, since anything fixed there (bugs or what not) won't be in 14.04
[03:33] <pleia2> yeah
[03:34] <pleia2> trying to think of things to do, but that's even too late for documentation review
[03:34] <rww> marketing material creation, I guess
[03:34] <rww> Ubuntu Touch or other stuff that isn't production ready and has ongoing work
[03:34] <pleia2> yeah, there's always that :)
[03:34]  * pleia2 nods
[03:35] <eps> Could someone please update the "Current Ubuntu Release" on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam to something that hasn't already been EOLed?
[03:35] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:35] <rww> eps: I'm going to go through and update the wiki Sometime Soon
[03:35] <pleia2> eps: still no luck logging in to the wiki? :(
[03:35] <rww> since there are a few things like that
[03:35] <pleia2> we do still struggle to keep that updated, it's tough
[03:35] <eps> It still wasn't working as of the last time I tried, which was about a week ago.
[03:36] <pleia2> in this particular case I think we should think about dropping that "current release" thing because it's a bit of a random thing for a loco to mention
[03:36] <rww> agreed
[03:36] <pleia2> thanks for having that on your list, rww :)
[03:36] <rww> pleia2: are you still handling paperwork? team reports and what not?
[03:37]  * rww has "look into what leadership is supposed to be doing" on the list somewhere too
[03:38] <pleia2> rww: january reports are on my todo list ;) but generally yes
[03:38] <pleia2> help is appreciated always
[03:38] <pleia2> leadership mostly just makes sure we have meetings and that people are kept informed/on track
[03:39] <rww> ah, okay. I'm not missing anything then
[03:39]  * eps has gone off the rails :-(
[03:40] <pleia2> heh
[03:40] <pleia2> alright, time to wrap up?
[03:40]  * rww nods
[03:40] <pleia2> ok, thanks everyone
[03:40] <pleia2> see you at scale!
[03:40] <pleia2> (or at sf ubuntu hour :))
[03:40] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
