{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, June 30th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. None.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jul  1 02:00:19 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> anyone here for the meeting? :)
[02:00] <philipballew> here
[02:00] <pleia2> hey philipballew
[02:01] <philipballew> well hello
[02:01] <pleia2> #agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13June30
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13June30 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <pleia2> empty :)
[02:01] <eps> woo-hoo!
[02:01] <philipballew> I guess that means we already did all the work?
[02:01] <pleia2> got a couple of events coming up, Ubuntu Hours in SF and Berkeley http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/events/
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu California Events List | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:01] <pleia2> that's pretty much it though
[02:02] <pleia2> I did also want to mention that we had a bug report filed to work with the LoCo Council to get reapproval done this cycle
[02:02] <philipballew> pleia2, I saw that I think.
[02:02] <pleia2> we expire in september
[02:03] <pleia2> philipballew: yeah, i think all three leaders are subbed
[02:03] <pleia2> no rush, but I will probably start working on the reapproval app soon (not too hard to do since we do monthly reports)
[02:04] <philipballew> pleia2, alright, anything I can do just let me know. There are many ways to get a hold of me and all work.
[02:04] <pleia2> cool, thanks ;)
[02:04] <pleia2> :)
[02:04] <pleia2> that's really all I had for the meeting
[02:05] <philipballew> I currently have nothing myself. I am out of town.
[02:05] <pleia2> floor's open for anyone who wishes to bring anything up
[02:05]  * eps is happy not to be in Walnut Creek -- it's hot enough to fry bacon. ;-)
[02:06] <philipballew> I'm headed to auburn on Tuesday. It's 104 there today iirc.
[02:06] <pleia2> oh dear
[02:06] <philipballew> 108 tomorrow
[02:06] <pleia2> supposed to get to 79 in the city tomorrow (but I just got home from NYC, where it was in the 80s and humid the whole time I was there)
[02:06] <philipballew> but you learn to deal with it.
[02:07] <philipballew> pleia2, I might need to come to the city to escape the heat or something.
[02:07] <pleia2> philipballew: should do, it's nice!
[02:07] <pleia2> maybe go to the beach
[02:08] <philipballew> that actually sounds like a great idea. Something to do once I get back into the states.
[02:08] <philipballew> I also found out my flight cuts through Atlanta. Not sure about this...
[02:13] <pleia2> ok, I think we can wrap this up :)
[02:13] <pleia2> thanks eps and philipballew
[02:14] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
