{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, July 10th, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/
  a. http://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/
  a. Ubuntu 16.04 Presentation at <nowiki>[[http://www.balug.org/#Meetings-upcoming|BALUG]]</nowiki>, July 19th
1. Announcements
   a. Release of 16.04.1 on July 21st
1. Food & Drink <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2016-June/002736.html|Sponsorship of the 16.04 Release Party in San Francisco]]</nowiki>, July 28th (venue is already secured thanks to OpenDNS)

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

==== Full log: ====

<pre> 02:06:52 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:06:52 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jul 11 02:06:52 2016 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:06:52 <darthrobot> 
 02:06:52 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:07:27 <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for 10 July 2016.  The agenda is availble here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16July10
 02:07:27 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16July10 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:08:11 <nhaines> We have a couple upcoming events.
 02:09:09 <nhaines> First of all, pleia2 is continuing her grand Xeres tour at BALUG, where she'll talk about Ubuntu 16.04 LTS.  That'll be on July 19th at Henry's Hunan Restaurant in San Francisco.
 02:10:13 <nhaines> Looking further out, there's an Ubuntu 16.04 release party at OpenDNS on July 28th.
 02:10:58 <nhaines> I will pester pleia2 to get her BALUG talk into the LoCo directory/Meetup, but there's more info abou the release party available here: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3398-san-francisco-ubuntu-1604-release-party/
 02:10:58 <darthrobot> Title: [San Francisco Ubuntu 16.04 Release Party | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
 02:11:23 <nhaines> You should definitely attend any of those events you can, because pleia2 is a fantastic speaker.
 02:11:39 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:12:54 <nhaines> Ubuntu 16.04.1 LTS is imminent.  We'll see that released on 21 July.  This is perfect timing for the release party!  The release of Ubuntu 16.04.1 LTS will also be when Ubuntu 14.04 LTS users begin to receive the option to upgrade.
 02:13:32 <nhaines> Does anyone else have any announcements at this time?
 02:14:19 <pleia2> so sorry
 02:14:39 <pleia2> nhaines already mentioned the release party, so there's that and we could always use help spreading the word :)
 02:14:54 <nhaines> \o/
 02:14:56 <pleia2> we also still need help finding a sponsor for that party for food+drinks
 02:15:04 <pleia2> (venue sponsor is secured)
 02:15:13 <nhaines> #topic Food and drink sponsor for upcoming release party
 02:15:16 <nhaines> Speaking of.  :)
 02:15:30 <pleia2> aha, there we go :)
 02:15:37 <pleia2> we need about $300 for this
 02:16:15 <nhaines> If anyone wants to approach someone for sponsorship but did not get the email with details, that's available here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2016-June/002736.html
 02:16:15 <darthrobot> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] Food and beverage sponsor needed: San FranciscoRelease Party in July]
 02:16:17 <pleia2> pizza+beverages for 40-50 people, so far 25 have rsvped, and it's still a couple weeks agao
 02:16:24 <pleia2> er, away
 02:16:49 <pleia2> you can give some details about your company at the event, little cards where the food is, and/or say something before my 16.04 presentation
 02:17:44 <nhaines> Any thoughts about using the Ubuntu Community Reimbursement Fund?
 02:18:08 <pleia2> yeah, we'll do that as a last resort
 02:18:21 <pleia2> I'll give it another week or so, then request
 02:19:02 <nhaines> I agree, it's better to have local sponsors if we can find them.
 02:19:17 <pleia2> anyway, that's about it, bring your friends, should be fun :)
 02:19:32 <nhaines> \o/
 02:19:42 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:20:17 <nhaines> Only thing I can think of lately is that snapd in 16.04 just got some really nice desktop integration features a couple days ago.
 02:20:35 <nhaines> So if anyone's been using snappy they should check that out again.  :)
 02:20:45 <nhaines> Is there any other business before we wrap things up?
 02:20:48 <pleia2> at our last meeting there was an agenda item for talking about our logo, but no one there to talk about it and most thoughts were shared on the agenda page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16June26
 02:20:48 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16June26 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:21:04 <pleia2> I'm wondering if there's anything we can do to clear up nhaines' concerns
 02:21:33 <pleia2> my issue is that, while retro, it's still a little embarrassing for me to show off our old logo at events and thing :)
 02:21:45 <pleia2> s/old/current with old branding
 02:22:20 <pleia2> the new branding is almost as old as the old branding at this point
 02:22:22 <nhaines> I half-meant to try and find my old sketches, but haven't had time (which is the story of my life this month).
 02:22:50 <pleia2> heh, I understand that :)
 02:23:21 <nhaines> Although at the time they were sort of half-ideas and there was zero interest in changing the logo at all, so I didn't spend a lot of time on it.
 02:23:45 <pleia2> it's been a few years, and the old branding really is old now
 02:24:11 <pleia2> if I created an etherpad to brain dump concerns that I could craft into an email, would you contribute?
 02:24:14 <nhaines> But I do remember that it all turned into a unrecognizeable orange blob.
 02:24:21 <pleia2> hehe
 02:24:27 <nhaines> Yes I would.
 02:24:43 <pleia2> ok http://pad.ubuntu.com/2016-branding
 02:24:43 <darthrobot> [R: pad.ubuntu.com] Title: [OpenID Authentication Required]
 02:24:56 <nhaines> Well that was quick.  :)
 02:25:38 <pleia2> I haz speed
 02:26:23 <pleia2> that's all from me
 02:26:32 <nhaines> Okay, I might have to get out paper and try and find a pencil then.  For sketches!  Also I now wonder what happened to my colored pencils but I think they were watercolor pencils.
 02:27:16 <nhaines> Okay, so looks like I have more to do this week than "Harass people doing actual work about Ubuntu Snap 16 for RPi2."
 02:27:37 <nhaines> I think that wraps this up.  Thanks for arranging all the 16.04 talks and the release party.  :)
 02:28:29 <pleia2> thanks nhaines
 02:28:32 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
