{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, July 9th, 2017, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
# Review Ubuntu Calfifornia <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership/2017|leadership nominations]]</nowiki>.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre>
[02:01] <nhaines> #startmeeting
[02:01] <nhaines> #chair pleia2 lynorian
[02:01] <pleia2> yeah, sorry about the topic :)
[02:01] <metalbiker2> pleia2, it's ok.
[02:01] <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for July 9th!
[02:02] <nhaines> Despite the channel topic, which is probably my fault anyway.  :)
[02:02] <metalbiker2> hey there!! i finally got to show up on time!! :)
[02:02] <nhaines> Today's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership/2017
[02:02] <metalbiker2> nhaines, eh, no biggie
[02:02] <nhaines> metalbiker2: we're glad to see you.  :)
[02:02] <metalbiker2> nhaines: thanks!
[02:02] <metalbiker2> i'm very happy to be here
[02:03] <nhaines> We have one item on the agenda.  Before we get to that, though...
[02:03] <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
[02:03] <pleia2> for the first time in over a year, we're having an Ubuntu Hour in SF this week https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2017-July/002809.html
[02:03] <nhaines> \o/
[02:03] <metalbiker2> yay!
[02:03] <pleia2> on Wednesday evening, after which everyone is welcome to come over to the Debian Dinner nearby
[02:05] <nhaines> That sounds like a great way to spend Wednesday evening!
[02:05] <nhaines> And if you're in the southern part of the state, Ubuntu Hour Pasadena is meeting at Peets coffee as usual.  Afterwards you should check out the SGVLUG meeting at DuPars. https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/events/232986296/
[02:05] <pleia2> hope so :) at the very least we'll have a lot to talk about
[02:06] <metalbiker2> i'd love to come up and attend. and i agree nhaines!
[02:06] <metalbiker2> nhaines: awesome!
[02:07] <nhaines> #topic Announcements
[02:07] <nhaines> Does anyone have any general Ubuntu announcements?
[02:07] <metalbiker2> nhaines: i don't have anything, unfortunately. maybe soon.
[02:07]  * lynorian has nothing
[02:08] <metalbiker2> i may have an event to announce soon is all.
[02:09] <pleia2> metalbiker2: hope so!
[02:09] <pleia2> I'm coming down to Irvine next week, but nothing Ubuntu-y
[02:11] <nhaines> Oh yeah!  I should probably figure out something for you to do!  There's the Orange County Zoo that's cute.  :)  I'll get back to you on that.
[02:11] <metalbiker2> i'm going to be in Oregon next week. not ubuntu related.
[02:11] <pleia2> nhaines: indeed :)
[02:11] <nhaines> Well, it's the summer slump, so we'll see how things shape up as 17.10 gets baked.
[02:11] <nhaines> #topic Review Ubuntu California leadership nominations.
[02:12] <nhaines> Two weeks ago, we put out a call for leadership nominations here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership/2017
[02:12] <pleia2> it was supposed to end 12 minutes ago, but we have no nominees /o\
[02:12] <pleia2> anarchy!
[02:12] <lynorian> I read the email then completely forgot about it :(
[02:13] <nhaines> This is the second time we've failed to raise adequate nominations for LoCo leadership.
[02:13] <pleia2> well, I didn't specify a timezone for 19:00
[02:13] <metalbiker2> lmao!! ANARCHY IS THE BEST!! no, just kidding. i got the email and desperately tried to get my nominations on that page but it wasn't working for me for some reason.
[02:14] <pleia2> it is troublesome that we have no one who wishes to stand for leadership
[02:14] <pleia2> (unless lynorian's comment means they do :))
[02:14] <nhaines> Response was flat, meeting attendance is limited, the mailing list is almost completely dead.
[02:14] <metalbiker2> *hangs head* do we get to nominate now or is it required to go through the nomination page?
[02:14] <nhaines> There starts to be a time when it might be better to think about the future of the LoCo.
[02:15] <pleia2> metalbiker2: I said people can just send nominations to me, so I'd be OK with now
[02:15] <lynorian> I have had less ubuntu time a lot this year
[02:15] <nhaines> metalbiker2: we'll have to extend the nomination period again, but you can contained myself or pleia2 to get on the page if the wiki just isn't working for you.
[02:16] <pleia2> nhaines: there is still interest here and there for some kind of existence, however slight, so I'm inclined to chug on if there's anyone remotely interested in helping us move along
[02:16] <metalbiker2> pleia2: so I can nominate now? I thought I sent you that email with my nominations but maybe I didn't.
[02:17] <metalbiker2> I'm highly interested in stepping up to the plate but I'm so afraid that I lack enough knowledge for it.
[02:17] <metalbiker2> nhaines: ok, sounds good.
[02:18] <pleia2> metalbiker2: I received one from you on friday, I'm sorry I didn't respond to your question about experience x_x
[02:18] <metalbiker2> pleia2: i really want our loco to continue. i've got some good ideas to help foster attention to it.
[02:18] <nhaines> I'm not suggesting we dissolve the LoCo this minute, but it's something to keep in mind.  Hopefully we can drum up more activity.
[02:18] <pleia2> I think a fresh face on the team would help, and we all started somewhere, I'd still be around to help out
[02:18] <pleia2> as I'm sure others would
[02:18] <nhaines> Yup, I'm not disappearing any time soon.
[02:19] <metalbiker2> nhaines: ok, i really want our team to be around forever. and i'm not disappearing anytime soon either. as long as i live i'll be here and fighting hard for us.
[02:19] <pleia2> :)
[02:19] <nhaines> metalbiker2: every bit helps.  :)
[02:20] <metalbiker2> if we can nominate now, i've got some in mind.
[02:20] <nhaines> It's also important to note that the LoCo Council and Community Council are having problems as well.  So it's not just us.
[02:20] <nhaines> pleia2: what do you think?
[02:20] <pleia2> I think it's fine
[02:20] <pleia2> happy to take metalbiker2's self-nomination now
[02:21] <pleia2> metalbiker2: are you able to edit the wiki page, or can you send me the info to update it?
[02:21] <metalbiker2> yes! i'd love to self-nominate myself if that's ok? i really feel up to the challenge!
[02:22] <pleia2> and if you can't edit, we'll make sure you get edit access (have to be in a special team on launchpad, or be an ubuntu member)
[02:22] <metalbiker2> pleia2: i think i can edit it. i'll have to look again to see. i've been having some wifi issues again. sigh.
[02:22] <pleia2> ok
[02:22] <nhaines> metalbiker2: thanks for volunteering!
[02:23] <metalbiker2> nhaines: you're welcome!! my experience lies in manufacturing committees and I was a prominent voice in both so i think i can do it. i've got some good ideas to help us out some more.
[02:24] <nhaines> pleia2: do you want to extend the nomination period or just take nominations here in the meeting?
[02:24] <metalbiker2> pleia2: sweet!! i'd love that! i'll look again after we get done with our meeting.
[02:24] <pleia2> metalbiker2: ok, thanks :)
[02:24] <pleia2> nhaines: I'm ok taking nominations here in the meeting, let's just say it's 1900 hawaii time ;)
[02:24] <nhaines> Ha.  :)
[02:25] <nhaines> Okay, in that case I nominate myself.
[02:25] <nhaines> Since the "wait until late so as not to spook other potential nominees" plan didn't work out.  :[
[02:25] <metalbiker2> nhaines: awesome!
[02:26] <metalbiker2> yeah, i was excited for this election to see who would be nominated and i even kept the pages open all the time and nothing. smh. i was just debating on myself was all.
[02:27] <nhaines> Well if you believe in yourself, there are people who will help as well.  :)
[02:27] <lynorian> yes
[02:27] <metalbiker2> nhaines: i definitely believe in myself and the help will be appreciated!
[02:28] <nhaines> lynorian: are you intereted in running?
[02:28] <lynorian> no my time for ubuntu has gond down quite a bit
[02:29] <pleia2> btw, since metalbiker2 is new and we will have an election this time, I'd be interested in a candidate blurb to the mailing list this time around
[02:30] <nhaines> pleia2: good idea!
[02:30] <pleia2> each nominee sending a quick email to the list about their background and ideas for the loco
[02:30] <pleia2> nothing fancy :) just so people know who you are
[02:30] <metalbiker2> pleia2: can you explain what that means. lol i'm usually a walking dictionary but that one is like, over my head. lol
[02:30] <metalbiker2> oh, you just answered my question. cool
[02:30] <pleia2> :D
[02:31] <nhaines> pleia2's good like that.  :)
[02:31] <nhaines> pleia2: last chance to get on this nice responsibility action!  ;)
[02:31] <metalbiker2> pleia2: cool! i'll do that!
[02:31] <pleia2> haha
[02:32] <metalbiker2> pleia2: lol
[02:32] <pleia2> I need some time to myself :)
[02:32] <metalbiker2> :D
[02:32] <metalbiker2> pleia2: copy that and understood.
[02:32] <nhaines> True!  I often wonder how you do it. :)
[02:33] <metalbiker2> my personal life is rather wide open at the moment and i need something to do so this is perfect.
[02:33] <nhaines> Okay, I think we'll wrap up the nomination period.  Do we want to change the voting period at this time or go with the current schedule?
[02:33] <pleia2> I think the current schedule is fine
[02:33] <metalbiker2> i'm good here, too.
[02:35] <pleia2> I'll set up the poll, and if nhaines and metalbiker2 can get their email off to the list sooner rather than later so people can be informed, that would be good :)
[02:35] <nhaines> Thanks so much for that.  :)
[02:35] <nhaines> #topic Other business
[02:35] <nhaines> Anything else before we wrap up?
[02:35] <metalbiker2> pleia2: cool! i'll be on it tonight actually!
[02:35] <pleia2> metalbiker2: yay!
[02:36] <pleia2> and do update the wiki page too, or send me info to update it ;)
[02:36] <metalbiker2> yeah, i'd like to say something before we wrap.
[02:36] <nhaines> The floor is yours.  :)
[02:37] <metalbiker2> i appreciate you all allowing me to be here. It's been a pleasure joining the team and I love our team. You guys are awesome and I love our Ubuntu!! :D
[02:37] <pleia2> thank you for helping us move forward!
[02:37] <metalbiker2> pleia2: my pleasure! i'm all about this!
[02:38] <nhaines> We're glad to have you, and we're looking forward to seeing you at events.  :)
[02:38] <metalbiker2> nhaines: i look forward to those as well!! I'm excited to come to them!
[02:39] <nhaines> Alright, thanks for coming!  We'll get the nomination page up and start voting soon.
[02:39] <nhaines> Our next meeting is, indeed, July 23rd!  Hope to see everyone there!
[02:39] <nhaines> #endmeeting </pre>
