{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, November 2nd, 2008, 7:00pm (1900) PST ===

==== Summary ====
1. <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek|Ubuntu Open Week]]</nowiki> - Next week 
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek|Ubuntu Open Week]]</nowiki> will be taking place on Mon, Nov. 3 to Fri, Nov 7 from 7am-1pm PST. These are highly informative IRC meetings in #ubuntu meetings, and the schedule is available on the <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek|Ubuntu Open Week]]</nowiki> wiki.
1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-IntrepidRelease|Intrepid Release]]</nowiki>
** There will be a release party for Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex) at Zito's Pizza at 5 PM PST followed by a mini-bugjam and mini-installfest at Chapman University.
** <nowiki>[[Cactaur]]</nowiki> needs a ride.
1. Ubuntu-US Meeting
** Introduced during the IRC meeting, there will be a meeting on November 13 in #ubuntu-us at 3 PM PST for anyone interested in taking part in interactions between the US LoCo teams.

==== Original Agenda ====
# <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek|Ubuntu Open Week]]</nowiki> - Next week 
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-IntrepidRelease|Intrepid Release]]</nowiki>
# Ubuntu-US Meeting

==== Logs ====
<pre>
19:10 < Flannel> Alright, so, welcome to the Nov 2 meeting.
19:10 < Flannel> Our current agenda is available: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/08November02
19:11 < Flannel> So far, it consists of two things: Ubuntu Open Week, and then our Southern California release party thing.
19:11 < Flannel> If you've got something to add, go ahead and mention it at some point.
19:12 < Flannel> As a reminder (which you all are aware, obviously), today was the end of DST.  So its now 715ish, and not 815ish.
19:13 < Flannel> Also, Intrepid was released last Thursday.  There have been two release parties since then, San Francisco, and then Felton.  did anyone get a chance to attend either?
19:14 < Yasumoto> nope :(
19:14 < sn9> i missed them both
19:14 < Flannel> I imagine not.  sn9, did you go to jono's on friday?
19:14 < cactaur> Nay, good sir.
19:14 < Flannel> Alright.  Then we have no idea how they went ;)
19:14 < sn9> dunno if The-Kernel went to Felton
19:15 < Flannel> So, moving on to Ubuntu Open Week.
19:15 < Flannel> The week following each release is Ubuntu Open Week.  A week full of talks, workshops, and Q&A doohickey things.
19:15 < Flannel> Theres a whole lot going on (even if it is a bit early in the day for us): https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek 
19:15 < sn9> this week?
19:15 < Flannel> You can see the schedule.  They're a lot of fun.  Yeah
19:16 < Flannel> Monday through Friday
19:16 < sn9> rats
19:16 < Flannel> The logs of them are all posted as well, so you can always read them later.
19:16 < cactaur> Whew!
19:16 < Flannel> Very informative, etc.
19:17 < Flannel> Bug stuff, packing stuff, other flavors, etc.
19:17 < Yasumoto> yeah, it's good to attend if possible so you can ask questions
19:17 < Flannel> Definately skim over the topics, even if you can't attend.
19:17 < cactaur> But unfortunately, the topics are smackdab in afternoon for our time zone.
19:17 < cactaur> Stupid round Earth...
19:18 < Flannel> cactaur: Afternoon?
19:18 < cactaur> Right, even before then.
19:18 < Flannel> 7am to 1pm, for those who don't want to do the math
19:19 < cactaur> yeah...
19:19 < a1len> They should kick everything off at midnight.
19:20 < Flannel> So, that's something to look forward to every release.  I believe they're always at the same time though.
19:20 < Flannel> As long as I can remember that is.
19:20 < Flannel> Next topic is our party coming up this Saturday.
19:20 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/IntrepidRelease is the link.
19:20 < Flannel> Starts at 5pm, it'll go... until we're done, I guess.
19:21 < Flannel> I'm looking forward to it.  Yasumoto, anything you'd like to add?
19:22 < Flannel> Anyone else have anything to mention/ask/whatever about it?
19:22 < cactaur> Anybody going from the LA area?
19:22 < Flannel> cactaur: You looking for a ride?
19:22 < cactaur> yeah
19:22 < Yasumoto> Nope, should be a good time
19:23 < Flannel> Yasumoto: we have the opportunity to use a room at Chapman, correct?
19:23 < Yasumoto> yep, same one as before
19:23 < Flannel> So, bring your laptop if you want to do something with it, or whatever.  Sound about right Yasumoto?
19:24 < Yasumoto> for sure
19:24 < Yasumoto> most of the machines have ubuntu on them as well now
19:24 < Flannel> Really?
19:24 < Yasumoto> yeah, I put it on there earlier in the semester
19:24 < Yasumoto> good night
19:25 < Flannel> Alright then.
19:25 < Yasumoto> er
19:25 < Yasumoto> it was a good night
19:25 < cactaur> hahaha
19:26 < Flannel> Alright, anyone else have anything?
19:26 < cactaur> Nothing else from here.
19:27 < Yasumoto> ubuntu open week: do it
19:27 < cactaur> I would if I had a time-turner.
19:27 < Flannel> Oh, actually.  I do have one more thing.
19:27 < Yasumoto> http://twitter.com/Yasumoto/status/986981621
19:27 < Flannel> On the 13th of November is a Ubuntu US meeting, at .... 3 in the afternoon I believe.
19:27 < Flannel> 2300 UTC
19:28 < Flannel> You're all welcome to attend, I'm not sure we have any agenda at the moment.
19:28 < Flannel> Ubuntu US is the collection of LoCo teams in the US, of course.
19:28 < Flannel> A forum for sharing ideas, etc.
19:28 < sn9> posting that to the mailing list would be a good idea
19:28 < Flannel> If anyone's interested, feel free to talk to me later about it.
19:28 < a1len> Ohhh, I can't wait to meet Ubuntu New York.
19:29 < Flannel> This meeting will probably be more business than social, although we have had social meetings in the past
19:29 < Flannel> but, I'll keep everyone updated.
19:30 < Flannel> Anyone else have anything else?
19:31 < Flannel> Alright.  Thank you all for coming.  Next meeting will be in two weeks, November 16th, 7pm
</pre>
