{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, May 4th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2014-April/002415.html|Ubuntu 14.04 LTS DVD distribution]]</nowiki>
# Release parties wrap-up
# Future events
## <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-OCLUGInstallFestMay2014]]</nowiki>
## Event ideas?

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:05] <rww> #startmeeting Ubuntu California 2014-05-04
[02:05] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon May  5 02:05:30 2014 UTC.  The chair is rww. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:05] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:06] <rww> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14May04
[02:06] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14May04 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:06] <rww> Wave your hands in the air if you're here :)
[02:06] <rww> o/
[02:06] <jyo> o/
[02:06] <ianorlin> o/
[02:06] <nhaines> o/
[02:07]  * philipballew waves his hands like he just does not care
[02:07] <philipballew> \0/
[02:07] <rww> #topic Ubuntu 14.04 LTS DVD distribution
[02:07] <rww> Okays, so nhaines emailed the list about this, but here's a heads up for the people who don't read mailing lists: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2014-April/002415.html
[02:07] <darthrobot> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] Ubuntu 14.04 LTS DVDs now available for Californiaevents.]
[02:08] <rww> tl;dr: we got our DVDs for this cycle. If you would like some for an event or something, contact both Nathan and Lyz and they'll get you sorted out :)
[02:09] <rww> questions/comments?
[02:09] <rww> oh, I had one
[02:09] <rww> nhaines: y'all are keeping track of who gets what, I assume?
[02:09] <nhaines> rww: yeah.  I'm going to start populating the wiki with that info
[02:10] <rww> nhaines: excellent, thanks :)
[02:10] <nhaines> So far, I took 25, philipballew got 25 delivered, and we have another 5 going out soon.  :)
[02:11] <rww> oh, and if any conferences pop up, email Lyz at least six weeks ahead of time so she can get a conference pack sorted, as nhaines said in email
[02:11] <rww> #topic Release parties wrap-up
[02:11] <rww> #subtopic San Francisco Release Party
[02:11] <rww> Lyz posted some info at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2014-April/002414.html
[02:11] <darthrobot> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] San Francisco 14.04 Release party was a success -Thank you!]
[02:12] <rww> tl;dr: It was pretty rocking :)
[02:12] <jyo> Really quite pleased with how the location worked out. ;)
[02:12] <rww> I think me and jyo were the only people here who went, right? (or are people hiding)
[02:13] <rww> jyo: any comments on things we did especially well or could improve next time around?
[02:13] <rww> food and hosting was perfect, I think there was a nice mix of stuff to do, I didn't get bored or anything...
[02:13] <jyo> AdRoll's beer taps were broken. Had to drink free wine instead of free beer.</joke>
[02:13] <rww> having Ubuntu Touch stuff was a hit just like at SCaLE
[02:13] <rww> lol
[02:13]  * ianorlin only got to see the pics
[02:14] <jyo> but yes, the AdRoll guys were really helpful with getting cords, the projector set up.
[02:14] <rww> I am happy that there are pics of me at an Ubuntu California event now where I don't look like a dork (as much)
[02:15] <nhaines> rww: I guess if you are at enough events, eventually you get lucky.  :)
[02:15] <rww> And I've done it already at G+, but props to AdRoll for their hosting, props to Canonical for disbursing community donations funds to us, and props to Lyz for taking point on this
[02:15] <rww> nhaines: hehe
[02:15] <rww> Any more comments, or shall I turn it over to the SoCal folks for their party?
[02:15] <ianorlin> how did the flavor laptops seem to be liked?
[02:15] <jyo> I think corporate event space is a good balance.
[02:15] <rww> ianorlin: arrith and co decided to try to break mine, and I wasn't paying attention to the other ones :s
[02:16] <rww> (I didn't actually look to see yet, I think it ended up with ports.ubuntu.com in apt sources or something)
[02:16] <nhaines> rww: where's your sense of adventure?  :)
[02:16] <rww> hehe
[02:16] <jyo> since a) open space to have demo machines and b) celebratory spirits / room to talk and socialize. Usually, it always feel like events have one but not the other.
[02:17] <rww> jyo: agreed
[02:17] <rww> #subtopic San Diego Release Party
[02:17] <rww> philipballew: how did San Diego go?
[02:17]  * rww steps out for a sec to turn onion rings over
[02:17] <nhaines> rww: ding! fries are done
[02:17] <philipballew> San diego went great. We had 5 people in attendance, and all were great and eager to talk about Ubuntu.
[02:18] <philipballew> Two of the people were visiting town from London and were just at deb conf in spain and talked about that.
[02:18] <philipballew> It was great, and we had a nice intimate time.
[02:19] <rww> Cool :)
[02:19] <philipballew> I am gonna distribute the cd's this week most likely now also.
[02:19] <rww> I like all the international folks recently, it's very cool
[02:20] <philipballew> What I am currently doing in my san diego section is translation out of our loco specific stuff to Spanish personally with the help of a couple people.
[02:20] <philipballew> So we can be even more international.
[02:20]  * ianorlin wonders if flyers for more flavors like lubuntu would be good for the release parties?
[02:21] <rww> What do we have in the way of flyers these days? I haven't taken a look at what's out there for 14.04.
[02:21] <philipballew> Not to much, so  I am going to be attempting to work on some this summer rww
[02:22] <rww> actually, this would probably fit better under future events
[02:22] <rww> philipballew: Any final words on San Diego before I speed ahead into the next topic?
[02:22] <nhaines> If no one has updated the StartUbuntu ones, I'm going to replace the screenshots with Ubuntu/Xubuntu 14.04
[02:22] <philipballew> All good over here.
[02:22] <rww> #topic Future events
[02:22] <rww> #subtopic OCLUG Installfest
[02:22] <rww> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OCLUGInstallFestMay2014
[02:22] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OCLUGInstallFestMay2014 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:23] <nhaines> All of the planning for the Installfest has really paid off.  Pretty much everything is ready.
[02:23] <rww> nhaines: anything new with this, or is it still humming along nicely?
[02:23] <rww> nice
[02:23] <nhaines> I received a conference pack from Canonical, with some cool swag.
[02:23] <philipballew> nhaines, was it fedex with the white box?
[02:24] <philipballew> those are cool to get
[02:24] <nhaines> 4 shirts, 55 lanyards, 25 buttons, 25 pens, and 25 sticker sheets.
[02:24] <philipballew> with the ubuntu tape?
[02:24] <nhaines> Yup, brown box with Ubuntu tape from Merchandise Mania.
[02:24] <nhaines> Needed jaws of life to cut it open.
[02:25] <philipballew> yes, those are cool!
[02:25] <rww> nhaines: what does the volunteer count look like now?
[02:25] <nhaines> So basically all we need now are volunteers to help with installation.
[02:25]  * ianorlin plans to help
[02:25] <nhaines> We haven't put out another call on the OCLUG list, but we probably have 5 or 6 people who are guaranteed to show up.
[02:26] <nhaines> Everyone will have name badges, and LoCo members will have Ubuntu name badges.  So I'll need a list of volunteers soon.
[02:26] <nhaines> I'll put out a call on both mailing lists this week.
[02:27] <nhaines> ianorlin: I'm looking forward to seeing you there.  :)
[02:27] <rww> #action nhaines to email OCLUG and ubuntu-us-ca mailing lists with call for volunteers
[02:27] <darthrobot> ACTION: nhaines to email OCLUG and ubuntu-us-ca mailing lists with call for volunteers
[02:27] <nhaines> Anyone from the LoCo who shows up to help gets 5 DVDs to take home.
[02:28]  * philipballew has to head off
[02:29] <nhaines> And basically, if you can make sure they only have 3 primary partitions or fewer and get their system to boot from disc, you're qualified, and we can even teach you how to do that.  So don't be shy!
[02:29] <nhaines> That's about all I have for that.
[02:29] <rww> philipballew: alrighty. have fun :)
[02:29] <rww> I'm going to sneak another topic in here since we started discussing it above...
[02:29] <ianorlin> also don't have to pay for parking at Cal state fulerton on Saturday
[02:30] <rww> #subtopic Advocacy resources for 14.04 cycle
[02:30] <rww> so as nhaines mentioned, the startubuntu ones we've been using could probably do with a screenshot refresh
[02:31] <rww> and I think they mention XP as being something coming up, so probably minor text edits
[02:31] <nhaines> The bold new OS that's sweeping the nation!
[02:31] <rww> ianorlin: I'd like Lubuntu and Kubuntu literature too, personally. I can put some feelers out about Kubuntu. Would you mind looking into Lubuntu?
[02:32] <ianorlin> Lubuntu need one made and I am part of Lubuntu comms
[02:32] <ianorlin> so yes
[02:32] <rww> ah, okay. I vaguely recalled you being involved in Lubuntu somehow indeed :)
[02:33] <rww> so that's one thing to look into
[02:33] <rww> in terms of actual LoCo resources, I think the current banner holders are Lyz and nhaines, right?
[02:34] <nhaines> As of an hour ago, yes.
[02:35] <rww> alrighty
[02:35] <nhaines> I'll be holding on to the banner for the summer, I think.
[02:35] <rww> I have some other thoughts about short talking points for core Ubuntu stuff that we might want to use for advocacy, but it's not fleshed out in my head yet so I'll defer that for now.
[02:36] <nhaines> So if anyone needs the banner or tablecloth for any big events in SoCal they can let me know.
[02:36] <rww> #subtopic Future Events
[02:37] <rww> wait no
[02:37] <rww> #undo
[02:37] <darthrobot> Removing item from minutes: <MeetBot.items.Subtopic object at 0x975676c>
[02:37] <rww> #subtopic Event ideas?
[02:37] <nhaines> Ooh, Python.
[02:37] <rww> hehe
[02:38] <rww> So, in short, anyone have ideas for LoCo events after this month?
[02:38] <rww> Since we have a whole summer to fill up somehow :)
[02:39] <nhaines> I think we should see if the North Orange County Computer Club would like to hear from us about Ubuntu.  The last time we were there was for 8.04 LTS.
[02:39] <rww> nhaines: what's the audience there? basic, or more advanced topics?
[02:39] <rww> (e.g., "intro to Ubuntu" vs. "Ubuntu SDK is a thing")
[02:40] <nhaines> Varied, but mostly older users and engineers.  So they tend to be a bit advanced, although we gave a general overview on Ubuntu and they seemed intrigued.
[02:40] <nhaines> BTW, I can give an impromptu talk on the Ubuntu SDK at any time with no notice using the App School slides by David Planella.
[02:41] <rww> Yeah, I've been pondering the App School stuff. Maybe I should write an app and get up on all that so we could do one up here.
[02:41] <nhaines> I'm going to see if the OC Android group wants to hear a presentation about the SDK.
[02:42] <nhaines> They were quite intrigued by the phone afte SCALE last year.  I basically narrated the sizzle reel from Canonical.
[02:42] <rww> nhaines: maybe they'd be interested in NDR by mhall too?
[02:43] <rww> since, Android
[02:43] <nhaines> They were actually just interested on its own merits!
[02:44] <nhaines> But yeah, with NDR I think it'll be even more intriguing.
[02:44] <rww> ah, guess we hide that and get them excited about doing it from scratch :3
[02:44] <nhaines> Although I liked the name "Cyborg" too.  :)
[02:45] <rww> But yeah, App Dev Schools would be interesting to do, it's a bit more technical than what we usually do events for, so it might reach a different audience.
[02:45] <nhaines> Yeah, I think it's worth a try.
[02:45] <rww> Anyone have more ideas? LUGs that might want a presentation from one of us, etc.?
[02:45]  * ianorlin needs to get more involved with them
[02:46] <rww> If not, I'm going to bounce this over to the mailing list, because I'd like to start building up a list of things we can do over the summer.
[02:46] <nhaines> I'm going to get some of my printables up at people.ubuntu.com and available for the LoCo.
[02:46] <nhaines> And once I do the Ubuntu 14.04 presentation I'll get those slides up too.
[02:46] <rww> elky just secretly mentioned https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_Freedom_Day . I vaguely remember us doing something with that a few years back.
[02:46] <darthrobot> Title: [Software Freedom Day - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia]
[02:47] <nhaines> Yeah, that was a big hit up in Berkley I think
[02:48] <rww> #action rww to email ubuntu-us-ca@ soliciting event ideas for the summer/fall
[02:48] <darthrobot> ACTION: rww to email ubuntu-us-ca@ soliciting event ideas for the summer/fall
[02:48] <rww> #topic Any other business?
[02:49] <elky> best i can tell, sfd is (un)fortunately not the same day as talk like a pirate day this year
[02:49] <rww> pout
[02:49] <rww> pleia2: when you're not busy with aeroplanes, can I get +votiA in here so that I can do the IRC part of post-meeting stuff?
[02:50] <elky> their website is also failing to work
[02:51]  * rww bangs a rubber hammer
[02:51] <nhaines> That's all from me.  :)
[02:51] <rww> Meeting adjourned. Thanks for coming everyone :)
[02:51] <rww> #endmeeting</pre>
