{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, October 1st, 2017, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 02:00:24 <pleia2> #startmeeting
 02:00:24 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Oct  2 02:00:24 2017 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:00:24 <darthrobot> 
 02:00:24 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:00:32 <pleia2> first question, is anyone here for the meeting aside from me? :)
 02:03:12 <pleia2> well, we hold these meetings regardless of attendees, but our agenda is looking pretty empty as well
 02:03:26 <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17October01
 02:03:26 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17October01 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:04:27 <pleia2> #topic Upcoming events
 02:04:55 <pleia2> as always, our upcoming events are largely tracked on our meetup page: https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/
 02:04:55 <darthrobot> [R: www.meetup.com] Title: [Ubuntu California LoCo (Los Angeles, CA)| Meetup]
 02:05:06 <pleia2> so on October 12th we have the monthly one in Pasadena
 02:05:18 <pleia2> (we do sometimes have them in SD and SF as well, but nothing on the schedule right now)
 02:05:33 <pleia2> #topic Announcements
 02:05:53 <pleia2> the final beta for 17.10 came out on Friday :) https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2017-September/000225.html (which was also my birthday, happy birthday to me!)
 02:05:53 <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu 17.10 (Artful Aardvark) Final Beta released]
 02:06:35 <pleia2> the project also has a new Community Council, the newly elected roster is here: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2017/09/29/announcing-the-new-ubuntu-community-council/
 02:06:35 <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Fridge | Announcing the new Ubuntu Community Council]
 02:07:49 <pleia2> last week our fearless leader nhaines attended an Ubuntu rally in New York, looking forward to hearing his report about that at the next meeting
 02:08:02 <pleia2> I saw a lot of community members heading out to that, seemed like a good event
 02:08:57 <pleia2> also worth mentioning, the SCALE call for papers is open, this event is in Pasadena in early March, we usually do an UbuCon there as well https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp
 02:08:57 <darthrobot> Title: [CFP | SCALE 16x]
 02:09:27 <pleia2> great conference, if you have an interesting open source thing you're working on, I strongly recommend submitting a talk
 02:10:05 <pleia2> I'm sure details about our participation in UbuCon and possibly a booth again in 2018 will come in the next couple months from the folks from our team who organize that :)
 02:10:17 <pleia2> #topic Any other business
 02:10:36 <pleia2> before I conclude this lonely meeting, has anyone dropped by who wants to say hello? or has any other topics?
 02:12:32 <pleia2> alright, I'll wrap this up then!
 02:12:34 <pleia2> #endmeeting</pre>
