{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, September 9th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. No agenda items

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Sep 10 02:00:05 2012 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> hi everyone :) meeting time!
[02:00] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12September9
[02:00] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12September9 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:00] <pleia2> nothing on the agenda ;)
[02:00] <pleia2> so, who all is here?
[02:00] <akk> me
[02:01] <toddc> lurking
[02:01] <eps> huh?
[02:03] <pleia2> #topic Ubuntu Global Jam
[02:03] <pleia2> so we just had one event for the Global Jam this cycle
[02:04] <pleia2> Wikimedia gave us space in downtown SF and Moka5 sponsored the pizza :)
[02:04] <pleia2> had about 12 people come and go throughout the event, got to do testing, bug reporting
[02:05] <pleia2> pictures:
[02:05] <pleia2> #link http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/sets/72157631474205044/
[02:05] <darthrobot> Title: [Quantal SF Ubuntu Global Jam - a set on Flickr]
[02:05] <pleia2> I had some videos that I tried to start the event with that walked through how to do testing, but they turned out to be a bit slow for the audience so I showed clips and then just did other demos live
[02:06] <pleia2> probably will just do live demos next time
[02:06] <pleia2> everything else went pretty well :)
[02:07] <pleia2> #topic Upcoming events
[02:07] <pleia2> anyone have anything?
[02:08] <pleia2> we didn't end up doing the Solano Stroll this year (it would have been today) since BerkeleyLUG wasn't participating and we usually tag along with them
[02:08] <pleia2> so ideas for stuff to do this fall are welcome
[02:08] <pleia2> (we didn't do the picnic this summer either, since it didn't happen!)
[02:08] <eps> September is San Francisco's warmest month. A BBQ wouldn't be out of the ordinary.
[02:08] <akk> so sad
[02:09] <pleia2> the only event on loco.ubuntu.com right now is the SF Ubuntu Hour on Wednesday (no Debian dinner): http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1899/detail/
[02:09] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:09] <pleia2> eps: indeed!
[02:12] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[02:12] <pleia2> anyone have anything else?
[02:15] <pleia2> anyone? :)
[02:16] <eps> Let's make some Ubuntu Hours happen, people.
[02:18] <pleia2> mt view and pasadena have been doing good with theirs too
[02:19] <pleia2> ok, I guess we can wrap up then
[02:19] <pleia2> thanks everyone
[02:19] <pleia2> #endmeeting
[02:19] <darthrobot> Meeting ended Mon Sep 10 02:19:48 2012 UTC.
</pre>
