{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, January 1st, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale10x|SCALE10x]]</nowiki> planning -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki> 
If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:01] <pleia2> ok, meeting time, who all is here for it?
[03:01]  * eps waves
[03:03] <pleia2> I guess everyone is still out enjoying 2012 :)
[03:03] <pleia2> hey eps
[03:03] <eps> Hey Lyz
[03:04] <MarkDude> \o
[03:04] <pleia2> well, we can have a quick meeting then :)
[03:04]  * MarkDude is here ready to talk about how those Mayans were WRONG
[03:04] <MarkDude> (hopefully)
[03:04] <pleia2> haha, ubuntu stuff first
[03:04] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12January01
[03:05] <pleia2> so our only agenda item is SCALE10x coming up later this month (just 3 weeks away!)
[03:05] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale10x
[03:05] <pleia2> our wiki page is coming together, we have a few booth volunteers, I'll be making sure we have all the items on our list
[03:05] <pleia2> I requested the CDs today (hopefully they can get them to us on time), and Darkwing has the conference pack that he wasn't able to use for the Libertopia event
[03:07] <pleia2> we have our booth assignment (booth #4) and all the conference paperwork, so we're good to go on the SCALE side
[03:07] <eps> Is there a floor plan somewhere?
[03:07] <pleia2> the exhibitor pack came with one, I can email it to you
[03:08] <eps> I was just surprised it wasn't in an obvious place on their web site.
[03:09] <eps> Can you be more specific about your requests for a network switch and ethernet cables?
[03:09] <ariley> happy new year all!
[03:09] <pleia2> eps: such as?
[03:09] <pleia2> speed doesn't matter, it'll all be slow
[03:09] <eps> Do you need gigabit, or is 10/100 OK?
[03:10] <pleia2> ok, I'll add that to the wiki page
[03:10] <eps> What cable lengths are you looking for?
[03:10] <pleia2> ok, updated, 10+ ft
[03:11] <pleia2> (that will give us a lot of slack, but better that than not!
[03:12] <nhaines> eps: the SCALE floorplan is available in the printed programs that are handed out during the event.
[03:12] <pleia2> thanks eps
[03:13] <eps> Does CD sleeve artwork need to be updated?
[03:13] <pleia2> nope, it has 11.10 on it
[03:13] <pleia2> it'll need to be updated once 12.04 comes out though
[03:14]  * pleia2 doublechecks that
[03:15] <nhaines> This might be an excellent time to update it, though, because then overprints can be used in the future.
[03:15] <pleia2> yeah, good idea
[03:15] <eps> Is there anything we need to know about Ubucon?
[03:16] <pleia2> adding that to my todo list now
[03:16] <nhaines> I would still accept an extra speaker, but everything is proceeding normally.
[03:17] <pleia2> Darkwing said he got word from jono that we could get 300 or so CDs from Canonical's shipit (or whatever it's called for approved teams now), hopefully reducing our need to burn a lot, but his internet access has been spotty and I haven't heard from him, so I just went ahead and requested that many from shipit directly, we'll see how it goes
[03:17] <pleia2> I might follow up with jono on Tuesday when he's back to work
[03:17] <pleia2> cool, thanks nhaines
[03:18] <pleia2> for anyone who hasn't booked their hotel room yet - conference rates are at $109/night but the site told me I had to book by Jan 5th
[03:19] <pleia2> so if you're waiting, don't wait too long :)
[03:20] <eps> If you're staying at the Hilton, you might want to register for this promotion: http://www.hhonors.com/MorePoints
[03:20] <pleia2> thanks eps
[03:21] <pleia2> I'll be hosting an Ubuntu Hour next week in SF, on the 11th: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1469/detail/
[03:21] <pleia2> anyone have any other comments, announcements, anything?
[03:22]  * MarkDude wants folks to keep eye out for pangolin suit
[03:22] <pleia2> oh my :)
[03:22] <MarkDude> That is all from me. Looking forwad to seeing everyone at Scale
[03:23] <pleia2> thanks MarkDude
[03:24] <pleia2> ok, I think we'll wrap this up then
[03:24] <pleia2> thanks everyone! Happy New Year :)
</pre>
