{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, September 20th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

{{{#!IRC 02:02:09 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:02:09 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Sep 21 02:02:09 2015 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:02:09 <darthrobot`> 
 02:02:09 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:02:18 <nhaines> Welcome to tonight's Ubuntu California meeting!
 02:02:19 <DonkeyHotei> o/
 02:02:24 <nhaines> Today's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15September20
 02:02:24 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15September20 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:02:28 <nhaines> Who's around for the meeting?  :)
 02:02:32 <pleia2> o/
 02:02:34 <nhandler> o/
 02:03:51 <nhaines> Thanks for being here!
 02:04:13 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:04:27 <nhaines> First up, any new information about upcoming events?
 02:04:30 <ianorlyn> o/
 02:04:42 <nhandler> I have some about the release party
 02:04:42 <DonkeyHotei> #chair ianorlyn
 02:04:48 <nhaines> nhandler: how's that coming along?
 02:05:05 <nhandler> Got the ok to hold it at Yelp (140 New Montgomery) on the 22nd
 02:05:25 <nhandler> I posted a link to a google doc earlier with the information I need to provide
 02:05:36 <nhandler> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WaPvaP4jfJBojodVMTQ8_SETXF_MMZFii2PQ0dGcIws/edit?usp=sharing
 02:05:36 <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu Wily Release Party - Google Docs]
 02:05:59 <nhandler> I've never been to an Ubuntu CA release party, so any help answering some of those questions would be appreciated
 02:06:07 <ianorlyn> nhandler: did you update the date as it would be bad for people to want to go and still think it is on the 23rd
 02:06:20 <nhandler> ianorlyn: Update the date where? http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3203-san-francisco-wily-release-party/ is updated
 02:06:20 <darthrobot`> Title: [San Francisco Wily Release Party | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
 02:07:46 <nhaines> Looks good.  Is there anything you need help with?
 02:08:31 <nhandler> nhaines: Really just getting a feel for what normally happens at CA release parties / how many people typically attend (so I can answer the questions). I can guess from old blog posts, but you all probably know best
 02:09:13 <pleia2> we had really poor attendance at the one we tried to hold at mozilla last fall, I was traveling again for that one
 02:09:26 <pleia2> had the speaker cancel at last minute and things just didn't come together for whatever reason
 02:09:59 <DonkeyHotei> which was the one we had at adroll?
 02:10:02 <nhaines> Aww.
 02:10:08 <pleia2> jyo can talk more about that one, we had some really well attended ones at Thirsty Bear, but that's when we had Jono promote them
 02:10:14 <pleia2> I think AdRoll was the LTS one
 02:10:26 <pleia2> Jono helped us promote that one too, and attended
 02:10:41 <pleia2> yeah, AdRoll was for 14.04
 02:10:45 <pleia2> that was a great release party
 02:10:50 <pleia2> http://princessleia.com/journal/?p=9366
 02:10:50 <darthrobot`> Title: [San Francisco Ubuntu 14.04 Release Party – pleia2's blog]
 02:10:53 <DonkeyHotei> yes and nhaines attended it via irc
 02:10:59 <pleia2> (I blog because memory of a goldfish)
 02:11:28 <nhandler> Also, I filled out the form to see about getting any goodies to give away, but still haven't heard back from Canonical
 02:12:04 * pleia2 nods
 02:12:07 <nhaines> pleia2: can you follow up on that or would you like me to?
 02:12:18 <pleia2> nhaines: go for it, my plate overflows
 02:12:38 <nhaines> Ha, well, I know what that's like.  But this next week should be a little easier.
 02:12:45 <nhandler> Thanks a lot
 02:13:14 <nhaines> nhandler: did you email them at all?  If so, forward that to me.  If it was form only, let me know the approximate date, and I'll email Michelle at Canonical.
 02:14:02 <nhandler> nhaines: Just the form on September 10 (so not /that/ long ago)
 02:15:20 <nhaines> Okay, that's 6 business days.  I'll just send a polite ping.
 02:15:31 <pleia2> yeah, release parties come up quick
 02:15:40 <DonkeyHotei> every 6 mo
 02:15:42 <nhaines> Let us know on the mailing list if you need any other advice.  :)
 02:15:48 <nhaines> Any other upcoming events?
 02:15:53 <nhandler> Will do
 02:15:57 <pleia2> yeah, and feel free to reach out to me for specific questions, happy to do lunch :)
 02:16:13 <pleia2> especially since it's like 1000 degrees outside, need to get out of my condo!
 02:16:17 <DonkeyHotei> not yet upcoming, but in jan: scale
 02:16:20 <pleia2> (I'm on the roof deck)
 02:17:04 <pleia2> I submitted a talk to scale proper, but even if it's not accepted I'll find a way down to scale
 02:17:25 <nhaines> \o/
 02:17:42 <nhaines> It's really going to be worth it this year!  Maybe you already know why!  We can probably say why in another couple of weeks.  :)
 02:18:31 <nhaines> Ubucon plans are underway, and while we're still in talks about the details, it might be a two-day event.  Regardless, it's going to be bigger.
 02:18:33 <DonkeyHotei> i don't know pasadena well in the least
 02:18:42 <pleia2> exciting!
 02:19:19 <nhaines> DonkeyHotei: the activities page will try to round that out a bit.
 02:20:55 <nhaines> We'll also need booth volunteers, and SCALE has officially invited Ubuntu back again, so I'll be sending an email announcement out about that this week.
 02:21:12 <pleia2> cool
 02:21:32 <nhaines> Because Richard and I are working together on Ubucon, we're going to try to see what we can do about making the booth reflect the Ubucon experience as well.
 02:22:25 <nhaines> We'll try to have some of the Ubucon speakers at the booth to answer questions at scheduled times, and there's some other stuff I'm planning that I need to finalize first.
 02:22:43 <pleia2> that sounds great
 02:23:15 <nhandler> I'm hoping to make it down, and if I do, I'm totally up for volunteering in whatever capacity is needed
 02:23:30 <nhaines> Oh, and just for the record--SCALE is at the end of January this year because of the new venue.  Back to February in 2017.  :)
 02:24:04 * pleia2 nods
 02:24:14 <nhaines> Sounds exciting so far.  :)
 02:24:15 <pleia2> nhandler: have you been to one before?
 02:24:18 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:24:26 <pleia2> it's one of my favorites conference-wise :)
 02:24:45 <nhaines> nhandler: you'll love it, because it's the best of a trade show with the energy of an enthusiast convention.
 02:25:13 <nhandler> Nope, never been to SCALE before
 02:25:15 <ianorlyn> yeah it is awesome
 02:25:21 <nhandler> Can't wait :)
 02:25:35 <pleia2> I'll be out of town again for the 2nd Wednesday in October and November when we usually do Ubuntu Hours in SF, I'll email the usual suspects to see if someone else wants to host
 02:26:01 <DonkeyHotei> i'm not sure i even have the patience for trade shows anymore. the last scale wore me out pretty badly
 02:26:45 <pleia2> DonkeyHotei: I've had to cut back on what I do, I was up to something like 3 talks and booth duty at my last scale and my grandmother had just died x_x
 02:27:04 <nhaines> It can be a lot of work.  In that case, it's best to only volunteer for one day.  Ubuntu will be there all four days so there are plenty of chances. You can do one day, every other day, whatever works!
 02:27:13 <pleia2> nhaines: ++
 02:27:33 <ianorlyn> hmm booth is a bit too busy for me a lot of the time
 02:27:49 <pleia2> I tend to booth for my employer these days though
 02:27:53 <DonkeyHotei> if i go again i may very well not even attend all 4 days
 02:28:02 <pleia2> DonkeyHotei: good plan
 02:28:27 <pleia2> I don't have any other announcementy things
 02:29:30 <nhaines> Okay, hoepfully someone steps up--I know the Ubuntu Hour is really great.  :)
 02:29:38 <nhaines> #topic Agenda items
 02:29:47 <nhaines> There are no items on the agenda for this meeting.
 02:29:52 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:30:15 <nhaines> So, there's a bit brewing for October and January.  Is there anything else before we wrap this meeting up?
 02:30:34 <nhandler> Nothing from me
 02:30:41 <pleia2> I'm all set, thanks nhaines
 02:30:46 * ianorlyn has nothing more
 02:31:37 <nhaines> Okay, thanks once again for nhandler and pleia2 for helping out with the wiki this last week.  It's through stepping up and doing things that need done that Ubuntu and Free Software in general gets better.  :)
 02:32:01 <nhaines> The next meeting is scheduled for October 4th.  Same bat time, same bat channel.
 02:32:05 <nhaines> #endmeeting}}}
