{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, November 18st, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre> 19:00 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:00 < nhaines> Hello everyone, and welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for November 18th!
19:00 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18November18
19:00 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming Events
19:00 < nhaines> Anything exciting coming up around California?
19:03 < aidian> linux users group of davis meets tomorrow? :)
19:03 < nhaines> That works!  :)
19:03 < nhaines> Is there a link?
19:03 < aidian> http://www.lugod.org
19:04 < nhaines> Thank you!  :)
19:04 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:05 < nhaines> Ubuntu 18.04 LTS will be supported by Canonical for 10 years!  That makes it a very LTS.
19:05 < nhaines> I don't have any further information, though.  I assume this is for server and Ubuntu Core and not necessarily the desktop.  But information is still slim!
19:07 < nhaines> Mark Shuttleworth mentioned financial servies, telecommunications, and IoT at the same time, so it will be very interesting to see what this long support window ends up looking like.  :)
19:07 < nhaines> In any case, I'm sure it's something we'll be asked about at SCALE, so we'll be sure to brief everyone with what we know by then.
19:07 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:07 < nhaines> There are no items on tonight's agenda.
19:08 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:08 < nhaines> Is there any other business for tonight's meeting?
19:12 < nhaines> Okay, our next meeting is December 2nd.  Happy Thanksgiving for all those who celebrate with turkey and other savory proteins, and see you all then!
19:12 < nhaines> #endmeeting </pre>
