{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, October 9th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. California Team Leadership Elections -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:david.wonderly]]</nowiki>  1. Oneiric Release. Parties anyone? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:david.wonderly]]</nowiki> 
If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:05] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:05] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11October09
[02:06] <Faqtotum> new smartphones running ubuntu would be nice
[02:06] <pleia2> [TOPIC] California Team Leadership Elections
[02:06] <Mark_> anyone else here play bf3?
[02:06] <philipballew> we have 2 already
[02:06] <pleia2> so Darkwing posted this late last month: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2011-September/001819.html
[02:07] <pleia2> the leadership terms of our current leaders expire this month, so we're looking for more folks to step up and help with leadership
[02:08] <pleia2> so mostly this is just a reminder :)
[02:08] <pleia2> [TOPIC] Oneiric Release. Parties anyone?
[02:08] <philipballew> we need a Ubuntu cake if there is a party
[02:09] <Faqtotum> will there be live ocelots?
[02:09] <pleia2> the release of 11.10 is on Thursday and so far we don't have any parties registered in the loco directory or announced anywhere
[02:09] <Mark_> yes
[02:09] <pleia2> philipballew: do you have a venue?
[02:10] <philipballew> pleia2, I can probably convince Darkwing to do a Friday night release party at the place we do our ubuntu hours at. so yes. there is a very good likelyhood of a party
[02:10] <pleia2> philipballew: cool :)
[02:10] <philipballew> but I would not do a weekday myself
[02:10] <philipballew> hope thats cool with everyone
[02:10] <pleia2> I can't help with anything in San Francisco this week because I'm out of town (in Philadelphia right now, it's after 10PM!)
[02:11] <pleia2> instead I'm giving an 11.10 talk at a lug out here, and going to the philly release party ;)
[02:11] <eps> Why is there a counter that says release in 8 days?
[02:12] <philipballew> nice pleia2 ! you give good talks
[02:12] <pleia2> eps: what counter? this is the official one: http://www.ubuntu.com/community/countdown
[02:12] <philipballew> its this Thursday?
[02:12] <pleia2> philipballew: yep
[02:13] <eps> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OneiricRelease
[02:13] <pleia2> eps: oh I see (was taking a while to load, bad wifi...)
[02:13] <philipballew> wow, time come by fast. They pushed it out faster this year I think
[02:13] <pleia2> lookethanks, I'll submit a bug report
[02:15] <philipballew> I updated to 11.10 yesterday. unity works better.
[02:15] <philipballew> though all the hacks I did to it, now have to be re-done
[02:15] <pleia2> anyone else have anything to add about release parties or release events?
[02:15] <eps> We should have some. :-)
[02:16] <Faqtotum> i still need to update to 11.04
[02:16] <pleia2> eps: can you lead up something in the bay area?
[02:17] <eps> Do we have anyone else?
[02:17] <pleia2> grantbow and I usually do stuff, but we're both out of town, so we're a bit short on people to organize
[02:17] <Faqtotum> i second the motion to draft eps for the release party leadership
[02:17] <philipballew> If there is any meeting in ca, it would need to be done asap so a email can get put out
[02:18] <pleia2> philipballew: agreed
[02:18] <eps> I don't think I have enough lead time to put something together *and* get the word out.
[02:18] <philipballew> we can always make it in 2 weeks
[02:19] <pleia2> yeah, we can do something later in the month
[02:19] <philipballew> say that we pushed it out later so everyone could upgrade first
[02:19] <Faqtotum> it doesn't have to be _on_ release day
[02:19] <pleia2> we've done installfests a couple weeks after release before
[02:19] <eps> And that does give time to replicate discs, etc.
[02:19] <philipballew> a thursday party would not be the best attendance probably. but i dont know much
[02:20] <Darkwing> Wow. Sorry guys
[02:20] <Darkwing> Got caught up with the kids.
[02:20] <pleia2> well I'll send a follow-up email to the list reminding people that they can plan things later out of they're busy this week
[02:20] <pleia2> hey Darkwing
[02:21] <pleia2> [TOPIC] Announcements, etc
[02:21] <pleia2> anyone else have anything before we wrap up?
[02:23] <eps> Ubuntu Hours, perhaps?
[02:24] <pleia2> no SF ubuntu hour this month (since I'm traveling so much, and no one else has planned one)
[02:24] <pleia2> Darkwing, philipballew, are the San Diego ubuntu hours going to keep happening?
[02:24] <Darkwing> Are
[02:24] <Darkwing> Yes rather.
[02:24] <Darkwing> We are scheduled for twice a month. First and third tuesdays
[02:26] <pleia2> are there plans to add an organizer to each one to make sure that even if one person cancels, the hour still happens or an announcement is made?
[02:26] <philipballew> Darkwing, is doing a good thing with them. We have a ubuntu user who owns the coffee shop and its in the downtown area so many people can come
[02:26] <pleia2> unfortunately if anyone showed up last time kdub had to leave halfway through so they wouldn't have found anyone there, which reflects poorly on the team :\
[02:27] <Darkwing> Oh, Libertopia is a no go. I can't afford to foot the bill and bad timing with being kicked out of my apt for termite tenting.
[02:27] <pleia2> can you remove it from the loco directory and make an announcement?
[02:27] <Darkwing> Yup.
[02:28] <philipballew> yeah, i'm gonna do some hour advertising in the next few weeks
[02:29] <pleia2> philipballew: can you commit to attending?
[02:30] <philipballew> Yes, I come every time, except I had a history test that next day so I had to study. I will commit, do not worry.
[02:30] <philipballew> also for the hour, I'm gonna need some 11.10 cd's
[02:30] <pleia2> ok, great :)
[02:30] <pleia2> we've already put in our request for them, hopefully they'll get here before I leave for DUS
[02:30] <pleia2> UDS
[02:30] <bkerensa> pleia2:
[02:30] <bkerensa> pleia2: Got a question you might be able to help with :D
[02:31] <pleia2> bkerensa: we're just wrapping up a meeting, can it wait a couple minutes?
[02:31] <bkerensa> oh sure (my bad)
[02:31] <philipballew> ok, you can send them to me or Darkwing , doesnt matter
[02:31] <pleia2> I'll announce it when I receive them, so you guys can work out who I should ship them to :)
[02:32] <philipballew> sounds good with me
[02:32] <pleia2> ok, anything else before we finish?
[02:34] <pleia2> alright, thanks everyone :)
[02:34] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
