{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, July 1st, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. UbuntuFreeCultureShowcase
1. Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 02:02:19 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:02:19 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jul  2 02:02:19 2018 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:02:19 <darthrobot> 
 02:02:19 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:02:47 <nhaines> Hello everyone, and welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for July 1st, 2018.
 02:03:09 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda, which is empty, is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18July01
 02:03:09 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18July01 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:03:20 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming Events
 02:04:01 <nhaines> The Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase starts tomorrow!  Although technically, more like tonight, thanks to UTC.
 02:04:50 <nhaines> Photographers and illustrators can submit CC-BY, CC-BY-SA, and CC0 licensed images for selection as default wallpapers in Ubuntu 18.10.
 02:05:30 <nhaines> The contest will run until August 13th, and then submissions will be closed and selection of the final 12 images will begin.
 02:06:18 <nhaines> More information will be available at the usual places, including my blog and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuFreeCultureShowcase, later tonight.
 02:06:19 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:06:26 <nhaines> Are there any announcements at this time?
 02:08:24 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:08:28 <nhaines> There is no agenda for this meeting.
 02:08:32 <nhaines> #topic Other Business
 02:08:41 <nhaines> Is there any other business to discuss at this meeting?
 02:14:23 <nhaines> Okay, our next meeting will be on July 15th, 2018 at 7pm.
 02:14:25 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
