{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, February 12th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. UbuntuGlobalJam 2nd - 4th March 2012

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:02]  * jledbetter1 waves.
[03:02] <Darkwing> Oi!
[03:02] <jtatum> o/
[03:02] <Darkwing> How is everyone tonight?
[03:02] <Darkwing> Gimme a sec to bring up the agenda
[03:02] <MarkDude> There we go
[03:03] <eps> So, short meeting?
[03:03]  * MarkDude is in meeting with Oregon at moment also. Let me know if I need to ramble some crazy stuff about things....
[03:03] <MarkDude> :)
[03:03] <Darkwing> Okay, there seems to be one item on the agenda. The Ubuntu Global Jam is around the corner for 12.04 LTS
[03:03] <Darkwing> Anyone have any plans for a Global Jam?
[03:04] <Darkwing> North or south?
[03:04] <jledbetter1> I think there was some talk about one in SF
[03:05] <Darkwing> Anyone have any info on that?
[03:05] <MarkDude> Lets assign agenda item to Jono and move on...
[03:05] <MarkDude> :D
[03:05] <jledbetter1> +1
[03:05] <Darkwing> LOL
[03:06] <Darkwing> I don't have anything planned in house for San Diego.
[03:06] <Darkwing> I have not heard about LA or Bay...
[03:06] <Darkwing> Greetings
[03:06] <locodir-user> hi guys, i have aproblem
[03:06] <Darkwing> Yes?
[03:07]  * MarkDude has all sorts of problems....
[03:07]  * Darkwing kicks MarkDude
[03:07] <Darkwing> Hush you. :P:P
[03:07]  * MarkDude sits and up and bites his tongue
[03:07] <Darkwing> locodir-user: a problem?
[03:07] <locodir-user> i have a" The package system is broken" notice when i try to install anything
[03:08] <locodir-user> and i want to remove a game
[03:09] <locodir-user> how can i force ubuntu to remove it
[03:09] <Darkwing> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticHowto#How_to_fix_broken_packages
[03:09] <Darkwing> locodir-user: ^^^
[03:09] <Darkwing> locodir-user: That will help you fix brokem packages.
[03:09] <Darkwing> *broken
[03:10] <Darkwing> Or, you can open a terminal and type: sudo dpkg --configure -a
[03:10] <Darkwing> either one should help you out locodir-user
[03:11] <Darkwing> Anyway, back to the meeting... anyone have anything to add about global jams?
[03:11] <MarkDude> They are fun.
[03:12] <Darkwing> Anyone have any announcements, comments, quips, gripes, complaints?
[03:12] <MarkDude> Rent is too damn high
[03:12] <jledbetter1> Mountain View UH this week :)
[03:12] <Darkwing> you have it in the loco.u.c?
[03:12] <MarkDude> Things are pretty good with the Cali Team
[03:12]  * philipballew just got the email
[03:13] <jledbetter1> Coolio
[03:13] <jtatum> Darkwing: just added it :)
[03:14] <Darkwing> Woot!
[03:14] <Darkwing> San Diego UH is coming up next week.
[03:15] <Darkwing> on the 21st
[03:15] <jledbetter1> Yay!
[03:15] <epikvision>  question: where is the global jam held at?
[03:15]  * philipballew has stickers to bring thanks to jtatum 
[03:16] <Darkwing> They are all over... Keep checking http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california for information on it.
[03:16] <Darkwing> epikvision: ^^
[03:16] <eps> We don't even have it listed on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects
[03:16] <jtatum> or the mailing list hopefully
[03:16] <philipballew> would it be possible as a loco to do a online global jam?
[03:16] <epikvision> haha
[03:16] <epikvision> :D
[03:16] <Darkwing> As long as someone organizes it.
[03:16] <Darkwing> I normally do some Kubuntu Jams
[03:16] <Darkwing> online
[03:16] <jledbetter1> philipballew: Yes.
[03:17] <philipballew> since were such a big state, we just find a few bugs and all work on them.
[03:17] <jbermudes> So what would that look like besides just people talking in the IRC channel like usual?
[03:17] <jledbetter1> And be here for those that get stuck on how to fix.
[03:17] <jledbetter1> organized time we're at the keyboard?
[03:18] <philipballew> maybe, or we just find say 5 bugs as a loco is different levels of difficulty and maybe 2 or 3 work on one together.
[03:19] <Darkwing> Anyone have anything else to add? If you are doing a Jam, please add it to the wiki and to loco.u.c
[03:20] <Darkwing> If not I have to get ready for an interview tomorrow.
[03:20] <Darkwing> Cheers!
</pre> 
