{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, April 5th, 2009, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
1. Gutsy will be going EOL on the 18th. Relevant links: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-7.10-eol|EOL announcement]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/146|support timeframes for all releases]]</nowiki>
  a. Most Gutsy users should upgrade to Hardy, which is an LTS (so it'll be supported for 3 to 5 years). The next scheduled LTS after Hardy (which Hardy users can upgrade to directly) will be 10.04.
1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-OSCON2009|OSCON]]</nowiki>
  a. Still working on red tape for getting a booth. Yasumoto wasn't around to give an update.
  a. Booths are 10' x 10' according to the prospectus.
  a. OSCON is at the San Jose !McEnery Convention Center
  a. Consider mini-keysigning party? Would help to widen the Ubuntu-CA web of trust, which is limited to !SoCal people right now.
  a. Consider a signup board at the booth for the California !LoCo mailing list, Ubuntu Weekly News, or ubuntu-announce.
1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-JauntyRelease|Jaunty release party]]</nowiki>
  a. So far, no suggestions for !SoCal release party. Consider <nowiki>[[http://www.peiwei.com/|Pei Wei]]</nowiki> or PF Changs.
  a. Current locations for parties: South California somewhere, San Francisco (organized by Jesse Zbikowksi), Walnut Creek, maybe Santa Cruz
1. !LoCo Approval
  a. Most meetings now have summaries; all of them will be done (and old ones moved to archive pages) before the next meeting
  a. Grantbow worked on the projects page and home page.
  a. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-ToDoList]]</nowiki> has a mostly-current list of things to do
  a. "Wiki one-a-week": if a group of people did one wiki edit a week, it'd help a lot with keeping things up to date
  a. Flannel, Yasumoto, and nhaines need to compile their photos of past events and document stuff
  a. Help out! Put stuff on the todo list if it isn't already there!
  a. Timeframe for approval: no definite deadline, but before Karmic would be good.
1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-UserGroupContacts|User Group Contacts]]</nowiki>
  a. Project to keep communications open with various !LUGs in California.
  a. Peninsula LUG is looking for a speaker for August; rww will talk to them about doing a Jaunty presentation for that, is looking for co-presenters
  a. A simple way to participate in the User Group Contacts project, especially in more remote parts of the state, is to simply show up at a LUG with a few burned Ubuntu copies.
  a. The todo list also has LUGs that need contacting.
  a. CD inventory: about 2 full boxes total, with about 80 CDs per box.

==== Original Agenda ====
# Quick note, in case someone asks about it at events/installfests/etc.: Gutsy goes EOL on April 18th. More info <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-7.10-eol|on the Ubuntu site]]</nowiki>. Supported upgrades from Gutsy are <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades|via Hardy]]</nowiki>.
# San Jose OSCON in July - Further Discussion
# Jaunty Release Stuff - Further Discussion, new <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyJackalope/TechnicalOverview|Features]]</nowiki>
# Approval Process - Update, Discussion, other housekeeping from <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-ToDoList|ToDoList]]</nowiki>
# Discussion of updates to <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-UserGroupContacts|Projects-UserGroupContacts]]</nowiki>

==== Logs ====
<pre>
19:09 < Flannel> Welcome everyone to our first meeting in April.  We (well, Ubuntu) has a lot of stuff going on in April.  So, lets get started.
19:09 < Flannel> Our Agenda for the evening can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/09April05
19:10 < Flannel> Hmm, and it seems my edits earlier never got applied.  That agenda isn't in the order we're going to go.  We'll follow the one on the email I sent out.  But all the topics are there.
19:10 < troyready> (sorry; got distracted; hello all)
19:11 < Flannel> So, that is: Gutsy EOL, OSCON, Jaunty Release, LoCo Approval (and other housekeeping stuff), User Group Contacts
19:12 < Flannel> If anyone has more to add, feel free to do so at any time.
19:12 < rww> yay, my addition got promoted to first place :)
19:12 < Flannel> So, our first topic is mostly a PSA.
19:12 < Flannel> Gutsy (7.10) is going EOL (End of Life) in the middle of this month, on the 18th.
19:13 < Flannel> Which means it won't be supported anymore (no more updates) and soon thereafter the repos will be taken down off of the mirrors, and moved to the archives.
19:13 < rww> There's a nice summary on the Ubuntu site at http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-7.10-eol, if you'd like something to bookmark.
19:14 < Flannel> If you're still running a Gutsy machine, it's time to upgrade to Hardy.  Which happens to be a LTS.
19:14 < Flannel> (And since youre on Gutsy still, LTS is likely what you want to stick to)
19:14 < sn9> i need to upgrade a feisty shortly
19:15 < rampageai> Next LTS is 10.04, right?
19:15 < Flannel> Even after the EOL (and everything's taken down) it's still possible to upgrade, it just is a little more involved.  This goes for even older versions too.  Having to do with old-releases.ubuntu.com and other details we won't get into.
19:15 < rww> rampageai: yeah
19:15 < nhaines> rampageai: correct.
19:15 < Flannel> The next scheduled LTS is 10.04, yes.
19:15 < rww> sn9: You'll want to go Feisty > Gutsy > Hardy
19:15 < Grantbow> a nice graph of support timeframes is at http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/146
19:15 < sn9> and then to jaunty indirectly
19:15 < nhaines> 10.04 will be out for one year before Hardy EOLs.  So there's plenty of time to make sure 10.04 LTS is stable and ready.
19:16 < rampageai> That is nice.
19:16 < Flannel> Desktop EOL that is.
19:16 < Flannel> Servers are two more years after that (yes, 6.06 is supported for a year after 10.04 comes out)
19:16 < jercos> man, i remember dapper drake...
19:17 < jercos> those were the days :D
19:17 < Kai_> the memories
19:17 < Torikun> Dapper: THe distro that let me switch 100% to Linux.
19:17 < Flannel> Anyway, if you have more specific questions about random upgrades, stick around afterwards.
19:17 < Flannel> Our next topic is OSCON.  I think we've decided that OSCON is something we're interested in having a booth at.
19:18 < Flannel> Unfortunately Joe isn't here to give us specifics about how far we are in actually registering for one.
19:18 < Flannel> Actually, I guess interest is something we figured out last time.  Manpower is something we've figured out since then.
19:19  * Grantbow nods
19:19 < Flannel> So, we will have a booth (assuming all the red tape goes well).  I'm... not up on the specifics.  Does anyone know how big they are/etc?
19:19 < sn9_> [4/6/2009 2:16:34 AM] <rampageai> That is nice.
19:19 < sn9_> [4/6/2009 2:18:07 AM] * Disconnected (Connection reset by peer).
19:19 < sn9_> what'd i miss?
19:19 < Flannel> sn9_: I'll give you a pastebin
19:20 < Grantbow> someone will be posting a log too
19:20 < Grantbow> afterward
19:20 < Flannel> sn9: http://paste.ubuntu.com/145243/
19:21 < rww> Flannel: 10'x10' booths
19:21 < HammerHead66> ï»¿Flannel: it's in san jose right?
19:22 < jbermudes> sounds like fun
19:22 < rww> Flannel: that's according to the Exhibitor prospectus
19:22 < Flannel> HammerHead66: OSCON is in San Jose this year, yes.
19:22 < Flannel> And there is no Ubuntu Live this year either.
19:22 < Flannel> rww: Thanks.
19:22 < rww> HammerHead66: Sam Jose McEnery Convention Center
19:22 < Grantbow> This page will be evolving - please add info if it's missing.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OSCON2009
19:22 < Flannel> So, our booth is a bit larger than SCaLE.  Which means... well, we've got more to play with.
19:23 < Flannel> Grantbow: Lets not do sign ups just yet.  It's still a bit away and people won't really be able to commit firmly
19:23 < Flannel> Let alone we don't know what well be doing.
19:23 < HammerHead66> ï»¿rww:ty for the name
19:23 < Grantbow> It was a take-away from Scale7x discussions - I'll move the singnup to a secondary page if you like.
19:24 < Flannel> At this point, we're looking for booth ideas.
19:24 < rww> I was thinking that, since we don't have many events up in North California, and Joe's GPG key is signed by some of the South California people, it might be a good idea to do a little keysigning among the booth volunteers.
19:24 < Flannel> Grantbow: Oh right.  Yeah, well definately want it, but not yet.  Just comment it out for the moment.
19:24 < jbermudes> buntustand!
19:24 < Grantbow> kk
19:24 < Flannel> Grantbow: Likely a month to six weeks beforehand.
19:25 < Flannel> Yeah, we'll have CDs (which includes a working buntustand),
19:25 < Flannel> do we want demo computers?  I've never been to OSCON, is that really something people would get something out of?
19:25 < Flannel> Maybe we can ask the list/people who have been to one in the past.
19:26 < rampageai> Is there something else like an Ubuntu newsletter that would be available for sign-up?
19:26 < rww> rampageai: for the California LoCo? https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca
19:26 < Flannel> We obviously have some time to think about it.  We don't have to pin things down tonight (and our suggestions tonigh don't have to be sane)
19:26 < rampageai> That could work
19:26 < Flannel> well, there's also UWN
19:27 < Flannel> that's not really mailed out though.  But, I think they do have an annouce list.
19:27 < rww> Flannel: they use the ubuntu-news list
19:27 < Grantbow> there's an email version - I got one today.
19:28 < Flannel> So, some sort of sign up list(s) for things.
19:28 < rampageai> It's sort of an "action" someone can take to be more involved.
19:28 < Flannel> alright, well... keep thinking about it.  Feel free to post crazy ideas to the list.
19:29 < Flannel> rampageai: So, more for our LoCo?
19:29 < Flannel> If we can't use [crazy idea] for OSCON, we can always use it in the future.
19:29 < rampageai> Flannel: maybe it's just so that people have a way to be involved.
19:30 < Grantbow> our mail list should be able to serve that purpose, shouldn't it?
19:30 < nhaines> We can advertise ubuntu-announce.
19:30 < Flannel> If they want to be more involved, a LoCo is definately one place to point them, yes.  Perhaps not just ours though.  People do come from all over.
19:31 < Flannel> (we can have them include a state/country on the sign up, and forward it appropriately)
19:31 < Flannel> but we probably should hone it down to one or two things for them to sign up for.  too many pieces of paper creates confusion.
19:32 < Flannel> So, think about what would be most interesting and useful to people who would visit us.  And we'll revisit this, and the rest of it.
19:32 < Grantbow> oh, for oscon attendees, ok
19:32 < Flannel> Yeah.
19:33 < Flannel> We can put what's most useful to *us* out there, but if no one bites, its not really useful to anyone.
19:34 < Grantbow> Unfortunately I haven't attended one before either so I don't know first hand what the crowd will be like.  Good to think about.
19:34 < rampageai> If they have pitchforks it could be bad.
19:34 < Flannel> So, we'll talk about it on the list?  I know a few of our readers have been there before.
19:34 < HammerHead66> lol
19:34 < Flannel> rampageai: What's wrong with BSD?
19:34 < rww> The prospectus I mentioned earlier has statistics on attendees. It's marketingspeak to a certain point, but might be useful.
19:34 < Grantbow> rww: yup
19:35 < Flannel> rww: That's a good thing to know and look into, yeah.
19:35 < rampageai> Flannel: True. I was on OpenBSD before Ubuntu.
19:35 < Flannel> Alright, so... moving on to... Jaunty Release stuff.
19:36 < Flannel> So far we have a total of zero suggestions for locations for our party in the south.
19:36 < Flannel> Is it just that no one really cares where we do it? or have we decided we don't want to?
19:36 < nhaines> I suggested http://www.peiwei.com/ as a good food location.  It's like PF Changs but cheaper.
19:36 < sn9> antarctica. sorry, just had to say that
19:36 < Flannel> nhaines: did I miss that email?
19:36 < Flannel> sn9: I approve!
19:37  * rww didn't get it either
19:37 < Grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/JauntyRelease
19:37 < nhaines> Flannel: I at least told Joe.  :)
19:37 < Flannel> nhaines: ah!  Secrets!
19:38 < Flannel> Alright, so, we've got one location.  That's a good start.
19:38 < rww> Grantbow: speaking of which, do you know what/where the "Gidget Kitchen Community Technology Center" is (under the WC party)?
19:38 < troyready> no preference here, in case I'm not around
19:38 < nhaines> Seal Beach, Irvine, and Lake Forest all have one.  Plus there are many others.
19:38 < Grantbow> rww: another Tech group - a few facebook people who will be there.
19:38 < rww> ah, facebook. that explains thing.
19:39 < rww> s/thing/things/
19:39 < Grantbow> I didn't see the co-hosted thing until just now = might have to fix that.
19:39 < Flannel> Alright, and as I understand it, a location/date/etc has been set for our north thing.  Grantbow, want to say something?
19:39 < Grantbow> I'll follow up.
19:39 < Grantbow> Two north dates are set
19:39 < Grantbow> one more may follow near Santa Cruz
19:39 < Grantbow> details on the wiki page
19:39 < Grantbow> one is San Francisco, one is Walnut Creek.
19:40 < Grantbow> that's the basics, Flannel.
19:40 < Flannel> Grantbow: And the one in SF, what all is going to go on?
19:40 < rww> Would it be helpful to make a signup list, so we know how many people are going to be at each one?
19:41 < Grantbow> Flannel: I haven't talked to Jesse yet, I'll report back next week on SF.
19:41 < Flannel> Grantbow: Who is Jesse?
19:41 < Grantbow> The events are pretty informal, I don't think sign ups will be needed.
19:42 < Grantbow> Jesse Zbikowksi who announced the meeting on our mail list.
19:42 < nhaines> Which mailing list?
19:42 < Flannel> Did I miss another email?
19:43 < Grantbow> finding url
19:43 < Grantbow> odd, he must have mailed me - I'll report on that next week too.
19:44 < Flannel> Alright.  Anyway.
19:44 < Flannel> Keep those suggestions rolling in!  Althugh, if you don't... asian food is good for me!
19:45 < Flannel> It's coming up in... what, 18 days?
19:45 < rww> Flannel: yeah
19:45 < Flannel> Whew.  Faster than ever.
19:45 < Flannel> Anyone else have anything for Jaunty festivities?
19:46 < Flannel> Alright, so.  our next topic is LoCo Approval!
19:46 < Flannel> I know a whole lot of progress has been made so far on our Wiki cleanup.
19:46 < Flannel> Most, if not all, of our Meetings now have summaries.
19:47 < rww> Meeting stuff (summaries, archive pages, etc.) will be done before the next meeting.
19:47 < Flannel> I'd like to recognize rww, who has taken that task on.  Which is quite monumental.
19:47 < nhaines> rww: you are amazing.  Thanks so much.  :)
19:47 < Grantbow> rww: thank you!
19:47 < HammerHead66> ï»¿rww: claps
19:47 < Flannel> I know others have helped out with various other things as well.
19:47  * troyready claps
19:48 < rampageai> thanks!
19:48 < rampageai> (too)
19:48 < Flannel> I know Grantbow took care of the projects page and made it pretty.
19:48 < Flannel> And... yeah, I'm not going to ennumerate, since there's so much.
19:49 < Flannel> But, we've still got a lot to do.
19:49 < Grantbow> It's getting there there's more to do for sure.
19:49 < Grantbow> Another housekeeping item on the wiki agenda but not in your email is refreshing the front wiki page.  Scale7x has concluded and the goals look like they need a refresh.
19:49 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/ToDoList has a (mostly current) list of things.
19:49 < Flannel> Including the front page ;)
19:50 < Grantbow> kk
19:50 < Flannel> I agree that SCaLE can be taken off (and OSCON put on)
19:51 < Flannel> As well as a blurb about Jaunty.
19:51 < rww> The concept of "wiki one-a-week" came up in a meeting a while ago. If everyone does a little every week, that'd help a lot with keeping e.g. the front page up to date.
19:52 < Flannel> rww: +1
19:52 < Flannel> I know Joe and Nathan and I have to get together and compile our pictures to document all the stuff we've done so far.
19:52 < Grantbow> we need the Karma Supybot plugin one of these days to record the +1's
19:52 < Flannel> and anyone else, of course, but I know we've got pictures.
19:52 < nhaines> Oh yeah, pictures.
19:53 < Flannel> yeah.  Documenting the things we've done is another key task in approval.
19:53 < Grantbow> pictures, excellent
19:53 < Flannel> Cleaning everything up is... mostly just for our own respectability :)
19:54 < Flannel> Anyway, keep up the good work everyone! (or: now's a great time to start if you want to learn all about the wiki)
19:54 < rww> Grantbow and I were listening in on the #ubuntu-us meeting the other day. Documentation is a very, very, very good thing to have for the approval process.
19:54 < Grantbow> yes, it's on the todo list as well
19:55 < Grantbow> too bad my Internet got cut off when I was at web2expo this week
19:57 < Flannel> So, in conclusion.  Help out!  If you don't have time right then to fix a problem you see, at the very least, check the toDoList and add it if its not already there.
19:57 < Grantbow> +1
19:57 < Flannel> Keeping that list up to date is just as important as fixing them.
19:57 < Flannel> Now, last topic (so far) for the evening:
19:57 < Flannel> User Group Contacts
19:58 < Flannel> Some of you may remember this, we talked about it oh, so long ago.
19:58  * Secutor is back.
19:59 < Flannel> Basically, we're trying to keep proper communication channels open with all the UGs (LUGs and other various user groups) in the state.
20:00 < Flannel> This got swept aside when we started sprinting for SCaLE, but it's a really good endeavor, especially this time of year, with most groups planning their summer speakers.
20:00 < Flannel> We've had a lot of success speaking at groups in the past, and would love to continue, but as far as I know, don't have any lined up this year.
20:01 < rww> Peninsula LUG in the South bay area is looking for a speaker for August. I'm going to be talking to them and seeing if I can get us in for that.
20:01 < rww> If anyone wants to co-present with me, that'd be awesome.
20:01 < nhaines> We have a few experienced speakers with a varied range of interests.  So if a LUG needs a speaker on any topic, we can definitely cover it.
20:01 < rww> (I know it's probably too far from now to commit, though.)
20:01 < nhaines> rww: congrats.  :)
20:01 < Flannel> If you are unsure how to approach a group/person/etc about this, feel free to ask (not now, but later) and we can help.
20:02 < Flannel> They don't have to be your LUG, or even in your general area (although that is a plus)
20:02 < Grantbow> I've refined the sections on "Why Contact LUGs" and what we can offer them.  A simple way to participate, especially in more remote parts of our state, is to simply show up at a LUG with a few burned Ubuntu copies.
20:02 < Grantbow> Please send feedback to the mail list.
20:02 < Flannel> oh, right.
20:02 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UserGroupContacts
20:03 < Grantbow> I've added four LUGs that we haven't visited yet to the ToDoList as well.
20:03 < Grantbow> at the bottom
20:03 < Grantbow> fosug.org, cvale.org, sclug.usc.edu and cplug.org
20:03 < Flannel> and actually, (just like to do list), this page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UserGroupContacts/Groups 
20:03 < Flannel> is also important, if you know of a LUG in CA that isn't on that list, add it if you get a chance.
20:03 < rww> Speaking of CDs, do we have an inventory of how many Intrepid CDs we have right now? We might want to look into handing them out before Jaunty comes.
20:03 < rampageai> Is one of those a Caltech LUG?
20:04 < nhaines> Did we have many left over from SCaLE?
20:04 < Flannel> SGVLUG is CalTech, yeah.
20:04 < nhaines> I have 15 intrepid CDs.
20:04 < Flannel> We have that ~1 full box still.
20:04 < Flannel> We had ~2 boxes, and already distributed 1 to various persons in this channel.
20:04 < Flannel> For further distribution.
20:04 < Grantbow> Jaunty release is close, get them out there soon :-)
20:05 < Flannel> Boxes are... I'd guess 80 or so?
20:06 < Flannel> They'll still be relevant after Jaunty is released.
20:06 < Flannel> I wouldn't feel comfortable handing someone a Jaunty CD on release day  if its their first time using Linux (for at least two weeks)
20:06 < rww> True. I imagine many people wouldn't want the absolute-newest release, in case of bugs, problems, etc.
20:06 < rampageai> Maybe Hardy?
20:06 < rww> and the Intrepid > Jaunty upgrade is relatively painless, in my experience.
20:07 < Grantbow> even a few weeks after Jaunty is pretty soon
20:07 < Flannel> I agree.  So, obviously, they're still relevant.
20:07 < Flannel> rampageai: If they want new, Intrepid is good, because the its an easy upgrade.
20:07 < Flannel> Anyway, we're off topic slightly.
20:08 < nhaines> heh
20:08 < Flannel> But, I think that topic was done anyway.
20:08 < Flannel> Anyone have anything else to say/add/whatnot about the UGC initiative?
20:08 < Flannel> Feel free to ask for help if you're interested later (or anytime).
20:09 < Flannel> And, with that, anyone have anything else for our meeting?
20:09 < rww> Flannel: this is skipping back a bit, but what's the timeframe for the LoCo approval process? A few months from now, end of this year, etc?
20:10 < Flannel> rww: Few months would be great as a target.  But we won't rush it.
20:10 < Flannel> That is, we won't apply before we're ready.
20:10 < Flannel> but as a goal, I'd love to be approved for Karmic.
20:10 < nhaines> Flannel: we sure haven't so far!  ;)
20:11 < Grantbow> Karmic seems doable
20:11 < Flannel> That is, approved, and with a shipment of CDs, for Karmic.
20:11 < rww> That'd be excellent. I think we could have the wiki cleaned up in plenty of time for that, too.
20:12 < Grantbow> it's coming along nicely
20:12 < Flannel> Alright.  Keep the gears in your head spinning coming up with ideas for OSCON.  And send them to the mailing list!  No crazy ideas will be denied!
20:12 < Flannel> With that said, Thank you all for coming.  Jaunty parties are only a little bit away.  See you all in two weeks, on April 19th.
</pre>
