{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Ubuntu California Projects How-to ===

So, you'd like to host an Ubuntu California event? Great!

This page is a collection of instructions and links to best practices.

==== Requirements ====

We want to make it as easy as possible for people to host Ubuntu California events, but there is one requirement: '''Tell the team!'''

This is done by following these steps:

1. Add your event to our <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california|LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> page, this is the page that people click on when they go to "Events" on our website and is what we base team reports, social media announcements and team approvals on
** Click "Log In" at the top of the page.
** You will be presented with a Launchpad Login or Authentication page, log in and then click the button to allow it to send the information to loco.ubuntu.com
** Click "Add New Event" (Note: if it's very similar to a past event, you can click on the past event and select "Copy Event" to copy the details to a new entry!)
1. Announce it to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca|mailing list]]</nowiki> by sending an email to ubuntu-us-ca@lists.ubuntu.com
** Posting to this list is restricted to mailing list members, so please sign up for it to prevent your email from being rejected or stuck in the queue.

PLEASE add your event to the portal and announce it ''as early as possible'' so people can see it on the calendar and make plans to attend. You're always welcome to send a reminder email to the list as the date approaches to remind people.

If you have any problems satisfying these two conditions, consider recruiting someone you're working with to plan events to take care of these.

===== Other suggestions =====

Not everyone is on the mailing list, you may also want to:

* Add it to our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects|Projects]]</nowiki> page
* Post on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=188|our web forum]]</nowiki>
* Come to a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings|team meeting]]</nowiki> and tell us about it there
* Ask for it to be posted to our social channels via <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-us-ca.posterous.com/|posterous]]</nowiki> (this is for advance announcement, a volunteer will already automatically post this the day of your event)

==== Best Practices ====

The international community of Lo``Co teams has a variety of resources available to teams, including:

* <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamKnowledgeBase]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LoCoComputerFairHowto]]</nowiki>

And some event specific tips:

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningReleaseParty|RunningReleaseParty]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki>
