{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, October 23rd, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. None.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00]  * jtatum waves :)
[02:00] <pleia2> ok, welcome everyone!
[02:00] <pleia2> so our agenda is technically empty: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11October23
[02:00] <pleia2> but I want to jump right in and talk about our leadership situation
[02:01] <pleia2> several weeks ago Darkwing put a call out for people to volunteer for the leadership team, we have 3 spots and ended up with 3 applicants: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership/2011
[02:01] <pleia2> so just like last year, not enough for a proper election
[02:02] <akk> 3 good candidates, though!
[02:02] <philipballew> looks good to me
[02:02] <pleia2> so we figured the fairest way to do this is to give folks an opportunity to express any concerns they may have with these three folks and handle it accordingly, if no one has problems then they get added when the old team expires on October 27th
[02:02] <iheartubuntu> looks good to me too. i would love to but dont know what is needed to perform duties
[02:03] <pleia2> the way we'll do this is have jdeslip collect any concerns, since he's still a leader and he's not running again
[02:03] <akk> I have no concerns about any of the three -- I'd vote for them all.
[02:03] <philipballew> i dont really like pleia2 she's to nice and works to hard :)
[02:03] <pleia2> he's jdeslip@gmail.com, and I'll send an email to the list explaining all this :)
[02:03] <pleia2> philipballew :)
[02:04] <pleia2> iheartubuntu: the leadership team follows what's outlined in our leadership charter: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership
[02:04] <pleia2> day to day we just make sure meetings happen and things are documented properly
[02:04] <Gareth> Hmm. Do the elected have the option to some how eliminate the other two and then rule with an iron fist?
[02:05] <pleia2> Gareth: paying them off is much easier
[02:05] <pleia2> also, less blood
[02:05]  * philipballew also takes bribes if anyone is interested. 
[02:05] <pleia2> so, the only other thing we really have is some event recap :)
[02:06] <Gareth> pleia2: Oh I wasn't implying violence...just wanted to leave the door open for all possibilities.
[02:06] <pleia2> hehe
[02:06] <pleia2> last week we had some things in northern california, sf ubuntu hour and release dinner, and mt view ubuntu hour
[02:06] <philipballew> SD Ubuntu hour
[02:06] <akk> pleia2 just beats the other two with stuffed ubuntu characters until they come around to her way of thinking.
[02:06] <pleia2> I blogged about them here: http://princessleia.com/journal/?p=5184 and photos: http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/sets/72157627938849996/
[02:06] <pleia2> akk: haha
[02:06] <pleia2> philipballew: any comments from that one? pictures? :)
[02:07] <philipballew> comments:
[02:07] <philipballew> well it was just me and the shop owner
[02:07] <jtatum> that happens
[02:07] <pleia2> yeah, I've had 2 person ubuntu hours
[02:07] <philipballew> but it is a Internet coffee shop and we talked about running ubuntu on his machines compared to xp that is there currently
[02:08] <pleia2> last month it was just violajack and I, we called it the ubuntu women hour ;D
[02:08] <pleia2> cool
[02:08] <philipballew> the phil and kevin show is usually what happens here in sd
[02:09] <iheartubuntu> id love to run for office, but if the 3 has been set im very good with that too.
[02:09] <philipballew> When the 11.10 cd's come I will be going over there to deliver some to him
[02:09] <pleia2> great, I'll be shipping them out tomorrow both to you and iheartubuntu
[02:09] <pleia2> already gave mountain view and berkeley their stashes
[02:09] <pleia2> I'll send some down to nhaines as well
[02:10] <iheartubuntu> the last pasadena ubuntu hour had 8 people. jbermudes, gaskin and i are considering the launch of an ubuntu hour in downtown LA soon enough
[02:10] <pleia2> iheartubuntu: nice!
[02:11] <iheartubuntu> i dont know if maksim is here, but he has become a regular to the UH. and jbermudes is a stalwart of the UH for sure!
[02:11] <pleia2> :)
[02:11] <pleia2> that's pretty much all I had meeting-wise
[02:11] <pleia2> any announcements?
[02:12] <pleia2> the Ubuntu Developer Summit is coming up in a week, both Darkwing and I will be there
[02:12] <iheartubuntu> good luck you two
[02:12] <pleia2> thanks :)
[02:12] <jtatum> if anyone wants adhesive backed vinyl ubuntu decals, let me know.
[02:12] <pleia2> jtatum: I put one on my netbook, it's neat :)
[02:12] <jtatum> they look pretty cool on laptops and cars
[02:13] <philipballew> Orlando sounds fun
[02:13] <iheartubuntu> photo? sounds interesting :)
[02:13] <iheartubuntu> ahh before people leave
[02:13] <pleia2> lemme take a picture, sec
[02:13] <iheartubuntu> i'll be setting up a CA team order from the Ubuntu Store soon
[02:13] <philipballew> jtatum, I am interested
[02:14] <philipballew> iheartubuntu, I might want to snag a t-shirt
[02:14] <iheartubuntu> i dont know if any new Ocelot stuff is in yet, i'll wait until those show up
[02:14] <iheartubuntu> some great sale items too on shirts
[02:14] <jtatum> philipballew: shoot me an email and we'll work out the details :)
[02:14] <iheartubuntu> my meerkat shirt gets lots of comments
[02:14] <philipballew> thats what i was thinking
[02:15]  * philipballew opens gmail
[02:16] <pleia2> iheartubuntu: oh good, I might get some things too
[02:16] <pleia2> iheartubuntu: any word on a gaming night?
[02:17] <pleia2> the decal: http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/6274626675/
[02:17] <iheartubuntu> i havent really had time to test games. it is very difficult work you must understand :)
[02:17] <pleia2> ubuntu women one :)
[02:17] <pleia2> iheartubuntu: hehe, no problem, just curious :)
[02:17] <philipballew> iheartubuntu, if you need help testing games let me know
[02:18] <iheartubuntu> if anyone wants to work with me on game night ideas, IM me or email please.
[02:18] <iheartubuntu> i'll have some sort of plan in two weeks then.
[02:18] <pleia2> great!
[02:18] <pleia2> anything else?
[02:19] <jledbetter> game night sounds fun
[02:19] <pleia2> :)
[02:19] <seidos> hi everybody.  is there a possible intersection with ubuntu and the occupy $location movement?
[02:19]  * iheartubuntu looks for bingo in software center
[02:19] <pleia2> seidos: is this a quesetion for our meeting, or something for after?
[02:19] <akk> occupy hard drives!
[02:19] <iheartubuntu> occupy my mortgage pelase
[02:20] <seidos> pleia2: either way
[02:20] <pleia2> ok, let's wrap up then and take that to discussion after :)
[02:20] <pleia2> thanks for coming everyone!
[02:20] <jledbetter> +1
[02:20] <iheartubuntu> N - 34
[02:20] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
