{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, September 3rd, 2017, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
   a. <nowiki>[[http://www.nhaines.com/blog/2017/08/31/beginning-ubuntu-windows-mac-users-2e/|Beginning Ubuntu for Windows and Mac Users, Second Edition]]</nowiki> released

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

{{{#!IRC 02:02:03 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:02:03 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Sep  4 02:02:03 2017 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:02:03 <darthrobot> 
 02:02:03 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:02:07 <metalbiker> okie dokie
 02:02:22 <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for September 3rd, 2017.
 02:02:40 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17September03
 02:02:40 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17September03 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:02:54 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:03:15 <nhaines> Are there any upcoming Ubuntu events in California that we should have on our radar?
 02:03:40 <metalbiker> um, not any from me at the moment but i do know that there's OSSummit in L.A. I think.
 02:04:15 <nhaines> Ooh, I hadn't heard of that.  http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america
 02:04:15 <darthrobot> Title: [Error reading title]
 02:04:40 <nhaines> What darthrobot means is "Open Source Summit North America 2017 | Linux Conferences and Linux Events | The Linux Foundation"
 02:04:56 <metalbiker> i think it's in l.a., isn't it?
 02:05:15 <nhaines> "LinuxCon, ContainerCon, CloudOpen and the new Open Community Conference combine under one umbrella name in 2017 - the Open Source Summit. At the Open Source Summit, you will collaborate, share information and learn across a wide variety of topics, with 2,000 technologists and community members."
 02:05:22 <nhaines> So that might be something interesting to go to.
 02:05:33 <metalbiker> i'd love that if i get the time off from work.
 02:05:52 <metalbiker> does that have anything on the weekend?
 02:06:06 <metalbiker> i haven't looked at the website yet, been super duper busy.
 02:06:45 <nhaines> Yeah, the website has the schedule, speaker list, etc.
 02:07:06 <metalbiker> ok,i'll take a look at it when we disperse for the evening.
 02:07:21 <nhaines> Sounds good.  When's your next Ubuntu Hour? :)
 02:08:08 <metalbiker> not sure at the moment. i'm working full time now, YAAY!, so I can't say for certain just yet. i could possibly have it this coming saturday but i won't know until around thursday.
 02:08:35 <nhaines> Ha, well congratulations for that at least.  :)
 02:08:49 <metalbiker> i got started late with the first one and so i need to make it a different time at least.
 02:09:16 <metalbiker> thank you! it's been year and i'm so happy! but that's a discussion for after the meeting i guess.
 02:09:30 <nhaines> Well I look forward to it.  :)
 02:09:35 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:09:38 <metalbiker> awesome! me, too!
 02:10:07 <metalbiker> i think i may have an announcement, ubuntu related.
 02:10:13 <nhaines> Go for it.
 02:11:54 <metalbiker> i've been testing ubuntu 17.10 and i got asked by one of my bosses at work, after i talked to him about ubuntu and testing it, to bring in a copy of the OS and show him how to use it.
 02:12:50 <metalbiker> so i'm taking in my thumbdrive on tuesday and helping him get it setup on his computer so he can see it and he told me that we could possibly change all of our computers over to it.
 02:13:28 <nhaines> Hey, that's great.  :)  They should still standardize around 16.04 LTS if they're going to use it for professional purposes.  Unless they're keen on doing 17.10 as a trial and switching to 18.04 LTS when that's out.  Then they get that good 3-5 year support period.
 02:13:29 <metalbiker> but, i work outside all day and not inside an office. i work at Cemex in Rialto so i'm not around the computer systems much.
 02:13:39 <nhaines> hackrobat: welcome to our meeting, currently in progress.  :)
 02:14:20 <metalbiker> yeah, i told him that, too and i'm also taking it with me to use it instead but i wanted to show him what it's changing over to with 17.10
 02:14:58 <metalbiker> i'm going to install 16.04 lts and show him 17.10
 02:15:14 <metalbiker> there's my clarification
 02:15:19 <nhaines> That's a fine plan.
 02:16:05 <metalbiker> oh yeah! i do what i can to get ubuntu used more. and that was my announcement.
 02:16:12 <nhaines> Thank you.  :)
 02:16:18 <nhaines> In other news, the second edition of my book, "Beginning Ubuntu for Windows and Mac Users" is now available from Amazon and other fine retailers.  Here's a lovely affiliate link: http://amzn.to/2wrz3v1
 02:16:18 <darthrobot> [R: www.amazon.com] Title: [Error reading title]
 02:16:19 <metalbiker> you're welcome!
 02:16:32 <metalbiker> oh nice!! congratulations!
 02:16:50 <metalbiker> i'll take a look that and put back money to buy both!
 02:16:55 <nhaines> Thanks!  It was a lot less work than the first edition, haha.
 02:17:13 <metalbiker> hehe, i bet! lol but awesome work!
 02:17:28 <nhaines> I got my author copies last week.  I still have to get together a package for you.  I'll throw one in and sign it.
 02:17:58 <metalbiker> oh sweet!! thank  you! *bows head* did you ever find any t-shirts for me?
 02:18:26 <nhaines> Yeah, I have a box full.  I've just been busy with various things, only some of which were working on the second edition.
 02:18:43 <metalbiker> and it's no rush. we're all busy so it's completely understandable.
 02:19:07 <nhaines> My book takes a look at Ubuntu from the perspective of someone who's a pretty good Windows or Mac user, but needs to figure out Ubuntu.  Because Ubuntu is very weird from that perspective.  :)
 02:19:12 <metalbiker> oh, cool! i look forward to wearing it and using whatever you've got for me! lol and now i've got money to buy stuff and hand them out.
 02:19:58 <nhaines> And I'm very happy to say that this edition is much less expensive--$35 for the print edition and $25 for the ebook edition.  And hey, if you get the print edition from anywhere you can get the ebook edition as a companion for only $5 thanks to Apress.  :)
 02:20:39 <nhaines> metalbiker: I'll send you a copy because seeing "someone wrote a book about this" is sort of a nice placebo for new Ubuntu users.
 02:21:11 <metalbiker> oh very nice!! i can do it either way now! i be rich! lol not really, but i've got enough money for discretionary spending.
 02:21:23 <nhaines> You can also buy the first chapter "Installing Ubuntu" from Apress for $29.95.  I... sort of advise that nobody does this, lol.
 02:21:24 <metalbiker> nhaines: ok, cool
 02:22:00 <nhaines> metalbiker: okay, well, if you want to buy an extra copy feel free to use the affiliate link.  Because of math, it basically doubles my royalty on the purchase, ha.
 02:22:24 <nhaines> Anyway, the blog post is here and with that I'll end my own promotional portion of this meeting.  :)  http://www.nhaines.com/blog/2017/08/31/beginning-ubuntu-windows-mac-users-2e/
 02:22:24 <darthrobot> Title: [Beginning Ubuntu for Windows and Mac Users, Second Edition | nhaines.com]
 02:22:41 <metalbiker> ok, cool
 02:22:45 <nhaines> Any LoCo member who wants to know more about it, contact me via email and I'll see if I can get an electronic copy to you.
 02:23:04 <nhaines> Are there any other announcements before we move on?
 02:23:21 <metalbiker> nothing else from me
 02:24:07 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:24:22 <nhaines> There are no agenda items for tonight's meeting.
 02:24:26 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:24:36 <nhaines> Is there any other business before we end tonight's meeting?
 02:25:29 <metalbiker> i don't have anything to add right now, maybe soon. i'd love to see if we can put together some kind of package to take my employer to pass around to the other office folks.
 02:25:49 <metalbiker> but, that can be on me to do.
 02:26:41 <metalbiker> i think i'll add a topic for the agenda for next time since i just got a good idea for something.
 02:27:01 <nhaines> I look forward to hearing more.  :)
 02:27:16 <nhaines> Bring it it the mailing list, too, if you want feedback or collaboration
 02:27:41 <metalbiker> ok, i'll do that as well. i'll put my thoughts together and get it out to everybody that way soon.
 02:27:55 <hackrobat> hi
 02:28:02 <hackrobat> sorry im late
 02:28:25 <nhaines> metalbiker: great.  :)
 02:28:26 <hackrobat> ive been looking forward to this
 02:28:40 <nhaines> hackrobat: not a problem.  We're just wrapping up but we'll have logs in a second.
 02:28:57 <nhaines> Speaking of wrapping up, is there anything else before we end the meeting?
 02:28:57 <hackrobat> nhaines, ok cool
 02:29:23 <metalbiker> i'd just like to say be safe and have fun for the rest of the weekend.
 02:29:49 <nhaines> Yes, I hope everyone enjoys their Labor Day plans!
 02:30:11 <metalbiker> i'll have more news concerning my testing through the email list, too.
 02:30:27 <metalbiker> that's it for me
 02:30:58 <metalbiker> nhaines: i just need your ear for a moment after we wrap.
 02:31:04 <nhaines> Great.  Thanks everyone for joining us, and I'll see everyone in two weeks, on the 17th.
 02:31:09 <nhaines> #endmeeting}}}
