{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

== Partimus Collaboration ==

<nowiki>[[http://partimus.org|Partimus.org]]</nowiki> is a Bay Area non-profit organization which provides repurposed computers running free software to students and schools who need them.

The organization now works with 6 schools in the bay area by providing hardware and Ubuntu LTS deployments and support. The current infrastructure for the labs can be found in the <nowiki>[[http://docs.google.com/View?id=dfzcxcjr_2chc5cqcg|School Lab In A Box Guide]]</nowiki>, prepared by Partimus volunteers.

=== Getting Involved ===

Contacts: GrantBowman MarkTerranova (Community Manager)

Christian Einfeldt will regularly email the mailing list with requests for local volunteers.

Volunteer opportunities arise during weekdays and weekends, and frequently pizza is supplied to the volunteers.

=== Current Activity ===

==== December 15, 2010 Fund Raiser ====

http://partimus.org/fundraising_event_2010.php

a dinner fund raiser and computer harvesting drive is afoot...

===== To do: =====

====== Public Relations ======

* Setup signup method
  1. DONE: <nowiki>[[http://partimusfundraiser2010.eventbrite.com/]]</nowiki>
* Announce... invite everybody - teachers, families of students, lugs, artists, bay-area do good-ers
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2010-November/001483.html
** http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10173669
* Get listed on event calendars
** Added to SF Bay Area Open Source/Linux Events calendar (as seen on penlug.org)
* Send reminders with announcements of door prizes and sponsors to registered people and other interested groups the Monday before.
** Work the social networks. both personal and digital.
** Take surveys, get quotes to use in future promotions.
** Ask the blogers who attended to write about their experience.
** Setup hashtag for photos on flickr. Harvest the ones under cc or author permission licensing.

====== Revenue ======

* Plan a budget. Publish it in a conspicuous place.
* Get sponsors for seed money, door prizes, and refreshments. 
  1. Sources: local IT leaders/companies, shops where geek gear is sold, shops were art gear is sold, local catering / grocery, tickets to museums and performance arts     
  2. Benefits of sponsorship: program guide space, table space, banner hanging, swag giveaways, web link, coupon passout, or other promotional consideration for their generosity.
** Charge money at door - check-in staff needed.
** Sell Raffle tickets - check-in staff needed.
** Follow up with donor thank-yous, receipts, surveys, and future event plug. (see PR)

====== Event Logistics ======

* Decide on entertainment/programing options.
   1. Download some free mood music from archive.org
   2. Student works exhibit.
   3. Tours.
   4. Guest of Honor - artist, performer, educator, or technology advocate. This could be your most grateful teacher. Enthusiasm is key here.
   5. Welcome for Partimus event chair. Thank everyone for donating. Explain the good works. Tell the story.
* Book Caterer.
* Do a venue walk-thru. 
   1. What will happen and where? 
   2. Identify ways the space needs to change to make it event suitable. Chair placement, house keeping, decorations, signs. 
* Recruit volunteers to help triage incoming hardware, conduct tour, and serve food.
* Take photos.

====== Day-Of Work ======

* Volunteer briefing one hour before.
* Check in staff (see revenue) Capture actual attendee list for thank-you notes and volunteer interest.
* Setup the space to be welcoming. Make sure food will be ready for the guests. Use notes from walk-thru.
* Hold an awesome event.
* Clean up the space for school the next day.

====== Closing Out the Event ======

* See Revenue for donor issues.
* Contact potential volunteers.
* Announce the next event (PR).
* Conduct a post event briefing with key volunteers. What worked. What didn't. What do do next time. 2 weeks after the event.

==== Similar events/organziations =====

Linux Against Poverty
http://linuxlock.blogspot.com/2010/03/austin-texas-linux-against-poverty-2010.html

200 School Deployment in South Africa
http://www.shuttleworthfoundation.org/projects/the-tuxlab-project/
