{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, July 11th, 2010, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
# New people introductions: lfitz, new2ubuntu_, jtatum, joebonni
# Announcements
  a. <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek|Ubuntu Developer Week]]</nowiki> is next week. Grant to forward announcement to mailing list.
1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Website|Website]]</nowiki> discussion
  a. Grant set up www.ubuntu-us-ca.org to redirect to the wiki a while back
  a. Plan is to use website as a public-facing site to complement the wiki 
  a. Still pondering hosting options and domain. Design suggestions and mockups are also good.

==== Original Agenda ====
1. Announcements
  a. <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek|Ubuntu Developer Week]]</nowiki> July 12th to July 16th, 0900 to 1400 PT
1. Continue <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Website|Website]]</nowiki> discussion

==== Log ====
<pre>
19:03 < Flannel> Welcome everyone to tonight's meeting.
19:03 < Flannel> I hope you've all remembered to get your free slurpees!
19:04 < Flannel> Our agenda for tonight is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/10July11
19:04 < Flannel> And currently consists of: Announcements, and ongoing discussion about our website
19:04 < new2ubuntu_> where's the slurpees
19:04 < rww> new2ubuntu_: at your local 7/11 :D
19:04 < new2ubuntu_> sweet
19:04 < Flannel> new2ubuntu_: 7/11 gives out 7.11 ounce slurpees for free on 7/11
19:05 < Flannel> If anyone has anything to add to our agenda, feel free to speak up.
19:06 < lfitz> you should mention the slurpees at the end, to prevent anyone from going to get slurpees during the meeting :D
19:06 < Flannel> Also, I see a few new faces (and we forgot to do this last time too) so, if anyone is here that hasn't introduced themselves yet, you're welcome to introduce yourself now if you'd like.
19:06 < lfitz> first meeting here! been to a few ubuntu hours in lake forest
19:06 < Flannel> Welcome lfitz!
19:07 < lfitz> :)
19:07 < new2ubuntu_> I'm new here, but have been getting emails from SF ubuntu for about three weeks. I just moved here and am somewhat new to linux.
19:07 < lfitz> hello new2ubuntu_
19:07 < new2ubuntu_> cheers
19:07 < jtatum> Hi! Just moved to the penninsula. Been involved with ubuntu for a while and excited to ubuntu it up in California ;)
19:08 < nhaines> jtatum: glad you joined us.  :)
19:08 < Flannel> Welcome new2ubuntu_, jtatum
19:08 < lfitz> sup nhaines
19:08 < grantbow> welcome
19:08 < jtatum> o/
19:08 < Flannel> Couldn't wait until the meeting was over rww? :P
19:08 < new2ubuntu_> Thanks guys. I'm hoping to get involved more especially with promoting and meeting up
19:09 < rww> Flannel: :P
19:09 < rww> Oh, cool, new people. Welcome :)
19:09 < Flannel> Anyone else?
19:09 < grantbow> new2ubuntu_: I'm in the SF area as are some others here.
19:09 < joebonni> i am in santa monica
19:10 < Flannel> welcome joebonni
19:10  * lfitz is working on documentation for 10.04-styled notifications on a 9.04 server for irssi using a script and screen...
19:10  * lcafiero is in Felton (Santa Cruz County)
19:10 < new2ubuntu_> great! I think we've spoken a bit via Email but that is about it so far. I'm near the park
19:10 < lfitz> remote irssi notifications
19:10 < joebonni> flannel thank you
19:10 < grantbow> lfitz: cool, I love screen and irssi
19:11 < Flannel> Welcome to everyone once again.  It's always good to see new faces.
19:11 < lfitz> yeah, locally is easy, the remote part was a bit troublesome so i am documenting everything, will have it ready for the next irc meeting
19:11  * lfitz started today :D
19:11 < Flannel> Onto announcements,
19:12 < Flannel> Our first announcement is that next week is Ubuntu Developers Week,
19:12 < Flannel> which is a week full of talks covering all sorts of development aspects and topics,
19:12 < Flannel> The schedule can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek
19:13 < grantbow> Flannel: I didn't see a forward of the email announcement.  Do you want to do it or would you like me to do it?
19:13 < Flannel> As always, if you see something that's interesting but can't make it, logs are available afterwards.
19:13 < joebonni> thats cool
19:14 < rww> 0900 to 1400, 12th to 16th, be there or be a platonic solid
19:14 < Flannel> grantbow: We've covered it a few times now, but if you want to forward the announcement itself, go ahead.
19:14 < grantbow> ok
19:15 < Flannel> Anyone have questions about UDW?
19:15 < lfitz> Lernid is involed, correct?
19:15 < new2ubuntu_> If newbies like myself attended a couple, would we understand much of it?
19:15 < joebonni> yeah what usually goes on at udw
19:16 < rww> lfitz: you can use Lernid or a regular IRC client
19:16 < akk> new2ubuntu_: Some of the first few sessions are "getting started with developing" type sessions, iirc.
19:16 < Flannel> lfitz: You can use Lernid, or just plain IRC too.
19:16 < grantbow> logs should be available from the last one to get a feel for the topics
19:16 < new2ubuntu_> That should be good then
19:16 < nhaines> joebonni: there are sessions on various topics about developing for Ubuntu.
19:16 < Flannel> lfitz: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek/JoiningIn mentions how to get lernid up and running if you're interested in experimenting with it
19:16 < nhaines> There's an array both beginning and more advanced topics.
19:17 < joebonni> nhaines thank you
19:18 < Flannel> (for anyone who's new, feel free to ask questions whenever, you don't have to wait or worry about interrupting)
19:18 < jbermudes> Is there a webapp version of lernid?
19:18 < Flannel> jbermudes: Don't believe so.
19:19 < Flannel> jbermudes: but there is web based IRC, if you only have a browser and want to follow along
19:19 < jbermudes> Flannel: ah, thanks
19:19 < joebonni> i have been using linux ubuntu to be exact for many years now i have programing past but i am catching on to command line pretty quick
19:20 < lfitz> command line actually accelerated my programming learning
19:20 < lfitz> bash scripting is great!
19:20 < lfitz> case / esac
19:21 < Flannel> Anyone else have other announcements?
19:22 < Flannel> alright, we'll go ahead and move on to our next topic, our LoCo website
19:23 < Flannel> We're looking to create a website for our loco, and we've set up a project page : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Website
19:24 < new2ubuntu_> I've got to step away for a few minutes, but will be back. I was going to ask (we can do it by email) if you guys wanted any help with that. YOu seem very smart so you may not but I have 3 years of website content writing/editing if that helps. Sorry to write so much but I'll be back in 5.
19:24 < Flannel> new2ubuntu_: No worries.
19:24 < Flannel> We're still in the early planning stages, so at the moment we're really just collecting ideas for what we might want to include in our website
19:24 < Flannel> and also looking forward to some means of hosting
19:25  * lfitz would like to mention SimplePie xml parser for the website
19:25 < lfitz> its a php script (iirc) to parse microblogging feeds for example
19:26  * lfitz used it for a short lived website :P
19:26 < Flannel> lfitz: Sounds good.
19:27 < lfitz> so you want to incorporate everything related to ubuntu-california, correct?
19:27 < Flannel> As usual, no idea is too far-fetched, if we don't implement it immediately, we might keep it on a back-burner until later, so don't stifle yourself.
19:27 < grantbow> whether we decide to use it or not awhile back I set up www.ubuntu-us-ca.org to redirect to the wiki.
19:27 < lfitz> microblogs, blogs, wiki, etc...
19:28 < Flannel> lfitz: We're not far enough along to know for sure,
19:28 < Flannel> lfitz: but the plan is to use the website as a public facing site, to complement our current wiki, which is more 'internal'
19:29 < joebonni> thats a good idea
19:29 < Flannel> lfitz: Sometimes now we give our wiki to people as a way to contact us for support (because its the only site we have)
19:29 < Flannel> lfitz: but it'd be nice if we could give them the website, and then do a better job at guiding them to us for that support and stuff
19:30 < Flannel> (that's just one use-case that came up recently)
19:30  * aaditya walks in, waves at everyone, then goes and sits on a bench in the back.
19:30 < Flannel> lfitz: So, like I was saying, we're not really sure about all of the ways we want to use it, which is why we've set up the wikipage to help record our brainstorms
19:31  * lfitz never editted a wiki...
19:31 < Flannel> lfitz: It's pretty easy, we can show you how after the meeting
19:31 < lfitz> if you'd like to add the simple pie example its free as in freedom
19:31 < lfitz> :P
19:31 < grantbow> lfitz: it's fun!
19:32 < joebonni> this sounds very interesting
19:32 < Flannel> Anyone else have questions or comments?
19:33 < jbermudes> Flannel: Are we taking design suggestions?
19:33 < Flannel> jbermudes: Oh right
19:33 < jbermudes> like mockups
19:33 < Flannel> Yes, we're definately looking for designs too.
19:35 < Flannel> Alright, anyone else have anything else for tonight?
19:35 < joebonni> maybe have a design contest within the group if anyone would like to that
19:36 < grantbow> hopefully there is more than one entry
19:36 < Flannel> joebonni: In the past, I think we've used the term "design collaboration" but yes :)
19:36 < lfitz> desktop screenshots and screencasts for cool desktop stuff, submitted by ubuntu-ca participants :)
19:37  * lfitz thinks he should screencast the remote irssi 10.04stlyed notifications
19:37 < joebonni> flannel yeah team work is a better way to go and faster
19:37 < lfitz> hosting for participant write ups...well wiki would work so scratch that
19:38 < grantbow> lfitz: seen ubuntu.mirocommunity.org yet?
19:38 < Flannel> Alright, I think that about wraps up tonight's meeting.  Thank you all for coming, our next meeting is the 25th of July, 7pm.
</pre>
