{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, April 30th, 2017, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. Upcoming Pasadena Ubuntu Hours http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/
1. Announcements
   a. None

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:01] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:01] <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon May  1 02:01:28 2017 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:01] <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:01] <pleia2> anyone here for the Ubuntu California meeting? :)
[02:04] <pleia2> our agenda is looking pretty sparse as well
[02:04] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17April30
[02:04] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17April30 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:05] <RogueScholar> I'm here for the meeting, sorry was AFK.
[02:06] <pleia2> welcome RogueScholar :)
[02:06] <pleia2> so we start these things off by talking about upcoming events
[02:06] <pleia2> #topic Upcoming events
[02:06] <RogueScholar> Much obliged, Pleia2. Glad to be here. :)
[02:07] <pleia2> I don't have anything scheduled for San Francisco at the moment (I've been too busy) but there is a local who is interested in helping out and to whom I owe an email
[02:07] <pleia2> the monthly Ubuntu Hours in Pasadena are still happening, can see details and RSVP on our meetup page https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/
[02:07] <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu California LoCo (Los Angeles, CA)| Meetup]
[02:07] <pleia2> next one is on May 11th, they happen right before the San Gabriel Valley Linux User Group meeting, so it's a good night
[02:08] <pleia2> I think that's all we really have event-wise
[02:08] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[02:08] <pleia2> this is the wild west part of the meeting :)
[02:09] <pleia2> RogueScholar: what brings you here?
[02:10] <RogueScholar> Well I've been in IT for going on a couple decades now, and I feel like part of my professional development at this stage needs to be promoting the causes that I care about.
[02:10] <pleia2> that's great to hear, using Ubuntu where you work?
[02:11] <RogueScholar> Haha, don't I wish. No I get to save that enjoyment for my personal PCs and homelab.
[02:11] <pleia2> ah, fair enough, I remember those days
[02:12] <RogueScholar> Truth be told, I'm not much of a Linux veteran, I think I onboarded with 14.04.
[02:12] <pleia2> that's ok, always people coming and going from linux spheres, so it's nice to see new blood
[02:13] <RogueScholar> Thanks, I'm relieved to see that there's not a certain threshold of prior involvement in order to participate here.
[02:13] <pleia2> not at all, I always like to say that if you've been using Ubuntu a day longer than someone else, you have something to teach ;)
[02:14] <RogueScholar> In regards to your mention of a San Francisco event, I too am a NorCal person, though a few hours north of SF, so please keep me in mind for activities up in this area.
[02:14] <pleia2> a lot of our month to month events are pretty basic, "Ubuntu Hours" where we just go to a coffee shop and chat about the latest Ubuntu news and projects we're working on (both at work and as hobbies)
[02:14] <pleia2> oh, good to know, have you been to North Bay LUG before? it's in Sebastopol http://nblug.org/
[02:14] <darthrobot`> Title: [North Bay Linux Users’ Group]
[02:15] <RogueScholar> No I haven't, but I know Sebastopol very well, it's barely a couple hours away. I'm bookmarking them as we chat. :)
[02:15] <pleia2> nice folks, often have super interesting meetings
[02:15] <pleia2> I wish I could make it up, but from SF it's quite the hike on a week night
[02:15] <RogueScholar> Oh you're based up north as well?
[02:16] <pleia2> I live in downtown SF
[02:16] <RogueScholar> In looking over the group page it seemed there was a heavy slant towards SoCal, so I just kind of assumed the leadership probably resided there as well.
[02:17] <pleia2> we're pretty spread out :)
[02:17] <RogueScholar> Well if I can drive to Sebastopol from Fort Bragg, then you can make the trek too. ;)
[02:17] <pleia2> haha
[02:18] <pleia2> I also work with a non-profit based in the bay area, Partimus.org, so some of our time is spent working with low-incoming housing facilities and schools (though fewer schools now) to put Linux-based machines in for residents and students
[02:19] <pleia2> I'd say right now that's where most of my effort is focused Ubuntu-wise locally, instead of Ubuntu Hours
[02:19] <RogueScholar> Oh no kidding?? I was just reading about their work not long ago, I wish I could recall where.
[02:22] <pleia2> alright, I think we'll wrap up this meeting
[02:22] <pleia2> usually nhandler and lynorian at least are also here, but quiet night :)
[02:23] <pleia2> err, nhaines
[02:23] <RogueScholar> It happens; spring is in the air.
[02:23] <pleia2> but sometimes nhandler too! he's in london right now though
[02:23] <pleia2> hope you got out to enjoy the weather today :) was gorgeous down here
[02:24] <pleia2> and with that, let's conclude!
[02:24] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
