{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Welcome to the page for Ubuntu California's presence at the <nowiki>[[https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x | 15th Southern California Linux Expo]]</nowiki>!  The expo runs from March 2-5, 2015 (Thurs-Sun), but the exhibition floor will be open Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.

SCALE 6X in 2008 was Ubuntu California's second public event and the Lo``Co has maintained the Ubuntu booth ever since.  This year the Ubuntu booth will showcase Ubuntu and its derivatives, exciting new projects like Ubuntu Core, snaps, and Unity 8.  We will also host select Ubu``Con speakers for visitor meet-and-greets and additional discussion.  We are working closely with Canonical's Community Team to help coordinate equipment sponsorship.

Ubuntu California team members who are not volunteering at the booth can use a coupon code ''UBNTU'' for half off your Full Access pass registration. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale14x#Volunteers|Booth volunteers]]</nowiki> will receive a complimentary Exhibitor badge.

'''Lo``Co Team Portal page:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3499-scale-15x-and-ubucon-summit/
 
== UbuCon ==

Richard Gaskin and Nathan Haines are in charge of Ubu``Con.  Some Ubu``Con speakers may schedule times to be on hand at the Ubuntu booth to discuss their presentation topics with booth visitors throughout the weekend.

Ubu``Con Summit is an officially endorsed two-day event combining speakers from the Ubuntu community as well as a day of unconference talks for both the general Ubuntu community as well as Ubuntu developers.  Members of the Ubuntu Design Team, the Ubuntu Touch team, the Ubuntu Core Team, and the Canonical Community Team will meet at Ubu``Con Summit to discuss the progress and status of Ubuntu 17.04 LTS across all form factors.

The opening keynote speaker on March 2nd will be announced soon.

'''Ubu``Con website:''' http://www.ubucon.org/

'''Lo``Co Team Portal page:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3499-scale-15x-and-ubucon-summit/

== Booth ==

This is an extremely fun and friendly expo, and is the perfect opportunity for volunteers to gain booth experience.  Booth volunteers will receive training on recent Ubuntu developments as well as phone interface training to help prepare for visitor questions.  Other training topics will include Ubuntu Core, Unity 8, and desktop convergence.

Booth volunteers will receive a complimentary Exhibitor badge that will allow them to enjoy full access to the expo floor and speaker sessions while not volunteering at the booth.

Please sign up to help with the booth or provide equipment below!

=== Materials ===

==== Stuff Provided ====

* 1 x 500W Electrical Outlet 
* 1 x 6' table
* 2 x chairs
* 1 x Ethernet Ports

==== Stuff We Need ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" tablebgcolor="#FFFFF0" 25%: rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">Item
| <30%:>Description/Info
| <15%:>Volunteer
| <35%:>Comments
|-
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuAtConferences|Conference Pack A from Canonical]]</nowiki>
| Contents listed on UbuntuAtConferences
| NathanHaines
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Banner
| Official Ubuntu banner from Canonical
| NathanHaines
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Tablecloth
| Official Ubuntu tablecloth from Canonical
| NathanHaines
| 
|-
| Booth table
| Extra table for the booth
| George Mulak
| 
|-
| 5 port Network switch
| 
| George Mulak
| 
|-
| 6 Ethernet cables
| 
| George Mulak
| 
|-
| Power strip
| 1 x 5 outlet
| 
| 
|-
| Computer with Ubuntu
| Fanless Ubuntu computer
| George Mulak
| 
|-
| Scissors
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Orange duct tape
| 
| NathanHaines
| 
|-
| Can of small bungee cords
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Hand Sanitizer
| 
| NathanHaines
| 
|}

==== Stuff We (Might?) Want ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" tablebgcolor="#FFFFF0" 25%: rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">Item
| <30%:>Description/Info
| <15%:>Volunteer
| <35%:>Comments
|-
| Fliers/Pamphlets
| Probably general Ubuntu information
| 
| 
|}

=== Volunteers ===

Please sign up here if you'll be able to help at the booth during the event.  Please indicate which days (Friday, Saturday, or Sunday) and shifts (morning or afternoon) you will be at the booth..  We also need help with booth setup (at 1pm Friday afternoon) and booth breakdown (until 7pm Sunday evening).  Feel free to volunteer for multiple shifts if you can!  We'll work around your favorite speaker sessions to make sure you have a chance to enjoy the show as well.  The following shifts are available:

After signing up, <nowiki>[[https://reg.socallinuxexpo.org/reg6/ | please register for SCALE here]]</nowiki>, and email your registration number to NathanHaines.  '''Do not''' go through the payment process--Ubuntu California will cover your admission if you volunteer for at least one shift.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" tablebgcolor="#FFFFF0" 30%v: rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD" |3>Name
| <v|3> Shirt Size
| <v:-4> Booth shift
| <v|3 50%:>Additional info
|-
| <:rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> Fri
| <:-2> Sat
| <:> Sun
|-
| <:rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> 2-6pm
| <:> 10-2pm
| <:> 2-6pm
| <:> 10-2pm
|-
| Nathan Haines
| L
| X
| X
| X
| X
| Event coordinator
|-
| George Mulak
| XXL
| X
| X
| X
| X
| Booth volunteer
|-
| Matt Mootz
| XL
| 
| X
| X
| X
| Booth volunteer
|}

=== Training Material ===

''Coming soon.''
