{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, December 5th, 2010, 7:00pm (1900) PST ===

==== Agenda ====
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Partimus |Partimus Fundraiser]]</nowiki> Dec 15th. Helping put FOSS in Schools. Update on activities and upcoming plans.
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Website|Website]]</nowiki> progress update and DEMO!
# Photo sharing options
** Gallery2 on Linode
** Flickr account of team - added benefit of being integrated with the LoCo directory, see example here: http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ie

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent.

Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
19:00 < pleia2> ok, meeting time!
19:00 < pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/10December05
19:00 < pleia2> we didn't put announcements on the agenda, but maybe that should be a standing first or last agenda item
19:00 -!- Irssi: #ubuntu-us-ca: Total of 36 nicks [1 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 35 normal]
19:01 < jdeslip> First is as good a time as any
19:01 < pleia2> ok, announcements!
19:02 < grantbow> Alpha 1 is out
19:02 < grantbow> 11.04 Alpha 1
19:02 < pleia2> alpha 1 info: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2010-December/000793.html
19:03  * MarkDude is looking for a caterer in the Bay for CLSwest on Jan 15th- suggestions can be mailed to me mark@zareason.com 
19:04 < pleia2> we have several upcoming ubuntu hours around the state, all listed at loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california
19:04 < MarkDude> I am the dinner coordinator for the event- We already have 2 people reserved for doing a Tea Ceremony
19:04 < pleia2> cool
19:04 < eps> What is CLSwest?
19:05 < pleia2> http://www.communityleadershipsummit.com/wiki/index.php/CLS_West
19:05 < akk> Also, time is running out for talk proposals for SCALE -- I think there's a week left, if anybody's thinking about speaking there.
19:05 < pleia2> in daly city
19:06 < jledbetter> Hope to attend SCALE for sure
19:06 < DarkwingDuck> Sorry I'm late
19:06 < MarkDude> Yay scale effin rocks
19:07 < pleia2> scale cfp is on socallinuxexpo.org
19:07 < pleia2> ok, any more announcements?
19:07 < MarkDude> Partimus Fundraiser Dec 15th also
19:08 < pleia2> MarkDude: yep, that's the first agenda item :)
19:08 < pleia2> we'll get to that once we finish announcements
19:08 < pleia2> which it seems like we've done
19:09 < pleia2> ok
19:09 < dragonoid> Please ping me if there's voting at any time.
19:09 < pleia2> Partimus Fundraiser Dec 15th. Helping put FOSS in Schools. Update on activities and upcoming plans.
19:09 < pleia2> MarkDude: I think this is your agenda item, the floor is yours :)
19:10 < MarkDude> 15th we will have a party at one of the schools that Christian helps
19:11 < MarkDude> They help provide computer labs to kids in SF and oakland
19:11 < pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Partimus is the team page about the project
19:11 < MarkDude> grantbow, can say something about all the good stuff the labs do
19:11 < MarkDude> If he would. He has been helping with it for a while
19:12 < grantbow> I look forward to seeing people there
19:12 < pleia2> this discusses the event itself and has registration info: http://partimus.org/fundraising_event_2010.php
19:13 < MarkDude> If you cant pay to get in- you are still invited
19:13 < pleia2> yeah, there is a free ticket option
19:13 < grantbow> right
19:14 < pleia2> anything else?
19:14 < MarkDude> And if you are elsewhere nd cant make it- you can donate
19:14 < MarkDude> too
19:14 < MarkDude> Yes, if you have any hardware that can be donated that works bring it
19:14 < grantbow> I think that's all, I'd be happy to answer question afterward
19:14 < MarkDude> let me know ahead of time
19:15 < pleia2> ah yes, the hardware reqs are here: http://partimus.org/donate.php
19:15 < pleia2> (scroll down a bit)
19:15 < MarkDude> If you just have parts- they can also be donated to GK
19:15 < MarkDude> Again- contact me- or Dangerous G
19:15 < MarkDude> Thats it :)
19:16 < pleia2> ok cool
19:16 < pleia2> Next agenda item: Website progress update and DEMO!
19:16 < pleia2> ok, this is the fun part :)
19:16 < pleia2> jtatum and I worked these past couple weeks to get a demo main site up on the linode
19:17 < DarkwingDuck> +1
19:17 < pleia2> we haven't updated DNS yet, we wanted to come to a meeting and see what people thought, so to view it you can edit: /etc/hosts
19:17 < pleia2> and add this line:
19:17 < pleia2> 207.192.72.66 ubuntu-california.org
19:18  * MarkDude wants it ALL in Flash, with an intro that takes a few minutes to upload, can I add that to the potential list ? :D
19:18 < jdeslip> nano /etc/hosts
19:18 < pleia2> you'll have to use sudo
19:18 < jdeslip> ... wrong window 
19:18 < jtatum> sudo nano :)
19:18 < jdeslip> (and yes missing the sudo)
19:18 < crashsystems> "The home page would go here. Yes, indeedy."
19:18 < pleia2> crashsystems: woo!
19:18 < AndIrc_> I can't edit etc hosts on my phone :(
19:18 < pleia2> yeah, so once you have that done, navigate to ubuntu-california.org in your web browser
19:19 < jledbetter> nice home page text :D
19:19 < pleia2> I also took a screenshot: http://people.ubuntu.com/~lyz/ubuntu-california-website-120510.png
19:19 < pleia2> AndIrc_: it's large, sorry :(
19:19 < pleia2> we installed wordpress and then used the community developed wordpress theme
19:19 < jtatum> i wrote the home page text. pleia2 did the heavy lifting
19:20 < jdeslip> Very pretty
19:20 < pleia2> hey, you got the theme installed :)
19:20 < jledbetter> jtatum, I shoulda guessed ;)
19:20 < DarkwingDuck> pretty
19:20 < jdeslip> (one nitpic - add more space after team before the orange ends)
19:20 < crashsystems> orange > brown
19:20 < pleia2> maybe just drop "Team"?
19:21 < grantbow> Team is important
19:21 < pleia2> ok
19:21 < eps> Or a non-breaking space between California and Team
19:21 < grantbow> as in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams
19:21 < akk> Wrapping "Team" does look strange, though.
19:21  * MarkDude hopes the lack of penguins is just an oversight
19:21 < AndIrc_> No need to repeat "ubuntu" twice before"california team" (logo)
19:21 < eps> Maybe just delete the second Ubuntu
19:22 < pleia2> "California Team"
19:22 < akk> Good point, the second Ubuntu doesn't need to be there
19:22 < jledbetter> can just move it to the left and span with white space of none
19:22 < MarkDude> +1 getting rid of 2nd ubuntu
19:22 < akk> assuming that the ubuntu logo above it has alt text of "Ubuntu" for accessibility
19:22 < pleia2> jtatum: I am not sure where that text is in the theme, wanna update it?
19:22 < jledbetter> But css design by committee is crazy :)
19:22 < jtatum> updated
19:22 < AndIrc_> Ah, I am erichammond in disguise.
19:22 < grantbow> lol
19:22 < pleia2> oh, hi erichammond :)
19:23 < jdeslip> Hurray another android user
19:23 < pleia2> ok, how does that look?
19:23 < pleia2> (thanks jtatum!)
19:23 < jdeslip> beautiful!
19:23 < pleia2> we probably want our cute bear logo down in the body text somewhere
19:23 < jdeslip> This is officially the most productive meeting ever ;)
19:24 < pleia2> we have an "about" page but we might get rid of the "about" page and move the text to the main page
19:24 < pleia2> or change the main page to the "blog" but we haven't decided whether we actually want a blog
19:24 < pleia2> (one more place to update, ugh!)
19:25 < jledbetter> Might want to beware of everything having its own tab. Very tight. Maybe lump up stuff more?
19:25 < jdeslip> It seems like the planet would mostly supplaint that 
19:25 < jledbetter> jdeslip, +1
19:25 < pleia2> yeah and we've discussed some options for planet too, we think in the long run we want an app engine thing, but we're not sure how quickly we can get that going
19:25 < pleia2> so we might go with venus for now, still talking with dragon about it
19:25 < DarkwingDuck> Why not use the app engine that planet.ubuntu uses?
19:26 < grantbow> is the source available for app engine?
19:26 < jtatum> planet.ubuntu  doesn't use app engine
19:26 < pleia2> planet.ubuntu uses planet planet
19:26 < pleia2> venus is a better version of planet planet
19:26 < pleia2> (kinda)
19:26 < DarkwingDuck> https://github.com/rubys/venus/
19:27 < DarkwingDuck> It's not that bad and it's in Ruby... bonus for that.
19:27 < pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Planet has some ideas that people have already put up
19:27 < jtatum> it's in php :)
19:27 < DarkwingDuck> and py
19:27 < jtatum> sorry python
19:28 < AndIrc_> For a community site, I recommend using the most common, simple technologies available, so maintenance can easily be picked up by others as necessary.
19:28 < pleia2> jledbetter: regarding lumping stuff up more, I'm not sure what you mean, drop some of the links, or..?
19:28  * eps wants you to make sure the site is viewable on a Netbook without horizontal scrolling
19:28 < pleia2> looks fine on my netbook
19:28 < grantbow> mobile +1
19:29 < jledbetter> pleia2, Combine to larger categories maybe. One of the drawbacks to horizontal tab navigation with each being so specific.
19:29 < pleia2> unfortunately if it doesn't work we'll have to scrap the community theme altogether and restart from scratch
19:29 < pleia2> or we could offer an alternate mobile version
19:29 < eps> Your screenshot was 1366x768. Most Netbooks are more like 1024x600.
19:30 < jledbetter> Hm
19:30 < pleia2> eps: the screenshot has my whole desktop, it looks fine on my 1024 netbook :)
19:30 < DarkwingDuck> works in my netbook
19:30 < pleia2> and that screenshot is a different computer
19:30 < jdeslip> By the way, I just got done implementing some mobile (Android/iOS) wordpress themes/plugins that look good.
19:30 < jledbetter> 980px fixed is what it looks like
19:30 < akk> Ideally it should work even on narrower screens, like 800
19:31 < pleia2> jdeslip: ooh, cool
19:31 < grantbow> can we do an email thread for reporting how the site looks on different browsers and platforms?
19:31 < pleia2> akk: it's fixed width, it won't shrink :(
19:31 < jledbetter> 800? oy :)
19:31 < jtatum> the ubuntu theme is open source. patches welcome :) lp:ubuntu-website
19:31 < jdeslip> Not sure if we want mobile edition.  But check out www.berkeleylug.com on you phone if want to see what is possible.
19:31 < pleia2> jdeslip: cool
19:31 < grantbow> jtatum: cool
19:31 < jledbetter> jtatum, The new design is fixed. Do they really welcome liquid/fluid?
19:31 < pleia2> based on ubuntu-website discussions they don't want non-fixed width
19:32 < jledbetter> That's what I heard too. Just checking.
19:32 < grantbow> fixed with browser detection maybe?
19:32 < eps> please don't go there
19:32 < jledbetter> lol
19:32 < pleia2> grantbow: that gets very complicated
19:32 < grantbow> I am not sure what's possible in the theme
19:33 < DarkwingDuck> :)
19:33 < grantbow> yeah
19:33 < DarkwingDuck> If it looks good in netbook then have a mobile theme I don't think we will have an issue
19:33 < pleia2> DarkwingDuck: +1
19:34 < jledbetter> What would the mobile theme do? Be one column?
19:34 < pleia2> I think we'd ask jdeslip to do some magic :)
19:34 < DarkwingDuck> Just an optimised theme for looking at wordpress in mobile browsers
19:34 < crashsystems> Does everyone know if the wordpress extension for presenting alternate themes when a mobile user agent is provided?
19:34 < crashsystems> of*
19:35 < pleia2> jdeslip: ah, berkeleylug.org mobile is very different from the other site! (I like it)
19:35 < grantbow> we should test on all platforms too, unfortunately :)
19:35 < eps> Does wordpress preclude the use of CSS @media rules?
19:35 < grantbow> ie, safari on various hardware, etc.
19:36 < jtatum> the wordpress theme in use is open source :)
19:36 < pleia2> yeah, now that you know how to update the hosts file, please do testing!
19:36 < jtatum> you guys have a lot of great ideas and should hook up with that project
19:36 < DarkwingDuck> If we are using the community theme there should already be a test platform.
19:36 < pleia2> it's already been vetted by the community (several locos use it) but it doesn't hurt
19:36 < pleia2> DarkwingDuck: yeah
19:36 < DarkwingDuck> (knowing how Ubuntu devs do things)
19:36 < jdeslip> Ya, mobile is generally one column.  It would be easy to mode a mobile theme for our new page I think.
19:37 < DarkwingDuck> So, we would not need to retest everything that has already been tested.
19:37 < grantbow> DarkwingDuck: good point
19:38 < pleia2> anyway, I don't want to take up much more meeting time with this, we'll be working on this in the coming weeks, and you can nudge jtatum and I any time to discuss and we'll talk about stuff in channel
19:38 < pleia2> and if anyone else wants to be on the website team with jtatum, dragon and myself, you're welcome (jdeslip?)
19:39 < grantbow> I would
19:39 < DarkwingDuck> I would if I wasn't redoing kubuntu.org this cycle
19:39 < pleia2> grantbow: ok cool
19:39 < DarkwingDuck> But, I'm good for questions...
19:39 < pleia2> grantbow: we'll talk later, I can hook you up with a wordpress login and all :)
19:39 < grantbow> kk
19:39 < dragonoid> That'd help too, DarkwingDuck
19:39 < pleia2> ok, next agenda item - somewhat related
19:39 < pleia2> Photo sharing options
19:40 < pleia2> Gallery2 on Linode
19:40 < pleia2> Flickr account of team - added benefit of being integrated with the LoCo directory, see example here: http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ie
19:40 < pleia2> currently, those are our two main options
19:40 < DarkwingDuck> +1 Flickr account
19:40 < jdeslip> Is there an app-engine option?
19:40 < pleia2> I like the flickr account too, but it's not open source :\
19:41 < pleia2> jdeslip: we need to talk to dragon about that more, I am not sure how easy it would be
19:41 < pleia2> mostly I just wanted to toss this topic out there to see what we thought about it, no decision is required tonight
19:41 < jdeslip> (Also, I would personally prefer Picasa over Flickr because that is what I and friends use...)
19:41 < DarkwingDuck> ... But then we wouldn't be responsible for the space for pictures.
19:41 < pleia2> unfortunately picasca doesn't have loco directory support
19:41 < dragonoid> Picasa++
19:41 < pleia2> err, other way around
19:42 < DarkwingDuck> http://www.plogger.org/
19:42 < pleia2> I can file a feature request bug for it though and see how it goes
19:42 < dragonoid> We can build a frontend for picasa using AppEngine.
19:42 < grantbow> is the picasa source available? lol
19:43 < jdeslip> pleia2: ya that would be great for them to implement regardless of what we choose.
19:43 < dragonoid> I'll be up for discussion about this later
19:43 < grantbow> oh, it is
19:43 < pleia2> oh wait
19:43 < grantbow> http://picasa.google.com/linux/download.html
19:43 < pleia2> picasca is supported by the loco directory!
19:43 < grantbow> oh, that's client
19:43 < pleia2> grantbow: that's the client, not picascaweb
19:44 < pleia2> dragonoid: maybe you are right, can you look into app engine options?
19:44 < jdeslip> Ya, I don't think Picasa or Flickr or open-source (on the web at least).  (I just prefer picasa better because it is what i already use)
19:44 < dragonoid> pleia2: yes
19:44 < pleia2> so app engine, gallery2 (open source), picasa (closed), flickr (close)
19:44 < pleia2> +d
19:45 < pleia2> ok cool, dragonoid will look into app engine stuff, and we'll revisit this :)
19:45 < pleia2> any other things before we wrap up the meeting?
19:45 < DarkwingDuck> I'd like to send out an update really quick
19:46 < jledbetter> good job getting the site going :)
19:46 < DarkwingDuck> Update on the robots.txt for the indexing of the IRC logs... The IRCC has the bug and they are talking with Canonical IS people seeing if this is something that can/will be done for the ubuntu-us-ca team
19:46 < jdeslip> jledbetter +1
19:46 < grantbow> agreed. great work on the site
19:47 < DarkwingDuck> They are working on it and as soon as I find anything out I will bounce it off the ML
19:47 < pleia2> thanks DarkwingDuck :)
19:48 < grantbow> great, thanks
19:48 < DarkwingDuck> Next meeting on the 19th of December... It will be the last meeting of 2010
19:49 < pleia2> ok, thanks for coming everyone!
</pre>
