{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, October 7th, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre> 19:01 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:01 < nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for October 7th, 2018.
19:02 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18October07
19:02 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:02 < pleia2> on Wednesday we have an Ubuntu Hour in SF http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3804-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
19:02 < nhaines> \o/
19:03 < nhaines> That'll be fun.  How's the attendence?
19:03 < pleia2> I'm not sure I'll be able to make it (travel early the next morning) but some folks will be there :) and right after there's a Bay Area Debian Dinner http://bad.debian.net/pipermail/bad/2018-October/003820.html
19:03 < pleia2> we haven't had one in some time
19:04 < nhaines> Well I hope it inspires more participation.  Ubuntu Hours are fun and easy to host.  :)
19:04 < pleia2> I think we had 5-6 last time though, they're pretty chill
19:04 < nhaines> According to my blog, Ubuntu 18.10 will be released on October 18th, which is pretty cool!
19:05 < nhaines> I think we'll get the new community theme by default!  Sadly I can't use it because I run Unity.
19:06 < pleia2> hah :)
19:06 < nhaines> The community-contributed wallpapers were announced, and they are pretty awesome: https://www.nhaines.com/blog/2018/09/28/announcing-ubuntu-18.10-free-culture-showcase-winners/
19:07 < nhaines> I'm going to try and work with Canonical about doing something more with the Free Culture Showcase this next cycle so we can be more lively when the LTS comes up.  Maybe prizes and things!  So that should be pretty fun.
19:08  * pleia2 nods
19:08 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:09 < nhaines> Any big announcements?  I guess technically the FCS stuff goes here.  :)
19:09 < pleia2> nothing from here, would you like me to follow up on list about UbuCon?
19:10 < nhaines> Ooh, yes please!  I need to update the website.  (I needed to last week.)
19:10 < pleia2> will do
19:10  * nhaines scribbles that down.
19:10 < nhaines> Thank you.  :)
19:10 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:10 < nhaines> There is no agenda for this meeting.
19:10 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:11 < nhaines> Well, there's been a lot of chatter on the ML about meeting frequencies and social media accounts, sort of cross-topic though.  :)
19:12 < nhaines> I set up Mastodon in an lxc container, and I was angry the whole time and it doesn't start.  So I'll have to do the VM thing later.  :)
19:12 < pleia2> lol
19:13 < nhaines> The lack of traction with identi.ca/status.net made me not want to invest in other similar efforts until they pick up steam, so I'll be looking into that.  But there's no reason we shouldn't  have a mastodon presence, if only to mirror our Twitter feed.
19:13 < pleia2> we don't want to get into the business of running our own, resources aside, moderation is a nightmare
19:13 < nhaines> That's good to know.  It's heavier than I hoped, and I thought a closed (registration) server might be interesting.  Or something to pitch to Canonical if Mastodon supports OpenID.  But yeah, I have no time for moderation.
19:14 < nhaines> So I've been sort of thinking about the feedback received and I'll chime in in more detail soon.
19:14 < pleia2> I do hope we can at least find content for the existing resources
19:15 < nhaines> I think with a dedicated, fresher volunteer (or two) we should be able to make the feeds useful, if not quite lively
19:16 < nhaines> But I guess we'll see.
19:16 < nhaines> Any other business for tonight?
19:16 < pleia2> I think I'm set
19:16 < nhaines> Me too!  Okay, so I'll see everyone again October 21st then.  :)
19:17 < nhaines> Let the edited logs show that I did not misspell "too" in the message above and certainly did not edit the log before posting to the wiki.
19:17 < nhaines> Thanks, everyone.  :)
19:17 < nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
