{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, January 16th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PST ===

==== Original Agenda ====
# Scale9x planning (continued)
# Team image sharing options (continued)

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent.

Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:00] <pleia2> meeting time, who's about?
[03:00] <akk> hi
[03:00] <jledbetter> jtatum is
[03:00] <rww> \o
[03:01] <pleia2> cool, so let's jump right in
[03:01] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11January16
[03:01] <jtatum> hi
[03:02] <pleia2> [TOPIC] Scale9x planning (continued)
[03:02] <pleia2> so DarkwingDuck was looking into how many scale volunteer badges we get, I think it's going to be around 4
[03:02] <pleia2> once we know we can decide who all gets them (I already bought my ticket, I know some others have too)
[03:03] <DarkwingDuck> I'm still waiting for Joe to get back to me on that.
[03:03] <pleia2> the wiki is coming together nicely :) https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale9x
[03:03] <pleia2> ok cool
[03:03] <DarkwingDuck> I think he is waiting on Gareth who is waiting on someone else.
[03:03] <DarkwingDuck> :D
[03:03] <pleia2> oh, and DarkwingDuck has the conference pack!
[03:03] <pleia2> from canonical
[03:04] <DarkwingDuck> Oh yeah, I wanted to ask about something in that.
[03:04] <DarkwingDuck> We have 2 T-shirts and 2 hats.
[03:04] <pleia2> t-shirt sizes?
[03:04] <DarkwingDuck> But we also have the "Offical Ununtu Guide"
[03:04] <DarkwingDuck> L and XL
[03:04]  * pleia2 nods
[03:04] <DarkwingDuck> I was thinking
[03:04] <DarkwingDuck> Maybe not for money but, we might want to have a raffel for the book.
[03:05] <DarkwingDuck> Raffle
[03:05] <DarkwingDuck> or however.
[03:05] <DarkwingDuck> This way we can have a bit of publicity for the booth
[03:05] <akk> A raffle is a good idea.
[03:05] <pleia2> any thoughts on how that would work?  collect email addresses and arrange shipping after the conference?
[03:06] <DarkwingDuck> Nope
[03:06] <akk> Might get people coming back to the booth and sending their friends there.
[03:06] <DarkwingDuck> Raffle tickets at the booth
[03:06] <DarkwingDuck> then on saturday or something we can give it away
[03:06] <pleia2> how would we find the people with the tickets? tell them to come back at $time?
[03:06] <DarkwingDuck> lemme grab my list of what was in the pack
[03:06] <akk> Maybe give it away at lunchtime, or some prearranged time like that?
[03:06] <grantbow> we had good results from that for a previous OSCON
[03:06] <DarkwingDuck> Yes
[03:07] <DarkwingDuck> we have 25 Ubuntu button badges
[03:07] <DarkwingDuck> 25 sticker sheets
[03:07] <jledbetter> badges are what go on computer, right?
[03:07] <DarkwingDuck> 55 Aubergine lanyards
[03:07] <DarkwingDuck> No
[03:08] <DarkwingDuck> They are pins
[03:08] <jledbetter> Ah ok
[03:08] <DarkwingDuck> Small ones
[03:08] <grantbow> there's a url that lists this stuff somewhere
[03:08] <pleia2> yeah, should be A: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAtConferences
[03:09] <jledbetter> Sometimes 'badge' is the sticker on a computer, I thought. Just was clarifying. :)
[03:09] <DarkwingDuck> These are the lanyards
[03:09] <DarkwingDuck> http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=722
[03:09] <jledbetter>  Neat
[03:10] <DarkwingDuck> Anyway, I have not recieved any CDs for the event.
[03:10] <pleia2> I think the raffle idea is a good one
[03:10] <pleia2> anyone have any other thoughts regarding planning for now?
[03:10] <DarkwingDuck> I need to order those tonight actually.
[03:10] <pleia2> I am pretty sure the CDs are the regular loco ones
[03:11] <pleia2> or do they send a whole second pack for a conference?
[03:11] <DarkwingDuck> They send a conference pack AFAIK
[03:11] <rww> conference packs don't include CDs
[03:11] <rww> unless they changed it. iono.
[03:11] <DarkwingDuck> Robert, they sent us a HUGE pack of CDs last year didn't they?
[03:11] <grantbow> more for events
[03:11] <DarkwingDuck> I also got like 100 for CampKDE too
[03:12] <rww> DarkwingDuck: that wasn't part of the conference pack, that was through shipit
[03:12] <pleia2> alright, I'll reply to the shipit contact and ask if we can get some
[03:12] <rww> (and use my nick so I get pinged, am multitasking right now)
[03:12] <rww> UbuntuAtConferences page says to go through shipit, so I guess it's still the same
[03:12] <pleia2> yeah
[03:12] <DarkwingDuck> Okay
[03:12] <DarkwingDuck> I'll do that now...
[03:12] <DarkwingDuck> how many of each do we want?
[03:13] <pleia2> DarkwingDuck: the team contact has to, that's me
[03:13] <DarkwingDuck> Oh, okay
[03:13] <DarkwingDuck> https://shipit.ubuntu.com/specialrequest
[03:13]  * pleia2 nods
[03:13] <DarkwingDuck> Anyway,
[03:14] <pleia2> ok, sounds good
[03:14] <grantbow> good work
[03:14] <pleia2> oh, I created this, should link to the wiki: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/637/detail/
[03:15] <DarkwingDuck> I was thinking as well... Do we want to do an UbuCon again this year?
[03:15] <pleia2> I don't know that we have time to schedule it
[03:15]  * eps perks up
[03:15] <pleia2> but if you want to look into it, I'll commit to speaking or leading a session or something
[03:15] <DarkwingDuck> I can talk to Gareth/Joe and see
[03:16] <pleia2> ok
[03:16] <DarkwingDuck> What we did last year was a bit of a intro to Ubuntu and then lightning talks
[03:16] <pleia2> cool
[03:16] <DarkwingDuck> We had what, 40, 50 people last year rww?
[03:16] <rww> I forget, sorry. There are photos somewhere that'd show the number of people.
[03:17] <jledbetter> Maybe UbuCon uncon?
[03:17] <DarkwingDuck> It was crazy, I do remember we ran out of chairs in that room.
[03:18] <DarkwingDuck> Nathan might remember more.
[03:19] <pleia2> ok, well let's look into it, I'm totally in if we can pull it off :)
[03:19] <DarkwingDuck> :)
[03:19] <pleia2> shall we move on agenda-wise?
[03:20] <Flannel> DarkwingDuck: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/10March07 says 40-50
[03:20] <DarkwingDuck> Sure :)
[03:20] <DarkwingDuck> Ahh thanks Flannel
[03:20] <pleia2> [TOPIC] Team image sharing options (continued)
[03:20] <pleia2> ok, so we started a thread about this on the list and didn't get much discussion
[03:20] <pleia2> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2011-January/001547.html
[03:22] <pleia2> it's a good thing I have to charge my Nook before I can use it, otherwise this meeting would be hard
[03:22]  * pleia2 peers at charging light periodically
[03:22] <akk> jdeslip's mention of commandline support got me interested in picasa ... I was leaning toward flickr before that, just because it seems like "everybody uses it".
[03:22] <pleia2> yeah, so both flickr and picasa have command line ability (they both have APIs, so this isn't surprising)
[03:23] <rww> pleia2: It took about 30 minutes on AC before it was usable for me. USB charge would be longer.
[03:23] <pleia2> :)
[03:23] <akk> I have no patience ... I was using the archos after about 15 minutes of charge, esp. after I found out a full USB charge would take ~8 hrs.
[03:24] <pleia2> oh, and fwiw we already have an ubuntu_us_ca gmail account
[03:24] <pleia2> you don't need to log in to google to see picasaweb stuff, right?
[03:24] <grantbow> underscores weren't allowed
[03:25] <pleia2> oh, maybe that's why the password isn't working for me
[03:25] <grantbow> maybe
[03:25] <pleia2> ubuntu-us-ca then?
[03:25] <akk> Anybody have a sample picasa image url to make sure of that? I think it might need javascript.
[03:25] <grantbow> ubuntuusca@
[03:25] <grantbow> I don't think dashes were allowed either
[03:25] <pleia2> grantbow: aha! success :)
[03:26] <grantbow> :)
[03:26] <pleia2> akk: http://picasaweb.google.com/tuxwingsgroup/CLS2011#
[03:26] <pleia2> maybe also test this (link to a specific photo): http://picasaweb.google.com/tuxwingsgroup/CLS2011#5562276213074679506
[03:27] <rww> "You are using a browser that is not fully supported. Some features may not work too well, but you are welcome to have a look around."
[03:27] <pleia2> rww: what browser?
[03:27] <rww> Konqueror
[03:27] <akk> Yeah, it requires javascript from ggpht.com and googlestatic.com
[03:27] <jledbetter> haha
[03:27] <akk> and you have to allow them one at a time in noscript
[03:27] <rww> seems to be working better than the average Google product does on it, though.
[03:27] <pleia2> ok, how does this work for everyone http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/5350732785/
[03:27] <grantbow> I wonder what flickr requires
[03:28] <akk> which makes me lean back toward flickr, which works even in non-js browsers
[03:28]  * pleia2 grins at rww 
[03:28] <rww> flickr works fine for me. better than flash works with my glasses, anyway >.>
[03:28] <DarkwingDuck> It works in Rekonq
[03:28] <pleia2> hehe
[03:28] <akk> yep, pleia2's flickr link works fine with all the JS turned off.
[03:28] <grantbow> +1 accessible data
[03:29] <pleia2> yeah, I'm leaning to flickr now too
[03:29] <akk> (there is a subtle header at the top saying "to take full advantage of flickr" I should enable JS)
[03:29] <rww> I'd personally prefer flickr, because I remember it working better when I was using NoScript, too.
[03:29] <pleia2> I find the interface of flickr easier, but that's pretty subjective
[03:29] <akk> I don't mind turning on JS, but it really annoys me when I'm presented with a list of 6 sites and have to guess which ones I really need to see the pictures.
[03:29]  * pleia2 nods
[03:29] <akk> Sites that just have JS from one source aren't so bad, but picasa has a bunch.
[03:30] <pleia2> yeah, that's pretty annoying
[03:31] <pleia2> jdeslip is our picasa champion, but upon talking with him he's ok with it going to flickr
[03:32] <pleia2> I am thinking we just decide to go with flickr now unless anyone else has opinions either way
[03:32] <jledbetter> +1 flickr
[03:32] <pleia2> +1
[03:32] <grantbow> +1
[03:32] <DarkwingDuck> +1 Image hosting
[03:32] <DarkwingDuck> :P
[03:32] <pleia2> hehe
[03:32] <DarkwingDuck> +1 flickr
[03:32] <jledbetter> lol
[03:33] <akk> +1
[03:34] <pleia2> ok, I think we'll just link it to our gmail account (creating a yahoo account is silly)
[03:34] <pleia2> now... name? ubuntucalifornia? ubuntuusca? ubuntu-california?
[03:35] <akk> california, not usca
[03:35] <akk> hyphen if it's allowed
[03:35] <pleia2> the hyphen is allowed
[03:36] <DarkwingDuck> the-ubuntu-california-local-community-team... or ubuntu-california is good
[03:36] <pleia2> lol
[03:36] <grantbow> it's all loco
[03:37] <grantbow> lol
[03:37] <pleia2> and many of us are too
[03:37] <DarkwingDuck> Being a northern mexico guy (San Diego) the loco always makes me laugh
[03:37] <pleia2> even living in the northeast it's funny, spanish is pretty pervasive in the US
[03:38] <pleia2> well, I'm cool with ubuntu-california too
[03:38] <DarkwingDuck> I live 15 miles south of San Diego city... I am really close to mexico
[03:38] <grantbow> I disagee strongly with ubuntu-california
[03:38] <grantbow> fwiw
[03:38]  * pleia2 nods
[03:38] <pleia2> noted
[03:39] <jledbetter> grantbow, no hyphen or prefer 'loco'?
[03:39] <DarkwingDuck> grantbow: you have another idea?
[03:39] <grantbow> there's no good solution to all the issues involved
[03:39] <grantbow> the naming has been a mess and will continue to be it seems
[03:39] <DarkwingDuck> :)
[03:40] <akk> grantbow: What name do you prefer?
[03:40] <DarkwingDuck> So, aginst ubuntu-california without another option given?
[03:40] <pleia2> in https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2011-January/001540.html grantbow clarifies some of his naming scheme ideas
[03:40] <grantbow> ubuntu-us-ca if it's a choice since the oldest resources are named this and we can't change them.
[03:40] <eps> I'm in favor of maintaining consistent branding.
[03:41] <grantbow> including this channel
[03:41] <pleia2> launchpad isn't named that
[03:41] <jledbetter> really not a huge fan of hyphens but get that it's common here so will go for whatev
[03:41] <grantbow> pleia2: correct
[03:41] <akk> I dislike -us-ca myself, but for a flickr name it doesn't matter that much, most flickr names are things like twelveblearyeyedsardines
[03:42] <pleia2> yeah, and people just click links anyway
[03:42] <akk> nobody's going to be typing it in, or judging us based on it
[03:42] <DarkwingDuck> :)
[03:42] <rww> photoshoppedcatswithhorriblehdrapplication
[03:42] <pleia2> I doubt I'll ever give the flickr address, I'll just "go to ubuntucalifornia.org and click on "photos"
[03:42] <akk> Right, me too.
[03:43] <pleia2> so ubuntu-us-ca is fine with me
[03:43] <jledbetter> pleia2, ditto
[03:43] <akk> So if consistency with the official name is better, that's fine with me.
[03:43] <akk> (being -us-ca)
[03:43] <rww> I don't care either way, but it's impossible to be consistant with the official name when we have multiple official names :(
[03:43] <DarkwingDuck> I know the powers that be would like the use of ubuntu-us-ca... I have do issues with following in line with that.
[03:43] <grantbow> rww: correct
[03:43] <DarkwingDuck> rww: +1
[03:44] <eps> ubuntu-california is much stronger when marketing to end users
[03:44] <akk> Well, the powers that be could give us useful hosting if they really felt strongly about this stuff. :)
[03:44] <grantbow> eps: depends which end users
[03:44] <eps> not geeks and not bureaucrats
[03:44] <akk> I can't imagine an end user who would prefer -us-ca or find it more readable.
[03:45] <pleia2> well, ubuntu-us-ca is shorter, so that's nice
[03:46] <grantbow> I feel that giving non geeks a clue as to the structure of the worldwide efforts is useful
[03:46] <pleia2> ok, well we know what the issues are, do we want to go with ubuntu-us-ca? or vote between that or ubuntu-california?
[03:46] <rww> for what it's worth, the coin I just flipped says ubuntu-us-ca.
[03:47] <jledbetter> lol
[03:47] <akk> rww: :)
[03:47] <pleia2> ok, I vote for rww's coin flip
[03:47] <jledbetter> +1
[03:47] <pleia2> hehe
[03:47] <akk> +1 for the coin
[03:47] <pleia2> alright, I'm creating ubuntu-us-ca flickr now
[03:47] <jledbetter> woo hoo
[03:47] <akk> I love meetings that accomplish stuff. :)
[03:48] <DarkwingDuck> :D
[03:48] <pleia2> Signed in as 1299756ffc8a03e63a9fa003211cf87f
[03:48] <pleia2> heheh
[03:48] <pleia2> nice, yahoo
[03:49] <jtatum> hahaha
[03:49] <pleia2> alright, so we'll get access to this sorted in the coming days, and get some photos up :)
[03:49] <pleia2> [TOPIC] Announcements & everything else
[03:50] <pleia2> anything?
[03:50] <pleia2> we have some ubuntu hours coming up: http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california
[03:50] <rww> Only thing I have is that a new Xfce came out ;)
[03:51] <pleia2> yes, today! 4.8!
[03:51] <DarkwingDuck> Nice!
[03:51] <pleia2> http://www.xfce.org/about/news/?post=1295136000 :D
[03:51] <grantbow> next week I'll give noisebridge.net another batch of 40 burned 10/10 discs to give away
[03:51] <DarkwingDuck> Ohhh... oh oh oh
[03:51] <grantbow> 10.10
[03:51] <DarkwingDuck> If you have extra USB drives...
[03:52] <DarkwingDuck> Support the 11.04 release by running it on USB and submitting bug reports. :)
[03:52] <DarkwingDuck> That's my PSA
[03:52] <pleia2> hehe
[03:52] <grantbow> nice
[03:53] <DarkwingDuck> as an active Dev I can say we rely on people for this.
[03:53] <DarkwingDuck> If you have a few hours just load it up and play around... try to break it so we can fix it.
[03:54] <grantbow> zsyncing the latest images works well to keep updated too
[03:54] <akk> I wish it was easier to install ubuntu to a usb stick.
[03:54] <DarkwingDuck> unetbootin if the built in one doesn't work....
[03:54] <rww> usb-creator-gtk is easy for me, now that it works in current releases
[03:54] <rww> well, -qt. but same deal.
[03:54] <grantbow> grub2 is what I use for all my sticks
[03:54] <grantbow> no need to dedicate a stick to a distro
[03:54] <DarkwingDuck> KDE/Kubuntu startup disk creator work nice
[03:54] <akk> I've given up on usb-creator variants, after about 4 releases where it was a horrible failure.
[03:55] <MarkDude> grantbow, CLSwest was epic. Im sorry you could not make it. Are you feeling better?
[03:55] <akk> Why can't ubuntu just make an image you can put on a usb stick, like fedora does?
[03:55] <pleia2> yes, grantbow we missed you at cls west!
[03:55] <grantbow> MarkDude: thanks, we'll talk after the meeting
[03:55] <DarkwingDuck> http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/natty/alpha1
[03:55] <rww> akk: Debian started doing that very recently. I'm hoping it carries over to Ubuntu soon.
[03:55] <DarkwingDuck> There is a link to get Alpha 1
[03:55] <grantbow> pleia2: thanks
[03:56] <grantbow> anymore announcements?
[03:56] <pleia2> I don't think so
[03:56] <pleia2> http://www.flickr.com/photos/58412771@N02/
[03:56] <rww> ( http://blog.einval.com/2011/01/07#isohybrid_CDs )
[03:56] <pleia2> I wonder if it'll create an ubuntu-us-ca url? now I'm concerned :)
[03:56] <akk> pleia2: "1299756ffc8a03e63a9fa003211cf87f doesn't have anything available to you."
[03:57] <pleia2> akk: yeah, that's what I meant above :)
[03:57] <pleia2> 19:48:37 < pleia2> Signed in as 1299756ffc8a03e63a9fa003211cf87f
[03:58] <pleia2> aahh, it's in setup
[03:59] <pleia2> http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntu-us-ca
[03:59] <pleia2> woo
[03:59] <DarkwingDuck> Anything else to the meeting?
[03:59] <DarkwingDuck> Going Once
[03:59] <pleia2> I think that's it
[04:00] <DarkwingDuck> Going Twice...
[04:00] <jledbetter> sold?
[04:00] <DarkwingDuck> Thank you for attending
[04:00] <DarkwingDuck> now, off to my other meeting
[04:00]  * DarkwingDuck waves
[04:00] <grantbow> Thanks for participating everyone
[04:00] <jtatum> good meeting
[04:00] <pleia2> thanks everyone :)
</pre>
