{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, October 19th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Ubuntu 14.10 Release Parties

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:01] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:01] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Oct 20 02:01:01 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:01] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:01] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting?
[02:01] <jyo> o/
[02:01] <nhaines> _o/
[02:01] <DonkeyHotei> \\o
[02:01]  * eps waves
[02:02] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14October19
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14October19 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:02] <pleia2> #topic Ubuntu 14.10 Release Parties
[02:03] <nhaines> I'm all for them.
[02:03] <pleia2> rww updated our Projects page, so we now have a https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UtopicRelease
[02:03] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UtopicRelease - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:03] <DonkeyHotei> yey!
[02:03]  * pleia2 edits real quick to add rsvp info
[02:04] <pleia2> there we go
[02:05] <jyo> :D
[02:05] <pleia2> jyo: any comments?
[02:07] <jyo> Should be a fun event. Confirmed that the food is veg and gluten-free friendly. Might need to figure out how to give out these graciously donated (and signed!) books but we'll manage.
[02:07] <pleia2> \o/
[02:07] <pleia2> thanks jyo
[02:08] <eps> Pizza?
[02:08] <DonkeyHotei> there is such a thing as gluten-free pizza
[02:08] <pleia2> there is gluten free pizza :) but they told us they'd make sure the gluten free folks are taken care of
[02:09] <pleia2> not sure exactly how, but the event folks at Mozilla know what they're doing
[02:09] <nhaines> They get celery sticks and water.
[02:09] <DonkeyHotei> Pizza Guys even delivers it, but no one ever orders it
[02:09] <jyo> Platters are generally fairly diverse and accomodating.
[02:09] <eps> nhaines: ew, yuck
[02:10] <eps> Pizza is nature's perfect food. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tOkCgAwhh9U
[02:10] <darthrobot> Title: [The Chemistry of Pizza - Reactions - YouTube]
[02:10] <DonkeyHotei> eps: i don't think nhaines will be at mozilla
[02:10] <nhaines> I will not be.
[02:11] <eps> DonkeyHotei: They have video conferencing. He can eat his own celery.
[02:11] <DonkeyHotei> yey!
[02:11] <pleia2> so if folks can share the link with others in the bay area who may want to come, please do :) http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2912-san-francisco-utopic-release-party/
[02:11] <darthrobot> Title: [San Francisco Utopic Release Party | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:12] <pleia2> I've forwarded to balug and berkeleylug
[02:12] <DonkeyHotei> i was the first to register (after jyo)
[02:12] <pleia2> sf-lug's list is still down
[02:12] <DonkeyHotei> it will likely stay down indefinitely
[02:13] <pleia2> heh
[02:13] <eps> Is Rick OK?
[02:13] <pleia2> he's very active on svlug
[02:13] <eps> I'll take that as a yes.
[02:13] <pleia2> I haven't kept up with the status of his network restoration though
[02:13] <DonkeyHotei> eps: he is, the ethernet cabling in his house isn't
[02:14] <pleia2> jyo: still maybe need local help for the event?
[02:18] <pleia2> alrighty
[02:18] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[02:18] <pleia2> anything else anyone?
[02:20] <nhaines> Well, I've noticed there's no new wallpaper for utopic.
[02:21] <DonkeyHotei> also, the lack of release parties anywhere else in the 3rd-largest state
[02:28] <pleia2> yeah, it's a pretty quiet release
[02:28] <DonkeyHotei> not LTS
[02:29] <DonkeyHotei> i don't think i'll upgrade to it
[02:29] <pleia2> I think we can wrap up
[02:29] <pleia2> thanks everyone
[02:29] <pleia2> #endmeetin
[02:29] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
