{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, February 24th, 2019, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. <nowiki>[[https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x | Southern California Linux Expo 17x]]</nowiki>
  a. Add your event information here.
1. Announcements
   a. Add your announcement here.
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale17x | SCALE 17x]]</nowiki> planning
# Add your agenda item here.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you there!

==== Meeting logs ====

<pre> 19:06 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:06 < nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for February 24th, 2019.
19:07 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is availabe at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/19February24
19:09 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:09 < nhaines> We're just under two weeks until SCALE 17X!
19:10 < nhaines> Ubuntu California is facilitating UbuCon at SCALE as well as the Ubuntu booth this year.  https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x
19:15 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:15 < nhaines> Any announcements before we go on to our agenda?
19:24 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:24 < nhaines> Okay, so tonight we only have one item on the agenda.
19:24 < nhaines> this is our last chance to get together in real time to plan for SCALE 17x.
19:30 < nhaines> At the moment, we don't have any booth volunteers.  We have two peole who contacted me about irregular schedules, which I appreciate, but at the moment I am assuming I'll be the only one running the booth.
19:31 < nhaines> Luckily, I'm prepared to do so.  But if anyone can volunteer to participate and wants their pass comped, they should email me immediately.
19:31 < nhaines> You can also sign up here and I'll be notified: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale17x
19:31 < nhaines> Other than that, there are no updates for SCALE.
19:32 < nhaines> And I do apologize for the delayed notice this year, but information from SCALE and Canoncial have been late as well, and I always like to try to nail things down before I announce them.
19:32 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:32 < nhaines> Is there any other business before we break for the month?
19:38 < nhaines> Alrighty, I'll take the SCALE stuff to the mailing list then.
19:38 < nhaines> Everyone have a great February, I'll see some of you at SCALE, and for the rest of you we'll meet again on March 17th!
19:38 < nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
