{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, October 18th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ReVerificationApplication2015|Ubuntu California team reverification]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale14x|Ubucon Summit at SCaLE 14X]]</nowiki>

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 02:00:04 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:00:04 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Oct 19 02:00:04 2015 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:00:04 <darthrobot`> 
 02:00:04 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:00:12 <nhaines> Welcome to tonight's Ubuntu California team meeting.
 02:00:20 <nhaines> The agenda can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15October18
 02:00:20 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15October18 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:00:32 <nhaines> Before we begin, can we get a show of hands to see who's here?
 02:00:48 <george_> George Mulak here
 02:02:07 <nhaines> Okay, we have two very important agenda items today.
 02:02:17 <nhaines> Before we get to that...
 02:02:21 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:02:31 <nhaines> Does anyone have any upcoming events they'd like to talk about?
 02:03:08 <george_> We're going to talk about SCaLE booth, yes?
 02:03:15 <nhaines> Later, yes.
 02:03:20 <george_> OK
 02:03:58 <nhaines> I haven't heard about the 15.10 release party up in San Francisco lately.  Hopefully it's all working out.
 02:04:21 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:04:31 <nhaines> Does anyone want to announce anything before we move on to the main agenda items?
 02:05:58 <george_> I am petitioning for money to remodel the computer lab featuring Ubuntu in HB
 02:06:38 <ianorlin> HB means?
 02:06:44 <nhaines> ianorlin: Huntington Beach.
 02:07:07 <george_> So sorry, Huntington Beach.  I am part of a lab there
 02:07:10 <nhaines> That's good news.  Check Microcenter for inexpensive, refurbished office machines that ought to handle Ubuntu just fine.
 02:07:23 <george_> Thanks.
 02:07:29 <nhaines> At this point I'd probably recommend Ubuntu 15.10 with a planned 16.04 LTS upgrade.
 02:07:47 <nhaines> Reasoning: http://www.nhaines.com/blog/2014/01/03/which-version-of-ubuntu-do-i-install/
 02:07:47 <darthrobot`> Title: [Which version of Ubuntu do I install? | Nathan Haines]
 02:07:48 <george_> Thanks, good idea
 02:08:42 <nhaines> Keep us informed.  :)
 02:08:54 <george_> Will do.  I am pretty excited.
 02:08:58 <nhaines> In other news, Ubuntu 15.10 will be released on Thursday, October 22nd.
 02:09:22 <nhaines> So that's coming up this week.
 02:09:45 <nhaines> #topic Ubuntu California LoCo reverification application
 02:10:07 <nhaines> It's been two years since the LoCo Council last reviewed Ubuntu California, so that means we're up for review again to keep "verified" status.
 02:10:47 <nhaines> This is important because it signifies a sustained contribution to the Ubuntu project, and allows us to receive funding and swag for events.
 02:11:02 <george_> Can you refresh my memory about that process, please?
 02:11:05 <nhaines> The reverification application is availble here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/ReVerificationApplication2015
 02:11:05 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/ReVerificationApplication2015 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:11:17 <george_> OK, thanks.
 02:11:28 <nhaines> The full process is outlined here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/TeamVerificationGuidelines
 02:11:28 <darthrobot`> Title: [LoCoCouncil/TeamVerificationGuidelines - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:11:58 <nhaines> Reverification is more of a health check to make sure we're on track and continuing to be active.
 02:12:27 <ianorlin> is there a reason that the google+ page is not listed
 02:12:45 <nhaines> ianorlin: because I don't know about it.  Feel free to add it.
 02:13:16 <nhaines> The next Local Community Council meeting is on Tuesday, and I've added it to their agenda here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
 02:13:16 <darthrobot`> Title: [LoCoCouncil/Agenda - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:14:46 <george_> iamorlin:  Can you help with the navigation to google+ page?  Please?
 02:15:12 <nhaines> I'm on the LoCo Council, but I will abstain from the vote on our team.
 02:16:13 <nhaines> Does anybody have any questions about the process?
 02:16:54 <ianorlin> https://plus.google.com/u/0/113937347200810618664/about is the page
 02:16:54 <darthrobot`> [R: plus.google.com] Title: [Ubuntu California - About - Google+]
 02:16:55 <george_> I'll be the dummy here I guess.  Vote for what exactly.  I haven't had time to read the process
 02:17:12 <george_> Thank you darthrobot
 02:17:31 <nhaines> After a LoCo team has been verified as active, the LoCo Council does a health check every 2 years to ensure that it has remained active.
 02:17:57 <nhaines> On Tuesday, the LoCo Council will vote to determine whether Ubuntu California should remain a verified active LoCo team.
 02:17:58 <ianorlin> so it is like renewing drivers license but every two years
 02:18:05 <nhaines> Something like that, yes.
 02:18:39 <george_> I see.  That is good.
 02:18:40 <nhaines> Verified teams qualify for more comprehensive conference packs, which is really about the only difference between verified and unverified teams.
 02:19:20 <george_> Well we seem pretty active with SCaLE and Ubuntu hours and releases....
 02:19:50 <nhaines> I'd like to see us more active with release parties.  But maybe we can talk to SGVLUG about that.  They're going pretty strong.  :)
 02:20:01 <nhaines> Anyway, I don't anticipate any issues.
 02:20:35 <nhaines> Any other questions?
 02:20:37 <george_> Do you thing San Gabriel LUG will do them?
 02:20:50 <george_> The releases that is?
 02:21:30 <nhaines> I think they might.  They meet monthly anyway, so I'm sure they won't mind a presentation on the new Ubuntu features.  Especially since 16.04 LTS should have some cool convergence stuff to look forward towards 16.10.
 02:21:53 <nhaines> I'll talk to OCLUG, too, but I expect to have another release party and installfest for 16.04 LTS too.
 02:22:02 <george_> That is great news!  I'll have to be more active with them.
 02:22:10 <jbermudes> We have a strong contingency of SGVLUG members that meet every month before the meeting to hold an Ubuntu Hour
 02:22:11 <nhaines> I haven't mentioned this to them yet, but they've always been up for it.  :)
 02:22:41 <nhaines> jbermudes: that's right, and that could be a nice release party even if SGVLUG itself isn't.
 02:22:42 <george_> I didn't realize that.  Have you been going up there?
 02:23:05 <nhaines> That Pasadena Ubuntu Hour is a lot of fun and I highly recommend it to anyone in the area.  :)
 02:23:48 <george_> nhaines:  when does the pasadena ubuntu hour happen?
 02:23:48 <ianorlin> It is a bit of a drive for me might be hard to get buy in from my dad
 02:24:49 <nhaines> george_: second Tuesday of each month, from 6-7pm.
 02:24:50 <george_> iamorlin:  give me a shout out, perhaps we can work somnething out and you can tag along
 02:25:08 <jbermudes> george_: Yes. Me and Richard Gaskin are both members of SGVLUG and started the Ubuntu Hour as a sort of pre-game to the main attraction of whatever's happening at SGVLUG that night
 02:25:12 <george_> nhaines:  thanks.
 02:26:30 <george_> jbermudes:  cool, good job!
 02:26:38 <nhaines> Any other questions about the reverification process?
 02:27:18 <george_> Not right now.
 02:28:32 <nhaines> #topic Ubucon Summit at SCaLE 14X
 02:28:56 <nhaines> Okay, plans are well underway for SCaLE 14X.
 02:29:30 <nhaines> We might be getting more booth space, and I'm working with Canonical to provide Snappy Ubuntu Core-powered devices to fill up that extra space.
 02:29:53 <nhaines> We will hopefully also be showcasing phones and some of the newer capabilities there as well.
 02:30:04 <george_> Cool.  Which devices?
 02:30:34 <nhaines> Raspberry Pi 2s, hopefully some kind of robot or drone...
 02:30:38 <ianorlin> With it not being directly at a hotel could this create problems for booth setup
 02:31:00 <nhaines> Michael Hall said he wasn't sure he couldn't get one of GE's refrigerators, but if they do I said we should stock it with Ubuntu Cola to give out.
 02:31:18 <ianorlin> how are we going to move one of those?
 02:31:18 <nhaines> We were mostly joking but it would be as cool as it was funny, so we'll see how that worked out.
 02:31:27 <nhaines> They are mini fridges.
 02:31:45 <george_> They have a dock
 02:32:10 <nhaines> The venue will deal with all of that.  And setting up the booth shouldn't be any more trouble that it already is anyway.
 02:32:16 <nhaines> Should be the exact same process.
 02:32:36 <nhaines> Maybe a little easier, since this is the Pasadena Convention Center's only reason for existence.
 02:33:12 <nhaines> Ubucon Summit is also expanding to be a two-day event with two separate tracks.
 02:33:43 <george_> Very exciting
 02:34:00 <nhaines> We'll have a mass audience keynote talk for each day, and then a community track and a developer track.
 02:34:40 <george_> Great!
 02:34:47 <nhaines> Canonical is endorsing Ubuntu Summit as an official Ubuntu developer event and is sending key Ubuntu developers to attend for the developer unconference tracks, and will be sponsoring Ubuntu community members as well.
 02:35:18 <nhaines> Richard and I are still working hard to line up speakers, although we already have some promising community members.
 02:35:43 <nhaines> The theme for Ubucon Summit at SCaLE 14X will be the future of Ubuntu, and I'll be giving a talk directly after the opening keynote on that topic.
 02:35:48 <george_> Sounds good.
 02:36:09 <nhaines> But we've locked in Thursday's opening keynote speaker, thanks to philipballew approaching him earlier this year.
 02:36:24 <george_> Any idea on who is doing the keynotes yet?
 02:36:42 <nhaines> The main Ubucon announcement will hapen this week, but since Ubuntu California is helping out with Ubucon, you all get to hear it early.
 02:36:57 <nhaines> Mark Shuttleworth will be giving the opening keynote for Ubucon Summit at SCaLE 14X.
 02:37:10 <philipballew> nhaines, I only had to hold him down for a few minutes before he agreed.
 02:37:24 <george_> Wow!  That is great news!
 02:37:29 <nhaines> philipballew: that's what he gets for not having his cadre of bodyguards near at hand.  :)
 02:37:40 <george_> philipballew: is lurking lurking!  :-)
 02:37:43 <jbermudes> philipballew: Did you have to prefix your request with sudo?
 02:37:58 <philipballew> sudo come speak at scale
 02:38:00 <nhaines> jbermudes: no, because Canonical already has root on every Ubuntu box.
 02:38:18 <jbermudes> nhaines: Good point!
 02:38:23 <philipballew> I actually had to start his speaking process with systemd jbermudes
 02:38:45 <george_> philipballew:  funny.
 02:38:47 <nhaines> So Ubucon will be pre-scheduled talks on Thursday, and then a keynote or two on Friday followed by unconference sessions.
 02:39:11 <nhaines> Although I think the developer track might do unconference stuff Thursday, too, but the Canonical guys enjoy the talks too, so we'll see.
 02:39:41 <george_> When will this be publicly announced?
 02:40:02 <nhaines> We're also working with Canonical to sponsor a pre-Ubucon get together Wednesday night as well as another get together Thursday night.  (SCaLE will host their own get together Friday night).
 02:40:26 <philipballew> so many get-togethers
 02:40:26 <nhaines> Specifically, we're working on getting sponsored drink tickets.  So stay tuned.  :)
 02:40:47 <philipballew> nhaines, was it true that all these parties are at your house?
 02:40:56 <nhaines> This being a mini-UDS-style official Ubuntu summit, socialization is important, and then the unconference sessions can be business.
 02:41:12 <nhaines> philipballew: no, but it is true that I offered to collect any unused drink tickets and take care of them to... prevent litter.
 02:41:29 <philipballew> your are such a good person nhaines
 02:41:47 <nhaines> I do what I can!
 02:41:59 <nhaines> george_: David Planella was going to write up the announcement for us.
 02:42:24 <jbermudes> And for the sake of everyone coming in from out of town, Richard Gaskin is looking around to find someplace close to the venue, hopefully within walking distance
 02:42:56 <jbermudes> But if you know of anywhere nice in the Pasadena area, feel free to PM me after the meeting
 02:43:14 <philipballew> nhaines, I think that it would be good to make up a advertisement, maybe online, or a print off and different people in each part of the state can hand it our at their lugs.
 02:43:28 <philipballew> or some marketing
 02:43:30 <nhaines> And I can report that Richard and I have been meeting with SCaLE and Canonical for weekly planning calls, and SCaLE and Canonical have been incredibly helpful.
 02:43:59 <nhaines> philipballew: I think that'd be a fantastic idea.  Can you do some work in that area?  Maybe post to the mailing list or to the wiki page and get things started?
 02:44:43 <philipballew> nhaines, sure. I will email the list and ask for some help with that from people who can help with each of their lugs. Also we have a list of lugs in the state we can use.
 02:44:47 <nhaines> We're also going to need to look at ubucon.org.  I think that we want to migrate its contents to a Django and Symposion base, so we could use help with web development and design.
 02:44:57 <philipballew> there are plenty of lugs that none of us go to.
 02:45:08 <philipballew> an example is the lug in Fresno that is a good size
 02:45:11 <george_> philipballew:  Yes, thank you Phillip, cool.  Contact me and I will help as I can to call, etc.
 02:45:30 <philipballew> george_, perfect. Lets try to see what we can do
 02:45:40 <george_> philipballew:  Let's make a list and split it up even steven, OK?
 02:45:42 <nhaines> And Ubucon is part of SCaLE, so it should be on-topic for any LUG.
 02:46:06 <philipballew> yeah. I think on our wiki we have a lug list
 02:46:15 <philipballew> let me doubble check to see how out of date it is
 02:46:28 <nhaines> I'll be mirroring the official announcement on the Ubuntu California, OCLUG, and SGVLUG mailing lists once it's published.
 02:46:43 <george_> philipballew:  OK, please let me know.  Use the tierratek email address, OK/
 02:46:52 <nhaines> So keep an eye out for further information, and remember that Mark Shuttleworth's apperance has not been officially announced.
 02:47:22 <george_> Shhhhh!   :-)   LOL, like that will be a secret long.
 02:47:41 <nhaines> I'll have you know I've only told 5 people.  :)
 02:47:53 <george_> :-)
 02:48:37 <nhaines> Okay, so plenty of long term plans underway.  Hopefully a few things to chew on before then, like Ubucon publicity and web dev stuff.
 02:48:45 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:49:04 <nhaines> Does anybody else have something to add before we wrap this meeting up?
 02:49:44 <jbermudes> I suppose since the topic of SGVLUG came up earlier I should just go ahead and mention it:
 02:49:59 <philipballew> nhaines, we have a lot of lugs if we want to reach them all.
 02:50:07 <philipballew> but those can be yours I guess?
 02:50:11 <jbermudes> The SGVLUG is celebrating it's 20th anniversary on November 14th in Pasadena!
 02:50:45 <jbermudes> And so we're throwing a party and inviting anyone in the socal area to celebrate with us
 02:50:45 <nhaines> philipballew: those are the only ones I'm active or semi-active in, and they are the closest ones to SCALE itself.
 02:51:01 <george_> jbermudes:  That's news!  What are they going to do?
 02:51:09 <philipballew> la has a solid lug to right?
 02:51:10 <nhaines> jbermudes: The event looks like a lot of fun!  I'm not certain I'm going to be able to make it, which makes me sad!
 02:51:16 <nhaines> philipballew: none I'm aware of.
 02:51:36 <nhaines> http://www.sgvlug.org/2015/11/14/twentieth-anniversary/
 02:51:36 <darthrobot`> Title: [Twentieth Anniversary - SGVLUG]
 02:51:49 <jbermudes> LA has a fragmented history of LUGs. They sort of start up and then go idle every few years, which makes SGVLUG's 20th something to be proud of :)
 02:52:01 <nhaines> Haha, definitely!
 02:52:06 <philipballew> ucla has a god one
 02:52:13 <philipballew> good
 02:52:17 <nhaines> philipballew: sounds divine.
 02:52:33 <philipballew> oh, its very divine
 02:52:39 <george_> nhaines:  groooaann
 02:52:58 <jbermudes> RSVPs are required since we need a headcount for food, but feel free to sign up at our eventbrite page: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/sgvlug-20th-anniversary-party-tickets-18956875525
 02:52:58 <darthrobot`> Title: [SGVLUG 20th Anniversary Party Tickets, Pasadena | Eventbrite]
 02:53:04 <philipballew> BOOM! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UserGroupContacts/Groups
 02:53:04 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UserGroupContacts/Groups - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:53:17 <nhaines> Assuming they arrive this week like they're supposed to, I'll be providing signed copies of my book to SGVLUG to raffle off at their 20th anniversary party.  :)
 02:54:15 <jbermudes> Yes, I hope so too. Ubuntu has played a big part in the revitalization and growth of SGVLUG so we'd be happy to host Ubuntu LoCo members :)
 02:55:17 <nhaines> I look forward to getting out there again to talk, whenever that ends up happening.  :)
 02:55:20 <jbermudes> We actually help run the SCALE A/V team and most of the machines run Xubuntu IIRC.
 02:55:38 <nhaines> Ooh, I didn't know you guys used Xubuntu.
 02:55:58 <jbermudes> It's in those machines in each room that run the projectors
 02:56:39 <nhaines> I'm sure you'll be excited to see how the Pasadena Convention Center works out.  :)
 02:56:41 <ianorlin> well I don't like parking at ucla
 02:56:51 <nhaines> Okay, anything else before we wrap this meeting up?
 02:57:53 * ianorlin has nothing
 02:58:07 <george_> george_ has nothing
 02:58:10 <nhaines> In that case, I'll see everyone at our next meeting on November 1st at 7pm PST, because Daylight Savings Time ends that day.
 02:58:19 <nhaines> Happy Halloween, everyone!
 02:58:21 <nhaines> #endmeeting </pre>
