{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, November 4th, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre> 19:00 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:00 < nhaines> Welcome to the November 4th Ubuntu California meeting!  We have only two more left in the year, I think.  :)
19:00 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is availble here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18November04
19:00 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:00 < nhaines> First up, are there any events that are coming up soon?
19:01 < hangar18> nothing on my end.
19:02 < nhaines> Nothing I'm aware of. The call for papers of the Southern California Linux Expo has ended, but UbuCon is still accepting papers at the moment.
19:02 < hangar18> question!
19:02 < nhaines> Yes!
19:02 < hangar18> about those papers.
19:03 < hangar18> are those like essays that you write?
19:03 < hangar18> that explains the talk that you want to do or something?
19:03 < nhaines> They are abstracts the propose a presentation
19:03 < nhaines> Basically the same as the descriptions you see on the conference websites, with a tiny bit more detail.
19:04 < nhaines> But mostly more metadata, not so much more detailed blurbs.
19:04 < hangar18> so are they to get permission to do a presentation or details a presentation that'll take place?
19:05 < nhaines> Yes, you submit them for consideration, and then the expo committee selects the talks they want. For UbuCon, Richard Gaskin and I make the selections.
19:06 < lynorian> hello
19:06 < nhaines> Hi, lynorian.
19:06 < hangar18> oh cool. sounds like fun. If I ever come up with something interesting to discuss, I may do that.
19:06 < hangar18> Hey, lynorian.
19:06 < lynorian> oh really I did sumbit my first ubucon submission
19:07 < hangar18> lynorian: cool! Congratulations!
19:07 < nhaines> hangar18: SCALE is a great place to give your first talk!  It's a real, giant conference, but it still feels like a user group.  A great way to get experience.  Same for booth volunteering!
19:07 < nhaines> lynorian: we did receive your submission, thank you.  :)
19:07 < hangar18> I may get to volunteer this time around.\
19:08 < hangar18> i asked my wife if she'd be interested in going with me and i think she's going to.
19:08 < nhaines> That's great!  :)
19:09 < nhaines> Okay, moving on...
19:09 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:09 < nhaines> Any community announcements this week?
19:10 < hangar18> none here. still working on interview questions to hand out for future articles for full circle magazine. my free time gets divided up a lot with a lot of things.
19:10 < hangar18> oh!
19:11 < hangar18> I may have made a new contact for a future new team member on an app totally unrelated to ubuntu
19:11 < nhaines> Oh, that's good news!
19:11 < hangar18> i plugged away for our team and i think this gentleman may show up sometime
19:11 < nhaines> Send them to the mailing list, definitely.
19:12 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:12 < nhaines> The agenda is empty for this meeting.
19:12 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:12 < nhaines> So first off, I want to say how great the LoCo's Twitter feed is doing this past month.
19:12 < nhaines> Giant thanks to hangar18 for taking that on.  :)
19:13 < nhaines> You've really struck the right tone, I think.
19:13 < pleia2> I did hop on a couple times to add the scale cfp, but otherwise it's been all hangar18 :)
19:13 < pleia2> so yes, thank you \o/
19:13 < hangar18> nhaines: THANK YOU!!! I was hoping to do a good job for everyone
19:14 < hangar18> pleia2: thank you for letting me have the reins for it. I enjoy doing it a lot and I do my best to bring the tone and vibe for it.
19:14  * pleia2 thumbs up
19:14 < nhaines> I'm not on Twitter a lot, but my phone has pinged me often the past two weeks, so I've run into it.  They're great.
19:14 < nhaines> Thanks again.  :)
19:14 < nhaines> Is there any other other business this week?
19:15 < hangar18> I'd like to ask something about the tshirts I put togethe.
19:15 < hangar18> oops. together
19:15 < nhaines> Please!
19:15 < pleia2> nhaines: lmk if you or Richard need any scale help (including rounding up more speakers), I can't attend so I'd like to do *something* before the kiddo arrives in january :)
19:16 < hangar18> do you need more details about it because I'd love to get that out into the open for everybody to have the chance to buy at cost.
19:16 < nhaines> pleia2: thanks! :) We are light on submissions, as we always are late in the year. :)
19:18 < pleia2> ok, we'll chat
19:18 < nhaines> Can you send along the latest design?
19:18 < hangar18> maybe some of us can meet somewhere in the middle for a team party or something before the baby comes.
19:19 < nhaines> pleia2: I have an impossible deadling on the 15th and little time before that. If you like the shirt design, I'm good with that.
19:19 < hangar18> nhaines: yeah, I'll pull it up and get it over to you. I did change the font on the wording.
19:19 < pleia2> I don't have a strong opinion design-wise, not my forte :)
19:20 < hangar18> nhaines: ok, that's cool. I do like it so I'll get the details out to everyone
19:20 < pleia2> hangar18: alas, probably not being very mobile after thanksgiving ;)
19:20 < nhaines> Okay, I'll carve out some time.  Thank you. :)
19:21 < hangar18> pleia2: that's cool.
19:21 < nhaines> pleia2: we'll hold the party via blue hologram! :)
19:21 < pleia2> hehe
19:22 < hangar18> lmao as Luke said in "The Last Jedi," to R2, "that was a cheap move."
19:22 < hangar18> that'd be an awesome way to hang out
19:23 < nhaines> And as Johnny Depp said to Orlando Bloom in Pirates of the Carribbean, "Ah! Pirate!"
19:23 < nhaines> Okay, so I think that about wraps things up.  Thanks to everyone for attending.  :)
19:23 < hangar18> nhaines: lmao i remember that!
19:24 < hangar18> you're welcome! i'm glad i was able to be here this time. i hope everyone has a great week.
19:24 < hangar18> and i'll get information out on the mailing list for items discussed here. and more on twitter/facebook, too.
19:25 < nhaines> I'm glad you could make it.  :)  The LoCo is better for having you around.
19:25 < nhaines> #endmeeting </pre>
