{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, September 18th, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
# Add your agenda item here.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre> 02:04:34 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:04:34 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Sep 19 02:04:34 2016 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:04:34 <darthrobot> 
 02:04:34 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:04:50 <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for Sunday, September 18th, 2016.
 02:05:03 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16September18
 02:05:03 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16September18 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:05:13 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:06:00 <nhaines> There's an Ubuntu Hour coming up on Tuesday in San Diego at 6.  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/events/234085250/
 02:06:00 <darthrobot> [403] Title: [Attention Required! | CloudFlare]
 02:06:51 <nhaines> Today is Mark Shuttleworth's birthday.  Happy birthday, sabdfl!
 02:07:22 <nhaines> Are there any other meetings coming up in September?
 02:09:26 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:10:08 <nhaines> There's nothing upcoming on my radar.  Unfortunately, I didn't hear about the JuJu Summit in Pasadena until the last day.
 02:10:21 <nhaines> Are there any timely announcements for the rest of the month?
 02:12:31 <lynorian> I don't know of any
 02:13:35 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:13:45 <nhaines> There is no agenda scheduled for this meeting
 02:13:50 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:15:07 * lynorian does not have any
 02:15:10 <nhaines> The Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase is about to wrap up on the 26th!  So if you're a photographer, think about submitting.  :)
 02:15:16 <nhaines> https://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntu-fcs-1610/
 02:15:16 <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu 16.10 Free Culture Showcase - Wallpapers | Flickr]
 02:15:40 <nhaines> Our next meeting is scheduled for October 2nd.  See you all then!
 02:15:42 <nhaines> #endmeeting </pre>
