{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Our <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Meetings|meetings]]</nowiki> are held for one hour every other Sunday in our IRC channel.  This is a simple checklist of actions that we already take for each meeting.

==== Before the Meeting ====
* Email announcement to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca|ubuntu-us-ca@lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
* Posterous announcement which updates <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/ubuntu_us_ca|twitter.com/ubuntu_us_ca]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/ubuntucalifornia|identi.ca/ubuntucalifornia]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.california|facebook.com/ubuntu.california]]</nowiki>

==== Shortly After the Meeting ====
* Edit (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings?action=edit|click here]]</nowiki>) <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> and create a new subheader under "Previous Meetings" for the meeting that just happened.
* Edit (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/Current?action=edit|click here]]</nowiki>) <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Meetings-Current]]</nowiki> with the date for the next meeting.
* Post meeting log from <nowiki>[[https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/|irclogs.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> (without joins, parts, or quits) to meeting page (header `=== IRC Log ===`, wrap in <code> <code>IRC ... </code> </code>). Add `||||` to the top of the page.  Remove the "Your Agenda Item Here" and "We hope to see you..." lines. Change the "Agenda" heading to "Original Agenda".
* Edit (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Menu?action=edit|click here]]</nowiki>) <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Menu]]</nowiki> dates - remove current meeting, add meeting + 2 date
* Create meeting + 2 wiki page, use copy and paste of "Show Raw" of meeting + 1 and edit with the new date in the text
* Change #ubuntu-us-ca "/topic" to reflect meeting + 1 date
* Add new meeting (<nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-california/add/|click here]]</nowiki>) to loco.ubuntu.com

==== A Few Days After the Meeting ====
* Add a "Summary" section and write a short bullet-point summary of the meeting (see previous meetings for examples)
* Copy the new summary section to <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki>

Many thanks to all those helping with these sometimes mundane but important tasks!
