{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, July 27th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. None

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[02:01] <rww> #startmeeting Ubuntu California 2014-07-27
[02:01] <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Jul 28 02:01:00 2014 UTC.  The chair is rww. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:01] <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:01] <ianorlin> o\
[02:01] <rww> #chair rww pleia2
[02:01] <darthrobot`> Current chairs: pleia2 rww
[02:01] <rww> #topic Roll call
[02:01] <rww> Who's around?
[02:01] <rww> o/
[02:02] <rww> (let the minutes reflect that elky is too busy trolling #ubuntu-offtopic to say hi)
[02:02] <elky> :(
[02:02]  * philip15 says hello
[02:02] <elky> i was informing them of a thing :(
[02:02] <rww> hihi philip15
[02:02] <rww> are you the philip of the ballew variety?
[02:02] <philip15> Oh yes I am.
[02:03] <rww> awesome
[02:03] <rww> we were just getting started; nothing on the agenda tonight
[02:03] <rww> alrighty. Anyone have any topics for today?
[02:06]  * ianorlin needs to think of more meeting topics but doesn't have anything currently
[02:06] <rww> doesn't look like anyone does. I'll leave the meeting open for 5 minutes in case anyone thinks one up, and then #endmeeting if not
[02:11] <rww> alrighty, that's a wrap
[02:11] <rww> #endmeeting
}}}
