{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

 
== California Team Global Jam ==

Welcome to the Ubuntu California Karmic Global Jam! We're hosting events state wide in connection with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki>. This is where we can use your help! Since these events are for you please tell us what YOU want! Use our Suggestion Box to add what you want to see at the Jam.

Before you arrive, please have set up your <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GnuPrivacyGuardHowto|GPG]]</nowiki> key and sign the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/1.0.1|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. If you need help, we can set you up once you arrive.

== Event Locations ==

We will be participating in the GlobalJam on Saturday, October 3, 2009. This will be a wonderful time to meet up and further our knowledge of Ubuntu and the workings of Linux.

=== Northern California ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Location:'''
| UC Berkley
|-
| '''Building:'''
| Birge
|-
| '''Room:'''
| 517
|-
| '''Time/Date'''
| 12pm-3pm Saturday, October 3, 2009
|}

=== Southern California ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Location:'''
| Chapman University
|-
| '''Building:'''
| Beckman Hall
|-
| '''Room:'''
| 207
|-
| '''Time/Date'''
| 2pm Saturday, October 3, 2009
|}

* Visitor parking <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=200+E.+Walnut+AVe,+Orange,+CA|(map)]]</nowiki> is on the north edge of campus, underneath the field.
* Parking is $5 for 12 hours, but the machine only takes $1s (It's also $2 for 2 hours, and $3 for 4 hours)
* Beckman Hall <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?daddr=33.793046,-117.852698|(map, directly south of the marker)]]</nowiki> is visible to your right as you walk up the steps of the parking lot
* This event should last for a number of hours.  We'll be breaking for dinner sometime around 5 or 6.  Probably making a field trip to somewhere in nearby downtown Orange.
* The event will wrap up whenever we feel like it, it will likely last at least until 8pm.  You're welcome to leave early (or show up late!) if 

=== Suggestion Box ===

Please use this area to state what you would like to see at the Jam! Any and all things would be helpful! Use this chance to be as creative as you want. If you have ever wondered how to do something step by step this is your chance to ask.

----
* <nowiki>[[Jams-Testing]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[USTeams-Events-WikiDocDay2009]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DIYMarketing]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/]]</nowiki>
* How to use Inkscape
* Please place your ideas in here!
* Working with Aptitude
* Gnome vs. KDE What are the differences
* Reporting a bug the right way
----
