{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, June 29th, 2008, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
 1. Ubuntu 8.04.1
  a. 8.04.1 is coming out on July 3rd, so we should be handing CDs of it out soon after that
  a. Includes security updates, including the SSL vulnerability fix and Firefox 3
  a. 8.04 installations with all updates are the same as 8.04.1 installations
  a. Don't need to update CD packaging (which is at <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-CDSleeves]]</nowiki> and DIYMarketing)
 1. SF Bay Area Ubuntu (in)activity
  a. Grantbow's working on getting some more activity in the Bay Area
 1. GlobalBugJam Aug 8 - Aug 10
  a. Bug Jams are scheduled days when Lo```Cos are encouraged to get together and have bug-fixing parties
  a. Since many people haven't done bug work before, the events mainly focus on teaching people how to fix or triage bugs
  a. Since nobody's very experienced with teaching it, a couple of people need to take crash courses in doing so.
  a. Two more meetings before it happens, so plenty of time to think up a venue
 1. Lindependence
  a. Information about it: http://linuxlock.blogspot.com/2008/02/linependence-2008.html
  a. First two dates are July 13 (1pm to 5pm) and July 15 (6pm to 10pm). (Sunday and Tuesday), with subsequent things TBA.
  a. Larry Cafiero is on the mailing list, so further questions can be asked there.
 1. Creating relationships with CA LUGs
  a. Would be beneficial to talk to LUGs in California so that they know about us, can invite us to speak at their events, and so their members can join our team
  a. Proposal that we create a wiki page with a list of LUGs we've contacted, and information about what they need, etc.
  a. Need to take stock of what sort of help we can give to LUGs
  a. Need to emphasize that we're different from LUGs: more advocacy than social, and not trying to encroach on their territory
  a. Further discussion moved to mailing list
 1. Speaker's bureau
  a. Grantbow is talking to Joey Stanford about creating a resource for advocacy talks, and thinks that Lo```Co people could help out with this
  a. Contact grantbow@gmail.com for more information
 1. Misc. discussion
  a. Flannel and nhaines are presenting on August 14th to San Gabriel Valley LUG; anyone is welcome to attend or help with the presentation
  a. Status of the origami sleeves: there's one design up on <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-CDSleeves]]</nowiki>.  There are also both Inkscape and GIMP templates, so you can use whichever you're more comfortable with. General ideas are welcome too.

==== Original Agenda ====
# 8.04.1 Recap
# GlobalBugJam Aug 8 - Aug 10
# <nowiki>[[http://faq.fixedbylinux.com-a.googlepages.com/lindependence2008-bringinglinuxtothemass|Lindependence]]</nowiki> Jul 13/15/??? in Felton, CA
# Plan for contacting California user groups and how we can support them
## We'll want to make a listing of them, including what we've spoken with them about.
## Incomplete initial listing:
### http://www.svlug.org
### http://sgvlug.org/
### http://linuxmafia.com/bale/
# Speaker's bureau, contact Joey Stanford about his advocacy presentation from Jan 2007 OO doc at http://joey.ubuntu-rocks.org/blog/presentations/

==== Log ====
<pre>
19:05 < Flannel> Welcome all, to the June 29th Ubuntu California meeting.
19:06 < Flannel> Our current Agenda is viewable here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/08June29 and currently includes the following:
19:06 < Flannel> 1. SF Bay Area Ubuntu (in)activity   2. Global Bug Jam  3. Lindependence  4. Plan for contacting user groups  5. Speaker's bureau
19:06 < Flannel> If anyone has anything to add to it, feel free to speak up now, or whenever else during the meeting.
19:07 < Flannel> Before we move on to business, I'd like to remind everyone that 8.04.1 will be coming out shortly (planned for July 3) and will include all th updates so far.  Most notably the SSL vulnerability fix, Firefox 3, and a number of other issues.
19:07 < Flannel> So, once those are out, you probably want to be handing those out instead of 8.04 CDs.
19:08 < Flannel> An 8.04.1 system will be identical to installing 8.04 and then upgrading all your packages (as of when 8.04.1 was rolled)
19:08 < nhaines> Flannel: Do we worry about updating any packaging?
19:08 < Flannel> nhaines: Hmm?
19:08 < nhaines> Let me be more clear.  Do we worry abotu updating any printed CD packaging.
19:09 < Flannel> I'm not sure its necessary.  You should include it on the CD itself.  But I don't think its really necessary for the CD sleeves or anything.
19:09 < Flannel> That may change, of course.
19:09 < Grantbow> are those printed packaging items downloadable somewhere?
19:10 < Flannel> If we're talking about our CD sleeves, they're available: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/CDSleeves
19:10 < Grantbow> ok, thanks
19:10 < Flannel> The official artwork for the shipit CDs is available....
19:10 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DIYMarketing
19:10 < Flannel> nhaines: I don't believe canonical is going to be making new artwork for anything, but I could be mistaken.
19:10 < Flannel> They didn't for Dapper at least.
19:11 < nhaines> Flannel: I imagine the version number might change but nothing else.
19:11 < Flannel> Anyone have other questions about point releases?
19:11 < Flannel> 8.04.1 is still 8.04, it's just a different ISO
19:11 < Flannel> For installed systems, the point release isn't anything noteworthy
19:11 < Flannel> (akin to the beta versions, etc)
19:12 < Flannel> Anyway.  moving on to the *actual* meeting...
19:12 < Flannel> First topic is: SF Bay Area Ubuntu (in)activity
19:12 < Flannel> Grantbow: Would you like to say anything in regards?
19:12 < Grantbow> I put that in the agenda to try to entice other SF Bay Area residents to attend.  I don't think it worked - did it?
19:13 < Grantbow> anyone else attending from the north?
19:13 < Flannel> Do we have anyone fro that area here?  Well, that wouldn't normally be.
19:13 < Grantbow> Anyway, it's also just an intro to say I'll be getting up to speed and doing what I can.
19:13 < Flannel> Grantbow: We'll get them active sooner or later, don't worry.
19:14 < Grantbow> count on it :-)
19:14 < Grantbow> That's all for this item I think unless anyone has anything else to add.
19:14 < Flannel> Grantbow: would you like to just talk about the other stuff now?  Or would you like to wait?
19:15 < Flannel> I guess its not N. specific, we'll just wait.
19:15 < Grantbow> I think we covered it pretty well leading up to the meeting.
19:15 < Flannel> So, #2 on the Agenda is: Global Bug Jam
19:15 < Flannel> who here knows what a Bug Jam is?
19:16 < nhaines> I do, I do!
19:16 < Grantbow> similar idea to a Sprint it seems
19:16 < Grantbow> but for bugs instead of code
19:16 < troyready> I think I read on a blog that it's essentially an encouragment for Loco's to organize bug-fixing sessions....am I at all close?
19:16 < Flannel> troyready: thats what GBJ is.
19:16 < Grantbow> physical meetings and focused bug effort
19:17 < Flannel> A Bug Jam is basically a get together/party/event where people (us) get together and do bug stuff.
19:17  * danage doesn't speak C, how can he fix a bug?
19:17 < Flannel> We'll get to that
19:17 < Grantbow> irc meetings too, right?
19:17 < Flannel> Since most people here haven't done much bug work, the first time(s) it ends up being a lot of teaching *how* to do bug stuff.
19:18 < Flannel> It can be done virtually, yeah, but GBJ is more focused on in person
19:18 < nhaines> Which is good, because then that leads to more bug testers in the long run.
19:18 < danage> you mean triaging and stuff?
19:18 < Flannel> It can be triaging, or actual fixes
19:18 < Flannel> So, no knowledge of any programming is required
19:18 < Flannel> Although, bug jams have resulted in code fixes as well.
19:18 < Flannel> Anyone not clear on what a bug jam is?
19:19 < Flannel> Alright, so Global Bug Jam is August 8-10, and the idea is to get a whole lot of people working at the same time, to knock out a whole bunch of bugs.
19:19 < Flannel> Or, in our case, teach a lot of people to triage bugs.
19:20 < Flannel> Triaging, for those that don't know, is sometimes the most time intensive process of bugs
19:20 < Flannel> Anyway, a few members have expressed an interest in participating in GBJ.  Is that something you would like to do?
19:21 < Flannel> Or if I ask in less stupid terms.  Do we as a LoCo want to participate?
19:21 < troyready> Well, if we have the member(s) that would like to lead the teaching side, I'd like to learn
19:21 < Flannel> Anyone else want to learn to do bugwork?
19:22 < nhaines> I think it might be fun to get together again and triage for a while and then eat.
19:22 < nhaines> I've done some bugwork in the past.
19:22 < Flannel> Alright, so sounds like we'd be able to make it worth our time
19:22 < Flannel> Now the next question... Anyone feel like they'd be able to teach it?
19:23 < Flannel> And yes, there will be food involved.
19:23 < nhaines> I'm not really comfortable going that far but I could definitely help out.
19:23 < nhaines> I've done a little bit here and there with PyRoom as well as random other projects.
19:24 < Flannel> Alight, well, a couple of us can take a crash course in it, and then teach whomever is there.
19:24 < nhaines> Sounds fun.
19:24 < Flannel> For those of you who can't make it.  We might be able to set something up in this channel that day
19:24 < Flannel> We'll figure something out.
19:25 < Flannel> And also, #ubuntu-bugs will be hopping that whole weekend as well.
19:25 < Flannel> So, even if you're not geographically close, you'll be able to participate if you want.
19:25 < Flannel> That's a definate yes, with details to be worked out later.
19:25 < Flannel> Oh!
19:25 < Flannel> And we'll need a *location*
19:25 < nhaines> Sandy beach!
19:26 < troyready> Oooooh, beach
19:26 < Flannel> Internet access is a must.  So wifi is nice.  Coffee shops probably wouldn't like us.  But a house might be feasible.  If anyone wants to volunteer.
19:26 < Grantbow> I hear California is one big beach - at least that's what folks that don't live here say.
19:26 < Flannel> Just give it some thought, ask around for a meeting room if you've got something handy.  Maybe we can convince Yasumoto to get us a room
19:27 < troyready> Ahh, Chapman is a good idea
19:27 < Flannel> Location/other details we'll work out on the mailing list?  Sound good to everyone?
19:27 < nhaines> Yeah, mailing list is good for that.
19:28 < Flannel> We'll have two meetings before then too.  And the standard threat of mine stands... if some place in LA isn't found, I'm making you all drive south.
19:28 < Grantbow> lol
19:28 < troyready> Oh noes! I offer my house!
19:28 < Flannel> Alright.  on to our next topic: Lindependence!
19:29 < Flannel> Alright.  We've got a backup location already.  We're doing rather well.
19:29 < nhaines> Progress!
19:29 < Flannel> Before our next topic, anyone else have questions/whatever about GBJ? or Bug Jams in general?
19:30 < Flannel> oh, right.  You can read all about GJB here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GlobalBugJam
19:30 < Flannel> And this will, like always, be open to the public too.  Except maybe if its at someone's house, then we may have to implement some sort of RSVP system
19:31 < AlgorithmicContr> mmmhmm
19:31 < Flannel> moving on.... Lindependence
19:32 < Grantbow> I saw Larry Cafiero's emails on the mail list.
19:33 < Grantbow> He's the organizer, right?
19:33 < Flannel> He is.
19:33 < Grantbow> in Felton, CA.
19:34  * troyready is wikipedia'ing Felton...
19:34 < nhaines> troyready: It's up north, near Santa Clara.
19:34 < Grantbow> Santa Cruz County, south of Santa Clara.
19:35 < troyready> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Downtownfelton.JPG
19:35 < Grantbow> in the hills
19:35 < troyready> Adorable!
19:35 < Flannel> There's websites about it: http://linuxlock.blogspot.com/2008/02/linependence-2008.html and http://linuxlock.blogspot.com/2008/02/linependence-2008.html
19:35 < Flannel> And he's looking for some LoCo members to attend and do our thing.
19:35 < Grantbow> I might be able to make it but I'm not sure yet.
19:36 < Flannel> I think initially it was reported to be on July 4th, but it's not any more, but rather on a number of days
19:36 < Flannel> The first two are July 13 and July 15. (Sunday and Tuesday), with subsequent things TBA
19:37 < Flannel> They're each for four hours.  With the 13th  being from 1 to 5pm, and the 15th from 6 to 10.
19:37 < Flannel> So, if anyone wants to attend, stick around after the meeting and/or email the list, and we'll see if we can't set up some car pools or something.
19:38 < Grantbow> Felton Presbyterian Church per his email
19:39 < Flannel> and if you have questions about it, Larry is subscribed to the list, so that's probably the best way to ask.  Just ask the list.
19:41 < Flannel> Next topic is: Proposal for creating relationships with the various Linux groups in California
19:41 < Flannel> Grantbow: If you'd like to talk, you're welcome to. If you'd like me to, I don't mind doing that either.
19:41 < Grantbow> I like the idea of a wiki page we talked about just before the meeting.
19:42 < Flannel> Alright, I'll go ahead and explain it, feel free to interrupt and correct me.
19:42 < Grantbow> I'll jump in as the conversation develops :-)
19:42 < Flannel> Grant proposed starting to talk to all the LUGs and other orgs in california (and there's plenty) for a number of reasons.
19:44 < Flannel> to inform them that we exist as a resource (so they can invite us to come talk, etc), to find out what they would like us to be able to provide for them, and also to get our name out there so their members know they can join/help our LoCo
19:45 < Flannel> What was proposed is we set up a table on our wiki with the groups that we've contacted, annotated with a summary of what they need/whatever
19:45 < nhaines> Do we need to determine what services we provide first?
19:46 < Grantbow> I have been reading all the LoCo documents and suggestions on wiki.ubuntu.com.  This kind of organized contact in California seems ideal.
19:46 < Flannel> yeah, we should probably figure out what we have the resources for first.
19:47 < nhaines> That way we can stress it and then keep other requests in mind to investigate in the future.
19:47 < Grantbow> The contactors can probably offer what they have available - keeps it simple to begin.
19:47 < nhaines> Grantbow: That's what I was suggesting--we need to take stock first, so to speak.
19:48 < Flannel> We probably also should write up a how to on contacting them.
19:48 < Grantbow> What headings will be in this table?  contactor, date of last contact, name, email, phone...
19:48 < Flannel> Since it really should be personalized, blanket spam won't work well.
19:48 < troyready> Well, it seems that we can easily describe ourselves as LUG-like
19:48 < Grantbow> no spam
19:48 < Grantbow> hehe
19:49 < nhaines> troyready: that might backfire.  We're not here for "social" type of things, just advocacy, and we don't want to look like we're trying to encroach on the LUG.
19:49 < Grantbow> each contact will need to be somewhat personalized, preferably someone that has attended one of their meetings before
19:49 < troyready> That's a good point
19:49 < Flannel> Yeah, as we do this, we walk a fine line (which those of you who were at our first meeting all remember)
19:50 < troyready> can that be summarized without violating the code of conduct?
19:50 < Grantbow> I think I have a real good idea where that line is after our discussion before the meeting.
19:50 < Flannel> Grantbow: Different line I think.  We didn't talk about it before the meeting.
19:51 < Grantbow> Flannel, ok, that discussion coupled with my recent Ubuntu reading and my past non-profit volunteer recruiting efforts.
19:51 < Flannel> But, if we set up a few pages about how to contact people, what we offer, and then the summary of contactees, we should be pretty well off.  The second one will also allow people to come to us, and have a good view of what they're getting.
19:52 < Grantbow> sounds good
19:52 < Flannel> Grantbow: Ah, no, that's a separate issue.  This one has to do with the fact that LoCos aren't "user groups", they're primarily for advocacy
19:52 < Grantbow> Flannel: ok
19:52 < Flannel> And we need to make sure the LUGs don't feel threatened by our contact.  We're not trying to steal members
19:53 < troyready> Would that second page be maintained more easily by just linking to our general About page?
19:53 < Grantbow> right, we want to support their efforts and even maybe help them grow membership
19:53 < Flannel> troyready: Perhaps
19:54 < troyready> I don't like to be lazy, but I hate to see pages/projects go stale from overcomplexity
19:55 < Flannel> troyready: Aye.  But a more specific abilities page might be more useful. Then again, it might not.
19:55 < Flannel> I propose we bring the implementation detail discussion to the ML, so everyone can chime in.
19:55 < Grantbow> Can we start with a single page and break it up if it gets too big?
19:56 < Flannel> Anyone think contacting LUGs/etc is a bad idea?
19:56 < Grantbow> ML works
19:56 < Flannel> Anyone think its a good thing?
19:56  * Grantbow raises hand for a good thing
19:56 < troyready> I think it's a great idea
19:56 < nhaines> I think it's important.
19:57 < nhaines> And I think we're ready for it.
19:57 < Flannel> Alright, looks like we've agreed to move forward with implementation/etc.
19:57 < Flannel> Last thing on the agenda: Speaker's bureau
19:57 < Grantbow> I can speak to this.
19:57 < Flannel> Good, because I'm not sure what it is
19:58 < Grantbow> I saw Joey Stanford's Open Office presentation and I was thinking of beginning to do advocacy talks.
19:58 < Grantbow> I was also thinking of who else in the Ubuntu community might benefit from our contacts with user groups.
19:59 < Grantbow> So I plan to talk to Joey soon and work with him to update his general advocacy presentation and start giving it locally.
19:59 < Grantbow> I wanted to invite others to participate in this if they like.
19:59 < Grantbow> The updating of the presentation - the other part is more organizational and probably for later.
20:00 < sn9> oops, i'm an hour late
20:00 < nhaines> I've had a ton of fun doing public speaking.
20:00 < sn9> i completely forgot
20:00 < Grantbow> welcome sn9
20:01 < Grantbow> Would anyone like to be copied on the email I send to Joey?
20:01 < troyready> I'm  happy to help go over a presentation. It's more in my skill-set than inkscape
20:01 < Grantbow> excellent
20:02 < Grantbow> I know the hour is up - anyone else?
20:02 < nhaines> Grantbow: I would.
20:02 < Grantbow> great
20:02 < troyready> Same here
20:02 < Grantbow> email me at grantbow@gmail.com and I'll cc you both
20:03 < Grantbow> Unless anyone has anything to add I think this item is finished.
20:03 < Flannel> For anyone else reading, let Grantbow know if you want to be kept up to date on it. I'm sure we'll all get updates as well.
20:04 < symptom> Flannel, what do you mean by "point release?"
20:04 < Flannel> Thanks Grantbow 
20:04 < Flannel> symptom: A point release is 8.04.1 (point one) vs just 8.04
20:04 < Grantbow> Yes, I'll report back the result to the team.
20:04 < nhaines> symptom: It's just refreshed packages, as opposed to a major release.
20:04 < Flannel> They're happening every six months or so for LTS releases.  To keep you from having to download too much.
20:05 < symptom> ah
20:05 < symptom> will FF 3.0Final be on that? or just b5?
20:05 < Flannel> Basically, if you install 8.04, and then update completely the day of the point release, it'd be the same as installing the point release
20:05 < Flannel> symptom: Yes.  FF 3 final, and the new SSL packages,
20:05 < nhaines> symptom: yes, everything we have today will be in there.
20:05 < sn9> i really think point releases should be more often
20:07 < nhaines> Well, that's not really the point of point releases.
20:07 < sn9> we're not even halfway to the first one for hardy, and there are already over 300 updates
20:07 < nhaines> Actually, we are over halfway.  It's Thursday.
20:07 < Flannel> sn9: Updates are always heavy around the release.
20:07 < sn9> but this isn't around the release
20:08 < Flannel> Also, a reminder for everyone is that we'll be giving our next talk on August 14th, to San Gabriel Valley LUG.  If you'd like to attend, you're welcome to, if you'd like to help our presentation (whether planning, or the day of, or both), let me or nhaines know.
20:08 < Flannel> Does anyone have anything else for the meeting?
20:08 < sn9> recap?
20:09 < nhaines> I'm good.
20:09 < Flannel> sn9: Summary will be on the wiki.  But: 8.04.1, Global Bug Jam, Lindependence, contacting other groups, Joey Stanford, SGVLUG
20:10 < sn9> wow, i sure missed a lot
20:10 < Grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/08June29
20:10 < troyready> Status of the oragami sleeves? I feel bad for not helping, but I did install inkscape if there's work still to be done
20:10 < Grantbow> I think the log will be available somewhere?
20:10 < Flannel> Grantbow: on that page, yes.
20:11 < Grantbow> kk, thanks
20:11 < Flannel> troyready: There's one design up on the wiki,  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/CDSleeves  There's also both inkscape *and* GIMP templates
20:11 < Flannel> so if GIMP is more familiar to you, you can use that.
20:11 < Grantbow> nice
20:11 < nhaines> troyready: there's always more work to be done.  ;)
20:12 < troyready> Excellent
20:12 < Flannel> And feel free to throw ideas up there as well, even if you're not able to actually create the design.
20:12 < Flannel> Or throw up mockups, or whatever.
20:12 < Flannel> Also, tell your artistically inclined friends ;)
20:13 < Flannel> Thank you all for coming, next meeting is scheduled for July 13th, 7pm.  That also happens to be Lindependence.  So that may be modified slightly depending on who ends up going.  We'll keep people informed if it changes.
</pre>
