{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, March 22nd, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. No agenda items

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
02:05:44 <elky> #startmeeting
02:05:44 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Mar 23 02:05:44 2015 UTC.  The chair is elky. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
02:05:44 <darthrobot> 
02:05:44 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
02:05:56 <elky> #chair ianorlin elky nhaines
02:05:56 <darthrobot> Current chairs: elky ianorlin nhaines
02:06:33 <pleia2> o/
02:06:42 <elky> the agenda is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15March22
02:06:42 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15March22 - Ubuntu Wiki]
02:06:46 <elky> which is empty
02:06:47 <lrcaballero> 0/
02:06:59 <elky> so i guess we got straight to any other business?
02:07:06 <ianorlin> #topic any other business
02:07:25 <pleia2> according to the release schedule https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule April 23rd is the release date for Vivid
02:07:25 <darthrobot> Title: [VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule - Ubuntu Wiki]
02:07:41 <pleia2> unfortunately I can't make the time right now to do anything for the bay area :\
02:07:51 <pleia2> so if anyone else is interested in stepping up, please do
02:08:34 <elky> last one was basically just crunched in to a monthly ubuntu hour wasn't it?
02:08:36 <ianorlin> nhianes maybe try something for LA ara
02:08:49 <pleia2> I'll likely also be canceling the Ubuntu Hour on April 8th because I'm getting back from a trip right before then, so if someone else wants to run it, that'd be great, I'll also reach out to Michael Paoli, who has subbed in the past
02:08:55 <pleia2> re: San Francisco
02:09:08 <lrcaballero> I will get a hold of Phil here in San Diego and see if do something at Starbucks...
02:09:26 <lrcaballero> for the release that is....
02:09:41 <pleia2> elky: there was a proper release party at Mozilla last cycle, but I wasn't around and it wasn't very well promoted :\
02:09:52 <pleia2> lrcaballero: great :)
02:10:15 <elky> pleia2: ah. actually i do recall that yes
02:10:35 <pleia2> and there was also supposed to be a presented, but they pulled out last minute
02:10:39 <pleia2> all kind of a mess really
02:10:45 <pleia2> s/presented/presenter
02:10:52 <pleia2> I don't remember the details about that
02:11:13 <pleia2> anyway, it would be lovely to have a more successful one :)
02:11:51 <pleia2> I think that's all I've got
02:12:24 <elky> did you go to the eps memorial thing or were you out of town?
02:12:39 <pleia2> I did, DonkeyHotei was also there
02:12:46 <pleia2> it was very nice, good pizza, good company :)
02:14:26 <DonkeyHotei> i just wish i hadn't been sick
02:14:54 <ianorlin> I don't think anyone likes being sick
02:15:15 <DonkeyHotei> hopefully no one caught it
02:15:29 * pleia2 feels good
02:19:14 <pleia2> so... anything else?
02:19:42 <elky> not from me
02:20:05 <elky> looks like nhaines couldn't break away from his lucrative babysitting gig
02:20:35 <lrcaballero> Thank you guys....I will see you next time :-D
02:20:52 <lrcaballero> Good Night!
02:21:00 <elky> thanks for coming along
02:21:32 <pleia2> night all
02:21:41 <elky> DonkeyHotei: ianorlin: nothing from either of you i assume?
02:22:57 <DonkeyHotei> well, we could discuss meeting cancellation procedures, but that's best put on the next agenda
02:23:10 <elky> indeed
02:25:06 <elky> ok well i guess i'll close out
02:25:18 <elky> #endmeeting
</pre>
