{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, June 1st, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Empty

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:01] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:01] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jun  2 02:01:46 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:01] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:01] <pleia2> hi everyone, who all is here for the meeting?
[02:02] <ianorlinlaptop> o/
[02:02] <eps> o/
[02:03] <pleia2> nothing really on the agenda this week
[02:03] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14June01
[02:03] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14June01 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:04] <pleia2> browsing last meeting I think rww still owes an email to the list about a change to voting procedure so the most folks get a say
[02:05] <pleia2> since the last meeting I did a presentation at BALUG here in SF, lots of great questions from the audience so I think it went well
[02:05] <pleia2> I linked slides for that on my blog post about that meeting and feltonlug: http://princessleia.com/journal/?p=9426
[02:05] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu 14.04 Presentations at FeltonLUG and BALUG – pleia2's blog]
[02:05] <nhaines> I heard it went pretty well.
[02:06] <pleia2> we had loosely talked about doing a 14.04 installfest here in SF too, but I've kind of evented out and am too busy to help out with that, so if anyone else is intersted - please do pick that up :)
[02:06] <nhaines> My presentation right now is pretty much geared to installfests so it is reusable if anyone wants to step up.
[02:06] <pleia2> nhaines: shared somewhere?
[02:07] <nhaines> Not yet, but I'll throw it on people.ubuntu.com tonight.
[02:07] <pleia2> \o/
[02:07] <nhaines> Or email it to anyone who needs it before then. :)
[02:08] <pleia2> care to talk a bit about how the installfest went?
[02:08] <nhaines> It was a pretty nice little event.  It was held last Saturday at Cal State Fullerton.
[02:08] <eps> How many people attended?
[02:09]  * ianorlinlaptop thinks 6 people to have stuff installed maybe about 15 people total
[02:09] <nhaines> I didn't do the official count from photos yet, as they were late getting back to me, but I believe there were 18 or 19 people, including 9 OCLUG volunteers and 4 Ubuntu volunteers, plus myself.
[02:10]  * ianorlinlaptop was one of the ubuntu volunteers
[02:10] <nhaines> The presentation was well received, everyone was interested in Ubuntu although one or two only wanted to learn more and not have it installed.
[02:10] <pleia2> cool
[02:11] <nhaines> Thanks to the generous sponsorship of the Ubuntu community reimbursement fund, we ordered in pizza, which everyone was also interested in.  :)
[02:11] <nhaines> We did get Ubuntu installed on all target systems in the end, which was nice.  One person found out they actually had a 64-bit laptop.
[02:12]  * eps imagines a pizza with toppings arranged to form the Circle of Friends
[02:12] <nhaines> We had the room for 4 hours, with everyone showing up on time, I believe.  We waited an hour then started the presentations.  I'll have the information from the computer datasheets anonymized and up with the presentation and photos soon.
[02:13] <nhaines> The Ubuntu banner and tablecloth made the event look very professional, and the OCLUG leader capitalized on that immediately and started talking about how I was a representative from Ubuntu and Canonical while introducing me.
[02:14] <pleia2> hehe
[02:14] <nhaines> The upshot of that was that we had one faculty member who was supremely impressed and was very happy with Ubuntu and is going to push his students to go when OCLUG holds another installfest planned in September.
[02:14] <pleia2> how exciting!
[02:14] <nhaines> We were also able to discuss timing and it looks like holding it after finals wasn't as advantageous as we thought--CSUF is a commuter college.  But just after school starts should be a lot more effective.
[02:15] <nhaines> So!  I think that 4 hours isn't a lot of time and 3 hours is even worse.  I felt like I was really rushed and didn't have a lot of time to help the Ubuntu volunteers.  Luckily OCLUG had run through this before.
[02:15] <eps> Software Freedom Day is in September :-)  http://www.softwarefreedomday.org/
[02:15] <darthrobot> Title: [Software Freedom Day - SFD Home]
[02:16] <ianorlinlaptop> also I remember helping someone rest cmos on motherboard
[02:16] <nhaines> Fortunately, our team really stepped in and helped out instantly without needing to be directed, which I really appreciated.
[02:16] <nhaines> Luis Caballero, Ishmael Plata, ianorlinlaptop, and George Mulak were there helping out.  So each guest got a really personalized experience.
[02:17] <pleia2> nice
[02:17] <nhaines> After the pizza was eaten I demonstrated how to use the Dash, the global menu, how to configure autohide, how to install programs, and used Stellarium as a demonstration of really stunning Free Software.
[02:18] <nhaines> Oh, I also mentioned the online search switch.  I ran out of time to talk about Locally Integrated Menus, and the commandline (which was just going to be "you type commands, this is what they mean if you see copy/paste given in an AskUbuntu response.)
[02:19] <nhaines> The flyers seemed to be pretty well received, and the installfest page needs to duplicate the flyer information.
[02:20] <nhaines> For September I'm going to see if we can get a larger location on campus, not on the 6th floor, and regardless I'm going to see about doing interviews with the university radio and tv stations.
[02:20] <nhaines> Also newspaper.
[02:20] <pleia2> neat
[02:20] <nhaines> Oh, I don't have the numbers handy at this machine but I'm pretty sure we gave out 30 Ubuntu discs and about 5 server discs.
[02:21] <nhaines> I also donated 20 and 5, respectively, to OCLUG's software library, because they have students and other visitors all the time and they will be well used there over the next year.
[02:21] <nhaines> I think that's about all that I can think of right now.
[02:22] <pleia2> great, thanks nhaines :)
[02:22] <pleia2> it's been a while since the team has done an installfest, so it's nice to hear about
[02:23] <nhaines> I'm going to send an email to the list tonight or tomorrow and maybe we can do a post-mortem.
[02:23] <nhaines> Oh!  I did find out that the pens and stickers and things were extremely popular.  So yay for conference packs. :)
[02:23] <pleia2> sounds good
[02:23] <pleia2> blog about it too, so I can put it in the ubuntu weekly newsletter next week ;)
[02:24] <nhaines> Yup, that's happening too.  ;)
[02:24] <pleia2> \o/
[02:24] <nhaines> I feel if we get money or sponsorship from Ubuntu or Canonical we really should blog about it later.
[02:24] <nhaines> Make sure everyone knows where the money's going.  :)
[02:24]  * pleia2 nods
[02:25] <nhaines> ^D
[02:26] <pleia2> alright, so, other upcoming events
[02:27] <pleia2> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/
[02:27] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu California | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:27] <pleia2> back to Ubuntu Hours :)
[02:27] <pleia2> have one coming up in Berkeley on Sunday with Berkeley LUG (mmm pizza), one in SF on Wednesday the 11th
[02:28] <pleia2> the idea has been floated in SF that some private companies host some Ubuntu Hours, and I should follow up, since we tend to want to have them in public places so we can have drop ins
[02:28] <pleia2> always fun when someone in the coffee shop who isn't using a Mac notices us and joins ;)
[02:29] <nhaines> Any prospective sponsors?
[02:29] <pleia2> BUT these companies have offered space, so I'm trying to think of ways we can use it, maybe mini training sessions about how to use `ubuntu-bug` or general getting involved, or something that's just an evening but may not be of interested to LUGs in general
[02:29] <pleia2> Gandi has offered, and another one that grantbow has been in contact with
[02:30] <pleia2> speaking of Gandi, they have Ubuntu t-shirts now that support Ubuntu (and other shirts too, supporting their respective projects): https://www.gandi.net/tshirts
[02:30] <darthrobot> Title: [Nom de domaine et hébergement cloud - Portez nos couleurs ! - Gandi.net]
[02:31] <pleia2> I like them :)
[02:31] <pleia2> anyway, that's about all I had
[02:33] <pleia2> anyone else have any meeting topics?
[02:35] <nhaines> I suppose not.  :)
[02:35] <pleia2> crickets
[02:35] <pleia2> ok, thanks everyone
[02:35] <pleia2> #endmeeting
[02:35] <darthrobot> Meeting ended Mon Jun  2 02:35:37 2014 UTC.
[02:35] <darthrobot> Minutes:        http://ihas.5cat.com/~darthrobot/ubuntu-us-ca/2014/ubuntu-us-ca.2014-06-02-02.01.moin.txt</pre>
