{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, June 16th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. None.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jun 17 02:00:36 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting? :)
[02:01] <pleia2> #agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13June16
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13June16 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <pleia2> nothing really on the agenda either
[02:03] <eps> Well, we could wish a happy Father's Day to sabdfl ... he is, after all, Ubuntu's "father."
[02:03] <pleia2> looking at our events calendar it looks pretty sparse until july: http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/events/
[02:03] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu California Events List | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:03] <pleia2> hehe
[02:04] <pleia2> yes, happy father's day sabdfl
[02:09] <pleia2> anyone else have any announcements, comments, etc?
[02:11] <pleia2> eps: did you want to mention any upcoming things?
[02:12] <eps> Not really. ;-)
[02:12] <pleia2> alright, I think we just wrap this up then
[02:12] <pleia2> thanks for coming, eps! :)
[02:12] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
