{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, June 28th, 2009, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
 1. OSCON Planning
  a. OSCON is the 20th to 24th, but the Expo Hall (and booth) is only 22nd and 23rd
  a. "External" booth features
   i. <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/nathanhaines/2353642188/|SCaLE booth]]</nowiki> layout seemed to work well
   i. People liked the video jdeslip posted to the list; probably have that on a monitor somewhere
   i. Enough power for one or two demo computers, possibly one with UNR?
   i. Discussion about burning CDs beforehand vs. burning them at OSCON
  a. Informational stuff / swag
   i. Will have flyers for Bay Area LUGs
   i. CD sleeve design probably needs revisiting at some point to add support links
   i. Flyers would be good for people who don't need CDs, especially if we don't have Internet access to answer questions
   i. Hopefully will have Canonical conference pack with stickers, pens, etc.
   i. We still have some Ubuntu computer case badges
  a. Reference material
   i. Cheat sheets would be useful, since we won't have Internet. Nobody stepped up to co-ordinate making them, though.
  a. Booth branding
   i. jdeslip can get a banner printed on vinyl. Flannel will work on the artwork for it.
   i. nhaines will make name badges for booth volunteers
   i. Should have some t-shirts in the Canonical conference pack for booth volunteers, too
   i. Discussion of making "Ubuntu California" t-shirts or getting Ubuntu shirts from the Canonical store
  a. Pre-OSCON meetup?
   i. Have an in-person meetup in San Jose before OSCON so everyone can get to know each other, etc.?
   i. Possible location: MLK Library at SJSU

==== Original Agenda ====
 1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-OSCON2009|OSCON Planning]]</nowiki>

==== Log ====
<pre>
19:08 < Flannel> So, Welcome everyone to our June 28 meeting, it's officially Summer, and I think everyone is having wonderful weather today.
19:08 < Flannel> Our agenda for the evening consists of one topic at the moment, and that's OSCON planning.  Does anyone have anything to add to the agenda right now?
19:08 < Flannel> That is, other topics, or announcements, or whatever.
19:09 < Flannel> Dapper Desktop should be EOL this month, but I haven't heard anything about it, I'm not sure what's up with that, but if you're supporting anyone and they've got dapper, it's a great time to upgrade to Hardy
19:10 < Yasumoto_> nope, sounds good
19:10 < Flannel> Server is still supported (but I don't know if there's been any discussion on what exactly will/wont be supported), I should've looked into it, but I'll do that for next time or something.
19:10 < Flannel> Anyway, on to OSCON!
19:11 < Flannel> For those of you who don't know, OSCON is coming up in three weeks.
19:11 < Flannel> Oh, is the expo hall only two days of the four?
19:12 < Yasumoto_> yep
19:12 < Grantbow> yes, only two days
19:12 < Flannel> So, OSCON is the 20th to 24th, but the expo (that's where we have a booth) is only 22,23.
19:13 < Flannel> and, currently, we don't have a whole lot pinned down!
19:13 < Grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OSCON2009
19:14 < Flannel> In my email, I outlined a few areas of the booth that we'll likely want to discuss, those four were: Information, Schwag, Branding, Stuff to use at the booth (both internal, and external)
19:14 < Flannel> And... they looked a lot better formatted when I wrote them than when I got them.
19:15 < Yasumoto_> heh, that's usually the way
19:15 < Flannel> Does anyone have any additional aspects of the booth that we might want to consider?
19:15 < Yasumoto_> maybe physical layout?
19:16 < Yasumoto_> and also probably schedule for volunteers
19:16 < Grantbow> scheduling/staffing, yes
19:16 < Flannel> physical layout probably ties in with branding the booth
19:17 < Flannel> although it does include a number of the other topics
19:17 < Yasumoto_> ah, alright, sweet
19:18 < Flannel> Alright, I think it's probably best to start at the end, with external-use stuff at the booth
19:18 < Yasumoto_> overall, I'm slightly biased toward following something like the SCaLE booth, but definitely would be interested in tacking a new tack
19:18 < rww> The SCaLE booth (from the photos of it, at least) looked excellent to me.
19:19 < Flannel> Oh, Yasumoto_, which layout is the final one?
19:19 < Flannel> There's one where we've got a corner, and another where we don't.
19:19 < nhaines> I agree, it's a simple concept that has worked very well.
19:19 < Flannel> Do you know which one is up to date?
19:19 < jdeslip> I would still like to upgrade the Demo
19:19 < jdeslip> To a video of Ubuntu tht we play on loop
19:19 < Grantbow> rww: where are those pictures again?  I don't see them linked.
19:20 < Yasumoto_> we don't have a corner :(
19:20 < Flannel> jdeslip: We've had a slideshow in the past, a demo would work well in its place, yes
19:20 < jdeslip> instead of just static link to a wiki page nobody is going to read
19:20 < Flannel> jdeslip: What?
19:20 < Flannel> jdeslip: We've never had a static link to a wiki page, unless I'm not understanding what you're saying.
19:20 < rww> Grantbow: I was thinking of http://www.flickr.com/photos/nathanhaines/2353642188/
19:20 < jdeslip> Flannel: at the last meeting I saw a picture that looked like a monitor with an ubuntu wiki page
19:20 < Grantbow> rww: thanks
19:20 < Yasumoto_> jdeslip, I loved the demo :)
19:21 < Yasumoto_> jdeslip, I see what you
19:21 < Flannel> jdeslip: Oh, well, that was temporary if it was the large monitor in the front, we've done a slideshow of featurey things twice now.
19:21 < Yasumoto_> *you're saying. a demo computer was just a static page?
19:21 < Flannel> jdeslip: Since, I agree, a static page is silly.
19:22 < jdeslip> jdeslip: in the link rww just posted, that is what it looks like to me.  it could be a slideshow though, since it is just a pic
19:22 < nhaines> It was just http://www.ubuntu.com/
19:22 < Flannel> Look at the next one: http://www.flickr.com/photos/nathanhaines/2353644948/in/photostream/
19:22 < jdeslip> anyway, I think a video would be an improvement on a slideshow even :)
19:22 < Flannel> but, yes, I agree.
19:22 < rww> jdeslip +1
19:22 < Flannel> So, external use: video presentation thing
19:23 < rww> the one posted to the list was good :)
19:23 < nhaines> It was Chinese New Year, so it was a nice Unicode demo before the show started.  Once we were there, it was a presentation... and GCompris when Michael was around.
19:23 < Yasumoto_> jdeslip++
19:23 < Yasumoto_> nhaines, Michael ftw
19:23 < nhaines> For SCaLE7X we had the slideshow, Big Buck Bunny, and World of Goo.  Maybe GCompris.
19:23 < nhaines> Yasumoto_: :)
19:24 < Flannel> Alright, other external use things.  In the past we've had demo computers for people to try Ubuntu
19:24 < jdeslip> I could add World of Goo to the video (and other changes)
19:24 < Flannel> With a power budget, we might be able to do 2, but definately have enough power for one.
19:24 < Yasumoto_> dude, World of Goo is awesome, definitely a good idea
19:25 < jdeslip> (also could add some text explaining what is going on in each "scene")
19:26 < jdeslip> Flannel: a couple demo laptops would be nice.  At least one running UNR, would be really nice.
19:26 < Flannel> Do we think a demo computer would make the translation to OSCON? or is the audience not going to be interested?
19:26 < nhaines> I think a demo computer is not going to be compelling without either Internet access (for repo access) or a very well planned out preinstall.
19:26 < Yasumoto_> I think a demo computer would be nice, I think it might help with some sweet flashy-ness
19:26 < Flannel> We could set up repo-access, either locally on that same computer, or on the slideshow computer
19:27 < jdeslip> nhaines: UNR is still pretty new, though.  I think people would be interested to see it in action.
19:27 < Flannel> Depending on how the demos go, those are also computers for burning CDs
19:27 < Flannel> If we want to burn CDs in a JIT manner
19:27 < Yasumoto_> jdeslip, if we have a netbook, it'd be handy
19:27 < Yasumoto_> jsj0nes, what
19:28 < Yasumoto_> *what're you doing that week? :)
19:28 < Flannel> That is, just in time, live, during the show, etc.  The other possibility is burning batches beforehand,
19:28 < Grantbow> I have to talk to Jono about CLS wifi, I'll ask about getting discs from canonical as well.
19:29 < jdeslip> Beforehand seems more prudent.  People probably won't want to wait around for a disk to burn.
19:30 < Flannel> jdeslip: Well, you have a few (3-4,8, etc) CDs burned, but you're constantly replenishing
19:30 < Flannel> as opposed to having a box of 200 CDs
19:30 < jsj0nes> Yasumoto_: Sorry, can't make it...getting ready for the birth of our first child...priorities, I know.
19:30 < Flannel> or whatever
19:30 < jdeslip> Flannel: Ah, that is probably ok then.
19:30 < Grantbow> jsj0nes: congratulations
19:31 < Flannel> jdeslip: Assuming we've got the burners to support it (at SCaLE we figured out that we need 2 burners or so)
19:31 < jsj0nes> Thanks, Grantbow
19:31 < Yasumoto_> jsj0nes, no way? that's awesome :) congrats
19:32 < Flannel> Canonical CDs will only be Ubuntu and Kubuntu
19:32 < jdeslip> If Grant can get official looking disks from Jono, we should probably do that.  If not, then we can probably burn about 100 in advance and then burn more on demand.
19:32 < Flannel> And possibly only 386
19:32 < rww> Flannel: I can bring a computer with a burner. It's running karmic, so it probably wouldn't work well as a demo machine, though.
19:33 < nhaines> We've tended not to give out much more than 100.  It's probably better to burn on-demand unless we don't have the buners.
19:33 < nhaines> burners.
19:33 < Yasumoto_> I'd probably prefer to have some before, and focus on talking to people during the show, but I wasn't really involved with the burning so I don't really know how time consuming/distracting it is
19:33 < Flannel> Also, Canonical has always been pretty stingy about their CDs, so I don't really feel that we can count on those CDs
19:34 < Flannel> Of course, we can always figure out CD logistics later,
19:34 < Grantbow> A good idea from Rick Moen in recent conversations was to designate one person as a greeter at all times.  It's worth considering.
19:34 < Grantbow> Others can get more in depth.
19:34 < rww> Especially since they gave a bunch for SCaLE this year, right?
19:34 < Flannel> if we're fine batching them beforehand, we don't need any/many computers with burners there
19:34 < Flannel> so we can do small netbooks or whatever
19:34 < nhaines> rww: those were 8.10 CDs that were on their way out.  :)
19:34 < Flannel> rww: They didn't give any, the ones we have are leftovers from the Canonical booth.
19:35 < Flannel> nhaines: We can always fall back on 8.10 CDs anyway
19:35 < rww> Flannel: oh, okay. that's probably what I was thinking of
19:35 < nhaines> Flannel: I suppose that's true.
19:35 < Flannel> Sure, it's not ideal, but we've got 80 or so in reserve, and the point of giving out a CD is "try it out" anyway, so a little bit of an older version isn't going to kill you.
19:35 < rww> Okay, so if we want to not take burners, how many would we need to make in advance? 100 or so?
19:36 < Grantbow> though first impressions are important
19:36 < Flannel> rww: To be paranoid, 150, and then another 100 the second day.
19:36 < rww> Any particular combination of i386/amd_64 k/x/ubuntu?
19:36 < Flannel> rww: We have to figure that out
19:36 < nhaines> rww: after we have buntustand, we can start monitoring stats on that.
19:36 < rww> 'cause I think I have 50-100 blank CDs, so I'll chip in that much.
19:36 < Flannel> rww: I think it's safest to stick to 386, since that halves the combinations.
19:37 < Flannel> Alright, so, back to external use stuff for the booth
19:37 < Grantbow> 386 runs on everything
19:37 < nhaines> In the past we've done 64-bit on demand I think.
19:37 < Flannel> the slideshow/video/etc thing (with a big monitor), and then some demo laptops?
19:37 < Flannel> with the slideshow thing being on a tower, with repos on it for the laptops?
19:38 < Flannel> Is that what we've said? (that is supposed to be a summary, let me know if I got something wrong)
19:38 < rww> sounds good to me, especially if we throw UNR on one of the laptops
19:39 < Yasumoto_> me too
19:39 < jdeslip> I can bring a Eee with UNR
19:39 < Flannel> Alright, sounds good.  Also makes power requirements easier to satisfy.
19:39 < jdeslip> I hope that slideshow=video :)
19:39 < Grantbow> souinds good
19:39 < Grantbow> *sounds
19:39 < Flannel> With that, do we want to do a variation on the open horseshoe booth again?
19:40 < Flannel> Maybe an L with an island for the demo computers?
19:40 < Flannel> a small island?
19:40 < dragon_> what about demonstrating how easy it is to carry a complete Ubuntu installation on a bootable USB?
19:40 < Flannel> I'll figure out how to actually make the booth logistics work, but is something similar to the pictures you've seen what we want to try and target?
19:40 < rww> dragon_: I'll probably have my LiveCD-on-a-stick with me
19:40 < Grantbow> bootable USBs are catching on now that prices are lower
19:40 < Yasumoto_> dragon_, good idea
19:41 < nikor> Can some enlighten me with what UNR is - later at end of meeting would be fine?
19:41 < dragon_> nikor: Ubuntu Netbook Remix
19:41 < Grantbow> I'll try to get my XO-1 booting Ubuntu but I had some issues trying in the past with the OFW & writing Fourth, lol.
19:41 < nikor> ok thx running that on my netbook its great!
19:42 < rww> by "issues", Grantbow means that it involves The Great Demon EMACS
19:42 < Grantbow> no, lol
19:42 < Grantbow> I can do emacs
19:43 < Flannel> Alright, so, does that do it for external-use booth items?
19:43 < Grantbow> you saw when I was working on it that day in the cafe :-)
19:44 < rww> Flannel: "external-use booth items" being "stuff that the conference attendees will be playing with"?
19:44 < Flannel> rww: But not taking away, yeah.
19:44 < nhaines> I think so.  It's worth mention that we are expecting fliers from some Bay Area LUGs.
19:44 < nhaines> For when we get to layout planning.  :)
19:44 < dragon_> It'll be cool if we also display karmic (alpha) as the "future of Ubuntu"; it comes with Gnome 2.27.1 and some attractive eye candy i suppose
19:44 < jdeslip> Is the the relevant time to discuss the banner?
19:44 < Flannel> jdeslip: Nope! :)
19:45 < rww> dragon_: Karmic really doesn't look that different to Jaunty, in my experience.
19:45 < Flannel> jdeslip: that'll be for booth branding ;)
19:45 < jdeslip> Flannel: Ok.  I'll wait.
19:45 < Flannel> Alright, so, the lack of "no" means yes... so, next we'll move on to Informational stuff,
19:45 < Flannel> this is stuff we'll have that people will take away
19:46 < Flannel> Including CDs, flyers, etc
19:46 < Flannel> We've already covered CDs a little, I don't think we need to pin down specific ratios of burning right now,
19:47 < dragon_> rww: alright, only Jaunty then
19:47 < Flannel> We need to get more sleeves printed I think.  I don't know how many I have left, but it's certainly not 200+
19:48 < rww> Flannel: we should also probably revisit the CD design a little. It'd be nice to have links to some sort of installation support page on it, for example.
19:48 < rww> s/CD design/CD sleeve design/
19:48 < Flannel> rww: Aye
19:48 < Grantbow> rww: what time frame are you thinking of to have them ready to print?
19:48 < Flannel> rww: lets discuss specifics afterwards
19:48 < dragon_> are we going to burn some CDs on demand?
19:49 < Flannel> dragon_: I don't believe so.
19:49 < Flannel> oh, that's a good point.
19:49 < Flannel> Do we want to create flavor-specific sleeves?
19:49 < dragon_> like, 64-bit kubuntu
19:49 < Flannel> Since we'll know what's in them (even if we do a little on demand, the bulk will be beforehand)
19:49 < rww> Flannel: I don't think so. It makes thing more complicated, and the checkboxes have worked fine in my experience.
19:49 < Flannel> alright.
19:50 < Flannel> Another thing is flyers, do we want to have some non-CD things to hand to people for general information?
19:50 < Flannel> Many times people just want something to follow up on (because they're no strangers to isos), do we want to have something like that?
19:50 < Flannel> It would likely mean the CDs we had would last longer, and we could put more information on it.
19:51 < rww> I think flyers would be a good idea, if someone's okay with printing them.
19:51 < dragon_> stickers...
19:51 < Flannel> rww: All of this stuff is subject to "if we can get them printed" ;)
19:51 < Grantbow> do we have something ready to print?
19:51 < Flannel> rww: We're discussing target goals right now, since we need some time to make artwork, etc.  Actual logistics comes later (although, only a little bit!)
19:52 < rww> Flannel: k
19:52 < Flannel> Grantbow: Not currently, but they can be created soon.
19:52 < Flannel> dragon_: stickers are schwag, that's next ;)
19:52 < Grantbow> any samples from previous events?
19:52 < dragon_> My apartment complex has a free unlimited laser printer, but it is usually out of order. Still I can give it a shot.
19:52 < Flannel> samples?  Just the ones in the conference pack, which are tri-fold, two side, full color, and somewhat businessy
19:53 < jdeslip> printing black and white is easy
19:53 < jdeslip> color is the difficult thing
19:53 < Flannel> But, there's a few place we can snag samples from, although it probably won't be difficult to create from scratch either
19:53 < Grantbow> looks like the meeting is running long again tonight :-)
19:53 < jdeslip> If all you want is a couple hundred bw flyers, I could do it if no one else can
19:54 < Flannel> Alright, anyone else have thoughts for, or against, flyers?
19:54 < rww> Flannel: I think they'd be a good idea, especially if internet access falls through.
19:54 < nhaines> Let's try to get fliers done, because we can reuse the assets in the future.
19:54 < Flannel> Alright, flyers are a go.
19:54 < jdeslip> sounds good
19:54 < Flannel> Anything else people can think of for informational things to hand out?
19:55 < jdeslip> LUG Flyer is happening right?
19:55 < Flannel> right, but that's provided to us.
19:55 < Grantbow> I'm working with the openstreetmap.org people for a LUG map of California - maybe a poster plus using the image on the LUG flyer handout.
19:55 < Flannel> Grantbow: handing out posters?
19:56 < Flannel> or, did I totally misread that
19:56 < Grantbow> handing out lug flyers
19:56 < Grantbow> no handing out posters, just one of those - maybe.
19:56 < jdeslip> Last meeting there was discussion of displaying a poster with map of LUGs
19:56 < Flannel> right, we don't have to worry about artwork for that though.
19:56 < rww> I read it as putting a poster on the wall
19:56 < nhaines> LUG flyers are separate, LUGs are handling that and will provide them to us.
19:56 < rww> do we have a wall?
19:56 < nikor> Would it be to much to have flyer with all the LUGs in CA with there meeting times, dates & places etc.?
19:57 < Grantbow> I am working with the lugs
19:57 < dragon_> or a notice board?
19:57 < nikor> Grantbow, ok
19:57 < nhaines> nikor: we don't have those data right now.  At the moment some LUGs have asked us to distribute material for them and we agreed.
19:57 < nikor> nhaines, cool
19:57 < Flannel> rww: We have the back wall (which I think is a drape)
19:58 < Grantbow> nikor: there was some mail list discussion on this.
19:58 < Flannel> Ok, so, moving on to schwag.
19:58 < nikor> Grantbow, Will look for it
19:58 < Flannel> This is stuff we want to have to hand out thats mostly just goodies/etc.  Is anyone not familiar with the term schwag?
19:59 < Flannel> We're hoping to have a conference pack, which will have some stickers and some pens
19:59 < Yasumoto_> I also have that bag of tiny badges
19:59 < Yasumoto_> (the Ubuntu logo on a black background)
20:00 < Flannel> Do we think we need anything else?
20:00 < Flannel> Does someone want to look into stickers in case we don't get the conference pack?
20:00 < Flannel> "Look into" -- scout out prices, etc
20:00 < dragon_> iirc, stickers have to be ordered in advance
20:01 < Flannel> dragon_: What do you mean?
20:01 < dragon_> looking into it
20:02 < Flannel> We should know about the conference pack before the day itself, and we've got three weeks, so we have a little bit of lead time
20:02 < jdeslip> ZaReason has some nice looking ubuntu case badges
20:02 < Flannel> (I have no idea how long those might take, but I can't imagine a few weeks is unreasonable)
20:02 < jdeslip> Been giving them out with good reception.
20:02 < Yasumoto_> doesn't System76 do some cool poster stuff?
20:02 < Flannel> Yasumoto_: Those posters are more "come to our event" posters
20:03 < Yasumoto_> jdeslip, yeah nhaines can attest that those are sweet
20:03 < Yasumoto_> Flannel, mm, gotcha
20:03 < Flannel> jdeslip: We've actually got a few hundred of those badges, and have been selling them as a fundraiser
20:03 < rww> I never did get around to buying one
20:05 < dragon_> system76.com is giving out free "Powered by Ubuntu" stickers - http://system76.com/article_info.php?articles_id=9
20:05 < jdeslip> They are giving out one per person though
20:05 < nhaines> Okay, is that it for schwag?
20:06 < Flannel> Alright, next topic (we're almost one, one more after this, and this one should go quickly!)
20:06 < Flannel> is internal use stuff.
20:07 < Flannel> this is stuff (reference material) for booth people to use if they need to look something up, etc
20:07 < Flannel> We've talked about making cheat sheets for things in the past,
20:07 < Flannel> and I think, especially since we won't have internet, it's probably a good idea to make one this time.
20:07 < Flannel> s/one/some/
20:08 < nikor> Cheat sheets for getting things done in ubuntu? That would be great!
20:08 < jdeslip> I suggest winging it and making outrageous claims about what Ubuntu can do.  *I used Ubuntu to save 800 baby pandas from dying.
20:08 < Flannel> getting stuff done, yeah, but also more general questions,
20:08 < nikor> Keyboard shortcuts etc?
20:09 < Flannel> especially since UbuntuOne might be the topic of conversation
20:09  * Grantbow nods
20:09 < nhaines> nikor: no, little fact sheets like, "What's new in Ubuntu" and "What's in the next version", "What is UbuntuOne", etc.
20:09 < Flannel> "What does LTS mean"
20:09 < nikor> nhaines, ok got it
20:09 < Grantbow> talking points, right?
20:09 < Flannel> key combinations seems a bit too much on the trivia side
20:09 < nhaines> nikor: things that booth volunteers can glance at and then speak informedly on.
20:09 < nhaines> Grantbow: exactly.
20:10 < Flannel> Anyone want to head up those sheets?
20:10 < dragon_> Stickers update: we can order "Mixed Ubuntu Sticker Sheets" from Canonical's US store and get it on time. International store is pretty much out of stock except for the mixed pack, which is probably not what we want.
20:10 < Flannel> Others will pitch in of course, but you'll be the one we congratulate ;)
20:11 < Flannel> dragon_: It's cheaper to find a print shop and get stickers printed
20:11 < dragon_> Flannel: I agree.
20:11 < Flannel> Or, I imagine it would be.  I wasn't trying to advocate buying from US Shop
20:11 < rww> I know this is going back a bit, but is anyone else going to be making CDs for OSCON in the next two weeks? If so, let me know, 'cause we'll need to co-ordinate who burns what.
20:12 < Flannel> rww: Yeah, We'll open up communication about what we need.
20:12 < Flannel> rww: Wiki page might be a good place to coordinate, once we figure out the ratios
20:12 < rww> Flannel: k
20:13 < Flannel> Alright, so, we're still looking for a cheatsheet meister, but we'll move on to our last topic.
20:13 < Flannel> Booth Branding!
20:13 < Flannel> This is stuff we have at the booth, to let people know who we are.
20:13 < Flannel> jdeslip: like the banner ;)
20:14 < rww> I imagine namecards could go here too
20:14 < Flannel> yeah
20:14 < jdeslip> Flannel: Ok, I volunteer to do the banner. Grant just pointed me to the Ubuntu-US-CA vectro graphic
20:15 < Flannel> jdeslip: Oh, we'll make artwork for you, just let us know dimensions
20:15 < Grantbow> jdeslip: nice, thanks.
20:15 < Flannel> jdeslip: We've already got one more-or-less finished from last time.
20:15 < jdeslip> Banner?
20:15 < Yasumoto_> jdeslip, epic, thanks :)
20:15 < Flannel> jdeslip: artwork
20:16 < Grantbow> can someone take a picture of what you have now so we can see it?
20:16 < jdeslip> Flannel: So you mean LoGo?
20:16 < Flannel> jdeslip: I mean artwork, a giant SVG for a piece of paper that was going to be printed, but wasn't.
20:16 < Grantbow> ah
20:16 < Flannel> We can modify it to match the dimensions of what you can do, and we'll have the artwork done
20:16 < nhaines> Name badges are still currently the bottom design: http://nhaines.com/ubuntu/california/ and I can bring badges for anyone planning to be there.
20:17 < Flannel> nhaines: As long as they're an ubuntero
20:17 < jdeslip> Flannel: Ok, a bit confused.  I was going to use the logos and some appropriate colors to make a long rectangular banner.  Then submit the pdf to the group for approval.
20:17 < nhaines> Right.  Must be spending time as a booth volunteer, a member of the LoCo, and have signed the Code of Conduct.
20:17 < dragon_> I believe our T-shirts will be a part of booth branding. How many are we expecting in the conf pack?
20:18 < rww> For anyone who isn't an Ubuntero, see the second section of http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/newmember for more info.
20:18 < jdeslip> Flannel: Are you saying all you want is dimensions of the banner and you will design it (or modify an existing one)?
20:19 < Flannel> jdeslip: Well, I welcome additional designs! but yeah, let us know what the dimensions you can handle are, and hopefully we'll get a few designs/ideas and can come up with an even better one
20:19 < Flannel> jdeslip: Taking concepts from each and merging them, or whatever.
20:19 < Flannel> jdeslip: But its hard to design a ... design... without knowing the dimensions
20:19 < nhaines> dragon_: hmm, shirts is a good point.
20:20 < nhaines> Do we know if we're receiving a conference pack for OSCON?
20:20 < rww> and speaking of signing the Code of Conduct, I haven't made noises about keysigning recently. If anyone wants to do GPG keysigning at OSCON, I'm definitely up for it.
20:20 < dragon_> yeah, looks like we'll have 4 of them
20:20 < dragon_> that is, if we receive a pack
20:20 < Grantbow> nhaines: no word back yet
20:20 < jdeslip> Flannel: I think the dimensions can be more or less anything.  They have large spools of glossy paper for these purposes.
20:21 < Grantbow> rww: +1
20:21 < nhaines> jdeslip: find out how wide the paper is then.  :)
20:21 < rww> especially since Flannel informed me that I need to make a new one anyway, since mine's using SHA-1 :(
20:21 < Flannel> jdeslip: Alright, if you don't mind double checking and letting me know sometime early next week,
20:21 < Flannel> rww: Me too! :)
20:21 < jdeslip> Flannel: ok
20:21 < Flannel> jdeslip: I'll post to the ML about submissions (or you can just do it directly)
20:21 < Yasumoto_> rww, keysigning is always fun :) maybe there's already a BoF?
20:22 < rww> If I'm not the only one that thinks it's a good idea, I'll write up instructions on the process to the mailing list.
20:22 < rww> and it seems I'm not, so I will :)
20:22 < Grantbow> rww: +1
20:22 < Flannel> jdeslip: And then hopefully we'll get some good collaboration.  I'm so glad there's yet another person not scared of inkscape, since I'm pretty bad at design.
20:22 < jdeslip> Flannel: ok, will do when I find out the constraints on dimensions
20:23 < Yasumoto_> jdeslip, awesome, I'm stoked to see it :)
20:23 < Flannel> And, if we get that banner made, I can put off my wooden ubuntu logo even longer!
20:23 < jdeslip> Flannel: can you also send me the current svg you are talking about?
20:23 < Grantbow> jdeslip: I think the Projects/Logo is the latest
20:23 < Flannel> jdeslip: Yeah, I'll have to find it.  It's pretty bare bones since I threw it together in about half an hour,
20:24 < Grantbow> Flannel: is the one on the wiki the latest?
20:24 < jdeslip> Grantbow: That is just the logo right?  Flannel is talking about something more I think.
20:24 < Flannel> It's two logos and some text on a white background, since we didn't think we could do full areas of color
20:25 < Flannel> but, I'll find it instead of using 1000 words
20:25 < Flannel> Anything else for booth branding then?
20:25 < Flannel> a banner for the booth, and badges.
20:25 < Grantbow> Maybe a poster, I'll see what I can do.
20:25 < Flannel> Oh, and table cloths
20:26 < nhaines> Shirts?
20:26 < Flannel> nhaines: I missed that,
20:26 < Flannel> nhaines: getting shirts made?
20:26 < jdeslip> Flannel: Ok, that is about what I had in mind (two logos Ubuntu and Ubuntu California logo with Ubuntu California written in the middle)
20:27 < Grantbow> I was planning on wearing the ones I got from the canonical store - brown with enbroidered logo.
20:27 < jdeslip> I was going to use Beamer actually to make the PDF...
20:28 < nhaines> Flannel: dragon_ asked about shirts.
20:28 < Flannel> jdeslip: We'll talk more immediately after the meeting (and I'll find mine)
20:28 < jdeslip> Flannel: k
20:28 < Flannel> We probably should look into (more long term than for OSCON) getting some sort of shirt made
20:29 < nhaines> Just try to wear Ubuntu-themed shirts, then?
20:29 < Flannel> Do we want to try and throw something together fr OSCON? or was it just a reference to the conference pack
20:29 < dragon_> for the OSCON i suppose
20:30 < dragon_> but keeping those shirts for the future events wouldn't hurt
20:30 < Yasumoto_> I think getting shirts made is a great idea, if not for OSCON, then afterward for sure
20:30 < Yasumoto_> dragon_, definitely
20:30 < Flannel> Does someone want to research prices/turnaround/etc?
20:30 < Yasumoto_> nhaines, is cafepress decently cheap (that's who you used, right?)
20:30 < Flannel> So we know what our options are?
20:30 < Grantbow> https://usshop.ubuntu.com/product.php?catid=1 has some shirts unless we want our own logo, etc.
20:30 < nhaines> Yasumoto_: no, and it's not high-quality either.  :)  But yes, that's what I used.
20:30 < Flannel> Yasumoto_: I imagine local B&M ones are cheaper
20:31 < Yasumoto_> Flannel, mm, alright
20:31 < Grantbow> Ernie can do shirts - he's providing the electricity for Oscon and 150 shirts printed for the www.communityleadershipsummit.com
20:31 < rww> Grantbow: how long did shipping take for your shirt from the US Store?
20:31 < Grantbow> rww: I don't recall, not too long - just a few days I think.
20:32 < Grantbow> much quicker than when I ordered from the EU shop, lol.
20:32 < rww> Grantbow: so nowhere near a month?
20:32 < rww> I might grab one from there for OSCON then.
20:33 < dragon_> Ubuntu US store says 5-7 days for delivery via regular ground shipping
20:33 < nhaines> rww: shipping's pretty quick.  Week, maybe.  And the shirts are good quality.
20:33 < Grantbow> rww: yeah, the Faun Ubuntu Mens Polo-shirt is a good one I think.
20:33 < Flannel> Anyone else have any meeting-business?  (not meaning to dampen your conversation, but we can do it during refreshments ;)
20:34  * rww has a quick note
20:34 < Grantbow> fyi, 76 more twitter.com/ubuntu_us_ca followers in the past two weeks :-)
20:34 < Grantbow> oops, 78
20:34 < rww> As I've mentioned in the past, I'm really busy with summer classes this month, so if someone else could summarize the last, this, and the next meeting, that'd be awesome.
20:34 < Yasumoto_> Grantbow, no way? sweetness :)
20:34 < Flannel> rww: Sounds good.
20:35 < dragon_> can we have an orientation meetup in advance?
20:35 < Yasumoto_> that's a good idea, before OSCON?
20:35 < jdeslip> good idea
20:35 < dragon_> yes
20:35 < Yasumoto_> cool, I like that a lot
20:35 < rww> I probably wouldn't be able to make it, but it sounds like a good idea.
20:36 < Grantbow> dragon_: good idea
20:36 < dragon_> we'd get to know each other in advance, and will know what to talk to people about at the booth
20:36 < rww> esp. since there's a lot of relatively-new people, more north cal people, and nobody's really meshed together before.
20:37 < nhaines> dragon_: do you mean in person or in IRC?
20:37 < dragon_> what'd be a good location for that?
20:37 < dragon_> in person
20:37 < Flannel> dragon_: We'll figure that out once we get closer.
20:37 < Flannel> and we'll look into it, etc.
20:37 < dragon_> alright, i'd suggest the King library. It's close to the OSCON site.
20:37 < Flannel> Ah, you already have an answer.
20:37 < nhaines> Handy.  :)
20:37 < dragon_> :)
20:37 < rww> dragon_: that's the one at SJSU?
20:37 < dragon_> rww: yes
20:38 < dragon_> they've got big meeting rooms
20:38 < dragon_> max is 24 i guess
20:38 < dragon_> that's the number of people a meeting room can accomodate
20:38 < Flannel> Alright, we'll look into that further, but does sound promising.
20:38 < Flannel> 24 will definately suffice.
20:39 < Grantbow> dragon_: +1
20:39 < Flannel> Anyone else have more for tonight?
20:39 < Flannel> Alright, thank you all for coming.  Our next meeting is in two weeks, but we should definately try and figure out the last few things we had up in the air this week.
20:40 < Flannel> That leaves us two weeks of "knowing" what's going on beforehand.
20:40 < Flannel> Next meeting is: the 12th
20:40 < Yasumoto_> sweet, thanks guys :)
20:40 < Flannel> 7pm just like always.
20:40 < Grantbow> thanks all
</pre>
