{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, July 27th, 2008, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
1. OSCON
  a. Info page: http://en.oreilly.com/oscon2008/public/content/home
  a. Joe went to it and will tell us about it when he gets back.
1. Lindependence
  a. Report at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2008-July/000359.html
  a. Went really well! Everyone had fun, and there's talk of doing it again elsewhere.
1. CaliforniaTeam/UserGroupContacts
  a. Email by Grantbow: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2008-July/000355.html
  a. nhaines is going to talk to OCLUG
  a. Flannel talked to NOCCC
  a. Need to make a decision on email addresses being on there, contact more LUGs, work on page layout
1. CaliforniaTeam/HardwareSuppliers
  a. Some stuff should be moved back to the national project; our page should focus on CA-specific stuff
  a. National project is dormant; maybe we should resurrect it?
  a. Going to discuss more after the meeting.
1. <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxworldexpo.com|Linux World Expo]]</nowiki> is next week!
  a. the dotORG pavilion was full, so we'll be at the Canonical booth instead, maybe?
  a. Grantbow will send some CDs to BALUG
  a. Follow up on the mailing list
1. CaliforniaTeam/Projects/GlobalBugJam
  a. August 9th, at Chapman University, in the City of Orange. Starting at 10am, going on pretty much all day
  a. Keysigning party at the beginning of the event, moving into triage at 11am
  a. Will be an IRC presence. Carpooling might be available. 
  a. Questions to the mailing list
1. SGVLUG Presentation
  a. August 14th. Meeting is 7pm to 9pm, and we'll be presenting for half of that
  a. http://sgvlug.org/

==== Original Agenda ====
# <nowiki>[[http://en.oreilly.com/oscon2008/public/content/home|OSCON]]</nowiki> & Ubuntu Live remants have concluded - news
# <nowiki>[[http://linuxlock.blogspot.com/|Lindependence]]</nowiki> in Felton, CA has concluded - news
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-UserGroupContacts|User Group Contacts]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-UserGroupContacts-Groups|Groups]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2008-July/000355.html|status]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-HardwareSuppliers]]</nowiki> implementing UbuntuFriendlyHardwareSuppliers - status
# <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxworldexpo.com|Linux World Expo]]</nowiki> prep status - San Francisco Moscone Center Aug 4-7
*** Ubucon - Thursday, August 7 - description at the bottom left of <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxworldexpo.com|linuxworldexpo.com]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Ubucon]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-GlobalBugJam|Global Bug Jam]]</nowiki> California Aug 8 - 10 - Details
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-SGVLUG|SGVLUG]]</nowiki> Presentation Aug 14th 7PM @ Cal Tech

==== Logs ====
<pre>
19:10 < Flannel> Alright, so... its 7:10, good of time as any to start a meeting.
19:10 < Flannel> Welcome everyone to our July 27th meeting!
19:11 < Flannel> Agenda can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/08July27 
19:11 < Flannel> it consists of: OSCON, Lindependence, User Group Contact status update, Hardware Suppliers updates, LWE/Ubucon, GBJ, and SGVLUG
19:13 < Flannel> Anyone have any topics to add to it currently?
19:13 < Flannel> Alright.  So, first topic: OSCON.
19:13 < Grantbow> Did anyone actually go to OSCON or read some good writeups about it?  http://en.oreilly.com/oscon2008/public/content/home
19:13 < Flannel> OSCON wrapped up a few days ago.  I know Joe was at OSCON
19:14 < Flannel> I think he's planning on telling us all about it once he gets home
19:14 < Flannel> So, we'll look forward to that in the next few weeks
19:15 < nhaines> Sounds good.
19:15 < Flannel> Next topic is Lindependence.
19:15 < Grantbow> http://radar.oreilly.com/ has some info on OSCON for those interested
19:15 < Flannel> We got a lovely email from Larry about Lindependence a few hours ago: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2008-July/000359.html
19:16 < Grantbow> Yes, I attended the first day and Daniel covered last Tuesday and yesterday.  I think that's the last scheduled event.
19:16 < nhaines> Grantbow: There's one more scheduled event for September, I believe.
19:17 < Grantbow> Unfortunately we didn't have any Internet connectivity the first day.
19:17 < Grantbow> for Felton or is that the next town?
19:17 < Flannel> For those of you who haven't read the email yet:  It went superbly.  So well, that they're planning to try and do somethign similar in another town.
19:17 < Grantbow> Boulder Creek
19:18 < Flannel> And, the rest you can read yourselves, I won't spoil it.
19:18 < Grantbow> a town in Italy?  cool.
19:18 < Flannel> Italy?
19:19 < Grantbow> http://linuxlock.blogspot.com/ talks about the towns that called them.
19:19 < Grantbow> Vicenza Italy was one
19:20 < AlgorithmicContr> That's very interesting
19:20 < nhaines> That's just a list of where some other users were interested in doing a similar event.
19:21 < nhaines> Okay, anything else to report about Lindependence?
19:21 < Grantbow> I met nice people from all different levels of expertise.
19:21 < Grantbow> It was fun.  I guess that's it for now.
19:23 < Grantbow> As for UserGroup Contacts, as I mentioned in the email I worked on a couple pages for this.  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2008-July/000355.html
19:23 < Flannel> Alright, so, Next topic: status updates on: contacting local User groups, which is already underway!
19:24 < Grantbow> We now need people to start talking about the LoCo with their user groups.
19:24 < Grantbow> If you do, please edit one of the two pages listed there.
19:24 < Grantbow> SGVLUG can be added pretty soon I assume.  :-)
19:25 < nhaines> I intend to talk to the president of the OCLUG next time there's a meeting.  I thought I'd get to do it yesterday but no meeting this month.  :)
19:25 < nhaines> Although I've already mentioned the LoCo to him.
19:25 < Grantbow> great
19:25 < Grantbow> sorry there was no meeting
19:25 < Flannel> We've already talked to NOCCC too, we'll have to remember details and throw them up there.
19:26 < nhaines> Since the change in leadership at NOCCC, it might be wise to touch base again.
19:26 < Grantbow> There's also a comments page I populated with the discussion from two weeks ago about confidentiality of the LUG contacts.
19:26 < Grantbow> link is at the bottom of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/UserGroupContacts
19:27 < Flannel> Some of these pages will be moved, but the link will still be there.
19:27 < Grantbow> huh?
19:28 < Flannel> Grantbow: I'll explain after the meeting
19:28 < nhaines> Grantbow: we'll reorganize the pages so they make more sense logically.
19:28 < troyready> I don't see anything about confidentiality; just curious as to what that entails
19:28 < Grantbow> ok
19:28 < Grantbow> I was thinking about how to link it from our wiki - for users I think the Groups page of brainstorming is more appropriate.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Groups
19:28 < nhaines> troyready: concerns about email harvesters scraping the wiki pages.
19:28 < troyready> nhaines: OOOH, right; thanks
19:28 < Flannel> troyready: and what we might be able to do to mitigate those concernes
19:28 < Grantbow> it was a discussion last week - I removed them for now.
19:28 < nhaines> Grantbow: probably through Projects, but we'll have to talk it over.
19:29 < Grantbow> interesting, ok
19:29 < Flannel> Anyone have questions/comments about UGCs?
19:29 < Flannel> or anything associated with it?
19:29 < Grantbow> FYI, I added a bunch of Northern California links to the Groups page.
19:30 < Grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/HardwareSuppliers is next I think.
19:30 < Flannel> Indeed.  If we're done with UGCs, we'll move on to the related Hardware Suppliers topic
19:31 < Grantbow> Sorry, didn't mean to jump ahead.
19:31 < nhaines> I *think* we're done.  Ongoing project and all that.
19:32 < Flannel> Grantbow: yeah, go ahead.
19:32 < Grantbow> I've updated that Hardware Suppliers page and slightly adapted the letter to incorporate the comments from two weeks ago.
19:32 < Grantbow> I was just working on it before the meeting.
19:32 < Grantbow> Flannel: thanks for links to those materials - I've added those to the bottom.
19:33 < Grantbow> It seems canonical is revamping their partner program.
19:33 < Grantbow> I had to update the link and they added a new IHV class of partners in the last week I just noticed.
19:33 < Grantbow> Comments welcome - what do you guys thing?
19:33 < Grantbow> *think?
19:34 < nhaines> I haven't had the chance to take a look at it yet but I hope to get to it this week.
19:34 < Flannel> Grantbow: Most of this content (the "how to do this" stuff) could probably be merged into the main project page(s)
19:35 < Grantbow> the main project is dead
19:35 < Flannel> Grantbow: That means you're restarting the main project!
19:35 < Grantbow> it's hardly been touched in months
19:36 < Grantbow> uh, no, lol
19:36 < Grantbow> we are doing our thing and that's enough for now.
19:36 < Flannel> The California specific page I *think* should deal with just CA specific stuff (who we've contacted, etc)
19:36 < troyready> The infrastructure of our wiki page looks good
19:37 < nhaines> We should definitely be working to support the national efforts as well.
19:37 < Flannel> s/national/global/
19:37 < Grantbow> troyready: thank you
19:38 < Grantbow> since the global effort fell apart I think we are on our own for awhile
19:38 < nhaines> Well, at *least* national.  But national level should be working with global efforts too.  It's like the circle of life only without the catchy song.  :)
19:38 < Flannel> Grantbow: The "global" effort consists of whomever is working on it.  Putting the content on the other page won't obligate you to do anything globally.
19:38 < Grantbow> I've looked at the two or three other attempts to implement this.  It didn't get very far and the information is displayed in a number of ways.
19:38 < Flannel> It'll only help other people who want to do it.
19:39 < Grantbow> OK, I can edit the latter template with your suggestions about "Display Ubuntu information or CDs in your store? "
19:39 < Grantbow> *letter
19:40 < Grantbow> and add the links to the materials on that other page instead
19:40 < Flannel> I'm not sure which template you're talking about.  We can talk details after the meeting.  I'd be interested to see the other attempts to implement it as well.
19:40 < Grantbow> they are linked from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuFriendlyHardwareSuppliers when you have time to look
19:40 < Flannel> Since, that might go on for hours, and I know nhaines has an early bedtime
19:41 < Grantbow> Belgium, Australia, UK and Tamil
19:41 < Grantbow> yup, next topic
19:41 < Grantbow> Yasumoto isn't here, is he?
19:41 < Flannel> Alright.  So, we'll discuss the hardware stuff after the meeting for whomever is interested in putting in their comments/etc
19:42 < Flannel> No, he can't make it tonight
19:42 < Flannel> Alright, so the next topic is LWE
19:42 < Grantbow> He was the one contacting Canonical for us, right?
19:42 < Flannel> Yasumoto had discussed some things with some people.  Does anyone know what the final outcome was?
19:43 < Flannel> the dotORG pavilion was full, and last I heard he hadn't heard back from jono
19:43 < nhaines> Yikes, I should know this one.
19:43 < Flannel> and He'll be at LWE
19:43 < nhaines> I'm sure Canonical won't mind any extra help.
19:44 < Grantbow> right
19:44 < Grantbow> I'll get some CDs made and get them to the BALUG booth.
19:45 < Flannel> I'll ask Joe to send us an email on that.  Since it can't wait for the next meeting.
19:45 < nhaines> Okay, so we'll follow up on this via the list.
19:45 < Flannel> For those of you who don't know, It's Aug 4-7 (next week, M-R)
19:45 < Grantbow> yes, LWE is Aug 4, next meeting is Aug 10
19:45 < Grantbow> Ubucon is Aug 7th
19:46 < Grantbow> I guess that's it.
19:46 < Flannel> Alright, so, keep your eyes peeled for LWE info.
19:46 < Flannel> Next topic is GBJ
19:47 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/GlobalBugJam
19:47 < Grantbow> greg-g: ping
19:47 < Flannel> Our GBJ (or one of them, at least) is going to be on August 9th, at Chapman
19:47 < Flannel> University, in the City of Orange
19:48 < nhaines> And it is going to be awesome.
19:48 < Flannel> We're currently starting at around 10am, and we'll run more or less "all day".  It'll be losely scheduled.
19:48 < Flannel> And yes, it should be awesome.
19:48 < troyready> whoohooo
19:48 < Flannel> We'll have  keysigning party before hand, and we should have instructions on how to be prepared for said keysigning soon (on the ML)
19:49 < nhaines> So that means we're meeting before 10?
19:49 < Flannel> Maybe nhaines can dig up his presentation that has been postponed a number of times
19:49 < nhaines> I'll work on it.  ;)
19:49 < Flannel> nhaines: Nah.  We'll probably start everything at 10, with triaging at 11 or something
19:49 < Flannel> Biggest thing to Remember:  It will be FUN, and you don't have to know anything to come and participate.
19:50 < nhaines> I sat down with jjpeters and danage a couple weeks back and explained GPG to them.  Lightbulbs went on, so I suppose I'm not totally bad at explaining GPG.  :)
19:50 < Grantbow> nice
19:50 < nhaines> If you've ever wanted to help out Ubuntu but don't know where to begin, this is your chance to find out!
19:50 < Flannel> Thepoint of GBJ is to sit down and have fun with our team.  So even if we don't get any bugs triaged or fixed, it'll still be a success.
19:50 < Grantbow> IRC presence as well during the events, right?
19:50 < nhaines> You don't have to be good at it because it's easy and we're going to teach you and all work together.
19:50 < Flannel> Yeah, we'll be on IRC, and might even have video/audio feeds
19:51 < Flannel> Carpools might be available for those who want/need it.
19:51 < nhaines> Flannel: I'll blog about it on Planet.
19:51 < Grantbow> There is nothing scheduled here yet but greg-g and I will pull something together one way or another.
19:51 < Flannel> nhaines: Oh yeah.  You're all fancy with your planet feed.
19:52  * Grantbow cheers nhaines
19:52 < Flannel> For those of you wondering, the schedule that's on there will almost certainly be broken.
19:52 < Flannel> Anyway, anyone have questions/whatevers about GBJ?
19:52  * Flannel doesn't know if he mentioned it.
19:52 < Flannel> It's in two weeks, minus one day.
19:53 < nhaines> I'm especially looking forward to the part where we eat.
19:53 < Flannel> Alright, well, if you have questions, shoot an email to the mailing list, since someone else probably has that same question.
19:54 < Flannel> Next topic: SGVLUG Presentation
19:54 < Flannel> This Presentation is the Thursday after GBJ.  Which means its on August 14th.
19:54 < Flannel> The SGVLUG meeting goes from 7-9, and we get half (not sure which half).
19:54 < nhaines> That's two weeks, plus four days.
19:54 < Flannel> Everyone/Anyone is encouraged to attend.
19:56 < Flannel> We'll be giving a presentation on Ubuntu... and... Ubuntu.
19:56 < Flannel> Server, Desktop, Flavors, etc.  It'll be an all around good time.
19:56 < Grantbow> http://sgvlug.org/
19:56 < Flannel> And if anyone has any ideas they want to offer for what we ought to cover... let me or nhaines know.
19:56 < nhaines> So if anyone has any suggestions as far as specific topics, they should bring it up.
19:57 < Flannel> We're definately open to suggestions.  As long as they're not stupid.
19:57 < nhaines> You know how it is.  You use Ubuntu long enough and you start to take things for granted.
19:57 < Flannel> Alright, so, that's not true.  We're even open to stupid suggestions ;)
19:58  * Flannel lets everyone know he's joking.  We really are open to everything.
19:58 < Flannel> And even if we don't use them this time, we'll keep them in mind for next time.
19:58 < Flannel> Apart from that, we're done with the agenda.
19:58 < Grantbow> good timing
19:59 < Flannel> Oh right.  SGVLUG meets at CalTech
19:59 < Flannel> Anyone have anything else to discuss tonight?
20:00 < Flannel> Alright, that about does it.  Thank you all for coming.  Next meeting is in Two weeks (that's the day after our Bug Jam), August 10th.  7pm.
</pre>
