{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, July 15th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. No agenda items

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:20] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:20] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jul 16 02:20:49 2012 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:20] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:20] <pleia2> hello california friends :)
[02:21] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12July15
[02:21] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12July15 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:21] <pleia2> nothing really on our agenda
[02:22] <pleia2> #topic Announcements, comments, brainstorming, anything else
[02:23] <pleia2> several folks are at OSCON right now
[02:23] <pleia2> I know MarkDude and philipballew went up, and bkerensa and the Oregon team are running an Ubuntu booth :)
[02:25] <pleia2> I'll be heading up for just the last couple days
[02:25] <pleia2> anyone have anything they want to talk about?
[02:25] <pleia2> our last SF Ubuntu Hour was pretty lean, just two of us summertime :)
[02:26] <akk> Hey, everybody, have fun at OSCON!
[02:26] <pleia2> thanks akk!
[02:26] <pleia2> in early Septmeber we'll be working with BerkeleyLUG and Partimus on the Solano Stroll again http://www.solanoavenueassn.org/strol.htm
[02:26] <darthrobot> Title: [Solano Stroll street festival & parade |Berkeley & Albany CA]
[02:27] <eps> Y'know, I haven't heard anything about a Linux Picnic this year.
[02:27] <pleia2> eps: it's not happening
[02:27] <pleia2> no one reserved the back back in february
[02:27] <eps> Eek. So, what? At 21, Linux has finally grown up and moved out of its parents basement?
[02:28] <akk> bummer!
[02:28] <pleia2> 21, maybe the picnic is being held in an undisclosed bar :)
[02:28] <eps> If MarkDude were here, we could probably put together a Geeknic for the date the Linux Picnic would have landed on.
[02:29] <pleia2> Alison Chaiken expressed interest in trying to help make it happen next year, so I might throw my hat in for that too
[02:30] <pleia2> maybe we can see about roping him in for a geeknic in late august :)
[02:30] <pleia2> anyone have any other thoughts?
[02:31] <jyo> Mt. View Ubuntu Hour is on Thursday, I think.
[02:32] <pleia2> ah yes, 3rd thursday :)
[02:32] <pleia2> not in the loco team portal yet, but jtatum usually sends out a mail too
[02:35] <pleia2> ok, I guess we can wrap things up yet
[02:35]  * eps wants to gripe about the sad state of nVidia proprietary drivers
[02:36] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
