{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Sunday, August 26th, 2007, 7:00pm (1900) PDT

=== Summary ===
 1. Team Map
  a. If you haven't already, sign our <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Members|Members]]</nowiki> page to add yourself to the team map!
  a. We should soon have the source code for the map, and hopefully we can get set it up as a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki> project.
 2. Case Badge Stuff
  a. Money has been sent in, anyone that wants to help donate to the team, contact <nowiki>[[NealBussett|Flannel]]</nowiki>
 3. Branding
  a. If you're interested in creating a logo for the team, stop by the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-IRC|IRC channel]]</nowiki> or visit the <nowiki>[[http://california.ubuntuforums.org|forums]]</nowiki>
 4. IRC Parties.
  a. Proposed by <nowiki>[[Cactaur|cactaur]]</nowiki>, it seems like a fun way to get our geographically distant team together to hang out. Talk to him for more info. :)
  b. Here's the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=541506|forum page]]</nowiki> for the event.

=== Agenda ===
 1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Members|Team Map]]</nowiki>
 2. <nowiki>[[MassachusettsTeam-Projects-AluminiumCaseBadgesCase|Badge Stuff]]</nowiki>
** Money needs to be in before the 31st or else order will be canceled.
 3. Branding
 4. IRC Parties.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.

Hope to see you there!

=== Logs ===
<pre>
19:00 < Yasumoto> alrighty, it's 7:00, so I say we get going, if everyone's alright with that?
19:01 < bmathis> im ready... Yasumoto: are you logging?
19:01 < sn9> as long as there's some going to get
19:01 < Yasumoto> yep
19:01 < cactaur4> bmathis: What Yasumoto does in the privacy of his bathroom is none of your businesss!
19:01 < groundferret> Sure.
19:01 < Yasumoto> bmathis: if you want to also, just in case, that'd be cool
19:01 < Yasumoto> cactaur4: hey! you said we'd keep that between us
19:01 < bmathis> Logging is turned on
19:02 < Yasumoto> Alright
19:02 < bmathis> Cactaur4: haha
19:02 < Yasumoto> so the agenda is:
19:02 < groundferret> ...
19:02 < sn9> non-euclidean logging?
19:02 < Yasumoto> Agenda
19:02 < Yasumoto>    1.
19:02 < Yasumoto>       Team Map
19:02 < Yasumoto>    2.
19:02 < Yasumoto>       Badge Stuff
19:02 < Yasumoto>           *
19:02 < Yasumoto>             Money needs to be in before the 31st or else order will be canceled.
19:02 < Yasumoto>    3.
19:02 < Yasumoto>       Branding
19:02 < Yasumoto>    4.
19:02 < Yasumoto>       IRC Parties.
19:02 < cactaur4> w00t!
19:03 < sn9> go, go, gadget-paste!
19:03 < Yasumoto> haha, yeah
19:03 < groundferret> Ok then. The team map is up.
19:03 < Yasumoto> take a look here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/07August26
19:03 < Yasumoto> if you want to follow along (with links :D )
19:03 < Yasumoto> anyone have anything they want to say before we get started?
19:04 < bmathis> nope... lets role
19:04 < Yasumoto> sweet
19:04 < Yasumoto> so, first and foremost
19:04 < Yasumoto> we've got the Team Map
19:05 < Yasumoto> I think it's pretty important, especially considering how large California is
19:05 < AlgorthmicContro> Hmm...cool, how do I join it?
19:05 < Yasumoto> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Members
19:05 < Yasumoto> just follow the pattern, and you'll be up with everyone
19:05 < AlgorthmicContro> I know, so just edit page?
19:05 < Yasumoto> yep
19:05 < AlgorthmicContro> I see, go on
19:06 < cactaur4> I'd like to congratulate the Map people.
19:06 < sn9> why is there a member list both on the wiki and on launchpad, with no sync?
19:06 < Yasumoto> yeah, big thanks to mthaddon (who isn't here right now) for getting the google maps side of things working
19:06 < Yasumoto> sn9: once mthaddon gets the source out, we're going to see about putting everything together
19:07 < sn9> The Source?
19:07 < Yasumoto> the code he uses for making the map work
19:07 < sn9> oh
19:08 < Yasumoto> but I don't think people put their zip codes on there
19:08 < Yasumoto> and some people may not want to be put on the map
19:08 < Yasumoto> if people want to put themselves up there, it's pretty simple so far
19:09 < cactaur4> yeah, I agree
19:09 < Yasumoto> so if no one has any other questions about the map, we can move on?
19:09 < cactaur4> I'm fine.
19:09 < AlgorthmicContro> I do
19:10 < bmathis> theres always one that does ;)
19:10 < AlgorthmicContro> So If I wanted to place myself on the map, I'd write mapdetails:username||Zipcode||  ?after I put myself up on teammap?
19:11 < Yasumoto> (mapdetails:Name||ZipCode||Comment)
19:11 < adaminla> anyone here yet?
19:11 < Yasumoto> heya adaminla 
19:12 < AlgorthmicContro> Yasumoto: Gotcha, thanks.
19:12 < adaminla> howdy
19:12 < Yasumoto> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/07August26
19:12 < Yasumoto> for the agenda for tonight
19:12 < adaminla> k
19:12 < Yasumoto> AlgorthmicContro: you're good?
19:13 < Yasumoto> okay
19:13 < Yasumoto> so next we have the badges
19:13 < cactaur4> I have a feeling this is going to take up the most time.
19:14 < adaminla> I missed the last meeting. What are the badges?
19:14 < Yasumoto> so the massachusetts LoCo team
19:14 < cactaur4> adaminla: They're basically aluminum stickers that say "Powered by Ubuntu". And we have an opportunity to buy some in bulk.
19:14 < Yasumoto> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadgesCase
19:15 < Yasumoto> So far we've got three people donating
19:15 < adaminla> Cool. What are the details?
19:15 < Yasumoto> we're getting 300 badges for the team
19:15 < adaminla> for how much?
19:15 < Yasumoto> which comes out to $72
19:16 < Yasumoto> we're planning on selling these for about $1 at events that we put on
19:16 < Yasumoto> which will hopefully be a good fundraiser for the team
19:16 < adaminla> cool
19:16 < sn9> there are going to be events?
19:16 < cactaur4> sn9: Hopefully, if things start looking good for us.
19:16 < Yasumoto> yeah
19:17 < Yasumoto> I think it's really going to depend on people setting things up in their area
19:17 < Yasumoto> like I want to set up a Gutsy release/install party
19:17 < adaminla> In feb there's the so cal linux gig\
19:18 < Yasumoto> yeah, I want us to have a presence there too
19:18 < Yasumoto> so we'll see
19:18 < adaminla> how much do we have raisrd do far?
19:18 < Yasumoto> so if anyone can donate to help us out, just add yourself to the wiki and send an email to the list
19:18 < Yasumoto> bmathis is donating $20, I've got $10, and Flannel's covering the rest
19:19 < adaminla> I can put in $20 also
19:19 < cactaur4> So, are we doing the thing where we get a badge for every $1 we donate?
19:19 < Yasumoto> adaminla: that'd be really sweet :)
19:20 < bmathis> im the bestest!
19:20 < Yasumoto> cactaur4: yeah, it'll probably be something like that
19:20 < Yasumoto> bmathis: *high five* :)
19:20 < cactaur4> awesome
19:21 < AlgorthmicContro> sweet
19:21 < adaminla> how do i donate the money?
19:21 < Yasumoto> I just think it's a great example of things getting done when people just do things
19:21 < cactaur4> That's the next thing.
19:21 < Yasumoto> adaminla: I'll talk to you about that in a bit (check or mail order)
19:21 < cactaur4> Yasumoto: Oh, we have that straightened out?
19:22 < AlgorthmicContro> Yeah, could we do money orders?
19:22 < Yasumoto> cactaur4: yeah, we're going to send them in to Flannel 
19:22 < Yasumoto> and then he'll send them out
19:22 < AlgorthmicContro> So to....Flannel's address?
19:22 < Yasumoto> yeah, if you want to donate, send him an email
19:22 < Yasumoto> and he'll give you his address
19:22 < cactaur4> Shouldn't we kinda put that on the wiki? It's a little important.
19:23 < Yasumoto> yeah, sorry
19:23 < Yasumoto> I'll fix it after the meeting
19:23 < cactaur4> ok, cool
19:23 < Yasumoto> (or someone can do it now :D )
19:23 < cactaur4> I'll do it.
19:23 < Yasumoto> cactaur4++
19:23 < Yasumoto> (does that make you cactaur5?)
19:23 < bmathis> haha
19:23 < Yasumoto> so basically
19:23 < Yasumoto> if you're interested in helping out the team, check out the wiki page
19:24 < Yasumoto> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam
19:24 < Yasumoto> scroll down to "Headlines and ToDo"
19:24 < Yasumoto> and add yourself to the list :)
19:24 < Yasumoto> any other questions about case badges?
19:25 < bmathis> nope
19:25 < cactaur4> Just to make sure, Flannel's e-mail is neal (at) busset (dot) com, correct. (Hiding because this is being logged).
19:25 < cactaur4> ?
19:25 < Yasumoto> lemme check
19:25 < Yasumoto> yeah
19:26 < Yasumoto> wait
19:26 < Yasumoto> neal (at) bussett (d0t) com
19:26 < Yasumoto> (two t's)
19:26 < cactaur4> or, I can just point it to his wiki, and people could figure it out from there
19:26 < sn9> neal, not neil?
19:27 < cactaur4> That way, his e-mail won't be on the internet more than necessary. And I won't be held responsible for any misspellings.
19:27 < cactaur4> I'll do that.
19:28 < Yasumoto> yeah, for sure
19:28 < Yasumoto> sn9: neal
19:28 < Yasumoto> okay, let's move on to branding
19:29 < Yasumoto> So a lot of teams
19:29 < Yasumoto> have really sweet logos and such
19:30 < Yasumoto> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam
19:30 < Yasumoto> is a quick example
19:30 < Yasumoto> and I really like https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
19:30 < Yasumoto> I have some graphic design experience
19:31 < bmathis> we can make one that says Calibuntu
19:31 < sn9> how about a state-of-CA going through the doughnut hole of the ubuntu logo?
19:31 < Yasumoto> but that's pretty much with adobe photoshop/illustrator
19:31 < Yasumoto> and I think we have way more talented people that could make something amazing
19:31 < cactaur4> I think it would be awesome of Arnold was on it.
19:31 < Yasumoto> haha
19:31 < cactaur4> And terminating something.
19:31 < sn9> we'd need his permission for that
19:32 < cactaur4> oh, never mind then.
19:32 < Yasumoto> mm, yeah, we would
19:32 < bmathis> ill give him a call and see what he says
19:32 < Yasumoto> well if someone whips one up, I'll write the email to him :)
19:32 < Yasumoto> haha
19:32 < Yasumoto> bmathis: alright, you win :D
19:32 < cactaur4> I will too!
19:33 < Yasumoto> haha
19:33 < bmathis> schwarzy didnt answer
19:33 < Yasumoto> so this is kind of the thing where it'd be cool to have a few people whip up a few designs
19:33 < Yasumoto> even if you're not that talented, maybe sketch something out really quick
19:34 < Yasumoto> and then work with someone that knows an image editing program to make it slick
19:34 < cactaur4> Or learn how to use GIMP, either way.
19:34 < Yasumoto> yeah, exactly
19:34 < Yasumoto> and also, it might be cool to have a motto or slogan that we can use
19:34 < sn9> kubuntu people could use krita
19:35 < Yasumoto> sn9: yeah, good call
19:36 < Yasumoto> so anyways
19:36 < cactaur4> Hooray for free software!
19:37 < Yasumoto> if someone wants to start up a page on the wiki
19:37 < Yasumoto> or a thread on the forum
19:37 < Yasumoto> we can keep everything in one place
19:37 < Yasumoto> does anyone want to work on heading up our "Logo Contest!!!"?
19:37 < Yasumoto> (feel free to change the name)
19:38 < bmathis> maybe post the designs on the wiki and then a poll on the forums for the best one?
19:38 < cactaur4> makes sense
19:38 < bmathis> of course i does
19:38 < bmathis> :)
19:38 < Yasumoto> bmathis: that's a good idea
19:38 < bmathis> thanks!
19:39 < Yasumoto> I think there was some concern about spreading it out into too many places though
19:39 < AlgorthmicContro> I another hooray for bmathis
19:39 < AlgorthmicContro> :)
19:39 < Yasumoto> but it'd be a good way to display everything
19:39 < bmathis> yeah, but you cant have a poll on the wiki page and we havent merged launchpad with anything else, so it seems like a viable solution until then
19:40 < Yasumoto> bmathis: point taken
19:40 < bmathis> i rock!
19:40 < Yasumoto> haha
19:40 < Yasumoto> *high five*
19:40 < cactaur4> I roll
19:40 < bmathis> haha
19:41 < Yasumoto> so to summarize everything:
19:41 < Yasumoto> We need a logo
19:41 < Yasumoto> people'll hopefully sketch something out
19:41 < Yasumoto> (even if it has ... arnold...)
19:42 < cactaur4> ESPECIALLY if it has Arnold
19:42 < Yasumoto> yes cactaur4 ...
19:42 < cactaur4> ok, go on
19:42 < Yasumoto> and then we'll work on voting/improving a design
19:42 < Yasumoto> maybe even combining ideas from a few
19:42 < Yasumoto> and then we can do a buncha cool stuff
19:42 < cactaur4> Should the art be under a GPL?
19:43 < Yasumoto> hm
19:43 < Yasumoto> I don't really know much about licensing
19:43 < bmathis> maybe creative commons
19:43 < Yasumoto> but yeah, something like that
19:43 < cactaur4> yeah, that makes more sense.
19:44 < bmathis> im on a roll tonite
19:44 < Yasumoto> any other comments about branding?
19:44 < sn9> a barrel roll?
19:45 < bmathis> umm... any roll thats a good roll!
19:45 < bmathis> nope... movin on
19:45 < Yasumoto> cactaur4: I turn the floor over to you
19:45 < cactaur4> w00t
19:45 < Yasumoto> for the last topic on the agenda
19:45 < cactaur4> Ok, the last topic, IRC Parties!
19:46 < cactaur4> I think they'll be a good idea at spreading the community part of the LoCo team.
19:46 < sn9> irc is a limited part of the community
19:47 < cactaur4> yeah, but I think having certain parties would be good for bringing in other parts of the community for a short time.
19:47 < cactaur4> They may not be like some of us who stay on IRC for hours at a time.
19:47 < cactaur4> And we can advertise them on the forums, the wiki, wherever else.
19:47 < sn9> that does not counter irc's negative reputation
19:48 < cactaur4> sn9: Which is?
19:48 < sn9> hmm?
19:48 < cactaur4> What is IRC's negative reputation?
19:49 < Yasumoto> it's difficult to use
19:49 < Yasumoto> (one of the criticisms)
19:49 < cactaur4> well, like I'm doing right now, there's a applet which lets you connect.
19:49 < sn9> internet for $400, alex
19:49 < cactaur4> You don't have to download a whole client.
19:50 < sn9> right. i put a java chat on svlug.org, for example
19:50 < cactaur4> yeah
19:51 < cactaur4> And it'll be super casual. We could even have people stream online radio to mimic the music that goes on in a real party.
19:51 < sn9> stream over irc?
19:51 < cactaur4> well, we could put an address to it in the topic bar.
19:51 < sn9> ok...
19:52 < adaminla> xchat works well and is easy to instal lfrom Apps. add remove
19:52 < sn9> yes, but too easily confused with xchat-gnome
19:52 < cactaur4> Yeah, and some people may like IRC and choose to stay.
19:53 < cactaur4> People who never really used it before.
19:53 < sn9> people not yet on ubuntu could go to http://b0at.tx0.org/xchat
19:53 < AlgorthmicContro> cactaur4: I like the idea about mincing music
19:53 < AlgorthmicContro> party music*
19:54 < adaminla> get dowwwwn
19:54 < cactaur4> So, any questions about parties?
19:54 < adaminla> is?
19:55 < cactaur4> is what?
19:55 < adaminla> I think if we can work out how to do it it would be a good way to spread the word.
19:56 < Yasumoto> it reminds me of the #ubuntu-us meet n' greet a few weeks ago
19:57 < cactaur4> Yeah, but we'll cut out the other 49 states for now.
19:57 < Yasumoto> haha, yeah
19:57 < Yasumoto> and it might help people that may not be able to make the meetings still get involved
19:58 < cactaur4> yeah
19:58 < cactaur4> Plus, it could get your friends on IRC!
19:58 < cactaur4> and maybe even on Ubuntu!
19:58 < adaminla> are most of the folks in here tonight in so cal or no cal?
19:58 < sn9> roll call!
19:58 < bmathis> central cali
19:58 < cactaur4> So Cal
19:59 < sn9> norcal
19:59 < Yasumoto> SoCal ftw
19:59 < adaminla> Long /Beach
19:59 < sn9> if there are no more votes, the socals have it
19:59 < cactaur4> w00t!
20:00 < cactaur4> Ok, any more questions about IRC parties?
20:00 < Yasumoto> good job team!! :D
20:00 < bmathis> i think im the only one in the central valley
20:00 < Yasumoto> cactaur4: if there's anything I can do to help, lemme know
20:00 < Yasumoto> otherwise, have fun :)
20:00 < cactaur4> awesome!
20:00 < Scunizi> so cal
20:00 < Yasumoto> Scunizi: yes!
20:00 < cactaur4> Ok, gotta dash now.
20:00 < cactaur4> See you all!
20:01 < Yasumoto> kk, later cactaur4
20:01 < Yasumoto> alright guys
20:01 < Yasumoto> anyone have anything else they want to bring up?
20:01 < Yasumoto> questions/comments?
20:01 < sn9> the sky is blue
20:02 < Yasumoto> alright cool
20:02 < Yasumoto> Don't forget to add yourself to the Team Map https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Members
20:02 < Yasumoto> and if you can, it'd be awesome if you could donate for the case badges
20:02 < adaminla> so i'll send flannel an e-mail and we'll move the badge thing forwaard.
20:02 < Yasumoto> yep
20:02 < sn9> i'm already on the launchpad page, so a sync to the wiki will bing me in anyway
20:03 < Yasumoto> yeah, gotcha
20:03 < sn9> *bring
20:03 < Yasumoto> but I think we'll still need your zip code
20:03 < sn9> 94127
20:03 < Yasumoto> kk, gotcha
20:03 < Yasumoto> alright guys, thanks for coming!
20:03 < Yasumoto> the #ubuntu-california meeting is now over at 20:03
</pre>
