{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, November 18th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. No agenda items

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:00] <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Nov 19 03:00:14 2012 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:00] <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:00] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting? :)
[03:00] <philipballew> here
[03:01] <grantbow> aloha
[03:01]  * eps is not entirely here
[03:01] <josheboy> I am
[03:01] <pleia2> great, welcome everyone!
[03:02] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12November18
[03:02] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12November18 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:02] <pleia2> our agenda is empty :)
[03:02] <pleia2> I guess I can give some updates
[03:02] <pleia2> I've shipped out CDs to San Diego, Lake Forest and Los Angeles
[03:02] <pleia2> s/CDs/DVDs
[03:03] <eps> :-)
[03:03] <pleia2> I haven't heard back from the silicon valley folks about DVDs, but hopefully they'll find time to reply so I can get some down there to San Jose and Mt View
[03:03] <philipballew> so I was able to hand out several of these already
[03:04] <pleia2> we do have some 12.04 CDs left over too, this week I'll go through them to make sure our wiki is up to date, they're LTS so it's ok to have leftovers :)
[03:04] <pleia2> philipballew: yay!
[03:04] <grantbow> LTS = good for newbies
[03:04] <josheboy> <--- newbie
[03:04] <pleia2> and servers, companies, etc ;)
[03:04] <philipballew> We here in San Diego had our Ubuntu hour this Thursday and had 3 people besides myself. I have a few lts here I still hand out as well.
[03:05] <pleia2> josheboy: nice to have some new faces here :) welcome
[03:05] <josheboy> Thanks much :)
[03:05]  * philipballew high fives josheboy 
[03:05] <kallecarl> Hello, new to the meeting want to invite Ubuntu folks to http://www.qtdeveloperdays.com/northamerica/ Dec 5 -7. Jono confirmed tonight that he will be on the panel about open source tablets
[03:05] <darthrobot`> Title: [Qt Developer Days]
[03:05] <pleia2> kallecarl: cool, thanks!
[03:05] <pleia2> kallecarl: is there an announcement you can forward to the mailing list?
[03:05] <kallecarl> list address
[03:05] <grantbow> nice
[03:05] <kallecarl> ?
[03:05] <kallecarl> grantbow: howdy
[03:05] <pleia2> kallecarl: ubuntu-us-ca@lists.ubuntu.com
[03:06] <kallecarl> pleia2: not really an announcement I guess
[03:06] <kallecarl> just the URL for the conference
[03:06] <kallecarl> will do though
[03:06] <pleia2> kallecarl: ok, thanks
[03:06] <eps> Isn't it horrifically expensive to attend?
[03:06] <grantbow> nice adjective
[03:07] <pleia2> hehe
[03:08] <grantbow> Santa Clara with a free three day pass? Not too horrific.
[03:08] <pleia2> another thing I wanted to mention is how we plan events
[03:09] <philipballew> kallecarl, If you are advertising it here, can LoCo members here get in for free or a good price?
[03:09] <kallecarl> eps: there are a few complimentary passes
[03:09] <pleia2> we've gone from having pretty strict rules to having essentally none, which some people are taking advantage of now - to the extent of sometimes not even telling the rest of the team they're having what they call Ubuntu California events ;(
[03:09] <pleia2> :(
[03:09] <kallecarl> please email me at carlsymons@gmail.com
[03:09] <philipballew> pleia2, This is a problem.
[03:10] <pleia2> so today I created a wiki page to help people understand the minimum requirements for hosting an event (and akk helped me clean it up): https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/HowTo
[03:10] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/HowTo - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:10] <pleia2> this is now linked on our Projects page
[03:10] <grantbow> sounds good
[03:10] <philipballew> +1
[03:10] <pleia2> should be helpful for for all of us really :) we forget how many resources we have!
[03:11] <grantbow> true
[03:11] <pleia2> it's a wiki, so please feel free to make edits as needed, that's really my first stab at it
[03:11] <pleia2> I'm hoping this will be enough to solve the problem of rogue events ;)
[03:12] <eps> Speaking of Projects ...
[03:13] <eps> SCALE 11x -- http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale11x/
[03:13] <darthrobot`> Title: [SCALE 11x]
[03:13] <pleia2> oh gosh, that's coming up fast
[03:13] <eps> Hello!
[03:13] <pleia2> I'm skipping this year :(
[03:14] <eps> Philip?
[03:14] <philipballew> eps, Ill be there
[03:14] <philipballew> I can run the booth for the loco if needed
[03:14] <philipballew> since I live down here somewhat and not
[03:14] <eps> So, I guess it goes on the Projects page.
[03:14] <pleia2> yeah
[03:14] <pleia2> can copy the 10x page probably and adjust accordingly :)
[03:15] <pleia2> also follow up with nhaines to see if there will be an Ubucon too
[03:15] <philipballew> probably nhaines and iheartubuntu will help with all the people from their hours
[03:15] <grantbow> another Ubucon would be great
[03:15] <pleia2> grantbow: yeah :)
[03:15] <eps> Find some discount codes for attendees, and figure out what you need from people who are interested in volunteering
[03:15] <philipballew> I'm gonna set up a page for hotel/ride sharing for people so were all not booked in out own hotels if we dont want to
[03:16] <pleia2> philipballew: that's great!
[03:16] <grantbow> eps: Volunteering? Thanks for that ;-)
[03:16] <pleia2> let me know if you have any questions logistically, I am not sure who is working with Gareth to arrange the booth
[03:16] <philipballew> the hilton is somewhat $$ compared to ones a few blocks away as well. and there is parking around for people driving from sf
[03:17] <eps> grantbow: Would you prefer ... conscription?
[03:17] <pleia2> I just can't attend because I have too much happening this year (changing jobs, getting married)
[03:17]  * philipballew still wants to see a "scale or bust" sign on a car
[03:17] <pleia2> turns out you can't actually take 2 months a year off for conferences and honeymoon... ;)
[03:18] <philipballew> :)
[03:18] <mikestewart> honeymoon at SCaLE!
[03:18] <mikestewart> :-P
[03:18]  * mikestewart back to luring
[03:18]  * mikestewart back to lurking
[03:18] <philipballew> I have a good thing to mention
[03:19] <philipballew> Our loco member dave (iheartubuntu) came out of the woodwork this week to pull a victory for Ubuntu/linux with that netflix app he helped make. So whenever you see the news about that, know it was made possible from someone who came from our loco.
[03:19] <pleia2> philipballew: oh yes, good catch
[03:19] <grantbow> excellent!
[03:19] <pleia2> mikestewart: getting married in April :) and I'd like to go somewhere more exciting than LA ;)
[03:19] <josheboy> oh wow. that's pretty cool
[03:20] <pleia2> http://www.iheartubuntu.com/2012/11/ppa-for-netflix-desktop-app.html
[03:20] <darthrobot`> Title: [PPA for Netflix Desktop App | iheartubuntu]
[03:20] <pleia2> the Ubuntu Developer Summit will probably happen during my honeymoon, but he wasn't thrilled with that honeymoon idea
[03:21] <philipballew> I want to see a plenary session where you get married by markdude pleia2
[03:21] <eps> Do we know where the next UDS will be held?
[03:21] <pleia2> philipballew: hahahah
[03:21] <pleia2> eps: nope :\
[03:22] <grantbow> hopefully Oakland
[03:22] <pleia2> ok, anyone else have anything?
[03:22] <grantbow> How about shirts? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Shirts
[03:22] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Shirts - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:22] <pleia2> grantbow: oh yes! what were your thoughts here?
[03:23] <kallecarl> pleia2: i didn't sign up for the mailing list. Just mailed the address you gave
[03:23] <kallecarl> the QtDevDays announce
[03:23] <pleia2> kallecarl: thanks, I'll let it through
[03:23] <grantbow> Let's have an art contest again and get some more printed.
[03:23] <philipballew> grantbow, I like this idea. If we get them made up by scale we can pass them out there
[03:23] <grantbow> Canonical colors have changed so at least updating colors will be good.
[03:24] <grantbow> both Canonical and Community colors
[03:24] <eps> No more aubergine? I'm shocked! Shocked, I say!
[03:24] <pleia2> so are we proposing a full logo redesign
[03:24] <philipballew> who will print them grantbow ?
[03:24] <grantbow> yes
[03:24] <kallecarl> at LinuxCon, there were the coolest shirts. Not screened like a big hunk of plastic but rather dyed into the shirt
[03:24] <pleia2> eps: yes aubergine, but we haven't updated our stuff for even that change...
[03:24] <kallecarl> drivemg.com is the contact
[03:24] <pleia2> eps: our logo is still the old old old ubuntu logo
[03:24] <grantbow> our colors for the old shirt were pre-aubergine
[03:25] <philipballew> IDEA! Hold a contest from the ml to get design ideas, and the winner gets a free shirt.
[03:25] <eps> Is there a URL with design guidelines?
[03:25] <pleia2> philipballew: we can't really promise that :( no one to $$$$ for the shirts
[03:25] <grantbow> If we design it we'll find someone to print it. Maybe the person that did it last time.
[03:25]  * mikestewart can't imagine much more *exciting* than LA ... but ya, wouldn't honeymoon here (or SCaLE) either.
[03:25] <philipballew> true.
[03:25] <pleia2> (unless you're volunteering :))
[03:25] <grantbow> Ernest Rogers
[03:26] <grantbow> we can ask him
[03:26] <pleia2> mikestewart: maybe exotic is the right word (boo more california ;))
[03:26] <philipballew> pleia2, I can look into printing them at a shop near me here if I have some funds
[03:26] <josheboy> I live in LA, and I took my very recent honeymoon far away from here, haha. And no laptops either. It was very refreshing :p
[03:26] <philipballew> so if people pre order them, but not sure if people would want that
[03:26] <grantbow> no reason we can't do multiple printings too
[03:26] <philipballew> agreed
[03:26] <grantbow> though probably not necessary yet
[03:26] <pleia2> ok, so can someone take an action item to put together a wiki page for this new design contest and organize it on list?
[03:26] <philipballew> yes
[03:26] <pleia2> josheboy: congrats!
[03:27] <grantbow> I can organize it
[03:27] <pleia2> ok great :)
[03:27] <grantbow> and do a wiki page
[03:27] <josheboy> pleia2: Thanks. And congrats on the near future nuptuals :)
[03:27] <pleia2> josheboy: thank you :)
[03:27] <grantbow> +1
[03:27] <pleia2> wow, this was a productive meeting!
[03:27] <pleia2> anything else?
[03:27] <grantbow> not bad for a blank agenda
[03:27] <pleia2> indeed
[03:27] <eps> Other than not ordering purple and orange M&Ms, what other disasters should I know about?
[03:28]  * mikestewart lives in long beach.  
[03:28] <grantbow> eps: please propose a design in the contest that is soon to come.
[03:28] <pleia2> eps: do they have purple?
[03:28] <mikestewart> did you guys firgure out whos working with Gareth on SCaLE booth?
[03:28] <philipballew> mikestewart, come down to san diego!
[03:28] <josheboy> mikestewart: I live in North Hollywood
[03:29] <pleia2> philipballew: will you contact Gareth to see who he has down for the ubuntu booth contact?
[03:29] <mikestewart> philipballew, san diego is an awesome place to visit.  as is sf bay area.
[03:29] <philipballew> pleia2, will do
[03:29] <pleia2> great
[03:29] <philipballew> mikestewart, all the more reason to come here and say hello
[03:29] <philipballew> and get a free ubuntu cd
[03:29] <mikestewart> philipballew, I wouldn't mind being backup help for the booth
[03:29] <eps> pleia2: www.mymms.com (and yes, they are appropriate for weddings)
[03:30]  * mikestewart is an organizer of #drupal-la  
[03:30] <philipballew> mikestewart, yeah, Lets do that.
[03:30] <mikestewart> we'll have a booth, too
[03:30] <grantbow> Oh, I burned some 12.04 and special 12.10 CD size images. I will let the list know when I get a chance to test the 12.10 CDs.
[03:30] <pleia2> eps: just proposed pink m&m wedding favors and got a funny look, then he goes "whatever you want, hon"
[03:30] <pleia2> mikestewart: cool
[03:30] <mikestewart> philipballew, where are you in sandiego?
[03:30] <philipballew> alright. I gtg get back to my homework
[03:30] <philipballew> ah
[03:31] <philipballew> mikestewart, Point Loma
[03:31] <pleia2> grantbow: cool, thanks
[03:31] <kallecarl> pleia2: whatever you want, hon...already trained well
[03:31] <josheboy> "whatever you want, hon" is the perfect soon-to-be groom answer
[03:31] <pleia2> josheboy: +1
[03:31] <pleia2> kallecarl: too
[03:31] <pleia2> :)
[03:31]  * mikestewart is not sure how close that is to stone brewery  -- a major reason to get in the car for the SD trip.  besides legoland for the kids
[03:31] <pleia2> ok, we can wrap up this meeting :)
[03:31] <grantbow> great meeting! thanks for chairing pleia2
[03:31] <pleia2> thanks everyone
[03:31] <kallecarl> thank you
[03:31] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
