{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, September 9th, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

==== Meeting logs ====

<pre> 19:00 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:00 < nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for September 9th, 2018.
19:00 < nhaines> Today's agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18September09
19:00 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:01 < nhaines> Canonical is thinking about a machine learning seminar based around Kubernetes in the SoCal area end of this month or early next month, but I haven't heard from them as quickly as I expected.  
                 So maybe October (or never) is more like it.
19:02 < nhaines> They'd like to work with us to put on the event if possible, so I'll keep everyone up to date if plans solidify.
19:03 < nhaines> Ubuntu 18.10, the "Cosmic Cuttlefish" release, is scheduled to release on October 18th, which is in five and a half weeks!
19:03 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:03 < nhaines> Are there any announcements to be made at this time?
19:04 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:04 < nhaines> There are no items on tonight's agenda.
19:04 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:05 < nhaines> Any other business before we wrap up this meeting?
19:10 < nhaines> Okay, our next meeting is September 23rd.  See everyone then!
19:10 < nhaines> #endmeeting
</pre>
