{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, November 4th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Leader results

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:59] <philballew> so who wants a meeting about now?
[03:00] <jledbetter> Sounds good
[03:00] <grantbow> it's only election results :-)
[03:00] <philballew> Meeting time then
[03:00] <philballew> alright, so grantbow is right, nothing else is on the agenda but the election results.
[03:01] <jbermudes> philballew: Sorry I didn't get back to you in time, but I suppose in this case it didn't necessarily matter
[03:01] <philballew> http://www.cs.cornell.edu/w8/~andru/cgi-perl/civs/results.pl?id=E_a11eb43113dc669f
[03:01] <darthrobot`> Title: [CIVS poll result]
[03:01] <philballew> theres the results
[03:02] <akk> Congrats to our new leaders!
[03:02] <jledbetter> Congratulations :)
[03:02] <philballew> tl;dr pleia2 grantbow and philballew (thats me) have decided to take a go at this thing we call a Lo-Co.
[03:02] <philballew> thanks everyone for running
[03:02] <grantbow> Thank you philballew for running the election!
[03:03] <philballew> not a problem grantbow and everyone else
[03:03] <jtatum> Congratulations everyone, and thank you to all the nominees!
[03:04] <grantbow> +1
[03:04] <philballew> +1
[03:04] <philballew> so does anybody have anything else they want to add to the agenda or bring up?
[03:04] <grantbow> leadership I think is about action more than election - we have lots of leaders in our fair state
[03:05] <philballew> very much so.
[03:05] <jbermudes> Pasadena Ubuntu Hour is this Thursday at 6pm at Peet's Coffee on Lake & California
[03:06] <grantbow> pleia2 is blogging about her adventures in Ghana and uds.ubuntu.com
[03:06] <philballew> that sounds like a fun time.
[03:06] <philballew> pleia2, really has been everywhere lately.
[03:06] <grantbow> Copenhagen, Denmark sounded fun last week
[03:07] <grantbow> video and logs are online for those interested
[03:07] <philballew> i had to remote attend for the 4 days, and everyone seemed to be having a good time
[03:08] <jtatum> Time difference was a killer :(
[03:08] <jtatum> Couldn't make it with my work schedule
[03:08] <philballew> it was easy for people who are up at all hours of the day.
[03:09] <philballew> but for smart people who sleep that for sure hard.
[03:09] <philballew> *then
[03:10] <jtatum> Anyone hear rumors about UDS S?
[03:11] <philballew> yeah
[03:11] <philballew> going to be in america iirc
[03:12] <jtatum> Yes :)
[03:13] <jtatum> Heard three different rumors, one being Oakland again
[03:14] <philballew> who told you oakland jtatum
[03:15] <philballew> or what were the other rumors?
[03:16] <jtatum> I think Miami was one? I stopped paying attention after I heard Oakland :)
[03:16] <grantbow> lol
[03:18] <grantbow> anything else?
[03:21] <philballew> I think were all good.
[03:21] <philballew> Lets close this weeting
[03:21] <philballew> *meeting
[03:21] <philballew> Meeting closed!
[03:21] <jtatum> Thanks all :)
</pre>
