{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, January 20th, 2019, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

 1. Upcoming events
  a. Add your event information here.
 1. Announcements
   a. Add your announcement here.
 1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale17x | SCALE 17x]]</nowiki> planning

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you there!

==== Meeting logs ====

{{{#!IRC 19:01 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:01 < nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for January 20th, 2019!
19:01 < nhaines> Happy 2019, everyone. :)
19:02 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is availabe at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/19January20
19:02 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:02 < nhaines> First up, the Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase will start back up in February, so be on the look out for that.  But more than that, get your cameras ready.  :)
19:03 < nhaines> Next UbuCon and SCALE 17x are coming up in March.  We'll talk about that later.
19:03 < nhaines> And of course, Ubuntu 19.04 is in April.  :)
19:03 < nhaines> Is there anything else going on in the Ubuntu or Free Software community in the next few weeks?
19:04 < aidian> well, Feb. 9th in Davis, CA
19:04 < nhaines> Oh, great, tell us about that!
19:05 < aidian> I mentioned it a month or so ago, I think, http://www.lugod.org the Linux Users' Group of Davis will be at the Davis Farmer's Market with a booth again promoting Linux and Free/Open-Source Software
19:05 < aidian> anyone in the area who wants to come and loaf at the booth for a while is welcome to, or just come visit while you shop for nice organic produce
19:05 < nhaines> That's good news!  :)  Make sure to mention that on the mailing list!
19:05 < aidian> I suppose I could also mention one more
19:06 < aidian> Tomorrow is LUGOD's 20th anniversary meeting
19:06 < aidian> http://www.lugod.org/meeting/
19:06 < nhaines> Oh, congratulations!
19:07 < aidian> Thanks :) It's free and open to all, we'll be meeting in a reserved area at Woodstock's Pizza in downtown Davis
19:07 < aidian> Free food, and we should have a special videoconference guest appearance by our co-founder and former president, Bill Kendrick of New Breed Software and Smashwords
19:08 < aidian> (he's also the author of Tuxpaint!)
19:08 < aidian> So there you go. That's what I got, thanks :)
19:08 < nhaines> I love Tuxpaint.  :)
19:08 < aidian> right? it's silly and fun
19:08 < nhaines> Thanks.  :)
19:08 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:09 < nhaines> SCALE is being held in Pasadena, CA from March 7th-10th!
19:09 < nhaines> Which brings us to our agenda for tonight.
19:09 < nhaines> #topic SCALE 17x planning
19:09 < nhaines> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale17x
19:10 < nhaines> We have a project page for SCALE and we need booth volunteers once again!
19:10 < nhaines> Volunteers will receive a free full pass for the expo and also a really great Ubuntu California shirt designed by our own Charlie Luna.  :)
19:11 < nhaines> As usual, this is a really friendly conference, and the expo floor is a great way to get some experience participating at a booth without a lot of pressure.
19:12 < nhaines> In addition, we can probably squeeze in one more talk for UbuCon if anyone is still interested, but we need to hear from you in the next couple of days.
19:22 < nhaines> Alrighty, well, I think that's about it for tonight.
19:22 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:22 < nhaines> This year we're switching to a monthly meeting schedule.  This is the first one!
19:23 < nhaines> So our next meeting will be on February 17th, and then we'll do SCALE and then meet again the week after.
19:24 < nhaines> So enjoy the rest of your January, stay dry, and I'll see everyone in a month!  :)
19:24 < nhaines> #endmeeting}}}
