{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, July 24th, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2016-June/002735.html|July 28th: Ubuntu 16.04 release party in San Francisco]]</nowiki>
# Announcements
# Canonical no longer ships 150+ DVDs, they now ship 25 USB sticks to each team. How do we handle distribution? (pleia2)

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you there!

==== Full log: ====

<pre> 02:01:18 <nhaines> #startmeeting
02:01:19 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jul 25 02:01:18 2016 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
02:01:19 <darthrobot> 
02:01:19 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
02:01:26 <nhaines> #chair nhaines pleia2 lynorian
02:01:26 <darthrobot> Current chairs: lynorian nhaines pleia2
02:01:54 <nhaines> Good evening everyone!  It's time for our biweekly LoCo meeting!
02:02:04 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16July24
02:02:04 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16July24 - Ubuntu Wiki]
02:02:12 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
02:03:01 <pleia2> so, we have our release party in SF coming up :) https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2016-June/002735.html
02:03:01 <darthrobot> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] San Francisco Ubuntu 16.04 Release Party]
02:03:02 <nhaines> Thursday is the 16.04 Release Party in San Francisco!  \o/
02:03:06 <pleia2> tell your friends, neighbors, cats
02:03:28 <nhaines> But not too many cats, because they steal pizza!
02:03:33 <pleia2> it's true
02:03:52 <pleia2> everything is all set, looking forward to it
02:03:57 <nhaines> Party details are here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2016-June/002735.html and you should definitely RSVP if you are planning to attend.
02:03:57 <darthrobot> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] San Francisco Ubuntu 16.04 Release Party]
02:04:23 <nhaines> pleia2: is it true that everyone who attends should bring Arch discs for installation?
02:05:05 <pleia2> I don't think any of my laptops take discs...
02:05:49 <pleia2> but I will have some Ubuntu USB sticks :)
02:06:09 <nhaines> Yay! Are they giveaways?
02:06:33 <pleia2> indeed, got a conference pack with some hats, a tshirt, pins
02:06:54 <pleia2> https://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/28403665235/
02:06:54 <darthrobot> Title: [Giveaways for the @ubuntu_us_ca release party in SF next wâ€¦ | Flickr]
02:06:56 <pleia2> stickers too
02:07:20 <pleia2> and I should have a copy or two of the 9th edition of the official ubuntu book
02:07:36 <nhaines> That is the most official Ubuntu book!
02:08:02 <nhaines> It all sounds great.  I wish I could be there.  :)
02:08:50 <pleia2> same!
02:09:13 <nhaines> Well, I look forward to hearing how it all went.
02:09:26 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
02:09:45 <nhaines> Does anybody have any topical announcements to make?
02:09:58 <pleia2> The reports of the meetup.com group death have been greatly exaggerated.
02:10:34 <pleia2> all 300+ members of the team were emailed this morning about it shutting down in 14 days, sorry about that, I've been trying to get the team at Canonical to renew it
02:10:51 <nhaines> Yeah, I'll have to check with the Community Team to find the status of that.  They were trying to find the right person to set things up.
02:10:59 * pleia2 nods
02:11:17 <pleia2> other teams got similar notices today, so it is on their radar
02:11:39 <pleia2> including Florida, where one of them lives, so hoping that helps
02:12:11 <pleia2> no other announcements from me, just wanted to clear the air there
02:12:42 <nhaines> I'm thinking a brief mass email to the meetup can clear things up.  Just a note that the pilot was a success and it's a just hiccup as we transition to committing to use the service.
02:12:48 <nhaines> Something along those lines.
02:13:10 <pleia2> nhaines: from us, or the broader Ubuntu group running it?
02:13:59 <nhaines> Probably from us, unless the bigger group can still do that.  I might have to see if I have those credentials.
02:14:46 <nhaines> If not, we can share the email with the other teams using Meetup so they can adapt and resend it.  :)
02:15:20 <pleia2> ok, can you take care of that then?
02:15:55 <nhaines> Yup.  I'll look at it Monday or Tuesday and get the message out.
02:16:08 <pleia2> thanks :)
02:16:21 <nhaines> You're welcome.  :)
02:17:02 <nhaines> #topic Canonical no longer provides Ubuntu DVDs; LoCos now receive 25 USB sticks per event instead of 150 DVDs.
02:17:11 <nhaines> #subtopic wat do?
02:17:29 <pleia2> right, so I'm preparing for this release party
02:17:45 <nhaines> As is tradition.
02:17:51 <pleia2> not sure how many I should give away there, and I haven't gotten much word at all about whether teams can request more packs of USB sticks or anything
02:18:13 <pleia2> in fact, availability was never formally announced at all, I just kept nagging on the mailing list ;)
02:18:46 <nhaines> Soon!
02:19:10 <nhaines> Actually, I'm waiting for the person in charge of handing requests to come back from leave before announcing it.  ;)
02:19:24 <pleia2> ok
02:19:28 <nhaines> That way she's not completely swamped.  Should be a week or so.
02:19:51 <nhaines> Leave sounds weird.  I understand it's just a vacation.
02:20:08 <pleia2> europeans, always taking weeks off
02:20:18 <nhaines> It's nice work if you can get it!
02:20:24 <pleia2> indeed :)
02:20:39 <pleia2> anyway, I'm not sure where that leaves us
02:20:40 <nhaines> So I think we can just order more when we do a major event.
02:21:26 <pleia2> ok
02:21:30 <nhaines> The LoCo Council had a meeting with the the Community Team last week and I definitely brought this up.
02:21:44 <pleia2> these are what they are, fwiw: https://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=1206
02:21:44 <darthrobot> Title: [Canonical Store]
02:22:07 <pleia2> which means they go for about $8 each, and they're really nice looking, useful
02:22:25 <pleia2> with DVDs we just told people to email me and I'd drop them in the mail, but this is a bit trickier
02:22:36 <nhaines> Oh, here's a question only you can answer!  :)  How big are they?
02:22:40 <pleia2> 8G
02:22:46 <pleia2> or dimensions?
02:22:47 <nhaines> \o/
02:23:00 <nhaines> Nope, capacity.  Dimensions-wise they're smaller than a breadbox.
02:23:18 <pleia2> they are quite small
02:23:33 <pleia2> dimension-wise ;)
02:23:35 <pleia2> 8G is nice
02:24:01 <nhaines> Big enough to throw a couple ISOs on there or something.
02:24:06 <pleia2> yeah
02:24:41 <nhaines> I think there's a sort of idea that if LoCos want or need DVDs, they can have them locally produced and send a community reimbursement request.
02:24:56 * pleia2 nods
02:25:11 <nhaines> The Community Team is going to make sure the artwork (which we all think exists) is up on the wiki.
02:25:25 <pleia2> I did have someone come to the BALUG meeting who expected me to have some DVDs to give away, but I didn't
02:25:55 <pleia2> didn't have the USB sticks yet either
02:26:15 <nhaines> Yeah, I mentioned that for SCALE, for instances, 25 sticks is nuts.
02:26:29 <pleia2> heh, yeah
02:27:19 <nhaines> I think you should probably keep 1 or 2 for use during Ubuntu Hour or LUG events, and give the rest away.
02:27:50 <pleia2> at local northern california events, or open it up to everyone?
02:28:17 <pleia2> not sure I *can* open it up to everyone, we only have 25 of them :)
02:28:31 <nhaines> Local events.  If we do some SoCal stuff, I'll request a conference pack.
02:28:36 <pleia2> ok, sounds good
02:29:01 <nhaines> I might see if I can just get USB sticks.  I still have a bunch of leftover stuffs from SCALE, not counting 14.04 DVDs.  :)
02:29:12 * pleia2 nods
02:29:25 <nhaines> But yeah, do what you can with the ones you have.  No sense in hoarding them.
02:29:37 <pleia2> no, definitely not, just wanted to make sure we had a fair plan
02:29:40 <nhaines> Have an Ubuntu Hour and make people reflash them with 16.04.1.  ;)
02:29:47 <pleia2> haha, right
02:30:18 <pleia2> alright, that's all I have
02:30:55 <nhaines> I sort of suspect if 25 USB sticks turns out to be woefully inadequate, they'll revisit that.  But for now I think we're fine.
02:31:22 * pleia2 nods
02:31:26 <nhaines> Unfortunately, I think that's because if pleia2 or I ask for more, they'll trust that we'll put them to good use.
02:32:02 <nhaines> But we'll start with that.  Making them special giveaways at events isn't the end of the world, either.
02:32:13 <nhaines> We'll just see what happens at SCALE!
02:32:18 <pleia2> yeah :)
02:32:19 <nhaines> Okay, that's all from me there.
02:33:00 <nhaines> #topic Other business.
02:33:05 <nhaines> Anything else before we wrap up?
02:34:18 <pleia2> that's it from me
02:34:42 <nhaines> Okay, that'll do it for tonight, then.
02:34:46 <nhaines> pleia2: thanks for making it.  :)
02:34:49 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
