{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, January 13th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. SCALE11X Planning

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:05] <grantbow> #startmeeting
[03:05] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jan 14 03:05:14 2013 UTC.  The chair is grantbow. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:05] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:05] <grantbow> who all i shere for the meeting?
[03:05] <jtatum> o/
[03:05]  * eps nods
[03:05] <grantbow> our agenda is light. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13January13
[03:05] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13January13 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:06] <grantbow> #topic SCALE11X Planning
[03:06] <philipballew> lets talk that
[03:06] <Darkwing> o/ (Lurking)
[03:06] <grantbow> #chair philipballew grantbow
[03:06] <darthrobot> Current chairs: grantbow philipballew
[03:07] <grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale11x
[03:07] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale11x - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:07] <philipballew> alright I have put in some work for scale and I would like to tell what work I have put into it, what the booth would look like, and how we can get people to help
[03:08] <philipballew> SO I have managed to get Pearson books to send me between 20-30 copies of the official ubuntu book to hand out
[03:09] <philipballew> I have contacted Sysmem 76 and they are going to bring a computer for us to have on the table so we do not have to use our own.
[03:10] <jtatum> nice!
[03:10] <philipballew> Also I am getting a conference pack sent to me soon from Canonical for the thing.
[03:10] <philipballew> Now we need booth volunteers.
[03:10] <Darkwing> Talk to Zareason, they sent me a laptop for Ohio Linux Fest, and I was only there for a half day.
[03:11] <philipballew> Darkwing, these places are usually really cool with that
[03:11]  * grantbow adds the wiki page to Projects
[03:11] <philipballew> at the bottom of the wiki is where you can out your name. put your name there and then email me so you can get a code to register.
[03:11] <philipballew> I should have the registration packet soon.
[03:12] <philipballew> were about 5 weeks out
[03:12] <philipballew> on the Wiki is a wiki for hotel share and ride share.
[03:13] <philipballew> hopefully someone can use these
[03:13] <grantbow> good work Philip :-)
[03:13] <eps> Airfares from the Bay Area are no bargain at the moment -- ~$192 (but the weekends are usually the worst times to be shopping for travel)
[03:13] <philipballew> Mege bus is nice
[03:13] <philipballew> *mega bus
[03:13] <philipballew> there about 25 each way last time Iooked
[03:14] <philipballew> *I looked
[03:14]  * Darkwing wishes he had $500 laying around to fly out
[03:14]  * grantbow too
[03:14] <philipballew> now I am not sure where these places stop and get off, however maybe someone from la can pick up these people if they need a ride.
[03:15] <philipballew> as LA is a big place
[03:16] <philipballew> currently working to make sure all booth workers have a few nice gifts to go home with as well.
[03:16] <philipballew> We do not pay, but we hand out free stuff.
[03:17] <eps> How many free T-shirts did you bring home last year? ;-)
[03:17] <philipballew> 29!
[03:18] <philipballew> southwest usually has good flight deals
[03:19] <philipballew> thats the best I have ever found
[03:19] <philipballew> eps, do you see yourself coming in Feb?
[03:20] <philipballew> currently I see 69 dollars there on sw and 69 back assuming you leave sf thursday and come back monday
[03:21] <eps> Probably. I prefer to fly, but Greyhound Express and Megabus are both viable possibilities. I like to minimize hotel stays, since they represent the major expense involved.
[03:21] <philipballew> http://www.southwest.com/flight/select-flight.html?newReturnDate=2-25&newDepartDate=&ss=0&disc=0%3A11%3A1358133601.289000%3A8725%403748F6158E05DEF15425208D2AA6CE141D836DF2
[03:21] <darthrobot> Title: [Southwest Airlines - Select Flight(s)]
[03:22] <philipballew> Spirt airlines is good if you can travel light
[03:22] <eps> Heh heh. No.
[03:22] <philipballew> Alright, so grantbow asked if we talk about the website
[03:23] <philipballew> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Website
[03:23] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Website - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:23] <philipballew> grantbow, wanna talk about it?
[03:23] <grantbow> anyone who is interested can take a look and let us know if you would like to help
[03:24] <grantbow> we've updated the web page with how things work right now
[03:24] <grantbow> suggestions welcome
[03:24] <grantbow> that's all I have for the website.
[03:24] <grantbow> anyone else?
[03:26] <grantbow> any other topics?
[03:26] <eps> There should be more here: http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/events
[03:26] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu California Events List | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[03:26] <philipballew> probably should
[03:26] <grantbow> good point, thanks for volunteering to help keep it updated eps
[03:27] <eps> You're funny.
[03:27] <grantbow> any other topics?
[03:29] <grantbow> welcome back troyreadyyy we were just about to end the meeting. Any other topics?
[03:30] <grantbow> #endmeeting
</pre>
