{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Sunday, January 11th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

# UbuntuGlobalJam planning
## https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/VividGlobalJam

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
03:02:24 <nhaines> #startmeeting
03:02:24 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jan 12 03:02:24 2015 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
03:02:24 <darthrobot> 
03:02:24 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
03:02:35 <nhaines> #chair nhaines elky ianorlin
03:02:35 <darthrobot> Current chairs: elky ianorlin nhaines
03:02:40 <elky> hi
03:02:41 <nhaines> #topic Roll call
03:02:48 <elky> o/
03:02:50 <ianorlin> o/
03:02:52 <nhaines> Happy new year to everyone!  Who's around?
03:03:25 <DonkeyHotei> o/
03:03:54 * nhaines raises rww's hand.
03:04:08 <elky> he's in a wow dungeon
03:04:27 <nhaines> I will pray for his escape from proprietary software.
03:04:35 <elky> you do that
03:04:42 <elky> brb, checkin gthe cat isn't trashing the kitchen
03:04:58 <nhaines> elky: I can save you time, because you know he is.
03:05:11 <nhaines> Okay, so this is the first meeting of the new year.  And with a new year, we have new LoCo leadership.
03:05:54 <nhaines> The results of the latest leadership election are available at http://civs.cs.cornell.edu/cgi-bin/results.pl?id=E_72c9ad18f9a9419e
03:05:54 <darthrobot> Title: [CIVS poll result]
03:06:16 <elky> spoiler: it was us
03:06:27 * ianorlin knows
03:06:33 <nhaines> Ubuntu California is a team of advocates, and I know the three of us are looking forward to working with all of the members to help each of us do awesome stuff this year.
03:06:55 <nhaines> Massive thanks to pleia2, rww, and philipballew for working so hard to keep things up and running.
03:07:00 <elky> nhaines: he was up on the fridge eating styrofoam packaging that we put up on the fridge to keep away from him.
03:07:18 <nhaines> elky: sounds like a good use of distraction.
03:07:28 <elky> he is well versed in the art
03:07:37 <nhaines> Okay, so with the preliminaries out of the way, let's look at the agenda.
03:07:41 <nhaines> #topic Agenda items
03:07:54 <nhaines> The agenda for this meeting is availble here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15January11
03:07:54 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15January11 - Ubuntu Wiki]
03:08:02 <elky> it has one agenda item on it
03:08:08 <nhaines> The first item on the list is Ubuntu Global Jam planning.
03:08:33 <elky> what do we usually do for this?
03:08:41 <nhaines> The vivid UGJ takes place over the weekend of February 6-8.
03:08:58 <nhaines> Usually we have local meetings where attendees gather together to do awesome stuff.
03:09:19 <nhaines> Originally it was bug triage, but documentation, development, and so on can also be great activities.
03:09:43 <nhaines> It looks like pleia2 is planning to do Xubuntu ISO testing at Gandi in San Francisco.
03:10:26 <nhaines> I have to stress that not only is this important work and easy to do, but you can learn how to do it there at UGJ and apply those same steps to your favorite flavor if that's not Xubuntu.
03:11:15 <nhaines> Does anyone else have any plans for an event?
03:12:13 <elky> not i
03:12:15 * rww appears
03:12:28 <rww> me either, I'm hoping to go to the Xubuntu one though
03:12:29 <nhaines> Okay, I think it'd be a good idea to bring this up on the mailing list, and hopefully we'll get some more people thinking about this.  It's still a month away.
03:12:53 <nhaines> #action Somebody--probably rww--should email the list and encourage UGJ events.
03:12:53 * darthrobot Somebody--probably rww--should email the list and encourage UGJ events.
03:13:01 <rww> lol no
03:13:05 <rww> i think you misspelled "elky"
03:13:14 <nhaines> I feel like a leader already.
03:13:24 <nhaines> #topic Open business
03:13:38 <nhaines> That's all the agenda items.  Does anyone else have anything they want to discuss?
03:13:45 <rww> how's scale planning going?
03:14:04 <ianorlin> slowly
03:14:27 <nhaines> It's going pretty well.  I'm waiting on SCALE to announce the expo floor dates so I can make the schedule public and get volunteers to commit to shifts.
03:14:45 <nhaines> Gareth was awesome enough to fill me in privately, so we're just waiting on them now.
03:15:14 <ianorlin> what about for things for the booth I am planning on bringing my desktop
03:15:17 <nhaines> In addition to the usual awesomeness, we're working hard to get actual retail Ubuntu phones to demonstrate on the show floor.
03:15:30 <nhaines> ianorlin: you can sign up and list equipment right away.
03:15:52 <ianorlin> isn't the wiki page basicaly blank now
03:16:17 <nhaines> No, it's fully up to date.  You can sign up to bring equipment here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale13x
03:16:17 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale13x - Ubuntu Wiki]
03:16:45 <nhaines> Once the embargo on the expo floor schedule is lifted, I'll send out an email to the mailing list.
03:17:23 <ianorlin> #action ianorlin add equipment he is bringing to list
03:17:23 * darthrobot ianorlin add equipment he is bringing to list
03:17:28 <nhaines> At the moment, I also have two plans to provide volunteers with shirts to wear as a booth uniform.
03:17:39 <nhaines> So at least one of those plans should pan out.
03:18:04 <nhaines> The booth's worked out pretty well, but we're going to up the level of professionalism a bit.
03:18:22 <elky> good idea if the phones will be there
03:18:28 <nhaines> I'm also working on a training video that volunteers can watch to learn more about the Ubuntu phone, so they'll be ready to answer questions from expo goers.
03:19:00 <nhaines> I just got the raw footage back last night, but I should have it finished by February 1st at the latest.
03:19:23 <nhaines> That's about it, but I'm also eager for any suggestions to improve the booth.
03:19:59 <DonkeyHotei> blinky lights?
03:20:40 <nhaines> Not sure about blinky lights.  But we might want to brainstorm a better way to showcase Ubuntu flavors.
03:20:57 <nhaines> Does anyone have anything else they'd like to talk about?
03:21:26 <ianorlin> I think my desktop could run all the flavors in vms at once
03:21:45 <rww> unity is terribad in a VM for me :[
03:21:53 <nhaines> rww: needs more guest extentions.
03:22:02 <rww> it has guest extensions
03:22:09 <ianorlin> I would be using kvm
03:23:26 <nhaines> Okay, so if we have a machine with Ubuntu flavors in VMs, we can dedicate that to showing off flavors.
03:23:40 <nhaines> Alright, I guess that's about it for SCALE for now.
03:23:53 <nhaines> I'll get discussion going on the mailing list soon.
03:24:11 <nhaines> Tuesday night I'm giving a presentation at the Los Angeles Computer Society: http://www.lacspc.org/
03:24:11 <darthrobot> Title: [Los Angeles Computer Society | Users Helping Users]
03:24:17 <Gareth> nhaines: it'll be public knowledge soon enough.  Feel free to share the times.
03:24:30 <nhaines> Gareth: fantastic and thank you!  Didn't want to step on toes.  :)
03:24:39 <Gareth> No worries.
03:25:13 <nhaines> In that case, the SCALE booth will be open Friday from 2-6pm, Saturday from 10-6pm, and Sunday from 10-2pm.
03:25:25 <ianorlin> when do we get talks for for ubucon planned out?
03:25:39 <nhaines> So we'll have four shifts of four hours each, and we need volunteers.  The wiki will be updated after the meeting.
03:26:11 <nhaines> ianorlin: the LoCo isn't involved with Ubucon, but you can contact Richard Gaskin for more info.  I suspect he'll have everything announced at the same time SCALE publishes their schedule.
03:26:18 <ianorlin> ah ok
03:26:32 <nhaines> That said, I'm working with Richard to see if we can get Ubucon speakers to stop by the booth to be available for questions.
03:27:09 <nhaines> In the same vein, I've asked Stuart Langridge from Bad Voltage to visit the Ubuntu booth and show off his Ubuntu phone as well.
03:27:26 <nhaines> So we'll have some "celebrity" appearances from time to time.  :)
03:28:03 <nhaines> Okay, I think that's about it.  I'm talking at LACS Tuesday, and that'll be fun.  I'm going to pass out a couple Ubuntu books and a couple Ubuntu DVDs.
03:28:38 <nhaines> They're a Computer User Group and most haven't heard of Linux other than in passing, so I'll be talking about Free Software and the history of Linux and Ubuntu before giving a demonstration.
03:28:55 <nhaines> And if no one else has any other news or announcements, I think we'll call it a meeting.
03:29:32 <DonkeyHotei> general-purpose computer user groups still exist?
03:29:56 <nhaines> Indeed they do!  I need to get in touch with the North Orange County Computer Club some time.
03:30:01 <elky> yes
03:30:09 <nhaines> Maybe I'll see if I can reuse my Tuesday presentation.
03:31:35 <nhaines> Okay, the next meeting will be on January 25th, at 19:00 PST.
03:31:56 <nhaines> Thank you all for coming!  Let's all work together to make 2015 a fantastic year for the LoCo and Ubuntu!
03:32:00 <nhaines> #endmeeting
</pre>
