{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, April 7th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. Release parties

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Apr  8 02:00:10 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> ok, anyone here for the meeting? :)
[02:00] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13April07
[02:00] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13April07 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:00] <pleia2> ^^ Agenda
[02:01] <grantbow> o/
[02:04] <pleia2> tough crowd
[02:04] <pleia2> well I suppose we can start :)
[02:04] <pleia2> #topic Release Parties
[02:04] <pballew> No party currently in San Diego
[02:05] <pleia2> welcome pballew
[02:05] <pleia2> so the release is coming up on April 25th
[02:05] <pleia2> unfortunately I'll be out of town for the release (and a couple weeks after) so I won't be around to plan anything in SF
[02:06] <grantbow> I'll beat some bushes, lol
[02:06] <pleia2> so if anyone wants to do a Thirsty Bear or Panera Bread release event here, please :)
[02:06] <geofft> Hmmm
[02:06] <pleia2> or, you know, anything else
[02:06] <pballew> That is my finals week so I am not gonna have any time to do anything really.
[02:07] <pleia2> I'll mention this at our SF Ubuntu Hour on Wednesday too
[02:07] <grantbow> maybe we can get the EFF to host something :-)
[02:07] <pballew> If it is after the 5th of may I should be in the northern ca area
[02:07] <grantbow> or another tech nonprofit
[02:08] <pballew> or pleia2 's apartment while she is gone is we dont tell her?
[02:09] <pleia2> :P
[02:12] <pleia2> so, anyone else have anything about release parties?
[02:13] <pleia2> #topic any other business
[02:13] <pleia2> anyone else have anything?
[02:13] <pleia2> I mentioned SF Ubuntu hour coming up on Wednesday: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2331-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
[02:13] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:13] <pleia2> doing a Debian Dinner and Henry's Hunan after
[02:14] <grantbow> expect some guests from next door on Wed, it was announced on the internal email list
[02:14] <pleia2> hooray!
[02:17] <pleia2> ok, well unless anyone has anything else I guess we can wrap this up
[02:17] <pleia2> going once :)
[02:18] <pleia2> Twice!
[02:19] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
