{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, September 5th, 2010, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Agenda ====
1. Announcements
  a. Jaunty EOL is next month.
  a. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-LaunchpadMembership|LP Membership Renewals]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-MaverickGlobalJam|Global Jam]]</nowiki> Recap
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-SolanoStroll2010|Solano Stroll]]</nowiki> - September 12th, see also <nowiki>[[http://www.solanoavenueassn.org/strol.htm|Solano Stroll's website]]</nowiki>
# Start thinking about <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-MaverickRelease|Maverick release plans]]</nowiki>

==== Log ====
<pre>
19:02 < Flannel> We'll wait a few minutes and see if anyone else shows up.
19:04 < Flannel> If not, what do you guys thing about having an abbreviated meeting, and moving things to next time and the mailing list, depending on what makes sense?
19:04 < akk> Fine by me.
19:04  * MarkDude looks at the agenda, sees if anything is worth arguing about
19:04 < Flannel> (Solano Stroll discussion obviously to the ML, but recap and things can be pushed back)
19:05 < MarkDude> Sounds fine :)
19:05 < akk> There was the LP expiration notices thing -- and I was going to say it worked very well, renewal was just as easy as advertised.
19:05 < MarkDude> The stroll should be fun, it was last year
19:06 < Flannel> akk: Yeah.  I also noticed that the date is set forward from your expiration, not renewal.
19:06 < Flannel> So, renewing now vs in two days doesn't make a difference
19:06 < akk> Oh, good. I hadn't even looked at that.
19:06 < akk> Not that a few days over a year makes much difference to me.
19:07 < Flannel> akk: Yeah, I'll send out an email about it, since I figure some folks are waiting to stretch it as long as they can (like I do with my password changes at work)
19:08 < MarkDude> The way it is works pretty quick for being approved, if say you were once a member, and need to get re-approved
19:08 < MarkDude> Which reminds me, my name is Mark Terranova. I think I am the newest member of the California Team
19:08 < akk> I just refilled my prepaid phone card and did that, waited 'til 1 day before expiration.
19:10 < Flannel> alright, we're 10 minutes past, how do we feel about bringing timely topics to the ML, and other topics to next meeting?
19:10 < MarkDude> Well abbreviated sounds fine
19:12 < Flannel> MarkDude: Solano Stroll is the thing that sticks out in my mind.  Are there enough people here to discuss it? I'm thinking a(nother) ML post aimed towards disussion might garner more input than we'll generate here.
19:13 < MarkDude> thats fair
19:13 < akk> I'm no help on the Solano Stroll -- aside from being not very close, I have a GIMP talk that day.
19:13 < MarkDude> just that if you are in NorCal, come by
19:13 < akk> It sounds like a great event, though.
19:13 < MarkDude> It much fun
19:14 < Flannel> MarkDude: will you follow-up on the ML about it, and signing up on the LD, etc?
19:14 < Flannel> er, RSVPing, not signing up
19:14 < eps> It would have been nice if someone had brought up the Solano Stroll last meeting. Seeing an empty space on my calendar, I made conflicting plans. :-(
19:14 < MarkDude> LD?
19:15 < Flannel> eps: Yeah, I was surprised it popped up so closely too, considering it's been in planning for a while.
19:15 < Flannel> MarkDude: LoCo Directory (link to the event is on our wikipage about SS)
19:15 < MarkDude> oh, ok
19:15 < Flannel> eps: We'll have to figure something out to improve upon that
19:16 < eps> Flannel: next year
19:17 < Flannel> eps: Well, not just for the stroll, but to make sure events in general don't sneak up.  We've been pretty good, but there has been a few that show up at the last minute
19:18 < MarkDude> After the meeting, I wanted to seek some clarification on that vote we had concerning an election a while ago
19:18 < Flannel> Anything else for our mini-agendaless meeting tonight?
19:18 < MarkDude> Next year , may be differing lead contact
19:18  * MarkDude is just sayin'
19:18 < MarkDude> :)
19:19 < MarkDude> No offense boss
19:19 < Flannel> Alright.  Thank you all for coming. Our next meeting will be on the 19th.
</pre>
