{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

In the spirit of our CaliforniaTeam/MeetingChecklist there are many things that take place surrounding each <nowiki>[[Releases|release]]</nowiki> at six month intervals.  Some of these are general community events where anyone can participate, some are events that we actively organize.

==== Before the Release ====
* DeveloperSummit
* Create CaliforniaTeam/Projects/AdjectiveRelease page (i.e. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-LucidRelease|LucidRelease]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-MaverickRelease|MaverickRelease]]</nowiki>) and begin planning release parties.
* add the countdown banner to CaliforniaTeam/Projects/AdjectiveRelease when it's available 
* Create CaliforniaTeam/Projects/AdjectiveGlobalJam page and begin planning IRC participation
* UbuntuDeveloperWeek
* <nowiki>[[Testing]]</nowiki> of <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-UsingDevelopmentReleases]]</nowiki>
* Request CDs (LoCoGettingCds) - approximately one week before the release.

==== After the Release ====
* update the Project page with announcement link and reword for present tense instead of future tense
* update the CaliforniaTeam page
* RT dent from !ubunturelease
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download|Download]]</nowiki> & burn CDs as needed
* Attend release parties
* UbuntuOpenWeek

Many thanks to all those helping with these sometimes mundane but important tasks!
