{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, September 11th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

 1. No agenda items

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[02:03] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:03] <pleia2> who all is here?
[02:03] <gua> i'm here!
[02:04] <akk> o/
[02:05] <greg-g> I'm partially here, might go for a walk with the pregnent wife soon-ish
[02:05] <pleia2> :)
[02:05] <pleia2> ok, we don't actually have anything on the agenda
[02:06]  * pleia2 waits for wiki to load
[02:06] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11September11 empty agenda :)
[02:06] <pleia2> but we have had some events lately
[02:06] <pleia2> DWonderly: you about?
[02:07] <pleia2> philipballew wrote a writeup about the san diego jam last weekend: https://philipballew.wordpress.com/2011/09/04/ubuntu-global-jam-san-diego-wrap-up/
[02:07] <greg-g> cool! add it to a team report! :)
[02:08] <pleia2> yep
[02:08] <grantbow> :)
[02:08]  * greg-g didn't do that as they happened for Michigan, and had a big backlog of reports to do with reapproval next week
[02:08] <pleia2> we've done them monthly for the past couple of years
[02:08] <gua> is there a designated time for comments/questions from random people (like me)?
[02:09] <pleia2> and we add posts like this to the project page after the event so making team reports are easy: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OneiricGlobalJam
[02:09] <pleia2> gua: since we have no agenda this meeting is pretty free-form, anyone can make comments/questions any time :)
[02:10] <gua> ah alright
[02:10] <pleia2> today up in berkeley we did the solano stroll, just plugged in my camera to get the pictures ;)
[02:10] <pleia2> gave out over 100 CDs, lots of people at the booth all day, lots of fun, too much funnel cake
[02:10] <grantbow> \o/
[02:10] <gua> that sounds good
[02:10] <greg-g> pleia2: how many -us-ca people were there?
[02:11] <rww> o/
[02:11] <rww> (here, not there)
[02:12] <philipballew> is here!
[02:13] <pleia2> greg-g: jyo, jdeslip at least, the rest were mostly berkeleylug
[02:14] <greg-g> cool!
[02:14] <grantbow> did Ian make it?
[02:14] <pleia2> yep :)
[02:14] <pleia2> we're going to play 3ds at the next berkeleylug
[02:15] <pleia2> hehe
[02:15] <grantbow> cool
[02:15] <pleia2> anyone have announcements, comments, questions, other things?
[02:15] <pleia2> san francisco ubuntu hour on wednesday evening: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1209/detail/
[02:16] <greg-g> dang, I'll be out of town
[02:16] <grantbow> a week from Thurs I am hosting a Global Jam in Kenya to jump start the wiki.ubuntu.com/KenyanTeam - virtual support would be most appreciated. Details to follow.
[02:16] <grantbow> err, not Global Jam, Ubuntu Hour
[02:16] <grantbow> one step at a time
[02:16] <gua> Is anyone taking part in the Stanford ai-class, ml-class or db-class and has heard of Bay Area meetup plans for study groups or would be interested in attending study groups?
[02:17] <akk> I'd be interested in a study group for ai or ml ... haven't heard of any plans for one.
[02:17] <greg-g> grantbow: nice.
[02:17] <makushimu> I had applied for that online AI class, really looking forward it.
[02:18] <grantbow> online? excellent
[02:18] <akk> grantbow: online and free, offered by stanford. ai-class.com
[02:18] <gua> I've heard second-hand stuff about a study group at Hacker Dojo, but if there's demand i'd prefer to have one a bit closer to the East Bay (where I am). I was thinking the places where the DV LUG people meet might be good, or Noisebridge in SF could also work.
[02:18] <akk> tens of thousands of students taking it worldwide :)
[02:19] <pleia2> my boss wants me to take the db class, but I can't imagine when I'd have time :\
[02:19] <akk> I'm closer to Hacker Dojo than either of those places, myself.
[02:19] <gua> grantbow: http://www.ai-class.com/    http://www.ml-class.com/    http://www.db-class.com/
[02:20] <grantbow> gua: dvlug.org and noisebridge.net are both weekly, sounds good
[02:20] <gua> makushimu: Would you be interested in attending a study group?
[02:20] <makushimu> Oh, I didn't know about db and ml classes, thank you for sharing!
[02:20] <locodir-user> IS THERE A LIST OF UBUNTU USERS
[02:20] <gua> grantbow: Is there somethng weekly related to AI at Noisebridge?
[02:20] <grantbow> locodir-user: no
[02:20] <locodir-user> IN CALIFORNIA
[02:20] <pleia2> locodir-user: please turn off your caps lock :)
[02:21] <makushimu> gua: I would love to try
[02:21] <grantbow> gua: not sure about AI
[02:21] <locodir-user> ok thank youy
[02:21] <grantbow> gua: at noisebridge
[02:21] <akk> A list of all Ubuntu users in California would be a very very long list. :)
[02:21] <gua> grantbow: Ah, well related to any of the classes really then?
[02:21] <pleia2> I'd say the wednesday linux night class at noisebridge from 6-8 would be happy to have the study group people join them
[02:21] <pleia2> everyone pretty much does their own thing there anyway
[02:21] <gua> makushimu: alright. fyi there are subreddits for each class too. http://www.reddit.com/r/aiclass    http://www.reddit.com/r/mlclass    http://www.reddit.com/r/dbclass
[02:22] <pleia2> s/class/thing
[02:22] <pleia2> :)
[02:22] <grantbow> pleia2: +1
[02:22] <makushimu> gua: Most excellent, thank you!
[02:22] <gua> I was thinking of attending a few local meeting things like DV LUG and bringing up the study group topic.
[02:22] <locodir-user> i see
[02:22] <gua> pleia2: that's a good idea to bring it up then
[02:22] <pleia2> yeah :)
[02:22] <locodir-user> well im very new to this ubuntu  its alot of work
[02:23] <pleia2> ok, anything else?
[02:24] <gua> Any ideas for groups besides DV LUG and the various Noisebridge groups that might be interested in those classes?
[02:24] <pleia2> my solano stroll pictures are now up (I'll add the good ones to the california flickr too): http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/sets/72157627650086116/
[02:24] <pleia2> gua: you might mention it to the sf-lug.org folks
[02:25] <locodir-user> the only reason i got into this system and im glad i have is that somoene in ontario california that is really good with the system has been hacking me for 2 years
[02:25] <gua> pleia2: Ah, good idea.
[02:25] <locodir-user> and im still in luimbo
[02:26] <locodir-user> limbo
[02:26] <pleia2> ok, I think we can wrap up the meeting
[02:26] <akk> locodir-user: If you have specific questions, you might want to wait 'til the meeting is over, then ask -- people are usually happy to help.
[02:27] <pleia2> anything else before we finish? :)
[02:27] <locodir-user> wow great yes i need help lol
[02:27] <pleia2> thanks for coming gua, nice to see new faces!
[02:27] <gua> That was a fast meeting.
[02:27] <pleia2> no agenda will do that
[02:27] <philipballew> good meeting though gua :)
[02:27] <gua> pleia2: Sure! I figured people here would be into AI and things like that.
[02:27] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
