{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, March 9th, 2008, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
1. CSULB installfest
  a. Date set! Wed April 23
  a. Lots of people at CSULB don't know what Ubuntu/Linux are, or are scared of it, so this will also be an advocacy/information session
  a. Possible schedule: Revolution OS 6-7, demo Ubuntu from 7 to 7:30. Install from 6 - 10 in the lobby
  a. Info page: http://art110.wikispaces.com/installfest
  a. Available resources: 6 power strips, net connection, 4 port router, probably tables, okay wifi signal
  a. sn9 suggested Digital Tipping Point instead of Revolution OS, but DTP isn't finished yet so people preferred Revolution OS.
  a. Advertising: 8.5x11 flyers, announcements in Computer Science classes, story in school newspaper, 60 sec spot for KBCH Radio
  a. Moved further discussion of advertising etc. to mailing list
1. LUG Radio Booth
  a. April 12-13 at the Metreon in San Francisco. More info at http://www.lugradio.org/live/USA2008/start
  a. Jono Bacon is one of the founders, and also an Ubuntu community manager. He asked nhaines if our LoCo could do a booth there. 
  a. Keep an eye on the wiki and mailing list for more info!
1. Hardy Installfest
  a. Probably some time in May
  a. Will have one in the south, but would like to have a northern one too. Possibly Bay Area? Davis? Another university up there?
1. Ubuntu-California Membership
  a. LoCos are primarily advocacy groups, not social groups, so it'd be nice if most of the people in this LoCo were active.
  a. Lots of people signed up for the Launchpad group but are inactive.
  a. Concept of membership needs to be fleshed out more (on the mailing list), but is something to think about.
1. gmane.org
  a. Should email addresses be obscured in gmane?
  a. Can import old history to gmane if it's in mbox format

==== Original Agenda ====
1. CSULB Installfest Wed April 23, 6-10p
    Glenn Zucman (Art Department, CSULB) thinks we will have some people ready to install, but that it will also be an info gathering event for others. So we should plan to "show" Ubuntu to the curious. We can screen Revolution OS in the theater from 6-7, have an Ubuntu "demo" on stage / screen from 7 - 7:30 and then installfest on stage after that. Meanwhile, we can have 1 or 2 tables in the theater lobby so anyone who already knows they want to install can do so starting right at 6p. Glenn, Lee Le, and Alex Dy all from CSULB are expected to attend the March 9 meeting.
# LUG Radio Booth
# Official Membership Procedures
# Hardy Installfest/Party/etc
# gmane.org

==== Logs ====
<pre>
19:10 < Flannel> Alright, so, welcome everyone to the first meeting of Daylight Savings Time.
19:10 < Kr0ntab> hehe
19:11 < cactaur> ok
19:12 < Flannel> Our agenda so far looks like this: CSULB (Glenn_Z) , LUG radio (nhaines), Membership, Hardy
19:13 < Flannel> Feel free to message me with additions at any time throughout the meeting.
19:13 < Flannel> So, Glenn_Z, has some info on the CSULB thing, as I understand it.  Floor's yours.
19:13 < Glenn_Z> Well, we got a date! Wed April 23
19:14 < Glenn_Z> And I've realized how many peeps @CSULB don't actually know what Linux is
19:14 < Glenn_Z> or are afraid of it
19:14 < cactaur> hahahahaha
19:14 < Kr0ntab> :-)
19:14 < Glenn_Z> So I think the "installfest"
19:14 < Glenn_Z> should be an installfest / infofest
19:14 < nhaines> Hurray for advocacy!
19:14 < Kr0ntab> I agree...
19:14 < Glenn_Z> I thought maybe we could show Revolution OS from 6-7
19:14 < Flannel> Glenn_Z: we're not afraid of dispatching knowledge
19:15 < Glenn_Z> have a "demo" from 7-3:30 or whatever
19:15 < Glenn_Z> and then "installfest" on stage
19:15 < Glenn_Z> meanwhile
19:15 < Flannel> 3:30?  Thats a bit late, even for us college kids
19:15 < Glenn_Z> we can start the installfest in the theater lobby at 6p for anybody who's already sold
19:15 < Glenn_Z> eh... 7-7:30
19:16 < Glenn_Z> http://art110.wikispaces.com/installfest
19:17 < Glenn_Z> is a page we've just started for the event
19:17 < Glenn_Z> http://art110.wikispaces.com/message/list/installfest
19:17 < Glenn_Z> is the discussion board for that page
19:17 < Glenn_Z> it'd be great to have some of you join Wikispaces & the Art110 wiki
19:18 < Glenn_Z> you could post on the page... and also answer questions on the disc
19:18 < Flannel> Sounds good.  anyone have any questions or comments?
19:19 < symptom> Im just curious... how many people do you expect Glenn_Z
19:19 < nhaines> Sorry I didn't get back to that page, btw, Glenn.  I fell ill after that first night at Barcamp and was sick or working since then.  :)
19:19 < Glenn_Z> REally no idea...
19:19 < Glenn_Z> we haven't started pimping the event yet
19:19 < Glenn_Z> I'll bribe my students to watch the movie
19:19 < symptom> pimpin aint easy but its necessary
19:19 < Glenn_Z> should bring in 12 or so
19:20 < Flannel> Glenn_Z: we're going to try and provide you with some stuff (flyer artwork etc) to help promote the thing
19:20 < Glenn_Z> then we'll advertgise around campus... try to hit Comp Sci types
19:20 < Glenn_Z> Awesome!
19:20 < Glenn_Z> So far I have 6 power strips
19:20 < Glenn_Z> a net connection & a 4-port router
19:20 < Glenn_Z> I'll try to round up tables this week
19:20 < Glenn_Z> and the room has so-so wi-fi
19:21 < Glenn_Z> we'll need to figure out passwords 4U 4 the wi-fi
19:21 < nhaines> I know there's one person who made an excellent screencast re: Bazaar VCS and Launchpad from CSULB.  But it was Windows-only.  He might be a good mark... I mean candidate!
19:21 < Flannel> We should be able to do without as far as installation is concerned.  If all goes according to plan.
19:21 < Glenn_Z> Cool - let's track down the name
19:21 < Flannel> So, April 23 is the day before hardy is released
19:21 < sn9> screw Revolution OS -- it's ancient
19:22 < nhaines> It's an excellent introduction to the Free Software world.
19:22 < Flannel> sn9: What do you suggest in its stead?
19:22 < sn9> http://archive.org/details/digitaltippingpoint
19:22 < sn9> (i'm in that one, but not in REv OS)
19:23 < nhaines> It doesn't look like it's finished yet.
19:23 < Flannel> I agree
19:23 < sn9> it's "free" -- so it's never finished
19:23 < Flannel> sn9: but does it appear finished?
19:24 < sn9> a lot of free software never intends to appear finished
19:24 < Kr0ntab> I think the first 3/4 of Rev OS is relevant... but still interesting and an ecellent primer for someone wanting to know a bit about the history of Linux and FOSS.
19:24 < Glenn_Z> I'll look over DTP... maybe I can show some in class...
19:25 < Flannel> Looks like its a collection of short interviews and such, to allow you to patchwork them together to form a larger work.  It doesnt seem to try and provide anything consumer ready right-out
19:25 < sn9> exactly
19:25 < Glenn_Z> I think ROS may be basic/tired 4 U guys... I do however think for newbies like us... it's a revalation...
19:26 < Flannel> sn9: We're looking for a finished product, for people who hav never dealt with FOSS before.
19:26 < sn9> it might be consumer-ready someday, but what's the harm in rolling one's own in the meantime?
19:26 < nhaines> Revolution OS is a nice intro, if a bit melodramatic.  But very simple and with a clear message.
19:26 < Flannel> sn9: do you intend to roll one for us?
19:26 < sn9> there's lots and lots of footage to choose from
19:26 < nhaines> I'm sure wonderful things can come out of the Digital Tipping Point project but I don't know if we have the resources to roll out a presentation that would be as clear as ROS in a month.
19:26 < nhaines> sn9: that is the problem.
19:27 < Flannel> sn9: We'll keep DTP in mind for the future; right now, ROS is probably the best thing for us.
19:27 < sn9> hmm, choice is a problem...
19:28 < Flannel> Anyway, we can discuss the semantics of the film later.  Anyone else ahve any questions/comments regarding the activity itself right now?
19:28 < nhaines> Glenn_Z: Do you know what format (media and such) any outreach to the rest of the school would take?
19:28 < sn9> "there are too many gnu/linux distros available. it's not ready for the masses until ppl can manage the choices"
19:29 < Glenn_Z> WE need to brainstorm on that
19:29 < nhaines> sn9: it is a question of the LoCo team's very limited resources at the moment.
19:29 < Glenn_Z> but we plan to xerox off a bunch of 8.5 x 11 fliers
19:29 < Glenn_Z> and post liberally
19:29 < nhaines> sn9: no one suggets ignoring DTP but it may take longer than what we can spare for this upcoming event.
19:30 < Glenn_Z> get a listing in the Daily 49er (don't know if anybody actually reads it :)
19:30 < Flannel> Glenn_Z: Can we put it in the school paper or anything?  That might be another not-so-spammy method.  And you can get real words and stuff in too
19:30 < Flannel> Oh hey.
19:30 < Glenn_Z> I sorta feel like announcing in Comp Sci classes might be our best source
19:30 < sn9> nhaines: i understand that, but we should also be careful about the examples we set
19:30 < Glenn_Z> or, uh... Civil Liberties classes? :P
19:31 < Glenn_Z> Yes, "Daily 49er" we should contact them this week
19:31 < nhaines> sn9: targeting several projects for medium- and long-term while falling back on available resources in the short-term is not too bad of an example, I think.  :)
19:31 < Flannel> Glenn_Z: I imagine CompSci would provide the most returns.  Although, there may be other majors interested.  Anyone looking to ditch MS, or even just learn more about the "other side"
19:31 < Glenn_Z> and make a 60 sec spot for KBCH Radio
19:32 < nhaines> Ooh, that sounds like fun!
19:32 < Flannel> Glenn_Z: Find out how big/much/whatever we can put in the paper, we can draft up something with you.
19:32 < Glenn_Z> Yes, I do like the "learn more" since a lot of folks might be lukewarm on MS... but nervous to ditch their "bread & butter"
19:32 < nhaines> Yes, flier, newspaper ad, and radio ad sound like managable goals.
19:33 < sn9> btw, for my edification, what's the LB in CSULB?
19:33 < Flannel> Long Beach
19:33 < nhaines> sn9: Long Beach.
19:33 < sn9> ah
19:33 < Glenn_Z> I'll talk to Daily 49er this week... we won't have funds for an ad... but I'm sure they'll want to run 1 or more stories...
19:33 < Flannel> Glenn_Z: right, I think stories will work better than ads anyway.  Real text is better than ads
19:33 < Glenn_Z> as for KBCH Radio...  actually I'm a DJ there...
19:34 < Glenn_Z> Thursdays 3-5
19:34 < Glenn_Z> maybe we can have a Linux / Ubuntu-California day
19:34 < Glenn_Z> have some of you come down
19:34 < Flannel> Or up.  As the case may be.
19:34 < Glenn_Z> or up!
19:35 < nhaines> Flannel: with about two weeks notice I can be there on any given day.  Except during Lug Radio Live (see following agenda item).  ;)
19:35 < nhaines> Also I meant to tell Glenn_Z!  And Fridays are out for me.
19:35 < Flannel> Sounds good.  Are we done as far as this meeting is concerned?  We can move furhter discussion on specifics of articles/radio whatevers/flyers/etc to the mailing list, so everyone can contribute.
19:36 < AlgorithmicContr> Yo, sorry for the tardy.
19:36 < Flannel> Howdy AlgorithmicContr
19:36 < Glenn_Z> What else - tech wise - will we need?
19:36 < AlgorithmicContr> Foodnology!
19:36 < AlgorithmicContr> heh..
19:36 < Flannel> Glenn_Z: we'll have a projector or something for the movie, right?
19:36 < Glenn_Z> Yes, projector in theater
19:36 < AlgorithmicContr> Sweet
19:37 < Glenn_Z> can get extras if we want for any reason
19:38 < Glenn_Z> Please drop by the wiki - we'll try to funnel Linux questions there
19:38 < Flannel> We may have one more, for the lobby.  nhaines has been dying to acutally use one of his looping presentations, I think.  But we can figure that out once we get a little closer.
19:38 < Glenn_Z> Lobby projector, great, no problem!
19:38 < nhaines> Right, why doesn't that presentation get put in a repo online or something some time? ;)
19:39 < Flannel> so, moving on to our next topic:  LUG Radio Live.
19:39 < nhaines> Right, so Lug Radio Live is this huge techy/metal rock show that is held once a year in the UK.
19:40 < nhaines> But this year they're holding it in the UK and also in the US.  So from April 12-13 at the Metreon in San Francisco, this show will be going on.
19:40 < Glenn_Z> 1 last thing - do you want to pick Th 4/17 3-5p for a KBCH Radio visit?
19:41 < Flannel> Glenn_Z: We'll get back to you on that.
19:41 < Glenn_Z> ok
19:41 < nhaines> Jono Bacon is one of the founders of Lug Radio (which is a biweekly podcast).  Since he is also Canonical's Ubuntu Community Manager, he asked me if I would be willing to organize a booth there.
19:42 < nhaines> Since the *real* genius behind our SCaLE booth was the hard work we all did together, I immediately insinuated the LoCo.
19:42 < nhaines> Which means it is now all of our problem. It will be an excellent show with a ton of others in the Free Software community.
19:42 < cactaur> You said it's in San Francisco?
19:43 < Flannel> cactaur: It is
19:43 < nhaines> More information is at http://www.lugradio.org/live/USA2008/start
19:44 < sn9> cactaur: were you planning to go?
19:44 < AlgorithmicContr> lol
19:44 < cactaur> Ehhhh, a BIT too far.
19:44 < sn9> last year, i said that about SCALE
19:44 < AlgorithmicContr> Lol
19:45 < AlgorithmicContr> I should stop that lol's.
19:45 < sn9> it turned out to be much closer than i thought
19:45 < AlgorithmicContr> San Jose?
19:45 < AlgorithmicContr> To LA?
19:46 < cactaur> hahahaha, yeah. I almost thought that this year, but I don't think I can overestimate the distance between LA and SF.
19:46 < Flannel> We'll be looking for help from any of our members who are up in that area as well.  To help run the booth over the course of the weekend
19:46 < nhaines> cactaur: you can ride with me if there's still room n the trunk for you.
19:46 < cactaur> hahahahhahahahha
19:47 < nhaines> I think it will be an excellent chance to actually meet with some of the members in SF, like we were able to do for BarCampLA4.
19:47 < sn9> do what i did and drive during the night, but take an extra day to sleep
19:48 < Sec> but watch your airspeed sn9
19:49 < Flannel> so, we'll be getting more information out as the weeks progress, keep an eye on the mailing list and the wiki.
19:49 < sn9> Sec knows how long it took me to get to LA
19:49 < cactaur> all rightie!
19:51 < nhaines> Right.  So if anyone has any further thoughts since the last meeting of things that could be improved for the booth at Lug Radio Live, well, now's the time to get on the mailing list and chime in.  ;)
19:51 < symptom> how does one get on the mailing list?
19:52 < Flannel> symptom: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca  the form in the middle
19:52 < Flannel> "Subscribing to Ubuntu-us-ca"
19:52 < sn9> that reminds me -- gmane.org
19:52 < Flannel> So, our next topic is our Hardy Installfest.  This will be sometime after Hardy is finished, and probably sometime in May.  We like to let the release sit for at least a week to allow the repositories to stabilize and the first batch of updates to settle.
19:53 < symptom> ty
19:53 < sn9> it takes longer than a week to stabilize
19:53 < nhaines> sn9: bring it up after the rest of the agenda items and I will help you advocate for it.  :)
19:53 < Flannel> sn9: For gutsy we waited almost a month, I imagine itll be similar
19:54 < sn9> the early adopters need to kick hardy's tires for at least 6 weeks, IMO
19:54 < Flannel> As of now, we're looking to definately do it somewhere in the Southern California areas (LA, SD, OC, SB areas) and if possible, we'd like to have one more northward as well
19:56 < sn9> northernmost CA lug i know is LUGOD
19:56 < sn9> and that's not that far north
19:56 < nhaines> Where are they located?
19:56 < Flannel> I think we're thinking bay area, since I think thats where another large population is, but really, we can have one whereever membership permits
19:57 < sn9> Linux User Group Of Davis? they're in Davis
19:57 < nhaines> sn9: Thanks.  Didn't know the name.
19:57 < cactaur> Isn't there one at Humbolt?
19:58 < sn9> Sec: do you know of any gnu/linux doings at CSU Chico?
19:58 < Flannel> So, as far as these parties/installfest things go, we need volunteers for locations.  so if you have a location you think would be suitable, feel free to speak up.  We can't do it without locations.
19:59 < nhaines> Right.  We have to have a place to deliver the caffeine.
19:59 < Sec> sn9: no, my son is a Windows guy, sorry. But I'm sure Linux is happening there.
20:00 < Flannel> The location availability dictates the dates as well, but we're shooting for sometime mid-may or later.  Mid-may is finals season, so I'm not sure if our college crowds will turn out for that, of course, late may (or beyond) is vacation.  Those are both things to consider.
20:00 < Flannel> But, as far as Hardy was concerned, this meeting is just an initial announcement.
20:01 < Flannel> And, unless anything has anything else, I think I'm done with that topic for now.
20:02 < Flannel> Alright, so, moving on to our next:  Membership stuff.
20:03 < Flannel> This again, is mostly informational, and a recap at that.  This topic has been tabled since before SCaLE, we last discussed it at the December 2nd meeting.  And Ill just go through a quick recap here, and post a more in-depth one to the list later.
20:04 < Flannel> We want to setup actual processes to becoming an Ubuntu-California member, this will allow us to better judge our membership numbers (Launchpad's list will be realistic)
20:04 < Flannel> There are infinite permutations as to how we want to do it, and that'll be the topic of discussion on the mailing list for a while.
20:05 < Flannel> And, I think that's it for that as well.  Anyone have any comments/questions?  I realise it was somewhat vague.
20:05 < sn9> i wouldn't expect the qeuestion to really go away, ever
20:06 < cactaur> So what would be the difference between a member and a non-member? Do members do more stuff or something?
20:06 < nhaines> I imagine that's part of what we want to talk about.
20:06 < cactaur> Ah, ok.
20:07 < nhaines> But remember, a LoCo is primarily an Ubuntu advocacy group.  The social stuff should be left to the LUGs.
20:07 < nhaines> Not that we don't have fun here.  :)  But it's better to support LUGs as well.
20:07 < cactaur> If this is considered not social, the LUGs must be party animals!
20:08 < Flannel> cactaur: Right now we have a lot of people who sign up for the LP team, and then never show up/do anything.  Which usually doesn't matter, except we don't really know how many people are "part" of our LoCo
20:08 < symptom> I dont mean to butt in and be rude or anything, but I just moved to the area and was looking to be involved in a LoCo or LUG, but I wasnt really sure how to do so.  Maybe there should be something on the LoCo webpage talking about how to get involved...
20:09 < nhaines> symptom: then you're in the right place and that isn't rude at all.  :)  Can you stick around after the meeting to talk about it?
20:09 < symptom> sure
20:09 < nhaines> Great, we'll be happy to fill you in on all the details.
20:11 < nhaines> Flannel: is there any further direction you want the ML discussion to take, or will you be sharing some thoughts with us on the ML?
20:11 < Flannel> Uh, well, I've got a draft that's been sitting in my draft folder for four months now, we had settled the fact that we did want it to happen, and were going to discuss the means by which.
20:12 < Flannel> But seeing todays discusison, we should cover why as well.
20:12 < nhaines> It's always good to think about our focus.
20:13 < Flannel> Anything else re: membership processes?
20:14 < nhaines> Flannel: does membership come with a nifty decoder ring?
20:14 < Flannel> nhaines: If you want to design one, sure ;)
20:14 < cactaur> YES!!!!!!!
20:14 < Flannel> Alright, I think we're done with what we had written on the agenda.
20:14 < nhaines> hahaha, me and my big mouth!  uhhh... name badges for all!
20:14 < Flannel> Now our topic is sn9s: gmane.org
20:14 < cactaur> We could put messages on the case badges!
20:14 < Flannel> nhaines: Nah, we'll make cactaur come up with decoder rings.
20:15 < cactaur> hahahahha, uh oh.....
20:15 < Flannel> sn9?
20:15 < AlgorithmicContr> hahahah!
20:15 < AlgorithmicContr> sn9!
20:16 < sn9> details were in this channel on march 1st, 10:48AM
20:16 < sn9> shall i flood-paste them?
20:16 < nhaines> What's our pastebin?
20:17 < Flannel> http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/
20:17 < nhaines> Okay, gmane.  It's a mailing list archival service that also presents an NNTP (Usenet) interface to mailing lists.
20:18 < nhaines> The official Ubuntu mailing lists all already use them, and it's completely transparent to the list members.  You still have to subscribe normally and everything.  It just offers an awesome threaded Web interface and a threaded NNTP interface.
20:18 < cactaur> Interesting proposition.... what's the catch....?
20:18 < nhaines> None, really.  We're already an open list with public archives.
20:20 < cactaur> Oh, in that case... I don't see why not!
20:20 < sn9> http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/59101/
20:21 < sn9> i could add the list to gmane right now
20:21 < cactaur> This took place tomorrow?
20:21 < sn9> UTC
20:22 < cactaur> Oh, March 1st.
20:22 < cactaur> sn9: Well, I'm behind you... unless someone has some objection. In which I'll still be behind you.
20:23 < Flannel> Alright, anyone have any objections?
20:25 < Flannel> Alright, I'll send out an email to the list, to make sure no one has an objection to it.
20:26 < Flannel> If by the next meeting, no one has said anything that we haven't resolved, I'll subscribe us.
20:26 < sn9> there is one question to resolve:
20:27 < nhaines> sn9: maybe you can answer a technical question for us.  Is there a facility to import archives or does gmane's history begin when the list is added to the service?
20:27 < sn9> whether to obscure addresses in the gmane archive by replacing "@" with "at" or by completely scrambling them
20:28 < nhaines> Hm.  Might be a good topic for the list, since it's their addresses.
20:28 < sn9> nhaines: a request can be submitted to gmane administration to manually import the history, but mbox format is required
20:29 < nhaines> Okay, good to know.  Thanks.
20:29 < sn9> what i never did get what an mbox copy of the old list history on pythonnews before mark nielsen moved it to lists.ubuntu.com
20:30 < sn9> i guess we can just forget that
20:30 < Flannel> Alright, so we'll pose the address issue to the list, and in two weeks, we'll convene on it.
20:31 < Flannel> Anyone else have anything to add?  To this topic, or any others?
20:31 < Flannel> Or a new topic, as well?
20:32 < nhaines> Flannel: we should start thinking about creating media assets in advance for our events.
20:32 < Flannel> nhaines: Yeah, we need to get a collection of them.
20:32 < nhaines> I mean in the spirit of the looping presentation I did for SCaLE that sucked but was passable.  ;)
20:32 < Flannel> nhaines: Or radio commercials, for that matter.
20:32 < nhaines> Fliers, sound bites, talking points, etc.
20:33 < Flannel> right.
20:33 < Flannel> Section of the wiki, I suppose for now.
20:34 < Flannel> Alright.  I think that's our meeting.  Thank you all for coming.  our next meeting is in two weeks.  March 23. 1900 PDT.
</pre>
