{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, March 25th, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale16x|UbuCon at SCALE and SCALE 16x]]</nowiki> postmortem.
# Discuss changing time of bi-weekly IRC meetings.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you there!

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 02:00:31 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:00:31 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Mar 26 02:00:31 2018 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:00:31 <darthrobot> 
 02:00:31 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:00:46 <nhaines> Welcome to the March 25th meeting for Ubuntu California!
 02:00:57 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18March25
 02:00:57 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18March25 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:01:14 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:01:54 <nhaines> I don't know of anything coming up in California in the next month.
 02:02:31 <nhaines> UbuCon Europe in XixÃ³n, Spain is at the end of April, and many of those talks will be recorded.  I'll be speaking there.
 02:03:16 <nhaines> Ubuntu 18.04 will be released on April 26th, two days before UbuCon.
 02:03:27 <nhaines> So it is time to start thinking about release parties.
 02:03:34 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:03:58 <nhaines> Does anyone have any announcements for the LoCo?
 02:05:55 <nhaines> Okay, moving on to our agenda items tonight.
 02:06:11 <nhaines> #topic UbuCon at SCALE and SCALE 16X postmortem
 02:07:33 <nhaines> We had a very successful UbuCon this year, and that was almost entirely thanks to our speakers, who took the time to prepare interesting and insightful topics to present.  Big thanks to pleia2 and nhandler who are in the channel for their hard work.
 02:08:37 <nhaines> Our most popular talks had about 128 audience members, which is significant considering how late everything finally came together.
 02:09:54 <nhaines> The booth was also a success, and this is thanks to volunteers like George Mulak, lynorian, and Ian Santopietro.
 02:10:52 <nhaines> Richard and I had some significant hurdles this year.  Since our contact left Canonical last year, communication has been slow.
 02:11:39 <nhaines> Despite a very strong initial burst of activity, Canonical does not appear to have a dedicated community team anymore, and my contacts were almost certainly a little overworked.
 02:12:18 <nhaines> This led to massive delays in getting information about logistics for UbuCon or the expo booth.
 02:13:22 <nhaines> In the end, Canonical did not sponsor UbuCon or SCALE this year, and funds from the community fund were only made available after I emailed Mark Shuttleworth 8 days before the event.
 02:14:57 <nhaines> In turn, SCALE delayed confirming how much space we would have, which delayed our call for papers and we were told several times that none of our speakers had submitted talks when it later turned out that all but one had submitted (and we knew about that one).
 02:17:10 <nhaines> Richard and I had discussed sponsorship issues last year, but we relied on assurances that commitments were immediately forthcoming this year, which resulted in us not adapting to the situation in time.
 02:18:26 <nhaines> We plan to assume that Canonical will not be sponsoring or assisting for UbuCon at SCALE 17x and carrying out our contingency plans from the beginning, which we think will allow us to be prepared before or at the same time SCALE makes their announcements.
 02:19:17 <nhaines> The booth went very well despite half the space from last year, and we had a lot of interested visitors.
 02:20:06 <nhaines> Most were interested in the Unity to GNOME Shell transition, and everyone seemed pleased or relieved that there were some major similarities in Ubuntu's default GNOME session.
 02:20:37 <nhaines> I also did an interview with the Ask Noah Show where I talked a little about that transition.  http://podcast.asknoahshow.com/53
 02:20:37 <darthrobot> Title: [Ask Noah Show Episode 53: Live from SCaLE 16x]
 02:21:51 <nhaines> I suspect that next year we'll be able to give a longer lead time for booth volunteers, as we have in the past.  So I'm looking forward to a smoother booth schedule next year.
 02:22:53 <nhaines> SCALE attendance appeared to be down, but they reported that their numbers were higher than last year, so I suspect the difference was more closely related to the busy times.
 02:23:45 <nhaines> Once again I'd like to thank Richard Gaskin for helping to organize the UbuCon conference and all of our speakers and booth volunteers for making a very successful event.  :)
 02:23:57 <nhaines> #topic Discuss changing time of bi-weekly IRC meetings
 02:24:27 <nhaines> There was a proposal on the mailing list about changing the meeting time.
 02:25:07 <nhaines> If a different meeting time will increase attendance and participation, I'd be happy to move the meetings.  But I'd like to see more discussion about it on the mailing list first.
 02:25:22 <nhaines> Since no one is present, I'll immediately move the topic back to the list.
 02:25:27 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:25:35 <nhaines> Is there anything else before we wrap the meeting up?
 02:26:06 <lynorian> oops now I show up
 02:26:50 <nhaines> lynorian: good to see you.  :)
 02:30:37 <nhaines> Okay, our next meeting is scheduled for April 8th.  Hope to see everyone there!
 02:30:40 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
