{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, December 15th, 2019, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcementss.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
19:02 < nhaines> All right.  We'll keep it simple tonight.
19:03 < nhaines> SCALE planning continues, although we've received little response for UbuCon speakers, so that is in question for this year.  Booth plans are unaffected, though!  More on that by the next meeting.
19:03 < nhaines> Ubuntu 20.04 LTS is shaping up.  It should be a nice, solid release.
19:04 < nhaines> I worked on an instructional video for Apress describing how to install Windows Subsystem for Linux and install Ubuntu, so hopefully that will be available soon.
19:04 < nhaines> And I think that's about it.
19:05 < nhaines> Our next meeting is January 19th, 2020!
19:05 < nhaines> So as the year wraps up to a close, I'd like to wish everyone happy holidays, and a wonderful new year!</pre>
