{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

THIS SECTION NOT DONE YET. I am putting more info on here as it goes.

NEEDED:
* We are bringing a computer with ubuntu, but more the merrier.
* Booth number is not known yet. When available, it will be posted here.
* Conference times are not known, but word is the exhibit hall opens at 9 am.
* Sign up and registration are not available yet. When it is available, this webpage will be updated with links.
* If someone could let Mark sleep overnight at their house, and drive him to and from the airport, I will most likely come down there.
* Mark will request a few hundred Ubuntu cds.
* Simple Documentation to hand out, any ideas for content are very welcome.
** I (Jai) work at a print shop so I can print these out. My idea is an abridged version of the Official Documentation, and Install Guide.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the signup sheet for maintaining the SCALE5x booth in LA February 10-11th, 2007: http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale5x. If you want to be added to this list, you can send email to ubuntu.ca.team@gmail.com or you can create your own account at this website and edit this webpage.

For directions go <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=d&hl=en&saddr=5400+West+Century+Boulevard,+Los+Angeles,+California+90045&daddr=&ie=UTF8&z=15&om=1&iwloc=addr|here]]</nowiki>. Word is, the exhibit hall is free.

NO EXPERTISE REQUIRED to help man the booth. All I ask is that you use Ubuntu, you have installed it, and that you wish to promote it. The more you know, the better, of course. You don't need to be technically knowledgeable as long as you know how to use it, read the ubuntu.com website a lot, and you have a desire to help out other people (who are mostly non-technical) to use it.

It would be nice to have 3 people at the booth at all times (people need breaks and such). I don't mind more than 4 people, if so, please note at the bottom below the tables. For items on display, there will be a bunch of cds underneath the table at the booth. Don't stack too many cds out there at one time or a few people will grab all the them and there won't be any left for others.

PLEASE NOTE CONDUCT GUIDELINES at the bottom of this webpage.
TODOS listed at the very bottom.

==== Volunteers ====

Dates: February 10 - 11, 2007

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Hour
| Person1
| Person2
| Person3
|-
| Sat, Feb 10th, 2007
| 10 am
| 
| Lawrence
| 
|-
| Sat, Feb 10th, 2007
| 11 am
| 
| Lawrence
| 
|-
| Sat, Feb 10th, 2007
| 12 noon
| Mark
| Lawrence
| 
|-
| Sat, Feb 10th, 2007
| 1 pm
| Mark
| Lawrence
| 
|-
| Sat, Feb 10th, 2007
| 2 pm
| Mark
| Lawrence
| 
|-
| Sat, Feb 10th, 2007
| 3 pm
| Mark
| Lawrence
| 
|-
| Sat, Feb 10th, 2007
| 4 pm
| Mark
| Lawrence
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Hour
| Person1
| Person2
| Person3
|-
| Sun, Feb 11th, 2007
| 10 am
| Jai
| Mark
| Steve
|-
| Sun, Feb 11th, 2007
| 11 am
| Jai
| Mark
| Steve
|-
| Sun, Feb 11th, 2007
| 12 noon
| Jai
| Mark
| Steve
|-
| Sun, Feb 11th, 2007
| 1 pm
| Jai
| Mark
| Steve
|-
| Sun, Feb 11th, 2007
| 2 pm
| Jai
| Mark
| Steve
|-
| Sun, Feb 11th, 2007
| 3 pm
| Jai
| Mark
| Steve
|-
| Sun, Feb 11th, 2007
| 4 pm
| Jai
| Mark
| Steve
|}

==== Conduct Guidlines ====
I am not trying to be a politically correct Nazi, but I am just suggesting some guidelines on how to talk and behave at the booth compared to what I have seen in the past.  I can be very politically charged, so these guidelines apply to me, or else I will be out there ranting and raving about evil stuff.  Please reword anything below if I sound like a jerk (I hate limiting freedom of expression).

* General Topics of Discussion
** Ubuntu Linux -- try to talk about this the most.
** Debian Linux -- we want to be friends with the Debian guys. Promote them if possible.
** Linux and Software Freedom -- show Ubuntu as a great way to experience both.
** Talk about the local Linux Users Groups, or any other related local users group in the area.
* About other Distros and Operating Systems
** Say only positive stuff about other Linux Distros.  Factual comparisons between distros are okay.  Let the guest determine if something is good or bad.  Winks are also okay if nobody else sees them (wink, wink).
** Don't ditch other operating systems.  Most people only pass by booths for 30 seconds or a minute, so unless they hang around for a lengthy period of time, it is best to talk about Ubuntu, Debian, or other local Lugs as much as possible within the first few minutes.  Try to stick to the facts and let them decide what the facts mean to them.

I have noticed the best non-profit booths at conferences sort of behave very nice and professional and get their point across within the first 2 minutes.  Most people will only hang around for 2 minutes, and if their interest isn't captured in that amount of time, they will walk away and forget about it.  I do that all the time.
