{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, February 19th, 2017, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

 1. Upcoming events
  a. <nowiki>[[http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-summit-us/|UbuCon Summit]]</nowiki>
  a. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale15x|SCALE 15x]]</nowiki>
 1. Announcements
   a. <nowiki>[[NathanHaines-CaliforniaLeadershipDocument|Proposed amendment]]</nowiki> to the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Leadership|leadership document]]</nowiki>

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you there!

=== Full Log ===

{{{#!IRC 03:00:35 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 03:00:35 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Feb 20 03:00:35 2017 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 03:00:35 <darthrobot> 
 03:00:35 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 03:00:57 <nhaines> Hi everyone!  Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for February 19th!
 03:01:09 <nhaines> Today's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17February19
 03:01:09 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17February19 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 03:02:03 <nhaines> This is our last meeting before UbuCon Summit and SCALE!
 03:02:10 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 03:02:29 <nhaines> UbuCon Summit is March 2nd and 3rd, and we have some great speakers.
 03:02:43 <nhaines> The schedule is published here: http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-summit-us/schedule/
 03:02:43 <darthrobot> Title: [Schedule | UbuCon portal]
 03:04:03 <pleia2> o/
 03:04:08 <nhaines> The event is free with your SCALE registration and we will be having a Thursday night party at Porto Alegre Churrascaria with free drinks and light food, just like last year.
 03:04:11 <pleia2> is that the final schedule? I can tweet about it and stuff? :)
 03:04:17 <nhaines> Yes it is.  : )
 03:04:20 <pleia2> great
 03:04:46 <nhaines> Carl Richell from System 76 will be giving the keynote, and they will be making product announcements!!
 03:05:16 <pleia2> exciting :)
 03:05:35 <nhaines> Yes!  And they won't tell me what they are ahead of time, haha.
 03:06:11 <pleia2> hehe
 03:06:23 <nhaines> And of course, SCALE is from March 2nd through March 5th.  It's looking really great!
 03:06:39 <nhaines> http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x
 03:06:39 <darthrobot> Title: [SCALE 15x | 15x]
 03:06:52 <lynorian> yeah it seems to get closer and closer every year
 03:07:11 <nhaines> The price goes up to $90 on Wednesday, so don't wait to register!  The coupon code UBNTU will get you 50% off, so feel free to share that with everyone.
 03:07:41 <pleia2> \o/
 03:07:46 <nhaines> But that's not all!  If you volunteer at the booth for at least one shift, I will pay for your full expo pass.  By which I mean SCALE will pay!
 03:09:07 <lynorian> ok were do I sign up
 03:09:09 <nhaines> We do need some more volunteers, so please email me if you can spend time at the booth.  We promise to let you escape to eat lunch and wander the expo floor or see any talks you're dying to see.
 03:09:27 <nhaines> Sign up here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale15x
 03:09:27 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale15x - Ubuntu Wiki]
 03:09:53 <nhaines> Or email me at nhaines@ubuntu.com if you can't edit the page, and give me the information in the volunteers table.
 03:10:39 <nhaines> Just like last year, Canonical's booth is next to ours and their plan is to just combine the booth spaces and let us run it.  So gigantic thanks to Canonical again!
 03:11:08 <nhaines> They're also sponsoring UbuCon Summit and the coffee and muffin service.
 03:11:08 <pleia2> great
 03:11:14 <pleia2> mm coffee and muffin
 03:11:42 <pleia2> except I'll be down the hallway all day (except for my talk!) the first day running the open source infra event
 03:12:06 <nhaines> We're still rounding up devices for the booth, but we'll have computers and phones running Ubuntu and I think we're going to get a Nextcloud Box that runs Ubuntu Core.  :)
 03:12:19 <pleia2> I'll work on social media-ing all this stuff to drum up more interest
 03:12:28 <pleia2> do you need scale ticket for ubucon?
 03:12:37 <nhaines> pleia2: you can still have coffee and a muffin!  Also one of the "complimentary speaker water" bottles that I have a bill for.
 03:12:46 <pleia2> hehe
 03:13:03 <nhaines> You do not need a SCALE ticket for UbuCon, but it would be frankly silly not to have one.  :)
 03:13:22 <pleia2> agreed, just wanted to make sure I was giving out the right information
 03:13:23 <nhaines> Anyone registering for SCALE should choose the UbuCon SCALE passes, which are the same price.
 03:13:32 <nhaines> Understood!
 03:13:57 <nhaines> The "UbuCon pay-what-you-want" donation during SCALE registration will help defray the cost of incidental supplies for UbuCon and the booth.
 03:14:10 <pleia2> cool
 03:14:59 <nhaines> I think that's everything there.
 03:15:18 <nhaines> Oh, pleia2, thanks for running the Open Source infrastructure event!  That's awesome.  :)
 03:16:08 <pleia2> I'm excited :)
 03:17:18 <nhaines> Any other upcoming events before we move on?
 03:19:03 <nhaines> Hehe, I think SCALE and UbuCon are the biggest things too!
 03:19:10 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 03:19:36 <nhaines> I worked on the Leadership documents and published a draft copy.
 03:19:46 <nhaines> No 's' in "document"!
 03:19:50 <pleia2> unfortunately I haven't been able to make time to look through it yet
 03:20:26 <nhaines> That's okay, it's why I didn't put it on the agenda proper, just under announcements. :)
 03:20:41 <nhaines> The current document is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership
 03:20:41 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Leadership - Ubuntu Wiki]
 03:20:53 <nhaines> The ammended document is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NathanHaines/CaliforniaLeadershipDocument
 03:20:53 <darthrobot> Title: [NathanHaines/CaliforniaLeadershipDocument - Ubuntu Wiki]
 03:21:23 <nhaines> Basically it removes the "leadership council" mentions to "leadership role".
 03:21:58 <nhaines> I suspect the position should be styled "Team Lead" but I don't think I committed to that in the document.
 03:22:31 <nhaines> So if that's something the LoCo wants, then we can vote on the amendment, and once accepted, we can hold new elections.
 03:22:57 <nhaines> But the actual day-to-day running of the LoCo and meetings shouldn't materially change.
 03:23:37 <nhaines> Any other announcements today?
 03:24:17 * lynorian has none
 03:24:43 <pleia2> nothing from me
 03:24:59 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 03:25:07 <nhaines> There are no items on the agenda for this meeting.
 03:25:16 <nhaines> #topic Other Business
 03:25:26 <nhaines> Any other business today?
 03:26:06 <lynorian> to be clear no meeting the sunday when everyone is returning from scale
 03:26:12 <pleia2> good point
 03:26:27 <nhaines> Yes, correct.
 03:28:28 <nhaines> I would also like to take a second to highlight our own Elizabeth Joseph, who aside from being an amazing member of this LoCo is an accomplished technologist and ardent supporter of girls and women in technology and Free and Open Source software, which is such an important topic
 03:29:44 <nhaines> Diversity and representation are important across everything in society, and we definitely are stronger when everyone is happy and confident in persuing their interests and skills to the best of their ability, without discouragement.
 03:29:55 <pleia2> thanks nhaines :)
 03:30:38 <nhaines> pleia2: I know we all try to do our little parts, but you do a gigantic part, and it's an inspiration to me and doubtless countless others.  Thanks so much for being such a good influence in the world.  :)
 03:31:26 <pleia2> you're welcome
 03:31:40 <nhaines> Alrighty, I think that's it for this meeting!
 03:31:54 <nhaines> In two weeks we have UbuCon Summit and SCALE, and no meeting!  Be at SCALE and have fun there instead!
 03:32:03 <pleia2> thanks for chairing
 03:32:12 <nhaines> In one month, we have our next meeting.  March 19th, in fact!
 03:32:18 <nhaines> pleia2: you're welcome.  :)
 03:32:47 <nhaines> Everyone have fun, sign up to volunteer for SCALE and get a free pass and t-shirt for the booth, and I'll see everyone back here in a month!
 03:32:50 <nhaines> #endmeeting}}}
