{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, September 7th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

# <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki> plans
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Leadership]]</nowiki> Election

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you there!

{{{#!IRC
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Sep  8 02:00:24 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting?
[02:00] <Roguehorse> \o
[02:00] <ianorlin> \o
[02:00] <nhaines> \o_
[02:00] <elky> \o
[02:00] <pleia2> cool
[02:01] <nhaines> rww: stop playing Final Fantasy and join us.  :P
[02:01] <rww> i'm playing final fantasy 7, but elky can poke me if need be
[02:01] <rww> be quiet nhaines :P
[02:01] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14September07
[02:01] <pleia2> haha
[02:01] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14September07 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <elky> busted lol
[02:01] <pleia2> #chair rww
[02:01] <darthrobot`> Current chairs: pleia2 rww
[02:01] <pleia2> #topic Software Freedom Day plans
[02:02] <pleia2> so grantbow emailed Sameer on the 24th about SFSU plans, who replied "updates coming soon"
[02:02] <pleia2> afaik, there haven't been any yet
[02:02] <pleia2> but they typically do an on campus thing some weekday that a few folks from the team go to
[02:02] <pleia2> any other areas have anything?
[02:02] <Roguehorse> oh, I was going to contact him to see if he needed help or anything and got sidetracked
[02:02] <pleia2> hehe
[02:03] <Roguehorse> I sent an email to Hurricane and never heard back
[02:03] <pleia2> well, we're trying :)
[02:03] <jyo> oh hi
[02:03] <Roguehorse> hi
[02:04] <pleia2> jyo works at Hurricane, so maybe chats can happen? :)
[02:05] <nhaines> The next OCLUG meeting is technically on SFD.  So we probably should have planned something.
[02:05] <Roguehorse> ?? Hmm .... sure!
[02:05]  * ianorlin doesn't know the topic of next OCLUG meeting
[02:06] <nhaines> They don't have topics unless there's a presentation.
[02:06] <ianorlin> ah
[02:08] <Roguehorse> (crickets)
[02:09] <pleia2> hehe, ok, next topic then
[02:09] <pleia2> #topic CaliforniaTeam/Leadership Election
[02:09] <pleia2> so this isn't until December strictly speaking, but I want to put it in people's minds early
[02:09] <Roguehorse> pleia2: Your the president! - next topic
[02:09] <elky> nah, she needs a break
[02:09] <Roguehorse> :-)
[02:09] <pleia2> you may notice that I miss about half the meetings, I'm traveling a lot and work is taking up a lot of my time, so I probably want to not play leader anymore
[02:10] <pleia2> plus Iwant to give others some opportunity :)
[02:10]  * ianorlin hasn't done tihs before and don't really now how tihs works
[02:10] <pleia2> ianorlin: we have a whole document! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership
[02:10] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Leadership - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:10] <elky> there'll be a queue of people lining up to scold her for taking it on again if she does.
[02:10] <Roguehorse> I have a hard time with the groups I have now trying to get anything done
[02:10] <pleia2> mostly the job of the leadership trio is making sure meetings happen, announcements go out, and generally the team hums along
[02:11] <pleia2> elky: hehe
[02:11] <rww> more than three candidates this time would be nice :P
[02:11] <pleia2> so if anyone is interested, please think about it, and ask me or philipballew or rww questions if you are curious about what we've been up to this past year
[02:12] <pleia2> yes, a proper election would be lovely :)
[02:12] <jyo> I'm too busy running the election to run in the election, guys.
[02:12] <Roguehorse> LOL! I've seen that before at the Foundation
[02:13] <nhaines> What's the process for standing for election?
[02:13] <nhaines> Are there any deadlines, when's the election, etc. :)
[02:14] <rww> jyo: I can run the election, if you'd like to run in it :P
[02:14] <ianorlin> nhaines read pleia2 link
[02:15] <pleia2> the coordinator will send out an email like this: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2013-December/002346.html
[02:15] <darthrobot`> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] Call for Ubuntu California LoCo leadershipnominations]
[02:15] <nhaines> ianorlin: I have.  I didn't see any dates or nomination procedures there.
[02:15] <pleia2> again, all a couple months off and we'll iron that out as we get closer, I just want potential leaders to start thinking
[02:16] <nhaines> December.  Looks good.
[02:16] <rww> and it's self-nomination over email or IRC
[02:16]  * pleia2 nods
[02:17]  * ianorlin wonders if that should be in the leadership so this question doesn't come up again
[02:18] <pleia2> it'll be linked at the bottom of the page in a 2014 link once we get going
[02:18] <pleia2> but it's 3 months off, so no one has done any of the deadline setting or anything yet
[02:18] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[02:19] <Roguehorse> Has anyone heard from Jono at all? I never got to meet the guy.
[02:20]  * ianorlin hears him on his podcast bad voltage but not in ubuntu-us-ca stuff
[02:20] <pleia2> he came to our release party in San Francisco for Trusty
[02:20] <nhaines> Jono's around all the time.
[02:20] <Roguehorse> I know, I was there too, but somehow missed him
[02:20] <nhaines> Roguehorse: I'm hoping he's at SCALE again next year.  He's awesome.  :)
[02:21]  * ianorlin is pretty sure he will be
[02:21] <Roguehorse> I've heard all good things
[02:21] <pleia2> he's got the XPrize job now, so not quite as much Ubuntu-y things I think these days
[02:21] <Roguehorse> I've heard from many that I HAVE to get to SCALE but it's kind of a big wad of cash right now
[02:22] <pleia2> so, other things on the calendar, Utopic release is coming up on October 23rd
[02:22]  * ianorlin likes living close to scale
[02:22] <Roguehorse> ianorlin: :-P
[02:22] <nhaines> Utopic will also be the foundation of the new phones featuring Ubuntu later this year.  :)
[02:23] <pleia2> \o/
[02:23] <Roguehorse> Hmm.. my phone is junk again. I need to send it in for exchange
[02:24] <nhaines> I cleaned my keyboard last night and got all the keys back in the same place.
[02:24]  * ianorlin wonders what new things are in server for utopic
[02:24] <Roguehorse> nhaines: LOL! Good work! (put it on your LinkedIN) ;-)
[02:25] <nhaines> Looking inside keyboard.  Soon the living shall envy the dead.
[02:25]  * pleia2 gives nhaines a gold star
[02:25] <pleia2> ianorlin: I don't expect a lot of innovation
[02:26] <pleia2> so, other upcoming stuff, I'll be out of town on Wednesday, but Michael Paoli will be hosting the typical SF Ubuntu Hour (and probably a Debian Dinner to follow)
[02:26] <pleia2> berkeley ubuntu hour coming up on the 18th: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2692-ubuntu-hour-berkeley/
[02:26] <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu Hour Berkeley | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:27] <pleia2> oh! copies of The Official Ubuntu Book
[02:28] <Roguehorse> have it
[02:28] <pleia2> nhaines has some in SoCal, I have some in NorCal, chat with us if you need one
[02:28] <pleia2> 8th edition (came out in July)
[02:28] <nhaines> I'm waiting on 9th edition.
[02:28] <pleia2> hehe
[02:29] <pleia2> ok, that's all I've got
[02:29] <Roguehorse> Some of the peeps at EBLUG might dig one
[02:30] <pleia2> I should go to that some time
[02:31] <Roguehorse> They're a nice group, just not very, um (active)? I guess I should say?
[02:31] <pleia2> aha :)
[02:32] <Roguehorse> pleia2: It would be nice to see you come in and hang out :-)
[02:32] <jyo> You're not missing much, at least last time I dropped by.
[02:32] <Roguehorse> I'm trying - but it's hard when you'rew the only one motivated
[02:32] <pleia2> Roguehorse: may do! probably not until November or so
[02:33] <Roguehorse> pleia2: No worries
[02:33] <pleia2> although, I might be around this month
[02:33]  * pleia2 shrugs
[02:33] <pleia2> anyway, anything else from anyone before we wrap up and I go get sushi? :d
[02:33] <Roguehorse> nah, I'm empty
[02:34] <pleia2> alrighty, thanks everyone
[02:34] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
