{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, October 19th, 2019, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

==== Meeting Logs ====
{{{#!IRC 19:00 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:00 < nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for October 20th, 2019!
19:00 < nhaines> The agenda for this meeting is availble here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/19October20
19:00 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is empty.
19:01 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:01 < nhaines> We've begun planning UbuCon at SCALE 18x for next March.
19:02 < nhaines> We're looking forward to once again working alongside Canonical to feature a lot of interesting presentations on both desktop and enterprise Ubuntu topics.
19:02 < gmulak> What has been done so far?
19:02 < nhaines> We've had meetings with contacts at Canonical and are reaching out to potential sponsors.
19:03 < nhaines> The call for papers is open until November 30th, so if you or someone you know might be interested in speaking, we'd love to hear from you!
19:04 < nhaines> You can submit a paper at https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/node/add/presentation and please choose UbuCon as the topic.  SCALE will forward the talks to us in December.
19:04 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:04 < nhaines> Ubuntu 19.10 was released this Thursday!
19:04 < nhaines> You can download install images here: http://releases.ubuntu.com/eoan/
19:05 < gmulak> OK, thanks.
19:05 < nhaines> Development focus for Ubuntu has now shifted to Ubuntu 20.04 LTS, the "Focal Fossa" release.  This will be the second LTS after the transition from Unity to GNOME Shell and should be really rock solid.
19:06 < kain_> Looking forward to 20.04 LTS :D
19:06 < nhaines> But don't worry, the release is on April 23rd, so there's plenty of time left for 16.04 LTS and 18.04 LTS installations!  (But keep your updates current!)
19:06 < gmulak> Me also.  I am loving 19.04.
19:07 < kain_> at work we still use 16.04. I think a jump to 20.04 would be great =3
19:07 < nhaines> I haven't upgraded to 19.10 yet because the transition with Unity wasn't good a few weeks ago.  But it's on the schedule for the end of the month.
19:07 < nhaines> Ubuntu 16.04 LTS will have maintenance support for a year after 20.04 LTS, so with some early planning there's plenty of time for a transition.  :)
19:07 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:08 < nhaines> There is no agenda for this meeting.
19:08 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:08 < nhaines> Anything else to talk about this month?
19:08 < kain_> well introductions if i may ^^;;
19:08 < gmulak> It sure would be nice to start an ubuntu hour in Tustin area
19:08 < nhaines> Please.  :)
19:09 < gmulak> go ahead
19:09 < kain_> Hello I'm Kain living in SF. Has been part of your email and never had a chance to join, so ihopefully i'll be a usual soon. :D THinking of joining for ubicon next year, going to bug the fiance to come along
19:10 < kain_> is there recordings of last year's ubicon presentations? :D
19:10 < nhaines> We'd be happy to have you!  Some time soon (before next meeting, I think) we'll have a signup sheet ready for next year.
19:11 < nhaines> The SCALE YouTube channel does have all of the presentations: https://www.youtube.com/user/socallinuxexpo
19:11 < kain_> SWEET!
19:12 < nhaines> Unfortunately, they're not sorted.  We were in Ballroom A on Thursday, March 7th and Friday, March 8th.
19:12 < nhaines> But I actually should probably go through and sort them and put a list up somewhere.  Thanks for the idea.  :)
19:12 < kain_> totally! going to entice the fiance maybe with disneyland afterwards ;)
19:13 < gmulak> I am George, I live in Tustin (Southern California) with my wife Vicki.  I have been coming since SCaLE 9x
19:13 < nhaines> SCALE is great not just for Ubuntu but for a general immersion of the Free and open source software communities.  And it's family friendly, too.
19:13 < nhaines> I'm not sure how many Ubuntu Hours are still going on, but one in Tustin would be a great idea.
19:14 < nhaines> If you want to talk about my experience running the Lake Forest one, we'll do that later.
19:14 < kain_> whats an ubuntu hour?
19:14 < gmulak> I just can't do it by myself I don't think.
19:14 < gmulak> We meet at a coffee shop and install and discuss Ubuntu.
19:14 < nhaines> Ubuntu Hour is when volunteers meet on a regular schedule to be somewhere for an hour to just chat about Ubuntu.
19:14 < gmulak> It's really fun.
19:15 < nhaines> That lets curious people drop by and see what Ubuntu's all about, or ask questions, since half the trick is knowing where to start.
19:15 < gmulak> You have a great one in the Berkley area.
19:16 < gmulak> I have been several times.
19:16 < nhaines> This was the last one in Lake Forest: https://www.nhaines.com/ubuntu/hour/
19:17 < nhaines> Okay, anything else before we wrap up tonight?
19:17 < gmulak> I don't have anything.
19:17 < kain_> nothing on me end but hopefully can bring something up next meeting
19:18 < nhaines> If you think of anything important in the meantime, you can also post it to our mailing list.
19:18 < gmulak> OK
19:18 < nhaines> Okay, that wraps up this meeting, then.  Our next meeting will be on Sunday, November 17th, at 19:00 PST.
19:19 < nhaines> Thanks for coming!
19:19 < nhaines> #endmeeting}}}
