{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, November 6th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. CA team game night discussion
 2. Is it too early to talk SCaLE10x?

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[03:05] <Darkwing> Anyway, who is here for a meeting?
[03:05] <akk> o/
[03:06] <Darkwing> Tonights agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11November06
[03:06] <iheartubuntu> here
[03:06] <Darkwing> Awesome
[03:06] <Darkwing> CA team game night discussion
[03:06] <Darkwing> I think this was yours iheartubuntu?
[03:07] <iheartubuntu> yes
[03:07] <iheartubuntu> still working on game night ideas
[03:07] <Darkwing> Take it away :)
[03:07] <iheartubuntu> are there any particular games people are interested in? board games? first person shooters?
[03:07] <iheartubuntu> im mainly concerned with including everyone and gals my not be into FPS
[03:08] <iheartubuntu> plus they could be heavy on graphics, eliminating some people from playing
[03:08] <iheartubuntu> so finding a multiplayer game for all is the trick
[03:08] <Darkwing> I used to play parcheesi with another group quite a bit.
[03:09] <iheartubuntu> what does anyone have to say about online games from a website? there are many games in the google chrome app store
[03:09] <iheartubuntu> (and most can be played in firefox too)
[03:09] <iheartubuntu> parcheesi is fun. i was even considering bingo
[03:10] <iheartubuntu> does it matter if the game is on a website or must it be in the reps?
[03:10] <akk> I don't know what's available in multiplayer games, so it's hard to comment. i like word/math/logic games.
[03:10] <jtatum> i'd like to try pioneers
[03:10] <jtatum> (settlers of catan clone)
[03:10] <iheartubuntu> is that a turn based strategy?
[03:11] <iheartubuntu> akk i will take that into consideration
[03:11] <Darkwing> scrabble tourny :D
[03:11] <jtatum> iheartubuntu: yeah
[03:11] <iheartubuntu> i think scrabble would be great
[03:12] <iheartubuntu> what about card games?
[03:12] <akk> That would be fun ... though admittedly it would be awfully easy to cheat, if we're all sitting at home with /usr/share/dict/words right there. :)
[03:12] <akk> (re scrabble, not cards)
[03:12] <Darkwing> online spades is always good... or Gim Rummy.
[03:13] <iheartubuntu> ok. i'll see what i can find
[03:13] <akk> poker, playing for stakes of ubuntu CDs and stickers :)
[03:14] <Darkwing> What were you thinking on times?
[03:14] <Darkwing> weekends? nights?
[03:14] <iheartubuntu> i was thinking after each team meeting
[03:14] <iheartubuntu> since most of us are around
[03:14] <Darkwing> That would actually be really cool.
[03:15] <akk> That's a good idea ... might even draw more people to the meetings.
[03:15] <iheartubuntu> sunday nights are great. im usually already home (especially when its freezing out)
[03:16] <iheartubuntu> ok im done with this unless anyone wants to add more.
[03:16] <iheartubuntu> i'll have different game options next meeting that ive researched
[03:16] <Darkwing> Sweet!
[03:16] <iheartubuntu> and we can all pick . maybe have a few we can rotate
[03:16] <Darkwing> Okay, Scale10x.
[03:16] <iheartubuntu> i dont want to be losing at scrabble every time
[03:17] <iheartubuntu> :)
[03:17] <Darkwing> With the holidays coming and scale being in January it will come fast.
[03:17] <iheartubuntu> we did awesome this year at SCaLE9x
[03:17] <Darkwing> We will be having a booth and thanks to nhaines we will also have UbuCon again.
[03:17] <iheartubuntu> everyone I met was amazing and i encourage all who have not yet been to SCaLE to go
[03:18] <iheartubuntu> http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale10x
[03:18] <iheartubuntu> and if you can, to help out at the Ubuntu booth too
[03:18] <Darkwing> I talked to canonical this last week and it looks like we will be able to collect a bunch more pressed CDs to hand out as well.
[03:19] <iheartubuntu> Oh great
[03:19] <iheartubuntu> Is there anything new were planning for 10x compared to 9x?
[03:19] <Darkwing> This is the first part of planning on this end.
[03:20] <eps> When is SCALE 10X? I see some things that say Januaru and others that say February
[03:20] <iheartubuntu> January 20-22
[03:20] <eps> Sorry, January
[03:20] <eps> So, Fedora Activity Day is not in February then?
[03:20] <Darkwing> No. Scale is the date that iheartubuntu gave.
[03:21] <iheartubuntu> its all in the link above
[03:21] <Darkwing> Does anyone have any ideas that they would like to see done at Scale seeing that it's the 10 anni?
[03:22] <iheartubuntu> do we get a bigger booth or anything?
[03:22] <iheartubuntu> will canonical be there?
[03:22] <iheartubuntu> will canonical provide some professional ubuntu banners or anything? i liked those orange ones at UDS i saw in the pics
[03:22] <eps> Hmm. I wonder if we can get ten bowling pins that look like Tux?
[03:22] <Darkwing> I don't think that there will be a canonical booth. I think Jono and maybe Jorge Casto will be there.
[03:24] <Darkwing> and a couple of Canonical Server/Cloud/Kernel guys
[03:24] <Darkwing> We have a HUGE Ubuntu banner that Canonical sent and table cloths.
[03:24] <iheartubuntu> beautiful
[03:25] <Darkwing> I like the bowling pins idea.
[03:25] <Darkwing> that would be pretty cool.
[03:25] <Darkwing> I have some books to give away. "Ubuntu for the non geek" I think I have 3 or 4 copies
[03:25] <iheartubuntu> im just thinking in my mind how we can engage people better
[03:26] <Darkwing> So, we can do some sort of drawings/contest
[03:26] <philipballew> We need to get these people to join the loco as well
[03:26] <eps> And a purple, uh, aubergine bowling ball. ;-)
[03:26] <Darkwing> LOL!
[03:26] <iheartubuntu> i like that idea phil
[03:27] <Darkwing> Just keep in mind that Scale is coming up and be thinking about volunteering for the booth and/or any other ideas you want to do while there.
[03:28] <Darkwing> Also, as many of you know there was a change in leadership for the team.
[03:28] <Darkwing> We had all three spots become open and there were three people who ran.
[03:28] <iheartubuntu> win by default :)
[03:29] <Darkwing> pleia2, myself and jtatum
[03:29] <iheartubuntu> congrats to all
[03:29] <Darkwing> So, pleia2 and I are standing a second term and welcome in jtatum to the team!
[03:29]  * jtatum bows
[03:30] <akk> An excellent team.
[03:30] <Darkwing> Does anyone else have anything else? announcements? gripes?
[03:30] <iheartubuntu> im good
[03:31] <Darkwing> UDS was, as always, busy and fun.
[03:31] <iheartubuntu> ohh yes please tell!
[03:31] <Darkwing> Thankfully there was no shocking changes at the keynote.
[03:31] <philipballew> ^ agrees
[03:32] <Darkwing> There is a huge push toward ARM
[03:32] <Darkwing> and with the announcement of the ARM 64bit prototype being demoed... This is a good thing.
[03:33] <Darkwing> Also, Ubuntu heading toward devices. Tablets, phones, TVs, seems to be another point of intrest.
[03:33] <Darkwing> Anyone else?
[03:33] <jtatum> did you wind up with a bunch of action items, Darkwing? :)
[03:34] <Darkwing> jtatum: Yeah, mostly to do with being on the Kubuntu Counil. LOL
[03:34] <jtatum> fun. good luck :)
[03:34] <Darkwing> Always fun :)
[03:35] <iheartubuntu> is there a xubuntu council? im loving the new xubuntu
[03:35] <Darkwing> You would have to talk to pleia2 about that.
[03:35] <Darkwing> I'm not sure.
[03:36] <Darkwing> Okay, if there is nothing else, thanks for coming out!
[03:36] <Darkwing> Does anyone in here use Cone email?
[03:36] <jtatum> thanks for chairing, Darkwing
[03:36] <Darkwing> :) Cheers!
}}}
