{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Oakland has been chosen once again for uds.ubuntu.com May 6-9, 2013! I would like to write and mail Letters to our state legislature (<nowiki>[[http://assembly.ca.gov|Assembly]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://senate.ca.gov|Senate]]</nowiki>), CA Congressional representatives (<nowiki>[[http://house.gov|House]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://senate.gov|Senate]]</nowiki>) and local media regarding <nowiki>[[http://uds.ubuntu.com|UDS-S]]</nowiki> May 6-9, 2013.

The "press release" will announce uds.ubuntu.com, what it is and what it might mean to them. We should do a follow up reminder with some new information. We should include how they might be able to learn more and/or participate. We will need to be prepared to field phone
calls and questions ourselves, some volunteers to receive attendees to the Keynote, and be ready to direct responses to the appropriate parties such as official Ubuntu and Canonical contacts.

Writing the initial contact and follow up letters should be a collaborative effort of our team, working together via <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-california.org/chat/|IRC]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca|email]]</nowiki> and maybe a sprint.

Participants:
# <nowiki>[[Grantbow|Grantbow]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2013-January/thread.html|George Mulak]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[philipballew|PhilipBallew]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[NathanHaines|NathanHaines]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2013-January/002146.html|Peter Sullivan]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2013-January/002148.html|Jason Brooks]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2013-January/002150.html|Michael Paoli]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[lyz|lyz]]</nowiki>
# I hope you can help us
