{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, May 19th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Call for mailing list (and other resource) admins

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:17] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:17] <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon May 20 02:17:19 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:17] <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:17] <pleia2> hello everyone! :)
[02:17] <pleia2> #agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13May19
[02:17] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13May19 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:17] <pleia2> so we only really have one item
[02:17] <pleia2> #topic Call for mailing list (and other resource) admins
[02:18] <pleia2> currently myself and grantbow are the mailing list admins
[02:20] <pleia2> could use more if anyone has mailman experience and is willing to log in and clear out spam a couple times a week :)
[02:20] <akk> I don't have much mailman experience, but I can probably help with cleaning out spam.
[02:21] <pleia2> cool, I'll drop you an email with some instructions post-meeting
[02:21] <pleia2> thanks akk!
[02:22] <pleia2> we also have identica, twitter, facebook and g+ resources
[02:22] <pleia2> g+ isn't really maintained at all :\
[02:22] <pleia2> identica posts to twitter, and we manually put links on facebook
[02:22] <grantbow> akk: thanks :-)
[02:22] <pleia2> while I was gone this didn't really get done, so we need some more folks active here
[02:22] <pleia2> (being gone for 3 weeks was a great trial of what I need to fix the bus factor on!)
[02:24] <akk> I've kinda given up on both fb and g+, they're both too hard to use.
[02:24]  * pleia2 nods
[02:24] <pleia2> I think I'll drop a mail to the list to see if we have any gurus out there :)
[02:24] <pleia2> maybe someone who even likes social media!
[02:24]  * grantbow gasps!
[02:24] <akk> heh
[02:25] <pleia2> #topic Raring release
[02:25] <pleia2> so we had no release events as far as I can tell
[02:26] <eps> Virtual and half as long. ;-)
[02:26] <pleia2> uh huh :)
[02:27] <pleia2> are there any events this summer that we can participate in to make up for it?
[02:27] <pleia2> no picnic :(
[02:27] <akk> awww :(
[02:28] <eps> MarkDude hinted at something.
[02:28] <grantbow> geeknic.org
[02:28] <pleia2> yeah, and jono has mentioned he might be able to bbq for a picnic at some point
[02:28] <akk> A series of geeknics, hopefully.
[02:28] <pleia2> grantbow: not seeing one for this area
[02:29] <grantbow> not yet
[02:30] <pleia2> well, something to think about then
[02:30] <pleia2> #topic other business
[02:30] <pleia2> anyone else have anything?
[02:34] <pleia2> ok, we can wrap up then :) thanks everyone
[02:34] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
