{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, May 18th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Future events
** <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-OCLUGInstallFestMay2014|OCLug Installfest]]</nowiki> on May 24th

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:02] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:02] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon May 19 02:02:34 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:02] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:02] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting? :)
[02:02] <nhaines> _o/
[02:03] <ianorlin> o/
[02:03]  * eps waves
[02:03] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14May18
[02:03] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14May18 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:03] <pleia2> #topic OCLUG Installfest
[02:03] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OCLUGInstallFestMay2014
[02:03] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/OCLUGInstallFestMay2014 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:03] <pleia2> nhaines: anything you wish to talk about?
[02:04] <nhaines> Everything's rolling along logistically.  Other than pizza money, everything is all in place.
[02:04] <nhaines> What's not in place are volunteers.  I've only received one email, so I assume no one else is going.
[02:04]  * ianorlin needs to send email
[02:04] <DalekMagnus> I can go
[02:05] <DalekMagnus> I just confirmed with my fiance >_>
[02:05] <DalekMagnus> she gave me a stare
[02:05] <DalekMagnus> horriffying*
[02:05] <nhaines> The more the merrier.  Basically we need people to help with installation.
[02:05] <nhaines> And by "installation" I mean figuring out if the hardware sounds sane and then figuring out how to boot from a DVD.
[02:05] <DalekMagnus> Oh that's cake, will do
[02:05] <DalekMagnus> ah, more fun
[02:06] <nhaines> As far as fixing scary arcade installation problems, well the more installers we have, the freer myself and a couple others will be to troubleshoot.  So don't worry about that.  :)
[02:06] <nhaines> Anyone from Ubuntu California who has signed the Code of Conduct will get an Ubuntu name badge to wear, assuming the email me their full name before Saturday.  :P
[02:07] <DalekMagnus> lol I hope I see an arcade build
[02:07] <DalekMagnus> !
[02:07] <nhaines> So email me at nhaines at ubuntu.com if you can make it.  Details are here: http://www.oclug.org/installfest.html
[02:07] <darthrobot> Title: [OCLUG Installfest]
[02:07] <nhaines> The most important thing is that we're featuring Ubuntu and not talking about the command line other than the very, very brief mention that *I* will give during the install.
[02:08] <nhaines> Mainly so that people understand why they're given a list of commands to copy/paste when they search for answers on the Internet.
[02:09] <nhaines> Other than that we're just going to stay positive, not mention other software in a negative manner, etc.  :)
[02:09] <nhaines> I think that's about it.
[02:09] <pleia2> great, thanks nhaines
[02:09] <ianorlin> yeah not get into a war about which is best
[02:09] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[02:10] <pleia2> so, do we have other stuff to talk about?
[02:10] <eps> BALUG?
[02:10] <pleia2> yeah, as I mentioned on list I'll be presenting on 14.04 at BALUG on tuesday
[02:10] <pleia2> http://lists.balug.org/pipermail/balug-announce-balug.org/2014-May/000672.html
[02:10] <darthrobot> Title: [[BALUG-Announce] BALUG meeting Tu 2014-05-20: Elizabeth KrumbachJoseph on Ubuntu14.04 LTS "Trusty Tahr"; & other BALUG news]
[02:11] <eps> Actually, I do have something new:
[02:11] <eps> In re https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2014/05/14/drm-and-the-challenge-of-serving-users/
[02:11] <darthrobot> Title: [DRM and the Challenge of Serving Users | The Mozilla Blog]
[02:11] <pleia2> I also presented at FeltonLUG yesterday, slides at BALUG will be similar, anyone is welcome to use them: http://princessleia.com/presentations/1404-whats-new-felton.pdf (and .odp)
[02:11] <darthrobot> Content type: [application/pdf] Size: [94938]
[02:11] <eps> I would like to propose a vote to condemn Mozilla's decision to implement DRM in upcoming Firefox releases.
[02:12] <nhaines> Out of scope.
[02:12] <nhaines> Besides which, of course, they're not implementing DRM.  Adobe is.
[02:12] <eps> nhaines: really? We can't take a position on that?
[02:12] <akk> I have questions about that and wouldn't mind discussing it after the meeting.
[02:12] <pleia2> I'm not really interested in that
[02:12] <ianorlin> good thing is other browsers in repos
[02:12] <nhaines> akk: that sounds like a capital idea.  :)
[02:13] <pleia2> anything else?
[02:13] <nhaines> eps: "out of scope" is merely my opinion.
[02:14] <eps> Two votes: one to determine whether it's in scope, with a second on the resolution if the first one passes.
[02:15] <pleia2> #vote Should a vote to condemn Mozilla's decision to implement DRM in upcoming Firefox releases be within the scope of this team
[02:15] <darthrobot> Please vote on: Should a vote to condemn Mozilla's decision to implement DRM in upcoming Firefox releases be within the scope of this team
[02:15] <darthrobot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)
[02:15] <pleia2> -1
[02:15] <darthrobot> -1 received from pleia2
[02:15] <rww> -1
[02:15] <darthrobot> -1 received from rww
[02:15] <nhaines> -1
[02:15] <darthrobot> -1 received from nhaines
[02:15] <eps> +1
[02:15] <darthrobot> +1 received from eps
[02:15] <DalekMagnus> -1
[02:15] <darthrobot> -1 received from DalekMagnus
[02:15] <pleia2> anyone else?
[02:16] <elky> sure -1
[02:16] <elky> -1
[02:16] <darthrobot> -1 received from elky
[02:16] <pleia2> #endvote
[02:16] <darthrobot> Voting ended on: Should a vote to condemn Mozilla's decision to implement DRM in upcoming Firefox releases be within the scope of this team
[02:16] <darthrobot> Votes for:1 Votes against:5 Abstentions:0
[02:16] <darthrobot> Motion denied
[02:16] <rww> (Once this is done, I have a topic)
[02:16] <pleia2> eps: sounds like it's an after meeting discussion for folks interested in the topic in general
[02:16] <nhaines> rww: once the meeting's done?
[02:17] <rww> nhaines: no, it's within scope
[02:17] <pleia2> rww: go for it
[02:17] <DalekMagnus> (bleh)
[02:17] <rww> (second, typing)
[02:18] <rww> I would like to amend section C of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Leadership to mandate that decisions on topics added to the agenda < 48 hours before the meeting or brought up during "Any other business" cannot be finalized during a meeting and must go to the mailing list for discussion.
[02:18] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Leadership - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:19] <pleia2> rww: seems reasonable
[02:19] <rww> I recognize the hilarity of suggesting this during "Any other business".
[02:19] <nhaines> I really like the idea that we could vote on and....  yes.  :)
[02:19] <pleia2> rww: can you send a proposal to the list?
[02:19] <rww> yep
[02:19] <pleia2> cool
[02:19] <eps> Add it to the agenda for the next meeting. :-)
[02:20] <rww> Good idea, I probably will.
[02:21] <rww> (This will also give me a chance to use the word "agendized", which is my new favorite word since I heard it at a school board meeting.)
[02:21] <nhaines> Sounds good to me.
[02:21] <rww> Anyways. Other topics?
[02:21] <DalekMagnus> haha
[02:21]  * ianorlin can't think of any
[02:22] <pleia2> alright, thanks everyone
[02:22] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
