{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, October 19th, 2008, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
1. Feisty Fawn is now unsupported
  a. Its repositories are still online at http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/, so when it's removed from the mirrors (in a few months), you can use them to update (which you'll need to do to upgrade to Gutsy)
  a. Gutsy/7.10 is supported for 6 more months. 8.04 is supported for a few more years.
1. Intrepid Planning
  a. Upgrades from 8.04 to 8.10 reportedly work pretty well. New versions of GIMP, VLC, and GNOME are nice.
  a. We should have a release party.
  a. Intrepid release is October 30th.
  a. Consensus to plan something on the evening of Saturday, November 8th.
  a. Will hash out details (venue, activities, times) on the mailing list.
1. Bar``Camp``LA 6
  a. Eric Hammond is going to be there and got 30 CDs to hand out from Canonical.
  a. It's "sort of an un-conference", where you're encouraged to sign up and give a presentation on something.
1. Ubuntu US meeting on November 14th at 23:00UTC (3pm PST)

==== Original Agenda ====
# Feisty EOL
# Intrepid Planning
# Bar``Camp``LA 6

==== Logs ====
<pre>
19:12 < nhaines> I'd like to welcome everyone to the Ubuntu California team meeting tonight.  We only have a few things on the agenda.
19:12 < nhaines> As always, feel free to chime in.  There's still time to add things to the agenda, and if there's anything else you wish to discuss you can do it after the agenda items.
19:12 < nhaines> The agenda for tonight's meeting is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/08October19
19:14 < nhaines> The first item on the agenda is the astonishing fact that 18 months have now passed since Ubuntu 7.04, the "Feisty Fawn", and it has now reached end-of-life status.
19:14 < Flannel> Today, actually, is the last day of support.
19:15 < nhaines> Flannel: GMT.  ;)
19:15 < Flannel> If you're still on Feisty (or Edgy) you really need to upgrade.  There are some special tricks you need to know to upgrade, if you're not already up to date
19:15 < Flannel> (since you need to be up to date before upgrading)
19:16 < Flannel> the biggest thing to remember is the repositories are still online at http://old-releases.ubuntu.com, this won't become an issue for a bit, since most mirrors will keep Feisty for a few more months, but its something to be aware of.
19:16 < Flannel> I'll spare everyone the details; come talk to me later if you want them.
19:17 < Flannel> (you can also download old ISOs from there, if you want to play with Warty, etc)
19:17 < nhaines> So it's time to get hopping.  7.10 is still supported for another 6 months, and 8.04 will be supported for two and a half more years, or four and a half if you're using it as a server.
19:17 < nhaines> So there's still good reason to do an install for that, even though we're anticipating 8.10 in another 11 days.
19:18 < Flannel> And 6.06 is still supported for 6 more months on the server.  So if you're running Dapper, schedule an upgrade within the next few months.
19:18 < nhaines> Which leads us to our second agenda item: Intrepid planning!
19:18 < nhaines> Oh, that's right.  Good time to upgrade, since Hardy is now nice and stable.
19:18 < nhaines> So much for that seamless segue. ;)
19:18 < Yasumoto> nhaines: it's okay, I liked it
19:19 < Yasumoto> dinner!
19:19 < nhaines> Thanks, Yasumoto.
19:19  * izinucs is wondering if the upgrade will be more seemless than the upgrade to Hardy
19:19 < Flannel> izinucs: upgrade to what?
19:19 < izinucs> 8.10
19:20 < Flannel> From what I've heard, its going fairly well.  Some things were crammed into Hardy which really shouldn't have been (because of LTS)
19:20 < Flannel> We have a few people using Intrepid right now.  I haven't tried it personally though.
19:20 < Yasumoto> So I seriously propose we all meet up at a place where we can relax, hang out, and gossip about flannel
19:20 < nhaines> 8.10 has some really nice touches, and exciting new versions of GIMP and VLC.  OpenOffice 3.0 will appear in 9.04.
19:20 < Yasumoto> Intrepid's really solid
19:20 < nhaines> I'm using Intrepid on my laptop right here.
19:20 < Yasumoto> some great new things in GNOME 2.24
19:21 < nhaines> Intrepid releases on Thursday, October 30th.
19:21 < nhaines> I'd love to get together and hang out and eat or whatever, but I'm going camping on the following weekend: November 1st and 2nd.
19:21 < Yasumoto> no worries
19:22 < nhaines> There's no reason to worry about me, though.  Does anyone have any suggestions about activities or dates?
19:22 < Yasumoto> what about the next week, such as friday november 6th?
19:22 < Flannel> We could also wait a week or two, just because it is a bit late to plan for this week.  (Although still doable)
19:23 < Flannel> November 6th is a Thursday
19:23 < nhaines> Flannel: 30th is next week.  (11 days.)
19:23 < Yasumoto> wow, I can read. make that the 7th
19:23 < Flannel> nhaines: eh... I don't have a watch at the moment, how am I supposed to know what day it is?
19:23 < nhaines> That weekend is completely free for me.
19:23 < nhaines> Flannel: GNOME calendar.
19:24  * Flannel notes Saturday/Sunday is better than Friday.
19:24 < izinucs> or cal on terminal
19:24 < Yasumoto> then saturday the 8th?
19:24 < nhaines> Or 'import cal
19:24 < nhaines> Or 'import cal' in Python!
19:24 < Yasumoto> nhaines: serious?
19:25 < nhaines> Yasumoto: so serious.
19:25 < nhaines> Let's plan on Saturday, November 8th.
19:25 < Yasumoto> ImportError: No module named cal
19:25 < nhaines> That way if anyone comes with questions we can probably answer them.
19:25 < Flannel> +1
19:25 < Yasumoto> nhaines: sounds good
19:25 < Yasumoto> start at early-ish evening?
19:25 < nhaines> Yasumoto: it's 'import calendar' actually.
19:25 < Flannel> Anyone else?  8th?  good/bad?
19:25 < Flannel> no more python!
19:26 < Flannel> troyready?  izinucs?
19:26 < troyready> Checking right now...
19:27 < izinucs> so far so good
19:27 < troyready> Yeah, I'm in
19:28 < Yasumoto> sweet, me too
19:28 < nhaines> Excellent.  We'll pound out the details on the mailing list and/or the next meeting.
19:29 < Flannel> Details including: Venue, Activities, Times.
19:29 < Flannel> but yes, I think ML would be best.
19:29 < izinucs> ML?
19:29 < nhaines> izinucs: mailing list.
19:29 < izinucs> ah
19:30 < nhaines> The last agend item was added by me.  BarCampLA 6 is next weekend, and I'm going to be there at least one day.  Probably just Saturday.
19:30 < nhaines> BarCamps are sort of un-conferences where a bunch of creative, techy people come together to hang out.
19:30 < Yasumoto> ack, it's next weekend?
19:30 < Yasumoto> jeez
19:31 < nhaines> Everyone's encouraged to give a presentation on something and in fact if you get there early enough you can grab a good time for it.
19:31 < troyready> Was the long beach one today?
19:31 < nhaines> I hope not.  That kind of dropped off of my radar.
19:31 < Yasumoto> me too, yikes
19:31 < troyready> nhaines: ditto; I got a calendar reminder for it this afternnoon, but i haven't checked into it
19:31 < Yasumoto> yep, it was this weekend
19:32 < nhaines> I was thinking about trialing out a presentation for SCaLE7X at BarCampLA, but I don't think I'll get the time to prepare.
19:32 < nhaines> Eric Hammond is going to be there and got 30 CDs to hand out from Canonical, so that'll be awesome.
19:33 < Flannel> Next weekend is also Lindependence Portland
19:33 < nhaines> It will be fun to see how well that works out.  I believe the Felton one was a big success.
19:34 < nhaines> Okay, so everyone's invited to come to BarCamp, just 'cause.
19:35 < nhaines> Is there anything else anyone wants to talk about?
19:35  * troyready has nothing.
19:35 < izinucs> just wondering if our loco has 501c3 status.. non profit?
19:36 < nhaines> izinucs: our LoCo is just a bunch of guys who like Ubuntu.
19:36 < Flannel> izinucs: Nope
19:36 < Flannel> izinucs: There's been lots of talk back and forth about whether LoCos ought to seek legal status, etc.
19:36 < izinucs> just wondering 'cause I came across a possible source of pc but they can only be donated to non profits
19:36 < nhaines> The usual outcome is 'no'.
19:37 < nhaines> izinucs: That's interesting.  There are a few organizations who refurbish old PCs and donate them again.
19:37 < Flannel> Oh, speaking of...  that reminds me.  ping me when this topic is done.
19:37 < izinucs> I know there are a couple in SD, northern cal and org.
19:38 < izinucs> ok.. ping Flannel .. :)
19:39 < Flannel> Ubuntu US has a meeting on November 14th!
19:39 < nhaines> Oh!  That's right!
19:39 < Flannel> So, put it on your calendars, we'll know more as we get closer.
19:39 < nhaines> What time is it again?
19:40 < Flannel> 23:00 UTC
19:40 < Yasumoto> sweet, I really think ubuntu-us needs a kick in the pants
19:40 < Flannel> And we'll be out of DST then, so, we're -7 again, so 4pm?
19:41 < nhaines> Awesome, so I probably won't be there.  But I'll be logging it!
19:41 < Flannel> Also, along that same path, We now have a US Ubuntu store!
19:41 < Flannel> So, we don't have to pay oodles of S&H
19:41 < nhaines> Flannel: PST is -8.
19:41 < nhaines> Also, US Ubuntu store is excellent.
19:41 < izinucs> link to the store?
19:41 < Flannel> http://usshop.ubuntu.com/
19:41 < Flannel> nhaines: so, 3pm?
19:42 < nhaines> Flannel: yup, I think so.
19:43 < nhaines> So totally buy a ton of Ubuntu stuff so we look awesome during our next public event.
19:43 < nhaines> Because frankly, the bugjam looked good.  We very nearly looked organized.  ;)
19:44 < nhaines> Okay!  So is there anything else?
19:45 < Yasumoto> nhaines: haha, true that :)
19:45 < Yasumoto> I think we're good
19:45 < nhaines> In that case, our next meeting is on Sunday, November 2, 2008 at 19:00 PST.
19:45 < nhaines> Baring some catastrophic bug with irssi, anyway.  ;)
19:45 < Yasumoto> cool
19:45 < nhaines> Thank you all for coming, and I look forward to seeing some of us over on the 8.10 side next time.
</pre>
