{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, February 10th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. SCaLE11x planning and announcements

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Feb 11 03:00:07 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:00] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting?
[03:00]  * philipballew jumps up and down in hopes of letting people know he is here for the meeting.
[03:00] <eps> Â¡Yo!
[03:00] <pleia2> philipballew: effective!
[03:01] <grantbow> o/
[03:01] <philipballew> alright. Here we are. \
[03:01] <philipballew> time to get down to business
[03:02] <eps> philipballew: did you get my e-mail?
[03:02] <pleia2> #agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13February10
[03:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13February10 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:02] <grantbow> I didn't see a personal email on the agenda :-)
[03:02] <pleia2> #topic SCaLE11x planning and announcements
[03:02] <pleia2> philipballew: I added this for you (you're welcome!)
[03:02] <grantbow> lol
[03:02] <pleia2> philipballew: have any words for the team regarding scale stuff? :)
[03:02] <eps> grantbow: I e-mailed Philip to confirm that I'll be attending SCALE.
[03:02] <pleia2> eps: yay!
[03:03] <philipballew> yes, and was going to reply tomorrow. Though I think your travel plans are cool.
[03:03] <philipballew> pleia2, YEAH
[03:03] <philipballew> So I got most scale stuff
[03:03] <philipballew> I got the books to hand out
[03:03] <philipballew> and some cd's from Canonical
[03:03] <pleia2> w00t
[03:04] <grantbow> excellent
[03:04] <philipballew> pleia2, should I get a conference pack with stickers and buttons still?
[03:04] <philipballew> I have net seen that yet
[03:04] <pleia2> philipballew: hm, let's see...
[03:06] <pleia2> philipballew: hrm, do you know what tracking number is on the one you received?
[03:06] <philipballew> yeah, let me throw it here in the channel
[03:06] <pleia2> (I can't find the one michelle gave us in the tnt system, might be because it's int'l though)
[03:06] <ErickLee> for someone complete new to Linux would i be better off with just the expo ticket
[03:06] <philipballew> 4579511263
[03:06] <pleia2> 4579511263
[03:07] <philipballew> pleia2, I looked that up but found I had to use dhl worldwide
[03:07] <grantbow> bingo
[03:07] <pleia2> ok, I'll follow-up to ask about the pack
[03:07] <philipballew> http://www.dhl-usa.com/content/us/en/express/tracking.shtml?brand=DHL&AWB=4579511263%0D%0A
[03:07] <darthrobot> [403] Title: [Access Denied]
[03:08] <pleia2> :)
[03:09] <pleia2> ok, other scale stuff?
[03:09] <eps> Some things need to be edited on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale11x ...
[03:09] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale11x - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:09] <philipballew> So I am going to be heading up to SCALE on Thursday night whenever Mickey Lyle gets off work and comes and picks me and the 200 pounds of stuff up and we should get up there in the evening.
[03:09] <pleia2> hehe
[03:09] <philipballew> I will probably want to set up the booth somewhat Friday afternoon and Saturday morning.
[03:09] <philipballew> Whatever works for the people there who can help
[03:09] <eps> I can help.
[03:10] <philipballew> Perfect. We will need some help taking the stuff from my hotel room to the expo floor.
[03:10] <philipballew> maybe one of those hotel carts or something
[03:11] <philipballew> I am going to email a confirmation email to System76 who is lending us a computer to use and make sure all is good on that end.
[03:12] <philipballew> a girl from their group named Emma (probably spelled that wrong) might tag along with us for some loco stuff. So more people is always good.
[03:12] <pleia2> s/girl/woman ;)
[03:12] <cje__> Is anyone going to be driving down to SCALE from San Francisco?
[03:13] <cje__> I have not yet purchased my plane tickets.
[03:13] <eps> ^ That's a good question! Especially if they can transport stuff. TSA won't let me take scissors or hand sanitizer onboard.
[03:13] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale11x/rideshare
[03:13] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale11x/rideshare - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:14] <philipballew> pleia2, My bad.
[03:14] <pleia2> looks like no one from SF has added themselves to the rideshare page though
[03:14] <pleia2> philipballew: it's ok, her daughter is a girl though!
[03:14] <philipballew> pleia2, I see. Never met either of them before.
[03:14] <eps> "Good" airfares currently have a ten-day advance purchase requirement. They're gouging on Sunday returns, though.
[03:15] <philipballew> eps, cant people just check their luggage?
[03:15] <pleia2> eps: can you work with philipballew to get the wiki updated in spots where you notice it needs updates?
[03:15] <eps> philipballew: depending on airline, there may be fees associated with that
[03:15] <eps> pleia2: Yes, right now.
[03:15] <eps> First of all, we have a booth number.
[03:15] <philipballew> ah, I always fly southwest and there is not. Not sure about others
[03:16] <pleia2> eps: can it wait until after the meeting? :\
[03:16] <eps> pleia2: Yes, but I think it's relevant now.
[03:16] <pleia2> ok
[03:16] <pleia2> philipballew: most carriers charge for checked bags these days
[03:17] <eps> Unlike last year, where we were in the last row "in the dark," we're going to be in the first row -- a prime location.
[03:17] <pleia2> philipballew: eps can't log into the wiki (technical issues), can you make the updates?
[03:17] <eps> This means we can expect significantly more foot traffic.
[03:17] <pleia2> cool
[03:17] <eps> So, we'll need more goodies to hand out, and possibly more people staffing the booth.
[03:18] <philipballew> pleia2, eps yeah, just tell me what to add, scissors right?
[03:18] <pleia2> philipballew: and booth number
[03:18] <philipballew> eps, we have plenty of goodies
[03:18] <eps> Booth 66
[03:18] <eps> Second, the LoCo link is wrong -- it points to the page for last year.
[03:19] <eps> If there's no event listing for SCALE 11x, that needs to be created.
[03:19] <philipballew> might need to be
[03:20] <eps> Ideally, people will register for the event on that page, so we'll need something on the mailing list once that's possible.
[03:20] <philipballew> a lot of things are ideal
[03:21] <eps> This is our last meeting before SCALE. The next meeting is the evening after SCALE wraps, when a bunch of us may be in transit.
[03:21]  * philipballew will be in transit
[03:22] <eps> 12.04.2 LTS is due in four days. Can someone burn CDs for distribution in our booth?
[03:22] <philipballew> I do not have any cd's, but I dont see why someone cant burn a few.
[03:23] <grantbow> eps: volunteering?
[03:23] <philipballew> I have some 12.04 cd's Im am gonna bring as well to hand out
[03:24] <eps> 12.04.2 LTS will have the most recent packages on it, and there have been compatibility enhancements to make it usable on recent hardware.
[03:25] <eps> You might want to burn DVDs for 64-bit.
[03:25] <philipballew> so if someone wants to do it they can. Email the list and ask for cd's maybe or something?
[03:25] <philipballew> I dont own and cd's or dvs's
[03:25] <pleia2> we need DVDs for 12.10
[03:26] <eps> Everyone: if you are going to be staying at the Hilton, and haven't done so already, sign up at http://hhonors.com/Double
[03:26] <grantbow> unless we use the unofficial CD images for 12.10
[03:26] <darthrobot> [R: www.hiltonhhonors.com] Title: [Hilton HHonorsâ„¢ - Double Your HHonors]
[03:27] <eps> Where are we on CD/DVD sleeves?
[03:28] <pleia2> doesn't look like anyone has signed up to print them
[03:28] <philipballew> eps, We dont need any if we have official cd's.
[03:28] <eps> How many burned discs are we likely to distribute?
[03:29] <philipballew> If we run out just had them the cd. They wont get scratched in that day.
[03:29] <grantbow> depends which we you are talking about?
[03:30] <eps> Burned implies "needs sleeves." Official discs are already in retail packaging.
[03:30] <eps> Give me an estimate. 100? 500? 1000?
[03:31] <pleia2> we typically give out 300-400 CDs total at scale
[03:32] <pleia2> actually, I think it was on the low side last year, like 250
[03:32] <eps> The wiki page says 435 official discs.
[03:32] <pleia2> (but we rationed some, and were stuck in the back)
[03:34] <eps> There's a contingency plan. I took the liberty of ordering several hundred orange sleeves from Meritline. http://www.meritline.com/paper-sleeve-with-window-orange---p-20460.aspx
[03:34] <darthrobot> Title: [CD /DVD Orange Paper Sleeves with Clear Window and Flap, made with 100g Paper for CD /DVD Media Disc. Storage]
[03:34] <eps> Now, how many do you need?
[03:34] <pleia2> if we got 435 official ones it looks like we don't need any :)
[03:35] <philipballew> I am not sure we got that many
[03:35] <pleia2> philipballew: time to count them!
[03:35]  * philipballew gets off his bed!
[03:35] <pleia2> haha
[03:35] <pleia2> where did that 435 number come frmo?
[03:35] <pleia2> from
[03:36] <eps> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale11x under Official CDs
[03:36] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale11x - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:36] <pleia2> oh, I was text match searching for 435, fail :)
[03:36] <eps> "400 Ubuntu,35 Server"
[03:36]  * pleia2 nods
[03:37] <pleia2> eps: maybe bring 50 or so along?
[03:37] <philipballew> 150 desktop and like 40 server
[03:37] <pleia2> (what am I saying, I'm not doing the booth, don't listen to me :))
[03:38] <eps> 50 <= 100, so you get a sealed package of 100.
[03:38] <philipballew> I think we might be able to email here back and ask if we can have more or if we are getting more.
[03:39] <pleia2> I doubt it
[03:39] <pleia2> I asked for 300 in my initial email, if they only sent 150 I think it's unlikely
[03:40] <philipballew> Im not worried
[03:40] <eps> I'm only offering sleeves, not discs.
[03:41] <philipballew> And I have about 40 extra sever desks I took from the landscape people at lisa at the end of that thing
[03:41] <pleia2> hehe
[03:42] <pleia2> philipballew: so you should make some decisions here, do you need people to bring blank DVDs and CDs? burned ones? do you need sleeves from eps?
[03:43] <philipballew> eps, If you want to bring some cd's then yes, we can use them. And for blank DVD's yes, if some people want to bring them, then I am happy for them to being if they can
[03:43] <philipballew> I do not own any of these items myself though.
[03:44] <pleia2> he said CD *sleeves* not CDs
[03:44] <philipballew> I can email the list pleia2 asking for dvd's?
[03:44] <pleia2> philipballew: of course :)
[03:44] <philipballew> alright. I will do this tonight
[03:45] <eps> Calendar: Wednesday the 13th is the next S.F. Ubuntu Hour. I will hand things to pleia2 then.
[03:45] <pleia2> goodie :)
[03:45] <grantbow> nice
[03:45] <pleia2> I'm checking a bag, so it should be fine
[03:45] <eps> Thursday the 14th is the release date for 12.04.2 LTS images. We can't start burning those until then.
[03:46] <grantbow> who is "we"?
[03:46] <eps> At the last meeting, pleia2 asked about candy dishes. Yes, I think you should bring the ones we used last year. I'm also working on something that you'll find about on Wednesday.
[03:46] <philipballew> eps, grantbow raises a good point because nobody has said they will burn anything currently
[03:47] <pleia2> eps: ok cool, added dishes to my "to bring" list :)
[03:47] <philipballew> pleia2, I need to see if we have room for the candy dish, but we probably might have some room.
[03:47] <eps> We haven't discussed what's going to go in them.
[03:47] <philipballew> Need to see how big the computer is.
[03:48] <eps> Someone was rather insistent that red, orange, and yellow are old school, and we're supposed to be ditching the red and yellow.
[03:48] <pleia2> philipballew: if there is only one computer this year, that will help a lot space-wise :)
[03:48] <pleia2> eps: I liked the old school!
[03:48] <philipballew> pleia2, yes, that what I thought. I figured we might as well keep the booth simple so its easier for us.
[03:48] <eps> pleia2: Weren't you one of the people telling me to get onboard with the new regime?
[03:48] <pleia2> http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntu-us-ca/6774054957/in/photostream
[03:48] <darthrobot> Title: [IMG_3633 | Flickr - Photo Sharing!]
[03:49] <pleia2> ^^ last year, with candy dish and 3 laptops
[03:49] <eps> We do M&Ms again and/or something different.
[03:49] <pleia2> eps: not I :)
[03:49] <pleia2> I still wear the shirts with the old colors all the time
[03:50] <pleia2> people at the booth pointed out that they were the old colors though *shrug*
[03:50] <pleia2> anything else to discuss?
[03:51] <pleia2> philipballew: Ubucon hasn't been mentioned at all on the mailing list, is richard going to send something?
[03:51] <philipballew> pleia2, I can get him to advertise it.
[03:51] <pleia2> might be worth an announcement to at least tell people in the team it's happening :)
[03:51] <pleia2> that would be great, thanks!
[03:52] <grantbow> after the meeting whoever is around is invited to talk about https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Representative-Letters
[03:52] <eps> I guess we should know who's going to have a car at SCALE in case we need to do a supply run?
[03:52] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Representative-Letters - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:52]  * philipballew is giving a talk there
[03:52]  * pleia2 too
[03:53] <philipballew> if you happen to be at the San Diego Linux Users Group and her my talk, then don't bother coming to my SCALE talk.
[03:53] <philipballew> gonna be this Thursday
[03:53] <pleia2> hehe
[03:54] <pleia2> ok, hopefully further scale details can be worked out directly with the folks involved and on list
[03:54] <pleia2> (need to move this meeting along :))
[03:54] <pleia2> #topic upcoming events and other announcements
[03:54] <eps> UDS-S?
[03:54] <pleia2> I'm hosting an Ubuntu Hour + Debian dinner on Wednesday: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2181/detail/
[03:54] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[03:55] <pleia2> and yeah, UDS-S will be in Oakland again: http://uds.ubuntu.com/
[03:55] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Developer Summit]
[03:55] <pleia2> May 6-9
[03:55] <pleia2> (I won't be in town, that's during my honeymoon :))
[03:56] <akk> Sheesh, you're missing UDS for a little thing like that?
[03:56] <akk> :)
[03:56] <pleia2> gladly!
[03:56] <philipballew> I finish school that Friday and have to be in San Diego for bro's college graduation Saturday and some of Sunday, but will fly up into oakland on Sunday hopefully.
[03:56] <pleia2> beaches, cocktails
[03:56] <grantbow> lol
[03:57] <eps> What's involved in getting a life-size cardboard standee of pleia2 made? ;-)
[03:57] <pleia2> lol
[03:57] <grantbow> markdude? :-)
[03:57] <pleia2> just get a princess leia one (episode 4, please) and put my badge on it :)
[03:57] <eps> grantbow: Yeah, whatever happened to him? Is he still alive?
[03:58] <pleia2> yeah he still pops by
[03:58] <grantbow> ask him when he's in the channel again, he's around.
[03:58] <philipballew> pleia2, Ill carry a standout of you with me to the sessions ans sit next to it?
[03:59] <philipballew> also pleia2 you get to prep for the new Princess Leia!
[03:59] <philipballew> so is there anything we still need to talk about?
[04:00] <pleia2> should be it
[04:00] <philipballew> perfect
[04:00] <pleia2> thanks everyone@
[04:00] <pleia2> !
[04:00] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
