{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, April 5th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. No agenda items

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre> 
02:00:50 <nhaines> #startmeeting
02:00:50 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Apr  6 02:00:50 2015 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
02:00:50 <darthrobot> 
02:00:50 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
02:00:54 <nhaines> #chair nhaines elky ianorlin
02:00:54 <darthrobot> Current chairs: elky ianorlin nhaines
02:01:08 <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for April 5th, 2015.
02:01:39 <nhaines> The agenda for today's meeting is available here:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15April5
02:01:39 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15April5 - Ubuntu Wiki]
02:01:44 <nhaines> However, it is empty.
02:01:56 <nhaines> So that does it for existing business.
02:02:03 <nhaines> #topic Other business.
02:02:15 <nhaines> Does anyone have any other business or announcements they'd like to discuss?
02:02:32 <DonkeyHotei> i thought meeting cancellation procedures were going on the agenda last time
02:02:35 <elky> i guess mention the wiki change in case someone already penned in my mistake
02:02:51 <nhaines> Good idea.
02:02:54 <elky> i thought that was going to the mailing list and nobody got actioned
02:03:07 <nhaines> Our next meeting is actually scheduled for April 19th, not the 12th.
02:04:19 <elky> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15April19 is the meeting page, fill it up
02:04:19 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15April19 - Ubuntu Wiki]
02:04:54 <nhaines> Okay, it's apparently some kind of holiday today so I'd like to keep the meeting brief.  Does anyone have anything they wish to announce?
02:05:11 <ianorlin> hi
02:05:14 <DonkeyHotei> lo
02:05:23 <nhaines> hi, ianorlin.
02:06:13 <ianorlin> no nothing to announce other than vivid release is coming up
02:06:13 <nhaines> Okay.  In that case, I'll wrap things up.
02:06:21 <nhaines> Let's start thinking about last minute plans for release parties.
02:06:33 <nhaines> Ubuntu 15.04 is scheduled for release on April 23rd.
02:06:45 <nhaines> I'm running it on my laptop right now and it's been super.  So I highly recommend it.
02:06:45 <DonkeyHotei> i'm assuming there's a list
02:07:02 <elky> that'd be on the loco directory i imagine
02:07:22 <elky> i hope phillip's has been listed, i haven't heard anything about it. i also haven't heard about anything in san francisco yet
02:07:35 <DonkeyHotei> nor have i
02:08:21 <nhaines> Might be a good mailing list topic.
02:08:30 <ianorlin> nhaines: +!
02:08:32 <ianorlin> +1
02:08:40 <elky> there is an ubuntu hour this wednesday at the usual place. unfortunately we're already busy but that might be useful info for others
02:08:51 <nhaines> Sounds useful to me!
02:08:53 <ianorlin> might also reach some people not usually coming to meetings as well
02:09:16 <elky> ianorlin: would you like to send a mail about that?
02:09:19 <ianorlin> ok
02:09:29 <elky> thanks :)
02:09:40 <nhaines> #action ianorlin will remind the mailing list about release parties.
02:09:40 * darthrobot ianorlin will remind the mailing list about release parties.
02:09:53 <nhaines> #action nhaines will write an email asking for comments on meeting intervals.
02:09:53 * darthrobot nhaines will write an email asking for comments on meeting intervals.
02:10:13 <nhaines> #action elky will study addition.
02:10:13 * darthrobot elky will study addition.
02:10:18 <elky> i'll just plod along with my wiki curating then
02:10:29 <nhaines> #undo
02:10:29 <darthrobot> Removing item from minutes: <MeetBot.items.Action object at 0xa8e25ec>
02:10:33 <elky> heh
02:10:49 <nhaines> Okay, thanks for coming, hope you had a great weekend.  Next meeting's on the 19th!
02:10:52 <nhaines> #endmeeting
</pre>
