{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Recap ==

The Gutsy Installfest was held at <nowiki>[[http://barcampla.org/|BarCampLA]]</nowiki>, and a good time was had by all. It was a great opportunity for the team to get to meet each other in person, and manage to explain a bit about Open Source and Ubuntu at the same time.

Photos from the event: <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/yasumoto/1867390297/|Nathan giving his presentation]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/yasumoto/1867384815/|another photo of Nathan]]</nowiki> with an Ubuntu desktop in the background

== Overview ==

We had our Release Party on Friday, October 19th, and will hold our Install Fest on Saturday, November 3rd. If you can attend an event, please enter your name, location, and what time you're free. If you know of any good locations that might be able to host us, please enter a name and address in the "Suggested Locations" section. If you're signing up to attend the Install fest, please let us know if you're interested in either helping others get Ubuntu running on their machine or if you'd like some help setting everything up.

If you'd like to help set up the Install Fest, take a look at this <nowiki>[[http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/Installfest-HOWTO/index.html|how-to]]</nowiki>.
Also, the MassachusettsTeam has a good write up of their most recent <nowiki>[[MassachusettsTeam-Events-InstallFests-2007-10-13_post-mortem| Install Fest]]</nowiki>.

== Install Fest ==

=== People ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[Yasumoto|Joe Smith]]</nowiki>
| Anaheim, CA
| All Day
| Available to help install
|-
| Steve M
| Orange County
| Preferably location in OC
|-
| Nathan Haines
| La Mirada, CA
| All Day
| Available to help install and give presentations
|-
| <nowiki>[[Harkonen|Seth]]</nowiki>
| Silverlake, CA
| All Day
| Available to help install
|-
| Shady Zayat
| Glendora
| Any time
| Need help installing
|-
| <nowiki>[[Cactaur|Gregory Simonian]]</nowiki>
| Los Angeles, CA
| Whenever
| Can be install monkey
|}

=== Location ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Saturday, November 3rd, 2007<<BR>>Sundat, November 4th, 2007
| <nowiki>[[http://barcamp.org/BarCampLA-4|BarCampLA]]</nowiki> (Hosted at <nowiki>[[http://upcoming.org/venue/16292/|Little Radio Warehouse]]</nowiki>)
| 1218 Long Beach Ave<<BR>>Los Angeles, California 90021
| http://www.knownelement.com/events/gutsy-install.html
|}

=== Event Ideas ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Help others install Gutsy on their machines
|-
| Ubuntu Cake
|-
| Presentation/Speaker
|-
| Add suggestions here!
|-
| Have pre-printed nametags for team members (with our logo) and some for others to fill out once they get there
|}

----

== Release Party ==

=== People ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[Yasumoto|Joe Smith]]</nowiki>
| Anaheim, CA
| 4pm
|-
| Gilbert Sanchez aka PsychoKlown
| San Jose, CA
| Any Time
|-
| Steve M
| Orange County
| 6pm
|-
| Ilan Rabinovitch
| Santa Monica or San Fernando Valley
| 6pm
| ilan@socallinuxexpo.org
|}

=== Suggested Locations ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Philippe The Original
| 1001 N. Alameda St. Los Angeles CA. 90012
| http://www.philippes.com/
|}

----
Update:
Ilan has set up another release party in Santa Monica, so stop by if you're in the area! :)

Hello,

In honor of the Gutsy release today, a group of us Ubuntu users in Santa Monica, CA will be meeting at Bizou Garden to celebrate with some drinks and fun.
Please feel free to join us, as well as invite any friends, coworkers, etc.

Date: October 18, 2007   5pm - 7pm

Cross Streets:  Colorado and 26th Street

Address:
2450 Colorado Avenue
Santa Monica, California 90404-3575
Phone:  310-582-8203

URL: http://www.bizougarden.com/

Directions: Bizou is located at the corner of Colorado and 26th street in the Water Garden building.
The closet freeway exit is the Cloverfied exit off of the 10.

Parking:  Bizou offers both valet and self parking in the Water Garden Building, so parking should be plentiful.

If you have any questions feel free to shoot me an e-mail or give me call.
If you know of anyone in the area that might be interested feel free to pass it on to other individuals and mailing lists.

Regards,
Ilan
818-442-1865
----
