{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, April 19th, 2009, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
1. California Team Podcast
  a. A few people on the mailing list have expressed interest (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2009-April/000496.html|mailing list thread]]</nowiki>)
  a. Doing one monthly would be a good start, with biweekly as an eventual target
  a. Focused on end-user stuff, rather than technical subjects
  a. Preference for audio, rather than video, podcast
  a. Topics for discussion on mailing list: who will produce it, hosting, writers, topics, who'll speak in the podcast, topics, length
1. Jaunty Release info
  a. Ubuntu 9.04; not an LTS
  a. Mirrors will be (as usual) swamped, so make a local mirror if you're installing to a bunch of machines
  a. Boot time improvements (especially with ext4)
  a. Update manager will give 8.10 users an option to upgrade; upgrades from earlier versions need to go through 8.10 (e.g. 8.04 would upgrade to 8.10 then 9.04)
  a. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JauntyUpgrades|Jaunty upgrade instructions]]</nowiki>
  a. Read the release notes!
1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-JauntyRelease|Jaunty release parties]]</nowiki>
  a. Walnut Creek and San Francisco ones are already organized
  a. lcafiero is going to look into doing one in Felton at their LUG meeting
  a. LA/Orange one will be at <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=Pei+Wei+El+Toro+Rd&sll=33.628914,-117.694645&sspn=0.096051,0.154495&ie=UTF8&ll=33.634631,-117.670097&spn=0.192088,0.30899&z=12|Pei Wei]]</nowiki>, 7pm Saturday

==== Original Agenda ====
# California Team Podcast (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2009-April/000496.html|mailing list thread]]</nowiki>) - Do we want to start a podcast, and what are some of the things we'll need in order to make it a success?
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-JauntyRelease|Jaunty Release]]</nowiki> Stuff
## General Info
## Parties
# housekeeping from <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-ToDoList|ToDoList]]</nowiki> - Further discussion

<pre>
7:20 <Flannel> Alright, so, our current agenda is available: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/09April19
7:21 <jbermudes> cool
7:21 <Flannel> It currently consists of three (well, four) topics: 1) Podcast Discussion, 2) Jaunty Information, 3) Jaunty Release Party/etc stuff, and 4) ToDoList housekeeping
7:21 <Flannel> Anyone have anything to add to that at this point in time?
7:21 <atari2600a> will a localized podcast really take off?
7:21 <Flannel> atari2600a: We'll wait until we're in that topic to discuss that ;)
7:22 *** rww can't think of anything
7:22 <nhaines> atari2600a: that's really the whole question of that topic. :)
7:22 <Flannel> Alright, If anyone has anything to add at any point during the meeting, feel free to do at anytime.
7:22 <Flannel> So, on to our first topic: Podcast
7:22 <atari2600a> (7:21:30 PM) atari2600a: will a localized podcast really take off?
7:22 <atari2600a> :P
7:22 <indigo747> It might
7:22 <MarkTerranova> How about having people from LUG radio involved in the podcast like Jono?
7:22 <nhaines> haha
7:23 <indigo747> the listenership may not be very large, but it might be an interesting experiment
7:23 <nhaines> I think we're a big enough state that we could definitely provide something intersting.
7:23 <nhaines> Jono probably has way too much on his plate, but I'm sure we could get him to do an interview at some point.
7:23 <Lance4-Sac> there is a lug radio?
7:23 <MarkTerranova> A localized podcast would be fine, but we need to aim for more community involvement
7:24 <Yasumoto> MarkTerranova: agreed
7:24 <nhaines> Lance4-Sac: Lug Radio Live was a former podcast that stopped last year.
7:24 <nhaines> MarkTerranova: +1
7:24 <indigo747> not just news, becuase there are plenty of podcasts that do that...
7:24 <Lance4-Sac> o
7:24 <Lance4-Sac> oh
7:24 <nhaines> indigo747: definitely.
7:24 <Yasumoto> MarkTerranova: are you thinking more in terms of production, hosts, guests, or ...?
7:24 <indigo747> Do we have names of people who can/want to do this?
7:25 <MarkTerranova> something that some of our less nerdy friends would find interesting
7:25 <MarkTerranova> dumbing down the content would be okay sometimes
7:25 <nhaines> indigo747: there's no definitive list yet, but there are a few people on the mailing list that have expressed interest.
7:26 <indigo747> nhaines: ah, thanks
7:26 <Yasumoto> MarkTerranova: huh, I didn't think of that. There really aren't too many "layman-friendly" linux podcasts, are there?
7:26 <Flannel> MarkTerranova: instead of a technical podcast (a la ubuntupodcast.net) one geared towards people outside of Ubuntu
7:26 <rww> indigo747: specifically, in the thread beginning at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2009-April/000496.html
7:27 <indigo747> rww: ah
7:27 <MarkTerranova> Not to sound sexist but some women like art and music
7:27 <nhaines> I think we can cover general interest topics. Not all podcasts have to be super technical.
7:27 <Flannel> nhaines: I like the idea of one targetting laypersons.
7:28 <Yasumoto> nhaines: +1
7:28 <Flannel> Or, more oriented towards that anyway.
7:28 <nhaines> Flannel: I always imagined beginning to intermediate audience level.
7:28 <Yasumoto> I like the idea of separate show "segments"
7:28 <Flannel> nhaines: Sounds good.
7:28 <indigo747> I don't know if anybody has volunteered this knowledge, but I did a small study, and I know the technical side of hosting a podcast...
7:28 <nhaines> Yasumoto: +1
7:28 <nhaines> indigo747: good, we can use all the insight we can get.
7:28 <nhaines> Someone else on the mailing list (ML) also mentioned having some experience.
7:29 <jbermudes> it would be kind of cool to have segments that highlight some tech news relating to open source
7:29 <indigo747> Do we have any hosting space we can call our own? a place for a blog?
7:29 <jbermudes> maybe just interesting things from slashdot that regular folks might care about
7:29 <nhaines> indigo747: not yet, and that's something we'll have to handle when we decide the project is Go.
7:30 <rww> One thing to think about is that most of the content of a podcast could also be put into a text newsletter... which also has the advantage of being easier to skim ;)
7:30 <indigo747> nhaines: ok, got it
7:30 <Flannel> Right. If we do a podcast, at the very least, we must provide a transcript.
7:30 <Yasumoto> rww: having a transcription of the podcast?
7:31 <Grantbow> the us team is looking for blog feeds
7:31 <Yasumoto> Grantbow: very true
7:31 <nhaines> Grantbow: once we're approved we'll definitely have to syndicate the podcast there. Good thinking!
7:31 <Grantbow> I don't think they are picky :-)
7:32 <nhaines> Grantbow: even better. :)
7:32 <rww> nhaines: unapproved teams are allowed to participate in the US team planet now.
7:32 <Flannel> It's for LoCo news, which I suppose announcements of new episodes would count towards. But, nhaines, they also recently made it all US teams
7:32 <nhaines> Let's turn this around for a bit. Can anyone think of reasons not to do a podcast?
7:32 <indigo747> It might fall apart
7:32 <indigo747> we may not get any hosts
7:32 <Grantbow> who's going to be in front of the camera/mic?
7:33 <jbermudes> how frequent would it be?
7:33 <indigo747> Who would listen to a small ubuntu podcast targeted at california?
7:33 <Grantbow> who's going to "produce" edit/mix?
7:33 <jbermudes> who's going to write the script?
7:33 <indigo747> jbermudes: I don't think we should have a script, more like an outline, that seems to work better in other podcasts
7:33 <nhaines> I think biweekly is a good target. I've heard someone say that monthly would be a good start.
7:33 <Yasumoto> I've listened to a few podcasts where segments really helped make each show valuable to a large audience, so setting up some sort of reliable schedule would be helpful
7:34 <Yasumoto> nhaines: yeah, I like monthly
7:34 <Yasumoto> indigo747: I think that it's more "produced from california" rather than "aimed at CA"
7:34 <Flannel> I think monthly would be good start. Gives us plenty of time to make sure we have content.
7:34 <indigo747> Yasumoto: ah, thanks
7:34 <Grantbow> monthly will be more than enough work
7:34 <Flannel> Although, it also means that sometimes content is stale. But I think it'd be a good starting point while things are getting set up.
7:34 <rww> Perhaps it'd be a good idea to make a CaliforniaTeam/Project/Podcast (for example) page, hash out some of the jobs that would go into making a podcast (scriptwriting, editing, etc.), and get an idea of how many people we'd need?
7:34 <nhaines> Yeah, like I think I remember saying, we can always increase our schedule but decreasing feels like a big slowdown.
7:35 <MarkTerranova> Flannel: I agree. Starting out monthly would be fine to see how everything works out and we can go from there and eventually make more frequent podcasts
7:36 <nhaines> I have totally failed in my responsibilities by not making a wiki page yet. :)
7:36 <indigo747> "nhaines, you have failed us..."
7:37 <nhaines> I can definitely host, and I'm shameless, so at least finding hosts is not a worry. I really, really like the idea of co-presenters.
7:37 *** nhaines defines a host as 'the person(s) talking during the podcast', not a webhost.
7:38 <Flannel> More than one person talking per cast is definately required.
7:38 <Yasumoto> yeah, I think you really need to have people that have personalities to play off of
7:38 <jbermudes> yasumoto, couldnt we host? (webspace)
7:38 <jbermudes> by we, chapman
7:38 <indigo747> And talking into a mike is much harder when you dont' have somebody to talk with
7:38 <nhaines> indigo747: indeed.
7:40 <rww> Another question that came up on the mailing list: Do we want to do an audio-only podcast, or have video too?
7:40 <atari2600a> closing on 8PM
7:40 <Yasumoto> jbermudes: I think fahy would be down.. but hosting it on .edu seems odd?
7:40 <indigo747> Let's start with audio, because video is rather, if not much harder to edit, and produce
7:40 <atari2600a> sorry I'm gonna have to leave
7:40 <nhaines> Definitely audio. It's going to be the easiest option.
7:40 <Flannel> I agree that audio is a better medium to start with.
7:40 <atari2600a> it's been fun lurking
7:40 <Flannel> No problem atari2600a.
7:40 <nhaines> atari2600a: don't worry about it. There'll be a log online later. :)
7:40 <MarkTerranova> Not to mention having video requires a lot more bandwidth
7:41 <nhaines> It's easier to have guest hosts through audio podcasts, too.
7:41 <Yasumoto> yeah, I like audio for now
7:41 <rww> me too
7:41 <Flannel> Alright, we've already spent about 20 minutes on this topic. What outstanding questions do we have?
7:41 <MarkTerranova> As long as its not ogg only :)
7:41 <Flannel> MarkTerranova: Speex, of course!
7:41 <Flannel> ;)
7:42 <nhaines> MarkTerranova: +1 for practicality. ;)
7:42 <Flannel> Who will produce, Hosting (we know we have it though), write, topics.
7:42 <jbermudes> Yasumoto, well, perhaps we are just a mirror?
7:42 <indigo747> Who will host the podcast, where will we host the files.
7:42 <Flannel> Persons in said podcast.
7:42 <Grantbow> to the Mail List and wiki with comments?
7:42 <rww> Flannel: Stuff that can go on a wiki page / mailing list discussion: 1) Who's going to do it, 2) Topics, length, etc. 3) hosting...
7:42 <Flannel> Is that everything?
7:42 <Yasumoto> jbermudes: could be
7:42 <Flannel> Aye. I'm trying to summarize topics to be moved elsewhere.
7:42 <indigo747> publicity...
7:42 <Flannel> Since, these really are quite open ended.
7:43 <Flannel> Alright, so, lets move this whole thing back to the mailing list. And this time try and pin down specifics.
7:43 <Yasumoto> Flannel: yeah, let's drop them on ML where we can thoughtfully produce well-written prose as response
7:43 <nhaines> Yasumoto: thanks, I'll be looking out for that from you.
7:43 <Flannel> So, moving it to the mailing list, and actually coming up with answers (of course, we can discuss as well).
7:44 <Flannel> And then as we come to conclusions (or at least narrow it down), transfer that information to the wiki.
7:44 <Flannel> A wiki page nhaines has volunteered to create ;)
7:44 <nhaines> My words come back to haunt me!
7:44 <Flannel> Alright. So, with that. Our next topic for the evening is Jaunty Release (Information). This is just general Jaunty info (not related to parties--yet)
7:45 <Flannel> Jaunty is going to be released *this* Thursday. A whopping... what, four days from now?
7:45 <Grantbow> Comments on our home page are welcome and encouraged
7:45 <Grantbow> yes, 4
7:45 <Yasumoto> nhaines: epic
7:45 <rww> Grantbow (iirc) updated the home page with some Jaunty info. Nice work :)
7:45 <MarkTerranova> I don't know about you, but there is no release without a party!
7:46 <Flannel> MarkTerranova: We'll get to parties, don't owrry.
7:46 <Flannel> This is just so we inform everyone of all the stuff people will want to know about Jaunty.
7:46 <Flannel> Since, we're all going to get questions all week about them.
7:46 <Yasumoto> Flannel: good idea
7:47 <Flannel> So, the normal, boring stuff: Jaunty is 9.04,
7:47 <rww> Flannel: as in, stuff people should know before they install/upgrade it?
7:47 <Flannel> it's not an LTS. and, as usual, the servers will be *swamped* on release day.
7:47 <Grantbow> The only number I've seen for boo speed increase is from 29 to 21 seconds, a 30% time savings.
7:47 <Grantbow> *boot
7:47 <Flannel> If you're doing installfest type parties, be sure to have a local mirror of the repos (or at least an alternate CD)
7:47 <rww> Grantbow: I may make another partition on this computer next week and get some numbers for you.
7:47 <indigo747> Can 8.10 users update from the update menu or something?
7:48 <Flannel> Although, we really don't recommend installfest type parties within the first few weeks
7:48 <Flannel> At least, not installfest parties where you install it on new Linux users computers.
7:48 <Grantbow> I'm upgraded my machine, works ok for me.
7:48 <Flannel> Give them 8.10, and let them upgrade in a few months, once the initial release bugs are worked out.
7:48 <Flannel> Yes, 8.10 users will be given the option to upgrade, through Update manager
7:49 <Flannel> There'll be a little "New Version available" button near the top.
7:49 <Grantbow> there are good instructions for upgrading on ubuntu.com
7:49 <indigo747> Well that's good to know...
7:49 <Flannel> If you're on 8.04, you need to upgrade to 8.10 to get to 9.04. But again, 8.04 is LTS.
7:49 <rww> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JauntyUpgrades will be updated with upgrade instructions when it's released (right now it has 8.10 -> 9.04 beta instructions on it)
7:49 <Flannel> nhaines: Done yet? I've stalled a good deal
7:49 <nhaines> Things that are better in Jaunty!
7:49 <jbermudes> Flannel, can you upgrade from 8.04 to 9.04 via cd?
7:49 <nhaines> New notification popup style. No more actions, and they fade when you mouse over them.
7:49 <nhaines> Boot performance is significantly faster--especially if you format with ext4.
7:49 <nhaines> Speaking of which, ext4 support is in there. This will be the default fs in Ubuntu 9.10
7:49 <MarkTerranova> I've been having some problems with older ATI radeon cards, so it would be hard for me to recommend this release over Ibex, sadly
7:50 <nhaines> New version of GNOME with tight Brasero integration and better handling of multiple monitors.
7:50 <nhaines> New version of X.org, and automatic hotplug support for Wacom tablets.
7:50 <rww> jbermudes: direct upgrades from 8.04 to 9.04 aren't supported, so no. You'd need to go through 8.10 first.
7:50 <Flannel> jbermudes: Only via "reinstall", upgrades are only one release at a time (except LTS to LTS)
7:50 <Flannel> Oh! and via CD upgrades are only using the Alternate or server CDs, *not* the Desktop CDs
7:50 <Flannel> (Just like always)
7:51 <Flannel> Thanks nhaines.
7:51 <nhaines> And remember, if you have any doubts, a Desktop CD is a good way to make sure your hardware is supported!
7:51 <rww> I note that the new version of X.org means that there's a new version of fglrx, the closed-source ATI driver. The new version of fglrx *does not* support pre-R600 cards. The open-source ATI drivers are very improved since Intrepid, but some people will still have problems with that.
7:51 <Lance4-Sac> Questions besides bug-fixs what is different between 8.10 and 9.04
7:51 <MarkTerranova> Some of you are talking about slow server speeds, but is bittorrent an option for you?
7:51 <nhaines> Lance4-Sac: Is there anything you were looking for other than the list of big changes I listed above?
7:51 <Flannel> Lance4-Sac: There will be a list (that I can't find the in-process version of right now) of features once its released.
7:52 <Lance4-Sac> ok
7:52 <rww> MarkTerranova: iso downloads aren't the problem: it's the update servers (for Intrepid upgrades).
7:52 <indigo747> MarkTerranova: at the speeds after prerelease, all you need to do is let it sit about an hour
7:52 <Lance4-Sac> 4 days can't w8
7:52 <nhaines> http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904overview is a prerelease list.
7:52 <Flannel> Ah. And http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904 has Release Note type things (do this before upgrading, etc)
7:52 <MarkTerranova> rww: I see.
7:53 <Grantbow> out home page has the rel notes link
7:53 <Yasumoto> there's also some sweet integration with amazon web services, which should make erichammond happy :)
7:54 <Grantbow> *our
7:54 <MarkTerranova> I've found that using the Main Server for the source list instead of the US Mirror, to be a lot quicker lately
7:55 <Flannel> I think that about does it for that discussion. Anyone have anything to add?
7:55 <jbermudes> ubuntu rox!
7:55 <nhaines> Reading release notes saves lives!
7:55 <Lance4-Sac> and files
7:55 <Flannel> Yeah, be sure to read the release notes, especially *before* upgrading.
7:55 <MarkTerranova> nhaines: thank you.
7:56 <rww> Reading release notes is a very very very very good idea, especially with all the driver changes this time around.
7:56 <Flannel> With that, we'll move on to our next topic:
7:56 <Flannel> Jaunty Release Extravaganzas!
7:57 <Grantbow> w00t
7:57 <jbermudes> yay
7:57 <indigo747> I have to go, see ya!
7:57 *** jercos glances up
7:57 <jercos> meeting? but it's sunday...
7:58 <Grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/JauntyRelease
7:58 *** jercos grabs a chair and a donut
7:58 <Yasumoto> nhaines: where did you suggest holding the socal one?
7:58 <rww> jercos: that's when meetings always are
7:58 <Flannel> We have a smidge more discussion on the south one. So lets cover announcements/details of the northern ones first.
7:58 <rww> Oh, I just thought: do we have any new OSCON info? If so, maybe tack that on to the end of the schedule.
7:58 <nhaines> Yasumoto: Pei Wei Asian Diner.
7:58 <Lance4-Sac> ok I going to go
7:58 <Lance4-Sac> bye
7:58 <jercos> rww: I thought they were mondays :-\ must have gotten my wires crossed.
7:58 <nhaines> Lance4-Sac: glad you could make it.
7:58 <Flannel> Bye Lance4-Sac
7:59 <rww> jercos: Mondays is new House M.D. episodes. An understandable mixup :D
7:59 <Flannel> So, we've got two that I'm already aware of. One near Walnut Creek, and one Near SF.
7:59 <Yasumoto> rww: nope, they're still getting their dotOrg stuff organized
7:59 <Lance4-Sac> tnx
7:59 <jercos> rww: oooh, right. ;)
7:59 <Lance4-Sac> bye
7:59 <Flannel> Grantbow, want to remind us/etc about the Walnut creek one?
7:59 <Yasumoto> rww: I'll touch base with them during may if I haven't heard from them yet
7:59 <Grantbow> I checked out both venues, Thurs is San Francisco, Friday is Walnut Creek. If you want another party - plan it!
8:00 *** Lance4-Sac leaves to update ubuntu to 9.04
8:00 *** lcafiero would like to talk about Felton May 2.
8:00 <Yasumoto> lcafiero: sweet, please do :)
8:00 <Grantbow> We'll have "open source" music DJ guy in San Francisco, probably gets rolling at around 10:00 I've heard.
8:00 <nhaines> Grantbow: sweet.
8:00 <lcafiero> Yielding to Grantbow
8:00 <Flannel> Grantbow: which day?
8:01 <Grantbow> Thurs is San Francisco
8:01 <Grantbow> Flannel: Is Saturday for Orange at that restaurant?
8:01 *** Algorithmiccontr sneaks in 
8:02 <Flannel> Grantbow: We're doing northern ones first, we haven't decided on South yet.
8:02 <Flannel> (We're doing that after the other announcements)
8:02 <Grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/JauntyRelease
8:02 <Grantbow> come if you can
8:02 <rww> Thursday is the San Francisco one, Friday is the Walnut Creek one. It's nice that they're on separate days, so I can go to both :D
8:02 <Grantbow> Flannel: back to you
8:03 <Flannel> Alright, so. We've got one at Caffiene in SF. It starts around 8ish on Thursday, and there'll be music and a DJ and stuff.
8:03 <MarkTerranova> WC should have some of us from the Gidget Kitchen - the new DVlug - maybe some other stragglers
8:03 <Flannel> And then we've got one in Walnut Creek on Friday, it's at Caffe La Scala. Starts around 7pm.
8:04 <Flannel> And... that's all of the parties I'm aware of in the north right now. However, I know lcafiero has one to announce.
8:04 <nhaines> Oh, they requested an optional RSVP for the Caffeine party - http://upcoming.yahoo.com/event/2463176
8:04 <lcafiero> We could have one -- looking at jercos -- in Felton at the monthly Felton LUG meeting on May 2.
8:05 <rww> The RSVP seems to require a Yahoo! account, though :(
8:05 <Grantbow> rww: what's with that?
8:06 <lcafiero> We discussed this month holding monthly release parties for whichever distro is releasing, and May 2 would be good for Jaunty.
8:06 <jercos> looking at jercos, as in, another hugely important event hinges on me?
8:06 <MarkTerranova> wait is that like posting links to NYtimes
8:06 <lcafiero> Nah, just looking at you because indigo left :-)
8:06 <Grantbow> jercos: lol
8:06 *** lcafiero identifying the Felton gang :-)
8:06 <nhaines> lcafiero: that's enough enough time for any strange bugs to be solved. :)
8:06 <lcafiero> Felton is in Santa Cruz County, in the San Lorenzo Valley.
8:06 <MarkTerranova> Our group stuff is dome with facebook.
8:07 <lcafiero> We could use some media and such, if it's available.
8:07 <Flannel> lcafiero: What sort of media?
8:07 <lcafiero> CDs. Normally in the past we've burned our own.
8:08 <Flannel> We unfortunately can't help with that yet.
8:09 <lcafiero> Okay.
8:09 <Grantbow> lcafiero I'll see what I can do for you
8:09 <Flannel> Perhaps for 9.10, although even then, I don't remember how long LoCo packs take to arrive.
8:10 <lcafiero> Great, Grantbow -- we can talk about it later.
8:10 <lcafiero> But I'll add Felton to the list.
8:11 <Flannel> Alright. Sounds good.
8:11 <Flannel> Anyone else have other parties to tell us about?
8:11 <Flannel> Alright. Then our last party we know about so far is the one in the LA area.
8:12 <jbermudes> which is the most awesome one, right?
8:12 <Flannel> I believe last meeting we decided on Pei Wei or ... that Pizza place near Chapman.
8:12 <nhaines> Pei Wei is a P.F. Changs-style restaurant with lower prices and lesser noise, and there are lots of them scattered aabout.
8:13 <nhaines> There's one in Lake Forest which might be a good choice.
8:13 <jbermudes> google map link?
8:14 <Flannel> Google maps says Lake Forest is north of Sacramento!
8:14 <nhaines> http://www.peiwei.com/stores.html?citySel=ORANGE COUNTY&noPass=1&stateSel= CA
8:14 <jbermudes> i see one in chino hills, pasadena, and tustin
8:15 <nhaines> jbermudes: that's the Los Angeles locations. Orange County ones show more southerly ones.
8:15 <jbermudes> oh
8:15 <Flannel> http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=Pei+Wei+El+Toro+Rd&sll=33.628914,-117.694645&sspn=0.096051,0.154495&ie=UTF8&ll=33.634631,-117.670097&spn=0.192088,0.30899&z=12
8:15 <Flannel> This one's just south (on 5) of the 5/405 split
8:16 <Flannel> Is that the one you had in mind, nhaines?
8:16 <nhaines> That's the one!
8:16 <nhaines> I've only been to the one in Seal Beach but the food was excellent.
8:17 <Flannel> So, who wants to have it there?
8:17 <Flannel> (Or doesn't)
8:17 <jbermudes> ping yasumoto
8:17 <Flannel> yay/nay?
8:17 <nhaines> +1
8:18 <Flannel> +1 from me.
8:18 <Yasumoto> +1
8:18 <Flannel> Alright. Anyone -1?
8:18 <Yasumoto> it's right off the 5, which is really nice
8:18 <jbermudes> +/- 0, heh
8:18 <jbermudes> wait, what day?
8:18 <Flannel> Alright. Now, day/time. I think Saturday was what we had previously discussed?
8:19 <jbermudes> which saturday?
8:19 <nhaines> I think so.
8:19 <Yasumoto> I say saturday
8:19 <nhaines> This Saturday, the 25th.
8:19 <Flannel> jbermudes: Next Saturday. Few days after release.
8:19 <Flannel> er, This Saturday, even.
8:19 <jbermudes> ah, ok
8:19 <Flannel> (and then we're having something technical later on in a few weeks)
8:19 <jbermudes> cool
8:20 <Yasumoto> the 25th works
8:20 <Flannel> Alright. So, Times? I think nathan mentioned 7? Anyone feel strongly one way or the other?
8:20 <jbermudes> whatever avoids traffic
8:20 <nhaines> Earlier might be better. 5 or 6?
8:20 <Yasumoto> 7pm works for me. Flannel, is that enough time for you for you to get up here?
8:21 <nhaines> I'm still good with 7.
8:21 <Flannel> 7 will work fine for me., Do we know how late they're open?
8:22 <nhaines> Err... I'll call and find out righ tnow.
8:22 <Grantbow> The last agenda item we can move to the mail list - we are way over on time now.
8:22 <Grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Projects/ToDoList
8:23 <Flannel> Yeah. We are a bit late. So, if 7 works with their hours, we'll do that.
8:23 <Grantbow> Flannel: is that ok with you?
8:23 <rww> You're missing a /CaliforniaTeam there, Grantbow :P
8:23 <Flannel> If not, well push it forward until it makes sense and gives us enough time.
8:23 <Grantbow> oops
8:23 <nhaines> They're open until 10 on Fridays and Saturdays. Otherwise 9.
8:23 <Flannel> Alright. I think three hours will be plenty.
8:23 <Grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/ToDoList
8:24 <Flannel> Grantbow: Is there something on there that's time sensitive?
8:24 <rww> I don't think so.
8:24 <Flannel> I glanced, but didn't see anything.
8:24 <Grantbow> Flannel: not that I'm aware of.
8:24 <Flannel> If not, yeah, we'll postpone it for next time? Or do you want to just takecare of it on the ML?
8:24 <rww> I vote we talk about it next time, when all the Jaunty stuff is done with.
8:24 <Yasumoto> rww: I'll find the SCaLE notes and jot them down
8:25 <Grantbow> both, either, step up guys! lol
8:25 <rww> Yasumoto: That'd be great, thanks :)
8:25 <Flannel> Alright. NExt meeting then.
8:25 <Flannel> So, 7pm was our time for Pei Wei?
8:25 <nhaines> +1
8:25 <Flannel> anyone have issues with that? +1 from me
8:25 <Yasumoto> +1
8:25 <Flannel> Alright. Thank you all for coming. Sorry for running a bit late. Lots of excitement coming up! Be sure to stop by #ubuntu-release-party!
8:26 <jbermudes> yay
8:26 <Flannel> See you all in two weeks, see some of you in six days. Everyone have fun for release!
8:26 <nhaines> yay
8:26 <Flannel> That'd be the third of May.
</pre>
