{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, August 25th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. None.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Aug 26 02:00:07 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> ok, meeting time!
[02:00] <pleia2> hi there philipballew and eps :)
[02:00] <pleia2> anyone else here for the meeting?
[02:01] <philipballew> hello
[02:01] <eps> hi-hi
[02:01] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13August25
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13August25 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <pleia2> empty agenda :)
[02:01] <pleia2> however! I do have a couple things
[02:01] <pleia2> there are some events coming up in September that I mailed the list about: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2013-August/002270.html
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] Upcoming global events in September]
[02:01] <philipballew> I saw the email
[02:02] <pleia2> should have emailed sooner, it may be too late for folks to plan anything exciting :(
[02:02] <pleia2> but we may be able to latch on to someone else's Software Freedom Day if anyone knows of any events
[02:02] <philipballew> I am going to be going to a Free Software day  we can latch onto maybe
[02:02] <philipballew> http://devfest.gdg.mx/
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [DevFest 2013 y Software Freedom Day 2013]
[02:02] <pleia2> and by "we" I mean, not me, because I'll be working :]
[02:02] <pleia2> philipballew: preferably in california :)
[02:03] <philipballew> pleia2, It's pretty close
[02:03] <philipballew> :)
[02:03] <pleia2> http://softwarefreedomday.org/
[02:03] <darthrobot> Title: [Software Freedom Day - SFD Home]
[02:04] <pleia2> http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2013/USA/CA/San%20Francisco/San%20Francisco%20State%20University
[02:04] <darthrobot> Title: [2013/USA/CA/San Francisco/San Francisco State University - Software Freedom Day Wiki]
[02:04] <pleia2> might be worth reaching out to Sameer if anyone wants to do something in SF
[02:04] <pleia2> I know they did it last year and some LoCo folks went
[02:04] <eps> They usually celebrate a couple of days early.
[02:04] <pleia2> FeltonLUG is doing one too! http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2013/USA/CA/Felton/Felton_SFD
[02:04] <darthrobot> Title: [2013/USA/CA/Felton/Felton_SFD - Software Freedom Day Wiki]
[02:04] <pleia2> (love those guys)
[02:05] <philipballew> The one I am going to in TJ is on the 21st
[02:05] <pleia2> eps: yeah, looks like SFSU is doing it on Thursday
[02:05] <pleia2> the 19th
[02:05] <philipballew> a saturday
[02:05] <pleia2> (I'll be out of town)
[02:06] <pleia2> maybe I'll just drop Sameer an email and invite him to send a note to the list of he wants volunteers for it
[02:07] <philipballew> It looks like Larry is running one from Felton also.
[02:07] <philipballew> Larry The Crunch Bang Guy.
[02:07] <pleia2> yep, that's the link above
[02:08] <philipballew> oh nice! You got to it while I was away looking for the link.
[02:08] <pleia2> :)
[02:08]  * pleia2 came to the meeting prepared!
[02:08] <philipballew> I will be advertising the one I am heading to for the people in the Southern CA area who want to go with me probably.
[02:09] <pleia2> I keep wanting to do a Global Jam again, but it lands on Yom Kippur this year, so I'm out
[02:09] <pleia2> philipballew: great
[02:10] <pleia2> maybe next cycle :)
[02:10] <philipballew> Ubuntu Global Jam is on a Friday the 13th?
[02:10] <philipballew> Are we sure that is a smart idea?
[02:10] <pleia2> yep, 13-15th
[02:10] <pleia2> haha
[02:11] <philipballew> Is Jono gonna run one?
[02:11] <pleia2> I haven't heard anything from him, he hasn't since becoming daddy jono
[02:11] <pleia2> apparently small children take up a lot of time :)
[02:11] <philipballew> yeah, him and Grant used to do something in the east bay there.
[02:11] <pleia2> yeah
[02:12] <philipballew> I'll ask grant maybe
[02:12] <pleia2> cool, maybe he can do something at DVLUG or something
[02:12] <philipballew> he might know of things going on.
[02:12]  * pleia2 nods
[02:12] <philipballew> yeah!
[02:13] <pleia2> so the other thing I had on my radar today was our reapproval - which if you have been watching Ubuntu stuff like a hawk this weekend you will see was renamed to being "Reverified" https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2013-August/006445.html
[02:13] <darthrobot> Title: [New Local communities health check process]
[02:13] <pleia2> I made this:
[02:13] <pleia2> #link
[02:13] <pleia2> dur
[02:13] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/ApprovalApplication2013
[02:13] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/ApprovalApplication2013 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:14] <pleia2> I'm going to mail it to the list after the meeting to see if anyone else wants to add goals, then on Friday I'll update the bug report the LoCo Council opened with us to schedule a time for our check-in meeting
[02:14] <philipballew> yeah, I like what we have.
[02:14] <philipballew> this new plan should be interesting
[02:14] <pleia2> oh and instead of spending hours copying stuff, I am just linking to our events page and team reports ;)
[02:15]  * pleia2 ponders adding some photos
[02:15] <philipballew> I will go ahead and throw a few stuff in if I can.
[02:15] <pleia2> awesome, thanks philipballew :)
[02:15] <philipballew> Also UDS is this week fyi
[02:15] <pleia2> ah yes!
[02:16] <pleia2> #link http://uds.ubuntu.com/
[02:16] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Developer Summit]
[02:16] <philipballew> Might be good to get in on a few hangouts if we can.
[02:16] <pleia2> I'm not participating this time around, these mid-cycle ones are considerably less valuable to me
[02:16] <philipballew> I'm gonna go to the community round tables and others I see fit probably.
[02:16] <pleia2> cool
[02:17] <philipballew> pleia2, yeah they are like a mid-cycle election. Nothing good and little turnout it seems.
[02:17] <pleia2> hehe
[02:17] <eps> Low turnout is how STUPID ideas (like ditching Firefox for Chromium) refuse to die.
[02:18] <pleia2> now now
[02:18] <pleia2> they did a fair technical evaluation, and ended up sticking with Firefox
[02:19] <philipballew> This time i'm proposing IE with WINE become default, so if you want it to not be, come to UDS.
[02:19] <pleia2> :P
[02:19] <eps> For Saucy, yes. But its going to raise its ugly heads again, so we need lot of warm bodies to chop them off.
[02:20] <pleia2> I think that's pretty much all I had on my list of things to talk about
[02:21] <philipballew> Anything else I will say will just end up being pointless and offensive.
[02:21] <philipballew> so I have nothing.
[02:21] <eps> And now, a moment of silence for Ubuntu Edge.
[02:21] <pleia2> *silence*
[02:22] <philipballew> *Moment Over*
[02:22] <pleia2> hehe
[02:22] <pleia2> alright, thanks guys
[02:22] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
