{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, October 30th, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:02] <nhaines> #startmeeting
[02:02] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Oct 31 02:02:43 2016 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:02] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:02] <george> Are you or pleia2 running the meeting?
[02:02] <nhaines> Me tonight.
[02:03] <george> OK
[02:03] <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California LoCo Meeting for Sunday, October 30th, 2016!
[02:03] <nhaines> The agenda for tonight is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16October30
[02:03] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16October30 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:03] <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
[02:04] <nhaines> Daylight Saving Time ends next Sunday, so don't forget to set your clocks!
[02:04] <nhaines> Any Linux-based computer will not need to be manually adjusted.
[02:05] <nhaines> The Ubuntu Online Summit should be held very soon, but they haven't set dates yet.  So keep an eye out for announcements and http://summit.ubuntu.com/
[02:05] <darthrobot> Title: [Home | The Summit Scheduler]
[02:05] <nhaines> Ubuntu Online Summit is where we get together to take a look at the direction of Ubuntu and set plans for the next cycle or two.  We'll be working on Ubuntu 17.04 this time around.
[02:06] <nhaines> #topic Announcements
[02:06] <nhaines> Ubuntu 16.10 came out since our last meeting, and has some pretty snazzy updates, like LibreOffice.
[02:07] <nhaines> The Ubuntu 16.10 Free Culture Showcase came up with the community wallpapers.  If you don't have 16.10, then the list is available here: http://www.nhaines.com/blog/2016/10/05/winners-ubuntu-1610-free-culture-showcase/
[02:07] <darthrobot> Title: [Winners of the Ubuntu 16.10 Free Culture Showcase | Nathan Haines]
[02:07] <nhaines> UbuCon Europe is taking place from November 18-20th in Essen, and pleia2, philipballew, and myself will be giving talks there.  http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-europe/
[02:07] <darthrobot> Title: [UbuCon Europe | UbuCon portal]
[02:08] <george> What about Ubucon in So Cal at the SCaLE event, which is what date?
[02:08]  * philipballew is still nervous about his.
[02:08] <philipballew> Scale is in march this year
[02:09] <nhaines> For myself, the Ubuntu community donations fund made this trip possible, and I'm very grateful for the opportunity to be there and help out as UbuCon Germany becomes UbuCon Europe and they work to expand and become bigger and better!
[02:09] <philipballew> second through fifth iirc
[02:09] <nhaines> UbuCon at SCALE shoudl be March 2-3rd, and I'll be working with Richard Gaskin about this, probably mostly when I return from UbuCon Europe.
[02:10] <nhaines> Also sneaking up rapidly is LoCo leadership elections, so I'm going to try to get that sorted out and kicked out to the mailing list over the next week.
[02:10] <george> OK, let me know how I can help
[02:10] <nhaines> george: thanks.  You'll be hearing from me.  :)
[02:11] <nhaines> #topic Agenda
[02:11] <nhaines> There is no agenda for tonight.
[02:11] <nhaines> #topic Other business
[02:11] <nhaines> Lots of good mailing list topics to post about, then.  Is there any other business for tonight?
[02:11] <philipballew> the San Diego meetup is in two weeks
[02:12] <philipballew> well a week and a half actully.
[02:12] <philipballew> We are working on moving locations currently also and things are growing fast
[02:13] <nhaines> That's fantastic!
[02:13] <nhaines> Do you have a link to the meetup event?
[02:13] <philipballew> totally. This is our social meetup.
[02:13] <philipballew> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-California/events/234971234/
[02:13] <darthrobot> [403] Title: [Attention Required! | CloudFlare]
[02:14] <nhaines> Thanks!  Meetup isn't loading for me.
[02:14] <nhaines> Sounds like a good time, I'm sure.
[02:14] <philipballew> We will not have any technical meetups until the new year, but speakers for that are lining up fast.
[02:14] <b-yeezi> Hi all
[02:14] <nhaines> philipballew: that's great!  Be sure to write about topcis on our mailing list.  :)
[02:15] <nhaines> Hi b-yeezi!  We're wrapping up our LoCo meeting.
[02:15] <philipballew> nhaines: yes. I am sending the announcement to the mailing list on Tuesday, one week before.
[02:15] <b-yeezi> Missed it!
[02:15] <nhaines> There'll be a log for you to review as soon as it's over.  :)
[02:15] <philipballew> nhaines: can I help make the meetup dotcom page look a little more polished?
[02:16] <nhaines> philipballew: yes, absolutely.  I use to have a color palette and some assets.  If I can find those I'll throw them up there, but otherwise all help is welcome.
[02:16] <nhaines> I need to run as soon as this meeting is over, but ping me over the next two days.
[02:16] <nhaines> Speaking of which, is there any other business for this meeting?
[02:16] <philipballew> totally. i'll pm you early this week and we can make the details for me getting in there and hammering it out.
[02:17] <george> I have nothing, really.  Just let me know what help is needed.
[02:17] <nhaines> Thanks, george.  I'm sure there'll be no shortage of that after Thanksgiving when we're starting to wrap up planning for SCALE.
[02:18] <george> OK
[02:18] <nhaines> Okay, that's it for tonight, then.  Our next meeting is in two weeks, on November 13th.  Happy Halloween, everyone!
[02:18] <nhaines> #endmeeting
</pre>
