{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, October 15th, 2017, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre> 02:01:34 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:01:34 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Oct 16 02:01:34 2017 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:01:34 <darthrobot> 
 02:01:34 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:01:52 <nhaines> Hi everyone, and welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for October 15th!
 02:02:02 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17October15
 02:02:02 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/17October15 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:02:17 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:02:46 <nhaines> The biggest and brightest upcoming event is the release of Ubuntu 17.10 on Thursday the 19th!
 02:03:45 <nhaines> This is a big change in the Ubuntu world, as we move from Unity to GNOME Shell.  So this is a trial run for the LTS.
 02:05:26 <nhaines> We still need that last bit of testing!  So feel free to download the daily images and try them out and report bugs if you find them: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/
 02:05:26 <darthrobot> Title: [Index of /daily-live/current]
 02:05:42 <nhaines> #Announcements
 02:05:59 <nhaines> I guess that was kind of the announcement.  :)  Is there anything else going on?
 02:09:40 <nhaines> Alrighty, moving on...
 02:09:42 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:09:48 <nhaines> There are no agenda items for this meeting.
 02:09:53 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:10:50 <nhaines> Well, Canonical flew me to New York 3 weeks ago to work on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS all week.
 02:11:26 <nhaines> It was very interesting!  I did a little work on the new Ubuntu Community Hub at https://community.ubuntu.com/
 02:11:26 <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Community Hub]
 02:13:01 <nhaines> And I had a chance to work on snaps and meet a *lot* of Canonical people working very, very hard on Ubuntu.  And I also managed to file about 4-5 bug reports on 17.10, all of which were addressed because I could go to the person involved and ask them what was going on, so I could be sure to file the report just the way they needed.
 02:14:16 <nhaines> All in all, it was a fun week, I was well-fed, and I hope to have a chance to do it again, because the Ubuntu Rally was really a Canonical work sprint week.  Which actually lasted three weeks, with the following two weeks focused on by different teams.
 02:14:31 <nhaines> But the first week was more like an all-hands, and you can find a bit more here: https://insights.ubuntu.com/2017/09/01/ubuntu-rally-in-nyc/
 02:14:31 <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Rally in NYC | Ubuntu Insights]
 02:14:52 <nhaines> We had about 200 employees and 20 sponsored external developer and community members who came.
 02:15:13 <nhaines> And I gave a great lightning talk that was very well-received, thanks to my public speaking experience from Ubuntu California.  :)
 02:15:32 <nhaines> So I'm looking forwarsd to the 17.10 release and starting work on 18.04 after that.
 02:15:41 <nhaines> Any other business before we wrap things up?
 02:19:14 <nhaines> Alright, next meeting is October 29th.  See everyone there!
 02:19:15 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
