{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, January 27th, 2008, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
1. IRC channel renaming
  a. The IRC council has decided that US state LoCo teams must use the #ubuntu-us-NN (where NN is the state regioncode) format for their channel names
  a. Several people think that switching from #ubuntu-california to #ubuntu-us-ca is a bad idea.
   i. It looks too formal.
   i. It makes state LoCo teams look like subteams of the US LoCo team, which they're not.
  a. Need to decide whether to put #ubuntu-california or #ubuntu-us-ca on the SCaLE business cards that harkonen is planning to make. He's not around, so the matter's deferred.
1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale6x|SCaLE6x]]</nowiki>
  a. Planned resources: Four computers for demos, Canonical's conference pack, wifi router
   i. Clarified that demo computers aren't just for Compiz and will be available to demo the rest of Ubuntu too.
  a. nhaines asked who was going to be in the booth so he can print name tags for them
   i. Going to ask on the mailing list because everyone is/should be on it
  a. adaminla did research on a banner sign: 6x2 color logo, black lettering, $70.00, we get to do our own artwork for it

==== Original Agenda ====
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale6x|SCaLE6x]]</nowiki> - Two weeks away!
# IRC channel
** We'll need to change eventually (to #ubuntu-us-ca) due to canon
** We should probably put the new one on anything we print (like for SCaLE), which is the only reason we need to address this in a timely fashion
** We will have -california forwarding

==== Logs ====
<pre>
19:04 < Flannel> Welcome everyone, to this pre-SCaLE meeting.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/08January27 is our agenda.  Its exclusively taken up by SCaLE issues at the moment.
19:05 < Flannel> from the look of it, we may have to have another dedicated SCaLE meeting next weekend, or sometime the week following, right before SCaLE.  Just as a final time to touch base with everyone.
19:06 < Flannel> But we don't need to worry about that tonight, as it'll be less formal
19:06 < Flannel> So far, our agenda is: SCaLE, and then the issue of IRC channel moving.
19:07 < nhaines> Do we want to go over the IRC channel moving first?
19:07 < Flannel> We probably should.  It ties into SCaLE anyway.
19:07 < cactaur> Yeah, I'm wondering about that. Let me get this out:
19:07 < cactaur> QUOI?!!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!
19:08 < nhaines> cactaur: Freenode has a channel naming policy.  As an Ubuntu-related group, we fall under that policy (as extended by Ubuntu).
19:09 < AlgorithmicContr> Wow, it's 7PM already
19:09 < nhaines> And Ubuntu's name policy for LoCo channels is #ubuntu-nn where nn is the country code for that team.
19:09 < cactaur> Oh, so we should ALL be part of #ubuntu-us?
19:09 < nhaines> Because -us is divided into states, we're #ubuntu-us-ca
19:09 < AlgorithmicContr> pfft policy
19:09 < cactaur> aaaaahhhhhh.....
19:09 < nhaines> Except that we're not.  ;)
19:09 < Flannel> Its not really a freenode thing.  The IRC council (which, I didn't even think was actually existant at the time they came up with the scheme) decided it back in september
19:09 < AlgorithmicContr> except California isn't a country!
19:10 < nhaines> AlgorithmicContr: the geographical indicator is us-ca
19:10 < AlgorithmicContr> although, soon, I hope it will be
19:10 < Flannel> The scheme for states is -us-SS
19:10 < Flannel> so, we'd be #ubuntu-us-ca
19:10 < cactaur> We're the tenth largest economy in the world. We should be an exception!
19:10 < AlgorithmicContr> Yes, I agree wholeheartedly with cactaur!
19:10 < Flannel> Well, personally I feel it happened behind closed doors, as there wasn't really any discussion with the people it affected
19:11 < Flannel> and I agree, -us-ca is stupid, -california makes more sense, and thats why I've been... ignoring it.
19:11 < AlgorithmicContr> but we're just rebellious teens so ignore our ideas nhaines and Flannel
19:11 < Flannel> AlgorithmicContr: I'm with you ;)
19:11 < AlgorithmicContr> Ah!
19:11 < nhaines> Seems I read about it some time in September, but I thought it had been decided further back.
19:11 < Flannel> But, if we're going to be printing cards, depending on the volume, I dont know if we should have -us-ca or -califonia
19:12 < Flannel> nhaines: they had the meeting in september, although, interesting, theres no log of it anywhere.
19:12 < Flannel> I was hoping to find some grandfather rule, but I found nothing at all, either way
19:12 < Flannel> anyway, 
19:13 < nhaines> That's interesting, too.
19:13 < AlgorithmicContr> Flannel: So it never existed! It's only a fabrication of your cognition!
19:13 < Flannel> nhaines: Yeah.  It really seems like a mandate.  Sort of feel like having a teaparty regarding mandates without representation ;)
19:13 < AlgorithmicContr> hehe
19:13 < nhaines> haha
19:14 < Flannel> since -us-SS makes it seem like the states are subteams of the -US team, which we're not
19:14 < Flannel> and other issues like that
19:14 < AlgorithmicContr> well, if anything I don't think we should provide the -us-ca scheme on the cards
19:14 < AlgorithmicContr> if the change occurs, couldn't we just redirect this channel to the newly -ca-us one?
19:14 < nhaines> Well, #ubuntu-us-ca is quite formal.  But it would be a logical name.  That could make us easier to find.
19:14 < AlgorithmicContr> -us-ca*
19:14 < Flannel> Yeah, there'll eb redirects either way
19:15 < Flannel> we currently own both channels, and that won't be going away
19:15  * AlgorithmicContr attempts to join
19:15 < AlgorithmicContr> heh, I have ops.
19:15 < AlgorithmicContr> just kidding
19:15 < Flannel> You didn't even try and join
19:16 < Flannel> Anyway
19:16 < AlgorithmicContr> opps,I jointed -ca-us
19:16 < Flannel> I just wanted to bring that up, regarding the cards that harkonen is working on
19:16 < Flannel> I personally prefer -california greatly over -us-ca
19:17 < Flannel> I dont know how many cards harkonen is planning to make
19:17 < Flannel> was hoping he'd be here tonight.
19:17 < nhaines> Last he responded to me, he told me he wasn't sure how many he was printing either.
19:17 < Flannel> Alright, we can come to a consensus on the matter later
19:18 < Flannel> So, general SCaLE stuff.
19:19 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale6x is shaping up nicely.  We've got four computers (Aaron's isn't up there) for demos.  And I'll be bringing mine to do burning on.
19:19 < Flannel> I have our Conference pack from canonical
19:19 < nhaines> And I'll bring my computer with a monitor for presentation/slideshow display.
19:20 < Flannel> I could be bringing one of my junky computers, with a little 480x640 monitor, since that's all we need to verify the CDs as well
19:20 < Flannel> Anyone have any questions or comments or other things to add re SCaLE planning?
19:20 < cactaur> Oh yeah, should I bring speakers?
19:21  * Flannel isn't the one to answer that.
19:21 < nhaines> I need to know who expects to be putting some dedicated time in the booth, so I can provide name badges.
19:21 < cactaur> Eh, why not?
19:21 < AlgorithmicContr> it seems like a lot of people are bring their computers to show off compiz and whatnot
19:21 < AlgorithmicContr> bringing*
19:21 < Flannel> AlgorithmicContr: thats the point
19:22 < AlgorithmicContr> some people don't really care about that
19:22 < Flannel> AlgorithmicContr: What would you prefer?
19:22 < cactaur> A server?
19:22 < AlgorithmicContr> I don't know,I guess people would like to see not just the eye-candy aspect of ubuntu
19:23 < AlgorithmicContr> maybe, things like games
19:23 < AlgorithmicContr> a wine demo of some sort
19:23 < cactaur> Well, that's not EVERYTHING we'll advertise.
19:23 < AlgorithmicContr> just a suggestion
19:24 < cactaur> OH YEAH! That's important.
19:24 < Flannel> AlgorithmicContr: we're just looking for computers capable of doing the eyecandy.  Everything else in Ubuntu will be available (well, wine stuff would require some prep time)
19:25 < nhaines> Welcome, Scunizi.  :)  We're discussing SCaLE plans.
19:25 < Scunizi> howdy.. just saw the email.
19:25 < Flannel> Howdy Scunizi
19:25 < Scunizi> Hi ya..
19:26 < AlgorithmicContr> good to see you could make it Scunizi
19:26 < Scunizi> thanks.:)
19:26 < AlgorithmicContr> yo adaminla
19:26 < adaminla> sorry i'm late.
19:27 < adaminla> what's going on?
19:27 < cactaur> Just discussion SCaLE plans.
19:28 < AlgorithmicContr> your presence is counts, what cactaur said
19:28 < cactaur> Right now, figuring out who's bringing what... and what we should advertise.
19:28 < adaminla> OK. I did some research on banner.
19:29 < adaminla> e-maild results to flannel.
19:29 < Flannel> I got them, for the record.  Even though I wasn't as judicious in replying as I should've been.
19:29 < adaminla> OK.
19:30 < nhaines> While we're discussing that, I completely dropped the ball on t-shirts.
19:30 < adaminla> sign maker said it's a 2 day turnaround.
19:31 < Flannel> Oh, that short?
19:31 < AlgorithmicContr> cactaur: If you don't want to carry around speakers, I could provide.
19:31 < adaminla> yep.
19:32 < cactaur> AlgorithmicContr: That'll be great. Don't feel like bringing a subwoofer.
19:32 < Flannel> adaminla: You sad (from your email): 6x2 color logo, black lettering, $70.00, is that a standard "give us the logo and the letters" or do we get to do more or less our own artwork?
19:32 < AlgorithmicContr> I'm not 100% certain of my potential attendance
19:32 < AlgorithmicContr> cactaur: Heh, I'll bring in decent spare  that I have
19:34 < adaminla> use our own art work. I showed him the logo from qur wiki, said ok. he can do the lettering. do we need the ubuntu lettering/
19:35 < Flannel> adaminla: I only ask because we might want to do more than just the "Ubuntu California", different sizes, etc
19:35 < adaminla> this guy can do what ever we want.
19:35 < Flannel> alright
19:35 < Flannel> thanks for doing that research adaminla
19:36 < adaminla> no problem.
19:37 < AlgorithmicContr> we if we have a network drop, is anyone going to provide cat6 cables?
19:38 < nhaines> It's bring-your-own, I think.
19:38 < AlgorithmicContr> oh.
19:38 < AlgorithmicContr> so it's not some embedded socket?
19:38 < Flannel> I think I've got a couple laying around.  (just a couple)
19:39 < nhaines> Not sure what you mean.  We'll have a router so that'll take up the provided cable.
19:39 < nhaines> Flannel: should the SSID be ubuntu-california or just ubuntu-us-ca?  ;)
19:39 < adaminla> BRB
19:39 < AlgorithmicContr> hahahah
19:39 < Flannel> nhaines: definately the former.
19:40 < nhaines> Gotcha.
19:40 < AlgorithmicContr> nhaines: need an adapter?
19:40 < AlgorithmicContr> for wifi
19:41 < nhaines> I'm not sure I understand the question.  :)  There will be a wireless router.
19:41 < AlgorithmicContr> well
19:41 < AlgorithmicContr> nevermind what am I saying
19:41 < AlgorithmicContr> <_<
19:41 < Flannel> Alright, anyone have anything else "official"-ish for the meeting?
19:42 < Flannel> Yasumoto might!
19:42 < nhaines> I do!
19:42 < Yasumoto> haha, heya guys
19:42 < Yasumoto> no, I'm just here to see what's going on
19:42 < Yasumoto> sorry for being late, I just got back from visiting a friend at Pepperdine ~_~
19:42 < nhaines> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto says "For United States Teams, please use the full state name (#ubuntu-utah for Utah)"
19:43 < adaminla> Back
19:43 < Flannel> nhaines: I'm sure that's just leftover.  But, yes, that used to be the scheme.
19:44 < nhaines> Where is the current practice stated?
19:44 < Flannel> Yasumoto: http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/53836/
19:45 < Flannel> nhaines: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto#head-92fbb73bddb4f3630defca54266d85cf52c64b21
19:46 < Flannel> Hahaha
19:46 < Flannel> wow.  So, same page says both ways.
19:46 < Flannel> We'll keep -california for the time being, that's for sure.
19:47 < Flannel> We wont be printing 10000 business cards anyway.  We wont get stuck with them for decades
19:47 < nhaines> True.
19:47 < nhaines> Yeah, I was confused for a moment.  :)
19:48 < nhaines> Flannel: do you think a presentation with audio would be appropriate or do we want to have things silent so we can talk?
19:48 < adaminla> I told the sign maker *ubuntu-california*
19:49 < Flannel> adaminla: We'll get back to you (well, to him, via you) with any specifics
19:49 < adaminla> OK
19:50 < Flannel> nhaines: I dont know.  If we're talking, we can always mute it?
19:50 < nhaines> Probably true.
19:50 < Yasumoto> sweet, thanks Flannel
19:51 < nhaines> Okay then, only thing I need to know other than that is, like I said, people who will be at the booth for more than a few minutes so I can have badges for them.
19:52 < Yasumoto> nhaines: if you wouldn't mind making one up for me, that'd be really sweet
19:52 < nhaines> Yasumoto: you're on the list.  :)
19:52 < Flannel> nhaines: since not everyone's here, we could do it via the ML.  That might be more reliable.
19:52 < Yasumoto> nhaines: awesome, thanks a bunch, I owe you one :)
19:53 < nhaines> Flannel: sounds like a great idea.  Do we know if everyone's on the list?
19:53 < Flannel> nhaines: Hmm.  No, I dont, actually.
19:53 < Flannel> Is anyone here *not* on the mailing list?
19:54 < Flannel> nhaines: I'll put it in the topic too, just in case.
19:54 < nhaines> Excellent.
19:54 < nhaines> Wording on the badges looks good, too?  "Ubuntu California"?
19:55 < Flannel> nhaines: Yeah.  they look good
19:55 < Flannel> Alright, so.  Anyone else have questions/comments/whatever regarding SCaLE and/or our booth?
19:57 < Flannel> So.  I think that's our meeting.  Thanks everyone for contributing.  Feel free to stick around if you have any questions/discussions with anyone else individually (not like you need to be reminded that you can)
</pre>
