{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, August 7th, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you there!

==== Full log: ====

<pre> 02:07:44 <nhaines> #startmeeting
02:07:44 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Aug  8 02:07:44 2016 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
02:07:44 <darthrobot> 
02:07:44 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
02:08:15 <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for August 7th, 2016. 
02:08:23 <nhaines> The agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16August07
02:08:23 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16August07 - Ubuntu Wiki]
02:08:41 <nhaines> There are no agenda items for this meeting.
02:09:05 <nhaines> Does anyone have any announcements or other business this week?
02:09:09 * lynorian does not
02:11:56 <nhaines> Then our next meeting is August 21st.  Hopefully we'll be able to talk about the Ubuntu release party then.
02:12:03 <nhaines> Have a good week, everyone!
02:12:05 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
