{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, June 14th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. Tuesday, June 16th at 8PM: San Francisco <nowiki>[[https://insights.ubuntu.com/event/big-data-mine-and-mingle/|Ubuntu/Juju Mine and Mingle]]</nowiki> put on by Canonical
  a. Wednesday, June 17th at 7PM: Fremont <nowiki>[[http://www.eblug.org/|EBLUG]]</nowiki> meeting with the topic of Ubuntu-based Partimus Servers being built for PXE, Clonezilla, NFS and proxy
1. Announcements
   a. <nowiki>[[http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/14x/cfp|SCALE '14 CFP]]</nowiki> open, note new venue at the Pasadena Convention Center for this Jan 21-24, 2016 event
# Proposal: Have static "Upcoming Events" and "Announcements" sections of the agenda skeleton (these have always kind of been informal, but formalizing them may jog memories)
# Add your agenda item here.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

Hope to see you there!
