{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, October 18th, 2009, 7:00pm (1900) PDT ===

==== Summary ====
 1. Announcements
  a. Ubuntu 9.10/Karmic comes out next Thursday. The week after that is <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek|Ubuntu Open Week]]</nowiki>
 1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-KarmicRelease]]</nowiki> Planning
  a. San Francisco event will be at DNA Lounge (not Caffeine) on November 12. Performances 8PM to 11PM; installfest 7PM to 8PM.
  a. Other !NorCal events are on the wiki page
  a. !SoCal was supposed to be discussed on the ML, but hasn't been yet
  a. Discussion of marketing and <nowiki>[[http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/|SpreadUbuntu]]</nowiki>
 1. Karmic countdown banner
  a. Countdown images all rely on javascript to do the counting, and the wiki doesn't do javascript, so we'll have to work around with serverside code on a third party server.
  a. Normal, javascript banners are <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1922|on the Fridge]]</nowiki>
 1. Shirts
  a. Currently leaning towards a general !LoCo shirt, rather than one for a specific release or event.
  a. Wiki page created for designs: <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Shirts]]</nowiki>
 1. Group organization
  a. There are some things in the works for putting down structure on paper
  a. Also considering a page with info of who has admin access to what, and things that need updating regularly

==== Original Agenda ====
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-KarmicRelease]]</nowiki> Planning
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam]]</nowiki> wiki page, display of Karmic Countdown - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2009-October/000872.html|email discussion]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Shirts|LoCo Shirts]]</nowiki>

==== Log ====

<pre>
19:05 < Flannel> Welcome everyone to tonight's meeting. Our agenda is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/09October18
19:06 < Flannel> And it currently consists of Karmic release planning, the countdown timer, and shirts.
19:06 < Flannel> If anyone has anything to add, feel free to do so throughout the evening, as always.
19:06 < MarkDude> All Hail Tux the Magnificent
19:07 < Flannel> Before we get started, I've got a few announce/info type things,
19:07 < Flannel> Karmic (9.10) releases on the 29th of this month, which is next Thursday.
19:07 < Flannel> The week following that (M-F) is Ubuntu Open Week (Nov 2-6)
19:08 < Grantbow> oops, no dent this week. http://identi.ca/ubuntucalifornia
19:08 < Flannel> UOW is a chance for people to attend sessions which cover a range of topics, they're generally enjoyable, and always informative. A schedule can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
19:09 < Flannel> I won't go into the details of the topics, but I encourage everyone to check it out (we've got another meeting directly before then too, and I'll remind eveyone)
19:09 < MarkDude> i recomend some of the jono stuff
19:09 < phildini> is UOW happening strictly through irc?
19:09 < phildini> or are there live sessions/.webcasts.
19:09 < Flannel> UOW does happen through IRC. #ubuntu-classroom
19:09 < Yasumoto> heya guys :)
19:09 < MarkDude> phildini we can do other stuff also
19:09 < MarkDude> hey joe
19:09 < Flannel> And it'll be multilingual this year too. I'm not entirely sure about those implementation details though.
19:10 < Grantbow> Spanish I think
19:10 < Flannel> Also, when scheduling those in with your schedule, be aware that that's post-timechange.
19:10 < Flannel> So we'll have freshly moved back (Nov 1) to PST for that week.
19:11 *** rww changes his watch to UTC, laughs maniacally
19:11 < Flannel> (PST is UTC-8, by the way)
19:11 < Flannel> Anyway, that's all I had announcements wise. Anyone have anything else before we dive into our topics?
19:12 < Flannel> Alright. So our first topic is release planning.
19:12 *** eps wants to know what happened with Caffeine in San Francisco?
19:13 < Flannel> Anyone have an answer?
19:14 < Grantbow> Caffeine fell through it seems - the event will be at DNA Lounge on Thursday November 12
19:14 < Grantbow> feedback encouraged
19:14 < Grantbow> I just got the email from Jesse last night
19:14 < Grantbow> I'll ask him to post to the ubuntu-us-ca list as well.
19:15 < Grantbow> "There are a number of advantages of DNA over Caffeine, such as much
19:15 < Grantbow> better Internet access and a huge space for the Orbs to roll around
19:15 < Grantbow> (they were pretty cramped at the last show)."
19:15 < MarkDude> we can still have an event at caffeine if we want
19:16 < MarkDude> jesse said he could reserve it
19:16 < Flannel> So, Caffeine became the DNA party?
19:16 < MarkDude> yep
19:16 < Grantbow> yup
19:16 < Flannel> eps: That address your question?
19:16 < MarkDude> more space - 8bit music
19:16 < Grantbow> performances run 8 - 11 PM
19:16 < MarkDude> lets plan someting at cafeen after the karmic dust settles eps
19:16 < Grantbow> installfest 7 - 8
19:17 < eps> yes
19:17 < MarkDude> also anyone that can bring nintendo cartridges do
19:17 < phildini> is anyone here from the felton group and could talk about the plans for that?
19:17 < MarkDude> we can LEGALLY play those roms there then
19:18 < Grantbow> there will be a small cover charge for the performance 8 - 11, no amount yet
19:18 < MarkDude> no charge if there before 8 - volunteer list is free!
19:18 < jdeslip> hurray
19:18 < Grantbow> right
19:19 < Flannel> phildini: No, that event is coordinated by Larry Cafiero who isn't here. We advertise it but don't have anything to do with its coordination.
19:19 < phildini> Flannel: Fair enough. Thanks.
19:19 < MarkDude> #lidependence for SC idle there
19:20 < Grantbow> phildini: it will be at the standard Felton LUG time/location
19:20 < Flannel> phildini: He's active through email though, just sometimes has trouble with IRC for meetings.
19:21 < Flannel> phildini: I'll ask him for details and let you know.
19:21 < phildini> Flannel: Thanks. Appreciate it.
19:21 < Grantbow> I'll be presenting at Felton for the event during the standard LUG meeting.
19:21 < MarkDude> anyone from norcal want to road trip to Santa Cruz?
19:21 < jdeslip> (and DVLUG and BerkeleyLUG)
19:21 < MarkDude> for the felton meeting
19:22 < jdeslip> Might be up for depending on time
19:22 < Grantbow> BerkeleyLUG +1
19:22 < Grantbow> time, location and links at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/KarmicRelease
19:23 < jdeslip> Lots of small release parties in NorCal
19:23 < jbermudes> any word on socal stuff?
19:23 < jdeslip> :)
19:23 < Grantbow> jbermudes: good question
19:23 < MarkDude> dancing robots is NOT small stuff jdeslip
19:23 < jbermudes> Yasumoto: is chapman a possible venue?
19:23 < Flannel> jbermudes: We'll definately be doing something, we were supposed to discuss our interests and stuff on the ML, but haven't.
19:24 < Flannel> jbermudes: It is. We were considering doing lunch then installfest, or perhaps installfest then dinner (where lunch or dinner would be a party type thing)
19:24 < jdeslip> markdude: well lots of small parties and one big one :)
19:25 < jbermudes> Flannel: usually we do it on a saturday, right? I'm guessing this month halloween might be an issue
19:25 < jdeslip> Is any actual advertising/marketing stuff being planned for the release so far?
19:25 < Flannel> jbermudes: We usually do our installfests a few weeks after release
19:25 < jdeslip> Flannel: like an installfest :)
19:25 < jbermudes> oh, that's right!
19:26 < jbermudes> poor little servers, serving as fast as they can
19:26 < Grantbow> jdeslip: some, I know MarkDude has been doing lots of Koala picture work
19:26 < Flannel> We should discuss it on the ML and come to some sort of decision of the broad details within the next week or so.
19:26 < MarkDude> I'll upload some koala photos - I have some posters for spreadbuntu too
19:26 < jdeslip> Grantbow: and we have plans for a table at UC berkeley showing off Koala
19:27 < jdeslip> Probably Wednesday after release
19:27 < Grantbow> jdeslip: yes, can you add that to the KarmicRelease page?
19:27 < Flannel> MarkDude: I'm considering going to the zoo and taking pictures of koalas, does that count?
19:27 < MarkDude> Ive got it now
19:28 < Grantbow> marketing stuff: http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/
19:28 < eps> If you're going to edit the page, you might want to verify the Walnut Creek addresses ...
19:28 < MarkDude> Flannel, I would prefer penguin pics
19:28 < MarkDude> thx eps you are right
19:28 < Grantbow> eps: thanks
19:28 < eps> I think Saxbys Coffee is supposed to be 1632, not 1655
19:28 < MarkDude> eps +1
19:28 < rww> 1655 is La Scala
19:29 *** MarkDude hangs head
19:29 < MarkDude> mea culpa
19:29 < DarkwingDuck> Flannel: lets make is SD zoo and I'll go with you ;)
19:30 < MarkDude> I'll set aside 100mb for flickr -- 90 mb for penguins
19:30 < MarkDude> 10mb koalas
19:30 < Flannel> I think we're pretty much done with the Karmic release events stuff, anyone not?
19:31 < Flannel> Alright. Our next item is the Karmic countdown banner.
19:31 *** DarkwingDuck looks up from his fevorish coding
19:32 < Flannel> The issue here resides in the fact that the countdown images all rely on javascript to do the counting, and the wiki doesn't do javascript, so we'll have to work around with serverside code on a third party server.
19:32 < Flannel> I believe we're all settled though on it, is that correct?
19:32 < DarkwingDuck> Yes
19:32 < MarkDude> He is the terror - that codes quickly in the night - DarkwingDuck
19:32 < Flannel> Or was there something else that needed to be brought up, besides just waiting on the implementation?
19:33 < jdeslip> No offense, but I don't think anyone visits our wiki right now that isn't already an ubuntu-guru. So, a countdown widget doesn't really seem important.
19:33 < rww> and there are only 10 days until Karmic comes out...
19:33 < MarkDude> shiny = good
19:33 < phildini> unless it was cool enough to add to any personal sites we might have.
19:33 < DarkwingDuck> jdeslip: what we can also do with this is have a .png that you can put on your blog etc
19:34 < MarkDude> I'll stick it on mine
19:34 < Flannel> phildini: If your personal sites can do javascript, you can already do that.
19:34 < jdeslip> DarkwingDuck: good point
19:34 < DarkwingDuck> remotly hosted so it wont chew JS bandwith
19:34 < DarkwingDuck> Or, alot of blogs will not allow embedded JS
19:34 < Flannel> http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1922
19:36 < DarkwingDuck> Flannel: what image do you like for the wiki?
19:36 < Flannel> jdeslip: But yes, as far as our team page is concerned, its not super important (but also not super difficult to do, so they cancel out!)
19:36 < Flannel> DarkwingDuck: Oh, I don't care.
19:36 < DarkwingDuck> Anyone have a pref?
19:37 < MarkDude> spotlight looks like login +1
19:37 < Flannel> Sounds like a good reason.
19:37 < Flannel> DarkwingDuck: The spotlight one wins it seems
19:38 < DarkwingDuck> kk
19:38 < Flannel> So, our next order of business is the shirts
19:39 < MarkDude> I would like to say that our group is getting along well. The apologies on the mailing list were great. Apology is a grown-up thing to do
19:40 < Flannel> We've had some good discussion of designs on the ML, and I'd like to propose we do something similar to what we did for our logo. Come up with designs, post them (in artwork or even textual form) to the wiki, and eventually we'll come up with a design that we want to get printed right now.
19:41 < Flannel> How does everyone else feel about doing something like that?
19:41 < phildini> what is the estimated printing date?
19:41 < MarkDude> I am all for it - I cant buy til late Dec
19:41 < Grantbow> I haven't seen many people come forward with designs
19:41 < MarkDude> http://dl.getdropbox.com/u/2424094/koala%20tree222.jpg --- koala for poster under CC
19:42 < Grantbow> there might not be enough activity/skills to support multiple designs as with the logo
19:42 < Flannel> Grantbow: that doesn't mean they aren't out there. Also, this design page is open ended, so even after we print this round, people can still come upw ith new ones for next time, etc.
19:42 < MarkDude> http://dl.getdropbox.com/u/2424094/logo%20work%202.jpg
19:42 < DarkwingDuck> Just T-shirts or with Polo style ones too?
19:43 < DarkwingDuck> And, what is the Min purches number?
19:43 < Grantbow> DarkwingDuck: t-shirts - we haven't heard about the availability of girl cut shirts yet
19:43 < MarkDude> We have someone that can do it - what do we want - logo with bear - & California team - right - the layout joe said
19:43 *** MarkDude *coughs* women cut
19:43 < Grantbow> I will call Ernest now, seems he forgot about the meeting
19:43 < Flannel> The way I see it, there's a few possibilities with shirt purposes/design requirements. Just a regular LoCo shirt, release/event specific shirts, shirts for conferences, whatever.
19:44 < Grantbow> MarkDude: just repeating what I read on the list
19:44 < eps> Branding is important, and consistency is good. I like the bear. Either that or a California silhouette would be pretty obvious choices.
19:44 < Flannel> Right now it seems we're leaning towards a timeless LoCo shirt
19:44 < phildini> since it doesn't seem the shirts will be ready for release, should we try and come up with general designs?
19:44 < MarkDude> I am sensitive Grantbow
19:45 < Izinucs> How 'bout the calif. logo with tux riding the bear.. underneath on two lines "Ubuntu California"
19:45 < Flannel> How about we put these on a wiki page ;)
19:45 < Izinucs> :)
19:45 < MarkDude> Izinucs, +1 for anything with tux - as always
19:45 < eps> Too busy. Lose Tux.
19:46 < MarkDude> All Hail Tux the magnificent!
19:46 < DarkwingDuck> Seeing how this is Cali Why not do a couple of non-geek designs?
19:46 < rww> MarkDude: stop turning the channel into #tux-religion :(
19:46 < Flannel> Lets move the designs to the wiki!
19:46 < DarkwingDuck> Like a tagging design
19:46 < eps> Sure. I just don't want to look like a race car driver. Keep things simple.
19:47 < DarkwingDuck> LOL
19:47 < MarkDude> rww #tux-spirituality
19:47 < Flannel> The wiki page for this will be: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Shirts
19:47 < Flannel> and no, we don't have to stick to t-shirt designs.
19:47 < rww> but yeah, throw up some files on the wiki, and vote on them when we get some choices. worked nicely for the logo
19:47 < jdeslip> MarkDude: did you get your costume? (Sorry if you answered above somewhere)
19:47 < DarkwingDuck> MarkDude: I'm going to change my religian pref in the military to Tux and have it printed on my dog-tags
19:48 < DarkwingDuck> :D
19:48 < Flannel> I'll flesh out that page tonight, but feel free to throw stuff up before then. I'll sort it out when I'm rehashing it.
19:48 < Flannel> And once the structures up, I'll post to the ML so everyone can participate.
19:48 < Flannel> Sound good?
19:48 < MarkDude> not yet jdeslip - im short on funding
19:49 < MarkDude> Flannel, +1
19:49 < rww> +1
19:49 < jdeslip> MarkDude - I'll pledge $10 - you need it ahead of time?
19:49 < Grantbow> +1
19:49 < phildini> + 1
19:49 < Flannel> Alright, that wraps that topic up. Anyone else have anything else?
19:49 < MarkDude> jdeslip- I'll know by Tuesday
19:50 < Flannel> Seems there isn't.
19:50 < Flannel> Thank you all for coming, our next meeting will be in two weeks, November 1st, at 7pm PST (hour ahead!) (7pm local time).
19:51 < jdeslip> Flannel: Do we have any plans to discuss group organization in future?
19:51 < jdeslip> I.e. putting down a structure on paper.
19:51 < Flannel> jdeslip: Yeah, there's a few things in the works that'll accomplish that.
19:52 < Flannel> or, maybe not a few.
19:52 < jdeslip> Flannel: Can you tell what?
19:52 < Flannel> jdeslip: We'll be documenting our policies on the wiki so there's no confusion.
19:53 < rww> It might be a good idea to throw up a wiki page at some point with a list of who has admin access on what, and the various things that get updated on a regular basis. kinda like a more general version of MeetingChecklist
19:53 < Grantbow> rww: +1 on the operational side
19:53 < rww> I can draft something over the next couple of days, if it's wanted.
19:53 < MarkDude> jdeslip, suggestions? - you can put them on wiki or mailing list
19:54 < Grantbow> rww: great idea
19:54 < jdeslip> And will there be discussion of implementing a democratic process of any sort? So, people can be assured things are fail and everyone has equal status?
19:54 < MarkDude> fail?
19:54 < MarkDude> ohh fair?
19:54 < jdeslip> (And resolve problems of succession etc.)
19:54 < jdeslip> MarkDude: LOL - fair :)
19:54 < eps> freudian slip?
19:54 < Grantbow> must have meant fair
19:55 < Flannel> jdeslip: Once things are documented, it'll be easier to discuss stuff.
19:55 < Flannel> Since we'll know where we currently stand, etc.
19:55 < jdeslip> Flannel: Ok, that is reasonable.
19:56 < Flannel> Hmm
19:56 < Flannel> so, perhaps we should re-close the meeting?
19:57 < Flannel> I say yes. The previous one didn't count.
19:57 < Flannel> Thank you all for coming, our next meeting will be in two weeks, November 1st, at 7pm PST (hour ahead!) (7pm local time).
</pre>
