{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, July 29th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Your agenda item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jul 30 02:00:03 2012 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> hi everyone! who all is here for the meeting?
[02:00] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12July29
[02:00] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12July29 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:00] <pleia2> Agenda is there, not much on it :)
[02:02] <pleia2> so... upcoming events, we have a San Francisco Ubuntu Hour and Debian dinner on Wednesday the 8th: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1863/detail/
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:04] <pleia2> anyone have any other events or thoughts for events?
[02:04] <scientes> oh hey im finially going to make it to one of these
[02:04] <pleia2> I discovered this the other day (sf perl mongers were having a meeting there): http://www.yelp.com/biz/quetzal-internet-cafe-san-francisco
[02:04] <darthrobot> Title: [Quetzal Internet Cafe - San Francisco, CA]
[02:04] <pleia2> hi scientes
[02:05] <pleia2> I haven't been yet, so I'll see about scoping it out for a release get together :)
[02:05] <scientes> hope the traffic isn't as bad as it was yesterday evening
[02:07] <pleia2> so... anyone else have anything?
[02:08] <eps> I found another device with Ubuntu inside: http://pwnieexpress.com/pages/frequently-asked-questions
[02:08] <darthrobot> Title: [Frequently Asked Questions | Pwnie Express]
[02:08] <scientes> we need arm devices with more than 1GB of ram
[02:09] <pleia2> eps: cool
[02:09] <scientes> wow it ships with gcc already installed, that is uncommon these days
[02:10] <scientes> however the fact that they are using ubuntu on that shows that they are, kinda, behind the times...
[02:10] <scientes> as ubuntu doesn't run on those anymore
[02:10] <pleia2> ok, I might just wrap this up if we don't have any more team stuff
[02:10] <scientes> i run debian on mine
[02:10] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
