{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Sunday, September 23rd, 2007, 7:00pm (1900) PDT

=== Summary ===
 1. Logo
   a. Three logo ideas so far! (on <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Logo]]</nowiki>)
   a. #3 seems to be the favorite. Its SVG is on the forums, feel free to play with it!
   a. No hard deadline for entries yet
 1. Launchpad as team repository
   a. Brought up by nhaines; postponed because the person responsible wasn't around
 1. Release Party/Installfest
   a. Release party will be on the 19th (the Friday after Gutsy comes out)
     i. Local, flexible events: probably stuff happening in LA (Philippes) and SD at least
   a. Installfest will be on the 27th, a week and two days after Gutsy release
     i. Flannel hopes to have case badges for that
     i. Yasumoto suggested Chapman University
     i. Not many people in the meeting from north CA, so nothing planned for up there. Flannel said he'd bring it up on the mailing list.
 1. <nowiki>[[http://toorcon.org|Toorcon]]</nowiki>
   a. 9th year, hosted at San Diego Convention Center
   a. Yasumoto went last year and thought it was cool, albeit not open source-focused
 1. SCaLE 6x
   a. Feb 8-10 at the LA Airport Hotel
   a. Consensus that getting an Ubuntu booth there would be cool, need to fill out some forms and get the ball rolling
 1. LoCo Approval
   a. Flannel mentioned <nowiki>[[LoCoGettingApproved]]</nowiki> as a long-term goal

=== Original Agenda ===
 1. Team Logo
   a. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Logo]]</nowiki>
 2. GutsyGibbon Release Party/Installfest
   a. <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningReleaseParty|Running a Release Party]]</nowiki>
   a. <nowiki>[[GutsyReleaseParties|List of Gutsy Release Parties]]</nowiki>
 3. <nowiki>[[http://toorcon.org/2007/intro.php|Toorcon]]</nowiki>
   a. Toorcon is a hacker/computer security conference - it's a lot of fun.
   b. It's the same weekend as the Gutsy Gibbon release (October 19th - 21st)
 4. <nowiki>[[http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/|SCaLE 6x]]</nowiki>
   a. It's at the Westin Los Angeles Airport hotel, February 8th - 10th 2008. 
   a. Anyone else want to help set up and <nowiki>[[http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale6x/documents/scale6x_dotORG_application.pdf|run a booth]]</nowiki>?

=== Logs ===
<pre>
19:12 < Flannel> Alright, so, Welcome everyone to our... fourth meeting of Ubuntu-California.
19:12 < cactaur> Yasumoto: Ah
19:12 < cactaur> ok, on to the meeting!
19:12 < Flannel> Agenda for tonight consists of:
19:12 < Flannel> 1. Team Logo
19:12 < Flannel> 2. Gutsy Events
19:12 < Flannel> 3. Toorcon
19:12 < Flannel> 4. SCaLE
19:13 < chemturion> are we doing roberts rules? or are we much more laid back?
19:13 < Flannel> chemturion: We're way more laid back.  This is California, afterall.
19:13 < chemturion> haha ok
19:14 < Yasumoto> heya LaserLine
19:14 < LaserLine> hello
19:14 < Flannel> Howdy LaserLine 
19:14 < cactaur> greetings LaserLine!
19:14 < LaserLine> howdy?  I thought this was california ;)
19:14 < Yasumoto> haha :)
19:14 < nhaines> G'day, LaserLine!
19:14 < cactaur> hahahhahaha
19:14 < Flannel> Alright, so, Team Logo.  Just a progress update really, We've got three logos so far, you can view them: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Logo
19:14 < Yasumoto> we do what we want
19:15  * cactaur still hasn't gotten someone willing to make a logo with Ahnuld.
19:15 < Yasumoto> cactaur: just force yourself to learn gimp
19:15 < nhaines> I think choice three looks promising.  I want to see if I can polish it up.
19:15 < Flannel> I don't know if we've got a set time frame for when we would like to have it nailed down, but I think a good deal of us have fallen into favor of the last one.
19:15 < Yasumoto> AlgorthmicContro!
19:16 < Flannel> Scunizi has been nice enough to post the SVG on our forums, so hack away on it.
19:16 < AlgorthmicContro> I totally forgot about the meeting(sorry for interrupting, I was away, and I checked my email, good thing you sent a belated reminder if anything Yasumoto)
19:17 < Flannel> Oh, hey.  I've jumped into the meeting without asking.  Does anyone have anything to add to the agenda?
19:17 < AlgorthmicContro> Kewl, what SVG?
19:17 < Yasumoto> sweet, I'm really glad you got it :)
19:17 < nhaines> AlgorthmicContro: it's vector.
19:17 < Flannel> AlgorthmicContro: Scalable Vector Graphics, basically, its the vector source of the png posted on the logo page (easily editable)
19:17 < AlgorthmicContro> nhaines: I know what an SVG i
19:17 < AlgorthmicContro> I meant
19:17 < AlgorthmicContro> Where is it?
19:18 < cactaur> AlgorthmicContro: New logo is on the forums.
19:18 < Flannel> AlgorthmicContro: Forums: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=558190
19:18 < LaserLine> Flannel:  Is there an agenda we can see for today?
19:18 < nhaines> Sorry, AlgorthmicContro.
19:18 < Flannel> LaserLine: Same place it always is: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/07September23
19:18 < LaserLine> Flannel:  Thanks... this is my first time here
19:19 < Flannel> LaserLine: no worries.  You just missed me posting it when you joined as well.
19:19 < AlgorthmicContro> Hahahah, wow this SVG is sweet.
19:20 < Flannel> So, anyone have anything to add (to the agenda) at the moment?
19:20 < nhaines> Were we going to ask someone about using Launchpad as a team repository?
19:20 < Flannel> nhaines: He's not around, we'll ask whenever he's on next.
19:20 < nhaines> Ah, okay.
19:21 < Flannel> Alright, How about anything re: the Logos?
19:21 < nhaines> Do we have any idea of a deadline or goal date?
19:21 < Yasumoto> I think #3 looks awesome, and hopefully we'll be able to mold and play with it over the next two weeks
19:22 < LaserLine> Yeah, I'm curious what #3 would look like if the orange and red were california states as well
19:23 < Yasumoto> LaserLine: that actually sounds pretty cool
19:23 < Flannel> Everyone, edit as you will, post back to the logo page with anything you like.
19:23 < nhaines> I think the dots would be too crowded but it would be worth taking a look.
19:23 < Flannel> The only thing is you do need to post as a raster image (png or jpg or gif), And you should shrink the image down to a reasonable size as well.
19:24 < Flannel> SVG on the wiki doesn't work
19:24 < Flannel> Post any SVG sources to that same forum thread for the time being.
19:25 < Flannel> Alright, anyone else have anything to add re: Logos?
19:25 < Flannel> Alright, so, moving on to Gutsy events.
19:26 < cactaur> All right!
19:26 < Flannel> Currently we've got two things planned, on the 19th (thats the friday after gutsy gets released), we're having flexible, local get togethers, however big or small you want.  There's one at Philippes, and I'm unsure of others.
19:27 < cactaur> Which I won't be able to make, grrrr.....
19:27 < Flannel> The second thing we have planned is the Installfest on the 27th.  Thats a week and a day or two after the release.
19:27 < Yasumoto> San Diego is going to rock on the 19th :)
19:27 < Flannel> And I hope to have case badges by the installfest.
19:27 < cactaur> What city is it going to be in again? Anaheim?
19:27 < Flannel> cactaur: we're not sure yet.
19:28 < Yasumoto> yeah, we'll have to see where everyone's located
19:28 < cactaur> ah, ok
19:28 < nhaines> Welcome, chemturio1.
19:28 < chemturio1> sorry! i got dropped from my WI-FI and then network applet disappeared, and then i froze, haha
19:28 < Flannel> The 19th is more flexible, you can get together with whomever you want, I believe Yasumoto and myself are doing something in San Diego as well, beyond Philippes (which is in LA)
19:28 < chemturio1> and now I guess freenode thinks im still logged in
19:28 < LaserLine> Philippes is located in Los Angeles near China Town Station (Yellow Line) right?
19:29 < Flannel> LaserLine: Allameda St, in LA.  Whereever that is.
19:29 < Flannel> Anyone from LA who can verify?
19:30  * cactaur hasn't really been downtown that much, but it seems kinda right.
19:30 < Flannel> LaserLine: Google maps says yes.  0.4 mi away
19:31 < LaserLine> thanks you beat me to it
19:31 < cactaur> Where would we be without Google?
19:31 < Yasumoto> web 1.0?
19:31 < cactaur> oh yeah
19:32 < Flannel> If anyone else is interested in stuff on the 19th, and isn't near San Diego, or LA, let me know (or add yourself to the wiki), I'll try and keep an eye out for possible meetups elsewhere.
19:32 < Yasumoto> sounds good
19:32 < Yasumoto> I feel like we really need to start figuring out the installfest though
19:32 < Flannel> Alright, so, On the 27th, We're doing an installfest sort of thing.  So far, we've got only one suggested Location, Yasumoto, you suggested it, right?
19:32 < cactaur> Oh yeah, and be sure to take LOTS of pictures!
19:32 < Yasumoto> because I think it'd be a good opportunity to get some new people down hwew
19:32 < Yasumoto> *here
19:32 < nhaines> Welcome, PsychoKlown!
19:32 < Flannel> (Chapman University)
19:32 < Yasumoto> heya PsychoKlown
19:33 < cactaur> hello PsychoKlown
19:33 < Yasumoto> yeah, we have some computer labs in our library basement which would work out pretty well
19:34 < Yasumoto> Our library's pretty new, and the computers and all spiffy and such
19:34 < cactaur> noice!
19:34 < Flannel> Yasumoto: What about other larg-ish rooms?
19:34 < PsychoKlown> oh man! I finally get on and I have to run >_<
19:34 < Yasumoto> aw, later PsychoKlown
19:34 < cactaur> PsychoKlown, thank goodness for logs, eh?
19:34 < Flannel> PsychoKlown: no worries.  Logs are available whenever you are ;)
19:34 < PsychoKlown> seriously
19:35 < PsychoKlown> Sorry guys
19:35 < PsychoKlown> I hate to leave =(
19:35 < PsychoKlown> Later
19:35 < Yasumoto> Flannel: yeah, we should be able to accomodate a decent amount of people
19:35 < Yasumoto> I think there are about 30 computers in each room
19:35 < Flannel> Yasumoto: I'm worried about a computer lab (in the library nonetheless) since, I imagine we'll have some sort of food
19:36 < cactaur> hahahahahha
19:36 < Flannel> Is it just rows of computers though? A larger central area that we can put a few tables on might be better
19:36 < Yasumoto> yeah, I'll have to make sure we can bring in pizza or whatever we decide
19:36 < Yasumoto> all the computers are lined up on the outside of the room
19:36 < Yasumoto> so the middle is empty
19:36 < Flannel> nice
19:36 < Yasumoto> we can put tables with food there (and have a few for laptops too)
19:37 < Yasumoto> we've got a "professor's computer" on a podium connected to a pretty slick projector
19:37 < chemturio2> sorry gutsy is freaking out
19:37 < LaserLine> Yasumoto: what city are you talking about for the install fest?
19:37 < Flannel> LaserLine: Chapman University is our only one currently, in Orange
19:38 < Flannel> Only suggested location, that is.
19:38 < LaserLine> k
19:38 < chemturio2> did we already talk about up north? or are we only on the south?
19:38 < nhaines> I'd love to help people install stuff.
19:38 < Flannel> chemturio2: north being?
19:38 < chemturio2> bay area
19:38 < chemturio2> san francisco
19:38 < chemturio2> berkeley
19:39 < Yasumoto> so if someone wanted to give a presentation or something
19:39 < Yasumoto> it'd work out pretty easily
19:39 < Flannel> I dont know how many people we have up there active right now.  We'd definately be able to have two (north and south) if the interest is there.
19:39 < Yasumoto> wow, I just got hit by ridiculous lag
19:39 < cactaur> hahhahaha
19:39 < chemturio2> lol
19:39 < Yasumoto> yeah, having something going on in northern california would be cool
19:39 < chemturio2> are there any others in norcal?
19:40 < chemturio2> i mean
19:40 < chemturio2> members
19:40 < Yasumoto> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Members
19:40 < Flannel> chemturio2: There are, they dont seem to be here at the moment.  I'll mention it in a list email, we can see how much response we get, and go from there.
19:40 < Flannel> Not everyone
19:40 < Flannel> Not everyone's on that map
19:40 < Yasumoto> yeah, true true
19:41 < Yasumoto> (but sign up if you're not on it :D )
19:41 < cactaur> Heh, according to the map, there are more people in NoCal.
19:41 < chemturio2> will do
19:41 < Flannel> I agree.  That map is the best way we have of knowing where we've got possibilities for events.
19:42 < chemturio2> ok
19:43 < Flannel> Yasumoto: Have you asked anyone about the availability of getting that room (or any other room, we don't need computers to be there, I've got some old clunkers I can bring for others)
19:43 < Yasumoto> since it seems like it might turn out to be alright, I'm going to start talking to the compsci faculty to see what they say
19:44 < Yasumoto> they should be pretty supportive
19:44 < Flannel> Yasumoto: sounds good.
19:44 < Flannel> Anyone have anything else to suggest/ask/whatever re: Gutsy festivities?
19:44 < cactaur> Yeah, I'll bring it up again. Take pictures!
19:45 < AlgorthmicContro> Lots of em'!
19:45 < Flannel> The 27th need not only be an install fest either.  If anyone would like to do anything else on that day, suggest it.  (Or would like to see anything else happen, for that matter)
19:45 < Yasumoto> haha, yeah
19:45 < Flannel> Speeches regarding whatever, tutorials, whatever.
19:45 < Flannel> Suggest it on the wiki page
19:45 < Yasumoto> that's a good idea
19:45 < Flannel> Alright, so, onto the next thing.
19:46 < Flannel> Toorcon, which, I'm going to let Yasumoto handle, since, he knows more than I do.
19:46 < Yasumoto> http://toorcon.org
19:46 < cactaur> nice intro
19:46 < Yasumoto> this is going to be the 9th year they're putting it on
19:47 < Yasumoto> (at the San Diego Convention Center)
19:47 < Yasumoto> I went last year, and it was pretty good times
19:47 < Yasumoto> it's more of a "hacking" convention
19:47 < Yasumoto> as opposed to focusing on open source
19:48 < Yasumoto> but it's obviously pretty "free-focused"
19:48 < Yasumoto> if you will
19:48 < Flannel> Yasumoto: You're suggesting that people consider going, right?
19:48 < cactaur> oooohhhh, they have videos!
19:48 < Yasumoto> yeah, pretty much
19:49 < Yasumoto> It's a conference going down in california, and is pretty fun
19:49 < Yasumoto> it's small, but you should meet some cool people/learn a few things
19:49 < Yasumoto> so if you want to know more, or want to try and carpool, lemme know
19:49 < Yasumoto> otherwise, that's it for that
19:50 < Flannel> Alright, so, moving on to SCaLE.
19:51 < Flannel> Some people have expressed interest in manning a booth a the 2008 SCaLE, Southern California Linux Expo,
19:51 < Flannel> It's Feb 8-10, at the LA Airport Hotel
19:51 < cactaur> Hmmm..... I could POSSIBLY make it.
19:51 < nhaines> I might be able to make that.
19:52 < AlgorthmicContro> Privacy is dead, get over it.
19:52 < cactaur> Whose idea was it?
19:52 < Flannel> I think having a booth would be good.  I haven't yet found out if Ubuntu will have an official booth there, but even if they do, We're welcome to setup a Community booth as well
19:52 < Yasumoto> I was talking to Morph, one of the guys putting on the show, and apparently we had a booth last year. Jono Bacon showed up ... the past three years? I think
19:52 < Yasumoto> something like that
19:53 < Yasumoto> we just need to fill out a .org form and submit it if we want to go through with it
19:53 < cactaur> Oooohhh, I like forms!
19:53 < nhaines> Ooh, that sounds like fun!
19:53 < AlgorthmicContro> Very fun!
19:54 < Flannel> Ubuntu is pretty supportive in sending swag for things like this as well.
19:54 < Flannel> Or, Canonical is, I suppose is more correct.
19:54 < nhaines> We might need logo shirts.
19:54 < Yasumoto> nhaines: haha :)
19:54 < Flannel> So, sounds like we are interested.  So we'll start the ball rolling on it.  watch this space for updates.
19:55 < Flannel> Anyone else have anything for this meeting?
19:56 < nhaines> Do we have any plans for a website?
19:56 < nhaines> I know that's nebulous and vague.  :)
19:56 < Yasumoto> I'll fill out and submit the form
19:56 < Flannel> nhaines: Wiki page is our website
19:57 < cactuar> Bah, did you get my last comment?
19:57 < Flannel> nhaines: If its not sufficient, we'll think about moving, but for now wiki suffices, I believe.
19:57 < Flannel> cactuar: which one?  liking forms?
19:57 < Yasumoto> cactuar: wanna fill out the form? :)
19:57 < cactuar> Oh, it doesn't look like SCaLe started selling tickets. Any estimates to how much they could be?
19:58 < Yasumoto> I have no idea, but we can ask
19:58 < Flannel> nhaines: Once we're an official LoCo, we get hosting too, if we want.
19:58 < Yasumoto> there's a channel for scale
19:58 < Yasumoto> #scale-chat on irc.oftc.net
19:58 < Yasumoto> (i'm pretty sure)
19:58 < cactuar> I'll go see.
19:58 < Flannel> Believe that was it, yeah.
19:58 < Yasumoto> yeah
20:00 < cactuar> No one is answering.....
20:00 < Flannel> Speaking of approval, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved  has a rundown, more-or-less, of how we do that.  Obviously not in the very near future, but once we're ready, we're hoping to get approved.
20:00 < Yasumoto> mm, yeah, just idle in there for a bit
20:01 < nhaines> Thanks, I was looking for that.
20:01 < Flannel> Incase anyone wants to check it out, and keep it in the back of their minds.
20:01 < Flannel> Alright, so, anyone have anything else to add?
20:01 < Yasumoto> nope, I'm good
20:01 < nhaines> I'm good.
20:02 < Flannel> Alright, I guess that does it then.  Thank you all for coming, our next meeting will be.. October 7th.
</pre>
