{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, July 13th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Add your item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Meeting summary ===

Meeting ended at 02:13:22 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rww (14)
* darthrobot` (6)
* ianorlin (4)
* eps (2)
* grantbow (2)
* elky (2)
* Corey (1)
* nhaines (1)

=== Full Log ===

<pre>
02:03:40 <rww> #startmeeting Ubuntu California meeting 2014-07-13
02:03:40 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Jul 14 02:03:40 2014 UTC.  The chair is rww. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
02:03:40 <darthrobot`> 
02:03:40 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
02:03:49 <rww> #chair rww
02:03:49 <darthrobot`> Current chairs: rww
02:04:25 <rww> Today's exciting meeting agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14July13
02:04:26 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14July13 - Ubuntu Wiki]
02:04:33 <rww> spoilers: it's empty
02:05:09 <rww> Anyone have anything to talk about?
02:05:49 <elky> "lyz is awesome for doing the after meeting stuff from last time"
02:05:57 <rww> yep
02:05:58 <Corey> +1 ^
02:06:00 <grantbow> +1
02:06:05 <elky> +1
02:06:06 <ianorlin> +1
02:06:13 <nhaines> +1
02:06:22 <rww> rww is silly for not remembering that it was his job to do the meeting reminder this week
02:06:41 <rww> now everyone is missing out on this enthralling meeting
02:07:24 <rww> any other business? if not, I'm ending this meeting at 19:10
02:07:51 <rww> and then we can talk about my cat or something
02:07:56 <ianorlin> nhaines any news on planned installfest in October?
02:08:47 <ianorlin> not sure of anything in southern California else planned
02:09:40 <rww> nothing in North California, as far as I know. The response to us asking for some ideas has been... minimal
02:10:13 <grantbow> summer time
02:10:17 <rww> indeed
02:11:01 <rww> alrighty, endmeeting time, if nobody objects
02:11:02 * eps misses Linux picnics
02:11:49 * ianorlin wants eps to explain what those are
02:12:25 <eps> ianorlin: see http://www.linuxpicnic.org/
02:12:30 <darthrobot`> [R: www.linuxpicnic.org] Title: [WebHome < Picnix21 < TWiki]
02:13:22 <rww> #endmeeting</pre>
