{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, May 8th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====
 1. Release Party Wrap-ups.
 2. Plans for next cycle.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent.

Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[03:00] <DarkwingDuck> ** MEETING START **
[03:01] <DarkwingDuck> First off, a HUGE thank you for all of you who helped make Natty a success
[03:01] <DarkwingDuck> All the testing and bug submitting helped out a lot. So thanks.
[03:02] <DarkwingDuck> And that brings us to the Release Party Wrap-ups
[03:02] <DarkwingDuck> Who attended any and how did it turn out?
[03:03] <philipballew> i saw from pictures that there were a good amount of people
[03:03] <DarkwingDuck> Anyone here that attended the Thirsty Bear?
[03:03]  * eps did
[03:03] <DarkwingDuck> grantbow: ping?
[03:04] <DarkwingDuck> ahhh how was it eps
[03:04] <eps> Crowded, noisy. The beer was good. Jono was there, which was a nice treat.
[03:04] <DarkwingDuck> Sweet
[03:05] <DarkwingDuck> I don't see any other ones listed
[03:05] <philipballew> i think they all traveled to that one
[03:05] <DarkwingDuck> Anyone have anything to ad to the release parties?
[03:06] <DarkwingDuck> *add
[03:07] <DarkwingDuck> If not then this brings us to plans for the next release
[03:07] <philipballew> ^agreed
[03:08] <DarkwingDuck> Starting tonight at midnight local california time UDS will start.
[03:08] <DarkwingDuck> http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-o/
[03:08] <DarkwingDuck> You can remote participate. It starts at midnight our time with the last sessions starting at 8am
[03:09] <DarkwingDuck> You can follow along with audio streaming and IRC participation http://uds.ubuntu.com/participate/remote/
[03:09]  * MarkDude is still hoping to have one- a family reunion was changed- I am up in the air at moment
[03:09] <philipballew> do they need anything specific from us when we remote participate?
[03:09] <philipballew> ill go to yours mark!
[03:09] <DarkwingDuck> Just chime in what you think is needed. It's a lot of open forum within the sessions.
[03:10] <philipballew> for sure. i did it last october and may before that. it seemed helpful to them
[03:10] <DarkwingDuck> Also, anyone have any ideas what we as a loco want to help participate for Oneiric?
[03:11] <philipballew> advertisements?
[03:11] <DarkwingDuck> In what way?
[03:12] <philipballew> i have seen other groups do posters or videos (commericals made) and i've seen a street team
[03:12] <philipballew> not a ubuntu street team that i have seen
[03:12] <DarkwingDuck> That sounds pretty cool.
[03:12] <philipballew> iheartubuntu made a anamited add not long ago
[03:12]  * DarkwingDuck nods
[03:13] <jtatum> midnight to 8.. that's gonna be a little rough :)
[03:13] <philipballew> thats my peek hours!
[03:13] <DarkwingDuck> tell me about it jtatum I'll be charging it head on
[03:13] <DarkwingDuck> I have loads of Kubuntu sessions
[03:15] <philipballew> ^ red bull!
[03:15] <DarkwingDuck> Anyone have any other buisness for this insanly short Meeting?
[03:15] <MarkDude> go-juice
[03:16] <DarkwingDuck> On a side note.... Detroit and San Jose are tied at 3 with 8 minutes to go in the third. :D
[03:16] <DarkwingDuck> Anyway, anyone have anything?
[03:16] <DarkwingDuck> gripes? Moans?
[03:16] <MarkDude> Go sharks!
[03:16] <jtatum> go team
[03:16] <philipballew> San Jose FTW!!!
[03:16] <DarkwingDuck> I'm still mad at San Jose (I'ma Kings fan)
[03:17] <DarkwingDuck> Anyone. if no one has anything else I'll bring this meeting to an end after a whopping 17 minutes :)
[03:17]  * eps suspects the most interesting UDS sessions are labeled "Private Meeting"
[03:17] <philipballew> ^ they are hiding something!
[03:18] <akk> Conspiracy!
[03:18] <DarkwingDuck> ** END MEETING **
}}}
