{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, January 29th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. SCALE10x wrap-up -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki> 
If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[03:01] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting? :)
[03:01] <Ttech> Obviously me.
[03:01] <jtatum> o/
[03:01] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12January29
[03:01] <Ttech> Your newest Ubuntu member.
[03:01] <Darkwing> yo
[03:01]  * Ttech hides
[03:01]  * eps nods
[03:02] <Darkwing> woot
[03:02] <pleia2> welcome Ttech :)
[03:02]  * philipballew is here
[03:02] <pleia2> so our only agenda item: SCALE10x wrap-up
[03:02] <pleia2> Photos: http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/sets/72157629015857079/
[03:02] <pleia2> my blog post: http://princessleia.com/journal/?p=5660
[03:03] <pleia2> philipballew's blog post: http://philipballew.wordpress.com/2012/01/30/fun-at-scale10x/
[03:03] <Ttech> I have photos too. :/
[03:03] <pleia2> awesome weekend \o/
[03:03] <pleia2> Ttech: share!
[03:03] <pleia2> (for meeting logs :))
[03:03] <Darkwing> it looked good. sorry i wasnt there at booth more
[03:03] <pleia2> Darkwing: thanks for bringing along all the booth stuff, the raffle was very fun :)
[03:04] <Ttech> My photos! http://j.mp/yaS1RC
[03:04] <akk> For the record, I agree on SCALE's awesomeness. :)
[03:04] <Darkwing> sweet! ill talk to oreally again for next year
[03:04]  * philipballew still has free tshirts to wear
[03:04] <Ttech> I second akk statement.
[03:04] <Darkwing> lol
[03:05] <Ttech> philipballew, Still got tuxy?
[03:05] <pleia2> we gave out about 450 Ubuntu CDs, and 40 or so of Server and Kubuntu
[03:05] <Darkwing> phil, you made out on the t shirts
[03:05] <philipballew> sittin right above me
[03:05] <pleia2> so next year we'll definitely ask Canonical again for a shipment just for the conference :)
[03:05] <philipballew> total tshirt count was 24
[03:05] <Darkwing> yup
[03:05] <pleia2> anything we could have done better?
[03:06] <Ttech> Not sure, it was a pretty crazy booth
[03:06] <Ttech> but perhaps more updated stickers and magazines? (if you can manage that)
[03:06] <pleia2> yeah, we were pretty non-stop busy
[03:06] <Darkwing> bigger room for ubucon
[03:06] <eps> +1
[03:06] <pleia2> more stickers would be good, I think we had 20 sheets and even cut up into 3 pieces they went fast
[03:06] <philipballew> we could have got more peoples information maybe like by scanning them?
[03:07] <pleia2> we got updated magazines from the Ubuntu User folks later in the conference
[03:07] <pleia2> (we wanted to get rid of the old ones early on, that's why we had them :))
[03:07] <Ttech> You guys don't even need to crazy QR scanners they had, just a cell phone or web cam.
[03:07] <jtatum> Wow
[03:07] <Darkwing> i think a better booth build would be good
[03:08] <pleia2> "better booth build"?
[03:08] <Darkwing> that table is wayyyyyy too full
[03:08] <Darkwing> more table space,
[03:08] <Darkwing> ill draft up a couple ideas
[03:08] <pleia2> cool
[03:09] <Ttech> I don't know if they allow it, but maybe two tables?
[03:09] <Darkwing> ill see what i can pull. :)
[03:09] <philipballew> The table had the right amount of stuff on it I felt, but Maybe a few ideas would never hurt
[03:09] <Ttech> If you guys snagged a second table - you could have people helping at one and the regular booth at the other
[03:10] <Ttech> It might really expand the horizon for Ubuntu + Ubuntu CA
[03:10] <Ttech> If you guys don't mind. I mean personally that is fun for me, but I'm not technically a member of either ubuntu or ubuntu ca (yet)
[03:10] <Darkwing> i have some crazy ideas
[03:10] <pleia2> I think we'd have to get some more volunteers if we did more debugging at the table
[03:10] <eps> Who chooses our location? Unlike most of the room, our entire row wasn't particularly well lit. I almost wish we had a bunch of LED tea lights.
[03:10] <pleia2> eps: we're assigned a spot by scale staff
[03:10] <Darkwing> eps ill see if i can fix that for next year
[03:11] <pleia2> I was really tired at the end of the weekend, only managed to get to a handful of talks, and we didn't offer debugging this year
[03:11] <Darkwing> i was drained after that too lol
[03:12] <pleia2> haha, did you sleep at all? :)
[03:12] <Darkwing> 4 hours for the weekend. thurs - mon
[03:12] <Darkwing> :D
[03:13] <pleia2> well, it was a great weekend, thanks to everyone who helped out at the booth, I think jbermudes was there more than anyone :)
[03:13] <Darkwing> aye
[03:13] <pleia2> anyone have anything else to discuss meeting-wise? announcements? thoughts?
[03:14] <Darkwing> one thing
[03:14] <pleia2> shoot
[03:14] <Darkwing> our state is hosting uds in may
[03:14] <jyo> Is it too early to think about UDS hap..exactly
[03:14] <Ttech> pleia2, If you need help next year, let me know btw.
[03:14] <pleia2> Ubuntu Developer Summit: http://uds.ubuntu.com/
[03:14] <Darkwing> normally the loco has an event
[03:15] <eps> Any deadlines we need to be aware of?
[03:15]  * philipballew reads
[03:15] <Darkwing> pizza night, movie night
[03:15]  * Ttech reads as well
[03:15] <pleia2> eps: only if you intend to apply for travel and hotel sponsorship
[03:15] <Darkwing> we need to have a plan in place by march 10th
[03:15] <pleia2> details about that here: http://www.jonobacon.org/2012/01/27/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-3/
[03:15] <Ttech> pleia2, You can get a sponsorship for that?
[03:15] <eps> Riiiight. They can pay for my BART ticket. ;-)
[03:15] <Darkwing> lol
[03:15] <Ttech> ah you read me mind
[03:15] <philipballew> get me some of that Oakland!
[03:15] <pleia2> Darkwing: march 10th?
[03:16] <jtatum> Publish helpful area maps and such?
[03:16] <philipballew> I can help with event planning pleia2. Just tell me what to do
[03:16] <Darkwing> yup. its so we can plan it for printing with uds
[03:16] <pleia2> wednesday night of UDS is usually a pretty free one
[03:16] <pleia2> Darkwing: printing with uds..?
[03:17] <philipballew> take them into the city?
[03:17] <Darkwing> on the badges again.
[03:17] <pleia2> Monday, Tuesday and Friday are busy, Thursday is team dinners
[03:17] <pleia2> Darkwing: ah, ok
[03:17] <Ttech> do you guys do logging for these meetings? I swore I saw it somewhere.
[03:17] <Darkwing> this way we have our plans setup.
[03:17] <pleia2> it can be as simple as "Ubuntu California Explore SF Night" ;)
[03:18] <pleia2> Ttech: yes, all channel logs are at irclogs.ubuntu.com and we put them on our meetings page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings
[03:18] <philipballew> We'll just need to find places with good late hours
[03:18] <pleia2> Darkwing: want to create a wiki page under Projects/ and start gathering some ideas?
[03:18] <Darkwing> anyway. ill post something to the ml and yes, ill do that too.
[03:18] <eps> Ubuntify Oakland!
[03:18] <pleia2> great, thanks :)
[03:19] <Ttech> that sounds like a party
[03:19] <Darkwing> yup yup
[03:19] <philipballew> paint the streets purple and orange!!!
[03:19] <pleia2> Linaro Connect is coming up soon: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2012-January/001878.html
[03:19] <pleia2> they used to have it alongside UDS, but they've split it off
[03:19] <pleia2> it'll be in Redwood City Feb 6-10
[03:19] <Darkwing> it got too crazy
[03:19] <pleia2> I've been talking to some of the Ubuntu folks coming into town, they may want to do dinner :)
[03:20] <pleia2> I'll send a mail to the list when we have some more timing ieas
[03:20] <pleia2> ideas
[03:20] <pleia2> also have an SF Ubuntu Hour coming up on the 8th: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1514/detail/
[03:20] <Darkwing> anyway, thats was my two bits for this meeting
[03:20] <eps> Is there a backup location in case The Roastery isn't available?
[03:21] <jyo> BA Debian dinner this month afterwards?
[03:21] <pleia2> eps: they put up a sign saying the closing at 6PM hours are only through January 30th
[03:21] <pleia2> so we should be good
[03:21] <pleia2> jyo: yep!
[03:22] <Darkwing> aaaaand, im off
[03:22] <pleia2> I think we can wrap up then
[03:22]  * Darkwing waves
[03:22] <pleia2> thanks everyone :)
[03:22]  * Ttech wobbles 
[03:23]  * philipballew dances
[03:23] <jtatum> Thanks all
}}}
