{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Welcome to the page for Ubuntu California's presence at the <nowiki>[[https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x | 16th Southern California Linux Expo]]</nowiki>!  The expo runs from March 8-11, 2018 (Thurs-Sun), but the exhibition floor will be open Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.

SCALE 6X in 2008 was Ubuntu California's second public event and the Lo``Co has maintained the Ubuntu booth ever since.  Ubuntu California team members who are not volunteering at the booth can use a coupon code ''UBNTU'' for half off your Full Access pass registration. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale16x#Volunteers|Booth volunteers]]</nowiki> will receive a complimentary Exhibitor badge.

'''Lo``Co Team Portal page:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3678-scale-16x-and-ubucon-at-scale/
 
== UbuCon ==

Richard Gaskin and Nathan Haines are in charge of Ubu``Con at SCALE.  Some Ubu``Con speakers may schedule times to be on hand at the Ubuntu booth to discuss their presentation topics with booth visitors throughout the weekend.

UbuCon at SCALE is two days of Ubuntu talks by the best experts in the community and a chance to gather and meet other Ubuntu enthusiasts.

The opening keynote speaker on March 8th will be announced soon.

'''Ubu``Con website:''' http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-scale/

'''Lo``Co Team Portal page:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3678-scale-16x-and-ubucon-at-scale/

== Booth ==

This is an extremely fun and friendly expo, and is the perfect opportunity for volunteers to gain booth experience.  Booth volunteers will receive training on recent Ubuntu developments as well as phone interface training to help prepare for visitor questions.  Other training topics will include Ubuntu Core, Unity 8, and desktop convergence.

Booth volunteers will receive a complimentary Exhibitor badge that will allow them to enjoy full access to the expo floor and speaker sessions while not volunteering at the booth.

Please sign up to help with the booth or provide equipment below!

=== Materials ===

==== Stuff Provided ====

* 1 x 500W Electrical Outlet 
* 1 x 6' table
* 2 x chairs
* 1 x Ethernet Ports

==== Stuff We Need ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" tablebgcolor="#FFFFF0" 25%: rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">Item
| <30%:>Description/Info
| <15%:>Volunteer
| <35%:>Comments
|-
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuAtConferences|Conference Pack A from Canonical]]</nowiki>
| Contents listed on UbuntuAtConferences
| NathanHaines
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Banner
| Official Ubuntu banner from Canonical
| NathanHaines
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Tablecloth
| Official Ubuntu tablecloth from Canonical
| NathanHaines
| 
|-
| Booth table
| Xtra table for front
| George Mulak
| Needs Orange Tablecloth
|-
| 5 port Network switch
| To connect demo computers
| George Mulak
| 
|-
| 6 Ethernet cables
| 
| George Mulak
| 
|-
| Power strip
| 1 x 5 outlet
| George Mulak
| 
|-
| Heavy Duty Extension Cords
| 2 3-Prong
| George Mulak
| 
|-
| Electrical Scissors
| For cutting zip ties
| George Mulak
| 
|-
| Power Saver Cords
| For Wall worts, to save outlets
| George Mulak
|-
| 27" Computer Monitor
| With HDMI and VGA
| George Mulak
| 
| 
|-
| Computer with Ubuntu
| 
| George Mulak
| 
| 
|-
| Scissors
| 
| NathanHaines
| 
|-
| Orange duct tape
| 
| NathanHaines
| 
|-
| Can of small bungee cords
| 
| George Mulak
| 
|-
| Hand Sanitizer
| 
| NathanHaines
| 
|}

==== Stuff We (Might?) Want ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" tablebgcolor="#FFFFF0" 25%: rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">Item
| <30%:>Description/Info
| <15%:>Volunteer
| <35%:>Comments
|-
| Fliers/Pamphlets
| Probably general Ubuntu information
| 
| 
|-
| Candies or small chocolates
| To give away, draw people in
| 
| 
|}

=== Volunteers ===

Please sign up here if you'll be able to help at the booth during the event.  Please indicate which days (Friday, Saturday, or Sunday) and shifts (morning or afternoon) you will be at the booth..  We also need help with booth setup (at 10:00am Friday morning) and booth breakdown (until 2pm Sunday afternoon).  Feel free to volunteer for multiple shifts if you can!  We'll work around your favorite speaker sessions to make sure you have a chance to enjoy the show as well.  The following shifts are available:

After signing up, <nowiki>[[https://register.socallinuxexpo.org/reg6/ | please register for SCALE here]]</nowiki>, and email your registration number to NathanHaines.  '''Do not''' go through the payment process--Ubuntu California will cover your admission if you volunteer for at least one shift.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" tablebgcolor="#FFFFF0" 30%v: rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD" |3>Name
| <v|3> Shirt Size
| <v:-4> Booth shift
| <v|3 50%:>Additional info
|-
| <:rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> Fri
| <:-2> Sat
| <:> Sun
|-
| <:rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> 2-6pm
| <:> 10-2pm
| <:> 2-6pm
| <:> 10-2pm
|-
| Nathan Haines
| L
| X
| X
| X
| X
| Event coordinator
|-
| George Mulak
| 3X
| X
| X
| X
| X
| Co-coordinator
|}

If you're having trouble editing this page, contact NathanHaines to get on the volunteer schedule.

=== Training Material ===

''Coming soon.''
