{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

==== User Groups ====
The purpose of the <nowiki>[[Groups|Groups]]</nowiki> list is two fold.  First, the list helps make California computer users aware of groups that meet in their area to let "...people find other Ubuntu users near them and experience the Ubuntu Community firsthand", as the <nowiki>[[LoCoFAQ]]</nowiki> describes. These Ubuntu users may or may not be active with the California Team.  The second is to encourage collaboration as described in <nowiki>[[LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups]]</nowiki>.

==== What's Involved? ====

Acting as a two way contact between the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam]]</nowiki> & a user group is pretty simple:
* Attend your user group meetings
* Subscribe to your user group mail list
* Subscribe to <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce|ubuntu-announce]]</nowiki> (low volume)
* Subscribe to <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca|ubuntu-us-ca]]</nowiki>
* optional: Attend our <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Meetings|IRC Meetings]]</nowiki> every other Sunday at 7 PM

A user group contact should already have attended one of the group's meetings. Contactors should make personal contact with a user group leader in person and follow up via email.

Warning: unrelated advertising, spamming or behaving in a way inconsistent with a user group's expectations will not reflect well on Ubuntu or the California Team. The Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> applies.

==== Why contact user groups? ====
# to inform them that we exist as a resource (so they can invite us to come talk, etc)
# to find out what they would like us to be able to provide for them
# to participate in their efforts as appropriate
# to inform them that we may refer local Ubuntu users to their meetings & install fests
# to meet some like minded Linux folks
# to make their members aware of us so they might consider joining/helping our LoCo
# to let them know we do not wish to compete with them.  We all benefit if we assist them in their efforts.
## Linux user groups generally meet in person on a regular basis for end-user education & support; we don't. It's hard to overestimate the value to a new Linux user of in person discussions.
## Our LoCo performs very diverse activities throughout the state focused specifically on Ubuntu Linux.  We often meet virtually and can refer folks from our mail lists or IRC channels to other suitable forums if we can't help them ourselves.  We are made up of volunteer Ubuntu representative/advocates. LoCos advocate, promote, translate, develop and otherwise improve Ubuntu, acting as a backbone of the Ubuntu community.  For more information see <nowiki>[[LoCoFAQ]]</nowiki> and LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups

==== What might we be able to offer user groups? ====
** Forward appropriate Ubuntu news from <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca|ubuntu-us-ca]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce|ubuntu-announce]]</nowiki> (especially release announcements) and <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/|fridge]]</nowiki> to user group communication channels
** CD distribution - pressed CDs or even two burned copies of the latest Ubuntu at each meeting are greatly appreciated by user groups to give out to user group newcomers
** release parties & release related events (UbuntuOpenWeek, UbuntuDeveloperWeek, UbuntuGlobalJam)
** Answer Ubuntu & Linux related questions, forward harder questions somewhere appropriate
** Encourage local Linux & Ubuntu activities
** Speak at user group meetings

==== California User Groups ====

To see our list of user groups, see <nowiki>[[Groups|Groups]]</nowiki>.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''User Group Name'''
| '''Representative Information'''
| '''Last Contact'''
| '''Contactor'''
|-
| Felton LUG
| Larry Cafiero
| Dec 5, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Lcafiero]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.noisebridge.net|Noisebridge]]</nowiki>
| Jim S
| Dec 2, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.dvlug.org|DV LUG]]</nowiki>
| Grant Bowman
| Dec 4, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.nblug.org|North Bay LUG]]</nowiki>
| Kyle Rankin
| Nov 10, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.svlug.org|Silicon Valley LUG]]</nowiki>
| Andrew Fife
| Nov 4, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.scruz.org|SMAUG]]</nowiki>
| Peter Belew
| Nov 2, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.sf-lug.org|San Francisco LUG]]</nowiki>
| Jim S
| Nov 1, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.berkeleylug.com|Berkeley LUG]]</nowiki>
| Jack Deslippe
| Oct 25, 2009
| <nowiki>[[JackDeslippe]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://linuxmafia.com/cabal/|CABAL]]</nowiki>
| Rick Moen
| Oct 24, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.balug.org|Bay Area LUG]]</nowiki>
| Michael Paoli
| Oct 20, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.lugod.org|LUGOD]]</nowiki>
| Bill Kendrick
| Oct 19, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.buug.org|Berkeley Unix User Group]]</nowiki>
| Michael Paoli
| Oct 15, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://wiki.laptop.org/go/OLPC_San_Francisco_Bay_Area|OLPC SF]]</nowiki>
| Sameer Verma
| Oct 17, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.penlug.org|Peninsula LUG]]</nowiki>
| Bill Ward
| Sep 24, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.baylisa.org|Bay LISA]]</nowiki>
| Guy Purcell
| June 18, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.eblug.org|East Bay LUG]]</nowiki>
| Bruce Coston
| Apr 15, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.saclug.org|Sacramento LUG]]</nowiki>
| Gary Mc Glinn
| April 9, 2009
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/MercedHour|Merced Hour]]</nowiki>
| James
| October 17, 2021
| <nowiki>[[Grantbow]]</nowiki>
|}

==== Discussion ====

<nowiki>[[Discussion|User Group Discussion]]</nowiki> is for comments and talking about how this page and the <nowiki>[[Groups|Groups]]</nowiki> pages work.
