{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, January 19th, 2020, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. <nowiki>[[https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/18x|SCALE 18x]]</nowiki>
1. Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
19:00 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:00 < nhaines> Hello everyone, and welcome to the first Ubuntu California meeting of 2020, the last year of the decade and certainly not the first!
19:01 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/20January19
19:01 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:01 < nhaines> The 18th Southern California Linux Expo, SCALE 18x, is coming up March 5-8th at the Pasadena Convention Center.
19:02 < nhaines> Ubuntu will have a booth there, and so I'll be putting out a cal for volunteers very shortly.  Unfortunately, I don't quite have the wiki page up yet, but it will be the same scenario as before.
19:03 < nhaines> There will be no UbuCon at SCALE this year, but we are looking forward to resuming it at SCALE 19x in 2021.
19:03 < lynorian> aww dang
19:03 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:03 < nhaines> Are there any announcement for this month?
19:05  * lynorian does not have anything?
19:05 < nhaines> Okay, moving on....
19:05 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:06 < nhaines> There is no agenda for tonight's meeting.
19:06 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:06 < nhaines> First off, it is with regret that I announce that George Mulak's wife, Vicki, passed away due to cancer last week.
19:06 < lynorian> my condolences
19:07 < nhaines> She passed away at home, surrounded by family and friends.  So keep George in your thoughts.
19:07 < nhaines> Ubuntu 20.04 LTS is due in mid-April, and should be a fantastic release.
19:09 < nhaines> Canonical now offers individuals up to three computers with Ubuntu Advantage features such as extended support maintanence for Ubuntu 14.04 LTS and kernal live patch support, with up to fifty systems for Ubuntu members.  So it's never been a better time to run an Ubuntu server.
19:10 < nhaines> We're looking for SCALE volunteers.  As always, if you have the ability to help out at the booth for a couple of hours, it's a great way to help out Ubuntu and the LoCo, as well as gain experience representing Ubuntu in a very friendly, welcoming environment.  SCALE is a great way to meet a lot of other Free Software and Open Source software community members.
19:11 < nhaines> I'll follow up with more information on the mailing list soon.
19:11 < nhaines> Is there any other business to discuss for this meeting?
19:11  * lynorian does not have anything
19:15 < nhaines> Okay, so our next meeting will be on Februrary 16th, 2020.  I hope to see more people there.  Happy new year, and have a great rest of your January!
19:15 < nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
