{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, September 22nd, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. 13.10 release events
 2. SCALE CFP Opened

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Sep 23 02:00:34 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> #chair philipballew grantbow
[02:00] <darthrobot> Current chairs: grantbow philipballew pleia2
[02:01] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting? :)
[02:01] <eps> o/
[02:01] <grantbow> \o
[02:01] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13September22
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13September22 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <pleia2> hey, we have agenda items!
[02:01] <pleia2> #topic 13.10 release events
[02:02] <pleia2> we have none yet :\ but I hope to get details together for something in SF soon
[02:02]  * philipballew has none planned for the south so cal area.
[02:02] <philipballew> We will not have cd's again as they are for lts's also
[02:02] <pleia2> philipballew: maybe just an extended ubuntu hour?
[02:03] <philipballew> pleia2, Yeas, We did not have one this month because SFD was the event, but I will do an extended one probably, or just rename the ubuntu meetup.
[02:03] <pleia2> cool
[02:03] <philipballew> my ubuntu hours run about 2 hours anyway
[02:03] <pleia2> hehe
[02:04] <pleia2> #topic SCALE CFP Opened
[02:04] <pleia2> philipballew: yay! have #link?
[02:04]  * philipballew grabs link
[02:05] <pleia2> I might owe richard an email re: ubucon
[02:05] <eps> Supposedly registration was supposed to open today (it didn't happen).
[02:05] <philipballew> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp/
[02:05] <darthrobot> Title: [Call for Papers | SCALE 12x]
[02:05] <pleia2> \o/
[02:05] <philipballew> pleia2, I and Richard have been in communication for Ubucon.
[02:05] <pleia2> and we'll have a booth this year again
[02:06] <pleia2> philipballew: oh good, I said I'd help with the site and things but then I fear I disappeared, or maybe he was supposed to follow up :) I forget
[02:06] <pleia2> I am still willing to help though
[02:07] <philipballew> He seems to have it down, and I offered my help to anything he needs. I bet he knows you are willing.
[02:07] <pleia2> ok, thanks
[02:08] <pleia2> #topic any other business
[02:08] <pleia2> the SFD event for SFSU was moved, it's now this week, on thursday: http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2013/USA/CA/San%20Francisco/San%20Francisco%20State%20University
[02:08] <darthrobot> Title: [2013/USA/CA/San Francisco/San Francisco State University - Software Freedom Day Wiki]
[02:09] <pleia2> I think that's all I've got
[02:09] <philipballew> Hope the event is good there. The event I went to was nice, and I was able to hand out abot 50 lanyards and gave away 5 copies of the Ubuntu Server Book that just came out.
[02:09] <grantbow> kallecarl mentioned in this channel on the 16th that QT Developer Days is at the SF Aiport Marriott Nov 6-8 http://www.qtdeveloperdays.com/northamerica
[02:09] <darthrobot> Title: [Qt Developer Days 2013 North America | Qt Developer Days]
[02:10] <grantbow> Airport
[02:10] <pleia2> philipballew: oh yes, any pictures?
[02:10] <pleia2> reminds me, I should follow up to see where our copy of the server book ended up, never heard back from the publisher
[02:11] <philipballew> pleia2, should be by the end of tomorrow. I need to go in and edit a few. Also, i am friends with the person giving the book away. If you want, i can call her.
[02:11] <philipballew> I will put out a plog of the event I went to on Tuesday proably.
[02:12] <grantbow> nice
[02:12] <pleia2> philipballew: heather?
[02:12] <philipballew> pleia2, yes, she is the one who sent me the books.
[02:12] <pleia2> yeah, I know her, I just need to reach out again :)
[02:12] <philipballew> pleia2, alright. I know you do a lot so just offered to help.
[02:13] <pleia2> always appreciated!
[02:13]  * pleia2 looks forward to blog post
[02:14] <pleia2> anyone else have anything?
[02:16] <philipballew> https://twitter.com/zoftweb/status/381245415716163584/photo/1
[02:16] <darthrobot> Title: [Twitter / zoftweb: #devfestsfd2013 http://t.co/8G84jCUSYb]
[02:16] <philipballew> picture from the event
[02:16]  * philipballew grabbed it from head of events twitter
[02:16] <pleia2> cool
[02:17] <philipballew> I think we are all done here
[02:17] <pleia2> broder, Gareth, anything to add before I finish this meeting? :)
[02:18] <pleia2> scale4ever
[02:18] <pleia2> ok, thanks everyone
[02:18] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
