{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu California is a group of volunteers who advocate and promote Ubuntu and Free Software in California. We attend and plan events statewide, contact and work with LUGs and other local groups, and act as the public face of the Ubuntu community in California. The group is open to everybody in the state with an interest in spreading and discussing Ubuntu.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 18 October 2015
* '''Team Contact''' - <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> lyz@ubuntu.com
* '''Membership''' - 49 as of 18 October 2015
* '''Launchpad Team''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-california]]</nowiki>
* '''Mailing List''' - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca|ubuntu-us-ca]]</nowiki> on lists.ubuntu.com (236 subscribed as of 20 October 2015)
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-us-ca on Freenode (<nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Meetings|IRC meetings]]</nowiki> every other Sunday)
* '''Forums''' - <nowiki>[[http://california.ubuntuforums.org/]]</nowiki>
* '''Team Reports''' - <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-TeamReports]]</nowiki>
* '''Bi-Weekly Team Meetings''' - <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki>
* '''Microblogs''' - <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/ubuntucalifornia|Identi.ca]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/ubuntu_us_ca|Twitter]]</nowiki> (same data as identi.ca)
* '''Flickr''' - <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntu-us-ca]]</nowiki>
* '''Facebook''' - <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.california|Facebook]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===

==== Upcoming Events ====

We host monthly Ubuntu Hours across the state, see <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/events/]]</nowiki> for a list of upcoming events.

We also host bi-weekly meetings in #ubuntu-us-ca

==== Goals ====

* Organize and participate in Ubucon Summit at <nowiki>[[https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/|SCaLE 14X]]</nowiki> in January 2016
* Host Ubuntu Booth at <nowiki>[[https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/|SCaLE 14X]]</nowiki> in January 2016
* Host at least one release party for 15.10 and begin planning state-wide release parties for 16.04 LTS
* Participate in UbuntuGlobalJam again

=== Experience ===

See our <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/events/history|Events History]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki> for details.

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
