{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

We will be celebrating the <nowiki>[[UtopicUnicorn-ReleaseSchedule|release of Ubuntu 14.10 (Utopic Unicorn)]]</nowiki> which is happening in October, 2014. Physical and virtual (IRC & other) Utopic events will be scheduled.  Each release cycle a number of efforts happen focused around the release.  Globally, <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki> events happen a month or two before the release focusing on new contributors.  Parties (listed below) and <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki> happen near or after the release.  If you are thinking about organizing one, <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningReleaseParty]]</nowiki> has some hints more hints are described in a video <nowiki>[[http://www.ustream.tv/recorded/6181333|how to do a release party.]]</nowiki> "... can be organized in literally 10 minutes."

=== Utopic Release Parties ===

We will plan release parties in future IRC meetings and on the mailing list.

These events are listed chronologically. Details have yet to be confirmed. World wide events are listed on the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/|LoCo directory]]</nowiki>.

==== Parties ====

===== San Francisco =====
* Date: Thursday, October 23rd
* Time: 6-8PM
* Coordinator: jyo
* Location: Mozilla, San Francisco
* Event page and RSVP: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2912-san-francisco-utopic-release-party/
* Mailing list thread organization: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2014-October/002523.html

===== Place =====
* Date:
* Time:
* Location:
* Coordinator:
* Event page and RSVP:
* Mailing list thread organization:

===== Brainstorming =====

==== Installfests ====

=== DVD Distribution ===

Canonical no longer produces DVDs for non-LTS releases.

For large conferences please contact Elizabeth Krumbach at lyz@ubuntu.com to request an UbuntuAtConferences conference pack plus DVDs ''at LEAST 6 weeks prior to the event'' and you can request DVDs.

=== General Info ===
* '''<nowiki>[[UtopicUnicorn|Utopic Unicorn 14.10]]</nowiki> started after the release of 14.04 LTS Trusty Tahr. See <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-UsingDevelopmentReleases]]</nowiki>.  The final stable version is <nowiki>[[UtopicUnicorn-ReleaseSchedule|scheduled]]</nowiki> for release in October, 2014.'''
* For general Ubuntu information please see <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|www.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> or ask in one of Ubuntu's <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support/communitysupport|community support areas]]</nowiki>.
* The <nowiki>[[UDS-U|Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki> for Utopic Unicorn will be held online. A Technical Overview and <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/utopic|Blueprints]]</nowiki> will be used as guides for producing this release.
