{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, November 15th 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
   a. Ubuntu California leadership nominations begin on November 15th. 

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

<pre>
[03:00] <nhaines> #startmeeting
[03:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Nov  2 03:00:45 2015 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:00] <nhaines> Well, it's meeting time again tonight!
[03:01] <nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15November01
[03:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15November01 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:01] <nhaines> Who's around for the meeting?  :)
[03:03] <jbermudes> Hello :)
[03:04] <nhaines> o hai!
[03:04] <nhaines> Okay, I guess we'll hold the metting after all.  :)
[03:04] <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
[03:04] <nhaines> New things might be happening and this is where you get to say them!
[03:04] <DonkeyHotei> are there any?
[03:05] <nhaines> Ubuntu Online Summit starts on Saturday.
[03:05] <nhaines> http://summit.ubuntu.com/
[03:05] <darthrobot> Title: [Home | The Summit Scheduler]
[03:05] <DonkeyHotei> is that what replaced uds?
[03:05] <nhaines> Or more specifically, http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1511/
[03:05] <darthrobot> Title: [UOS November 2015 03 Nov - 05 Nov 2015 | The Summit Scheduler]
[03:05] <nhaines> Yes.
[03:06] <nhaines> I'll be hosting a session on Tuesday to gather ideas for the Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase for xenial.
[03:06] <nhaines> And we'll be holding our weekly Ubucon Summit planning talk in public on Wednesday.
[03:07] <nhaines> Meanwhile, SGVLUG is having a 20th anniversary celebration on November 14th, and everyone's invited.
[03:07] <nhaines> jbermudes: any information about that?
[03:07] <jbermudes> Yup! Please RSVP at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/sgvlug-20th-anniversary-party-tickets-18956875525 so we can know how much food to get
[03:07] <darthrobot> Title: [SGVLUG 20th Anniversary Party Tickets, Pasadena | Eventbrite]
[03:08] <jbermudes> There's going to be food, games, prizes, and a look back at the things we've done as a community over the past 20 years
[03:09] <nhaines> Pretty awesome.  We sent DVDs and a conference pack over.
[03:09] <jbermudes> Ever since nhaines and Flannel gave a talk there a few years ago there's been a growing number of Ubuntu users there and have even spun off an Ubuntu Hour that meets before each LUG meeting, so Ubuntu is a star in that community, which is why you're all invited :)
[03:10] <nhaines> And the Ubuntu Hour crowd there is a lot of fun.  I was glad I drove out to Pasadena early last time before my talk.
[03:11] <nhaines> #topic Announcements
[03:11] <nhaines> It's about time to start thinking about holding LoCo leadership elections again.
[03:11] <nhaines> I plan to open the nomination period starting on November 15th, and then after two weeks we'll vote.
[03:13] <DonkeyHotei> it's been a light year for the loco
[03:14] <nhaines> Are there any other announcements?
[03:17] <nhaines> #topic Agenda items
[03:17] <nhaines> There are no items on this meeting's agenda.
[03:17] <nhaines> #topic Other business
[03:17] <nhaines> Anything else before we wrap things up tonight?
[03:18] <DonkeyHotei> have there been announcements about the convergence device?
[03:18] <nhaines> No.
[03:22] <nhaines> Okay our next meeting is November 15th!  I'll see you all there!
[03:22] <nhaines> #endmeeting
[03:22] <darthrobot> Meeting ended Mon Nov  2 03:22:31 2015 UTC.
[03:22] <darthrobot> Minutes:        http://ihas.5cat.com/~darthrobot/ubuntu-us-ca/2015/ubuntu-us-ca.2015-11-02-03.00.moin.txt
=== ChanServ changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-ca to: Welcome to the Ubuntu California Local Community (LoCo) Team! | Website: http://ubuntu-california.org (has links to mailing list, forum, and more!) | Next Meeting: Sunday, November 15th, at 7:00pm PST (UTC -8:00) This channel is logged at irclogs.ubuntu.com | We have an unlogged channel at #ubuntu-us-ca-offtopic
[06:22] <pleia2> sorry I missed the meeting, busy and chaos since finally getting home yesterday
[19:02] <ianorlin> pleia2: +1  I basically ended up crashing at 4pm yesterday
[19:03] <ianorlin> Then ended up eating something and being really hungry hnd having to help my dad
=== evilnhandler is now known as nhandler</pre>
