{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, June 3rd, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

{{{#!IRC 02:02:31 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:02:31 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jun  4 02:02:31 2018 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:02:31 <darthrobot> 
 02:02:31 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:02:58 <nhaines> Hello everyone, and welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for June 3rd, 2018.
 02:03:51 <nhaines> Our agenda is available here and is empty: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18June03
 02:03:51 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18June03 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:04:21 <nhaines> I don't think anyone's here tonight, so this will be a brief meeting.
 02:04:26 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 02:05:00 <nhaines> There are no upcoming events that I know of.  Summer's a great time for installfests, so if anyone is interseted in organizing one, we have several members who have experience and can lend advice.
 02:05:04 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:05:54 <nhaines> I got a surprised package in the mail last week: a Bq M10 FHD Ubuntu Edition tablet.  It's now running UBports and is a very nice piece of hardware.  I can see why people were so happy with theirs.
 02:06:45 <nhaines> I'm not sure what I'm going to do with it yet.  Maybe a bit of archival work and maybe a bit of documentation.  And soon, UBports will release 16.04-based images, so that will be nice.
 02:06:51 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:06:56 <nhaines> There is no agenda for tonight's meeting.
 02:07:01 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:07:09 <nhaines> Is there any other business before we wrap things up?
 02:08:40 <nhaines> Okay, our next meeting is scheduled for June 17th.  Hope to see people there!
 02:08:43 <nhaines> #endmeeting}}}
