{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, February 25th, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. <nowiki>[[https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x|Southern California Linux Expo]]</nowiki>
  a. <nowiki>[[http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-scale/|UbuCon at SCALE]]</nowiki>
# Announcements
# Last-minute SCALE status check-in.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Full Log ===

 03:01:11 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 03:01:11 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Feb 26 03:01:11 2018 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 03:01:11 <darthrobot`> 
 03:01:11 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 03:01:25 <nhaines> Hello and welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for February 25th, 2018.
 03:01:37 <nhaines> Tonight's agenda can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18February25
 03:01:37 <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18February25 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 03:02:36 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
 03:03:26 <nhaines> In a week and a half, SCALE begins!  From March 8th through 11th in Pasadena, one of the best Free and Open Source Software conferences in the US is going to be a blast once again!
 03:03:38 <nhaines> More info about SCALE: https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x
 03:03:38 <darthrobot`> Title: [SCALE 16x | 16x]
 03:04:48 <nhaines> And for the first two days of SCALE, Richard Gaskin and I are hosting UbuCon, which is a two-day conference packed with speakers from all around the Ubuntu community.  System 76 is keynoting this year and talking about how Ubuntu and Pop!_OS are related.
 03:04:56 <nhaines> More info about UbuCon at SCALE: http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-scale/
 03:04:56 <darthrobot`> Title: [UbuCon at SCALE | UbuCon portal]
 03:05:09 <nhaines> Are there any other upcoming events on the horizon?
 03:06:49 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 03:08:01 <nhaines> We have some great speakers lined up for UbuCon, and I'm really excited to see them!  From Ubuntu California, we have Jono Bacon, Elizabeth Joseph (pleia2) and Nathan Handler (nhandler) as well as myself speaking.
 03:08:26 <nhaines> Plus Richard Gaskin and I are doing our traditional Ubuntu Q&A on Friday night.
 03:09:14 <nhaines> On to the agenda...
 03:09:22 <nhaines> #topic Last-minute SCALE status check-in.
 03:11:31 <nhaines> UbuCon is nominal.  SCALE stepped up to help us out.  Canonical offered money via the community fund and asked me to submit a request with a specific number, but they have not approved it yet.
 03:12:00 <nhaines> SCALE has always been an amazing partner and this continues this year more than ever.
 03:13:08 <nhaines> Canonical sent us a Conference Pack but has yet to approve the donations request.  Combined with that and the lack of volunteers for booth duty, I may not be able to keep the booth open for the entire expo.
 03:13:38 <nhaines> At the moment, we're looking at only having the booth open on Saturday.  This has a chance of impacting our eligibility for a booth in the future.
 03:14:17 <nhaines> That said, George Mulak hasvolunteered most of the supplies and to help out when he can.  So a giant thanks to him for stepping up to help.
 03:17:03 <nhaines> I know that the wiki continues to be a problem.  But we absolutely need volunteers to put on community events like this, so please send an email if you can help.  I'll be emailing the list after the meeting.
 03:18:09 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 03:18:22 <nhaines> Is there any other business before we wrap things UP?
 03:18:31 <nhaines> Hello, surprise CapsLock!  :)
 03:20:03 <nhaines> All right.  I hope to see some of you at UbuCon which will be amazing, and I also hope to see some of you at the booth as well.  :)
 03:20:40 <nhaines> No meeting on the 11th in lieu of SCALE, so I'll see everyone back in here for a meeting on March 25th.
 03:20:47 <nhaines> Enjoy the rest of your Sunday!
 03:20:49 <nhaines> #endmeeting
