{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, December 15th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. None.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Dec 16 03:00:36 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:00] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting? :)
[03:00] <akk> o/
[03:01] <pleia2> woohoo, hi akk!
[03:01] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13December15
[03:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13December15 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:01] <pleia2> we don't have anything on the agenda
[03:01] <pleia2> I emailed philipballew on Thursday about scale, he's bugging Gareth for booth info + codes
[03:02] <pleia2> so hopefully we'll have the discount code for the team soon, and info about where our booth will be, how many booth volunteers get expo badges, etc
[03:03] <eps> Do we know when Full Access Pass rates go up?
[03:04] <pleia2> I don't see anything on their site about early bird registration or anything
[03:04] <eps> The current prices are the early bird prices. The discount codes take a percentage off, so it behooves people to register early.
[03:05] <pleia2> ah, no, I don't know when the prices change
[03:05] <eps> Hence we need to find out if there are Ubucon discounts ASAP.
[03:05] <pleia2> I know, that's why I emailed philip and he's talking to gareth :)
[03:06] <pleia2> our wiki page is coming together here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x
[03:06] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:06] <pleia2> I signed up for stuff, assuming I'm going ;) If I can't make it I'll send the stuff down with someone else
[03:07] <pleia2> that's all I've got for scale really, hopefully philipballew will follow up on list soon with more details
[03:08] <pleia2> last event on the agenda for the year is an Ubuntu Hour in Mountain View
[03:08] <pleia2> #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2661-ubuntu-hour-mountain-view/
[03:08] <pleia2> hopefully some people can come :)
[03:08] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour Mountain View | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[03:08] <eps> Yay!
[03:08] <akk> yay indeed! I'll be there with d, assuming he's over his cold by then and I haven't caught it.
[03:08] <pleia2> great (except for the cold, no fun!)
[03:09] <pleia2> we canceled the last meeting of the year due to holidays proximity
[03:09]  * pleia2 hopes to be on a beach in miami
[03:09] <pleia2> next meeting is on january 12th
[03:09] <pleia2> anything else, anyone? :)
[03:15] <pleia2> ok, have a great holidays everyone!
[03:15] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
