{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, October 2nd, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
# Add your agenda item here.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>  02:02:01 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:02:01 <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Oct  3 02:02:01 2016 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:02:01 <darthrobot`> 
 02:02:01 <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:02:28 <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for October 2nd.  There's no agenda for tonight so we're going to make this quick.
 02:02:35 <nhaines> #topic Announcements
 02:03:00 <nhaines> Ubuntu 16.10 is coming out on October 13th!
 02:04:58 <nhaines> Updates are pretty subtle, but LibreOffice is new and Update Manager now shows PPA changelogs, which I could have sworn was added 5 years ago.
 02:05:55 <lynorian> there were pretty big changes in virt manager if you use that for virtual machines but that is not installed by default as well
 02:05:58 <nhaines> In any case, I expect that Unity 8 should be more or less usable soon, although still pretty rough.
 02:06:34 <nhaines> It will be very interesting to see how snaps affect the need to run interrim updates between LTSes.
 02:06:54 <nhaines> Anyhow, this is a great excuse for a release party to get together with friends, so think about it!
 02:07:29 <nhaines> Is there anything else that anybody wants to announce?
 02:09:27 * lynorian does not have anything
 02:10:24 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:10:31 <nhaines> There are no agenda items for tonight.
 02:10:36 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:10:44 <nhaines> Last chance to speak.  :)
 02:13:14 <nhaines> Okay, our next meeting will be on Sunday, October 16th.   Have fun everybody!
 02:13:17 <nhaines> #endmeeting </pre>
