{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border-style:none;" style="border-style:none">
|}

==== Description ====

The Solano Stroll <nowiki>[[http://www.solanoavenueassn.org/strol.htm|event]]</nowiki> is a ~ mile long street fair held once a year in Berkeley California  on Solano Ave.  There are over 500 vendor and non-profit booths.  Attendees are ordinary folks from the Berkeley/SF-Bay area who may or may not have a technical background.  It is, thus, a good opportunity to advertise Ubuntu to a general audience.  

* '''Date:''' Sunday, September 11th 2011
* '''Time:''' 10am - 6pm
* '''Location:''' Booth will be at 1223 Solano Ave., Berkeley
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1208/detail/|LoCo directory entry]]</nowiki> (sign up here!)
* Photos:
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntu-us-ca/sets/72157627526002367/
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/sets/72157627650086116/
* Blog posts:
** http://blog.partimus.org/?p=118
** http://princessleia.com/journal/?p=4989

==== Planning ====

===== Things we have =====

* Tent
* 2 Big Tables
* 3 Chairs
* 1 Banner
* 4 Plastic Display Cases 
* Stuffed Tux and Android Figures
* 1 LCD TV with Demo Machine
* 50 Nice Pressed Natty CDs (we'll give these out to people who show a real interest in installing linux)
* 2 orange tablecloths -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki> 
===== Things we need =====

* About 200 Burned Live CDs
* Power - does anyone have an inverter with a big battery?  Or some sort of big battery backup
* A couple laptops to display
* 400 Flyers

==== Volunteers ====

Sign up at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1208/detail/|LoCo directory entry]]</nowiki> or here

* Jack Deslippe
* Elizabeth Krumbach
* Add your name here!

==== Photos ====
