{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Sunday, October 21st, 2007, 7:00pm (1900) PDT

=== Summary ===
1. Gutsy Installfest
   a. Info page: <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-GutsyRelease]]</nowiki>
   a. Yasumoto had problems getting a room for it, so we need to reconsider venue and time.
     i. Ideas: move venue to CSU Dominguez Hills' Sun Lab; push date back a week; co-ordinate with the new LUG at Cabrillo College?
   a. Maybe film the talks? Maybe come up with a schedule of talks?
   a. Probably not allowed food in installfest venue; go to a restaurant afterwards instead?
   a. Presentations: nhaines on GPG, lcafiero on FOSS
2. California LUG discussion
   a. lcafiero mentioned that Cabrillo College is forming a LUG
   a. Yasumoto and charlesnw mentioned OCLUG, but neither have had much of a chance to meet them
   a. UC Irvine has no LUG activity :-(
   a. SVLUG had a Gutsy installfest yesterday that went really well.
3. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Logo|New Logo]]</nowiki> discussion
   a. Several people liked 6, but think that the drop shadow makes it too busy.
   a. Consensus that dropping the shadow from 6 would make it the best.
4. General discussion about filming and multimedia on Linux

=== Original Agenda ===
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-GutsyRelease|Install Fest Update]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Logo|Logo Changes-Discussion]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===
<pre>
(07:18:34 PM) Yasumoto: Alright, I say we get started then
(07:18:41 PM) cactaur: ok!
(07:18:56 PM) Yasumoto: anyone have anything to say before we get rolling>?
(07:19:34 PM) nhaines: I have no regrets!
(07:19:42 PM) Yasumoto: haha, yea-uh
(07:20:05 PM) Yasumoto: So the agenda is at
(07:20:06 PM) Yasumoto: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/07October21
(07:20:17 PM) Yasumoto: as usual, and only has the install fest and our logo on it
(07:20:46 PM) Yasumoto: I'm sure that we've all read about my misadventures with getting us a room ( https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/GutsyRelease )
(07:21:35 PM) Yasumoto: We'll need to change the time, venue, or both
(07:21:45 PM) Yasumoto: and I think whatever works for the most people would be best
(07:22:08 PM) lcafiero: This is at Chapman, Yasumoto?
(07:22:09 PM) Yasumoto: charlesnw: you use a room for your lug, right?
(07:22:16 PM) charlesnw: yes
(07:22:19 PM) Yasumoto: lcafiero: yeah, in Orange
(07:22:21 PM) charlesnw: the sun lab at CSUDH
(07:22:42 PM) Yasumoto: it sounds like it'd be pretty sweet
(07:22:53 PM) harkonen: i'd go to CSUDH just to see the sun lab
(07:23:12 PM) Yasumoto: especially if you bring your wireless router :)
(07:23:25 PM) Yasumoto: is there a projector, by any chance?
(07:26:30 PM) ***cactaur realized neither of the locations are that far from his home.
(07:27:51 PM) DWonderly: when are we doing this?
(07:28:51 PM) nhaines: That's the $10,000 question.
(07:29:03 PM) DWonderly: <G>
(07:29:37 PM) Yasumoto: it depends when charlesnw can get the room
(07:29:43 PM) lcafiero: Sorry, I'm on the central coast. Dominguez Hills is Carson?
(07:29:50 PM) charlesnw: yes there is a projector
(07:29:59 PM) Yasumoto: I'm going to talk to the Calendaring office to see if next saturday is going to be free, just in case
(07:30:31 PM) Yasumoto: would anyone here be adversely affected by pushing the date back a week?
(07:30:46 PM) nhaines: lcafiero: right, Caron.
(07:30:47 PM) DWonderly: I'm in SD and I'm looking at my underway schedule...
(07:30:48 PM) nhaines: I mean Carson.
(07:30:49 PM) charlesnw: the room is available on Saturday Nov 3
(07:31:06 PM) nhaines: I am still available a week later.
(07:31:13 PM) charlesnw: I am available that day.
(07:31:18 PM) charlesnw: lcafiero: yes its in Carson
(07:31:20 PM) lcafiero: <--- thinking road trip . . . :-)
(07:31:27 PM) charlesnw: definetely. :)
(07:31:34 PM) charlesnw: I have updated the lilax.net site with a placeholder
(07:31:50 PM) charlesnw: will add more info after the final determination is made. and of course promote it to all the lugs and around town etc
(07:32:03 PM) DWonderly: I *might* be in port.
(07:34:38 PM) Yasumoto: DWonderly: mm, alright
(07:35:06 PM) Yasumoto: charlesnw: so you can't make it this saturday, but if we hold it next week, then you can, right?
(07:35:13 PM) charlesnw: correct
(07:35:20 PM) DWonderly: If I am I'll try and show up.
(07:35:23 PM) DWonderly: If I can
(07:35:27 PM) charlesnw: cool DWonderly
(07:35:32 PM) Yasumoto: DWonderly: you better :P
(07:35:35 PM) DWonderly: :P
(07:35:35 PM) charlesnw: hehe
(07:35:40 PM) DWonderly: Hey now.
(07:35:51 PM) lcafiero: I'm still on vacation, so I may just take a drive down . . .
(07:35:59 PM) DWonderly: I can see if one of the ready rooms on the ship is open... LOL
(07:35:59 PM) Yasumoto: charlesnw: well that's a pretty big push for me to say drop it back a week, since I don't see anyone else with an issue
(07:36:04 PM) Yasumoto: lcafiero: that'd be sweet
(07:36:22 PM) Yasumoto: (total side tangent: http://www.yale.edu/ypu/blog.html )
(07:38:20 PM) Yasumoto: Anyone have anything else to add about the install fest for now?
(07:38:51 PM) nhaines: Yes. We should set up an agenda with times for things.
(07:38:51 PM) lcafiero: Well, I have something tangenital: Cabrillo College, where I'm a student, is forming a LUG
(07:38:56 PM) charlesnw: I would like to film the install fest and presentation if that is alright
(07:39:08 PM) Yasumoto: nhaines: great idea. I totally second that
(07:39:17 PM) lcafiero: film is good.
(07:39:36 PM) nhaines: I want a record of any presentation I give, so film is good. :)
(07:39:36 PM) charlesnw: ah but if it can't be pushed back I won't make it. I didn't see the new part of the convo. it scrolled off my screen
(07:39:38 PM) Yasumoto: charlesnw: if nhaines is cool with that, then that'd be awesome :)
(07:39:45 PM) DWonderly: Video it and setup a stream so people can join in remote.
(07:39:48 PM) DWonderly: :P
(07:40:04 PM) Yasumoto: DWonderly: :)
(07:40:05 PM) charlesnw: yes that is what I am actually playing with. hence the ubuntu studio install I mentioned earlier
(07:40:07 PM) nhaines: I was going to talk to a friend about filming my presentation and I want to make it available online.
(07:40:20 PM) Yasumoto: cool then, that'd be sick
(07:40:27 PM) nhaines: charlesnw: I think that's an excellent idea!
(07:40:28 PM) DWonderly: that would be.
(07:40:31 PM) Yasumoto: nhaines: how long do you think your presentation will be?
(07:40:45 PM) ***DWonderly needs a better monitor
(07:40:57 PM) Yasumoto: DWonderly: it's from 1998 or something, right?
(07:41:00 PM) nhaines: I'll keep it short. 2 hours should be enough to cover the basic history of cryptographic technique.
(07:41:00 PM) ***charlesnw installs peercast
(07:41:09 PM) nhaines: Just kidding. :) I'm thinking maybe 20 minutes.
(07:41:12 PM) charlesnw: hahah
(07:41:14 PM) DWonderly: yeah.
(07:41:20 PM) DWonderly: first gen LCD
(07:41:29 PM) lcafiero: Rats, I was looking forward to cryptographics
(07:42:12 PM) lcafiero: :-)
(07:42:59 PM) charlesnw: so I guess the date is still in contention?
(07:43:02 PM) nhaines: I'd still like to do an Open Source software presentation, which is what I originally volunteered for. :P But I don't know if I'll have time to prepare both.
(07:43:50 PM) Yasumoto: charlesnw: I don't want to make any final decisions with Flannel being MIA
(07:43:56 PM) charlesnw: of course
(07:43:59 PM) Yasumoto: but it's definitely leaning towards next weekend :)
(07:44:08 PM) Yasumoto: thanks so much, by the way
(07:44:28 PM) charlesnw: fair enough. unfortunately the conflicting event is something I paid for and such. otherwise I would go.
(07:44:39 PM) Yasumoto: otherwise I'd be tripping out trying to deal with my school's beauracracy
(07:44:41 PM) charlesnw: perhaps we can have another meetup or 2 and I can film and such.
(07:44:43 PM) Yasumoto: yeah, for sure
(07:44:48 PM) charlesnw: :)
(07:45:03 PM) charlesnw: not a problem.
(07:45:06 PM) Yasumoto: I'm just hoping/assuming that once I start to get known a bit more over there
(07:45:32 PM) Yasumoto: things'll be way easier if/when we want to try chapman again
(07:45:37 PM) charlesnw: oh totally
(07:45:41 PM) charlesnw: and the OC needs more linux stuff
(07:45:47 PM) Yasumoto: *shrug* live and learn X_X
(07:45:49 PM) charlesnw: its a bit dry in terms of in person meets etc
(07:45:57 PM) charlesnw: there is oclug.
(07:46:02 PM) charlesnw: but that's not really very active
(07:46:12 PM) Yasumoto: yeah, I know. I'm on the OCLUG list, but I always have a race or something when they have their meeting
(07:46:12 PM) nhaines: I think if we give a great impression at the first installfest, we'll be welcomed back again.
(07:46:13 PM) charlesnw: so much is going on in the LA county area.
(07:46:27 PM) Yasumoto: that's so awesome
(07:46:48 PM) Yasumoto: I've been talking to my friend at UCI, and he doesn't really see anyone using linux
(07:47:01 PM) Yasumoto: granted he doesn't really go out of his way, but still ..
(07:47:06 PM) charlesnw: yeah.
(07:47:08 PM) charlesnw: that's to bad
(07:47:31 PM) lcafiero: That'll have to change . . .
(07:47:46 PM) Yasumoto: yep :)
(07:47:54 PM) charlesnw: I want to do my part and provide support and guidance for getting the OC linux community up and running. I have been very active in the LA open source/linux community
(07:47:54 PM) lcafiero: . . . and I know just the people to do it
(07:48:05 PM) Yasumoto: lcafiero: orly?
(07:48:20 PM) nhaines: Oh?
(07:48:27 PM) Yasumoto: it's a bit hard for me currently, since I'm still only a sophomore
(07:48:27 PM) lcafiero: Looking around the room . . .
(07:48:30 PM) charlesnw: hahah
(07:48:36 PM) charlesnw: I figured that is what you meant
(07:48:47 PM) Yasumoto: but I've been pushing it pretty well lately, so things should just get easier
(07:48:51 PM) ***nhaines blinks innocently.
(07:49:03 PM) Yasumoto: nhaines: haha :)
(07:49:13 PM) lcafiero: Heh
(07:50:49 PM) charlesnw: so ..... anything else to discuss?
(07:51:08 PM) nhaines: Oh, one last thing: is there any possibility of food at either of the proposed installfest locations?
(07:51:12 PM) lcafiero: on the installfest?
(07:51:21 PM) charlesnw: yes
(07:51:32 PM) Yasumoto: nhaines: we're technically not supposed to have food in our computer labs, but we do what we want
(07:51:38 PM) charlesnw: nhaines: there is a cafeteria at csudh
(07:51:48 PM) charlesnw: but I don't think food/drinks are allowed technically
(07:52:00 PM) charlesnw: it would probably be best to do the install fest and then hit a restaurant after
(07:52:06 PM) Yasumoto: I just wanted to say that some of the proposed logos look pretty cool
(07:52:18 PM) lcafiero: Very cool
(07:52:59 PM) lcafiero: I like them all, but especially 2 with Ubuntu California under the bear
(07:53:05 PM) lcafiero: (the flag motif)
(07:53:16 PM) nhaines: I like 6 with the bear (but not the drop shadow), but I wonder if it isn't too busy.
(07:53:40 PM) nhaines: I'm not a big fan of number 2.
(07:53:47 PM) lcafiero: 4 is also good, with the circle of californias
(07:54:15 PM) lcafiero: I'd make the ubuntu circle smaller in the corner -- I'm partial to the California Republic flag, but I can stand aside
(07:56:26 PM) lcafiero: (that would make a cool flag, even if it weren't the logo)
(07:56:37 PM) Yasumoto: lcafiero: yeah, I agree
(07:58:43 PM) Yasumoto: I like the look of 6 a lot
(07:59:50 PM) Yasumoto: anyway, I think we should get rolling on that by the time of our next event
(08:00:05 PM) Yasumoto: anyone have anything else to add?
(08:00:33 PM) lcafiero: I'm on board with 6
(08:00:34 PM) Yasumoto: (seriously though, some people make some really cool logos)
(08:00:43 PM) lcafiero: Actually, they're all good
(08:00:58 PM) nhaines: It's been exciting to see other designs. :)
(08:01:03 PM) lcafiero: With or without the drop shadow?
(08:01:49 PM) harkonen: 6 is cool
(08:02:08 PM) lcafiero: (but I think we should have a flag that looks like 2 :) )
(08:02:39 PM) nhaines: I think the flag would look good no matter what logo we choose... just so long as we drop the Ubuntu font! :)
(08:02:55 PM) lcafiero: Agreed. It'd have to be the same font as the California Republic
(08:02:56 PM) Yasumoto: aww, but nhaines, it's so pretty ...
(08:03:11 PM) lcafiero: Yasumoto: Regardless, nhaines is right
(08:03:33 PM) nhaines: It just doesn't match. Far too wide compared to the compressed California Republic font.
(08:04:26 PM) Yasumoto: yeah, it's sorta like "CA U*B*U*N*T*U"
(08:04:33 PM) nhaines: haha
(08:04:35 PM) lcafiero: Heh
(08:04:49 PM) lcafiero: So is everyone OK with 6?
(08:05:26 PM) nhaines: I don't think it will iconify well.
(08:05:43 PM) nhaines: Also I'm against the drop shadow (it's really an outline anyway).
(08:06:27 PM) lcafiero: I'd like to drop the shadow. How about 4 or 5?
(08:06:52 PM) lcafiero: They're fairly simple, straightforward (and I mean that in a good way)
(08:06:54 PM) nhaines: I like five left, but I created it sooo...
(08:06:55 PM) Yasumoto: I think that the drop shadow gives it just a bit too much
(08:07:06 PM) Yasumoto: lcafiero: yeah, they should be relatively clean
(08:07:35 PM) lcafiero: I could go either way on 4 or 5, but lean toward 4 with the three Californias.
(08:07:47 PM) nhaines: I just don't like 4. Looks untidy.
(08:08:00 PM) lcafiero: Okay.
(08:08:11 PM) lcafiero: Not married to it here :-)
(08:08:13 PM) harkonen: yeah 4 is a bit much too many califnorias
(08:09:20 PM) Yasumoto: I think if 6 lost the drop shadows, it'd be unique and really stand out
(08:09:27 PM) harkonen: me too
(08:09:45 PM) lcafiero: Agreed
(08:10:18 PM) nhaines: I think it has something special.
(08:10:38 PM) lcafiero: Yeah, an icon that could eat everyone else's :-)
(08:10:42 PM) Yasumoto: cool, who's the person behind it?
(08:10:53 PM) nhaines: Scunizi.
(08:11:54 PM) lcafiero: So are we going with 6 sans shadows?
(08:12:42 PM) Yasumoto: I'd be down for sure
(08:12:56 PM) harkonen: I'd wear it on a t shirt with pride
(08:13:05 PM) nhaines: I think I can live with that. I know I'd wear it on a t-shirt.
(08:13:07 PM) lcafiero: I'd tattoo it on me . . . um, wait.
(08:13:21 PM) lcafiero: I vote for it
(08:13:27 PM) Yasumoto: lcafiero: hahaha :)
(08:14:11 PM) nhaines: I thought the northern California border didn't look right by itself but the bear makes it much less noticeable.
(08:14:18 PM) lcafiero: It would have to be a sweatshirt for me
(08:14:20 PM) charlesnw: brb
(08:14:28 PM) charlesnw left the room (quit: "Leaving.").
(08:14:29 PM) Yasumoto: dude.
(08:14:46 PM) Yasumoto: desperado-style bandana
(08:14:50 PM) nhaines: Hahaha!
(08:14:52 PM) lcafiero: Heh.
(08:15:03 PM) lcafiero: I'm being called for dinner: Could I mention a couple of things?
(08:15:08 PM) Yasumoto: of course
(08:15:37 PM) lcafiero: First, Cabrillo College is starting a LUG, and I think we can hold an installfest but it would be sometime mid-November
(08:15:42 PM) lcafiero: Always late to the party.
(08:15:59 PM) lcafiero: I'll know by Tuesday or Wednesday
(08:16:01 PM) charlesnw [n=charles@76.211.141.11] entered the room.
ChanServ charlesnw
(08:16:08 PM) nhaines: Welcome back, charlesnw
(08:16:32 PM) charlesnw: thanks. :)
(08:16:41 PM) charlesnw: just installed gnome-voice-control. had to logout/in
(08:16:52 PM) lcafiero: Last, but not least, if you don't mind a guest giving your FOSS presentation, and if nhaines doesn't mind, could I give the FOSS presentation?
(08:17:25 PM) nhaines: Hey, that means I can focus on the GPG presentation.
(08:17:39 PM) charlesnw: hehe
(08:17:42 PM) charlesnw: sounds good to me
(08:17:49 PM) charlesnw: Flannel: I see you made it
(08:17:51 PM) lcafiero: or the cryptographics, nhaines
(08:17:59 PM) lcafiero: :-)
(08:18:03 PM) nhaines: I can do my FOSS presentation as a webcast some other time.
(08:18:09 PM) lcafiero: Either way.
(08:19:00 PM) lcafiero: Oh, and one more thing: I'm sorry sn9 isn't here because he'd know if the Silicon Valley LUG had Gutsy Gibbon at their monthly installfest, which was yesterday
(08:19:43 PM) Yasumoto: lcafiero: that'd be cool. where is that?
(08:20:06 PM) lcafiero: They hold it on the 3rd Saturday of the month, which was yesterday, at Google.
(08:20:07 PM) sn9_ [n=danielg4@gimpelevich.san-francisco.ca.us] entered the room.
(08:20:12 PM) lcafiero: Speak of the devil
(08:20:15 PM) Yasumoto: haha
(08:20:16 PM) sn9_: lcafiero: i'm here now
(08:20:18 PM) Yasumoto: heya sn9_ :)
(08:20:25 PM) nhaines: yay!
(08:20:31 PM) Yasumoto: lcafiero: I think we'd all love to have you give a talk
(08:20:43 PM) lcafiero: Hey sn9, did the SVLUG have Gutsy Gibbon at the installfest yesterday?
(08:20:55 PM) sn9_: i heard the audible highlight from the other machine, and joined the channel on this one
(08:20:59 PM) charlesnw: hehe
(08:21:04 PM) sn9_: lcafiero: yes, indeedy
(08:21:46 PM) sn9_: we had a ton of new ppl show up, too
(08:21:53 PM) Yasumoto: sn9_: that's sweet :)
(08:21:55 PM) lcafiero: Excellent
(08:23:45 PM) lcafiero: Okay, now my family is glaring at me from the dinner table. Talk to you guys later.
(08:23:51 PM) Yasumoto: kk, sounds good
(08:23:51 PM) lcafiero left the room (quit: "Leaving").
(08:23:53 PM) The-Kernel: so how'd it go?
(08:23:59 PM) Yasumoto: The-Kernel! heya
(08:24:25 PM) The-Kernel: hey Yasumoto
(08:24:27 PM) Yasumoto: not too bad, we may be moving the install fest
(08:24:38 PM) The-Kernel: ah uh, ok
(08:24:47 PM) Yasumoto: have you checked out the mailing list recently?
(08:26:09 PM) The-Kernel: yeah
(08:26:50 PM) harkonen: yasumoto: is it "may" be moving or is it definitly being moved?
(08:27:17 PM) Yasumoto: it's definitely going to not be this saturday
(08:27:25 PM) charlesnw: oh
(08:27:29 PM) charlesnw: interesting
(08:27:32 PM) Yasumoto: and is probably going to be hosted by charlesnw at his place
(08:27:36 PM) Yasumoto: charlesnw: right?
(08:27:38 PM) charlesnw: yes
(08:27:39 PM) charlesnw: :)
(08:27:53 PM) charlesnw: was just waiting to see what the decision was
(08:27:59 PM) charlesnw: the venue is already secured and such
(08:28:04 PM) Yasumoto: ah, cool
(08:28:08 PM) charlesnw: once its finalized I will send out details to the list
(08:28:12 PM) Yasumoto: sweet
(08:28:16 PM) Yasumoto: :)
(08:28:18 PM) harkonen: good to know
(08:28:20 PM) nhaines: Great!
(08:28:23 PM) charlesnw: and bring my video gear and such. :)
(08:29:05 PM) charlesnw: by then I should have a fair amount of experience with the video stuff. I have filmed before and it came out fairly decent.
(08:29:13 PM) Yasumoto: charlesnw: cool
(08:29:14 PM) charlesnw: I may rent a wireless mic or 2
(08:29:24 PM) nhaines: Sounds great.
(08:29:42 PM) Yasumoto: charlesnw: yeah, I think I've heard that having a decent mic can make a huge impact on the quality
(08:29:56 PM) charlesnw: so what is the "process" for making the venue/date official?
(08:29:58 PM) nhaines: I have public speaking experience and can do with or without a mic.
(08:30:06 PM) charlesnw: cool!
(08:30:18 PM) nhaines: (With is always better, naturally)
(08:30:20 PM) charlesnw: plus ill have the camera fairly close to you. it helps I have filmed in that very room before. :)
(08:30:29 PM) charlesnw: multiple times
(08:30:50 PM) nhaines: Good. :)
(08:30:58 PM) Yasumoto: cool charlesnw
(08:31:10 PM) charlesnw: the audio was great (you can see the podcasts at http://casts.socallugs.com)
(08:31:17 PM) charlesnw: the video however wasn't as good as I would have liked
(08:32:12 PM) charlesnw: I will also be filming a presentation I am giving at USC this Thursday. and probably doing some filming over the weekend at the event I am going to.
(08:32:26 PM) nhaines: Time to shake the bugs out!
(08:32:43 PM) charlesnw: precisely
(08:33:00 PM) charlesnw: I am actually trying to launch a for profit venture that will sell linux related video training
(08:33:09 PM) charlesnw: and of course have free stuff
(08:33:13 PM) nhaines: ooh
(08:33:23 PM) Yasumoto: that sounds like it'd work well
(08:34:01 PM) charlesnw: so this is all part of that effort. :)
(08:34:01 PM) charlesnw: of course the for sale content would be produced new and under contract etc
(08:34:01 PM) charlesnw: filming lugs and other events would be free as it helps me work out bugs and capture good content that will benefit the community
(08:34:17 PM) lcafiero [n=lcafiero@h-68-164-242-21.snvacaid.dynamic.covad.net] entered the room.
(08:34:24 PM) sn9_: lcafiero: hi again
L1 lcafiero
(08:34:26 PM) Yasumoto: heya lcafiero :)
(08:34:28 PM) nhaines: Welcome back, lcafiero!
(08:34:45 PM) lcafiero: Thanks.
(08:35:07 PM) lcafiero: Brought dinner to the desk
(08:35:27 PM) harkonen: charlesnw what are ou editing on?
(08:35:30 PM) charlesnw: I certainly hope so
(08:35:30 PM) charlesnw: I would like to start producing a series of ubuntu desktop and server training videos first quarter next year
(08:35:30 PM) charlesnw: when I first started on linux nothing like that was available
(08:35:30 PM) charlesnw: the san diego ruby guys have had a lot of success with video training
(08:35:53 PM) charlesnw: but that's a few months out. between now and then there is a fair amount of trial/error to work through
(08:35:59 PM) charlesnw: well. kino and lives
(08:36:36 PM) harkonen: ive been editing on Blender lately but i want to try LiVES. do you have to compile from source or is their a package for Lives?
(08:36:39 PM) lcafiero: Great idea
(08:36:49 PM) charlesnw: also looking at http://www.jahshaka.org/
(08:37:15 PM) charlesnw: source last time I looked
(08:37:15 PM) charlesnw: I should package it.
(08:37:28 PM) harkonen: i don't love jahshaka. i like the idea but not really into how it actually works. blender so far is the best that ive found
(08:38:00 PM) Yasumoto: charlesnw: have you done pacakaging before? I'm just starting out
(08:38:28 PM) nhaines: If you do package it, Launchpad can host it.
(08:38:39 PM) harkonen: i heard autopackage was really good. is that what ur using?
(08:39:10 PM) charlesnw: Yasumoto: a bit
(08:39:34 PM) charlesnw: harkonen: how does blender handle dv?
(08:39:42 PM) charlesnw: nhaines: cool
(08:39:53 PM) harkonen: quite well as long as youve got the right codec installed
(08:40:19 PM) charlesnw: haven't heard of autopackage. was using dpkg tools
(08:41:11 PM) ***charlesnw plays with blender
(08:43:13 PM) nhaines: So is the meeting over or did I miss something? :)
(08:43:18 PM) charlesnw: I think so
(08:43:19 PM) charlesnw: :)
(08:43:22 PM) charlesnw: that its over that is
(08:43:32 PM) Yasumoto: well
(08:43:46 PM) Yasumoto: how about this
(08:43:53 PM) Yasumoto: anyone else have anything they want to bring up?
(08:43:53 PM) sn9_: we could still stick around a bit
(08:44:04 PM) Yasumoto: yeah, that's what I was thinking
(08:44:20 PM) Yasumoto: if anyone needs to get going, then they can head out
(08:44:30 PM) charlesnw: lives package: http://www.getdeb.net/app.php?name=lives
(08:44:32 PM) lcafiero: I'm going to tweak the flag a bit and present it to the group
(08:44:41 PM) Yasumoto: otherwise, feel free to stay for the after party
(08:44:50 PM) lcafiero: And we should have a flag to rally around . . . :-)
(08:44:52 PM) Yasumoto: lcafiero: awesome :)
(08:44:55 PM) Yasumoto: hahaha
</pre>
