{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, September 4th, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements
# Add your agenda item here.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre> 02:00:58 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:00:58 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Sep  5 02:00:58 2016 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:00:58 <darthrobot> 
 02:00:58 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:01:09 <nhaines> #chair nhaines pleia2 lynorian
 02:01:09 <darthrobot> Current chairs: lynorian nhaines pleia2
 02:01:34 <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for September 4th, 2016!  Tonight's agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16September04
 02:01:34 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16September04 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:02:01 <nhaines> #topic Upcoming events and general announcements
 02:02:11 <nhaines> Are there any announcements to be made?
 02:02:24 * pleia2 has none
 02:02:53 <nhaines> I suppose it's noteworthy, if 2.5 months off, that three of us are planning to attend UbuCon Europe.  :)
 02:03:02 <pleia2> indeed!
 02:03:11 <pleia2> they're started putting together the schedule :)
 02:03:20 <nhaines> They've finished putting together the schedule.  :)
 02:03:30 <pleia2> #link http://ubucon.org/en/events/ubucon-europe/
 02:03:30 <darthrobot> Title: [UbuCon Europe | UbuCon portal]
 02:03:53 <nhaines> It should be pretty fun, and by "fun" I mean I won't be running it, hehe.
 02:04:06 <nhaines> Although I'm sure I'll stilll be moving heavy things.
 02:05:40 <nhaines> Hmm, Ubuntu 16.10 is moving along quietly.  OTA-13 on the phones is coming, with copy/paste support between native Ubuntu SDK apps and legacy X desktop apps.
 02:06:16 <nhaines> The Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase wallpaper competition for 16.10 is ongoing: https://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntu-fcs-1610
 02:06:16 <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu 16.10 Free Culture Showcase - Wallpapers | Flickr]
 02:06:25 <nhaines> And that's all I've got.  :)
 02:06:33 <nhaines> #topic Agenda
 02:06:42 <nhaines> There are no agenda items this week.
 02:06:49 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:07:12 <pleia2> so I haven't been here since our SF release party
 02:07:36 <nhaines> Did we get an update on that?  How did that go?  :)
 02:07:49 <pleia2> it went ok :) wasn't blockbuster like past ones
 02:08:24 <pleia2> but we had fun, had tablets and laptops out for people to play with, and I did a 16.04 presentation + OTA 12
 02:08:27 <nhaines> Sometimes smaller parties can be fun.  More intricate conversations.
 02:08:52 <pleia2> http://princessleia.com/journal/2016/08/ubuntu-16-04-release-party-san-francisco-concluded/
 02:08:52 <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu 16.04 Release Party San Francisco Concluded! – pleia2's blog]
 02:08:53 <pleia2> yeah, there was a fair amount of that
 02:09:25 <pleia2> so we had about 15 people, lots of nice chats
 02:10:23 <pleia2> and OpenDNS was awesome for hosting
 02:10:34 <nhaines> For all the routineness of "it's the 24th Ubuntu release," 16.04 LTS was sort of game-changing.  :)
 02:11:01 <pleia2> not a bad place for a venue, but it was during a ball game which messed up traffic+parking a bit
 02:11:05 <pleia2> will have to pay attention to that next time
 02:11:27 <nhaines> It was really nice of OpenDNS to host.  :)
 02:11:37 <pleia2> yeah :)
 02:11:53 <pleia2> that's all really, glad we did it even if it was small
 02:12:33 <nhaines> That's great.  :)
 02:13:22 <nhaines> I'll bet the first release party after Unity 8 hits will be amazeballs.
 02:13:28 <pleia2> hope so!
 02:13:40 <nhaines> Until then, we just have to convince people that snaps change EVERYTHING.
 02:13:59 <nhaines> I don't have any other business.
 02:15:56 <nhaines> Okay, I think that's it for this week, then.
 02:16:11 <nhaines> I hope everyone has a relaxing Labor Day tomorrow.
 02:16:36 <pleia2> thanks, you too nhaines
 02:16:42 <nhaines> Thanks!  :)
 02:16:44 <pleia2> and happy birthday BirthdayHandler!
 02:16:53 <nhaines> Happy Birthday!
 02:17:09 <nhaines> #endmeeting </pre>
