{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, March 24th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. No agenda items

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Mar 25 02:00:11 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:00] <pleia2> who all is here for the team meeting? :)
[02:00]  * eps waves
[02:01] <philballew> here
[02:01]  * grantbow waves
[02:02] <pleia2> we had an ubuntu hour in SF recently, and someone else called the debian hour, was fun :)
[02:02] <pleia2> Rick Moen has been coming to the debian dinners lately
[02:02] <philballew> who is that?
[02:03] <pleia2> he's the king of all bay area linux things ;)
[02:03] <pleia2> runs a bunch of the mailing lists, old school linux guy
[02:03] <pleia2> he maintains http://linuxmafia.com/bale/ too
[02:03] <darthrobot`> Title: [The BALE -- Bay Area Linux Events]
[02:03]  * philballew thought pleia2 was king (or queen is she prefers) of bay area Linux.
[02:04] <pleia2> I am really a newbie here
[02:05] <eps> Are you going to be around for a regularly-scheduled S.F. Ubuntu Hour?
[02:05] <eps> (in April)
[02:05] <pleia2> yep
[02:05] <philballew> I will be at your may one probably if I am up there. June will not be as I will be south the border.
[02:05] <pleia2> and in May
[02:06] <grantbow> Ubuntu Hour in March was fun :-)
[02:06] <pleia2> no, not in may
[02:06] <philballew> If you need someone to run that one, I might be able to cover that
[02:07] <pleia2> I don't "own" it, so anyone is welcome to organize and call it if they're around :)
[02:07] <grantbow> It's just a matter of showing up and being friendly.
[02:07] <grantbow> we should do one every day in SF, lol
[02:07] <grantbow> "we" ;-)
[02:08] <philballew> Where two ubuntu users are gathered, an Ubuntu hour is there.
[02:09] <eps> pleia2: April 10 S.F. Ubuntu Hour + B.A.D.?
[02:10] <pleia2> eps: that's the plan
[02:10] <eps> pleia: please post to ML and add to LoCo directory when finalized
[02:10] <pleia2> always do :)
[02:10] <grantbow> wow
[02:11] <pleia2> anyone else have anything upcoming or ideas they wish to talk about?
[02:11] <eps> Release Party for 13.04? -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/RaringRelease
[02:11] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/RaringRelease - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:11] <philballew> eps, pleia2 is a busy person, she doesnt always have the time for those things.
[02:11] <pleia2> philballew: I always do them :(
[02:11] <pleia2> I won't be around for the release, so if someone wants to do the SF one, please do :)
[02:12] <philballew> pleia2, yes,and thank you for doing all you are able to.
[02:12]  * philballew has to go
[02:13] <eps> Raring's Final Beta is due April 4; grantbow has an Ubuntu Hour in Berkeley on April 6 (might be an opportunity to distribute copies for testing?).
[02:13] <grantbow> philballew: wow
[02:13] <grantbow> eps: are you making said copies?
[02:13] <eps> The Release is due April 25. BerkeleyLUG meets on the 28th, so we might want to do something in conjunction with that.
[02:15] <eps> grantbow: Maybe. We also have SF-LUG on April 7, so it makes sense.
[02:16] <grantbow> eps: if you are volunteering, great. If not please stop volunteering others to do work you think might "make sense"
[02:16] <pleia2> it's ok to toss ideas out there
[02:17] <pleia2> (but yeah, if they don't pan out, best way to make sure they do is to volunteer :))
[02:17] <eps> grantbow: The release is a month away. If we don't start talking about it now, it's NEVER going to happen. This group is not adept at doing anything last-minute.
[02:17] <eps> I'm not volunteering people; this is a call for volunteers. If I mention someone by name, they've already been contacted.
[02:18] <eps> O
[02:18]  * grantbow shrugs
[02:19] <eps> grantbow: you're not obligated to do anything.
[02:20] <pleia2> eps: perhaps you can drum up some support by posting some thoughts to the mailing list?
[02:20] <pleia2> I fly to philly for my wedding on the 23rd, so I won't be around for a while
[02:20] <pleia2> (eeeek that's a month away!)
[02:22] <eps> If Ubuntu adopts rolling releases, there may not be any Release Parties after this one.
[02:22] <pleia2> they voted not to
[02:23] <pleia2> they just cut the support time for non-lts 6 month releases to 9 months instead of 18
[02:23] <eps> I was under the impression the idea wasn't dead ... it's just going to be tweaked and reintroduced.
[02:23] <pleia2> and they'll have a "development" branch that people can subscribe to, that won't have releases, always development
[02:23] <eps> Next month features a trio of EOLs.
[02:24] <grantbow> makes sense - blog posts on that and related stuff at http://princessleia.com/journal/
[02:24] <darthrobot`> Title: [pleia2's blog]
[02:24] <eps> Perhaps we should be planning a wake?
[02:24] <pleia2> well, the tech board announcement is here: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2013/03/19/changes-in-ubuntu-releases-decided-by-the-ubuntu-technical-board/
[02:24] <darthrobot`> Title: [Changes in Ubuntu releases decided by the Ubuntu Technical Board]
[02:24] <pleia2> (my blog doesn't really talk about that directly :))
[02:25] <grantbow> ah, my mistake
[02:25] <grantbow> your blog is very informative though :-)
[02:26] <pleia2> thanks!
[02:28] <pleia2> ok, so release is a month away, some EOLs - 8.04 (hardy) server, 10.04 (lucid) deskop and 11.10
[02:28] <pleia2> (oneiric)
[02:29] <pleia2> anyone else have anything?
[02:31] <pleia2> alright, thanks everyone :)
[02:31] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
