{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, July 1st, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Your agenda item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

==== Meeting log ====

<pre>
02:00:23 <jtatum> #startmeeting
02:00:23 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Jul  2 02:00:23 2012 UTC.  The chair is jtatum. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
02:00:23 <darthrobot> 
02:00:23 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
02:00:38 <jtatum> Evening all! Who is here for tonight's meeting?
02:00:48 <icarus81> here
02:01:20 <akk> me
02:01:43 <jtatum> Cool! Here's our agenda for tonight:
02:01:53 <jtatum> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12July1
02:01:53 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12July1 - Ubuntu Wiki]
02:02:09 <jtatum> It's.. empty :)
02:02:33 <jtatum> So, we'll move straight to the usual standing agenda
02:02:36 <jtatum> #topic Upcoming events
02:02:51 <jtatum> Does anyone have any upcoming events to share?
02:03:06 * jledbetter is here.
02:04:08 <jtatum> There will be a Mountain View Ubuntu Hour on Thursday, 7/19. Details to be announced on-list soon.
02:05:29 <jtatum> No other events? Summer months do tend to be rather quiet.
02:05:37 <Corey> I will be in the bay area the week of the 9th should anyone come up with an event.
02:06:29 <jtatum> That's awesome, Corey! Might want to ping the ML.
02:07:26 <jtatum> OK. Moving along..
02:07:37 <jtatum> #topic Any other comments, questions, suggestions or ideas
02:08:57 <jtatum> Anybody? :) Everyone just outside enjoying the weather?
02:09:09 <jledbetter> Yep ;)
02:09:41 <icarus81> It was nice today. I didn't do much outside though.
02:10:14 <akk> I went for a hike, lovely weather!
02:10:41 <jtatum> It really is lovely weather, here in the bay area, anyhow.
02:10:54 <akk> (a hike that required driving the convertible a fair distance to get to the trailhead :)
02:11:02 <icarus81> My brother wants to go hike Mt Baldy this summer.
02:11:20 <eps_> Corey: SF Ubuntu Hour on the 11th: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1829/detail/
02:11:20 <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
02:12:23 <jtatum> Thanks, eps_!
02:12:23 <Corey> eps_: Yoink.
02:12:43 <jtatum> And thanks for coming, folks :)
02:12:46 <jtatum> #endmeeting
</pre>
