{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, November 15th, 2009, 7:00pm (1900) PST ===

==== Summary ====
 1. Announcements
  a. Next week is the <nowiki>[[UDS-L|Ubuntu Developer Summit for Lucid]]</nowiki>
   i. Remote participation options at <nowiki>[[UDS-L-RemoteParticipation]]</nowiki>. Should have audio available
   i. Schedule times are two hours ahead (CST) ahead of us
 1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-KarmicRelease|Karmic events]]</nowiki>
  a. San Francisco event
   i. Went well; photos on wiki page; installfest gave away about 50 CDs; ~20 people just at installfest, over 100 for party.
   i. In future: make the installfest longer (2-3 hours?), since one hour was too short; loud background music is problematic when helping people, consider a side-room or something to dampen it.
  a. Felton and Berkeley happened as planned; Grant presented at both; Felton had about 20 people, Berkeley had about 15
  a. Orange event
   i. Planning pretty much done. It'll be the 21st (next Saturday), and will be lunch and then an installfest
   i. Decided to hold it at Zitos. Installfest starts at 2pm.
 1. <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2009-November/000948.html|Facebook URL]]</nowiki>
  a. Candidates: "california team" (not specific enough), "ubuntu california" (no spaces allowed, so "ubuntu.california" or "ubuntucalifornia"), "ubuntu.us.ca", "californiateam.ubuntu", "californiaubuntuteam"
  a. Didn't know whether case-sensitivity was a problem, so opted for all lower-case
  a. Decided on "<nowiki>[[http://facebook.com/ubuntu.california|ubuntu.california]]</nowiki>"
 1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Shirts|T-shirts]]</nowiki>
  a. Project page is set up for people to upload to; if you need help getting it to work, feel free to ask
  a. If you have ideas and can't do art, you can post the idea instead and someone else can do the art
  a. Mid-December would be a good timeframe for getting designs ready
 1. November 29th meeting cancellation
  a. It's Thanksgiving weekend, so some people might not be around
  a. Discussion on "team organization and structure" agenda item and whether it's time-sensitive
  a. Decision: November 29th meeting cancelled, next meeting will be December 13th. Consider December 27th meeting cancellation at December 13th meeting.

==== Original Agenda ====
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-KarmicRelease]]</nowiki> events
# Custom username/shortURL for Facebook Page (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2009-November/000948.html|ML post]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Shirts]]</nowiki>

==== Log ====
<pre>
19:09 < Flannel> Welcome everyone, to our November 15th meeting
19:09 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/09November15 is our agenda for tonight,
19:10 < Flannel> It currently consists of Karmic Release event stuff (recap, plus some planning)
19:10 < Flannel> Facebook URL naming stuff
19:10 < Flannel> and Shirt design updates
19:10 < Flannel> Oh, and we also need to decide if we want to meet next time (Thanksgiving weekend) or not.
19:11 < Flannel> So, that'll happen at the end as well.
19:11 < Flannel> Before we begin, a few announcements.
19:11 < Flannel> The biggest one is that next week is the Ubuntu Developer Summit (UDS) for Lucid
19:11 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-L
19:12 < Flannel> It's in Dallas, but there's an increasing amount (each time we have one) of remote participation, so even if you're not able to be there, you can participate
19:12 < Flannel> Details on remote participation are here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-L/RemoteParticipation
19:13 < Flannel> It's a weeklong summit for face to face meetings of developers and things, although there's some non-technical meetings as well.
19:13 < Flannel> Be sure to check out the sessions to see what interests you
19:14 < Flannel> I haven't personally checked out the schedule, but nhaines mentioned that there's some good ones (also, 1 == 1)
19:15 < Flannel> Anyone have questions? or anything?
19:15 < rww> 1 == 1? wat?
19:16 < Flannel> rww: I figured while I was saying other obvious things (some sessions look interesting)....
19:16 < Flannel> Oh, those times are Dallas Times on the schedule, which is two hours ahead of us.
19:17 < Grantbow_uds> +2. yeah
19:17 < Grantbow_uds> hi
19:17 < rww> hi Grantbow_uds!
19:17 < dragon> Grantbow_uds: howdy
19:17 < Flannel> Anyone else have announcements?  I think that was it.
19:17 < dragon> will #ubuntu-uds be logged in public domain?
19:18 < dragon> and #ubuntu-uds-* ...?
19:18 < Flannel> dragon: I believe so, I'll have to double check.
19:18 < Flannel> Also, the audio should be available too
19:18 < MarkDude> it will
19:18 < Flannel> (and you can listen live)
19:18 < Grantbow_uds> sorry I'm late - laptop problems
19:18 < MarkDude> and participate
19:19 < MarkDude> Grantbow is everywhere
19:19 < rww> Flannel: I think that was it too. Everyone's busy at UDS, nothing else going on.
19:20 < Flannel> So, moving onto our first topic: Karmic Events
19:20  * Grantbow_uds cheers!
19:20 < Flannel> The Data Beez event was this past week, would someone(s) like to recap?
19:20 < Flannel> Isn't it breez?
19:20 < Flannel> I guess not.
19:21 < Grantbow_uds> I can try to recap - others should jump in too
19:21 < MarkDude> beeps music - it went well
19:21 < Grantbow_uds> SF event was great - I posted a link to pictures from our wiki page
19:21 < Grantbow_uds> more pictures are forthcoming
19:21 < MarkDude> dancing robots
19:21 < rww> I relearned how to install Ubuntu on a Mac :)
19:21 < Grantbow_uds> We had an installfest before the event and gave away about 50 discs
19:22 < Flannel> How many people were there?
19:22 < MarkDude> set up games for people to play also
19:22 < Grantbow_uds> Four performers playing music from 8-bit computers like gameboys
19:22 < Grantbow_uds> For the installfest I estimate about 20 people
19:22 < MarkDude> 100 people?
19:22 < MarkDude> for the tunes
19:23 < Grantbow_uds> For the party many
19:23 < rww> mhm, that sounds about right
19:23 < Grantbow_uds> people came and went from the DNA Lounge in SF - probably more than 100
19:23 < Grantbow_uds> We can get the count from DNA
19:24 < Grantbow_uds> Any other comments?
19:24 < MarkDude> the orbs rocked!
19:24 < Grantbow_uds> I need to catch up on the mail list thread
19:24 < rww> I really enjoyed it. Installfest /while/ loud music was happening was maybe not the best idea, though :)
19:25 < MarkDude> rww is correct
19:25 < Grantbow_uds> rww: yeah, and it was very short
19:25 < MarkDude> acoustic might work better
19:25 < Yasumoto_laptop> rww: it's part of the excitement :)
19:25 < rww> but overall, it was well-run and I had a great time
19:25 < rww> MarkDude: indeed
19:25 < Grantbow_uds> and we had problems to get sorted out to get people in the door
19:25 < Grantbow_uds> which we fixed
19:26 < MarkDude> we got my 366MHz working well - running Karmic
19:26 < rww> MarkDude: the one sn9 was working on?
19:26 < Grantbow_uds> rww: do you think a longer amount of time for the installfest would be better next time?
19:26 < Flannel> More than an hour is always good, yeah.
19:27 < MarkDude> sn9 \o/
19:27 < rww> Grantbow_uds: I'm not sure. I was focused on the Mac, so I didn't see who else was there and how long they took. I'd imagine 1 hour isn't enough to arrive, set up Karmic, and do basic config, though, so yeah.
19:27 < Flannel> If you figure 30 minutes of install, that means people have to arrive and start right away in order to get it installed, and then any troubleshooting, etc.
19:28 < Grantbow_uds> Three hours might be a decent amount of time since nobody shows up on time
19:28 < MarkDude> with some mellower music next time
19:28 < rww> Alternatively, if there had been a side room for the installfest, that might have worked better.
19:29 < Grantbow_uds> we will coordinate directly with the staff so that things like extension cords are planned for next time.
19:29 < MarkDude> I did *enjoy* the spotlight on us tho
19:29 < Grantbow_uds> I don't know of a side room at DNA - maybe the lobby
19:29 < Grantbow_uds> err, balcony
19:29 < MarkDude> no we should be on stage installing
19:30 < Grantbow_uds> I think that's it for the SF Karmic Release event.
19:31 < rww> Alright. What ended up happening at Felton and Berkeley?
19:31 < Grantbow_uds> I presented at Felton and Berkeley as the schedule says
19:32 < Grantbow_uds> wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/KarmicRelease
19:32 < Grantbow_uds> for those following along
19:32 < MarkDude> felton had alot of people. in a firehouse.
19:33 < MarkDude> sexycatsinhats went also - grant kicked ass
19:33 < DarkwingDuck> Sorry I'm late
19:33  * MarkDude says DarkwingDuck has a note -- its ok
19:33 < DarkwingDuck> :D
19:33 < DarkwingDuck> MarkDude: +1
19:34 < Grantbow_uds> how is the planning going for the southern event?
19:34 < Flannel> Are all the recaps done?
19:34 < Grantbow_uds> aha, wiki page was updated, great
19:35 < eps> Someone needs to update the Projects section of
19:35 < eps> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam; it says "We're planning to host an
19:35 < eps> Ubuntu Global Jam and release parties for Karmic in October, 2009." We're
19:35 < eps> halfway into November now, the Global Jam is a distant memory, and there are
19:35 < eps> release parties still to come.
19:35 < Grantbow_uds> I prefer to get these done instead of talk about them, sorry for being brief.
19:35 < rww> eps: I'll go do it now. I've been meaning to for a while
19:35 < rww> thanks :)
19:35 < Flannel> Grantbow_uds: Finish the recaps, once they're finished we'll move on.  No sense in rushing stuff.
19:36 < Flannel> Grantbow_uds: If they are finished, that's fine, but we've got plenty of time.
19:36 < Grantbow_uds> I'm typing from a bar
19:36 < Grantbow_uds> Felton: about 20 people or so, great questions, good discussions
19:36 < Grantbow_uds> Berkeley was done over the last several meetings - about 15 people at each meeting
19:37 < Grantbow_uds> done
19:37 < MarkDude> I want jercos to be at my talk at BALUG - he answers questions well
19:37 < Flannel> Alright, so, the Event in Orange is pretty well planned, we only have two things we still need to really pin down.
19:38 < Flannel> It's the 21st, Next Saturday, and we'll be doing lunch, and then an installfest.
19:38 < Flannel> Lunch is ending at 1:30, we need to decide on a time to start, 12 has been suggested, giving us 90 minutes to eat. (11:30 and 12:30 were also suggested)
19:39 < Flannel> Oh, where might bea good thing to cover.
19:39 < dragon> Don't know if this is the right time to ask - got an update on the official Karmic CDs?
19:39 < Flannel> dragon: Later
19:40 < dragon> Flannel: alright
19:40 < Flannel> It's also been suggested we do Zito's pizza (we did it a few releases ago), pizza's a good food to have if people get a little late and stuff.
19:40 < Flannel> Anyone have any other suggestions for location? jbermudes, Yasumoto_laptop?
19:40 < Yasumoto_laptop> I'm down for zito's
19:40 < Yasumoto_laptop> the pizza's there are pretty awesome, but slightly expensive
19:41 < Yasumoto_laptop> there's a cheaper pizza place called valentino's (that's still pretty good)
19:41 < Flannel> Yasumoto_laptop: Is that also a sit-down place (and it's within walking distance?)
19:41 < Yasumoto_laptop> if we call in an order and pick it up about 15-20min later, we could do that
19:41 < Yasumoto_laptop> it's probably better to send someone out to pick it up then bring it back
19:42 < Yasumoto_laptop> we do that for some of our computer science club meetings
19:42 < Flannel> Yasumoto_laptop: Is that the place we ate when we did the buntustand hackathon?
19:43 < jbermudes> Flannel: Zitos is the place in the circle
19:43 < Flannel> Yeah
19:44 < jbermudes> when we did the hackathon, we got pizza to go from valentinos, over by that albertsons
19:44 < Flannel> Yasumoto_laptop: If we did valentinos, we'd be eating in Beckman? or what
19:44 < rww> eps: updated. thanks again for the reminder.
19:44 < Yasumoto_laptop> yeah
19:44 < jbermudes> so i guess it all depends on if you think we should eat on location, or if we should have a change of scenery
19:45 < Yasumoto_laptop> yeah, or we could sit outside on some of the tables or something
19:45 < Flannel> jbermudes: What do you think?
19:45 < Flannel> Zitos might be easier because we don't know ohw many people will show up
19:45 < jbermudes> ooh, good point
19:45 < Grantbow_uds> Sorry, I have to go - email me anything you would like me to follow up with.
19:45 < Flannel> and looking at the prices, I don't think it's that expensive.
19:46 < Yasumoto_laptop> Grantbow_uds: have fun at UDS!!!! :D
19:46 < Flannel> Bye Grantbow_uds, thanks for stopping in.
19:46 < Grantbow_uds> tyvm!  Follow along if you can.
19:46 < MarkDude> say hello to everyone
19:46 < Yasumoto_laptop> definitely will do :) I'll follow your dents/tweets too
19:46 < MarkDude> bring me back a cowboy hat
19:46 < MarkDude> or not
19:46 < jbermudes> Flannel: well, unless anyone here has any objections, let's pencil in zitos, and if on the day of there's some coup, we can go with the flow
19:47 < MarkDude> actually not.
19:47 < Flannel> jbermudes: Sounds good.
19:47 < MarkDude> "Elvis has left the building"
19:47 < jbermudes> Yasumoto: sounds good?
19:48 < Yasumoto_laptop> yep :)
19:48 < Flannel> Alright, that's it for planning.  We'll summarize and email to the list (and it's of course on the wiki), but does anyone have questions right now?
19:49 < Flannel> Alright.  So our next item of business is the Facebook URL
19:50 < Flannel> Oh, and the installfest starts at 2pm.  So if you just want to show up for one or the other, feel free.
19:50 < MarkDude> california team
19:50 < eps> ubuntu california
19:51 < rww> alright. As we discussed at the last meeting, we need a facebook short URL, etc., etc. I sent an email ( https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2009-November/000948.html ), nobody replied to it, so I figure we decide from the four that are in that mail.
19:51 < rww> MarkDude: I already explained twice why that won't work. It's not specific enough, because it doesn't mention Ubuntu or even LoCo at all.
19:51 < jbermudes> obviously it should be: thebestlocoever
19:52  * MarkDude shuts up for a moment. *waits* for CD discussion
19:52 < rww> Those four are  * ubuntucalifornia * ubuntu.us.ca * californiateam.ubuntu * californiaubuntuteam
19:52 < rww> if anyone has any last minute suggestions, you have about a minute and then we'll pick one.
19:52 < dragon> ubuntu-california (no spaces, please!)
19:53 < Yasumoto_laptop> I say ubuntu.california or ubuntu.us.ca
19:53 < rww> dragon: we can't use dashes. You get to use A-Z, a-z, 0-9, and periods.
19:53 < dragon> ugh, ubuntu.california then
19:53 < scunizi> ubuntu-california mirrors the irc channel.. might be good for consistancy
19:53 < MarkDude> ubuntu-california or californiateam.ubuntu
19:54 < rww> I'm +1 on ubuntucalifornia or ubuntu.california or whatever, btw.
19:54 < Flannel> We can't do "ubuntu-california"
19:54 < scunizi> oh.. then my vote is for ubuntu.california :)
19:54 < Flannel> rww: Do we get to choose our Case and is it consistent?
19:54 < rww> Flannel: no idea, let me go look
19:55 < MarkDude> ubuntu*california or californiateam.ubuntu
19:55 < dragon> the work "team" sounds like a closed group that would keep others from joining
19:55 < MarkDude> loco means crazy in spanish
19:55 < jbermudes> MarkDude: touchÃ©
19:56 < MarkDude> :)
19:56 < rww> Flannel: it doesn't say. I submit that all lower-case is probably a good idea, though.
19:56 < Flannel> From the looks of it, it's either ubuntucalifornia or ubuntu.california
19:56 < rww> since that tends to be the default for URLs
19:56 < scunizi> kinda like Sav-on once changed their name to Osco which means to puke or be sick in spanish
19:56 < Flannel> rww: If that's the case, separator might be good.
19:56 < dragon> separator +1
19:57 < Flannel> So, ubuntu.california then?  anyone dislike that?
19:57 < rww> works for me
19:57 < scunizi> +1
19:57 < jbermudes> I like ubuntucalifornia or ubuntu.california, but if we're telling people, wont they get confused because URLs usually have dots for server stuff?
19:57 < Flannel> jbermudes: california's the file extension!
19:57 < eps> Is it possible to pick one and arrange for the other to redirect to the other?
19:58 < jbermudes> domain squatting!
19:58 < rww> eps: no
19:58 < dragon> jbermudes: dots are used regularly nowadays
19:58 < jbermudes> dragon: ah, I'm not up to date on all this RESTful stuff
19:58 < jbermudes> in my day we had index.html and you liked it!
19:58 < eps> whatever's consistent with accepted conventions, then
19:58 < dragon> jbermudes: almost anything is acceptable after the slash following the domain name :)
19:59 < Flannel> rww: do you know of other groups with dots?
19:59 < Flannel> Obviously there have to be, but is it common?
19:59 < Flannel> (or anyone else who uses facebook)
19:59 < dragon> Flannel: http://www.facebook.com/aaditya.bhatia
19:59 < MarkDude> I know Grant wanted something with team in it. it is only facebook tho - so I wont cry about it
20:00 < dragon> Flannel: facebook suggests firstname.lastname by default, so I'd say it's quite common.
20:00 < Flannel> dragon: Perfect
20:00 < MarkDude> facebook.com/markterranova
20:00  * MarkDude is a rebel
20:00 < dragon> * : add me if you haven't already
20:00 < rww> Flannel: most groups don't bother with shorturls, to be honest. our longurl is longer than usual, though
20:00 < Flannel> jbermudes: ubuntu.california wouldn't be out of place then, for anyone who's familiar with FB
20:01 < rww> I'd be inclined to go with the dot, since it makes things clearer and separators are common on twitter and apparently facebook, so it's not going to confuse people
20:01 < Flannel> rww: I think ubuntu.california it is then.
20:01 < rww> alright. any objections? if not, I'll go set it.
20:01 < MarkDude> damn you rww - applying your common sense again
20:02 < jbermudes> sounds good
20:02 < Flannel> That brings up our next topic: Shirt designs
20:02  * rww hits the big shiny button
20:02 < dragon> rww: set it before anyone objects!
20:02 < rww> http://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.california
20:02 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Shirts  Is all set up for people to contribute designs/pieces of designs to
20:02 < Flannel> oops
20:03 < rww> Flannel: I'm done, go ahead :)
20:03 < Flannel> rww: that it?  now that your toes have been flattened
20:03 < Flannel> alright
20:03 < eps> Our logo on the front. MUY LOCO on the back.
20:03 < Flannel> So, that project page is all setup for people to use.  If you have questions about the syntax for editing, feel free to ask for help.  moin moin isn't very friendly.
20:04 < Flannel> I found two svgs of shirts, one tshirt and one poloshirt, if you want to put your designs "on" shirts already
20:04 < rww> eps: "I'm loco about LoCos!"
20:04 < eps> Simple is usually best...
20:05 < Flannel> If you have ideas and can't do the artwork, just post it, and someone else can come along and do the art (or you can, MS-paint looking shirts are fine for our purposes right now)
20:05 < rww> Do we have any sort of timeframe or deadline for this, by the way?
20:05 < MarkDude> what are you trying to say ese? that Im loco?
20:05 < eps> Wear it with pride. ;-)
20:05 < rww> MarkDude: I'm pretty sure we all say that ;P
20:05 < dragon> I like the "Ask me about Ubuntu" thing on one of the official Ubuntu T-shirts. My dad wears it and refers the questions towards me :P
20:05 < Flannel> rww: We should set up an initial one.  One month from now would be mid-december that'd give people some time to get their designs in order
20:05  * MarkDude hopes people got the cypress reference
20:05 < dragon> "Ask me for a Free CD" might catch attention too..
20:06 < Flannel> Although, I don't think we need these shirts for anything pressing.  SCaLE would really be our next event (right now anyway)
20:06 < eps> dragon: Put that on a button. (That you can take off!)
20:06 < MarkDude> cls west is jan
20:06 < Flannel> How about we re-evaluate in a month then?
20:07 < rww> Incidentally, I avoid wearing my Ubuntu shirt to work specifically because of the "Ask me about Ubuntu" thing (since I don't want them to, since I'm working), but I recognize that's one of my idiosyncracies :)
20:07 < Flannel> We don't really need to "stop" since we can always get more printed in the future with different designs.  But that'll be a nice first-softdeadline
20:10 < MarkDude> like Snoop Dogg says do you like tapes or CDs?
20:10 < rww> sounds good. I'm terrible at creativity, so that was my only question ;P
20:10 < Flannel> Alright.
20:11 < Flannel> That's it for shirts for now, unless anyone has questions?
20:11 < MarkDude> sounds good
20:11 < Flannel> Next topic:  Do we want to have a meeting in two weeks?
20:11 < Flannel> Thatd be Thanksgiving weekend, which people generally spend with their families
20:12 < Yasumoto_laptop> ouch, I vote no?
20:12 < Flannel> I don't think we'll have any pressing material that would be harmed by pushing it back two weeks.
20:12 < MarkDude> we can have on optional meeting
20:12 < Flannel> MarkDude: no, that doesn't make sense
20:12 < Yasumoto_laptop> that could be a good idea
20:12 < rww> The only thing that I think will be on there is release party recap, right?
20:12 < MarkDude> talking thats all
20:12 < Yasumoto_laptop> if people are here, then show up and say hi
20:12 < Yasumoto_laptop> MarkDude: yeah, I feel ya
20:12 < Flannel> rww: right.  and I'll force us to jot stuff down that night.
20:12 < rww> "# California team organization, management structure, processes
20:13 < rww> management"
20:13 < rww> is on the agenda, for some reason.
20:13 < Flannel> MarkDude, Yasumoto_laptop: that's how this channel always is :)
20:13  * MarkDude maybe we need it?
20:13 < Yasumoto_laptop> fair statement, no need to schedule that
20:14 < dragon> next meeting, no
20:14 < MarkDude> we tend to talk more minutiae tho during meetings
20:14 < Flannel> rww: comment for that topic is "possible agenda item" so that can probably be moved without issue
20:14 < MarkDude> nope
20:14 < MarkDude> we had some discussions about this a while ago
20:15 < rww> As far as the recap goes, y'all could email the ML about it while your minds are fresh, then go over it at the next meeting, so that shouldn't be a problem.
20:15 < Flannel> rww: Aye, we'll roll with it.
20:15 < rww> MarkDude: Is there some reason we can't do that item in December? I'm not seeing a deadline or time pressure.
20:16 < MarkDude> Flannel, I thought jono had a proposal on clearly setting agendas
20:16 < rww> assuming you mean "no we should discuss team organization/structure/etc. in november"
20:17 < Flannel> MarkDude: By clearly stating we're not having a meeting in two weeks (assuming we decide that), that's clearly setting an agenda.  Unless I'm misunderstanding what you're asking.
20:17 < MarkDude> we need the processes organized
20:17 < rww> MarkDude: Please answer my question.
20:17 < MarkDude> I would like Flannel  to do that - If not done by next meeting
20:18 < MarkDude> agenda item for nov. sry rww
20:18 < MarkDude> yes
20:18 < MarkDude> if its not done -- people might want to start voting on more 'stuff'
20:19 < MarkDude> my vote is for Flannel to outline things that is all
20:19 < Flannel> MarkDude: Is there some reason this couldn't be done in December instead of Thanksgiving weekend?
20:19 < MarkDude> sry i meant dec
20:19 < MarkDude> apologies Flannel  & rww
20:20 < MarkDude> I looked at my calendar wrong
20:20 < MarkDude> on to the CDs.......
20:20 < Flannel> MarkDude: Lets cover one topic at a time
20:20 < rww> MarkDude: alright, so just to check I'm not confused again, you're fine with pushing that back to December. Yes?
20:21 < MarkDude> yes -
20:21 < Flannel> Is anyone not fine with cancelling (postponing the items on the agenda) the meeting on November 29th (Thanksgiving weekend)
20:21 < rww> that would make our next meeting December 13th? or would we move it up to the 6th?
20:21 < Flannel> 13th
20:22 < MarkDude> I still tink structure should be outlined by Flannel  before then . the sooner the better
20:22 < rww> alright. Is December 27th too close to festivities, or shall we cross that bridge next meeting?
20:22 < Flannel> rww: Just like if we had one, except not.
20:22 < Flannel> rww: we'll do that at the 13th, but I imagine it's going to be the same.
20:22 < Flannel> rww: Unless something comes up
20:22 < rww> Flannel: "same" as in skip it?
20:23 < Flannel> rww: Yeah.  But we'll decide it on the 13th
20:23 < rww> alright, works for me. was just checking I'm on the right page :)
20:23 < Flannel> So, with the exception of the CD shipping stuff, is that all we had for tonight?
20:23 < MarkDude> that would mean no meeting on new years right?
20:24 < MarkDude> 1 meeting in 6 weeks?
20:24 < MarkDude> egads
20:24 < Flannel> MarkDude: our next meeting is the 13th of December, that's all that's changed.
20:25  * MarkDude says his math is right
20:25 < MarkDude> or not
20:25 < Flannel> Does anyone feel we can't work out the logistics of the CD stuff after the meeting?  I don't think the discussion needs to be on the record, although we should record what we've decide, to make it easier in the future.  (It is already 830)
20:26 < rww> This is "how are we getting some of the pressed CDs from Flannel to NorCal", right?\
20:26 < dragon> Flannel: It'd be better to figure out the CD stuff during this meeting rather than later, in my opinion.
20:26 < dragon> rww: yes
20:26 < dragon> we
20:26 < Flannel> rww: Not how, but how many really.
20:27 < dragon> s/we//
20:27 < Flannel> dragon: "later" being immediately following the meeting
20:27 < MarkDude> sure
20:27  * MarkDude wants to hold Ubuntu CDs in his hans. & *hug* them
20:27 < dragon> Flannel: i think it's ok to end the meeting and then discuss the CDs.
20:27 < MarkDude> hands
20:28 < Flannel> Alright.  Lets go ahead and officially end the meeting then.
20:28 < Flannel> Thank you all for coming.  Our next meeting will be in *four* weeks, on December 13th.  Have a happy and safe Turkey Day.
20:29 < MarkDude> vegetarians have a safe tofu day
</pre>
