{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, June 3rd, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Your agenda item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.
<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for our meeting?
[02:00] <philipballew> here
[02:00] <jyo> o/
[02:00]  * eps waves
[02:00] <akk> meee
[02:00]  * j_dulaney is president
[02:01] <MarkDude> j_dulaney, is a freind from the East Coast
[02:01] <pleia2> ok, so we don't really have an agenda this time
[02:01] <philipballew> nice!
[02:02] <pleia2> anyone have any thoughts for events? announcements? anything to bring up?
[02:02] <eps> I do
[02:02] <pleia2> eps: cool, go for it
[02:02] <eps> Take a look at this product description: http://www.frys.com/product/7126262
[02:02] <pleia2> ah yes, you dropped me an email about this
[02:03] <eps> and compare it with the manufacturer's version:
[02:03] <pleia2> it does inteed seem to run Ubuntu
[02:03] <eps> http://www.zotacusa.com/zbox-id41-linux.html
[02:03] <pleia2> Fry's isn't very good at product descriptions ;)
[02:03] <eps> Or maybe they don't it to come up in searches for Ubuntu
[02:04] <philipballew> I was going to go to frys this week. Ill take a look at it if it is there
[02:04] <MarkDude> Frys has really bad descritpions imho
[02:04] <pleia2> eps: I've had to look at the manufacturer's website for everything I've bought at Fry's, I wouldn't say it was an intentional oversight
[02:04] <pleia2> I think it's just general Fry's bad descriptions
[02:05] <eps> Should this product be listed here? https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuPre-installed
[02:05] <akk> If it's Ubuntu, that'll make it way better than any Linux stuff I've seen at Fry's before.
[02:06] <akk> Is it Ubuntu? Have you seen one at Fry's?
[02:06] <pleia2> I don't know much about that page (it's community-maintained and anyone can update it)
[02:06] <eps> I saw it online. You know as much as I do. Supposedly it ships with oneric (not precise).
[02:07] <pleia2> but if someone went to Fry's asking for Ubuntu, I'm pretty sure the sales staff wouldn't have a clue that device runs Ubuntu
[02:07] <akk> Or Linux, even.
[02:07] <philipballew> Im gonna look at it this week. I will be at frys and it claims to be available in store
[02:08] <eps> It'll be interesting to see if these things are actually "in the wild."
[02:08]  * pleia2 nods
[02:08] <pleia2> thanks philipballew :)
[02:08] <philipballew> No problem
[02:08] <pleia2> and nice find, eps!
[02:08] <pleia2> philipballew: if it does, take pictures and blog about it :D
[02:08] <MarkDude> +1
[02:09] <philipballew> sounds like a good idea. I will do.
[02:09] <philipballew> Ill ask the employes to see what they were trained to say as well.
[02:09]  * pleia2 nods
[02:09] <akk> They're trained?
[02:09] <MarkDude> rofl
[02:09] <pleia2> now now :)
[02:10] <jyo> I assume their dress code comes with training, yes.
[02:10] <MarkDude> sell this, and make sure your shirt is cleaned
[02:11] <pleia2> MarkDude: did you want to mention the next Geeknic you're looking to plan?
[02:11] <MarkDude> You bet
[02:11] <MarkDude> June 23rd
[02:11] <MarkDude> heather Farms in Walnut Creek
[02:12] <pleia2> doh, same day as Ubuntu User Days
[02:12]  * MarkDude has not created a listing on Geeknic.iorg yet
[02:12] <MarkDude> https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Release_Party_F17_Bay_Area
[02:12] <pleia2> can we do it Sunday instead? :)
[02:13] <philipballew> +1
[02:13]  * MarkDude already has this one locked in- 
[02:13] <pleia2> ah, ok
[02:13] <MarkDude> We are already planning a South bay event
[02:13] <MarkDude> as well as sumthin in July- if Linux Picnic is a nogo
[02:13] <j_dulaney> Will there be a Beefy Miracle present?
[02:14] <j_dulaney> And bacon?
[02:14] <MarkDude> Stickers
[02:14] <MarkDude> as well as Ubuntu CDs
[02:14] <pleia2> ok, hopefully I can make it to the July one then :)
[02:14] <MarkDude> and other Ubuntu swag also
[02:14]  * MarkDude plans on having a vote on FB for dates
[02:14] <MarkDude> and taking votes on ML also
[02:14] <eps> Any leftovers can go to BerkeleyLUG. ;-)
[02:15] <MarkDude> they will be added together
[02:15] <pleia2> eps: hehe
[02:15] <MarkDude> :)
[02:15]  * MarkDude hopes eps can man a bbq
[02:15] <MarkDude> operate rather
[02:15] <eps> I dunno ... my skills might be a bit rusty
[02:15]  * MarkDude trusts you
[02:16]  * MarkDude apologizes for the date thing
[02:16] <philipballew> Do we have a bbg or does someone need to bring one?
[02:16] <pleia2> they have them at the park
[02:16] <MarkDude> At UDS many people asked me about a bbq and told me the sooner the better
[02:16] <MarkDude> They do have them there
[02:16] <eps> You might want to bring a small one for veggies
[02:16] <MarkDude> We always bring one for the vegetarians
[02:17] <philipballew> seems smart
[02:17] <MarkDude> There will be Tofu Miracles also
[02:17] <pleia2> hehe
[02:17] <MarkDude> As well as smoked peppers and other noms
[02:17] <akk> tofu would be a beany miracle?
[02:17] <philipballew> +1
[02:17] <MarkDude> damn you akk- I should have asked you before I started calling it the Tofu miracle ;)
[02:18] <MarkDude> Thats better
[02:18] <akk> :)
[02:18] <pleia2> lol
[02:18]  * MarkDude was hoping to have a volunteer to email the list about the next event- as far as planning dates
[02:19] <MarkDude> It would be early July so as not to interupt OSCON and CLS
[02:19]  * MarkDude will bug folks on that later.
[02:19] <MarkDude> Pretty soon we should make plans to go to CLS in Portland
[02:19] <MarkDude> Carpools FULL of people should go to that
[02:20]  * MarkDude shuts up now 
[02:20] <MarkDude> :)
[02:20] <pleia2> but not too close to 4th of july :)
[02:20] <MarkDude> True
[02:20] <MarkDude> makes the poll easier
[02:21] <philipballew> Ill be busy with all the fireworks I bought out of state
[02:21] <j_dulaney> Explosions in the sky?
[02:21] <pleia2> ah wow, oscon is earlier than I thought
[02:21]  * philipballew should probably not say that
[02:21] <MarkDude> theoretically of course philipballew
[02:21] <MarkDude> ;)
[02:21] <pleia2> maybe do it in really *late* july
[02:21] <akk> For anyone perusing the channel logs, philipballew was just kidding about that. :)
[02:21] <MarkDude> akk, +1
[02:21] <pleia2> hahah
[02:22] <philipballew> lol
[02:22] <pleia2> ok, anyone have anything else before philipballew further incriminates himself? :)
[02:23] <eps> Incriminates or incinerates?
[02:23] <akk> heh
[02:23] <pleia2> touche
[02:23] <MarkDude> eps+1
[02:23]  * j_dulaney wants to light it all off
[02:24] <pleia2> the next SF Ubuntu Hour is next week, June 13th
[02:24]  * pleia2 will add a loco portal event in a bit
[02:24] <DonkeyHotei> i'll likely be in Sac that day
[02:24] <philipballew> Ill be there pleia2
[02:25] <pleia2> philipballew: great :)
[02:25] <eps> With or without Bay Area Debian? (Last SF one was Apr. 11)
[02:25] <pleia2> eps: I'm thinking with, but I'll ask around and then confirm
[02:25] <MarkDude> Fb link for party https://www.facebook.com/events/300921919994599/
[02:26] <philipballew> Give me Debian, or give me death!
[02:26] <pleia2> philipballew: haha, ok, one vote "for" debian dinner too :)
[02:27] <pleia2> ok, wrapping this up then, anyone else have anything?
[02:28] <MarkDude> Great short meeting - yay
[02:29] <philipballew> Ill do post meeting stuff this meeting if thats cool
[02:29] <j_dulaney> For non-short meetings, go to Fedora Blocker Bug Meetings
[02:29] <pleia2> philipballew: yes, thank you!
[02:29]  * j_dulaney has sat through seven hour meetings
[02:29] <pleia2> thanks for coming everyone :)
[02:29] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
