{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Silicon Valley Code Camp 2010 ===

The Ubuntu California Team is participating in Code Camp this year!

<nowiki>[[http://www.siliconvalley-codecamp.com/|Code Camp]]</nowiki> was a no-cost (free as in beer) event focused on developers, that happened on October 9th and 10th 2010 at Foothill College, in Los Altos (in the San Jose/So. Bay Area, Silicon Valley).  Although the annual event has no cost except to participate you must <nowiki>[[http://www.siliconvalley-codecamp.com/|preregister ASAP]]</nowiki>.  Here's the Ubuntu California Lo``Co page to <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/424/detail/|showing who rsvp'd]]</nowiki>

We put on a 75 minute session of lightning talks around the topic <nowiki>[[http://siliconvalley-codecamp.com/Sessions.aspx?OnlyOne=true&id=547|Beginning Ubuntu Gnu/Linux Development]]</nowiki> on Saturday, 5pm.  Follow the above links for more info.

== Beginning Ubuntu GNU/Linux Development ==
How to get started in developing for and with Ubuntu, the world's most heavily adopted, supported and popular    Gnu/Linux OS distribution.

Also see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/Devbeginnings|Development Beginnings]]</nowiki>

==== Session Videos and Presentation Slides ====

Presentation Slides Note: Presentations with a '.odp' extension are in OpenOffice Impress format.  OpenOffice is very full featured, cross platform, FLOSS and has no cost, comes by default with Ubuntu or can be downloaded <nowiki>[[http://download.openoffice.org/|here]]</nowiki>.  Alternatively Evince is a small, simple viewer program that can display .odp as well as .pdfs, is crossplatform, FLOSS, no cost to purchase, comes by default with Ubuntu or can be downloaded <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/Evince/Downloads|here]]</nowiki>

Related slides:
** slides: <nowiki>[[attachment:Presenting_Ubuntu.odp]]</nowiki> : Canonical
** slides: <nowiki>[[attachment:Presenting_Kubuntu.odp]]</nowiki>: Canonical

* '''<nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/zareason#p/u/0/1mcW4XweEv4|video: Intro: Ubuntu GNU/Linux for Developers: Drew Johnson]]</nowiki>'''
    slides: <nowiki>[[attachment:Overview_Ubuntu-DJohnson.odp|Intro: Ubuntu Gnu-Linux for Devs.odp : Drew Johnson]]</nowiki>
* '''<nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/zareason#p/search/0/tiSsi01xUTk| video: Ubuntu Rocks Development :]]</nowiki>'''
    slides: <nowiki>[[attachment:Why_Ubuntu_Rocks_for_Dev-DJohnson.odp|Ubuntu Rocks Development .odp : Drew Johnson]]</nowiki>
* '''<nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/zareason#p/u/2/nX7dIQcIS_8| video: Open Source your App: Ryan Singer]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WijOALP7ei4|video: Presentation on pyGTK and Quickly : Jack Deslippe]]</nowiki>''' 
*** slides: <nowiki>[[attachment:pyGTK_Quickly_JDeslippe.odp]]</nowiki>
*** slides: <nowiki>[[attachment:pyGTK_Quickly_JDeslippe.pdf]]</nowiki>
* '''<nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6B5wMlmsxTk|video: Ubuntu Software Center App Review Process: Mark Terranova]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/zareason#p/search/0/TqLHkfZ4CXQ| video: Installing Eclipse and plugins on Ubuntu : Aaditya Bhatia]]</nowiki>'''
    slides: <nowiki>[[attachment:eclipse_on_ubuntu.odp | Eclipse on Ubuntu.odp]]</nowiki> - slides by Ven Venkataraju and Aaditya Bhatia and presented by Aaditya.
* '''<nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/zareason#p/search/0/nnTVvQoq5DE| video: Setting up an Android Dev Environment on Ubuntu: Earl Malmrose]]</nowiki>'''

Bonus Material:
* In a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/LightingTheMaverickLAMP|follow up meeting at the Silicon Valley LAMP Meetup]]</nowiki>
** slides: <nowiki>[[attachment:PHP the Ubuntu Way - jtatum.odp | PHP the Ubuntu Way - jtatum.odp]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[jtatum|James Tatum]]</nowiki> 
** slides: <nowiki>[[attachment:PHP the Ubuntu Way - jtatum.pdf | PHP the Ubuntu Way - jtatum.pdf]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[jtatum|James Tatum]]</nowiki>
