{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== Sunday, June 5th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====
1. Reapproval Application: <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ApprovalApplication2011]]</nowiki>

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent.

Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:06] <pleia2> ok, let's get started
[03:06] <pleia2> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11June5
[03:07] <pleia2> the only thing we have on the agenda is our reapproval application
[03:07] <pleia2> I sent an email to the list, got a few replies, but I just wanted to point it out again in case folks didn't see it and want to help: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2011-May/001691.html
[03:08] <pleia2> I put a super basic skeleton up, but we need to flesh it out: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/ApprovalApplication2011
[03:08] <pleia2> reapproval shouldn't be hard, we've been doing team reports monthly since we got approved in 2009 \o/
[03:08] <grantbow> what dates do we need to pay atention to?
[03:08] <pleia2> dates where?
[03:08]  * dragon walks in, find a seat in the back, and gets seated quietly without disturbing the decorum of the meeting.
[03:09] <grantbow> I mean deadlines
[03:09] <pleia2> we just need to get the approval app in before october
[03:09] <pleia2> I'd prefer to do it earlier just to get it over with though
[03:10] <pleia2> other questions?
[03:11] <grantbow> oh, good. :-)
[03:11] <jdeslip> Perhaps it would be a good idea to link to our original approval  application at the bottom
[03:12] <pleia2> yeah, we can do that
[03:12] <pleia2> and we'll review the whole thing at a meeting before we send it in to make sure everyone gets their stuff in
[03:12] <grantbow> pleia2: you aren't a member?
[03:13] <pleia2> grantbow: we have a lot of members not listed, I just copied over the skeleton from the old app
[03:13] <pleia2> I haven't actually started updating it :)
[03:13] <grantbow> aha!
[03:13] <pleia2> myself, DarkwingDuck, iheartubuntu, philipballew...
[03:13] <pleia2> lots of members!
[03:13] <pleia2> oh erichammond too
[03:13] <grantbow> he asked not to be listed last time
[03:13] <pleia2> fair enough
[03:14] <pleia2> not sure why we list them anyway tbh
[03:14] <grantbow> after an IRC meeting that the log is available for
[03:14] <pleia2> we can ask folks if they want to be on it
[03:14] <grantbow> sounds like a good plan
[03:14] <pleia2> anyway, we'll review that when it's in a more finished state :)
[03:15] <pleia2> since that's the only agenda item, I think we can open it up to announcements, etc that people have
[03:15] <pleia2> wednesday is ipv6 day, sf ubuntu hour and debian dinner :) https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2011-June/001733.html
[03:16] <jledbetter> Cool
[03:16] <pleia2> and as always... other upcoming events are here: http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california
[03:16] <philipballew> sac Ubuntu hour this friday. im sending out the email tonight and uploading it to the wiki
[03:16] <pleia2> philipballew: cool, let us know if you need help adding it to the loco directory
[03:17] <grantbow> and the wiki pages https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/
[03:17] <jdeslip> philipballew: good luck!
[03:17] <MarkDude> Geeknic- July 18th Heather Farms
[03:17] <pleia2> MarkDude: woohoo
[03:17] <grantbow> philipballew: great
[03:17] <pleia2> MarkDude: MJ can't make it since he's on call :( but I'm coming up
[03:17] <MarkDude> Day after the Jono loud music show in SF
[03:17] <jledbetter> haha After I leave, of course ;)
[03:17] <MarkDude> Hmm, well eps- acan you grill master
[03:18] <MarkDude> crap jledbetter
[03:18] <eps> We'll see.
[03:18] <grantbow> sbay.org pizza after Geeknic too
[03:19] <MarkDude> Cool
[03:19] <MarkDude> Jono has his new drummer- and NOPE- its not grantbow
[03:19] <pleia2> hehe
[03:19] <MarkDude> he turned it down
[03:20] <MarkDude> Although his stage diving was freakin' epic
[03:20] <grantbow> I'm  too good for them
[03:20] <MarkDude> true
[03:20] <pleia2> haha grantbow++
[03:20] <MarkDude> You let them down easy G
[03:20] <MarkDude> That was nice of you
[03:20] <grantbow> hehe
[03:20] <pleia2> any other announcements, comments, questions?
[03:21] <pleia2> oh! I mentioned ipv6 day on wednesday, do we want to see if we can get an AAAA record for ubuntu-california.org set up so we can participate?
[03:21] <grantbow> sounds good
[03:21] <pleia2> our linode has ipv6 (well, it will by wednesday, I am waiting on some people so I can do a reboot to enable it)
[03:22]  * pleia2 has had a very ipv6 weekend prepping all her stuff :)
[03:22] <grantbow> ::+1
[03:23] <pleia2> hehe
[03:23] <pleia2> alrighty, I think we're ready to wrap up for the evening then
[03:24] <pleia2> thanks everyone :)
</pre>
