{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

This was an informal meeting at the <nowiki>[[http://www.communityleadershipsummit.com/|Community Leadership Summit]]</nowiki>.

# GPG Keysign
# Introductions
## Joe Smith
## Neal Bussett
## Chris Crisafulli
## Aaditya Bhatia
## Nathan Haines
## Robert Wall
# OSCON Booth Stuff
## Schedule
### Looking good so far
## Materials
### Still need a table
### Hopefully we'll get a bunch of pressed Jaunty CDs
### Print out nametags
### Bring in power strips/extension cord and router/switch
# We should get a webcam to stream from SCaLE next year.
