{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, May 17th, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Review last year's meeting agenda activity.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review last year's meeting agenda activity.
* Other business

Meeting ended at 02:15:33 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* nhaines (19)
* darthrobot (5)
* lrcaballero1 (5)
* ianorlyn (0)

=== Full Log ===

<pre>
 02:01:14 <nhaines> #startmeeting
 02:01:14 <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon May 18 02:01:14 2015 UTC.  The chair is nhaines. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 02:01:14 <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 02:01:16 <lrcaballero1> lol
 02:01:21 <nhaines> #chair ianorlyn
 02:01:21 <darthrobot> Current chairs: ianorlyn nhaines
 02:01:27 <lrcaballero1> you got the right...
 02:01:44 <nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting!  Today's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15May17
 02:01:44 <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/15May17 - Ubuntu Wiki]
 02:02:24 <nhaines> First up, we were going to look at how often meetings had agenda items to discuss in 2014.
 02:02:50 <nhaines> elky was voluntold to perform the analysis, but I haven't heard from her this week.
 02:03:43 <nhaines> Does anyone have any comments to make about our biweekly meeting schedule before we postpone this topic to next meeting?
 02:04:06 <nhaines> Oh right, plus we have bot commands that are a thing.
 02:04:09 <nhaines> #topic Review last year's meeting agenda activity.
 02:07:40 <nhaines> Okay, so we'll move on and postpone a look at this topic until next meeting.
 02:07:48 <nhaines> #topic Other business
 02:08:07 <nhaines> Does anyone have any upcoming events or announcements they would like to mention?
 02:09:43 <lrcaballero1> nothing here....
 02:12:11 <nhaines> All right.  I don't have anything else to add either.
 02:12:31 <nhaines> I've been asked to help out with some training planning which will be cool, but more on that in the future.
 02:13:35 <nhaines> All right, in that case, we'll bring the meeting to a close for this week.
 02:13:43 <lrcaballero1> I would like to know more about this....are you accepting volunteers for this?
 02:13:56 <nhaines> For the training?
 02:14:00 <lrcaballero1> yes
 02:14:32 <nhaines> Too far out right now to tell, and I haven't joined on just yet.  But if we do need more volunteers you'll be the first to know.  :)
 02:14:57 <nhaines> (I accepted the offer to help out, we're looking at early 2016.)
 02:15:30 <nhaines> Our next meeting is Sunday, May 31st, at 7pm PDT.  Hope to see everyone there!
 02:15:33 <nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
