{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, July 31st, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. Final review of <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ApprovalApplication2011|ApprovalApplication2011]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>  1. <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Picnix20|Picnix20]]</nowiki> planning -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki> 
If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <iheartubuntu> hiya lyz
[02:00] <pleia2> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11July31
[02:00] <jyo> hihi
[02:00] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting?
[02:00] <pleia2> o/
[02:00] <jyo> o/
[02:00] <eps> with silver bells and cockle shells
[02:00] <pleia2> oh no, MarkDude and grantbow sitting together irl for the meeting
[02:00] <akk> o/
[02:01] <pleia2> :)
[02:01] <grantbow> lol
[02:01] <pleia2> ok, we'll jump right in then
[02:01] <pleia2> (we'll do announcements at the end)
[02:01] <pleia2> [TOPIC] Final review of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/ApprovalApplication2011
[02:01] <pleia2> we've reviewed this a few times at meetings and on the mailing list so I think we're ready to submit it, but I just wanted to double-check no one else had comments
[02:02] <rww> \o
[02:02] <philipballew> here!
[02:02] <akk> oh, good, some red people. xchat was showing everybody else who's here as light blue or green.
[02:02] <pleia2> hehe
[02:02] <rww> pleia2: looks fine to me
[02:03] <rww> (and yes, I actually read it this time :P)
[02:03] <pleia2> thanks rww :)
[02:03] <pleia2> I'll add it to the council agenda and send a note to the list when the meeting is going to be
[02:04] <pleia2> [TOPIC] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Picnix20 planning
[02:04] <eps> akk: I see dim people
[02:04] <pleia2> we actually only have one more meeting before the end of august when this happens, but I'm not particularly worried - we've done this before :)
[02:04] <pleia2> I'll nudge aaditya for our table number, but we pretty much just need to get our list-of-stuff to bring sorted and we'll be good for the picnic
[02:05] <grantbow> great
[02:05] <eps> I'm worried ... the last message I saw about the picnic was dated July 16 ...
[02:05] <grantbow> worry not :-)
[02:06] <eps> ... it said the reservation database was supposed to open two weeks ago now
[02:06] <eps> It hasn't happened. :-(
[02:06] <pleia2> eps: aaditya is the organizer this year, might nudge him about it
[02:06] <eps> Their wiki looks like it hasn't been touched since March.
[02:06] <MarkDude> Are there cookies on list again?
[02:07]  * rww ponders pretending to be a mootbot to make pleia2 happy :P
[02:07]  * MarkDude is cookie monster
[02:07] <grantbow> eps: please talk to aditya with concerns. I would appreciate your effort on this temendously
[02:07] <eps> *I* am not the organizer.
[02:07] <pleia2> MarkDude: heather said she'd make ubuntu cookies :) and I'm making android cookies!
[02:07] <grantbow> eps: aaditya is
[02:08] <pleia2> eps: our table is set for the picnic, so there aren't really organizational concerns for the california team specifically
[02:08] <pleia2> if you have personal questions about registration, aaditya is the one to talk to
[02:09] <eps> The concern is whether there's even going to be a picnic, since there has been *nothing* online ... not on their wiki, facebook, mailing list, anything as far as I can see.
[02:09] <pleia2> there is
[02:09] <MarkDude> pleia2, fair enough- as long as cookies are represented
[02:09] <pleia2> MarkDude :)
[02:10] <pleia2> anyway, if anyone is bringing things they can add them to the wiki page (I also made a loco directory event, you can rsvp there if you want, I'll add the picnic rsvp to the site once it's active): https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Picnix20
[02:10] <pleia2> [TOPIC] Announcements, comments, other topics
[02:11] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam is happening Sept 2-4, Labor day weekend
[02:11] <pleia2> no one has anything planned yet, but if you want to plan something now is the time to start :)
[02:11] <pleia2> (I'll be out of town)
[02:12] <philipballew> so cal will *probably have one
[02:12] <pleia2> I suspect jono will have one in walnut creek
[02:12]  * philipballew needs to get his act together on it
[02:12] <pleia2> :)
[02:12]  * MarkDude will be down south for wedding then, and OLF for the next
[02:13] <rww> I'll be in college starting craziness then, so count me out :(
[02:13] <pleia2> oh, berkeleylug and partimus reserved a booth at solano stroll the OLF weekend (Sept 11th) so that's upcoming in september too
[02:13] <grantbow> I will be preparing for a trip but will attend.
[02:13] <MarkDude> Damn, that is fun, I dont want to miss the stroll
[02:14] <pleia2> MarkDude: sorry :) I didn't realize it either until beth lynn pointed it out to me while we were planning the partimus bit
[02:14] <pleia2> so many events, so little time
[02:14] <MarkDude> Speaking in Ohio then
[02:14] <grantbow> indeed
[02:14] <grantbow> more clones
[02:14] <philipballew> i will be to rww , but if its on a saturday or something no class in session
[02:14] <pleia2> hehe
[02:14] <pleia2> anyone else have announcements or other things?
[02:15] <rww> philipballew: gonna be my first semester there, so I'll be busy anyway :)
[02:15] <philipballew> oh nice :) good luck wherever it is rww
[02:16] <MarkDude> where is it rww?
[02:16] <pleia2> ok, I think we'll wrap up the meeting then
[02:16] <pleia2> going once..!
[02:17] <MarkDude> Wait
[02:17]  * MarkDude had his penguin suit disappear at OSCON
[02:17] <pleia2> oh dear
[02:17] <MarkDude> keep eye out for it
[02:17] <MarkDude> I know
[02:17] <MarkDude> I will email list-
[02:17] <pleia2> ok
[02:17] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
