{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, February 7th, 2016, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. Add your event information here.
1. Announcements
   a. Add your announcement here.
# <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-Projects-Scale14x|UbuCon Summit - SCALE 14x]]</nowiki> post-mortem meeting.
# Add your agenda item here.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:01] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:01] <nhaines> \o/
[03:01] <pleia2> #chair nhaines ianorlin pleia2
[03:01] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/16February07
[03:01] <pleia2> ^^ agenda :)
[03:01] <pleia2> #topic Upcoming events
[03:02] <pleia2> so we've got an Ubuntu Hour coming up in Berkeley on Feb 14th http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3290-ubuntu-hour-berkeley/
[03:02] <pleia2> I'll also likely host one in San Francisco on Wednesday, but time got away from me so I haven't added it to the LTP or Meetup, or announced it, I should do that tonight
[03:03] <pleia2> any other events that aren't listed?
[03:03] <nhaines> SGVLUG has a meeting on February 11th.  The topic is "Building a Community." http://www.meetup.com/SGVTech/events/227991894/
[03:03] <nhaines> Liz Krane will be talking about her experience growing the Learn to Code LA Meetup group to 2200 members in less than a year.
[03:03] <ianorlin> ok sounds nice but is still a bit of a drive for me
[03:04] <nhaines> They'll also be raffling off some leftover stuff from SCALE, so if you really miss Pasadena, it's a good excuse to go back.  :)
[03:04] <pleia2> nhaines: any thoughts as to how we could convince Richard to start posting announcements to his Pasadena Ubuntu Hours to the team? or at least adding them to LTP or meetup?
[03:05] <pleia2> they're kind of invisible to the team at the moment, which is ashame for folks looking for LA-focused events (I don't remember the details for them, so I struggle to help people find info about them)
[03:05] <nhaines> pleia2: That's a good question.  I owe him a phone call, so I'll mention it to him this week.
[03:05] <pleia2> cool
[03:06] <pleia2> sounds like that LUG meeting should be fun
[03:06] <pleia2> #topic Announcements
[03:06] <pleia2> anyone have any announcements?
[03:07]  * ianorlin does not
[03:07] <pleia2> tablet news last week was pretty big :) http://insights.ubuntu.com/2016/02/04/canonical-reinvents-the-personal-mobile-computing-experience/
[03:07] <pleia2> and our own nhaines is organizing the Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase this cycle http://nhaines.livejournal.com/69721.html
[03:08] <nhaines> Yes!
[03:08] <pleia2> materials for that get included in an LTS, which I learned at SCALE is what 97% of ubuntu users use
[03:09] <nhaines> TIL some people aren't perpetually running devel.
[03:09] <pleia2> hehe
[03:09] <pleia2> "some"
[03:10] <pleia2> it does offer perspective on the decision to switch to only 9 months support for the 6 months releases
[03:10] <nhaines> Indeed.
[03:11] <nhaines> I still think they should've waited two more interrim releases to do so, though.
[03:11] <pleia2> it was a bit abrupt
[03:12] <pleia2> alright, so moving along
[03:12] <pleia2> #topic UbuCon Summit / SCALE 14x post-mortem meeting.
[03:12] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale14x
[03:12] <pleia2> I updated the wiki earlier with links to photos (are there other galleries of photos? Please add links!), blog posts and videos from the ubucon summit
[03:13] <nhaines> I believe I received photos from David Ellsworth, but I think we ran into a weird sharing name collision in OwnCloud, so I will troubleshoot.
[03:14] <pleia2> fun times
[03:15] <nhaines> I'd say UbuCon was a giant success.
[03:15] <pleia2> I agree :)
[03:16] <pleia2> I hope Canonical also found value in it and will continue supporting us in the future, and maybe some other UbuCons too
[03:16] <pleia2> nhaines: were you at the organizing team wrap-up meeting last week?
[03:17] <nhaines> pleia2: no, I couldn't make it, so that's another reason I owe Richard a phone call.
[03:17] <nhaines> But everything I've heard from Canonical so far is that they were very happy.
[03:17] <pleia2> I wasn't either (wrong side of the planet)
[03:17] <pleia2> that's good to hear :)
[03:18] <nhaines> And I believe they'll be working with UbuCon Europe as well.  I'll be sitting in on that meeting Tuesday, if I can be up at 6:30am, which is always dubious.
[03:18] <pleia2> nice
[03:18] <pleia2> haha, yeah
[03:18] <ianorlin> yeah it went really well
[03:18] <nhaines> Probably the only thing I would do differently for UbuCon is to feature the Q&A more centrally.
[03:19] <ianorlin> nhaines: that would probably be nice
[03:19] <nhaines> But outside of that, I thought the unconference portion turned out really well.
[03:19] <pleia2> I would have liked to hear some more results from the unconference
[03:20] <pleia2> like how the track leads at UOS do a summary hangout to share
[03:20] <pleia2> so maybe a conclusion session where each group shares something
[03:20] <nhaines> That's a really good idea.
[03:20] <ianorlin> unconferences yeah that could be good sharing what happened at the others is one thing that could be better
[03:22] <nhaines> I thought the booth worked very well also, although I think we could've used that extra table after all.
[03:22] <pleia2> yeah, every time I came by the booth it was quite busy
[03:23] <ianorlin> yeah it seems booth has been quite busy last three years
[03:23] <nhaines> The booth's been really busy all 8 years.
[03:24] <pleia2> hehe
[03:25] <nhaines> The convergence demo was a huge hit.  It'll be really exciting next year when it's running legacy desktop apps, too.
[03:25]  * pleia2 nods
[03:26] <nhaines> Was there anything the booth could've done better or differently?
[03:27] <pleia2> no ideas from me
[03:28] <nhaines> The booth is pretty much a known quantity these days.
[03:28] <ianorlin> yep
[03:29] <nhaines> I would like to specifically thank Luis Caballero for being an absolute rockstar at the booth Friday and Saturday.
[03:29] <pleia2> yay, thanks Luis!
[03:29] <nhaines> Even the Canonical community team mentioned it to me.
[03:32] <nhaines> So to me, UbuCon Summit and SCALE were a giant success because a lot of people came together and worked hard.
[03:33] <pleia2> ++
[03:33] <pleia2> excellent work everyone :) I had a blast
[03:33] <nhaines> Richard and I are always trying to keep from getting complacent about UbuCon, but I think the general formula works.  :)
[03:35] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[03:36] <pleia2> anything else for this meeting?
[03:36]  * ianorlin does not have anything
[03:36] <nhaines> Nothing from me.
[03:37] <pleia2> alrighty, thanks guys
[03:37] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
