{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, July 3rd, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

==== Original Agenda ====
# Append a sentence to the default meeting pages something like: "If you have anything else you'd like to add ... apparent.  To be considerate and allow people to prepare for meeting topics please try to add agenda items at least 24 hours before the start of the meeting."
# Review <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ApprovalApplication2011]]</nowiki>

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[collaborate|http:--www.ubuntu.com-community-conduct]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PDT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
19:05 < jdeslip> Thanks for coming everyone who is here even though I forgot the announcement.  (pleia2 is going to kill me)
19:05 < sn9> MarkDude: i think the zeroth item on the meeting agenda is whether there is a meeting
19:05 < jdeslip> sn9: MarkDude: we do have one agenda item to at least bring to people's attention. So it is on.
19:05 < MarkDude> Well we can start arguing about stuff- for old times sake :D
19:05 *** MarkDude kids
19:05 < rww> jdeslip: this action would be in line with other historical triumvirates
19:05 < jdeslip> But first, let's start with announcements.  Anyone got any?
19:06 < sn9> MarkDude: that's last
19:06 < MarkDude> July 16th
19:06 <        grantbow> sn9: short meetings are not a crime. Anyone who's present can participate. no quorum required.
19:06 < MarkDude> Geeknic in Los Gatos
19:06 < sn9> grantbow: old news
19:06 *** MarkDude will email about it to ML and LUGS
19:06 < jdeslip> sounds good
19:06 < MarkDude> Lets argue about it G XD
19:07 *** MarkDude likes quorums - lol
19:07 < jdeslip> Any other announcements?
19:07 < sn9> linuxpicnic?
19:07 <        grantbow> Oregon events are soon. not sure who's going.
19:07 < sn9> for august, that is
19:07 <        grantbow> sn9: yes, good point
19:07 < jdeslip> sn9: Ya, August 27
19:08 < jdeslip> last year Ubuntu had a table there.  We should look into doing another one.
19:08 <        grantbow> www.linuxpicnic.org
19:08 < jdeslip> Ok, I'll add that as an agenda item for the next meeting (Linux picnic planning and registration)
19:09 <        grantbow> great
19:09 < jdeslip> So, we can a count of how many people are going and what we want to do
19:10 < jdeslip> Ok, so our only agenda item for the meeting is to review our approval application here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/ApprovalApplication2011
19:10 < MarkDude> Oh, Google+ rocks, bigtime
19:10 < jdeslip> MarkDude: agreed on that count
19:10 < jdeslip> Has anyone had a chance to review the application?
19:10 < jdeslip> Any comments.
19:11 < jdeslip> As it stands now, it looks pretty good to me.  But a few things are missing.  Long term goals for one.
19:12 < MarkDude> besides lack of penguin pics- looks good
19:12 < MarkDude> Nice and orderly- people did some great work on it
19:12 < MarkDude> Nice job
19:14 <        grantbow> I think goals would be useful.
19:14 < jdeslip> agreed
19:14 < jdeslip> Any suggestions?
19:15 < seidos> hello, i for one would like to figure out a way to get excited about a project again
19:15 < seidos> the only thing i can think of is propaganda
19:15 <        grantbow> Perhaps the elected folks could talk and make a proposal or host a discussion.
19:15 < seidos> creation of propaganda that is
19:18 <        grantbow> Perhaps a call for suggestions on the mail list would get more input too.
19:18 < rww> didn't we brainstorm goals last meeting?
19:20 < jdeslip> rww: Yes I think so.  Perhaps it is time to just send suggestion to the mailing list and pick something.
19:20 < jdeslip> I think the idea is to get the application off sometime in the next week or so
19:20 <        grantbow> yes https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/11June19
19:21 < jdeslip> I'll review the log with DarkwingDuck and pleia2, make a suggestion and send it to the list
19:22 < jdeslip> Ok, so there is actually a second agenda item for the meeting that I missed.  Which is a suggestion by grant that we limit the addition of new topics to the meeting to 24 hours before the start
19:22 *** MarkDude votes against such a thing as a rule
19:22 < jdeslip> (i.e. you cannot add an agenda item less than 24 hours before the meeting) - I guess this would be more of a suggestion of courtesy rather than a hard rule.
19:22 < MarkDude> A suggestion maybe
19:23 < jdeslip> Is that correct Grant?
19:23 <        grantbow> MarkDude: there's no voting and there's no rule. It's just text on the page describing.
19:23 < MarkDude> There were a few time that a timely agenda item was the most fair way to deal with sumthin' IMHO
19:23 <        grantbow> jdeslip, correct
19:23 < MarkDude> I know G
19:24 < jdeslip> As a suggestion, I don't see any problem with it.  As a hard-rule I guess it could be problematic (I could see people needing exceptions on occassion and we don't want to make it harder for new members to participate)
19:24 <        grantbow> The reason I wrote it as I did was to make it a suggestion as I know that "life happens"
19:25 < jdeslip> Anyone have any complaints about the text?
19:25 < rww> I'd like something on the wiki along the lines of "Agenda items added within 24 hours of the meeting time may be postponed until the next meeting so that everyone has a chance to consider them."
19:26 < sn9> seconded
19:26 *** MarkDude thoughts were it should ONLY be for extraordinary circumsrtances
19:26 <        grantbow> rww: sure
19:26 < MarkDude> rww +1
19:26 < MarkDude> I mean 99% of the time it is not good to do
19:26 < jdeslip> rww: that seems fine to me too. If grantbow is happy with it as well.  We can go with that.
19:26 < MarkDude> that 1% situation- another matter
19:27 <        grantbow> rww: where on the wiki? in the meeting template as I had proposed?
19:27 < seidos> is there anything presently stating that agenda items *can't* be postponed?
19:27 < rww> grantbow: works for me
19:27 < jdeslip> I think the meeting template makes the most sense.
19:28 <        grantbow> partly this issue was raised again because a newcomer added something to the agenda last minute. Clarifying the expectations helps everyone.
19:28 < jdeslip> seidos: No, but people might be a bit angry if their agenda item is postponed for no reason...
19:29 < jdeslip> this is giving people fair warning I guess
19:29 <        grantbow> rww: would you like to do the honors or should I?
19:29 < MarkDude> Well leadership is reasonable here- I see them giving reasons (if needed) :)
19:30 < rww> grantbow: I'm out of the loop on where that stuff is stored, go ahead.
19:30 <        grantbow> ok
19:30 < seidos> jdeslip: ah, it's a CYA kind of thing
19:30 <        grantbow> anything else for this item?
19:30 < jdeslip> OK, grantbow - I'll leave it up to you make the change that sounds reasonably close to the wording rww used
19:31 < MarkDude> Make sure it is good, or I will put it in agenda at last minute
19:31 < MarkDude> to be meta
19:31 <        grantbow> jdeslip: I'll edit it tonight, thanks.
19:31 < jdeslip> Anyone have any final announcements to make before we close this meeting?
19:31 <        grantbow> lol
19:31 < seidos> idea here
19:32 < seidos> just thinking that sunday night is bad for me, well, during the school year
19:32 < seidos> is the solution to that simply reviewing logs?
19:32 < jdeslip> Ya, we have been talking about moving one of the Sunday meetings to another day of the week.
19:32 < jdeslip> (Like on an every-other meeting basis)
19:33 < jdeslip> But, I don't think we ever decided on anything and the talk died down.
19:33 < seidos> hate to say it, but the meeting reeks of work
19:33 < jdeslip> lol
19:33 < MarkDude> :)
19:33 < seidos> which is fine, but like, bad work, ya' know?
19:34 < jdeslip> If you don't enjoy your time here, nothing is keeping you.  You are definitely free to review the logs.
19:34 < seidos> like not dwarves whistling to work...but in a cubicle, joe vs. the volcano kind of work
19:34 < MarkDude> lol
19:34 < rww> I'm waiting for MarkDude to suggest we move meetings to Google+ Hangouts.
19:34 < seidos> oh right, should've handed out party hats
19:34 < jdeslip> And we do accept suggestions on improving things... but meetings are ... you know ... meetings
19:34 *** seidos hands out party hats
19:35 *** MarkDude is hanging out in + now-
19:35 < MarkDude> actually more like lonely- with no takers to talk
19:35 < rww> I know, my Stream keeps telling me.
19:35 < seidos> jdeslip: understood
19:35 *** seidos hands jdeslip a bat cowl
19:36 < jdeslip> So, if you have suggestions on changing the day of the week or somehow otherwise improving the meeting, please make them. But, most importantly, spend your time whatever you want to spend it.  Have fun :)
19:36 < jdeslip> Being involved in a community, working on code etc ... is a lot like work, but it is also something I find fun. Which is why I am here.
19:37 < seidos> it can be fun
19:37 < seidos> not trying to harsh your meeting
19:37 < jdeslip> MarkDude: I tried to invite a bunch of people to G+ but the invites are closed still - once more people get on, I am sure you will be in hangout heaven
19:37 < MarkDude> Well- seidos we can do a hangout on + sometime
19:38 < seidos> MarkDude: right, whenever access is granted
19:38 < jdeslip> OK, anyway, seidos, thanks for the feedback.
19:38 < jdeslip> Anyone else got anything before we close?
19:38 < MarkDude> Nope
19:38 < jdeslip> ok, since MarkDude is qualified to answer for everyone, we will end there.
</pre>
