{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border-style:none;" style="border-style:none">
|}

==== Description ====

'''''EVENT CANCELED'''''

Libertopia is an annual festival of peace, freedom, music, community and ideas that will change the World.

It is a unique experience...a 3 day celebration of our individuality and diversity packed with renowned speakers, workshops, panels, parties, banquets, music, film, art, literature, commerce, exhibitors, themed camps, performers, social networking and much more!

It’s more than a conference…more than a festival…it’s our future! Why? It leaves behind the least attractive aspects of conference and festivals while encouraging a big participatory element. Libertopia
also is more than “libertarian.” It’s voluntaryist to the core – bypassing and transcending politics completely.

We will be manning an Ubuntu booth as an invite from the local organizers. This is a perfect venue for advocating for Free/Libre Open Source Software. There will be an expected 800-1000 people. There was 750 people last year in Los Angeles.

* '''Date:''' Friday, October 21st 2011 - Sunday, October 23rd 2011
* '''Location:''' 2303 Shelter Island Dr., San Diego
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1255/detail/|LoCo directory entry]]</nowiki> (sign up here!)

==== Planning ====

===== Things we have =====

* WILL FILL IN AS WE GATHER THINGS

===== Things we need =====

* About 300 Burned Live CDs
* 400 Flyers

==== Volunteers ====

Sign up at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/1255/detail/|LoCo directory entry]]</nowiki>.

==== Photos ====
