{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Sunday, August 12th, 2007 7:00pm (19:00) PDT

=== Summary ===
1. Introduction
  a. What is a LoCo team
  a. Relationship with LUGs
1. Map â€“ LoCo team map, good idea.
  a. Implementation to be decided later
# Official voting to be done by Launchpad polls only
# Meetings will be held every two weeks at first
  a. 7pm on Sundays for now
1. We do want to buy case badges, and prefer the second design (black text on silver background)

=== Original Agenda ===
1. Intro
  a. What is a Loco?
# Team Map
# Regular Team Meeting Schedule
# Events
# Case Badges
  a. Here are some sweet <nowiki>[[MassachusettsTeam-Projects-AluminiumCaseBadges|aluminum badges]]</nowiki> being put together by the Massachusetts LoCo

=== Logs: ===
<pre>
19:00 < Flannel> We'll wait a few more minutes incase of stragglers.
19:03 < Yasumoto> heya mildsauce and Scunizi
19:04 < Scunizi> Hi all.. I've got to go out 4 20min or so... but I'll be back..
19:04 < Yasumoto> kk, cya when you get back
19:05 < cactaur> I have logs!
19:07 < Flannel> Alright, I'd like to welcome you all to today meeting.
19:07 < Flannel> I'd like to say that if anyone has questions at any point, go ahead and ask them.
19:08 < Flannel> We won't be doing any sort of hand raising or anything, like with most meetings, since I don't think with this size of a group it'll be necessary.
19:09 < Flannel> Our current agenda is available at the URL in the topic, if you want a preview of what we may be covering.  I'm not deadset on getting through everything right now, especially if we get sidetracked with other discussions.
19:09 < mthaddon> For logging purposes...
19:09 < mthaddon>    1.
19:09 < mthaddon>       Intro
19:09 < mthaddon>          1.
19:09 < mthaddon>             What is a Loco?
19:09 < mthaddon>    2.
19:09 < mthaddon>       Team Map
19:09 < mthaddon>    3.
19:10 < mthaddon>       Regular Team Meeting Schedule
19:10 < mthaddon>    4.
19:10 < mthaddon>       Events
19:10 < mthaddon>    5.
19:10 < mthaddon>       Case Badges
19:11 < cactaur> Question: What's a case badge?
19:11 < roy> hello
19:11 < cactaur> hello roy
19:11 < mthaddon> hey roy
19:11 < bmathis> hey roy
19:11 < Flannel> cactaur: we'll get to it.  But, those little rectangular stickers on computers.  "powered by windows", etc
19:11 < roy> how's everyone doing this everning?
19:11 < Flannel> In the future, especially once activity picks up, we'll ask everyone to add whatever they intend to discuss to the agenda, so we can all take a look at it beforehand.  This is especially important to be able to include the inputs of people who can't make it to the meetings.
19:11 < roy> sorry, I am late...
19:12 < Flannel> Howdy roy, not too late.  Didn't miss anything important
19:12 < bmathis> one topic that i'd like to add is to select an agenda for the next meeting
19:13 < roy> I live in South San Jose and work in Foster City
19:13 < roy> I've been using Ubuntu for the past year or so...
19:14 < mthaddon> Flannel: is that what you meant by Intro? Should we all introduce ourselves?
19:14 < Flannel> We could.  I didn't really have a whole lot planned.  Location might be good, so we know where everyone is.
19:15 < roy> we should do a conference call...
19:15 < Flannel> So, I'll go next.  I'm down in San Diego, going to school for electrical engineering at SDSU.
19:15 < mthaddon> roy: this way we let more people participate and it's easier to log for those who can't
19:15  * dreadlord_chris is from Sacramento, using Ubu for about a year
19:16 < roy> i see...
19:16  * mthaddon is in San Francisco - I actually work for Canonical as the sysadmin for Launchpad
19:16 < bmathis> I'm from Fresno and work full time as an IT Admin and part time as a consultant. I just recently became a Ubuntu Affiliate and Solution Provider.
19:16 < dreadlord_chris> sweet gig
19:16  * cactaur is from Los Angeles. I'm usually on this channel and am still a high-school student.
19:17 < BFTD> hey all
19:17 < BFTD> I'm late
19:17 < BFTD> what happened
19:17 < Flannel> Howdy BFTD.  If you want to introduce yourself, location, etc.  You're welcome to.  This'd be the time
19:17 < cactaur> BFTD: Introductions
19:18 < dreadlord_chris> a/s/l BFTD
19:18 < dreadlord_chris> ;-)
19:18 < roy> I was part of the IT department at Stanford University for 6 years. Just recently started working at a start up in Foster City- "Rearden Commerce" and looking forward to collaborating with fellow linux users.
19:18  * Yasumoto lives in Anaheim, and goes to Chapman University as a Sophomore Computer Science major
19:18 < mthaddon> been using Ubuntu for about 2.5 years, Linux for about 5
19:18 < BFTD> Hi I'm Thomas, I'm 17, I'm From a place about 45 min's south of  San Jose in the bay area, I'm starting college in a few weeks,
19:19 < dreadlord_chris> near Morgan Hill?
19:19 < BFTD> yes
19:19  * ianmcorvidae is not actually from california, but is a high schooler from Tucson, Arizona, in to watch the meeting; I'm sort of an unofficial helper for the US Teams project; ask myself or any of the official mentors for help with anything you'd like team-related.
19:19 < ianmcorvidae> That is all :)
19:19 < BFTD> actually, San Juan Bautista and Morgan Hill
19:19 < dreadlord_chris> ah.... used to have a gf lived in MH
19:19 < BFTD> ah
19:19 < BFTD> I hope it isn't my mom
19:20 < BFTD> lol jk jk
19:20 < dreadlord_chris> lol
19:20 < Flannel> And for anyone who's interested.  Our 'official' team mentor is atoponce.
19:20  * dreadlord_chris thinks back...
19:20 < Yasumoto> BFTD: lol
19:20 < Flannel> Anyone else have anything before we move on?
19:21 < roy> nope...
19:21 < roy> ready to move on...
19:21 < roy> let's discuss Loco
19:21 < Flannel> Alright, so, one of the questions everyone has is "what is a loco team" and more importantly, what does it do?
19:21 < dreadlord_chris> yeah... what he said
19:22 < Flannel> the official stance is that we provide localized support, help in translation, and advocate ubuntu.  Obviously for most of the US teams, the translation part is moot.
19:22 < BFTD> moot == ?
19:22 < Flannel> But we still have plenty to do by way of advocacy and support, as well as having a good time, of course.
19:22 < Flannel> BFTD: not important
19:23 < mthaddon> I'm particularly interested in the localized support side of things
19:23 < mthaddon> BFTD: moot == not relevany
19:23 < dreadlord_chris> what? no Calbuntu?
19:23 < mthaddon> s/revelany/relevant :)
19:23 < BFTD> ah
19:23 < BFTD> ok
19:23 < Flannel> localized support and advocacy really go hand in hand for a lot of it.  Install fests are both combined into one, and there are a bunch of other activities that are a combination of the two as well.
19:24 < Flannel> Both are important, and both should be relatively enjoyable and sociable.  And we can also do whatever else we want to define ourselves as.  It's a pretty fluid definition.
19:24 < mthaddon> I'm wondering how the "localized" part applies to a state as big as California?
19:24 < BFTD> yeah
19:24 < Lynn_> I'm assuming that is where the regions come in
19:24 < roy> good question
19:24 < mthaddon> especially since we seem to be pretty spread out
19:24 < dreadlord_chris> well... cactaur could translate into ValSpeak
19:25 < BFTD> that's one thing I wanted to get ar
19:25 < BFTD> at
19:25 < Lynn_> there was an email about region chiefs a few weeks ago
19:25 < Flannel> I think most people feel localized means face to face, instead of over the internets.
19:25 < cactaur> dreadlord_chris: Like, totally!
19:25 < Flannel> Lynn_: Actually, that was what carl (rennen) was going for, and I'm not sure the LoCo team is going to go that direction anymore.
19:26 < Flannel> but thats really up to us to decide, over the course of... well, whenever.  How we want to run our LoCo and how everything will work.
19:26 < Flannel> I don't expect it to be answered any time soon, since it changes depending on the size of the group and a bunch of other factors.
19:27 < BFTD> the thing is, I don't want to have to travel 350 miles just to go to an install fest, when I can just help out at one about 30 miles away
19:27 < BFTD> L.A. is just to far
19:27 < mthaddon> I also have a question about the relationship between a Loco team and local LUGs
19:28 < roy> Will there be monthly dues?
19:28 < roy> or annual dues?
19:28 < BFTD> ?
19:28 < Flannel> most of the real localized support will be face to face in some way or another.  While we do/can provide support in here, it's no more localized than in #ubuntu.  Well, except we can use terms like 'dude'.
19:28 < dreadlord_chris> lol
19:28 < BFTD> haha
19:28 < BFTD> yeah
19:28 < Yasumoto> right on
19:28 < bmathis> dude ;)
19:28 < mthaddon> roy: I don't think there's any money involved in this
19:28 < Renatoc8> sorry im late guys
19:29 < dreadlord_chris> you brought the donuts, right?
19:29 < BFTD> money?
19:29 < Flannel> roy: That's up to us to decide.  I don't expect there to be anything mandatory.  Although we're bound to have expenses sooner or later (actually, case badges are one example, which we'll get to)
19:29 < Yasumoto> mthaddon: I've been trying to find some local LUGs, but most LoCos seem to work with LUGs pretty well
19:29 < mthaddon> BFTD: roy was asking there were any dues...
19:29 < BFTD> mthaddon I got that
19:29 < BFTD> I'm jsut saying
19:30 < mthaddon> Yasumoto: good to know
19:30 < mthaddon> gotcha
19:30 < BFTD> we'll set up some kind of a VIP thing for those who do dodnate
19:30 < BFTD> donate*
19:30 < Flannel> As for the line between LUGs and LoCos, they're not competing, but complementing organizations.  There is a bit of overlap between them though.
19:30 < roy> personally, I wouldn't mind paying monthly or annual dues to help sustain some of the cost for conference calls or small conventions
19:31 < Yasumoto> I feel that LoCos are more about spreading Ubuntu/Open Source Software, and LUGs give me more of an image of a buncha guys getting together to hack on the kernel and such
19:31 < mthaddon> Flannel: I think it's important that the LUGs know that as well as we do - guess that's down to us working with them
19:31 < BFTD> I'm donating for one reason, TAGS!!
19:31 < Yasumoto> BFTD: haha :)
19:31 < cactaur> I would probably donate for them too.
19:31 < Flannel> mthaddon: it is an important distinction to make.  We don't want LUGs to feel like we're encroaching and trying to kill them.
19:32 < BFTD> I know a lot of people that go to LUGs
19:32 < dreadlord_chris> NO! we must war with Lugs!
19:32 < BFTD> they're some of the smartest guys I've ever known
19:32 < Flannel> I'm going to go ahead and point everyone to this page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups
19:32 < dreadlord_chris> only then will tehy respect
19:32 < dreadlord_chris> ;-)
19:32 < mthaddon> Flannel: yeah, that's my worry - that they feel like we're trying to separate Ubuntu from other Linux's... I don't think it's a big problem as long as we all are aware of it
19:32 < Flannel> You can read it now, or bookmark it for later.  But it outlines a few good ideas and best practices
19:33 < mthaddon> cool, thx
19:33 < BFTD> We becoming allies with them is a must
19:33 < BFTD> brb gotta gets something to drink
19:33 < Flannel> mthaddon: I think that's the feeling a lot of distros feel, Ubuntu is trying to steal peopple from them and stuff.  When in reality, we're fighting the same fight.
19:34 < mthaddon> Flannel: absolutely - I think we're a victim of our success in that way... anyway, I think you've covered it there so I'm happy to move on
19:34 < bmathis> mthaddon: agreed
19:34 < Flannel> It's a fine line between us advocating, and others feeling like we're stealing.  And it's bound to happen sooner or later that someone will feel stepped on.  We just have to be aware, and try and deal with the situation diplomatically
19:34 < Yasumoto> Flannel/mthaddon: I concur :)
19:35 < Flannel> Anyone else have anything before we move on?
19:35 < roy> nope...
19:35  * Scunizi says hello to all after coming back
19:35 < bmathis> negative
19:35 < Lynn_> back to dues, as far as event specific, I'd have no prob, but who is going to handle the cash on an ongoing basis...more trouble than it's worth
19:36 < dreadlord_chris> very true
19:36 < Flannel> Lynn_: well, usually you set this up as a NPO, and then banks handle it and stuff.  But, I can't really see us having a regular membership fee.  Since I agree, that's more hassle than it's worth
19:37 < Flannel> We really don't have to decide that yet, but it is something we'll need to think about for the future.
19:37 < roy> good point...
19:37 < BFTD> membership fee's are crap, but doing stuff like VIP or gold star member isn;t that bad an idea
19:37 < roy> we can poll on that topic later
19:38 < Flannel> A lot of the things in the agenda are like that.  we'll need to deal with it eventually, but it's something we need to get people thinking about.
19:38 < Yasumoto> At the very least, I'd like to think that anyone can say they're part of the California LoCo without paying a fee. If people want shirts or something, then like Lynn_ said, we'll deal with it separately
19:39 < Flannel> Alright, so, moving on to the team map thing.
19:39 < Flannel> For a while now, people have been coming in, asking if people are in their area, and stuff.  I think it'd be great if we had a map so that they'd be able to look, instead of relying on the memories of whoever is awake at the time.
19:40 < Scunizi> Any way of doing a frapper map?  Not sure how that works myself...
19:40 < mthaddon> Flannel: I think this is a great idea - saw if for another Loco team
19:40 < Flannel> It doesn't really have to be pinpoint, even if it's just a list of people in different counties, I imagine that would be good enough.
19:40 < BFTD> yeah, very good idea
19:40 < Flannel> I just can't keep most of the regulars in here straight anymore
19:40  * dreadlord_chris concures
19:41 < mthaddon> so question how do we actually do that?
19:41 < bmathis> cant we use a google maps API or something similar and place it on the wiki for that?
19:41 < Flannel> I heard abotu frapper the other day, I'm not sure if that'd be a good path or not.  Since I didn't get a chance to research it.  Originally I was thinking an image map to the listings, or a SVG that you can easily edit (yay SVG).
19:41 < Yasumoto> there's this skeleton of a
19:41 < Yasumoto> *"members page" on the wiki
19:41 < Lynn_> For the list. can't we just add it to the team wiki?
19:41 < Yasumoto> so maybe we could make a list of everyone in a certain area
19:42 < cactaur> Yasumoto's method seems like a lot less hassle.
19:42 < Flannel> Lynn_: yeah, the wiki is where I was hoping to get it
19:42 < Yasumoto> that way we can have people link to their web pages and such.
19:42 < mthaddon> I've done some Google Maps hacking before - if we have locations on the wiki page, I could probably throw that onto a Google Maps page
19:43 < Yasumoto> but it would be so awesome to have a map :)
19:43 < Flannel> Was just hoping to get something graphical, so even if you're in separate counties, but near-ish to each other, you'd know.
19:43 < bmathis> mthaddon: that would be awesome
19:43 < mthaddon> as long as people list their zipcode it should be easy enough
19:43 < Yasumoto> mthaddon: that'd be so sweet
19:43 < Flannel> since a lotof people don't know where all the counties are
19:44 < Yasumoto> I was hoping to have a map at the top of the page with a list of everyone (sorted either alphabetically or by region) below
19:44 < mthaddon> ok, will see what I can do, if someone can get the wiki page together - and we'd just have to agree on some format: like bullet point with name (IRC?) and zipcode that I could parse
19:44 < BFTD> I have no idea where my county is, its just somewhere in the middle
19:44 < BFTD> yeah
19:44 < Flannel> Right.  So, uh, since we have a few different options, it might be good if we took some sample data, tried it on the different methods, and decided on an official method next time
19:44 < BFTD> IRC names + zip codes
19:44 < Yasumoto> mthaddon: I can fill that out really easily, I just need to know who wants to sign up for it
19:45 < bmathis> ill sign up for it
19:45  * cactaur joins
19:45 < Yasumoto> Flannel: I like that a lot
19:45 < Scunizi> maybe a password driven database to collect the data for parsing?
19:45 < mthaddon> Yasumoto: cool - I'll sign up too
19:45 < roy> sounds good...
19:45 < BFTD> Sign me up
19:45 < Scunizi> I'm in
19:45 < Yasumoto> awesome guys :)
19:45 < mthaddon> Scunizi: I can just screen scrape from the wiki page as long as it's fairly standardised format
19:45 < Scunizi> k
19:46 < Scunizi> IRC Name.... Zip.... Occupation ?
19:46 < Yasumoto> I say real name, irc nick, and zip code
19:46 < cactaur> We need occupation?
19:47 < Flannel> Fields are trivial to add/remove
19:47 < roy> roy 95123 Sr Technical Support Analyst
19:47 < Lynn_> IRC Name ...ZIP....Ubuntu experince/linux experience?
19:47 < Yasumoto> and then I can link to everyone's page on the wiki so it's not too cluttered
19:47 < bmathis> lets add social security number while were at it... joking
19:47 < Flannel> the map/list interaction/whatever is the important thing
19:47 < Yasumoto> bmathis: hahaha
19:47 < Miggl> how about just add everyone's wiki link?
19:47 < roy> hahha
19:47 < Miggl> most ppl here have an ubuntu wiki
19:47 < Miggl> ?
19:47 < BFTD> yeah
19:47 < Flannel> I don't tink so.
19:47 < BFTD> add wiki
19:47 < Miggl> asking, not sure
19:48 < Scunizi> but do they do anything with it.
19:48 < Flannel> Well, no.  And especially new members.  I don't want them to have to create a wiki page just to be put on the list
19:48 < Miggl> i *try* to keep mineupdated :) hehe
19:48 < bmathis> Miggl: i just added mine today, i just need to add the info to it
19:48 < Yasumoto> I know some people based on their real name, and might not know their irc nick at first
19:48 < Scunizi> I'm not even sure where mine is.
19:48 < Miggl> flannel: goo dpoint
19:48 < Flannel> Right now we've got 65 people in LP, and I know they don't all have wiki pages.
19:48 < Yasumoto> and if we do start face to face meetings, I feel that it would help create a good connection between the name and the face
19:48 < cactaur> Yasumoto: I know everyone by their IRC nicks, and not their names...
19:49 < Flannel> Hmm.  If we could integrate LP instead of the wiki, it'd probably be better.  Since if they sign up for the LP group, they've got a LP ID
19:49 < Miggl> ya
19:49 < Miggl> link to their LP page
19:49 < Lynn_> LP?
19:49 < Yasumoto> cactaur: yeah, alright, alright
19:49 < bmathis> Lynn_: Launch Pad
19:49 < Flannel> Anyway, this is something we should think about, spend some time hacking out the few different options, and then decide later after we see the real things.
19:49 < Yasumoto> Flannel: agreed
19:50 < Yasumoto> I think we can move this discussion to the mailing list too
19:50 < Flannel> Uh, so, who all is interested in implementing one/many of the choices?
19:50 < mthaddon> Flannel: I'll have a crack at the maps side of things as I've done some Google Map hacking before
19:51 < bmathis> i like both the launchpad and google maps ideas
19:51 < Yasumoto> I don't have any experience with google maps hacking, but I can organize the data and help out mthaddon as much as possible
19:51 < Flannel> mthaddon: can google maps be integrated anywhere you can put HTML?
19:51 < BFTD> hrm
19:51 < BFTD> I agree with LP and google maps
19:51 < mthaddon> Flannel: sure
19:51 < Flannel> Eh, this is getting too technical.  The non-geeks of the group are getting bored.  mthaddon, and anyone else interested, we'll move this to the mailing list.
19:52 < cactaur> I agree with BFTD.
19:52 < mthaddon> Flannel: agreed
19:52 < Miggl> I believe there is a 1000 query limit per day on google maps. and each location is about 4 queries, so not sure if we would exceed that limitation
19:52 < Flannel> And we'll vote at the next meeting, or whenever we're finishing
19:52 < roy> we might be getting of the agenda topics
19:52 < Miggl> aye, lets move on
19:52 < Flannel> Ah, this brings up a good topic, which I'm going to take the liberty of inserting right here.
19:53 < Flannel> The team interactions between IRC, forums, mailing list, wiki, and LP.
19:54 < BFTD> oh crap, this is where I get in trouble
19:54 < Flannel> I'm not exactly sure how its all going to work.  I don't want to have to do things like votes everywhere.  Taking the hand tallied results from mailing lists and adding them to the forum results and stuff.  We can also do polls on LP.
19:54 < Flannel> There's a lot of overlap between them, and everytime I use one, I feel like I'm leaving half of the people out.
19:54 < BFTD> yeah
19:55 < BFTD> that;ll be best
19:55 < BFTD> force people to use LP
19:55 < Scunizi> I'm on LP now and lost
19:55 < Miggl> lp for the win
19:55 < Yasumoto> I personally like forums for polls
19:55 < Flannel> I don't know if this is a problem I should be worried about or not.  What do you people think?  Should we try and put some guidelines on what gets discussed/done different places?
19:55 < Yasumoto> but I like lp a lot too
19:56 < cactaur> Yeah, instead of polling every place, just tell everyone to vote at LP. It'll be much easier.
19:56 < Yasumoto> I'd like to think that the mailing list will be received by everyone on the team, so should be reserved for important announcements, which will keep it low volume
19:56 < BFTD> well
19:56 < Flannel> I think LP would indeed be the best place for polls.  But what about regular discussions?  Do we worry about the forums and mailing lists being separated?
19:56 < Yasumoto> and encourage people to not just mark it as spam
19:56 < BFTD> unfortunatly I'm really sick and I can't be on anymore, so I'm appointing (your name here) to have my vote
19:56 < Flannel> Yasumoto: Interestingly, I personally prefer the mailing list to forums for discussions.
19:57 < Flannel> BFTD: don't worry about it.
19:57  * cactaur claims BFTD's vote!
19:57 < BFTD> cactaur I was about to give it to you
19:57 < cactaur> more seriously, I hope you feel better, BFTD.
19:57 < BFTD> thanks
19:57 < BFTD> now
19:57 < BFTD> off to wal-mart
19:57 < Flannel> If someones worried about list spam, they can either set it as digest,or just read the archives whenever they like.
19:57 < BFTD> bye all
19:57 < bmathis> maybe lp for polls and team specific stuff, the forums for general discussion and debates, and the mailing list for annoyments???
19:57 < cactaur> bye
19:57 -!- BFTD [n=thomas@unaffiliated/bftd] has quit ["Leaving"]
19:57 < bmathis> see ya
19:58 < bmathis> announcements***
19:58 < bmathis> lol
19:58 < dreadlord_chris> fruedian slip  there?
19:59 < Flannel> Alright, so, Ive seen a few different inputs, I'll put something together and we'll see about deciding next time.
19:59 < Yasumoto> Flannel: I mean, I use everything, but I want to make sure that there's some way that we can get information out if we need to
19:59 < Yasumoto> Flannel: because there are some times when I may not check the forums, but I'm almost always on gmail
19:59 < Yasumoto> BFTD: aw, drink a lot of water and some orange juice
19:59 < bmathis> something like that... i was reading, watching tv, and typing at the same time
20:00 < Flannel> That seems like it's happening a lot this meeting, it's because a few people can't be here this time, and haven't had a chance to look over things beforehand and give their input.
20:00 < Yasumoto> Flannel: kk, just wanted to mention it. I personally am pretty good at staying up to date on things (thank you google reader) but I don't know about everyone
20:01 < Flannel> Yasumoto: right.  Well, If we have real important announcements, I don't mind posting multiple places, I dont think we sould eel like we can't do that.  But, I mostly wanted to consolidate voting.  And I didn't even think about using LP until I typed it.
20:01 < Yasumoto> Flannel: gotcha :)
20:01 < Flannel> Discussions I don't think are as big of a deal, but it may be in the future, we'll have to keep track.
20:02 < Flannel> If we find we're having two parallel discussions, we'll need to see about a remedy
20:02 < Yasumoto> I like that a lot. onward?
20:02 < dreadlord_chris> onward
20:02 < Flannel> Aye.  So, next thing on our agenda is a regular meeting schedule.
20:02 < Miggl> i agree with what has been summarized so far: basically mailing list for important announcements, LP for voting and collaboration, forum for discussions
20:03 < roy> Flannel: will you be posting the minutes for this meeting?
20:03 < Miggl> sorry... things move so quickly here  :) hehe
20:03 < Flannel> roy: Logs wil be posted.  I suppose I could summarize as well, yes.
20:03 < roy> thanks...
20:04 < Flannel> Again, this is something we won't be able to decide on tonight because of the people who can't make it and haven't had a chance to give input beforehand.  But it's something we need to start thinking about.
20:04 < Flannel> I don't really know what we'd discuss here, except maybe at what frequency we'd like to have them.
20:05 < Flannel> And of course, if we decide to do it every X, and later find out that's too much/not enough, we can always change.
20:05 < Flannel> I think the obvious two choices are monthly, and semi-monthly (twice a month, every two weeks, whatever)
20:06 < Yasumoto> I like twice a month, at least for now
20:06 < bmathis> i think semi monthly would be good
20:06 < roy> twice a week for now
20:06 < Yasumoto> since that should help keep everyone focused
20:06 < Flannel> roy: twice a week, eh?
20:06 < roy> sorry
20:06 < Yasumoto> that could be fun
20:06 < Yasumoto> :)
20:06 < roy> twice a month
20:06 < Flannel> roy: You get to head up the wednesday meetings then ;)
20:06 < roy> hahha
20:06 < roy> :)
20:07 < dreadlord_chris> I vote semi too
20:07 < Flannel> alright, so, we'll go ahead and decide on twice a month for the time being
20:07 < Miggl> not sure i can make it twice per month, but i think its good, keeps people from drifting off
20:07 < roy> I will be more than happy to help out with anything you need to get the group organized
20:08 < Yasumoto> Miggl: yeah, haha
20:08 < Flannel> Hmm, as for times, we could put up a big LP poll about it, with a bunch of options, but if we do that, we'll need to narrow it down and do a bunch of sequential polls.
20:09 < Yasumoto> Flannel: yeah, I see what you're saying. like drop out the least popular time each round?
20:09 < Flannel> Yasumoto: yeah, or something like that.  I'm worried about something having 3, something else 4, and somethign else 5, and then the 5 winning even though it would be 7 to 5 if only two options were there.
20:10 < Flannel> So, I'm not really sure how that'd work.  Anyone have any other ideas on a method for deciding on a time/day?
20:10 < Miggl> vote first on the day
20:10 < Miggl> then vote on the time
20:10 < Miggl> but you still get in the same predicament
20:10 < bmathis> i think we should just delegate the time and day, i know that people will miss it but we have over 20 people here right now???
20:11 < Miggl> well, today worked out good enough, and weekdays are probably busy enough for everyone
20:11 < dreadlord_chris>  /dev/random - the ones who show up get to vote opn the next time
20:11 < Miggl> sunday at 7pm is probably the best time you can get
20:11 < roy> Sunday's work out for me too
20:11 < bmathis> Miggl: i agree, i think we should just stick to this day and time
20:11 < roy> the 7pm hours is great
20:11 < dreadlord_chris> this actually does work well for me
20:12 < roy> allows me to finish laundry and house hold responsibilites with the wife.
20:12 < Flannel> I suppose I must agree.  Saturdays aren't good until band season's over.
20:12 < Yasumoto> Yeah, I like this time too
20:12 < bmathis> i think its settled
20:13 < Yasumoto> well, I think we can pretty much assume though
20:13 < Yasumoto> that anyone that made it here tonight
20:13 < roy> yup
20:13 < Yasumoto> thinks that now is a decent time
20:13 < Yasumoto> but since we haven't seen too many complaints on the forum/mailing list, I figure that for now this seems as good as any
20:13 < Lynn_> the people that aren't here can vot on the time for the second meeting
20:14 < Yasumoto> yeah, or we can start up a thread on the forum
20:14 < Flannel> I'll take input from the people who couldn't make it tonight.  The next meeting, however, will be at this time.  But we may change it ultimately.
20:14 < Yasumoto> Flannel: I agree
20:14 < bmathis> Flannel: sounds like a plan
20:14 < bmathis> Yasumoto: how about a poll on Launch Pad
20:15 < Flannel> bmathis: I'd like to take freeform input first.  Just to see if a poll is needed
20:15 < Yasumoto> yeah, that's what I was thinking
20:15 < Yasumoto> that way someone can say "I can make the meeting, but I'll be a bit late" or something
20:15 < bmathis> Flannel: okay... i just thought id go with the whole lp for poll theme :)
20:15 < Miggl> sounds good
20:15 < Flannel> Alright, so, next thing on our agenda is events.
20:16 < Yasumoto> bmathis: mm, good point
20:16 < Flannel> I'm not sure this really is a good time to discuss specifics.  Other than to just get you all started on event ideas.
20:16 -!- Renatoc8 [n=Renatoc8@ip68-96-69-40.oc.oc.cox.net] has quit ["Leaving"]
20:16 < Flannel> I think the best way would be if everyone just contributed to a wiki page of ideas, which we could cover next time.
20:17 < roy> post some agenda ideas on the wiki
20:17 < roy> and send us the URL
20:17 < bmathis> are we looking for region specific events or state wide?
20:17 < roy> to contribute
20:17 < bmathis> cali is a big state
20:17 < Flannel> bmathis: Both.  Everything and anything.
20:17 < Flannel> Just becasuse it's state wide doesn't mean it has to be in person, or all together.
20:17 < roy> Flannel, I can work on setting up a Conference Call....
20:18 < roy> we can call dial into an 1800 number
20:18 < Flannel> roy: We can just use gnome meeting... er, ekiga.
20:18 < Yasumoto> roy: really? that'd be chaos, but seems fun :)
20:18 < roy> controlled chaos is fun
20:18 < Flannel> But anyway, I just want to throw out there that I'll setup a wiki page for people to brainstorm on.  Stop by, contribute, etc, etc.
20:19 < Miggl> ya
20:19 < Flannel> Next is case badges.  This came up only recently in #ubuntu-us, and some of you mightve seen it in the forums, or planet, or whereever else.
20:19 < bmathis> i want some!
20:19 < Yasumoto> yay systm76 :)
20:20 < cactaur> BADGES!!!
20:20 < Flannel> Ubuntu-Massachusetts has gotten in touch with some printers, and we're going as the US to buy case badges.
20:20 < Yasumoto> cactaur: talk about selective attention :P
20:20 < Flannel> For those of you who don't know, these are those little metallic stickers that most modern computers have.
20:20 < Yasumoto> (I put a link on www.wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/IRC )
20:20 < Flannel> There's two things we need to discuss.
20:21 < Yasumoto> (i like how that link doesn't work, btw)
20:21 < Flannel> Yasumoto: actually, System76 contacted -MA to buy some.  So the current numbers up there might go up by 10K with S76 orders.
20:21 < Yasumoto> Flannel: seriously? I didn't know that. that's amazing :D
20:21 < cactaur> Which makes it cheaper, right?
20:21 < Flannel> Anyway, first thing is which design do we, as a team, want to vote on.
20:21 < Yasumoto> way cheaper
20:21 < Flannel> cactaur: yeah, we get bulk discounts.  At 10000, theyre 21 cents each.
20:22 < Miggl> Yasumoto: the link you posted isn't working
20:22 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadges
20:22 < Miggl> lol
20:22 < Flannel> Thats the link, there are two designs there, black and white
20:22 < Yasumoto> http://tinyurl.com/2rkfsa
20:22 < Yasumoto> thanks Flannel :)
20:22 < Flannel> We're only ordering one as a country, but we need to decide which one.
20:23 < Flannel> Most people are split 50/50 on it.  Since they're both... well, they both have redeemnig qualities.
20:23 < roy> those are really nifty
20:23 < bmathis> i need a bunch... part of my consulting business is selling used computers pre-loaded with ubuntu
20:23 < Yasumoto> I like white background with black writing, personally
20:23 < bmathis> Yasumoto: I second that
20:25 < cactaur> I third it.
20:25 < Flannel> The question is, How many do we want to buy as a LoCo team?  And also how do we want to pay for it?  Currently we have no funds, I can see us buying them and selling them for $1 (well, now that theyre 20 cents each we could sell them for 50 cents), not necessarily to fundraise, but just because it's an easy ammount.
20:26 < Flannel> If you scroll down, you can see how many we've got pledged so far.  I can't imagine we wont get to 10000,
20:26 < dreadlord_chris> that sounds good
20:26 < Yasumoto> Flannel: yeah, that sounds like it'd work
20:27 < Yasumoto> well I'm sure we'd be able to distribute them
20:27 < Flannel> Yasumoto: Im sure it'd work.  Even if we sold for $1, but the issue is the initial money
20:27 < Flannel> I'm sure we'd distribute, yeah, that's the easy part
20:27 < Yasumoto> yeah exactly :X
20:28 < Yasumoto> who said their company neeeded a good amount of them?
20:28 < Flannel> at 21 cents, $100 buys almost 500 of them.
20:28 < Yasumoto> *needed
20:28 < bmathis> Yasumoto: me
20:29 < Yasumoto> bmathis: thanks :) I just couldn't find it as I was scrolling through X_X
20:29 < Yasumoto> how many do you think you need?
20:29 < Flannel> I imagine if we hold off on deciding until next meeting, we'll be ok time-wise.  we've decided on black on white I think.  So that's what I'll cast our vote for.
20:29 < bmathis> i dont know... ill do a comparison on my past pc sales and get back to everyone
20:29 < roy> guys, I gotta run...
20:30 < Flannel> But its something we'll need to discuss and decide on in two weeks.
20:30 < bmathis> later roy
20:30 < Yasumoto> ttyl roy
20:30 < roy> have a great week and chat with you all at the next meeting
20:30 < Miggl> night row
20:30 < Miggl> roy
20:30 < roy> late
20:30 < Flannel> And of course, it ties into the bigger picture of how we'll cover the ocassional expense.
20:32 < Flannel> Anyway, I think that about does it for this agenda.  The only other thing is next meetings agenda.  Which will be planned for two weeks from now, Aug 26, at 7pm PDT.
20:33 < dreadlord_chris> coo... it's been a slice folks.... gotta run my self
20:33 < Miggl> sounds good
20:33 < Flannel> So far I have the stuff we've covered half-way from this meeting: Map stuff, different comm. mediums, whatever needs to be covered re: schedules, Events, and badges.
20:33 < Yasumoto> kk, later dreadlord_chris
20:33 < Flannel> Is there anything else anyone would like to add right now?
20:33 < dreadlord_chris> ta
20:33 < Miggl> perhaps we can start a thread in the forum to get input on next week's agenda, aside from things we need to discuss further (from this meeting)?
20:33 < Flannel> You're welcome to add it on the wiki page later, if you don't
20:34 < Flannel> Miggl: nah, wiki page edits
20:34 < bmathis> are we going to have a leadership structure?
20:34 < Miggl> k
20:34 < Flannel> Ah, leadership.  I suppose I've forgotten that entirely this time.
20:34 < Flannel> bmathis: I'll put it on the agenda
20:34 < bmathis> cool... thats all i can thing of right now, ill add something to the wiki if i think of anything else
20:34 < Flannel> since people are starting to head out, and I think two hours is too long for this time
20:35 < Flannel> Anyone else?
20:35 < cactaur> Yeah, I agree.
20:35 < cactaur> I'm starting to drift in and out too.
20:35 < Miggl> agreed
20:35 < Flannel> Alright, this meeting is official adjourned.  Thanks to everyone for coming.  See you next week.
20:35 < Miggl> we should keep it to under 1.5 hrs
20:36 < bmathis> Have a good nite everyone!
</pre>
