{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, January 12th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x|Scale12x]]</nowiki> planning

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:01] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:01] <darthrobot`> Meeting started Mon Jan 13 03:01:10 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:01] <darthrobot`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:01] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting? :)
[03:01]  * eps waves
[03:01] <philipballew> oh hey everyone
[03:01] <akk> hi
[03:02] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14January12
[03:02] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14January12 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:02] <pleia2> meeting agenda, mostly just scale :)
[03:02] <pleia2> #topic Scale12x planning
[03:02] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x
[03:02] <darthrobot`> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:02] <pleia2> philipballew: care to fill us in on any updates?
[03:03] <philipballew> We are still looking for any volunteers who want to help.
[03:03] <pleia2> my main conference talk was accepted (yay!) so I'll be coming and speaking at ubucon too
[03:03]  * rww added himself to the volunteer list
[03:03] <pleia2> philipballew: any news on booth number/placement?
[03:03] <philipballew> I am also this week going to call Ema at System76 to see if they can bring an extra laptop or two for us to demo.
[03:03] <pleia2> nice
[03:03] <philipballew> pleia2, not yet, but we should soon.
[03:03] <philipballew> no matter what, we will get it.
[03:04] <philipballew> so not much to worry about there.
[03:04] <pleia2> rww: think I can put a box of booth goodies in your car? :)
[03:04] <rww> pleia2: yep, that should be fine
[03:04] <pleia2> awesome
[03:04] <philipballew> I have a banner here and I am I am getting a conference pack.
[03:04] <rww> I'll probably be taking 2 or 3 computers down with me too
[03:04] <philipballew> I got Canonical to send us Nexas's to demo
[03:04] <pleia2> wow, nice
[03:04] <philipballew> they arrived from the uk not long ago
[03:04] <pleia2> rww: cool
[03:05] <philipballew> all work and I will go over them with people.
[03:05]  * pleia2 nods
[03:05] <rww> sweet
[03:05] <philipballew> I am gonna see if we have any other stuff we should be handing out that is not in the normal conference pack as well.
[03:05] <philipballew> be in Juju or anything else.
[03:06] <pleia2> great
[03:06] <philipballew> for sure.
[03:06] <pleia2> I'm trying to convince a couple projects to get their Ubuntu flyers done in time for us to print some for scale, we'll see
[03:07] <philipballew> pleia2, perfect. I think that if everybody working the Ubuntu booth would be wearing some sort of Ubuntu apparel that would also be good.
[03:07] <eps> Do we want candy again (if not, what would take its place)?
[03:08] <pleia2> eps: I think so
[03:08] <pleia2> I shall bring the dishes
[03:08] <eps> Chocolate, not chocolate, loose, individually wrapped?
[03:09] <pleia2> the individually wrapped thing was good, scale flu considering :)
[03:10] <pleia2> no preference candy-wise though, I like candy, I like chocolate
[03:10] <philipballew> Some hand sanitizer for the booth for people who want to shake hands?
[03:10] <pleia2> yeah, I think that's on the list
[03:10] <philipballew> right
[03:10] <pleia2> (no one signed up to bring it yet though)
[03:10] <eps> Don't look at me; TSA won't let me take that on the plane.
[03:11] <pleia2> I might see if I have the one from last year ;)
[03:11] <eps> Does it have an expiration date?
[03:11] <pleia2> hopefully richard will have the ubucon site up soon too, I emailed him last week to offer some assistance
[03:11] <pleia2> yeah, but I think it's a few years out
[03:11] <philipballew> I also got cd's
[03:11] <philipballew> about 200 desktop and server for 12.04
[03:11] <pleia2> 12.04?
[03:12]  * pleia2 nods
[03:12] <philipballew> they are trying to get rid of them I think.
[03:12] <pleia2> didn't you read nhaines' blog post? ;)
[03:12] <pleia2> yeah
[03:12] <philipballew> I glanced. :)
[03:12] <eps> Are they original 12.04 or a recent point release?
[03:12] <pleia2> I don't think they press point releases
[03:13] <eps> Which means no hardware enablement stack. :-(
[03:13] <philipballew> eps, People do not care what release it is. They want an official CD because it says Ubuntu on it.
[03:13] <philipballew> People already are gonna be running Ubuntu.
[03:14] <philipballew> few people try Ubuntu for the first time because they got a CD from a linux show.
[03:14] <philipballew> but that is just what I would think.
[03:14] <holstein> yeah.. too many variables
[03:14] <eps> That's not my attitude when I visit the Fedora booth.
[03:14] <holstein> best case, they put it in in windows and read some autorun thing
[03:15] <philipballew> eps, Fedora does flash drives now iirc.
[03:15] <holstein> i just wanted a real one
[03:15] <philipballew> holstein, I can see that.
[03:15] <eps> Flash drives cost $$$. CD/DVD media is cheap.
[03:15] <holstein> i got a few 9.10 server cd's from akgraner back in the day.. i was stoked :)
[03:16] <holstein> then, i get a stack of 12.04 desktop ones i gave out
[03:16] <philipballew> eps, si amigo.
[03:16] <philipballew> holstein, I think the peple who take them from a linux event might give them out to their friends
[03:17] <holstein> yeah, i mean, we already have access. or have already used them
[03:17] <pleia2> anyway, 12.04 is what we have, we don't really have the resources to change that
[03:17] <philipballew> yeah, true.
[03:17] <holstein> i think 12.04 is a good call
[03:17] <holstein> its not a bad call
[03:17] <pleia2> we'll just explain that it's from 2012 and they can directly upgrade to 14.04 when it comes out in april
[03:17] <philipballew> true. I think that if someone wants to install a dofferent version they can install their own, and we can even show them how.
[03:17] <pleia2> yeah
[03:17] <rww> could always offer to burn 13.10 to USB stick, i think we've done that before
[03:18] <rww> or 12.04.whateveritis
[03:18] <philipballew> rww, I could bring a flash drive with all the iso's on it they can barrow if they want to copy it.
[03:18] <pleia2> yeah, someone bringing isos would be good
[03:18] <eps> 12.04.4 LTS by then
[03:18] <pleia2> philipballew: great
[03:18] <holstein> i have a user in my LUG trying to get with me to "update her system".. says she cant do wifi/skype/libreoffic.. someone else in the LUG set her up with a non-lts release, and im suspicous that that is the issue
[03:18] <pleia2> philipballew: want to add that to the wiki
[03:18] <rww> philipballew: or just stick it in the computer i will be bringing and dd
[03:18] <pleia2> ?
[03:18] <rww> philipballew: but yeah
[03:18] <rww> i'll probably have some too
[03:18] <pleia2> nice
[03:18] <philipballew> pleia2, sure
[03:18] <pleia2> ok, anything else re: scale?
[03:19] <eps> Just the usual request ... if any locals have, e.g., Carl's Jr. coupons to bring them
[03:20]  * pleia2 nods
[03:20] <pleia2> #topic team election
[03:20] <pleia2> #link https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2014-January/002356.html
[03:20] <darthrobot`> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] Ubuntu California LoCo leadership election]
[03:20] <pleia2> jyo sent out the ballot a few days ago
[03:21] <pleia2> if you're in the https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-california team and have a public email address but don't have a ballot, contact him :)
[03:21] <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu California in Launchpad]
[03:21] <eps> I don't believe I ever received a ballot, but given that there appear to be exactly three candidates for three positions, it's pretty much a foregone conclusion?
[03:21] <pleia2> ..of course it's a vote of 3 people for 3 spots, but it's good for the team to get used to this process
[03:21] <rww> stupid question: why are we having an election to put 3... oh, okay
[03:22] <pleia2> eps: you don't have a public email address on launchpad
[03:22] <philipballew> rww, because Elections are all the rage these days.
[03:22] <eps> pleia2: I'm not convinced that's a bad thing.
[03:23] <pleia2> eps: sure, just means we don't have a way to send you a ballot
[03:23] <pleia2> if you want one, just show jyo your launchpad page and give him your address :)
[03:24] <pleia2> the poll will close tomorrow
[03:24] <pleia2> #topic Any other business
[03:24] <pleia2> anything else before we wrap up for the evening?
[03:24] <holstein> sorry folks.. i didnt realize you were having a meeting when i was chattin earlier.. cheers!
[03:25] <pleia2> hehe
[03:25] <eps> Any Ubuntu Hours coming up?
[03:25] <rww> SF next/this week, I think
[03:25] <pleia2> ah yes, on wednesday
[03:25] <pleia2> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2663-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
[03:26] <darthrobot`> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[03:26] <pleia2> no debian dinner planned (did one last month, and I'm too tired this week)
[03:27] <rww> pleia2: how big is box o' scale stuff?
[03:27] <rww> BARTable size, or...?
[03:27] <pleia2> rww: bartable
[03:27] <pleia2> philipballew has a banner+tablecloth down south now, so no need to bring the ones I have here for once
[03:27] <rww> will grab it wednesday then, if it'll be ready by then
[03:27] <rww> if not we can figure something else out
[03:27] <pleia2> sure, I'll put it together before wednesday :)
[03:29] <pleia2> alright, thanks for coming everyone
[03:30] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
