{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, December 2nd, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. None

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:01] <philballew> #startmeeting
[03:01] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Dec  3 03:01:31 2012 UTC.  The chair is philballew. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:01] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:01] <grantbow> go for it, chair :-)
[03:01] <toddc> long meeting/
[03:02] <philballew> let me paste the agenda
[03:02] <philballew> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12December02
[03:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12December02 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:02] <philballew> Currently nothing there
[03:03] <philballew> Does anyone have anything they would like to bring up or add?
[03:03] <grantbow> I do not have anything urgent for this meeting
[03:04] <philballew> Me as well.
[03:04] <philballew> Alright then, how about we call this a night.
[03:04] <grantbow> I announced the t-shirt art contest, please submit when you can.
[03:04] <philballew> ah yes.
[03:05] <philballew> I think having the booth workers wearing them for scale might be cool.
[03:05]  * philballew is a booth worker
[03:05] <grantbow> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ca/2012-November/002097.html
[03:05] <darthrobot> Title: [[Ubuntu-US-CA] Shirt Design Contest]
[03:06] <grantbow> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Shirts-2012
[03:06] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Shirts-2012 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:06] <grantbow> QT Developer days is Dec 5-7, Wed -Fri.
[03:06]  * philballew looks back into his closet to see both older tshirts
[03:07] <philballew> unity uses qt for those who did not know
[03:07] <grantbow> Anyone who is interested in speaking please reply to the email list. We have other speaking opportunities besides www.svlug.org
[03:08] <grantbow> Ubuntu Hours are happening all over. San Jose today.
[03:08] <philballew> Ubuntu San Diego in a week and a half, and pleia2 should be in the area and might pop in.
[03:08] <grantbow> Ubuntu Hour Berkeley did well yesterday with six people. Another one is already scheduled for the first Sat next month.
[03:08] <grantbow> +1 SD
[03:09] <philballew> alright then. Anything else anyone has?
[03:09] <grantbow> schedule event calendar is at http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-california/
[03:09] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu California | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[03:09] <grantbow> that's it for me
[03:11] <philballew> #endmeeting
</pre>
