{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, October 5th, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

1. 14.10 Release parties

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:01] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:01] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Oct  6 02:01:25 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:01] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:01] <pleia2> #chair rww philballew
[02:01] <darthrobot> Current chairs: philballew pleia2 rww
[02:01] <rww> o/
[02:01] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14October05
[02:01] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14October05 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:01] <pleia2> we have an item!
[02:01] <pleia2> #topic 14.10 Release parties
[02:02] <pleia2> so, as far as San Francisco goes, bkerensa has been working to get us space at the SF Mozilla office
[02:02] <pleia2> us == the team (not me, I'll be out of town)
[02:02] <pleia2> jyo is going to be running this party
[02:02]  * ianorlin can't make it up there
[02:03] <jyo> o/
[02:03] <elky> o/
[02:03] <ianorlin> o/
[02:04] <pleia2> hopefully details for the SF party will be available soon, last I heard bkerensa was working to firm up the room reservation
[02:04] <pleia2> we also need this page updated, and a Utopic page created: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects
[02:04] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:04] <pleia2> can someone take care of that?
[02:04] <pleia2> Trusty Release should be moved to Completed and a similar Utopic page made
[02:04] <rww> I'll do it.
[02:04] <pleia2> thanks rww :)
[02:05] <pleia2> any other plans for parties anywhere in the state?
[02:05] <pleia2> nhaines? philballew?
[02:05] <rww> #action rww to update Projects page and add Utopic Release project
[02:05] <darthrobot> ACTION: rww to update Projects page and add Utopic Release project
[02:05] <nhaines> Unfortunately I'm at a convention that weekend!
[02:06] <rww> nhaines: which one?
[02:06] <nhaines> rww: Freedom From Religion Foundation National Convention.
[02:06] <rww> nice
[02:07]  * ianorlin doesn't really know people
[02:07] <nhaines> Should be fun.
[02:07] <nhaines> ianorlin: a party's a good way to get to know people.  :)
[02:07]  * ianorlin knows but I don't really want to ask strangers
[02:07] <elky> ask for what?
[02:08] <ianorlin> a place for a party
[02:08] <jyo> nhaines: but parties are often woefully lacking in USB ports. :( ;P
[02:08] <ianorlin> I think If I brought a desktop and bought like 2 pci cards I could have 17 usb ports
[02:09] <ianorlin> not sure my seasonic psu can handle that much 5v
[02:09] <pleia2> well, if anyone else on the team does want to run a party, several of us here have run them, so feel free to ask
[02:09] <pleia2> for help, recommendations, etc
[02:09] <pleia2> #topic Any Other Business
[02:10] <pleia2> SF Ubuntu Hour (and Debian Dinner!) coming up on Wednesday: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2909-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
[02:10] <rww> Reminder that council elections are in January, so you should be thinking about whether you want to nominate yourselves for that when the time comes.
[02:10] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:10] <rww> (you do)
[02:10] <nhaines> Spared from the tedious task of thinking!
[02:11] <jyo> you as in me or you as in you?
[02:11] <pleia2> everyone but pleia2
[02:11] <rww> ^
[02:11] <ianorlin> busy pleia2 is busy
[02:11] <pleia2> also have a Berkeley Ubuntu Hour coming up a week from now, next Sunday: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2693-ubuntu-hour-berkeley/
[02:11] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour Berkeley | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:11] <pleia2> I want pizza, might go if I can sort out my schedule by then :d
[02:11] <pleia2> also yay Ubuntu
[02:12] <nhaines> +1 pizza
[02:13] <ianorlin> hmm do most of the socal people live around in LA
[02:13] <jyo> wow, haven't been to Bobby G's in years...
[02:13] <rww> i've still never been :[
[02:14]  * ianorlin hasn't either
[02:16] <pleia2> it's the best pizza around
[02:16]  * elky checks for compatibility
[02:17] <pleia2> they have gluten free
[02:17] <pleia2> For a gluten-free option, choose any small pizza and substitute our house-made dough for a 100% gluten-free (and vegan) Mariposa Bakery crust for an additional $3.00.
[02:17] <pleia2> :D
[02:17] <elky> yay
[02:17] <elky> maybe we'll get there one day
[02:17] <pleia2> ok, anything else before we wrap up?
[02:18]  * ianorlin doesn't have anything else
[02:18] <pleia2> ok, thanks everyone :)
[02:19] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
