{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
=== Sunday, December 2nd, 2018, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC 19:02 < nhaines> Hi everyone, it's meeting time!
19:03 < lynorian> hello
19:04 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:04 < nhaines> Welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for December 2nd, 2018!
19:04 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/18December02
19:05 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:05 < nhaines> Are there any upcoming events in California for December?
19:10 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:10 < nhaines> Any announcements for this meeting?
19:13 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:13 < nhaines> There is no agenda for tonight's meeting.
19:13 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:13 < nhaines> Is there any other business for tonight's meeting?
19:13 < pleia2> anything we can/should be helping with WRT scale at this stage?
19:14  * lynorian does not know
19:15 < pleia2> cfp notifications were supposed to go out on the 30th according to the scale site, but I wasn't sure what the ubucon schedule is running on :)
19:15 < nhaines> At the moment we could use more speakers, we're talking with some sponsors.
19:16 < nhaines> Sign up sheet will probably go up first thing in the new year.
19:17 < nhaines> Othrewise, SCALE will be busines as usual.  We have it down pretty well by now.  :)
19:19 < pleia2> alright, still no attending for me, but I can help with things through the end of the month (all bets are off January onward ;))
19:19 < nhaines> You have an acceptable excuse.  :)
19:26 < nhaines> All right.  We have only one more meeting this year!
19:26 < nhaines> Then we'll move to a once-a-month meeting schedule.
19:28 < pleia2> thanks nhaines
19:33 < nhaines> See everyone on December 16th!
19:33 < nhaines> #endmeeting }}}
