{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, September 21st, 2014, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

 1. None

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

{{{#!IRC
[02:03] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:03] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Sep 22 02:03:09 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:03] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:03] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting?
[02:03] <nhaines> I'm mostly just keeping an eye on it.  :)
[02:04] <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14September21
[02:04] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/14September21 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:04] <pleia2> agenda, empty ;)
[02:05] <pleia2> SFSU had a software freedom day event on Thursday, some pictures: https://twitter.com/SFStateCommons/status/512658985002881024
[02:05] <darthrobot> Title: [Commons at SF State on Twitter: "Software Freedom Day 2014 at #SFSU. http://t.co/YSrcTchYa0"]
[02:05] <pleia2> a sharp eye will notice some Ubuntu DVDs ;)
[02:06] <pleia2> I think we found out a bit too late for any team members to head over, I gave Sameer the disks last month
[02:06] <nhaines> I wasn't aware that OpenDisc was still a thing.
[02:06] <pleia2> jyo has reached out to at least one possible venue for SF 14.10 release, so that's chugging along
[02:07] <pleia2> (I'll be out of town)
[02:08] <pleia2> I think that's all I had
[02:08] <nhaines> OCLUG might be doing an installfest in December.  They had some scheduling issues with their venue and want to reschedule presentations before then--installfests take up their entire meeting time.  :)
[02:08] <pleia2> cool
[02:08] <nhaines> I'm also trying to convince some of them to help out with the Ubuntu booth.
[02:08] <pleia2> at scale?
[02:08] <nhaines> That'd be the the booth at SCALE.
[02:08] <nhaines> Yep.
[02:09] <pleia2> call for papers for scale is open now: https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp
[02:09] <darthrobot> Title: [Call for Papers | SCALE 13x]
[02:10] <nhaines> I'd like to organize the SCALE booth this year.
[02:10] <pleia2> :D
[02:10] <pleia2> I'm not sure if I'll be going
[02:11] <nhaines> Aww.  But I need you, Phillip, and José to sign my Ubuntu book so that it can go on ebay^W^W^W^Whas more sentimental value to me.
[02:11] <pleia2> haha
[02:11] <DonkeyHotei> i finally upgraded my main machine from precise to trusty, and the hiccups are really annoying me
[02:12] <pleia2> anything else team wise before we wrap up?
[02:12] <DonkeyHotei> will there be conference packs for scale?
[02:13] <pleia2> we'll request the standard one from Canonical
[02:14] <nhaines> I don't have anything else.  Other than that I'm going to try to put together a talk for SCALE.
[02:14] <nhaines> Nothing like a chance to push my book.  ;)
[02:14] <pleia2> \o/
[02:14] <DonkeyHotei> at this point i don't expect to be able to afford parking let alone accommodations
[02:14] <nhaines> Also, I'm going to try to get extra discs for SCALE.
[02:14] <pleia2> good idea
[02:15] <nhaines> It's huge.  I think we can sneak in a community reimbursement request.
[02:15] <pleia2> I'll make sure some copies of The Ubuntu Book make it down, will send them down with someone if I don't go
[02:15] <pleia2> yeah
[02:15] <nhaines> (Also maybe a Meizu MX4 with Ubuntu... well, I can *ask*)
[02:15] <pleia2> hehe
[02:15] <pleia2> I hear getting them in the US won't be simple
[02:15] <pleia2> alas
[02:15] <DonkeyHotei> what's a meizu?
[02:16] <pleia2> a phone
[02:16] <nhaines> I heard it'd was just an online order like anything else.
[02:16] <DonkeyHotei> ah
[02:16] <pleia2> that would be nice
[02:16] <nhaines> DonkeyHotei: phone manufacturer.  Along with BQ Reader, the first two commercial Ubuntu phone partnerse.
[02:16] <nhaines> We'll see.  MX4 Ubuntu preorders start on Thursday and phones ship in December.
[02:16]  * pleia2 nods
[02:17] <DonkeyHotei> i'd want a phone with a physical keyboard AND a physical dialpad
[02:17] <nhaines> DonkeyHotei: there are tons.
[02:18] <pleia2> ok, thanks for coming nhaines and DonkeyHotei :)
[02:18] <pleia2> #endmeeting
}}}
