{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

== Lighting the Maverick LAMP with Ubuntu 10.10 ==

'''Date:''' Thursday, October 28, 2010 

'''Location:''' Yahoo! Sunnyvale, Building E, Classroom 8

'''Time:'''

5:30pm 
* Linux Install-fest 
* Pizza 
* Socializing, Networking

6:30pm: Presentations and Demonstrations 
* Ubuntu: lighting the way on Community by Mark Terranova, Community Leader, !ZaReason.com
** Video: <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/zareason#p/a/u/0/au7Vm88aVuU]]</nowiki>
* PHP the Ubuntu Way by James Tatum, Active Member of Ubuntu California
** <nowiki>[[attachment:PHP the Ubuntu Way.odp]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[attachment:PHP the Ubuntu Way.pdf]]</nowiki>

Free Giveaways: 
* Swag (courtesy Zareason) 
* Official Ubuntu 10.10 CDs (32-bit Ubuntu) 
* CDs burned on demand (Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Server etc., 32-bit or 64-bit) 
* Place a CD request in advance to ensure your copy: http://tinyurl.com/23...

Mini-Installfest: 
* Try the latest Ubuntu on a demo machine 
* Bring your machine to try and install Ubuntu on it 
* Bring your USB drive and make it bootable with Ubuntu

Presentation 1: 
Mark Terranova is a "West Coast Community Developed Software guy". Mark has regularly taught many types of computer classes specializing in the benefits of Linux and Cross-Platform Software. He has been involved with spreading Ubuntu for a while. He has helped organize Ubuntu Release Parties and other tech events that make it fun - using beer, BBQ, and other ways to create a fun community. He has spent much time in the Pacific Northwest; including Portland, Oregon learning from FreeGeek.org. Their unique style helped him involve more people in what computers can offer.

Come hear about what the Ubuntu community offers. Briefly we will cover Ubuntu's origins - from Mark Shuttleworth's trip into space - to Ubuntu's emergence as the most popular Linux distribution in the world.

Presentation 2: 
A technical discussion about installing and managing PHP on Ubuntu, along with some advanced customization strategies and best practices specific to Debian and Ubuntu.

Note: As always, backup your data before attempting system changes.

RSVP at our meetup page: 
http://www.meetup.com/svlamp/calendar/14584840/
