{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, November 17th, 2013, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

# vUDS this week!
# Add your item here

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[03:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[03:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Nov 18 03:00:18 2013 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[03:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[03:00] <pleia2> ok, who all is here for our meeting?
[03:00]  * eps waves
[03:00] <pleia2> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13November17
[03:00] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/13November17 - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:00] <grantbow> o/
[03:01] <raevol> aaah am i too late?
[03:01] <raevol> are we #ubuntu-meeting?
[03:01] <pleia2> we are here, raevol
[03:01] <pleia2> #topic vUDS this week
[03:01] <raevol> hello!
[03:01] <pleia2> #link http://uds.ubuntu.com/
[03:01] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Developer Summit]
[03:02] <pleia2> so no more in person UDS :( but virtual UDS is this week
[03:02] <pleia2> starts bright and early at 7:05AM our time, that'll be fun :)
[03:02] <philipballew> Tuesday iirc.
[03:02] <pleia2> #link http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1311/
[03:02] <darthrobot> Title: [UDS November 2013 19 Nov - 21 Nov 2013 | The Summit Scheduler]
[03:02] <pleia2> yep, Tues-Thurs
[03:02] <raevol> work hours for me :( urg
[03:02] <pleia2> I'll be attending a few in the community track
[03:03] <pleia2> raevol: yeah :\
[03:03] <philipballew> I need to find a place to attend and what ours I can attend still but should pop in when I see a worthwhile track.
[03:03] <eps> Such as ...? Looks like it's all Touch this, Touch that. :-(
[03:04] <pleia2> eps: QA stuff, LoCos, Ubuntu Women
[03:04] <pleia2> #link http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1311/track/community/
[03:04] <darthrobot> Title: [Community Schedule - UDS November 2013 | The Summit Scheduler]
[03:04] <pleia2> ^^ that's the community track
[03:04] <grantbow> when registering it still asks about physical vs. remote, lol
[03:04] <eps> I see a golden opportunity being missed ... how to close Bug #1 for real.
[03:05] <pleia2> classroom sessions, docs roundtable, and limiting surveillence looks interesting
[03:05] <raevol> i'd love to go to that QA workflows one, but there's no way
[03:05] <philipballew> eps, Good point, can I send you the link for starting a session?
[03:05] <pleia2> philipballew: the schedule is set now, the due date for submitting a session was weeks ago
[03:05] <philipballew> pleia2, This is correct.
[03:06] <pleia2> anyway, all the videos of sessions will be automagically archived on youtube following the sessions, so you can watch later if you want
[03:06] <pleia2> which is an improvement to past in-person UDSes at least ;)
[03:07] <pleia2> particularly the ones in europe that had sessions at 1AM
[03:07] <grantbow> 1AM pacific :-)
[03:07] <pleia2> eps: I did want to mention, this project exists: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StartUbuntu
[03:07] <darthrobot> Title: [StartUbuntu - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:07] <pleia2> eps: since you were interested in the XP EoL thing, that project seeks to address it
[03:08] <grantbow> rolling stones music too?
[03:08] <philipballew> might be a good project to tackle eps :)
[03:09] <pleia2> #topic scale12x
[03:09] <raevol> hey
[03:09] <pleia2> philipballew: I know you said we'd start planning around thanksgiving, but folks are starting to buy tickets, do we have a promo code again?
[03:09] <pleia2> promo code for discount, not free booth workers
[03:09] <raevol> so a thing i wanted to bring up about SCaLE, the past 2 years we've said it'd be nice to have literatuyre to hand out about common ubuntu questions like "what if i don't like Unity"
[03:10] <raevol> can we make some plans to write/print some of that? i'd love to be involved
[03:10] <pleia2> raevol: sure!
[03:10] <philipballew> pleia2, We should yes. I was going to send out some emails about this the week after next. I can do that sooner though.
[03:10] <philipballew> Anytime after Tuesday.
[03:10] <pleia2> philipballew: I think sooner would be better, eps brought this up at the ubuntu hour this week
[03:10] <pleia2> cool
[03:10] <philipballew> pleia2, I will do my best to do that this week
[03:11] <pleia2> thanks :)
[03:11] <grantbow> I created a link to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x but it needs a copy and paste from last year.
[03:11] <grantbow> to begin
[03:11] <darthrobot> [404] Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:11] <pleia2> yeah, can someone take care of that? then we'll add raevol's idea too
[03:12] <pleia2> if I can make it to scale, I hope to bring along some xubuntu fliers too
[03:12] <raevol> :D
[03:12] <grantbow> phil, want me to copy and paste from last year to begin?
[03:12] <pleia2> (which means we need to finish writing xubuntu fliers :))
[03:12] <eps> If we have demo systems in the booth, there's no reason they can't have multiple desktop environments installed.
[03:12] <philipballew> grantbow, yes please!
[03:12] <grantbow> phil, will do
[03:13] <pleia2> thanks grantbow
[03:13] <philipballew> I am going to be working on handouts and stuff to give away as well.
[03:13] <raevol> another topic it'd be good to have literature on is the shopping lens, and i think it'd be awesome if we had a lot of concerete technical information about what it does, and what happens when you shut it off, especially as a non-direct reply to fixubuntu
[03:13] <pleia2> philipballew: oh good, can you work with raevol on that?
[03:13] <raevol> but we can discuss literature outside this meeting
[03:13] <pleia2> raevol: yeah, maybe even something simple like a screenshot of the off switch ;)
[03:13] <raevol> pleia2: ;D
[03:13] <grantbow> phil, done.
[03:14] <grantbow> it needs editing
[03:14] <philipballew> pleia2, yeah, It might be me and raevol driving up in the car full of swag possibly.
[03:14] <raevol> philipballew: let's schedule a SD ubuntu hour when your school calms down and we can use that to work on this some?
[03:14] <pleia2> philipballew: sweet
[03:14] <raevol> PARTY BUS FROM SAN DIEGO
[03:14] <pleia2> richard is working on getting ubucon together, he said he has all speakers slotted already
[03:14] <pleia2> haha
[03:14] <raevol> i still want to do my OpenMW talk at SCaLE but i need to get my paper proposal in :(
[03:14] <eps> You should focus on emphasizing the positive ... just be prepared to deal with the trolls.
[03:15] <pleia2> raevol: yes! Cfp closes in december I think
[03:15] <pleia2> eps: +1
[03:15] <raevol> eps yea we just find that we answer a lot of the same questions every year, so if we just had literature to give them it'd expedite that...
[03:15] <philipballew> I am going to Ubuntu user from Tijuana help possibly, so we will have a translator in case someone speaks Spanish is better.
[03:15] <raevol> grantbow: do you know when the CFP closes offhand? i can look it up if not
[03:15] <pleia2> 15th? I can check
[03:15] <philipballew> about a month from now
[03:16] <grantbow> pleia2, thanks
[03:16] <pleia2> 15 Dec, 2013: Deadline for abstracts/proposals submissions
[03:16] <philipballew> I know my Christmas break will be spent all on SCALE stuff.
[03:16] <raevol> yea 15th
[03:16] <raevol> thanks
[03:16] <pleia2> but sooner is always better :) more eyeballs on proposals that come in early
[03:16] <pleia2> I sent mine in ages ago
[03:16] <raevol> yea i just need time to write it :(
[03:16] <grantbow> pleia2: on openstack?
[03:16]  * philipballew will only be speaking ubucon this year so there is that.
[03:17] <pleia2> grantbow: well, systems administration I do on the openstack project
[03:17]  * grantbow nods
[03:17] <pleia2> so not directly openstack itself
[03:17] <philipballew> My talk on "why switching to arch was the greatest decision of my life" was turned down for Ubucon for some reason.
[03:17] <pleia2> ok, sounds like we're in a good space for scale then
[03:17] <pleia2> haha
[03:18] <raevol> philipballew: xD hahaha
[03:18] <philipballew> pleia2, If the booth workers want, we can get some Ubuntu shirts printed for them. or see if we can get some Ubuntu shirts sent out?
[03:19] <pleia2> philipballew: hmm, maybe scope out some t-shirt vendors and see if we can get sponsorship for them?
[03:19] <pleia2> either sponsored from the vendor, or request community funds from canonical
[03:19] <raevol> i'll pay for a shirt if i can keep it
[03:19] <pleia2> but we'd need solid prices
[03:19] <philipballew> pleia2, Yeah, I am gonna see what I can get for free first
[03:19] <pleia2> maybe print them for ubucon speakers too
[03:19] <philipballew> then prices.
[03:20] <philipballew> pleia2, Seems like a good option.
[03:20] <eps> T-shirts are expensive in short runs.
[03:20] <raevol> i wonder if i could get my dad to print some... the design would have to be simple though
[03:20] <pleia2> we need an artistic person to make us a good, simple design
[03:21] <philipballew> I'm gonna see what I can score for free as well.
[03:21] <pleia2> ok, after meeting I'll update the wiki with these ideas
[03:21] <pleia2> thanks philipballew
[03:22] <pleia2> #topic Any Other Business
[03:22] <pleia2> berkeley ubuntu hour coming up on the 21st (last day of vUDS!) http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/2528-ubuntu-hour-berkeley/
[03:22] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour Berkeley | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[03:23] <pleia2> if my cold has subsided, I might go out to stay in the UDS spirit ;)
[03:23] <grantbow> hurray buug.org
[03:23] <eps> (obligatory complaint about mixed content on lists.ubuntu.com)
[03:23] <pleia2> mixed content?
[03:24] <grantbow> mixed?
[03:24] <eps> http content on a forced https page
[03:24] <pleia2> oh, heh
[03:24] <eps> It's a bad thing.
[03:24] <philipballew> eps, the world cant be perfect
[03:25] <philipballew> :)
[03:25] <eps> The world doesn't have to be perfect. Just the front-facing parts.
[03:25] <pleia2> that's something to take up with canonical IS, we don't have any control there
[03:25] <pleia2> tickets can be submitted to rt@ubuntu.com
[03:26] <pleia2> anyone else have any loco stuff before we wrap up?
[03:26] <raevol> wait
[03:26] <pleia2> go for it
[03:26] <philipballew> CA LOCO IS BEST LOCO!
[03:26] <raevol> i'm updating the scale page, should i remove the whole "stuff we need" section, or keep it?
[03:27] <pleia2> up to philipballew
[03:27] <raevol> just saved the page with the date changes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x#preview
[03:27] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale12x - Ubuntu Wiki]
[03:27] <pleia2> if we accidentally delete anything, it's a wiki, we can bring it back :)
[03:27] <raevol> philipballew: take a look at it for "stuff we need" and "volunteers" section, you can keep me on there
[03:28] <raevol> k that's all from me :)
[03:28] <pleia2> thanks raevol
[03:28] <grantbow> #topic Annual Elections
[03:29] <pleia2> oh right, I forgot about elections
[03:29] <grantbow> who wants to volunteer to run an election?
[03:29] <raevol> what are the elections for?
[03:30] <pleia2> CA leadership, we change every year, right now it's me, grantbow and philipballew
[03:30] <grantbow> it says annual somewhere
[03:30] <raevol> cool
[03:30] <eps> I nominate darthrobot, Eureka, and R2Pi2
[03:30] <pleia2> the first skynet loco
[03:30] <raevol> i nominate pleia2, grantbow, and philipballew
[03:31] <pleia2> grantbow: sounds like we need to take this to the list (so we can hear crickets there too :P)
[03:31] <grantbow> ok, sounds good
[03:31] <pleia2> then I'll just make someone do it
[03:31] <pleia2> voluntelling++
[03:31] <raevol> i don't think i have time to run an election, but what is involved? or i can just look for the info on the list
[03:32] <pleia2> do a call for nominations, collect nominations, set up a poll in launchpad, close it announce winners
[03:32] <raevol> D:
[03:32] <raevol> that sounds like something that i would not have the time for :(
[03:32] <pleia2> ok
[03:32] <raevol> srys
[03:32] <pleia2> we'll find someone :)
[03:32] <pleia2> maybe make jyo do it
[03:33] <pleia2> or YokoZar, he loves polls
[03:33] <grantbow> lol
[03:33] <pleia2> ok, thanks all :)
[03:33] <pleia2> excited for scale already!
[03:34] <raevol> me too!
[03:34] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
