{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, August 23rd, 2015, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. Upcoming events
  a. Add your event information here.
1. Announcements
   a. Add your announcement here.
1. Add your agenda item here.

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Decisions on agenda items added within 48 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <ianorlin> #startmeeting
[02:00] <darthrobot> Meeting started Mon Aug 24 02:00:18 2015 UTC.  The chair is ianorlin. Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[02:00] <darthrobot> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[02:01] <ianorlin> #chair ianorlin
[02:01] <darthrobot> Current chairs: ianorlin
[02:01] <pleia2> hello
[02:02] <ianorlin> ok agenda this week is blank
[02:02] <ianorlin> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings
[02:02] <darthrobot> Title: [CaliforniaTeam/Meetings - Ubuntu Wiki]
[02:03] <ianorlin> no upcoming events but it is getting closer to Octobe which is wehn 15.10 will be released so thinking about release parties
[02:03] <pleia2> before our next meeting we'll have an Ubuntu Hour in San Francisco (September 9th) http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-california/3196-ubuntu-hour-san-francisco/
[02:03] <darthrobot> Title: [Ubuntu Hour San Francisco | Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]
[02:04] <pleia2> also a Debian Dinner afterwards
[02:05] <ianorlin> good to know for those in the bay area
[02:07] <pleia2> I don't really have anything else :)
[02:07] <pleia2> Beta 1 comes out this week
[02:07] <ianorlin> #topic any other business
[02:07] <pleia2> if anyone wants to keep an eye on it and do iso testing, Wily Beta 1 should show up within a couple days on the ISO tracker: http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/
[02:07] <darthrobot> Title: [Testing tracker | Ubuntu QA]
[02:08] <pleia2> you test the iso, report results, and then when Beta 1 comes out it's hopefully got your fixes in already
[02:10] <pleia2> that's all
[02:11] <pleia2> folks are welcome to ask me questions about iso testing if they want to give it a try, help is also in #ubuntu-quality
[02:19] <ianorlin> I think that is all
[02:19] <ianorlin> #endmeeting
</pre>
