{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, May 20th, 2012, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

1. UDS Wrap up

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it.  Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Agenda items added within 24 hours of the start of the meeting may be postponed until the next meeting. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|collaborate]]</nowiki> and avoids last minute surprises.

Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PST / 02:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
[02:00] <pleia2> #startmeeting
[02:00] <pleia2> who all is here for the meeting? :)
[02:01] <pleia2> not everyone at once :P
[02:02] <jtatum> o/
[02:02] <pleia2> woohoo
[02:02] <jtatum> one guy! hehe
[02:02] <pleia2> ok, so agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/12May20
[02:03] <pleia2> #topic UDS Wrap up
[02:03] <pleia2> so, UDS in Oakland was awesome :)
[02:04] <pleia2> I didn't get nearly enough "I'm a local" buttons, I ran out early on Monday
[02:04] <jtatum> agree. quite busy but very nice.
[02:04] <pleia2> we had lots of local folks, many of them I hadn't met :)
[02:04] <scientes> dat solar eclipse is pretty cool and almost over
[02:04]  * jledbetter is here too
[02:05] <scientes> anyone that hasn't looked at it
[02:05] <pleia2> scientes: we're having a meeting ;)
[02:05] <scientes> DonkeyHotei, you need the cool-ass solar glasses
[02:05] <scientes> oh well i guess im in
[02:05] <pleia2> there were lots of great events that the team and other locals put on
[02:06] <pleia2> Michael Paoli did a Debian Dinner on Wednesday, I took some folks out touristing in SF (the cable cars were a huge hit),
[02:06] <pleia2> then on Thursday MarkDude took a bunch of people to an A's game (and I did an Ubuntu Women dinner at my home)
[02:06] <scientes> I was at the debian dinner !
[02:06] <pleia2> cool
[02:06] <scientes> cool discussions
[02:07] <pleia2> we usually have them in SF after an Ubuntu Hour, so Oakland during UDS was a nice change of pace
[02:07] <pleia2> I wish I could have gone
[02:07] <scientes> best topic was the Packet in Packet
[02:07] <jtatum> sounds fun. all the evenings seemed quite overbooked :)
[02:07] <pleia2> jtatum helped me with touristing in SF, so he couldn't go either
[02:08] <pleia2> yeah, there were official events every night too, first time I've seen that at a UDS actually
[02:08] <scientes> packet in packet: http://events.ccc.de/congress/2011/Fahrplan/events/4766.en.html
[02:08] <pleia2> usually there are a couple nights that are free
[02:08] <DonkeyHotei> gah, black on the screen still looks purplish blue to me
[02:09] <pleia2> jono really liked the idea of local buttons (or stickers) so I'm hoping it'll continue to the next loco team when UDS is elsewhere
[02:09] <scientes> except you needed more buttons
[02:09] <jledbetter> Good idea
[02:09] <pleia2> and I encouraged him to engage the loco teams more, we didn't get any real communication or feedback from canonical until after we'd done stuff (the transportation page that eps and chris helped with was very popular)
[02:09] <pleia2> scientes: yeah :)
[02:10] <pleia2> I was paying for them out of pocket at $2 each, so getting more than 15 would have been hard for me
[02:10] <pleia2> but stickers are cheaper!
[02:10] <pleia2> or if Canonical could have paid for them ;)
[02:10] <geofft> I would have gladly given you $2 for a button :(
[02:10] <scientes> I would have been OK with a sticker
[02:11] <scientes> you could put in on the name badges and that would have been fine and worked
[02:11] <pleia2> I didn't actually know how popular the buttons would be
[02:11] <pleia2> scientes: yeah
[02:12] <pleia2> so, thanks for everyone who was available to give directions and help out UDS folks, I think we were a pretty good host loco :)
[02:12] <jtatum> agree. got and answered lots of questions about our confusing transportation system :)
[02:12] <pleia2> but effective!
[02:13] <pleia2> eps got me 25 clipper cards, I was able to give them all out to people who used them
[02:13] <jtatum> yes, seems it worked out. must have been quite nice for visitors to be a quick trip from the city.
[02:13] <pleia2> and we gave the woman at AC Transit who hooked us up with the cards a UDS t-shirt :)
[02:13] <DonkeyHotei> eps got them? figures...
[02:14] <scientes> ooh, i really would loved to have one of those clipper cards
[02:14] <scientes> that would have helped me alot
[02:15] <pleia2> I emailed the uds-announce list about them so people could track me down
[02:15] <pleia2> gave out my last one Wednesday night when we went out touristing
[02:15] <pleia2> that's pretty much all I had, good work everyone!
[02:15] <pleia2> jdeslip ran a Linux table at Maker Faire this weekend and I know some of us went out, anyone here who made it out?
[02:16] <scientes> yeah i really could have used one of those
[02:16] <jledbetter> I saw the booth
[02:16]  * pleia2 was mostly stuck doing work and grown up things all weekend, no Maker Faire
[02:16]  * scientes thought of going
[02:16] <pleia2> I dropped off some CDs with jdeslip last weekend at BerkeleyLUG though
[02:16] <jtatum> worked there on saturday. it was really neat. a lot of ubuntu cds got handed out
[02:16] <pleia2> jtatum: yay!
[02:17] <jtatum> grantbow put in a lot of hours there and did a great job selling Ubuntu :)
[02:17] <pleia2> as he does :)
[02:17] <jtatum> jyo was there on Sunday in full Ubuntu garb
[02:17] <scientes> ooo, that would have been a great arrangement if i could have done that
[02:17] <pleia2> haha, awesome
[02:17] <scientes> the cost of the Maker Faire kinda put me off...
[02:17] <scientes> even though transportation would have cost about as much
[02:17] <jtatum> aw. it was excellent, scientes.
[02:18] <pleia2> scientes: are you on the ubuntu-us-ca mailing list? jdeslip had a couple of passes that he gave out to ubuntu california folks who could volunteer at the booth
[02:18] <scientes> but it was sure fun walking about downtown here with eclipse glasses and getting reactions ;)
[02:18] <scientes> pleia2, yeah ill sign up, u got a link?
[02:18] <pleia2> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca
[02:18] <pleia2> so, for next time :)
[02:19] <pleia2> I also announce the debian dinners there
[02:20] <pleia2> thanks for the details on Maker Fair jtatum :)
[02:20] <pleia2> #topic any other comments, questions, announcements?
[02:21] <pleia2> scientes: get the link? https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ca
[02:21] <scientes> ugggh, i've really gotta track down what is causing these auto-reboots
[02:21] <scientes> i've meant to setup kexec-on-oops crash dumps for a while now.....
[02:22] <pleia2> I should actually get a meeting bot in here so these commands mean something
[02:23] <pleia2> ok, thanks everyone!
[02:23] <pleia2> have a good night
[02:23] <pleia2> #endmeeting
</pre>
