{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, July 21st, 2019, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Agenda ====

# Upcoming events
# Announcements

Our meetings are held every other Sunday at 7:00pm (19:00) PT / 03:00 UTC in our IRC channel, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|#ubuntu-us-ca on freenode]]</nowiki>.  All interested people are welcome to join us.  For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam-ContactUs|Contact page]]</nowiki>.

==== Meeting Logs ====
<pre>
19:01 < nhaines> #startmeeting
19:01 < nhaines> Hello, and welcome to the Ubuntu California meeting for July 21st, 2019!
19:01 < nhaines> Tonight's agenda is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings/19July21
19:01 < nhaines> This agenda is empty.
19:02 < nhaines> #topic Upcoming events
19:02 < nhaines> Are there any upcoming Ubuntu or Free/Open Source Software events coming up in the next month?
19:04 < nhaines> San Gabriel Valley LUG remains as busy as always in Pasadena: https://www.meetup.com/SGVTech/events/
19:04 < nhaines> #topic Announcements
19:05 < nhaines> UbuCon LA is a month away: https://la.ubucon.org/ in Talca, Chile.
19:06 < nhaines> Ubuntu 19.04 is pretty solid, and work on Ubuntu 19.10 and plans for 20.04 LTS are proceeding at speed.
19:06 < nhaines> #topic Agenda
19:06 < nhaines> There is no agenda for tonight's meeting.
19:06 < nhaines> #topic Other business
19:06 < nhaines> Is there any other business for tonight?
19:12 < nhaines> Okay, then that will wrap up this meeting for July.
19:12 < nhaines> Our next meeting will be on August 18th.  Hopefully we'll see more people there!
19:12 < nhaines> #endmeeting</pre>
