{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Hi - we are setting up a Cambodian Localization Team for Ubuntu. There is a mailing list <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-kh|here]]</nowiki>. You can join from that page, or by sending an email to the list at ubuntu-kh@lists.ubuntu.com.

Ubuntu is available in Cambodia from <nowiki>[[http://zenerves.net/linux/index.html|Tropical Ice Cube]]</nowiki>. Many other distributions are also available.

There is a Linux User Group mailing list on <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.co.nz/group/pplug/|Google Groups]]</nowiki>, with links to some other related groups in Cambodia.

Ubuntu and other major Linux distributions support Khmer Unicode. Khmer language support and applications are available for both Windows and Linux from <nowiki>[[http://www.khmeros.info|KhmerOS]]</nowiki>

If you would like to join or contact me, please email me at ubuntu.kh@gmail.com. I'd also like to hear from anyone translating software or educational material, or working with ICT in Education or Development, particularly <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_content|Open Content]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open_source_software|Free/Libre Open Source Software]]</nowiki> 

Don
