{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Join Cameroonian Loco Team Channel ==
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CameroonianTeam/IRC|Version Francaise]]</nowiki> de la page.

Server : '''irc.freenode.net'''<<BR>>
channel : '''#ubuntu-cm'''

You may use many IRC clients such as Pidgin, Xchat or even through your Firefox web browser with the plugin <nowiki>[[https://addons.mozilla.org/fr/firefox/addon/16|ChatZilla]]</nowiki>.

=== Authentification with Freenode ===
If you plan to use the Freenode network, you'll need a 'Nick'. In order to be the legitimate holder of a nick, you should register this Nick.
Once you enter in Freenode, you should issue this IRC command:'''/msg NickServ register [myPassword] [email-address]'''
Your Nick will then be associated to your password.
However, if you are already registered, you just need to issue this command:'''/msg NickServ identify [myPassword]'''

=== Connect with a Webclient ===
A webclient enable you to connect to #ubuntu-cm without any installation in your machine; a web browser is the only requisite.

'''<nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?randomnick=1&channels=ubuntu-cm&prompt=1|anonymous Connection ]]</nowiki>'''<<BR>>
'''<nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-cm|Connection (with nick and password)]]</nowiki>'''

=== Connect with Pidgin ===

Follow these instructions if you want to use IRC network with Pidgin :

1. Open the menu Applications->Internet->Pidgin Internet Messegenger and click

1. Once '''Pidgin''' window opened, click on '''Account''' then '''Modify'''.

1. The account window appeared, click on Add and choose the '''IRC''' protocol. Choose a user name, fill in the server field text with '''irc.freenode.net'''. Then choose a local alias and click on '''Save'''.

1. Wait some seconds until a Freenode window appeared. Type '''/join #ubuntu-cm''' within this window and there you are ! Welcome in #ubuntu-cm channel :)

=== Connect with Xchat ===

The <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|Xchat How to]]</nowiki> may be a helpful ressource.

Don't forget to give a try to '''#ubuntu-cm''' channel !

== FAQs ==
* '''Why should I register my nick ? ''':  <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/faq.shtml#registering|answer]]</nowiki>

* '''How do I know when meeting is about to begin?'''
The IRC meetings are scheduled to start '''each first wednesday of current month at 3 PM GMT'''.
Next meeting and relative agenda can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CameroonianTeam/NextMeeting|there]]</nowiki>. 

To know the exact hour in your area, visit <nowiki>[[http://www.worldtimezone.com/|wordltimezone]]</nowiki> or ask to <nowiki>[[CameroonianTeam-IRC-camerlog| camerlog]]</nowiki> by typing <code>!time</code> in the IRC channel.

* '''What does the dot (.) issued by members in #ubuntu-cm mean ?'''
If user X type a dot during the conversation, it means that he read all the dialogs since his last intervention in the channel.

* ''' How to speak directly to someone ?'''
** If you want your message being seen by others, type the name of your recipient and insert your comment
** If your want your message being only seen by your recipient type <code>/msg idOfYourRecipient your message</code>
