{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Compte-rendu de la réunion du 2 Septembre 2009 qui a commencé a 15h GMT 

== Agenda ==

* '''discussion on the upcoming software freedom day'''
** Page of the event: <nowiki>[[CameroonianTeam-Events-SoftwareFreedomDay]]</nowiki>

* '''Planning'''
** Karmic release: please to insert ideas <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CameroonianTeam/Events/KarmicReleaseParty]]</nowiki>

* '''Organisation''':
** discussions on statuts and internals rules

== Meeting notes ==

=== Software freedom day ===
* Limbe folks need around 50 cds for the sfd, <nowiki>[[Launchpad:~manga-willy|ongolaboy]]</nowiki> can provide 20 CDs.
* For the sfd linux friends from limbe , protegeqv and ubuntu-cm community will have a great irc meeting on 19.09.09 at 2:00 pm GMT
* Participants pour Yaounde: <nowiki>[[Launchpad:~bricegates|Sovo]]</nowiki> (''will make a presentation on the second theme of the conference''),<nowiki>[[Launchpad:~christmat|christian]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[Launchpad:~adamou-nacer|Nacer]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[Launchpad:~nejjoel|Joel]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[Launchpad:~kapnangarsene|ars_fred]]</nowiki>

=== Karmic release party ===
* Contacter le Dr NEUME a l'universite de Douala (Sovo)
* 2 dates retenues: 31 Octobre a Douala et 14 Novembre a Yaounde a l'AUF
** <nowiki>[[Launchpad:~kapnangarsene|ars_fred]]</nowiki> pourra superviser le materiel de Yaounde; contacter Nacer pour le lui faire savoir
** Limbe propose de faire une release le 28 Novembre
* Penser a la confection des tricots.
** <nowiki>[[Launchpad:~kapnangarsene|ars_fred]]</nowiki> a propose de faire confectionner les T-shirts en couleur a 3500 FCFA la piece.
** Mais S'il n'y a pas d'autres possibilites, se referer <nowiki>[[CameroonianTeam-Events-JauntyReleaseParty#Documents|aux couts]]</nowiki> de la derniere conception.

=== Mise sur pied d'une association ===
Consulter <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-cm/2009-September/000505.html|le mail de Sovo]]</nowiki> a ce sujet.

== Meeting log ==

Check the raw conversation of this meeting here: <nowiki>[[http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2009/09/02/%23ubuntu-cm.html]]</nowiki>
