{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


/* ########################################################################################################## */
/* # Don't forget to update the "Next" page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/Next?action=edit # */
/* ########################################################################################################## */

Please  any agenda items you think need Changing/Adding/Deleting!

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

<<BR>>
In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

Come join us in the <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/events/ckmoqf7m5qcrmvrq0gaj0umgjt4|Google+ Hangout-On-Air]]</nowiki>, or just watch the <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d-dsUNgj9vw|YouTube stream]]</nowiki>.

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2723/detail|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

== Minutes ==
* There is definitely a Toronto Trusty Tahr Release party on 17 April
* There may be a Kitchener Release Party  on 17 April (or some weekends later)
* There will a Google Hangout session on 17 April from 7pm Atlantic Time to 9pm Pacific Time as an online Ubuntu Release Party; IRL parties are invited to join in
* There may be a Toronto Ubuntu Hour this Saturday or Sunday (29 or 30 March)
* Sammy Lao (razorgoto) will be looking after the Ubuntu Canada Facebook page https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuCaLoCo
* and the next Ubuntu Canada IRC/Video Chat meeting will be on 24 April 2014 http://https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/Next
* !YouTube video of the proceedings is at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d-dsUNgj9vw

/* Copy&Paste from http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/YYYY/ubuntu-ca.YYYY-MM-DD-HH.mm.moin.txt */
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-ca: Ubuntu Canada IRC/Video Chat for 27 March 2014, 27 Mar at 23:00 &mdash; 23:50 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2014/ubuntu-ca.2014-03-27-23.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/ckmoqf7m5qcrmvrq0gaj0umgjt4

''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/hoaevent/AP36tYfE_l_y7ElnUcN-RrW8FzTbUzkiVy8ojMRcVncm896Ea3mUug?authuser=0&eid=116845700584173888571&hl=en-GB 

==== Events ====
The discussion about "Events" started at 23:14.

** ''LINK:'' http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/3521841/in/album/487639/detailed 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek 

==== Other Stuff ====
The discussion about "Other Stuff" started at 23:33.

* ''': Other other stuff?''' (23:37)
** ''LINK:'' http://sn.jonkman.ca/group/ubuntuca 
* '''IRC meeting date?''' (23:41)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* BobJonkman (57)
* belkinsa (31)
* razorgoto (12)
* Cranky_ (10)
* Cranky (4)
* bregma (3)
* meetingology (3)

== Agenda ==

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
Today is the birthday of the "Canadian Father of Computing", <nowiki>[[http://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.com/en/article/calvin-carl-gotlieb/|Calvin Gotlieb]]</nowiki> (1921- ).

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Events ===
For a list of all events see the <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/htmlembed?src=mll58frmllrllfksgd12t3h7cs@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York&wkst=1|Google Calendar]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/ical/mll58frmllrllfksgd12t3h7cs%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics|iCal]]</nowiki>) and the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu Canada LoCo Portal]]</nowiki>.

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
==== Past ====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki> - Tuesday to Thursday, 4-6 March 2014
* <nowiki>[[https://uds.ubuntu.com/|UDS]]</nowiki> - Online from Tuesday to Thursday, 11-13 March 2014 from 14:00 to 20:00 UTC

==== Ongoing ====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener]]</nowiki>: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
*** <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/101763540123089959893/posts/KGuTAmH4pfH|The gang at Egg Roll King for #UbuntuHour﻿]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~crankyoldbugger|Jeff Smith]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/flying_squirrel/status/445710460864565249/photo/1|@BobJonkman offering tech support at the Kitchener #UbuntuHour]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[dscassel|Darcy Casselman]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/3521841/in/album/487639/detailed|Tech, Tea and Thai]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[BobJonkman]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Guelph|Guelph]]</nowiki>: 4th Thursday of the month, 7:00pm
** <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Toronto|Toronto]]</nowiki>: To Be Determined

==== Upcoming ====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki> - Friday to Sunday, 4-6 April 2014 from 17:00 to 22:00 UTC
** Kitchener-Waterloo ?
* Release Parties
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2701/detail|Trusty Tahr Toronto Release Party]]</nowiki> - 17 April 2014 8:00pm to 1:00am Free coffee, decorate your own cupcakes
** Kitchener-Waterloo !
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki> - Tuesday to Thursday, 22-24 April 2014
/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
=== Other stuff ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule#line-36|Final Beta]]</nowiki> for TrustyTahr released today (27 March 2014)
* Next meeting: Should we hold it on Release Day, Thursday, 17 April 2014 to coincide with parties? Or just have it on the regular day, Thursday, 24 April 2014?

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Meetings|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
