{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Please Change/Add/Delete any agenda items you think need Changing/Adding/Deleting!
</pre>
== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

<<BR>>
In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2480-irc-meeting-for-ubuntu-ca/|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-ca: Ubuntu-ca IRC meeting 22 Aug 2013, 22 Aug at 23:00 &mdash; 00:03 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-08-22-23.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===
* ''LINK:'' There's an agenda at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings
* ''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2489-ubuntu-hour-guelph/ 

==== Events ====
The discussion about "Events" started at 23:07.

* '''Ubuntu Hours''' (23:08)
* '''Ubuntu Events''' (23:08)
** ''LINK:'' http://uds.ubuntu.com/ 
** ''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/2315/ 
* '''Ubuntu 13.10 Release Parties''' (23:21)
* '''Software Freedom Day''' (23:29)
** ''LINK:'' http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2013/Canada/Kitchener/Kwartzlab 

==== Other stuff ====
The discussion about "Other stuff" started at 23:46.

==== Marketing ====
The discussion about "Marketing" started at 23:49.

** ''LINK:'' https://www.dropbox.com/s/vuxpwquqnkc7983/MeetingCard.gif 

=== People present (lines said) ===

* BobJonkman2 (81)
* azend (38)
* chaslinux (9)
* bregma (8)
* meetingology (5)
* Cranky (3)
* dscassel (1)

== Agenda ==

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
In 1994 Canadian icebreakers <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CCGS_Louis_S._St-Laurent|Louis St-Laurent]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USCGC_Polar_Sea_(WAGB-11)|Polar Sea]]</nowiki> reach the North Magnetic Pole (which way did the compass point?)

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Events ===

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
/* === Past === */

==== Ongoing ====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener]]</nowiki>: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ca-guelph|Guelph]]</nowiki>: 4th Thursday of the month, 7:00pm

==== Upcoming ====
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseSchedule|Precise Pangolin 12.04.3]]</nowiki> is released today!
* <nowiki>[[http://uds.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Developer Summit (UDS)]]</nowiki>, online on 27-29 August 2013 from 2pm-8pm UTC
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/2315/|Ubuntu Global Jam - S series]]</nowiki> Fri, 13 Sept. 2013 17:00 - Sun, 15 Sept. 2013 22:00 UTC 
* <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki> Saturday, 21 September 2013
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule|Saucy Salamander 13.10]]</nowiki> Thursday, 17 October 2013 
** Release Parties - Start planning now?

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
=== Other stuff ===

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Meetings|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
