{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6pm
| Central
|-
| 5pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4pm
| Pacific
|}

Will take place in the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

== Minutes ==

<nowiki>[[Log|Meeting Log]]</nowiki>

* Kitchener is hosting an Ubuntu Global Jam on Aug. 28. 
* txwikinger will co-ordinate with Ubuntu Quebec and other LoCos for the Jam.
* Release parties will be discussed at September's meeting.
* txwikinger will submit a ticket to get the DNS switched over to the new website.
* dscassel will put the call out on the mailing list for a website team.
* dscassel to write to the mailing list about the LUG outreach project
* Team report is due soon.  Please add your events there.
* SoOnCon is a hackerspace conference in Kitchener-Waterloo. We'll have a presence there.

== Agenda ==

=== Introductions ===

Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Ubuntu Global Jam ===

* Is August 27-29.
* You should run a Jam!  Add it to the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca|LoCo Directory]]</nowiki>
* Kitchener-Waterloo is running a Jam on the Saturday.

=== LoCo Directory ===

* The LoCo Council wants us to update the our LoCo directory metadata.
* Are there any admins around?

=== Website ===

* What's left to do?
* Recruiting a website team.

=== LUG Outreach ===

* Anyone want to volunteer to adopt a LUG?
* Maintaining a LUG list on the Ubuntu-ca website.
* Contacting LUGs to get them involved in release parties, Jams, etc.

=== Monthly Report ===

* We filed our first report in July!
* Is there anything happening that we should be reporting?
* <nowiki>[[TeamReports]]</nowiki>

=== SoOnCon ===
