{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Vancouver: Monthly Meeting ===

==== When ====

    Thursday 9 October, 2008 at 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM

==== Where: ====
 '''Free Geek'''
 <<BR>>1820 Pandora Street
 <<BR>>Vancouver
 <<BR>><nowiki>[[http://freegeekvancouver.org/directions|directions]]</nowiki>
 <<BR>>Please enter by the back door, off the alley.

==== Activities ====

* Welcome & Introductions
* Comments on the <nowiki>[[http://freegeekvancouver.org/en/node/449|Introduction to Ubuntu Workshop (17 September 2008)]]</nowiki>
* Final planning for Intrepid Ibex release costume party at The Hackery (Sat. Nov. 1)
* Follow up to previous commitments: Handout for new Ubuntu users
* Interesting videos?
* Upcoming workshops (Installfests, Intro to Ubuntu, Linux Clinic help)
* Anything else that is brought forward during the meeting. 

==== Minutes ====
* 11 people attended. This is the best turnout we've had for the last few months. Thank you!
* Feedback from the workshop indicated that it was good.
** Attendee indicated that he would like to see and installation of Ubuntu. Recommended the Install Fest.
** Kim to put together outlines for Intro II and Intro III workshops.
** Rosco to put together evaluation form for attendees to fill out after workshops. Looking for more feedback.
* Intrepid Ibex release (costume optional) party
** Saturday 1 November, 7:30 - whenever
** To be held at the Hackary,304 Victoria Drive. Just a block from Free Geek
** Bring your own/potluck munchies, pop, etc.
** Donations ($5 recommended) to cover cost of pizza.
** Free Geek to supply three computers, one CD duplication machine and two install/demo machines.
* Scheduled Install Fest for 6 November and Intro to Ubuntu Workshop for 20 November.
* Ifny wants a handout (list of resources) for new Ubuntu users. Nobody volunteered to do it, but since it's such a small task I (Kim) should probably put one together.
