{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== November 29th, 2006 ===
==== Agenda ====
* ubuntutoronto.org discussion
* Ubuntu Video project
** See <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam/Toronto/UbuntuVideo]]</nowiki> for the projects in development.
* Vista launch party publicity stunt (Andrew Hunter)
** David Patrick is the head organizer of our event, so lets not forget to include him
* Promoting Ubuntu
** local computer shops
** end users
* Ojibwe translation discussion
* Planning an intro to MOTUing (Andrew Hunter)

==== Meeting Notes ====
* Promoting Ubuntu
** We should recruit existing users first to help in spreading the word to new users
** March Break Install Fest
** Back-to-school Event in August, OR
** Software Freedom Day in September
** Targeting politically-minded teenagers (alternative schools) for recruitment and promotion
** Possibly teaming up with organizations who recycle computers, we could install Ubuntu on them and donate them or sell them at a low cost to people who can't afford a new computer
* ubuntutoronto.org
** Should be a recruitment/information site
** Should be a tool to bring in new and existing users
* Vista launch party
** Being held at Toronto Congress Centre, near the airport
** It was more or less decided that the venue prohibits this project.
* Ubuntu Video
** Because this is a special-interest project, it was decided that it should be discussed and developed separately, but keep the core team informed of the progress so that everyone can toss ideas in.
* Other Items of Interest
** Structure and Roles
** It was decided that people tend to work better when there is a visible organized structure.
** This will be discussed in further detail at the next meeting.
** Dave will work on a strategic plan for the upcoming year
** Separating Tasks
*** Organized meetings will continue bi-weekly on Wednesdays, the focus of which will be the teams goals.
*** Monthly workshops will continue on the first Saturday of every month, to educate new users.
*** Ubuntu Video will be a separate, special-interest project.
*** A purely social gathering could also be organized, or could be coupled with the monthly workshops.
