{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Please Change/Add/Delete any agenda items you think need Changing/Adding/Deleting!
</pre>
== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2428-irc-meeting-for-ubuntu-ca/|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

== Meeting information ==
* #ubuntu-ca: Ubuntu Canada IRC meeting, 27 Jun at 23:00 &mdash; 00:01 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-06-27-23.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Introductions ====
The discussion about "Introductions" started at 23:01.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2013/2013-06-27 is the current agenda...You can find an agenda at

==== Other Stuff ====
The discussion about "Other Stuff" started at 23:05.

* '''London!''' (23:06)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/London 
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-waterloo-region 
** ''ACTION:'' BobJonkman2  to see what's needed to create an Ubuntu-ca-london page on Launchpad

==== : Events ====
The discussion about ": Events" started at 23:20.

* '''Ubuntu Hours''' (23:21)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Members#line-128 
** ''LINK:'' http://www.wuug.org/ 
** ''LINK:'' http://www.wuug.org/list.php?13 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/ 

=== Action items ===

* BobJonkman2  to see what's needed to create an Ubuntu-ca-london page on Launchpad

=== People present (lines said) ===

* BobJonkman2 (88)
* Seven_Six_Two (27)
* jmcveity (16)
* _______________- (8)
* meetingology (4)
* KombuchaKip (2)

== Agenda ==

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
On 27 June in 1946 the Parliament of Canada establishes the definition of Canadian citizenship in the <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canadian_Citizenship_Act_1946|Canadian Citizenship Act]]</nowiki>.

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
/* ==== Past ==== */

===== Ongoing =====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener]]</nowiki>: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chaslinux|ChasLinux]]</nowiki> is <nowiki>[[http://charlesmccolm.com/2013/06/20/host-needed-for-july-ubuntu-hour/|looking for a host for Ubuntu Hour Kitchener in July]]</nowiki>  
** Guelph (formerly held in Waterloo): 4th Thursday of the month, 8:00pm

/* ==== Upcoming ==== */

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
==== Other stuff ====
* London, Ontario has a new <nowiki>[[http://lolug.ca|LUG]]</nowiki> and a <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-London|London Ubuntu Chapter]]</nowiki>

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[..-|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
