{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Kitchener-Waterloo Chapter of the <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam|Ubuntu Canada Team]]</nowiki> is dedicated to promoting Ubuntu in South Western Ontario.

=== How to Join ===

The easiest way is to come out to one of our <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca|Ubuntu Canada events]]</nowiki> in KW.

You can sign up on Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-waterloo-region. Join the mailing list there.

We're user <nowiki>[[https://identi.ca/ubuntuwaterloo|@UbuntuWaterloo]]</nowiki> on Identi.ca in the group <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/group/ubuntucakw|Ubuntucakw]]</nowiki> and user <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/ubuntuwaterloo/|@UbuntuWaterloo]]</nowiki> on Twitter too.  Also, you may see us on IRC at irc://irc.freenode.net/#ubuntu-ca-kw

We're heavily involved in the <nowiki>[[http://kwlug.org/|Kitchener-Waterloo Linux Users Group]]</nowiki>. Come out to a meeting (first Monday of the month) and ask around for Ubuntu KW.

=== Ubuntu Hours ===

There are two Ubuntu Hours in Kitchener-Waterloo.  No registration required, but you can if you want to on the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca |Canadian Team Events page]]</nowiki>.

==== Ubuntu Hour Kitchener ====
On the first Friday of the month Charles !McColm hosts an Ubuntu Hour at <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Canada/1001/detail/|Williams Fresh Cafe (340 Fairway Road)]]</nowiki>. He'll have the usual complement of Ubuntu (32)/Kubuntu (32)/Ubuntu 64-bit server CDs.

==== Ubuntu Hour Waterloo ====
Waterloo celebrates Ubuntu Happy Hour! Or is it Happy Ubuntu Hour?  We're currently meeting with the Kitchener folks, trying hard to steer Ubuntu Hours towards the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Canada/1091/detail/|Egg Roll King]]</nowiki>.

=== UbuntuGlobalJam ===
* Charles !McColm hosted <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2521/detail/| Ubuntu Global Jam Kitchener]]</nowiki> on 14 September 2014 at Computer Recycling. Somebody took <nowiki>[[http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/album/475387/detailed|pictures]]</nowiki>!
* UbuntuGlobalJam was held at <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1902/detail/|Kwartzlab, Saturday, 8 September 2012 from 4:00pm to 10:00pm]]</nowiki>.

=== Release Parties ===

Naturally, we hold release parties.

===== Trusty Tahr (14.04 LTS) =====
* There are <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2014/ubuntu-ca.2014-01-24-00.00.log.html#l-74|rumours]]</nowiki>.

==== Previous Parties ====
* Raring Ringtail (13.04)
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2325/detail/|KW Raring Ringtail Release Party]]</nowiki> at Kwartzlab, Thursday, 25 April 2013  (<nowiki>[[http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/album/464470/detailed|13.04 Pictures]]</nowiki>)
* Quantal Quetzal (12.10)
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2029/detail/|St. John's Kitchen]]</nowiki>, 20 October 2012 from 4:00pm to 8:00pm <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2029/detail/|KW Quantal Ubuntu Release Party]]</nowiki>, 20 October (<nowiki>[[http://bob.jonkman.ca/blogs/2012/10/21/pictures-from-the-kw-ubuntu-release-party/|12.10 Pictures]]</nowiki>)
* Precise Pangolin (12.04)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntucanada/7122826541/in/photostream|Held at Kwartzlab]]</nowiki> on 28 April 2012
* Oneiric Ocelot (11.10)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.kwartzlab.ca/2011/10/ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot-party-kitchener/ |Kwartzlab announcement]]</nowiki>
* Natty Narwhal (11.04)
** <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/notice/72368792|Cake!]]</nowiki>
* Maverick Meercat (10.11)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flyingsquirrel.ca/index.php/2010/11/01/maverick-meerkat/|Darcy Casselman's blog]]</nowiki>
* Lucid Lynx (10.04)
** <nowiki>[[http://kwartzlab.ca/blog/darcy-casselman/2010-05-03/very-lucid-release-party|Kwartzlab blog]]</nowiki>
* Karmic Koala (9.10)
** <nowiki>[[http://kwartzlab.ca/blog/darcy-casselman/2009-11-02/ubuntu-release-party-wrap| Kwartzlab blog]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://laurelrusswurm.wordpress.com/2009/10/30/karmic-koala-release-party/|Laurel Russwurm's blog]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flyingsquirrel.ca/index.php/2009/10/27/karmic-koala-release-party/|Darcy Casselman's blog]]</nowiki>
** Photos: <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/dscassel/KarmicReleaseParty|1]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/gwendy/4068401711/in/set-72157622380473910/|2]]</nowiki>

=== Ontario Linux Fest ===

We ran the Ubuntu booth at the 2009 <nowiki>[[http://onlinux.ca|Ontario Linux Fest]]</nowiki> in Toronto.

=== Local Free Software Resources ===

* <nowiki>[[http://kwlug.org|KWLUG]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wlsg.uwaterloo.ca/|Waterloo Libre Software Group]]</nowiki> at the University of Waterloo
/* * <nowiki>[[http://www.wluopensource.org/|Open Source at Laurier]]</nowiki>  No longer exists? --BobJonkman */
* <nowiki>[[http://kwartzlab.ca/|Kwartzlab]]</nowiki>, the local hackerspace, for hacking advice and occasional tutorials
* <nowiki>[[http://www.theworkingcentre.org/at/comp_recycling/comp_recycling.html|Computer Recycling]]</nowiki> at The Working Centre
