{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6pm
| Central
|-
| 5pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

==== Meeting Log ====
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/18/%23ubuntu-ca.html

=== Meeting Minutes ===
* Introductions
** IRC Meetings are for everyone, those new to Ubuntu, even those not (yet) using Ubuntu
* Events
** Release Party Roundup
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntucanada/tags/natty/|Toronto & Waterloo pictures]]</nowiki>, Ubuntu-QC
** Mini-Maker Faire Toronto
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> handed out buttons and CDs
** Waterloo Car-Free Sundays coming up
* CDs
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> has 'em, available to people who host an Ubuntu Hour
** <nowiki>[[bregma]]</nowiki> in Perth has some too
** maybe distribute in computer shops?
* <nowiki>[[MagicFab]]</nowiki> distributed <nowiki>[[https://picasaweb.google.com/magicfab/HaitiAvril2011#|computers with Ubuntu]]</nowiki> and LibreOffice in Haiti 
** MagicFab also suggests libraries for Ubuntu workshops, &c.
** discussion on workshop resources, tips & tricks, eg. ConferenceTopTips
* Discussion on Unity interface 
* Discussion on UDS-Budapest

== Agenda ==

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Events ===
* Release Party and Maker Faire retrospective.
* Kitchener-Waterloo Car Free Sunday
* What's next?

=== What to do with Natty CDs? ===

* I've got a bunch, but too late for Maker Faire Toronto
