{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


/* ########################################################################################################## */
/* # Don't forget to update the "Next" page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/Next?action=edit # */
/* ########################################################################################################## */

Please  any agenda items you think need Changing/Adding/Deleting!

== IRC/Video Chat meeting for Ubuntu-ca ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

<<BR>>
In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2706/detail/|IRC/Video Chat meeting for Ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki> at the Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-ca: Ubuntu Canada IRC/Video Chat for 27 February 2014, 28 Feb at 00:00 &mdash; 01:05 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2014/ubuntu-ca.2014-02-28-00.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' View the YouTube stream: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4cE294dDnk

''LINK:'' Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2014/2014-02-27

''LINK:'' Participate in the Video Chat: https://plus.google.com/u/0/events/cmj49r3pl7fn0sbce1i5bv8513s

To speak and be seen in the Video send your Google+ ID to +Jeff_Smith  crankyoldbugger@gmail.com or https://plus.google.com/u/0/b/116845700584173888571/101763540123089959893/

==== Introductions ====
The discussion about "Introductions" started at 00:08.

==== Events ====
The discussion about "Events" started at 00:17.

* '''Past Events''' (00:18)
** ''LINK:'' http://bregmatter.wordpress.com/ 
* '''Ongoing events''' (00:25)
* '''Upcoming events!''' (00:29)
** ''LINK:'' Ubuntu Open Week https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek

==== Other Stuff ====
The discussion about "Other Stuff" started at 00:57.

** ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/groups/482867065100815/?fref=ts 

=== People present (lines said) ===

* BobJonkman1 (108)
* Cranky_ (18)
* bregma (14)
* katherineb (8)
* meetingology (4)
* cagordon (1)
* Cranky2 (1)

== Agenda ==

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
Happy Birthday to Canadian scientists <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Herbert_Best|Charles Best]]</nowiki> (1899) and <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_H._Hubel|David Hubel]]</nowiki> (1926).

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Events ===
For a list of all events see the <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/htmlembed?src=mll58frmllrllfksgd12t3h7cs@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York&wkst=1|Google Calendar]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/ical/mll58frmllrllfksgd12t3h7cs%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics|iCal]]</nowiki>) and the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu Canada LoCo Portal]]</nowiki>.

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
==== Past ====
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/2703/|Open Data Day Hackathon]]</nowiki> - 22 February 2014
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2705-open-data-day-event-in-waterloo-region/|Waterloo Region]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://wiki.opendataday.org/Waterloo_Region|Wiki]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/album/486355/detailed|Pictures]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://archive.org/search.php?query=dataWR%20AND%20collection%3Aopensource_movies|Videos]]</nowiki>)

==== Ongoing ====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2704/detail|Guelph]]</nowiki> - Thursday, 20 February 2014, 8:00pm, Pennywhistle Pub
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2720/detail|Kitchener-Waterloo]]</nowiki> - Monday, 17 March 2014, 7:00pm, Egg Roll King
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Toronto#Ubuntu_Hour_Toronto|Toronto]]</nowiki> - To be determined

==== Upcoming ====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki> - Tuesday to Thursday, 4-6 March 2014
* <nowiki>[[https://uds.ubuntu.com/|UDS]]</nowiki> - Online from Tuesday to Thursday, 11-13 March 2014 from 14:00 to 20:00 UTC
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki> - Friday to Sunday, 4-6 April 2014 from 17:00 to 22:00 UTC
** Kitchener-Waterloo ?
* Release Parties
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2701/detail|Trusty Tahr Toronto Release Party]]</nowiki> - 17 April 2014 8:00pm to 1:00am Free coffee, decorate your own cupcakes
** Kitchener-Waterloo !
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki> - Monday to Friday, 21-25 April 2014 (via <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/2013/12/05/ubuntu-events-coming-up/|Jono Bacon]]</nowiki>)

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
=== Other stuff ===
* Who wants to be a curator for an Ubuntu-ca Facebook page? 

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Meetings|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
