{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Please Change/Add/Delete any agenda items you think need Changing/Adding/Deleting!
</pre>
== 25 July 2013 Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

<<BR>>
In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2452-irc-meeting-for-ubuntu-ca/|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

== Minutes ==
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-ca: IRC for Ubuntu-ca 25 July 2013, 25 Jul at 23:07 &mdash; 00:10 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-07-25-23.07.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Introductions ====
The discussion about "Introductions" started at 23:08.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* BobJonkman2 (32)
* azend|away (22)
* BobJonkman1 (14)
* BobJonkman (11)
* Freshmeadow (9)
* jamesmcveity (8)
* BobJonkmanToo (5)
* meetingology (4)
* Katherine_ (3)
* lubotu1 (3)
* Freshmeadiow (3)
* KombuchaKip (2)
* txwikinger (1)
* azend (0)

== Agenda ==

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
<nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Income_taxes_in_Canada|Income Tax]]</nowiki> is brought to Canada as a temporary wartime measure on 25 July 1917.

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Events ===

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
==== Past ====

==== Ongoing ====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener]]</nowiki>: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
** Guelph: 4th Thursday of the month, 7:00pm

==== Upcoming ====

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
=== Other stuff ===
==== Action Items ====
* BobJonkman to check on <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Meetings-2013-2013-06-27#line-57|creation of Launchpad groups]]</nowiki>
** Apparently, it's as easy as logging into Launchpad and filling in the form at <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/+newteam|Register a new team in Launchpad]]</nowiki>

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Meetings|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
