{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Please  any agenda items you think need Changing/Adding/Deleting!

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC - 26 September 2013 ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

<<BR>>
In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2498/detail|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-ca: monthly IRC meeting, 26 Sep at 23:01 &mdash; 00:12 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-09-26-23.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

* '''Introductions''' (23:03)
==== Events ====
The discussion about "Events" started at 23:08.

** ''LINK:'' http://uds.ubuntu.com/ 
** ''LINK:'' Recorded videos are on the Ubuntu Community Channel at http://ubuntu.mirocommunity.org/
* '''Ubuntu Global Jam''' (23:15)
** ''LINK:'' Pictures are at http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/album/475387/detailed
* '''Software Freedom Day''' (23:24)
** ''LINK:'' http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2013/Canada/ 
** ''LINK:'' http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2013/Canada/Kitchener/Kwartzlab 
* '''Ubuntu Release Parties''' (23:39)
** ''LINK:'' : Kwartzlab Global Synchronous Hackathon: https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=OTk5ZHMzZmxpNWs5NTBvcW82MjljMXJmbDggZXZlbnRzQGt3YXJ0emxhYi5jYQ&ctz=America/Toronto

==== Other stuff ====
The discussion about "Other stuff" started at 23:55.

** ''LINK:'' to Ubuntu Hour Guelph: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2545-ubuntu-hour-guelph/

=== People present (lines said) ===

* BobJonkman1 (88)
* Katherine (8)
* meetingology (4)
* KombuchaKip (2)

== Agenda ==

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
<nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivan_Pavlov|Ivan Pavlov]]</nowiki> is born on 26 September 1849. Does his name ring a bell?

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Events ===

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
==== Past ====
* <nowiki>[[http://uds.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Developer Summit (UDS)]]</nowiki>, online on 27-29 August 2013 from 2pm-8pm UTC
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/2315/|Ubuntu Global Jam - S series]]</nowiki> Fri, 13 Sept. 2013 17:00 - Sun, 15 Sept. 2013 22:00 UTC 
* <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki> Saturday, 21 September 2013

==== Ongoing ====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener]]</nowiki>: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ca-guelph|Guelph]]</nowiki>: 4th Thursday of the month, 7:00pm

==== Upcoming ====
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2497/detail|Software Freedom Day at Kwartzlab]]</nowiki> Saturday, 28 September 2013
** Yes, it's one week late!
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule|Saucy Salamander 13.10]]</nowiki> Thursday, 17 October 2013 
** Release Parties - Who's having them?

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
=== Other stuff ===

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Meetings|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
