{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 9:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 9:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 8:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 7:00pm
| Central
|-
| 6:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 5:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

==== Meeting Log ====
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/07/11/%23ubuntu-ca.html

=== Minutes ===
* There were introductions
* <nowiki>[[https://singpolyma.net/|Sinpolyma]]</nowiki> told us about his <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1842/detail/|Ubuntu Workshop]]</nowiki>
* Moving the IRC meeting to co-incide with Ubuntu Hour Waterloo
* Discussion on holding an UbuntuGlobalJam 
* BobJonkman is holding a <nowiki>[[http://bob.jonkman.ca/blogs/2012/07/10/system-administrator-appreciation-day-dinner/|System Administrator Appreciation Day Dinner]]</nowiki>
* SoftwareFreedomDay coming up on 15 September 2012
* http://ubuntu-ca.org/ website still needs work
* <nowiki>[[..-..-TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki> are making progress
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~idleone|IdleOne]]</nowiki> will enable IRC bot 'meetingology' for next meeting
* We'll worry about Team Renewal after the Ubuntu 12.10 release

=== Agenda ===

Grab your coat and get your hat...

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====

* <nowiki>[[https://singpolyma.net/|Singpolyma]]</nowiki> is doing a "<nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1842/detail/|How to Install Ubuntu Workshop]]</nowiki>" at Kwartzlab, 11 July 2012
 
* Ubuntu-ca IRC meeting time and date change:
** Due to conflicts with other cool tech events, we (<nowiki>[[dscassel|Darcy]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[BobJonkman|Bob]]</nowiki>) would like to move the Ubuntu-ca IRC meeting to the third Wednesday of the month, one hour earlier, eg. Wednesday, 15 August 2012 at 8:30pm NDT, 8:00pm ADT, 7:00pm EDT, 6:00pm CDT, 5:00pm MDT, 4:00pm PDT.

* Ubuntu Hours
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1800/detail/|Kitchener]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1827/detail/|Waterloo]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.sysadminday.com/whatsysadmin.html|System Administrator Appreciation Day]]</nowiki>, Friday, 27 July 2012
* UbuntuGlobalJam, 7th - 9th September 2012
* SoftwareFreedomDay, Saturday, 15 September 2012

==== Other stuff ====
* Progress on <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports |Team Reports]]</nowiki>
** Need reports from November 2011 to present for !LoCo team renewal 
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal
** In addition to TeamReports, what do we need to do?
** What is the deadline for getting it done?
** These pages may help: <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ApprovalApplication]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ReApprovalApplication2010]]</nowiki>
* Need a refresh on the website http://ubuntu-ca.org 
** <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> needs to provide access to a volunteer Web updater.
** We need a volunteer Web updater...
