{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo October General Meeting ==

'''Oops! This meeting is over. If you weren't there, we're sorry we missed you.''' We hope that you'll consider coming to our November General Meeting as a show of support for your '''local''' Ubuntu community.

'''Presenters''': Please update your appropriate sections, and add copies of the presentations as applicable.

==== Presentation: "Marketing: Spreading The Word, Events, and Stuff That's Generally Interesting" ====
'''Presented by: Randall Ross'''<<BR>>
Our Buzz Generator shared results of surveys, some marketing tactics and fun, as well as stuff that was new in Ubuntuland, especially in Vancouver. He challenged the audience ot get more involved in the '''local''' community.
==== Lightning Talk: "Getting To Know Our Koala" ====
'''Presented by: Randall Ross'''<<BR>>
The upcoming release of Ubuntu is special in so many ways. Unfortunately, and consistent with other releases, many of the new features and capabilities remain under-marketed, or hidden. Randall set forth to change that, at least in Vancouver! A walk-thru of the newest features in Karmic were presented, focusing on stuff that everyday users would be interested in. Instructions for how to find this information was presented.
==== Lightning Talk: "Ubuntu ONE: Your Information Wherever You Need It" ====
'''Presented by: Sebastian Mantilla'''<<BR>>
With Ubuntu ONE you can share files between your computers and with your friends and coworkers. It is easy to setup, easy to use and you have plenty of space to store everything that's useful in everyday life. This presentation will show you how.
Presentation: <nowiki>[[attachment:lightning_talk_ubuntu_one.odp]]</nowiki>
==== Lightning Talk: "Firefox 3.5 Makes The Web More Karmic" ====
'''Presented by: Andrew Sutherland'''<<BR>>
Find out what's new and neat in Firefox 3.5 shipping by default in Karmic Koala.  Watch videos without installing Flash.  Avoid tipping off your friends and family to that "surprise party" with Private Browsing.  Customize your web browser to suit you. Our presenter will show you how.
==== Lightning Talk: "Gnome Shell: Your Next Desktop Environment?" ====
'''Presented by: Stefan Tjarks'''<<BR>>
The new GNOME Shell aims to redefine user interactions with rich visual effects, new ways to launch applications, to access documents, and to organize open windows. The interface is '''very''' intuitive and takes almost '''no effort to understand'''. The presentation will show both the current state and futures in a live demonstration.
 
<<BR>><<BR>><<BR>>
------------------
<please do not edit below this line>

=== Original Meeting Promotion ===
''' The rest is history! (and is presented below for historical purposes only)'''

==== Some Background Information ====
'''Ubuntu is all about community'''. Our meetings are designed to be friendly, welcoming, and non-intimidating for '''all'''. No computer experience is assumed or required. We meet to share ideas about freedom in computing through the use of Ubuntu and also to build relationships in our community that transcend the stereotypical "user group" or "computer club".

In this spirit, please consider bringing a guest or two to this meeting, ideally someone who normally wouldn't attend a "computer club" type of event (a friend, significant other, family member.) We promise to make it interesting for everyone who attends! And don't forget to add them to your RSVP if they're not already a meetup member.

'''Our Theme for the evening is "Karmic Koala Night". Here is our agenda (so far):'''

=== Agenda (Proposed) ===
==== Presentation: "Marketing: Spreading The Word, Events, and Stuff That's Generally Interesting" ====
Our Buzz Generator will share results of surveys, some marketing tactics and fun, as well as stuff that's new in Ubuntuland, especially in Vancouver. He will challenge the audience.
==== Lightning Talk: "Getting To Know Our Koala" ====
The upcoming release of Ubuntu is special in so many ways. Unfortunately, and consistent with other releases, many of the new features and capabilities remain under-marketed, or hidden. Let's change that, at least in Vancouver! Watch as we present the good news.
==== Lightning Talk: "Ubuntu ONE: Your Information Wherever You Need It" ====
With Ubuntu ONE you can share files between your computers and with your friends and coworkers. It is easy to setup, easy to use and you have plenty of space to store everything that's useful in everyday life. This presentation will show you how.
==== Lightning Talk: "Firefox 3.5 Makes The Web More Karmic" ====
Find out what's new and neat in Firefox 3.5 shipping by default in Karmic Koala.  Watch videos without installing Flash.  Avoid tipping off your friends and family to that "surprise party" with Private Browsing.  Customize your web browser to suit you. Our presenter will show you how.
==== Lightning Talk: "Gnome Shell: Your Next Desktop Environment?" ====
The new GNOME Shell aims to redefine user interactions with rich visual effects, new ways to launch applications, to access documents, and to organize open windows. The interface is '''very''' intuitive and takes almost '''no effort to understand'''. The presentation will show both the current state and futures in a live demonstration. 

=== Where ===
'''Dharmalab'''
<<BR>>1814 Pandora St., Unit #202 
<<BR>>Vancouver, BC V5L 1M5

For full location details, please see our listing on meetup.com:
http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/11343993/
<<BR>>
'''Plans sometimes change''', so please '''RSVP above''' to ensure that you are updated in the event we need to move to bigger space, or for any other important news about this meeting.
=== Important Notes ===

a) Members often bring treats (sandwiches, appies, cakes, muffins, veggies, juice, etc.) to share with everyone, potluck style. Though it's not required, we certainly welcome it, as it helps create a more friendly environment for socializing, especially given that many people come to our meetings directly from work. And, if you're not comfortable preparing food for others, please consider picking something up from your nearest supermarket or restaurant on the way over.

b) In parallel with the latter half of the meeting we host a Rescue Centre. If you have an Ubuntu issue that you just can't seem to figure out, this will be the place for you! Expert(s) will be on hand to help triage issues and to provide suggestions. (Please remember to RSVP with a comment on the type of assistance that you will need.)

c) After the meeting some members continue socializing nearby on "The Drive". For those who want to mingle with Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo folks, in a less formal (restaurant/patio) setting, please plan to join us after the meeting. (The venue will be announced as part of the meeting wrap-up.) 
=== Contact ===
Please e-mail <randall@executiv.es> to get involved.

'''Stay tuned for more updates.'''
----
CategoryLoco
