{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Vancouver: Monthly Meeting ===

==== When ====

    Thursday 11 September, 2008 at 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM

==== Where: ====
 '''Free Geek'''
 <<BR>>1820 Pandora Street
 <<BR>>Vancouver
 <<BR>><nowiki>[[http://freegeekvancouver.org/directions|directions]]</nowiki>
 <<BR>>Please enter by the back door, off the alley.

==== Activities ====
To Be Determined

==== Minutes ====
We kind of winged it. Here is most of what happened.

# Kim is conducting another "Introduction to Ubuntu" workshop on September 17. Rob is going to assist.
# After Intrepid Ibex comes Jaunty Jackalope. Googled for a picture of a Jackalope and read the Wikipedia entry for Jackalope.
# Kim showed the <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/fry|video of Stephan Fry]]</nowiki> congratulating the Free Software Foundation on their 25th birthday.
# We had a nice discussion about the upcoming civic election, lead by Scott.
# Kim asked for a show of hands; who has seen the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Vancouver|Ubuntu Vancouver Wiki]]</nowiki> page. Only one or two, so all were invited to have a look.
# Intrepid Ibex scheduled to be released October 30. Time to start planning a party! Decided to have the party Sat. November 1, and if we can throw it at Emma's Hackery, also home to Vancouver's new <nowiki>[[http://vancouver.hackspace.ca/|Vancouver Hacker Space]]</nowiki>, that would be extremely cool! We decided it would be a costume party. There will be installs. Ifny will check and confirm space at next meeting.
# Ifny suggested announcing the meeting a week beforehand when possible, and encouraged everyone to add agenda items. 

Meeting adjourned at 9:00.
