{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Studio ==
==== Some Background Information ====
Did you know that audio and video production is possible on Ubuntu? Please join us for this special presentation where we will have guest speakers who live and breathe Ubuntu, in the studio!

'''Ubuntu is all about community'''. Our meetings are designed to be friendly, welcoming, and non-intimidating for '''all'''. No computer experience is assumed or required. We meet to share ideas about freedom in computing through the use of Ubuntu and also to build relationships in our community that transcend the stereotypical "user group" or "computer club".

In this spirit, please consider bringing a guest or two to this meeting, ideally someone who normally wouldn't attend a "computer club" type of event (a friend, significant other, family member.) We promise to make it interesting for everyone who attends! And don't forget to add them to your RSVP if they're not already a meetup member.

'''Our goal for the afternoon is to help make Ubuntu Studio easier for the majority of computer users and to show why you might want to consider it over the "standard" Ubuntu release. Here is our agenda (so far):'''

Cost is FREE, and '''FREE disks''' will be provided for meeting attendees.

=== Agenda (Proposed) ===

==== Introduction: "Welcome to Ubuntu Vancouver" ====
Ubuntu is growing in Vancouver! Our Buzz Generator and Fearless Founder will both say a few words, and share a little history of the group.
==== Presentation: "An Introduction to Ubuntu Studio" ====
Whether you're an artist, designer, musician or videographer there are
amazing tools for you in this powerful free operating system. This presentation will be led by Eric Hedekar - Ubuntu Studio Developer.

This presentation will cover the basics of Ubuntu Studio, why you might want it, what programs are included, and how it differs from other operating systems.
==== Presentation: "A User's experience" ====
Javier Pulido will describe how he uses Ubuntu Studio to work with guitar and MIDI to create music.
==== Presentation: "Video editing and effects with Blender" ====
Troy Sobotka will show his editing and post-production effects in Blender.
''Unfortunately, Troy Sobotka has had business call him away from this presentation but is interested in doing a blender presentation at a future Ubuntu Vancouver meeting.  Please contact any of the organizers if you're interested in this and they will be sure to keep you informed of the rescheduling.''
==== Presentation: "Vector and Bitmap graphics editing" ====
Eric Hedekar will run through some of the graphics editing tools in Ubuntu Studio.

=== Where ===
Vancouver (near Victoria/Hastings, Commercial Drive) <<BR>>
'''You must RSVP here for complete venue details''': <<BR>>
http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/11785529/

=== Time ===
'''2pm SHARP'''. The event is scheduled to run for roughly 1 hour (maybe more). Please plan accordingly.

<<BR>>
'''Plans sometimes change''', so please '''RSVP above''' to ensure that you are updated in the event we need to move to bigger space, or for any other important news about this meeting.
=== Important Notes ===
<TBD>

=== Contact ===
Have something to present? Want to get involved? Please send a comment to the organizers.
Eric, Randall, Scott here: http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/11785529/

'''Stay tuned for more updates.'''
