{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2192/detail/|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca at the Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

/* After the meeting, Edit the YYYY/MM/DD and tHH:MM for the date and time in the Ubuntu IRC Log, and remove the comment markers */

==== Meeting Log ====
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-03-01-00.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-03-01-00.00.html

* Introductions:

* Events
** UbuntuGlobalJam  (BobJonkman, 00:06:06)

* Canadian Team !LoCo Renewal
''ACTION:'' BobJonkman to create event for !ReApproval Page polishing for Saturday, 9 March 2013  (BobJonkman, 00:52:27)

Meeting ended at 00:53:18 UTC.

=== Agenda ===

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
On 28 February 1939 <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dord|Dord]]</nowiki> is discovered to be not a word.

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
===== Past =====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener and Waterloo]]</nowiki>
*** Kitchener: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
*** Waterloo: 4th Thursday of the month, 8:00pm

/* ==== Ongoing ==== */

===== Upcoming =====
* UbuntuGlobalJam, 1-3 March 2013
* <nowiki>[[https://uds.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki>, 5-6 March 2013
** Canonical has changed UDS to <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2013/02/26/ubuntu-developer-summits-now-online-and-every-three-months|online hangouts]]</nowiki> every three months. Enhanced level of openness or cost-cutting measure? Discuss.
* LoCoCouncil meeting, 19 March 2013
** Are we ready to submit the CanadianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012 ?

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
==== Other stuff ====
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal
** To be done during the Quantal cycle, October 2012 to March 2013 (ie. now!)
** How was the Re-Approval Polish-up Party?

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[..-|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
