{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Toronto chapter of Ubuntu Canada meets every other Wednesday at 6:30pm at the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxcaffe.ca|linuxcaffe]]</nowiki>.

Below is an archive of what has been discussed at previous meetings, and an open agenda for the next meeting. Feel free to add your own topics and points for the next meeting's agenda.
---- 
=== Future Meetings ===
* Please add agenda items here.
---- 

=== Thursday, 23 January 2014. Meeting on Video Chat ===
Time to be announced

=== 14 January, 2014 at 07:30 PM ===
Spy vs Spy: SELinux and MAC with David Collier-Brown
<nowiki>[[http://gtalug.org/wiki/Meetings:2014-01|GTALUG]]</nowiki>  

=== Saturday 14th December, 2013 at 2:00pm - 4.00pm ===
<nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2659-ubuntu-hour-toronto/|Ubuntu Hour Toronto]]</nowiki>  

=== Tuesday 10th December, 2013 at 7:30pm ===
Round Table Show and Tell
<nowiki>[[http://gtalug.org/wiki/Meetings:2013-12|GTALUG]]</nowiki>  

=== Precise Pangolin (12.04) Ubuntu Hour(s) ===
A small group met at Linuxcaffe on 27 May 2012 to distribute the new Ubuntu 12.04 Precise Pangolin CDs.  Food was eaten, beverages were drunk, <nowiki>[[/PrecisePangolinUbuntuHour(s)|pictures were taken]]</nowiki>.

=== Hardy Heron (8.04) Toronto Launch Party ===

It's a few days away as of this writing and Toronto would like to show it's appreciation for this distribution that we all love. Let's get together at <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxcaffe.ca|linuxcaffe]]</nowiki>, have some hot chocolate or coffee and have a demo. I'd like to do an online upgrade from 7.10 to 8.04 on that day using linuxcaffe's wireless connection.

So, first things first. We need a date that we can meet so let's use the mailing list to propose a meeting date.

Two dates have been proposed.
* Saturday April 26th, 2008
* Monday April 28th, 2008

Cast your vote by sending a message to: <nowiki>[[mailto:ubuntu-ca@lists.ubuntu.com|The Canadian Loco Team Mailing List]]</nowiki>

=== December 15th, 2007 ===
* Excellent turnout with representation  from the entire Greater Toronto  Area
* Special Guest was 
<nowiki>[[http://dudanogueira.com.br/2007/12/19/toronto-team-photos-from-december-15th|Duda Nogugira]]</nowiki> from Ubuntu Brasil.

After some quick introductions we got an opportunity to salvage a Vista tainted computer and within an hour it was resurrected as a clean installed Ubuntu 7.10 .  Our guest had the opportunity to help sort out a WiFi problem for a member and there was a demonstration of some of the features under development  

 '''<nowiki>[[http://www.linuxcaffe.ca|linuxcaffe]]</nowiki>.once again proved to be the perfect venue for holding an Ubuntu Toronto Meeting.  Special thanks to DJP for accommodating the ever expanding need for seating (personal note "Great Hot Chocolate") '''

=== November 3rd, 2007 ===
* <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam/Toronto/GustyGibbonReleaseParty|Toronto Team, Gutsy Gibbon Release Party]]</nowiki>

=== May 2nd, 2007 ===
==== Agenda ====
* add agenda items here

=== 19 April, 2007 ===
==== Agenda ====
* <nowiki>[[FeistyReleaseParties|Feisty Release Party]]</nowiki>

=== 4 April, 2007 ===
==== Agenda ====
* An aggressive change to meeting format
* Support/Open Discussion
* have a project idea or discussion topic? add it here!

==== Notes ====
* The creation of a <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam:Toronto/Borad|Board]]</nowiki> to discuses the matters in promoting Ubuntu in GTA.
* Meetings to be more user friendly and less about promoting ubuntu.

=== March 21st, 2007 ===
==== Agenda ====
* <nowiki>[[http://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=dgg9tcxq_0hs3gnv&hl=en|Ubuntu System Recovery Cheatsheet (Kim King)]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Toronto at IT360
* Support/Open Discussion
* have a project idea or discussion topic? add it here!

=== March 7th, 2007 ===
==== Agenda ====
* Ubuntu Toronto and the Canadian Open Source Community (Evan L)
* Ubuntu System Recovery Cheatsheet (Kim King)
* IT360 Show
* Support/Open Discussion
* have a project idea or discussion topic? add it here!

==== Notes ====
* Coming soon...

=== Meeting Archives ===
* <nowiki>[[/PrecisePangolinUbuntuHour(s)| May 27th, 2012]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[/Feb2107| February 21st, 2007]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/Feb0707| February 7th, 2007]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/Jan2407| January 24th, 2007]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/Jan1007| January 10th, 2007]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/Dec1306| December 13th, 2006]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/Nov2906| November 29th, 2006]]</nowiki>
