{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Now on the Fourth '''Thursday''' of the month, to avoid still other conflicts with other computer-related events that Ubuntu folk may also want to attend.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2066/detail/|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca at the Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

==== Meeting Log ====
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/11/23/%23ubuntu-ca.html

=== Meeting Minutes ===
Coming soon!

=== Agenda ===

That happy sound is your step

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====
===== Past =====
* Pictures of  Toronto Quantal Quetzal Release Party: <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntucanada/8188024749/|cupcakes]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntucanada/8189105872/|party-goers]]</nowiki>.
* UbuntuOpenWeek took place from Wednesday 24 Oct - Friday 26 Oct 2012 on IRC in #ubuntu-classroom and #ubuntu-classroom-chat.
* <nowiki>[[http://fsoss.ca/|FSOSS]]</nowiki>, 25 - 26 October 2012
* Ubuntu Hours
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener and Waterloo]]</nowiki>
*** Kitchener: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
*** Waterloo: 4th Thursday of the month, 8:00pm
* <nowiki>[[https://uds.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki> for RaringRingtail, 29 October to 1 Nov 2012
* <nowiki>[[UCADay]]</nowiki>, Ubuntu Community Appreciation Day, 20 November 2012

===== Upcoming =====
* 27 December 2012 is the scheduled date for next Ubuntu-ca IRC meeting. Should we reschedule to avoid <nowiki>[[http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Chrishanukwandiwaleid|Chrishanukwandiwaleid]]</nowiki>?

==== Other stuff ====
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal
** To be done during the Quantal cycle, October 2012 to March 2013 (ie. now!)
* Need a refresh on the website http://ubuntu-ca.org 
** <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> needs to provide access to a volunteer Web updater.
** We need a volunteer Web updater...
