{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6pm
| Central
|-
| 5pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

== Agenda ==

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Upcoming Events ===
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki> 1-3 April 2011
* <nowiki>[[NattyReleaseSchedule|Natty Narwhal]]</nowiki> Release Party planning (release 28 April 2011)
* Other events?

=== Website ===

* Status update
* What's next?

== Minutes ==

<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/02/16/%23ubuntu-ca.html#t00:00|Log]]</nowiki>

=== Upcoming Events ===

* <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Txwikinger]]</nowiki> will be holding a jam in Kitchener, Apr. 2.
* <nowiki>[[FiReSTaRT]]</nowiki> will look into holding a jam at Linuxcaffe in Toronto.  Will contact <nowiki>[[hypatia]]</nowiki>
* (post-meeting) <nowiki>[[tm0]]</nowiki> will hold a jam in Peterborough if he can confirm 5+ people attending.
* Planning starting for release parties for Natty around the Apr. 28 release.
* The Ottawa Ubuntu Hour may have stopped. One of the primary organizers has left the team.
* <nowiki>[[BobJonkman]]</nowiki> will start a weekly Thursday Ubuntu Hour in Kitchener.

=== Website ===

* BobJonkman will help with content.
* The theme is being converted for use in Drupal 7. Txwikinger would like to upgrade.
* tm0 may be able to get us a discount on theme work from <nowiki>[[http://audentio.com]]</nowiki>
