{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 9:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 9:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 8:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 7:00pm
| Central
|-
| 6:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 5:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

-----
==== Meeting Log ====
IRC meeting log is at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/03/14/%23ubuntu-ca.html#t00:04

=== Meeting Minutes ===
* Meeting introductions were made
* mimcpher needs new Ubuntu CDs for the UofW Computer Science Club
* Global Jam
** KW Global Jam was pretty awesome, but low attendance
** Anyone know how Faroud's Newfoundland Jam went down?
* Who's running 12.04?
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[bregma]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jeruvy|Jeruvy]]</nowiki>, wylde
** <nowiki>[[bregma]]</nowiki> reports "as of yesterday's upgrade most of my problems with the beta have been worked out, it seems very stable and fully functional; I would recommend upgrading now to give things a good testing before final release"
* Discussion on different window managers (Gnome, Gnome2, Cinnamon, KDE, XFCE)
* Release Parties
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1527/detail/|Kitchener Release Party]]</nowiki>
** Kitchener Release party has been booked twice (Oops)
** Request for a Toronto release party
* <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> asks for someone to take over Team Reports
* !LoCo renewal
** Need Team Reports for renewal
** There was speculation that the !LoCo Council may decide to renew "Ubuntu Canada" as "Ubuntu Ontario", but no-one has contacted <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> about it
 

=== Agenda ===

In March we're back to the usual schedule of second Tuesday of the month.

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====

===== Past =====
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/1443/detail/|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki>, Friday-Sunday, 2-4 March 2012
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1498/detail/|Waterloo Region]]</nowiki>, Saturday, 3 March 2012
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1568/detail/|Ubuntu Jamming in St. John's]]</nowiki> in Newfoundland 

===== Upcoming =====
* Ubuntu Hours
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1497/detail/|Kitchener]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1466/detail/|Waterloo]]</nowiki>
* PrecisePangolin release on Thursday, 26 April 2012  
** Release parties?
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1527/detail/|Kitchener-Waterloo]]</nowiki>

==== Other stuff ====
* Canadian Team !LoCo renewal
* <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports |Team Reports]]</nowiki> needs a volunteer
** Need reports from November 2011 to present for !LoCo team renewal 
