{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo March 2010 General Meeting ===
Our meeting planning is complete! Whew!!

We'll have sizzling Lightning Talks. Stuff that makes people want to try Ubuntu. Stuff that inspires!

See you soon.

Cheers,<<BR>>
Randall<<BR>>
Ubuntu Vancouver Buzz Generator

=== Maximum March Mayhem! ===

You are encouraged to read the whole page. If you don't have the time, here's the stuff to remember:<<BR>><<BR>>
a. '''RSVP'''. It's really important and it's polite. http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/12819925 <<BR>>
b. We start promptly at '''6:30pm'''. Location below (see "Where"). Please don't arrive too early though. Doors are generally locked until about 6:10-ish to give the meeting crew time to configure the space, to rehearse and to set-up.<<BR>>
c. The meeting is about building '''local community''', not just software.<<BR>>
d. '''Sharing''' food and drinks helps build community. Please bring some! ("Note A" below)<<BR>>
e. Bring a chair if you can. This is going to be another full house. ("Note C" below)<<BR>>

=== Some Background Information ===
'''Ubuntu is all about community'''. Our meetings are designed to be friendly, welcoming, and non-intimidating for '''all'''. No computer experience is assumed or required. We meet to share ideas about freedom in computing through the use of Ubuntu and also to build relationships in our community that transcend the stereotypical "user group" or "computer club". Sure, there are "computer clubs" in Vancouver. This isn't one of them ;)

In this spirit of being different, friendly, and in support of our goal to make the Ubuntu Vancouver community the largest in the world, please consider bringing a guest or two to this meeting. (Ideally someone who normally wouldn't attend a "computer club" type of event: a friend, significant other, family member.) We promise to make it interesting for everyone who attends! And don't forget to add them to your RSVP if they're not already a meetup member.

'''Our Theme for the evening Maximum March Mayhem.''' March marks the arrival of spring. New life. For some cultures: a New Year. New possibilities.

=== Agenda (Proposed) ===
We have a '''great''' line-up of speakers and topics. Together we'll see some really cool ways to use Ubuntu to learn. We'll find out more about Ubuntu in Vancouver.
==== Presentation: "Stuff That's Generally and Locally Interesting - Part 1" ====
Our Buzz Generator will challenge the audience, or at least provide some mild entertainment. Expect shiny flashy things.
==== Rapid Lightning Talk: "Free Your TV" ====
Ubuntu can make your home television experience fun. It can also integrate your television with other online forms of entertainment. A sizzling preview of Ubuntu media domination from one of our members!
==== Lightning Talk: "How to Clean the Toy Room in 1 Second!" ====
'''Presented by: Camille/Sebastian'''<<BR>>
Imagine giving your child (or grandchild) a great gift to play with, to learn with, and to share. It costs you 1 blank CD and 20 minutes... that's all! With "Quimo" (an Ubuntu based distribution for kids) you get a Live CD that lets the young people in your life play and learn in a nice, cozy enviroment. Let your kids use your computer without a worry! A sizzling demonstration guaranteed to inspire.
This presentation is here: <nowiki>[[attachment:march_lightning_talk_how_to_clean.pdf]]</nowiki>
==== Break = Socializing + Refreshments ====
Our members meet, mingle and enjoy the food and beverages (see Note A below) that everyone brought to share. Some members laugh uncontrollably. Everyone is encouraged to find a new face, start a conversation and to make everyone feel welcomed. (Note that this meeting will not include our usual RescueCentre due to the proximity of our upcoming SupportSaturday event. If you need help, please check the meetup calendar and RSVP for SupportSaturday.)
Would you like to "Chime In? Sign-in during the break and get on the agenda.
==== Rapid Lightning Talk: UGH! ====
A quick highlight of Ubuntu games!
==== Something You Haven't Heard Before ====
A special musical performance by a local singer/songwriter. What does this have to do with computers? Nothing! What does this have to do with Humanity? Everything.
==== Lightning Talk: "Ubuntu One Secrets" ====
A quick presentation on "scrambling" (encrypting) your files on Ubuntu One so that only '''you''' can open them. Let the users of other platforms and the media worry about privacy. We don't!
==== Presentation: "Stuff That's Generally and Locally Interesting - Part 2" ====
Our Buzz Generator will continue to challenge the audience, provide some mild entertainment and talk about upcoming events.
==== The Audience Chimes In ====
A few rapid talks without computers, 3 minutes or less, moderated and audience driven. (Sign-up during the meeting break.) Time permitting.
==== Wrap-Up ====
Our Buzz Generator wraps up the evening. Parting words, '''door prizes''' and more!

=== Where ===
For full location, time, and directions, please RSVP and see our listing on meetup.com:
http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/12819925
<<BR>>
'''Plans sometimes change''', so please '''RSVP above''' to ensure that you are updated in the event we need to move to bigger space, or for any other important news about this meeting. Your RSVP is also a polite way to help us plan.
=== Important Notes ===
==== a. Treats ====
Many members bring '''treats''' to share with everyone, potluck style during the break. It's not required, but we certainly welcome it, as it helps create a more friendly environment for socializing, especially given that many people come to our meetings directly from work. And, if you're not comfortable preparing or sharing drinks/food for others, please consider picking something up from your nearest supermarket, bakery, pub on the way over.  (Examples of what members have brought to previous meetings: sandwiches, sushi rolls, cupcakes, muffins, veggies, cookies, tangerines, nuts, coffee, tea, juice, pop, wine, ... the list is growing!)
==== b. Rescue Centre ====
'''We're deferring the Rescue Centre to Support Saturday.''' Normally: In parallel with the latter half of the meeting we host a '''Rescue Centre.''' If you have an Ubuntu issue that you just can't seem to figure out, this will be the place for you! Expert(s) will be on hand to help triage issues and to provide suggestions. (Please remember to RSVP with a comment on the type of assistance that you will need. Also remember that this is time-limited so it's probably not realistic to expect a complete reinstall or something very detailed. For intense help, consider coming to a Support Saturday.)
==== c. Chairs ====
We never seem to have enough. If you are driving, please consider throwing an extra folding chair (or two) in your trunk on the way over. We promise not to hurt them, and the meeting is more comfortable when everyone has a seat.
==== d. Still Want More? ====
After the meeting some members continue socializing nearby on "The Drive". For those who want to mingle with Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo folks, in a less formal (restaurant/patio) setting, please plan to join us after the meeting. (If there is an "after-event", the venue will be announced as part of the meeting wrap-up.) 
=== Contact ===
Please e-mail <randall@executiv.es> with any questions.

'''See you soon!'''
