{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 9:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 9:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 8:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 7:00pm
| Central
|-
| 6:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 5:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

----
Log at <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/12/14/%23ubuntu-ca.html#t01:01]]</nowiki>

=== Minutes ===

* Greetings were made
* <nowiki>[[bregma]]</nowiki> provided some notes on <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-p/|UDS]]</nowiki>
* Discussion on the !LoCo Council's idea of breaking large geographic !LoCos into smaller ones.
** References:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/2011/12/13/loco-council-goings-on-in-12-04/|LoCo Council Goings On In 12.04]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[JonoBacon]]</nowiki>) 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flyingsquirrel.ca/index.php/2011/11/04/recognizing-city-teams/|Recognizing city teams]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki>)
** Consensus: Continue to develop a city teams and contacts; they're more discoverable
* <nowiki>[[UCADay]]</nowiki> thanks were made again.  UCAday is a good way to express appreciation to people not getting recognition on a regular basis.
* Events: 
** Upcoming Ubuntu Hours in Waterloo and Kitchener
** Ubuntu CDs were distributed during <nowiki>[[http://www.nanowrimo.org|NaNoWriMo]]</nowiki> write-ins
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/1443/detail/|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki>
** There will be an event at <nowiki>[[http://kwartzlab.ca|Kwartzlab]]</nowiki> for Waterloo Region
** Make contact with other communities (eg. !FreeGeek) to set up events
** What to do during UGJ? Test the beta install; test hardware; bug triage; documentation; develop a project...
** Maybe get sponsorship from local high-tech companies?
* Next meeting: <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1464/detail/|10 January 2012]]</nowiki>
 

----
=== Agenda ===

Who can resist having a meeting on a date that can be written as 11/12/13 ?

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Past Events ====
* <nowiki>[[UCADay]]</nowiki>, the Ubuntu Community Appreciation Day held 20 November 2011

==== Upcoming Events ====
* Ubuntu Hours
** Kitchener and Waterloo
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/1443/detail/|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki>, Friday-Sunday, 2-4 March 2012

==== Other stuff ====
