{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2276/detail/|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca at the Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

/* After the meeting, Edit the YYYY/MM/DD and tHH:MM for the date and time in the Ubuntu IRC Log, and remove the comment markers */
==== Meeting Log ====
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-03-28-23.01.html

=== Meeting Minutes ===

Meeting started by BobJonkman1 at 23:01:42 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-03-28-23.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2013-03-28   (BobJonkman1, 23:02:44)
* Introductions

* Events
''LINK:'' http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/3178393/size/800 is a picture of us at the Jam/Hour  (BobJonkman1, 23:18:34)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam received quite a facelift  (BobJonkman1, 23:21:49)

''HELP:'' Need someone to attend the LoCo Council meeting on 16 April 2013 at 4:00pm EDT to represent Ubuntu-ca for the ReApproval Request  (BobJonkman1, 23:30:23)
** Ubuntu Release Parties  (BobJonkman1, 23:31:32)

''IDEA:'' We could delay the Release Party until the RaringRingtail CD/DVDs have arrived (which requires that Ubuntu-ca gets their re-approval first)  (BobJonkman1, 23:33:28)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012 is the page with our ReApproval info  (BobJonkman1, 23:37:25)

''ACTION:'' azend offers to host an Ubuntu Release Party in Guelph  (BobJonkman1, 23:42:08)

* Other Stuff
''ACTION:'' bregma is taking care of our representation for the LoCo renewal  (BobJonkman1, 23:51:37)

''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/   (BobJonkman1, 23:53:25)

Meeting ended at 00:01:22 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* azend offers to host an Ubuntu Release Party in Guelph
* bregma is taking care of our representation for the LoCo renewal

=== Action items, by person ===

* azend
* * azend offers to host an Ubuntu Release Party in Guelph
* bregma
* * bregma is taking care of our representation for the LoCo renewal

=== People present (lines said) ===

* BobJonkman1 (82)
* azend (20)
* bregma (18)
* Katherine (7)
* dscassel (6)
* meetingology (5)

=== Agenda ===

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
On 28 March 1928, Ottawa's first automatic street light system goes into operation!

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
===== Past =====
* UbuntuGlobalJam, 1-3 March 2013
* <nowiki>[[https://uds.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki>, 5-6 March 2013
** How were the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2013/02/26/ubuntu-developer-summits-now-online-and-every-three-months|online hangouts]]</nowiki>? 
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2275/detail/|Page Polishing Party]]</nowiki>, 9 March 2013
** How does the <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam|Canadian Team Wiki]]</nowiki> look now?
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuSDKDays]]</nowiki>, 14-15 March 2013
* LoCoCouncil meeting, 19 March 2013
** Was our <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ReApprovalApplication2012|ReApproval Application]]</nowiki> accepted?
  
===== Ongoing =====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener and Waterloo]]</nowiki>
*** Kitchener: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
*** Waterloo: 4th Thursday of the month, 8:00pm

===== Upcoming =====
* Ubuntu 13.04 RaringRingtail release, 25 April 2013
** Who's holding an Ubuntu Release Party?

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
==== Other stuff ====
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal
** Is <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ReApprovalApplication2012|it]]</nowiki> done? 

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[..-|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
