{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
<dscassel> Meeting time!
<bobjonkman> hypatia is logged in.
* txwikinger is attending on time for a change :)
* ^Sarah is new and waves to everyone
<dscassel> Meeting time!
* bobjonkman is old and waves back
<dscassel> Agenda here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2010-09-12
<dscassel> Whereabouts are you, ^Sarah?
<^Sarah> dscassel, I'm in toronto
* txwikinger is Ralph Janke and in Kitchener/Waterloo
<dscassel> Cool. :) Do you know hypatia by any chance?
<dscassel> (I'm in Waterloo as well)
<^Sarah> no - just met her online for the first time - I'm going to volunteer at the release party
<dscassel> Awesome. :)
* bobjonkman is in Elmira, just north of Waterloo
* txwikinger cheers for volunteers at Release Party
<dscassel> Mass call! FiReSTaRT Kulag SmartSsa highvoltage ve2dmn brettalton ilan ilan mylesbra1thwaite willwh cagordon rcfox_ zul johanbr ryanakca ZykoticK9 johanbr sipherdee
<dscassel> Anyone interested in a meeting? :)
<dscassel> Anyone else new?
<^Sarah> I guess I'm it for newness?
<dscassel> Guess so. :)
<dscassel> I'm sure people will trickle in...
<dscassel> We should get on with it.
<dscassel> Website!
<txwikinger> cool
<txwikinger> I think website is functioning pretty much
<^Sarah> I signed up on launchpad to volunteer for the website
<dscassel> We have a launchpad team! https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ca-website
<txwikinger> the missing part is the planet style blogging aggregator
<dscassel> If you want to help out, txwikinger can provide access.
<txwikinger> And there was some discussion about the theme on the ML
<dscassel> txwikinger: I think we can launch without it. Or just link to the old one.
<txwikinger> yes
<dscassel> There was also talk of getting some "What is Ubuntu Canada" content up there.
<^Sarah> Is that already written?
<txwikinger> I will get with the canonical admins to change the A-record in DNS and make sure to set the internal stuff right for outside access
<dscassel> ^Sarah: There's a bit of a summary on the wiki.
<highvoltage> helllooo
<^Sarah> okie
<txwikinger> hello highvoltage
<dscassel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/
<dscassel> Hi, highvoltage :)
<txwikinger> I cannot promise how fast the Canonical admins move.. they are always pretty much under stress
<dscassel> Some of the stuff on the wiki is left over from the original 2006 incarnation of the team. It's mutated a little in the meantime.
<txwikinger> but I will have my things done the next couple of days
<dscassel> But I wouldn't get too fussy about it.
<txwikinger> Yeah.. we can add things later.. publish early - publish often
<txwikinger> ^Sarah: Have you ever worked with drupal?
<^Sarah> No - I haven't
<^Sarah> I know a little CSS
<^Sarah> and I learn fast
<txwikinger> cool :D
<^Sarah> and - Drupal is used by a lot of libraries
<^Sarah> and I'm a librarian
<^Sarah> so I am sure I know people who use it
<txwikinger> hey.. just another reason to learn it :D
* highvoltage redid the edubuntu site recently, drupal worked quite ok for that
<^Sarah> lol exactly
<highvoltage> ^Sarah: if you need any help feel free to ping me
<txwikinger> Yes.. I am around a lot too
<bobjonkman> highvoltage: this one? http://edubuntu.org/
<highvoltage> bobjonkman: yep
<dscassel> There's been some talk about going with WordPress instead. I don't have a strong preference myself. I just want a website.
<txwikinger> Well.. drupal is already set up
<highvoltage> bobjonkman: still work in progress though, but I think it's a big improvement on the olde one we had
<txwikinger> wordpress is a mini-drupal
<dscassel> txwikinger: That is definitely a plus in its favour.
<^Sarah> how does this work? is there a to-do list yet?
<dscassel> highvoltage: Looks good. :)
<txwikinger> I don't really care, but I don't know what wordpress does, that drupal does not, and if it is really worth to put in more work
<^Sarah> highvoltage, yeah - looks nice
<dscassel> ^Sarah: We're trying to get that organized.
<bobjonkman> FWIW, I have more experience with WordPress than Drupal
<^Sarah> gotcha, sorry jumping ahead :)
<highvoltage> wordpress is awesome, but it's more for personal websites and small company website, drupal has lots of extensions for community kind of stuff and it's easier to expand when you want more later on
<txwikinger> highvoltage: exactly
<dscassel> ^Sarah: Keeping us on track, more like. :)
<txwikinger> I think the theme could take some love
<dscassel> Definitely.
<dscassel> So, do we have a quick todo list?
<dscassel> 1) Theme love
<txwikinger> However, I would like to stay with something close to the official LoCo theme in order to benefit from the worldwide branding
<dscassel> 2) About page
<dscassel> 3) Planet
<dscassel> Anything else?
<highvoltage> maybe also show latest dents from the ubuntu-ca group?
<dscassel> highvoltage: Good idea.
<bobjonkman> Please enable Atom/RSS feeds for everything!
<txwikinger> bobjonkman: not enabled yet?
<highvoltage> links to the loco directory for upcoming events would probably nice. or even better if the upcoming events could be sourced and displayed somewhere prominent
<txwikinger> dscassel: put it on the list
<dscassel> 4) identi.ca/twitter integration.
<txwikinger> 5) rss/atom feeds
<txwikinger> 6) loco.dir for Ubuntu-ca feed
<dscassel> txwikinger: What's that?
<txwikinger> well.. the links to our events in LoCo directory
<dscassel> Oh! Right, that!
<txwikinger> hopefully that can be done via aggregator
<dscassel> LoCo directory integration would be awesome. They do have rss, yeah.
<txwikinger> cool..
<dscassel> And iCal.
<txwikinger> 7) Calendar
<bobjonkman> iCal and CalDav
<dscassel> If we can feed that into a drupal calendar module.
<txwikinger> dscassel: yes
<txwikinger> I hope so
<highvoltage> some people tried that with the fridge and it didn't work so well iirc
<^Sarah> dscassel, it looks like that's possible
<highvoltage> (that's why it ended up just being an embedded google calendar)
<dscassel> highvoltage: Ah, noted.
<^Sarah> ah
<txwikinger> What does the webteam think.. would it be good to have redmine or trac to trac the todo tasks?
<dscassel> Embedded Google Calendar works too. :)
<bobjonkman> Google does calendaring right. Hopefully Drupal calendar modules are just as feature complete
<bobjonkman> Tasks are merely calendar events that roll forward in time.
<dscassel> txwikinger: I'd ask them. We should start getting the mailing list going.
<txwikinger> I think we can look at how to do the implementation later.. Lets just collect the things for now
<txwikinger> dscassel: Yes.... can do that
<bobjonkman> So, if tasks can be done with the same calendar module as regular events, that would be awesome
<txwikinger> both trackers can send all mails to the ML too
<txwikinger> or maybe drupal has a task module.. I shall look into that
<txwikinger> 8) Task tracking
<txwikinger> dscassel: we should get a meeting bot in here.. makes it easier to track action items
<dscassel> txwikinger: Yeah, I know.
<txwikinger> I will talk to the bot team about that
<dscassel> Action item: get a mootbot in here.
<txwikinger> or just run a copy of the bot on our new website
<dscassel> All right, we have a bunch of tasks to get started. Any other website concerns?
<dscassel> If you need access, talk to txwikinger. He's playing sysadmin for now.
<dscassel> Hopefully we can spread the load a little bit.
<txwikinger> Well. there are more people who have admin access
<txwikinger> you should too dscassel
<^Sarah> txwikinger, is email best or ?
<txwikinger> but it is fine
<txwikinger> yes ^Sarah
<txwikinger> txwikinger@ubuntu.com
<^Sarah> thank you
<dscassel> And we'll take discussion to the -website team mailing list.
<txwikinger> +1 dscassel
<dscassel> Moving on!
<dscassel> LUG Outreach!
<dscassel> That was on my plate, and I never got around to it.
<bobjonkman> Are we automatically subscribed to the mailing list if we've joined the Launchpad ubuntu-ca-website team?
<txwikinger> Incidently.. I talked about that in another meeting today :)
<txwikinger> bobjonkman: Not sure.. go on the site and make sure you have subscribed to the mailing list
<dscassel> Still need to write to the mailing list and start asking around for volunteers.
<bobjonkman> Yes: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ca-website/+mailing-list-subscribers
<txwikinger> dscassel: I may have some people to contact about it
<dscassel> txwikinger: Excellent. Any hints?
<dscassel> We can talk about it offline...
<txwikinger> Well.. I think I know someone who knows the pople from the old (dead?) list
<txwikinger> dscassel: We can talk later or tomorrow about it
<dscassel> Sure.
<txwikinger> I think we can move on
<dscassel> Basically, I want us to start contacting LUGs and see if they're interested in collaborating.
<dscassel> But more next month, I guess.
<dscassel> Software Freedom Day!
<bobjonkman> You
<dscassel> We're doing on in Kitchener next Saturday.
<txwikinger> Yes!!
<bobjonkman> You've already made buttons!
<dscassel> There are also SFD events in Vancouver, Montreal, Pickering and Kingston.
<txwikinger> http://drupal.txwikinger.me.uk/node/25
<dscassel> If that's near you, check it out.
<txwikinger> there is a flyer.. feel free to distribute
<dscassel> I don't think it's too late to do your own, but there is just a week left to prepare.
<dscassel> Go on a street corner and hand out CDs or something. :D
<txwikinger> If there are any other SFDs in which Ubuntu Canada people are involved,please tell us so we can log it in our report
<dscassel> And yes, we have buttons. :D http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/Qbg02qlAxM2Ltcr5VpMfFg?feat=directlink
<dscassel> Anything else?
<dscassel> SoOnCon!
<dscassel> Oct. 1-2 in Kichener.
<dscassel> http://sooncon.ca/wiki/Main_Page
<txwikinger> I have offered a couple of topics as talks
<dscassel> It's a conference for southern ontario hackerspaces.
<txwikinger> I think I need to do it again a little more formal
<dscassel> And we're going to have a presence there.
<dscassel> Talks are good.
<dscassel> I don't know if there is "formal"... :)
<txwikinger> How do we want to do the Ubuntu presence?
<bobjonkman> Is SoOnCon open to non-members of any hackerspace?
<dscassel> That's what I'd like to talk about. We can have a table with schwag, since you have the conference pack.
<txwikinger> bobjonkman: As I understand yes... dscassel?
<dscassel> bobjonkman: Yeah. Sign up here: http://sooncon.eventbrite.com/
<txwikinger> Well. we need to think about what we want to use for SFD, what for SoOnCon
<dscassel> txwikinger: I think you and I are going to have to talk to Gus and figure out what we can or should do.
<txwikinger> And also the release party is coming up
<dscassel> Everybody else, you should come! :D
<txwikinger> dscassel: Good idea.. on Tuesday?
<dscassel> txwikinger: That's next on the agenda.
<dscassel> Yeah, that makes sense.
<txwikinger> ok
<txwikinger> dscassel: I need to ask Gus when we want to publish the event outside hackerspaces
<txwikinger> I will put it on my blog
<dscassel> txwikinger: hopefully soon. Oct. 2 isn't that far away.
<txwikinger> Yes
<cagordon> Howdy
<dscassel> Hi cagordon. :)
<txwikinger> hi cagordon
<cagordon> Hey Darcy!
<^Sarah> hi cagordon
<txwikinger> ok.. let'smove on
<dscassel> Release parties!
<dscassel> It is with profound sadness that I discovered that 10.10.10 is Thanksgiving Sunday.
<txwikinger> dscassel: Did you get approval for 16th?
* txwikinger assumes you asked last Thursday
<dscassel> Not formally. I mentioned it at the last board meeting, though.
<^Sarah> dscassel, that could be a big problem
<dscassel> Yeah.
<dscassel> We're going to do our's Oct. 16, which isn't nearly as awesome.
<^Sarah> lol
<dscassel> But we'll have cake, so we'll be fine.
<txwikinger> release parties don't have to be on release day
<^Sarah> cake... is awesome
<cagordon> Probably sick of turkey by then. No turkey cake svp
<txwikinger> they are always spread over a couple of weeks
<dscassel> cagordon: No worries there.
<cagordon> Doing up CDs like for 10.04?
<bobjonkman> Devilled turkey eggs?
<^Sarah> Hopefully I can catch hypatia online and get some details on the Toronto party
<txwikinger> ostrich eggs?
<txwikinger> ^Sarah: yes that would be good
<dscassel> ^Sarah: Sounds good.
<txwikinger> I can blog about it... and I have quite a lot of readers
<dscassel> hypatia can too, for that matter. Although I've never seen her posts on the planet.
<dscassel> But yes, more publicity is always good.
<txwikinger> dscassel: As more as better
<dscassel> There have to be more Toronto Ubuntu people out there. :)
<^Sarah> I hope so :)
<txwikinger> well.. more events and they will grow in number
<dscassel> Yup.
<dscassel> Oh, and put your parties in the LoCo Directory!
<dscassel> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca
<txwikinger> yes!
<dscassel> And other events too for that matter.
<dscassel> you just need to join the ubuntu-ca launchpad team to create events.
<^Sarah> oh excellent. I didn't know that
<^Sarah> not that I have events yet, but you never know!
<dscassel> Oh, awesome. ZykoticK9 put the Ottawa Ubuntu Hour up. http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/376/detail/
<txwikinger> cool
<dscassel> It's not just me anymore! :D
<dscassel> Okay, FSOSS!
<dscassel> bobjonkman: have you gone to this before?
<txwikinger> Unfortunately FSOSS is during UDS
<bobjonkman> Nope.
* txwikinger has been there before
<dscassel> Ah.
<bobjonkman> But Victor Mendoca from MUMU has
<txwikinger> It is organised by Seneca College
<dscassel> Is there anything we can/should do about it?
<txwikinger> A little more academic style
<brettalton> K, I'm a little behind, but with the website... why is everyone opting for Drupal and all these extensions? Is anyone a web developer by profession and have experience with these add-ons in Drupal? I believe we have a lot of eager volunteers, but I'm not sure if I'm in line with what everyone is agreeing on. Drupal is a hassle.
<dscassel> Hi Brett.
<txwikinger> brettalton: yes.. I do professional websites
<brettalton> txwikinger: are you vowing for Drupal integration experience?
<txwikinger> integration to what?
<brettalton> All the add-ons everyone is requesting
<dscassel> Most of the ones we were talking about should have off-the-shelf modules.
<brettalton> Ah
* dscassel is not a drupal expert by any means.
<brettalton> Whose going to do the integration with twitter etc.?
<txwikinger> I also know a couple of drupal module developers
<txwikinger> brettalton: there is a module for that
<brettalton> well right on if you guys have it all figured out
<txwikinger> Anyway.. drupal is already setup and ready to go.. Wordpress we would have to start new
<txwikinger> So I think it makes more sense to iteratively improve what we have already
<dscassel> Yu.
<dscassel> p.
<brettalton> Alright, well I don't want to touch Drupal, so if everyone else can handle it, then great.
<brettalton> If we go with Wordpress, I can bring a lot of skill to the table.
<txwikinger> well.. I think we would appreciate if you would help anyway
<brettalton> with?
<brettalton> just in general?
<txwikinger> the site how it is at the moment
<dscassel> You had some theme ideas...
<txwikinger> the one that is not live yet
<dscassel> That's probably my highest priority right now.
<dscassel> From what I hear, drupal theming is kind of nasty, but I've never dug into it.
<brettalton> I don't know how to theme Drupal though, it's a completely different lion to tame
<txwikinger> but we will go live as soon as I get Canonical to change the DNS records
<dscassel> (okay, going live is my highest priority. Improving the theme a bit is a close second)
<brettalton> isn't it live right now? or is there a dev site I'm missing
<txwikinger> yes.. anyway.. if you want to help please send me an e-mail that I can set you up
<dscassel> http://ubuntu-ca.org still points to the old site.
<txwikinger> the new site is currently http://ubuntu-ca.jankeconsulting.ca/drupal6
<brettalton> oh right right right, forgot
<txwikinger> I really want to have as many people as possible participating
<txwikinger> Only this way we can be really sustainable
<txwikinger> and there is not all the load on one's or few people's shoulders
<brettalton> Well here is my feed if you want to add it: http://feeds.feedburner.com/brettalton
<txwikinger> dscassel: I think we can get back to the topic we talked about
<dscassel> Okay. Wrapping up, then.
<dscassel> FSOSS.
<dscassel> Is there anything we can/should do?
<txwikinger> What were you thinking about
<bobjonkman> Deadline for presentation submissions was 15 Aug, so too late to present...
<dscassel> That's kind of what I'm asking.
<dscassel> We should publicize it, definitely.
<dscassel> I don't know if there's much more we can do than that.
<txwikinger> Yeah.. we can do that
<bobjonkman> Since LinuxFest is no more, this may be a nice alternative
<txwikinger> I think we should rather think about if we can support Drupal-camp
<dscassel> txwikinger: When's that?
<txwikinger> I think there will be one.. need toask khalid about that
<txwikinger> I thought it was in October too
<bobjonkman> http://2010.drupalcamptoronto.org/
<txwikinger> around the same time
<dscassel> (I'm assuming it's in Toronto)
<bobjonkman> 15 - 16 Oct
<txwikinger> yes
<dscassel> Ah.
<txwikinger> Fits better with UDS anyway :)
<dscassel> I'll be running a release party, but I'm sure it'll be fun. :)
<txwikinger> Do you want me to contact Khalid about how we can help?
<dscassel> Yeah, okay.
<txwikinger> ah.. right.. Release party
<txwikinger> maybe 16th is not a good time either
<^Sarah> sorry folks! I gotta go! But I will check the minutes and email txwikinger for the login
<dscassel> Weekdays are lousy.
<bobjonkman> How much overlap between Ubuntu Release party attendees and Drupal afficionados?
<dscassel> thanks for coming out, ^Sarah
<txwikinger> ^Sarah: ok.. thanks for coming
<cagordon> ^Sarah bye
<^Sarah> Will talk to you on the list!
<^Sarah> bye~!
<txwikinger> bobjonkman: Not sure
<dscassel> bobjonkman: Some, but likely not much.
<txwikinger> Ideally I would be at both :D
<bobjonkman> Looking at people who attend the local Drupal meetings, just txwikinger, Paul Nijjar and me. Maybe chaslinux
* dscassel looks at his calendar.
<dscassel> 16th is really the best day for me.
<dscassel> So 16th it is!
<bobjonkman> yay sweet 16!
<dscassel> Sorry, txwikinger
<txwikinger> ha.. another SABDFL
<dscassel> I'm bringing the cake. :D
<txwikinger> ok.. then at least make it into the evening
<dscassel> Oh, yeah, it'll be Sat. evening.
<dscassel> I need the day for other stuff anyway.
<txwikinger> I can spend Saturday in TOoronto and come back for the evening
<txwikinger> ok.. cool
<dscassel> Sounds good.
<dscassel> I'm gonna wrap this thing up. We're over time as it is.
<bobjonkman> Only a little overtime. Wouldn
<dscassel> thanks for coming out, folks. Hope this was somewhat useful.
</pre>
