{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{{{#!Contribution
Please Change/Add/Delete any agenda items you think need Changing/Adding/Deleting!
}}}
== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2316-irc-meeting-for-ubuntu-ca/|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

=== Meeting Minutes ===

Meeting started by BobJonkman1 at 23:00:53 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-04-25-23.00.log.html
.

==== Meeting summary ====

* Ubuntu-ca !ReApproval

* Events
** Release Parties!  (BobJonkman1, 23:24:49)
** Other events  (BobJonkman1, 23:29:10)

''LINK:'' http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1305/ has details about UDS  (BobJonkman1, 23:29:48)<<BR>>
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek has info UOW  (BobJonkman1, 23:30:37)

* Other Stuff

Meeting ended at 00:05:31 UTC.

==== Votes ====

==== Action items ====

* (none)

==== People present (lines said) ====

* BobJonkman1 (48)
* SergioMeneses (7)
* dscassel (7)
* !CraftyVampyre (7)
* azend (4)
* !KombuchaKip (3)
* meetingology (3)
* bregma (3)

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
=== Agenda ===

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
On 25 April 1983 the <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pioneer_10|Pioneer 10]]</nowiki> probe passed Pluto's orbit (which was still a planet at the time)

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
===== Past =====
* LoCoCouncil Meeting on 16 April 2013 and the CanadianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2102 request

===== Ongoing =====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener and Waterloo]]</nowiki>
*** Kitchener: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
*** Waterloo: 4th Thursday of the month, 8:00pm

===== Upcoming =====
* Release Parties!
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2325-kw-raring-ringtail-release-party/|KW Raring Ringtail Release Party]]</nowiki>, 7:00pm EDT on 25 April 2013 at Kwartzlab
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2353-toronto-raring-ringtail-release-party/|Toronto Raring Ringtail Release Party]]</nowiki>, 8:00pm EDT on 25 April 2013 at Alio Lounge
* <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1305/|UDS]]</nowiki>, 14-16 May 2013
* UbuntuOpenWeek, 21-22 May 2013

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
==== Other stuff ====
* No more Canonical CDs/DVDs: <nowiki>[[http://lococouncil.ubuntu.com/2013/04/05/about-ubuntu-13-04-cdsdvds/|LoCoCouncil: About Ubuntu 13.04 CDs/DVDs]]</nowiki>

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[..-|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
