{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Now on the Fourth '''Thursday''' of the month, to avoid still other conflicts with other computer-related events that Ubuntu folk may also want to attend.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

==== Meeting Log ====
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/10/25/%23ubuntu-ca.html#t23:09

=== Minutes ===
* Introductions
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~wmwh|wmwh]]</nowiki> ('''willwh''' on IRC) told us about tab-completion for IRC user names
* Some people have installed the QuantalQuetzal release
** KW Release Party was held (<nowiki>[[http://bob.jonkman.ca/blogs/2012/10/21/pictures-from-the-kw-ubuntu-release-party/|pictures]]</nowiki>)
** Toronto Release Party starting right after IRC meeting
* Rundown of ongoing/upcoming events
** <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> and Raul Suarez will be speaking at <nowiki>[[http://fsoss.ca/|FSOSS]]</nowiki>
* !LoCo Team Renewal and Web site updates are deferred again
* Next Ubuntu Hour Kitchener to be held at Egg Roll King restaurant

=== Agenda ===

Can you hear a pitter pat?

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====
===== Past =====

* QuantalQuetzal Ubuntu 12.10 Release Day, 18 October 2012
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2029/detail/|KW Quantal Ubuntu Release Party]]</nowiki>, 20 October (<nowiki>[[http://bob.jonkman.ca/blogs/2012/10/21/pictures-from-the-kw-ubuntu-release-party/|Pictures]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2025/detail/|Toronto Quantal Quetzal Release Party]]</nowiki>, 25 October

===== Ongoing =====
* UbuntuOpenWeek takes place from Wednesday 24 Oct - Friday 26 Oct 2012 on IRC in #ubuntu-classroom and #ubuntu-classroom-chat.
* <nowiki>[[http://fsoss.ca/|FSOSS]]</nowiki>, 25 - 26 October 2012

* Ubuntu Hours
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener and Waterloo]]</nowiki>
*** Kitchener: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
*** Waterloo: 4th Thursday of the month, 8:00pm

===== Upcoming =====
* <nowiki>[[https://uds.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki> for RaringRingtail, 29 October to 1 Nov 2012
* <nowiki>[[UCADay]]</nowiki>, Ubuntu Community Appreciation Day, 20 November 2012

==== Other stuff ====
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal
** To be done during the Quantal cycle, October 2012 to March 2013
* Need a refresh on the website http://ubuntu-ca.org 
** <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> needs to provide access to a volunteer Web updater.
** We need a volunteer Web updater...
