{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Vancouver: Monthly General Meeting (August 2009) ===

==== Meeting Summary, Notes and Links ====

'''Thanks Ubuntu Vancouver for a Great Meeting!'''

* 41 people were in attendance
* We had cookies, coffee, wine, and treats to celebrate our community!
* 5 "Karmic Koala Alpha 4" CD's were awarded
* 4 Door prizes were awarded
* We had a "Rescue Centre" for those having Ubuntu issues

We had four presentations at the meeting:<<BR>>
1. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Vancouver/Meeting14August2009?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=general_presentation_aug14.pdf|General Presentation (Randall)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
2. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Vancouver/Meeting14August2009?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=lightning_talk_music_server.pdf|Lightning Talk: "Create a cool music server at home, the easy way!" (Craig)]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
3. Lightning Talk: "Easy Ways to Get Ubuntu Support Online" (Brandon)<<BR>>
These are the most relevant links.
http://planet.ubuntu.com/
http://doctormo.wordpress.com/
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training/
http://www.ubuntu.com/support/community/chatirc
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning
<<BR>><<BR>>
4. '''"Women In Open Source, and Ubuntu Diversity" Presentation''' (Malcolm Van Delst)

Links:
*** http://infotrope.net/blog/2009/07/25/standing-out-in-the-crowd-my-oscon-keynote/ - Kirrily Roberts' Standing Out in the Crowd keynote re. women in open source
*** http://archiveofourown.org/ - a project almost entirely coded by women
*** http://www.dreamwidth.org/ - a project almost entirely coded by women
*** http://openwebvancouver.ca/node/103 - Angela Byron's Women in Open Source keynote from the Open Web Vancouver 2009 conference. Interestingly, male attendees as well as female, were excited about getting involved with the Drupal os project after this talk. Highly recommended.
*** http://groups.drupal.org/drupalchix -

Malcolm's brief notes from our discussion on the benefits of encouraging gender, race, sexual orientation, ability diversity in open source projects:

*** spot blindspots
*** ubuntu localization
*** perhaps we should speak in terms of programmers and users instead of women and men, caucasians and other races, etc.
*** poll what would encourage involvement by different gender, race, sexually oriented, abled people
*** my point in regard to women: the market - and therefore your abiliity to work more on the projects you love to work on, using the open source tools you love to work with, will increase by involving these spenders of the family incomes. They will increase the demand for open source work and projects as they learn about and want to invest in them. 

<<BR>>

<<AttachList>>
<<BR>>

Here's a link to Martin Fowler's response to the CouchDB controversy from a Ruby on Rails conference this spring. He gives a lot of links to other articles, many written by women, and provides some thought-provoking analysis himself: http://martinfowler.com/bliki/SmutOnRails.html

'''Historical information below'''

==== When ====

    Friday 14 August, 2009; 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM
    <<BR>>
    '''Important:''' Please RSVP at our <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/10843858/|Meetup site here]]</nowiki> to let us know if you're coming.

==== Where ====

'''Special Notice:''' Our venue has '''changed''' based on growing attendance estimates and some special plans we have for August.  (Yes, we are growing that fast, and adding excitement too.) The new location '''Dharmalab''' (''what better place to be planning for the release of Karmic Koala than the Dharmalab!'') is very close to our historic meeting place, and is right beside Free Geek, which many of you know...

'''Dharmalab'''
<<BR>>1814 Pandora St., Unit #202 
<<BR>>Vancouver, BC V5L 1M5

For more details, see the full listing:
http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/10843858/
<<BR>>
Always '''RSVP above''' to ensure that you are updated in the event we need to move to bigger space, and any other important news about this meeting.

==== Agenda ====
(This is a '''DRAFT'''. Your feedback will help shape the meeting.)

'''In the spirit of Ubuntu and diversity, please bring a guest or two to this meeting, ideally someone who normally wouldn't attend a "computer club" type of event (a friend, significant other, family member...) We promise to make it interesting for everyone who attends! Don't forget to add them to your RSVP if they're not already a meetup member.'''

* Socialize, mingle, meet & greet (6:30 - 6:50pm)
* Turn on the projector
* Welcome new members! (Kim, our fearless Founder)
* A Very Brief Evangelism Advocacy & Marketing Update (Randall. a.k.a. Mr. Buzz)
* Our Logo: Contributed Ideas (Randall)
* Recently in Ubuntuland: What's the Biggest News You've Heard in the Past Month? (all)
* Special Presentation: Women In Open Source, and Ubuntu Diversity (Malcolm & Scott) - 20 minutes
* '''Break''' - 5 minutes - This is an opportunity for those having Ubuntu issues and volunteers to make their way to the "Rescue Centre" area of the meeting.
* Lightning Talk 1: Create a cool music server at home, the easy way! (Craig) - 10 minutes
* Lightning Talk 2: Easy Ways to Get Ubuntu Support Online (Brandon) - 10 minutes
* Upcoming Events: Software Freedom Day - Planning to SpreadUbuntu!
* Karmic Koala
* Door Prizes! (Always a surprise!)
* Socializing (8:10 - 8:30 pm)

Notes:

1) In parallel with the latter half of the meeting we will be hosting a '''Rescue Centre'''. If you have an Ubuntu issue that you just can't seem to figure out, this will be the place for you! Expert(s) will be on hand to help triage issues and to provide suggestions. '''(Please remember to RSVP with a comment on the type of assistance that you will need.)'''

2) After the meeting some members continue socializing on "The Drive". For those who want to '''mingle''' with Ubuntu Vancouver folks, in a less formal (patio) setting, please plan to join us!

 
