{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 9:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 9:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 8:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 7:00pm
| Central
|-
| 6:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 5:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

----
Meeting log is at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/02/22/%23ubuntu-ca.html#t01:00

=== Minutes ===
* Lots of new people introduced themselves (Welcome, everybody!)
* Ubuntu Global Jam!
** Only one Canadian Jam event so far (<nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1498/detail/ |Waterloo Region]]</nowiki>)
** Fo2adZz is interested in running a Jam in St. John's (NFLD)
** There may be interest in a Toronto Jam; <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> has contact info for !FreeGeek Toronto
** <nowiki>[[cyphermox]]</nowiki> says there is a Montreal Jam in the Canonical offices
** If anyone needs help on info to run a Jam you can ask on irc://irc.freenode.net/#ubuntu-ca or on the mailing list
  

=== Agenda ===

Held on the '''third''' Tuesday to avoid romantic conflicts on Valentine's Day.

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====

===== Upcoming =====
* Ubuntu Hours
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1497/detail/|Kitchener]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1466/detail/|Waterloo]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/1443/detail/|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki>, Friday-Sunday, 2-4 March 2012
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1498/detail/|Waterloo Region]]</nowiki>, Saturday, 3 March 2012
* PrecisePangolin release on Thursday, 26 April 2012  
** Release parties?

==== Other stuff ====
* <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports |Team Reports]]</nowiki> needs a volunteer
** Need reports from November 2011 to present for !LoCo team renewal 
