{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6pm
| Central
|-
| 5pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[log]]</nowiki>

== Minutes ==

* People should follow @UbuntuWaterloo on <nowiki>[[https://identi.ca/ubuntuwaterloo|Identi.ca]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/#!/ubuntuwaterloo|Twitter]]</nowiki>; also the <nowiki>[[https://identi.ca/group/ubuntuca|!ubuntuca]]</nowiki> group on Identi.ca
* Introductions were made
* Ubuntu 8.04 is being used in Memorial University Data Structures class in St. Johns NF and in University of Waterloo's Computer Science and Math
* The <nowiki>[[http://www.avayena.com|Avayena Project]]</nowiki> is <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=197342&d=1310504995|making]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://www.avaneya.com/temp/Avaneya%20Crew%20Handbook.pdf|progress]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.kwartzlab.ca/|Kwartzlab]]</nowiki>, the Kitchener-Waterloo hackerspace will be hosting an <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki>
** Looking for contacts in Freegeek to host a Jam in Toronto
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki> is now running in <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki>, a great place to learn about different technologies and techniques for programming for or on Ubuntu
** Use <nowiki>[[Lernid]]</nowiki> because you get slides and it's easier
* The Ubuntu CD Bribery Program:
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> will send you a package of 10 CDs if you run an <nowiki>[[Hour|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> in your town, and post pictures/blog about it
** There's an Ubuntu Hour in <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1025/detail/|Kitchener/Waterloo]]</nowiki> on 20 July 2011
** <nowiki>[[fhassouneh]]</nowiki> may be running an Ubuntu Hour in St. Johns soon
** There is demand for an Ubuntu Hour in <nowiki>[[http://linuxcaffe.ca/|Linuxcaffe]]</nowiki> in Toronto, looking to Freegeek contacts...
* There are people running Ubuntu in the workplace
** ...but Virtual Box or Crossover Office is still needed for proprietary applications

  

== Agenda ==

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Events ===
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki>: Sept 2-4
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuCommunityWeek]]</nowiki> July 18-22
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki> On now!

=== Anything else? ===

* This might be a short meeting..
