{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 9:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 9:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 8:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 7:00pm
| Central
|-
| 6:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 5:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

==== Meeting Log ====

Log file at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/05/09/%23ubuntu-ca.html

=== Meeting Minutes ===
* Introductions were made
* <nowiki>[[UDS-Q]]</nowiki> is ongoing; <nowiki>[[bregma]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bilalakhtar|bilal]]</nowiki> attending
** <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-q/|UDS-Q schedule]]</nowiki>
* Release parties
** Ubuntu-ca-kw party was awesome: <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntucanada/|pictures]]</nowiki>
** Toronto release party attendance was down, could have been lack of promotion
** Discussion on having non-computer parties, but we don't understand how that helps promote Ubuntu
* Have an Ubuntu booth at the <nowiki>[[http://www.kwmc.on.ca/html/festival.html|KW Multicultural Festival]]</nowiki>?
** No; insufficient number of organizers available
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ca.org/|Ubuntu-ca.org]]</nowiki> web site:
** Waiting on a theme for Drupal 7
** People ask for access permissions, but then disappear
* Team reports
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> may write a script to pull events from <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/events/history|LoCo directory]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[BobJonkman]]</nowiki> will invite potential volunteer Ade to the next Ubuntu Hour

=== Agenda ===

Are you running Precise Pangolin yet?

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Upcoming Events ====

* Ubuntu Hours
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1610/detail/|Kitchener]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1622/detail/|Waterloo]]</nowiki>
** What's happening with the Ubuntu Hours listed in the <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=mll58frmllrllfksgd12t3h7cs%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York|Google calendar]]</nowiki>?
*** <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=ZTVkbW9kY2M3NWtiOGNsbTFtamdjMmRmY2tfMjAxMjA1MTBUMjMwMDAwWiBtbGw1OGZybWxscmxsZmtzZ2QxMnQzaDdjc0Bn&ctz=America/New_York|Longueuil]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=cHU1YXY4djk0bThiczF0OXBqdGs3MGFybXNfMjAxMjA1MTFUMTYwMDAwWiBtbGw1OGZybWxscmxsZmtzZ2QxMnQzaDdjc0Bn&ctz=America/New_York|Montreal]]</nowiki>

==== Past Events ====
* PrecisePangolin release on Thursday, 26 April 2012  
** How were the Release parties?
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1599/detail/|Kitchener-Waterloo]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1659/detail/|Toronto]]</nowiki>
** Others?

==== Other stuff ====
* Progress on <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports |Team Reports]]</nowiki>
** Has <nowiki>[[Ade]]</nowiki> accepted the volunteer position to update TeamReports?
** Need reports from November 2011 to present for !LoCo team renewal 
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal
** In addition to TeamReports, what do we need to do?
** What is the deadline for getting it done?
** These pages may help: <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ApprovalApplication]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ReApprovalApplication2010]]</nowiki>
* Need a refresh on the website http://ubuntu-ca.org 
** <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> needs to provide access to a volunteer Web updater.
** We need a volunteer Web updater...
