{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Ubuntu Vancouver: Monthly Meeting ====

I can't believe summer is half over already. Lets commiserate together!

==== When ====

    Thursday 14 August, 2008 at 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM

==== Where: ====
 '''Free Geek'''
 <<BR>>1820 Pandora Street
 <<BR>>Vancouver
 <<BR>><nowiki>[[http://freegeekvancouver.org/directions|directions]]</nowiki>
 <<BR>>Please enter by the back door, off the alley.

==== Activities ====

* Ryan Smith conducted and excellent "Introduction to Ubuntu" course last week. We should conduct a review and see if we can do it better next time.
* Next week Ryan will be conducting an "Install Fest". What can we do to make this run as smoothly as possible.
* Review the governance of Ubuntu Vancouver. It's been mostly ad hoc so far so lets see if we can formalize this some.

==== Minutes ====

* Ryan Smith conducted and excellent "Introduction to Ubuntu" course last week. We should conduct a review and see if we can do it better next time.
** The introduction to using the mouse, though seemingly too elementary, wasn't. It was very useful to the participants.
** The introduction to keyboard shortcuts should be moved the the next level of this course.
** There were 12 participants. In the future this should be limited to 10.
** Use of the data projector would have been helpful.
** Add a section on saving files and searching for files.
** Having more than one instructor at the session helped a lot.
** The next "Into to Ubuntu" will be held Wednesday, 17 September. It will be led by Kim.
* Next week Ryan will be conducting an "Install Fest". What can we do to make this run as smoothly as possible.
** Anybody who wishes to assist with the Install Fest are encouraged to attend.
** Kim will bring a supply of Ubuntu CDs.
* Review the governance of Ubuntu Vancouver. It's been mostly ad hoc so far so lets see if we can formalize this some.
** The consensus was that we are doing OK as is.
** There is no formal membership, no dues, everyone is encouraged to attend.
** Everybody's opinion carries equal weight.
** "We are for Ubuntu, not against anything!"

Thank You,
<<BR>>Kim Kulak
