{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

-----

== Setting The Stage ==
Our first two Support Saturdays held on Saturday December 5th 2009 and Saturday January 30th 2010 were, in a word, '''amazing'''.

Ubuntu Vancouver uses SupportSaturday to spread Ubuntu all across the city. We show people that great software is made better with great community. People come for help and leave feeling the Ubuntu spirit. Problems solved with a friendly smile. People come for demos and information and leave feeling enthusiastic about Ubuntu!

The goal for SupportSaturday #3 is to assemble the '''best crew ever''' and to attract the '''most people ever.''' How can we make this historic?

 a. Grow the Ubuntu Vancouver group
 b. Demonstrate success in building community
 c. Help as many people as possible with the '''highest quality''' possible
 d. Avoid "try-this-try-that" method of troubleshooting on-site, to maintain credibility and differentiation from other public events
 e. Demonstrate the magic, power, and ethos of Ubuntu to as many people as possible.

Cheers,<<BR>>
Randall<<BR>>
Ubuntu Vancouver Buzz Generator

-----

== Planning Info ==

----
If you are planning to help organize the event and/or be at the event as a SupportHero crew member, then add your name to the list below or contact one of the event managers. SupportSaturdays work well because they are organized and planned carefully.

Also please subscribe to this page. '''VERY VERY VERY IMPORTANT!! '''Click here to do that https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Vancouver/SupportSaturdays/Planning/Session3?action=subscribe
----

Please add your notes and information. In general, it's better to add comments and information that clarify what's already here. 

Our third <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Vancouver-SupportSaturdays|SupportSaturday]]</nowiki> is scheduled for Feb. 27th 10am - 2:30pm. (The crew will begin set-up at 9am. The venue will open to '''those that have RSVP'd''' at 10am. Others will be admitted at 11am (the time posted on the public signs/flyers). Support activities need to be '''fully concluded by 2:30pm''' to allow tear-down and clean up.)

=== Planning Meetings ===
SupportSaturdays work well because they are organized and planned carefully. This is a differentiator. If you are intending to be a SupportHero crew member, please ensure that you are able to make the planning meetings.<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Meeting
| Description
| Date
|-
| 1
| Previous Event Recap
| Sat Feb 13th 11am
|-
| 2a
| Tech Team Review
| Sat Feb 20th 11am
|-
| 2b
| Marketing Team Review
| Sat Feb 20th 11am
|-
| 3
| Dry Run and Last-Minute Info
| Wed Feb 24 tentative.
|}
Meetings are held in the common area (lobby) of VCC Building B.<<BR>>
=== The SupportHero Crew ===
Please add your name and details to this table.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''Attending (from/to)'''
| '''Preferred Involvement'''
| '''Primary Room'''
|-
| Randall R.
| all day (9am - 3pm)
| event management (marketing), signs, hospitality, light fixes/tweaks
| Marketing
|-
| Stefan T.
| try to be there after Snowboard PGS
| planning, organization, support
| Tech
|-
| James L.
| (9am - 12noon)
| planning, signs (marketing), support
| Tech
|-
| Mark C.
| all day(9am - 3pm)
| demo,support
| Marketing/Tech
|-
| Roscoe
| all day (9am - 3pm)
| support
| Tech
|-
| Janet I.
| all day (9am - 3pm)
| Registrations and smiles
| Marketing
|-
| Ami I.
| all day (9am - 3pm)
| hospitality table, youth liaison
| Marketing
|-
| Kim K.
| all day (9am - 3pm)
| planning, organization, support
| Tech
|-
| Eddie L.
| all day (9am - 3pm)
| Support Requests and general info
| Marketing
|-
| Jafar R.
| all day (9am - 3pm
| Support Requests and general info
| Marketing
|-
| Sid M.
| 9am-3pm
| security liaison,posters & signs,greeter
| Campus
|-
| Nathaniel S.
| All Day (9-3)
| planning, hospitality, demo, support
| Marketing/triage
|-
| Emmanuel I.
| all day (9am - 3pm
| Demos, coaching
| Marketing
|-
| Daniel G.
| (9am - 12noon)
| Support
| Tech
|}
   

=== Venue ===

The main venue location is Room G219 in Building B of the VCC Broadway Campus (1155 East Broadway).  Building B is the brand new building on campus that faces the north parking lot (on 7th). For those who drive to the campus and park in the lot, just walk through the front entrance and go past the Bookstore and elevators to the back end of the building. G219 is just to the left.

For those who enter the campus from Broadway, please walk all the way to Building B and go to the ground floor of the building. Turn to the back of the building and find G219. Note that the VCC main doors on Broadway Ave are sometimes locked on weekends, '''and you might have to walk down to 7th Ave. entrance to get in.'''

The VCC website has a map of the campus location:
http://www.vcc.ca/about-vcc/contact-us.cfm

==== The Magic of Two Rooms ====
'''Marketing Room:'''<<BR>>
This is the "first-point-of-contact" for attendees. All signage and publicity will point attendees to this room. The marketing team will be present to greet and register people. The room will be staged for marketing activities (registration, demos, presentations, sharing information about the group, general information about Ubuntu.) The room will be staffed with people who have a marketing/sales focus. This includes one-on-one demos. Anything more technical than that will occur in the "Tech Room".
<<BR>>
'''Tech Room:''' <<BR>>
Staged for technical support, and staffed with tech support people to do installations, configurations, troubleshooting, etc. A quieter room, more conducive to thinking and concentration. Lots of power, equipment, tools, and big brains. No marketing hype.<<BR>><<BR>>
'''Proposed Flow:''' <<BR>>
Upon arrival, attendees will sign-in. If they are a member of Ubuntu Vancouver, sign-in will be a simple name/email on the clipboard. If they are not a member, sign-in will be the creation of a meetup.com account (i.e. added as a member). Attendees coming for help will be briefly interviewed in the Marketing room by a "triage" person and the output of that will be a "Support Request" (same forms as last time). <<BR>>
"Support Requests" will be brought to the "Tech Room" and posted on the bulletin board by a "runner". In the event that a Support Hero/ine from the Tech Room is available s/he will grab a "Support Request" that looks promising and come over to (or signal) the "Marketing Room" to get the person needing help. The Marketing and Tech Rooms will have 2-way radios (RR) to make this easier.

Room G219 <<BR>> "Marketing Room" 
The room is a classroom with a reconfigurable U-shaped table setup. The size is 9m x 6m (roughly estimated!). It has:
* chairs for min. 20-25 people,
* around 9 to 10 tables (each big enough for 4 chairs and a workstation),
* an LCD projector with a screen (~1.5sqm),
* 2x2 power points are on the left and right side of the room in a distance of ~2m,
* One ethernet RJ-45 wall plug that does not work on w/e. However the room has wireless internet access using a captive portal. Randall and Stefan have the wifi login info.
* one desk, whiteboards, corkboard

Room G220 <<BR>> "Tech Room"
Based on my scouting report (RR) this room is more suited to our "Tech Room".
The room is a classroom with a reconfigurable table setup. The size is 9m x 6m (roughly estimated, and roughly the same size as the G219). It has:
* chairs for min. 20-25 people,
* around 9 to 10 tables (each big enough for 4 chairs and a workstation),
* '''NO LCD projector or AV equipment'''
* 2x2 power points are on the left and right side of the room in a distance of ~2m,
* One ethernet RJ-45 wall plug that does not work on w/e. However the room is expected to have wireless internet access using a captive portal. Randall and Stefan have the wifi login info. KK will try to set-up the server with two network interfaces and establish wired/wireless routing. (KK can you comment on whether this is done?
* whiteboards, corkboards

=== ToDo ===
* (./) Find volunteers in ubuntu-vancouver - RR, ST
* (./) Marketing: meetup.com posting, description, venue, RSVP questions - RR
* (not started) Marketing: Create 2000? small posters - RR
* (not started) Marketing: Poster strategic neighbourhoods and locations - SM, RR, Group
* (not started) Marketing: Create 150 stickers - RR
* (not started) Marketing: Create 10 more signs (20 total) - RR
* (not started) Marketing: Create 10 more arrows for signs - RR
* (not started) Marketing: Nag the ubuntu-vancouver list at least 3 times for RSVP's - RR
* (not started) Marketing: Word of mouth - RR & Group
* (not started) Marketing: Direct search for people having issues in Vancouver (use Google, Launchpad, Ubuntu forums) - Group
* (needs owner) Create order of events (checklist/flight-check)
* Gather needed equipment (identify who will supply) We may be able to borrow some from Free Geek.
* (deferred) Marketing: Create banner (needs funds) -RR

** KK Request for equipment send to Free Geek for pick up. Requested: (1)16 port switch, (12)network cables(2 long), (1)wireless access point, (4)CRT monitors, (4)keyboards, (4)mice
* Server (KK)
** Update Ubuntu 9.10 mirror for all 9.10 flavours
** PXE (network boot server)/TFTP/DHCP/DNS
** Router to Internet if access required.
** NFS, Samba, FTP for system backups

* Slide presentation and Compiz Videos
** (JL) compiled about 65 slides into OpenOffice Impress presentation; demos Ubuntu desktop, compiz, various software and games
** (JL) obtained a collection of compiz videos (flv, some converted to avi); however videos do not scale well to full-screen, blurry <<-- James can you get some more that have better scaling? --> Will look into this (JL) <please try keepvid dot com to dl HQ youtube vids - Mark C.;i'll download some vids too.)

=== Lessons Learned ===
Please document any lessons learned from prior support events (e.g. Windowless Wednesdays, install-fests, etc.). We'll use that information to make SupportSaturdays stronger. No need to repeat mistakes.
'''Please refer to our "Lessons Learned" page for the list.'''

=== Equipment List ===

* '''Please initial each item you will bring and indicate quantity.'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Qty
| Equipment Description
| Purpose
| Room
| Who
|-
| 1
| XO-1 Laptop (Ubuntu 8.04 Custom)
| marketing showcase
| Marketing
| RR
|-
| 1
| iBook (Ubuntu 8.10 PPC)
| registration
| Marketing
| RR
|-
| 1
| Subnotebook (Ubuntu 9.10)
| demos, if needed
| Marketing
| RR
|-
| 1
| Sony Laptop (Ubuntu 9.10)
| demos, if needed
| Marketing
| RR
|-
| 2
| AC Power bars
| marketing voltage
| Marketing
| RR
|-
| 2
| Two-way radios
| room-to-room communications
| both
| RR
|-
| 1
| hp mini netbook
| demo
| Marketing
| MC
|-
| 1
| AC power bar
| Triage
| Marketing
| MC
|-
| 1
| 2 channel PC speakers
| demo/triage
| Marketing
| MC
|-
| 1
| Laptop
| research
| Tech
| ST
|}
'''Items listed below this line are from previous event. Please verify that you are bringing'''

** KK - I'll bring my laptop.
** IR - I'll bring a Toshiba Satellite 9.10 64bit and a eeePC loaded with UNR9.10 for demos.
       - Couple of longer network cables
       - At least 2 power bars
       - A D-Link DI-604 Router (4 port)
** JL - Thinkpad X60 9.10 installed
* (qty) network switch, number of ports
** Free Geek (KK? are you bringing the FreeGeek stuff?) - 24 port switch
* (qty) network cables (lengths)
** KK - one 50' ethernet cable.
** Free Geek - 12 cables, 2 long ones.
* (qty) screens/monitors (for those that bring in desktops/towers) (optional)
** Free Geek - 4 16" CRT monitors.
* (qty) keyboards (for those that bring in desktops/towers) (optional)
** Free Geek - 4 USB keyboards
* (qty) mice (for those that bring in desktops/towers) (optional)
** Free Geek - 4 PS/2 mice
* (qty) power bars
** '''ALL - try to bring at least two power bars!'''
* (qty) extension cords
** KK - two 30' extension cords
* (qty) (capacity GB) external USB drive (Something to back up peoples' data before hacking at them.)
** JL - one external USB CD-r/DVD-r drive
** ML - one external USB CD-rw/DVD-r drive
* (qty) (capacity GB) external firewire drive (Something to back up peoples' data before hacking at them.)
* (qty) (capacity GB) external SATA drive (Something to back up peoples' data before hacking at them.)  
* (qty) Ubuntu Server running: NFS, Samba, FTP, and DNS (for repository redirection) services with (size GB) hard drive
** KK - one 500GB hard drive for backup server
* (qty) extra USB wireless dongles (in case built-in wifi doesn't work for people)

=== Materials List ===
* '''Please initial each item you will bring and indicate quantity.'''
* 50 x 9.10 Karmic Koala install CD's (to do live-boot testing, and as take aways) - RR
* (qty) colour dry-erase markers for the white board
* (qty) masking tape (for labeling people's equipment)
** KK - one roll of masking tape
* (qty) pens (for labeling people's equipment)
** KK black marker for writing labels.
** I'll bring a set of colored IKEA labeling markers
* 30 x "Powered by Ubuntu" stickers (for new people, or conversions) - RR
* 1 x sign-in sheet on clipboard, so we know who came, and can follow-up if necessary - RR
* A short guide to "getting help with Ubuntu" as a take-away. A few pages of tips printed for easy reference, especially where to get help afterward (i.e. Launchpad, not Google!)... teaching people "How to Fish." '''(see next section)'''

=== Marketing Room Mini-Booths ===
It is desirable to have several individual tables set up with Ubuntu demo systems and a SupportHero at each one. Each table should have a theme. For example:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Graphics (GIMP, Inkscape, etc)
| Name
|-
| Office Applications
| Name
|-
| General Ubuntu Orientation
| Name
|-
| Rhythmbox and ipod integration (hp mini/ipod classic demo)
| MC
|-
| Media (Music/video/photos)
| Name
|-
| Add another area if you would like to have a mini-booth
| Name
|}

=== Marketing Goodies ===
This section will list the marketing materials that will be present at the event.

=== Food/Snacks ===
Please consider bringing some snacks or drinks (or both) to share. It is a nice way to make people feel welcomed, and also helps keep SupportHeroes happy.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Yummy Snack / Drink
| Who
|-
| 1 dozen donuts
| MC
|-
| Napkins
| Who
|}

=== Event Marketing ===
We have essentially four things going on at the session:
1) Registrations
2) General Ubuntu information
3) Tech Support and installation
4) One-on-one demos (mini-booth style)

Our marketing should consist of poster(s), web postings, and emails. 

The first thrust will be to get as many people as possible in the Ubuntu Vancouver Loco signed up for the event (in the spirit of '''fixing our own group''' and making it stronger so we can help more people at future events). Randall will email the group at least 3-4 times to encourage everyone to come and get their issues fixed. Scheduled mailings: xx/02, xx/02, xx/02.<<BR>>
Once we've got our own group signed up, we'll shift the entire marketing thrust to the public.<<BR>>
Marketing flyers (camera-ready) will posted on Meetup (account and log-in required).<<BR>>Please '''print as many as you can and post them in public places.''' (Coffee shops, grocery stores, Community centres, libraries, colleges, universities... everywhere that has high visibility!) If you need high volumes, have them printed professionally on coloured paper. It's cheap and an easy way to help out. (Staples, Office Depot etc photocopies are '''$0.07 each'''. Our posters are designed 2-up, so for about '''$1.00 you can have over 20 posters''' visible in your neighbourhood where it really matters. Multiply that by the number of people in the group, and WOW!... over '''4000''' posters if everyone participates.)

=== Terminology: ===
'''SupportHero''': A volunteer who is attending the event to offer technical assistance or to provide marketing support, or general organizational event support and has been part of the planning process.<<BR>>
'''Requestor''': A person that has RSVP'd "yes" for the event and has indicated that they need assistance.<<BR>>
'''Drop-In''': A person that saw our poster and just showed up, or was "dragged in" shown in or flagged down.

=== Suggested Help Procedure (pre-event) ===

1) "SupportHero" reaches out to Requestor via email, acknowledging the request and asking the Requestor to quickly scan a list of bug reports, if applicable. '''Outreach targets are documented in the table below. See: Issues Reported at bottom of this page.<<BR>>
2) Requestor responds with more info. This could be a bug number, or more descriptive information about the issue.<<BR>>
3) "SupportHero" asks Requestor if s/he would be comfortable filing a Launchpad Question. If so, Requestor submits question to: ____ If so, skip to step 5. If not, skip to step 4 below.<<BR>>
4) "Support Hero" submits a Launchpad Question describing the issue on Requestor's behalf.<<BR>>
5) "Support Hero" monitors Launchpad responses to question, and conducts further research.<<BR>>

=== Suggested Help Procedure (at event) ===
* Refer to the main <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Vancouver-SupportSaturdays|SupportSaturdays]]</nowiki> page. Stefan has some '''great''' ideas documented there on how to maintain flow, and how to match the best help to each situation.

=== Incoming Support Issues ===

When people RSVP for the event at http://meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver, they are asked a series of questions. 

<<BR>>1. Are you coming for assistance? If so, please tell us briefly what services you need.
<<BR>>2. Please tell us about your computer. What hardware is it? (Make, model, RAM, CPU, disk space)
<<BR>>3. Are you currently running Ubuntu on this hardware? If so, which version?
<<BR>>4. Do you have a recent backup of your personal data? (If not, we highly recommend that you copy all data to an eternal disk. If you need help doing this, please let us know here)
<<BR>>5. Please specify your email address. This will only be used if we need to gather more information in order to prepare to help you.This is a collection of the RSVP responses from people who are coming for specific help:<<BR>>

We can (and should) also follow-up directly by email where applicable). If you follow-up, please inform the group so we're not 'peppering' the same person with questions.<<BR>> 

'''Issues Reported'''<<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Description
| Ubuntu Version
| Backup
| Comments
|-
| Lorraine
| Installation of Audacity (the encoder didn't install properly at the last SupportSaturday). Installation of BoxeeTV (my installation attempt failed). When I try to install the updates I'm sent, I get a message that they only installed partially.
| Karmic Koala
| Yes
| I think I read that both Audacity and BoxeeTV need an earlier version of Ubuntu (which would be OK with me).
|-
| Eddie Lee
| This is to request install of: 1. Skype 2. MS Office 2010 (Online Cloud Version) 3. Adobe Flash 4. Latest Ubuntu or Xubuntu I have a refurbished IBM from FreeGeek with older version of ubuntu.
| Yes, the crane version.
| Yes
| No
|-
| Rein Vasara
| Yes. I know my way around the 'net, e-mail and office. I have a printer that doesn't work. I want to find my way around.
| Yes. The version before the latest.
| No
| Rex Alemi visited me. He installed Evolution. He knows my system. I should have written things down then
|-
| Charlene
| Some software compatibility questions. I also have an old desktop which I attempted to install Karmic. There is a some kind of weird error message on the screen. I'm going to try to resolve it but if I can't figure it out I'll bring it Sat.
| yes netbook jaunty- will probably upgrade to karmic prior to the meetup. I also have desktop that isn't working right now
| Yes
| Nope
|-
| Joseph T
| I have questions about additional keyboard shotcuts getting wine to run wma and with two tricky wma extention applications
| karmic
| some- help with proceedure to backup entire folder
| -
|-
| Oleg Mayorov
| One problem with Firefox
| 9.10
| Yes
| -
|-
| tdwebste
| Lucid, will not boot if fsck is required. And gives no opportunity to enter root as required to perform required fsck. My current work around is duel booting into debian, which does allow root logins as required to run fsck.
| Linux version 2.6.32-13-generic
| remote backup, /etc, shared home files, /var/backup
| I desire package version based bug tracking. Tracking package bugs based on ubuntu release is worthless. How can I track package bugs based on version and access these bug reports will tools like apt-listbugs? Also I am git user not a bzr user.
|-
| R D
| -
| yes. do not know. i will find out though.
| yes
| most people i know do not trust anything but windows.
|-
| Rex
| Yes, I need to take an image from the PCService partition of an Acer Netbook
| Karmic 9.10
| yes, I have an eternal disk from heavens :)
| I have accidentally deleted the PCSERVICE partitiiton on the acer. any other Acer netbook will do, because it is easy to mount and copy that partition.
|}
