{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


/* ########################################################################################################## */
/* # Don't forget to update the "Next" page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/Next?action=edit # */
/* ########################################################################################################## */

Please  any agenda items you think need Changing/Adding/Deleting!

== Thursday, 28 November 2013 - Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|-
| 00:00 (29 Nov)
| UTC
|}

<<BR>>
In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2646/detail/|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

/* == Meeting Summary == */
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-ca: Canadian Team IRC meeting in #ubuntu-ca Thursday, 28 November 2013, 29 Nov at 00:00 &mdash; 02:02 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-11-29-00.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Introductions ====
The discussion about "Introductions" started at 00:01.

** ''LINK:'' Here are the minutes from that LoCo Council meeting: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-11-19-20.07.html

==== Events ====
The discussion about "Events" started at 00:13.

** ''ACTION:'' Schedule a video chat for Ubuntu Canada
** ''ACTION:'' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aruna-hewapathirane|aruna]]</nowiki> to arrange, advertise and market an Ubuntu Hour Toronto
** ''LINK:'' http://spreadubuntu.org/ has some, but I never find anything I like very much.
** ''ACTION:'' Discuss setting up Google+/Facebook/Twitter accounts for Ubuntu-ca and each City chapter, eg. Ubuntu-ca-kw, Ubuntu-ca-Toronto
** ''ACTION:'' Invite University Computer Club people to Ubuntu events
** ''IDEA:'' What about holding a cooperative event for all LUGs, like a Linuxfest? Would there be Canonical support for tthat?  (BobJonkman1, 01:22)
** ''ACTION:'' Get an Ubuntu Conference Pack for the Waterloo Mini Maker Faire

==== Other Topics ====
The discussion about "Other Topics" started at 01:44.

* '''Next meeting''' (01:48)
** ''ACTION:'' next meeting: Video Conference on Thursday, 23 January 2014

=== Action items ===

* Schedule a video chat for Ubuntu Canada
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aruna-hewapathirane|aruna]]</nowiki> to arrange, advertise and market an Ubuntu Hour Toronto
* Discuss setting up Google+/Facebook/Twitter accounts for Ubuntu-ca and each City chapter, eg. Ubuntu-ca-kw, Ubuntu-ca-Toronto
* Invite University Computer Club people to Ubuntu events
* Get an Ubuntu Conference Pack for the Waterloo Mini Maker Faire
* next meeting: Video Conference on Thursday, 23 January 2014

=== Action items, by person ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aruna-hewapathirane|aruna]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aruna-hewapathirane|aruna]]</nowiki> to arrange, advertise and market an Ubuntu Hour Toronto
* **UNASSIGNED**
** Schedule a video chat for Ubuntu Canada
** Discuss setting up Google+/Facebook/Twitter accounts for Ubuntu-ca and each City chapter, eg. Ubuntu-ca-kw, Ubuntu-ca-Toronto
** Invite University Computer Club people to Ubuntu events
** Get an Ubuntu Conference Pack for the Waterloo Mini Maker Faire
** next meeting: Video Conference on Thursday, 23 January 2014

=== People present (lines said) ===

* BobJonkman1 (132)
* Neo31 (71)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aruna-hewapathirane|aruna]]</nowiki> (58)
* dscassel (56)
* jose (18)
* FiReSTaRT (14)
* azend (13)
* meetingology (10)
* KombuchaKip (2)
* CrankyOldBugger (2)
* stephenw_ (1)
* lubotu1 (1)
* bregma (1)

== Agenda ==

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
Happy Birthday to physicsts <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panayotis_Varotsos|Panayotis Varotsos]]</nowiki> (1947), <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Lightman|Alan Lightman]]</nowiki> (1948), and <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russell_Alan_Hulse|Russell Alan Hulse]]</nowiki> (1951).

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Events ===

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
==== Past ====
* SaucySalamander (Ubuntu 13.10)
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2521/detail|Ubuntu Global Jam Kitchner]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/album/475387/detailed|UGJ Pictures]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2582-saucy-salamander-toronto-release-party/|Toronto Release Party]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/album/477918/detailed|URP Pictures]]</nowiki>)
** No other release parties?
* <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2497/detail|SFD in Kitchener]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2013/Canada/Kitchener/Kwartzlab|Wiki]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://sobac.com/owncloud/public.php?service=files&t=c0320b9ad4a5906ae66359f76877dd53|SFD Pictures]]</nowiki>)

==== Ongoing ====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener]]</nowiki>: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
** Guelph: 4th Thursday of the month, 7:00pm

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
=== Other stuff ===
* How to improve participation? Thanx to the LoCoCouncil for helping us with this!
** IRC Meetings
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2013/2013-06-27|June]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-06-27-23.00.log.html|logs]]</nowiki>) 5 participants (88:53)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2013/2013-07-25|July]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-07-25-23.07.log.html|logs]]</nowiki>) 7 participants (62:45)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2013/2013-08-22|August]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-08-22-23.00.log.html|logs]]</nowiki>) 6 participants (81:59)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2013/2013-09-26|September]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-09-26-23.01.log.html|logs]]</nowiki>) 3 participants (88:10)
** Release Parties
** Ubuntu Hours
* Anything else!

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Meetings|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
