{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


/* ########################################################################################################## */
/* # Don't forget to update the "Next" page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/Next?action=edit # */
/* ########################################################################################################## */

Please  any agenda items you think need Changing/Adding/Deleting!

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

<<BR>>
In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

Google+ Hangout at https://plus.google.com/u/0/events/ct728pi1am6suc0nvvnv9qgitnk

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2756/detail/|Online Meeting for Ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

/* == Meeting Summary == */
/* Copy&Paste from http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/YYYY/ubuntu-ca.YYYY-MM-DD-HH.mm.moin.txt */

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-ca: Ubuntu Canada IRC and Video Chat meeting for 24 April 2014, 24 Apr at 23:02 &mdash; 23:46 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2014/ubuntu-ca.2014-04-24-23.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Events ====
The discussion about "Events" started at 23:08.

* '''Past Events''' (23:08)
** : Facebook page https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuCaLoCo
** ''LINK:'' Google+ page: https://plus.google.com/116845700584173888571
** ''LINK:'' Pix.ie: http://pix.ie/ubuntuca
* '''Current Events''' (23:18)
** ''LINK:'' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2014/04/22/%23ubuntu-classroom.html 
** ''LINK:'' http://www.jonobacon.org/2014/04/03/ubuntu-online-summit-dates/ 

==== : Other Stuff ====
The discussion about ": Other Stuff" started at 23:24.

** ''LINK:'' http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/album/489347/detailed 
* ''': New release!''' (23:29)
** ''LINK:'' http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1363 
** ''LINK:'' http://sn.jonkman.ca/attachment/11861 

=== People present (lines said) ===

* BobJonkman1 (76)
* belkinsa (24)
* bregma (10)
* Crnaky (7)
* dscassel (4)
* thmslld (3)
* meetingology (3)
* katherineb (3)
* KombuchaKip (2)

== Agenda ==

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
On <nowiki>[[http://www1.sympatico.ca/cgi-bin/on_this_day?mth=Apr&day=24|24 April 1866]]</nowiki> Victoria is connected to the British Columbia mainland via cable and telegraph; we wonder if data speeds have significantly improved since then.

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Events ===
For a list of all events see the <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/htmlembed?src=mll58frmllrllfksgd12t3h7cs@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York&wkst=1|Google Calendar]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/ical/mll58frmllrllfksgd12t3h7cs%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics|iCal]]</nowiki>) and the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu Canada LoCo Portal]]</nowiki>.

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
==== Past ====
* Release Parties!
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2782-ubuntu-ca-virtual-release-party/|Ubuntu-ca Virtual Release Party]]</nowiki>, Thursday, 17 April 2014 from 7:30pm NDT to 10:00pm PDT
*** <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FlXJ1lgDTBM|YouTube video of the first hour]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2773-kw-ubuntu-release-hour/|KW Ubuntu Release Hour]]</nowiki>, Thursday, 17 April 2014 from 6:00pm to 9:00pm EDT
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2701-trusty-tahr-toronto-release-party/|Trusty Tahr Toronto Release Party]]</nowiki>, Thursday, 17 April 2014 from 8:00pm to 1:00am EDT
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki>, 22-24 April 2014

==== Ongoing ====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener]]</nowiki>: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
** Guelph: 4th Thursday of the month, 7:00pm

==== Upcoming ====
Here are some standard, recurring events.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuAppDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu <nowiki>[[UserDays]]</nowiki>, between releases
* <nowiki>[[http://uds.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki>, about a month before a release
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki>, about a month before a release
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki>, about a month before a release
* <nowiki>[[Releases|Release]]</nowiki> Parties
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki>, about a week after a release
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuSDKDays]]</nowiki> is an online event where a number of app developers and Ubuntu SDK creators will get you started writing apps for Ubuntu on multiple devices.
* <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-HackDays|Ubuntu Touch Core Apps Hackdays]]</nowiki>, an event in which computer programmers and others involved in software development, including graphic designers, interface designers and project managers, collaborate intensively on software projects
* <nowiki>[[OpenDataDay]]</nowiki>, February every year
* <nowiki>[[SoftwareFreedomDay]]</nowiki>, September every year
* <nowiki>[[UCAday]]</nowiki>: Ubuntu Community Appreciation Day, 20 November every year

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
=== Other stuff ===

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Meetings|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
