{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

-----
== Setting The Stage ==
What is '''TreatTuesday'''? Why have them? How would I host one? What would make it work well? If you're pondering any of these, you've come to the right place.

== What Is It? ==
A '''TreatTuesday''' is an Ubuntu event with the goal of raising Ubuntu awareness in a neighbourhood that normally wouldn't be exposed to it. It's a way to get the Ubuntu name out in public in very visible yet friendly ways. It's a way to show people who haven't experienced community in computing what that concept really feels like.

== History ==
Ubuntu Vancouver invented Ubuntu '''TreatTuesday'''. Our first instance of this event was held on Tuesday Jan 12th 2010 at 6:30pm. The details are here: http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/12071654/

== The Name ==
The name choice is deliberate. First, '''TreatTuesday''' has a "ring" to it. It rolls off the tongue and is easily remembered. Second, Tuesday evenings are typically known in the hospitality business as a slow night. Cafes, pubs, restaurants generally wish they had more customers on Tuesdays.

== How Does It Work? ==
People wander in off the street as a result of seeing an Ubuntu A-sign, prominently positioned on the sidewalk in front of a local cafe/pub/restaurant. Others have read about or heard of an event happening in their neighbourhood. They come too.

Once inside they notice a person or two with Ubuntu attire, sharply dressed. They are greeted. A conversation ensues. Interest grows. "Hey, if you'd like to see what we're talking about, those people over there have some interesting stuff to show you." (Points to small group of Ubuntu enthusiasts gathered at a nearby table). "In the meantime, here's a coupon for 20% off your tab tonight." <Insert discount of choice here>.

A couple or a few (but not too many) Ubuntu enthusiasts with a passion for sales/marketing and Ubuntu relax and chat at another table. They are equipped with Ubuntu materials like CD's, stickers, shirts, etc. They are friendly. They are doing something subtle yet interesting to attract attention. (This can mean that they have some "flashy' hardware that isn't normally seen out in public.) They appear inviting and look like the people you'd want to start a random conversation with, or at least people you'd not fear ;)

A conversation ensues that quickly turns into a demo. "Wow, I didn't know I could do that with my computer! Hey are you going to be here for a while? Let me go get a friend."

By the end of the evening, dozens of new people have heard about Ubuntu. Ubuntu spreads one neighbourhood at at time, one person at a time.

== Where to Host Them? ==
 1. A high-traffic neighbourhood (there's no point hosting an event that gets no attention), and,
 2. A cafe/restaurant/pub/lounge where Ubuntu folks are highly outnumbered (there's no point telling people who already know about it), and, 
 3. A place with an owner that is independent (there's no way to be successful unless the owner believes in the event and can support it), and...

== Questions ==
randall@executiv.es
