{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
<dscassel> All right. 7pm. Meeting time!
<hypatia> someone link the agenda?
<dscassel> Mass call... highvoltage Kulag txwikinger3 txwikinger ve2dmn bbrent IdleOne willwh BobJonkman J2 mylesbraithwaite zul johanbr ryanakca ZykoticK9 egerlach kenjy scarper FiReSTaRT komputes
<dscassel> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2010-08-22
<IdleOne> hello
<dscassel> Hi, IdleOne. Interested in a meeting? :)
<IdleOne> sure thing
* IdleOne looks at agenda
<johanbr> I'm somewhat around, but will lurk for the most part.
<dscassel> Introductions while we're getting settled... I'm Darcy. I'm in Waterloo. And I guess I'm chairing this thing.
<dscassel> johanbr: Sure thing.
<hypatia> thanks for chairing, dscassel
<tonyyarusso> I'm Tony. I'm in St. Paul, Minnesota - I'm just a wannabe Canadian. :P (Seriously, pondering immigration hoping to settle in Thunder Bay.)
<dscassel> No problem. :D
<IdleOne> yay for forced volunteerism
<dscassel> Hey tonyyarusso!
<stone1343> I'm Jeff from Mississauga/Guelph
<hypatia> I'm Leigh, I'm one of the folks behind HackLab.TO in Toronto, and one of the Ubuntu Women co-leaders
<IdleOne> Guess I should introduce myself. I'm John in Montreal
<hypatia> meeting agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2010-08-22
<IdleOne> hypatia: and all around pretty cool chick
<IdleOne> :)
<hypatia> IdleOne: i am not a small bird :p
<IdleOne> you know I mean that with respect
<dscassel> Heh. ^_^;
<hypatia> anyway, moving along :p
<dscassel> Anyway!
<dscassel> Ubuntu Global Jam!
<hypatia> yes!
<dscassel> Is next weekend!
<dscassel> We're having a bug jam in Kitchener. I really hope other people can run them too.
<dscassel> It doesn't take much, although it's getting to be somewhat short notice...
<txwikinger> sorry for being late... church business :(
* hypatia will likely be out of town, but if other toronto folks want to run one, hacklab may be able to host it
<dscassel> Just get a bunch of people together in a room with wifi and work on stuff.
<dscassel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams
* hypatia will run cottageJam
<dscassel> Glad you could make it, txwikinger.
<dscassel> Awesome. :D
* txwikinger is Ralph Janke.. based in Kitchener
<dscassel> Yeah, I'm missing the Kwartzlab one. txwikinger will be running it without me.
* hypatia adds SoOnCon to the agenda
<dscassel> Oh, yeah, that's a good idea. We ought to do something there.
<txwikinger> I will try to get the people in Quebec to be on IRC if they are doing something the same time
<txwikinger> I will also contact some other LoCos... why is it a global jam if we don't communicate with each other?
* txwikinger wonders what SoOnCon is
<hypatia> when we get to it :)
<txwikinger> :)
<dscassel> Also, if you're running a Jam (and please do), add it to the LoCo directory. http://loco.ubuntu.com/
* dscassel segues
<txwikinger> and announce it on the mailinglist
<txwikinger> so we can co-ordinate a bit
<dscassel> LoCo Directory! http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca
<txwikinger> cool you added the missing information :)
<dscassel> Actually, I updated stuff this morning, so we can strick from the agenda, really.
<dscassel> er, strike.
<dscassel> I added links to the launchpad page as well. https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ca
<hypatia> sweet
<dscassel> The LoCo council has been hot on getting this stuff updated for a couple months now. http://www.lczajkowski.com/2010/08/22/loco-directory-useful-if-kept-up-to-date/
<txwikinger> Yeah.. good
<dscassel> LD's pretty simple to use, and if you put your events there, it's so much easier for me (or whoever) to add them to the monthly reports or publicize them, etc.
<dscassel> Moving on...
<txwikinger> Also.. we have started report pages on the wiki. please anybody feel free to add to them
* hypatia is having wiki signon issues AGAIN... can someone else add SoOnCon to the wiki :(
* hypatia glares at SSO
<FiReSTaRT> dscassel: quick and dirty.. what was the mass call all about? :P
<txwikinger> ok.. hypatia I do it
<hypatia> thanks txwikinger
<dscassel> Done.
<FiReSTaRT> btw hola dscassel/hypatia/txwikinger
<FiReSTaRT> :)
<dscassel> FiReSTaRT: Ubuntu-CA meeting. :D
<FiReSTaRT> dscassel: did i miss anything important? :D
<dscassel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2010-08-22
<dscassel> Not too much... Global Jam next weekend. Use the LoCo directory for events.
<dscassel> Website!
<dscassel> txwikinger: What do we still need to do?
<txwikinger> I am not sure.. I lost a little track of that
<dscassel> http://ubuntu-ca.jankeconsulting.ca/drupal6/
<johanbr> txwikinger: on the topic of locos communicating, would it be possible to set up webcam feeds at the events and have a webpage linking to them all?
<txwikinger> If we think everything is in the state we want it to be to start, we need to put a ticket into rt to have the DNS changed
<johanbr> just a random idea to give a bit of realtime interactivity...
<txwikinger> johanbr: Yes..good idea.. I will see if we can organise that in the time remaining
<FiReSTaRT> dscassel: what would be the definition of the word "jam" in our context? my musical talent goes below 0 :P
<txwikinger> FiReSTaRT: pretty much the same
<dscassel> Kwartzlab (where the Kitchener Jam will be) has a webcam and a ustream channel here: http://www.ustream.tv/channel/kwartzlab
<txwikinger> we are meeting to have some fun doing stuff for Ubuntu
<dscassel> Just need to turn it on for the Jam.
<hypatia> johanbr: the Hackerspace Synchronous Hackathon folks do that, i'll find out what they use... i think just ustream.tv
<dscassel> No audio, though.
<txwikinger> dscassel: cool
<hypatia> dscassel: beat me to it :p
<FiReSTaRT> so basically doing something positive for ubuntu (whether it's hunting bugs, cleaning up code or just straight out promo)?
<txwikinger> FiReSTaRT: yes sure
<dscassel> FiReSTaRT: Bugs, code, translations, testing, etc. Or getting toegether and goofing off.
<FiReSTaRT> the last option sounds good :D
<txwikinger> Jams now do bug hunting, patch reviews,translations, documentation improvements... anything I forgot?
<dscassel> (Goofing off was endorsed by jcastro himself in his "how to run Jams" sessions).
<txwikinger> FiReSTaRT: just needs someone (or group) to roganise something that everybody can go
<dscassel> txwikinger: installer testing...
<txwikinger> yes
<dscassel> Anyway, website...
<txwikinger> I don't have a problem if some people participate with us remotely, but I would prefer soemlocal event too
<dscassel> Okay, Jams. It's kind of important.
<FiReSTaRT> iirc, the lucid release party in toronto basically bombed
<FiReSTaRT> the one in santiago was the bare minimum
<dscassel> It really is better if you can get people in a room.
<dscassel> You can do stuff over IRC with people any time, really.
<FiReSTaRT> so one thing to put on the agenda for future meetings is organizing a good release party
<FiReSTaRT> actually a brainstorm jam wouldn't be such a bad idea either :P
<txwikinger> FiReSTaRT: The LoCo Council Team has revamped lots of pages on the wiki for that
<dscassel> FiReSTaRT: Publicize, publicize, publicize.
<txwikinger> So there is already lots of material available
<txwikinger> Also.. Jono Bacon's book about COmmunity building is a good reference
<txwikinger> it is available as free pdf
<hypatia> yeah, i'd like to do more promo for the next release part
<hypatia> in toronto that is
<dscassel> Anyway, it's 7:30 and we're drifting from the agenda. I should get us back on track.
<dscassel> Website!
<FiReSTaRT> my apologies ladies and gents :)
<txwikinger> Yes let's put Release party on next month' meeting's agenda
<dscassel> Absolutely.
<txwikinger> I think we need to put the planet on the website
<FiReSTaRT> i officially second the motion :P
<dscassel> I'd be all for that.
<txwikinger> That is what I remember might be still missing
<dscassel> I don't think we need it to launch, though. That should be the first thing.
<txwikinger> Any volunteers for that
<txwikinger> I can put a ticket on rt if you want me too for getting the DNS changed
<dscassel> I think we should put the call out for a website team. We need editors, designers and developers.
* FiReSTaRT hides in a corner [can barely add content if the cms is already up and running]
<dscassel> There were a lot of people interested in helping a few months ago...
<txwikinger> +1
* hypatia is happy to help with editing
<dscassel> Anybody interested?
<dscassel> hypatia: cool.
<stone1343> I'll help with content and editing...
<txwikinger> Didn't ZykoticK9 want to help too?
<dscassel> I'll send out a message on the ML looking for people.
<txwikinger> +1
<dscassel> stone1343: great!
<stone1343> i'm planning on being at kwartzlab for the jam
<txwikinger> cool stone1343..looking forward to see you
<dscassel> Next up, LUG outreach...
<dscassel> Kind of a long-term project... I want to get in contact with LUGs around the country.
<ZykoticK9> hey guys "Speak of the devil and he appears" ;)
<dscassel> Let them know we're here, and the sort of things we do.
<dscassel> We can help them publicize. They can help us get people involved.
<txwikinger> good idea!
<ZykoticK9> i can "help" with website too, if you need people
<dscassel> One idea was if you have a LUG nearby, you can become a liaison of sorts.
<stone1343> so do you need ppl to find their local LUG?
<dscassel> ZykoticK9: Absolutely.
<ZykoticK9> ;)
<dscassel> stone1343: Yeah. If there is one, get in contact. Suggest running Jams, parties, etc. and see who's interested.
<stone1343> ok, can do
<dscassel> The other thing is I've started going through old LUG lists and seeing which ones still exist.
<dscassel> And there's not a lot, but I'll post a list to the ML and start emailing.
<txwikinger> maybe we can distribute this work a little?
<dscassel> Yeah. Good idea. If it's just me, it'll take forever.
<highvoltage> oops, I was doing some shopping, meeting over?
<FiReSTaRT> i was supposed to get in touch with one of the people here to organize a proper LUG for toronto
<dscassel> highvoltage: Nope, still going. Can you adopt a LUG? :)
<txwikinger> highvoltage: still in progress
<ZykoticK9> i can certainly contact OCLUG (Ottawa) about any events/etc (already do really)
<dscassel> ZykoticK9: Yeah, that's the idea.
<highvoltage> dscassel: adopt a lug!?
<FiReSTaRT> gonna double-check my contact lists and the odd man out will be (mike, mark, something like that) lol
* highvoltage catches up and reads agenda
<stone1343> I see a Mississauga LUG and a Meetup group, I'll try to contact them
<dscassel> highvoltage: Current agenda item. Getting in touch with LUGs...
<highvoltage> ah. I don't know the LUGs in Quebec yet, but I'll look into it!
<txwikinger> highvoltage: Ask Fabian... he knows what is going on.. especially in Montreal
<dscassel> stone1343: Yeah. MUMU. I've talked to Victor a bit. And BobJonkman is involved with them.
<highvoltage> yeah I've been meaning to visit montreal and have a beer with him. maybe I'll do that this weekend
<txwikinger> Fabian == MagicFab
<dscassel> Anyway, I'll write up my thoughts on this to the mailing list as well...
<hypatia> GTALUG is still pretty active... anyone here attend it?
<dscassel> hypatia: Isn't mylesbraithwaite involved in that?
<dscassel> Anyway, Monthly Reports!
<hypatia> dscassel: i think so
<dscassel> We did one! Hurray!
<dscassel> Of course, the month is almost over, so we have to do another one.
<ZykoticK9> good job dscassel!
<txwikinger> I have already put things into August
<dscassel> txwikinger: do you have the link handy?
<ZykoticK9> Ottawa Ubuntu hour happened in August with 3 in attendance
<hypatia> cool
<hypatia> i'm going to start one in toronto, as i'm going back to school in sept and will have more time
<txwikinger> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/TeamReports
<txwikinger> ZykoticK9: please add those things
<ZykoticK9> txwikinger, will do
<ZykoticK9> "Ubuntu LAN Party" what was that?
<dscassel> ZykoticK9: You should add listings for the Ottawa Hour to the LoCo directory.
<txwikinger> Someone in kwartlab organised a Game party
<ZykoticK9> txwikinger, very cool!
<txwikinger> and created an archive with all kinds of games that work on Ubunut
* highvoltage would like to do an Ubuntu Hour in Sherbrooke somewhere in September
<dscassel> ZykoticK9: Free software LAN party! I gotta get on egerlach to write his blog post.
<txwikinger> I think eventually this is supposed to grow into a DVD
<dscassel> highvoltage: Awesome.
<ZykoticK9> dscassel, i had trouble with LoCo Directory a while back - can anyone add to it, or does it require admin privileges of some sort?
<txwikinger> dscassel: Yes
<dscassel> The Waterloo LAN party shifted out a week to avoid conflicts, which means there isn't one for August. It'll be September 1.
<hypatia> that would be fun to do in conjunction with a release party too
<dscassel> Waterloo Ubuntu Hour, I mean. :P
<txwikinger> Is KWLUG on that Mondyay?
<dscassel> hypatia: Yeah. Eric wanted to start small to work some bugs out, but we're hoping we can have a nation-wide LAN party at some point. :D
<hypatia> that would be rad :D
<ZykoticK9> guys i really thing the 10.10 on 10.10.10 is a Great promotional tool - we really should try to capitalize on it (realize on agenda for next meeting)
<dscassel> txwikinger: No, probably not till the 12th.
<txwikinger> ah ok
<dscassel> ZykoticK9: Definitely. :D
<txwikinger> dscassel: yes.. 13rd .. I checked it
<txwikinger> 13th
<dscassel> Okay. SoOnCon, the Southern Ontario Hackerspace conference.
<dscassel> Hosted by Kwartzlab. :D
<ZykoticK9> sorry guy, i show up late / xchat crash / leave early = fail for me. Talk to you all soon.
<dscassel> ZykoticK9: Later. Thanks for dropping by. :)
<dscassel> hypatia: What did you have in mind?
<txwikinger> When will that happen?
<hypatia> let me look up the date, it's the first weekend in oct
<txwikinger> 2/3
<hypatia> right, so there'll be a party friday night, the event saturday, and then a bus down to toronto for nuit blanche
<txwikinger> 1/2
<hypatia> yup
<hypatia> on saturday there will be talks, workshops, hardware hacking
<hypatia> it'd be nice to do some kind of mini-install-fest type thing
<txwikinger> focused on tools for hardware hacking?
<txwikinger> like arduino dev toolchain or something like that?
<hypatia> there's somewhat of a hardware focus, but the event is also about Free Software, security, digital rights, etc
<txwikinger> KDE has a nice simulation tool too
<dscassel> Sounds good to me.
<hypatia> there will be more info up on http://sooncon.ca shortly
<txwikinger> I also found some pcb creation software from an Uni in Germany
* hypatia needs to do some wikigardening there
<hypatia> txwikinger: gEDA?
<txwikinger> No.. some different
<txwikinger> Fritzing
<dscassel> I'll talk to the Kwartzlab guys. See if they have any suggestions.
<hypatia> cool
<hypatia> i'll send a note to the mailing list when i get the wiki updated
<dscassel> But yeah, I think we should definitely be involved. No reason not to, given that it's Kwartzlab and we're here.
<hypatia> and there will be toronto, hamilton, etc folks too
<hypatia> and usually a few out-of-towners as well
<dscassel> Yeah, good way to connect with folks other than the usual crowd.
<txwikinger> cool
<dscassel> Awesome. Well, it's 8 and we're at the end of the agenda.
<dscassel> Anyone have anything else they'd like to bring up?
<dscassel> Seeing none, I'll move to adjourn.
<txwikinger> second
<dscassel> Have a good night folks! Great meeting. Thanks for coming out.
</pre>
