{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Now on the '''Fourth''' Wednesday of the month, to avoid conflicts with other computer-related events that Ubuntu folk may also want to attend.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

==== Meeting Log ====
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/09/26/%23ubuntu-ca.html#t23:10

=== Minutes ===
* Greetings were made a bit late due to technical difficulties
* UbuntuGlobalJam was held in K-W, low attendance due to lack of advertising
* SoftwareFreedomDay was also sparsely attended (correction to log: about 15 people were there for the afternoon presentations)
* Ubuntu Release Parties: 
** Kwartzlab can't host the K-W party, BobJonkman will find another venue
** <nowiki>[[Kaulbach|genii-around]]</nowiki> will host a Toronto party on Release Day (18 October 2012)
* <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> invites everyone to <nowiki>[[http://kwartzlab.ca/|Kwartzlab]]</nowiki>'s <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=b3NwaG40am5kdmtuaGhxMTFnOGo3MjRwYTQgZXZlbnRzQGt3YXJ0emxhYi5jYQ&ctz=America/Toronto|3rd Anniversary party]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://fsoss.ca/|FSOSS]]</nowiki>, ''Free Software and Open Source Symposium'' conference hosted by Seneca College; some people going 25-26 October 2012
* UbuntuOpenWeek is coming 24-26 October 2012; people hang out in <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki>
* Some people going to <nowiki>[[http://www.ohiolinux.org/|Ohio LinuxFest]]</nowiki>, 28-30 September 2012
* BobJonkman gave Ubuntu CDs to CanadianTeam members travelling abroad, to help the AlgerianTeam and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-hr.org/|CroatianTeam]]</nowiki> hold an UbuntuHour
* <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> gave most of the remaining Ubuntu CDs to the University of Waterloo Computer Science Club for distribution during Frosh Week
* <nowiki>[[..-..-TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki> are done!
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal coming up for Quantal Cycle, need to address this before 13.04
* http://ubuntu-ca.org Web Site discussion deferred to next meeting
* Discussion was held on Amazon searches in Unity lenses
* And <nowiki>[[http://sooncon.ca/|SoOnCon]]</nowiki>, the hackerspace conference, is taking place in Guelph this weekend, 28-29 September 2012. "Not much in the way of Ubuntu, but still awesome."

=== Agenda ===

Just direct your feet to the sunny side of the street.

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====
===== Past =====

* UbuntuGlobalJam, 7th - 9th September 2012
* SoftwareFreedomDay, Saturday, 15 September 2012
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1909/detail/|Kitchener-Waterloo has SFD]]</nowiki> on 22 September 2012
===== Upcoming =====
* QuantalQuetzal Ubuntu 12.10 Release Day, 18 October 2012
** Is it too soon to start talking about Release Parties?
* UbuntuOpenWeek takes place from Wednesday 24 Oct - Friday 26 Oct 2012 on IRC in #ubuntu-classroom and #ubuntu-classroom-chat.
* <nowiki>[[http://fsoss.ca/|FSOSS]]</nowiki>, 25 - 26 October 2012

===== Ongoing =====
* Ubuntu Hours
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1910/detail/|Kitchener]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1904/detail/|Waterloo]]</nowiki>

==== Other stuff ====
* Progress on <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports |Team Reports]]</nowiki>
** Need reports from November 2011 to March 2012 for !LoCo team renewal 
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal
** To be done for November 2012, defer this until after 12.10 release
* Need a refresh on the website http://ubuntu-ca.org 
** <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> needs to provide access to a volunteer Web updater.
** We need a volunteer Web updater...
