{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo January General Meeting ===

The meeting is over. Thanks everyone who made it a success!

== Making Computing More Interesting, With Ubuntu Community ==

You are encouraged to read the whole page. If you don't have the time, here's the stuff to remember:<<BR>><<BR>>
a. '''RSVP'''. It's really important. http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/12113782/ <<BR>>
b. We start at '''6:30pm'''. Location below (see "Where").<<BR>>
c. It's about building '''local community''', not just software.<<BR>>
d. '''Sharing''' food and drinks helps build community.<<BR>>
e. Bring a chair if you can.<<BR>>

=== Some Background Information ===
'''Ubuntu is all about community'''. Our meetings are designed to be friendly, welcoming, and non-intimidating for '''all'''. No computer experience is assumed or required. We meet to share ideas about freedom in computing through the use of Ubuntu and also to build relationships in our community that transcend the stereotypical "user group" or "computer club".

In this spirit, please consider bringing a guest or two to this meeting, ideally someone who normally wouldn't attend a "computer club" type of event (a friend, significant other, family member.) We promise to make it interesting for everyone who attends! And don't forget to add them to your RSVP if they're not already a meetup member.

'''Our Theme for the evening is "Making Computing More Interesting, With Ubuntu Community". Here is our agenda (so far):'''

=== Agenda (Proposed) ===
Thank you everyone that volunteered to talk, to demo, and to be part of the organizing team! We now have a plan.
==== Presentation: "Stuff That's Generally and Locally Interesting" ====
Our Buzz Generator will challenge the audience, or at least provide some mild entertainment.
==== Lightning Talk: Great Food in the Cloud ====
Sharing health with Ubuntu! A short presentation on how to share your best tips and tricks for healthy and delicious meals with your local Ubuntu community.
==== Break, Socializing, Refreshments, and Rescue Centre ====
Our members meet, mingle and enjoy the food and beverages that everyone brought to share. (See Notes A & B below).
Would you like to "Chime In? Are you a "One Trick Pony?" Sign-in and get on the agenda.
==== Lightning Talk: How To Save $699.00 ====
Have you ever wondered how those amazing posters or web graphics are created? Most of you have probably heard of software called Photoshop, but not many people are aware of the  completely free alternative called Gimp. Gimp is pre-installed on every Ubuntu machine. Many people are still afraid to use it, or simply don't believe that it could be an equivalent to Photoshop. Let's see what you will say after this quick demo...
==== The Audience Chimes In ====
A few rapid talks, 3 minutes or less, moderated and audience driven. (Sign-up during the meeting break.)
==== One Trick Pony! ====
Do you have an amazing Ubuntu trick or tip? Can you show it in 3 minutes or less? We'll have a demo system plugged in and ready to go. You supply the demo. (Sign-up during the meeting break.)

* * The slang term “One Trick Pony” is used to refer to that which can only be used for one very specific application. The term is also sometimes used to describe people; for example, a programmer who can '''only write bugs''' might be known as a one trick pony. The term is generally used in a disparaging way and as a result most people try to avoid becoming a one trick pony for this very reason. Don't worry, we won't use the term against you. At our event, "One Trick Pony" is a compliment.

==== Wrap-Up ====
Our Buzz Generator wraps up the evening. Parting words, door prizes and more!

=== Where ===
'''Dharmalab'''
<<BR>>Vancouver, BC V5L 1M5

For full location, time, and directions, please RSVP and see our listing on meetup.com:
http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/12113782/
<<BR>>
'''Plans sometimes change''', so please '''RSVP above''' to ensure that you are updated in the event we need to move to bigger space, or for any other important news about this meeting.
=== Important Notes ===
==== a. Treats ====
Members usually bring '''treats''' to share with everyone, potluck style. It's not required, but we certainly welcome it, as it helps create a more friendly environment for socializing, especially given that many people come to our meetings directly from work. And, if you're not comfortable preparing or sharing drinks/food for others, please consider picking something up from your nearest supermarket, bakery, pub on the way over.  (Examples of what members have brought to previous meetings: sandwiches, sushi rolls, cupcakes, muffins, veggies, cookies, tangerines, nuts, coffee, tea, juice, pop, wine, ... the list is growing!)
==== b. Rescue Centre ====
In parallel with the latter half of the meeting we host a '''Rescue Centre.''' If you have an Ubuntu issue that you just can't seem to figure out, this will be the place for you! Expert(s) will be on hand to help triage issues and to provide suggestions. (Please remember to RSVP with a comment on the type of assistance that you will need. Also remember that this is time-limited so it's proabably not realistic to expect a complete reinstall or something very detailed.)
==== c. Chairs ====
We never seem to have enough. If you are driving, please consider throwing an extra folding chair (or two) in your trunk on the way over. We promise not to hurt them, and the meeting is more comfortable when everyone has a seat.
==== d. Still Want More? ====
After the meeting some members continue socializing nearby on "The Drive". For those who want to mingle with Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo folks, in a less formal (restaurant/patio) setting, please plan to join us after the meeting. (If there is an "after-event", the venue will be announced as part of the meeting wrap-up.) 
=== Contact ===
Please e-mail <randall@executiv.es> to get involved.

'''Stay tuned for more updates.'''
