{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

~+''' Evangelism, Advocacy & Marketing '''+~<<BR>>
----------
<<BR>>
Congratulations! You've found the official '''Evangelism, Advocacy & Marketing Team''' page of the Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
==== Introduction ====

Our goal is to generate BUZZ and get as many people interested in Ubuntu Vancouver as possible, which means '''everyone''' in and around Vancouver. This is is support of Ubuntu Vancouver's goals to be the '''largest, most successful''' and '''respected''' Ubuntu community in the world. You can help make that happen.

==== Contact ====
Generate real '''BUZZ''' by helping our Marketing team. '''Email <nowiki>[[mailto:randall@executiv.es?subject=uvEAM%20BUZZ|Randall]]</nowiki> (our Buzz Generator) for more information''' about how you can help Ubuntu Vancouver Evangelism Advocacy & Marketing (uvEAM).

==== Current Wish List ====
Ubuntu Vancouver Marketing would '''really''' like:
* Reliable and central meeting facilities
* A logo design: a project/competition is underway! See Projects/LogoDesign
* A printing partner
* Media contacts in Vancouver
* A USB storage manufacturing contact
* Guest lecturer(s)
* Sponsorship at any level
Please contact Randall ASAP if you can offer any of these.

==== Channels ====
 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linkedin.com/e/vgh/2301771/|LinkedIn]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=63797756749|Facebook]]</nowiki>
* '''Ubuntu Vancouver email list''': <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/messages/archive/]]</nowiki>
* '''Meetup''' group: <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver]]</nowiki>
* '''identi.ca''': <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/group/ubuntuvancouver]]</nowiki>
* '''Facebook''': "Ubuntu Vancouver"
* MySpace, Twitter  <-- not used much but we're there.

==== Materials ====
1. '''Ubuntu Vancouver Buzz Cards'''<<BR>>
Please print these (professionally) and give them to everyone you meet. Requires Inkscape.<<BR>><<BR>>
2. '''uvEAM Presentation April 9 2009'''<<BR>>
Describes activities in Mar-April 2009 performed to raise visibility of Ubuntu Vancouver. The "kick-off" presentation.<<BR>><<BR>>
3. '''Karmic Koala Party''' Poster with Tear-offs
A small poster useful for neighbourhood bulletin boards (libraries, community centers, public places). Print these on colourful paper, cut, and post in a highly visible place.
<nowiki>[[attachment:karmicpartyposter.pdf]]</nowiki>
<<BR>><<BR>>

<<AttachList>>

 

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
