{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6pm
| Central
|-
| 5pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

==== Meeting Log ====
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/03/15/%23ubuntu-ca.html#t22:50

=== Meeting Minutes ===

* Introductions!
* Events
** Ubuntu Global Jam at Kwartzlab on 2 April
** Jams in Toronto, Peterborough or Montreal?
** Natty Narwhal release on 28 April 
** Kwartzlab release party on 30 April, with LAN party
** Also <nowiki>[[http://makerfairetoronto.ca/|Toronto Maker Faire]]</nowiki>
** and Ubuntu Hours
** staticsafe planning a Toronto Hour?
** UDS (Ubuntu Developer Summit) and Sponsorship
** Submit form from UDS page, perform some chores, Canonical pays for your passage
* Web page http://ubuntu-ca.org has updates!
** still some problems with login, <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> will work on it offline

  

== Agenda ==

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Upcoming Events ===
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki> 1-3 April 2011
** KW Chapter -> Kwartzlab, April 2, 2pm EDT http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/776/detail/
* <nowiki>[[NattyReleaseSchedule|Natty Narwhal]]</nowiki> Release Party planning (release 28 April 2011)
** KW Chapter -> Kwartzlab April 30, 2pm EDT http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/814/detail/
** Toronto -> April 30, 8pm EDT http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/781/detail/
* Ubuntu Hour in Toronto?
* Other events?

=== Ubuntu Hours ===

=== UDS Sponsorship ===
http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-o/
http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/UDS

=== Website ===

* Status update
* What's next?
