{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Previous Meeting: December 13th ===
==== Agenda ====
* Draft Proposals
** Roadmap Draft (Dave Sullivan)
** Website Recruitment/Marketing-related Content Draft (Cathy)
* Structure, Governance (if any), Roles
* Ojibwe translation (Ralph)
* Demo Day project (David Patrick)
* Upcoming conference: Canadian Undergraduate Technology Conference
* add your ideas here!

==== Notes ====
* Notes coming soon
