{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

--------
'''Local? Need Help?''' You've come to the right place.
<<BR>><<BR>>
'''Ubuntu Vancouver strives to offer support to residents of Vancouver (and surrounding areas) who are having difficulties with Ubuntu.''' Support is volunteer-based, best-effort, and without warranty.
---------
=== Introduction ===
The Ubuntu Vancouver !LoCo now holds regular  '''"Support Saturdays"''' our rescue & support centre, at a regular time, on Saturdays, in a central transit-accessible neighbourhood. Sessions normally open to all of Vancouver without prejudice and without charge. Support is volunteer-based, best-effort, and without warranty. We schedule them monthly for now. That will expand in the coming months as Ubuntu spreads across Vancouver.

=== Dates ===

Please join our group on <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/|our meetup channel]]</nowiki>. That is our official membership site and dates and full locations are disclosed there. 

=== Order of Events and Rules ===

Pre-Event
 
 a. Event is posted to meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver<<BR>>
 b. SupportHero{in}es declare their intent to offer support by RSVP'ing on the meetup page, and also by subscribing to the Support Saturday planning wiki page and adding their name/details to the chart.
 <<BR>>
 c. People needing support RSVP for help on meetup.com event page. They answer the 5 support questions.
 <<BR>>
 d. Inbound RSVP's are forwarded to Support Hero{in}es for discussion and possible pre-emption.
 <<BR>>
 e. RSVP's become Support Requests that are brought to the event by the organizer(s)

Event
 
1. SupportHero{in}es arrive and set up (1 hour prior to event start).
 
2. People coming for support arrive and check-in with registration/welcome desk.
 
3. Support Request is triaged and given to appropriate SupportHero{in}e.
 
4. SupportHero{in}e  works 1-on-1 with people needing support. (~3 h)
 
5. SupportHero{in}es finish and clean up. (~30 min)

=== Coming for Support? What to Bring ===

** your computer (laptop, netbook, desktop or workstation)
** a good description of your problem (as detailed as possible) to help us help you (this should already be in your meetup RSVP.)

=== Coming to Provide Support? What to Bring ===

** your computer (laptop, netbook, desktop or workstation)
** any equipment you will need to solve problems. Some examples: an AC power bar, USB storage to do backups, a live-USB that's bootable, your favourite reference material, a working USB wifi dongle to help those who come in with non-working wifi.

=== Venue preparation & requirements ===

** Set up venue (chairs, tables, LCD projector).
** Put up signs for the venue.
** Provide enough power-plugs.
** Have Ubuntu CDs for installations.
** Make sure the internet connection is up and running. Have access data for wireless.

==== Optional ====
** Provide mice, keyboards, monitors (if people have RSVP'd that are bringing in desktops/towers)
** Provide water, coffee, tea and some snacks.

=== Disclaimer ===

** We do not provide help for unreleased or unofficial versions of Ubuntu.
** We do not provide help for businesses.
** All help is done voluntarily, with best-effort and without warranty. Please make sure to backup ALL your data!

=== Organizers ===

Stefan Tjarks<<BR>>
Randall Ross<<BR>>
If you would like to help, please contact us.
