{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
[16:05:13] <dscassel> Meeting time...
[16:05:15] <hakimsheriff> I have two meetings at the same time
[16:05:22] --> dscassel_ (~dscassel@69.166.23.32) has joined #ubuntu-ca
[16:06:26] <dscassel> Mass call! genii-around kavurt pillow billybigrigger Guest95519 kenjy ryanakca BobJonkman KombuchaKip sipherdee bregma IdleOne komputes txwikinger cyphermox james_w Drossel jburkholder willwh Jeruvy MagicFab zeroedout FiReSTaRT Kamondelious Mobidoy ZykoticK9
[16:06:40] <KombuchaKip> dscassel: What can I do for you?
[16:06:58] <MagicFab> o/
[16:07:03] <dscassel> Meeting time, if you're interested. :)
[16:07:21] <dscassel> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2011-06-14
[16:07:56] <dscassel> Feel free to introduce yourselves...
[16:08:00] <KombuchaKip> dscassel: I'll be voyeuristic, but can't guarantee I have much to contribute.
[16:08:10] <dscassel> s'cool.
[16:09:21] <dscassel> Anyway, I'm Darcy, in Waterloo and I'm one of the contacts for Ubuntu Canada.
[16:10:04] <hakimsheriff> Im Hakim Sheriff, in Montreal, and I distribute free "prowered by Ubuntu" stickers for System 76
[16:10:23] <MagicFab> Hi! Fabian here -> mostly U-Quebec contact - these days playing a lot with kvm, GLPI and Zentyal
[16:11:17] <zeroedout> Hi, my name is Alishams Hassam. I'm a director at Free Geek Vancouver. Trying to get the gtalk plugin to work with natty so i'll be here on and off
[16:13:00] <hakimsheriff> I'll be in and out too
[16:13:13] <dscassel> zeroedout: Cool. I've been talking to the Free Geek Toronto guys about their space being a hub for Ubuntu activities there. :)
[16:13:26] <kavurt> I'm Klich Koken, from Halifax, NS. I'm long time linux user, but i use ubuntu since hardy.
[16:14:59] <zeroedout> dscassel: sweet! Currently we do something called Open Help Night (formerly Windowless Wednesdays), ever wednesday where people come in with Ubuntu issues and techs from the community come to help fix/install ubuntu.
[16:15:26] <zeroedout> I haven't had a chance to chat up the FG toronto guys much, but I hear they're doing well
[16:15:31] <dscassel> Good to see new (to me, anyway) people out. :D
[16:17:31] <dscassel> Okay, so ... Events!
[16:17:33] <zeroedout> glad to be here :)
[16:18:03] <dscassel> Vancouver is having its Natty release release party on Friday.
[16:18:10] <dscassel> http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/events/17545545/
[16:18:37] <dscassel> (You need to sign up for meetup.com and join the ubuntuvancouver event to see it.  I hope it's nothing naughty.
[16:19:41] <dscassel> This Sunday is the first Car-Free Sunday in Waterloo.
[16:20:06] <dscassel> There was some talk about us setting up a booth or something, but I have a feeling it's not going to happen this month
[16:20:16] <dscassel> (I haven't done any prep for it at lease)
[16:20:19] <dscassel> least)
[16:20:49] <dscassel> But there'll be more in July and August.
[16:21:12] <dscassel> Aside: zeroedout, have you been out to any of the Ubuntu Vancouver events?
[16:22:01] <zeroedout> I've been to a couple, trying to make it for this one
[16:22:06] <dscassel> Cool.
[16:22:18] <dscassel> I've heard good things, but I don't know too much about what actually goes on out there.
[16:23:01] <dscassel> Anyway, the ubuntu Global Jam date has been set.  It's Sept. 2-4.
[16:23:12] <dscassel> We'll be doing one in Kitchener, as usual.
[16:23:18] <zeroedout> the last one I went to was just people getting together and chatting about ubuntu and general geekery. Had some issues with the last event... but this isn't the time or place :)
[16:23:27] <dscassel> And I'll be trying to get the Free Geek Toronto guys to do one there.
[16:23:36] <ZykoticK9> MagicFab, re: yocto-reader isn't that an MS error?  Perhaps that would explain the problem ;)
[16:23:42] <dscassel> But it would be cool if we could get more of them across the country.
[16:24:30] <dscassel> zeroedout: Okay :)
[16:25:52] <dscassel> On jams, one thing we've been talking about here in KW is that the Global Jam happens awfully late in the cycle.
[16:26:22] <ZykoticK9> MagicFab, my bad, clearly says "Apache/2.2.17 (Ubuntu)" at the bottom.
[16:26:26] <dscassel> We were thinking about maybe doing an earlier Jam, where we can get people contributing earlier in the cycle.
[16:27:12] <sipherdee> Hi everyone!  My name is Eric Beaurivage and I'm from Montreal, QC.  My plan is to get more involved into Ubuntu with Ubuntu-QC and... I am a bit late to introduce myself for this meeting. <g>
[16:27:27] <dscassel> Welcome, sipherdee :)
[16:27:51] <sipherdee> Greetings!
[16:27:53] <dscassel> You should talk to MagicFab re: ubuntu-qc if you haven't already.
[16:28:18] <MagicFab> hakimsheriff, me wants stickerz :) Coming to next Ubuntu Hour ? dscassel don't worry I 've taken care of sipherdee's *free* time already
[16:28:41] <dscassel> Awesome. :D
[16:28:45] <sipherdee> Yes dscassel, we know each other and he already is a great help to get me started.
[16:29:03] <hakimsheriff> MagicFab, Maybe, if i manage to convince my dad,
[16:30:15] <dscassel> MagicFab: I'm planning on being in Montreal the last week in August.  I'm hoping I can get out to the Outremont ubuntu Hour.
[16:30:24] <KombuchaKip> dscassel: Car free Sunday here in Vancouver as well, I believe.
[16:30:46] <dscassel> KombuchaKip: cool.  It seems like a good opportunity to get out and interact with "normal" people. :)
[16:31:05] <KombuchaKip> dscassel: Yes, we'll have Ubuntu Vancouver out and about.
[16:31:29] <MagicFab> dscassel, ring me whenever in town, I'll gladly match my schedule to yours
[16:31:36] <dscassel> That's cool.
[16:31:40] <dscassel> MagicFab: Great. Will do.
[16:33:40] <dscassel> Anyway, last thing on the agenda:
[16:34:04] <dscassel> There are a bunch of sessions coming up in the #ubuntu-classroom IRC channel.
[16:34:48] <dscassel> If you get an app called Lernid (there's a PPA out there if you want to google for it), the experience is a bit more streamlined and you get slides.
[16:35:07] <-- genii-around (~quassel@unaffiliated/genii) has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
[16:35:11] <dscassel> Anyway, the first week of sessions is ubuntu developer week, July 11-15
[16:35:36] <dscassel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek
[16:36:31] <dscassel> It's for people looking to get into developing on ubuntu, or developing Ubuntu itself.
[16:38:08] <dscassel> If you think you can run a session, I'd encourage you to go to the wiki page.
[16:38:25] <dscassel> The second one is Ubuntu Community Week, July 18-22.
[16:38:37] <dscassel> That's organized by Ubuntu Vancouver's own Randall Ross.
[16:38:58] <dscassel> And it'll be about getting more involved in the community, building community, helping users, etc.
[16:39:04] <dscassel> The sort of stuff we're talking about here...
[16:40:31] <sipherdee> I can't run a session yet but I will be online to contribute to the talks from July 12th.
[16:41:02] <dscassel> sipherdee: That helps.  There'll be a -chat channel where you can help answer questions.
[16:42:06] <dscassel> Jono has a blog post about the various weeks and things coming up this cycle: http://www.jonobacon.org/2011/06/01/six-months-of-rocking-ubuntu-events/
[16:43:39] <dscassel> And that's all I got.
[16:43:42] <dscassel> questions?
[16:45:22] <sipherdee> I got enough informations with the links you posted.  Thanks for the meeting!
[16:45:53] <dscassel> Awesome.
[16:46:14] <dscassel> I'll be around for a while if anybody has anything.
[16:46:37] <dscassel> Thanks for coming out. :)
[16:47:18] <dscassel> And think about running an Ubuntu event in your town!  Ubuntu Hours are easy, and anyone can do them.  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour
[16:47:48] <zeroedout> lol, this was pretty interesting actually. hope to be around for more (or at least idle)
</pre>
