{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

This meeting is on Thursday, 13 December 2012 to avoid the stress of the <nowiki>[[http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Chrishanukwandiwaleid|Chrishanukwandiwaleid]]</nowiki> season. Meetings are usually held regularly on the '''fourth''' Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2126/detail/|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca at the Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

/* After the meeting, Edit the YYYY/MM/DD and tHH:MM for the date and time in the Ubuntu IRC Log, and remove the comment markers */

==== Meeting Log ====
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/12/14/%23ubuntu-ca.html#t00:09

=== Meeting Minutes ===
* Introductions were held
* Mention of non-Ubuntu free software events (<nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=Xzc1ajNhY2I2NjhyNjJiYjU2c3JqNmI5azZjcjM2YjlwY2hqNjRiYjJjZ3MzY29iNTY4cGoyb3I1NzQgZzVzMzBhM2MzbnNwdG9nNjJrcDVlYXR2OG9AZw&ctz=America/Toronto&gsessionid=OK|Ludum Dare]]</nowiki>)
* Main Topic: Ubuntu Canada LoCo renewal
** QuebecTeam was just re-approved
** CanadianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012 page under construction; assistance welcome!
** we have concerns about splitting  up the team, eg. Ubuntu-ca-on, or Ubuntu-on
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> is coordinating the re-approval process; will polish up application in February
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> will contact LoCoCouncil to see whether we're approving Canada or Ontario
** DVDs/CDs are nice to have; <nowiki>[[idleone]]</nowiki> suggests brokerage fees could be reimbursed
** Start or Keep running Ubuntu Hours, send pictures to dscassel@ubuntu.com
 

=== Agenda ===

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
Life can be complete<<BR>>
On the sunny side of the street

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Events ====

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
/* ==== Past ==== */
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener and Waterloo]]</nowiki>
*** Kitchener: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
*** Waterloo: 4th Thursday of the month, 8:00pm

/* ==== Ongoing ==== */

/* ==== Upcoming ==== */

/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
==== Other stuff ====
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal
** To be done during the Quantal cycle, October 2012 to March 2013 (ie. now!)
** We can record our progress on CanadianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012
** Guidelines for Re-approval: LoCoCouncil/TeamApprovalGuidelines
* Need a refresh on the website http://ubuntu-ca.org 
** <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> needs to provide access to a volunteer Web updater.
** We need a volunteer Web updater...

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[..-|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
