{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

==== Meeting Log ====
Log is available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/06/20/%23ubuntu-ca.html#t23:00

=== Minutes ===
* About a dozen people introduced themselves
* Events
** UDS - Some people attended through Google Video
** Montreal Ubuntu Hours are back! <nowiki>[[Cyphermox]]</nowiki> is getting them started up again
** BobJonkman distributed Ubuntu 12.04 CD at a <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Toronto-Meetings-PrecisePangolinUbuntuHour(s)|Toronto Ubuntu Hour-Release Party]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[QuebecTeam]]</nowiki> Loco is official again
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~idleone|IdleOne]]</nowiki> is now on the <nowiki>[[Membership-Boards]]</nowiki>
** Discussion of membership requirements
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~linuxmonkey|LinuxMonkey]]</nowiki> has started <nowiki>[[http://monctonlug.ca/|MonctonLUG]]</nowiki>, the newest Ubuntu Canada chapter
** Discussion on the rumoured Ubuntu Canada split into Ubuntu Provinces
** Discussion on running UbuntuHour``s, how easy it is.
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> will send official Ubuntu CDs to anyone who sends him pics of an Ubuntu Hour
* <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports|TeamReports]]</nowiki> still need to be done
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> may have some TeamReport generation code
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ca.org|Ubuntu-ca.org]]</nowiki> discussion deferred to next meeting

=== Agenda ===

Summer is coming...

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Upcoming Events ====

* Ubuntu Hours
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1770/detail/|Kitchener]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1757/detail/|Waterloo]]</nowiki>
** What's happening with the Ubuntu Hours listed in the <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=mll58frmllrllfksgd12t3h7cs%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York|Google calendar]]</nowiki>?
*** <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=ZTVkbW9kY2M3NWtiOGNsbTFtamdjMmRmY2tfMjAxMjA1MTBUMjMwMDAwWiBtbGw1OGZybWxscmxsZmtzZ2QxMnQzaDdjc0Bn&ctz=America/New_York|Longueuil]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=cHU1YXY4djk0bThiczF0OXBqdGs3MGFybXNfMjAxMjA1MTFUMTYwMDAwWiBtbGw1OGZybWxscmxsZmtzZ2QxMnQzaDdjc0Bn&ctz=America/New_York|Montreal]]</nowiki>

==== Past Events ====
* <nowiki>[[http://uds.ubuntu.com/|UDS]]</nowiki>, 7-11 May 2012
* <nowiki>[[..-..-Toronto-Meetings-PrecisePangolinUbuntuHour(s)|Ubuntu Hour(s) Toronto]]</nowiki>, 27 May 2012

==== Other stuff ====
* <nowiki>[[http://monctonlug.ca/|Moncton LUG]]</nowiki> startup; <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~linuxmonkey|LinuxMonkey]]</nowiki> plans on <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/05/22/%23ubuntu-ca.html#t18:54|intertwining]]</nowiki> a <nowiki>[[..-..-Moncton|Moncton Ubuntu chapter]]</nowiki>.
* Progress on <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports |Team Reports]]</nowiki>
** Need reports from November 2011 to present for !LoCo team renewal 
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal
** In addition to TeamReports, what do we need to do?
** What is the deadline for getting it done?
** These pages may help: <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ApprovalApplication]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ReApprovalApplication2010]]</nowiki>
* Need a refresh on the website http://ubuntu-ca.org 
** <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> needs to provide access to a volunteer Web updater.
** We need a volunteer Web updater...
