{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 9:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 9:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 8:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 7:00pm
| Central
|-
| 6:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 5:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

----

=== Minutes ===
HTML log files are at <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/11/02/%23ubuntu-ca.html#00:00]]</nowiki>

==== Delegation of jobs ====
* <nowiki>[[BobJonkman]]</nowiki> will be helping with meetings (promo, minutes, logs)
* <nowiki>[[rugbeeprop]]</nowiki> (Tek Ang) will help with Web site(s)
** There are some stale websites, eg. <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-Toronto]]</nowiki>; refresh but don't delete content
* Still need help with <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports]]</nowiki> and Local Event Coordinators
* Feel free to jump in with anything that makes Ubuntu better or supports the community

==== Province Teams ====
* There's some city teams, and an online community across the Country
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-qc|Ubuntu Quebec]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-vancouver-loco|Ubuntu Vancouver]]</nowiki> have their own !LoCos, but still part of Ubuntu-ca online community
* Provincial !LoCos would not make it any easier to participate in local events in other areas.  It's just as difficult to go from Toronto to Thunder Bay as it is to go from Newfoundland to British Columbia.
* Provincial !LoCos may increase the administrative burden: 
** Applying to !LoCo council for !LoCo approval
** Multiple !LoCo sites to maintain 
* Provincial !LoCos might improve access to CDs and other Canonical swag
* Consensus: We do nothing about Provincial !LoCos.
** Even if !LoCo council does require Provincial !LoCos it won't change the activities we're already doing

==== Past events ====
* <nowiki>[[http://fsoss.senecac.on.ca/2011/|FSOSS]]</nowiki> was pretty awesome
** <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> (Darcy Casselman) and <nowiki>[[Rarsa]]</nowiki> (Raul Suarez) presented on Saturday
** Next year we get a table at FSOSS!

==== Upcoming Events ====
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1379/detail/ |Kitchener Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> on Friday, 4 November
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1392/detail/ |Waterloo Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> on Wednesday, 16 November
* <nowiki>[[http://2011.drupalcamptoronto.org/ |Toronto Drupal Camp]]</nowiki> on 12-13 November
* <nowiki>[[http://uds.ubuntu.com/ |UDS]]</nowiki> is going on '''right now''', schedule at <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-p/]]</nowiki>

==== Other ====
* Michael <nowiki>[[Kaulbach]]</nowiki> (genii-around) is working on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/FactoidCleanup]]</nowiki>

----

=== Agenda ===

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Delegation of jobs ====

* <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki> is <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-ca/2011-October/009179.html|looking for volunteers]]</nowiki>.

==== Province teams ====

* The !LoCo council (or members thereof) have suggested that Canada is too big for one team (or three) and would prefer it be split into province teams
** What value would province teams have over a national team?
** Is this something people would be in favour of?

==== Past Events ====

* Ubuntu Release Parties
* <nowiki>[[http://fsoss.senecac.on.ca/2011/|FSOSS Toronto Linux Fest]]</nowiki>, Oct 27-29

==== Upcoming Events ====
* <nowiki>[[http://uds.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki>, Orlando, Florida, USA, 31 October – 4 November, 2011 
* Ubuntu Hours
