{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Vancouver: Monthly General Meeting (July 2009) ===

==== Meeting Summary, Notes and Links ====

'''Presenters please edit and add your materials. Thanks.'''
* 20 people in attendance
* Cake and wine to celebrate our 100th member
* Presentation attached
<<AttachList>>

* Lightning Talk 1: "Accessing the Net Wherever your iPhone Has a Signal, Without Jail-breaking." Here's Larry's notes from talk: http://technopragmatica.blogspot.com/2009/07/iphone-tethering-notes-for-ubuntu.html

* Lightning Talk 2: "Free Linux and Ubuntu Books" (Kim)
** I carry lots arouund on my laptop. Bring a flash drive to a meeting for copies.
** Article with 20 free books http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/20090405061458383/20oftheBestFreeLinuxBooks-Part1.html
** Google search for free Ubuntu books http://www.google.com/cse?cx=partner-pub-2070091971271392%3Aougxymc6y19&ie=UTF-8&q=free+ubuntu+books&sa=Search
** O`Reilly User group page http://ug.oreilly.com/
** Lots of free (pirated) books in Usenet: '''alt.binaries.e-book.technical'''

* Lightning Talk 3: "Hacking the Public Library, Ubuntu Style" (Randall)<<BR>>
  VPL's collection fo Ubuntu books is '''abysmal''' (politely).<<BR>>
  Randall's VPL research:<<BR>>
  18 Ubuntu titles (most of them out of date or unavailable.)<<BR>>
  >1000 Windows titles<<BR>>
  >100 Vista titles.<<BR>>
  Here's what you can do to fix this (i.e. hack the library):<<BR>>
  1) Donate your Ubuntu books<<BR>>
  2) Suggest a purchase<<BR>>
  3) Order the official Ubuntu CD and donate it.<<BR>>
  Instructions on how to donate and suggest: http://www.vpl.ca

* Upcoming Events (open discussion)
* Door Prizes: 2 "Karmic Koala Rescue Kits" were awarded

==== When ====

    Thursday 09 July, 2009; 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM
    <<BR>>
    '''Important:''' Please RSVP at our <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/10635004/|Meetup site here]]</nowiki> to let us know if you're coming.

==== Where ====

 '''Special Notice:''' Your '''RSVP above''' will ensure that you are updated in the event we need to move to bigger space.

 '''The Hackery'''
 <<BR>>304 Victoria Drive
 <<BR>>Vancouver
 <<BR>><nowiki>[[http://thehackery.ca/]]</nowiki>
 <<BR>>Enter the side door (north side of the building) and go up the stairs.
For more details, see the full listing:
http://www.meetup.com/ubuntuvancouver/calendar/10635004/

==== Agenda ====
(This is an '''update'''. Your feedback is always welcome and important.)

* Socializing, meet & greet with sweets (6:30 - 7:00pm)
* Turn on the projector
* Welcome new members! (Kim, our fearless Founder)
* Evangelism Advocacy & Marketing Update (Randall. a.k.a. Mr. Buzz)
* XO on Ubuntu Event - How did it go? (Randall)
* Youth Summer Learning Sessions (Kim)
* Recently in Ubuntuland: What's the Biggest News You've Heard in the Past Month? (all)
* Lightning Talk 1: "Accessing the Net Wherever your iPhone Has a Signal, Without Jail-breaking." (Larry)
* Ligthning Talk 2: "Free Linux and Ubuntu Books" (Kim)
* Lightning Talk 3: "Hacking the Public Library, Ubuntu Style" (Randall)
* Upcoming Events (open discussion)
* Door Prize! (Always a surprise!)
* Socializing (8:15 - 8:45 pm) ... continue on The Drive for those who want...
* Tiny Little Tripod (Kim)
