{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 9:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 9:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 8:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 7:00pm
| Central
|-
| 6:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 5:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

-----

==== Meeting Log ====
IRC Log file at <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/04/11/%23ubuntu-ca.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting Minutes ===
* Introductions were exchanged
* mimcpher received Ubuntu CDs for UofW Computer Science Club
* Ubuntu Hours
** Rescheduled <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1610/detail/|Kitchener Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>
** Status of Quebec Ubuntu Hours?
** reminder that <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> has a banner for use at Ubuntu Canada events
** <nowiki>[[chaslinux]]</nowiki> will borrow it for <nowiki>[[http://www.softwarefreedomday.org/|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Release Parties
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1659/detail/|Toronto]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1599/detail/|Kitchener-Waterloo]]</nowiki>
** Brief discussion on how to hold a Release Party
* Who's running Ubuntu 12.04 already?
** <nowiki>[[bregma]]</nowiki> has two systems
** pangolin has been for a month
** <nowiki>[[BobJonkman]]</nowiki> has an aborted install on a semi-broken laptop
* !LoCo Renewal and <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki>
** Need Team Reports to get !LoCo renewal
** <nowiki>[[chaslinux]]</nowiki> may have a volunteer (Ade) to complete Team Reports
** There are two guides for making reports: <nowiki>[[TeamReports]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting-HowTo]]</nowiki>
* Keep a lookout for <nowiki>[[txwikinger]]</nowiki> for updates to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ca.org/|Ubuntu-ca.org]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===

The last meeting in the Oneiric Era.

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Upcoming Events ====

* Ubuntu Hours
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1610/detail/|Kitchener]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1622/detail/|Waterloo]]</nowiki>
* PrecisePangolin release on Thursday, 26 April 2012  
** Release parties?
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1599/detail/|Kitchener-Waterloo]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/1659/detail/|Toronto]]</nowiki>

==== Other stuff ====
* CanadianTeam !LoCo renewal
** In addition to TeamReports, what do we need to do?
** What is the deadline for getting it done?
** These pages may help: <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ApprovalApplication]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ReApprovalApplication2010]]</nowiki>
* Do we have a volunteer for <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-TeamReports |Team Reports]]</nowiki> yet?
** Need reports from November 2011 to present for !LoCo team renewal 
* Need a refresh on the website http://ubuntu-ca.org
