{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Ubuntu Vancouver: Monthly Meeting ====
I've received a whole lot of emails encouraging me to have the meeting on Thursday. So let's get together as planned!

==== When ====

 Thursday 10 July, 2008 at 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM

==== Where: ====
 '''Free Geek'''
 <<BR>>1820 Pandora Street
 <<BR>>Vancouver
 <<BR>><nowiki>[[http://freegeekvancouver.org/directions|directions]]</nowiki>
 <<BR>>Please enter by the back door, off the alley.

==== Activities ====

* Resources for online collaboration.
** Free Geek Education
           <http://wiki.freegeekvancouver.org/article/Education> wiki
** Free Geek Education mailing list
           <http://puddle.ca/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/fg-education>
** !UbuntuVancouver@kulak.ca <mailto:UbuntuVancouver.kulak.ca>

* People signed up as course designers and presenters. Thank you!
* Classroom space.
* Workshop: Practical Python @ Free Geek, Wed. July 16th, 7-9pm

==== Minutes ====
* Kim mentioned that a monthly meeting wasn't enough interaction to get some courses going in a timely fashion. He recommended collaborating online using these resources:
** Free Geek Education wiki
** Free Geek Education mailing list
** !UbuntuVancouver@kulak.ca

* Ryan Smith stepped forward and committed to conducting:
** An "Introduction to Ubuntu" course on August 7.
** An Install Fest on August 21.

This is a very exciting turn of events! Rob Fargher agreed to develop the curriculum with Ryan and to publish their results on the Free Geek Education wiki.

* Kim will set up some mechanism for registering for courses.

Thank you,
<<BR>>Kim Kulak
