{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''The New to Ubuntu Handbook'''  
------------------------------------------------

''A working group of '''Ubuntu Toronto''' with members from across Canada ''

-------------------------------------------------
'''The Task'''

Create a  letter size page (two sided) CD liner note for installing and setting up  Ubuntu.  The language has to be understood by a person who has some prior knowledge of computers but no prior Linux experience.T here will be an additional page of generalized information as a cover sheet and introduction to Ubuntu.

The handbook will be folded and inserted into a paper CD jacket that could be taped to the cardboard sleeve that Ubuntu 6.06 LTS discs come in.  The two sided printing and using the paper sleeve is envionmentally friendly and can be done in-house without contracting out.  The size restrictions can be overcome using 8 1/2 x 14  (legal sized)paper.  

-------------------------------------------------
  
'''New to Ubuntu Handbook 1.0 ''' 

A draft of the Ubuntu Guidebook  was presented to the membership of
  '''''Ubuntu Toronto''''' 
on 24 January 2007 at the regular meeting.
-------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------
                    '''''Welcome to  Ubuntu'''''

'''Ubuntu (Dapper Drake) 6.06 LTS''' is an incredible package of software.  One of the many flavours of Linux, Ubuntu is virus free and easy to install.  Ubuntu provides not only the operating system for your computer, but also thousands of applications available with just a few clicks of your mouse.

Most people will put the CD into their machine, reboot, and install the operating system using the install wizard.  Their internet will connect, and all of the various functions of their computer will be recognized .  Ubuntu prides itself on being a “just works” version of Linux.  

These instructions will help you if you encounter problems during the installation process. 
-------------------------------------------------
'''Minimum System Requirements'''             (Pentium 2- 4 or equivalent ,256 MB RAM, 4 Gigabytes of Free disc space)
-------------------------------------------------
'''Gather the info you need to install e-mail before you change your system.'''

  Before changing your computer you need to gather information regarding your current e-mail settings. 

Address:      

Password:           

Mail server:         

SMTP server:

 Ubuntu comes with Evolution , which is similar to Outlook, Setting up e-mail is a similar process..
-------------------------------------------------
'''How to Check if  Ubuntu  is Compatible With Your Computer'''

1.Place the Ubuntu CD into your computer's drive and restart the computer. From the boot menu select “Start or install Ubuntu”.

2.Once your computer has successfully restarted, double click the examples folder on the desktop. This will open a folder filled with examples of documents, spreadsheets, slide shows, music, and video presentations which will highlight some of the useful software that is included in Ubuntu.  Examine the toolbar at the top of your browser, you will find icons to launch the Firefox web browser to surf the Internet, and Evolution  which is a full-featured email and personal information manager.

3.After you have spent a little time familiarizing yourself with Ubuntu, try other common tasks such as printing, etc. Enjoy!
-------------------------------------------------

'''Dual Boot Installation of Ubuntu and Windows From The Live CD '''

(Warning: Backup all data and preferences before continuing. Make a note of Internet connection settings, user accounts, and passwords)

1.Place the Ubuntu CD into your computer's drive and restart the computer.
 
2.From the boot menu select “Start or install Ubuntu”.

3.Once your computer has successfully restarted, double click the install icon on the desktop. This will launch the Ubuntu graphical installer.

4.In the “Welcome” window, select your language. Next click <forward>.

5.In the “Where Are You?” window select your city, country, and time zone. Use the “Set Time” button to adjust the time. Click <forward>.

6.In the “Keyboard Layout” window select your keyboard.Click<forward>.

7.In the “Who Are You?” window, enter your name, login, and password. This becomes you admin password. Click<forward>.

8.Select your hard drive in the “Select a disk” window to automatically install Ubuntu. Click <forward>.

9.Select “Resize <selected drive/partition> and use freed space” from the “Prepare disk space” window. Use the slider to select a new size for the existing partition. Click<forward>

10.The “Ready to install” window will appear with information about where Ubuntuwill be installed. Please make sure this is correct and click <Install> to accept.

11.After the installation is complete, remove the CD and click <Restart now> to reboot your computer.

12.You can now log in with the username and system admin password  you selected during installation. 

-------------------------------------------------

'''How to make a clean installation of Ubuntu  From the Live CD (Ubuntu only, no other system)'''

(Warning: Any existing information on your hard drive will be overwritten)

1.Place the Ubuntu CD into your computer's drive and restart the computer. From the boot menu select “Start or install Ubuntu”.

2.Once your computer has successfully restarted, double click the install icon on the desktop. This will launch the Ubuntu graphical installer.

3.In the “Welcome” window, select your language. Click <forward>.

4.In the “Where Are You?” window select your city, country, and time zone. Use the “Set Time” button to adjust the time if required.  Click<forward>.

5.In the “Keyboard Layout” window select your keyboard.  Click <forward>.

6.In the “Who Are You?” window, please enter your name, login, and admin password.  Click <forward>.

7.Select your hard drive in the “Select a disk” window to automatically install Ubuntu.  Click <forward>.

8.Select “Erase entire disk” from the “Prepare disk space” window.  Click <forward>.

9.The “Ready to install” window will appear with information about where Ubuntuwill be installed. Please make sure this is correct and then  Click <Install> to accept.

10.After the installation is complete, remove the CD and  Click<Restart now> to reboot your computer.

11.You can now log in with the username and system administration password  you selected during installation. 

-------------------------------------------------
This is the end of the front page and the start of the back page
-------------------------------------------------

'''Connecting to the Internet'''

1.Cable, DSL and almost anything that passes through an Ethernet or wirelesscard is supported.  USB based wireless adapters are generally not supported.

2.Most Dial-up external modems are supported

3.Dial-up internal modem.  A“Winmodem” it is not normally supported by Ubuntu.   You can go to http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/first.html or search www.ubuntuforums.org  for useful information. 

  If practical buy an external modem.
-------------------------------------------------
 ''' How to configure your dial-up '''

You will need your modem plugged in and powered up.  You will also need your Internet Service Provider's (ISP) connection phone number, as well as your ISP user name and password.

1.Right click on a blank spot on the panel at the top of the Ubuntu destop, select Add to Panel

2.Scroll down to System and Hardware => Modem Monitor. => Add Button.

3.Right click the new Phone icon and select Properties.

4.Put a check in Enable this Connection and fill in the details

5.Dial prefix is used only if you have to dial a number to get an outside line, normally left blank.

6.Click the Modem tab. For external  modems select /dev/ttyS0 for the modem  first port, or

7.Select /dev/ttyS1  for the second modem port. 
 
8.For internal modems select /dev/modem or /dev/ttyS4

9.If the test fails, go back to step 6

10.Click OK

To connect, click the phone icon and select Activate.  You will be asked for your password whenever you try to connect.

-------------------------------------------------
'''Windows keeps starting when I try to run the Ubuntu Disc.'''

 '''BIOS ''' stands for Basic Input/Output System  The primary function of the BIOS is to prepare the machine so other software programs stored on various media (such as hard drives, floppies, and CDs) can load, execute, and assume control of the computer. Your BIOS is booting from you hard drive and not your CD drive.  When you start the computer you will be able to enter the BIOS and reset the sequence that the  BIOS boots from . There are several good sources that can assist you in the process.   
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BIOS  
-------------------------------------------------
'''Where do you go for further help?'''

 '''Join a LUG.'''   http://ubuntutoronto.org/ Ubuntu Toronto is a Linux User Group (LUG) that specializes in Ubuntu. 

'''Sign up for Ubuntu-ca Digest'''    https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ca    a great spot to observe conversations about common problems people are having, listen to the solutions and learn the language of Ubuntu and Linux.

'''Visit the Ubuntu.org community'''    https://help.ubuntu.com/community/   Places like the Fridge and Planet Ubuntu can provide you with a better understanding of where the Ubuntu Linux Pros hang out and what they talk about.  Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) have useful answers.

''' Ubuntu Forums for Absolute Beginners'''   http://www.ubuntuforums.org/  Before you ask a question , look at the “tags“' tab.  '''Ubuntu Forums''' have  the answer to most of your questions . 

'''Documentation '''   If you go to  "System->Help->System Documentation" there is documentation for most things that are installed
 
'''The F1 Key''' Press the F1 key. Many questions can be answered by the help page  by pressing F1. or Right clicking on an item 

-------------------------------------------------
'''Just a little Peace of Mind'''

      Your admin  password is the password that you created while you were installing Ubuntu and is needed to change the system, you cannot damage your system unless you are asked for your admin password. Create a couple of user accounts.  Sign on as a user, not the admin  password account. While you are playing with all of the options you may be left with messed up settings for your user, but the core system will still be fine and if the worst comes to the worst then you could even make a new user account for yourself (However, Ubuntu will remember when you type your password for about 15 minutes and won't bother asking again, so don't mess around immediately after doing something to the system) .
-----------------------------------------------------
Please post your suggestions here
-------------------------------------------------
'''Special thanks to all of those who participated in the creation of this document '''
