{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 9:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 9pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 8pm
| Eastern
|-
| 7pm
| Central
|-
| 6pm
| Mountain
|-
| 5pm
| Pacific
|}

An hour later than usual to accommodate the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/453/detail/|Toronto release party]]</nowiki>

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

== Minutes ==

* Introductions
* Re-approvals:
** Added some items to CanadianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2010
** Re-approval meeting expected to be during <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-n/ | UDS-N]]</nowiki>, 25-29 October 2010
* ubuntutoronto.org appears to be dead, domain acquired by others
* Website!
** Waiting on Canonical IT for DNS switchover
** Go-Live date expected to be after UDS
** Launchpad Website team: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ca-website]]</nowiki>
** Get a blog running is 1st priority
** Need to hand out some more admin privileges
** Website URL: http://www.ubuntu-ca.org/ ; development URL: http://ubuntu-ca.jankeconsulting.ca/
* LUG Outreach:
** Anyone in a LUG who wants to be an Ubuntu Liaison should contact <nowiki>[[dscassel]]</nowiki>
* There were release parties across Canada!
* Upcoming events:
** Mini Maker Faire Ottawa, Nov 6-7: <nowiki>[[http://artengine.ca/makerfaire]]</nowiki>
** UDS in Orlando, FL <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-n/]]</nowiki>
** FSOSS at York University, Toronto <nowiki>[[http://fsoss.senecac.on.ca/2010/]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=mm8meq5df0eh7tfjq2rp5519k4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/Toronto | Calendar]]</nowiki>)
** We just missed UbuntuOpenWeek 
* There be forums: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=395]]</nowiki>
* The <nowiki>[[ubuntu-manual | Ubuntu Manual Project]]</nowiki> can use contributions, esp. in non-geek English.

<nowiki>[[log]]</nowiki>

== Agenda ==

=== Introductions ===

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

=== Re-appoval ===
 
* LoCo council has asked us to submit our application by email Oct. 26.  see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2010
* The LoCo council meeting to discuss it is during UDS?  Need date/time.

=== Website ===

* Website team created. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ca-website]]</nowiki>
* Have we switched yet? Waiting on Canonical admins.

=== LUG Outreach ===

* No update.

=== Release Party recap ===

* We had 4 parties!
* If you went, please blog! Send links for team report.

== FSOSS == 

* October 28-29 in Toronto.

== UDS == 

* October 25-29 in Orlando
