{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Please Change/Add/Delete any agenda items you think need Changing/Adding/Deleting!
</pre>
== Ubuntu-ca Team Meeting in IRC ==

Held regularly on the fourth Thursday of the month.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8:00pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7:00pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6:00pm
| Central
|-
| 5:00pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4:00pm
| Pacific
|}

In the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>.  Freenode Webchat at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

/* Use the correct link from the Team LoCo Portal! */
You can register for this <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/|IRC Meeting for Ubuntu-ca at the Ubuntu LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki> (Optional, but it helps to show activity for our LoCo renewal)

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-ca: Canadian Team IRC meeting of 23 May 2013, 23 May at 23:01 &mdash; 00:01 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ca/2013/ubuntu-ca.2013-05-23-23.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

==== Meeting summary ====

===== Introductions: Who are you, where are you, what do you do with Ubuntu? =====
The discussion about "Introductions: Who are you, where are you, what do you do with Ubuntu?" started at 23:03.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings/2013-05-23 has the agenda for today

===== Canadian Team ReApproval =====
The discussion about "Canadian Team ReApproval" started at 23:07.

** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1075848 is the bug report (and resolution) for our reapproval

===== Events, past and present =====
The discussion about "Events, past and present" started at 23:16.

** ''LINK:'' http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/album/465654/detailed has the Guelph pics
** ''ACTION:'' azend to create an Ubuntu Canada Guelph Chapter page on the Wiki
** ''IDEA:'' The newly formed Guelph Chapter could host the IRC Meeting IRL  (BobJonkman, 23:25)
* '''Online events''' (23:28)

===== Other stuff =====
The discussion about "Other stuff" started at 23:36.

** ''IDEA:'' : Get some local makerspaces to print promotional posters for distribution to Canadian Team members  (BobJonkman1, 23:43)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ca for subscribing to the mailing list, for anyone who is interested
** ''ACTION:'' azend to ask on the mailing list about printing posters and stickers

==== Action items ====

* azend to create an Ubuntu Canada Guelph Chapter page on the Wiki
* azend to ask on the mailing list about printing posters and stickers

==== People present (lines said) ====
* azend (85)
* BobJonkman (61)
* BobJonkman2 (14)
* BobJonkman1 (11)
* meetingology (5)
* Slayah (3)
* KombuchaKip (2)
* lubotu1 (1)

=== Agenda ===

/* Witty comment and/or relevant notes about this meeting go here */
On 23 May 1873 Canadian Parliament establishes the <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North-West_Mounted_Police|North-West Mounted Police]]</nowiki>, the forerunner of the RCMP.

==== Introductions ====

* Regulars say hi. New people introduce themselves.

==== Canadian Team Re-Approval ====
* As of 29 April 2013, we're re-approved!
** Launchpad bug tracker for reapproval: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1075848
** <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ReApprovalApplication2012|ReApproval Application page]]</nowiki>

==== Events ====

/* Feel free to remove the "Past", "Ongoing", and "Upcoming" headers if they're not needed */
===== Past =====
* Ubuntu Hours  /* Update the links to the previous Ubuntu Hours */
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo#Ubuntu_Hours|Kitchener and Waterloo]]</nowiki>
*** Kitchener: 1st Friday of the month, 7:00pm
*** Waterloo: 4th Thursday of the month, 8:00pm
* Release Parties!
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2325-kw-raring-ringtail-release-party/|KW Raring Ringtail Release Party]]</nowiki>,  25 April 2013 at Kwartzlab (<nowiki>[[http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/album/464470/detailed|KW Pictures]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2353-toronto-raring-ringtail-release-party/|Toronto Raring Ringtail Release Party]]</nowiki>, 25 April 2013 at Alio Lounge
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ca/2393-guelph-raring-ringtail-release-party/|Guelph Raring Ringtail Release Party]]</nowiki>, 10 May 2013 at DIYode (<nowiki>[[http://pix.ie/ubuntuca/album/465654/detailed|Guelph Pictures]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1305/|UDS]]</nowiki>, 14-16 May 2013
* UbuntuOpenWeek, 21-22 May 2013

/* ==== Ongoing ==== */

/* ==== Upcoming ==== */
/* Items in Other Stuff might be useful to keep in the Template if they'll be used frequently */
==== Other stuff ====

----
(Back to <nowiki>[[..-|Canadian Team Meetings]]</nowiki>)
