{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 8:30pm
| Newfoundland
|-
| 8pm
| Atlantic
|-
| 7pm
| Eastern
|-
| 6pm
| Central
|-
| 5pm
| Mountain
|-
| 4pm
| Pacific
|}

Took place in the IRC channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-#ubuntu-ca]]</nowiki>

== Minutes ==

<nowiki>[[Log|Meeting Log]]</nowiki>

* Some discussion of CMS platform for the website. 
* Since we're hosting ourselves, we need to send backups of content to multiple people in case our provider disappears.
* <nowiki>[[AmberGraner]]</nowiki> dropped by to talk about what they're doing with The Fridge.
* We'll start Monthly Reports this month.

== Agenda ==

=== Introductions ===

If you missed out on introducing yourself last time, go for it!

=== Re-approval ===

* The LoCo Council will get to us "in due time."
* Following <nowiki>[[LoCoCouncil-LoCoTeamsBestPracticesandGuidelines|LoCo Teams Best Practices]]</nowiki>
* Our <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam-ReApprovalApplication2010|Re-approval page]]</nowiki>

=== Monthly Report ===

* We need to start doing them.
* <nowiki>[[TeamReports]]</nowiki>

=== Events ===

* Anything upcoming?

=== Website ===

* Getting the theme updated.
* Importing old data.
