{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-canonical-application-support
* '''Created''': 2009-11-25
* '''Contributors''':  ChuckShort
* '''Packages affected''': irqbalance, python-celementtree, python-svn, python-tickcount, python-genshi, python-pysqlite2, smartrpm-core, python-yaml, python-pastedeploy, python-beautifulsoup, python-protobug, python-ctypes, monit, python-openid, python-pastescript, python-trnl2pdf, nagios-nrpe-*, asterisk, drupal.

=== Summary ===

Canonical provides infrastructure for the Ubuntu project and makes use of several packages that need to be properly supported. We should review the list of server packages used by IS that are still in universe (or unpackaged) to make sure we support them correctly in main for LTS.

=== Rationale ===

This is a continuation of the package review that was done from the last release.

=== User stories ===

* Brian is a member of the Canonical IS team and wants to know that a CVE has been fixed in a recent upload of drupal, so he checks launchpad that the Ubuntu Security team has indeed patch drupal to fix a security hole.
* Gargamel is a member of the Canonical IS team and has a stability fix for Asterisk, opens a bug in launchpad and knows that the Server Team will take care of uploading the fix to the Ubuntu archive.
 

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

This canonical-application-support spec deals basically filing Main Inclusion Report for the required packages and fixing the packages so they are acceptable to go into main.

----
CategorySpec
