{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Summary ==
I am annoyingly active in encouraging my employers to look to Linux and opensource software, running the only Linux VM's in our company (Ubuntu Server's).

As a Chartered Accountant and Tech Enthusiast, my passion lies in finding opensource software to support business and solve business challenges.

== Extra Info ==
==== How I started ====
Back in my university days, I tried my hand at Linux.  Living in a small town in South Africa, I didn't have internet access other than at university, meaning that learning and installing software was a challenge.

Redhat and then Slackware were the first distro's that I tried my hand at.  This was all back in the early 2000's.  Once done with the studies and completing my training, I headed overseas and spent some time around some Mac enthusiasts.  For some reason, I decided to buy a Mac, but as soon as possible, loaded Ubuntu 12.04 and have been running Ubuntu ever since.

==== What I use Ubuntu for ====
Ubuntu has become my default desktop at home as well as my primary home server OS.  Although not technical, I enjoy trying to setup VM environments with specific purposes e.g. to learn Puppet etc.  The server monitoring and management tools fascinate me as these are critical to getting corporate adoption where I am employed.

My home server is an old piece of hardware faithfully sharing files and hosting the odd "dev" websites etc.

==== Ubuntu Involvement ====
Having a very young family, involvement is rather sparse.  ZA Team IRC meetings are a priority for me and joining them is a monthly challenge.

Not being technical, I was delighted to help with some of the ubuntu-za.org website pages on launchpad.  Especially to learn a bit about launchpad and bazaar.  I have since used that learning to launch my own "blog" using the same tools that the ubuntu-za website runs off.
