{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

I have Computer Technicians certificate from Control Data Corp and have been involved in IT for the past 20 years. I'm just embarking on a new business venture called WL ComputerWorx, opening date is August 1/2009.

I first became interested in Linux in 1998 when I saw RedHat 5.2 advertised in one of my suppliers price lists. I ordered a copy and a few days later received my boxed copy, I've been using one distribution or another every since. I first tried Ubuntu when I saw an ad for it on a web page, I ordered a couple of copies and couldn't get it to run on my hardware. I installed Ubuntu when version 6.06 came out and have been running Ubuntu as my primary os ever since.

I joined the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> in March of 2006 and did quite a bit of lurking until the spring of 2008, when I decided to start helping users with their problems. I was asked to become a Moderator in April of 2009.

=== Contact Info ===

LaunchPad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cariboo|~cariboo]]</nowiki>

UbuntuForums: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=77104|cariboo]]</nowiki>

Irc: cariboo907 on irc.freenode.net

=== Primary Interests ===

I spend most of my time in the next release section of Development & Programming sub-forum. I also monitor the Security Discussions sub-forum. I try to answer at least 5 unanswered posts a day in the Absolute Beginners Talk sub-form.  

=== Goals & Aspirations ===

I would like to apply for Ubuntu membership in the next year or so.

Since this page was created, I have put out feelers to see if there was any interest in starting a LUG/Ubuntu users group in my area.

=== Testimonials ===

See the Ubuntu Membership thread on the forums:

http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1747633

----
CategoryHomepage
