{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Kubuntu user since Feisty Fawn. Came from Mepis - great distro. Kubuntu fresher and seemed to have more staying power. Fellow LUG member talked me into experimenting with KDE 4.0. Could overlook the glitches and appreciate the KDE vision/architecture. Part of organizing group for <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxfestnorthwest.org|LinuxFest Northwest]]</nowiki> (LFNW) in Bellingham, WA. Fingerstyle guitar. Organization & sales/marketing consulting, high tech entrepreneur sometime in the distant past; probably a cranky English teacher in a former lifetime. Teaching and instigating at <nowiki>[[http://www.nwic.edu|Northwest Indian College]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~carlsymons
|-
| IRC
| kallecarl
|-
| Email
| carlsymons@gmail.com; carl@vaultechnology.com
|-
| Website
| http://www.vaultechnology.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

Main contact person for KDE and Ubuntu at LFNW. Several presentations about KDE, Kubuntu and desktop apps at public blug meetings and at the local tech industry group.  

=== Future Goals ===

Opportunities seek me out where there's a need for written clarity, cruel editing, fewer commas and a keen understanding of the difference between "its" and "it's". Also good with their, there and they're.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
