{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== CarlosFenollosa ==

I've been a debian user for quite a short time; one year with stable, two years with unstable. I also tested some other distros formerly, but I prefer debian.

Moved to Ubuntu because the six-months release policy and the easiness of configuring hardware. Once I know how to do it, and learnt it "the hard way" with debian, why do I need to fight with the console to get HW running?

I have a personal page (in Spanish) with some personal info, where I mantain a weblog which talks the most about software -free software- http://weblog.topopardo.com I also wrote once about my migration from unstable to ubuntu: http://weblog.topopardo.com/archives/000090.html

Nothing much more to say, I've been recently editing the list of supported HW (digital camera, printer, scanner, video card). When I have more time I might write some more documentation or ideas.

Hey, the Canonical people, you are great. Thanks for giving fresh air to Debian on desktops.

Watching topics:
* https://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/PackageManagement
* https://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/DesktopSeedProposals#bottom
* https://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/BaseSeedProposals#bottom
* http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/UbuntuDownUnderBOFs#bottom
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsAcer
----
CategoryHomepage
