{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===
I am a self-described Linux power user wanting to take a more active role in the Ubuntu community.  I have been using Linux since 1999, when I started with Debian potato (''muchas gracias, Cristian!'').  Since then I have tried Red Hat, Gentoo, and SuSE, but I'm definitely committed to Ubuntu -- so much so that I bought a <nowiki>[[http://www.system76.com|system76]]</nowiki> laptop in the summer of 2006.

For the past eight years I have been working in the litigation-support field, which (unfortunately for me) is still Windows-centric.  I have though used Perl extensively for text manipulation and scripting, and I'm currently learning Python.

=== Community Participation ===

My contributions so far have been <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/carenas2/+translations|translations]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/carenas2/+reportedbugs|bug reporting]]</nowiki>, and the occasional support offered in <code>#ubuntu-es</code>.

I am a member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam|Colombian LoCo]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam|New York LoCo]]</nowiki> teams.

=== Planes y visión de Ubuntu en Colombia ===

* crear un espacio de interacción para la comunidad de usuarios y desarrolladores de Ubuntu
* organizar o participar en eventos para dar a conocer a Ubuntu a potenciales usuarios particulares y empresariales
* abogar por el uso de software libre y formatos abiertos (usando a Ubuntu como plataforma), sobre todo en el sector público y en el sector educativo

=== Contact info ===

You can send email to ;
for IRC, Jabber, and OpenPGP info, please  see my
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/fooka|Launchpad profile]]</nowiki>.

...

----
CategoryHomepage
