{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I've been using Ubuntu since I installed the Hoary Hedgehog release in May, 2005.

Since then, I've been kind of active on the UbuntuForums and have written a good deal about Ubuntu on 
my blog, even having some success in converting friends and relatives to Ubuntu. I signed the Ubuntu code of conduct, and you can find my (still somewhat empty) Launchpad page here: https://launchpad.net/people/agger

Right now, I'm a bit too busy with my day job and my blog at <nowiki>[[http://www.modspil.dk]]</nowiki>, but at some 
point I hope I can get more involved in Ubuntu-related projects.

Apart from the occasional forum post, my main Ubuntu-related activity has been advocacy, primarily on my blog, of Ubuntu as well as of free software in general - if you read Danish, you could take a look at my blog's two IT-related "channels", <nowiki>[[http://www.modspil.dk/itpolitik]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.modspil.dk/itogtech/]]</nowiki> or search for the word "Ubuntu" in my blog posts. I also participate in the mailing list and IRC channel belonging to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanishTeam|Danish Loco team]]</nowiki>.

I expect to continue doing this. And while many other free systems are  excellent, Ubuntu is clearly the system to recommend to ordinary users - so this is  what I expect to continue doing.
----
CategoryHomepage
