{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| Jeremy Scott aka cashmoney
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cashmoney|Launchpad Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC: #ubuntu-amarillo'''
| cashmoney on freenode.net
|}

=== About Me ===
My name is Jeremy Scott and I've been an avid computer user since my first Apple II before moving to the Commodore64. After spending years with DOS/Windows, I started looking at alternate operating systems in 2000. Starting with Slackware then on to Redhat.  Quickly turning to openSuSE after the commercialization of Redhat.  Late in 2005, I discovered Ubuntu 5.04 Breezy Badger only to upgrade to Hoary Hedgehog shortly after release.  I was so impressed with the distro that I quickly registered with Launchpad to show my support.  After trying several different flavors of Linux, and having little success with any of them, I turned back to Ubuntu with 8.04 Hardy Heron. Not to mention that I now tend to install Ubuntu on anything that will boot.

=== Ubuntu-Amarillo Loco Team ===

I am the current Team Leader, along with some valued support, of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AmarilloTeam|Ubuntu-Amarillo, TX Loco Team]]</nowiki>. 

=== Personal Ubuntu Bio ===

* Member of the TestingTeam
* Member of the BugSquad

* My short term goals
**** Continue to contribute whenever and where ever I can
**** Develop the structure and goals of the Amarillo Team
**** Help the Amarillo Team to gain Approved Team Status (or use the Amarillo Team to support TexasTeam approval)

* My long term goals
**** Become an Ubuntu Member
**** Continue to advocate for Ubuntu and Open Source
**** Develop Ubuntu-Amarillo into a valued member of the Ubuntu Community
       

=== Resources ===

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AmarilloTeam|Ubuntu-Amarillo, TX Team]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cashmoney|My Personal Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>

 
----
CategoryHomepage
