{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

My first Linux experience was with a licensed embedded Linux purchased by the company I was working for at that time to develop the VPN router more than 15 years ago. 

I was employed at 3Com for a few years, and what fascinates me is the founder of the company is the patent holder of the Ethernet, which he charges $0 loyalty fee. This is very similar to Open Source. There are many reasons why Ethernet becomes the most adopted layer 2 connectivity technology, and I believe this is one of them.  

I have been employed at Canonical for the past 7 years and doing work to promote Ubuntu in various ways. 

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| catbus
|-
| Email
| samantha.jian@gmail.com, samantha@ubuntu.com
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~samantha-jian|~samantha-jian]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===
In the first 2, 3 years at Canonical, I validated Ubuntu Desktop on laptops and desktops as part of the team to make sure "Ubuntu just works". About 5 years ago, I transitioned to the Cloud and Server side to work with our technology partners on a daily basis. MAAS is essential to provision data center servers and I help our partners to set it up in their lab and provide troubleshooting assistance. I also enjoy working with our partners to develop joint solutions which requires technology validation and business alignment. As part of that, I have also worked on using Juju to deploy big software such as OpenStack and Kubernetes. 

I can't do my job without the support of the great engineering teams at Canonical. I occasionally hop on #maas and #juju channel to help answer questions for people who are interested in Juju and MAAS. 

At Canonical, I've contributed to Ubuntu in a number of ways:

* Drove and coordinated the engineering teams at Canonical and Cisco to enable power driver for UCS servers in MAAS.
* Drafted the first kernel HWE patch diagram as part of partner onboarding, which then later adopted by the Ubuntu Kernel team. 
* Used MAAS, Juju, Conjure-up, submitted bugs, and provided feedback on documentation.
* Helped new users on #maas and #juju. 
* Reported bugs on checkbox and checkbox-ng. 

=== Future Goals ===

* Continue to promote Ubuntu, MAAS and Juju. 
