{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Launchpad entry: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cd-burning-solution
* Created:  by JaneWeideman
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: NeedsLead, NeedsSecond
* Contributors: JaneWeideman
* Interested:
* Status: UbzSpecification, BrainDump (then DraftSpecification then EditedSpecification then ApprovedSpecification), DistroSpecification
* Packages affected: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
 <<FullSearch>>
* BoF sessions: none yet 

=== Summary ===
CD Burning Solution - evaluate solution used in Ubuntu: many programs vs. one centralized program (brasero or gnomebaker).

=== Rationale ===
CD/DVD burning is a basic computer task that should work out of the box. Ubuntu should provide a full featured cd burning solution which is simple to use. Nautilus cd burner and serpentine are simple to use but lack anything but the most basic features. Brasero has a simple interface yet provides many useful features without being bloated.

Nautilus cd burner has several issues:
* there is no way to tell how much space is left on the disk
* doesn't do integrity check
* adding files is only possible through drag and drop, which isn't obvious at first sight.

Brasero has many features that are lacking in nautilus cd burner and serpentine:

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===
Brasero is the only well maintained gtk cd burning program.

=== Implementation ===
Bring Brasero into main (See MainInclusionReportBrasero ) and include it in the default Ubuntu installation. Make it start when an empty cd or dvd is inserted. Remove serpentine from default installation.

==== Code ====
Brasero is already in the Ubuntu repositories.

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
[Nmwillard]- Currently in Dapper release Nautilus has a option to burn data CD's via a simple drag and drop option much like Windows XP or Direct CD, in the Places Menu there is a option listed as CD/DVD Creator, also when a Blank CD/DVD is inserted you are asked whether you would like to use it for data burning. This feature is more then enough for most average PC users, and any advanced burning software can easily be added separately for the users specific needs.
