{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/cdrkit
* '''Created''':  by LucaFalavigna
* '''Contributors''': LucaFalavigna
* '''Packages affected''': cdrecord, mkisofs, cdda2wav

=== Summary ===
cdrkit is a brand new suite of programs (based on cdrtools) released under GNU GPL.

=== Rationale ===

cdrtools author Jörg Schilling recently released parts of his software suite for CD burning under <nowiki>[[http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.php|CDDL license]]</nowiki>, which is incompatible with GNU GPL license, as clearly <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html|stated]]</nowiki> by Free Software Foundation.

So, Debian developers have released a fork of cdrtools suite named <nowiki>[[http://debburn.alioth.debian.org/|cdrkit]]</nowiki> in order to replace Shilling's original software.

=== Scope ===
This specification covers the transition from cdrtools to cdrkit.

=== Implementation ===
This suite is still on heavy development, so we should follow <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?which=pkg&data=cdrkit&archive=no&version=&dist=unstable|Debian cdrkit bug report]]</nowiki> for a while and do a very accurate testing phase before releasing a stable version.

=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[http://debburn.alioth.debian.org/|cdrkit packages]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2006/09/msg00002.html|Debian devel cdrkit announce]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://lkml.org/lkml/2006/1/23/267|Discussions about cdrtools and the Linux kernel]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?which=pkg&data=cdrkit&archive=no&version=&dist=unstable|Debian cdrkit bug report]]</nowiki>

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
