{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Purpose ==

This page has been created to complement my idea (currently) on the MarketingTeam/Ideas page. It involves leaving Ubuntu ShipIt CDs in busy locations such as train stations along with a few printed inserts. The purpose of this, which is explained on the inserts, is for members of the public to take the CD home, use it, then either give it to someone or leave it in another busy location (and they are encouraged to make a CDR copy for themselves as well). Each person has the option of adding their name to a tracker (as each CD's inserts have a unique code), to see how far the CDs spread. The purpose of this page is to act as a mockup for the tracker (for people who do not wish to sign up for Launchpad they can write their name in a specified area of the insert [which has a request for recipients to glue on extra sheets if needed] and a notice requests that the next person who does add themselves online also adds the names written on the insert which have not yet been added). This top section will not appear on the final site, and neither will the bottom comments section. Please leave ALL comments in the bottom section (referencing which part you are talking about if needed) so all changes in the main body are ones which will appear in the final page. There are a few example entries, these are mine since I plan to release two of my CDs in this way (sorry, that's all I can manage), so these WILL be present on the final page, because they will contain the mt entry for each CD. Also remember that the whole table layout will need to be copied for each CD that is released into the wild, so there may only be two tables here but there will eventually be one for every CD.

It would be great to set up a map with the current locations of CDs, and work out the length of their journeys. This might take a bit more work though, so maybe add it later.

== /Purpose ==

=== The Latest Version Is 6.06 LTS ===

Welcome, this web page has been created to keep track of several CDs containing the Free Software Ubuntu computer operating system which have been released "into the wild" for general members of the public to copy and pass on, anonymously or otherwise.

== I got this CD somewhere... ==

If you have found or recieved one of these CDs then you can decide to add your name to this tracker! This is in no way compulsory for using the CDs, but it is an interesting community experiment to participate in. This website is a "Wiki", meaning that registered members can edit the page with a user-friendly interface, so if you wish to add your name you will need to register on the <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net|Launchpad.net]]</nowiki> website. NOTE: This is not a commercial venture and none of your details will be shared with anybody! The only reason for registration is to prevent malicious editing of the site. Launchpad accounts are useful for other reasons though, since you can tell the makers of Ubuntu about any problems you have had by sending bug reports, you can offer any ideas that you might have for new computer programs and, best of all, you can get Ubuntu CDs posted to you absolutely free (you don't even pay postage!) using the <nowiki>[[http://shipit.ubuntu.com|ShipIt]]</nowiki> service! (You may even consider releasing some of these CDs through this tracked CD Sharing system!)

'''IMPORTANT:''' If this does not interest you in the slightest, or you have apprehensions about using the CD, then PLEASE do not throw it away! There are many people in the world who's lives can be enriched by access to professional quality computer software for no cost, so please pass it to someone else or leave it in a location where it will be picked up!

== What CDs? ==

If you have found this site without receiving one of the many free CDs circulating around the world then don't fret! You may be wondering what Ubuntu is, therefore a useful place to start would be the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|main Ubuntu website]]</nowiki>. If you are interested, and aren't able to download the 600MB+ CD and write it to disc yourself, then you can sign up to the <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net|Launchpad.net]]</nowiki> website and get a collection of Ubuntu CDs posted to you absolutely cost free (that includes postage!) through the <nowiki>[[http://shipit.ubuntu.com|ShipIt]]</nowiki> service! If you do, then you might consider donating one of your free CDs to the community by releasing it under this tracked sharing system.

== CDs In The Wild ==

If you have aquired one of these CDs then check the Unique ID printed on the paper insert and find it here. Not only can you see the journey it has taken so far, but you can add your part of the story, see below for instructions for editing!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Unique ID: WarboShef1
| 
| 
| 
|-
| CD Number
| Name
| Location
| Date
|-
| 1
| Chris Warburton
| Sheffield, UK
| 2006-09-25
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Unique ID: WarboShef2
| 
| 
| 
|-
| CD Number
| Name
| Location
| Date
|-
| 1
| Chris Warburton
| Sheffield, UK
| 2006-09-25
|}

== Instructions For Adding Yourself ==

If you want to add your name to this list then there are two ways of doing it, either online (where you will need to register an account) or offline (where someone else with an account will add you).

=== Online ===

1) The online tracker is here, but to change the page you will have to sign up to the Launchpad.net network. This is the main system of communication for the Ubuntu community, and it minimises website vandalism.

2) Once you are signed up then you should click the "Edit" or "Login to Edit" button at the top of this page to gain access for editing. (If you click "Login to Edit" you may need to press the Back button in your web browser to get back to this page, then click the Refresh button to acknowledge that you are now logged in)

3) You will be presented with a page containing a large text box with the unformatted text of the page. Don't be put off, this is a "Wiki" system and is really easy to edit!

4) Scroll down until you find the section for the CD you received and compare the names already online to those which may be written on the inside of the CD wallet. If some of those in the wallet are not online yet you should add them before yourself.

5) A table in the Wiki system uses new lines for new rows, and two vertical bars <code>||</code> for new columns (including the beginning and end of the row). Add someone by simply writing a new line after the last entry which reads something like this (please leave any fields you don't want known blank):

<code>||</code> 1 <code>||</code> John Smith <code>||</code> London, UK <code>||</code> 2006-01-01 <code>||</code>

(Since these CDs may be crossing borders it is preffered that you use the internationally recognisable date format YYYY-MM-DD)

6) Once you have added all of the people, including yourself, that are needed then click the "Preview" button below the big text box and make sure it appears properly. If not then you can scroll up, make changes and preview again (don't worry if you can't get it right, someone else will come along and correct any formatting later if needed)

7) If the preview looks OK then you can optionally add a small comment in the small text box, then click "Save Changes"

Well done! Now you can pass the CD on, maybe making a few copies for yourself and people you know. You might want to cross out any names on the insert that you have added online and maybe extend the insert with a little more paper if it becoming full. Now we hope you enjoy using Ubuntu and recommend it to your family and friends!

=== Offline ===

If you are still a bit wary of signing up to the Launchpad network and would rather someone else did it for you then simply add yourself to the table on the insert (leaving any fields you would rather not answer blank) and pass it on like normal. The next person to add themselves online should also add you!

== Broken CDs ==

If you receive a broken CD, break it yourself or the built-in validation tool finds that it is corrupt then could you please order some free CDs from the <nowiki>[[http://shipit.ubuntu.com|ShipIt]]</nowiki> service and replace the disc (not the wallet, since that contains the information for tracking the disc) with a working one. Please only use the PC "x86" discs, not the 64bit PC or Mac ones. After replacing the disc you should increase the "CD Number" value on the insert by one.

If the CD wallet is suffering more than general wear and tear you can follow the instructions for replacing/creating a new CD to give it a makeover (but remember to use the same "Unique ID" as the damaged wallet). If you also replace the CD then please increase the "CD Number" by one.

If this is not possible for you then could you please add a notice to the CD or wallet in a prominent location which clearly states: "This CD is broken, please see website for instructions on getting free replacements" then pass it on (preferably face to face, since somebody finding a CD labelled as "Broken" will probably end up throwing it away). This way someone else can replace it instead.

== Updates ==

Ubuntu is updated every six months, and most releases offer free CDs through the <nowiki>[[http://shipit.ubuntu.com|ShipIt]]</nowiki> service. For this reason some of the CDs might be better off with updated replacements to keep them going. Check the latest version at the top of this page, and if your CD is older than this then please replace it with a free CD from <nowiki>[[http://shipit.ubuntu.com|ShipIt]]</nowiki> of the newer version. You can replace it by following the instructions in the replacing/creating section below (please replace both the CD and the wallet, keeping the "Unique ID" and increasing the "CD Number" by one).

== Replacing And Creating Tracked CDs ==

As you probably know by now, CDs can be ordered for free from Ubuntu's <nowiki>[[http://shipit.ubuntu.com|ShipIt]]</nowiki> service.

The insert and label can be downloaded in Portable Document Format from <nowiki>[[http://www.IDoNotExistYet.org/CDInsert.pdf|here]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu comes with all the tools needed to view and print PDF). It is double sided, so please print this onto both sides of a standard A4 sheet of paper (or copy out the table on the back manually if you prefer) and use tape or glue to secure the label to the top left of the front of the CD wallet, and the insert to the BOTTOM ONLY of the inside of the CD wallet, with the information and instructions facing away from the CD (stick it below "The Ubuntu Promise" and "System Requirements"). Only stick the bottom of the insert so it can be folded down to reveal the information printed on the CD wallet. By folding it down the reverse of the sheet can be extended if needed without losing the table's headings.

Additional sheets of paper can be added to the insert if the list of names inside is getting full. You should stick the new sheet in such a way that it is not visible when the CD wallet is closed, and that it folds to leave the information sheet visible as the wallet is opened. Extend the lines of the table with a straight-edge and pen or pencil.

Think of a "Unique ID" for your CD, it can be anything (please don't be offensive though). An example would be WarboShef1, which was the first CD released by the user <nowiki>[[Warbo]]</nowiki> in the city of Sheffield. Write this down legibly in the appropriate section. The first CD will always have a "CD Number" of 1, then add a new table to this page using copy/paste on the ones already here, editing it until it fits your CD. The only entry for a new CD should be you (in other words, remove any entries you also copied as they won't apply to your CD).

Now just give it to someone you know, or leave it in a busy area for someone to pick up and hopefully watch the names get added to your table!

== Comments From Recipients ==

Do you have something to say about your experience? Just write it here, preferably along with your name (or username)!

== Comments ==

This bit is for comments on the mockup :)

Yes, the PDF link is bogus!

I was thinking of a "dead" section, for CDs which have been confirmed as out of circulation, but decided against this because:
* There is so much opportunity to just pass it on or fix breakages that someone conciously killing a CD would not really be the kind to inform us
* Moving tables between 2 sections has too much room for error when attempted by a new user who has just received an apparently "dead" copy
* Updates, replacements, etc. shouldn't offer any excuse for "dead" CDs, so the feeling of guilt we desire in anyone contemplating killing a CD would be lost if we offered a section solely for that purpose
* Any "totals" (distance travelled, recipients, etc.) can be done for CDs still active as well, through an external page containing maps and things. (These cannot be put as totals at the bottom of each table, since that may confuse people adding new rows)
