{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== KINATIBUK-AN ==

== Mga Giya ==

Pananglitan <<BR>>
Cebuano/Visaya nga mga porma:

Original text: <<BR>>
msgstr[0] %d thing <<BR>>
msgstr[1] %d things <<BR>>
msgstr[2] %g things <<BR>> <<BR>>

Translation: <<BR>>
msgstr[0] %d butang <<BR>>
msgstr[1] %d mga butang <<BR>>
msgstr[2] %g mga butang <<BR>>

== Translating DocBook (XML) files ==

You can translate XML files using Launchpad Translations, by converting the xml to a pot file, using xml2po, and then importing it in Rosetta. <<BR>>

When translating XML files please make sure you are aware of the following things: <<BR>>

XML tags are case sensitive <<BR>>
When using xml2po and then po2xml, xml tags and attributes are case sensitive: Example: <<BR>>

Original: See the <ulink url="http://ubuntustudio.org/"> <<BR>>
Correct: Vea el <ulink url="http://ubuntustudio.org/"> <<BR>>
Wrong: Vea el <UlinK Url="http://ubuntustudio.org/"> <<BR>><<BR>>

menuchoice tag <<BR>>
"menuchoice" tag should inlude only "guibutton | guiicon | guilabel | guimenu | guimenuitem | <<BR>> guisubmenu | interface" tags. Don't include other tags or text outside of these tags.

Example: <<BR>><<BR>>

Original: <menuchoice><guimenu>Applications</guimenu><guisubmenu>Multimedia</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Movie Player</guimenuitem></menuchoice> <<BR>><<BR>>
Correct: <menuchoice><guimenu>Apliaciones</guimenu><guisubmenu>Multimedia</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Reproductor de películas</guimenuitem> <<BR>><<BR>>
Wrong: <menuchoice><guimenu>Apliaciones</guimenu><guisubmenu>Multimedia</guisubmenu>Reproductor de <guimenuitem>películas</guimenuitem>

What should not be translated
This section contains general information about strings that should not be translated and how to identify them.

Also to help you with identifying string that should not be translated, software developers usually add comments describing the intend of the text and tips about translating it. Always check the comments attached to each string.

Data placeholders and variable names
In many development languages, a developer can insert data into a string by using a placeholder such as %s or %d. You may also see more complex variations, such as %(variablename)s, $name or ${name}. Copy these variables and placeholders exactly as you see them (including the ending s), placing them in the exact order in whichever part of the string makes most sense in the target language.

If you're in doubt, ask another translator for advice.

Examples:

Original: I found $name ethernet device. <<BR>>
Wrong: S-a găsit $cevanume dispozitiv ethernet <<BR>>
Right: S-a găsit $name dispozitiv ethernet <<BR>><<BR>>

Original: Delete %(name)s ? <<BR>>
Wrong: Ștergeți %(cevanume)le? <<BR>>
Wrong: Ștergeți %(cevanume)s? <<BR>>
Wrong: Ștergeți %(name)? <<BR>>
Right: Ștergeți %(name)s? <<BR>><<BR>>

Formatting/XML tags
You may see HTML/XML tags, such as <strong>, used to format text in a string. Copy these tags exactly as you find them and apply them to the relevant part of the text, remembering to close the tags as appropriate. You may also see other tags, such as XML, and should treat them the same way.

Examples: <<BR>> <<BR>>

Original: <strong>File name</strong> <<BR>>
Wrong: <puternic>Nume fișier</puternic> <<BR>>
Right: <strong>Nume fișier</strong> <<BR>><<BR>>

Also you should not translate the xml tags attibutes and their values (if you translate their values, make sure you know what you are doing and check the developers comments). <<BR>><<BR>>

Examples: <<BR>><<BR>>

Original: <link linkend="desktop-themes"> <<BR>>
Right: <link linkend="desktop-themes"> <<BR>>
Wrong: <link linkend="temi del desktop"> <<BR>>

Context text <<BR>>
In some old GNOME translations you might encounter translations context encoded into the original string. For for information please see: http://leonardof.org/2007/12/01/context-in-gnome-translations/en/ <<BR>><<BR>>

Examples: <<BR>><<BR>>

Original: "Orientation|Top" <<BR>>
Wrong: "Orientare|Sus" <<BR>>
Wrong: "Orientation|Sus" <<BR>>
Right: "Sus" <<BR>>

This page is under construction.
