{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:45%; background:#F1F1DD; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Contents'''
|-
| 
|}
=== José Celvin Rivas Ayala ===

     He sido usuario Debian ya por muchos años y ahora me apunto en las listas de Ubuntu para poder apoyar a mi país El Salvador en su desarrollo tecnológico desde una perspectiva comunitaria, ubuntu es un gran proyecto que puede ayudar a este objetivo y barbaridad de Salvadoreños lo usan ya como primer sistema operativo en sus ordenadores.

para saber mas del trabajo que Ubuntu El Salvador está realizando, por favor visite el wiki en https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElSalvadorTeam

Un proyecto nacional en el que estoy todo el tiempo es http://www.gnusal.org
Proyecto para promover el uso y desarrollo de tecnología de Software Libre

== About me ==

My name is Celvin Rivas, I'm from El Salvador. I'm the team contact and one of the founders of the Ubuntu-sv LoCo Team.

=== Contact information ===

* Email: josecelvin at gmail dot com
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~celvin
* IRC: celvin at irc.freenode.net
* default channel #gnusal at irc.freenode.net
== My involvement in Ubuntu ==

I'm an Ubuntu user since Breezy and began work to the community in 2007. The Ubuntu El Salvador LoCo team was aproved in 2008 and since then my main efforts have been work and work to become El Salvador to the new technological age with Ubuntu and the "Software Libre" ofcourse.

I've participated in the organization of Ubuntu-sv and Gnu EL Salvador, and in the Software Freedom Day ceebrated in Managua, Nicaragua (<nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/Competition2007/Winners#head-d3d0c0cb65d1b322f499dd916f07db8dfee887cf|Best SFD event worldwide]]</nowiki>)

I've also represented Ubuntu in meetings and events with other LUGs in El Salvador.

=== Team participation ===

* Ubuntu Nicaragua LoCo Team
* Ubuntu Central American Team
* Launchpad Beta Testers
* Ubuntu Artwork Team
* Ubuntu Support Team

=== Technical Experience ===

* Java and j2me programmer
* PHP developer
* Ajax
* Python programmer
* Kernel Destroyer

* DBMs MySQL and PostGreSQL.
* also ORACLE, insn`t Software Libre but...

=== Future plans ===

* Continue my work with the Ubuntu-sv LoCo Team
* Develope software to DEB based Linux distros.
* El trabajo en proyectos para traducir Ubuntu y su documentación
* Work in the Kernel :-)

== My work outside the Ubuntu community ==

I'm active member in other FOSS communities

* Debian El Salvador
* FreeBSD brasil
* GNU España.
* Software Libre Centro América
* Developers community

== Cheers from the community ==

* Looking forward to meet you at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubucon/SanSalvador|Ubucon San Salvador]]</nowiki>! -- FabianRodriguez

----

CategoryHomepage

CategoryTestimonial
