{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


This is a page about the involvement of CensoredBiscuit in the Ubuntu Community. For details about him vist his wiki homepage

== My Involvement with the Ubuntu Community ==

=== Teams ===

Teams I show an active interest in <<BR>>

* Beginners-Team
* Accessibility
* Documentation
* Ubuntu Youth
* SpeechControl
* Wintermute 
* Testing
* News
<<BR>>

==== SpeechControl ====

One of the projects that I mostly concerned with is Ubuntu Speech Control, as a person with Cerebral palsy accessibility is a big issue. I know what its like not to be able to do some things that others can.. I feel it is my duty to the community who has helped me come so far, to make sure that everyone can use a computer. I accomplish my role on speech control by keeping the wiki up-to-date and keeping the admin work under wraps to keep the developers doing what the do best. Developing.

==== WinterMute ====

One project I am really excited about being able to help with is Wintermute. Which is a side project of the speechcontrol team. We are working to build the first AI with ties into a users operating system. I'm so far involved with two points of this team, the website and wintermute Psychology.

===== SII Website =====

I am a lead in the SII website team.  I'm mostly dealing with the organization of the content writers. All members of the website team will be selectively chosen due to the amount of permissions that they are given. I'm excited to see how this will turn out.

===== Wintermute Psychology =====

I am beginning to help with Wintermute Psych which will teach wintermute everything it will need to learn and help it look into different situations.

==== Ubuntu Youth ====

I am a member of the Ubuntu Youth team/community. I mostly serve this team, by being a youth (that uses ubuntu). I often talk about ubuntu and my friends ask me for CDs and install it on their machines (and that makes me happy.) 

===== UY Council =====
I was recently put on the Ubuntu Youth Council which is means I'm an op in -youth, and I help in resolving conflicts and such as needed.

=== IRC ===

* #Ubuntu
* #Ubuntu-offtopic
* #Ubuntu-Beginners
* #Ubuntu-Beginners-Team
* #lubuntu-offtopic
* #Ubuntu-Youth
* #Ubuntu-Youth-Council
* ##sii-psych
* ##sii-website
* #Ubuntu-Testing
* #speechcontrol
* #speechcontrol-devel (I translate things into English (from Klingon) for the rest of the world)
* #speechcontrol-offtopic
* #Ubuntu-News
* #Ubuntu-doc
* #Ubuntu-Server
* #ubuntu-accessibility

<<BR>>
To name a few (You might see me lurking in other channels)
