{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
19:49 < TxBot> =-=-=Meeting mode enabled=-=-=
19:49 < stlsaint> [TOPIC: Projets for Team]
19:49 < millertimek1a2m3> just so you know, i might end up moving over to go to texas A&m. so I might not be up for all the meetings in the future
19:49 < stlsaint> millertimek1a2m3: cool
19:50 < stlsaint> spridel: millertimek1a2m3 so i proposed an idea on the team wiki page...did you guys see it?
19:50 < millertimek1a2m3> i'll go look right now!
19:50 < stlsaint> millertimek1a2m3: no need
19:50 < stlsaint> ill just tell ya :)
19:50 < millertimek1a2m3> the one for the exas linux fest?
19:50 < stlsaint> i proposed an idea for a team bot as a beginning project for the coders in the team
19:51 < millertimek1a2m3> yea i saw that one a while back. i want a table but i didn't know how to say "i want one" on there
19:51 < stlsaint> and for anyone looking to learn
19:51 < millertimek1a2m3> ok
19:51 < stlsaint> it can be a collaboration from other personnel outside team (whom are mature) and would like to just do it for fun
19:51 < millertimek1a2m3> ok
19:51 < stlsaint> wadda think?
19:52 < millertimek1a2m3> sounds cool
19:52 < millertimek1a2m3> doesn't that involve network programming?
19:52 < spridel> I like the idea and well what would you like it to do?
19:53 < millertimek1a2m3> my studies have strictly been in app dev so far, my knowledge of networks is much more limited than that of app dev... it's something that I want to learn. if you guys are willing to be patient with me while i study up for all these dif classes and add this to the stack
19:53 < stlsaint> spridel: imagination :D
19:53 < millertimek1a2m3> :)
19:53 < millertimek1a2m3> well, what will it do and where will we start?
19:54 < stlsaint> millertimek1a2m3: it will do whatever we code it to do :D
19:54 < stlsaint> millertimek1a2m3: no limits
19:54 -!- cashmoney [n=cashmone@74.197.94.86] has quit ["Leaving."]
19:55 < millertimek1a2m3> right, but we'll have it do what?
19:55 < millertimek1a2m3> eh, i guess we can think that up later
19:55 < spridel> lay out a plan or could we just make it a project page on the wiki and add ideas
19:56 < stlsaint> spridel: that would be a great idea...right now its only proposed but i will change it and you guys can add ideas as you get them
19:56 < millertimek1a2m3> yea it's cool but where will we start? i mean, what language is this going to be programmed in?
19:57 < spridel> C, C++, Java, perl, python
19:57 < stlsaint> lol...thats the tricky part im in python but you and spridel are C++ coders...so it will prolly be in more C++ and i will try an embed some python
19:58 < millertimek1a2m3> ah
19:59 < stlsaint> i have never done it before so again its a project that all can learn from
19:59 < millertimek1a2m3> i've never done networking with C++. this will be my first project. and right on time too. i'm just finishing up on learning the rules for C++
19:59 < stlsaint> python is fairly simple for the basics...sockets
19:59 < stlsaint> for networking that is
19:59 < millertimek1a2m3> spridel: didn't know you were a C++ coder... check out astyle on sourceforge, it's really cool, i use it
19:59 < spridel> I think this may be better with perl or python, tbh
19:59 < millertimek1a2m3> that's excellent
20:00  * spridel has done a small amount, but not networking
20:00 < millertimek1a2m3> ah
20:00 < millertimek1a2m3> yea, perl is a networking language... languages have become very purpose oriented
20:00 < millertimek1a2m3> to the point where they are specialized
20:02 < stlsaint> well i have not done anything with perl
20:02 < stlsaint> i vote python :D
20:02 < millertimek1a2m3> yea
20:02 < millertimek1a2m3> well, i've done little with python...
20:02 < millertimek1a2m3> i know that networking can be done with C++ as well though.
20:02  * spridel has been told to learn python by a canonical employee ;)
20:02 < stlsaint> very simple syntax especially with the learning for sockets...i have the very basic layout of a bot to have it join a room and say one sentence :D
20:03 < millertimek1a2m3> i'll have to grab a few networking books with C++...
20:03 < spridel> if need be, i'll talk to my networking prof and former CS prof see if i could borrow a python book or what they suggest
20:03 < millertimek1a2m3> and wont the program that's eventually created reside on someone's computer?
20:03 < millertimek1a2m3> spridel there's no need, i have virtually 16+ gigs of books
20:03 < millertimek1a2m3> i good couple hundred of megs is all on python
20:04 < spridel> as much as I like reading on screen, paper is a good medium for me
20:04 < millertimek1a2m3> and what i mean about the program staying on someone's computer is that it must run on only one of our computers
20:04 < millertimek1a2m3> right?
20:04 < spridel> I assume that this bot would eventually replace TxBot
20:04 < millertimek1a2m3> spridel i understand. i would agree, but when they're free...
20:05 < stlsaint> spridel: meh, i dont know
20:05 < spridel> borrowing and getting help when need be
20:05 < spridel> that's free too
20:05 < stlsaint> we can start up a little test room for ourselves to bring in bot for testing
20:06 < stlsaint> also we will host the bot over launchpad via bzr version control
20:06 < spridel> just use #ubuntu-killeen
20:06 < millertimek1a2m3> stlsaint, we'll absolutely have to do that
20:06 < millertimek1a2m3> is bzr better than cvs or svn?
20:07 < stlsaint> no single one is better over the others but since lp uses bzr its the best way as of now..i plan on creating a vps just for all the version controls to be on
20:07  * spridel has no idea what you're saying
20:08 < stlsaint> lol
20:08 < stlsaint> .wiki bazaar
20:08 < TxBot> A 'bazaar' , Cypriot Greek: pantopoula<ref>Christou, Jean, "[http://www.
20:08 < stlsaint> lol...thats all wrong
20:08 < stlsaint> .wiki svn
20:08 < TxBot> 'SVN' or 'svn' may refer to: * Subversion , a revision control system * Social Venture Network, a social responsibility network.
20:08 < spridel> .wiki .bzn
20:08 < TxBot> Error: Failed To Fetch Wikipedia Result
20:08 < spridel> .wiki bzn
20:08 < TxBot> Error: Failed To Fetch Wikipedia Result
20:09 < stlsaint> spridel: since you are a coder version control is going to be your best friend in projects :D
20:09 < stlsaint> .wiki bzr
20:10 < spridel> hrm...did i just lose connection
20:10 < stlsaint> heck i though i did too
20:10 < millertimek1a2m3> no
20:10 < millertimek1a2m3> i'm here...
20:10 < spridel> we broke tx
20:10 < millertimek1a2m3> haha
20:11 < spridel> !TxBot
20:11 < TxBot> Factoid txbot not found
20:11 < stlsaint> spridel: but yea version control will allow all of us to edit/code of the same project and allow all to see changes that others did and it remembers EVERY single file we commit to it
20:11 < millertimek1a2m3> so "." commands tell txbot to look stuff up?
20:11 < stlsaint> !TxBot
20:11 < TxBot> Factoid txbot not found
20:11 < stlsaint> lol...i never changed it
20:11 < stlsaint> millertimek1a2m3: yes
20:11 < stlsaint> .wiki stlsaint
20:11 < TxBot> Error: Failed To Fetch Wikipedia Result
20:11 < millertimek1a2m3> stlsaint, what's the criteria...
20:11 < spridel> .google ubuntu
20:11 < TxBot> [Ubuntu Home Page | Ubuntu] http://www.ubuntu.com/
20:11 < millertimek1a2m3> oh it goes to wikipedia
20:12 < millertimek1a2m3> ahhh
20:12 < millertimek1a2m3> that's pretty cool
20:12 < stlsaint> yep yep
20:12 < millertimek1a2m3> you can tell it to information gather
20:12 < millertimek1a2m3> that would be useful for something that I wanted
20:12 < millertimek1a2m3> I once  had a class where the teacher kept giving me a bunch of words to look up. I hated the tedius part
20:13 < millertimek1a2m3> you think i can get this bot to look up definitions privately by batch so it'll look up like 50 at a time
20:13 < millertimek1a2m3> ?
20:13 < millertimek1a2m3> I'd like to do that
20:14 < spridel> lol
20:15 < millertimek1a2m3> alright well i'm in
20:15 < spridel> he doesn't respond to private messages
20:15 < millertimek1a2m3> just send me think link to the launchpad place whenever you get it made
20:16 < millertimek1a2m3> well... i guess i can message him when the channel isn't in use
20:16 < spridel> okay you can google through him
20:16 < millertimek1a2m3> which it's not a lot of the time
20:16 < millertimek1a2m3> .google noop florp
20:16 < spridel> you can .google in PM
20:16 < TxBot> [The Star Wars Original Trilogy on DVD, apparently...  (Brando x 2) [Archive]  - RPGnet Forums] http://forum.rpg.net/archive/index.php/t-261412.html
20:16 < stlsaint> it can send private messages
20:16 < millertimek1a2m3> hahaha
20:16 < spridel> but he doesn't respond to .wiki in PM
20:16 < stlsaint> just use /msg TxBot syntax
20:17 < spridel> lol apparently he does work, just wiki on ubuntu doesn't exist
20:17 < millertimek1a2m3> well I'd have to get him to run queries to some other site so I can get what I want for definitions
20:17 < millertimek1a2m3> is there any other topic?
20:17 < stlsaint> yes...
20:18 < stlsaint> [TOPIC: IRL Meeting]
20:18 < stlsaint> i would like to discuss about our next meeting being IRL
20:18 < millertimek1a2m3> IRL?
20:18 < spridel> meat space, In Real Life
20:19 < stlsaint> yep 
20:20 < stlsaint> it will take more of the team members to properly plan this though
20:20 < spridel> well how many are in the CenTex area?
20:20 < stlsaint> hrm, i think we are all about 45-hour apart
20:21 < millertimek1a2m3> hour?! i think you mean min
20:21 < spridel> lol
20:21 < stlsaint> :P
20:21 < millertimek1a2m3> yea, well when do you propose it?
20:21 < stlsaint> what do you guys think...we can put it on mailing list also
20:21 < stlsaint> sometime in feb
20:22 < millertimek1a2m3> sounds fine to me
20:22 < stlsaint> spridel: ??
20:22 < millertimek1a2m3> oh yea
20:23 < stlsaint> hmm?
20:23 < spridel> february, prefereable on a weekend
20:23 < millertimek1a2m3> i have something to talk about. not enough to start a new topic
20:23 < millertimek1a2m3> yes def on a weekend
20:23 < stlsaint> spridel: oh of course...we all have lives :D
20:23 < spridel> well i have 3 day weekends. :-)
20:23 < millertimek1a2m3> stlsaint, i thought you were in the army?
20:23 < stlsaint> millertimek1a2m3: i am
20:23 < millertimek1a2m3> don't they keep you really busy?
20:24 < millertimek1a2m3> oh yea, my subject to discuss: android.
20:24 < millertimek1a2m3> you know the mobile phone OS
20:26 < stlsaint> so i will send out email for rest of team 2nite for more input
20:26 < millertimek1a2m3> yea somewhere in feb and getting it mentioned
20:26 < millertimek1a2m3> ok... well doesn't that wrap that up
20:27 < stlsaint> yea...
20:27 < stlsaint> last thing
20:27 < stlsaint> [TOPIC: Texas Linux Feast]
20:27 < spridel> yes we must feast on linux
20:27 < stlsaint> is there anything particular as a team that you guys would want to participate in
20:27 < stlsaint> LOL...screw you
20:28 < spridel> "BRAINS...Send moar paramedics"
20:28 < stlsaint> i say we do a bit of everything but as you all know thats being discussed on texas team mailing list atm 
20:28 < stlsaint> or will we just focus on whatever texas team does and roll with it
20:29 < stlsaint> samalex: tsk tsk
20:29  * spridel has volunteered to help out day before/day of
20:29 < stlsaint> spridel: great but that still doesnt answer question?
20:29 < spridel> but I think we should see what happens with the tx meeting on the 7th on this
20:30 < stlsaint> kk, that answers question...thanks :P
20:30 < stlsaint> millertimek1a2m3: what about you?
20:30 < spridel> you can idle here, too. we take all comers
20:30 < millertimek1a2m3> i want to go to the texas linux fest that for sure
20:31 < stlsaint> millertimek1a2m3: again your not answer question :P
20:31 < stlsaint> millertimek1a2m3: shall we wait to see what texas team does?
20:31 < spridel> i saw we get behind what the Texas team does
20:31 < millertimek1a2m3> yea
20:31 < millertimek1a2m3> wait for the texas team of course
20:31 < stlsaint> cool than its settled...
20:31 < stlsaint> .meeting
20:31 < TxBot> =-=-=Meeting mode disabled=-=-=
</pre>
