{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is about installing and using Ubuntu Linux on Panasonic Toughbook CF-19

=== Installing Ubuntu ===

8.04 installs easily, either using netboot or DVD (from an external drive) or make a bootable install pendrive using unetbootin http://sourceforge.net/projects/unetbootin/

=== Configuring digitizer ===
 
Download the linuxwacom drivers version 0.8.1-4 from http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/

Then compile and install the new driver:

<pre>
tar jxvf <tarball>
cd linuxwacom-<ver>
./configure --enable-wacom
make
cp src/xdrv/wacom_drv.so /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/wacom_drv.so
cp src/2.6.24/wacom.ko /lib/modules/2.6.24-19-generic/kernel/drivers/input/tablet/wacom.ko
depmod -a
</pre>

Add the following sections to /etc/X11/xorg.conf
<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Mode" "absolute"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option	   "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "Mode" "absolute"
    Option	   "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "Mode" "absolute"
    Option	   "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"
EndSection
</pre>

And add the following lines to the ServerLayout section:

<pre>
        InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
</pre>

Then reboot.

After that most of the laptop functionality works out of the box.  

=== Screen rotating ===
You may want to add ability of screen rotating between landscape and portrait mode to your CF-18.
First remember to turn off all compitz beautifiers :(. And sorry, no automated rotation this time. 

Screen rotating functionality works great with the help of simple script (and sophisticated programmer who wrote it, thank you, Janek!). Open your text editor of choice as an admin (ie. "sudo gedit" in terminal), and copy/paste this text:

<pre>
if [ "`xrandr|grep 'current 1024'|wc -l`" -eq "1" ]
then
    echo "Rotate right"
    xsetwacom set stylus rotate 1
    xrandr -o right
else
    echo "Rotate normal"
    xsetwacom set stylus rotate 0
    xrandr -o normal
fi
</pre>
Save it with the name ''rotatescreen'' in folder /usr/bin/.

Execute ''sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/rotatescreen'' in terminal.

Now by executing "rotatescreen" command you will have your screen rotated between portrait and landscape mode. I created a simple activator with command ''rotatescreen'' in my panel - now all i have to do after changing position of physical screen is to tap an icon. 

=== Known issues ===

=== Works out-of-the-box in 8.04 ===

* Touchpad (Synaptics touchpad had issues in previous Ubuntu versions)
* SD Card reader
* Graphic Card
* USB
* Ethernet
* Screen closing sensor
* Wlan (wifi)
* Bluetooth - not tested
* PCMCIA adapter - not tested
