{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Sample Test Plan for Vuze ==

=== Introduction ===
These are sample requirements for the application testing of Vuze. These are for demonstration purposes only, and are not to be used for actual testing. 

This test plan will map the various requirements described in the project requirements document (FAQ) to a form that can then be used to create and track testing. This document is designed to ensure that all application requirements are validated by the test team.

==== 1.0 - Discovering Content ====
<nowiki>[[http://faq.vuze.com/?View=entry&EntryID=78|Source document]]</nowiki>
# Select "Featured Content" to see content we highlight that changes on a regular basis.
# Use the search bar at the top of the screen.
# Select categories or channels.
# Search by media type by clicking on the text below the Dashboard and OnVuze tabs (audio, video, all).
# Search by tags by clicking on the relevant word(s) on the left margin.
# Select "What's Hot" to see what's popular.
# Select "What's New" to see the most recently added content.
# Click on the publisher's name to see all content uploaded by that particular publisher.
# And don't forget to check out the "Best of Vuze" for our all-time favorites and top picks!
# Try toggling the Mature filter, especially if you are looking for a specific content.
# Keep in mind you can combine searches to get more specific results (for example, click "What's Hot" and then "Audio" for the most popular audio content...).  

==== 2.0 - Search Box ====
<nowiki>[[http://faq.vuze.com/?View=entry&EntryID=252|Source document]]</nowiki>
# Prior to our upgrade of Search, the Vuze search box returned results only from the Vuze Network.   
# You can choose to continue to return only Vuze Network search results.  
# With our new meta-search (multi-site) functionality, you can now modify the Vuze search box to also return results pulled from other popular torrent and video sites beyond Vuze.
