{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Chad Smith (chad.smith) ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ''' Location'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[ https:--www.google.com-maps-place-Fort+Collins,+CO-@40.5567676,-105.1378638,12z-data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x87694a4590f030ad:0xa9b14228b4ab4082!8m2!3d40.5852602!4d-105.084423 | Fort Collins, CO USA ]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Time Zone'''
| 
| Pacific Standard (UTC-0800) or Daylight (UTC-0700) Time
|-
| ''' Launchpad Page'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chad.smith|~chad.smith]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Email Address'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[mailto:chad.smith@canonical.com|chad dot smith at canonical dot com]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' IRC Nick'''
| 
| blackboxsw on freenode & OFTC
|-
| ''' Personal Website'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://blackboxsw.github.io/]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' !GitHub '''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/blackboxsw/|blackboxsw]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
I am Chad Smith, a developer on <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com|Canonical's]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> ServerTeam. My objective is to make complex software solutions like landscape, cloud-init and curtin more extensible, better tested, documented and easier to use. 

I have a BS in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from University of California Davis. I spent a couple of years dabbling in neural networks products 

My first exposure to Linux was Slackware '97 on embedded systems. Ubuntu changed my world view by making install and configuration of Linux on my desktop simple, usable and beautiful.

Before joining the <nowiki>[[http://landscape.com|Landscape team]]</nowiki> @ Canonical in 2011, I spent 10 years at HP, in the Open source and Linux Organization where I was a core developer writing SNMP and WBEM solutions for remote systems management. In the last couple years at HP, I developed configuration management solutions for bare-metal provisioning,  monitoring and tracking the ubuntu infrastructure on which HP Cloud was running. 

=== Links ===
* <nowiki>[[ ChadSmith-DeveloperPerPackageUploadApplication]]</nowiki>
