{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Chad Miller, apply for upload rights for package chromium-browser.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Chad Miller
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~cmiller/
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| ChadMiller
|}

== Who I am ==

I'm a Floridian interested in free software and making the world better. 

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===

I'm a long-time Debian and Ubuntu supporter. I helped with Debian informally in late 1990s and became Developer in December 2000, and lost interest in active development around 2004. I picked up Ubuntu very early, and grew excited again.

https://launchpad.net/~cmiller/+related-packages

https://launchpad.net/~cmiller/+participation

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

First, some old stuff: A few years ago, I helped maintain the ''desktopcouch'' and ''couchdb'' packages as part of my day-job in Canonical Online Services. ''couchdb'' upstream source and release policy was a bit of a nightmare, and it wasn't my idea to start it or keep it, but I tried to make it as good as was possible. One thing I am proud of is my splitting the packaging of ''couchdb'' into two packages so a system daemon wasn't implied if mundane users needed to run their own copies of couchdb.

I left Online Services in late 2012 and joined the Desktop Team to get closer to my interests, delivering software to users instead of writing server-side software.

The ''chromium-browser'' package was rotting then, because it was big, packaging was crufty, and no one understood it very well or had enough time to tend it.

Since I took it over, I've taken over the webapps patches from the #webapps team because I can't wait for someone else when a security update should be out the door soon.  

I've worked with upstream to have a better relationship. We have Google API keys built-in now, and I have met Chromium's linux-distro liaison.

I've added autopkgtests that verity that browser runs and requests pages, and our patched configuration changes were applied. I have switched to upstream's preferred build system, to speed up builds and use only tested paths. I dropped cdbs and switched to dh, and dropped 10 unnecessary build-deps.

I made the rules download official release tarballs, instead of checking out nebulous versions from the SCM, and I moved down the extraction root so we don't have to re-pack the orig tarball, which means we can check orig tarball checksums against upstream's to verify that my own workflow is not the easiest vector for attack of users.

I set up a staging PPA that I can upload to and get testing and QA feedback, and that Security team can copy from directly instead of waiting half a day for another build.

=== Things I could do better ===

I could get more QA involvement. Chromium is going through some big changes in Linux soon, and will need more eyeballs.

I should get Cr templates flowing into Launchpad again, and get Launchpad translations flowing into the packaging.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I dislike depending on GL hardware in our desktop. GL is still a fantastic headache. Ask me about nouveau for an ear-full.

Also, our grab handles for window management are far too small. Oh, and poor discoverability of buttons in maximized windows is dumb.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
=== JamieStrandboge (jdstrand) ===
I've worked with Chad on several occasions regarding chromium-browser updates. He is very knowledgeable of chromium-browser and its packaging and given sustained contributions over the years. Honestly, I was shocked to hear he was not an Ubuntu member yet. :) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jdstrand]]</nowiki> 
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Sebastien Bacher ===

Chad has been working on Ubuntu for quite some years, his work on chromium has been solid and I think he deserves getting upload rights for it!

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
