{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===
My name is chainsx.
I have been using Ubuntu since the summer of 2015.
I live in the southwest China.
I initially started using Ubuntu with the Raspberry Pi 2B. I obtained information from a few scarce documents and installed Ubuntu on the Raspberry Pi, feeling that it was a decent system. Later, I gradually started using Ubuntu on my laptop and desktop, and it became a part of my life. 
After becoming familiar with the building process of Ubuntu, I started building a 64-bit version of Ubuntu from scratch on the Raspberry Pi 3B and shared it with more Ubuntu enthusiasts. I also created a corresponding wiki to introduce it.
I use my limited spare time to carry out my hobbies. Although they are not so beautiful, I am trying to move forward.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~chainsx-dd
|-
| Forums Profile
| https://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=2179362
|-
| GitHub
| https://github.com/chainsx
|}

=== Contributions ===
I am committed to the porting and system building of ARM and RISC-V, including Raspberry Pi, Rockchip SBCs and RISC-V SBCs.
My expertise lies in kernel, u-boot, and system building.

=== Future Goals ===
My future goals are to keep helping others as much as I can.
I have been mulling building a tiny ubuntu system for SBCs.

=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.  People who aren't Ubuntu members can leave a comment above in favor of the application.

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
 
