{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Changlinn aka Morgan Storey ===

=== About ===
Long time Linux users and system admin, specializing in security.

'''Website''':http://www.morganstorey.com

'''Launchpad''': https://launchpad.net/~morganstorey

'''IRC'''(freenode): Changlinn

=== To Do ===

* upload gpg public key 
* sign CoC
* learn c++, Python and perl to contribute back.

=== Contributions ===

At the moment i don't do much for Ubuntu expect hang out on IRC, usually lurking, unless I have time to offer some minor tech support.

== Ideas ==

=== Easier server administration ===
* Gui based admin tools that work remotely via ssh with key based auth
* Using probably Python
* Should push Ubuntu on the server as a replacement to overpriced but easy to admin closed source servers.

=== Port SME server packages to Ubuntu ===

* SME server version of Ubuntu for small to medium business as a replacement to other proprietary Small Business Servers.
* These are in RPM format I believe, shouldn't be to hard to do with Alien, but I think there will be a lot of dependencies.

== Comments ==
Leave whatever comments about my Wiki page here.
* Thanks Gabz for the layout -- Changlinn
----
Related pages:
<<FullSearch>>
----
CategoryHomepage
