{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Chase Douglas, apply for upload rights for packages linux-firmware and linux-firmware-nonfree.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Chase Douglas
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~chasedouglas
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChaseDouglas
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team, employed by Canonical. My activities to date have included bug fixes for the Ubuntu kernels, a few upstream kernel fixes and improvements, and support for firmware in Ubuntu. I also wrote and maintain the <nowiki>[[RemoteInput|rinputd]]</nowiki> package as the upstream source and debian package maintainer.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I ran Gentoo for quite a while, and it helped me learn all about GNU/Linux. After a while, I started to use it on my <nowiki>[[http://mythtv.org|MythTV]]</nowiki> server as well as my desktops, but I found that I was spending too much time administering it. I moved my server to Ubuntu first, then moved my laptops to Ubuntu, and I've found it to be perfect for what I need. Once I arrived on the Ubuntu Kernel Team, I found myself to be enthralled by the challenge of making the Ubuntu releases work as well as possible. It enthuses me greatly to know that I contribute to helping people enjoy using their computers. I hope that this first step on the road to being an Ubuntu Developer will help further refine my skills so I can contribute more efficiently and effectively.

=== My involvement ===
My main areas of work on Ubuntu thus far have been on the kernel directly. I have helped resolve many bugs in Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, and I am currently working on making the Maverick kernel shine. Outside of the core kernel source code, I have fixed a few bugs up the stack into X and gnome, and I have been working on making power management better through the pm-utils package in Maverick.

With regards to the linux-firmware and linux-firmware-nonfree packages, I have taken responsibility for their development and maintenance in Ubuntu 10.04 and Maverick. Near the end of the development period for 10.04 LTS I spent some time handling every bug against both packages. The bugs list for each has dropped substantially, and I continue to work on resolutions. I also worked to make the firmware packages lintian clean, and I have added scripts to maintain the firmware by checking for upstream updates. I have worked with TimGardner and AndyWhitcroft to upload fixes into Ubuntu, and I believe this process has been successful all around.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
I have been maintaining releases of the following packages:

* <nowiki>[[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/linux-firmware.git;a=shortlog;h=refs/heads/maverick|Linux Firmware]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-branches/ubuntu/maverick/linux-firmware-nonfree/maverick|Linux Firmware Nonfree]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=cndougla/multitouch.git;a=summary|Lucid Multitouch Drivers]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~chasedouglas/rinput/debian|Remote Input Daemon]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===
Anything relating to the Ubuntu kernel and lower levels of the distribution that lie close to the kernel.

=== Things I could do better ===
I am still learning best packaging practices all around. I believe I am at an intermediate packaging level, but I hope that becoming an uploader and exposing myself to more packages will help me grow as a package maintainer.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
Regarding the firmware packages, I see one big area for improvement: keeping up to date with the firmware released upstream. We currently wait for bug reports before we pull changes from upstream or elsewhere. I would like to move to a model where we sync firmware from upstream near each Ubuntu development release.
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Regarding firmware, I think we do a reasonable job outside of the above goal. We are having some difficulty feeding firmware to upstream, but I am interested in helping to continue our effort in this regard.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
=== Tim Gardner, June 11, 2010 ===
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

Chase has prepared numerous versions of both linux-firmware and linux-firmware-nonfree.
I've found him to be thorough and meticulous. I beleive he is ready to be able to upload
this set of packages.

Tim Gardner
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.10 (GNU/Linux)

iEYEARECAAYFAkwSMQ8ACgkQ/VwK2Iv57+Y8OgCbBHZoIZDBT5kMAeq9c4HVnoao
UngAoJ2cOekqTpWUVC+b2ei8kvdRx3W6
=/ua+
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== Andy Whitcroft, June 16, 2010 ===
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

I have sponsored several uploads for Chase for the linux-firmaware and
linux-firmware-nonfree packages.  In the main he has generated quality
work and where there were issues he has been quick to learn from those
mistakes and correct them, he has an eye for detail which is essential
when dealing with these packages.  Chase has also shown sensitivity
to the potential legal issues with the licencing of the firmware
packages referring problematic inclusion to the appropriate people.
Overall I believe Chase is ready to upload to the firmware packages and
I wholeheartedly endorce his application for upload rights for them.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.10 (GNU/Linux)

iEYEARECAAYFAkwYz54ACgkQ7kQoFRG3d69zLQCgmbqpjGoN+OhLwiQHdZbXXn3N
j4wAoMcVwAr4MgifydL/4CNYSTrwzf1G
=aVMf
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
