{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About me ==

Ive been using various forms of Linux for around 5 years.  For the past year i have also done some red hat admin in my place of work.  I have been a Ubuntu Desktop user for around 3 years and also run debian stable and testing/dev dists on a few servers i have for varying purposes.  Mail irc/IM in stable and gaining knowledge in test/dev.  Having run and worked with Ubuntu, i would like to help to give back to the community which has served me so well, starting with learning more about how the distribution works and hopefully continuing with dev work eventually.  Meeting like minded individuals and sharing ideas is also a plus.

== Areas of interest ==

Kernel, gnome, video editing

== Timezone ==

Currently British summertime (BST) and usually available from 6pm to 11pm and varying times in between, including all day weekends.

== Current Work ==

I have provided simple fixes to the following LP bugs and sent upstream

LP493379
LP587301

== Mentorship ==

Currently being mentored by JFo for kernel bugs.  Bugs dealt with include the below

https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/299288
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/542729
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/24330
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/293453
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/481491
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/487248
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/606397
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/603440
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/604406
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/529845
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/588544
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/529829
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/384724
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/414833
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/604771
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/559096
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/561960
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/572215
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/518008
