{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===
I have exclusively been an Ubuntu user since release 10.04. Vista used to be my main OS before this, but a Linux friend gave me an Ubuntu 9.10 CD which I tried out until 10.04 was released.

One thing that I was never really happy about my new OS, was that its GUI was a bit ugly in my opinion. This meant that I was one of those happy folks when Unity came out while others opposed it.

And today Ubuntu is the OS on my laptop, home server, my dad's laptop and the first choice that my brother uses for his home studio. This will hopefully expand in the near future when I finally own a BQ Aquaris E4.5 with Ubuntu installed.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| chesedo on freenode
|-
| GTalk
| pehshelchesed (a) gmail.com
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~chesedo
|}

=== Contributions ===
Looking to help on askUbuntu from time to time. Am also actively helping on #ubuntu-za IRC since early 2015 and became part meeting chair in late 2015. Being in Africa means that I am also part of #ubuntu-africa and helped a little with its website.

=== Future Goals ===
To help make Ubuntu the best and preferred OS by the world. As part of this there is a few programs that I would like to eventually create.

The one (currently called Pointer) is something that will be an interactive manual which will guide a user through the steps to complete a task - much like one would guide a person who is computer illiterate.

The other (which will be called Bubbles) is inspired by Ribbons as used in MS Office. A menu system that is more modular so that it won't be a pain in the butt on small screen while also reducing repetitive clicking.

To start achieving these I need to become familiar with QT and the Ubuntu SDK. This has started when I created a scope named `Glances Remote` which allows the monitoring of a remote system using Glances.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
