{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting ==
Here is a breakdown of the Meeting on February 13th, 2007. Feel free to edit the wiki.

== Attendeded ==

Names, IRC nicks, and Location in the Location in the City/Suburb:

* Andrew W. Bassett | Awbassett | Mundeline
* Garrett Myserious | QC_passed | Elmhust
* Carson Hicks | chicks_ | Elmhurst
* J Lee Becker | Elmhurst
* Chad Sutton | Chadarius | Rolling Meadows
* Jim Campbell | J1mc | Edgewater 
* Matt Hidden | RedDEAD | Pilsen
* RJ Marsan | Red_Herring | Elmhurst
* Richard Johnson | nixternal | Bloomingdale
* Eddie Martinez | posingaspopular | Midway
* Freddy Martinez | Admiral_Chicago | Midway

== Minutes ==

Discussed opportunities for Flourish (a free/open source conference at UIC).
There are openings for us to possibly do a talk on something. No one was
sure what kinds of topics we should focus on. We need more details.

For the next meeting we talked about taking out some newspaper
classifieds for some of the local suburbs and Suntimes and Trib. A
suggestion for text was  "Are you Frustrate Windows User? Come learn a
better way to use your computer!  Visit http://chi.ubuntu-us.org." We
want to involve people of all levels of computing knowledge and walks of
life. Diversity is a good thing. Getting the word out in "non-techi"
ways, like brochures and classifieds, will help attract a diverse group
of people. We could be posting fliers/brochures and Ubuntu CD's in
libraries, coffee shops, and book stores.

We discussed meeting frequency. Quarterly meetings was suggested, but
there were concerns. If someone had to miss a meeting it would be 6
months between meetings for them.

We also discussed monthly meetings but that seemed too frequent and as
an Ubuntu specific group we wanted to participate in other LUG meetings
etc... and not reinvent the wheel. Things the other groups are doing and
doing well should not be what we concentrate on. We need to concentrate
on advancing/evangelizing Ubuntu, Linux, and FLOSS (and in that order).
Bi-monthly (once every 2 months) will allow us to meet regularly and
allow us to plan to "crash" other events on the off months, like LUG
meetings, LAN Parties, conventions, etc... The bi-monthly idea seemed to
have the most support.

We decided to have the next meeting on March 24th. Location is still to
be announced. Possible locations were the Elmhurst Library, Harold
Washington Library, and COD. Agenda items so far for the 24th are more
Flourish planning.
We talked about a Feb LUG meeting crash. Feb 28th - more planning on the
mailing list to be done
We also discussed a Feb Freshers/bugs meeting - also more details to follow.

As we were wrapping up, some random dude walked into the meeting and
realized he was in the wrong place. We gave him some Ubuntu CD's and he
took them saying, "I already have Ubuntu. I'll give these to someone
else!". And then he walked away.

== Feedback ==
