{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width: 100%; text-align: center; background: #E1E1E1; font-weight: bold; font-size: larger; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 15px ;-moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 15px;  border: none; -moz-border-radius-topright: 15px;-moz-border-radius-bottomright: 15px; "> '''Ubuntu Chicago Local Community Team Page - Collaboration'''
|}

There are many different user groups related to computing in the Chicagoland area.  Some groups are primarily made up of developers, others are made up of end-users, and yet other groups are involved in community and Free Software advocacy.

For more information on a specific group, click on it's name to go to that group's website. If you are aware of any other groups in the Chicagoland area, please feel free to add them to the list below.

=== Programming-specific Groups ===
* <nowiki>[[http://chipy.org/|ChiPy]]</nowiki> - Chi``Py is a group of Python users in the Chicagoland area. It covers both newcomers to programming/Python as well as experienced users.
* <nowiki>[[http://javascriptchicago.com/|Javascript Chicago]]</nowiki> - JS.Chi posts all of their talks, member projects, and relevant meetup info on their website.  The meetup meets once per month in the Chicago loop, at the CashNetUSA office.
* <nowiki>[[http://chiphpug.php.net/|Chicago PHP Users Group]]</nowiki> - Chicago PHP is the longest continuously running PHP user group on the planet! They meet regularly to discuss PHP and related topics. Meetings are small, but fun. New people (and "alumni!") are always welcome.

=== End-users, Administrators, and General Groups ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.chicagolug.org/|Chicago Linux User Group]]</nowiki> - The Chicago LUG is a group of all Linux users in the Chicagoland area. Their focus is on open-source advocacy, learning, and sharing their knowledge of Linux.
* <nowiki>[[http://clug.chicago.il.us/|LUNI]]</nowiki> - LUNI (Linux Users of Northern Illinois) is a Linux user group that consists of all Linux users in Nothern Illinois. Their range also covers the Chicagoland area.
* <nowiki>[[http://portal.cwug.net|Chicago Windows User Group]]</nowiki> -  The Chicago WUG aims to help everyone draw the fullest benefit from computers using Windows and software that runs on the Windows operating system. This is a large team with over 2,400 members.

=== Advocacy Groups ===
* <nowiki>[[http://freegeekchicago.org/|Free Geek Chicago]]</nowiki> - Free``Geek Chicago is a not-for-profit community organization that recycles used computers and parts to provide functional computers, education, internet access and job skills training to the under-served communities of Chicago in exchange for community service.
