{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChicagoTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' Rich Johnson <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Rich Johnson <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

===== Members Present =====
* <nowiki>[[Greenwom|Mike Greenwood (greenwom)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[nixternal|Richard Johnson (nixternal)]]</nowiki>
* Jason Czajkowski (Mr_H)
* Brian Green (bgreen)
* RJ Marsan (Red_Herring)
* Carson Hicks (chicks_)

===== Others Present =====
* Unknown (Friend of Mr_H)

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Member Introduction
* Ubuntu Introduction
* Local Community Team Introduction
* Ubuntu Chicago Ideas
* Advocating Ubuntu

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''18:00 UTC''', by Meeting Chair, '''Richard Johnson'''''

=== Agenda ===
The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

===== Member Intrudction =====
'''Presented by:''' Everyone present. Introducing themselves.

===== Ubuntu Introduction =====
'''Presented by:''' Richard Johnson. Slide show presentation outlining Ubuntu, it's history, meaning, and future.

===== Local Community Team Introduction =====
'''Presented by:''' Richard Johnson. Brief introduction to the the Ubuntu Local Community team. Community Council recognizes Ubuntu Chicago as an official Local Team. Outline what the Local Team is about, planes, ideas, and tasks.

===== Ubuntu Chicago Ideas =====
'''Presented by:''' Everyone present. Tossed around ideas for future meetings, ways to help support Ubuntu locally, ways to contribute to the community.

===== Advocating Ubuntu =====
'''Presented by:''' Everyone present. Came up with different advocational strategies. Planned marketing campaigns for Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu and Xubuntu. Billboard discussion, posters, websites, radio and TV.

== Conclusion ==
This was pretty much an introductional meeting. Future meetings will have more to them as the planning and implementation processes pick up.

Also noted, for new users and their Ubuntu Desktop CDs, not all computers are set to boot from CD-ROM, so we proposed a flyer that would help a new user set their system up. This is still in process and to be added to Agenda +1.
