{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===
Our main goal of this meeting was to get the scheduling nailed down for our upcoming Ubuntu Global Jam. We took care of this issue, and covered a couple other topics as well. We had many more members attend this meeting than we did last month.

=== Agenda Items ===
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#E1E1E1"> Name
| Topic
| Date Added
| Which Meeting
|-
| Steve (<nowiki>[[swoody]]</nowiki>)
| Ubuntu Global Jam Scheduling
| Feb. 24, 2010
| March 1, 2010
|-
| Draycen (<nowiki>[[ddecator]]</nowiki>)
| Possible Team Projects/Goals
| Feb. 24, 2010
| March 1, 2010
|-
| Draycen (<nowiki>[[ddecator]]</nowiki>)
| Wiki Page for Team Member Specializations
| Feb. 26, 2010
| March 1, 2010
|}

=== Topic Details ===
===== Ubuntu Global Jam Scheduling - Steve Woodruff (swoody) =====
Summary:
* We need to get down to business and nail down a date and location for the upcoming Ubuntu Global Jam

Discussion:
* The weekend of April 10th-11th seems to be best for most members to attend
* On``Shore Networks seems to be the favored location for the date/time we are looking for

Decision:
* Micah will double-check that we can hold this meeting at On``Shore
* If this location works out, it will be scheduled for the 11th of April - tentatively between noon and 5 PM

===== Possible Team Projects/Goals - Draycen (ddecator) =====
Summary:
* We as a team should get partner up with other projects and use our knowledge and experience to help how we can

Discussion:
* There was much support from the team on this subject
* Brain``Storm
** Ubuntu groups - Bugs, Docs, Triaging, etc.
** Local, Chicago-based groups - Free``Geek Chicago
* There was also a lot of support for seeing what we can do for Free``Geek Chicago
** Ubuntu installs
** Teaching users to use Ubuntu
** Spreading flyers, internet posts, word of mouth
** Joining with other local LUGs to work together on this project

Decision:
* Steve (swoody) will contact the Free``Geek Chicago group, and see how we can get involved as a group
* This topic should also be brought to the mailing list to get more feedback and ideas

===== Wiki Page for Team Member Specializations - Draycen (ddecator) =====
Summary:
* There should be a wiki page to list various specializations for members - i.e. doc work, packaging, bug triaging, etc.

Discussion:
* A list of this form may serve a purpose, but will most likely get outdated quickly
* Personal wiki pages already exist with these types of information
* Mailing lists and IRC are probably better channels for new users to ask for help on a particular subject
* LP offers these searches in it's api

Decision:
* The wiki page won't be created

=== IRC Log ===
<pre>
21:01 < ddecator> ok, is everyone ready?
21:01 <@nhandler> Yep
21:01 < mnewton> Yea
21:01 < ddecator> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChicagoTeam/Meetings
21:01 < ddecator> [TOPIC] Recap from last meeting
21:01 < ddecator> for those of you who were unable to make the last meeting, we discussed the team website which is in development
21:02 < ddecator> any ideas for this site are still welcome on the wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChicagoTeam/WebsiteIdeas
21:02 < ddecator> we also discussed the Chi-Loco wallpaper PPA that has been setup by nhandler
21:02 < ddecator> any wallpapers that you use can be added here: https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-chicago/+junk/chiloco-wallpapers (so long as the licensing allows us to use it)
21:03 < ddecator> any questions about those things?
21:03 < ddecator> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Global Jam Scheduling
21:04 < ddecator> swoody, you wanna discuss this one a little?
21:05 <@nhandler> I can talk about it a little if swoody isn't around
21:05 < ddecator> nhandler, go for it
21:05 <@nhandler> Basically, we need 2 things. A date and a location
21:06 <@nhandler> Once we have those things, the rest is easy
21:06 < swoody> (sorry was afk a min, keep going nhandler)
21:06 <@nhandler> nixternal expressed an interest in using Pumping Station One. But I am not sure if he ever followed up with it
21:06 < mnewton> hiow about downtown again?
21:06 < mnewton> how*
21:07 <@nhandler> iirc we weren't able to get the institute of technology due to another event (or some other reason)
21:07 <@nhandler> swoody: Want to take over discussing this?
21:07 < mnewton> library?
21:07 < ddecator> it would be nice if the location we choose is public transit accessible
21:07 <@nhandler> I think the library was booked
21:08 < swoody> nhandler: you can keep going if you'd like, I think you may know more details about locations at this point..
21:08 < zz> nhandler, did you check all the rooms? ;)
21:08 < swoody> I just wanted to make sure this topic came up for discussion is all
21:08 <@nhandler> zz: I think we did, but I am not positive right now
21:08 < ddecator> well, one problem with the date will be spring break for colleges
21:09 <@nhandler> ddecator: Yep. I might not be around, and nixternal said he might be gone too
21:09 < ddecator> i will be in michigan from the 19th - 28th
21:09 < swoody> very true ddecator, which why I was thinking it may be a good idea to push this back to the 3rd or 4th of April
21:09 < zz> i will be out of town from 16th to the 5th
21:10 < swoody> it would also give us a bit longer to lock down a location
21:10 <@nhandler> swoody: Either that, or the week after
21:10 < ddecator> the week after would work for zz then too
21:10 < swoody> nhandler: the 10th would work well too :)
21:10 < ddecator> 10th and/or 11th ;)
21:10 < swoody> yes ^
21:11 < ddecator> (everyone, please feel free to voice your opinions, we want as many people to come as possible)
21:11 <@nhandler> I think the library worked out fairly well. If it is open on any of those days, I think it would be great to try and book it
21:11 < mnewton> I can't make the 10th - religious commitments
21:11 < ddecator> where is the library located?
21:11 < zz> schaumburg and roselle
21:11 < zz> in schaumburg, stdl.org
21:12 < ddecator> does cta go out that far?
21:12 < ddecator> mnewton, how about the 11th?
21:12 < mnewton> that works for me
21:12 <@nhandler> ddecator: I believe there is a train station pretty close. And I think we had people offering to shuttle
21:12 < zz> metra goes to roselle, schaumbueg, medinah
21:12 < zz> all withen easy driving distance to the library
21:13 < ddecator> nhandler, ok that would work for me then, as long as the metra station is close or someone can pick me up at the station
21:13 < zz> someone would need to pick you  up ddecator
21:13 < zz> rich or I could
21:13 <@nhandler> rockfx01 said you might also be able to take a pace bus
21:13 < ddecator> zz, good to know, we can figure that out later
21:14 <@nhandler> This is all assuming the library is available. It tends to fill up fast
21:14 < ddecator> nhandler, i'd prefer not to since i'd have to get a pass (they don't accept upass anymore)
21:14 < ddecator> alright, well lets first figure out if that's the weekend we want
21:14 < ddecator> does that weekend work for everyone? (the 10th and/or 11th of april)
21:15 < swoody> +1 from me
21:15 <@nhandler> I think it should work for me.
21:15 < wvalters> ok by me
21:15 < mnewton> 11th is good
21:15 < zz> shouldn't be a problem here
21:15 < ddecator> should work for me too
21:16 < ddecator> now, do we want to do the 11th only, or both days and people can come to one or both?
21:16 <@nhandler> I think 2 days would be pushing it
21:16 < ddecator> it would be hard for people traveling
21:16 < mnewton> depends on who can present what and when
21:17 < swoody> I think it may work better as a one-day event
21:17 < ddecator> should we just plan on the 11th then? if people want to meet on the 10th they can set something up themselves
21:17 < mnewton> =)
21:17 < mnewton> sounds good to me =)
21:18 < zz> the library is booked part of the day
21:18 < ddecator> zz, what part?
21:18 < ddecator> that's the next thing we need to figure out...
21:18 <@nhandler> zz: Yeah, I just pulled it up. It looks like we could only use it after 3 or 4
21:18 < zz> 12:30 - 4:30
21:19 < ddecator> hm, how long do we want? that's not too late for me, but i don't know about everyone else
21:19 < zz> that would give us 5 hours, lemme check when they close
21:19 < swoody> how does the 3rd/4th look?
21:19 < ddecator> maybe nixternal could look at PS1 as well?
21:19 < zz> sunday till 9
21:19 < ddecator> so 4.5 hours...
21:19 < zz> so gives up five hours
21:20 < zz> yeah around five hours
21:20 < swoody> I'm not sure how many people would be in favor of pushing it that late on a sunday though :/
21:20 < ddecator> true...
21:20 < wvalters> especially those of us who get up at 5
21:20 < ddecator> other venue options?
21:21 <@nhandler> specialKevin: You there?
21:21 < ddecator> i would say depaul, but i'm guessing everyone will want internet for this
21:22 < captivus> Good evening, all.  My apologies for the tardy join.
21:22 <@nhandler> ddecator: Yeah, internet would be nice
21:22 < swoody> welcome captivus :)
21:22 < mnewton> 2 - 6pm?
21:22 < ddecator> captivus, no problem! we're currently discussing the global jam and we're deciding date and location. right now we're looking at the 11th of april
21:22 < swoody> captivus: how does the weekend of the 10th/11th look for you for Global Jam?
21:24 < captivus> Well ... I expect that I'll still be departing on Sundays in April (as a continuation of my current travel schedule) so it will be tight.
21:24 < ddecator> so the library probably won't work that day, someone would have to check PS1. any other possibilities?
21:24 < captivus> That said, I'll not be the constraining factor in planning this.
21:24 < ddecator> captivus, do you normally have to leave at night?
21:25 < captivus> I'm happy, as I've done before, to reserve a spot for us if we choose STDL as the venue.
21:25 <@nhandler> ddecator: If we go with a sunday, we might be able to hold it at onshore networks.
21:25 < captivus> ddecator: Sunday afternoons, when I'm travelling to the west coast.
21:25 <@nhandler> micahg: ^^^
21:25 < micahg> nhandler: sure
21:25 < zz> captivus, seems booked for the dates we want
21:25 < swoody> captivus: that's where we're looking into atm :)
21:25 < micahg> I would definitely prefer the city as I'm w/out a car right now
21:26 < captivus> Who is on-point, talking to the fellow at the library?
21:26 <@nhandler> captivus: They have their schedule online
21:26 < ddecator> nhandler, does onshore networks have availability online?
21:26 < micahg> ddecator: that's my company :)
21:26 <@nhandler> :)
21:26 < micahg> or rather the one I work for :/
21:26 < ddecator> micahg, very nice =)
21:27 < ddecator> haha, close enough
21:27 < captivus> I hear onShore only employs handsome webdevs ...
21:27 < ddecator> micahg, would that work on april 11th?
21:27 < micahg> yep, passover's over, so should be fine, but I would have to double check
21:28 < ddecator> great! what time of day are we thinking?
21:28 < ddecator> micahg, where exactly is the office located? downtown?
21:28 < zz> ddecator, they are on the wiki iirc :-P
21:28 < micahg> ddecator: chicago and noble
21:28 < captivus> nhandler: I read this schedule differently ...
21:28 <@nhandler> ddecator: http://loco.ubuntu.com/venues/8/detail/
21:28 < captivus> nhandler: The only room I see reserved on 4/11 is an Adult Classroom ...
21:29 < zz> captivus, make sure they are all checked
21:29 < ddecator> zz, nhandler , ah, thanks, haha
21:29 < captivus> zz: I did
21:29 < captivus> Sunday, 4/11 -- Adult Classroom reserved 1300 - 1500.
21:29 <@nhandler> Well, I always misread that calendar, so don't take my work for anything
21:29 < captivus> ... that's all I see.
21:30 < captivus> nhandler: I didn't even know it was available until just now! ;)
21:30 < captivus> They've seemingly redesigned the site since last I visited.
21:30 < ddecator> well onShore would be easier for public transit travelers
21:31 < swoody> +1, probably easier to get into the city via public transport than out to a suburb
21:31 < micahg> +1
21:31 < ddecator> any objections to onShore? (assuming it's open)
21:31 < swoody> none here
21:32 < zz> nhandler, how would you be getting to onshore?
21:32 <@nhandler> At this point, we basically need to just get a location booked.
21:32 < ddecator> alright, micahg you mind double checking that for us soon?
21:32 <@nhandler> zz: I'll probably take the train in and find a ride from the train station with someone
21:32 <@nhandler> Can someone also double check on the library just in case?
21:32 < zz> union station?
21:32 < wvalters> If ou do in the city earlier is better for the far suburban folks
21:32 <@nhandler> zz: Western
21:32 < ddecator> nhandler, depending on the station i can help you out with cta
21:32 < micahg> ddecator: I can ask, but I don't know if I can get that guaranteed so far in advance...
21:32 < zz> nhandler, i see it booked but captivus doesn't see it booked, i don't understand
21:33 < micahg> I'll only be able to do 12-5ish
21:33  * micahg has to catch a bus
21:33 < ddecator> micahg, that's fine, as long as we have an idea of whether or not it's a possibility
21:33 < captivus> zz: Oh, I forgot to mention that I'm kind of a big deal at the Schaumburg Library, so they're probably showing me a different schedule.
21:33 < captivus> </LIES>
21:33 < swoody> lol
21:33 < zz> http://programs.stdl.org/v6/lib/roomrequest.asp?mode= that the link?
21:34 < mnewton> lol
21:34 <@nhandler> I forgot to mention, I added an event for this on the LoCo Directory. We can try and use this to track people who are planning on coming: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/10/detail/
21:35 < ddecator> on the library site, the adult classroom is the only one i see open
21:36 < captivus> I've just confirmed that Adult Classroom is available starting at 1530, Rasmussen North and South at 1630 and 1700, respectively.
21:36 < captivus> ... but that only leaves 4 hours or so
21:36 < ddecator> alright, so onShore sounds like the most likely venue
21:36 < captivus> (I'm searching using a now-reduced-from-6-to-4-hour window.)
21:36 < ddecator> 12-5, yes micahg ?
21:36  * micahg should check the bus schedules
21:37 < ddecator> especially now that they aren't running as much...
21:37 < swoody> those hours sound much better, too :)
21:37 <@nhandler> We can always modify the times to match up with the trains/buses if needed
21:37 < ddecator> true
21:37 <@nhandler> A date/place are the important pieces of info right now
21:37 < captivus> micahg: Nah, don't worry about it -- swoody and nixternal have both, kindly, volunteered to operate as shuttles to and from the venue during the Jam.
21:37 <@nhandler> And since we decided to push our jam back a bit, we have some more time ;)
21:37 < ddecator> alright, so as of right now, April 11, onShore, 12-5
21:38 < captivus> Was ... was I the only person who saw that email thread they sent out on the mailing list?
21:38 < ddecator> captivus, which one?
21:38 < captivus> . . .
21:38 < swoody> captivus: hey, I said we could work it out, I didn't say I can drive ;)
21:38 < captivus> LOL -- sorry, I forgot to add </CONTRIVED RUBBISH>
21:38 < micahg> ddecator: wfm
21:38 < swoody> :)
21:39 < ddecator> alright, good deal! any more questions about global jam at this point?
21:39 < ddecator> [TOPIC] Possible Team Projects/Goals
21:39 < ddecator> alright, i'm gonna be honest. i'm not sure how this would work out
21:40 < ddecator> but i thought i'd bring up the possibility of the team collaborating on a certain project of some kind (open to ideas)
21:40 <@nhandler> The website and chiloco-wallpapers were both attempts at this
21:40 <@nhandler> Neither has really gotten off of the ground so far
21:41 < ddecator> that's what i was afraid of
21:41 < ddecator> i feel like we have so much going on individually that it's hard to bring everyone together except for things like global jam
21:41 < zz> now why aren't these getting off?
21:41 < musikgoat|main> yey, hi all
21:41 < micahg> we could adopt one of the top 100 packages w/bugs: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+upstreamreport
21:41 < swoody> welcome musikgoat|main :)
21:42 < ddecator> for me, wallpapers: i don't have any to upload because i'm unsure about licensing, website: i don't know more than basic html scripting
21:42 <@nhandler> zz: For the wallpapers, nobody besides Jim submitted anything. For the site, we didn't have any designs submitted and nixternal got busy
21:42 < ddecator> micahg, +1
21:42 < musikgoat|main> is there a live log?
21:42 < captivus> I post an idea that I've seen successfully implemented elsewhere:  Create a sub-group within the LoCo for the projects -- e.g. a SIG for Ubuntu development -- and use that to drive the projects.
21:42 < zz> why aren't people submitting ideas is what i mean
21:42 <@nhandler> musikgoat|main: We just started discussing Possible Team Projects/Goals
21:43 < musikgoat|main> nhandler: thanks!
21:43 <@nhandler> musikgoat|main: Logs of the first part of the meeting will be posted on the wiki later
21:43 < captivus> I tend to agree with ddecator's assessment of one of the contributing factors to the failure-to-launch we've observed.
21:43 < captivus> Gah -- s/post/posit in my earlier line
21:43 < ddecator> i was thinking working on a project like helping with a package would allow everyone with all different skills to contribute in some way
21:43 < ddecator> whether it be packaging, triage, docs, testing, etc.
21:44 <@nhandler> rockfx01: If they are licensed fine, go ahead and submit them (and please identify with nickserv: /msg nickserv help identify)
21:44 < ddecator> whether or not this would work, i don't know, but i thought it might have more appeal since it's something most of us are familiar with. we could just focus the group together instead of being spread out
21:45 <@nhandler> I'm not sure it will work, but I have no objections to trying it
21:45 < ddecator> nhandler, won't know till we try =)
21:45 < swoody> musikgoat|main: if you want to catch up a bit: http://ubuntu.pastebin.com/z1as17SV
21:45 < ddecator> is there a package or project people are interested in?
21:45 < musikgoat|main> tanks swoody
21:45 < swoody> np :)
21:46 < micahg> ddecator: +1 for pidgin :)
21:46 < ddecator> maybe one of the ones on the wiki that "really should be adopted"? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/AdoptPackage
21:46 < ddecator> haha, why am i not surprised micahg ? =p
21:46 < swoody> while there has been a lot of Ubuntu-specific work, I don't think there has really been much focus lately on doing things to help our local community...
21:47 < ddecator> swoody, such as?
21:47 < swoody> maybe something like helping FreeGeek, or another local group
21:47 < swoody> a way to do good, and spread Ubuntu at the same time
21:47 < ddecator> hm, is that something we could do from our homes?
21:47 <@nhandler> I guess our biggest issue is a lack of contact with such groups, which makes it hard to get involved.
21:47 < swoody> ( www.freegeek.org )
21:48 < swoody> ddecator: we probably could for the most part. We can have people go about contacting places, trying to find donations of old computers for the group, etc.
21:48 < rockfx01> freecycle would be a good place to find old computers
21:49 < ddecator> that's not a bad idea...i'm just worried how many people would actually get around to contacting a lot of people
21:49 < musikgoat|main> ddecator: contact who?
21:50 < ddecator> musikgoat|main, places that might donate older computers, or individuals
21:50 < musikgoat|main> couldn't someone contact freegeek to see if they could use volunteers for their current services?
21:50 < captivus> swoody: That's not a bad idea at all.  We could partner with other local LUGs (or the like) to do some proverbial "good" while compensating for our, apparently, tepid interest as a group.
21:50 < swoody> well a good part of it could be spreading flyers, posting on the interwebs, etc.
21:50 < swoody> spreading the word for the group 
21:50 < ddecator> that idea i like
21:50 < ddecator> swoody, you want to contact them? ;)
21:50 <@nhandler> I think if we were to organize some event where we help install and setup Ubuntu on some computers or do something similar, people would show up. They just don't like helping with the planning stage
21:50 < musikgoat|main> heh
21:50 < ddecator> oh, i like that idea too...
21:51 < swoody> we're all spread out throughout the Chicagoland area, think of how much ground we could cover ;)
21:51 < captivus> Yah, that's another good one.
21:51 < ddecator> nhandler, as long as we have a few of us willing to plan, that shouldn't be a problem ;)
21:51 < swoody> ddecator: I wouldn't mind getting in touch with them, if we had enough interest and support from the Loco that it would make it worthwhile
21:52 < ddecator> well, i'm interested. we could also send out an email about it. who else here is interested?
21:52 < ddecator> (i could even try to contact the odd lug at my school to see if they would help...)
21:53 < musikgoat|main> so if we were to do this, nhandler's idea, we would need to collect hardware, build systems, get systems working well, then find the people that need them,  right?
21:53 < captivus> ddecator: Please clarify which of the propositions you are soliciting votes of interest in.
21:53 < ddecator> captivus, ah, sorry
21:53 < wvalters> Instead of a Bug Jam should we not have a meeting to discuss all of this?  It is a lot easier to go back and forth face to face, and getting someone to commit to doing soething over IRC is not all that easy
21:53 <@nhandler> musikgoat|main: It would depend on the place. Some places might have some old computers that they received, but are unusable with windows. Installing ubuntu on them might be all it takes to get them working well
21:54 < ddecator> we could maybe combine the two
21:54 < ddecator> depending on what freegeek is looking for
21:54 < zz> agreed ddecator and wvalters
21:54 < musikgoat|main> right, freegeek has all of the work down... thats what they do
21:55 < ddecator> swoody, i think we have enough interest to at least see what we would be doing exactly =)
21:55 < musikgoat|main> so we could collectively offer our volunteer services
21:55 < swoody> sorry, this is FreeGeek Chicago: http://www.freegeekchicago.org/
21:55 < swoody> other link was to Oregon :P
21:55 < ddecator> they look for people to teach about computers...
21:56 < swoody> that too :)
21:56 < mnewton_afk> i like that
21:56 < ddecator> so we could see if they're interested in having us put ubuntu on some of their older systems, then maybe show people how to use it?
21:56 < mnewton_afk> how doi sign up?
21:57 < musikgoat|main> http://www.freegeekchicago.org/volunteer/  :  Check out our calendar  for volunteer opportunities or contact us to learn  more.
21:57 < musikgoat|main> mnewton_afk:^^
21:57 < ddecator> that sounds like something a lug should be doing ;)
21:57 < mnewton_afk> it seems inactive
21:57 < mnewton_afk> only activity was in january
21:57 < musikgoat|main> heh
21:57 < ddecator> mnewton_afk, maybe they just don't have many people helping out right now
21:58 < mnewton_afk> i see.
21:58 < swoody> maybe they'd welcome an entire loco's help, and it would get things kicked off again :)
21:58 < ddecator> that's the kind of thing i like to hear ;)
21:58 < swoody> either way, I can shoot them a message, and see what we can do for them
21:58 < ddecator> swoody, mind trying to get in contact with them then?
21:59 < ddecator> there we go!
21:59 < ddecator> alright, any more questions or comments about this topic?
21:59 < musikgoat|main> swoody: I think thats great... imho, offer our time as a group, our services from a ubuntu training perspective, and our services from a building and labor perspective.   anyone agree?
21:59 < swoody> I think we'll need to move this to the mailing list to get more people's input, too :)
22:00 < wvalters> Guys i gotta roll, make sure minutes end up on the wiki.
22:00 < ddecator> swoody, agreed, since you love the ML so much ;)
22:00 < musikgoat|main> see ya wvalters
22:00 < swoody> musikgoat|main: that sounds good to me :)
22:00 < swoody> ddecator: it's useful ;)
22:00 < ddecator> haha, alright, sounds good
22:00 < ddecator> ok
22:00 < ddecator> [TOPIC] Wiki Page for Team Member Specializations
22:01 < ddecator> here is my thought on the subject
22:01 < ddecator> i think it would be nice if we had an extension of the members page where members could, voluntarily, put their specializations up for others to see
22:01 < ddecator> that way, any new members who have questions but don't know where to turn, can see who they should talk to
22:02 <@nhandler> ddecator: Didn't we get rid of the member list wiki page?
22:02 < zz> yes the page is gone
22:02 < mnewton> where?
22:02 < ddecator> nhandler, is it completely gone? i thought it just linked to lp
22:02 < swoody> ddecator: it's gone ;)
22:02 < musikgoat|main> it does
22:02 < musikgoat|main> i saw a link somewhere on the wiki that points to our group page
22:02 < musikgoat|main> on LP
22:03 < musikgoat|main> was that removed?
22:03 < swoody> how about on the 'Contact Us' page?
22:03 <@nhandler> ddecator: Instead, people should update their own wiki pages to mention that sort of info
22:03 < swoody> maybe just list one or two people per subject?
22:03 < ddecator> nhandler, that could work if we just mentioned somewhere to check for our wiki pages since new members may not know about them
22:03 < swoody> musikgoat|main: no, that's still there, but there was an actual wiki page with nothing but a long list of members and their info
22:04 < musikgoat|main> swoody: that would be fine, but can someone explain the point of this?
22:04 < swoody> that list was removed
22:04 < musikgoat|main> ahh
22:04 < ddecator> but i was thinking it'd be nice for new members to be able to see "Bug Triaging: ddecator, micahg, etc."
22:05 < musikgoat|main> sorry, that seemed kind of rude
22:05 < musikgoat|main> hmm
22:05 < ddecator> i know i still have no idea what a lot of you guys are involved in...
22:05 <@nhandler> ddecator: Look at our wiki pages to find out ;)
22:05 < swoody> but I do see your point ddecator...
22:06 < swoody> surfing through 20 wiki pages to find someone to talk to about bug triaging seems a bit much
22:06 < ddecator> nhandler, but why go through everyone's if i just want to find someone involved in packaging?
22:06 < ddecator> maybe not a members page, but an addition to "contact us" like swoody suggested
22:06 < ddecator> people can just add themselves
22:06 < musikgoat|main> so lets make some logic out of it :)
22:07 <@nhandler> ddecator: Because these types of pages tend to become outdated very fast
22:07 < musikgoat|main> scrape personal wiki pages for triage and other fine words :P
22:07 < swoody> nhandler: that is true, too ;)
22:07 < musikgoat|main> does launchpad have an api that makes the user information accessible?
22:07 < ddecator> that'd be nice...
22:07 <@nhandler> musikgoat|main: I believe that info is available via the api. If not, file a bug
22:08 < ddecator> something that shows who is in bugsquad, bugcontrol, devs, etc.
22:09 < ddecator> hm...
22:09 < zz> or they could request help on the ML as that is pretty active
22:09 < swoody> would that work for multiple groups? Like if you wanted to find someone in Ubuntu-Chicago and bug squad?
22:09 < musikgoat|main> as ddecator did, iirc
22:09 < ddecator> musikgoat|main, hm? the ML?
22:10 <@nhandler> There is also a greasemonkey script that you might like
22:10 <@nhandler> It shows icons next to everyone's name on LP to show what teams they are on
22:10 < ddecator> nhandler, i have it ;)
22:10 < musikgoat|main> ddecator: i think you sent out an email to the ML saying hi and who you could talk to about what you wanted to get involved in
22:11 < ddecator> musikgoat|main, yah i probably did...i guess that works, i just forget about the mailing list since it hasn't been very active lately =p
22:11 < ddecator> alright, good enough for me
22:11 < ddecator> any final thoughts, concerns, questions, comments, etc?
22:11 < musikgoat|main> I think that the list is a nice idea, but nhandler is right about the upkeep issue
22:12 < ddecator> yah, maybe it's something we could work into the team website with the api later on or something
22:12 < zz> ddecator, add that to the wiki site idea page then
22:13 < ddecator> zz, i'm going to =)
22:13 < ddecator> alright, anything else anybody wants to discuss?
22:13 < zz> good, it's nice to get activity on a wiki page you created besides yourself ;)
22:13 < swoody> nothing here
22:13 <@nhandler> Nope. I think the global jam item was the important thing.
22:14 < ddecator> [END MEETING]
</pre>
