{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#E1E1E1"> Name
| Topic
| Date Added
| Which Meeting
|-
| Draycen De Cator (<nowiki>[[ddecator]]</nowiki>)
| Global Jam details (rides, etc.)
| March 31, 2010
| April 5, 2010
|-
| Draycen De Cator (<nowiki>[[ddecator]]</nowiki>)
| Release party status
| April 5, 2010
| April 5, 2010
|}

=== Proceedings ===
* Outline to go here.

==== Agenda Items ====
'''Topic:''' Name
* Discussion
** Blah, blah, blah
* Decision
** Go for it

'''Topic:''' Name
* Discussion
** Blah, blah, blah
* Decision
** Go for it

=== Meeting Log ===
<pre>
21:07 < nhandler> [TOPIC] Global Jam details (rides, etc.)
21:07 < nhandler> ddecator: This is your topic ;)
21:07 < ddecator> both are mine ;)
21:07 < swoody> calling meeting to order then?
21:07 < ddecator> sounds like it
21:08 < nhandler> Yep
21:08 < ddecator> alright, well Global Jam is practically here! i figured it's time we figure out if anyone needs accomodations (rides there and/or back, help taking the CTA, etc)
21:09 < ddecator> i'm sure this will be more effective on the ML, but i figured we could figure out who can provide what while we're here
21:09 < nhandler> I sadly just learned that I will not be able to attend the Global Jam
21:09 < ddecator> for example, i'm fully willing to meet people and help them take the CTA
21:09 < swoody> nhandler: ah, that stinks :/
21:09 < ddecator> nhandler: so i saw. that's a shame
21:10 < ddecator> micah isn't here, but he confirmed that we are all set to have the event at his work (OnShore)
21:10 < ddecator> nhandler: what was the site we were using to RSVP?
21:10 < nhandler> ddecator: The LoCo Directory
21:11 < nhandler> I'll get a link
21:11 < ddecator> thank you =)
21:11 < swoody> I probably can't offer much in the way of transportation, but if anyone's worried about walking in Chicago by themselves, I can play the role of bodyguard :)
21:11 < nhandler> [LINK] http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/10/detail/
21:12 < swoody> Also, I can bring some supplies I think may be of use - extension cord, surge protector, printer, black CD's, etc.
21:12 < ddecator> perfect. we should make sure that goes out on the ML. and we can note that swoody and i are willing to help with public transit =)
21:12 < nhandler> So what areas are people planning on working on at the jam?
21:12 < swoody> nhandler: with this location, do you think there will be any need of posting flyers for the location?
21:12 < nhandler> swoody: I think micah has normally put something on the door there
21:13 < ddecator> i can work on bug triage, possibly debugging, and potentially lyrebird, but that might be off-topic for the event
21:13 < swoody> ddecator: yeah, I think we can get to a lot more people, and get a lot more input on this topic on the ML
21:13 < ddecator> swoody: you wanna send the email, or should i? =)
21:13 < swoody> ddecator: you can start it off if you'd like - your topic and all :)
21:14 < ddecator> fair enough, i'll do it after the meeting
21:14 < swoody> thx :)
21:14 < ddecator> are we all going to work on our own things, or focus on a project as a team?
21:14 < swoody> do you guys think we should have people use the event wiki page for this stuff?
21:14 < nhandler> [ACTION] ddecator to send out email about global jam
21:14 < swoody> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChicagoTeam/Meetings/2010/March
21:15 < nhandler> swoody: We have in the past. That way, we can post links and track what people are doing/have done
21:15 < swoody> sounds good :)
21:15 < nhandler> Also, does anyone have a still and/or web cam
21:16 < ddecator> i have a webcam on my laptop (built-in)
21:16 < nhandler> A live stream would be cool
21:16 < ddecator> not sure if people would want to see just me working on w/e...
21:16  * swoody doesn't
21:16 < nhandler> It beats watching nixternal ;)
21:16 < swoody> lol, that's not hard ;)
21:16 < ddecator> haha
21:17 < ddecator> so what all will be put on the event wiki? (so i know what to say in the email)
21:17 < ddecator> (btw, it's mainly the three of us talking...if anyone has anything to say, please feel free to do so =) )
21:17 < ? Traveler0> what's nixternal webcam?
21:17 < nhandler> ddecator: A list of links and a table to track what people accomplish
21:18 < ddecator> nhandler: ok, sounds good
21:18 < nhandler> So does anyone want to take the action to bring cameras?
21:18 < swoody> nhandler: do you want to continue with how ddecator and I started with stuff we need/can bring for the Jam? Or do you think it'll be best to just take care of that on the ML?
21:19 < ddecator> i only have the built-in one. i can add it to the email if nobody here has access to any
21:19 < swoody> I only have a digi-cam
21:19 < swoody> but I can bring it :)
21:19 < nhandler> swoody: We can do it in the ML I guess.
21:19 < nhandler> [ACTION] swoody to bring digital (still) camera
21:19 < ddecator> swoody: i probably won't have time to make banket for the event =(
21:19 < nhandler> Shall we move on to the second item?
21:20 < ddecator> i think we can
21:20 < swoody> ddecator: that's fine, we'll just lock you out and pretend like we're not there when you show up ;)
21:20 < ddecator> swoody: =(
21:20 < swoody> :)
21:20 < nhandler> [TOPIC] Release party status
21:20 < ddecator> ah, right
21:20 < ddecator> nhandler: care to share what the status is?
21:21 < ? Traveler0> When and where?
21:21 < nhandler> It will most likely be at the Institute of Design the weekend of May 1. specialKevin You around?
21:22 < ddecator> ah, might not be able to go depending on which day it's on
21:22 < nhandler> ddecator: Which day works for you?
21:22 < nhandler> I know micah would not be able to do the 1
21:22 < swoody> I should probably be able to make it either Sat or Sun
21:22 < ddecator> right, i can't do the 1st either
21:23 < ddecator> i'm free on the 2nd
21:23 < nhandler> specialKevin: Would the second work for you?
21:24 < ddecator> and i've never actually been to a release party, so idk what all it entails
21:24 < swoody> ddecator: for the most part it's just a fun get-together...
21:24 < ddecator> swoody: well i'm up for that =)
21:25 < swoody> maybe speeches on new features/bugs/whatev about the new release
21:25 < ddecator> i already have lucid installed anyway, haha
21:25 < swoody> not as work-focused as our Jams and things of that nature
21:25 < nhandler> We usually have some demos of Ubuntu, Kubuntu, and Xubuntu
21:25 < ddecator> nhandler: you or specialKevin mind sending an email out once the details are decided?
21:25 < nhandler> Sure
21:25 < nhandler> [ACTION] nhandler to send email to ML with final details about release party
21:25 < ddecator> alright. i'll keep the 2nd free in hopes that it works out on that day
21:26 < nhandler> I'm also keeping my eye open so that we can hopefully have a box of CDs for this event
21:26 < ddecator> that'd be nice
21:26 < swoody> very cool :)
21:27 < nhandler> So far, I haven't heard anything
21:27 < ddecator> alright, i think we're set with this topic, but there is something i wanted to bring up from last meeting
21:27 < dmadsen> do you mean "official" cds or are they cut there?
21:27 -!- mnewton is now known as mnewton_afk
21:27 < nhandler> dmadsen: A big box of shipit pressed cds
21:27 < dmadsen> OK, cool
21:28 < ddecator> ok, can we bring up one more topic?
21:28 < nhandler> Go ahead ddecator 
21:29 < ddecator> [TOPIC] FreeGeek status
21:29 < ddecator> swoody: did you ever manage to get ahold of them?
21:29 < ? kdegnome> yes hello
21:29 < swoody> I did send them an email to try and see what we can work out between our groups...
21:29 < ? kdegnome> sorry i am late
21:29 < ? kdegnome> lol
21:29 < ddecator> swoody: still no response?
21:29 < swoody> I didn't receive a reply, and I'm still planning on trying to get in touch with them again
21:30 < ddecator> ok, sounds good =)
21:30 < swoody> np kdegnome :)
21:30 < ? kdegnome> what did i miss
21:30 < ddecator> i hope we can manage to get a response at some point...
21:30 < swoody> so hopefully we can still get something going with them :)
21:30 < ddecator> i'm excited about getting to work with them
21:30 < nhandler> Keep us updted swoody 
21:31 < nhandler> [ACTION] swoody to continue trying to contact FreeGeek
21:31 < swoody> +1 ddecator, with the summer coming up, I think it would be a great time to arrange a nice, big event with them, and hopefully we'll have more students not bogged down by classes
21:31 < ddecator> i'll be in mich =\
21:31 < swoody> :/
21:32 < ddecator> but i could possibly come back for a weekend if we get a big event setup
21:32 < nhandler> I have one more topic
21:32 < dmadsen> What's a "FreeGeek"?
21:32 < swoody> hopefully we will :)
21:32 < ? kdegnome> where is nixternal?
21:32 < swoody> dmadsen: www.freegeekchicago.org
21:32 < ddecator> kdegnome: not sure
21:32 < ? kdegnome> ah
21:32 < ddecator> nhandler: go ahead =)
21:32 < ? kdegnome> well
21:32 < nhandler> [TOPIC] Shirts
21:32 < ddecator> oooooooooh, nice
21:32 < ? kdegnome> idk wtf is going on with ubuntu-chicago.org
21:32 < ? kdegnome> but
21:33 < ? kdegnome> i'm just going to forward it to the wiki
21:33 < ? kdegnome> if that's ok with yall
21:33 < nhandler> I've seen some LoCos create their own shirts before. I'm in a position where I can get them made for basically the cost of the shirt if we create a design
21:33 < ddecator> nhandler: that sounds great!
21:33 < mnewton_afk> ya - i like the idea
21:33 < nhandler> The only issue we would have is licensing/copyright, as I can't remember the terms the Ubuntu logo is distributed under
21:34 < ddecator> mnewton_afk: what a pro, responding while afk
21:34 < mnewton_afk> =)
21:34 < ddecator> nhandler: makes sense, we should find out...that's what preventing me from putting my wallpaper on the PPA too
21:34 < nhandler> But if someone wants to look into that and maybe come up with a design, we can make the shirt
21:34 < ddecator> i can try, but idk where i would even look
21:35 < ddecator> we should come up with a slogan
21:35 < nhandler> ddecator: I think Canonical has it in their copying policy linked to on their site
21:35 < ddecator> nhandler: alright, i'll take a look then
21:35 < ddecator> should get to it by this weekend
21:35 < nhandler> ddecator: Do you want to work on a design as well?
21:35 < swoody> very nice :)
21:35 < swoody> and can I make an ammendment?
21:35 < swoody> I came across the idea of a Loco Business card...
21:35 < swoody> it could basically have our team's contact info on them - Mailing list, forums, IRC channel, etc.
21:35 < swoody> but I would be +1 for the shirts :)
21:35 < ddecator> nhandler: sure, but i encourage others too as well
21:36 < ddecator> swoody: i'm just wondering who we would give the cards too?
21:36 < nhandler> swoody: We could probably modify doctormo's new template that uses the new theme
21:36 < swoody> ddecator: anyone really. People who may be interested in Ubuntu, maybe we could attach some to LiveCD's that we pass out?
21:37 < swoody> there's also conferences (like Flourish ;) )
21:37 < mnewton_afk> XD
21:37 < ddecator> swoody: true. if we can get them cheap, not a bad idea
21:37 < mnewton_afk> idoru?
21:38 < ? kdegnome> oops
21:38 < swoody> [LINK] Here's some ideas: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=732472
21:38 < ? kdegnome> anyways...
21:38 < dmadsen> nhandler: http://www.ubuntu.com/aboutus/trademarkpolicy seems to require a license for t-shirts, but maybe there exception for loco, idk
21:38 <@nhandler> kdegnome: Please identify. Nobody but me can hear you
21:38 < ? kdegnome> OH
21:38 < ? kdegnome> ok
21:39 <@nhandler> dmadsen: We can check on that. We can also talk to other LoCos
21:39 < ddecator> swoody: not bad. i'd change the color scheme though
21:39 < ddecator> nhandler: thanks for working on the spam =p
21:39 < swoody> ddecator: well yeah, we'd be free to design them however we want :)
21:39 < ddecator> swoody: i like the layout though
21:41 < ddecator> alright, so i'll try to figure out the exact licensing we would run into with shirts and i'll submit a design
21:41 <@nhandler> Have people seen http://doctormo.org/2010/03/13/new-business-card/ ?
21:41 < swoody> nhandler: wow, those look much nicer :)
21:42 < ddecator> haha, nixternal is the top comment
21:42 < kdegnome> ok yes hello
21:42 < kdegnome> can u hear me
21:42 < ddecator> kdegnome: nope
21:42 < kdegnome> smartass
21:42 < ddecator> -shrug-
21:42 < ddecator> alright, is there anything we still need to discuss?
21:42 < kdegnome> YES
21:43 < swoody> I think it would be great to move the topic of shirts/cards to the ML so we can get ideas from everyone else :)
21:43 < ddecator> swoody: i will once i get the licensing figured out
21:43 < kdegnome> swoody, long time no see
21:44 < ddecator> kdegnome: was there something you wanted to discuss still?
21:44 < kdegnome> cha
21:44 <@nhandler> [ACTION] ddecator to bring topic of shirts/business cards up on ML
21:44 < kdegnome> idgaf what the rest yall were talking about
21:44 < kdegnome> wait
21:44 < kdegnome> nvm
21:44 < kdegnome> this isnt important
21:44 < kdegnome> nixternal can do it
21:45 < kdegnome> i forgot he hosts the domain
21:45 < ddecator> so anything else we need to discuss this meeting?
21:46 < kdegnome> hmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
21:46 < kdegnome> nope
21:46 -!- Irssi: #ubuntu-chicago: Total of 27 nicks [3 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 24 normal, 1 away]
21:46 < ddecator> alright nhandler, i think we're good for this meeting =)
21:46  * kdegnome is off to have some fun
21:46 <@nhandler> ddecator: I agree
21:46 <@nhandler> Someone want to do the minutes and update the wiki?
21:46 < kdegnome> how often are these meetings now?
21:47 < ddecator> swoody? ;)
21:47 < ddecator> kdegnome: first monday of each month
21:47 < swoody> yeah, I can take care of the minutes again :)
21:47  * nhandler hugs swoody 
21:47 < swoody> if nobody else wants to volunteer?...
21:47 <@nhandler> [ACTION] swoody to do minutes and update the wiki
21:47  * ddecator thinks swoody does a great job
21:47 < swoody> :)
21:48 < ddecator> alright, i'll get that email out

</pre>
