{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width: 100%; text-align: center; background: #E1E1E1; font-weight: bold; font-size: larger; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 15px ;-moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 15px;  border: none; -moz-border-radius-topright: 15px;-moz-border-radius-bottomright: 15px; "> '''Ubuntu Chicago Local Community Team Page - Meetings'''
|}

=== IRC Meetings ===

The Chicago Loco holds monthly team meetings on IRC. These are scheduled for the first Sunday of every month, at 8:00 pm (CST) on #ubuntu-chicago on freenode. Feel free to drop by and meet the team! If you wish to bring up a topic at the meeting, please add your name and the topic on the agenda chart below.

Minutes for our previous IRC meetings can be found on our <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-Meetings-Minutes|Minutes]]</nowiki> page.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#E1E1E1"> Name
| Topic
| Date Added
| Which Meeting
|-
| Nathan Handler (<nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>)
| Website/Blog/Planet
| June 14, 2011
| July 3, 2011
|-
| Nathan Handler (<nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>)
| Planet Post Policy
| June 14, 2011
| July 3, 2011
|-
| Nathan Handler (<nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>)
| Picnic
| June 4, 2011
| July 3, 2011
|}

Fixed Agenda Items:
* Review actions from previous meeting
* Update Team Report
* Updated next meeting time on the wiki
* Prepare minutes and send them to the mailing list

'''Note:''' If you are unfamiliar with IRC, there is a good guide to get your IRC client downloaded, installed, and setup <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|HERE]]</nowiki>. Then simply '''/join #ubuntu-chicago'''

=== Upcoming Events ===

As always, if any details are unclear or anyone needs more detailed help, please join us at <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-chicago|#ubuntu-chicago on irc.freenode.net]]</nowiki>, or join the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-chicago|Chicago Loco's mailing list]]</nowiki> with questions, or to keep up to date with the latest scheduling.

* <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-Meetings-2010-March|Ubuntu Global Jam - March 2010]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting Locations ===
The <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-Meetings-MeetingLocations|Meeting Locations]]</nowiki> page lists potential meeting locations for Ubuntu Chicago local community team meetings.  Please review this list and add to it if you know of a potential meeting location.

=== Recent Events ===

* <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-Meetings-2010-January|Doc Jam - January 2010]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-Meetings-2009-November|Karmic Release Party - November 2009]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-Meetings-2009-October|Ubuntu Global Jam - October 2009]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-Meetings-2009-June|Intro to Packaging - June 2009]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-Meetings-2009-February|Ubuntu Global Bug Jam - February 2009]]</nowiki>
