{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width: 100%; text-align: center; background: #E1E1E1; font-weight: bold; font-size: larger; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 15px ;-moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 15px;  border: none; -moz-border-radius-topright: 15px;-moz-border-radius-bottomright: 15px; "> '''Ubuntu Chicago Local Community Team Page'''
|}

=== Team Info ===

The '''Ubuntu Chicago Local Communty Team'''  is a group of volunteers and activists organized around the Ubuntu Linux operating system. We advocate <nowiki>[[DigitalRights|digital rights]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[DigitalFreedom|digital freedom]]</nowiki>, and promote Ubuntu as a step towards achieving this.

We support and connect users throughout the Chicagoland area, and our <nowiki>[[LoCoTeams|LoCo Team]]</nowiki> is one of the <nowiki>[[USTeams]]</nowiki>.  Together we utilize the structure, standards, and tools created by the various teams within the Ubuntu community as a means to further our involvement with Free Software, and to support users in our community.  The Chicago Team operates in accordance to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/1.0.1|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.  

=== Team Status ===

The '''Ubuntu Chicago Local Community Team''' has recently held some cool activities, and we're setting up new projects for the near future! Take a look through our <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-Meetings|Meetings]]</nowiki> page and our <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki> to see what we've been up to!

For a list of all active members of the Chicago Loco, please check our active roster <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-chicago/+members#active|HERE]]</nowiki>.

=== Team Members ===

The Chicago Loco consists of many Ubuntu users from all over the Chicagoland area. We come from all walks of life, and all have varied backgrounds. The one thing we do share in common is our passion for helping to make the Ubuntu community better. For a list of our current and active members, take a look at our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-chicago/+members#active|LaunchPad Roster]]</nowiki>.

=== Joining the Team ===

If you are interested in joining us, please add yourself to our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-chicago|Launchpad group]]</nowiki>, and get in touch with us via the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChicagoTeam/ContactUs|'Contact Us']]</nowiki> page. You may also want to take a look at the <nowiki>[[NewMember|New Member]]</nowiki> page for information you may find useful.

'''Subpages'''

CategoryUbuntuTeams
