{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Introduction to Packaging - June 2009 ====

* Date: Sunday, June 28th 
   This is for Session #1. Later session dates and times will be determined at our first meeting.
* Time: 2:00pm to 6:00pm
* Location: <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam-Meetings-MeetingLocations#onShore%20Networks|onShore Networks]]</nowiki>
* Address: 1407 W Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL 60642

===== Event Goals =====

'''Introduction to Packaging'''

Many users on the team have expressed an interest in learning how to compile programs from source code, and then configure that software into a form that is suitable for inclusion in Ubuntu. Performing these tasks is commonly called "packaging" software.

While packaging-related skills can certainly be learned, they are much easier to learn in person, rather than via IRC. Our "Intro to Packaging Sessions," will cover a wide range of packaging-related concepts and tasks, but our initial session will be dedicated to:
** Introducing current and new team members
** Signing GPG keys (which are necessary to upload packages to the Ubuntu archives)
** Discussing team member knowledge needs with regards to packaging so that proper goals can be set for our sessions
** Reviewing fundamental packaging terminology and concepts
** Planning additional 'Intro to Packaging' sessions

In a later session we will devote some time to looking over packages on <nowiki>[[MOTU-Packages-REVU|REVU]]</nowiki>, which is the site where packaged software gets reviewed before entering the Ubuntu archives. Although only MOTUs can advocate/upload packages on REVU, everyone can help review them. Looking at items on the REVU site will be a great way to learn about different types of packaging mistakes, and how to fix them.

===== Additional Events =====

* Bug Jam
** Even though the <nowiki>[[GlobalBugJam| Global Bug Jam]]</nowiki> only comes twice each year, we can hold our own bug jams whenever we want.
* <nowiki>[[KeySigningParty|Key Signing Party]]</nowiki>
** People participating in the packaging jam will need to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GnuPrivacyGuardHowto|create a gpg key]]</nowiki>. Since we will be meeting in person, it will be a great opportunity to sign these keys.
