{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width: 100%; text-align: center; background: #E1E1E1; font-weight: bold; font-size: larger; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 15px ;-moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 15px;  border: none; -moz-border-radius-topright: 15px;-moz-border-radius-bottomright: 15px; "> '''Ubuntu Chicago Local Community Team Page - Website Ideas'''
|}

== Website ==
This houses our thoughts and ideas on the new website: ''http://www.ubuntu-chicago.org''
Please edit freely with any ideas/thoughts/wishes one may have about the site.

=== Functionality ===
These are a list of must haves for the site to function and be productive.
* Blog (Wordpress)
* Calendar (Google Apps)

=== Wish List ===
List ideas that might be fun or new or not that functional.
* Member Lounge (mini blog, idenitca cloan)
* Sign up for events (bring food, powerstrips, COOKIES!)
* Request rides to/from events or public transportation depots
* A page, hopefully using the Launchpad API, that can keep track of what members are involved in what groups. For example, if someone wants to find a bug triager, rather than email the whole group or hunt through personal wikis, they can go to the site and see who is in BugSquad and BugControl.

=== Site Proposals ===
Please put any completed/semi-completed site links here.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-chicago.org/site_ideas/1/|Site Idea 1]]</nowiki>
