{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
Below are the meeting minutes from the Chicago-Ubuntu Loco Team meeting, held on Saturday, April 21st, 2007.  The meeting went from about 12:15pm to 4:00pm.

'''Team Page:''' http://chi.ubuntu-us.org/ <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Jim Campbell <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

===== Members Present =====
* Chad Sutton
* Frank Di Vita
* Andrew Bassett
* Eddie Martinez
* Jim Campbell
* Ryan Moss
* Stephanie Sutton
* Antonio Sosa

=== Meetings ===
'''Meeting schedule'''
''Proposed Ideas''
* Every six weeks
**** Make sure that we don't conflict with holidays and various LUG meeting schedules.
* Chad and Jim will take care of getting the schedule up on the chi-ubuntu page

'''Meeting Location'''
''Proposed Ideas''
* Alternate between city and suburbs
* Elmhurst library
**** Good location - it's by the train station
**** We think we can get an LCD if we request one from the Library
**** We need to make sure we can get this space consistently.  
********* If we can't get this space consistently, we need to look elsewhere.
* Panera.  This could be a good option. If we go to one with a meeting space.
* One meeting at Eddie and Freddy's house
* City location - what would be a good city location?
**** Patrick's office location?  We need further detail from Patrick.
* Space at UIC (Eddie is going to be a student there.)

=== Loco Activities ===
'''Balancing Advocacy and Learning'''
* Libraries as ways to promote ubuntu
* Colleges as a way to promote ubuntu - they have more college students.
* Coffee shops as a way to promote ubuntu
**** Only a limited number of CD's per loco.
* Will "attend" <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek|Ubuntu Open Week]]</nowiki> Loco sessions for more ideas for our advocacy / marketing efforts.
**** Discuss ideas that we like at our next meeting & explore from there.

'''Loco Plans'''
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek|Ubuntu Open Week]]</nowiki>
**** Loco team presentations during Ubuntu Open Week 4/27 and 4/28.
**** Check out the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek/JoiningIn|Joining In]]</nowiki> wiki page for information about how to join the irc sessions and information about how to get your questions answered.
**** IRC logs will be kept <nowiki>[[http://www.tonyyarusso.is-a-geek.com/irclogs/openweek/|here]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClassroomTranscripts|here]]</nowiki>

'''Project Ideas'''
''Open Source Software Repository''
* Chad does some neat stuff for his church, creating an open-source software repository on Windows, and he gives them out to the church.
* This is already something that Chad has in place, but we should feel free to pass along software ideas to him if you know of a cross-platform FOSS program that could be helpful for day-to-day users.

'''Adopting a Project'''
* We are thinking of adopting an ubuntu-related project for each release cycle.  An adopted project would receive assistance from the Loco team (e.g., development, documentation, packaging, etc.)
* We agreed to send out project suggestions via the mailing list
* Put short-list of projects for adoption up on a wiki
* Vote on the one that we want to adopt via a Drupal poll.

'''Presentation Schedules'''
* Photo stitching (putting 8 photos into one) - Andrew Bassett
* Directory Services (openLDAP) - Chad Sutton
* ''Ubuntu on a USB stick running inside Windows to connect to a server'' - Antonio Sosa
* Getting wifi set up - Chad
* Becoming an Ubuntu Member - Eddie Martinez

=== Forums ===
* We have them, but need more activity on them.  
* Forums are used by more new people, so it's good to get some activity on them to help bring in new members.

=== Manchicken House of Hack ===
* Michael Stemle is hosting people at his house in central Illinois for a hackathon in early May.  Details are below.
* Saturday, May 19th
* Transportation options
**** Some Chicago Lug people are going to be driving down, and can get rides w/them.
**** Ubuntu-Loco carpool options
**** Amtrak  (one time chaos eddie was stuck on Amtrack for 16 hours)
* He'll update us about the Ubuntu Developer Conference
* Need to RSVP.  Check out his <nowiki>[[http://blog.notsosoft.net/2007/hacking/i-call-an-ubuntu-illinois-loco-team-meeting.html|posting on his blog]]</nowiki> for more information.
   

=== Meeting Closure ===
The meeting was adjourned just after we finished eating our burritos at 4:00pm
