{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== La comunidad de Ubuntu ==

No importa si eres un experimentado desarrollador o bien estás dando tus primeros pasos con Linux, porque existen muchas formas en que puedes participar en la comunidad de Ubuntu. Independiente de lo que hagas, toma unos pocos minutos para discutir con otros sobre Ubuntu y convertirte en un activo miembro de nuestra comunidad.

=== Contribuye ===

==== Desarrollo ====

Puedes escribir nuevas aplicaciones, empaquetar software adicional o solucionar problemas (bugs) de aplicaciones existentes.

==== Documentación ====

Ayuda a generar documentación oficial, compartir la solución a un problemas, o revisar y probar otros documentos.

==== Arte ====

Pone lo mejor de tu creatividad para mejorar el look and feeed de Ubuntu. Ayuda a diseñar gráficos y backgrouns, o temas para el siguiente lanzamiento.

==== Soporte ====

Comparte tu conocimiento (técnico) con otros, participando de las listas de correo, canales de IRC o foros de Ubuntu.

==== Bug Squad ====

Help make Ubuntu even better by working with bug reports to ensure they're complete, understandable and if possible, reproducable. Anyone can help!	 	 

=== Ayuda e Información ===

==== Documentation ====

If you are stumped by a problem, chances are someone has encountered it too. First, review official help documents for everything from how to add new applications to configuring a network.		

==== Support ====

Access forums, live chat sessions or mailing lists, and benefit from the technical knowledge of others in the Ubuntu community.

==== Community Blogs ====

Planet Ubuntu is your window into the world, work and lives of Ubuntu developers and contributors.		

==== News ====

Keep up-to-date with all the latest Ubuntu news at the Fridge, including the Ubuntu Weekly News - a newsletter produced by our community members.

=== Community Structure ===

==== Governance ====

Learn more about how the community is organised and how responsibility is allocated.		

==== Code of Conduct ====

Review the code of conduct to which community members subscribe, and which is the bible for collaboration in the community (helps define the way that we all collaborate and work together).

==== Project Based Teams ====

Learn about the dozens of project teams working on a variety of projects which contribute to Ubuntu, how they work and what they do.

==== Local Ubuntu Teams ====

Find and join an official LoCo team near you, or get advice on how to create a team in your local community.
