{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

I have been a Linux user since 2001 and an Ubuntu user since 2005. My area of particular interest is networking and wireless. I participate frequently at ubuntuforums.org in Networking and Wireless and at askubuntu.com.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email
| wrweston@gmail.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

I have completed more than 20,000 posts at ubuntuforums.org. I have achieved more than 8900 reputation points at askubuntu.com. I believe that, often, getting a new user connected to the internet is one of the most important steps that help to influence whether that new user will be happy with Ubuntu and continue or disappointed and quit. I strive to do so with politeness and respect. I also strive to show others by example, how to do the same.

I love to research and find a method to get new wireless devices working in Ubuntu. I am excited by emerging technologies such as 802.11AC.

I am the author of a guide to selecting the correct driver for known Broadcom devices in use at both ubuntuforums.org and at askubuntu.com.

=== Future Goals ===

I will continue to provide the best answers I can and, ideally, solved threads at both sites.

=== Personal ===

My wife and I love to travel, especially in the American Southwest. I also enjoy photography and maintain a Flickr page: https://www.flickr.com/photos/chili5558/
