{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Re-Verification Application for China Team (ubuntu-china) ==

Ubuntu China LoCo team was established in May 2005. Today, our LoCo has become the largest FOSS community in China. We run our own website, forum, wiki, pastebin, Linux navigation site, mailing list and an IRC channel.

We provide community support for Ubuntu users in China, and our wiki/forum have become the largest Chinese knowledge base of Linux, many peoples who are using other distributions come and share their knowledge. We are trying to spread the spirit of Software Freedom. 

=== Key Details ===
* '''Date''' - 2013-11-08
* '''Team Contact''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chenyueg|Eleanor Chen]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~happyaron|Aron Xu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~oneleaf|Oneleaf]]</nowiki>, 
* '''Home''' - <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.cn/]]</nowiki>
* '''Forum''' - <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.org.cn/]]</nowiki>
* '''Wiki''' - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.org.cn/]]</nowiki>
* '''PasteBin''' - <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.org.cn/]]</nowiki>
* '''Linux Navigation''' - <nowiki>[[http://linux.ubuntu.org.cn/]]</nowiki>
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-cn @ irc.ubuntu.com
* '''Mailing List''' - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-zh|ubuntu-zh]]</nowiki> on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''Chinese Edition of Ubuntu Desktop Guide''' - <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~happyaron/ubuntu-docs/precise-html/]]</nowiki> It has been integrated into the Ubuntu Docs packages and is in the main archive. It is also available on help.ubuntu.com.

=== Statistics ===
* ''forum.ubuntu.org.cn'' - More than 442,683 registered users and 2,902,120 posts since Nov 2008
* ''Mailing List'' - More than 2000 members

=== Roadmap ===
* Arrange more events in colleges and universities to promote Ubuntu and other Open Source Software.
* Work with <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntukylin.com|Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> project, to implement better Chinese support in Ubuntu.
* Help students establish their own user groups in universities.
* Prepare fully localized training materials for the majority of users. 
* Guide more people to participate translation and software development (including packaging).

==== Major Activities ====
* Have two more Ubuntu Members: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~smartboyhw|Howard Chan]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jackyu|Jack Yu]]</nowiki>.
* Organized Ubuntu 13.04 and 13.10 release parties together with Ubuntu Kylin in Beijing and Changsha.
* Photos:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntukylin.com/news/shownews.php?lang=en&id=44|13.04 Beijing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntukylin.com/news/shownews.php?lang=en&id=45|13.04 Changsha]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/photos/113778876256062593151/albums/5944844026594974065|13.10 Beijing]]</nowiki>
 
