{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, John Lenton, apply for upload rights for package: `ubuntu-push`.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| John Lenton
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chipaca/|lp:~chipaca|target="_blank"]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[Chipaca]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==

I work building stuff for Canonical. Used to be mainly around Ubuntu One, which is where I started with the company back in 2008.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I've been using Debian since 2.0 came out (was that hamm?). My getting my first "real" notebook
coincided with warty, and it working quite well, together with the docs splitting into non-free
in debian a little bit after that pushed me to move over. A little bit later we switched my whole company over, and it remained an Ubuntu shop until it closed down sometime in 2009.

I've been working for Canonical since 2008.

=== My involvement ===

A lot of my work at Canonical has been "behind the scenes" either because it was private server-side code, or because it was managerial (I managed the whole Ubuntu One engineering team at one point). However one of my first tangible contributions to the archive lives on as `python-configglue` (of which I'm no longer maintainer).

Perhaps my most infamous moment was when I built the server-side half of the shopping lens (yes, the thing that talked to amazon and the Ubuntu One music store).

I used to pay quite a bit of attention to Ask Ubuntu, but haven't for a while.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I'm proud of the work I'm currently doing for `ubuntu-push`, including `golang-go-xdg` (which SergioSchvezov packaged into Debian for me). I'm happy to have also worked with Sergio to package `golang-go-dbus`, also via Debian, which meant we could stop bundling it in `usensord`, depending on it for both `usensord` and `ubuntu-push` (finding and fixing more bugs in `go-dbus` in the process). Something something `golang-uuid`.

=== Areas of work ===

While working on Ubuntu One most of my work was as a python developer, or as a manager of teams of mostly python developers. These days most of my work is development in Go, instead.

While working on `ubuntu-push`, despite having quite good coverage and doing live testing and some QA, we had one issue slip by that caused the client to drain the phone battery. We mitigated the issue server side within three hours (it took two of those for us to hear about the issue), and fixed it client-side the next working day.

=== Things I could do better ===

Automated QA is still not there.

== Plans for the future ==

Getting the Ubuntu Push client and the "post office" and associated unified notifications APIs into the hands of application developers.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Evan Dandrea ===
I've sponsored a number of changes to whoopsie from John. He's a top-quality programmer and I have the utmost confidence that he's ready for upload rights.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
