{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Email:  <<BR>> 
IRC: Kyral <<BR>>
AIM: Kyral Retsam <<BR>>
GTalk: C.Peterman@gmail.com <<BR>>
Forums: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=21197|Kyral]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/kyral|kyral]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
GPG Key: 
<nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x2B772D5298AFD257EF50C6DD5F8D61920F1A6639|0F1A6639]]</nowiki>
=== About Me ===

I'm currently in my fourth semester as a Computer Science undergraduate at Clarkson University. I started using Linux about 2-3 years ago with Slackware 10  on a Dell Inspirion 1100. Then I moved on to Gentoo on a new computer. I started using Ubuntu in April of last year after my CS TA suggested it. <<BR>> 

Generally I'm hyperactive and never afraid to ask questions. I will often do anything to make the situation light and upbeat, sometimes embarrassing myself in the process. When it comes to computers I take risks with my own machine more than I should, which has resulted in a couple of fried power supplies and motherboards, but I feel that sometimes the best way to learn about something is to break it. Maybe that is why I'm running Dapper on both my desktop and laptop <<BR>>

==== Languages Known ====

* C++
* CSS
* PHP
* Python (only a little, but learning more and more)
* (X)HTML
* MySQL

==== Plans for the Spring 2006 Semester ====

* With a heavy courseload, my main priority is to survive. However I have started experimenting with Xen, and hope to have it running on my production box (with Ubuntu Dapper) soon. I also plan to learn Python and possibly PyGTK by the semester's end.

=== Ubuntu ===

I used to help on the UbuntuForums a lot, but it seemed to die down after Finals of last semester. Ironically it translated into more help in #ubuntu. In addition to user help, I have been more involved with the technical side of Ubuntu. I am currently the maintainer of EasyChem (which has also been accepted into Debian Unstable) and GTKEdit. Occassionally I kill bugs as well. 

Plans for the rest of Dapper's development cycle include joining the Laptop Testing Team with my Dell Inspirion 1100, and I am also tasked with writing the Install Guide for the new installer.

==== Advocacy ====

I have been "spreading the word" as it were about Ubuntu on campus. So far I have installed it on two people's computers and they love it. I always carry a set of Shipit CDs with me just in case I need to give them out.

==== Packages Maintained ====

* <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/science/easychem|EasyChem]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/editors/gtkedit|GTKEdit]]</nowiki>

==== Documentation ====

* <nowiki>[[Fluxbox]]</nowiki> - I wrote most of the Customization section. <<BR>>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=87276|Window Managers For Beginners]]</nowiki> Thread explaining in non tech terms what exactly those things are <<BR>>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=73885|Terminal For Beginners]]</nowiki> Thread that demystfies the command line for people new to Linux

==== Teams ====
* NewUserNetwork
   A good amount of my Forums work was done within the Absolute Beginner's Talk forum
* <nowiki>[[MOTUScience]]</nowiki>
   I "recon" packages for MOTUScience and have also packaged two programs. Both <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/science/easychem|EasyChem]]</nowiki> is in Universe and <nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=883|FlowDesigner]]</nowiki> is in REVU
* <nowiki>[[PNYTeam]]</nowiki>
   I am the Team Leader and Contact for the brand new Potsdam NY Loco Team. RIght now we are inactive due to Finals but next semester we plan to hold an Installfest and possibly introduce Edubuntu into the school district

==== Bugs ====

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/dhcdbd/+bug/6052|6052]]</nowiki> Confirmed and Fixed
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/beagle/+bug/29053|29053]]</nowiki> Confirmed and linked to Debian Bug #348123
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/vm/+bug/3129|3129]]</nowiki> Fixed (sorta)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone/bugs/4614|4614]]</nowiki> Fixed
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/vlc/+bug/2772|2772]]</nowiki> Confirmed and requested upstream fix
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/vlc/+bug/1652|1652]]</nowiki> Rejected
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/vlc/+bug/2741|2741]]</nowiki> Rejected

==== Notable Forum Threads ====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=85055]]</nowiki> 
   Question about uninstalling Firefox
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=91068]]</nowiki>
   User had trouble installing build-essential, wound up being a problem with his use of the PLF Repos. Says he will wait until Dapper goes stable before trying again
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=91118]]</nowiki>
   User had problems installing Kwifimanager. Didn't know about Universe so they were trying to compile it
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=91148]]</nowiki>
   User didn't know how to uninstall things
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=91062]]</nowiki>
   User had a question about installing NVidia-GLX
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=91059]]</nowiki>
   User didn't know what was on the Install CDs (in reference to what would be installed by default)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=90708]]</nowiki>
   Problem with one of the Archive mirrors. User had to switch to the main archive.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=88932]]</nowiki>
   Permissions Question
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=88677]]</nowiki>
   User needed to know how to format a partition in ext3
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=88649]]</nowiki>
   User needed to know what package provided the X include files
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=88229]]</nowiki>
   User didn't know how to mount disks. Still unsure what I actually did to help...
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=88201]]</nowiki>
   User needed to know how to install deb files. Finished the support over IM
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=88171]]</nowiki>
   User needed help mounting a partition
----
CategoryHomepage
