{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* Blog : <nowiki>[[http://www.reponses.net/blog]]</nowiki>
* Aka huats even if some call me 4K :)

=== Contact ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''e-mail'''
|-
| '''Jabber'''
| christophe DOT sauthier AT SPAMFREE gmail DOT com
|-
| '''IRC'''
| ''huats'' on freenode
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/christophe.sauthier|christophe.sauthier]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Ubuntu involvment ===

==== The way I see my future in the Ubuntu Community, and why I stand for a CC seat ====
I have been quite careful to get a balance between my community participation, and my activities among the technical world in the Ubuntu Sphere. And it is the way I want to continue : keep doing develpment, but also maintaining community activities.

I do think this balanced point of view, plus the habit of dealing with large community (the French Loco is one of the largest in the world) are assets for a CC seat since it requires to have a good overview/understanding of the Ubuntu Community as a whole.

I am used to set conflicts. I have done that mainly in the french Loco, but I also did a lot in my day work when I was managing people. I have always been in favor of the separate discussions whenever it is possible in order to be able to act as a mediator, before organizing face to face discussion between the people who were opposed.
This willingness to reach common agreement has a strong continuation in my believe that even in such big community any voice is valuable, and that every opinions matters. This is one of the axis I would like to continue to emphasize.

==== Loco : Ubuntu-fr ====

I am the leader of the French Loco since June 2008. And I was an active member before.
My main activities in the team are :
* Management of the Community
* Planning of the events (we are the team which have events with more than 4000 attendants) 
* Management of the order/logistic/fabrication of all our goodies (CD/Shirts/Mugs...)
* Supervision of the development of our websites (that have more than 50 000 unique visitors a day) 
* Some development on our main website.
* Defining / improving the methods of such a growing team
* Commnication inside and outside our community

==== Ubuntu Development and Packaging ====
I am an approved Ubuntu Developper (MOTU). Most of my activites are done in the Desktop Team, contributing to Gnome integration.

The list of my current uploads can be found here : <nowiki>[[ChristopheSauthier-Uploads]]</nowiki>
The list of my current syncs can be found here : <nowiki>[[ChristopheSauthier-Syncs]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Mentoring ====
I am an the leader of the MOTU Mentoring Reception team, which organize the mentoring program for anyone who want to be involved in the Ubuntu Development.
More informations can be found here : <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Mentoring]]</nowiki>

 
==== Translations ====

I've done some translations on Rosetta at sometime (<nowiki>[[https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/~christophe.sauthier|cf]]</nowiki>)

I did some translation English->French for the interview project on ubuntu-fr.
I was part of BehindUbuntu, and did some English->French translations.
I was part of UbuntuBackstage, doing English->French translations.

==== Old Endorsements ====
You can find some old endorsements/supports that have been wrote about me during my Ubuntu life :
* <nowiki>[[ChristopheSauthier-UbuntuMembershipSupports|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ChristopheSauthier-MOTUApplication#Endorsements|Ubuntu Developper (MOTU)]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
