{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== current tasks ====

Remove build dependency on python-xml, useless since it depends on ... (LP: #199014).

==== debian/changelog ====

* Modify Maintainer value to match Debian-Maintainer-Field Spec
* Update of the Standards-Version from 3.7.2 to 3.7.3
* Move of the Homepage: pseudo tag from the extended description to the regular fields.

==== merging ====

* debuild -S -sa -v<old_ubuntu_version> 
To include the between changelog

==== packaging ====

Rebuild the autoreconf patch
<huats> I guess I'll never remember that : what can I do in order to rebuild an autoreconf patch ?
 which of course do not apply anymore with a new upstream version
<seb128> huats: move it away, edit, run autoreconf --verbose --force, rm -rf autom4te.cache

==== Launchpad ====
Un demande d'uprgade:
Thanks for the time you take for filling that bug.

I am sorry to inform you that the version of software that you want is not yet present in hardy, and thus you won't find at the moment a way to upgrade to that version.

You can find more details here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates

Un bug qui n'est pas un bug mais une question :

Thank you for your comments. This does not appear to be a bug report and
we are closing it. We appreciate the difficulties you are facing, but it
would make more sense to raise your question in the support tracker.
https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu

Thank you for taking the time to report this issue and helping to make
Ubuntu better. Examining the information you have given us, this does
not appear to be a bug report so we are closing it and converting it to
a question in the support tracker. We appreciate the difficulties you
are facing, but it would make more sense to raise problems you are
having in the support tracker at [WWW]
https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu if you are uncertain if they are
bugs. For help on reporting bugs, see [WWW]
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs .

Un bug qui a besoin d'un apport traces

Thank you for taking the time to report this bug and helping to make
Ubuntu better. However, your crash report is either missing or
challenging to deal with as a ".crash" file. Please follow these
instructions to have apport report a new bug about your crash that can
be dealt with by the automatic retracer.

If you are running the Ubuntu Stable Release you might need to enable
apport in /etc/default/apport and restart.

If you are using Ubuntu with the Gnome desktop environment - launch nautilus and navigate to your /var/crash directory and double click on the crash report you wish to submit.
If you are using Kubuntu or Xubuntu you can file the crash using /usr/share/apport/apport-qt --crash-file=/var/crash/_my_crash_report.crash in a terminal - where _my_crash_report.crash is the crash you would like to report.

I'm closing this bug report since the process outlined above will
automatically open a new bug report which can then dealt with more
efficiently. Thanks in advance for your cooperation and understanding.

Un bug pas assez détaillé :
Thank you for taking the time to report this bug and helping to make Ubuntu better. Unfortunately we can't fix it, because your description didn't include enough information. You may find it helpful to read "How to report bugs effectively" http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html. We'd be grateful if you would then provide a more complete description of the problem.
 We have instructions on debugging some types of problems. http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures
At a minimum, we need:
1. the specific steps or actions you took that caused you to encounter the problem,
2. the behavior you expected, and
3. the behavior you actually encountered (in as much detail as possible).
Thanks!
