{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Christophe Sauthier (huats on IRC), apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Christophe Sauthier
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~christophe.sauthier
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChristopheSauthier
|}

== Who I am ==
I live in France, in Toulouse. I work as a consultant is a small
service company (makina corpus) that only works with/on Open Source
Software. My main hobbies are Free Software, basketball and cooking.

== My Ubuntu story ==
=== My involvement ===
I've been using Ubuntu before it had a name :), but I have really
started to contribute for a year and half now (July/August 2007). Before that I
was only focussing in the french Loco (I am the leader of the French
Loco team right now). I am already an Ubuntu Universe Conributor (since august 2008),
 https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/motu-council/2008-August/001335.html).

In my current activities, I am working inside the desktop
team, the motu-mentoring-reception-team, the motu world as a
whole, and finally but not least ubuntu-fr.

I've started contributing to the MOTU community without any precise
goal, but since that day my main areas of contribution fall between the
desktop team (where I follow at least some packages like gcalctool), and 
some other gnome related stuffs (based mainly on the need of manpower at the moment).
I also still fix some packages based on a random choice (using harvest by instance).

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
I have done a package from scratch (python-webkitgtk), that have also been accepted to debian. I think it is something where ou learn a lot...  

I am taking care for some time now the packaging of gcalctool, including a strong cooperation with upstream (by send bugs/patches).
I also try to follow for some time now, some package which leads me to have a better interaction with debian. I have by instance noticed a soname bump not taken in consideration by the debian maintener of gnome-build (in the 2.24.0 release). I reported that, and fixed it for ubuntu (https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-build/+bug/274206).

You can find the full list of the packages I have <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChristopheSauthier/Uploads | uploaded]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===
Mainly GNOME related stuffs.

=== Things I could do better ===
I think I can clearly improve myself.
One of the first thing would be to get a better knowledge of the autotools. By the way it can ge so great to have such a session in a UDW...

I can also improve my QA process. For a few weeks I am using a script of mine to check symbols (it is a derivative from the check-symbols one
which is available in ubuntu-dev-tools), showing that I can improve my packaging methods even that lately.

I think I can also make a better usage of DVCS.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
Keep helping whenever and wherever I can but in the GNOME Front mostly.
I'd also like to help new contributors, through the mentoring program but also participating actively in the sponsoring queue.
As a side note, I have always been thrilled by participating in large transitions (like the python-xml removal stuff by instance), and I think I'll try to participate more in such actions.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I think the thing I like the least is the merging stuffs. I am refering at picking random merge/sync to do, based on dad.
That is also one of the reason why I try to work as closely as I can with upstream on the packages I am following, but also with debian. And interacting more and more with debian, is clearly something that I look in the future.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I was very happy working with Christophe. I mentored him and he was very easy to work with. He asked questions when he was unsure, he was keen to help out and quick to fix things that were broken. I sponsored ~15 packages, I'd say. The quality was great and things that needed improvement he fixed instantly.

I fully trust him. Christophe is very careful and asks instead of just steaming ahead.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/details.py?package=pywebkitgtk - good work, not trivial.
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gcalctool - great maintenance of `gcalctool`.
* Great GNOME maintenance, a few recent examples
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-system-monitor/+bug/320030
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/deskbar-applet/+bug/319984
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/zenity/+bug/318977
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gcalctool/+bug/318788
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xchat-gnome/+bug/318012

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Nothing really barring the MOTU application. Christophe needs (and will surely get) more experience and I'm sure he'll be a good sponsor and mentor. :-)

=== James Westby (james_w) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored quite a lot for Christophe, and I rarely find serious issues with his work. He is always keen to learn from any feedback, and is quick to ask for assistance where he is unclear on how to proceed.

His work in the mentoring reception team is great as well, with new mentee applicants getting assigned a mentor within just a couple of days I believe. Hopefully he will be able to get us 4k new developers.

I trust Christophe to become a MOTU, and I am sure that he will be an excellent one.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

** https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/271715
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/286965

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I don't feel that Christophe has much to improve in the process or community interaction side of his work, so it is just a matter of increasing his knowledge, as for us all.

=== Emilio Pozuelo Monfort (pochu) ===
==== General feedback ====
I haven't sponsored many packages from Christophe, but I have worked close with him for a long time in the Ubuntu Desktop Team. He does a good work there, and I know he asks for help when he is unsure about something. I trust him not to mess up with things he doesn't have the knowledge, and I'm sure he will do a good job. It's also a plus the fact that he wants to do sponsoring work. I also like that he has worked with Debian to get pywebkitgtk there. Although more involvement would be nice :)

Also his community involvement is awesome, even being the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-motu/2008-September/004742.html|MOTU receptioninst]]</nowiki> before being a MOTU.

I think Christophe will be a good MOTU and I'll be glad to see him become one.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/214601
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/180223
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/191716
** Probably some syncs and a few other bugs I can't find now.
** Some package reviews.
** Lot of work and fun in #ubuntu-desktop

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I think Christophe is well-balanced. He doesn't need to drastically improve anything, although (as everybody) he could do better with everything. But nothing to worry about in my opinion.

=== Cesare Tirabassi (norsetto) ===
==== General feedback ====
I'm not anymore much active within Ubuntu, my experience with huats is therefore somewhat outdated.
The impression I got several months ago, when I sponsored some of his upload as well as helped him out with packaging, is that huats was a very open person, willing to learn and quite enthusiastic about his contribution.
I'm quite sure that Christophe will not rush things into the archive once he will have upload rights, and will keep asking help or advice when unsure.
As community involvment is concerned, I would like to emphasize his role as a Reception Leader, where he has done outstanding work!

=== Sebastien Bacher ===
==== General feedback ====

Christophe worked on quite some desktop new versions and sru updates for intrepid and jaunty. He's usually doing a good work on those and working with upstream to get bugs fixed and debian to send his changes. He also asks when he's not sure about what to do and learn from his work. He would be a good addition to the motu contributors

https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/324817
https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/318012
https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/320030
https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/315144
https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/287778
https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/304538

There is no such much comments on the bug since IRC is usually used to talk about those updates

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Christophe is doing a good job on things he's doing but there is still many things he didn't work yet.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
