{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

ChristopherArmstrong is an aspiring MOTU.

http://launchpad.net/~radix

http://radix.twistedmatrix.com/

Landscape-related tickets:
* DONE - Update landscape-client package to 1.0.21: Bug:271886
* DONE - Get landscape-client to install a smart cron job: Bug:268765

Wiki pages:
* MainInclusionReportPythonSmartpm - Accepted!

Packages that I have contributed to:

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/landscape-client/ | landscape-client]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/smart/ | smart]]</nowiki>

Software that I'm packaging, maybe destined for inclusion in Ubuntu

* glulxe - now in ~ubuntu-if PPA
* nitfol
* glktermw - now in ~ubuntu-if PPA
* gtkglk (might need development work)
* !GlkLoader (might need development work)
* Gnome Inform 7
* Inform 7 (proprietary but distributable, could that go to Multiverse?)

Notes:

* dch -i for new version; -e for editing current version
* debuild: -us = don't sign sources, -uc = don't sign changes, -S = build source package
* debuild clean: clean stuff
* debdiff: no arguments, compares two most recent revisions from the changelog.
* dpkg -c: get contents of deb.

* Changelog should look like this:

<pre>
pkg (blah) blah; blah=blah

* Fixes for (LP: #xxxxx).
   - debian/rules: blah.
   - debian/control: blah.
* debian/rules:
   - blah.
   - blah.
</pre>
