{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===
Hello, my name is Christer Edwards, and I have been an Ubuntu user since 5.04.  I have been an <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/newmember|Official Ubuntu Member]]</nowiki> since early 2006, based primarily on my work with the <nowiki>[[UtahTeam| Utah Loco Team]]</nowiki>.  I have historically focused primarily in areas of community contribution and participation.

I am the author of the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com|Ubuntu Tutorials Blog]]</nowiki>. I currently work for a US Dept of Defense Contractor doing system administration on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and CentOS.

=== Contact ===
See my <nowiki>[[Contact|Contact Page]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Contributions ===

==== Utah Team ====
Founder of the <nowiki>[[UtahTeam]]</nowiki> I have been instrumental in creating a presence for Ubuntu in my local state.

==== US Teams Project ====
Co-Founder and mentor for the <nowiki>[[USTeams]]</nowiki> Project I have helped in expanding the Ubuntu LoCo presence in the US.

==== Ubuntu Tutorials ====
I maintain the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com|Ubuntu Tutorials]]</nowiki> blog that is now syndicated on the <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu Planet]]</nowiki>.

==== Ubuntu Folding ====
I also work a bit with the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FoldingAtHome|Ubuntu Folding @ Home Project]]</nowiki> and developed a <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FoldingAtHome/folding.sh|more native Linux installer]]</nowiki> available for Ubuntu and other distributions.

=== Sub Pages ===

----
CategoryHomepage
