{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

About me

My name is Christopher Ugwu and my online tag is Christofa. I was born and raised in Lagos - Nigeria.

I'm an enthusiastic GNU/Linux user and an advocate of Free & Open Source Software (FOSS).

I have started using Ubuntu GNU/Linux on August, 2005. Since then I changed every aspect of my life. Even though I was aware of the FOSS, I was never a part of it. By starting to use Ubuntu and realizing it's capabilities I became as much involved as I could on the whole community. Not only Ubuntu's but every other project that interested me.

I have three big passions: Open Source Advocacy, Nigeria & Africa's Development, & My Friends

I'm always available to help on new projects.
My contributions to Ubuntu GNU/Linux

Regarding the teams I'm part of, you can check my [WWW] Launchpad profile. I'll try and keep this sections cleaner.

{*} Websites

[WWW] UbuntuNigeria <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-nigeria]]</nowiki>

[WWW] NigerianTeam <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NigerianTeam]]</nowiki>

The Ubuntu Nigeria.Org -This was an idea I shared with my friends for several weeks, but only started working on it at 2007 Easter break. The idea is to create a larger extention of Ubuntu GNU/Linux users in Nigeria. (not yet finished)

Contact

*** 

      Email: ristofa@yahoo.com
             ristofa@gmail.com

*** 

      Launchpad: [[WWW] https://launchpad.net/~ristofa ]

Major Contributions to OSS & Ubuntu

*** 

      Member of the organizing staff of the [WWW] Nigerian Ubuntu Conference 2007.
    
*** 

      Co-developer and co-admin of the Nigerian Ubuntu Community site : [WWW] Ubuntu Nigeria.org - it provides informations in many topics (mainly based on the Nigerian experience & translation of the Ubuntu Guide, but extended), such as howtos, faqs, and install instructions for laptops (wiki-style, and a forum is also available). (not yet finished)

*** 

      Team Leader of the Ubuntu Nigeria Team (LaunchPad)
   

{*} Future help on Ubuntu

Community building

One thing I will start working in a near future is packaging. There are several applications (some are not well known) that I would love to see on the repositories.

I'll do my best to alert people about the Ubuntu Certified Professional certification exam so as to help increase the number of Ubuntu Certified Professionals. 
