{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Chris Coulson, apply for core-dev'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Chris Coulson
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~chrisccoulson
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a 28 year old software engineer from the West Midlands, UK. I started life out as a hardware engineer originally, but converted to software because it's way more enjoyable.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started using Ubuntu with Breezy, but didn't really start to get involved until around the time of Gutsy. I got involved with helping out the desktop team (packaging and fixing bugs etc) and eventually became a MOTU and also a member of the ubuntu-desktop team

=== My involvement / Areas of work ===
I'm currently Firefox maintainer in Ubuntu (looking after Firefox, Thunderbird and related friends), but I still try to help out with other general desktop tasks where I can.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* I wrote globalmenu-extension recently to add support for the Unity menu in Firefox
* I've implemented support for GNOME 3.0 technologies in Firefox and Thunderbird (still being reviewed by upstream though).
* I was heavily involved with rolling out Firefox 3.6 to all of our supported releases last year, hopefully making lots of users happy :)
* I've spent a fair bit of time in the 11.04 cycle tracking down and fixing issues in dbusmenu, and making the menus work more reliably (and use less memory)

=== Things I could do better ===
I don't do nearly enough sponsoring outside of my allocated time as patch-pilot. I guess this is partly due to the fact that the universe queue is so small, but also - I generally don't touch that much in Universe now and I am unable to process most sponsoring requests for main.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
* The way we distribute translations for Firefox is broken. This is something I'm going to fix in the 11.10 cycle.
* Implement Unity launcher and quicklist integration in Firefox. I've already got some ideas for this, I just need to start hacking.
* I wouldn't mind working on touch support for Firefox too. Don't tell that to anyone else though, else I might regret volunteering for it ;)
* More sponsoring.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
There isn't much I dislike in Ubuntu to be honest, but if I had to think of one thing which really annoys me, then that is lazy sponsoring. What I mean by this is when a sponsor looks at a sponsoring request and responds with something like "Unsubscribing sponsors, please provide a debdiff and resubscribe". There are several reasons why I hate this approach:
* The sponsor could be dismissing a perfectly good patch
* This is very unfriendly to fly-by contributors
* It takes, maybe, 20 additional seconds or so for the sponsor to create a changelog entry if there is no debdiff. If this additional time is a serious burden, then there is something wrong with our sponsoring process.

Sure, we should recommend contributors provide a debdiff in future if they want to be credited with the upload. Contributors who are serious about becoming involved on a more long-term basis will be fine with this.

Rant over ;)

I also dislike the fact that I cannot target bugs to a release for packages that I maintain (and can upload) in main. I guess this is more of a Launchpad annoyance than anything specific to Ubuntu though, but it's annoying to have to keep pinging people and asking them to do things for me that I should already be able to do.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
