{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Chris !MacNaughton, apply for upload rights for the !OpenStack package set.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Chris !MacNaughton
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~chris.macnaughton
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChrisMacNaughton/OpenStackDeveloperApplication
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==

Hi! My name is Chris !MacNaughton and I'm a Software Engineer on Canonical's !OpenStack Engineering team and located in the Netherlands. When I started, I was primarily focused on the !OpenStack and Ceph charms; however, I've shifted to assisting with the package maintenance of the !OpenStack project .

== My Ubuntu story ==

I started playing with Ubuntu in the Lucid timeframe, but didn't use it professionally until Precise, when the company I was working with used Ubuntu for all of our production servers. Despite being a longtime user of Ubuntu, I didn't start to contribute until fairly recently. I started working at Canonical in 2015 and, as a result of my work in the !OpenStack Engineering team, began to work on !OpenStack bugs with a general focus on the !OpenStack Charms.

In the last six months, I've moved into more direct involvement with Ubuntu itself through changing my responsibilities to focus on packaging for the !OpenStack project.

=== My involvement ===

I'm currently involved with the Ubuntu !OpenStack Team.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

These are <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Chris%20MacNaughton&sponsoree_search=name|My Sponsored Uploads]]</nowiki>

These are <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chris.macnaughton/+uploaded-packages|My direct uploads]]</nowiki>

These are <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/?field.searchtext=SRU&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=OPINION&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=EXPIRED&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=chris.macnaughton&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.structural_subscriber=&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_no_package.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on|My opened SRUs]]</nowiki> - These bugs all list as invalid because the top-level targets for them (Cloud Archive and related packages) are all invalid; however, the bug tasks all have series-specific tasks (Xenial, Bionic, Rocky) which track bug completion.

These are <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/?field.searchtext=%5BMIR%5D&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=OPINION&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=EXPIRED&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=chris.macnaughton&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.structural_subscriber=&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_no_package.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on|My opened MIRs]]</nowiki>

I've been an active contributor in !OpenStack <nowiki>[[https://www.stackalytics.com/?metric=commits&user_id=chris.macnaughton|since 2015]]</nowiki>.

Finally, I'm one of the maintainers of <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ceph/ceph-rust|Ceph's Rust bindings]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===

I've primarily been working on !OpenStack packaging for new and stable releases. I've participated in various packaging aspects including SRUs, FFEs, syncs, merges, backports, patches, upstreaming fixes, and backporting upstream fixes. I primarily work with Corey Bryant and James Page on !OpenStack Packaging.

I have also been working on improving the state of the Ubuntu !OpenStack bug queues, for both the packages that the !OpenStack team subscribes to and the Cloud Archive bugs.

=== Things I could do better ===

While I have a reasonable understanding of the !OpenStack packages, there's always something new to learn. In addition to expanding my knowledge of packaging these things, I want to expand my experience with broader Ubuntu packaging experience. 

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

I'm planning to improve my packaging skills in general in addition to my focus on !OpenStack. I'm also planning to work with other teams to improve my broader experience by doing some +1 Maintenance and shadowing other core devs, helping where I can.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I don't like how much bugs rot in Launchpad. Whether the bug is going to be fixed or not, having a bug sitting in Triaged, or worse, Fix Committed, for a specific target shows me that more time needs to be spent cleaning up older bugs.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
=== Corey Bryant ===
==== General feedback ====
Chris has been involed with Ubuntu in general for a long time and is extremely knowledgable on Ubuntu, !OpenStack, Ceph and other related software/hardware. Chris has a solid grasp of many facets dealing with Ubuntu packages and general distro work.

We're at the point where I trust Chris to upload most !OpenStack package changes without my help which will allow us both to be more efficient in our work.

Chris is well prepared for package set upload rights for the !OpenStack package set.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have sponsored many packages for Chris, as listed above, and he has been a great addition to the !OpenStack team.  I have worked with Chris on package work, MIR work, SRU work, bug triage, proposed-migration, autopkgtests, cloud archive maintenance, to name a few and he has a solid understanding of all of these and more.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Keep expanding your knowledge. You are a natural learner who naturally strives to keep learning and to do things more efficiently. Keep doing all of that. As I would advise any new uploader, double and triple check your work before uploading and always ask if unsure.

=== James Page ===
==== General feedback ====
I've worked with and sponsored Chris' work in the !OpenStack package set over the last few months.  He's worked on both milestone uploads in the development release as well as stable release updates for point releases of OpenStack.

I would trust Chris with upload permissions to the !OpenStack package set.  I'm confident that he will work within the bounds of his knowledge and ask when he needs support.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I've specifically sponsored a number of uploads for Chris during the Groovy development cycle;  these have been well prepared, presented as merge proposals on launchpad. Where feedback has been provided he's responded quickly and efficiently to understand the request and make any needed updates.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Continue to expand your knowledge especially of the development process and the systems that support Ubuntu development such as proposed migration.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
