{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
12:20 < ianto> Hello my name is Christopher Swift and I am from Wales (I can't attend the EMEA board tonight). I am currently 17 years of age and I have been involved in Ubuntu since 2006 (Dapper). 
12:20 < ianto> I have actively been involved in the UK LoCo over the past year attending events such as the Global Bugjam (Feb '09) in London and helping in part to transcribe the Ubuntu-UK podcast, I wrote an article in February regarding the uupc and how to transcribe for it (http://ubuntu-uk.org/bugjam09/). I have also spent some time on packaging and training to become a MOTU (one of my dreams after I finalise Ubuntu-Cym) as you can see some of the packages that I have uplaoded to Jaunty on my wiki.
12:20 < ianto> Over the past 2 months I have really been focusing my work on Ubuntu Cymru (Cymru is Wales in Welsh), a LoCo g
roup for Wales https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WelshTeam . I have been the acting Point of Contact from the start of the group and on Sunday we will be getting the results of the election (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WelshTeam/Election). 
12:20 < ianto> For Ubuntu Cymru I have been emailing many different persons and groups to help further the advancement of our current progress as a team. One of my public examples can be found here: https://rt.ubuntu.com/Ticket/Display.html?id=5280 . I have also been trying to get a Welsh subforum (http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1113818) as well as a website (I have had the -EU guys register ubuntu-cym.org but I am still awaiting a DNS key). I am very active and have used launchpad (https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-cym) to contact the group in lieu of a mailing list at the moment until one is organised. I also helped to organised the first ever release party in Wales, it was a good turnout for a team that was only a month old! 
12:20 < ianto> Some other contributions that I have made are translations in launchpad in Welsh & British English and also I help bug-triage from time-to-time.
12:20 < ianto> Locally I am known as an Ubuntu and OSS advocate who has helped with the Ubuntu installation of Welsh users in the region of 20 users this month alone. I am always available at any time to offer support and installation solutions for free to any user who requests it either locally, over the telephone, email or on IRC. Just 30 minutes ago I finished writing a letter to one of the -cym members who wanted to have a disc and a few Ubuntu stickers (a lot of which I paid for myself).
12:20 < ianto> If there are any further questions, then please just ask!
12:20 < dpm> amachu: regarding on the e-mail question, it was a technical mistake from my part
12:21 < amachu> dpm: understood and my best wishes..
12:21 < ianto> I have with me franki^ & brobostigon who wish to give a testimonial (franki just updated my wiki with one)
12:21 -!- plars [n=plars@75-27-137-193.lightspeed.austtx.sbcglobal.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:22 -!- hyperair [n=hyperair@210.71.50.60.brf01-home.tm.net.my] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["z"]
12:22 < ianto> Neither of whom are Ubuntu members but are involved in the community ^
12:23 < brobostigon> well, ianto helps alot of people with ubuntu, both in wales and in the whole of the uk, but i think te thing that stands out for me, is setting the welsh loco.
12:24 < ianto> brobostigon: Thanks for the comment :)
12:24 < brobostigon> its alot of hard work,
12:24 < Belutz> ianto, what would you do with your ubuntu membership if you're approved?
12:25 < ianto> Belutz: I understand that as an Ubuntu member I have rights to business/contact cards with Ubuntu on it. This way I can hand out cards to people about the Welsh LoCo team without breaking any trademarks
12:25 < Belutz> ianto, are there any offline activies that you do to establish Welsh LoCo?
12:26 < ianto> Belutz: Yeah, we've had a release party and I am always advocating to people in real life about Ubuntu. I'm currently thinking of setting up a bugjam in Wales at the moment and will carry the notion forward in our next meeting (which will be organised after Sunday's results)
12:27 < elky> ianto, what brings you all the way out of your own time zone to this membership board?
12:27 < ianto> elky: I have work at 9pm GMT and can't attend the meeting for the EMEA
12:28 < elky> where do you work?
12:28 < ianto> I work in a hardware store, B&Q night-shift
12:28 -!- Keybuk [n=scott@wing-commander.netsplit.com] has quit ["夠荒唐"]
12:28 < elky> computer hardware?
12:29 < Belutz> ianto, if you're not approved today, would it make it hard to establish the LoCo?
12:29 < ianto> No, gardening and building and home-improvement stuff
12:29 < ianto> Belutz: It wouldn't make it hard but I'm hoping the card permissions will make it easier to distribute info via word of mouth
12:31 < amachu> how many other than you and darius are with Welsh team
12:31 < ianto> amachu: There are roughly 25 in launchpad and 15 in IRC
12:32 < Belutz> ianto, i would prefer if you come back again after you establish the LoCo
12:33 < elky> it's a good start, but im not convinced yet. +0
12:33 < ianto> Belutz: What do you recommend that needs to be done?
12:33 < amachu> ianto: well I feel he is doing good.. +1 considering the overall activities..
12:33 < TheMuso> Neither am I. I'd like to knwo what packages you are working on for one.
12:34 < amachu> persia: TheMuso ?
12:34 < persia> I'm in agreement here.  I'd like to either see Ubuntu Cymru be started, or more somewhere else.
12:34 < persia> (+0)
12:34 < TheMuso> +0 also
12:35 < amachu> ianto: the translations section could give more links in proof of it
12:35 < Belutz> ianto, gather more supporters, create a long term planning for the loco, and make more offline activities to promote ubuntu
12:35 < ianto> What do you mean by "be started"? I've been waiting over 2 months for Canonical sysadmins to reply to my ticket in RT ;/, we have done a lot since then. What do you want dome? :)
12:36 < amachu> and does Wales has a separate language? the wiki of Welsh Team says so.. any any plans of working for it?
12:36 < elky> ianto, i dont want to see your temper.
12:36 < persia> I'm confused.  I thought LoCo officialness was granted by the LoCo council.  If it's just the case of the Canonical Sysadmins not having done something, I'd by +1.
12:37 < ianto> amachu: Wales sure does have a separate language, Welsh :). https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/~chris is some of translations work :)
12:37 < ianto> elky: I'm sorry, I didn't realise that I was being aggressive :-/
12:37 < elky> ianto, i see one word in welsh
12:37 < amachu> ianto: they would like to see Welsh Team under Approved LoCo Teams
12:37 < ianto> amachu: Ah right OK then, that takes lots of months of work :)
12:38 < ianto> elky: If you could hold on for one moment, I'll find my Welsh translations (they aren't all appearing in that linked I've shown)
12:38 < amachu> ianto: Keep up the good work and are there people from UK-LoCo to support you
12:38 < ianto> amachu: brobostigon is from the UK LoCo and franki^ is a member of both -cym and -uk
12:39 < amachu> ianto: ok. I wish you all the best next time around.
12:39 -!- lukjad007 [n=lukjadOO@unaffiliated/lukjad007] has quit ["Windows Live Messenger Error 0x2a0000"]
12:40 < Belutz> ianto, keep up the good work, hope to see ubuntu-cym to be listed in approved LoCo team
12:40 < ianto> amachu: OK then thanks :)
12:40 < amachu> ianto: Best wishes for Welsh Team too..
12:41 < ianto> I'm having troubles on that link for you elky, I've translated a bit of Ubuntu and a lot of the Gnome-Do project into Welsh, I've switched around usernames so it's playing up on the db
12:41 < ianto> But I guess it's an overall +0 anyway? :)
12:41 < amachu> Belutz: elky: TheMuso: On the new member to the Board, I would like to have you opinion on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZhengPengHou
12:42 -!- ryht [n=blackhat@125.161.74.39] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:42 < persia> Let's put that formally on the agenda, if we're going to discuss it here.  freeflying isn't here to answer questions.
12:42 < TheMuso> agreed. I am not phased either way actually.
12:43 < amachu> persia: thats fine
12:43 -!- brobostigon [n=ptaylor@cl-446.lon-02.gb.sixxs.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
12:43 < elky> it's only polite to give him the opportunity to be here if we're discussing in public.
12:45 < amachu> elky: TheMuso: Belutz: reply to the thread on the mailing list
12:45 < TheMuso> ok
12:45 < Belutz> amachu, ok, will do that
12:46 < amachu> Thank you everyone for participating
12:47 < KhaaL> thank you for holding the meeting
12:47 -!- ryht is now known as yht|off
12:47 < amachu> Our next meeting will be on 26 May 09, 10.00 UTC
12:47 < ianto> Thanks for the opportunity to apply :-)
12:47 < Belutz> amachu, elky, TheMuso, persia: thanks :)
12:47 < TheMuso> np
12:48 < elky> thanks amachu
12:48 < Belutz> for all the candidates, thanks for being here and keep up the good work
12:49 -!- boyet [n=whitehat@112.202.127.184] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:50 -!- ianto [n=chris@ianto.ch] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
</pre>
