{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



In an effort to make running a session in the Ubuntu Classroom easier, the Classroom Team has introduced our new bot, ClassBot. ClassBot will automate some of the tasks that need to be done to run a classroom session.

== User Interaction ==

=== Asking Question ===

To ask a question, you need to be in <code>#ubuntu-classroom-chat</code> and ask your question in the following format:

question: <question>

Where <question> is your actual question. If you don't begin the line with question: ClassBot will not recognize it.

== Instructor Interaction ==

=== Automatic Tasks ===

===== Channel Topic =====

The ClassBot will parse from the iCalendar schedule the name of the current session as well as the instructor and change the topic in both <code>#ubuntu-classroom</code> and <code>#ubuntu-classroom-chat</code> to reflect the session that is in progress. This is done automatically with no interaction needed from the instructor. To do this however, your session must be in the iCalendar. If it is not on the iCalendar, please contact a member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/ContactUs|Classroom Management Team]]</nowiki> to get it added.

===== Channel Moderation (NEEDS REVIEW) =====

There are a few different default settings for channel moderation with ClassBot. They are:
* Sessions that are part of an event (Ubuntu User Days, UbuntuOpenWeek) are moderated by default
* Sessions that are not a part of an event are not moderated by default.

These defaults can be changed for your class by contacting a Classroom Manager.

===== Granting Voice to Instructor =====

All instructors that are listed for a class on the iCalendar will automatically be granted voice in both <code>#ubuntu-classroom</code> and <code>#ubuntu-classroom-chat</code> at the sessions start time as listed on the iCalendar. The instructors will also automatically be devoiced at the end of the scheduled session.

===== Session Helpers (NEEDS REVIEW) =====

If you choose to have Session Helpers for your class, ClassBot will automatically give them voice in <code>#ubuntu-classroom</code> and <code>#ubuntu-classroom-chat</code>, plus they will also have access to the same commands as the instructor(s), however they will not be listed in the channel topic.

===== Slides (NEEDS REVIEW) =====

If your class uses slides for Lernid, ClassBot will add a link to the slides in the /topic and post a message to both <code>#ubuntu-classroom</code> and <code>#ubuntu-classroom-chat</code> for people who are not using Lernid and people reading the logs.

== Bot Commands ==

The following commands can be used to interact with the bot. They can '''ONLY''' be entered via private message, and are only authorized to the current session leader as defined by the iCalendar.

=== Question Handling ===

===== !question / !q =====

Issuing this command to ClassBot will provide a reply from the bot that shows the next question in the queue. The instructor can then accept the question !yes or reject the question !no [comment]. 

===== !yes / !y =====

Replying !yes or !y after ClassBot has shown the question for review will send the question to <code>#ubuntu-classroom</code> for the instructor to answer.

===== !no / !n [comment] =====

Replying !no or !n will reject a question that has been asked. If you reply with a comment (!no this is not a support class. Please join #ubuntu for support) ClassBot will send your comment to the user in <code>#ubuntu-classroom-chat</code>.

Rejections can be done if: 

* the question is not relevant to the session
* the question is a support question that is not appropriate for the classroom setting
* the question will be answered later in the session

=== #ubuntu-classroom moderation (NEEDS REVIEW) ===

Depending on the type of session you are running, ClassBot may or may not moderate <code>#ubuntu-classroom</code> by default. The instructor(s) can easily change if the channel is moderated or not.

===== !moderate / !m (NEEDS REVIEW) =====

If the instructor(s) want to change the setting of their class, they PM ClassBot with !moderate or !m and it will toggle the moderation of <code>#ubuntu-classroom</code>. 

== Bugs and Feature Requests ==

If you run into any issues with ClassBot, or have any suggestions on ways to improve it, please file a <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/classbot|bug]]</nowiki>!
