{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chris|Chris]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''cgriff''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Jabber''':
| chrisu@jabber.org
|}

=== About Me ===

Hello my name is Christopher Griffiths and I am a student at <nowiki>[[http://www.aber.ac.uk|Aberystwyth University]]</nowiki> from <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wales|Wales]]</nowiki> in the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UK|UK]]</nowiki>. I've been using Linux since Dapper back in '06 on a VM and later before 6.10 I had installed it to a separate partition on my hard disk, since then every computer in my house has been converted in part, or entirely to Ubuntu. Currently I am focusing all of my efforts on Ubuntu Cymru. 

=== Things that I do for Ubuntu ===

==== LoCo Teams ====

===== Ubuntu Cymru =====
* I am a founding member of Ubuntu Cymru having helped start up the LoCo with other team members.
* I was previously the Point of Contact for Ubuntu Cymru.
* Currently I am the acting chairman of IRC meetings in #ubuntu-cym.

===== Ubuntu UK =====
* I am an active contributor to the IRC channel #ubuntu-uk on the Freenode network, helping users with their issues when I can as well as contributing to the community feel of the channel with the regulars. 
* A regular at the Ubuntu-UK IRC meetings, I usually watch the meeting advance and interjecting when a thought or valid point has been raised that I can help contribute and/or add my own views to the current train of thought.

====== Bugjam 2009 ======
During the bugjam I attended both days in London (some 300 miles from where I live). I had prepared a pdf document ready for my session on bzr management and package transcription, namely for the Ubuntu-UK podcast. My document was also sent to <nowiki>[[MartinMeredith]]</nowiki> who lead the Birmingham bugjam and the English-UK translation team. This will also help to teach about the usage of Transcriber and how to utilise launchpad.<<BR>>
Document available at: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-uk.org/bugjam09]]</nowiki>

===== Translations =====
* I am a member of the English (UK) translation team.
* I try to translate at least one project per day.
* I look over work that has been requested for reviews if and when I see one.
* I have also translated in Welsh for some projects in Ubuntu, I am listed as the 4th highest contributor in launchpad for Welsh translations [ <nowiki>[[https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/+languages/cy]]</nowiki> ].

=== Future work ===
In the future, I wish for Ubuntu Cymru to become a fully fledged official LoCo team. I have been working very hard over the past few months to make it so. I really wish to help bring more users to Ubuntu too, in the past 3 weeks alone (of Sun. 10 May 2009) I have switched the computers of an estimated 20 users to Ubuntu, that is nearly 1 per day!

== Testimonials ==
=== Franki^ ===
"Chris is a great guy, he's really dedicated to the Ubuntu project, he's always on IRC spending his days helping out new users and translating programs.  He's really put a lot of effort into getting the Welsh Ubuntu LoCo off the ground, and I think that he could end up as a much needed spokesperson for Free software in Wales."
-franki (Ubuntu Cymru Member)

=== Brobostigon aka ptaylor ===
Chris works very hard, he helps many people up and down the UK, with their Ubuntu issues and problems. And of course recently setup a Welsh Ubuntu Loco. Which i can imagine is alot of work, to get to where it is now. However Chris is a great chap, and knows his stuff and seems to have an engineers mind.
Philip Taylor, helper at ubuntu-uk, 

=== Krzysztof Wilczynski ===
''Despite relatively young age Chris is a very knowledgeable person who is passionate and enthusiastic about the technology. His contribution to the Ubuntu Linux project simply speaks for itself - active package maintainer; founder of the Ubuntu Local Team in Wales; fearless bug hunter who is always eager to help other users. But above all, Chris is a great colleague and invaluable member of the project.'' - <nowiki>[[KrzysztofWilczynski|Krzysztof Wilczynski]]</nowiki>, System Engineering Specialist, Research In Motion Limited
