{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Well, I've been a part-time Ubuntu user for a number of years. I've since acquired a laptop to use full-time with Ubuntu and swear I've learned more in the first two weeks using it full-time than I have in the last five years just playing around with it once and a while.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~chris.arnesen
|-
| IRC
| ChrisArnesen
|-
| Email
| chris (at) darkstarpro (dot) com
|}

=== Contributions ===

Currently, my largest Ubuntu contribution is that I directed many episodes of a Public Access TV show called "TVLinux" from 2005 to 2007. Shaun Savage hosted the show and spoke frequently about various flavors of Linux, but focused primarily on Ubuntu. If you do a search on Google for TVLinux, you should find a few shows that were encoded and posted online.

=== Future Goals ===

I would like to participate with a local Portland Ubuntu users group and help show others this excellent Windows alternative. I could assist by buying CDs or USB Keys to distribute, and I could help coordinate meetings on the Westside (Beaverton/Hillsboro).

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
