{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Support for my Ubuntu Membership ===

* "I like Christophe. It's easy to work with him, he's always friendly, helps out where he can. He worked with me on a few packages and he's been learning quickly. It's great he's on the MOTU route and I hope he'll be part of the team soon! ROCK ON, Christophe!" -- DanielHolbach2 
* "I had the luck of mentoring Christophe on his first packaging bug. I kept asking things and he simply kept doing them, well and without a complaint ... amazing work! He has been active in the MOTU community and as a sponsor I have witnessed the quality of his work improving consistently. Christophe is always available, also when he doesn't have the time, and his positive, friendly and helpfull attitude is a great asset to the community. Unfortunately he also likes pizza but I guess nobody can be perfect." -- CesareTirabassi 
* Christophe is serious and reliable. He has been involved in Ubuntu for a long time, and I trusted him enough to let him take over the responsibility over the whole Ubuntu-fr website (and it involves a lot of work and responsibility). I've also seen him do a great job in projects around Ubuntu-fr. I am glad to see he is also doing some packaging.  -- YannHamon

* Christophe is a key member of the ubuntu-fr.org community as our main developer for the website/forum/wiki/planet. He is very competent and helpful.   -- JulienRottenberg
