{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Christopher Lunsford
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~binarymutant
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChristopherLunsford
|}

== Who I am ==
''Just a 27 year old that loves the humanities, programming, and lame smileys :P''

''My first taste of Ubuntu was with Warty after long use of Mandrake. Ubuntu was the first distribution I tried that used dpkg instead of rpm and I liked it so much that I haven't used an rpm based distro since. :) 
Recently, I've been getting into packaging for Ubuntu and Debian which is really fun and lets me look at a lot of code at the same time. Come find me hanging out in #ubuntu-us-tn, the TennesseeTeam LoCo channel on Freenode.''
=== Packages ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''charm'''
| http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/charm
|-
| '''libwww-delicious-ruby'''
| http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/libwww-delicious-ruby
|-
| '''lxplsit'''
| http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/lxsplit
|-
| '''pidgin-mbpurple'''
| http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/pidgin-mbpurple
|}
=== Bugs ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Metasploit Framework 3.2'''
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+bug/102212
|-
| '''Package name misleading'''
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+bug/161126
|-
| '''CPU hangs after wake up dell xps M1330'''
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/280206
|-
| '''The hashlib module deprecates sha and md5'''
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/charm/+bug/370339
|}
=== Patches ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''debian-policy'''
| http://patches.ubuntu.com/d/debian-policy/
|-
| '''charm'''
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/charm/+bug/347346
|-
| '''charm'''
| http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2784974&group_id=70637&atid=528507
|}
=== Teams ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Debian/Ruby Extras'''
| http://pkg-ruby-extras.alioth.debian.org/
|-
| '''Debian/Python Application Packaging Team'''
| http://alioth.debian.org/projects/python-apps/
|-
| '''Ubuntu/Bugsquad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad
|-
| '''Ubuntu/Tennessee Team'''
| https://launchpad.net/~tennessee.team
|}

=== Things I could do better ===
This wiki page =P

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''ruby-support, dh_ruby, and ruby policy'''
| http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/pkg-ruby-extras/tools/ruby-support/
| http://lists.debian.org/debian-ruby/2009/04/msg00001.html
|-
| '''ubotuTN'''
| https://launchpad.net/ubotutn
|}
----
== Comments ==

----
== Endorsements ==
=== Richard Johnson ===
==== General Feedback ====
Working with Christopher was very easy and straight forward. He took everything that was said to him and put it to good use. He even taught a couple of us veterans something we had to research a bit to find out concerning not having any build dependencies because the application was a basic C/C++ STL app and since everything that was needed to build it was already in the build environment. Plus he introduced me to lxsplit which is a cool app.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I just really sponsored his <code>lxsplit</code> package and didn't work super close with him, but I got to see his interaction with others on IRC and it was perfect. He did a great job taking feedback and putting it to good use. The <code>lxsplit</code> package turned out good, was uploaded and approved in hours. Very good job!

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Besides his wiki page :)  Just continue on doing what he has and he will be fine. As time goes on I have no doubt he will eventually become a good asset to the Ubuntu development community.
/* ''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.'' */

=== Luca Falavigna ===
==== General feedback ====
Christopher is a good guy to work with, he is active in #ubuntu-motu channel to help people and he is eager to learn new things and apply them to his packages. He also started to work on Debian side too, this will increase his skills a lot, so I am sure we will see very good things from him.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I reviewed and uploaded his first NEW package (charm). He addressed my comments soon and in a good way, and he continued to improve it.

----
/* == TEMPLATE ==
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====
Please fill us in on your shared experience. (How many packages did you sponsor? How would you judge the quality? How would you describe the improvements? Do you trust the applicant?)

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
* /
----

<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
