{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~christoffer-holmstedt|Christoffer-holmstedt]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''Christoffer''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Homepage''':
| http://www.christofferholmstedt.se
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| http://twitter.com/cholmstedt
|-
| '''Forums''':
| http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=801428
|-
| '''Pic''':
| Soon(tm)
|}
=== About Me ===
Except my interest for "free and open software" I've big interest in keeping my body fit. Especially as long hours in front of the computer tend to give some back and shoulder pain. I've up until recently often hesitated to go to the gym and instead always gone out running. What I've found is the TRX which is the perfect training gear for me, easy to use and you can give all parts of your body a proper workout. My current big goal is the "Göteborg Half Marathon" in May of 2012.

Enough about my physical exercise sessions. I'm currently studying for my bachelor degree in Computer Science at Luleå University of Technology in Sweden. If everything goes as planned I will be able to start my master studies at Mälardalen University(Västerås) in the fall of 2012.

My sparetime that I spend in front of the computer I like to play games such as Starcraft 2 and Battlefield 3. With my interest in computers, comes alot of ideas for software. My current goal is to get going with (1) my own website at christofferholmstedt.se and (2) a website that can be used to analyze my physical training progress. Both projects will be built with PHP and the Zend Framework 2.0.

=== Things I do for Ubuntu ===

==== Community ====
===== For the Swedish LoCoTeam =====
 
* Team Contact
** November 2011 until April 2012
* Participating in the project "Svenska videoguider" (<nowiki>[[SwedishTeam-Videoguider|Swedish Screencasts]]</nowiki>)

===== Internationally =====
* -

==== Development ====

* -

==== Support ====

* -

=== External Stuff ===

* -

=== Future Work ===

* -

=== Room for Improvement ===

* - 

----
<nowiki>[[CategorySwedishTeamProfile]]</nowiki>
