{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About ==

'''Name''': Chris Gibbs

'''Launchpad''':  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chris-t-gibbs]]</nowiki>

'''email''': chris.t.gibbsDOTgmailDOTcom

Currently I'm working full-time as a Network Administrator and studying part-time to complete my Bachelor of Computer Science (UNSW).

I have been playing around with GNU/Linux for a number of years now and have benefited greatly from the packages that have been made available (particularly in the desktop arena). Basically I have tried a lot of different distro's before Ubuntu was on the scene, without ever finding the right balance that suited me. Now I don't even consider other distro's for desktop installs.

Ubuntu has for me been a hobby for the last few years, where I have always had at least one computer where the main OS has been a Ubunutu Distro. 

I have begun recently to research how I can give back to the Ubuntu community and started to take an active interest in the forums and IRC channels (#ubuntu, #ubuntu-au, #ubuntu-motu, #ubuntu-dev).

I hope to one day soon be able to start helping out in the development and bug fixing circles.

== Education ==

* Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) 2007

* Bachelor of Computer Science (UNSW) 2005 - 2008

== Interests ==

* Integration with a Windows AD environment.
* Network-manager.
* Network Security.
* Virtual Computing (vmware & xen) 
