{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For now, the best thing to do is <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net?randomnick=1&channels=%23ubuntu-chromium|join the IRC channel and ask a question]]</nowiki>. Stick around a while. It may take some time for someone to notice.

First, some sanity checks. If you check the status of the plugin in the terminal, it should read something like this:

 <pre>
$ sudo /usr/sbin/update-pepperflashplugin-nonfree --status
Flash Player version installed on this system  : 13.0.0.nn
Flash Player version available on upstream site: 12.0.0.nn </pre>

If you check the browser's  '''about:flash''' , it should say something like

 <pre>
About Flash

Chromium        34.0.X.Y (Ubuntu nn.nn aura)
OS              Linux
Flash plugin    13.0.0.nn /usr/lib/pepperflashplugin-nonfree/libpepflashplayer.so </pre>
 
Next, if running "chromium-browser" from a terminal works but running from the icon in the dash or from search doesn't, then you should un-pin the chromium icon from the dock, then open a terminal and run,

 <code> grep -l chrom ~/.local/share/applications/*desktop |while read f; do rm -v $f; done </code>

then search for it in the dash and run it normally. Feel free to pin again.
