{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Information ===

Email: zulcss@gmail.com

IRC: zul on irc.freenode.net

Launchpad: http://www.launchpad.net/people/zulcss

=== About Me ===

I am a 30 year old, open source software ethuniasist. I have been using Linux in one form or another (Slackware, RedHat, Debian, Mandrake, Gentoo, Ubuntu) since Linux 2.0 came out and I have to say that Ubuntu is the best one by far. During the day I work as a Systems Engineer at Dinmar Consulting, and at night I relax by working on Ubuntu. I currently live in Ottawa, Ontario with my lovely wife and guniea pig which still does not have a name yet (the guinea pig, not the wife).

=== Interests ===

My interests include the following (in no particular order):

** Linux kernel.
** Bug hunting/resolving.
** Embedded Systems (handhelds)
** Spending time with my wife

=== Ubuntu and Me ===

I been using since Hoary was released. I was using Gentoo at the time and was looking for a change. I was tired of recompiling ebuilds and waiting ebuilds to finish and started looking around. I still used Gentoo on my server, so I decided to try Ubuntu and was impressed.

Soon after I started submitting patches for Ubuntu's kernel to Fabbione and have been doing so ever since. Here is a short list of things I have contributed to Ubuntu:

* Kernel Team
*** Submitted Kernel patches for improvements in hoary, breezy and dapper.
*** Kernel Bug triaging.
*** Submitted patches for external drivers in breezy and dapper.
*** Hanging out on #ubuntu-kernel offering support.
* Bug Squad
*** Bug hunting
*** Fixing and uploading to universe
*** Bug triaging
* Main/grub
*** I do some bug triaging for grub. I have a couple of patches that I would
      like to include in dapper+1. Including LVM support, animated gfx-boot out of
      the box and a cleaner stage2 boot.
*** Also I fiddle around with grub2 which I get the chance to.
*** Of course kernel team related activities.
* Laptop Team
*** Testing dapper on Canonical sponsored laptop Dell Latitude X1.
* MOTU
*** I am a member of the MOTU team and if I remember one of the first ones 
      to join the team (although I could be wrong)
* Advocacy/Support
*** I advocate using Ubuntu whenever I can. :)

=== Other Open Source Work ===

I have contributed to other projects as well besides Ubuntu:

* Gentoo
** Gentoo developer. (zul@gentoo.org)
** I mainted the net-irc ebuilds for Gentoo.
** I also maintained both apache1 and apache2 for Gentoo (including the related
    apache modules found in gentoo's ebuild tree).
** I was a member of the SPARC porting team, tested ebuilds for the SPARC
    proccessor.
* Open Xchange
** I contributed several patches to Open Xchange for various improvements to their
     web based interface that was accepted. I did this on behalf of a client that 
     I was working for at the time.
* Corel Linux/Xandros
** I was also one of the first beta testers when Xandros first came out.

=== Looking Forward ===

I would like to join the core developer team since I believe I believe that I can contribute alot more than what I am doing now with my experience and knowledge. I will continue to do my best and work with both the community and the core developers. Also I have a couple of ideas for an Embedded version of Ubuntu, I think that would rock (Imagine UbuntuCE ;).
