{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Who I am ==

I go by the name ChumleyEX, or Chumley, or even Chum if we are friends. Also I have a ChumleyEX account on just about everything (yahoo, aim, irc, etc). I've been using Linux and Unix (solaris) since about 1997, but since 07 i've actually gotten into having a linux box that I use on a regular basis. My Flavor of choice is Ubuntu (duh, I'm sure you could tell) and I like this for several reasons, apt-get being the biggest one. I've tried to go 100% linux but wasn't really able to, so now I have a linux server/spare desktop, some virtualhosts and a netbook with Ubuntu. My main is still Windows 7 RC, so once that license runs out I will try to be 100% Ubuntu. We will see about that. 

Also worth mentioning, I LOVE GADGETS, I am a gadget guy for sure.. I spend plenty of time every day reading on Gizmodo, engadget and various other sites, drinking in my beloved toys. To balance this out I also visit a couple of gadget forums to help out (flame noobs) with questions.. Most of the time people didn't search or read the 8 threads below. Burn baby Burn!

Some of the things I've done with linux my be small to you, but they are huge for me. I do most everything via putty or the terminal, I enjoy the command line but sometimes need some help from gnome or webmin.. Here are a few things I've done, just to give you an idea of where I am with linux. 

I manage 10 drives on the server, 5 are external USB.
proftp
apache2
squid (for those times when the office firewall holding out)
ssh (tunneling and admining my box)
ushare (for my xbox 360)
Samba
Varias media sharing programs
email server. 

I also troll around the Ubuntu Forums site trying to help out when I can. 
Nothing too fancy.. I am willing and ready to learn more..

Which leads to me joining a LoCo Team based out of Killeen Texas.. 

== My History ==

I've worked doing tech support for several years now (1998?), mostly it was phone support (ug) but now I have a nice LAN Admin job. I get to do a little with Novell and Windows but nothing Linux related. I've had a little college but this was when NT4 hit the world, I had tested out of the DOS, Advanced DOS, Windows and Windows95 classes, so I took the UNIX classes and bailed. (doh) I have a great deal of experiance with every MS OS except Vista, I skipped that one. I also do pretty well with networking, I've always tried to do more with my network and I'm running out of stuff to do. Hopefully this LoCo Team will give me some new insight or a project of some sorts. 

I don't program at all and my HTML skills are that of a 4 year old, I can do basis stuff with it but thats really it.. 
