{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Adding a test to run under the CI Infrastructure ==
=== Guidelines ===
Here are some basic guidelines for creating a test that can run under CI:
* Ensure that the test is as self-contained as possible.
** For tests running on phones, for example, it's best if it can run using phablet-test-run without any extra setup provided outside the test itself
* Tests should output results in subunit (preferred) or binary fail/pass
* Ensure that the tests run reliably without random failures as this makes it difficult to determine if failures are real.
* For tests that look at performance, the raw performance data should be part of the results stream, but baselines should be compared to also record a clear pass/fail for each testcase.

=== Requesting CI to add the test ===
As soon as you are ready for the CI team to start looking at adding the tests, open a bug at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ci-services-itself and provide the following information:
* Where the tests can be found
* Intended targets the test should run on (arch, vm/hardware, device types, etc)
* Any special hardware required
* Any special setup that has not yet been added to the setup of the test itself

=== Future Changes ===
* The CI team is investigating the use of dep8 testing as a broad solution to test setup and execution problem. This includes extensions to cover specific needs such as specifying a machine type.
