{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== The Test Script ==

The memory measurement scripts are found here:

http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-test-case-dev/ubuntu-test-cases/qa-baseline-testing/files/head:/smem/

== The Dashboard Views ==

The dashboard currently displays the sum of the PSS column.

=== Image/Upgrade Details ===

For the Image/Upgrade detail view seen here:

<nowiki>[[http://ci.ubuntu.com/memory/idle/arch/armhf/machine/11/install/result/19559/details/]]</nowiki>

There is a list of processes seen in the smem output for the given image/upgrade.  The PSS column is the PSS value for that process.  The 'Average Change' column is the difference between this process' PSS value and the average PSS value for the previous image/upgrade.  The 'Direction' column is just a visual representation of the 'Average Change' column.

=== Image/Upgrade Results ===

For the Image/Upgrade overview page seen here:

<nowiki>[[http://ci.ubuntu.com/memory/idle/arch/armhf/machine/11/install/results/touch/pss/]]</nowiki>

The 'Value' column is the sum of all the PSS values for the processes in the smem output.  The 'Processes' column is the count of processes seen in the smem output.  There is one result for each loop iteration in the smem.sh script.

=== Architecture Overview ===

For the Architecture overview page seen here:

<nowiki>[[http://ci.ubuntu.com/memory/idle/arch/armhf/]]</nowiki>

There are charts that graph the minimum, maximum, average, population standard deviation for each image/upgrade.  These are aggregations of the results for each loop iteration in the smem.sh script.
