{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Continuous Integration Engineering ===

==== Finding us ====

** #ubuntu-ci-eng on Freenode
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ci-engineering|Launchpad team]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[canonical-ci-engineering@lists.launchpad.net|Mailing list]]</nowiki>

==== Dual concerns of CI ====

* '''The CI Engine needs to be careful to not slow development velocity.''' Developers should be able to continue working as their code is evaluated for quality and inclusion in Ubuntu. If we cannot move fast, we'll fail to effectively compete.

* '''The CI Engine needs to increase debugging velocity.''' Changes are tested in fundamental pieces like branches for their inclusiveness in:
## The trunk of a project.
## A package build.
## A released stable image with just the changed packages.
## The released development image.
## The image to be produced.
  It ensures that problems are well isolated and provides a very small window to bisect through, ensuring that problems are flagged quickly, found quickly, and fixed quickly.

==== CI Services ====
* Adding a <nowiki>[[AddingTests|new test]]</nowiki> to run under CI

==== Proposed Migration ====
* <nowiki>[[CI-ProposedMigration]]</nowiki> - How to reproduce results from proposed migration testing.

==== CI Dashboard ====

* <nowiki>[[http://ci.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CI-Dashboard|More info]]</nowiki>

==== Executing CI Testing Locally ====

* Ubuntu Touch Image (Smoke) Testing: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-test-cases-touch.readthedocs.org/en/latest/]]</nowiki>
