{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ciemon|ciemon]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''Ciemon''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://waitingcloud.org
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| http://twitter.com/ciemon
|-
| '''Identica''':
| http://identi.ca/ciemon
|}

=== About Me ===

I'm a 42 year old married father of two living in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amesbury]]</nowiki>,  <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiltshire]]</nowiki> in the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UK|UK]]</nowiki>. I first started using Linux with Redhat 7, using the F6FBB Amateur Radio Bulletin Board software. I moved to Debian based distros at the end of the '90s as the support at my LUG was greater for them. I use Ubuntu at home on laptops, desktops and small form "servers"; I also run a vps which I have no physical access to. A member of the Hampshire Linux User group I'm also an admin for lug.org.uk. and a co-presenter on the Ubuntu UK Podcast

=== Things I do for Ubuntu ===

==== Community ====

* Co-host and edit the <nowiki>[[http://podcast.ubuntu-uk.org|Ubuntu UK Podcast]]</nowiki>  with a few other members of the <nowiki>[[UKTeam|UK LoCo Team]]</nowiki>. We have interviewed numerous key people in the Ubuntu project have around 2,000 core subscribers with each episode downloaded about 10,000 times.

==== Development ====

* I am an early adopter of pre-Alpha releases to provide testing, bug reporting and triage help.
* I am a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-hams-devel|Ubuntu Ham Development team]]</nowiki> and have done bug work and patching on some of the software covered by the team.
* I have done some manual work for the byobu team, enabling developers to concentrate on the application.
* As part of my progression into the development world I've recently joined the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki>

==== Support ====

 Joining the Bug Squad is enabling me to enhance my support skills in various irc channels, and at LUG meets/conferences by using the broader knowledge I now have of the whole of Ubuntu.

==== Outside of Ubuntu ====

* Helped to organise <nowiki>[[http://oggcamp.org/|OGGCamp.]]</nowiki>
* Helped as 'Crew' for <nowiki>[[http://www.lugradio.org/|LUGRadio.]]</nowiki>
* Administer http://lug.org.uk.

==== Future Work ====

* Improve my skillset, using Amateur Radio packages as a focal point.
* Help co-ordinate the efforts of the Ubuntu Radio Amateurs team.
