{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu Landing Team ==

The Ubuntu Landing Team is a group of people managing releases of new packages through CI Train, deciding on Touch image promotion, tracking quality of Ubuntu Touch images and related. The Landing Team consists of people from various teams such as Phonedations, Foundations, QA, CI, Community with a common goal of getting high-quality Touch images with proper development velocity.

=== Members ===

Landing team members change over time.

* AlanPope (core-apps)
* BarryWarsaw (US-tz CI Train support)
* BrendanDonegan (QA autopilot)
* ColinWatson (UTC-tz CI Train support)
* DaveMorley (QA dogfooding)
* LeoArias (QA autopilot)
* LukaszZemczak (UTC-tz CI Train support, current landing team lead)
* OliverGrawert (phonedations)
* PaulLarson (CI)
* RobertPark (US-tz CI Train support)
* SivatharmanParameswaran (CI)
* StephaneGraber (US-tz CI Train support)
* TimoJyrinki (early UTC-tz CI Train support)

=== Sheriff Schedule ===

These people are responsible for helping you assign & publish silos at these times:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| European Time Zone
| US Time Zone
|-
| 2014-07-28
| mvo
| robru
|-
| 2014-07-29
| cjwatson
| robru
|-
| 2014-07-30
| sil2100
| robru
|-
| 2014-07-31
| cjwatson
| robru
|-
| 2014-08-01
| sil2100
| robru
|}

=== IRC ===

General landing discussion takes place in '''#ubuntu-ci-eng''', in which queuebot will ping frequently about the progress/statuses of various silos. Landers should set an IRC highlight for "trainguards" if they want to follow when to assign or publish silos for people. Be warned though that this gets pinged frequently throughout the day.

If you need help troubleshooting a problem with CI Train, you should contact the Sheriff in '''#ubuntu-ci-eng''', as per the above schedule. The channel topic should also indicate who the current sheriff is. When in doubt, many sheriffs have their IRC highlights set for "trainguards" so you can reach a timezone-appropriate person that way as well.
