{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Christian Kastner, apply for upload rights for the following package(s):'''

* ggml
* llama.cpp
* pkg-rocm-tools
* rocblas
* rocfft
* rocrand

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Christian Kastner
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ckk|ckk]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ckk|ckk]]</nowiki>
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to provide frequent backports of current AI/ML packages to Ubuntu's users, especially for using LLMs locally. These packages are fast-moving targets, and users need to have access to their most recent versions.
* I maintain pkg-rocm-tools which controls which AMD GPU targets get built in distributions. I would like to extend support for this to Ubuntu, so that the ROCm packages that get sync'ed from Debian are built properly.
* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==

I've been a Debian contributor since 2010, and join the Project as a member in 2015. Over the past few years, my focus has been on AI/ML packages, and on CI tooling. I maintain forks of debci and autopkgtest with AMD and NVIDIA GPU support.

== My Ubuntu story ==

Is just getting started.

=== My involvement ===

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

''Include your existing sponsored uploads for the packages for which you are seeking upload rights. You can link directly to an upload by following <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hello/2.10-1build1|this pattern]]</nowiki>.''

=== Areas of work ===

Within Debian, I am mostly active in the Debian AI, Debian ROCm, Debian Science and Debian Python teams. I am interested in contributing to the related Ubuntu teams as well.

== Plans for the future ==

I'd like to become an active maintainer of packages for which I already am the primary maintainer in Debian.

=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I'm not a fan of snaps. Though I understand the problem they are trying to solve.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
