{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I'm 35. Live in Raleigh N.C. (USA) I'm married and have 2 kids.

I was the lead of the UbuntuStudio project for 4 releases and will now be focusing on artwork and recruitment rather than managing the day-to-day issues. I will also be focusing on more Ubuntu-centric projects such as the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/BreatheIconSet|Breathe Icon Set]]</nowiki>.

In my 2.5 years experience leading an Ubuntu derivate, I have had to deal with all sides of community from packaging, artwork, etc... and off course translations of the Ubuntu Studio work. 

I have have been sponsored but only attended 3 of the last 4 Ubuntu Developer Summits in which I have gained valuable contacts within the community and a greater appreciation for it.

I also have a great interest in entertainment and how computers can work with home theater systems.

=== Launchpad Page ===
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~coryisatm|CKontros]]</nowiki>
=== Contact Details ===
* '''IRC''':ckontros (irc.freenode.net)
* '''Email''':coryisatm(at)ubuntu(dot)com
=== Where to find me ===
'''I am on the following lists:''':
* ubuntustudio-devel
* ubuntu-artwork

'''IRC:''':
* #ubuntustudio-devel
* #ubuntu-devel

=== Contributions ===
'''Ubuntu''':
* I am currently heavily involved in the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org|Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki> project.
* I also maintain the UbuntuStudio WIKI and it's child pages.
* I admin the ubuntu-artwork, ubuntustudio-devel and ubuntustudio-users mailing lists.
* I am involved in the Ubuntu Artwork community.

I do as much support on the Ubuntu Forums as I can along with maintaining several HOW-TOs.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=25151|HOWTO: Enable your Wacom Intous/Graphire Tablet with Pressure Sensitivity]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=183125|HOWTO: Create Mp3s with Grip and understand what you are doing]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=105466|HOWTO: Dynamically resize Pencil, Eraser and Brush in The GIMP]]</nowiki>

=== Future Plans ===
* To build the Ubuntu Studio development team even bigger.
* To help focus the Studio community to get better bug reporting and feedback.
* Refine the Studio development effort to a more clear and concise process.
* Continue to develop the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/BreatheIconSet|Breathe Icon Set]]</nowiki> as a hopeful replacement for the current Human set.
