{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Below are some things to consider when holding a classroom session using Google+ on-air Hangouts.

=== Shortcomings ===

These are some of the shortcomings we've experienced when running classes this way.

* Whoever starts the on-air hangout must remain in the hangout
* Video is recorded to the personal youtube account of the person who starts the hangout
* Video URL doesn't use the hangout name

=== Problems ===

These are the problems that resulted from the shortcomings above.

* Session leads have to start their own hangout and use their own youtube account (unless someone does this for them)
* Participants have to switch to a different youtube page every hour
* Video URL won't be known until the hangout is started

=== Recommendations ===

Here is what we did to avoid or alleviate the problems.

* Have one support person who can start each session and remain connected during them
* Allow a 10 minute break between session to allow time to create the new hangout and update relevant links
* Create a dedicated <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/showdown/workshops/classroom|classroom page]]</nowiki> that gets manually updated before every session
** This page should contain an embedded link to the video and an embedded webchat to the channel for asking questions

=== Support Tasks ===

These are the things we did on a regular basis.

* Create the hangout with on-air option, use the session name as the hangout name, 
* Invite instructors, update dedicated classroom page with the Youtube link and session name
* Add to !YouTube comments (note that http:// is missing, youtube won’t allow full urls): "Watch the video and ask questions at <classroom page>"
* Check youtube comments for questions anyway
* Let the instructor know about comments on IRC or youtube (if desired)
* Update the even schedule page with video link after the broadcast
