{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe your ideas for Classroom topics here:
=== Ideas ===
Find out most-called factoids, and pick from that list.
codecs, video drivers, wireless, fixing GRUB, Java, Beryl, resolution, viewing/editing Windows partitions, +WINE + adding repos + LAMP.
perhaps do it as shorter just to teach and then take a lot of the time to answer questions, do hypothetical situations, etc?

Basic unix fluency - commandline syntax, command structure, elementary regex and multiple command linkage, autocompletion, color.

* LDAP
* Clustering
* Networking
* LTSP
* Packaging
* Patching packages
* Launchpad
* Wiki
* Ubuntu membership
* IRC
* Artwork
* Glade
* Other
* Bug Triage

Heres some ideas on topics:

* Terminal Server Client/VNC external IP to PN IPs (private networks) and setup.
* Networking with linux - Commands and HowTo's.
* Debian Packaging - How to make them and how they work.
* Kernel Compiling
* Tackling compiling (of a application) and errors that are common/uncommon
* Samba -HowTo and tackling errors/incompatabilities.
* Battery Saving modifications/hacks (this is a big one since I cannot find anything on this subject that suites my needs, nor others)
 
This is my first time editing a wiki, so excuse the bad placement of text.
- Daniel S. Aliases: DM| / Delvien 

=== Volunteers ===
Music_Shuffle - something kinda simple

BrandonSussman - ''General unix/Linux topics''. 
* System management, scripting, configuration, troubleshooting. 
* Elementary LAMP setup and maintenance
* Commandline syntax, regex, multiple command chaining, environment maintenance and setup. 

PriceChild - ''Beryl''
* "What the heck is all of this?"
* Where to find the guide for your setup.
* Maybe a little support.

somerville32

''No video or audio topics.  No ubuntu+1 topics''
