{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


There are a few ways to contact the Ubuntu Classroom Management Team if you need some assistance.

==== IRC ====

To contact us via IRC, please join <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom-backstage|#ubuntu-classroom-backstage]]</nowiki> on freenode. The following are members of the Classroom Management Team:

* nhandler
* pleia2
* nigelb

Please be patient as we all have jobs and may not be readily available to answer your questions. We will get back to you on IRC as soon as possible. Also, you can send an email to the mailing list or the Launchpad group if you are unable to reach us on IRC.

==== email ====

If you are interested in contacting any of the Ubuntu Classroom Management Team by email: 

* <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nhandler]]</nowiki> - nhandler@ubuntu.com
* <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz|pleia2]]</nowiki> - lyz@ubuntu.com 
* <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nigelbabu]]</nowiki> - nigelbabu@ubuntu.com

==== Mailing List ====

You can also contact the general membership of the Ubuntu Classroom project via email on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-classroom|Ubuntu Classroom Mailing list]]</nowiki> by sending an email to ubuntu-classroom@lists.ubuntu.com.
