{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting 2008 Mar 2th ==
* Meeting Topic - Reformation of the Ubuntu Classroom Project

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Trevor Sharpe<<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* herlo
* Zelut 
* Heartsbane
* seth (aka visualdeception)
* popey
* nixternal
* dantalizing

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''2:11PM EST (GMT -0500)''', by Christer Edwards(Zelut)''
* Proposed Meeting Agenda presented in gobby
* Items were reviewed from the agenda
* Timelines, and Goals were established primarily to begin the third week in March
** Suggestion for Teams to present for Ubuntu Classroom were taken
** Presentation guidelines should be reviewed at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClassroomGuidelines
* Assignments were given
** Meeting assignments were recorded on: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/MeetingAgenda2008Mar2
* '''NO Follow up meeting date/time was established'''
* ''Meeting called to end at '''3:30PM EST (GMT -0500)''', by Christer Edwards(Zelut)''

== Agenda ==
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/MeetingAgenda2008Feb24

== Additional ==
* no other note worthy items 

== Discussion ==
The following is the discussion that took place in gobby. Times are MDT (GMT -0700):
{{{
[12:11:35 PM] <zelut> I was feeding the baby, sorry.
[12:11:59 PM] <visualdeception> hows fatherhood treating you?
[12:12:10 PM] <zelut> its tiring
[12:12:28 PM] <visualdeception> yea
[12:15:51 PM] herlo has joined
[12:16:10 PM] <visualdeception> welcome herlo
[12:16:14 PM] <herlo> hello
[12:16:22 PM] <zelut> hello
[12:16:36 PM] <herlo> I guess a message in a channel somewhere would be nice...  I had no idea it was here.  I was in ubuntu-classroom...
[12:16:45 PM] <herlo> hearts found me
[12:17:06 PM] <heartsbane> ya well, I apologize to everyone for that
[12:17:15 PM] <herlo> hehe
[12:17:38 PM] <visualdeception> for the next meeting could a message be added to the /motd?
[12:17:41 PM] <herlo> hearts, you can't change topics either...
[12:17:55 PM] <heartsbane> :( ya
[12:18:06 PM] <visualdeception> can anyone in the group change the topic?
[12:18:51 PM] <visualdeception> we may need to change it in the future....
[12:19:35 PM] <heartsbane> That is fine
[12:19:41 PM] <herlo> :) I am here
[12:19:57 PM] <heartsbane> to get our agenda down it is great feel free to doctor it up
[12:20:10 PM] <heartsbane> to help get the minutes done also
[12:20:29 PM] <heartsbane> I have a layout ready for the minutes of this meeting as well
[12:20:54 PM] <visualdeception> cool, rock on heartsbane
[12:21:07 PM] <heartsbane> can I ask, did everyone get my email to the mailing list, I saw it in the archive but I never got a copy
[12:21:56 PM] <zelut> I'm pretty sure I got it.
[12:22:01 PM] <visualdeception> yea i did too
[12:22:04 PM] <heartsbane> k 
[12:22:04 PM] <zelut> about the reformation vs resurrection?
[12:22:10 PM] <heartsbane> ya 
[12:22:19 PM] <heartsbane> I think reformation sounds better
[12:24:34 PM] <zelut> so are we waiting a few minutes for popey I assume
[12:24:57 PM] <visualdeception> i think so....the others appear to be MIA
[12:25:28 PM] <heartsbane> yes
[12:27:17 PM]  * herlo wishes there was a bot
[12:28:18 PM] <heartsbane> for logging?
[12:29:49 PM] <herlo> to beat you down
[12:30:23 PM] <zelut> let's get started
[12:30:32 PM] popey has joined
[12:30:43 PM] <heartsbane> oh
[12:30:46 PM] <popey> meep meep!
[12:31:08 PM] <zelut> Heartsbane: Would you like to start?
[12:31:44 PM] <heartsbane> just a quick agenda I pounded out on a peice of paper, and typed up just a while ago
[12:32:12 PM] <heartsbane> Perhaps if anyone has anything to add for discussion please do so
[12:32:21 PM] <zelut> I guess we should just go down the list and dive in.
[12:32:37 PM] <zelut> any thoughts on using gobby vs IRC?
[12:32:45 PM] <heartsbane> The first item is that was left really unclear is the continue use of gobby
[12:32:49 PM] <visualdeception> personally i like gobby
[12:33:07 PM] <visualdeception> helps to have the agenda in the same screen
[12:33:19 PM] <zelut> I like it too.  We can have agendas like this which are easy for everyone to update.  IRC + wiki would have too many overwrites or locks.
[12:33:30 PM] <popey> +1
[12:33:54 PM] <heartsbane> k I would like to continue with it until someone objects 
[12:33:59 PM] <zelut> +1
[12:34:33 PM] <zelut> far too much red in that agenda ;)
[12:34:39 PM] <heartsbane> Sorry
[12:34:55 PM] <heartsbane> Review of the assignments
[12:35:16 PM] <zelut> as per the follow-up I sent out it looked like everyone had other things happen last week.
[12:35:29 PM] <herlo> there
[12:35:41 PM] <visualdeception> nixternal will be joining us shortly
[12:35:43 PM] <zelut> Can anyone report on what did get done?
[12:35:55 PM] <heartsbane> IMO we left out contacting old team members, I think that would be helpful to move forward
[12:36:11 PM] <heartsbane> I appended to the wiki with our efforts
[12:36:42 PM] nixternal has joined
[12:36:43 PM] <zelut> ok. I did speak with ryanakca and pleia2 last week, both of which seemed busy with other things.
[12:36:48 PM] <heartsbane> to keep up the community about our efforts to bring back open week
[12:36:49 PM] <zelut> its good to keep them in the loop for sure though.
[12:36:57 PM] <heartsbane> k
[12:37:26 PM] <heartsbane> I guess hello to nixternal, 
[12:37:35 PM] <zelut> the most I got done was start generating a list of teams I'd like to contact about presenting and creating relationships.
[12:37:46 PM] dantalizing has joined
[12:38:47 PM] <heartsbane> I guess nixternal is here, where exactly does he fall in I know he was involved previously
[12:38:49 PM] <nixternal> hola
[12:39:03 PM] <nixternal> I am just tagging a long to see how it goes really
[12:39:31 PM] <nixternal> I have been involved with numerous "reviving the classroom" meetings that didn't have any outcome whatsoever
[12:39:40 PM] <nixternal> so I am being cautious on where I spread my time
[12:39:48 PM] <zelut> so it sounds like the status is about the same as it was back at mid-week follow up.
[12:40:32 PM] <visualdeception> probably
[12:40:51 PM] <zelut> ok. should we refine the assignments or just give another week to do them?
[12:41:03 PM] <zelut> was it a matter of personal matters in the way or the assignments being too much?
[12:41:30 PM] <heartsbane> well that sounds less than positive, can you add the names of some of the groups/peope that you contacted
[12:41:30 PM] <visualdeception> with marketing....do we want to start putting something out with no timetable for a presentation
[12:42:12 PM] <visualdeception> or just saying that ubuntu-classroom is going again???
[12:42:27 PM] <zelut> visualdeception: timetable is on the agenda for today, so we should have something decided by the time we're done.
[12:42:50 PM] <heartsbane> When would we like to start presenting?
[12:42:58 PM] <zelut> I'd say third week this month.
[12:43:01 PM] <visualdeception> ok sounds good
[12:43:26 PM] <zelut> that puts us at one month from Developer Week
[12:43:39 PM] <visualdeception> is there a group we want to try and bring in for presentations?
[12:43:45 PM] <visualdeception> or is it just a single presentation
[12:44:34 PM] <zelut> I like the idea of a week-long schedule.  perhaps not as many presentations as openweek (yet?), but more than just one.
[12:44:48 PM] <visualdeception> sounds good
[12:45:02 PM] <visualdeception> maybe have them in the evenings??
[12:45:08 PM] <visualdeception> well relative to location
[12:45:16 PM] <zelut> visualdeception: evenings for what TZ :)
[12:45:22 PM] <visualdeception> lol yea
[12:45:38 PM] <heartsbane> One per day?
[12:45:56 PM] <zelut> visualdeception: mid morning for us is evening for popey.  we should try to match as much as we can.
[12:46:02 PM] <visualdeception> yea
[12:46:57 PM] <visualdeception> so is there a time that most people are available to help
[12:46:57 PM] <zelut> one per day?
[12:47:32 PM] <zelut> not questioning it, just putting it out there for more discussion.
[12:47:33 PM] <popey> this time is fine for me tbh
[12:47:40 PM] <visualdeception> i'd say it depends on what group/s we can bring in....
[12:47:46 PM] <zelut> we did that with the us teams education week which seemed to work well enough.
[12:47:58 PM] <zelut> mon - wed - fri we had a one hour presentation from the bug team.
[12:48:21 PM] <heartsbane> I think if we do one per day with a hour long each, Mon thru Friday we can line up 5 people
[12:48:37 PM] <heartsbane> Or Zelut's idea works too
[12:48:39 PM] <zelut> i'm assuming those 5 people should be from the same team?
[12:48:45 PM] <zelut> to keep a theme for the week
[12:49:01 PM] <heartsbane> or 3 people Mon, Wed, Frid
[12:49:06 PM] <visualdeception> do we know of a team that would be willing to help with this?
[12:49:19 PM] <zelut> i haven't asked anybody yet but I'm sure I can arrange someone.
[12:49:40 PM] <zelut> worst case(?) we get US Teams to present on loco work. i know all of them, I can get someone to present.
[12:49:52 PM] <heartsbane> US Teams would be a good place to start, maybe, because they can draw in the LoCo's for a good start
[12:50:01 PM] <heartsbane> just a thought
[12:50:05 PM] <visualdeception> yea
[12:50:22 PM] <zelut> I'd like to try and maybe get the installer team to talk about the new things in hardy, like wubi, etc.
[12:51:09 PM] <visualdeception> maybe we should plan a couple out....one with what to expect with hardy, one with US teams to see how things are going etc etc
[12:51:12 PM] <zelut> remember, by the time we have our second meeting hardy will be released.
[12:51:47 PM] <zelut> I think the april presentation should be all about hardy features.. maybe the desktop team?
[12:51:59 PM] <visualdeception> yea that would be cool
[12:52:33 PM] <zelut> so we'll tentatively shoot for US Teams in march and Desktop team in April?
[12:52:54 PM] <zelut> I'll add that as an assignment to myself to contact and get at least three presenters from each team.
[12:53:14 PM] <zelut> when is hardy final release anyway? and when is UDS-Prague?
[12:53:23 PM] <zelut> I'd hate to have our meeting overlap UDS and not have any of those guys available.
[12:53:43 PM] <heartsbane> I have never kept up on UDS so I wouldn't know
[12:54:07 PM] <visualdeception> May 19 - 23
[12:54:25 PM] <zelut> ok, so not until May.
[12:54:38 PM] <dantalizing> the desktop team presentation would be before the hardy release?
[12:54:47 PM] <zelut> We should add that to our calendar as it allows icecast/gobby collaboration from the community too.
[12:55:17 PM] <visualdeception> cool
[12:55:59 PM] <zelut> hardy final is april 24
[12:56:26 PM] <zelut> should we do the presentation that week or continue with the 3rd week?
[12:56:46 PM] <zelut> I vote third week (week previous) to outline all the 'why switch' features
[12:57:11 PM] <visualdeception> +1
[12:57:26 PM] <dantalizing> that'll be key info to get out for those who are doing installfests/release parties
[12:57:44 PM] <heartsbane> I think that sounds good, unless there is a conflict with the release 
[12:58:02 PM] <zelut> maybe the US Teams topic should be how to plan a release party.
[12:58:09 PM] <heartsbane> so +1
[12:58:18 PM] <visualdeception> that would be cool
[12:58:33 PM] <zelut> so March is how to organize a release party by US Teams.
[12:59:09 PM] <zelut> April is desktop team (pending) on why Hardy is teh 133t!
[12:59:38 PM] <zelut> I will contact both teams and help arrange those.
[12:59:42 PM] <zelut> next?
[12:59:46 PM] <heartsbane> Stop lets keep going with another suggest for march
[12:59:55 PM] <zelut> ok
[01:00:24 PM] <heartsbane> or we can let US Teams come up with 2 others
[01:00:32 PM] <visualdeception> maybe do how to plan a release party on a couple days coupled with what to look for in hardy
[01:00:40 PM] <heartsbane> cause you know their topics of discussion better than the rest of us
[01:00:53 PM] <zelut> or we let them decide with some of these as suggestions?
[01:01:10 PM] <zelut> let the team present on whatever they like. they are the pros at what their team does, they know best.
[01:01:20 PM] <visualdeception> that sounds good
[01:01:28 PM] <heartsbane> okay
[01:01:33 PM] <visualdeception> do we wanna keep it at 3 presentations or go to 5
[01:01:50 PM] <zelut> 3 minimun but they could do as many as they can come up with?
[01:01:55 PM] <heartsbane> I say 3 then we keep building
[01:02:20 PM] <zelut> settled?
[01:02:41 PM] <heartsbane> our target is should be 3, and then we adjust the target when we have build up
[01:02:49 PM] <heartsbane> s/build/built/
[01:02:59 PM] <heartsbane> just my $.02
[01:03:03 PM] <visualdeception> sounds good
[01:03:33 PM] <zelut> ok. whats next?
[01:04:27 PM] <heartsbane> Length of presentation
[01:04:32 PM] <heartsbane> 1 hour?
[01:04:34 PM] <zelut> one hour?
[01:04:50 PM] <visualdeception> one hour unless the team wants to go longer?
[01:05:16 PM] <zelut> i say stick to one hour. attention spans can wane too much past that.
[01:05:39 PM] <visualdeception> ok
[01:05:52 PM] <zelut> they can always have Q&A afterwards for those that are still into it.
[01:06:09 PM] <heartsbane> does that include discussion
[01:06:42 PM] <nixternal> in one hour, myself and another person 2 years ago covered irssi and Konversation in what sitting, that was the most successful classroom event to date, so even an hour may be to long
[01:07:02 PM] <zelut> Q&A includes discussion and can be within the hour even
[01:07:14 PM] <nixternal> it seems 1 topic shouldn't take but 30 minutes as long as you are prepared ahead of time and have a nice presentation setup for the students to follow while you teach as well
[01:07:48 PM] <zelut> I never lecture more than an hour at work. always fit in breaks or labs after that much.
[01:08:04 PM] <visualdeception> that sounds good
[01:08:27 PM] <zelut> ok, moving along.
[01:08:48 PM] <zelut> wiki changes. heartsbane and others are doing that?
[01:09:04 PM] <herlo> while this may not be directly on-topic.  How do you guys feel about cross-distro classes?  
[01:09:29 PM] <herlo> as an example, I'd like to show off giver or cobbler, neither of which are on Ubuntu currently
[01:09:55 PM] <heartsbane> I don't have a problem with comparisons as long as it is Ubuntu Community event
[01:09:55 PM] <herlo> but I think they'd be good topics to have the community decide and tell the community leaders...
[01:10:26 PM] <herlo> hearts, right, the point is that we'll show you what *could* be in Ubuntu and encourage you as a student to share that message
[01:10:37 PM] <herlo> just a thought
[01:10:38 PM] <visualdeception> may be something we look to in the future after we get things rolling
[01:10:50 PM] <herlo> sure, agreed.
[01:11:09 PM] <zelut> I wonder what 'share that message' is really going to translate too though.
[01:11:25 PM] <zelut> "hey, cobbler is cool. someone package it".... 
[01:11:26 PM] <heartsbane> zelut: yes I am doing the Wiki, I have been in touch with Ross because my grandmother is in the hospital
[01:11:36 PM] <visualdeception> i think that we should be cross-distro friendly
[01:11:41 PM] <herlo> something like, can we get cobbler working for Ubuntu, because right now it doesn't
[01:12:06 PM] <herlo> zelut, and yes, packaging will be involved, for sure.
[01:12:08 PM] <zelut> i think it can go on the future agenda
[01:12:16 PM] <herlo> but the other direction might also be worthwhile
[01:12:24 PM] <herlo> Ubuntu to Fedora/SUSE for example
[01:12:49 PM] <herlo> but I digress
[01:13:12 PM] <heartsbane> There
[01:13:25 PM] <zelut> the rest of the agenda?
[01:13:38 PM]  * zelut is needing to get back to his child soon
[01:13:57 PM] <heartsbane> I will have suggestions for new wiki layout by Thursday
[01:14:03 PM] <heartsbane> just to move along
[01:14:16 PM] <zelut> ok
[01:14:26 PM] <heartsbane> I will make effort to contact Ross and bring him back into the fold
[01:14:39 PM] <zelut> on to methods of communication?
[01:14:48 PM] <heartsbane> We will move that conversation on the mailing list
[01:15:13 PM] <heartsbane> is everyone on the Ubuntu Classroom mailing list
[01:15:26 PM] <zelut> I think most of us are.
[01:15:30 PM] <popey> ya
[01:15:32 PM] <heartsbane> I am, ? anyone not?
[01:16:04 PM] <zelut> we're all also aware of the IRC room.  The only thing new is the google calendar I created after not finding an existing one.
[01:16:08 PM] <heartsbane> is everyone on the launchpad team for Ubuntu Classroom, I AM NOT, cause I am a slacker
[01:16:17 PM] <zelut> I am not either
[01:16:40 PM] <heartsbane> Anyone else not on the lauchpad team for Ubuntu Classroom?
[01:16:43 PM] <popey> https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-classroom
[01:16:45 PM] <herlo> I'm not
[01:16:56 PM]  * herlo joins
[01:17:08 PM] <zelut> I am now.. pending
[01:17:29 PM] nixternal has left
[01:17:35 PM] <zelut> we'll need to get with Ryan for approvals.
[01:17:58 PM] <visualdeception> i'm pending also
[01:18:08 PM] <zelut> I think we're getting close to the end here
[01:18:14 PM]  * herlo is pending
[01:18:23 PM] <heartsbane> lets attempt to Google Calendar and schedule events on there... moving those discusions to the mailing list
[01:18:31 PM] <visualdeception> sounds good
[01:18:43 PM] <zelut> ok.  I have the regular sunday meetings already on the calendar.
[01:18:49 PM] <heartsbane> items to add, goals etc.
[01:18:59 PM] <zelut> I'll add the few other events.  our first and second presentation, UDS, etc.
[01:19:05 PM] <popey> \o/ UDS
[01:19:19 PM]  * popey just got the "ok" from the wife to go
[01:19:25 PM] <visualdeception> nice
[01:19:28 PM]  * zelut is jealous of popey
[01:19:37 PM] <heartsbane> Wiki pages, everyone feel free to contribute to the wiki pages
[01:19:48 PM] <popey> you'll be busy with mini-me :)
[01:19:54 PM] <popey> (mini-you) 
[01:19:54 PM] <zelut> I had a lot of requests this last week for minutes from our meetings.
[01:20:10 PM] <heartsbane> Zelut: I will do it tonight
[01:20:13 PM] <heartsbane> promise
[01:20:14 PM] <zelut> Does anyone want to be in charge of pasting the minutes/chat logs to a sub page of the wiki each week?
[01:20:24 PM] <zelut> ok
[01:20:42 PM] <zelut> so it sounds like last week was just full of distractions, but we'll try again this week
[01:20:47 PM] <herlo> I thought that was hearts' job...
[01:20:52 PM] <heartsbane> Zelut: I will use the layout we have for the LoCo team, unless that doesn't work
[01:20:53 PM] <herlo> :)
[01:21:31 PM] <zelut> does everyone have an assignment?
[01:21:40 PM] <visualdeception> zelut i'm assuming you will blog about our first classroom? suggestions on who else to ask to blog on it??
[01:21:48 PM] <heartsbane> everyone but herlo and dantalizing
[01:22:09 PM]  * herlo hides
[01:22:19 PM] <visualdeception> i'll see if i can talk to jono about it and uwn
[01:22:28 PM] <herlo> I'm happy to help where I can...
[01:23:02 PM] <visualdeception> looks like the other marketing members took a vacation...lol
[01:23:11 PM] <zelut> Uhm.. all the US Teams folks should blog it after I've spoken with aaron
[01:23:22 PM] <zelut> I'll talk to him about asking US Teams to help publicize it.
[01:24:04 PM] <visualdeception> ok
[01:24:05 PM] <zelut> so I have quite a bit to do this week
[01:24:17 PM] <zelut> and going back to work. what fun.
[01:24:40 PM] <heartsbane> :( I have wednesday off, I could help you
[01:24:46 PM] <visualdeception> if you need help with things dont be afraid to ask...having a new baby can be a handful
[01:24:56 PM] <zelut> i have to teach this week, but at least i'm @home.
[01:24:57 PM] <visualdeception> not that i have had one...
[01:25:23 PM] <zelut> well i need to run, but does everyone have something they can get working on this week?
[01:25:39 PM] <heartsbane> If anyone knows anyone they can bring into the fold, much help is appreciated.... doesn't look like many of the old team is interested
[01:26:07 PM] <zelut> doesn't look like many from last week are interested!
[01:26:13 PM] <zelut> hopefully they'll make it back next week.
[01:26:28 PM] <zelut> does anyone want to send an email to the list regarding assignments and what was discussed today?
[01:26:33 PM] <zelut> ...or should I take that too?
[01:26:43 PM]  * zelut votes for popey to do it :)
[01:26:44 PM] <heartsbane> Ya well lets all move the discussion to the mailing list talk it up
[01:26:50 PM] <popey> heh
[01:26:54 PM] <visualdeception> lol
[01:26:59 PM] <heartsbane> popey you want to do that?
[01:27:11 PM] <popey> I have been in and out
[01:27:20 PM] <popey> would need to sit and re-read the log
[01:27:34 PM] <heartsbane> if you don't want it I will do it
[01:27:42 PM] <popey> it would just take me longer
[01:27:43 PM] <heartsbane> cause Zelut sounds bitter
[01:27:51 PM] <heartsbane> :)
[01:27:51 PM] <popey> he's just tired :)
[01:27:58 PM] <zelut> heatsbane: don't want to give you too much either
[01:28:03 PM] <zelut> popey: +1
[01:28:24 PM] <popey> "There's only one thing worse than a tired parent...
[01:28:28 PM] <popey> ...two tired parents"
[01:28:40 PM] <zelut> heartsbane: we can move the rest to the list.  if you can email the assignments it'll be nice to have them written down.
[01:29:03 PM] <zelut> popey: and if I don't get out of this meeting now the other tired parent is going to lose it.
[01:29:21 PM] <zelut> alright all.  I'm outta here.  I'll follow up on thursday and I'll contact the two teams.
[01:29:26 PM] <zelut> ciao
[01:29:30 PM] <popey> all the best}}}
