{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda Items ===
* Resurrect the ubuntu-classroom?  Call it Ubuntu GIs (GI is meaningless outside USA)  Not really, there are armies in every country We don't call them GIs though, it has a double meaning, GI is 'get involved' as well :) - see, I didn't get that, so it clearly doesn't work :)  Its a marketing project.  I'm not saying its the best, but I've not seen better other than the original name, which is also confusing.
* Name?  This name makes me think Edubuntu ; Ubuntu in the classroom.
* Filling positions (ambassadors, wiki/logs, resources, marketing)
* Scheduling (presentation, meetings, follow-ups)
* Goals Goals for 1, 3, 6 and 12 month timeline.

==== Ressurection of the classroom-team ====
* It appears a team was constructed for this purpose in 2006 but I haven't heard of the team, and the wiki looks dead as of early 2007.
* ryanacka, nixternal, nalioth, pleia2 were the original contacts. Does anyone have contact with these to see if they plan on continuing or if we should resurrect?
* I had a discussion saturday with pleia2.  She says the team has slowed and ryanakca is the only other real active founder.  We should check with him.  (CC'd in email sat)
* Both ryanakca and pleia2 have been invited to the meet.
* mailing list, LP and wiki pages exist:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClassroomGuidelines
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClassroomTranscripts
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-classroom
** https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-classroom

==== Name ====
* Does the name fit?  Can we do some brand marketing?

==== Filling Positions ====
* We will need a few people to maintain the wiki with current status logs & transcripts, etc.  Wiki experience is a plus.
*** Assigned: Heartsbane, Ross Peoples
* We will need a few people to help schedule and plan these presentations.  We'll need to work with the fridge, UWN, full-circle, and whoever else to get publicized.
*** Assigned: Seth, laney, popey, zealot
* We need one or two mailing list moderators.  We already have a few admins, but I like specific assignments.
*** Assigned: pleia2
* I want to maintain a sort of ambassador position with other teams. I can benefit from help in this area (introductions, etc), but something I have an interest in is the communication and networking between this project and the established team.  To make sure we have an 'inside man' with the existing teams to help with cooperation    and foster a introduction level to getting people into teams.
** Assigned: Zelut
* What's our target audience?
** Users - both new to ubuntu and existing ubuntu users?
** Developers?
** MOTUs already have this covered?
*** MOTUs have this covered, but we can help facilitate.

==== Schedule ====
* Schedule first presentation (openweek)
* schedule next meeting
** next meeting scheduled: March 2nd, 2008 2PM EST / 1900 UTC
* schedule next follow-up
** not scheduled yet

==== Goals ====
* next meeting (one week)
** Marketing: Notify people of our intention to start up, get the word out on blogs etc
* this month
* three month
** one presentation per month (up for adjustment)
* six month
* one year

==== Other ====
* http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=1127
* http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Docs/Drafts/GetInvolvedGuide
