{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Info ===

* Date and Time: <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=09&day=23&year=2010&hour=01&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|September 23, 2010 @ 01:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

* Location: #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler|Nathan Handler (nhandler)]]</nowiki>
| Who is still involved in the Classroom and what are they doing?
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler|Nathan Handler (nhandler)]]</nowiki>
| ClassBot Status Update
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler|Nathan Handler (nhandler)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoDays|LoCo Day]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler|Nathan Handler (nhandler)]]</nowiki>
| Classroom wiki pages Update
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler|Nathan Handler (nhandler)]]</nowiki>
| Lernid Status Update
|-
| <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
| UserDays
|-
| <nowiki>[[NigelBabu]]</nowiki>
| Calender
|}

=== Agenda Discussion ===

=== Minutes ===

Ubuntu Classroom Team Meeting September 23, 2010 @ 01:00 UTC

Attendance: nhandler, nigelb, Pendulum, pleia2, cjohnston

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/MeetingAgenda2010Sep23

IRC Logs: http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/09/23/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t02:00

* Who is still involved in the Classroom and what are they doing?

** nhandler has been developing ClassBot, cleaning up the unmaintained Lernid, and working on the LoCo Day event. Next month, he will be coordinating the Packaging Training sessions.

** cjohnston has been busy with school and helping during sessions when he is around. He has also helped with ClassBot and UUD.

** pleia2 has been working with individuals to get classes going, but most recently with the Beginners Team Development Focus Group to get their programming classes going. She has also been updating the blog and answering replies on the mailing list.

** Pendulum has been hanging around and helping to recruit teachers.

** nigelb has been working on recruiting people for the packaging training and UOW, App Developer Week, and other sessions when they arise. He has also been around to help in case of trouble during sessions.

* Membership

** Launchpad team includes many inactive people

** What does it mean to be a member of the team?

** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/Volunteer needs an update

** pleia2 doesn't think Launchpad is particularly useful to us except for a management team

** nhandler had the idea of a wiki page that explains, "If you need help with foo, contact bar."

** nigelb felt we need more clearly defined activities

** nigelb to drive this topic

* ClassBot Status Update

** ClassBot is now packaged, has a daily build PPA, and is translated

** The production server now uses this daily PPA

** ClaseBot is also running the same code as ClassBot now.

** There is a new devel bzr branch: lp:classbot/devel and daily build ppa: ppa:classbot-dev/classbot-devel-dail

** cjohnston is going to work on documenting where the bots are

* LoCo Day: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoDays

** Decide to try a weekend long event to make it more convenient for LoCo teams

** The target of this event is to have a large number of LoCo teams presenting in a large number of languages followed by LoCos continuing to give sessions

** The theme for sessions topics will be howtos and tips and tricks for various LoCo activities (i.e. howto organize a release party, tips for structuring a Loco, etc)

** nhandler will work on getting ClassBot to support using a different language for each session

** nhandler will update the LoCo Day wiki pages and send out the announcement

* Classroom wiki pages Update

** Most /Classroom wiki pages are out of date

** cjohnston wondered if we even need a wiki since we have a Wordpress blog and site, but it was determined that a wiki is still useful

** Pendulum volunteered to drive the Classroom wiki update

* Lernid Status Update

** Lernid is currently unmaintained

** The config file has been moved to ubuntu-owl, where we have access to update it. A redirect has also been setup on jono's server

** Agree to support Lernid at least through the end of the year, but we will no longer recommend it.

** nigelb will talk to the various event organizers to make sure they understand our stance about lernid

* User Days

** Decide to hold off discussing UUD until after UDS

* Calendar

** mhall119 has developed a webapp that could possibly take the place of the ical for scheduling classes

** After the meeting, a short discussion was held with mhall119, and we basically decided that the webapp currently would not be appropriate for the Classroom. We wil re-evaluate the issue in a few months.

** nhandler suggested creating a simple one page form for submitting and validating sessions. He volunteered to go ahead and make it

* 3rd Party Classroom Applications

** People keep developing applications to help the classroom, but they do not tell us about them

** We like to be informed when people start working on these applications so that we can provide some feedback

** Pendulum will create a page listing classroom-related applications on the wiki
