{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

/!\ Note /!\
<pre>
* You should ask support related questions in #ubuntu, #kubuntu, #edubuntu, or #xubuntu.

* #ubuntu-classroom is our primary channel we bring users into for one-on-one counseling, is the meeting location for mentors and project admins, and the location where we provide the Ubuntu classes and UbuntuOpenWeek.
</pre>

=== Introduction ===
'''''The Classroom''''' is a project managed by RyanKavanagh, MarekSpruell, RichardJohnson, and <nowiki>[[Pleia2|ElizabethBevilacqua]]</nowiki> and collaborates with the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-women.org|Ubuntu Women Project]]</nowiki>. The idea of '''''The Classroom''''' is to host a biweekly tutorial session on the Freenode IRC server in the #ubuntu-classroom channel. The tutorials will cover information for Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Xubuntu users. '''''The Classroom''''' will attempt to have sessions for all levels of expertise, from beginner to advanced. These sessions are hosted on the first and third weekend of each month, starting at listed times. The first session was August 5th, 2006. These sessions will be instructed by members of the Ubuntu community and have no set time limit, but should last about an hour.<<BR>><<BR>>

In addition to our regular classes, '''''The Classroom''''' now also hosts UbuntuOpenWeek and regular Q&A sessions for projects within Ubuntu.

Please join the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-classroom|Ubuntu-classroom Mailing List]]</nowiki> if you're interested in working with this project.

=== Schedule ===
'''NOTE:''' If you are interested in being an instructor, please read ClassroomGuidelines add your WikiName to the table below in the '''Instructor(s)''' section. It is feasible to have multiple instructors, one for each distribution if needed. Please check with the listed instructor prior to adding yourself, to avoid confusion. '''If you are unable to teach your course,''' please find a replacement, ask them to add their name to this page, and give them your notes so that they may teach the course in your place. If you cannot do this, please ask a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-classroom|Classroom management team]]</nowiki> to do so for you.
'''Projects''', if you wish to hold a Q&A Session in -classroom please add it to the upcoming list and/or let us know so we can help publicize!

'''Upcoming:'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <:>'''Date'''
| <:>'''Time'''
| <:>'''Class Topic'''
| <:>'''Instructor(s)'''
|}

'''Past'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <:>'''Date'''
| <:>'''Time'''
| <:>'''Class Topic'''
| <:>'''Instructor(s)'''
|-
| Thurs 17th Jan 2008
| 20.00 UTC
| ''MOTU School - Library packaging''
| Stefan Potyra, Steve Langasek (contact James Westby if you want to talk about organisation)
|-
| Wed 28 Nov 2007
| 15.00 - 16.00 UTC
| ''Personal Package Archives 101 and Q&A''
| Celso Providelo, Jordan Mantha, Matthew Revell
|-
| Fri Oct 12^th^
| 14:30 GMT
| ''<nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1161|MOTU Q&A]]</nowiki>''
| DanielHolbach
|-
| Fri Oct 5^th^
| 8:00 GMT
| ''<nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1150|MOTU Q&A]]</nowiki>''
| DanielHolbach
|-
| Thu May 31^st^
| 0:00 UTC & 12:00 UTC
| ''<nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/998|MOTU Q&A]]</nowiki>''
| 
|-
| Mon-Sat Apr 23-28
| Several
| ''Feisty UbuntuOpenWeek''
| Several
|}

See <nowiki>[[Classroom:2006|Classroom/2006]]</nowiki> for classes from 2006

=== Transcripts ===
Transcripts of many past classes are available at ClassroomTranscripts .

=== IRC Server ===
The Ubuntu community is currently utilizing the <nowiki>[[http://www.freenode.net|Freenode]]</nowiki> servers for IRC. If you are going to join a session, the channel to use is #ubuntu-classroom. If it is your first time using IRC, we ask that you simply review the <nowiki>[[IrcGuidelines|IRC Guidelines]]</nowiki>. To connect to the IRC server, use the following information:
* '''Server:''' ''irc.ubuntu.com''
* '''Port:''' ''8001''
Once connected to the server type <code>/j #ubuntu-classroom</code> to join the classroom channel. <code>#ubuntu-classroom</code> isn't the main support channels, so you can't expect to join it searching for answers, as most of the time it is a ghost towns. We recommend you continue using <code>#ubuntu</code>, <code>#kubuntu</code>, <code>#edubuntu</code>,or <code>#xubuntu</code>.
=== Classroom Information ===
The classes will start promptly at the designated times. The classroom will be open briefly in order to provide the members and students the opportunity for brief introductions and instructions. Once the class begins, the channel will become moderated (+m), meaning only instructors and administrators will have speaking privileges. This will insure there are no interruptions, making the class enjoyable for everyone attending. If you have a question, there will be a moderator that will take your questions via a message. You can message the moderator by typing <code>/msg nickname question</code>. Further instructions will be given at the beginning of each class.

=== Volunteer ===

The Classroom project is always looking for volunteers. We need help in the following areas:

* Being an instructor
* Finding instructors for classes
* Reminding instructors prior to their time slot so they don't miss it
* Contacting projects to do Q&A sessions
* Promotion: submit to fridge, UWN and teams that might be interested in specific topics. The <nowiki>[[Classroom/Marketing|marketing group]]</nowiki> has its own page for coordination.
* Keeping this wiki up to date
* Posting logs
* Preparing notes/blog entries of sessions (or encourage instructors to do this), see ClassroomTranscripts for examples
* Brainstorming. Have an idea that can help us out? Let us know!

=== Reformation of the classroom-team ===
The reformation of the ubuntu-classroom-team took place Feb. 24th, 2008 to continue the education of the community.
* 2008 Feb. 24th Meeting Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/MeetingAgenda2008Feb24
* 2008 Feb. 24th Meeting Minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/Minutes2008Feb24
* 2008 Mar. 2nd Meeting Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/MeetingAgenda2008Mar2
* 2008 Mar. 2nd Meeting Minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/Minutes2008Mar2

=== Contact ===
If you are interested in becoming a member or instructor or interested in seeing a specific class, have remarks on a past class, issues with what was taught, please post to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-classroom|Ubuntu-classroom Mailing List]]</nowiki> or check out the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-classroom|Ubuntu Classroom Management]]</nowiki> page for people to contact directly.
