{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting 2008 Mar 30th ==
* Meeting Topic - How to proceed for April 

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Trevor Sharpe<<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* visualperception
* Zelut 
* Heartsbane
* pleia2

== Agenda ==
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/MeetingAgenda2008Mar30

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''2:03M EST (GMT -0500)''', by Trevor Sharpe''
* Review of Agenda
** Belinda Lopez: '''No word back'''
** Jono Bacon: '''No word back'''
** Reviewed rewrite suggestions for https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/Guidelines
** Scratch the +m component to encourage freer conversation
** Scratch the GUI/CLI component
** Incorporate into the submissions page
** Incorporate into the main page
** Review'd slogan submissions from the mailing list
** Decided to go with '''learn something new every day'''
** Any word from RyanK about his mootbot idea
** Any presentations
** '''None at this time'''
** took suggestions of:
*** Bug Squashing Team
*** Gasp Python Tutorial
*** KDE Desktop team
*** Exaile
* ''Meeting called to end at '''3:04PM EST (GMT -0500)''', by Trevor Sharpe''

== Assignments ==
* Continue to contact Belinda Lopez at Ubuntu Training: pleia2
* Seeking Presentation: Zelut
* Incorperate hiveminder output into the wiki: heartsbane
* Send widget submission to the mailing list: visualdeception
* Re-write Classroom Guidelines for next meeting: heartsbane
** definite review of sections 1.1.3 and 1.2.1
** remove IRC +m component
** remove GUI/CLI component
** put on submissions page
** put a link on main page

== Additional ==
* review New Classroom Guidelines at next meeting
* review the widget at next meeting (yay/nay)

== Discussion ==
The following is the discussion that took place in IRC. Times are MDT (GMT -0700):
{{{
11:56 < visualdeception> are we still having our weekly meeting??
12:00 -!- sharkp [n=paolo@151.67.70.78] has joined #ubuntu-classroom
12:01 -!- sharkp [n=paolo@151.67.70.78] has left #ubuntu-classroom ["Sto andando via"]
12:03 < Heartsbane> I am planning on it
12:03 < Heartsbane> I don't know where everyone else is
12:03 < visualdeception> ok
12:03 < visualdeception> i have seen zelut twittering, so I assume he is around somewhere
12:04 < Heartsbane> anyone seen pleia2?
12:09 < Heartsbane> visualdeception: guess we were the only two who remembered to show
12:09 < visualdeception> nice
12:10 < visualdeception> Zelut: ping
12:10 < visualdeception> pleia2, ping
12:11 < Heartsbane> visualdeception: next time we will set them a hiveminder
12:11 < Heartsbane> :)
12:11 < visualdeception> lol one got created yesterday
12:11 < pleia2> hey
12:11 < visualdeception> i was just going through the tasks
12:11 < Heartsbane> pleia2: hey 2 U
12:12 < visualdeception> hey pleia2 how goes it
12:13 < pleia2> it goes
12:13 < Heartsbane> visualdeception: what did you get as purposed slogans because I saw one on the mailing list that was good
12:14 < visualdeception> i think the only ones were on the mailing list....
12:14 < visualdeception> if we can get a consensus on one I'll work on getting it finished up/cleaned up
12:15 < Heartsbane> I liked Ubuntu Classroom - Learn something new every day, or ubuntu classroom - tweak it yourself
12:15 -!- bmk789 [n=bmk789@c-98-222-247-219.hsd1.in.comcast.net] has quit [Connection timed out]
12:16 < visualdeception> ok
12:16 -!- ionstorm [n=ion@VDSL-130-13-246-69.PHNX.QWEST.NET] has quit [Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)]
12:17 < visualdeception> any other feedback?
12:17 < Heartsbane> That is just me, maybe take all the submissions and put them in a list send it out the group since many of them are not here
12:17 -!- ionstorm [n=ion@VDSL-130-13-246-69.PHNX.QWEST.NET] has joined #ubuntu-classroom
12:18 < visualdeception> http://linux.dudenhofer.net/ubuntuclassroom.png
12:18 < visualdeception> there is the base image
12:18 < pleia2> I like the "learn something new every day" one too - not overly fond of the "tweak" one since I think it comes off as a bit nerdy
12:19 < visualdeception> ok, i think I can handle that
12:19 < Heartsbane> I guess we make a quorum 3 votes for 'learn something new everyday'
12:19 < visualdeception> lol
12:20 < Heartsbane> pleia2: any word from Belinda Lopez?
12:20 < pleia2> Heartsbane: nope :\
12:20 < Heartsbane> I take it also no word from Jono either?
12:21 < Heartsbane> most likely because of LUG Radio Live?
12:21 < pleia2> possibly, they're both there
12:21 < Heartsbane> who is going? I am planning on going
12:21 < pleia2> I did get a note from one of the UOW organizers though, he sent out a call for sessions to all of us who had done them in the past
12:22 < Heartsbane> nice, so I would imagine there is some progress there
12:22 < pleia2> I forwarded the email to Zelut in case he wanted to follow up, but ..
12:23 < Heartsbane> What did you mean 'they're both there'?
12:23 < Heartsbane> ya but ...
12:23 < pleia2> Jono and Dinda are both involved with LUG Radio Live
12:23 < pleia2> "We've begun planning the next Ubuntu Open Week. Right now we have
12:23 < pleia2> April 28 to May 3rd penciled in as the dates."
12:23 < Heartsbane> Oh I didn't know Dinda was involved
12:24 < visualdeception> do we know who is handling open week?
12:25 -!- walmis [n=walmis@walmis.balticum.lt] has joined #ubuntu-classroom
12:25 < pleia2> Jorge Castro is the one who sent out the email
12:25 < pleia2> I don't know him
12:26 < Zelut> sorry, had to tend to the baby
12:26 < Zelut> I know Jorge.. I can talk to him
12:26 < Heartsbane> Isn't that Jono's counterpart/assistant to Jono
12:26 < Zelut> Heartsbane: yeah
12:26 < Heartsbane> sorry Community Manager...
12:28 < Heartsbane> okay I guess that brings us to Classroom Guidelines, has anyone read this lately other than me?
12:29 < visualdeception> link?
12:29 < Heartsbane> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/Guidelines
12:30 < Heartsbane> I was going to start there, but the only interested in feedback about what still should apply was RyanK
12:30 < pleia2> I don't like the GUI & CLI requirement
12:31 < Heartsbane> really because?
12:31 < pleia2> people tend to do one or the other, not always easy to find an expert in both or two experts who are available and willing at the same time
12:32 < Heartsbane> I can understand that
12:32 < visualdeception> and since we are starting over again, we will probably be recruiting people to teach rather than waiting on volunteers
12:33  * pleia2 nods
12:34 < pleia2> I think in general the guidelines were there back in the day for the off chance that someone did volunteer and wanted some instructions (there was a fair amount of recruiting and in house teaching then too)
12:35 < Heartsbane> other than that, anyone feel that anything needs to be changed
12:36 < pleia2> I think we might consider changing the 1.2 section at some point - but leave modifying that until we have some experience as to what works
12:36 < pleia2> 1.2.1 that is
12:37 < Heartsbane> in what way, are you saying that +m to the channel probably won't be necessary, or atleast at the start?
12:38 < pleia2> yeah, or the way of asking questions could be loosened up somehow
12:39 < Heartsbane> okay
12:39 < pleia2> UOW tends not to set +m unless requested, and then the lesson people can always /msg the ops to change channel settings if things get out of hand, or they want freer conversation
12:40 < Heartsbane> Usually every UOW I have seen is +m, but we will see how it goes
12:40 < Heartsbane> okay I will make those adjustments, as well as work on incooperating it nicely into the front page, show it off next meeting :)
12:40 < visualdeception> cool
12:41 -!- boim [n=aaron@75.146.141.206] has joined #ubuntu-classroom
12:41 < Heartsbane> Lets go back to Logo/Slogan review for a second since we have 1 more now
12:41 < Heartsbane> is Christer still out there?
12:43 < Heartsbane> guess not, visualdeception lets just go with 'learn something new everyday'
12:43 -!- Netsplit calvino.freenode.net <-> irc.freenode.net quits: Zelut, JanC, boim_, n2diy, txwikinger
12:43 < Heartsbane> make a submission to the mailing list so everyone can have their input
12:43 < Heartsbane> that would be my suggestion
12:43 < visualdeception> i can handle that
12:44 < Heartsbane> give it a week, and then if that idea floats, we sail on it
12:44 < pleia2> sounds good
12:44 < visualdeception> ok
12:45 < Heartsbane> I guess RyanK is still working a blootbot/mootbot/waytomanykindabots solution
12:45 < Heartsbane> we have a blootbot variant in my LoCo channel and I love it
12:46 < pleia2> solution for?
12:46 < Heartsbane> factoids, editing 's/soltion/solutions/g'/reminders
12:47 < Heartsbane> I don't know, I was hoping to hear more about the idea
12:48 < pleia2> ok
12:48 < Heartsbane> pleia2: it was coded by Tim Riker, a Debian Dev 
12:48 < Heartsbane> I know you are still use Debian or so I have read
12:49 < pleia2> yeah, and I'm a package maintainer
12:49 < Heartsbane> I don't know if you know his name
12:49 < pleia2> what does the bot do in your loco channel exactly?
12:49 -!- Zelut [n=christer@ubuntu/member/zelut] has joined #ubuntu-classroom
12:49 < Heartsbane> onjoin reminders, factoids, logging, editting typos
12:50 < pleia2> I see
12:50 < Heartsbane> that is all I have ever seen it do, I just want to hear RyanK ideas about what he wanted to do with it
12:50  * pleia2 nods
12:51 < Heartsbane> so I guess that is still postponed
12:51 -!- neversfelde|mobi [n=neversfe@ubuntu/member/neversfelde] has joined #ubuntu-classroom
12:51 < Heartsbane> Last item, has anyone contacted anyone to present other than US Teams
12:52 < Zelut> i have not
12:52 < Zelut> looks like i lost connection for 10min in there.  I'm going to have to get the logs later :(
12:54 < Heartsbane> any ideas? desktop? gasp? exaile? KDE? any thoughts?
12:54 < pleia2> I think the Bug Squashing Team would be particularly open to giving classes
12:55 < Heartsbane> maybe a idea by First Week in April ... really cause I would really like that
12:56 -!- JanC [n=janc@lugwv/member/JanC] has joined #ubuntu-classroom
12:57 < Heartsbane> Anyone want to handle that?
12:57 -!- mypapit [n=mypapit@pdpc/supporter/active/mypapit] has quit [Remote closed the connection]
12:58 < pleia2> what, coming up with ideas on what teams to contact?
12:59 < Heartsbane> Yes, or contacting some teams because eventually we are going to have to contact someone, because I don't think they are going to contact us
12:59 -!- n2diy [n=darryl@wlk-barre-208-103-148-32.dynamic-dialup.coretel.net] has joined #ubuntu-classroom
12:59 -!- txwikinger [n=raj@sblug/member/txwikinger] has joined #ubuntu-classroom
13:04 < Heartsbane> Well I guess I will type this up, and post it tonight
13:04 < Heartsbane> later
13:04 < pleia2> thanks Heartsbane
13:04 < visualdeception> thanks!}}}
