{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda Items ===
* Determine if we are going to continue to use gobby for collaboration
** continue using until someone objects
* Review of assignments from last meeting to be clear
* Contact of old team to see who besides pleia2 is going to still going to be involved, so we can move ahead with some clarity
* Solid date/week for upcoming classroom presentations
** third week of March, US Teams 3 per week: Mon, Wed,Fri (how to plan a release party)
** third week of April, desktop team (mon, wed, fri)
* How detailed are these presentations? (OpenWeek or one hour a week?)
** One hour
** 1 topic shouldn't take but 30 minutes as long as you are prepared ahead of time and have a nice presentation setup for the students to follow while you teach as well
* First team/group to present?  Who should we approach for our inagural reformation presentation
** US Teams
* set a established time to review any wiki changes
** layout, I like the current layout
** other suggestions were to model after the US Teams wiki
*** just something with some "2.0" style. lively, not bland.
** URL: suggestions?
* Review the methods of communication
** Mailing List
** lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-classroom
** Launchpad team
** https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-classroom
** IRC Channel
** #ubuntu-classroom
** Google Calendar
** http://tinyurl.com/2hylux (iCal)
** http://tinyurl.com/2597zu (xml)
** http://tinyurl.com/2epthg (html)
** Wiki Pages
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClassroomGuidelines
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClassroomTranscripts
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-classroom
* Define our first set of tangible goals
** See goals below
* Are the logs from the meets available? Where? Who is tackling that?
 
==== Future Agenda ====
* being cross-distro friendly

==== Assignments ====
* It appears a team was constructed for this purpose in 2006 but I haven't heard of the team, and the wiki looks dead as of early 2007.
   Looking for reconnect with these individuals, ryanacka, nixternal, nalioth, pleia2 were the original contacts.
   Does anyone have contact with these to see if they plan on continuing?
** Assigned to: Zelut
* Come up with alternative layout for the Classroom project, by Thu. 2008 Mar. 6th
** Assigned: Trevor Sharpe, Ross Peoples
* We will need a few people to help schedule and plan these presentations.  We'll need to work with the fridge, UWN, full-circle,
   and whoever else to get publicized.
** Assigned: Seth, laney, popey, zealot
* We need one or two mailing list moderators.  We already have a few admins, but I like specific assignments.
** Assigned: pleia2
** Do we need a alternate?

==== Schedule ====
* Schedule first presentation (openweek)
** Date?
* schedule 
** This meeting scheduled: March 2nd, 2008 2PM EST / 1900 UTC
** next meeting scheduled: '''Not scheduled'''
** followup meeting scheduled: '''Not scheduled'''
 
==== Goals ====
* next meeting (one week)
** Marketing: Notify people of our intention to start up, get the word out on blogs etc.
* this month
** Target: third week in March, 3 per week; Mon, Wed, Fri
** Theme: US Teams
** How to organize a release party by US Teams
** 2 other presentations of their choice
* three month
** Target: third week in April, 3 per week; Mon, Wed, Fri
** Theme: The Desktop Team
** Target: third week in May, 3 per week; Mon, Wed, Fri  
* six month
* one year

==== Other ====
* http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=1127
* http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Docs/Drafts/GetInvolvedGuide
