{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''This page has been deprecated.'''

While information on this page may still be useful, please see the <nowiki>[[InstructionArchive|Ubuntu Classroom Instruction Archive]]</nowiki> for the full archive.

== Introduction ==
Welcome to the Ubuntu Classroom Transcripts. This page will list the transcripts created from the logs created during the individual classes. Everyone is welcome to take the IRC logs and create their own transcript. Please check back within a couple of days after a class is completed for the up to date transcripts.

== Classes ==
For a list of the available classes, and the proposed classes, please view them on the <nowiki>[[Classroom]]</nowiki> wiki page. The following are the completed classes, along with the transcripts created.

=== Class 1: Introduction to IRC ===
This class was presented on two different days. The first day was Saturday, August 5^th^, 2006 at 18:00 UTC. The second day was Monday, August 7^th^, 2006 at 01:00 UTC. Lectures for this class were provided by <nowiki>[[KevinGailey|Kevin Gailey]]</nowiki> <code>aka hybrid</code>, presenting '''irssi''', and <nowiki>[[nixternal|Richard Johnson]]</nowiki> <code>aka nixternal</code>, presenting '''Konversation'''.

Transcripts for this class have been provided by the following IRC members:
* Jucato at http://jucato.org/blog/classes-begin/
* draik at http://www.novarata.net/IRC.pdf

=== Class 2: Introduction to Command Line Interface ===
This class was presented on August 19th and 20th.  The lecture on Saturday was provided by <nowiki>[[JasonRibeiro|Jason Ribeiro]]</nowiki> <code>aka jrib</code> and the lecture on Sunday was provided by <nowiki>[[PaulOmalley|Paul O'Malley]]</nowiki> <code>aka ompaul</code>.

Transcripts for this lesson:
* <nowiki>[[Classroom-Log-2006-08-20|Sunday with ompaul]]</nowiki>
* Jucato at http://jucato.org/blog/ubuntu-classroom-command-line-basics/
* draik at http://www.draikunderlord.com/CLI.pdf

=== Class 3: Basic Compiling ===
This class was held September 2d and 3d.  Instruction was provided by <nowiki>[[JohnVivirito|John Vivirito]]</nowiki> <code>aka gnomefreak</code> and <nowiki>[[MarekSpruell|Marek Spruell]]</nowiki> <code>aka nalioth</code>

Transcripts for the lesson:
* Jucato at http://jucato.org/blog/ubuntu-classroom-basic-compiling/
* draik at http://www.draikunderlord.com/Compile.pdf

=== Class 4: Package Management - Graphical & Command Line ===
This class was held September 16th and 17th.  Instruction was provided by <nowiki>[[RyanKavanagh|Ryan Kavanagh]]</nowiki> <code>aka ryanakca</code> and <nowiki>[[CoreyBurger| Corey Burger]]</nowiki> <code>aka Burgundavia</code>

Transcripts for the lesson:
** Jucato at http://jucato.multiply.com/journal/item/34

=== Class 8: GPG Encryption and Signing ===
This class was held November 19th at 04:00 UTC.  Instruction was provided by <nowiki>[[TonyYarusso|Tony Yarusso]]</nowiki> <code>aka tonyyarusso</code>.
Addendum:  Some features in the examples for Gnome using Seahorse require the seahorse-plugins package in addition to Seahorse itself, and this package is no longer installed by default in current versions of Ubuntu, so you will need to install that first to take advantage of them.

Transcripts for the lesson:
* <nowiki>[[attachment:gpg-class-transcript.pdf]]</nowiki>

=== Class 10: The Linux Kernel ===
This class was held December 16th at 20:00 UTC.  Instruction was provided by DBO.

Transcripts for the lesson:
* <nowiki>[[Classroom-Log-2006-12-16|The Linux Kernel]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Open Week ===

Transcripts for all lessons: <<BR>>
http://www.tonyyarusso.is-a-geek.com/irclogs/openweek/ <<BR>>
Automatically posts them ASAP; they may get slightly more cleaned up later.  Contact TonyYarusso if there is a problem with the server or files.

==== Nov 27: Desktop Team ====
This class was held November 27th. ... could someone please complete this?

Transcripts for the lesson:
** a7p at http://a7p.org/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/ubuntu-classroom-desktopsession-mo15-16.html

(if anyone wants to beautify, correct, re-hugify, mirror or what-ever-fy this - feel free to do so)

==== Nov 27: Packaging 101 ====
This class was held November 27th. ... please complete and add links.

** a7p at http://a7p.org/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/packaging101by_dholbach_061128mo.txt

(if anyone wants to beautify, correct, re-hugify, mirror or what-ever-fy this - feel free to do so)

== How To Help ==
Interested in helping with Ubuntu Classroom, and maybe becoming a Mentor, or even an Instructor? Then visit the following wiki pages for more information:

* <nowiki>[[Classroom]]</nowiki>

We're always looking for new and exciting mentors to help Ubuntu users.
