{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you are interested in helping out on the Ubuntu Classroom Team, we would love to have some help. Please contact a member of the Ubuntu Classroom Management Team using one of the methods on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/ContactUs|contact page]]</nowiki> or drop by <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom-backstage|#ubuntu-classroom-backstage]]</nowiki> on irc.freenode.net to have a chat with us.

Below you will find a list of the current tasks for the team. Please let us know what you are interested in doing when you contact us. If you have any suggestions for tasks that aren't on this list, please tell us that too.

'''''We are always in need of help with recruitment!'''''

===== Tasks =====
* Course Organization: <nowiki>[[Recruiting|Recruit Instructors]]</nowiki>
* Course Organization: Recruit/Help Teams for regular sessions
* Course Organization: Schedule classes
* Course Organization: Send reminders to Instructors/Teams
* Course Organization: Mailing List Administration
* Course Organization/Marketing: Maintain wiki page
* Marketing: Keep blogs informed
* Marketing: Keep Ubuntu Weekly News informed
* <nowiki>[[Helpers|Session Helpers]]</nowiki>

===== Members of the Ubuntu Classroom Management Team =====

* <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nhandler|nhandler]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz|pleia2]]</nowiki>
