{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Mar 30th Discussion Topics ===

==== Agenda Items ====
* Ubuntu-Training
** Any response from Belinda Lopez
* Solid date for Openweek
** Any response from Jono
* Review and re-write of Classroom Guidelines: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/Guidelines
** what needs to be re-written and what does not
** this should be included in the submissions page
* Logo/Slogan of marketing blog widgets for upcoming events?
** Review any submissions
** notes: Seth created a basic widget with 'how do you want to contribute' as the slogan.  Do we like that? something else?
* Any python coders interested in helping me port Mootbot/Notekeeper to Âµbot?
** Status: is this still postponed?
* Do we have any presenters yet?

==== Future Agenda ====
* being cross-distro friendly ... why? :)

==== Assignments ====
* To be assigned

==== Schedule ====
* Schedule first presentation (openweek)
** Date?
* schedule 
** This meeting scheduled: March 30th, 2008 2PM EST / 1900 UTC
** next meeting scheduled: '''Not scheduled'''
** followup meeting scheduled: '''Not scheduled'''
 
==== Goals ====
* next meeting (one week)
** Marketing: Notify people of our intention to start up, get the word out on blogs etc.
* this month ('''Is this target date blown?''')
** Target: third week in April, 3 per week; Mon, Wed, Fri
** Theme: Still US Teams?
* three month
** Target: third week in April, 3 per week; Mon, Wed, Fri
** Theme: The Desktop Team
** Target: third week in May, 3 per week; Mon, Wed, Fri  
* six month
* one year

==== Other ====
* http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=1127
* http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Docs/Drafts/GetInvolvedGuide
