{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Internet Relay Chat ===

Internet Relay Chat (IRC) is a form of realtime Internet chat. It is mainly designed for group (many-to-many) communication in discussion forums called channels, but also allows one-to-one communlication via private message.  The IRC format is a great setting for group-chat based presentations, which is why Ubuntu Classroom presentations are held on IRC inside the #ubuntu-classroom channel.  Please be aware that you may not find anyone active in the channel if you join outside of scheduled presentation times.

We've listed a few of the most popular clients and IRC server information for your platform with links on how you might set them up.

=== IRC Information ===

The Ubuntu community is currently utilizing the  Freenode servers for IRC. If you are going to join a session use the following information:

* Server: irc.freenode.net
* Port: 8001
* Channel: #ubuntu-classroom

=== IRC Clients ===
The following is just a short list of the popular IRC clients you might use.

==== Ubuntu ====
* '''Empathy''' - Default IRC client on Ubuntu since Karmic.
* '''Xchat''' - A very popular IRC client. Likely not pre-installed on your system, please see the <nowiki>[[XChatHowto]]</nowiki> wiki page for more information.
* '''Gaim/Pidgin''' - Popular instant messaging software which also supports IRC. May be easier for beginners. For IRC specific connection information refer to the <nowiki>[[http://developer.pidgin.im/wiki/Protocol%20Specific%20Questions#IRCProtocol|IRC]]</nowiki> page.
==== Kubuntu ====
* '''Konversation''' - KDE GUI based IRC client. Please see the <nowiki>[[http://konversation.berlios.de/docs/|Konversation Handbook]]</nowiki> for more information.
* '''Kopete''' - Multi-protocol instant messaging and IRC software for KDE.
* '''Quassel''' - Qt/KDE based IRC client and bouncer.
==== Console based ====
* '''IRSSI''' - Popular command line/text based IRC client. Not pre-installed.  For more information refer to the <nowiki>[[Irssi]]</nowiki> tutorial page.
* '''Weechat''' - Another popular command line/text based IRC client.For more information refer to the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WeeChat|WeeChat]]</nowiki> community documentation 
==== Web based ====
* '''Freenode Web Client''' - The following link will take you directly to the channel
** Location: http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom
