{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This article describes the procedures required to teach or run a class or session in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki>.

=== Teaching a Class in the Ubuntu Classroom ===

==== Getting your class put on the schedule ====
     
To teach a class, you must first of all be knowledgeable about the subject you wish to teach. If this is your first time teaching a class, please review the instructions on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/Submissions|submissions]]</nowiki> page and follow the requirements outlined there. After you have been approved, or if you have taught a class before, a Classroom Manager will add your class to the official <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~nhandler/classroom.html|Learning Events Calendar]]</nowiki>.

==== Before your class begins ====

When your class is scheduled to begin, ClassBot will change the topic in both <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom-chat|#ubuntu-classroom-chat]]</nowiki> to reflect your class. ClassBot will also give the instructor(s) voice in both channels, and will set <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki> to moderated if your class is to be moderated.

==== During the Class ====
     
Please refer to the ClassBot help page to learn how to use ClassBot during your classroom session.

===== Time =====

Each class should last around an hour, up to a maximum of two hours, with a minimum of half an hour. The length of the class is determined by the amount of material  covered by the instructors, by the amount of questions asked, etc.

==== After the Class ====
 
After your classroom session, ClassBot will set <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom-chat|#ubuntu-classroom-chat]]</nowiki> back to their default settings.

=== Interested in taking your class farther? ===

Now that you have finished your class, are you interested in making it a permanent part of Ubuntu education? Help us make your session into a class for the <nowiki>[[Learning|Ubuntu Community Learning Project]]</nowiki>. Feel free to contact the UCLP team via their mailing list on the UCLP wiki page, or via IRC in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-learning|#ubuntu-learning]]</nowiki> for more help.
