{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This article describes the procedures required to teach or run a class or session in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki>.

=== Teaching a Class in the Ubuntu Classroom ===

==== Getting your class put on the schedule ====
     
To teach a class, you must first of all be knowledgeable about the subject you wish to teach. If this is your first time teaching a class, please review the instructions on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/Submissions|submissions]]</nowiki> page and follow the requirements outlined there. After you have been approved, or if you have taught a class before, a Classroom Manager will add your class to the official <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~nhandler/classroom.html|Learning Events Calendar]]</nowiki>.

Each class should last around an hour, up to a maximum of two hours, with a minimum of half an hour. The length of the class is determined by the amount of material  covered by the instructors, by the amount of questions asked, etc.

Sessions should be scheduled at least a week in advance to give us time to blog about them, and slides should be given at least 24 hours in advance. Instructors should also join -backstage before their session (especially if they think they might need help with classbot or have questions).

If you have slides for your talk, please submit them in .pdf format to the volunteers in #ubuntu-classroom-backstage

==== Before your class begins ====

When your class is scheduled to begin, ClassBot will change the topic in both <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom-chat|#ubuntu-classroom-chat]]</nowiki> to reflect your class. ClassBot will also give the instructor(s) voice in both channels, and will set <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki> to moderated if your class is to be moderated.

Please try to show up at least 10 minutes early for your class.

==== During the Class ====
     
Users will chat in and questions will be asked in #ubuntu-classroom-chat with the prefix ''QUESTION:'' so you may want to keep an eye on it during your session so you can see what your audience is talking about. ClassBot will help you find and respond to questions asked in this channel, refer to the ClassBot help page to learn how to use ClassBot during your classroom session.

If you need any help during your session, just ask in #ubuntu-classroom-backstage

==== After the Class ====
 
After your classroom session, ClassBot will set <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom-chat|#ubuntu-classroom-chat]]</nowiki> back to their default settings.

==== Tips ====

Be familiar with your material! You may even want to prepare a script ahead of time and slowly paste the script into channel as you teach the class.

At the beginning of your class, you may want to let the folks in the -chat channel know whether you want questions throughout your class, or if you would rather they wait until the end of your class

You may want to set highlight in your IRC client on "QUESTION:" so you catch when people ask questions and can have ClassBot process them.

