{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting 2008 Feb 24th ==
* Meeting Topic - Reformation of the Ubuntu Classroom Project

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Trevor Sharpe<<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* herlo
* Zelut 
* Ross Peoples
* Heartsbane
* Laney
* pleia2
* seth (aka visualdeception)
* popey
* TheZealot

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''12:02PM EST (GMT -0500)''', by Christer Edwards(Zelut)''
* Proposed Meeting Agenda presented in gobby
* Contributors were encouraged to give their own suggestions  
* Suggested course of action was presented
* Assignments were taken, by those that wished to participate
** Meeting assignments were recorded on: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/MeetingAgenda2008Feb24
* Follow up meeting date/time was established
* ''Meeting called to end at '''1:15PM EST (GMT -0500)''', by Christer Edwards(Zelut)''

=== Agenda ===
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/MeetingAgenda2008Feb24

== Additional ==
* no other note worthy items 

= Discussion = 
The following is the discussion that took place in gobby. Times are MDT (GMT -0700):
{{{
[10:02:10 AM] <zelut> welcome
[10:02:20 AM] herlo has joined
[10:04:16 AM] <zelut> feel free to add/append anything to the existing items.  We should all be color coded so it'll be clear who has made edits.
[10:05:06 AM] <heartsbane> Line 3: do you have a name you would like to call it or are you just feilding suggestions, BTW still reading
[10:06:23 AM] <herlo> Call it GI Ubuntu (play on army and getting involved)
[10:06:31 AM] seth has joined
[10:06:32 AM] <herlo> or Ubuntu GIs too
[10:06:44 AM] <seth> hello
[10:06:44 AM] <zelut> heartsbane: after doing a bit more research I found that a team matching my goals already existed but had basically puttered out
[10:07:11 AM] <zelut> heartsbane: I think sticking with their name may be fine, but I'd want to make sure we do some 'brand marketing' so people understand what the name means.
[10:07:20 AM] <zelut> heartsbane: I don't have any better naming suggestions at this point.
[10:07:30 AM] <heartsbane> Eurisko: greek for "I learn/discover things"
[10:08:02 AM] <heartsbane> Ubuntu GI sounds okay too...
[10:08:06 AM] TheZealot has joined
[10:09:02 AM] <heartsbane> Well then I guess lets start at the top, any contact with Ryanakca?
[10:09:06 AM] <zelut> herlo: looks like you opened all the docs.
[10:09:12 AM] TheZealot has left
[10:09:25 AM] <herlo> zelut, is there a way to turn that off?
[10:09:43 AM] zealot has joined
[10:09:47 AM] <zelut> herlo: well the rest of us just opened one.  They should be listed on your document list.
[10:10:15 AM] <herlo> I know, its apparently a preference I had set, fixing it now
[10:10:19 AM] herlo has left
[10:10:23 AM] herlo has joined
[10:10:38 AM] <herlo> there we go
[10:10:45 AM] <zelut> Ok.  For the agenda.
[10:11:07 AM] <zelut> When I initially came up with this idea I didn't know a team already existed, the ubuntu-classroom team.
[10:11:20 AM] <zelut> they have been working off and on, but most of the members have moved on or are too busy.
[10:11:50 AM] <zelut> I have spoken with pleia2 and ryanakca yesterday, both are very busy but are happy about the idea of a team resurrection.
[10:12:17 AM] <zelut> pleia2 may not be able to be involved much, but she mentioned she could hand over her admin/ops to me for the team resources.
[10:12:36 AM] <zelut> The reasons I like the idea of a team resurrection is that the resources and tools are already in place.  mailing list, launchpad, irc, etc.
[10:12:50 AM] <zelut> if we went with something new we'd need to start from scratch, which I don't see a lot of reason to do.
[10:13:14 AM] <zelut> as you can see from the document above, there are a number of wiki pages already in place.
[10:13:28 AM] <zelut> I would like to update these and breath some life into them.
[10:13:56 AM] <zelut> We will be doing a lot of collaboration via the mailing list, so if you can afford one more please subscribe to the list:
[10:13:58 AM] <herlo> so why did the former project stop?
[10:14:03 AM] <zelut>    https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-classroom
[10:14:18 AM] <zelut> the former project stopped because of school, divorces.. life in general.
[10:14:32 AM] <zelut> the initial team founders just got too caught up in other projects and haven't been able to maintain it.
[10:15:01 AM] <herlo> so it isn't a marketing or conceptual issue, but rather just a staffing one
[10:15:29 AM] <zelut> right. at this point there isn't anyone that has time to run the team.
[10:15:56 AM] <zelut> so, I figure filling some positions at this meeting would be the first best step.
[10:16:15 AM]  * herlo backs away from the table, slowly :)
[10:16:27 AM] <zelut> herlo: I know, I know.
[10:16:31 AM] <herlo> but I bet there a few that wanna help
[10:16:38 AM] <Ross Peoples> well, i'm decent with admin stuff
[10:17:01 AM] <zelut> I think the first main thing we need is someone that wants to help tackle the wiki.  I think Heartsbane mentioned some interest there.
[10:17:17 AM] <heartsbane> Yep, I can do that
[10:17:31 AM] Laney has joined
[10:17:37 AM] <Ross Peoples> what actually needs to be done with the wiki?
[10:17:39 AM] <zelut> We'll want to liven it up (the new USTeams wiki page is really colorful and wiki 2.0-ish. might take a look)
[10:18:02 AM] <heartsbane> Wiki is not hard at all... so no big deal there
[10:18:09 AM] <zelut> Well check out the wiki (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom)
[10:18:28 AM] <zelut> it just seems a bit out dated.  Again, some of the people listed as founders have long since moved on
[10:18:28 AM] <heartsbane> already there
[10:18:44 AM] <herlo> zelut, pleia2 isnt' able to participate in here, lappy can't handle it
[10:19:43 AM] <zelut> What I want the wiki to have is a very clear, easy to find upcoming schedule of events.  Contacts, and a firm listing of responsibilities within the team.
[10:20:06 AM] <zelut> I hate it when I don't know who to contact for a project, or the wiki hasn't been updated in 9 months and who knows what the team is up to you know..
[10:20:26 AM] pleia2 has joined
[10:20:44 AM] <Ross Peoples> well, if needed, I can help heartsbane update the wiki, I'd just need to know what to update
[10:21:45 AM] <zelut> Ross: We also need someone to moderate the mailing list, launchpad and make sure proper access is available in -classroom on IRC if you'd prefer that.
[10:21:56 AM] <zelut> of course we'd need to discuss getting access to those with pleia2
[10:22:01 AM] <pleia2> ryan and I are mailing list mods
[10:22:27 AM] <pleia2> I don't know where IRC stands, I believe it's pretty much owned by the irc council
[10:22:39 AM] <pleia2> and launchpad is owned by ryan
[10:22:48 AM] <zelut> pleia2: do the two of you want to maintain the list and launchpad? I just hope you'll be available when needed.
[10:23:27 AM] <pleia2> I'm on IRC all the time, my availability is only limited in the realm of big project things
[10:23:49 AM] <pleia2> I've been handling moderator requests and such for the mailing list since it was launched :)
[10:24:32 AM] <zelut> pleia2: well if you can continue to maintain it then we're set there.
[10:24:36 AM]  * pleia2 nods
[10:24:59 AM] <pleia2> as far as the launchpad team goes, we weren't really set on what it's for
[10:25:15 AM] <zelut> Ross: so it sounds like, for now, best help may be in the wiki with Heartsbane.
[10:25:16 AM] <pleia2> we were calling it the "management team" but might open it to all project members, just unsure of the usefulness
[10:25:47 AM] <zelut> pleia2: all I've ever used LP for, with teams, is to list membership and use PPAs.. but I doubt we need a PPA.
[10:25:56 AM] <pleia2> yeah, same
[10:26:12 AM] <zelut> We also need someone that can help with marketing.  The original team fizzled out and I hadn't even heard of them originally.
[10:26:30 AM] <zelut> I *thought* I had a good feel to what was going on within Ubuntu, but I had no idea the team existed until after it nearly died ;)
[10:27:01 AM] <zelut> I'd like someone that wants to maintain contact with the fridge, UWN, full-circle, bloggers, etc.  Get the word out about the team and more regularly about events.
[10:27:35 AM] <zelut> This last week the Ubuntu developer week was a huge success because there was a marketing blitz on it.  Digg, etc.  I'd like similar marketing for this project so it feels like a big deal when these happen.
[10:27:41 AM] <pleia2> yep
[10:27:48 AM] <heartsbane> was this team responsible for e-week?
[10:28:02 AM] <pleia2> Ubuntu Women is also loosely involved (we dropped our own Courses program in favor of working with Classroom)
[10:28:04 AM] <herlo> zelut, one of the things the fedora community manager does/did would be to encourage others to blog regularly, get the word out about major and minor events
[10:28:06 AM] <zelut> heartsbane: when we did usteams education week it was just me.
[10:28:33 AM] <zelut> heartsbane: but that was my first attempt to see how something like this might work.
[10:28:57 AM] <zelut> any input from seth, zealot, or laney?
[10:28:59 AM] <seth> so just emailing blogs, getting people to blog about events, getting articles on the fridge
[10:29:25 AM] <zelut> seth: yeah, being the ambassador so to speak between this project and the interweb :)
[10:29:33 AM] <pleia2> we'll probably want a couple people doing the marketing thing, I expect it's going to be a bit overwhelming
[10:29:44 AM] <seth> i'd be willing to help with that
[10:29:46 AM] <zelut> seth: I have a contact at the fridge I can pass on and the UWN.  Those will be a decent start.
[10:29:53 AM] <zealot> I'll help seath
[10:29:56 AM] <zealot> seth
[10:29:57 AM] <zealot> rofl
[10:29:58 AM] <zelut> seth: super!
[10:29:59 AM] <pleia2> excellent
[10:30:11 AM] <Laney> Hey sorry. Yes I definitely agree on the marketing side, and would be willing to help. I think it would be good to get some high profile bloggers like Jono or Daniel to post about it too.
[10:30:25 AM] <zelut> Would it make sense to maintain a list on a subpage of the wiki someplace to list the groups/contacts for marketing?
[10:30:41 AM] <zelut> ie; what blogs & groups we contact and who we contact within those groups?
[10:30:59 AM] <seth> i would think so
[10:31:06 AM] <Laney> For sure
[10:31:10 AM] <zelut> I can of course blog about it on ubuntu-tutorials too.  That reaches one or two people ;)
[10:31:18 AM] <seth> lol
[10:31:41 AM] <zelut> ok.  so seth, zealot and laney can you start building a list of blogs and such to contact?
[10:31:46 AM] <heartsbane> is ubuntu-tutorials still around? I heard that guy died or something
[10:31:48 AM] <zealot> sure
[10:31:51 AM] <zelut> I'd like to get solid information on the wiki of addresses, etc.
[10:32:11 AM] <zelut> I think if we document that much if the team ever does suffer in the future that information is there to be picked up on.
[10:32:24 AM] <seth> so like planet ubuntu, jono, daniel, jorge?
[10:32:39 AM] <Laney> reddit, digg, ...
[10:32:58 AM] <zelut> seth: I think jono would be a good fit.  daniel is motu-specific, but he could blog about it when motu presents in -classroom I'm sure.
[10:33:08 AM] <seth> do we wanna get something out about the team being ressurected
[10:33:30 AM] <zelut> seth: an article along those lines would be good for the UWN, fridge, etc I think.
[10:33:33 AM] <pleia2> getting -motu to "announce" their sessions has been tricky, apparently they have some sort of set schedule that I haven't quite figured out yet
[10:33:43 AM] popey has joined
[10:33:47 AM] <zelut> seth: but yeah, good buzz per presentation and a lot of buzz up front that we're back in the game.
[10:33:59 AM] <zelut> popey: welcome
[10:34:03 AM] <popey> lo
[10:34:11 AM] <heartsbane> hi
[10:34:18 AM] <seth> hi popey
[10:34:23 AM]  * Laney nods
[10:34:25 AM] <zelut> popey: when I 'cryptically' contacted you the other day it was related to this (big surprise)
[10:34:32 AM] <heartsbane> Ross still around?
[10:34:34 AM] <herlo> zelut, it almost sounds like marketing could use ambassadors across the board in ubuntu
[10:34:38 AM] <Ross Peoples> stil here
[10:34:42 AM] <herlo> get more of the word out
[10:34:50 AM] <heartsbane> are you on IRC?
[10:34:54 AM] <Ross Peoples> yep
[10:34:58 AM] <Ross Peoples> PhreeStyle-home
[10:34:59 AM] <zelut> popey: any thoughts on the screencast team doing video presentations based on some of the -classroom meets?
[10:35:05 AM] <heartsbane> k thx
[10:35:28 AM] <zelut> one of the concerns I have about this is not everyone is familiar with or comfortable with IRC.
[10:35:39 AM] <popey> the screencast team has slowed recently - my fault
[10:35:48 AM] <zelut> expanding the media to web, screencasts, etc might help reach more of the n00bs :)
[10:35:52 AM] <popey> however even if you did send stuff our way, there are very few people actually contributing
[10:36:04 AM] <popey> there are only 3 people in the team actually making screencasts
[10:36:28 AM] <zelut> popey: maybe we'll have you present at an upcoming -classroom meet to get people involved.  That's the whole idea!
[10:36:34 AM] <Laney> zelut: Which is why I think that the after-session logs should be more than just dumps of IRC logs.
[10:36:38 AM] <popey> we did try that
[10:36:47 AM] <herlo> zelut, what about audiocasts, like icecast or secondlife?
[10:36:49 AM] <popey> in an ubuntu open week I gave two sessions about screencasting
[10:37:16 AM] <zelut> laney: there is a guy on the ubuntu-us-az team that does some very impressive log parsing to make readable meeting minutes.  Might contact him.
[10:37:17 AM] <heartsbane> Zelut: I think Icecast servers would be excellent for presentations, even n00bs can figure out how to log into a audio stream
[10:37:17 AM] <pleia2> Laney: I agree, early on in the Classroom project there were people doing writeups of the sessions, which were much more valuable than logs
[10:37:18 AM] <popey> fact is that people create screencasts for other sites - blip.tv, showmedo, their own blogs etc, but don't specifically make them for the screencast team
[10:37:40 AM] <herlo> video casts tend to be a bit heavier and a lot of people won't be able to get on, bandwidth or machine limitations mostly
[10:37:40 AM] <pleia2> ..later in the project I don't even think logs were posted, unfortunately
[10:37:51 AM] <Laney> aw
[10:37:55 AM] <zelut> herlo: if we can make it simple enough for the presenter to create the icecast its a good idea.
[10:38:07 AM] <herlo> zelut, its dead simple
[10:38:16 AM] <herlo> the presenter just needs to have a decent sound card
[10:38:20 AM] <popey> one of the downsides with audio / video / screen casting is translation
[10:38:21 AM] <zelut> herlo: sounds like you got a little closer to the table after all ;)
[10:38:25 AM] <Laney> and a microphone
[10:38:38 AM] <pleia2> popey: *nod*
[10:38:42 AM] <popey> it's relatively easy to translate a piece of text when compared with audio / video / screen casts
[10:38:44 AM] <zelut> popey: I do have contact with someone from the spanish translation team that wants to help in that regard.
[10:38:44 AM] <herlo> zelut, I'll help there where i can, because I run icecast server
[10:38:55 AM] <heartsbane> Zelut: I can secure a Icecast server from Mike Place at XMission, I know the have several, plus they operate a ubuntu mirror
[10:39:00 AM] <Ross Peoples> i run icecast too if that helps
[10:39:00 AM] <popey> audio tutorials tend to be a bit dry
[10:39:05 AM] <popey> IMO
[10:39:11 AM] <herlo> popey, different languages may require different presenters
[10:39:17 AM] <zelut> popey: don't know what it'd take to translate the audio without just redoing it, but he's excited about helping with the text aspect.
[10:39:18 AM] <popey> h
[10:39:28 AM] <pleia2> popey: I think it depends on how it's done and how you learn better - audio is completely useless to my brain so I'm not too into them
[10:39:52 AM] <pleia2> speaking of which, these are all fantastic ideas but personally I'm gonna hang back with the IRC tutorials WRT my contributions
[10:39:54 AM] <herlo> popey, I disagree that audio tutorials are dry, especially if the presenter is responding to questions in irc too
[10:40:00 AM] <Laney> If we want the interactive aspect to work (like developer week), audio won't work too well
[10:40:04 AM] <herlo> there's about a 20-30 second delay on average tho
[10:40:10 AM] <Laney> I've always found that lag is too prohibitive
[10:40:17 AM] <popey> herlo, I'd like to see an example to prove me wrong :(
[10:40:30 AM] <herlo> laney, do you have dial-up?
[10:40:38 AM] <herlo> because I can see that being a big issue
[10:40:40 AM] <Laney> 20mb cable ;)
[10:40:45 AM] <popey> plus there is the logging that you get with a text based medium which you dont get with audio
[10:40:51 AM] <popey> \o/ 20Mb cable
[10:40:52 AM] <herlo> you shouldn't see much lag at all
[10:40:53 AM] <zelut> we've been doing audio of our LUG meetings (thanks to herlo) and they seem pretty realtime
[10:41:04 AM] <herlo> popey, that's what podcasts are for
[10:41:08 AM] acacs has left
[10:41:18 AM] <Laney> I know, but it never seems to work in practice. The technical overheads are comparatibely very high compared to IRC.
[10:41:19 AM]  * herlo points pope to http://podcast.utos.org
[10:41:23 AM] <herlo> popey
[10:41:28 AM] <zelut> lets put audio on the back burner for just a bit.  I'm open to expanding the medium, but we don't need to work out the details just now.
[10:41:34 AM] <popey> thanks
[10:41:46 AM] <Laney> popey: Virgin media \o>
[10:41:49 AM] <popey> we're working on an audio podcast in the uk
[10:41:52 AM] <herlo> popey, np.  I hope it helps.  I've done a couple presentations there, and so has zelut
[10:41:58 AM] <zelut> can someone update the gobby agenda to list the positions assigned?
[10:42:22 AM] <heartsbane> Zelut: sure I will fill out mine
[10:42:32 AM] <zelut> we've got pleia2 doing the list (and I'm assuming you can add an admin if you get overwhelmed again?)
[10:42:55 AM] <zelut> we'e got heartsbane and ross doing the wiki, logs, etc?
[10:43:00 AM] <Ross Peoples> yep
[10:43:10 AM] <Ross Peoples> he's updaing gooby now
[10:43:14 AM] <pleia2> zelut: yep
[10:43:19 AM] <zelut> then seth, zealot and laney doing some marketing?
[10:43:30 AM] <zealot> yep
[10:43:41 AM] <zelut> herlo for moral support ;)
[10:44:16 AM] <zelut> I want to start building a list of existing teams and their contacts and start to build relationships there.
[10:44:17 AM] <heartsbane> I don't think developers is the target audience
[10:44:34 AM] <zelut> this way there is a personal relationship with teams so we can contact them about presenting.
[10:44:44 AM] <Laney> Depends if we integrate the MOTU talks
[10:44:47 AM] <zelut> I also want to add a personal touch to introducing people into teams.
[10:45:12 AM] <zelut> I want everyone to be our target.  Different targets for different topics in -classroom, but it shouldn't just be devels
[10:45:25 AM] <zelut> *anyone* can participate, and *everyone* should be given a chance.
[10:45:32 AM] <seth> agreed
[10:45:52 AM] <zelut> sometimes all that is needed is that they know how, which is what we aim to remedy.
[10:46:08 AM] <heartsbane> Seth are you on marketing?
[10:46:12 AM] <seth> yes
[10:46:19 AM] <zelut> some topics I'm sure will be technical, others much simpler like 'how to edit the wiki'
[10:46:22 AM] <herlo> zelut, ambassadors...
[10:46:26 AM] <Laney> What about a ubuntu-classroom-announce mailing list?
[10:46:54 AM] <zelut> Laney: perhaps the ubuntu-news list?  that's where the UWN goes.
[10:47:15 AM] <zelut> herlo: explain
[10:48:37 AM] <Laney> zelut: Sure, that would work.. as long as people are aware of where to listen out if they're interested.
[10:48:48 AM] <zelut> I don't want to keep the meeting going too much longer.  Let's talk about a schedule and goals for the last 10-15min.
[10:49:00 AM]  * Laney nods
[10:49:03 AM] <popey> ok
[10:49:26 AM] <zelut> how about a second meeting in a week.
[10:49:33 AM] <seth> sounds good
[10:49:34 AM] <pleia2> sounds good
[10:49:35 AM] <zealot> yeah
[10:49:40 AM] <zelut> how is this time? later? earlier?
[10:49:52 AM] <seth> works for me....
[10:49:53 AM] <zealot> should be good
[10:49:54 AM] <Laney> Works for me.
[10:50:00 AM] <Ross Peoples> good for me too
[10:50:07 AM] <pleia2> I might be in DC next weekend, but I can catch up later
[10:50:10 AM] <zelut> I suppose this is the wrong crowd to ask.  All of us *could* make it :)
[10:50:16 AM] <herlo> zelut, you mentioned that you wanted to have people to introduce individuals to the team, that's an ambassador
[10:50:32 AM] <pleia2> FWIW sunday evenings EST tend to work better for me
[10:50:38 AM] <heartsbane> Can we shoot for 1PM EST?
[10:50:45 AM] <popey> 2 hours later would be better for me
[10:50:46 AM] <zelut> herlo: right. that was kind of the position I wanted to try and work.
[10:50:53 AM] <herlo> just naming it
[10:50:53 AM] <popey> 5pm UTC is family time
[10:51:19 AM] <zelut> two hours later is noon for me, herlo and heartsbane.  thats fine by me.
[10:51:21 AM] <herlo> do it at 7pm UTC
[10:52:05 AM] <zelut> is everyone on the ubuntu-classroom mailing list?
[10:52:09 AM] <zealot> yar
[10:52:11 AM] <heartsbane> Would you like these meeting notes, posted in the wiki, as well as the chat log?
[10:52:32 AM] <zelut> heartsbane: if you can find a way to incorporate the above document into the wiki that'd be great.
[10:52:41 AM] <Ross Peoples> btw, pleia2, if you need another mod/admin for anything I can fill that
[10:52:43 AM] <zelut> heartsbane: you'll notice I already began formatting it in wiki syntax.
[10:53:07 AM] <heartsbane> Zelut: I am not, but I will do it after meeting... yes gobby is nice for that 
[10:53:23 AM] <zelut> ok, next sunday at 1700 UTC?
[10:53:28 AM] <heartsbane> Zelut: should we include the chat log?
[10:53:34 AM] <Ross Peoples> that's 2pm EST, right?
[10:53:45 AM] <heartsbane> yes
[10:53:46 AM] <zelut> Ross: if my UTC conversion is correct it should be.
[10:53:53 AM] <Ross Peoples> cool, thats fine then
[10:53:55 AM] <zelut> heartsbane: sure, why not.
[10:53:56 AM] <herlo> zelut, did you mean 1900 UTC?
[10:54:09 AM] <zelut> herlo: probably :)
[10:54:11 AM] <herlo> 1700 = 5pm
[10:54:25 AM] <herlo> just trying to make sure everyone is happy
[10:54:31 AM] <zelut> 7pm for popey, 12 for me, 2pm for the east coasters.
[10:54:39 AM] <zelut> am I getting it right?
[10:54:40 AM] <popey> thanks for making that change
[10:54:44 AM] <herlo> yup
[10:55:00 AM] <herlo> popey are you in GB?
[10:55:01 AM] <zealot> good deal
[10:55:06 AM] <zelut> Ok, so everyone has an assignment and something to work on?
[10:55:23 AM] <zelut> I'd also like to follow up with everyone mid-week to see how things are going.
[10:55:32 AM] <zelut> wed or thur better for follow-ups?
[10:55:42 AM] <popey> on the maliing list?
[10:55:48 AM] <Laney> Yeah, I'd just use the mailing list
[10:55:49 AM] <popey> be good to get a bit more traffic on the list
[10:56:11 AM] <Ross Peoples> I'm always on email, so anytime is good for a followup for me
[10:56:27 AM] <zelut> Ok, a reminder email will go out mid-week.  If everyone could reply to the list with their progress that'd be great.
[10:56:37 AM] <zelut> that way we know where things stand prior to the next meeting.
[10:56:50 AM] <popey> also might be worth setting up the teamreports page
[10:57:02 AM] <popey> so we can a) feed back, b) get more visibility
[10:57:07 AM] <seth> are we marketing this as ubuntu-classroom? or did we want to change that name?
[10:57:15 AM] <zelut> popey: good point.  should that fall on our wiki volunteers?
[10:57:20 AM] <popey> ya
[10:57:27 AM] <zelut> I think we stay with ubuntu-classroom
[10:57:32 AM] <popey> agreed
[10:57:49 AM] <Laney> seth, popey, zealot: I just created https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/Marketing for us to track stuff.
[10:57:50 AM] <zelut> no need to start from scratch when all the tools are in place in that name.
[10:58:00 AM] <seth> rocking
[10:58:13 AM] <zelut> last two items:
[10:58:21 AM] <zelut> what goals should we have for this month?
[10:58:45 AM] <zelut> considering there is only a week left this month not much..
[10:58:51 AM] <Ross Peoples> prolly getting the wiki pages up to date with everything we need for the time being would be good for the wiki people
[10:58:52 AM] <seth> lol
[10:59:13 AM] <seth> maybe getting a little love in a blog or the fridge
[10:59:24 AM] <zelut> update the wiki. build marketing page. contact UWN, fridge, blogs, etc.
[10:59:25 AM]  * Laney shivers
[10:59:39 AM] <Ross Peoples> well i have a blog that I submitted a request to for the planet ubuntu, but haven't gotten a response yet on it
[11:00:05 AM] <zelut> Ross: if you're an ubuntu member you can add yourself.. at least that is how it was waaaaay back when I did it.
[11:00:22 AM] <Ross Peoples> well I had to go to a page and fill out a form and submit it
[11:00:23 AM] <popey> you still can
[11:00:26 AM] <zelut> I think we have the planet covered.  maybe ubuntuweblogs &/or planet ubuntu users
[11:00:51 AM] <Ross Peoples> if there's another way to get it on planet ubuntu, please show me the way :)
[11:00:53 AM] <Laney> Anyone good at artwork? Could do with a logo maybe?
[11:01:03 AM]  * zelut is no good at artwork
[11:01:09 AM]  * pleia2 fails at artwork
[11:01:09 AM]  * Laney neither
[11:01:11 AM] <seth> i can talk with tiago and/or corenominal for ubuntuweblogs
[11:01:45 AM] <zelut> ok. so we'll see about putting this structure back in place by our next meeting which will cover this month.
[11:01:49 AM]  * zealot doesn't even know what artwork is
[11:02:04 AM] <zelut> three month goal?  how many -classroom meets should we shoot for?
[11:02:19 AM] <zelut> I think the original bi-weekly might be too much to handle this early.
[11:02:22 AM] <seth> one a month?
[11:02:29 AM] <Laney> First of all we need some volunteers to run sessions
[11:02:30 AM] <heartsbane> zealut: mostly graffiti
[11:02:36 AM] <pleia2> seth: +1
[11:02:42 AM] <zelut> I'd like a measure of 'these are regular enough to attend' but not so regular they are commonplace/boring.
[11:02:44 AM]  * zealot +1
[11:02:50 AM] <Laney> I think we should wait until we gauge the level of interest from that before setting any targets
[11:02:57 AM] <zelut> Laney: I'll start contacting some teams about presenting.
[11:03:21 AM] <seth> should we start the very beginnings of planning for a presentation in like late march?
[11:03:22 AM] <pleia2> Laney: in the past, the trouble has been we took that approach - and then nothing got done :) I think setting goals ahead of time and then possibly not achiving them is worthwhile
[11:03:24 AM] <zelut> is it valid to set a goal now and re-adjust if necesary at the next meeting?
[11:03:58 AM] <zelut> one presentation per month? we'll adjust if we find a need at future meetings?
[11:04:07 AM] <seth> sounds good
[11:04:11 AM] <Laney> For sure.. We could say no more than 1 a month for the time being, but this could slip if needs be
[11:04:33 AM] <zelut> ok
[11:04:50 AM] <popey> one tutorial a month?
[11:04:50 AM] <zelut> I'd like to have a big sprint just after hardy, but we can discuss that later.
[11:05:15 AM] <zelut> popey: i'm seeing these like openweek / ubuntu developer week.
[11:05:26 AM] <Laney> A "Hardy Tutorials Week" could be cool
[11:05:31 AM] <popey> how many in a week - as many as openweek?
[11:05:37 AM] <zelut> popey: big sprints that take an entire week.
[11:05:39 AM] <pleia2> openweek was a lot
[11:05:42 AM] <Laney> Showing off all the new features
[11:05:56 AM] <zelut> Laney: yeah, a hardy sprint would be cool.
[11:06:15 AM] <zelut> maybe we should add 'what does a presentation comprise of' at the next meeting.
[11:06:26 AM] <zelut> is it a quick one hour tutorial or a big undertaking like openweek.
[11:07:09 AM] <Laney> mmm
[11:07:35 AM] <zelut> I think that about wraps it up.  We've got some unanswered questions, but we can't tackle them all today.
[11:07:45 AM] <zelut> The last note I wanted to share was a recent post by Jono.
[11:07:58 AM] <zelut> http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=1127
[11:08:04 AM] <zelut> this is what this is all about.
[11:08:22 AM] <zelut> I really like that post and want to keep that as an underlying guide as we go.
[11:08:40 AM] <zelut> ubuntu is about community.  We want the community to participate, but they need a friendly atmosphere to do it.
[11:09:09 AM] <zelut> through this project and friendly communication with existing teams we can personally introduce people into projects and help them feel welcome.
[11:09:24 AM] <zelut> I want this to be much more than a wiki page that says "go here to participate in teamX"
[11:09:48 AM] <seth> adding the personal touch is a real plus
[11:09:55 AM] <zelut> I want this to be a reception area for people wanting to help.  we help, with a human touch, teach them how.  we help introduce them to team members and follow through
[11:10:17 AM]  * popey notes zelut standing for president soon
[11:10:25 AM] <seth> lol
[11:10:25 AM] <zelut> anyone should be able to contact us and recieve a personal introduction to an existing team, a schedule for instruction and a follow-up on their progress.
[11:10:48 AM] <Ross Peoples> that's pretty cool...a while back, I wanted to get involved in a project and it was tough to do by myself, some help would have helped out alot at the time
[11:11:13 AM] <zelut> Ross: hopefully we can solve that with this project.
[11:11:26 AM] <zealot> definitely
[11:11:29 AM] <zelut> anything anyone has to add?
[11:11:35 AM] <zealot> nope
[11:11:39 AM] <heartsbane> just  lol at Zelut for President
[11:11:48 AM] <zelut> i think that'll about wrap it up.  follow-up will be sent to the list mid-week.
[11:12:15 AM] <Laney> Everyone going to be in #ubuntu-classroom?
[11:12:24 AM]  * zealot would love to see an Ubuntu user run for president, especially in 2008
[11:12:28 AM]  * pleia2 will be
[11:12:31 AM] <zelut> a lot of us lurk in there, yeah.
[11:12:43 AM] <Laney> k
[11:12:52 AM] <seth> i will start being in there a lot more now
[11:12:54 AM] <zelut> ok, meeting adjourned then.
[11:12:57 AM] <zealot> same
[11:13:00 AM] <Ross Peoples> yeaq me too
[11:13:05 AM] <popey> \o/
[11:13:05 AM] <zelut> heartsbane: I have a copy of the gobby document just in case.
[11:13:16 AM] <zelut> we'll meet again, here?, next sunday.
[11:13:23 AM] <Ross Peoples> sure
[11:13:26 AM] <zealot> okay cool
[11:13:27 AM] <pleia2> sounds good
[11:13:29 AM] <heartsbane> Zelut: same
[11:13:29 AM] <zealot> see ya guys
[11:13:30 AM] <zelut> should we continue to meet in gobby then? I guess we didn't bring that up.
[11:13:38 AM] <zealot> yeah gobby rocks
[11:13:46 AM]  * pleia2 isnt really a fan of gobby
[11:13:56 AM] <pleia2> since we already have the #ubuntu-classroom channel - and LOTS of people lurk there
[11:13:59 AM] <popey> it locked up a couple of times for me
[11:14:01 AM] <heartsbane> yes, for collaboration, because everyone else can show their own documentation
[11:14:05 AM] <popey> and since we are already in irc
[11:14:06 AM] <zealot> yeah that's cool too
[11:14:12 AM] <Laney> IRC seems fine to me really.
[11:14:17 AM] <heartsbane> Gobby is best for collaboration
[11:14:25 AM] <pleia2> I think some folks who lurk in -classroom will be disappointed to have missed this discussion
[11:14:26 AM]  * zealot is neutral
[11:14:32 AM] <Laney> Do we really need the collaborative editing in meetings though?
[11:14:34 AM] <popey> we can always switch to gobby once the meeting starts if everyone agrees
[11:14:35 AM] <heartsbane> IRC for day to day contact
[11:14:38 AM] <zelut> Well I'm checking out for a while.
[11:14:42 AM] <popey> laney not often i dont think
[11:14:46 AM] <zelut> add it to the agenda for next week lol
[11:14:50 AM] <zealot> haha good call
[11:14:53 AM]  * zelut signing off.
[11:14:54 AM] <pleia2> zelut: ok :)
[11:14:56 AM] zealot has left
[11:14:58 AM] pleia2 has left
[11:14:58 AM] <Ross Peoples> i like gobby...helps keep everyone updated with a visual reference of the4 talking points
[11:14:59 AM] <heartsbane> Well then .....exactly Zelut
[11:14:59 AM] <Laney> Aight, see you later}}}
