{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting 2008 Apr 6th ==
* Meeting Topic - How to proceed for April 

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Trevor Sharpe<<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* Heartsbane
* Ryanakca

== Agenda ==
'''No Agenda was submitted'''

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''2:18 PM EST (GMT -0500)''', by Ryan Cavanaugh''
* ''Meeting called to end at '''2:20 PM EST (GMT -0500)''', by Trevor Sharpe''

== Assignments ==
* Continue to contact Belinda Lopez at Ubuntu Training: pleia2
* Seeking Presentation: Zelut
* Incorperate hiveminder output into the wiki: heartsbane
* Send widget submission to the mailing list: visualdeception
* Re-write Classroom Guidelines for next meeting: heartsbane
** definite review of sections 1.1.3 and 1.2.1
** remove IRC +m component
** remove GUI/CLI component
** put on submissions page
** put a link on main page

== Additional ==
* review New Classroom Guidelines at next meeting
* review the widget at next meeting (yay/nay)

== Discussion ==
The following is the discussion that took place in IRC. Times are MDT (GMT -0700):
{{{
12:18 < ryanakca> hmm... no meeting?
12:20 < Heartsbane> ryanakca: guess not
12:21 < ryanakca> :(}}}
