{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Mar 16th Discussion Topics ===

==== Agenda Items ====
* What have we heard back from Aaron Toponce at USTeams
** '''Zero'''
* Can we define a solid date for Openweek
** '''I've emailed Jono related to the date & whether or not we can try to produce the event this round.'''
* Migrate new-improved wiki to overwrite old?
** '''Task completed''', changes made:
** '''moved Classroom to Classroom-Old, to retain old content in case we need it.'''
** '''moved Classroom-New to Classroom'''
** '''archived 2006-2007 classroom events to Classroom/InstructionArchive'''
* Should we create an announcement banner on the wiki?
* Creation of marketing blog widgets for upcoming events?
** Should we create a Classroom logo to go with the widgets?
** Should we create a Classroom slogan to go with the widgets?
*** notes: Seth created a basic widget with 'how do you want to contribute' as the slogan.  Do we like that? something else?
* Try to get some more solid assignments for others on the list
** Lets get all of our people involved before we start looking
** '''I've created open tasks on hiveminder which anyone can volunteer for.'''
* Continue using gobby? irc? what to do about lurkers in classroom?
* Thoughts on continuing with Hiveminder for task creation and assignment?
* Any python coders interested in helping me port Mootbot/Notekeeper to Âµbot?
** '''ryanacka says this has been postponed.'''
* Discussion of invitation from Belinda Lopez at Ubuntu-Training to collaborate on future events.
* Since we don't have a solid team locked-in perhaps a public 'call for papers' and have a big community-powered presentation?

==== Future Agenda ====
* being cross-distro friendly

==== Assignments ====
* To be assigned

==== Schedule ====
* Schedule first presentation (openweek)
** Date?
* schedule 
** This meeting scheduled: March 16th, 2008 2PM EST / 1900 UTC
** next meeting scheduled: '''Not scheduled'''
** followup meeting scheduled: '''Not scheduled'''
 
==== Goals ====
* next meeting (one week)
** Marketing: Notify people of our intention to start up, get the word out on blogs etc.
* this month ('''Is this target date blown?''')
** Target: third week in March, 3 per week; Mon, Wed, Fri
** Theme: US Teams
** How to organize a release party by US Teams
** 2 other presentations of their choice
* three month
** Target: third week in April, 3 per week; Mon, Wed, Fri
** Theme: The Desktop Team
** Target: third week in May, 3 per week; Mon, Wed, Fri  
* six month
* one year

==== Other ====
* http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=1127
* http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Docs/Drafts/GetInvolvedGuide
