{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ClausAgerskov ==

Ubuntu user since 2005-04-09. Linux user since 1998.

Havn't done any Ubuntu contribution yet.

== Contact information ==

'''Name''': Claus Agerskov

'''Nationality''': Danish (born April 29th, 1970)

'''Location''': Borup, Zealand, Denmark

'''VoIP''': ''None''

'''Cell''': +45 27 59 69 96

'''Email''': ca@chbs.dk

'''Web site''': http://www.claus-agerskov.dk/

'''GnuPG key''': ''None yet''

'''GnuPG fingerprint''': ''None yet''

== Free and Open Source Software activities ==

=== Former activities ===

* Danish translation of <nowiki>[[http://da.openoffice.org/|OpenOffice.org]]</nowiki> and Planner.

* Active in the <nowiki>[[http://dansk-gruppen.sysrq.dk/|Danish Localisation of Free Software]]</nowiki>

* Writing free training materials under the project <nowiki>[[http://www.chbs.dk/kurser/|Frit Kursus]]</nowiki> for Linux, Apache, PHP and Samba courses.
* Initiator and chairman of <nowiki>[[http://www.klid.dk/|Commercial Linux Stakeholders in Denmark (KLID)]]</nowiki> (1999-2001).
* Boardmember of <nowiki>[[http://www.dkuug.dk/|Danish Unix User Group]]</nowiki> (2001-2003).
* Boardmember of <nowiki>[[http://www.sslug.dk/|Skåne Sjælland Linux User Group]]</nowiki> (1999).
* Initiator and head of the <nowiki>[[http://da.openoffice.org/|Danish OpenOffice.org Team]]</nowiki> (2001-2002).

== Work ==

Today I work as a Perl programmer mostly on Debian GNU/Linux systems at 
<nowiki>[[http://www.dtv.dk/|DTV]]</nowiki>. 

I also have some extra job as trainer in Free and Open Source Software like Linux, Apache, Samba and PHP through my part time company <nowiki>[[http://www.agercon.dk/|AgerCon]]</nowiki>.

== Other stuff ==

None yet...
----
CategoryHomepage
