{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/changelog-closes-bugs
* '''Packages affected''': dpkg

=== Summary ===

The goal is to add functionality similar to Debian's "Closes: #1234"
in changelogs to Ubuntu.  This specification deals with the Ubuntu
side and has a matching launchpad specification.  While this
specification does not specify any syntax for referencing branches or
specifications, the syntax is extensible enough to allow that.

=== Rationale ===

Not being able to close bugs from the changelog has been a
long-standing complaint from the distro team.  In addition to the
convenience, it creates a link between upload and bug closing that
Launchpad can display.

=== Use cases ===

* Martin uploads a package which fixes a bug in Ubuntu.  The package makes it way through the queues and into the archive.  Malone gets notified of the upload and closes the relevant bug.  The submitter and other interested parties are notified and launchpad contains the link between the upload and the bug closing.

=== Scope ===

This spec only covers the Ubuntu part, there is/will be a matching
Launchpad specification.

=== Design and implementation ===

We are going to duplicate the functionality already in use for closing
bugs in Debian, but with different names to avoid clashes.

The chosen syntax is simply <code>LP: #1</code> to close bug number 1.  In
the future, it can be extended to <code>LP: spec spec-name</code> or
something similar for referencing specs..  dpkg-dev will be extended to parse the changelog
and generate a space-separated Launchpad-bugs-fixed header which goes
into the .changes file.  (Ex <code>Launchpad-bugs-fixed: 1 2 3 4</code>)

----
CategorySpec
