{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:cloud-server-n-desktop-images
* '''Created''': 2010-11-04
* '''Contributors''':  Scott Moser, Stephan Graber, Dustin Kirkland, Others
* '''Packages affected''': freenx

=== Summary ===

We would like to make the Ubuntu desktop images available in a more supported context.  This will allow us to demonstrate Ubiuntu Desktop and also allow users more familiar with graphical environments to utilize the ubuntu images.

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
<pre>
* UEC unofficial -desktop builds [1]
* Requests for images [2,3,4]

options for remote desktop
* x2go [5], with browser plugin in development
* freenx [6] (abandoned)
* neatx [7] (abandoned by google)
* vnc
* nomachine nx [6] (commercial)
* Spice[9]
* others ?
--
[1] http:/uec-images.ubuntu.com/desktop
[2] http://groups.google.com/group/ec2ubuntu/msg/2a4b87e049d8908a
[3] http://groups.google.com/group/ec2ubuntu/msg/3c3e7f797bcc3824
[4] http://developer.amazonwebservices.com/connect/thread.jspa?messageID=197331&#197331
[5] http://x2go.obviously-nice.de/index.php
[6] http://freenx.berlios.de/
[7] http://code.google.com/p/neatx/
[8] http://www.nomachine.com/download-package.php?Prod_Id=2071
[9] http://www.spice-space.org/
</pre>

<pre>
smoser's notes
* freenx package into main (start sfrom stgraber's)
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
