{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:cloud-server-n-app-checkpoint-restart
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': serge-hallyn
* '''Packages affected''': lxc, linux-kernel

=== Summary ===

Application checkpoint/restart allows us to do live migration of
LXC containers, greatly increasing their usability as an alternative
cluster node type.

=== Release Note ===

Checkpoint, restart, and live migration of applications and containers
is now supported.

=== Rationale ===

A great deal of support for application c/r is already implemented in
out-of-upstream patchsets, and available at linux-cr.org.  The purpose
of this blueprint is simply to publish a PPA with the kernel and
userspace packages needed for users to trivially test c/r, be it on
their host, in a VM, or on EC2.

=== User stories ===

Mike is a user with a running mysql server.  He wants to temporarily
migrate the mysql instance to another machine while he upgrades the
server's operating system.

John wants to run a cluster using containers.  There are two long running
jobs in LXC containers on the same physical machine.  He migrates one
container to another machine to increase performance for both jobs.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

==== UDS Natty discussion ====

<pre>
=== Application checkpoint/restart ===

Application checkpoint/restart in linux (linux-cr.org) provides the ability to checkpoint, restart, and migrate application and system containers. This provides a very lightweight mechanism for load-balancing in the cloud.

Actions:
* Create a ppa with the kernel and userspace packages needed to experiment with c/r
** Create a project in lp
** When ppa is up, Gustavo will blog about how to use it
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
