{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:cloud-server-n-ubuntu-trial
* '''Created''': 2010-11-04
* '''Contributors''':  Scott Moser, Dustin Kirkland, David Walker, Others
* '''Packages affected''': awstrial

=== Summary ===

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

<pre>
https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cloud-server-n-ubuntu-trial

With the 10.10 release, we offered a free test drive of 10.10 Server for 1 hour. The code that ran http://10.cloud.ubuntu.com is 'awstrial'. How else can Ubuntu use this concept.

Ideas:
* Ubuntu Trials/Demo of general ubuntu
* Conferences
* "coupon code" business cards

Awstrial features:
* better templating (ie, no 'ubuntu cloud 10')
* configurable time limit
* stop instance , start instance
* always generate a password
* desktop trial in the cloud (as a logical extension) -- Gerry's top priority
** Edubuntu uses FreeNX server
** (Beer) free java NX client
** many people trying this are windows users, who have java installed
** [smoser] development version (ie, natty during natty)
** investigate t1.micro sized
* Rackspace, UEC (or other backends)?
** Actually any of these should work as long as they support the EC2 API
* Nicer hostnames (via dyndns or running our own bind server)
* address 'what do i do now?"
** scavenger hunt or some task
** show key features of ubuntu server
** demo, pick task, someone try to accomplish in this time
** really need to demo the management of the image (puppet, or something like)
* development / bug verification
* web based terminal
** Alon: turnkey has a webshell
** http://code.google.com/p/shellinabox/
* run a campaign of the current devel release for people to try to reproduce bugs in the current release, t1.micro ($0.02) would be sufficient for this
* Gerry: would like to extend this to ISV to demo their applications
* 
 
 Actions:
** coupon codes
** isv offerings (add ibm db2 as a thing to pick)
** desktop!
** hostname and dyndnsgrs
** graphing and reporting
** templates have to be per-campaign
  

Stats:
* ~4800 users since 10.10
* $0.085 / instance
* ~$408

Chuck: better countdown animation

From feedback:
* Main negative: people who updated their keys in Launchpad
** ACTION: Perhaps always generate a password
</pre>

<pre>
smoser's notes
* coupon codes
* isv offerings (add ibm db2 as a thing to pick)
* desktop!
* hostname and dyndns
* graphing and reporting
* templates have to be per-campaign
</pre>
----
CategorySpec
