{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:packageselection-server-n-cluster-stack
* '''Created''': 4 Nov 2010
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[4nDr3s|AndresRodriguez]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===
This specification focuses on fully integrated cluster stack. It defines which tools are going to be used to define high availability and load balancing cluster system.

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

=== Use cases ===
* Rick wants fail over cluster for his MySQL service. He installs predefined cluster stack and configures MySQL service.
* Matt already has Red Hat Cluster Suite setup in Ubuntu 10.04 and he wants to migrate to Ubuntu 10.10 and this new cluster stack we offer.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

See the Work Items list in the associated blueprint.

=== UDS Natty Discussion ===

<pre>
Meta-package: Simple - Only to join the cluster.
Docs:
 - We need to improve docs -> server guide (once packages reach main)
 - clvm docs
 = provide recommendations (which cluster FS to use... ocfs2, fencing)
UEC/EC2
 - running cluster stack in the cloud: http://www.mysqlperformanceblog.com/2010/06/17/high-availability-for-mysql-on-amazon-ec2-part-1-intro/
 - running cluster stack for UEC HA
   - RoAkSoAx already completed some work in this area
   - Challenges: Seems easy on CLC/Walrus/CC but hard on NC
 - Upstart RA: upstream included patches
Use Cases for automated deployment. Two main types of use cases:
 - simple 
   - (would be messaging layer + pacemaker)
   - Virtual IP
 - advanced (would be shared file system, clvm, drbd)
   - Puppet?
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
