{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

My name is Luis Michael Ibarra. I've been a Linux user since 2002 and an Ubuntu enthusiast since 2010. I installed Precise once in a lemu4 and never had to reinstall it again. Since that moment I started contributing back to local tech communities in Lima, Peru. 

Currently my research area are containers and Linux networking.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Location
| Brooklyn, NY, USA
|-
| IRC
| clvx in irc.freenode.net
|-
| Email
| clvx@ubuntu.com
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~clvx|Luis Michael Ibarra]]</nowiki>
|-
| Blog
| <nowiki>[[https://bitclux.blogspot.com|Blogger]]</nowiki>
|-
| Twitter
| <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/Clvx|clvx]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

* Active member of DevOps Perú.

* Speaker at UBUCON LA 2015 about LXD containers.

* Former contributor in the LXD mailing list.

* Former Docker meetup co-organizer in Lima, Peru. I've encouraged people to get into Ubuntu and containers since 2014. 

* Lead a LUG group when I was studying at USIL(2011-2012, didn't go well though).

* Convert at least 3 friends to use Linux full time. 2 went full time Ubuntu users, 1 went Fedora. 

=== Future Goals ===

* Expand the use of Ubuntu where I'm at(Currently in New York).

* Keep contributing to improve container usage in general.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

clvx helped a lot during UbuConLA '15 and '16 organization. It was great to have him around, and he's definitely willing, not only to learn, but to share his expertise with other community members. +1 from me! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jose]]</nowiki> 