{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~coalwater/|Coalwater]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors#Current%20Masters|Guide]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/jledbetter|jledbetter]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors#Current%20Mentors|Mentor]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/duanedesign|duanedesign]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| AFC00E8C
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1171192|Coalwater]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Contact''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~coalwater/|Use launchpad contact form or my email ]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
A developer in general who likes to learn new things about technology, i first got to know Ubuntu at around 2007 i think, but i didn't get to use it as my main OS till mid 2010, then i started to learn more about Ubuntu every day, I've always wanted to contribute but i always thought it was hard and i didn't know where to start, till one day i ran into the BeginnersTeam wiki, only then i found a way to get started.
If there's another thing i want to help contributing to by developing it's my favorite browser Firefox, i have some contribution there, by posting bugs and feedback, ideas and such.
Currently i work as a PHP developer and I'm self studying python and now I'm able to participate in some projects written in Python and help with fixing some bugs.

==== Programming languages ====
* PHP/MySQL
  Currently my main programming language since i work as a PHP/MySql developer in a websites development company, PHP was one of the languages i self studied around 2008, i got to learn more about it after i started working with it.
* Java
  Used to use it when i was in college and i also used it in my graduation project, but since i started giving more attention in web development i started to use it less often, and if i ever decide that i need to use it, it will take me a little to refresh my memory, but i got to admit, my Java programming period was fun.
* Web Design ( XHTML , CSS , Javascript )
  Started to use them more often as soon as i started giving web development more attention, around 2007, Currently I'm interested in most modern web technologies, like HTML5 and CSS3.
* Python
  Since a lot of Ubuntu programs are written with this language i find that learning it opens a lot of opportunities to contribute to Ubuntu, One of the useful tutorials i found was <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/pedro3005|perdo3005]]</nowiki>'s IRC logs <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/Academy/IntroToPython|Intro To Python]]</nowiki>, very useful for a started, then there's 
  Currently learning this language and i find it so exciting, I've finished reading   and i plan to start finding other more advanced ones to read in the near future.
=== Team Memberships ===
Right now I'm a member of UBT and the dev FG, i try to balance between two goals,
contributions: a couple of projects i try to contribute to, like <nowiki>[[Opunity ||https:--launchpad.net-opunity-]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[TouchNet || https:--launchpad.net-touchnet ]]</nowiki>, and a couple of minor contributions on some other projects
Studying: Right now i am trying to improve my python coding to get better chances in contributing on more projects and become a more useful member to the community.
=== Future Plans & Projects ===
* Of course my main objective here is to be able to fix minor Ubuntu bugs and in the future i would like to start participating in developing some packages.
* Currently I'm studying python in my spare time and soon after I plan to try Google's app engine using python and think of ways of how i could use the benefits i could get from using it.
=== Support ===
* So far nothing more than just few feedbacks on some bugs on launchpad, if that counts.
* 26th April 2010: So now that i've started to hang out more on the irc, my decent knowledge with Ubuntu is apparently useful for some other people, and i found that the irc is a good way to help out people, and in the same time you get to learn from other people who are also trying to help.

=== Achievements ===
In this section i'm going to try to keep track of my improvement and progress in this Ubuntu community and the Ubuntu beginners team :), Since the first couple of days were fast i don't think i'm gonna put any dates.
* Made my wiki page, which you are reading right now.
* Completed my launchpad account, did the PGP key, signed the code of conduct using it, which i found cool because the email was encrypted and i had to decrypt it with my key using the terminal and click a link in it :D, did my ssh key.
* I've put my name on the people <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Membership#Seeking%20Guide|seeking guide page]]</nowiki>, but since i was so impatient i actually contacted <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/jledbetter|jledbetter]]</nowiki> my self because i found that she contacted 3 before and yet she hasn't had any apprentice, she replied the following asking of my interests and such.
* Started hanging out on the irc channels, met few people and got to know new people who also hang there often.
* Actually met <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/jledbetter|jledbetter]]</nowiki> on the IRC and i guess she decided to take me as an apprentice/padawan, which was cool :P lol
* Got in a talk with some people about some open source project <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Opunity|Opunity]]</nowiki>, and actually got invited to join, and since PHP is one of my languages i accepted, and i joined my first project on launchpad.
* Did my first bazaar branching and put my ssh key into use lol.
* (27 april 2011) Made my first branch and registered it to the project I'm working on.
* (28 april 2011) Pushing and getting some launchpad karma :D yea lol
* (15 may 2011) Got approved on UBT and UBT-dev launchpad group, and my IRC +v :D
* (6 june 2011 ) Became a guide :P

=== Testimonials ===
If you love me write something here lol
* Something - nlsthzn ;)
