{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

===== Purpose =====

The names of each release (e.g., Breezy Badger, Dapper Drake) are development code names and typically for internal use only.  The official version number follows a Y.MM naming scheme (e.g., Version 5.10, Version 6.06).  We don't want to use the version numbers prior to the actual release, as it increases the likelihood that a pre-release version will be mistaken for a final release. Similarly, we don't want the code names to be visible to the user once the final release has been made.

This page lists places where the code names are visible to the user in Ubuntu. Each should be replaced with either Ubuntu or Ubuntu X.XX prior to creation of the final images.

===== Places to change =====

* `base-files` (`/etc/issue`, `/etc/issue.net`, `/etc/lsb-release`, `/etc/os-release`)
* The default home page (file:///usr/share/ubuntu-artwork/home/index.html) uses the code name on the top line.

* Credit for various apps refer to the build as being for Dapper. Specifically,
** Firefox
** iwj says: "I don't think we should change the version info string; that appears in the user agent too and randomly messing with it is a bad idea."
** ...

* Files that refer to Dapper

** /etc/skel/Examples/LICENSES.TXT: Ubuntu_Dapper.svg
** /etc/skel/Examples/Ubuntu_Dapper.svg: The Dapper Drake Wallpaper
** /etc/skel/Examples/Ubuntu_Dapper.svg: The Dapper Drake is on his way... </dc:description>
** /etc/alternatives/firefox-homepage:  Welcome to Ubuntu 6.04, Dapper Drake
** /etc/alternatives/firefox-homepage:  Welcome to Ubuntu 6.04, Dapper Drake!
** /var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_dapper_Release: Ubuntu Dapper 6.06
** /var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_dapper-updates_Release: Ubuntu Dapper Updates
** /var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_dapper-backports_Release: Ubuntu Dapper Backports
** /var/lib/apt/lists/security.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_dapper-security_Release: Ubuntu Dapper Security
** /var/lib/dpkg/info/example-content.list:/usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Dapper.svg
** /var/lib/dpkg/info/example-content.md5sums:052c44381af1c7da884abfbdad4b1f7a  usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Dapper.svg
** ...
