{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Author | Speaker | Hacker | Time Lord | Ubuntu Advocate | Bow Tie Aficionado

Keeping clouds fluffy at Canonical. Especially the blue ones.

Lead Software Engineer at <nowiki>[[https://mousepawmedia.com|MousePaw Media]]</nowiki>, where I also mentor interns.

Independent computer repair technician.

<nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/jason-c-mcdonald-codemouse92-membership-application/25577|Membership Application]]</nowiki>

== Contacts ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://codemouse92.com|codemouse92.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email
| <nowiki>[[mailto:codemouse92@outlook.com|codemouse92@outlook.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC (Libera)
| CodeMouse92
|-
| LinkedIn
| <nowiki>[[https://linkedin.com/in/codemouse92|codemouse92]]</nowiki>
|-
| Twitter
| <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/codemouse92|@codemouse92]]</nowiki>
|-
| GitHub
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/codemouse92|codemouse92]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~codemouse92|codemouse92]]</nowiki>
|}

== Testimonials ==

'''<nowiki>[[https://www.linkedin.com/in/scott-taylor-571949116/|Scott Taylor]]</nowiki>'''

Before meeting Jason, I avoided using Ubuntu at all costs. Once I began working with Jason, he suggested that my development environment could be improved if I used Ubuntu. I was hesitant, so I compromised by dual-booting my laptop. I ended up almost exclusively using the Ubuntu boot. Jason showed me a bunch of tips, tricks, and applications that not only drastically improved my development experience, but also made Ubuntu my favorite OS. Jason has a wealth of knowledge on Ubuntu. His love of the OS turned it from my most feared OS to the one I turn to first. I can not think of a more qualified community member.

'''<nowiki>[[https://www.linkedin.com/in/sergio-ramirez-88362213a/|Sergio Ramirez]]</nowiki>'''

Jason introduced me to Ubuntu and helped me install it on my laptop. He introduced me to many features of Ubuntu such as software development tools, configuring the UI, video games, music players. He spent the time to show me how everything works and it intrigued me. Now if I don’t have to use Windows, Ubuntu is my choice.

'''<nowiki>[[https://www.linkedin.com/in/bowenvolwiler/|Bowen Volwiler]]</nowiki>'''

I worked under Jason as a software development intern at MousePaw Media for a number of years while in college. As part of the internship, I was required to install Ubuntu in order to run the dev environment that was standard across the organization. Along with many insightful programming philosophies, Jason also taught me that a computer should be a tool that is best adapted to its user, and was always quick to recommend useful Ubuntu-friendly software and apps that enhanced and expanded the possibilities of what an OS could do. Though currently relegated to my personal machines only, Ubuntu has shaped the way I think about and use a computer, and I have Jason to thank for that.
