{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Introduction ===

My name is Jason C. Mc``Donald, although I most commonly go by ''CodeMouse92'' (or ''CodeMouse92__''). I'm most commonly found in ''#ubuntu-offtopic'', ''#python'', ''##c++-friendly'', and ''#mousepawgames'' (I run the latter two), although I lurk in about two dozen other rooms as well.

=== About Me ===

By day, I'm the CEO and Lead Developer at Mouse``Paw Media. By night, I'm asleep.

I've been programming since 2010. I'm fluent in C++ and Python, with some C mixed in there for good measure. I am also a computer technician, repairing computers and teaching people how to use them. I've been using Linux since 2012, and it has been my sole operating system since 2014. I'm a huge advocate for open source software.

I run the programming internship at Mouse``Paw Media, speak at local colleges and universities about communication in the programming field, and maintain a blog, <nowiki>[[http://indeliblebluepen.com|indeliblebluepen.com]]</nowiki>. A few of my articles have been featured by @The``Practical``Dev on Twitter and <nowiki>[[https://dev.to|dev.to()]]</nowiki>.

=== Contributions ===

Most of my coding efforts go into Mouse``Paw Media; most recently, I've made major contributions to <nowiki>[[https://github.com/mousepawmedia/pawlib|PawLIB]]</nowiki>. I have contributed bug reports and minor fixes to Phabricator. Most of my open source work can be found on <nowiki>[[https://github.com/codemouse92]]</nowiki>.

While it is sparsely used at this point, I also have a Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~codemouse92]]</nowiki>.

I have listed every corner of the net that I occupy on the front page of <nowiki>[[http://www.indeliblebluepen.com/|my blog]]</nowiki>.

------

I am applying to be a moderator on ``#ubuntu-offtopic``, where I can be found virtually anytime I'm online. I love the community, and I want to help keep it happy and harmonious.

=== Testimonials ===
