{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hello, I am Cody Smith, I have been using Ubuntu for close to four years, started with 10.04 LTS, and been actively contributing to the Ubuntu Oregon LoCo (http://www.ubuntu-oregon.org/) team by mainly spreading the word about Ubuntu for a little over half that, I also occasionally fix bugs that are within my ability, within my ability means with little coding knowledge outside of the basics of Python and Scala. I don't actively provide support as honestly, I don't do well bringing terms I myself understand down to a level a normal user would understand.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| c_smith@irc.freenode.net
|-
| GTalk
| cody.smith9202@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| cody.smith9202@gmail.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

I actively contribute to the Ubuntu Oregon LoCo team by getting people intruduced to Ubuntu however I can, helping people on the mailing list of the LoCo when they ask for help, and helping with administering the FB and Google+ page for the LoCo as well as providing ideas. I also attempt to fix the occasional byte-size bug I feel I can, and give support on the #ubuntu and #kubuntu channels on Freenode,

=== Future Goals ===

I intend to spend more time on bugs and support than I currently do, had to take a step back for a little bit, life doesn't wait, and you gotta deal with it. I also intend to gain the knowledge needed to tackle more difficult bugs, which I feel will be worth it.

=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.  People who aren't Ubuntu members can leave a comment above in favor of the application.

I have been the Ubuntu Oregon Contact for a couple years now and have been very happy seeing Cody Smith's contributions to the LoCo during that time. Cody has been diligent in holding a Ubuntu Hour nearly every week for the past year in his hometown of Salem, Oregon. Cody is a true advocate of Free and Open Source Software and the Ubuntu Community and I have no doubt his contributions has been warranting of membership. - <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~bkerensa|bkerensa]]</nowiki> 
As the six monthly release cadence is the drum beat for Ubuntu at large, so does Cody beat the drum that sets the pace for Ubuntu Oregon.  His enthusiasm for Ubuntu that enables him to run Ubuntu Hours on a weekly basis is astounding, and a constant challenge to those of us in Portland to be more active.  His constant and ongoing committment to Ubuntu (I first met him several years ago at an Ubuntu release party) definitely merits recognition with Ubuntu membership.
 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~vorlon|vorlon]]</nowiki> 