{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Colin King, apply for Per Package Upload rights for packages zfsutils-linux and spl-linux.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Colin King
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~colin-king
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColinKing
|}

ZFS in Ubuntu is packaged in zfsutils-linux (the file system part) and spl-linux (the OS shim layer). Changes to the kernel modules in these packages are kept in sync into the kernel source.  As I work on ZFS+SPL bug fixing I'd like to have PPU rights. I've been working on these packages since Ubuntu Wily and I think I have plenty of history of working on these now to show I'm competent enough for these rights.

== Who I am ==

I am a Canonical employee and currently working as a Kernel Engineer in the Ubuntu Kernel Team. I have worked on various parts of the kernel and have nearly 500 commits in the kernel source. I developed various projects in Ubuntu, such as the Firmware Test Suite and stress-ng and I also work on maintenance of ZFS and SPL that I introduced into Ubuntu 15.10 Wily.

I keep a Ubuntu related blog http://smackerelofopinion.blogspot.com with postings on kernel and system related hints and tips.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I've been working with Linux since the early 2.0 day. I was introduced to Ubuntu in mid-2006 and became a kernel team member in 2008 where I worked on Hardy 8.04. This gave me exposure to working on low level gnarly bugs and I got involved in resolving various ACPI and firmware related bugs. I like working on low-level hardware related bugs where knowledge of a processor architecture and hardware is essential to resolve issues.  My aim is to try and improve over all system quality by catching bugs early on using intelligent automated tools.

I've been a Debian Maintainer for several years, https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=colin.king@canonical.com
 
=== My involvement ===

As a Ubuntu Kernel Engineer, I'm focused on working on broad range of kernel related bug fixing and maintenance issues. One of my many tasks is maintenance of ZFS in Ubuntu.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I put a lot of my spare + free time into developing the Firmware Test Suite which is a swiss-army-knife tool
to diagnose firmware (BIOS/UEFI) related bugs.  This is helping to make Ubuntu work better on hardware and
slowly we are improving quality of Ubuntu at the BIOS/kernel interface through use of this tool.

I also contribute patches to the kernel across a variety of subsystems with hundreds of trivial upstream fixes in the Linux kernel. I also like to work on testing and finding bugs early in the development cycle.

=== Areas of work ===

Anything to do with low-level hardware and firmware and fixing kernel bugs.  I like working trying to find bugs early through static analysis and solid regression testing.  For testing I've written a range of kernel smoke tests for the kernel team as well as developed the Firmware Test Suite and stress-ng.

=== Things I could do better ===

Turn around ZFS/SPL bugs faster.

== Plans for the future ==

Continue kernel related work and focus on pushing up quality.

=== General ===

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Regressions, both in terms of stumbling upon them and figuring out fixes.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Andy Whitcroft ===

==== General feedback ====

I have worked with Colin for a number of years sponsoring various
packages (most of which he now has upload rights for).  Recently I have
been reviewing and waving through his zfs-linux and spl-linux uploads.
Colin is a detailed person and his packages show clear thought and
attention payed.  When I have had queries or issues he has been quick to
respond and to rectify issues.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I have just sponsored a pair of zfs-linux and spl-linux packages into
artful.  As always they were clean and tidy and ready for sponsorship.
They represented work to get those packages ready for our upcoming kernel
bump to 4.11 so he was preempting work needing done in advance.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Apply for upload rights to things sooner so I do not have to review so
many packages :).
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=e4dq
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== Eric Desrochers ===
==== General feedback ====
I worked with Colin on several ZFS Ubuntu/Debian/Upstream bugs. Colin is meticulous and knows exactly what he is doing. Additionally, Colin has a deep understanding of the kernel internals which is a an advantage when working with zfsutils + spl.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Note that I never had the chance to upload Colin's debdiff yet, but I worked with him on several occasions (ZFS related works), and he shared with me a lot of good documentations made on his own about ZFS kernel patch generation to keep zfsutils and spl kernel related changes sync'd and how to perform regression test for ZFS.
We also collaborated on some ZFS SRUs over the year.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Take the time to share and make your good ZFS documentation/procedures public on wiki.ubuntu.com for a wider audience of ZFS contributors.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
