{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Short Auto Biography ==
I am currently 16 years old and was born May 8^th^, 1990 in Brockville Ontario, Canada. I became interested in computers and programming in Grade 6 when I started to play with databases. I started programming in grade 7 with QBasic, but got bored very fast because I could not do very much with it. Then I switched to a programming language called Turing made by Holt Software. I was also very displeased with it and lost interest in programming. Then in the spring of grade 8, I heard about Java from a student taking grade 11 computer science at my high school; after some investigation I found this was the language for me. At that time I often came home from school and would sit down for four to six hours of learning and programming. After a few months I was able to move onto Swing applications. I created a simple Notepad and programmed a Diary for my little sisters. Over my grade 9 to 10 summer I worked full time at Elite Machine and Gear Inc. (a small automation company). Although the job was not my preference I worked very, very hard and was rewarded with a $300 bonus and over $1.50 in raises. Mid-way through the summer I started designing the new Diary version 2. This was when I switched to NetBeans. I had worked with it a little, as well as Eclipse, but I did not understand all of its features. At this time I also bought my first Java book. At the end of the summer i had the book read completely through and was ready for more. School started and I was enrolled in the grade 11 computer science and grade 11 computer engineering; both subjects I love. I promoted Netbeans throughout my computer science class and anywhere i could. In December of 2005 i attended the NetBeans world tour in Toronto Ontario (Canada). Later on in about February of the same year i was interviewed by Sun Microsystems about my involvement in the NetBeans project. You can read the complete interview <nowiki>[[http://www.netbeans.org/kb/articles/collin-doering-interview.html|here]]</nowiki>. Unfortunately I have basically stopped the development of Diary 2 because of school and I lost interest, was learning ant and accidentally cleaned my source directory that I had not committed to subversion for about a month so I ended up loosing over 2500 lines of code. Also I was writing a plugin engine and found that I could use the Netbeans platform since it had all the functionality I needed, not to mention there was not a large user group. As of late, I have been receiving a email here and there about the project and when a new release is going to come out so I might revive the project but rebuild it on the Netbeans platform.
<<BR>>After becoming fond of computers, programming (specifically Java with Netbeans) I was introduced to the linux operating system by a older friend named Scott Morris. I first installed it in grade 10 but did start using it full time until June of 2006 (the end of grade 10) although i dual booted windows XP and SuSE 9.1 for many months before making the switch to Ubuntu full time. Now I use Ubuntu 6.10 only and have been windows free since June 2006. In my little time using linux I have seen amazing improvement and innovation thus i decided to support Open-Source even more so then i did before NetBeans. I refuse to use proprietary software (unfortunately i am forced to under some occasions; for example API's proprietary fglrx graphics driver).

== My Lusted Knowledge ==
Since coming to linux I have wanted to learn many new things and have <nowiki>[[#books_owned|acquired many new books]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[#books_to_get|intend to own many more]]</nowiki>. Topics I would like to learn include:
* C programming
* C++ programming
* some scripting languages like python, javascript, ruby on rails, groovy, beanshell, and others
* C# programming and mono
* linux API's including WINE API, glibc, the kernel API, gtk+ API's (including C++ interfaces (gtkmm)), pygtk, and others
* J2ME
* J2EE
* Web services and website administration

* Hardware and schematic design
== Books ==

=== Books I Own ===
{{{#!CSV -3
Title;Author;
Beginning Java 2 JDK 5 Edition;Ivor Horton;
Professional Java JDK 5 Edition;Ivor Horton;
Java 2 Game Programming;Thomas Petchel;
Schaum's ouTlines UML Second Edition; Simon Bennet, John Skelton, Ken Lunn;
C++ Primer Fourth Edition; Stanley B. Lippman, Josee Lajoie, Barbara E. Moo;
C Programming; Larry Ullman, Marc Liyanage;
Beginning Linux Programming Third Edition; Neil Matthew, Richard Stones;
Linux Application Development; Michael K. Johnson, Eric W. Troan;
Linux Device Drivers Third Edition; Johnathan Corbet, Alessandro Rubini, Greg Kroah-Hartman;
Understanding the Linux Kernel Third Edition; Daniel P. Bovet, Marco Cesati;
Learning Python Second Edition; Mark Lutz, David Ascher;
Calculus Demystified; Steven G. Krantz;
}}}

=== Books I intend to Own ===
{{{#!CSV -3
Title;Author;
Embedded C Programming and the Microchip PIC;Richard H. Barnett;
The Official Ubuntu Book;Benjamin Mako Hill, Jono Bacon, Corey Burger;
Netbeans: The Definitive Guide;Tim Boudreau;
Opengl Programming Guide: The Official Guide To Learning Opengl Version 2;Na Na;
Ruby on Rails: Up and Running;Bruce A. Tate;
Programming C# Fourth Edition;Jesse Liberty;
Understanding Open Source & Free Software Licensing;Andrew St. Laurent;
Classic Shell Scripting;Arnold Robbins;
The Official Gnome 2 Developers Guide; Matthias Warkus;
Thinking in Java Fourth Edition;Bruce Eckel;
Thinking in C++ Volume One: Introduction to Standard C++;Bruce Eckel;
Thinking in C++ Volume Two: Practical Programming;Bruce Eckel;
Mono A Developers Guide;Edd Dumbill, Niel M. Bornstein;
Official GNOME 2 Developer's Guide;Matthias Warkus;
Head First Object-Oriented Analysis and Design;Brett McLaughlin, Gary Pollice, David West;
Managing Projects with GNU Make, Third Edition;Robert Mecklenburg;
Hacking The Art of Exploitation;Jon Erickson;
Programming Linux Games Building Multimedia Applications with SDL, OpenAL, and Other APIs;Loki Software
}}}

== Fun Stuff ==

=== Quotes ===

"Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one." -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"Weakness of attitude becomes weakness of character." -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"A person starts to live when he can live outside himself." -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"The eternal mystery of the world is its comprehensibility." -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new." -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"I am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination. Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world." -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"The production of too many useful things results in too many useless people." -Karl Marx<<BR>>
"Programming today is a race between software engineers striving to build bigger and better idiot-proof programs, and the Universe trying to produce bigger and better idiots. So far, the Universe is winning." -Rich Cook<<BR>>
"If A is a success in life, then A equals x plus y plus z. Work is x; y is play; and z is keeping your mouth shut." -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"When you sit with a nice girl for two hours, you think it's only a minute. But when you sit on a hot stove for a minute, you think it's two hours. That's relativity." -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"It's not that I'm so smart , it's just that I stay with problems longer ." -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"The only source of knowledge is experience" -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existing. One cannot help but be in awe when he contemplates the mysteries of eternity, of life, of the marvelous structure of reality. It is enough if one tries merely to comprehend a little of this mystery every day. Never lose a holy curiosity." -Albert Einstein<<BR>>
"Try not to become a man of success but rather to become a man of value." -Albert Einstein

=== Games I Own ===
{{{#!CSV -5
Title; Creator;Works Nativly in Linux;Works With Wine;
Doom 3; ID; Yes; N/A;
Doom 3 Resurection of Evil; ID; Yes; N/A;
Half life 1 Source; Valve; No; Yes;
Half life 2; Valve; No; Yes;
Half life 2: Episode 1; Valve; No; Yes;
Counter Strike Source; Valve; No; Yes;
}}}

=== Games I Would like to Own ===
{{{#!CSV -5
Title;Creator;Works Nativly in Linux;Works with Wine;
Prey;3D Realms Entertainment;No;Unknown;
FEAR;Serria;No;Unknown;
}}}

== Contact Information ==

=== IRC and Forum ===
Launchpad Username: rekahsoft<<BR>>
Freenode IRC Username: rekahsoft<<BR>>
Ubuntu forums Username: rekahsoft<<BR>>
Gentoo Forums Username: rekahsoft<<BR>>

=== Chat ===
Skype Username: rekahsoft<<BR>>
MSN: callin_24_7@msn.com (Note: Do '''NOT''' email this address; I only use it for MSN)<<BR>>
Yahoo: callin_24_7@yahoo.com (Note: Do '''NOT''' email this address; I only use it for Yahoo chat)<<BR>>

=== Email ===
Personal: collin dot doering at gmail dot com<<BR>>
Standard: rekahsoft at gmail dot com<<BR>>
Mailing List: rekahsoft dot mail at gmail dot com<<BR>>

== Linkage ==

http://rekahsoft.org <--my current blog<<BR>>
http://claimid.com/rekahsoft  <--my claimid site (my claimid has everything about me on it so feel free to explorer)<<BR>>
https://launchpad.net/people/rekahsoft <--Launchpad User Information<<BR>>

Note: change imminent (AKA times change, life goes on making more information that in turn will be published)
