{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xdeltas
* '''Created''': 2006-06-22 by MyriamSchweingruber
* '''Contributors''':
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

This spec is about looking for alternative collaborative tools, usable as much for local use and online.

=== Rationale ===

Wikis are not of immediate usability for an average user. An alternative could be a mindmapping tool.

=== Use cases ===

* Liam likes to see a graphical representation of braindumps and looks forward to a mindmapping tool which he is able to share with his online co-workers.
* Scott teaches french litterature in Dublin. In his experience pupils far better understand explanations with a graphical interface and the teamwork class can interact with the french class in Toulouse.
* Myriam is looking for a Free Software mindmapping tool which allows collaborative working online. Unfortunately VYM is far from this stage and Kdissert does not implement online working and heavily uses KDE libraries.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
