{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

When you join the team, you join a FG directly. There is no truly "central" team membership. FG leaders are elected by FG members. Council members are elected by the entire team. If you have an issue with the FG, you take it to the FG leader. Only FG leaders interact with the council, and the council only concerns itself with the FGs as a whole - not the members or otherwise the internal workings.<<BR>>

The entire system is based upon concerning yourself only with what you really need to be concerned with. The council does not need to be concerned with a specific issue in a FG - such a system would become much too slow. With this system, a member of the Wiki FG does not need to concern himself with an issue in the Development FG. Issues stay within the FG and are handled by the FG leader. If there's an issue between FGs - which is unlikely, the council takes care of the issue.<<BR>>

Similarly, members of another FG should not be able to have a voice in the leader elections of another FG. The other FG's members know each other the best, and they know who would make a good leader and who would not. Council elections would be handled by the entire team, as the council affects the entire team.<<BR>>

Having a central team membership becomes too cumbersome when you get to a certain number of members coming in. The existing system is based around getting to personally know each and every member of the team, but with the system that I propose, each member of each FG does not need to know every other member of every other FG. The only people they really need to know is their fellow FG members.<<BR>>

An expanding team would work well with a system such as this, as there's not one single overburdened body governing all members and not all members are voting on every issue of every FG, which is essentially the system we have had before.
