{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


As per the requirements of my nomination for the Ubuntu Beginners Team Council, I am creating this wiki page to describe my activity within the Ubuntu Beginners Team

== Topics ==

=== Focus Groups ===

I have been a member of the Development focus group for a while, since around late 2008.

I am a member of the IRC and Launhcpad focus groups as well.

=== IRC ===

I am a frequent participant in the #ubuntu-beginners and #ubuntu-beginners-team IRC channels. I'm also a channel operator in the two stated channels.

=== Voting System ===

I am on a team appointed to find and suggest a new permanent method of voting for the team.

=== Forums ===

I am an active participant on the Ubuntu Forums, assisting with my knowledge wherever I can.

== Future of the Team ==

I feel that the team needs to concentrate more upon focus groups than it currently is, as the team has more become a gateway to the rest of the community than anything else, in my opinion.

=== Testimonials ===

I completely support Hellow for BT Council. I think he has shown great promise with his activities in the Ubuntu Community. I think he could add real value to the position and is someone we should all support for this position.
<nowiki>[[http://www.wiki.ubuntu.com/duanedesign | duanedesign ]]</nowiki>
