{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Reporte - Septiembre 2008 ===

'''Si desea colaborar con esta página, o desea conocer más sobre los reportes de Ubuntu-Co, por favor consulte primero la <nowiki>[[ColombianTeam-ReportingPage| Página de reportes]]</nowiki>.'''

==== Español ====

* Se organizó el proyecto de <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Eventos/Hacklabs|Hacklabs]]</nowiki> frecuentes con el ánimo de capacitarnos mutuamente todos los miembros de la comunidad Ubuntu Colombia en diferentes áreas del Software Libre/Ubuntu

* Se realizó el <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-September/008286.html|primer hacklab]]</nowiki> Ubuntu Colombia en la ciudad de Bogota donde nos capacitamos en conceptos básicos de bash, vi y nano. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/Hacklab1BashBSico|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki>

* Se realizó el <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-September/008396.html|segundo hacklab]]</nowiki> Ubuntu Colombia en la ciudad de Cucuta donde nos capacitamos con conceptos básicos bash, vi y nano. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/Hacklab2UbuntuColombiaCucuta|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki>

* Se <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-September/008476.html| reactivó el proyecto]]</nowiki> de la pagina web <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-co.com|Ubuntu Colombia]]</nowiki>

* Se realizó un <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-September/009135.html|tercer hacklab]]</nowiki> donde se instaló de GNU/Linux en equipos de bajos recursos en la Universidad Tecnouniversitec. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/Hacklab3|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki>

* Se ha creado una <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-September/008749.html|API en Facebook]]</nowiki> para todos los usuarios de Ubuntu Colombia en facebook

==== English ====

* With the intention to make frequently hacklabs, the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Eventos/Hacklabs|Hacklabs]]</nowiki> project was created. Whit this project, we hope to learn among all about different topics of open software and Ubuntu Linux.

* The first Ubuntu Colombia <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-September/008286.html|hacklab]]</nowiki> took place in Bogotá D.C, Colombia. This consisted in a training on the basic concepts of BASH, VI and NANO. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/Hacklab2UbuntuColombiaCucuta|Photo Gallery]]</nowiki>

* The second Ubuntu Colombia <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-September/008396.html|hacklab]]</nowiki> took place in Cúcuta, Norte de Santander, Colombia. The topic of this was the same of the first hacklab. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/Hacklab2UbuntuColombiaCucuta|Photo Gallery]]</nowiki>

* The Web Page project was <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-September/008476.html| reactivated]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-co.com|Ubuntu Colombia]]</nowiki>
 
* A <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-September/009135.html|third hacklab]]</nowiki> was done in the Tecnouniversitec University. The target of this, was install GNU/Linux on computers with low resources. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/Hacklab3|Photo Gallery]]</nowiki>

* It has made an <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-September/008749.html|Facebook API]]</nowiki> for all Ubuntu Colombia users in this social network.
