{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Reporte - Julio 2008 ===

'''Si desea colaborar con esta página, o desea conocer más sobre los reportes de Ubuntu-Co, por favor consulte primero la <nowiki>[[ColombianTeam-ReportingPage| Página de reportes]]</nowiki>.'''

==== Español ====

* Hicimos parte de forma no oficial en <nowiki>[[http://www.campus-party.com.co||Campus Party]]</nowiki> Bogotá, Colombia, como equipo y organizando 2 actividades de modding de escritorios y entornos gráficos, ademas de hacer parte de el installfest que duro toda la semana del festival realizando aproximadamente 80 instalaciones de Ubuntu<nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/CampusPartyBogotColombia2008|Galería de fotos CampusParty]]</nowiki>

* Installfest en el SENA Bogotá en los computadores prestados para la primera jornada de Software Libre en esta institución. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/PreInstallfestJornadaSLSENABogot|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki>

* Se llevo a cabo la <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Eventos/openfestSENA2008|primera|jornada de Software Libre en el SENA]]</nowiki> Bogotá, donde dimos diferentes charlas y contamos con una sala de demostraciones y talleres.  <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/JornadaSLSENABogot|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-co.com/node/14|Ubuntu y Cali Underground]]</nowiki> se unieron para compartir el Software Libre junto a el Rock, concierto y demostraciones de Linux en un mismo evento.

==== English ====

* We were part of <nowiki>[[http://www.campus-party.com.co|Campus Party]]</nowiki> Colombia in no official way, as a team and organizing two activities about desktop and graphic enviroments modding, additional to being part of the install fest that lasted the whole week long, doing around 80 Ubuntu installations. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/CampusPartyBogotColombia2008|Campus Party photo Gallery]]</nowiki>.

* Installfest on SENA Bogota, on the borrowed computers for the first free software journey on this institution.  <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/PreInstallfestJornadaSLSENABogot|Photo Gallery]]</nowiki>.

* The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Eventos/openfestSENA2008|first Free Software Journey]]</nowiki> took place on SENA Bogotá, where different talks were given and had a demostration and workwhops room. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/JornadaSLSENABogot|Photo Gallery]]</nowiki>.

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-co.com/node/14|Ubuntu and Cali underground]]</nowiki> got together to share free software among Rock music, there was a concert and linux demostrations on the same event.
 