{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Reporte - Mayo 2008 ===

'''Si desea colaborar con esta página, o desea conocer más sobre los reportes de Ubuntu-Co, por favor consulte primero la <nowiki>[[ColombianTeam-ReportingPage| Página de reportes]]</nowiki>.'''

==== Español ====

* Hicimos parte de el FLISOL 2008 en un stand con demostraciones y regalando CD's (~500)<nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/nianmual/StandUbuntuCoFlisol2008|Galería de fotos 1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/hollman.enciso/FLISOL2008|Galeria de fotos 2]]</nowiki>
* Hemos tenido mas reuniones no oficiales con los organizadores de CampusParty Bogota Colombia y no nos han concretado un espacio para ubuntu-co.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/ColombianTeamAnalysis20080522|Análisis]]</nowiki> mensual de los miembros del team ubuntu-co 
* Se cambia de contacto del LoCo Team, anteriormente Fabian Rodriguez, ahora Hollman Enciso. Con ello se escogieron 2 lideres mas, uno escogido por Hollman (Julián Alarcón)y el tercero por medio de postulación donde ganó <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-May/005654.html|Jorge Gonzalez]]</nowiki>.
* Se monto el [ http://foro.ubuntu-co.com/ Foro] y <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-co.com/|sitio web]]</nowiki> provisional mientras se daba solución a el dominio ubuntuco.org <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/ColombianTeamAnalysis20080522|1]]</nowiki>
* Se realizaron 2 reuniones, una [ColombianTeam/Reuniones/Bogota/04Mayo2008 presencial] y otra vía <nowiki>[[http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/free/2008/05/16/%23ubuntu-co-meeting.html|IRC]]</nowiki> donde se hablaron varios temas pendientes de organización del Team.

==== English ====

* We participated in the FLISOL 2008 having a stand with demos and giving away cd's. (~500)<nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/nianmual/StandUbuntuCoFlisol2008|Photo Gallery 1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/hollman.enciso/FLISOL2008|Photo Gallery 2]]</nowiki>
* We´ve had non-official meetings with the Colombian Campus Party organizers but they haven't confirmed a place for us at the event.
* Monthly <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/ColombianTeamAnalysis20080522|Analisis]]</nowiki> of the ubuntu-co team members. 
* Contact for the loco-team has been changed, the former Fabian Rodriguez was replaced by Hollman Enciso. Along with this change, 2 more leaders were chosen, one picked by Hollman (Julián Alarcón) and the third by postulation, the winner was <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-May/005654.html|Jorge Gonzalez]]</nowiki>.
* The [ http://foro.ubuntu-co.com/ Forum] and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-co.com/|Website]]</nowiki> were put online, these are provisional while a solution was found to the ubuntuco.org domain <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/ColombianTeamAnalysis20080522|1]]</nowiki>
* 2 meetings were held, one [ColombianTeam/Reuniones/Bogota/04Mayo2008 in person] and one via <nowiki>[[http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/free/2008/05/16/%23ubuntu-co-meeting.html|IRC]]</nowiki> where two pending subjects about the team organization were discussed.
