{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Edgy Release Party Minutes ==

<nowiki>[[JoeyStanford|Joey]]</nowiki> took some rough minutes of the Edgy Release Party.

=== Meeting Minutes ===
* Socializing and Grabbing <nowiki>[[http://system76.com|system76]]</nowiki> SWAG.

* Formal Introductions

* Extreme praise for the System76 gents, Carl and Eric.

* Outreach Program
* We should contact companies who are computers for non-profits and also look at doing this ourselves.
* talk with the Colorado non-profit groups

* Activism
** Discussions on what we can further accomplish
** Discussions on ways to convert the masses.
** Gorilla Marketing and DYI Marketing
*** Maybe put leaflets in windows books at local bookstores
*** Review the Ubuntu DYI resources and find ways to utilize them
** Chris volunteered to lead the Activism area.

* Education
* Support Costs in our schools are high
* Lab environments could benefit from LTSP inside Edgy
* Operation System costs are high
* Real opportunity to make a difference and gain in roads.
* Need for Team Lead to interface with Education Team
** Chris volunteered to lead.
** David volunteered to be deputy.

* Installfests
* CLUE's installfest is coming up. We should show up in force.

* Does anyone know of any good local conferences where we can have a booth? We can order up some good materials from Canonical for this.

* Why does Ubuntu Rock?
* The community including IRC and Forums
* Free
* Great and volumuous documentation
* Free support
* Large user base

* Formal Close

* Dinner

* Mini InstallFest on a few Laptops

* Goodbyes
