{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Reporte - Marzo 2008 ===

'''Si desea colaborar con esta página, o desea conocer más sobre los reportes de Ubuntu-Co, por favor consulte primero la <nowiki>[[ColombianTeam-ReportingPage| Página de reportes]]</nowiki>.'''

==== Español ====

* Se realizaron reuniones <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Reuniones/Bogota/16Marzo2008|1]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Reuniones/Bogota/29Marzo2008|2]]</nowiki> para organizar actividades en el Flisol de la ciudad de Bogotá.
* Se pidió stand para el flisol 2008 de la ciudad de Bogotá, el cual fue <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-March/004683.html|aprobado.]]</nowiki> Acá podrá <nowiki>[[http://flisol.info/FLISOL2008/Colombia/Bogota/Exposicion|ver]]</nowiki> que habrá en el stand
* El team esta coordinando con los organizadores de <nowiki>[[http://www.campusparty.com.co/|Campus Party]]</nowiki> un stand de ubuntu-co, ya hemos tenido reuniones <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-March/004839.html|1]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-March/004748.html|2]]</nowiki> para la aprobación. Sigue pendiente la aprobación.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/ColombianTeamAnalysis20080331|Análisis]]</nowiki> mensual de los miembros del team ubuntu-co 

==== Ingles ====

* Some meetings were held <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Reuniones/Bogota/16Marzo2008|1]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Reuniones/Bogota/29Marzo2008|2]]</nowiki> to organize the activities for the FLISOL in the city of Bogotá.
* We asked for a stand on the FLISOL event in Bogotá, wich was <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-March/004683.html|approved.]]</nowiki> Here you can <nowiki>[[http://flisol.info/FLISOL2008/Colombia/Bogota/Exposicion|see]]</nowiki> what's going to be on the stand
* The team is coordinating an ubuntu-co stand with the <nowiki>[[http://www.campusparty.com.co/|Campus Party]]</nowiki> organizers, we already held some reunions  <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-March/004839.html|1]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-March/004748.html|2]]</nowiki> for the approval. It is still pending.
* Monthly <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/ColombianTeamAnalysis20080331|Analysis]]</nowiki> of the ubuntu-co team members.
