{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2014 T-Shirt Design Page ==

If you are looking for the old T shirts page, click <nowiki>[[..-Tshirts|here]]</nowiki>.

This page coordinates information and designs for team T-shirt orders.

Previous Parameters for the shirt:
* Classy durable "Polo shirt" with embroidered logo and "Colorado Ubuntu Linux Team" on the left chest.  "CoLoCo Rocks" phrase on the left sleeve also (specify if you don't want it).
* Depending on popularity/estimated cost, a different style may be offered.

Future orders: anyone can organize an order. You just need to order at least 4 shirts. The company we used for the order in 2007/2008 was  http://www.queensboro.com

Future design possibilities, e.g. for a more casual t-shirt:
* Bonus points for stuff on the back also.
* Silkscreening or the like.  No decals.

Phrases: To be determined.

See also:

* <nowiki>[[BugSquad-TShirtDesigns]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DIYMarketing]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[MarketingTeam-DIYWebsite-Get]]</nowiki>
* Canonical's <nowiki>[[https://shop.canonical.com/|store]]</nowiki> with tshirts et al.
* <nowiki>[[t-shirt]]</nowiki> wiki page
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-70600.html|Forum discussion on tshirts]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.cafepress.com/buy/Ubuntu/-/pv_design_details/pg_3/id_21094794/opt_/fpt_/c_666/|arizona team 1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.cafepress.com/buy/Ubuntu/-/pv_design_details/pg_3/id_21094795/opt_/fpt_/c_666/|Arizona Team 2]]</nowiki>
* land's end shirts:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=529667
* <nowiki>[[CatalanTeam-Grafisme]]</nowiki> - some cool designs there!

* <nowiki>[[LoCoTeams-GroupBuy]]</nowiki> - how to organize loco teams to order merchandise

== Graphics Design Area ==

To Be Determined

=== First Order, not yet ordered ===
Cost for first order:
* The default shirt is '''TBD'''
* The ''option'' is an additional '''TBD'''
* Shipping for the entire order will be '''TBD'''

=== Commitments to Order ===

When there are known parameters for the order, one can volunteer to be the '''Order Coordinator''' who will collect payments and distribute T-shirts.  At that point, the committments to order and payment status may be documented in this section of the page.
