{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Adquiriendo la membresia Ubuntu ====

El pasado martes, fui aceptado por el comité regional de membresía de EMEA( Europa, Medio Oriente y Asia) como Miembro Ubuntu, lo que es bastante cool. La razón por la cual finalmente me decidí a lanzarme era porque quería entender un poco mejor el proceso. A continuación, un poco de historia y mi comprensión de como funciona el proceso  así como algunos de mis malentendidos previos.

He estado trabajando con otras personas en el canal IRC #ubuntu-women para obtener una mejor comprensión de la proporción de mujeres en Ubuntu para establecer primeramente, si existe alguna falta de representación que necesita ser mejorada. Encontramos mucha evidencia anecdótica que sugería que la había, pero no muchos datos concretos.  Además estaba un poco inseguro sobre los objetivos del grupo: obviamente, aumentar el número de mujeres, pero en cuanto? La medición del numero de mujeres en una comunidad, de alguna manera, amorfa es algo difícil. A quién contar? Alguien que solo usa Ubuntu? Se cuentan mis hijas que hacen su tarea y juegan Frozen Bubble en Ubuntu? Afortunadamente, existe el proceso de membresía Ubuntu donde quienes han hecho una contribución sostenida y significativa a la comunidad son reconocidos. Aquellos que son aceptados, son agregados a un grupo en Launchpad de tal forma que puedan ser identificados de una manera fácil. Tome la lista de nombres de Launchpad e hice una hoja de cálculo en Google Docs. Todos en #ubuntu-women fueron invitados a editar la hoja y a ayudar a identificar quienes eran mujeres. No fue una tarea fácil, pero mirando en los perfiles,  paginas wiki, blogs, fotos de Flickr y preguntado a otros en IRC, logramos completar la lista. El resultado final fue de 23 mujeres de un total de 520 miembros, o 4.42%. Adicionalmente, he hecho un análisis de las fechas en que las personas fueron aceptados como miembros e inicié una <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/UbuntuMembers | página]]</nowiki> con gráficas interesantes y estadísticas. Si alguien desea una invitación para acceder las hojas de cálculo con los datos o el script python-launchpadlib que recolecto estos datos, por favor envíeme un correo. Me gustaría mucho dejar de ser el único responsable de los datos de ahora en adelante.

Ahora, el proceso de membresía: comienza por completar una pagina wiki con información sobre mi mismo. No es algo cómodo de hacer. Yo inicié la mía hace un tiempo y estuve agregando información a medida que hacía algo interesante -esta es, probablemente, una buena idea-.

Cualquier cosa que usted haga puede ir en su pagina wiki, el comité de membresía buscará el contenido que quieran ver e ignorará el contenido que no les interesa. -Más acerca de esto posteriormente- 

No hice un esfuerzo en seguir el formato wiki apropiado para mi página, era solo una lista de cosas. No tenía una sección de testimonios, porque pensaba que una sección de testimonios vacía se vería un poco triste, esto era un error - Si usted no tiene la sección, no hay donde alguien pueda agregarla-. Laura Czajkowski me ayudó a superar esto en el último minuto, lo que me lleva a lo siguiente:

Consiga a alguien que le ayude desde el principio. Pregúntele si piensa que su pagina wiki está lista. Pídale que le ayude a encontrar testimonios (es más fácil preguntar en nombre de alguien que directamente)

Cuando su página wiki se vea razonablemente completa, agregue su nombre a la agenda del comité regional, pero cuando lo haga no sea el primero de la lista, deje que otras personas estén antes de usted. La reunión de aprobación va en el orden en que los nombres fueron agregados.

No es una entrevista laboral! No están interesados en su perfil, técnico u otro. No se le está entrevistando para decidir si se le admite en la comunidad, se le está entrevistando para verificar que
* ya hace parte* de la comunidad. Esto debe afectar el contenido que se coloca en su pagina wiki y lo que dice durante la entrevista. Si ayuda a otros en los canales IRC, dígalo. Si está en varias lista de correo, dígalo. Si utiliza los foros, dígalo. Si ha escrito código o ha empaquetado algo también es bueno mencionarlo, pero puede que sea redirigido hacia el proceso para ser MOTU (un equipo anidado dentro de los miembros Ubuntu)

El rechazo es una opción, y no es definitiva. El rechazo no significa "desaparezca, está lleno de errores" significa "contribuya un poco más, documente mejor, consiga más testimonios y vuelva en un mes o dos" es una opción fácil de escoger para el comité, no se están perdiendo la oportunidad de aceptarlo, simplemente retrasándola un poco.

Asista a una pocas sesiones del comité de aprobación en el IRC antes de presentarse - como no lo hice yo. Averigue quien en el comité es más duramente crítico, investigue cuales respuestas les gusta y cuales no.

Asegúrese de que tiene partidarios en la sesión de IRC, que hablen en su nombre y mencionen cosas que ha hecho y que usted se ha olvidado de usted mismo - esto realmente ayuda.

Al final, a pesar de todos mis errores, pasé por eso con sólo una minoría de rasguños y moretones. En la reunión del miércoles 8 p.m. UTC # ubuntu-women hay un punto en la agenda para discutir el comienzo de los miembros de Ubuntu, lo que el grupo quiere para influir en ellos y cuales son los objetivos S.M.A.R.T.

http://www.thepracticeofleadership.net/2006/03/11/setting-smart-objectives/  debe ser para ellos.

Alan

Entrada original disponible <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-women/2009-December/002285.html | aquí]]</nowiki>

=== On becoming an Ubuntu member ===

Last Tuesday I was accepted by the EMEA regional membership board as anUbuntu Member, which is pretty cool. The reason I finally got round to putting myself forward is because I wanted to understand the process a bit better. This is some background and my current understanding of the process, and some of my previous misunderstandings.

I have been working with others on the #ubuntu-women IRC channel to gain an improved understanding of the proportion of women in Ubuntu to establish firstly if there is an
under representation that needs to be fixed. We found lots of anecdotal evidence to suggest there was, but not much hard data. I was also a little unsure of the objectives of the group, obviously to increase the numbers of women, but by how many? Measuring the number of women in a somewhat amorphous community is a difficult thing, who do you count? Someone who just uses Ubuntu? Do you count my daughters who do their homework and play Frozen Bubble on Ubuntu? Fortunately there is the Ubuntu Member process where people who have made a sustained and significant contribution to the community are recognised. Those who are accepted are added to a group on Launchpad so they are nice and easy to identify. I took the list of names from Launchpad and made a Google docs spreadsheet with the list, everyone on the #ubuntu-women IRC channel was invited to edit the sheet and help figure out who was female. Not an easy task, but by looking at profiles, wiki pages, blogs, flickr photos and asking people on IRC we completed the list. The final result was 23 women out of a total of 520 members, or 4.42%. I have subsequently done some further analysis on the dates people were made members and I started a page of interesting graphs and statistics at http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/UbuntuMembers if anyone wants an invitation to the spreadsheets that drive the data or the python-launchpadlib script that collects it then mail me. I would quite like to not be the only maintainer of the data going forward.

So the membership process, it starts with filling out a wiki page about yourself. This is not a comfortable thing to do. I started mine quite a while ago and kept adding to it when I did something interesting - this was probably a good idea.

Anything you do can go on your wiki page, the approval board will look for stuff they want to see and ignore stuff they are not interested in - more on that later.

I made no effort to do proper wiki markup on it, it was just a list of stuff. I had no testimonials section, because I felt an empty testimonials section would look a bit sad, this was an error - if you have no section then there is nowhere for someone to add one. Laura Czajkowski helped me sort this out at the last minute, which leads me on to:

Get someone to help you well in advance. Ask them if they think your wiki page is ready. Get them to help find you testimonials (it is way easier to ask on behalf of someone else than directly)

When your wiki page is looking reasonably full of stuff you can add your name to the regional board agenda, but when you add your name to the agenda don't be first in the list, let a few other people go before you. The approval meeting goes in the order the names are added.

It is not a job interview! There is no job at stake, no money at stake, nothing of significant value in the list of member entitlements. You are probably not going to go through it for the incentive of receiving an IRC cloak. You are not doing it for the published benefits but because you are a part of the community and the procedure of the community is that we recognise those who contribute in this way.

It is not a job interview! They are not interested in your background, technical or otherwise. You are not being interviewed to decide whether you are *allowed* to join the community, you are being interviewed to see if you have *already* joined the community. This should affect the stuff you put on your wiki page and what you say in the interview. If you help people in IRC channels say so, if you are on various mailing lists then say so, if you use the forums say so. If you have written code or done some packaging that is good too, but you may be pushed towards the MOTU process (MOTU is a nested team in Ubuntu Members)

Rejection is an option, and it isn't final. Rejection doesn't mean "go away, you are full of fail" it means "contribute a bit more stuff, document it better, get some more testimonials and come back in a month or two" it is an easy option for the board to choose, they are not missing out on the opportunity to accept you, just delaying it a bit.

Attend a few approval board sessions on IRC before you put yourself forward - like I didn't. Figure out who on the board is the most harshly critical, figure out what responses they like and don't like.

Make sure you have supporters in the IRC meeting who will speak up on your behalf and mention things you have done that you have forgotten about yourself - that really helps.

In the end, despite all my errors, I got through with only minor scrapes and bruises. At the meeting on Wednesday 8PM UTC #ubuntu-women there is an agenda item to discuss the stats on Ubuntu Members and whether the group wants to influence them and what the SMART objectives

http://www.thepracticeofleadership.net/2006/03/11/setting-smart-objectives/ should be for them.

Alan

Original post available <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-women/2009-December/002285.html | here]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHomepage
