{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The Colorado Ubuntu Linux Team - (ColoradoTeam) is a Colorado group devoted to educating the public on open-source software, with a focus on Ubuntu Linux.  Our public involvement is currently limited, but we are driven to improve the ways we get out and promote Ubuntu. We currently provide the following services to the public:
* CD distribution
* Basic local user support
In addition to our public services, we also host release parties marking both the April and October final releases. Historically this is on the first sunday following the release. For example, the upcoming 12.10 release is scheduled for October 18th, and the party is scheduled for Sunday the 21st.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 2012-10-10
* '''Team Contact''' - Alexander Stokes (stokes91)
* '''Membership''' - 25+ active members
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-us-co@lists.ubuntu.com (http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-co)
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-us-co
* '''Website''' - http://coloco.ubuntu-rocks.org/

=== Experience (2010-2012) ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 2012-09-28
| Friday, September 28th
| '''Ubuntu Hour at the Falling Rock'''
| 
| ~15 Attended
|-
| 2012-04-29
| Sunday, April 29th 6-9PM
| '''Precise Release Party'''
| <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/coloradoteam/1680/detail/|Loco Event Page]]</nowiki>
| ~30 attended
|-
| 2011-05-01
| Sunday, May 1st 6:30-9PM
| '''Natty Release Party'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/The-Denver-Boulder-Linux-Meetup-Group/events/17146193/|Meetup.com Event]]</nowiki>
| 45 Attended
|-
| 2011-06-21
| 
| '''Colorado Technology in Education Outreach'''
| <nowiki>[[ColoradoTeam-Outreach]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2010
| spring-fall
| '''Supported Boulder Community Computers startup'''
| 
| Several regular helpers
|-
| 2010-05-02
| Sunday, May 2nd 5:30-8PM
| '''Lucid Release Party'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/The-Denver-Boulder-Linux-Meetup-Group/events/13263691/|Meetup.com Event]]</nowiki>
| 17 Attended
|}

=== Roadmap ===

Over the past few years, our membership has been limited and we intend to improve this over the upcoming years. We have been limited to hosting yearly events, and have recently been ramping up team involvement. This year marks the first year in the past few that we will host a .10 release. We intend to have a successful release party, and continue making steps in the right direction.

Our current membership is chiefly made up of members currently employed in the technology field. Unfortunately, this means the current population of members do not have the amount of free time that is required of a more active group. We do have the advantage of having experienced members glowing with knowledge and experience, however. We hope to use this as a strong selling point to students seeking to expand their professional contacts. Ultimately, a larger group size will mean greater chances that enough members will have the time to devote to hosting events.

In the meantime, we are churning away at new ideas to draw a diversity of different people with different interests. Alexander (stokes91) will be hosting tiny meet-ups at coffee shops around the metro area. These topics will be focused on doing a quick (1hr) hello-world type application to a new and interesting focus area. Of course, all of this will be done on Ubuntu.

==== Upcoming Events ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 2012-10-21
| Sunday, October 21st 6-9PM
| '''Quantal Release Party'''
| <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/events/cb09m26mh23nhsj1ccbtp36smus|Google + Event]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/events/360279734060677/|Facebook Event]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2012-11
| To be decided
| '''Ubuntu + Coffee + NodeJS'''
| TBA
|-
| 2012-12
| To be decided
| '''Ubuntu + Coffee + Arduino'''
| TBA
|-
| 2013-01
| To be decided
| '''Ubuntu + Coffee + Andriod'''
| TBA
|}
