{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Reporte - Febrero 2008 ===

'''Si desea colaborar con esta página, o desea conocer más sobre los reportes de Ubuntu-Co, por favor consulte primero la <nowiki>[[ColombianTeam-ReportingPage| Página de reportes]]</nowiki>.'''

==== Español ====

* Conferencia realizada el 31 de Enero en la ciudad de Manizales sobre las ventajas de Ubuntu con la intensión de crear allí una comunidad de Ubuntu.
* Se abrió una encuesta en Launchpad para decidir que versión de Ubuntu sera instalada y soportada por Ubuntu-Co en el Flisol (Festival Latinoamericano de Instalación de Software Libre).
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-February/004192.html|Creación de un mirror]]</nowiki> de paquetes de Ubuntu, muy útil en festivales de instalación.
* Nuevos administradores aprobados para el equipo<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-co/+members/|Ubuntu-Co]]</nowiki> en Launchpad.
* Se realizó una <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Reuniones/Bogota/17Febrero2008|reunión]]</nowiki> para definir la participación de Ubuntu-Co en el Flisol en la ciudad de Bogotá.
* Ubuntu-Co ahora es un ''Equipo Oficial'' como fue decidido en la reunion del CommunityCouncil por IRC el día 21 de febrero a las 20:00 horas (UTC)!
* Petición oficial y propuesta para tener un Stand de comunidad para Ubuntu-co para el Flisol en Bogotá.

==== Ingles ====

* Conference held on January 31 in the city of Manizales, about the advantages of Ubuntu with the intention of creating a Ubuntu community there.
* Opened a survey on Launchpad to decide which version of Ubuntu will be installed and supported by Ubuntu-Co in the Flisol (Latinamerican Festival of Free Software Installation).
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-co/2008-February/004192.html|Creation of a mirror]]</nowiki> of Ubuntu packages, very useful for upcoming Installfests.
* New admins approved for <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-co/+members/|Ubuntu-Co team on Launchpad]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu-Co held a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Reuniones/Bogota/17Febrero2008|meeting]]</nowiki> to define the participation in Bogota at the FLISOL.
* Ubuntu-Co is now an ''Official Team'', as decided in the IRC CommunityCouncil meeting held on February 21 at the 20:00(UTC)!
* Official request and proposal to get a community stand for Ubuntu-co during FLISOL in Bogotá.
