{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Renew your Ubuntu Colombia Membership ===
<nowiki>[[ColombianTeam/RenovacionMembresia| También disponible en Español]]</nowiki>

'''PLEASE DO NOT APPLY FOR MEMBERSHIP RENEWAL UNLESS YOU HAVE COMPLETED ALL THE STEPS'''.

If you wish to renew your membership, please complete the following steps:
# Be sure to have signed up the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SigningCodeofConduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> (CoC). If you don't know how to do it, ask other members to help you out. '''This requirement can't wait  after the first year of membership'''. This is an important step to indicate that you have read and understood the basic principles that orientate Ubuntu community.
# Be sure to have your wiki page updated.
# Be sure the link to your wiki page from your Launchpad profile works - if we can't verify your wiki page your applyment will be rejected.
# Ask for your renewal at <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-co|the mailing list]]</nowiki> attaching a link to your Launchpad profile and your wiki page in the message, indicating clearly which projects or activities you are interested in, where you will work actively.
# ''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-co/+join|Ask for membership at Launchpad]]</nowiki> '''

One of the volunteer administrators will check your applyment at the shortest time.

'''ONCE AGAIN, DO NOT ASK FOR MEMBERSHIP RENEWAL IF YOU HAVEN'T COMPLETED ALL THE STEPS'''.

Once you are member of Ubuntu Colombia, we strongly recommend considering to become "<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/newmember|Ubuntu Member]]</nowiki>".
