{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Issues Relating To Scanning ====
Note: This has been copied from <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Scanning]]</nowiki>. Please remove any comments that have already been implemented.

Scanning allows users to reduce desktop clutter and manage everything digitally.  What can we do to make scanning work better?

* Scanner button support:  in a small office of six people one scanner is connected to a Ubuntu desktop, a user insert a paper to scan and presses one button to scan to a shared folder, another button to scan to a shared email account.  Can this be implemented without having to login and use the XSane Imager Scanner tool?  In another office a scanner is connected to one of the users machines, the other members of the office don't want to keep annoying the desktop user so they open up XSane Image Scanner tool and select the scanner on the network, they walk up to the scanner insert a paper to scan and press a button which sends the image back to the users desktop, the user removes the paper and returns to their desktop to save the scanned image.
*** It's a cool proposal. I can see that Mr. McCoy has a grip on how technology should be. I don't know if the current technology would allow us to do it. Ubuntu is worked on by people who are part of GNOME, etc, but I don't know how much sway they have. Or if these kinds of tools could even be developed between now and Gutsy. But if they can, they'll have my support.
**** We (Gnome & Freedesktop) are working on a dbus service (basically handle device list, access, monitor buttons, share) for scanning + UI (a GtkPrint-like API). -- ÉtienneBersac 
* XSane is too difficult: The current default scanning program (xsane) included in Ubuntu is too difficult to use. Some usability issues are as follows:
*** By default it opens as four separate windows.
*** The "Scan" button and "Aquire Preview" button are on two separate windows
*** The default color mode is "binary." It should be color.
*** There are too many options/controls by default.
*** The functionality of the options/controls are not obvious.
 Some suggestions to improve the usabilty of scanning in Gutsy Gibbon while keeping advanced features available (Either a new program be developed or xsane be modified to do the following):
*** JoseVitor: National Lawyers Association (<nowiki>[[http://www.oab.org.br/|OAB Brasil]]</nowiki>) is studying solutions in security, digital certification and effectiveness. I think Ubuntu can help. Today, all law offices need <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HpAllInOne#head-69e8ef592cf6197261fbe772a5eaeb1e30d2df5c|Networked Scanner]]</nowiki> out-of-the-box because 30% of the processes are exclusively digital (the dead line to all implementation is 5 years).
*** My sugestion is to use <nowiki>[[http://www.gnomefiles.org/app.php/gscan2pdf|gScan2PDF]]</nowiki> for default;
*** By default open as a single window.
*** The "Aquire Preview" button renamed to "Preview".
*** Have separate modes of operation. For example, "simple" and "advanced". Simple is the default mode that has only the most basic of options available on the UI. Advanced gives all the options available.
*** Help menu options, etc should open up in the default gnome help system and not in  Mozilla. (behaves more Gnome-like)  --BrettBurton

 I think <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/GnomeScan?action=show&redirect=GnomeScanning|GnomeScan]]</nowiki> from a Google SoC project will help here. --StevenMcCoy

* Some instructions for setting up firmware for USB scanners that require it.  If I plug in a scanner (e.g. Epson Perfection 660) the system should realise it requires firmware and prompt the user to insert the Windows install CD-ROM and copy the firmware file, or refer to the wiki on more detailed steps.
