{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Note: this is copied from [CommunityEdgyIdeas/Laptops]. Please remove anything you find has already been implemented. 

More and more people are buying laptops instead of desktops. What can we do to make laptops work better out of the box or with little extra configuration?

=== Discussion ===

** Docking/Undocking: Many people now use docking stations/port replicators. There are un/dock.sh scripts online for /etc/acpi. Couldn't those kinds of scripts be included by default? -- DavidTansey

** Easier setup/switching between internal/external monitors: Is x.org able to recognize that there is a external monitor installed? is there no way to make attaching/removing it more automated and GUI-configurable? -- DavidTansey

*** Ideally, this would Just Work. I'd love to be able to plug in a monitor and have my desktop automatically expanded, and if I unplug it, the desktop shrinks and all the windows migrate to the main screen. Major bonus points if re-connecting the external monitor would cause windows previously on that monitor to move back to it, as long as they haven't been moved/resized on the main screen. -- RichardLaager

*** I second. Being able to use combinations such as Fn + F4 etc to switch between outputs is important. Not to easily be able to use Ubuntu for presentations in corporate environments is a big problem. As a beginning effort - FN + F4 could be mapped to a dialogue box showing "Support for output-switching is not finished yet. Please read more on http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MonitorOutputSwitch //<nowiki>[[Motin]]</nowiki> 

*** Also include something like the resolution switcher applet so that monitor resolution can be easily adjusted when plugged into a projector/other monitor

**** Also, different solutions and sync rates for internal and external monitor. My laptop screen is 1280x800 while the  external projector usually wants 800x600. Using the fglrx driver (see the aticonfig command) one can play with 'Option "DesktopSetup" "clone"', 'Option "Mode2" "800x600"', 'Option "HSync2" "min-max"', and 'Option "VRefresh2" "min-max"' in Section "Device", but it is not pretty. (I have no idea about the free drivers, the ati driver does not support the chip in my laptop) -- MarioVukelic
**** One should also be able to configure easilywhether videos display on the internal monitor, the external, or both. And the video should continue to play on the external monitor even if the laptop lid is closed -- MarioVukelic

** rotating the screen: xrandr can do this. it is useful for external monitors that can rotate as well as for tablet notebooks. -- DavidTansey

*** An issue (that I use on my Kubuntu) is to add a button that run this command : <code>xrandr | grep "Current rotation - normal" > /dev/null && xrandr -o left || xrandr -o normal</code> - NicolasDumoulin

** Suspend/Hibernate list of suggestions:
*** suspend/hibernate: could we have different options for suspend/hibernation, maybe some machine-specific and some for generic "fail-safe" defaults? -- DavidTansey

*** Easy way to install and configure Suspend2. I know suspend2 topic comes often among developers and gets rejected to be included by default, which is fine. But, an easy setup would help lot of users. -- RajasekarKarthik

*** Visual support for hibernating: It's wonderful that we have a nice usplash startup and shutdown, but there really should be usplash in hibernation.  Sometimes it's hard to tell if your machine is in fact hibernating or not and there is no progress indicator to let you know how long it might take. ~ Tas50

*** Some more on suspending. The suspend scripts could be a little more developed -- get gaim to sign off when suspended and sign back on when resumed, etc. I don't know if there is a way to make this so it isn't ad-hoc. Does GNOME have any sort of notification that suspend is happening for applications to "hear" and respond to?

** power saving: this includes better hdparm values for machines that are laptops, a laptop-mode-tools package that has some gui tools and was easier to setup once and forget about, the ability to configure the machine to remove disable some things, like bluetooth and wifi, when they are not in use and the laptop isn't connected to a power supply (this might also mean remove the modules -- whatever it takes to actually stop them from sucking power.) -- DavidTansey
** Some wifi devices allow a "battery" mode that draws less power.  Currently, this needs to be done manually.  Automating this would allow for greater battery life. (see http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=362299 --blackphiber)
** Tweaking the beryl/compiz settings to disable bling while on battery.

** easy and centralized network and proxy config: It should be easy to exchange between networks. Actually It's not dificult, but it could be simple with the use of real profiles, that would change all network settings as the device(s) to use, the config of the device(s) and the proxy of the network, all in one profile. Today we can't change the proxy by the profile and It takes long to change between them. -- LucasArruda

*** This area really got better in Edgy. I mean in terms of time to load profiles and config and also from usability. What I would like to see now is a better integration between profile and proxy configs. It would be nice to change to a proxy and have all 100% config. -- LucasArruda

** Already include programs like wifi-radar, (any more suggestions?) EDIT: Instead of wifi-radar, It'll be better to have a network interface switcher. More and more people are using Network Manager now. So maybe that tool should be the default. In that case, we'd need to make sure that Network Manager works well with ndiswrapper though (It doesn't right now .. which is a problem) - NamitYadav

** Not sure if this is feasible but, better/more wireless drivers incorporated by default. Or in other words, better wireless support in any way possible. -- NickBattaglia

** Built-in support for the increasingly popular "3G" datacards (e.g. from Vodafone). It's already possible to get these cards working (http://www.pharscape.org/index.php?option=content&task=view&id=28 ) but it would be great for Ubuntu to support them out-of-the-box and integrated with Network Manager. -- JulianRockey

** It would nice to solve definitively the problems with bcm43xx cards in general, bcm4318 particularly. Broadcom people say they are willing to work on linux drivers, so maybe getting in touch with them would accelerate the process. Having no wifi capability when one computer has it may prevent people from using the distro. -- Eduard Bonet

** The new Intel core 2 duo chips and AMD Turion chips are 64 bit.  Most laptops in the next year will comtain 64 bit chips.  Dell makes laptops that work well with ubuntu but there have been reports of overheating without the i8k modules.  Description of i8k here http://people.debian.org/~dz/i8k/00-README .  Currently the i8k modules are not supported by the 64 bit kernel in Dapper(as I understand it) and the i8k modules are not available in the distro.  This can lead to laptops overheating as per posts on the ubuntu forum.  Converting the i8k modules to 64 bit would be helpful for those working in areas where 64 bit is of great benefit. Massimo Dal Zotto wrote the module for 32 bit but sayes he would need access to a 64 bit laptop in order to convert it.  ~ Matt Jolley

** Internet connection through cellphones/bluetooth/cellular pcmcia cards/satellite. If we could make Ubuntu easily configured to connect to the internet though these different methods we would be ahead of the game. -- The Nokia 770 Internet Tablet, which is linux based, makes it extremely easy to set this up, using a GUI.  It even gives a drop-down of diffirent cell-phone providers so it can use the correct dial-up string.  Maybe we can get some ideas from them? -- BradPitcher
** I am not sure if GPRSEasyConnect is what you would like, but it provides similar functionality. With GPRSEc you can connect via GPRS, EDGE with many mobile phones and carriers. All these are preconfigured in the program. At the same time it is not easy to configure with new Sony-Ericssons, because of their feature for using the providers data as in the phone instead of the computer. -- V7 
* Laptop utilities (command line and GUI): There are many amazing utilities that exploits the OS and the underlying hardware in a laptop, that needs to be setup manually by the user, which can be painful and frustrating for many users. It can be even machine/architecure type specific, to name just a few toshset or toshutils(Toshiba), i8kutils(Dell Inspiron and Latitude). Few tools for example, cpu frequency scaling - powernowd, laptop-mode, prelink(not necessarily only for laptops), suspend2, applets(lm-sensors, system monitor, network-manager with vpn support). Some laptops, you may have to manually load the ACPI and other modules. Easy setup and installation/working out of the box work be good. -RajasekarKarthik

* Include gsynaptics/ksynaptics so the user can easily configure their touchpad

* A Tool which can set the VCore of the Centrino (for power-saving)     - camou
 
* Link both the headphone jack and the speakers together under the volume control applet.  This will allow the user to use the volume up/down keys for volume control w/ headphones ~Alan

* laptop-hotswap (other names are: lt_hotswap and lths) - This kernel module is for IBM/Lenovo Thinkpad users with an ultrabay. You can find more infos on the following page: http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Lt_hotswap

* BetterWidescreenDetection - Laptops with the i915 and other intel chipsets require the use of 915resolution to achieve native resolution.  Install 915resolution by default on detection of these chipsets until Xorg can perform the needed functions itself. - AndrewAsh

* It would be nice to be able to use those custom keys some laptops have (like CD/DVD play, stop, e-mail and browser keys). Some types of those keys are already supported through some projects (some go through ACPI stuff, some not), but some keys just don't work. A special (and easier) case may be that of the Euro key (along with another $) that is placed near the arrow keys. Usually these keys are detected by the kernel, but aren't mapped. <nowiki>[[Xamusk]]</nowiki>

=== Specs ===

https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/pim-device-sync

https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/better-bluetooth-support

https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/laptop-docking

https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/cellular-networking
