{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* CC Meeting 2011-03-15
** ACTION: Daniel to get opinions on bug 605969 in Ubuntu Website "Redirect /employment to webapps.ubuntu.com/employment" [Undecided,Won't fix] https://launchpad.net/bugs/605969
** Quick re-cap of feedback on Ubuntu Wiki Relicensing. Alan and I shared the feedback we got up until now, pointing out that we got
** lots of approval and appreciation for our efforts
** some unhappy comments about process (preference for getting explicit feedback from everybody), also pointed out the general unfeasibility
** negative feedback about the "DRM clause" in CC-BY-SA 3.0 and the suggested solution of dual licensing the content. (Melissa Draper, the only visible attendant of the meeting, liked this idea too.)
** We asked for feedback and directed people to the CC mailing list to share concerns/advice/etc.
** Alan and I agreed that it might make sense to wait for Greg Grossmeier's feedback (and that of others), bring it up at the next CC meeting again and then make a decision how to proceed. The 4 week timeframe would be over by the time and we would have had 2 meetings (in two different time points) and everybody would have had enough opportunities to speak up.
** Next chair: Alan.
