{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* 2012-02-02 Meeting (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/02/02/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t17:04|log]]</nowiki>):
** Meeting with the DMB
** Everything generally alright.
** Meetings happening regularly.
** Less MOTUs applying.
** Ubuntu Contributing Developer status might be less important.  Should it be removed?
** Wiki Teams Page
** Review Next week (6-10 Feb)
** Blog on Fridge so community can update any teams they feel are missing
** CoC 2.0
** Daniel to put up a merge proposal with the proposed text changes
** Voting Services
** Scott asked if Google App Engine was OK.
* 2012-02-16 Meeting <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/02/16/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t17:02|log]]</nowiki>):
** Checkup with the IRC Council
** The new council is doing well, they have had 3 productive meetings
** made progress on the floodbot code which is now in a launchpad private repository
** process of welcoming #lubuntu into the list of core channels is well underway with operator training starting soon
** Things are relatively quiet right now, but channel/operator organization and appeals tend to be the biggest timesinks.
** have a bit of a list of task to organise around bots
** Explained the appeals process https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/AppealProcess
** Considering is to do a training course every release cycle, so they have a regular intake of a batch of new operators
** another thing we will be doing in 3 months or so is filling the empty 5th seat on the IRCC
** PPA (Personal Package Archive) and CoC (Code of Conduct)
** Brought up on the launchpad-dev mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/launchpad-dev/msg08934.html|RFC: either remove 'Ubuntu CoC signing required' for PPA use, or enforce it consistently]]</nowiki>
** Discussed whether there should be a click-through way to sign the CoC (no decision made)
** Discussed issue of CoC covering all of Launchpad using PPAs or just Ubuntu
** Agreed that yes we should be enforcing the signing of the CoC for PPA use (individuals AND teams)
** Launchpad Polls
** Polls are at present a cost to LP with regards to maintenance and it's a feature they are looking to help people move away from
** <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com/844712/|Describes some of the issues for users]]</nowiki> (originally sent to private ubuntu-council-teams list)
** Need to address privacy concerns while still including individuals who do not share their email address in public in the voting pool
