{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu is released every six months. This means that a good chunk of people will be upgrading regularly. Is there anything we can do to make this easier?

=== Discussion ===

* I don't know how easy the upgrade process is now. Last time I tried was upgrading to breezy. I ended up reinstalling from scratch because the upgrade didn't seem as polished as the new install was supposed to feel. Where would we like to see this go? Should there be some simple graphical way to upgrade, without having to edit /etc/apt/sources.list? Should users be notified that there is a new major release?

** This is already there and has been since Breezy, see the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/releasenotes/610|Edgy Release Notes]]</nowiki> for how it works. However neither Breezy->Dapper nor Dapper->Edgy went without problems for everyone, so there is room for improvement (see Launchpad for bugs)

* Separate /home partition -- because a lot of our users upgrade/reinstall regularly, I think we should have the home directory be on a different partition by default. 

** What if they set the size up incorrectly? Could we make the partitions more easily resized? Most people won't understand "/home partition is running out of space," but their / partition is fine. This is because most people are raised with a "C:", single hard drive, mentality. 

** What about easier home backups? Or even periodic home backups, backing up only what has changed? 

**** Could this include integration with an external drive? We could let users set it up so there is a /home backup periodically, etc.
** Windows has a GREAT thing that ubuntu dapper lacked in its respin. It gives you the power to reinstall the system without doing a format. It "backups" the windows folders, rename it and it does a clean install. You can delete the backup'd system folders if you do not need them. I think on < 40 go hard drives it's not practical to have a separate /home, an installer that automagically deletes all the system folders (/usr /etc /bin [...]) but keeps the /home would be great. But i agree, on 160go and more systems, the best practice is to have a /home partition.

* System for alerting users of new releases.  It would be nice to get an alert that there is a Ubuntu distro.  It would have to warn the user that they should do a complete backup first of course.  It's really just a notification with a button that changes the apt sources and then does a dist-upgrade.  ~ <nowiki>[[Tas50]]</nowiki>

** This is already in update-manager since the Breezy->Dapper update, see the release notes for Dapper and Edgy, link is given in the answer to the first bullet point further up

* Binary diff packages for faster downloads.

* Download for later updates: to save breaking running applications.

* Update on logout / shutdown.

* Dual system images: Boot on one and upgrade the second in the background, on reboot switch to the second - Similar to a RedHat project.

* Reducing package updates to regular update clusters, e.g. once a week or month.  Individual package updates creates a vast range of possible Ubuntu system states.  If there were weekly updates we could have Ubuntu Dapper 6.06.23/11/2006, etc.  Basically some method of making system management for offices, larger installations, and software vendors more practical.
*** This probably isn't practical for security updates, which are the majority of post-release updates. Otherwise you're not providing the best possible security. But I guess you could have both. Or at least have the update manager default to weekly updates. I don't know what the solution is, but I can appreciate the suggestion. The idea of updating daily for a IT manager is a nightmare. 
**** An IT Manager worth the name would never install updates directly and without testing from the OS vendor, no matter if this is MS or Ubuntu, and no matter if they come daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly. He/she would set up a local apt repository and point his/her computers to this. Then put packages into this local repo after testing. A better approach to helping these managers might be to make it easier to set up a local apt repository/mirror.

* Low disk space:  a home user is transfering photos from her digital camera to her ubuntu desktop and receives a warning about low disk space and what she can do.  She pops out to a local store and buys an external hard disk which is duly connected to the computer.  Ubuntu recognises the disk and asks whether it should be used as additional or mobile storage.  The user selects additional storage and Ubuntu then enlarges the home directory partition to incorporate the external disk via LVM (etc).  The low disk space warning disappears and the user continues to transfer photos.
*** Good suggestion. If Ubuntu could manage this, and make intelligent solutions (or provide an easy way for the user to make choices) regarding what goes on which drive, it would really set it apart from other desktop offerings. I mention this because the external drive might not always be attached. Also, they might have priorities about what they want with them all the time and what they don't use as much. We wouldn't want their .evolution or Desktop directory moved to the external drive, for instance.
*** I have to ask, how well will the default Ubuntu apps work with a configuration like this? I know programs like iTunes get picky about where its files are. Do rhythmbox and whatever other multimedia-organizing programs work well with files in different locations?
*** LVM makes this transparent, but if the user removed the removable drive (sic) then her home partition would not be mountable.

* Keep hidden folders in home small. For upgrades, especially bleeding edge ones, backing up home config files is essential as individual upgraded apps update their own config. Backing up /home/user/.* is fine IF there are no vast cache files (e.g. firefox) or user files (e.g. iPodder) in these folders. These and similar apps should be configured by default to have data stored in /var, /tmp, or in non-hidden folders in the user's home folder. Why do any apps use the user's home for temp space??? I think this is good practice anyway, but it would allow a tight and rapid backup of important home/.* config without including gigs of cruft. By contrast /etc is usually quite compact. See also SessionBackup.

=== Specs ===

https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/sync-from-old-to-new-computer

https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/home-user-backup
