{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Introduction ===
This page is a place for the Ubuntu community to collaborate on ideas for Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn). It is adapted from the <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas]]</nowiki> page for the 6.10 release (Edgy Eft).

Mark Shuttleworth announced the name of the next release and some of the priorities for this release on the ubuntu-devel-announce list. That message can be see here: http://lwn.net/Articles/204961/

This page is intended for the community. Ideas should be added, but unless they are outrageous, illegal etc (i.e. cannot be implemented) they should not be removed.

As this page grows it will most likely need to be turned into a list of links to separate pages.

=== Goals ===

According to Mark Shuttleworth's announcement, the priorities for this release include:

* Multimedia enablement 
* Desktop Effects
* Hardware support in the laptop, desktop, and high-end server market
* Aggressive adoption of emerging desktop technologies

=== Ideas ===

Review what is on the [CommunityEdgyIdeas] page. Some of those ideas have already been implemented. If they have not been, and you're interested in them happening in Feisty, then please move them here.

* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Installation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Usability]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Multimedia]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Laptops]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Printing]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Scanning]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Faxing]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/PlatformInteroperability]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Upgradability]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/EmergingDesktopTechnologies]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Networking]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Kernel]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Boot]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/LookAndFeel]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Performance]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Other]]</nowiki>

=== Getting from Ideas to Specs ===

If you go to https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+specs you  will see a list of many desired feature specs for Ubuntu. They are given different priorities. 

We should translate the CommunityFeistyIdeas into specs to ensure that they are considered for Feisty Fawn. At the bottom of each Ideas page, please indicate if an idea being discussed has already been posted as a spec. If there is an idea that you want to get posted as a spec, you can either submit it yourself or start drafting it at the bottom of the Ideas page.

The specs often have other wiki pages linked. For instance <nowiki>[[https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/home-user-backup|home-user-backup]]</nowiki> links to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HomeUserBackup. As the ideas get developed, we should start to turn the discussions into  proposals. This means creating the spec, but it also means creating a page on the wiki that presents a reasonably detailed proposal for each idea. 

The more we turn these ideas into actionable items, the more likely they will be implemented. Let's make Feisty Fawn the most community-driven release yet!
