{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* 2012-07-05 Meeting (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/07/05/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t17:04|log]]</nowiki>):
** Developer Membership Board catch-up
** Discussed process and frequency of meetings
** There was some concern that interest in the MOTU community had waned, but "there were several sessions at UDS and I think we're hoping that the reinvigoration will lead to more applicants"
** It was brought up that some feel "PPAs and extras.ubuntu.com have reduced the incentive to get involved in the distro"
** Discussed some of how Ubuntu Membership and Ubuntu Developers teams are related, sometimes a PPU may want to be granted but this gives them Ubuntu Membership automatically and they may not have satisfied typical requirements for Ubuntu Membership otherwise; the proposal to decouple upload rights from membership was brought up
*** ACTION: beuno to start a thread with the DMB and CC to discuss the topics that have come from todays meeting
** Charm review board: https://juju.ubuntu.com/CharmReviewBoard
** jcastro introduced the juju Charm Review Board
*** juju core devs who may or may not be ubuntu members
*** the ~charmers, which are reviewers
*** the review board would be made up of ~charmers
** Follow up with the rest of the CC online about whether there is anything the CC needs to do
* 2012-07-19 Meeting (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/07/19/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t17:03|log]]</nowiki>):
** <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-07-19-17.03.moin.txt|Bot summary]]</nowiki>
** IRC Council meet-up
** They have a new batch of operators from when they processed all the queues
** arranged some training sessions for them this afternoon for next thursday and the week after
** went through an election process and filled the 5th seat on the council and are really happy to have tm_t as the new council member
** the new #ubuntu-discuss channel has been set up, "could be a little noisier, there have been a number of interesting and productive discussions there" so they are nurturing it to see if it will work
** put together https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/SupportersGuide as a guide for helpers
** They'd like to encourage more of their ops to come to UDS
** Nothing specific coming up that they need assistance with
