{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== "Official" "Runs Ubuntu" stickers ===

I previously saw somebody giving away "Runs Ubuntu" (or something to that effect) stickers similar to the small "Designed for Windows" stickers that virtually all machines have. I think these are great, and that they should be provided, ideally as part of the Ship-it service. Together with the disc you should get say five stickers that you slap on all machines you install Ubuntu on. Or you order them at shipping cost.

-- afaik, I got some from system76 that say "powered by Ubuntu" but our sysadmin said he got some when ordering the ubuntu shipit. They're nice, but after 6+ months of use mine's gotten a bit yellow. The stickers my laptop came with have held up better, because they're laminated I think. 
       JustinDugger
-- ShipIt doesn't bring you the small "Runs XXX", "Designed for XXX"-stickers described above. Rather they only have big promo stickers you can maybe put on the lid or some other large space. System76 offers "the real thing", but only for the USA. Edit: Here's a picture: http://blog.ryanak.ca/archives/17

-- You can find some nice sticker graphics on KDE-look: <nowiki>[[http://kde-look.org/content/show.php/Ready+for+Ubuntu?content=55106|Ready for Ubuntu]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://kde-look.org/content/show.php/Ready+for+Kubuntu?content=55101|Ready for Kubuntu]]</nowiki>
       AzraelNightwalker

-- I know about these artworks. They are also available for Ubuntu and Xubuntu (possibly also Edubuntu). The problem is, that you have to print them out yourself, provided you even have the appropriate hardware. --Sokraates

-- You don't have to be in America to get "powered by Ubuntu" stickers. System76 have groups in various countries who'll send you the stickers; you just have to send a SAE (stamped addressed envelope) and they'll give you the stickers. I sent my SAE to the Linux Emporium, and got my stickers the next day! http://system76.com/index.php/cPath/53_64

=== Home server ===

Windows Home Server is coming out soon. It has some great features, one of them I would REALLY love to see on Ubuntu. A nightly automatic backup that if, my desktop/laptop hard disk fails, I can just put in a recovery disk and a couple of hours later the desktop that is having the issues will be completely restored including all the settings and data that it had prior to the failure. They even create an api so that technical end users can add functionality. I saw this and immediately wished that it was available on Ubuntu. Some of the other features are available but not out of the box, I would love to see an Ubuntu Home Server edition that allows for some of the practical needs that people have when they have multiple computers and need to store data at home. The remote desktop access is not such a big deal, KDE and Gnome both come with built in solutions. I do think that it would be really cool if they had some sort of really easily end user configurable vpn solution, so easy that the end user doesn't even need to know what vpn is, tied possibly with a vlan thing, so that members of the same family that don't live together can share files on a LAN  across their DSL/Cable connections (they could also back up to a single home server or have more than one back up if they wanted). Whilst, they could also have more than one LAN (using VLAN) for what ever reason they may want. I would LOVE to see these things added to Ubuntu. 

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuhomeserver.org/|Ubuntu Home Server]]</nowiki> (unofficial, for now) is under development

=== LiveCD copy to RAM ===
Ubuntu LiveCD should have an option to load itself to RAM (if computer has 1GB or more). This will allow users to use the cd/dvd drive (especially the cd/dvd writer) in a livecd session.
Fedora 7 and Knoppix already have such option.

=== LiveCD grub fix mode ===
Ubuntu LiveCD should have an option to fix broken MBR/Grub.
You can fix your Grub install using the alternate cd but it's complicated.

== Feisty Ideas Import ==
'''Note: Please remove any ideas that have already been implemented.'''

* Update pci.ids file so that a lspci report is up to date
* Make a tab in the Device Manager that behaves similarly to Gnome-Disks-Admin, so people can manage their drives and automount new ones.
* Autodetect when certain hardware changes post-install, like monitors. It is currently unfeasible to install Ubuntu at, for instance, a computer repair shop, and then give it to the customer because once connected at home the monitor settings will not be set (leaving the customer with a terrible resolution and bad impression on Ubuntu).
* Easier to eject devices graphically.  Right now you have to go to the desktop, right click, and eject devices.  I think you should be able to go to Places and right click-->eject on the device you want to eject. ~ kewldude606
* Autodetect HW for X. Fedora core 6 claims it can start X without an xorg.conf file: http://jrb.webwynk.net/news-2006-10.html#29 maybe it's worth looking at it.
* How about a full featured IDE for gnome/python. Since python is the prefered language for ubuntu, there are some python development packages already included and gnome is the default DE I think offering a python IDE will make it more suitable for newcommers to start creating apps for the ubuntu plataform. I'm really asking here for a ide with refactoring/unit testing/debugger/code completion support. Maybe some plugins for gedit? -- What about providing base templates or samples with the IDE? Making it is as simple as possible to create the 'first' gnome python scripted app with GUI. ~ausimage--
* Some time if I update the system the GRUB menu get changed and I has to modify it manually to include other operating system. It will be nice to keep other OS menu items.
* The update size is usually very big since ubuntu downloads the full package every time an update available (e.g. FireFox update under windows is only a few kilobytes while in Upuntu it will be several megabytes). It will benefit the users with slow or costly internet connections and save bandwidth for the repository.
** <nowiki>[[https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/succinct|apt-sync spec]]</nowiki>
* Please please please can someone write a utility/install feature that saves the first 446 bytes of the boot disk boot sector after a successful Grub install. So many people wipe this out after subsequently installing Windows and have to go through the hassle of the Grub reinstall process when all that is needed to restore their systems is a simple "dd" command using this saved data. A simple "Restore my saved Boot Sector" command in the Live CD would be appreciated by quite a few people if the forums are anything to go by!
