{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* I believe that there are a few stable, open source NTFS drivers for linux with read/write capabilities. A read/write NTFS driver should be included by default.
** The Linux-NTFS project is merging in the work done on the ntfs-3g project, so hopefully there will be a stable read/write NTFS driver available soon. (See http://www.linux-ntfs.org for details.) -- Richard Laager
* Something similar to Windows's CHKDSK (check disk), which checks FAT, FAT32 and NTFS partitions for errors, should be included.
** dosfsck already exists on my Dapper system... Granted, that doesn't do NTFS. -- RichardLaager
*** Does dosfsck only check the integrity of a FAT/32 partition, or does it also defrag it? I think that the second is something that would be useful on Ubuntu, especially because lots of external peripherals are formatted in FAT32 fs. -- Alexandre P.
**** Would that really be such a great idea for USB "flash" drives (ie. solid state)? The storage medium in these drives wears out pretty quickly compared to hard drives (hard drives tend to die because of mechanical failure rather than a set limit to the number of write cycles for each block). Defragging FAT32 hard drives is a good idea (although it should not be done at boot, since that would be an incredible waste of time, and if it is done automatically then the user must be informed of it, because shutting off the power without realising could destroy loads of data), although the way you mention "peripherals" seems to imply flash drives (which I would think is a bad idea)

Better wine integration
*** Add wine programs to the GNOME menu like Xfce or KDE does. 
*** Or make wine create shortcuts like linux programs do.
*** Wine's C:/ Should be added to the nautilus Places. Since this directory is hidden in the system, it's otherwise hard to browse to.
* See this page BetterIntegratedWineSpec (None of these idea's are on that page, can they be added? ''Yes, because it is a Wiki :) , oh, and I have just done so -- Warbo'')
