{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Issues Relating To Laptops ====

More and more people are buying laptops instead of desktops. What can we do to make laptops work better out of the box or with little extra configuration?

** Docking/Undocking: Many people now use docking stations/port replicators. There are un/dock.sh scripts online for /etc/acpi. Couldn't those kinds of scripts be included by default? -- DavidTansey

** Easier setup/switching between internal/external monitors: Is x.org able to recognize that there is a external monitor installed? is there no way to make attaching/removing it more automated and GUI-configurable? -- DavidTansey

*** Ideally, this would Just Work. I'd love to be able to plug in a monitor and have my desktop automatically expanded, and if I unplug it, the desktop shrinks and all the windows migrate to the main screen. Major bonus points if re-connecting the external monitor would cause windows previously on that monitor to move back to it, as long as they haven't been moved/resized on the main screen. -- RichardLaager

*** I second. Being able to use combinations such as Fn + F4 etc to switch between outputs is important. Not to easily be able to use Ubuntu for presentations in corporate environments is a big problem. As a beginning effort - FN + F4 could be mapped to a dialogue box showing "Support for output-switching is not finished yet. Please read more on http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MonitorOutputSwitch //<nowiki>[[Motin]]</nowiki> 

** rotating the screen: xrandr can do this. it is useful for external monitors that can rotate as well as for tablet notebooks. -- DavidTansey

  An issue (that I use on my Kubuntu) is to add a button that run this command : <code>xrandr | grep "Current rotation - normal" > /dev/null && xrandr -o left || xrandr -o normal</code> - NicolasDumoulin

** suspend/hibernate: could we have different options for suspend/hibernation, maybe some machine-specific and some for generic "fail-safe" defaults? -- DavidTansey

** power saving: this includes better hdparm values for machines that are laptops, a laptop-mode-tools package that has some gui tools and was easier to setup once and forget about, the ability to configure the machine to remove disable some things, like bluetooth and wifi, when they are not in use and the laptop isn't connected to a power supply (this might also mean remove the modules -- whatever it takes to actually stop them from sucking power.) -- DavidTansey

** easy and centralized network and proxy config: It should be easy to exchange between networks. Actually It's not dificult, but it could be simple with the use of real profiles, that would change all network settings as the device(s) to use, the config of the device(s) and the proxy of the network, all in one profile. Today we can't change the proxy by the profile and It takes long to change between them. -- LucasArruda

*** Thanks! This really got fast and better. I just miss the integration between proxy and profile. Maybe this could be avaiable for Feisty Fawn. -- LucasArruda

** Already include programs like wifi-radar, (any more suggestions?) EDIT: Instead of wifi-radar, It'll be better to have a network interface switcher. More and more people are using Network Manager now. So maybe that tool should be the default. In that case, we'd need to make sure that Network Manager works well with ndiswrapper though (It doesn't right now .. which is a problem) - NamitYadav

** Not sure if this is feasible but, better/more wireless drivers incorporated by default. Or in other words, better wireless support in any way possible. -- NickBattaglia

** Built-in support for the increasingly popular "3G" datacards (e.g. from Vodafone). It's already possible to get these cards working (http://www.pharscape.org/index.php?option=content&task=view&id=28 ) but it would be great for Ubuntu to support them out-of-the-box and integrated with Network Manager. -- JulianRockey

** It would nice to solve definitively the problems with bcm43xx cards in general, bcm4318 particularly. Broadcom people say they are willing to work on linux drivers, so maybe getting in touch with them would accelerate the process. Having no wifi capability when one computer has it may prevent people from using the distro. -- Eduard Bonet

*** I recently installed Egdy on an iBook G4 with a BCM4318 wireless chip and had no problems installing it (using fwcutter and wifi-radar; network-manager sees the network, but does not connect). -- <nowiki>[[Petertje2]]</nowiki>

** The new Intel core 2 duo chips and AMD Turion chips are 64 bit.  Most laptops in the next year will comtain 64 bit chips.  Dell makes laptops that work well with ubuntu but there have been reports of overheating without the i8k modules.  Description of i8k here http://people.debian.org/~dz/i8k/00-README .  Currently the i8k modules are not supported by the 64 bit kernel in Dapper(as I understand it) and the i8k modules are not available in the distro.  This can lead to laptops overheating as per posts on the ubuntu forum.  Converting the i8k modules to 64 bit would be helpful for those working in areas where 64 bit is of great benefit. Massimo Dal Zotto wrote the module for 32 bit but sayes he would need access to a 64 bit laptop in order to convert it.  ~ Matt Jolley
