{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/community-integration
* '''Created''': 06-05-2006 by AlwinGarside

== Summary ==
We need to integrate the community deeper into the Desktop so that even new users can quickly find their way around the Wiki and Forums.
This Spec is also focused more on non-English users since documentation in their language isn't as readily available as in English. They depend more on their local community.

== Rationale ==
For most new users it's still too hard to get the information and support they need. Either because they're not used to looking for support on a community (Wiki/Forum/etc) or because they simply don't know that in most cases solutions to their problems do exists (because they have come to expect that much things like MP3 just work out of the box or at least com with enough explanation).

== Integration ==

=== Welcome Screen ===
* If Edgy is going to have a Welcome Centre (<nowiki>[[UbuntuWelcomeCentre]]</nowiki>) on first start, then it should come with a search box to search the (localized) Ubuntu Wiki and/or Forum. (If only one has to be chosen, I prefer the Wiki because most Normal People seem to be afraid of Forums. Also if they post on a searched topic without reading the rules that could cause the usual newb problems.)
* It should have a link that points to a subpage/pop-up/whatever explaining 'What is a Wiki?'
* There should also be a button to get UbuntuLiveChatSupport. This would be cool for people to get live support during the Live CD isntall.

=== Search Integration ===
* The deskbar should also have 'Search [thingy] on the Community' or something like that, that searches the local (like ie <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org]]</nowiki> if the locale is Brazil) wiki and/or forum.
* Firefox should also have search plugins for the Wiki and UbuntuForums.

== Comments ==

CategorySpec
