{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

What are some emerging desktop technologies?

Note: This has been copied from <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/EmergingDesktopTechnologies]]</nowiki>. Please remove any comments that have already been implemented.

=== Discussion ===

 
** Accelerated Login Prompts - The login window should run under an accelerated environment such as Beryl/Compiz or etc, creating multiple login windows on each side of the cube allowing for quick user switching. Once this is accomplished it would be neat to hot-key the two apart so once logged in the user would also be allowed to spin his own personal desktop cube and spin the "user" cube to get on different accounts by utilizing another key combination. I think this would really put Ubuntu 7.04 out there in-terms of family usability. - RemiRokosa@gmail.com
** XGL/AIGLX - hardware acceleration is a must for a lot of people. This allows for animations, games, etc. We need to have XGL/AIGLX work out of the box. 
** What window manager would make the most sensible choice here? I know Metacity is getting some compositing features, but Compiz and Beryl seem to be much more mature in that field (whilst Metacity is more mature at being a window manager without crashing). Replacing Metacity by default would take a lot of work and might get the GNOME developers a bit miffed (these days even reviewers seem to make the assumption GNOME==Ubuntu and KDE==Kubuntu) but I don't see the advantage of replacing regular Xorg if Metacity is going to be used anyway. (Remember if you are going to use the accessibility/usability arguments then translucency can still be achieved with Xorg+xcompmgr)
** In addition to this, it would be really nice to get the beta drivers for nVidia and ATI in an official repository so that people with these graphics cards can take advantage of AIGLX.
*** Note that the 9xxx nVidia drives do not need AIGLX or XGL, they provide EXT_texture_from_pixmap directly.

* Tablet PCs - they are becoming more popular. We don't have good detection of them or tools to help configure touch-sensitive screens, screen rotation, writing-to-text software, etc. 

* Bluetooth and other wireless technologies. There are now bluetooth remote controls to play/pause/etc movies. More people are using bluetooth to dial their cellphones. We could connect cellphone bluetooth ear pieces to laptops so they could be used for VoIP, skype, etc. 

* Internet voice/video communication. Skype, VoIP, web conferencing are all becoming more common. How can we ensure that these technologies are available to Ubuntu users?
** I think it would be a good idea to get VoIP, Jabber, etc. permeating lots of the desktop (for instance contacts in Evolution can have email addresses, IM names, VoIP names/numbers, etc., and all of this can be accessible through the Deskbar). A great idea would be to set up some default accounts for these systems, so instead of GAIM requiring an existing MSN, Yahoo!, AIM, etc. account to be entered it would come up a quick setup wizard offering to set up a new Jabber account on a predefined server and stuff, with an option "I already have an account or do not wish to set one up at this time". People familiar with GAIM can easily press one button to get out of such a wizard and set up the nitty-gritty options they are used to, but for those who can't handle such control there are sensible defaults (you can think of it as making GAIM accessible for the masses in the way that Ubuntu has done to the Debian system, merely by choosing sensible, yet changable, defaults). That way new users can instantly talk to other Ubuntu (or any other distro which includes GAIM, so pretty much all of them) users who have gone through a similar process, and talking to people on other platforms such as Windows is easy since they can convert people to GAIM (which also handles MSN, so existing accounts can still be used). Please don't underestimate this point, as I have already converted two people to Ubuntu exclusively due to GAIM's "Has You" feature in the Buddy List. (Yes, it seems trivial, but whatever works!) -- Warbo
** The greatest thing about Gaim is that it handles almost all the popular protocols. I was rather disappointed when it turned out it didn't do Skype. It would be cool if webcam/VoIP were integrated into Gaim so people don't need to run more than one client for instant communications.
** If these things were integrated throughout the desktop then people wouldn't actually know (or care) if they are running one program or hundreds. That is the way forwards, to integrate every program into a cohesive desktop environment, eg. people don't think "I will start OpenOffice" they think "I will write a document", and instead of thinking "I will chat with my friends on GAIM" they think "I will chat with my friends". This is an area where Free Software can really become incredibly user-friendly, since there is no incentive for an application-based view of computing, since it is all Free Software (eg. Adobe would not want Photoshop to blend invisibly with Windows, because they need the brand name Photoshop to be recognised and seen as an independant application) -- Warbo

* Voice recognition software is becoming quite usable, and Free Software attempts are making steady progress. How about combining this usage with the VoIP issues raised above to really make the Ubuntu desktop stand apart from the crowd?

* Hand held remote control support - A lot of PCs (and every Mac: Front Row/Apple Remote) are shipping with remotes now and getting them to work in Ubuntu is a real pain.  A nice graphical front end for getting lirc setup would be fantastic. ~ <nowiki>[[Tas50]]</nowiki>

* Multiple version document backup and access ala Apple's Time Machine.
** I believe this can be implemented by extending the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar-vcs.org/NautilusIntegration|Nautilus Bazaar integration]]</nowiki> efforts. --DanielWerner

* Desktop/Laptop migration and synchronisation tools: how do I move my files to a new computer?  If I have a laptop how can I synchronise all my files to work at home, on a business trip, and how to update when back in the office?
*** That would be great. It would be nice if we could have a software solution that mounted your laptop as a USB drive. Not saying that's the only solution -- just saying that this is a high priority for me. --DavidTansey
*** This should be pretty straightforward with Firewire, since IIRC that can act as a network cable (so maybe automatic NFS mounting can be done if Ubuntu is on the desktop and laptop). USB doesn't offer this kind of connection, so it would be harder to implement. -- Warbo
*** What about installing unison/unison-gtk? Can that be included by default? How easy is it to set that up between a laptop and a desktop, or any other two machines?

* What would be really usefull, is being able to switch from gl/3d fullscreen aplications and the desktop, something like alt+tab, or something more powerfull

*** Can you be more descriptive? Do you mean just minimizing whatever fullscreen apps are open? or a "minimize all" keyboard shortcut that will also bring all the apps back at their original position/"height?"

**** If you want minimize all, just press Ctrl-Alt-D. Press it again to return to your pre-minimized state.

* Create a Zeroconf Home Server as a spin-off of edubuntu. Zeroconf in the sense that it uses <nowiki>[[http://www.zeroconf.org/|Zeroconf]]</nowiki> but also in the sense that it will work out of the box with reasonable settings. This server should provide most needed functionality for a typical home network, and it should be accessible via a very streamlined and intuitive web interface. <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284785|See here]]</nowiki> for more info. This is useful today, but it will become even more relevant in the near future when sub $100 machines like <nowiki>[[http://www.linutop.com/|these]]</nowiki> will become ubiquitous and will be used as thin/fat clients as well as set-top boxes all over the house...

* Create specialized distributions targeting specific needs, not just specific desktop environments. The set-top-box is one case, but it would also be nice to have distributions with a much simplified interface targeting younger users and senior citizens. See <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/eldy/|eldy]]</nowiki> as a good starting point. Those are important categories, moreover, targeting specific market niches is a strength that Ubuntu does have because of its flexibility and powerful package framework, and it is a strength that should be tapped.

* <nowiki>[[http://telepathy.freedesktop.org/wiki/|Telepathy]]</nowiki> is a communication framework built on DBus that allows any application to establish communication with users all around the world, using any protocol from IRC to MSN to VoIP. It uses <nowiki>[[http://farsight.sourceforge.net/|Farsight]]</nowiki> to provide the codecs and protocol support on top of the (GStreamer)<nowiki>[[http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/]]</nowiki> media framework. And <nowiki>[[http://galago-project.org/about.php|Galago]]</nowiki> glues it all together; providing presence information about contacts and allowing users to specify their own status. Note: this was taken from Scott James Remnant's blog from a few weeks ago.

* <nowiki>[[http://avahi.org/|Avahi]]</nowiki> allows applications to, via DBus, do this by using a mulicast form of DNS; compatible with Apple’s Bonjour protocol. The immediately obvious benefits of this are that one can locate such things as file servers without any complicated directory; more fun things can be done too, such as sharing your music from RhythmBox with other users on the network. Combine it with telepathy, etc. and you can establish communication with anyone else, with a wide range of different protocols. Also from Scott's blog.

* Sync with online tools: Google Office, and other online tools, are pretty exciting. What would be even more exciting is if we could have Ubuntu sync up with them. Have your evolution calendar sync with google calendar, have files easily added to your google spreadsheet and word processor easily. Use google talk from gaim, or whatever other client you want -- including VoIP. That would be a big plus for small businesses, especially those interested in using "google for your domain." Ubuntu would enable them to have a full-fledged collaboration suite for free.
** This sounds pretty cool, and I can imagine something like ''Applications>Office>Google Writely'' opening up said site/application, but I was just wondering how these tools would be classed by Ubuntu, are they proprietary or not since the code is not available under a Free Software license, but neither is it available under a non-Free license...
* Not sure it should go here, but since there is mention of office suites and such. I would like a more sensible solution to opting out of Open Office. It appears tangled with certain packages and meta-packages that make it difficult to remove. I much prefer the use of Gnome Office. The apps in that are much faster and easier. Perhaps the Ubuntu-Desktop needs to have an   either or depends on Gnome Offfice or Open Office. Plus get rid of the open office * depends on the other packages that are not apart of Open Office. This can be really scary to a new person if they just want Gnome Office instead of Open Office. ~ ausimage
=== Specs ===

<nowiki>[[https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/accelerated-x|Accelerated X]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/beryl-by-default|Beryl By Default]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/zeroconf-networking|zeroconf networking]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-voip-solution|kubuntu voip support]]</nowiki>
** note: it is, for whatever reason, kubuntu specific. Should we put a broader voip feature spec?
