{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== GUI Improvements ====
* Some way to change font priority. e.g. I prefer the slimmer Nimbus Sans to the fat DejaVu. Moreover, for most web pages, the author assumes Arial's the default font and adjust everything to suit it. Maybe DejaVu looks better than Nimbus Sans but I prefer the more "Helvetica" look. Also, I would like to prioritize Chinese fonts over Japanese fonts since I read Chinese but not Jap. There ought to be an easy way to do this (not that I know of), but it should involve playing with fonts.conf. In summary, something to edit fonts.conf with (apart from gedit, vi and company).
** And please do allow at least this one bitmap font -- WenQuanYi Bitmap Song. Blurry, antialiased Chinese characters simply makes the eyes tear. (because of the stroke density of Chinese characters) -- SimSQ
* Remove gnome splash screen
* Oem Install possibility for the end-user of entering his login and password choice to the first use of graphic Ununtu of way. thank's and sorry for my english(fr)
** We implemented this two releases ago, in Ubuntu 5.10 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDownUnder/BOFs/OEMInstaller) --MattZimmerman
* Only One Gnome Panel like Suse 10.1 - See interesting idea on page <nowiki>[[OnlyOneGnomePanel]]</nowiki> (or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/only-one-gnome-panel|spec]]</nowiki>)
** You always can set one panel to Automatic hide, or even both panels, gaining extra space and having the possibility of having panels of the width/height you want.( I have top panel always shown, bottom automatic hide and never had problems of space). That is freedom of use, I presume. ;) -- xerman (info [at] xsproxectos [dot] com)
** I do not agree here. I and my friends find it very useful to have two panels, because you have a lot of free space and the panels are not overfilled.charter retention
** See this: <nowiki>[[PanelSwitcher]]</nowiki>
** However, many prefer only 1 panel. IMHO, 1 panel looks far neater.
** The deskbar should be on by default, since it is so useful, and that fills the top panel for me.
* More GUI configuration tools, such as the xorg.conf configuration in Kubuntu.
** Could Ubuntu borrow from other distros for this and other (mouse, keyboard, boot menu, etc.) configuration needs? Mandriva config tools are in perl-gtk and GPL AFAIK
** Suse (YAST) is the ultimate system which is now open sourced.
*** YaST is one of the main reasons I don't use SUSE. It's a horrible, system-hijacking suite that enforces "my way or the highway" to a terrifying degree. Even basic things like network configuration are rendered hellish by YaST. For the love of all that is good and holy, please don't even think about putting it in Ubuntu. -- Directhex    * Only tools, where they are required. For example for X (set monitor values manually, sort screens in multiscreen setups, select  a specific driver, if multiple are available for that chip) or an _easy_ LVM tool (with that, we could also automatically create an /home partition  or better logical volume).
*** This is being discussed on anocharter retentionthe page as well: <nowiki>[[ListOfNGUIs]]</nowiki>.
*** LVM cannot seriously be discussed in such a situation without mentioning GParted. When LVM support is added to the desktop CD then maybe we can think about making a graphical config tool for it.
* If you change your video card post instalation, currently X will simply fail to load and   flake out to the bash prompt. Wouldn't it be better, if X failed to load, to automatically run "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" to set up the new video card?
** I regularly swap my USB hard drive between different systems and X reconfigures itself automatically. It selects the 2D Free Software drivers for Nvidia and ATI cards, so sadly it doesn't detect the 3D Free Software driver for ATI that I use (well, come to think about it neither does dpkg-reconfigure). The only thing I have found which does use the DRI driver is the LiveCD which gives me 3D support that "just works"
* Menu changes
** Possibility for the Root to make all panels of all users like the panel of one user, in one click
** Couldn't the current menu icon be made into a longer button (a wider button with 'ubuntu' or something written on it, which is larger to click).
** Remove the 'Places' and 'System' tabs and put them as a submenu inside the menu.
** Why don't you just use the menu applet instead of the menu bar applet? It does exactly what you want. For regular users though, I think having "Home", "Theme", "Networking", etc. under "Applications" would be confusing.
** Change 'Add/Remove...' to 'Add/Remove Software..' this is more clear to the new user.
** Wouldn't that make the Applications menu a lot wider? (With a lot of whitespace after the  other menu options?)
** <nowiki>[[Alexandrep]]</nowiki>: On one hand, we can imagine that 'Add/Remove...' refers to applications because it is located in the ''Applications'' menu.  On the other hand, to satisfy some people, it could be renamed in 'Manage Softwares' or something else..
** It may be confusing to new users to have 2 different ways to add/remove software (ie. Alacarte and Synaptic). Just have 1 or the other.
** <nowiki>[[Jeremy4]]</nowiki>: Evolution launch iccharter retentionon should not appear both under Internet menu and Office menu.  I propose deletion from the Office menu.  Also, if you do keep both icons (which I find to be an annoyance, and a break from the otherwise well-organized menu system), make sure they use the same icon.  By default, the Evolution icon under the "Internet" menu follows theme preferences, but the Evolution icon under the "Office" menu does not.
*** Agreed that icons should be the same but remember that in the Windows world where many use Microsoft Outlook that this is considered part of 'Office'. On the other hand Outlook ''Express'' is considered more 'Internet' - got to love Microsoft's naming schemes :). Keep both I think

** Right-click with the mouse and be able to select a choice like "Remove from menu" would be much faster and easier then having to start Alacarte each time, also a "Edit Menu Item" wouldn't be that bad either :) - ''TomasGustavsson''
** Only hide from menu is better.
** Why not "Remove this software" in addition to "Remove from menu" on a right-click on an item in the menu ? Spack2
*** I agree, this work make the uninstallation of packages much easier. Although if done, there must be a confirmation window, as it would make accidental uninstallation much more possible.
*** Remember Ubuntu is a multi-user system from the ground up. Options to remove software should only be enabled for users in the admin group. Hiding/removing a menu entry is fine on a per-user basis (that is the point of System>Preferences and System>Administration being seperate)
** Drag & drop menus, both for reorganizing and for adding items.
** Include the <nowiki>[[http://cvs.gnome.org/viewcvs/slab/|slab]]</nowiki> menu applet created by novell for SLED 10.
** This menu has been widely praised as a great advancement - it has integrated Beagle into the standard menu.
* Pie menus: A good discussion of pie menus is at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pie_Menu. You can try out an implementation by installing the easyGestures or RadialContext extension to Firefox.

* Beagle installed by default
** HiddeBrugmans: Tracker might be a viable alternative, it is designed to be small and easy on the resources, and can be used with Nautilus and Deskbar-applet. http://freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Tracker
** VáclavŠmilauer: should not be on by default, though. I had to uninstall beagle on terminal server for it constantly loaded both CPUs and ~/.beagle indexes were as much as 130MB for each user!
** That CPU bug got fixed. Those 130MB shouldn't be a problem on todays HDs. But for Forders outsite the own /home, beagle should place the index in that folder (so some "all users" folder only needs to be scanned once)
** Wouldn't that force you to install lots of stuff (Mono and assorted libraries)?
** Somewhat related: give beagle and the nautilus search tool more options to specify for search (filenames, every kind of dates, file sizes..)
** Also somewhat related: Nautilus' inline search must search in the current directory by default! In addition, it should mirror the functionality of gnome-search-tool exactly (not just allowing location/file type), otherwise the user will be left frustrat
** Add a nautilus action (optional install, not default?) to mass rename files. The option would look at the selected file group, and offer the user the option of renaming some or all of the common text in all the file names, or an advanced option. E.g. Twenty files called "Track x Unknown CD Unknown.ogg" could be managed effectively. JackWasey
** I am going to advocate Tracker, because Beagle never works for me and I just don't want any VMs installed on my machine at all. --JohnMoser

* Add EveryGUI: http://everygui.sourceforge.net/ - as a system tool.

* Add a unmount/eject button in the places menu (drives). Like in Mac OSX.
** This is not that needed as you can add drives to the panel then mount, unmount them from there and there is no need to go to the places menu. -- xerman (info [at] xsproxectos [dot] com). By the way, there is no need for Ubuntu to be like MacOsX. It's going to be better than MacOsX. It's already better in certain aspects. Still any doubt? 

* Add an official gdm theme with face browser

* Add a button to calculate the MD5 in the properties of file. --JérômeDubois

Overall GUI Improvements:

* Integrate Looking Glass into Ubuntu - create a nice african landscape 3D image for the background )for the theme and philospohy of the operating system.  Since Ubuntu doesn't want to go in the direction of Windows or Mac, this would give the opportunity for a new, slick, stylish interface for current users, and to attract new users.

* To encourage more users to make the switch, add a tutorial video that would launch on startup to show the main features of Ubuntu to the new user.
** There are many different implementations for this. The Welcome Centre is one approach, and the Ubuntu Video site is another. Trying to ship extra videos on the CD would sacrifice other applications, and offering them online would be a waste of user's bandwidth (especially on dialup)

* To ancourage more users to feel more comfortable moving around the environment, instead of using the actual, and sometimes cryptic Linux names for software in the menus, rename them in the menus only to help new users get about better.  For example - New user is looking to edit a photo - sees Gimp - has no idea what it is - user get confused.  Change the name in the menu from "Gimp" to "Photo Editor".  And So On... PaulStoner2
** "GIMP Image Editor" is the current name, which I think works well. It says what it is, an image editor, and it says the application's name, the GIMP. It is usually important to use the application's name since trying to get support could be a matter of: User: My photo editor crashed!, Support: Which photo editor?, User: The photo editor!, Support: Which photo editor!, etc. Also, as an artist who makes heavy use of the GIMP every day, I have never used it to edit a photo in my entire life.

* Tags support. In gnome this is being developed in the <nowiki>[[http://www.chipx86.com/wiki/Leaftag|leaftag proyect]]</nowiki>. It already has support for nautilus, gnome-vfs and deskbar.
