{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Programs ====
* A Slide show creator: dvd-slideshow w/ working GUI.  A Program that lets you set still photos to music with nice transitions and burn to DVD with a nice menu.  (MAC & Windowsusers have a number of apps available and it's popular, good for marketing) the script is in the repos but a good GUI is not.  Sourcefroge offers slcreator and "photo dvd slideshow as GUIs) 
* Doc: Perhaps it's possible to use 7-zip as default zip-Programm, the default Archivemanager often didn't work correctly for me. Also I think 7-zip has *.rar support.
** I would actually prefer 7zip's compression algorithm to be detached from it's container format, so we can use tar.7z. Other than that, I have noticed that 7zipped files don't open with File Roller by default. Also, is 7zip's use of rar a) legal, b) Free Software or c) reliant on third party rar archivers, like File Roller is?
** File-roller doesn't perform archive operations by itself, but relies on standard tools for this. Once you install p7zip from universe repository you can use 7z compression/decompression with file-roller. Also 7-zip (p7zip) has .rar, decompression only support. So you should be able to decompress .rar archives with file-roller. Honestly I don't understand why you want to use .rar. - OnkarShinde
* Gaim 2.0
** <nowiki>[[Alexandrep]]</nowiki>: If it is out by that time, I think it would be great.
** Gaim 2.0 is already out and I have it running in Ubuntu.  It would just be a matter of adding it to the repositories.
** Currently (2006-06-19), Gaim 2.0 is only in beta 3 stage, so it is not out. But it is available as a package in some repo -- again, as a beta build. ''-- Alexandre P.''
** Include gaim-libnotify. It looks more integrated than guifications.
* Better integrated Wine support. Possibly a GUI frontend. (Similiar to Cedega?)
** <nowiki>[[Alexandrep]]</nowiki>: Doesn't "winecfg" do the thing?  Maybe a launcher in the ''Applications'' menu to WineCfg may be added.
** ChrisWagner: Be sure to see <nowiki>[[http://www.wine-doors.org/trac|"Wine Doors"]]</nowiki> (Michaël, didn't you mean to place that link right here?)
* Ubuntu theme for Wine - is this possible?
** Wine can load Windows themes. I tried using the PlastikXP theme in KDE and it seemed much better integrated.
** MichaëlArnauts: Something like <nowiki>[[http://www.wine-doors.org/trac|Wine Doors]]</nowiki> is excellent for this task... However, I don't think it will finish in time unless it gets some more attention...
* Tremulous, already packaged for Debian -> multiverse
** Is there any non-open content?  I'd actually enjoy seeing something like Nexuiz 2.0 or Tremulous et al in main.  Think like when Windows 2000 came with 3D pinball instead of Solitair, except imagine that it was Halo 2 instead.  (To be honest I'm tired of the "Linux Has No Games" crap and just want to see some love) --JohnMoser
* ndiswrapper installed by default
** Maybe with providing some pack of windows drivers for it? We can use http://www.driverpacks.net/
** how about Licences?
* Beagle by default
** I can never make Beagle work, look into Tracker instead I guess.  I am against where these kinds of things lead to (i.e. "moving away from hierarchical storage"), but the idea of desktop searching is a good one; back in 2001 I tried to do the same on borland C++ ;)  Still, I definitely don't want any virtual machines by default, i.e. Mono. --JohnMoser
** Good idea, but if this is done, inform the user that his or her files are being indexed instead of just slowing the PC down on the first boot with no indication of what's going on (SuSE 10.1 makes this mistake)
** Definitely not a good idea for low end PCs. Maybe a better idea to give the user the option to install this during installation.
** Why not just ask the user if he/she wants to have beagle? (after installing)
** According to me it is better to ask to the user saving the speed on low end PCs stop      
    installing not required features.It should be better to create an interface for common features
** Consider Adding Csound5, updating Csound classic package. Csound5 have a big number of news feautures for audio produccitons.
** <nowiki>[[Alexandrep]]</nowiki>: Adding an option to the installer is a better idea?  I don't think so.  Some already think there are too many questions during the installation process... unless an 'expert installation mode' is added to Ubiquity, which would allow the selection of optional packages to install (Beagle, numlockx, etc.)?  Anyway, I tend to agree with the fact that Beagle slows the PCs, and since I have an "ol' grandma" PC, I would not like having Beagle by default :P
*** Perhaps an 'advanced features' option could be checked or unchecked during installation for higher spec. machines, which could include Beagle and other packages (perhaps XGL or eqiv.).
** <nowiki>[[http://freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Tracker|Tracker]]</nowiki> is a similar program as beagle but much more light weight. Only uses 4 to 6MB of RAM. It's in early development but it seems to work well. Maybe should not be installed by default yet but would be nice if it were packaged.
** Maybe install it but disable by default? Enable by user prefs.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.glscube.org/|GLScube]]</nowiki>: GLS³ is an open source semantic storage solution for GNU/Linux that indexes your data, extracts from it metadata and relevant information, allows you to organize it using queries and tags, an API to allow Developers to integrate searching and organization capabilities in their application, shared schemas between applications through an API, a pseudo file system for backward compatibility, a web interface, As-You-Type searching and more. Looks promising.
* Network Manager by default
** better integration with /etc/network
** VPN connectivity (PPTP/OpenVPN/whatever else NM works with) 'out of the box'
** add more dialup configs (pppoe, pptp, ISDN) to network-admin and network-manager.
** Support static ip address across all connections.
** support for wpasupplicant is important, since many companies, schools, etc use a wireless lan which requires wpasupplicant

* Add '''Transmission BitTorrent Client''' to the repositories. It's Open Source, and easy on resources and dependencies. <nowiki>[[http://transmission.m0k.org/]]</nowiki> Link.

* Add '''Mozilla Sunbird''' to the repositories

* Add '''Skype''' to the repositories
** Skype's license does not allow it to be redistributed.  If a redistribution agreement can be arranged, then we can distribute it from the commercial repository only.  Ekiga is working well for me.  --MattZimmerman
** you mean to multiverse? And get them to use ALSA!
** Skype 1.3 Beta uses ALSA as default
** OnkarShinde: Aren't we supposed to promote open protocols and for that matter SIP over Skype's proprietary protocol? Also SIP quality is better for PC-Phone calling at least. Haven't tried PC-PC calling.
** Many people use skype, so support in multiverse for it would be great
** Many packages in Debian (and external Debian repos) are empty except for a script which wgets the installer from the manufacturer's site and installs it (I think the flashplugin-nonfree package does this). Obviously this is not ideal, but is it at least allowed for something like Skype?

* Add <nowiki>[[http://www.openwengo.org/|OpenWengo]]</nowiki> to the repositories (maybe even prefer it over Skype?)
** OnkarShinde: We already have ekiga. Gaim 2 will have SIP IM capability, if not VoIP. Do we still need another SIP client?
** '''LukaRenko''' wengophone package is already in Dapper Universe
** Ekiga feels like more of a conferencing tool, whilst '''OpenWengo''' feels more like a 'phone. Choice is good.
* Add '''Picasa''' and '''Google Earth''' to multiverse
** License does not allow it to be redistributed.  If a redistribution agreement can be arranged, then we can distribute it from the commercial repository only.  --MattZimmerman
* Package '''Netbeans''' (www.netbeans.org)
* Add '''Realplayer 10''' to multiverse
** License does not allow it to be redistributed.  It is available in the commercial repository instead.  --MattZimmerman
* Find a way to use the default '''Firefox icon''' or use a better integrated tango/tangerine icon
* Use '''Epiphany''' instead of Firefox by default. 
** No, Firefox demonstrate its competence as the browser of choice by phenomenal success in market share and <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.com/press/awards.html|awards]]</nowiki>. '''''It is very important to have this web browser by default,''''' because many Windows and Mac OS X users are familiar with it (in a similar was like with OpenOffice.org). Please make rather Firefox better integrated with K/Ubuntu (e.g for installing plugins such as Java, Flash, RealPlayer... and for installing package when users click on them)
** Ubuntu!=Windows, OpenOffice!=MS Office, Totem!=Windows Media Player, Rhythmbox/Amarok!=iTunes, Nautilus!=Explorer, k3b/GNOMEBaker!=Nero, FileRoller!=Explorer, Evolution/Thunderbird!=Outlook, Synaptic!=InstallShield, Epiphany/Firefox!=Explorer. Familiarity really doesn't matter, get used to it or use PCLinuxOS or something.

   So, what about Evolution vs Thunderbird, witch one is the default MUA?
** Firefox has market share because there is no Epiphany for Windows
** If we can get Epiphany to be as good as Firefox (there are several details missing)...
** How about if you can get Epiphany to not do stupid crap like magic downloads?  The first time I used the damn thing I clicked an MP3 and it did NOTHING; I look in /home, there it is.  Screw that.  There are other reasons to use Firefox, like i.e. the browsers are the same just Epiphany has a GTK+ GUI with an embedded Gecko inside it (which makes epiphany use about 20 megs more RAM somehow). --JohnMoser
*** If you are quoting performance then Epiphany doesn't have Firefox's famous memory leak, and it changes themes to match GTK unlike Firefox. Also, if you had MP3 codecs and had associated them with a player and set a sensible download location (/home isn't default, $HOME is) then you would have the file opened and saved together. My brother created a huge playlist (of free music of course) in Totem from Firefox, then after a reboot he said Ubuntu is crap because he can't access his songs (/tmp is not a great place to store music). Firefox is amazingly unintuitive, and it is harder to fix (yes FIX) it's download policy compared to Epiphany, since Epiphany has no majority of Windows users (notorious for their resistance to progress, which it seems some Ubuntu users are as well). Windows users see Firefox as a virus-free stand-in for Internet Explorer, and it has worked well for them. Ubuntu should NOT become a virus-free stand-in for Windows, not at the cost of usability and innovation. I will admit Firefox has one advantage over Epiphany, and that is putting the cursor in the location bar by default when opening new tabs. However, this is so trivial that it can be fixed in minutes in Epiphany (whilst changing something on that scale in FF would provoke outcry and needless posting on Wikis...)
** <nowiki>[[Alexandrep]]</nowiki>: This discussion has already happened in Ubuntuforums some time ago.  Moving to Epiphany in GNOME-based derivatives of Ubuntu (Ubuntu and Edubuntu) seems to be a great idea, IMO.  I won't repeat what has been said: <nowiki>[[EpiphanyDefaultBrowserThoughts]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[EpiphanyDefaultBrowserThoughts]]</nowiki>.  If the only problem is about "market share", then Edgy should use Epiphany.
** I really can't believe that moving Epiphany to the default would legitimately help users in any way.  I'm willing to wager that 95% or better of web browser users use the default browser with the default settings and wouldn't notice a difference between Ephiphany and Firefox.  With regards to that; both browsers perform fairly similarly in terms of usage.  In fact, practically all modern browsers share the same basic mosaic-inspired interface.  So for that huge percentage of users, they really won't ever notice the difference.  So why give up the name recognition of Firefox to switch to something that for the vast majority of users functions the same?
** Firefox is available for many platforms (win, mac, etc) and not just for gnome. Since many people are already familiar with Firefox, making Epiphany the default browser would be a mistake
** What you mean to say here is that GNOME is not available for win, mac, etc, since Epiphany is PART of GNOME, which is why it has such great integration with GNOME. This is what makes it so powerful and easy to use (system tray integration, system-wide filetype association, proper GTK support [try changing themes with FF open], deskbar bookmarks [the whole bookmarks system is better anyway], you get the idea) . Windows or Mac ports wouldn't do it justice, just like a GNOME port of Explorer would be crippled (beyond the obvious). Would you want Explorer as default because users of another operating system didn't change what their corporation gave them? And before you say it, if Firefox is so Free, why aren't we even allowed to use the icon? Kubuntu uses Konqueror since it is part of KDE, so Ubuntu should use Epiphany since it is part of GNOME. Xubuntu can use, erm, dillo? :)

* Consider Banshee player by default
** That would mean all of mono etc. Rhythmbox has nearly identical functionality in cvs, is faster, and already included.
*** BenWoosley: Compared to Rhythmbox, Banshee has a cleaner/simpler UI, a nice plugin system and automatic album art & metadata retrieval.
**** Rhythmbox has ''all of those''.
*** <nowiki>[[Alexandrep]]</nowiki>: I also prefer Banshee.  It still misses some features, but I think Banshee is easily extensible, isn't it?  It has a lot of potential.  And what is the problem with having Mono shipped with Ubuntu?  I thought it was available under free-libre licenses (not just the GPL, but all free licenses).
*** I personally prefer Quod Libet (a player which is written in Python and uses GTK). However there are also a lot of other good players like Banshee. I just think that Rhythmbox is the worst player they could choose. I tried to use it a bit, but it crashed a lot and offers not that much feautures. Also I think it's a cheap iTunes copy and therefore not innovative.
*** <nowiki>[[krazkerm]]</nowiki>: I love Banshee's layout and usability; however it's a slow dog and skips frequently playing simple MP3's (on an XP1600 with 512mb DDR), is rather slow at importing quantities of music into its library, and is a huge memory hog. Also, unless other Mono applications make it into the default installation, it doesn't make a lot of sense to drag in the extra dependancies for one application.
*** <nowiki>[[PaulCutler]]</nowiki> Banshee CVS (0.11, June '06) has considerable performance increases and feature adds, including streaming radio, Podcast support, and Smart Playlists.  I would prefer to see Banshee as the default over Rhythmbox.

* '''F-Spot'''
** BenWoosley: This would also require mono, but I think it's the best photo app for linux
* Easy to use video capture for DV and HDV video
* Video editing with something that is easier to use than Kino - [www.diva-project.org Hopefully '''Diva'''] will be stable by Edgy
** <nowiki>[[Alexandrep]]</nowiki>: Remember Ubuntu is targeted at general purpose use.  Is video editing one of the things most people do everyday?  I don't think it should be included by default ''(if it wasn't what you entended, I'm sorry to have misinterpreted what you said)'', but it might be available in repositories.
*** Peturrr: A lot of friends that I have use the Windows Movie Maker software to edit some of their digital photocam movies. Windows Movie Maker is very simple and something like Diva is therefor perfectly suited for the Ubuntu user. It would appeal to a lot of younger users (15+) 
** How about '''Avidemux'''
* Add <nowiki>[[http://gnormalize.sourceforge.net/|Gnormalize]]</nowiki> and use it instead of Serpentine and Sound Juicer by default
* Consider <nowiki>[[http://gnomebaker.sourceforge.net|Gnomebaker]]</nowiki> as the CD/DVD burner by default
** Maybe <nowiki>[[http://perso.orange.fr/bonfire/|Bonfire]]</nowiki>? Bonfire looks very good/easy to use and uses gstreamer0.10
*** Why not <nowiki>[[http://graveman.tuxfamily.org/|Graveman]]</nowiki>? It has a simple and clean UI.
** I second Gnomebaker, particularly since the latest cvs release builds now use GStreamer0.10.
** <nowiki>[[Alexandrep]]</nowiki>: I don't remember if Nautilus allows the creation of audio CD...  It may be interesting to include by default a more advanced CD creation tool.
*** I have a better idea.  Integrate audio CD creation with Nautilus, and mixed mode.  Virtual folder with a special icon in the CD creation mode? --JohnMoser
** OnkarShinde: I also think Gnomebaker should be at least in main, if not included by default.
* Tapioca packages for Google talk users wanting voice chat capability?
** OnkarShinde: If Gaim 2.x with jingle integrated is out before Edgy then we won't need this.
* Get MonoDevelop past it's infancy. This would do wonders for bringing in more .NET developers from Windows. The top three needed features IMO: 1) Integrated Debugger. 2) ASP.NET designer. (I think that is being done in Google SOC). 3) Winforms designer. That one is huge and is practically at the bottom of the list as far as the MonoDevelop group is concerned.
* GTK-Gnutella (in universe?) should use GTK2 for its interface.  I recently installed it through the repositories and it used GTK1.  On GTK-Gnutella website, a .deb package using GTK2 is available.
** I use it regularly and a GTK2 version is in Universe

* Implement an easy to use application security framework based on App''''''Armor from Suse. App''''''Armor is an application security tool designed to provide a highly secure yet easy to use security framework for your applications. App''''''Armor proactively protects the operating system and applications from external or internal threats, even zero-day attacks, by enforcing good behavior and preventing even unknown application flaws from being exploited. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AppArmor|AppArmor]]</nowiki> (or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/apparmor|specification]]</nowiki>) <nowiki>[[http://en.opensuse.org/Apparmor|description_(Suse_page)]]</nowiki>
** This is marketing bull crap.  GccSsp stops zero days; PaX stops zero days; ExecShield stops zero days; but AppArmor and SELinux don't.  What these things do is limit the damage to a reduced permission set; and often interesting services still are interesting to attack.  Let's pick two theoreticals: --JohnMoser
*** If you i.e. hack into Apache, you might be able to deface a Web site by trashing the uploads target of a CMS or some of the themes (some CMS systems i.e. Wordpress or CMSMS let you edit themes from the admin panel), but be stopped from editing PHP scripts that don't get changed by the Web server.  Still, you would have rights to READ those, and thus get the username/password/IP for the database server, allowing you to i.e. modify a theme to dump the database if a specific cookie is set.  This can't be protected against, by design.
*** If you i.e. hack into ssh, you have permission to change users.  If ssh is not allowed to transition directly to sysadmin while still holding root (i.e. you can't log in as root, by AppArmor or SELinux policy), then an attacker can't hack ssh and gain root access.  He CAN gain access to any other account, because ssh policy must be set to transition properly to user context when a UID switch is made, otherwise logging in over ssh breaks.

* Have <nowiki>[[https://www.mozilla.org/projects/calendar/sunbird/|sunbird]]</nowiki> be included in the repos. Sunbird is the stand-alone calendar application from mozilla. It has low version number, but that should match much of edgy. I would like to see it integrated into the date/time display in the upper-right gnome-panel. You click on the display, and are shown your sunbird events instead of evolution calendar events. There could be a way to synchronize sunbird and the evolution calendar.
* A couple of months ago there was a small hype about a possible "Rubuntu" (Ubuntu + Ruby). Not that  it should be a distribution apart, but it would be great to integrate the whole ruby/gems/rails with lighttpd/mysql as one thing. Not like now that configuring them to work together is a pain.
* Include the '''Fish shell''' - it's a great shell for power users and beginners alike. Maybe in repositories? It works great on Breezy (but not as default shell).
** Fish is in universe for both Breezy and Dapper
* Server
** Bacula <nowiki>[[http://www.bacula.org]]</nowiki> is very nice for centralized backups. In my opinion it is a reliable system and works well with non-us charsets. I have verified it works with danish chars in the console interface. Ideally a complete turnkey setup should be installed. What database to use (sqlite, MySQL og PostgreSQL) must be determined.
* Ask for participation to package popularity contest during installation, and separate results from differents ubuntus (kubuntu, xubuntu edubuntu etc...) to select the most used programms on each category. (in order to choose between evolution/thunderbird, epiphany/firefox for exemple :p)
* '''Evolution'''
** Spam filter out-of-the-box (use bogofilter with a default database which just work)
* A standalone Flash player would be useful. This could involve a simple GTK window and menus around a cut-down Gecko engine. Also Gnash (from gnu.org) should replace GPLFlash for non-x86/pure Free Software users. It uses OpenGL for graphics so it should run fast, and it can act standalone or as a Mozilla plugin (but no sound support due to MP3 patents)
** '''gnash''' can also use cairo for graphics. So this will be good for older cards. Have two packages gnash-cairo & gnash-gl. Also we can have a multiverse version gnash-sound. - OnkarShinde
* Add Chandler-calendar. Its very interesting
* '''Taskjuggler''' - web, calendar & db addons for multi-user task tracking
* '''GLPI''' - amazing asset database & trouble ticket system: http://glpi-project.org
* '''CDemu'''
* Add '''FrostWire''' (P2P Client ) to universe repo
** This is part of https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/common-customizations
* Add '''Cinelerra''' (video editing software) to the repositories
** Add '''Cinelerra-CV''' too. Cinelerra is for professional users, cinelerra-cv is a 
     fork and made for normal mainstream users. http://cvs.cinelerra.org/
* Add '''Dia''' (GTK based Diagram, UML, ERD and FlowChart Editor) to main. BTW a new version is out -> 0.95
** It has been in main since WartyWarthog.  Look in Add/Remove --MattZimmerman
* Add '''Anjuta''' to main
* Do not drop PHP4 and MySQL4. These versions are still very much the workhorses of LAMP servers. They should also be in main, not universe.
* Firefox
** Ask for permission to use the offical Firefox Logo in the (patched) Ubuntu version of it.
** Make Flash with sound (with a wrapper, so it works when another app is using the soudcard too) work by default.
*** See http://launchpad.net/bugs/29760 for why this is intentionally not enabled
* Put '''libglide3''' back into main. I still have a '''Voodoo 5''' videocard and want to use 3d accerlation. Especially with the upcoming XGL.
* Some sort of server administration program (GUI would be nice for home servers, maybe an ncurses interface for console) much like WorkgroupManager and ServerAdmin in OS X server (Only something more stable)
** Possibly something for each service (like a good solid admin program for samba, one for a directory services (LDAP/ActiveDirectory/OpenDirectory) one for apache, etc.
* Include google earth in universe
** Surely this would be Multiverse?
** Neither, it isn't redistributable.  See above --MattZimmerman
* don't freeze versions in universe, they should even keep updating after main got released.
** I second this request. At least for those packages which do not endanger system stability like WINE, DOSBox and ScummVM. It is very hard for newbies to install the latest version of e.g. ScummVM or DOSBox while under Windows it is one click.
* try to include arround every app, which compiles and could be even slightly usefull. The user should NEVER need to search the web for apps!
** Will you package and bugtest these apps? Seriously included apps must be as stable as possible, and keep them as useful as possible we must focus on the most important packages. Also, what kind of apps do you mean? Universe contains far too much stuff for anyone.
* use backports as a source, from where apps are only selected, if the user selects the specific backported version in synaptic (pining) and which includes only new versions of apps in main.
* FIX '''Rosegarden''' problems with audio

* Include the newest version of '''lilypond''' into the Universe repository and possibly development versions or new versions into the backports. The program is rapidly evolving and every version brings a lot of new features.
* Gnucash2. At least in universe if it is not released early.
** Pre-release versions  (1.9.x) are already in edgy/universe --MattZimmerman
* Move Eclipse to main. Add <nowiki>[[http://www.phpeclipse.de/tiki-view_articles.php|phpeclipse]]</nowiki>
** and remove dependency on <code>gcj</code> and let it optinally run on <code>sun-java5</code> see <nowiki>[[http://www.google.de/search?num=30&hs=UNW&hl=de&client=opera&rls=de&q=site%3Alaunchpad.net+bug+sun-java5+eclipse&btnG=Suche&meta=lr%3Dlang_de|related bugs]]</nowiki>

* Openoffice opens documents pretty fast (at least small writings) once it's started. However starting openoffice takes very long. Create a feauture that allows the ubuntu desktop to start an instance of openoffice when you login (with a greater nice value then most desktop apps, so it does not disturb the user).
** already exists (Extras -> Settings -> RAM -> Preload OOo (the checkbox at the bottom of that page).
** enable it by default (or ask the user if he/she wants that, after the installation)?
** Preloading OpenOffice can slow the amount of time it takes for the desktop to become usable after logging on on slower machines.
** There are other optimizations that can be done if binutils and glibc are patched after Edgy, and can cut the start-up time by lots. --JohnMoser

* Add '''Zimbra''' to universe.
* Add '''GIS''' packages
** '''QGIS''' is already in Dapper and is great
** Need most importantly a postgis package
** Also would like to see a mapserver package
** The '''uDIG''' client would be nice as well (see <nowiki>[[http://refractions.net/]]</nowiki>)
** I'm probably forgetting some others
* Net booting support in grub!
** I spoke with the Debian maintainer and he plans to enable this in the near future --MattZimmerman
* A batch-queuing service/scheduler (PBS, Maui scheduler)
* A turn-key LDAP authentication service for server installs
** Existing spec is here: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/network-authentication --MattZimmerman
** Integrate this with the system password utilities and graphical tools
** Should be seemless -- no external change in behavior
** Move as much as possible into LDAP (eg sudoers)
* A network client install mode where you enter the IP of the server and the installer figures out the rest
** Automatically NFS or SAMBA mounts /home
** Automatically integrates with LDAP realm for authentication, etc.
* Packages for ganglia suite including the php frontend and gexec
** gmetad and gmond are there already
* High throughput ssh option for clusters
** Use ssh -c blowfish or equivalent options in the config file --MattZimmerman
* Update classpath 0.9x to provide better out of box support for java. - OnkarShinde
* Add support for kqemu or create directly a package based on this script    
   https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KQEmu?highlight=%28qemu%29
** Does Qemu need to be specifically compiled for kqemu any more? I know it used to, but these days they have been seperated but that is mainly since Qemu needs GCC 3.X whilst kqemu should use the same GCC as the kernel (4.0 in Dapper)
* gnome-keyring everywhere: Default Applications in desktop should be patched to use the keyring, and the gnome-keyring-manager application could be included by default. KDE already uses this approach with kwallet.
* Add '''vnc2swf''' for recording screen movie directly in flash so it can be used in customer web site. http://www.unixuser.org/~euske/vnc2swf/
** I tried pyvnc2swf the other day and it doesn't work in Dapper. I had it working fine in Breezy so I debootstrapped a Breezy installation into a chroot and it worked (with "export DISPLAY="). Possibly the version of pygame is incompatible?
* Add DVD rip-o-matic: it's the opposite of rip::dvd not many options but it does its job quite well:
http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=21455

* Add '''AlsaModularSynth''', a realtime modular synthesizer and effect processor. It is the most matured realtime modular synthesizer at the moment for Linux and a little beyond Om Synth and gAlan. The latter ones are in fact allready in Ubuntu 6.10 but they are not as mature and progressed in development as AlsaModularSynth. For daily usage, AlsaModularSynth is better. 
http://alsamodular.sourceforge.net/

* Add '''Aeolus''' a synthesised (i.e. not sampled) pipe organ emulator.
http://users.skynet.be/solaris/linuxaudio/aeolus.html

* Install a 32 Bit version of Firefox with the AMD64 version so that 32 Bit plugins (e.g. Flash) can be used. 64 Bit doesn't improve anything for Firefox anyway.
** Agreed. In a similar manner to Windows x64's default 32 and 64-bit IE installations.

* Most people I know are familiar with Mozilla Thunderbird because they use it under Windows. Maybe Evolution could be replaced by it?
** Many people I know are familiar with Internet Explorer........ (besides, Evolution has a Windows port now, so no big deal)

* Ask if the locale language-pack (e.g. language-pack-de if German language was chosen in the setup) should be downloaded and installed after installation so that all programs (like OpenOffice) are in the locale language. A friend of mine was very confused when he installed Ubuntu: "I choosed German, although OpenOffice is in english, what went wrong?"

* Many packages from universe are not really good pre-configured. For example DOSBox is absolute not usable with a German keyboard layout and xmms uses, as far as I know, the OSS sound plugin instead of ALSA.

* Install the latest version of WINE per default (about 8,3 MB) to make the switch easier.

* I would like to see a few-clicks prompted way of installing BOINC and setting it up for projects like <nowiki>[[http://www.worldcommunitygrid.org/|the World Community Grid]]</nowiki>, possibly adding users to the Ubuntu-Linux group to boost PR. This would be great on EasyUbuntu/Automatix type apps, since it HAS to be optional, but since they are hopefully going to become obsolete it would be good to incorporate the option for desktop systems (laptops want to keep resource usage down). (The packages are in Universe already, but users must actively seek them out. Prompting them would encourage more widespread donation of resources)

* Doomsday would be good in Uni/Multiverse (not really sure on that one, since it is Free but it needs installers for non-Free WADs). Also, the impressive extras (3D models, high-res textures, particle effects, etc.) have not been <nowiki>[[http://eyagi.bpa.nu/~jamie/ubuntu|packaged for Dapper]]</nowiki> like <nowiki>[[http://eyagi.bpa.nu/eyagi/community-projects/yagisan-s-doomsday-for-debian-ubuntu|they were for Breezy]]</nowiki> yet, maybe we could help?

* All these flash packages are confusing (flashplugin-nonfree, libflash-mozplugin, libflash-swfplayer etc.). I suggest two meta packages: ''flash-free'' or ''gnash'' to install <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/software/gnash/|Gnash]]</nowiki> with all available browser plugins and ''flash-nonfree'' to install the official Adobe Flash with all available browser plugins (best: for all those browsers which are actually installed).

** The same for JAVA: There are now j2sdk1.4, j2re1.4-mozilla-plugin, j2re1.4, sun-java5-bin to name some of the packages. Why not a meta package ''java'' for the latest version of Suns Java with all necessary browser plugins and ''jave-free'' for the latest version of <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/|GNU Classpath]]</nowiki>, also with necessary browser plugins?

* Notepad++ (http://notepad-plus.sourceforge.net/uk/site.htm) should be included as a package. IT is written for windows but is open source. I assume that it would only have to be recompiled.
** Just because it's open source doesn't mean it can be compiled for any OS

* totem-gstreamer-firefox-plugin should be installed by default. It's 76 kB "big" and so useful.

* Ubuntu center (http://icenterx.info/) should be included as a package

* There should be a program for transferring files to/from PSP games consoles. By files, i mean audio, video and pictures. It should convert the files into the correct format and send them to the PSP memory card.
** Music should be in the MP3 format and in the /PSP/MUSIC directory on the memory card.
** Photos should be in JPEG format and be stored in /PSP/PHOTO directory
** Video should be in the MPEG-4 format but is much trickier. See if you can make sense of this: http://www.psp-vault.com/module-pnForum-viewtopic-topic-12.psp
** Note: as of PSP firmware version 2.60, the PSP can play MP3, ATRAC3plus, MP4, WAV and WMA too. Perhaps firmware version 2.60 should be automatically put onto the PSP by the program...

* The latest version of PHP, 5.1.6, would be nice. (Not available from all PHP mirrors, but http://de.php.net/ works fine)

* Add '''Wolfenstein Enemy Territory''' in commercial repository (version is 2.60 and patch 2.60b is available <nowiki>[[ftp://ftp.mirror.nl/disk2/idsoftware/idstuff/et/ET-2.60b.zip|here]]</nowiki>) and add mods in multiverse for this game ETPro, True Combat : Elite (new version is coming), ET Fortress, ... --JérômeDubois
** I've left an important comment on this on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Packages/Candidates|Universe candidates page]]</nowiki> (scroll down to the bottom) -- Warbo

* Add '''Brasero''' (http://perso.orange.fr/bonfire) (Bonfire is now called Brasero) CD/DVD burner in repository. --JérômeDubois

* Add '''Exaile''' (http://www.exaile.org) music player in repository. --JérômeDubois

* Add '''Unofficial Epiphany Extensions''' (http://www.sstuhr.dk/epiphany-extensions) in repository. --JérômeDubois

* Add '''OGMRip''' (http://ogmrip.sf.net) in repository. --JérômeDubois

* '''Monodevelop updates'''. Mono is being something really important in gnome (example: right now tomboy is officialy included in gnome 2.16). The changes in each new version of monodevelop are really important and the mono installer offered by the mono-project works only for x86. It would be really a good thing having monodevelop more oft updated.

* '''Nexuiz 2.1''' is available.  please, updates the package in repository.  the update is very important in online gamings
