{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

How to we make Ubuntu more usable?

* Accessibility - screen readers, magnifiers, etc. Accessibility of a platform is one of the requirements for adoption by a lot of governments and corporations. What can we do to improve it?

* How about speech recognition? (Like Vista, Mac OS X, Opera, etc.)

* Better new-to-Ubuntu tutorials? Help people go through things like setting up an email account in evolution, how to install plugins, how to install packages from the repository, etc. It could be put someone unobtrusive but easy to find so it wouldn't bother experienced users who hate popups. 

*** If we made the tutorials wiki-based, but well organized, etc by Ubuntu, then we might find a way to include high-quality documentation without having to have a huge documentation team.

*** It would be neat if there was some sort of downloadable flash like tutorial that shows users what to click by highlighting the buttons, and then actually has them try it out inside the tutorial. It would take too much effort though...  

*** I would suggest to place an icon on the desktop that opens a dedicated wiki page. But AFAIK there are a couple of other ideas concerning this idea, like UbuntuBeginnerTutorial and UbuntuWelcomeCentre.

* Dyslexia is one of the most common problems, making it harder for people to get involved. 
  <pre>
 [quote]According to the latest dyslexia research from the National Institutes of Health, dyslexia affects 20 percent of Americans (and about the same percentage of people in other countries.) (source http://www.bartonreading.com/dys.html )[quote] 
</pre>
 Troubled by this myself I'm grateful that spell checkers are more and more available and integrated. (open office and Firefox...). Spell checking should be further implemented and standardized where possible and it should be easy to switch between languages. Spellchecking should be available for all languages checked in language support. Perhaps it could even be auto detected which language the user is currently typing in.
 We have a locale, but many people use other languages, like English to engage on line. (I'm thinking of programs like Xchat/gaim/"tomboy notes" that only check the local system language.)

* Make a "Windows Compatibility Mode" a preference option, setting Ctrl+Alt+Del to open the System Monitor, setting .doc as the default format for Open Office.org Writer, etc.
** I don't think that changing the action of Ctrl-Alt-Delete is really a compatibility issue, these keyboard shortcuts should be changeable easily (graphically) by the user to do anything they want. I think a better idea might be a kind of "Check for Windows compatibility" tool which can be used on, for example, USB drives or just regular folders. It could check for and add "filename extensions" which Windows needs, sort out characters which will not work on Windows, such as colons in filenames, and there should be an option (and the default should be off!) to convert any OOo, Abiword, etc. files to their equivalent for Microsoft Office (the default should be off since "Windows compatibility" does not mean "Microsoft Office compatibility" and therefore Free Formats should not be discarded when they are perfectly usable on Windows thanks to Openoffice, Abiword, etc.). If done at all then this should make it clear that Windows is an incompatible system with many restrictions placed on it's users, rather than the common belief that Ubuntu (and other GNU/Linux systems) are "incompatible" simply because they are not allowed to implement certain undocumented, non-standard technologies. -- Warbo
** Ok, "Microsoft Compatibility Mode". Users don't care about the philosophical implications of software settings, they just want things to be familiar and work. Most computers run Windows, it's a fact, and most computers with Windows do NOT run OpenOffice. In a school or corporate environment, Office is the standard, and office does not read OOo files. I like Ubuntu and OOo, but people are not going to think well of Ubuntu/Linux if their work isn't able to be read at school/work. There should be an option to enable MS compatibility.
*** That's exactly what I said, but I added that it should be turned off by default. It is one thing to support users who use proprietary file formats, but it is quite another to support (as in, advocate by making default) the formats themselves. Maybe there should be three setting, 1) Do nothing to the files (for OpenOffice users, etc. Remember, OpenOffice for Windows is included on the Ubuntu Desktop CD), 2) Convert to PDF so at least they can be read by most people, 3) Convert to M$ Office to make them editable -- Warbo
*** Remember that OpenOffice.org has an option to save in Microsoft formats by default and that there is now an <nowiki>[[http://odf-converter.sourceforge.net/download.html|ODF converter for Microsoft Word]]</nowiki>.
*** It would be good to make this an option in the installer, so new users don't run into situations where all of a sudden they find out the format isn't compatible. Most people don't think about file formats, so they wouldn't think to look to change the setting. Say someone takes their essay to school to print it, but it's unreadable by MS Office. Plus, the user accounts at school are limited, so no conversion is possible on the spot. It would be good to have a checkbox in the installer, explaining the pros and cons of enabling Microsoft Compatibility Mode.
* Enhance the Keyboard Shortcuts dialog, allowing for the user to create keyboard shortcuts that run programs (already able to do this through gconf) and to choose the default music player

* Allow copying and pasting of images from Firefox to OpenOffice. ~kewldude606

* Don't clear clip board after application closes, unless the data on the clipboard is large in which case prompt the user. ~ kewldude606
*** Second. This is very annoying! ~ Stephan

* Pop up notifications when the user has plugged in/removed a USB device.  This should be able to be configured, and may need to be attached to an applet.

* It would be great if one can mount .iso-Images and other Images that can be mounted with a right click -> mount on the desktop

* Configure Super-L key (Windows key) to open the Applications/K menu menu by default in GNOME/KDE and Ctrl+Alt+Del to open the system monitor.
*** At the very least, configure Ctrl+Esc to do this. (The Windows key may not be intuitive for a non-Windows OS.)

* If you try to delete a directory or file, which you do not own or try to view a directy which the user is not allowed to, please ask for the sudo password instead of giving only an error message under GNOME and KDE. If you try to empty the trash bin with a file or directory in it the user has no write permission for, you not even get any error message.

* Make <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/feisty/utils/imwheel|imwheel]]</nowiki> a part of ''main'' and a dependency of ubuntu-desktop and kubuntu-desktop. Then create an easy way to configure extra mouse buttons.

* Enable automatic codec download <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/easy-codec-installation|like for multimedia codecs]]</nowiki> also for compression codecs as unzip, unrar, unace etc.

* After using Alacarte, restart the gnome-panels (killall gnome-panels). It's almost always necessary after menu changes, and it would be very convenient.

* GUI overview over all installed packages (with ability to search them) including the possibility to uninstall them.

* A desktop application to report feature requests (and also bugs). The more and more non-computer-literate people choose Linux, we have to leverage they insights, we have to find out what they think, what is the best, and what is the worst. Although we already have many sites for this, these people are not used to edit wikis and post bugs. So we have to give them the possibility in their usual computer environment: the desktop. It can happen that these feature request would be of low quality, but this does not mean that they are meaningless. Simply, they would not be clear enough to be considered by the developers. So it is not enough if the application sends the request to bugs.launchpad, but we need also a couple of non-developer-power-uses (like myself), who are willing to revise these requests, clarify them for the developers, and submit them finally at launchpad. Of course there is a lot of small details to be considered here, and I would be happy to see you suggestions!
