{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

How can we improve the installation process?

* Make the download page more accessible by autodetecting user settings (architecture and country) and automatically direct users to the most reasonable download. Showing a list of mirrors is not really the best way to demonstrate how user-friendly we are. Do give the option to select other files/mirrors, but directly point the user to the most reasonable choice by having a single BIG DOWNLOAD BUTTON on the homepage for the desktop (server users will be able to find the right ISO...). So the download button should be something like: "Get Ubuntu - Free (Desktop 6.10 for i386, 650MB)" and below that have a small link with "Other download options". Take Firefox website as an example. If the downloaded file is an ISO, automatically show a page explaining what an ISO is and how to burn it. 

* Point windows users to an ubuntu-setup.exe installer not to an ISO. ISO files images are difficult to work with because: 

** Most users do not know what an ISO is 
** They do not know what a burner is
** They may not have a burner 
** Even after they find out how to do it, they often burn it incorrectly by copying the ISO on the CD 
** They may use poor quality medium or burn at too high speed and make the CD useless 
** The BIOS might not help 
** They are far more comfortable with something called "setup.exe".

 There are 4 ways to create ubuntu-setup.exe: 

  1. Bundle burner and iso in a single executable (or better burner + iso downloader)
  2. Use an approach similar to <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/instlux|instlux]]</nowiki> (i.e. modifying boot.ini and install grub for windows, kernel and an initrd ready for netinstall)
  3. Install Ubuntu as an image file within the windows file system + a bootloader that will mount loop the image and boot from it. This has the additional advantage that it does not require to repartition the HD. Also the same image could be accessible via dualboot and via colinux. Moreover it should be possible to create a dedicated partition later on and dump the image contents in it.
  4. Detect the settings and decide which route is preferrable. So if there is a single partition go for 3, if there are many partitions/freespace but no CD writer go for 2, otherwise go for 1. As usual, pre-select the most appropriate choice but still give the option to do something different. So have a single window that says "I am going to install XYZ, for architecture ZYX, language YZX, with method ZXY; Install, cancel, change installation options, other languages"

 A big plus if windows settings and files can be automatically imported.

* When people boot into Ubuntu from the live CD, we should tell them immediately if some of the hardware they use is problematic, possibly in plain english and give suggestions, again in plain english, with special attention to network connection and related issues (wifi, pppoe, modem...). It is important to shape expectations as early as possible. Users should not be left to find out about problems by themselves, particularly after installation. They need to make an informed decision whether to install or not, and knowing if their hardware is supported is probably the single most important piece of information. Moreover this will help mark the line between supported and unsupported hardware.

 Additional idea: not only give suggestions, point them to simple scripts or GUI installers that fix the problem (if possible).
 A menu item 'hardware' should also be added to the Administration menu. This way, people can still check their hardware support,  ''after'' the install. --Extend device manager under administrators menu to inform if drivers are absent for HAL detected hardware?? ~ausimage--

* I don't know about other people, but i would certainly like to see reiser4 support in feisty and when a partition in fstab uses another file system other than ext3 it would be nice if the check only happen once every 30 time mounted and not every times the partition gets mounted. ( Sorry for the bad wording)  -Robert
** You just reminded me of something -- we should detect hardware, including determining if a machine is a laptop. If it is, don't have ext3 automatically check itself every 30 mounts. It's just too frequent for a laptop user, who reboots more than a desktop user does.
**** I think Ubuntu can already detect desktop / laptop. For system names, it recommends (or at least Dapper did, not sure about Edgy) "[username]-desktop" or "[username]-laptop" if I remember correctly.

* Provide shorter options on the livecd boot choice screen, with more helpful descriptions. "Start or Install Ubuntu" makes people afraid that it will install if they choose that option. "Start the Ubuntu LiveCD - No changes will be made to your system. A slow version of Ubuntu will start, and if you like what you see you can run the installation wizard later." or something would be better. Trying a new piece of software is scary enough for most people, no need to scare them away at the last second.

* Provide more options for partitioning.  This includes an option for detecting and offering to resize an already installed operating system partition as well as an option to create a separate /home partition.

** I would love to see features like LVM /-Partition and Software RAID in the GUI-installer. Although one can presume that users who want to use such features wouldn't have problems with the text-mode installer, this belongs into the default live-CD, or at least it should be mentioned somewhere that the GUI installer lacks some features, to prevent power users from wasting CD-Rs.

* Wouldn't it make sense to use LVM by default for new installations? It's a rather mature piece of software, and would make, in addition with some nice GUI-apps, later changes on the Filesystem layout much more user friendly, since he/she wouldn't have to bother with the antiqued demands of DOS partition tables.
** pros:
*** easier management, especially after the installation
*** new features (volumes over more than a complete physical drive, striping ...)
** cons:
*** users might get problems if they use 3rd-party partitoning tools, such as Partition Magic
*** some Live-linuxes commonly used for rescue purposes don't support LVM (e.g. older KNOPPIX releases)
*** Isn't a regular partition needed for /boot, since GRUB can't understand LVM? (GRUB2 can, I think) -- Warbo
*** I am guessing users will not be able to use Windows Ext2/3 drivers if their filesystem is in a logical volume? -- Warbo
*** Does GParted support LVM yet? Last time I tried it said my physical volumes were unrecognised, so trying to access the volume groups themselves was out of the question -- Warbo
*** LVM leads to "fragmented" partions, if its used too heavily
Please expand!
** Last time I checked, Fedora uses LVM by default. That means LVM is pretty much required for LiveCDs these days anyway, because Fedora is such a prominent distro -- Warbo

* I would like to see the option to start with an encrypted swap, root, and home partitions. Currently, all cryptoroot and cryptohome set ups are all hand built ... upgrading becomes an utter pain due to changes in the standard set of packages. An "official" ubuntu cryptoroot/home/swap setup would alleviate this. DiscussCryptoRoot .

* I would like to see the reserved blocks for root-user (in case of disk becaming full) to be less than 5%. Now if you make a 300GB partition with the ubuntu installer 15GB (=5%) is reserved (=lost).. and it is waay too much. 200-500MB would be enough for the purpose. so 1% or less would be enough for >4GB partitions. And even that is really needed only for the root-partition. I have seen the following questions asked several times on the forums.. Why/where did I lose xGB? ext3 sucks.. ntfs only took xMB.. etc. I know the reserved block % can be selected with the alternative install CD. But would like the liveCd installer to default to 1% for root and 0% for other partitions instead of 5%!! (ok maybe with partitions <4GB 5% may bee good, byt with hd sizes going to 500GB.. 5% is simply insane..)

* Why does Ubuntu not recognise and set up multiple monitors on installation? Currently it involves messing around with the xorg.conf file to get it to work. If you are a beginner this can be very offputting.

* Installation music

 As far as I know, the otherwise excellent Ubuntu installer does not play any music during installation, like the Windows installer. I believe this could add a bit of bling to the installation process. It kind of builds suspense. Some people will hate this so it should be very simple to turn off.

 An idea could be that of using a set of midi files, since they're small and you can choose the one that suits you more. I'd make available a combobox to select a song beside a single button with play/pause. That's the easiest interface that comes to mind. With timidity++ and some classical music midis, for example, installing ubuntu and testing audio should be a lot more relaxing. Or rock-n-rolling :-).

** <nowiki>[[Warbo]]</nowiki>: See this spec https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/music-while-installing If you think about it, an Ubuntu CD is not an installation CD which could include music, rather it is an entire OS (live CD), which just happens to have an installer as an application on it. Just start it installing on one desktop, or minimise it or something, then surf the web through Jamendo et al for something to play in Totem/Amarok/Rhythmbox/XMMS/Whatever else you install. The Ubuntu installer might not have some features of the Windows installer, but when installing Ubuntu '''you are already running a complete Ubuntu system'''. :) (Also, using midi would mean including a midi player and a big set of sound fonts on the disc, which would end up bigger than just an Ogg Vorbis or Protracker file).

* USB key installation

 I generally install Ubuntu using the network install system on a USB key since my laptop does not have an optical reader. This is not for the faint of heart. It is quite difficult to properly write the USB key to enable booting off it, and you only get the text installer.

 If we can provide a dead simple method to download the network installer, or maybe just write the ordinary ISO to the USB key, it would be yet another great way to install Ubuntu.
