{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Security ====

* Encrypted homedir (unlocked by pam) <nowiki>[[Jeffschroeder]]</nowiki>: libpam-encfs - PAM module to automatically mount encfs filesystems on login
** Why stop there, can't we do full encrypted root with LUKS?  Redhat does this.
**** I think it's something very important to have for our laptops. If someone steal the laptop, with a fully encrypted system, he'll get nothing from it, if you value your data more than your laptop then it's quite a deal.
** Actually, using PAM to mount individual home directories is better in many ways.  This way you can have multiple users on a system, each with their own separately-encrypted homedir.  Using a fully-encrypted root means that everyone that wants to be able to boot and use the system must know the same passphrase.  Besides, why bother to encrypt /usr and etc. anyway?  It'll just slow down loading of apps.  If an app needs to be secret, the user can build it and install it to his homedir.
** Actually, the reason for encrypting usr and etc is given in a gentoo wiki <nowiki>[[http://gentoo-wiki.com/SECURITY_System_Encryption_DM-Crypt_with_LUKS#Security_levels|gentoo-wiki.com]]</nowiki>:
*** root partition encrypted, booting from USB-stick 	 This is the safest approach, kernel and (optionally) initramfs exist on the usb-stick(which is not available to the attacker).
*** root partitions encrypted, booting from /boot 	The problem with this setup is that a sophisticated attacker could tamper with the kernel and/or initramfs archive and obtain your partition(s) passphrases.
*** root partition not encrypted 	Separate partiton contains sensitive data and is encrypted, the problem with this setup is that an attacker could perform a man in the middle attack by tampering with your system.
** Sure, encrypting root is the most secure way.  But this still makes any such system either a one-user system, or a system whose users share the root passphrase, which still means that any new user will have to be told the passphrase.  In the end, encrypting root protects against man-in-the-middle attacks.  But within a system, MitM should be prevented by physical security and access-level security (i.e. UNIX permissions).  Without physical security, you are still vulnerable to keyloggers and even live CDs.  The purpose of disk/partition/homedir encryption in Ubuntu should be to protect user data, not apps and executable code.  To that end, any GUIfied encryption should be for per-user data, probably with encfs, since other methods use loopmounts which cause disk space problems.  Any user that wants encrypted root should probably have to do it manually anyway, to make sure he knows what he's doing.  
** PAM EncFS SCARES ME.  If your password is lost, your home is destroyed.  I would much prefer the ability to EncFS individual directories and use a $HOME/.encfs-dirs file to list those, so the user can control what he's doing and assess the possible damages.
* GccSsp
* Exec shield enabled by default: <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/unstable/devel/kernel-patch-exec-shield]]</nowiki>. Is there any reason this isn't?
* AutomatedProblemReports should be used for the goals described in AutomatedSecurityVulnerabilityDetection. --JohnMoser
** In addition to just reporting detected stack smashes, `glibc` contains features to detect heap overflows and double `free()`s.  We should also alter the handlers for those to report that memory corruption has occurred.  These should be explicitly reported if possible, although this may require `glibc` spawn the crash handler on its own.
*** Spawning the crash handler should not allocate ANY memory, except with `alloca()`.  `malloc()` is assumed dangerous at this point.  Just `fork()`, `execve()`, and `wait()`; then `_exit(127)` (not `_Exit()`).
*** If `glibc` can detect a double `free()` distinctly, then we should report that in AutomatedProblemReports.  If not, I suggest that on `free()` the heap entry should be marked as a `free()`d entry and removed from the chain; but its memory shouldn't immediately be destroyed.
*** Other types of memory corruption should be reported on with a best guess.  For example `free()` of an overwritten `malloc()` chain entry may be a `free()` of an invalid address or a heap overflow.  We should guess that it's not a double `free()`, and supply the address to the crash handler.  It can use the debugger to nab memory near that address, which the user can send if he wants.
* How about including support for Novell's <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AppArmor|AppArmor]]</nowiki> MAC?
** AppArmor is just hype from Novell. Notice how it <nowiki>[[http://lists.immunitysec.com/pipermail/dailydave/2006-June/003241.html|doesn't prevent vulnerabilities]]</nowiki> like it is supposed to. 
** And SELinux? Red Hat uses SELinux per default.
*** Plus a GUI for controlling SELinux' policies
* Include (and improve) common PAM modules such as bioapi.
* You should be able to grant users thae same privelages as root, so that they don't have to use sudo for everything.
** In case you hadn't noticed, this is a VERY GOOD security feature, and it is used by EVERY major OS family. GNU/Linux, BSD, etc. use it, including MacOSX, and Windows Vista uses it. Getting rid of 30+ years of UNIX's security features would be shooting Ubuntu in the foot. Computers are tools, and they are used for writing letters, playing games, surfing the web, etc. There is absolutely no day-to-day activity which requires superuser priviledges, not even reading/writing removable media thanks to HAL/gnome-volume-manager. Those who need superuser powers should be prepared to use sudo, and those who don't (the vast majority) should be very glad that their system is protected from stupid mistakes/malicious attacks. (PS: Have you tried Mandrake/Mandriva? [In version 10.1 at least] They have the root account enabled, but the desktop background is bright red, the theme is GNOME's ugly default, etc. and these settings cannot be changed. Why? Because nobody should be using that account!)
* When an unpriveleged user tries to edit a file outside of his/her home  directory, rather than just saying "you don't have permission to do this, go away", it should sk for the sudo password.
** I agree. It should bring up a box, similar to shell scripts' "Run or display?" saying something like "You do not have permission to change this file, and it may be important to the system. If you wish to obtain administrative power to change this file press OK, otherwise press Cancel" Then launch GKSudo for the filetype's default Open With command.
* Include a 'shred' option next to the Empty Wastebasket option, so that data can be permanently deleted. (I'm new to Linux and handle a lot of confidential information and would like an easy way to securely delete it!)
