{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* 2012-05-03 Meeting (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/05/03/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t17:02|log]]</nowiki>):
** Kubuntu Council catch-up.
** ScottKitterman and DavidWonderly briefed us about current considerations in the Kubuntu world. Jonathan and David are in discussions with Blue Systems and Canonical about the use of the trademark.
** The discussion about trademarks hadn't been yet escalated to MarkShuttleworth, but he promised to close the loop.
** The CC thank the Kubuntu team for keeping everybody up to date and communicating clearly what is happening.
** The Technical Board catch-up was postponed to one of the next meetings.
** Code of Conduct review
** Laura Czajkowski <nowiki>[[czajkowski-CoCFeedback|brought up feedback]]</nowiki> she had collected about the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2012/04/16/code-of-conduct-update/|proposed CoC update]]</nowiki>.
** Only the issue regarding "Deciciveness has value in itself" was discussed.
** Charles Profitt suggested <nowiki>[[cprofitt-CoC|an update]]</nowiki>.
** MarkShuttleworth agreed to use it as a basis for a new revision.
** The CoC update is going to be discussed at UDS again.
** The discussion of the definition of support was postponed to one of the next meetings.

* 2012-05-17 Meeting (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/05/17/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t17:10|log]]</nowiki>):
** Technical Board catch-up.
*** mdz and cjwatson discussed how the board was getting on the issues they were encountering, administrative, unsure when meetings were taking place due to the multiple locations of the schedule. CC advised to use the fridge as the most up to date location. 
*** The next issue mdz brought up was a governance issue, the role of the chair, what role it had for tie-breaking decisions. 
*** action pleia2 to start a thread on the role of a chair on boards
*** ACTION: mdz update the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoard|TB docs]]</nowiki>
*** One issue the TB is having issue with right now is brainstorm, not 
*** CC thanked the TB for keeping them up to date and offered any help with fridge scheduling if needed
** Election and appointment of the 5th member of the IRCC
*** AlanBell gave noticed the IRCC were going to be filling the 5th seat soon and would be holding an election.
   
* Review and announce <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-news-team/2012-May/001567.html|New Membership Board Members]]</nowiki>
