{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Everyone uses multimedia in some way or another on their machine. How can we make Ubuntu fit better with this reality?

* Drop ESD, use PulseAudio (http://pulseaudio.org/). This is a new sound daemon meant as a drop-in replacement for ESD. dmix has bugs regarding sound quality, so it is not an option (yet).

* Resource sharing -- Ubuntu has come a long way in making it so that the standard multimedia apps don't lock /dev/dsp and other resources. This needs to be improved upon. The average computer user isn't going to understand that because rhythmbox is "paused" instead of "stopped" they can't play any other sounds. Or that the flash video they watched in a tab they closed long ago is still locking their sound device.

* PC's marked as home entertainment systems are becoming more common. How can Ubuntu be part of that trend? More support for TV recording/output cards? Easier setup of such systems using GUI tools?
*** Easier setup of TV-out.  This is a major stumbling block for setting up a home entertainment PC such as a MythTV box.  You can get TV out by default if you install with the TV plugged in, but once you install proprietary drivers to get 3D acceleration you loose the TV out without customizing xorg.conf.  Shouldn't be this hard. ~ <nowiki>[[Tas50]]</nowiki>
*** A Ubuntu desktop connected to a surround sound speaker system, but the user thinks one speaker isn't working: how can they test each speaker through Ubuntu Sound Preferences?

* Computers are now functioning as recording systems. http://ubuntustudio.com/ is one attempt to make audio/video/graphics editing easier. What could we integrate from that project into the main Ubuntu release? Could we have a ubuntu-studio package?

* Music playback. We have rhythmbox, banshee, and songbird. Which should be included in Gutsy?

* Suggest including support for High Definition Video HDV.  There are a number of video cameras now available that produce this type of video linux does not currently support taking in this type of video stream.  A number of projects have already begun work on this http://www.linux1394.org/ .

** I know this is going to get some flak, but Amarok is an absolutely fantastic program. I knew this already, but recently found that it can even sync my media device (Neuros 442) to my collection and reorganize my filesystem based on ID3 tags. Amarok used to be a QT frontend to several different systems (playback engine, SQL, etc.) in the philosophy of one program = one task, which would make a GTK/GNOME port nonsensical, since it would be a completely different program rather than a port,  but these days it has so many unique features that I would really like to see it made independent of the desktop environment and toolkit.
**** There is a program like Amarok for GTK/GNOME, it is called Exaile (www.exaile.org). I've been using it for a couple of months, and it is pretty usable and stable, and has the same features as Amarok. I would go and include it into the Ubuntu Desktop installation, instead of Rhytmbox.

* Build a standardized multimedia backend on top of the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284785|HomeServer]]</nowiki>, independent of the frontend used and creat a distro around a nice set-top-box frontend (I bet on Freevo-2) to penetrate the set-top-box segment. This sector will be increasingly interesting with sub $100 diskless machines and high bandwidth Wi-Fi. Moreover it is a good opportunity to spread open codecs.

* Add cinelerra to the repo's and we will have a very nice HDV editing environment.  

* Add DVD support to gstreamer, either from scratch or porting the old gstreamer0.8-dvd.

** DVD menu support is a must. Many potential new users get retracted by seeing lack of it. --AzraelNightwalker
