{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Install CD ====
 == English Ideas ==
  Click on edit's button if you are logged for edit this page and add an idea.
* Switch to 7zip compression to create more room on the install CD. (This metod uses Mozilla project for their  products too - Firefox, Thunderbird... Thanks to it applications installers are about several MB - about tens percent - smaller.)
** This is more a dpkg/archive suggestion than an install CD suggestion. -- ColinWatson
** Spec already exists at https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/dpkg-7zip -- MattZimmerman
* Add an option to pick what programs get installed initially?
** This will be done for the text-mode installer via https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/revive-tasksel for those who need it -- MattZimmerman
** that would be the worst thing to do, as new users don't know NOTHING about the applications names!
** It would be a good idea to have an ´customized install' option for non-new users.
** One of the first Linux systems I used were Red Hat Linux and I was very happy with the choices you had during the installation process. Something similiar where you could chose to install different groups of software like "Office Applications", "Multimedia Applications" "Python Developement" etc. - ''Tomas Gustavsson''
** I think having a "custom" or "expert" installation might be interesting. As Ubiquity is graphic, it may be easy to integrate a button for this special mode for installing Ubuntu. And as Ubiquity runs on a live CD (which may be connected to Internet), it might be interesting to download packages from repositories during the install process instead of after having rebooted on the locally installed Ubuntu. It could allow directly the installation of proprietary drivers, softwares or codecs. On the other hand, having such a button might induce people in thinking that it is necessary to use that custom/expert installation mode to personalize the disks' partitions. ''-- Alexandre P.''
* Make the installation more modular. e.g. Create some metapackages like ubuntu-devel (installs everything that is needed by the Ubuntu Packaging Guide and some other useful developer tools), ubuntu-lamp, etc. and have an option to install those.
** https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/revive-tasksel -- MattZimmerman
** abhinay: Thats a mad idea! The default installer could say something like.. Please choose what software you would like to install - Multimedia Package, Development Package... etc... and clicking on them would give you a description.  Also, this might make it possible to include another package called restricted formats - and when they select this, offer to explain what the GPL is, and then give them an option of installing non-GPL stuff from the web, instead of from the CD itself(as this might be a GPL violation, as happened with the Kororaa project).  
* Ask about downloading/installing/configuring ATI/NVIDIA propriatary drivers during install.
* A Desktop DVD with all flavors of Ubuntu on it
* On the Alternate CD, add an option to choose your kernel during install.
** The alternate CD only contains one kernel; the DVD contains them all and automatically selects the most appropriate -- MattZimmerman
* Add an option to the "-desktop-" cd to be able to install the OS without having to see the live desktop and then install from there.
** If I understand correctly, an option on the bootloader that would not launch the whole live environment, but only the Ubiquity installer. That is pretty interesting, surely for small config computers :) ''-- Alexandre P.''
** This sounds like a suggestion to include the text-mode installer on the desktop CD; however, I don't think there is enough space -- MattZimmerman
* Make the partitioner in the live cd installer as good as the alternate cd installer. Right now, the live cd installer doesn't effectively handle partitions. (See <nowiki>[[Ubiquity/AdvancedPartitionerRewrite]]</nowiki>)
* Complete localization by downloading packages automatically (See AutomatedLocalizationDownloadIdea )
** Dapper already does this -- MattZimmerman
* localized CDs, which have ALL localisations for a continent on it. And a DVD with really all localisations.
** We have a plan for a CD with all localizations: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/langpacks-on-cd -- MattZimmerman
* Configure PPPoE network connections during install (pppoeconf). It would be very nice to be able to have PPPoE internet connectivity during install.
* Automatically download/install most optimized kernel during install. (linux-686 etc.) 
** This is already done on the DVD; there isn't enough space for more kernels on the CD, and it isn't worth the large download during installation -- MattZimmerman
* How about an "Ubuntu Extras CD" with as many apps as possible on it for those with either slow connections or no internet at all? Include stuff that is required to get dialup, wifi, and networking going without the benefit of an internet connection.
** The default install includes everything needed for most users; ndiswrapper-utils is available on the CD (but not installed by default) for those who need it -- MattZimmerman
* Port Ubiquity to Windows and MacOS. The install process should import net configuration, bookmarks, mails etc. to the fresh Ubuntu install.
** I'd love to see this happen someday -- MattZimmerman
   ''This has already been suggested on Launchpad, but was not considered any sort of priority.''
* Create one DVD/CD Image, depending on the size, called Ubuntu Desktop, and give the user the option of choosing between Ubuntu, Kubuntu etc... meaning, on install, the user chooses which DM's he/she wants to install
** porchcth: Maybe we could go even further and call everything 'Ubuntu' (corporate identity) and let the user choose between GNOME (default), KDE (aka Kubuntu), ... When I was new to Ubuntu, the derivatives confused me a little...
*** abhinay: Sounds like a very good idea indeed. We will have to explain the differences carefully though. Most users dont understand what a desktop environment is, let alone, a window manager, toolkits etc...
*** abhinay: This would also make it easier to include the best possible applications across DE's, instead of sticking to gtk apps on gnome and QT apps on KDE.
*** a DVD image (single layer) should be able to hold the live environments and graphical installers for all 'versions' that have one, plus a text-mode installer and package pool to install any of the versions (Ubuntu, Edubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, Server Edition) as well. Would only need to build and distribute a single DVD image; and it would make an attractive retail package or shipit item. A dual-layer image would be able to also hold a significant portion of the repositories.
** I don't agree that having all the DE in one CD, nor allowing the user to choose between them during the standard installation process, is a good idea. Because new users are not that much aware of what a desktop environment is, it would certainly confuse them. But I absolutely agree in the necessity of corporating all the *ubuntu under one denomination. I still read questions about "what are the differences between all those distibutions", when in fact they are all the same but the DE. It should be "Ubuntu with GNOME", "Ubuntu with KDE", "Ubuntu with Xfce": even if the user doesn't exactly understand what GNOME, KDE or Xfce is, his choice is guided by the screenshots and he doesn't get wrong with all the differences between Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu... ''-- Alexandre P.''
** I've been doing Technical Support for nearly 20 years. (Not with Open Source, but another No-Named OS.) Most users new to Ubuntu will be familiar with computers running another OS. When they see and 'Advanced" button they usually ignore it and take the defaults. If you make what's behind the "advanced" button look a little less friendly, only those with enough experience will make changes. The average User some of you are concerned about confusing will just click "OK" and take the Defaults. I see it all the time. Gary Barr
* Default /home to a seperate partition from /
** Why?  This only makes it more likely that the user runs out of space on one partition.  Simpler is better here.  -- MattZimmerman
*** / partition should be around 5gb - 10gb, that should be sufficient for most people.
*** Because a re-install on a 500GB hard disk will nuke 490GB of user data sometimes (anime freaks...) and takes 100 DVDs to back up.  I did <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/51376|report a bug]]</nowiki> about this, saying we should wipe everything but /home on the target partition and not just format it. --JohnMoser
** Also intelligently select /home partition from / when using existing partitions. biggest partition is /home
  

* For the alternate installation CD, make available options on pakages to install (considering peripherals, such as bluetooth, printers, pcmcia..) in stead of installing all software from CD by default.
** Why?  The packages are small, and in most cases (and even more in Edgy) will only be activated if needed -- MattZimmerman
* Localized CD images: there's only CDs with english locales: that's easy with a internet connection to get other languages, but not with no connection!!
** http://lichota.net/~krzysiek/projects/ubuntu-livecd-customization/ -- MattZimmerman
* Possibility to choose in Ubiquity (also in the alternate) the hardware type like desktop or laptop to prevent laptop-mode installation for example.
** Why?  The only packages which are laptop-specific are very small; there is no reason to add complexity here -- MattZimmerman

* It would be great if the 32-bit CD let you install, but noticed that the machine was 64-bit and offered to set up the 64-bit repos instead (I usually only get the 32-bit CDs but want to give the 64-bit versions to friends).
** That would break things horribly.  The 32-bit kernel won't run 64-bit apps and 32-bit Ubuntu won't install 64-bit packages.  It'd be nice to offer a 64-bit kernel but 32-bit userland, if we can ever prevent USB printing from breaking over it. --JohnMoser

* Is it possible to haveone DVD image that works on all platforms (PPC/Intel/64)?
** Some earlier work here: HoaryHedgehogTriplePlay -- MattZimmerman

* Add the CD/DVD as a package source to sources.list by default. I'm told that packages are copied from the CD at the end of the installation process, but this is a waste of space if this is also done for the DVD and it won't work anymore if somebody (maybe accidently) did a apt(-get/itude) clean. I think this might really help users which low bandwidth who got a DVD/CD from a friend or from shipit.
** The remaining packages are relatively small and removed after a time if they are not installed.  Experience shows that users who do have an Internet connection prefer to download than to go and find the CD -- MattZimmerman

* When a user puts the Edgy CD/DVD into a machine running Breezy etc., it should come up with a "tour"-type thing of the new features with pictures etc. It should have an Upgrade button that:
*** Upgrades the current packages to the CD versions (even if there are newer versions in the repos - if the person had a slick Internet connection they would upgrade through the Update-Manager. This way they are at least partly there);
*** Points the repos to the Edgy repos; and
*** Adds the CD as a Package source.
*** (This "tour" code could be integrated into the Update-Manager method of upgrading as well)
** Existing spec at https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/cdrom-based-dist-upgrades -- MattZimmerman
** The tour will take too much space and is relatively useless.  If I put an upgrade CD in I want to upgrade the OS, not see if it's right for me.  --JohnMoser

* Possibly integrate dmraid support into Ubiquity. As the FakeRaidHowto document points out, it is a pain to install Ubuntu onto SATA RAID devices. I wrote my own experience at http://ubuntu-in.org/wiki/SATA_RAID_Howto. I wish the process was not so complicated. Gentoo and Fedora Core 5 have support for SATA RAID in the installers themselves -- SoumyadipModak
* Make it possible to use encrypted file system in an easy way.
*** Might be of some relevance - http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Encrypted_Filesystem
* Offer a choice of themes on install from say a half dozen stock themes

* No reboot after install. --JohnMoser
** If a new kernel isn't on the repos, shut down as normal (kill everything) and pivot_root to the newly installed system; then unmount the CD and hand control to the init system on the newly installed root.  This lets you skip loading drivers.
** If a new kernel IS on the repos, shutdown as normal but use `kexec` as in RapidReboot.

* Preconfigured install DVD- what i mean is that someone can go on to the ubuntu website and instead of downloading a regular CD image the can select a comtomizable option that will allow them to choose from a number of different options such as deslecting applications that comewith the base install (OpenOffice, Gimp or games) or select some options that will make it easyier for them to make a switch from Max OS X or Windows XP. Options such as including multimedia codecs (within the law), language libaries or simply just eye candy that they may want but not have the experience to download and properly configure. The reason for the DVD image instead of the CD in this case is because i expect people will want to include more application and still  want it on a single disk  --Robert 

* Including 915resolution in the install CD would be nice for the unlucky guys who got a laptop with a buggy vbios. It's very small so it won't really take the space of more important tools.
** LunaTick: A lot of people using 915resolution should have their problems fixed in Edgy anyway by virtue of the new Intel Modesetting branch. See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=643|this bug]]</nowiki>

* The linux kernel's only about 50KB, right? I rekon that a good idea would hbe a floppy disk installation disk. It should contain the linux kernel and wget. This would only be about 100KB altogther. It then asks you what architecture, what desktop environment, what install type (desktop, server etc) and downloads everything it needs from the internet. If a bulky installer is needed, it can be loaded into the RAM. Would be good for people without CD-RW drives.
** Edit: linux kernel is actually around about 9MB. I think freedos (http://www.freedos.org) would be a better alternative.

* There should be a FLAMPS (FTP (vsftpd), Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP, SSH (OpenSSH)) server installation option.

* Something which I think should be called CleverInstall. It ckecks your hardware configuration (processor, RAM etc) and changes which pakages are installed eg. if you had a slow computer, it would use fluxbox. If you have a slightly faster computer, it would use XFCE. If you had no soundcard, it wouldn't install media players. If you had a small (3GBish) hard drive, it wouldn't install CD rippers, as ripping CD's takes up a lot of space on the hard drive.

* OEM installation needs to be improved. When you get a new windows xp computer (doesn't work if you just reinstall) the first things it asks you when you boot up are things like "Please type in your name", "What do you want to call this computer?", "How do you want to connect ot he internet?". Ubuntu should do this too. Rather than askin you for network configuration, passwords etc in the installation, it should ask on first bootup. This way, the hardware vendor just needs to install ubuntu, and the end-user configures it. OEM installation should ask absolutely no questions at all (except for the ones about partitioning). They should all be asked on first bootup. Having said that, I think that you should be able to choose which packages are installed in the OEM installation.

* Text based installer should no be blue. Blue is a windows colour. The background should be reddish-brown, not blue. The background of warning screens should be black and yellow stripes.

* ZipBuntu: ubuntu which you simply unzip onto an EXT(2/3)/FAT partition. When you boot up, it should ask you all of the installer questions (what is your name, type a password etc)

* Capture screenshots of the installation and save them to some specific directory. This can help people who want to explain to someone else what to do, or people who are unable to express what went wrong with their installation -- at least the screenshots will be there so that others can debug :-)
** The existing log files in `/var/log/installer/` (or `/var/log/` during the installation) are much more useful than any screenshots, and boot arguments which I provide to bug reporters as necessary can radically increase the level of detail there. Screenshots are very rarely necessary or useful when debugging the installer. --ColinWatson

* Detect if the target system doesn't have enough ram: Especially laptop users often don't know that there 256MB ram laptop only has about 190MB ram left after the on board video card takes it's part. Ubuntu then gets stuck loading X.  Ubuntu should at least give a warning before starting X recommending the alternative install CD (perhaps even Xubuntu).
* How about being able to Import your files, email Inbox and Addressbook, Browser Bookmarks or Favorites, etc. AFTER your Ubuntu installation finishes? I'd like to save the old User Profile Strings to an external USB HD, let Ubiquity format the whole drive and install. Then Import everything in a separate step. This should be an option for experienced users and Support Troops, not something for the Average User. We could install on Laptops that don't have enough Free Space, older PC's, etc. 
