{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Printing (general) ====
* PDF printer installed by default (Amen!)
* Allow several pages per sheet
** gnomeprint allows that. The apps only need to use it.
* Allow describing print job as "1, 3, 7-12, 15-end"
** Allow specifying 'odd' and 'even' pages to print, and reversing the order. Better yet, add an actual prompt for people faking double-side printing to turn over the stack and reinsert it. Better yet, add a configuration wizard that prints test patterns to take the guesswork out of lining-up double-sided prints correctly.
* Make this work in all programs in the same way
* Printer Sharing:
** For "Add a New Printer": Improve gnome-cups-add wizard to provide options 1)to use a locally attached printer or 2) to share a locally attached printer for use by self and others or 3) to search for available shared LAN printers 
** Share printers with Windows PCs easily
** Use printers shared by Windows PCs easily
* Just works philosophy: If a printer is plugged in, the driver that fits to the given printer should be loaded automatically and values such as the default page size should be set according to the country the user is living in. A given printer would therefore just work after being plugged in. If there is no driver availbale for the plugged printer model, a message should be shown in the system tray (and possibly give some further information of how to proceed).
** My first Ubuntu printing experience was, sadly, with a Lexmark. The drivers for these are (as in beer) free, but exist as RPMs in a gzipped tarball. Possibly they can be added to Multiverse? (A complex setup script would be needed though, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=49714&highlight=lexmark|this guide]]</nowiki> worked for me on one printer, but failed on another) Even if they cannot be redistributed, there is always the cheeky option of a meta-package running a script which downloads the drivers officially.
* Add features similar to those of gtklp
* Add features such as margin adjustment in printer dialogs

==== Improved driver support ====
* Have the latest version of HPLIP (1.6.6a at this moment).
* Latest version of foo2zjs (20060625), experimental package of Debian developer can be found <nowiki>[[http://developer.skolelinux.no/~white/debs/foo2zjs/|here]]</nowiki>. See <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/foo2zjs/+bug/6017|bug #6017]]</nowiki>.
* Add <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/m2300w/|m2300w driver]]</nowiki> for the Konica Minolta magicolor 2300W and 2400W color laser printers (GPL), see <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gnome-cups-manager/+bug/29966|bug #29966]]</nowiki>. Perhaps one Minolta printer driver package can be created of m2300w driver together with current min12xxw driver package.
* Add <nowiki>[[http://software.canon-europe.com/software/canon_capt_printer_driver_for_linuxs23675.asp?model=|LaserJet Canon drivers]]</nowiki> for LBP3200 and others (GPL).
* Add <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/alc900-cups|driver for Epson C900]]</nowiki> (GPL).
