{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Send to bluetooth device on desktop

It's really simple to add a drop target to the Gnome desktop, but it's not there on a default install.  I propose that something somewhere (installer, daemon) should add a bluetooth drop target to the desktop if a bluetooth device is enabled.

* Activate by default monitoring support for all drivers of network cards

Intel PRO/Wireless Cards (2915ABG and 3945ABG) support 'monitor mode' and by default in ubuntu is disabled. 

== XDMCP ==

* Sound by default -- Greenhunter

=== Import from Feisty Ideas ===
'''Please remove comments that were implemented in Feisty.'''
* PPPOE should be integrated into graphical network managers. In many countries the main ISP (often the telecom operator) provides access via PPPOE and it is annoying to send people to the terminal when adding a username and password box to the ethernet graphical configuration tool might do the job.

* If wifi card is activated, no other connections are configured, and an open wifi network is detected, prompt the user for if they wish to connect via a simple message bubble.

* Enable machine to detect whether it is connected directly to a Cable/DSL modem via ethernet or to a router. Currently if installed while behind a router Ubuntu will not adapt to connecting directly to a modem.

* Better enterprise level networking. Ubuntu needs to penetrate the corporate and government market shares because ease of use and security are top priority. With an easy launch process able to set up a thick client network, Ubuntu would provide faster, more useful desktops.
     For instance, /home and /etc are stored on a central server, allowing admins to easily set and update configuration settings network wide while also allowing users to move from machine to machine with their work, while maintaining preferences. (check if there are logistical issues or if something like this already exists).

* Network connectivity is VERY important, but often users need to have a connection active in order to set up their modem, for example, even though there are Free drivers available. A classic case is that Ubuntu included eagle-usb on the install CD for a long time, even though the packages didn't work and users needed to get the source. If there are guides available for setting up any hardware such as this (I have written two already, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsbAdslModem/EagleUsb|an eagle-usb one here]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsbAdslModem/ueagle-atm|an ueagle-atm one]]</nowiki>. The second should be more relevant now since the ueagle-atm driver is included in Linux kernels Edgy and beyond) then work should be done to make them obsolete and have that functionality built in to the networking tools (I do not know whether it would be more appropriate to add this type of thing to a network-settings tool or a modem(as in dialup)-settings tool). Since leaving for University I no longer have any access to such a modem, so I cannot update those guides for Edgy or do any testing, sorry.

* SOHO, schools and small organisations are a key market for Ubuntu but networking is crucial.  I really think we need to better integrate or replace the various networking tools with a single GUI tools that guides basic network set-up, monitoring and administration.  The idea would be to make basic network available to non-techies.  I'm thinking particularly of people like teachers or librarians in poorer schools, or people in NFP community organisations. Their hardware is probably not cutting edge and is likely to be diverse.

* Samba mounting support. Can we please put the 'disks' section back in - editing fstab is a barrier to new users. Also is it possible to have better smb support in nautilus, for example when I browse to a network share and double click on a video file totem will launch but the file won't play. In order to play it the file needs to be either on a local drive or mounted via smb4k or similar.
** Drop GnomeVFS for SMB, it is unstable, works with gnome apps ONLY and streams bad. I suggest using FUSESMB instead (http://www.ricardis.tudelft.nl/~vincent/fusesmb/). Create a /mnt/network mount, mount FUSESMB there. It provides an easy access to the entire network, and is very fast, streams well, ALL applications can use it. Access would be straightforward: /mnt/network/<Networkname>/<Computername>/<Sharename>/<Path>. Writing a graphical configuration program should not be hard either, since its configfile is simple.

* WPA configuration from GNOME and KDE. Wireless Protected Access (WPA) needs to be configurable from GNOME and KDE. Currently a user can go into Network Settings and punch in a WEP key no problems. When it comes to WPA, a user may look at the messy wiki instructions about wpa-supplicant etc and be scared away. This is the most common complaint about Ubuntu that I hear, and I hear it often: it is just too hard for new users to configure WPA compared to WEP. With the new Debian changes with WPA, ie. the ability to specify wpa-xyz options in /etc/network/interfaces just like WEP, then shouldn't this be implemented into GNOME and KDE now?
**** For this reason Gutsy should implement network-manager as it does not require you to set up the wpa_supplicant, and when connecting to a new network asks for crendentials and automatically recognizes what security type it is. Connection manager the app it looks like they are implementing in the launchpad list does not do this =(.  

* EasyGUI for wpa_supplicant (btw is there a gui for vpnc?) Probably a "Network Center" as under vista where users can configure all nework settings in a central place would make sense.
** there is wpa_gui which worked for me, but i would rather prefer an idiot proof "Network Center". I also noticed that under MacOSX, all you have to do is enter the SSID and then the passphrase, everything else does the os..
** Ideally it should just be implemented in the GNOME Network Administration applet, just like WEP is currently (and has been for a while). The only trick is to only show WPA configuration for wireless cards that will work with WPA, as it's easy to specify the wpa-psk options once you know it's supported.

* Setting up a simple NFS share between Ubuntu and OSX was a nasty surprise for me as a Linux noob, and this seems to be a common theme in the support forums. It works and it's fast, but it took some time to figure out the arcane settings required (insecure,anonuid=1000,anongid=1000). Ideally it should just work through the "Share folder" menu item, though maybe it's Apple's problem...
