{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hi, my name is Akiva Abraham; Kivi for short. I am really enthusiastic about the Ubuntu Community and open source software in general. In fact, one of my favourite things to do is to contribute my own open source code to the community; Its fun and I take pride in that everyone can benefit from it!

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| Kivi
|-
| Friendly
| Yes
|-
| Email
| akiva@linux.com
|-
| Website
| https://launchpad.net/~akiva
|}

=== Contributions ===

* Developed the Autopilot Plugin (A large endeavour) for the Ubuntu SDK.
* Have contributed code to just about every core application in some form or another.
* Was co-creator and developer, and currently a moderator at https://www.reddit.com/r/ubuntuappdev
* Developed custom configurations for Colemak with ZSH, Bash, and Vim.

=== Future Goals ===

* Finish my Data Miner api that estimates the popularity of open source projects and Linux Distributions.
* Contribute to Unity8 directly.
* Build a website based on my Data Miner.
* Contribute at least one patch to the Linux Kernel.
* Get through the entirety of the Qt Documentation.
* Learn Gnu-APL

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
