{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== What ==
* Focus on mass-deployment managers and what they need---e.g., enterprise, university department, and cluster systems administrators and engineers.
* Allow them to have a common place for collaboration.
* Enable the community to maintain resource repositories---repository used vaguely here---where appropriate.
* Tactically target and direct resources toward issues in Ubuntu and maintain separate resources where needs diverge from other Ubuntu use cases.
* Observe Ubuntu development and advise on issues that have a marked effect on our interests.
* Try to get all work incorporated into upstream; otherwise maintain peer-reviewed PPAs and branches.

== How ==
* Poll the community on which issues are important to it and direct resources accordingly---i.e., coordination.
* Offer mentorship to persons who would like to tackle issues but know not where to begin.
* Peer-reviewed community team.
* * Take situational solutions and make them general for the community's benefit where appropriate.
* * Develop and maintain backports that would not otherwise make it into standard Ubuntu repositories.
* * Maintain as much standards-compliance as possible.

== Why ==
* Reduce redundancy.
* Networking.
* Make known what works and what doesn't.
* LTS-releases require a guarantee that they will be promptly well-maintained. Where the community can provide this faster than Canonical directly, a system needs to be put in place to fast-track the inclusion of high-quality community labors.

== Areas of Interest ==
* Installer
** Expanding Debian-Installer features
** Improving reliability
** Expanding automation capabilities
* Configuration management
** Standard suite of management software---e.g., CFEngine, Puppet, etc.
** Debconf and friends
* Backports
** Backport necessary software that would otherwise age in a long term support (LTS) release over time
** Get the backports in officially
** Maintain a community repositories otherwise
* Scalability
** Determine what features work well on single user machines but not on multiuser, networked environments

== Policy Making ==
* New backport policy to make it easier to keep critical packages---e.g., Firefox---up-to-date in LTS releases. And if necessary, provide a way to provide ABI or API incompatible software in LTS releases in a way that does not conflict with existing package files or package namespace constraints.
* Have the enterprise or mass-deployment community review change proposals for their implications on scalability. This would necessitate a creation of a community mailing list.
* Ascertain and codify a formal definition of what ''server'' and ''desktop'' are in terms of formal support.

== Extra Information ==
* Launchpad team Huge-buntu (Formerly known as Community Enterprise Project) https://launchpad.net/~huge-buntu

== Bug handling procedures ==
* Is the bug tagged toward other releases?
* Input into specs. [Maybe we audit all existing relevent specs.]
* Merely closing the bug if it is fixed upstream as insufficient grounds for closing base bug.

== Collaborative documentation ==
* Dedicated wiki section.

== Community outreach ==
* Ubuntu sys. admin groups.
* Target educational admins.
* Have loco groups target mass-deployers for meta group.

== Leverage points with other private firms ==
* Enterprise confederation. 
