{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Charter ===
* Make ubuntu.com/community the most compelling site of its nature
* Guide people to the most appropriate on-ramp for contribution
* Give people who aren't ready to contribute something to remember so they will come back

=== Work Streams ===
We envision three major work streams that can progress in more-or-less in parallel. At the early stage of the project, the Content Stream will get the most attention/effort.

==== Content Stream ====
Review current content and identify gaps.
Write compelling and accurate content for all of the defined areas of interest.

==== Presentation Stream ====
Design the user experience and structure the information in a sensible and compelling way.
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityWebsite/Presentation

==== Technical Infrastructure Stream ====
Engineer an appropriate solution that supports the content and presentation requirements.
Include analytics.

=== Road Map ===
Let's scribble a timeline with what we'd see as major milestones. We may be able to predict what hits in the next 0-2 months. Beyond that, we can simply identify work that would need to get done and roughly the sequence. Exact dates aren't as important as we predict farther out in the future.

=== Blueprints / Plans ===
List all relevant Blueprints and planning documents here.

https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-1303-revamping-ubuntu-community-pages
