{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== General User Friendliness for the New User ====
** Make qt applications look like gtk in gnome and xfce.
** <nowiki>[[Warbo]]</nowiki>: Aside from just using a similar QT theme to the GTK theme (eg. Klearlooks and Clearlooks) there ae things like <nowiki>[[http://www.metatheme.org/|Metatheme]]</nowiki> (hmmm... latest news from 2005?) and even the <nowiki>[[http://portland.freedesktop.org/|Portland project]]</nowiki> to get this sort of interoperability done.
** Make right-click on pictures/photos show a menu with redimension/resize option and  a possibility to mail them with the new sizes
** Rename multiple files on a directory with F2, or something similar 
** Make multi button mice work out of the box! At least create an applet to quickly get them up and running!
** Add option to the mouse configuration applet to allow middle mouse button scrolling, which is used on at least ThinkPads (the "EmulateWheel" xorg.conf option)
* Create a 'Welcome Window' (See: <nowiki>[[UbuntuWelcomeCentre]]</nowiki>)
** Make the new users first impression of Ubuntu more friendly
** A window with a 'Welcome to ubuntu, here's how to go about using the desktop and doing various common tasks' theme.  Many web and wiki pages exist to this end, but it could be the first thing the new user sees.  Perhaps an option to view an animated tutorial of how to do certain things? - This would have to be downloaded on demand as CD space is very limited.
*** The part "how to get an Internet Connection" should be on the CD, everything else online.
*** Oblio: A handbook a la FreeBSD should be definitely on the CD. Putting everything online means leaving helpless al those without net, or broadband.
** Provide the option to add the universe and multiverse repositories at boot time
*** Virtually every tutorial for adding software in Ubuntu begins with those steps; why not present it to users off the bat?
*** Explain the legal & support issues of these repositories.
*** This is a great idea because I find from time to time people who are not that bright on computers that keep asking about why they can't find some packages which were in something called a repository that they had to enable. - ''TomasGustavsson''
*** There already exist billion of those tutorials online. we should pick the best one(s) and add them to the help menu. A video or flash(like) tutorials of screencaps with audio comments (ogg 32kb wouldn't take too much space?) are also very helpful for newbies. Also give them nice visual presentations of how some things in linux work.
** Introduce the user to the forums and the wiki with the Welcome Window
** Most users hate the Windows XP tour (because it continues to pop up after an install, no matter what you do), but most users don't mind the Windows 98 tour, which can very easily be stopped (check the litle button at the bottom and then close it).  I think this is what we should aim for, and it should focus on an introduction to 'self help' systems like the forums.
** What about a guide that directly translates well known Windows usability concepts to Ubuntu Linux?  I'm aware of the IBM Linux to Windows primer, but I'm guessing that this guide would also touch on specific Debian stuff, like the package manager, how one usually installs programs in Debian/Ubuntu, etc.

* Make it easier for users to figure out what's going on when they discover they can't play mp3's or DVD's.
** Explain the legal reasons behind lack of multimedia support
** Possibly more constructive errors, rather than the usual 'Totem cannot find a codec' type message. Let users know what they need to do to fix it.
** Better still; put them on the path to solving it.  No reason that totem can't give the user the option to install the required codecs (while still explaining the legality issues).
*** That is the reason I think EasyUbuntu (with integrated  infos about legal issues) should be included. It also leaves the choice on the user.
** Add an option to install multimedia codecs to the Welcome Window, and possibly to codec related error messages
** Inform users of the legal issues, that it's legal in some countries, and give the option to install automatically?
** Why not just install automatically if the user sets their country to one whose government hasn't been foolish enough to allow software patents? ;-)
*** Yeah but if a country changed their laws we would have a problem. It would be too much work to keep up to date with all countries about who is pro and who is against.
* Automatic Fat32/NTFS partition mounting on install, similiar to the live CD.
** Isn't this done already?
*** No, at least on my dapper drake I had to mount my windows Fat32 partitions manually.
* Renaming Fat32/NTFS (External HD, USB stick, ipod, etc) partition easily (similar to renaming files/folders) without having to do the following: <nowiki>[[RenameUSBDrive]]</nowiki>

* Making it easier for the user to handle USB and other plugin devices <nowiki>[[SyncMount]]</nowiki>, read the wiki please because I'm not in to this stuff :$

* Add an Ubuntu forums search to the Google search bar in Firefox.
** No. Useless for majority non-english speaking users. It's easy go to google (or other search engine of user choice) or ubuntuforums and search, and it's also easy add/create custom search on ubuntuforums to adress bar in Firefox. Why clutter interface by something (ubuntuforums.org search item in Firefox), what vast amount of Ubuntu users maybe don't need use.
* Create a bookmark for Firefox with good links about ubuntu for new users.
** That is something very important and it would be great if bookmarks for localized sites of Ubuntu (like ubuntu-se.org for an example) would be there from the start.
* Import files, settings and bookmarks from Windows
** Windows application to help people transfer there files (Mostly the My Documents folder)  and preferences to Linux (would back them up to CDs for example and ubuntu would set them up in the right place) Also, outlook mail could be imported. Thunderbird on Windows has this feature.
** Create "My documents", "Windows desktop" and windows-like drive names as symlinks in home dir
** Yogarine: Would be easier to just mount Windows NTFS or FAT32 partition from Ubuntu and copy files over.
** What if the user is replacing Windows / repartitioning, not just dual-booting?
** Yogarine: Need tool to scan the settings/bookmarks from various Windows software (Like IE, Outlook and Firefox) and import those settings to Ubuntu counterparts.
* Import users from Windows: Would be nice if the installer featured an option to just copy all the users (and their data/settings/favorites) from an exisiting Windows 2000/XP installation (except for Administrator of course.)
* Make it easy for users to set up their wireless cards. I watched two people in our office download Ubuntu on release day, wipe off Debian and SUSE from their laptops, and unsuccessfully get their wireless cards to work. After much commandline typing, they still didn't get them working. The SUSE user has gone back to SUSE, and I haven't asked the Debian guy what he did yet. Either way, it is not immediately obvious, and in fact, I wasn't able to help them at all. The only documentation I could find was in the wiki, and was all commandline tools. This is not user-friendly at all.
** System->Administration->Networking
** Also include an easy way to switch between wired/wireless and various wireless networks.
* When replacing existing files (e.g. backing up), we should show more info about both files. Currently gnome just shows the file names which doesn't help the user very much.  Dates and/or file sizes should be shown as well to reduce the risk of overwriting files.
** Maybe check automaticilly if the file contents are the same (if the filesize is not too important) or provide a button to check that. ''mildred''
* porchcth: Write access to NTFS partitions would be very helpful for dual boot systems, although I'm aware that there's no tool to provide this at the moment, if I'm not wrong.
* porchcth: I think an important feature for the next Ubuntu would be out-of-the-box WPA encryption for WLANs. This should work with static and dynamic IPs and could either be provided by NetworkManager (no support for static IPs and a little buggy at the moment) or  the standard gnome Network Administration tool.
** This feature is essential! If there will be anything new in Edgy it should be full WPA support.
* Userfriendly filesystem - See interesting idea on page <nowiki>[[HideFilesystemStructure]]</nowiki>  (or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/hide-filesystem-structure|spec]]</nowiki>)
* Only One Gnome Panel like Suse 10.1 - See interesting idea on page <nowiki>[[OnlyOneGnomePanel]]</nowiki>  (or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/only-one-gnome-panel|spec]]</nowiki>)
** See <nowiki>[[PanelSwitcher]]</nowiki>
* Display file's properties in Nautilus's replace confirmation dialog.
* Simple mirror chooser, just with names, company/organization and country. Something like watermain (http://ws314.juntadeandalucia.es/guadalinex2005/trunk/other_apps/mirror_selector/watermain-1.0/)
** There is work underway to provide for intelligent mirror selection using Launchpad -- MattZimmerman
* Desktop search (a la OSX and Vista?) to hide inevitable filesystem complexity, and to give the user, especially new user, what they need. The goal would be to avoid the user having to navigate the filesystem outside /home/user ever, and even then, hierarchical navigation would be limited. Beagle, nautilus and meta-data (free tagging on any file, please) would enable this, and be a killer app.
** Existing spec at https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/beagle-integration -- MattZimmerman
** I think instead of replacing the use of Nautilus it should be extended through relational-database-filesystems (FUSE based, but with the files stored on the regular, reliable ext3/reiserfs/whatever filesystem) so that files can be organised due to metadata (for example, a song can be found in Music/Artist/Album/Song.ogg and Music/Genre/Artist/Song.ogg automatically with no broken-symlink-hell later on). This automatic catagorisation of files would make it easy to find files, and adding/removing metadata tags would be as easy as copying or removing the file from each folder (literally deleting and copying the file would be done in it's actual location on the real filesystem)
** Perhaps Beagle could be integrated into Nautilus and/or a Gnome panel apple.
* Syncing is desperately needed for a range of use cases. Most people have more than one device to store PIM, and often access to several computers. Easing the use of applications like Unison and iFolder would be a boon, and any kind of PIM syncing which actually works. Opensync seems most promising. Graceful handling of similar contacts (option to merge), and not duplicating things wildly would be nice, to say the least.

* When exiting a GNOME session shutdown/restart running applications should be closed gracefully, so applications can ask whether to save open documents

* Video/Audio applications should disallow Suspend/Hibernate while playing
*** LunaTick: To be clear, I assume you are talking about inactive/idle suspending - the system should still suspend on low power. There are two different issues here; inhibiting the screensaver (which automatically inhibits suspends (to RAM or Disk)) and just inhibiting suspends through GnomePowerManager. Examples of applications that should inhibit the screensaver are Totem (when playing video), Xine, Ekiga in a video call etc. Examples of applications that should inhibit Gnome Power Manager directly (because the screensaver can come on) are Nautilus (when copying/moving files), ekiga (in a voice call), update manager etc. See <nowiki>[[GnomePowerManagerInactiveSleep]]</nowiki>.
* Define two (maybe three) user levels: beginner, intermediate, advanced and associate them with system profiles (Sabayon?). Allow easy user self-promotion according with user experience. "Easy Level" means low complexity but somehow reduced functionality (no right button, no advanced administrative tools...)
** These levels should not be restrictive, but more abstracting ("Sound" is more logical than "ALSA", "Login" is more logical than "GDM", etc)
** This system could enhance GNOME, letting more advanced users create their own profiles, so switching to "Multimedia" makes GIMP, Totem, Inkscape, etc. instantly available as desktop icons, panel launchers, etc. whilst "Internet" switches to Firefox/Epiphany, GAIM, Ekiga, etc. (This does not mean "Multimedia" only allows access to multimedia apps, just that GNOME settings geared towards multimedia can be saved under that name and switched to on the fly.) With such a system it would be easy to implement a very basic and easy to use desktop by default, whilst reconfiguring everything would not be necessary for power users, they just select a more advanced profile. The GNOME UI is well designed, but there is no one-size-fits-all approach for this, so including several sizes is the solution.
** This doesn't work. People just call themself an expert while they're not. (Read <nowiki>[[http://blogs.msdn.com/oldnewthing/archive/2003/07/28/54583.aspx|The Old New Thing]]</nowiki>.) As for the profiles suggestion, do people need to be bothered? I hope they'll just select all profiles, because if the user doesn't, some features would be hidden. We shouldn't hide anything (some might even consider that to be insulting), but make everything as simple as possible to the users. If the user then chooses to hide features, that's fine. I occasionally do that with the menu editor.
** That's the whole point, the more power the profile has, the less usable it becomes. A system profile would contain icons and launchers for all of the configuration a user could ever want, but would be ugly as hell (last time I used Mandriva it let the user log in as root, but had a bright red, unchangable background and warnings all over the place). To actually get stuff done a user would switch to a regular profile, which would let them reconfigure stuff and run whatever programs they want.
*** This is something I've seen come up again and again in usability discussions. Usually it is suggested by people without expertise in interface design (no personal offense meant). There is a strong consensus among interface designers that "easy" and "expert" levels are a bad idea. Firstly, the user doesn't know which category they fall into. Secondly, it does not provide an easy way to move up skill curve, because to get access to more advanced features you have to enable them and hence alter the interface you're used to. Thirdly, if the "expert" mode is too complicated for new users then it is also more complicated than it should be for expert users. The best solution is to put advanced options in an "advanced" tab of the configuration dialog, where non-expert users can discover the options but nobody (newbie or expert) is bothered by them if they just want to change something basic. -- AnarchoAl

* Allow users to control at least the basis applications of their system with the voice (I know that it exists on phones for the basis functions and I think that it will be great to add this when it doesn't exist yet in the microsoft system.) like mail, internet, music... And it adds a new system to perform ubuntu accessibility.

* Add voice commentaries when passing the mouse on the menus in accessibility modules for blinds, and a "welcome X" (with X, the name of the user) when launching a session.

* Voice Recognition software
** Maybe <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/cmusphinx/|Sphinx]]</nowiki> could be a useful base?
** Sphinx is packaged in universe, but I don't think it has any application integration -- MattZimmerman

* Include easily configurable firewall software so that ports can be opened up for BitTorrent and other P2P applications, options already exist like Firestarter
** Older specification exists at https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/firewall -- MattZimmerman
* Consistency is incredibly important and Linux can appear very fragmented to a new user (and an old one!). Every application in main should use the same:
*** Spell checker (existing spec at https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/consolidate-spell-checkers -- MattZimmerman)
*** Save/Open dialogue (all core applications in Dapper use the GNOME dialog -- MattZimmerman)
*** Printer dialogue (harder than it sounds -- MattZimmerman)
*** Network proxy settings
*** Window toolkit (surely you don't mean this for main; we will continue to support Kubuntu and Xubuntu -- MattZimmerman)
*** Help menu
*** Language settings (e.g. Firefox / OOo should link to system settings for locale / preferred languages)
* The preferred application for eMail and WWW Links must not be ignored by any application installed from the Ubuntu sources.

* All desktop applications in main should have a "Get Help Online" entry in the help menu.
** If you find one which doesn't have the standard Help menu items, please file a bug -- MattZimmerman
* porchcth: The deskbar applet should show the Beagle search results (when Beagle is installed), not only a 'search with Beagle' dialog.

* Integrate <nowiki>[[http://www.libelektra.org/Main_Page|Elektra]]</nowiki> the new Linux '''registry''' project into Edgy.
** Is this related to usability?
*** In some way yes. Elektra would help to unify the configurationstyle for all apps. As
      a result, Apps could easier read and change configuration data of other apps.
      It would get easier to write GUI software for configuring the system, especially it
      would get easier to write configuration software that does work and is more mature.
      Because with a unified configuration system, there is no need for x kinds of parsers
      that work sometimes only 90%, just to read and change config files.
      Things like "what is the default browser", "what is the default set language" would
      get very easy to accomplish, because with a unified configurationsystem it is only
      one more step to create unified places for those kind of configurationdata (like
      default browser, default language etc.). Systemwide of course, there wouldn't
      be borders between KDE, Gnome and other X kind of apps anymore.
      When you configure the default browser in KDE by setting the unified configuration
      location for this kind of element, Gnome and X apps will know it too.
      So in the long run, everything could be configured with GUIs, elektra would help
      by this task, because programmeing GUIs that can do this is easier with elektra and
      this will lead to more usability.
**** Are you sure this is going to work? GNOME applications mostly use gnome-config, one
        would have to change all these applications to work with Ubuntu's system, not even
        thought of all the other applications (e.g. Apache).
***** This will take time, sure. But someone must start or we will never have such a nice feature.
          BTW. Elektra allows to use backends, so it is not necessary in the first place to edit all gnome 
          applications. Writing an elektra backend for gnome-config is enough, the shift to a pure elektra 
          system can be done slowly but elektra's library and command tool should be allready there in the    
          default system installation to make that progress happen.

* Introduce a feature for automatic system recovery/rescue. Such option, already available via yast in suse, should run the common tasks for such rescue/recovery, with interactive session. New users who have accidentally or adventureously led to system crash will be greatly benefitted.
** A graphical backup tool (maybe a front end to Mondo rescue or SystemImager).  This tool should allow for several layers of backups.  Layers like: full system image (for bare metal restore), individual partition image, individual folders, and then individual files.  Also, this tool should give several options for backup media, such as, CD/DVD, network (NFS/SMB/SSHFS/Rsync), or external drives. - Technodigifreak

* Add visual cues as to what is going on when Hibernate is chosen from the Logout menu.  The present setup in 6.06 has the screen blank and my hard disk lights flashing, from which I expect that most people would guess what's going on, but having a screen showing (i) what's going on and (ii) progress scale would be good.  Additionally, reanimation (recovery from hibernation) has the Ubuntu loading screen stop at 'Mounting Filesystems'.
** We're limited by the interface provided by the kernel -- MattZimmerman
* Write a simple input-language selector. The two interface concepts would be "choose your input language" and "set your preferences for this input language."
* Auto arrange desktop icons. When a CD/usb drive is automounted its icon overlaps with first icon on desktop. This should be avoided. - OnkarShinde
** Your example sounds like a possible bug; the icons should not overlap (and they don't for me) -- MattZimmerman
** When icons are moved around in a Nautilus window it switches to the "manual" layout. Normally in this layout any new icons get put below the rest, but obviously the desktop is not scrollable. I think this is the problem mentioned (it has happened to me too, but only with a pretty full desktop using huge icons)
* create a folder for data shared between all local users (for example /home/all, to let this suvive reinstallations), to which everybody can write as default.

* Allow easy assignment of key-commands to functions (such as launching an executable)

* Unassociated files - When user clicks on a unassociated, ubuntu should pop up, "You currently don't have a program avaible to open this file, the following programs can (There should be a list) if you want to install program select it and click install.
** This is already planned, see https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/suggest-packages-for-filetypes -- MattZimmerman
** Possible online database to function with this, with a local database cache?

* Some GUI for pppconfig. Also this tool should create launchers for 'pon' and 'poff' on desktop of users who are authorised to use modem. i.e members of 'dialout' group. - OnkarShinde

* Nautilus - Copy File(s) - When the destination path exists, offer to show comparison of file information OR a diff of the two files. In the case of images, show different meta-data, and/or thumbnails of the two conflicting files.

* Create a program that makes it easy to change what programs open certain file types automatically.

* The <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/|German]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/|English]]</nowiki> wiki offer very profound information of all aspects of Ubuntu - why not integrate them in the English/German help system of Ubuntu so that User without broadband Internet can profit from it? Maybe some words in error messages could be also explained by link them to the accordant wiki article?

* '''One''' meta package for all accessibility tools which can be installed '''optional''' during installation

* If you press "Crtl+Alt+Del" under Ubuntu nothing happens. Showing a task manager like under Windows then would be nice.
** It would be nice if some commonly used shortcuts in Windows with the Windows Key could be mapped to similar functions in Ubuntu.  One example is Windows+L, which could bring up the Logoff Screen/Switch User like in Windows.
** When I press Ctrl-Alt-Delete it brings up the Ubuntu logout screen, so I don't know what you have done to your system. (personally I think the idea is nice, but whenever X crashes [some games do this to me] I can no longer force a system reset without pulling the plug. I recently heard about Alt-SysRq, so that may be able to shutdown cleanly for me.)

* It would be great if one can mount .iso-Images with a right click -> mount on the desktop
** I second this suggestion. Other disc image formats, <nowiki>[<nowiki>[[http://divineomega.co.uk/linux/how-to-mount-a-disc-image-within-linux/|which can also be mounted]]</nowiki></nowiki>]  should also be supported.
** I found a Nautilus script which adds this function to files ending in ".iso", but I can't find it at the moment, maybe a quick Google...

* If you don't have the rights to modify/delete/overwrite a file in nautilus, nautlius should ask for the sudo password instead of just abort
** The ability to Right-Click on any item (executable, regular file, folder, etc.) and have the menu option for "Run as..." or "Access/Edit as ..." which then opens a login dialog (similar to gksudo) to allow you to operate that item under a different user, root or otherwise. - Technodigifreak
*** These would have to only exist for admin users!

* Allow deleting links and uninstallation of applications via GNOME Menu: Add "delete" to the context menu (right mouse button). If chosen, ask: "Do you want to uninstall package 'XXX'?" -> "Uninstall"/"Only delete link"/"Do nothing"
** Only for admin users!

* Drag and drop links. Like windows with right mouse bottom [This function exists with the middle mouse button in Nautilus or the right mouse button in Thunar - '"ChrisLees"']

* Open windows network uri's with nautilus e.g \\servername\share\ (often get these in mails etc)

* Make WiFi usable by human beings. All the software that can put in the distro for legal reasons should be documented and easy to find through a hypertext document provided in the distro. Navigating accross the wiki for the up to date information is not an acceptable answer for people who start using linux (or computers).

* Group common programs together in the Panel the way KDE and Windows XP do. I realize Gnome does this when there are many windows open. It should be done from the beginning.
** This sounds like a bad idea. For first-timers this would be confusing, and for advanced users it would be unusable since it would mean more clicks in order to change windows. This could, however, be an option.
** More like this is, however, an option. Just check out the preferences for the task bar applet (it has a handle on the left which you can right click on)

* Allow drag-and-drop rearranging of programs in the Panel.
** If this refers to the panel's applets then this is already possible (just make sure the applets do not have "Lock to panel" turned on. If this refers to rearranging the entries in the window list applet (I think it's called) then that would be nice to have.

* A status window when empting the trash. Its to hard to tell when its done deleting large files.
** KDE uses these kind of dialogs, maybe look at that.
** I know Gentoo has a progress window under gnome for this, maybe something else to look at.
** I have just noticed that GNOME does indeed get a progress window for emptying the trash when it has a certain amount of stuff or takes a certain length of time, so I don't know what the original poster found difficult to tell (and the wastebasket icon changes from full to empty anyway)
** Its true that GNOME does have a progressbar, but to me it only shows up when deleting large amounts of files. It will not show up if you delete one 20GB file. Thats the problem, deleting that file will use 100% of the CPU for an unknown length of time. Durring that time a new user will not know why his computer is running so slow.
** Should this be deleted? The newest edgy version handles this fine now.

* I like the fact that you can enable CUPS network browsing and sharing, as well as Zeroconf, with a graphical frontend. However, IMHO this is not enough "out of the box": How about, after installation, if the user has configured a network interface, you get a "hardware configuration" window that allows you:
** to set up your printer, and [x] enable printer sharing / browsing, which if enabled automatically installs CUPS,
** to set up file shares via Samba / NFS, which if enabled automatically installs the samba packages,
** to enable Zeroconf / rendezvous / SLP / whatever network browsing.

 When I installed Ubuntu, the first thing that I did was fiddle around in nsswitch.conf and smb.conf to enable me to see all the other devices in my network. A novice user will just complain it "doesn't work" - and before we open all kinds of ports by default, we could just as well ask them politely, once.

 Just an idea ... ;)  -- <nowiki>[[Jens40]]</nowiki>

* Group Nautilus's progress windows together, so that copying 3 sets of files whilst decompressing another doesn't end up with 4 windows open. This might be done as a vertical list, giving the current status and progress bar for each operation, or even better they could add tabs to the regular progress window. This method would prevent the window becoming too big for the screen, and could also be integrated with Nautilus's CD/DVD writer, the default bittorrent downloader (which I really like, by the way, but it may need to get rid of it's own tabs) and Epiphany's download window. There is a similar kind of project <nowiki>[[http://tw.apinc.org/weblog/2006/08/03#mathusalem-002|here]]</nowiki>, which is trying to integrate some of these things into an Epiphany-download-window-like interface, but if it were done as tabs then each tab could use it's own layout (for instance, bittorrent would need slightly different buttons than CD writing) and [progress bar] [task description] is a bit too simplistic for many operations.

* Business tools
** A GUI VPN/SecureTunnel manager (IPSEC, PPTP, SSH, etc.) (a must for mobile users) - Technodigifreak
** The ability to create screencasts.  Something like Applications>Accessories>Take Screencast.  Just a simple dialog which will ask you what file format (Ogg by default and others if you install the codecs) and to which location you'd like to save the file.  Once you've selected the options, it then minimizes to the system tray with only "Record/Stop" and "Options" buttons.  After all, we need to make this easier for the sysadmins to SHOW their users the proper way of doing things.  It will also make it much easier for people to show off their desktop bling on their blogs.  The more people see a true linux desktop functioning, the better. - Technodigifreak
*** Istanbul supposedly does this (and has worked OK for me in the past), but it does not work for me in Dapper. It records the whole screen to Ogg Theora, with the option to start encoding after the screencast is finished so it doesn't slow down the bling. It uses a notification area icon (either a red circle or a blue square, depending if it's stopped or recording). If Istanbul was fixed, updated to Gstreamer0.10 maybe?, and also got a GUI improvement, then I would be very happy! (For instance, the notification area icon is confusing to me, since I can never remember whether the red record status means "click me to record" or "I am recording", and the same with the square stop status)

* Flexible main menu.
** Allow drag and drop of shortcuts
** Allow editing/copying/setting properties of shortcuts by right clicking on them. (KDE/Windows like) 
** Alacarte is a nice program, but stands by itself, not integrated in the menu like it should.

* Lots of installed fonts but few are usable (The long list is annoying)

 It would be great to have some management system for the used/unused fonts. 
 (example: System/App. Fonts and User fonts)
 In my opinion it is anoying while writing an OOo document and looking for a font I have to scroll through a list of 
 about ca.100 fonts where are just 20 are really meant to be of use by the user. 
 For example all these aa_xxx fonts does nothing than confusing the user. 
 Is it possible to mark fonts as invisible in the user font dialogs.  
 Or, better, a tool to uninstall unused fonts (combined with the language selector perhaps)

* Preload main menu at startup, the menu takes too long to open the first time.
