{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Kernel/Hardware ====
* Squash FS support compiled into it
** squashfs has been included as a module for some time now; I see no reason to compile it in --MattZimmerman
* The new Reiser4 as well perhaps?
** Reiser4 is still on heavy development and there are many discussions (<nowiki>[[http://wiki.kernelnewbies.org/WhyReiser4IsNotIn|flamewar?]]</nowiki>) about it, so it will not be included in the mainline any sooner. Perhaps we can package it as a kernel patch together with a big, red warning saying "USE AT YOUR OWN RISK!", anyway, don't aspect to see Reiser4 in Edgy installation process. --LucaFalavigna
* Install an appropriate kernel for the user's hardware architecture by default. (Or it could be downloaded as an update, or the user could be informed of it?)
* Pre-built kernels for larger server class machines (SMP 64-bit machines with 16G of memory)
* Winmodem support out of the box. Right now, Ubuntu is practically useless for this group of people.
   1. Some can't be legally (for instance, mine, which is a Conexant chipset), but it would be good to at least have detection of them and some way of informing the user of how to make it work (in my case "go to http://www.linuxant.com/ and try the HSF driver - the full version costs $19.95).  This would take out a lot of frustration and confusion for the migrating user.
*** This feature could be useful in the case of other hardware as well. For example, my scanner (Epson Perfection 1670) is unsupported, but I had no way of knowing this was what was wrong without Googling.
* All mouse buttons need to work out of the box
   1. No kernel work needs to be done. Ubuntu just needs to stop using the legacy mouse drivers and switch to evdev for this.

* NTFS file systems mounted by default. The user's first experience should not be googling for the commands to add to his or her fstab to access his or her files.
** This is basically just an <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/14780|installer bug]]</nowiki>. -- ColinWatson
** While we're at it let's look into if FUSE can be stabilized and <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?thread_id=23836054&forum_id=2697|ntfs-3g]]</nowiki> can be used sanely.

* Userspace software suspend (<nowiki>[[http://suspend.sourceforge.net/|uswsusp]]</nowiki>)
* Provide pre-compiled dazuko modules for the kernels (<nowiki>[[http://www.dazuko.org/howto-install.shtml]]</nowiki>) so that Kubuntu can have Klamav installed and configured by default [(http://klamav.sourceforge.net/klamavwiki/index.php/Main_Page)] 
* I'm not entirely sure how, but something needs to be done to improve suspend/hibernate in (k)ubuntu. Most laptops seem to have trouble coming out of suspend, especially with ati/nvidia non-free drivers. Suspend and Hibernate still are an off chance.
** There is nothing we can do about problems of any sort with the non-free drivers except wait and hope that the vendor fixes them --MattZimmerman
* A better feedback system to show resumption from hibernation, instead of a black screen.
* A better interface for KLaptopDaemon or Kubuntu Powersave, that integrates Suspend or Hibernate into the log out dialogue by default.
** Some work is planned in this area, see https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-power-management --MattZimmerman

* Userfriendly filesystem - See interesting idea on page <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HideFilesystemStructure|HideFilesystemStructure]]</nowiki>  (or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/hide-filesystem-structure|spec]]</nowiki>)
** We need a SpecsThatNeedToBeDeleted category for that, one that tacks "Don't ever suggest this again" to the top of the page until someone eventually decides people get the message and deletes it.  Why not try something intelligent, like replacing the "PERMISSION DENIED" dialogs with something with a small suggestion, like "If you are saving files, they should stay in your home directory or a folder inside of it," and stick a button to take you to your home below that.  They'll learn, it's the rat-in-an-invisible-maze problem. --JohnMoser

* If the rt2x00 wireless drivers are a bit more stable it would be nice to have them. -- SamTygier
* OpenMosix support in the kernel or an other HPC-System. Maybe as a separate kernel to download.
* Xen 3.0.x host and guest support as a separate kernel download, if not out of the box.
** Already planned, see https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xen-edgy --MattZimmerman
* keep updating drivers (if possible) and fixing kernel-bugs after the release.
** Driver backports are a difficult problem; if something happens in this area it will be documented here: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/driver-backports --MattZimmerman
* Support for kqemu
** First we need to negotiate with the Qemu guys.  Get a price for kqemu (it's not for redistribution).  Then open up a donation fund and start collecting money to get kqemu opensourced.  Got $100,000?  --JohnMoser
* A lot of people get confused when the grub menu gets overfilled with more and more kernels because of newer kernel versions over the time. It is also some kind of annoying to remove old kernel versions after the reboot. My suggestion: Display a message after a the reboot, when a new kernel was installed: "A new version of the Linux kernel was installed. Should the old one be removed entirely?" If the user clicks "Yes" asked for the passwort and "sudo apt-get remove --purge" the old kernel.
** I've added a specification : https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/old-kernels-removal GuillaumeHoffmann
* Automatically detect during the installation if the hots it is a SMP/Dual Core system and the architecture to install the appropriate kernel image (eg. linux-686-smp, linux-k7 etc.)
* Host AP driver for Intersil Prism2/2.5/3 (hostap-source package) be precompiled into the Kernel for better 'out-of-the-box' wireless support.
* If kernel headers are installed, keep a repository of drivers built against them as at least a reminder of what's going to break when we upgrade our kernels (and therefore headers).  A nice feature would be an option to automatically rebuild thusly out-of-date drivers against the new headers as part of the header upgrade.
* Include exmap and sysprof kernel modules so anyone can easily contribute to performance measurements without needing to rebuild the modules for each new kernel.
* Include Linux-PHC ('''Linux Processor Hardware Control''') patch into ubuntu kernels to be able to lower the cpu voltages for Centrino computers to save battery life and reduce cpu temperature and fan noise. For more information, please read here. This is a must have! https://www.dedigentoo.org/trac/linux-phc/
* Vserver host and guest support / FreeNX host and guest support. Availability to mix FreeNX and Vserver.
* Broadcom 4310 series support, using the native bcm43xx
* Add something like the Evolution Mission Tunables for Gentoo, with which you can adjust different aspect of the kernel for optimum performance for different objectives (example: a file server vs. desktop). Example release: http://evolution-mission.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&p=178 .
 Tunables script: http://distfiles.evolution-mission.org/scripts/emission-tunables . Patch: http://distfiles.evolution-mission.org/sources/2.6.17/emission8/broken-out/021-emission-tunables-4-2.6.17-ck1.patch
----
CategoryKernel
