{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Everyone uses multimedia in some way or another on their machine. How can we make Ubuntu fit better with this reality?

* Drop ESD, use PulseAudio (http://pulseaudio.org/). This is a new sound daemon meant as a drop-in replacement for ESD. dmix has bugs regarding sound quality, so it is not an option (yet).

* Playing wav files and mp3s has to work out of the box, because every win/mac machine can and the formats are so common.

* Resource sharing -- Ubuntu has come a long way in making it so that the standard multimedia apps don't lock /dev/dsp and other resources. This needs to be improved upon. The average computer user isn't going to understand that because rhythmbox is "paused" instead of "stopped" they can't play any other sounds. Or that the flash video they watched in a tab they closed long ago is still locking their sound device.

* DVDs/MP3s/other legally sketchy formats -- this is more of a question than a suggestion. What should we do about these formats? Could we implement some system so that when people try to open a format that isn't supported by default they are told "go to our website to learn more about formats and how to enable this one?" or any other helpful message? Or would that be a legal liability?
** Perhaps it would be possible to put an option in the installer that allows the user to choose to install various formats after the system install finishes.  This would have to include a full writeup on the legality of such formats.

* PC's marked as home entertainment systems are becoming more common. How can Ubuntu be part of that trend? More support for TV recording/output cards? Easier setup of such systems using GUI tools?
*** Easier setup of TV-out.  This is a major stumbling block for setting up a home entertainment PC such as a MythTV box.  You can get TV out by default if you install with the TV plugged in, but once you install proprietary drivers to get 3D acceleration you loose the TV out without customizing xorg.conf.  Shouldn't be this hard. ~ <nowiki>[[Tas50]]</nowiki>
*** A Ubuntu desktop connected to a surround sound speaker system, but the user thinks one speaker isn't working: how can they test each speaker through Ubuntu Sound Preferences?

* Computers are now functioning as recording systems. http://ubuntustudio.com/ is one attempt to make audio/video/graphics editing easier. What could we integrate from that project into the main Ubuntu release? Could we have a ubuntu-studio package?

* Music playback. We have rhythmbox, banshee, and songbird. Which should be included in Feisty?

** This brings up music device support. How do we go from it-is-possible-to-make-it-work to Ubuntu-makes-managing-my-music-easy?
** Isn't Listen in Ubuntu now? It needs a bit of work, but surely it would be a good choice compared to Banshee since it would not require Mono to be installed, just Python which already is.
*** Mono is installed by default in Edgy for Tomboy and F-Spot.  It also performs better than python.
**** Oops, forgive my lack of Edgy-upgradeness :) -- Warbo
** I know this is going to get some flak, but Amarok is an absolutely fantastic program. I knew this already, but recently found that it can even sync my media device (Neuros 442) to my collection and reorganize my filesystem based on ID3 tags. Amarok used to be a QT frontend to several different systems (playback engine, SQL, etc.) in the philosophy of one program = one task, which would make a GTK/GNOME port nonsensical, since it would be a completely different program rather than a port,  but these days it has so many unique features that I would really like to see it made independent of the desktop environment and toolkit.
**** There is a program like Amarok for GTK/GNOME, it is called Exaile (www.exaile.org). I've been using it for a couple of months, and it is pretty usable and stable, and has the same features as Amarok. I would go and include it into the Ubuntu Desktop installation, instead of Rhytmbox.

** A user is listening to internet radio on rhythmbox and an incoming call notification appears from Ekiga, can the music be automatically lowered when taking the call.
**** I think that's a great suggestion. Can it be implemented in a way that doesn't require much user interaction? Can different applications have different sound priorities? This hits on resource sharing as well. Won't help if rhythmbox is turned down if ekiga can't get access to the sound equipment.
** One Click setup to install proprietary software, something like Automatix and EasyUbuntu to be included by default. If because of any legal issues it cannot be included, atleast for first time installation/beginners, easy way to inform the users about the same. -RajasekarKarthik
** Quod Libet, anyone? -Shane
** Include bmpx as default multimedia player? It has a very nice Interface, plays all important formats plus cd plus lastfm. But please turn off the "anonymous statistics" by default ...

* Build a standardized multimedia backend on top of the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284785|HomeServer]]</nowiki>, independent of the frontend used and creat a distro around a nice set-top-box frontend (I bet on Freevo-2) to penetrate the set-top-box segment. This sector will be increasingly interesting with sub $100 diskless machines and high bandwidth Wi-Fi. Moreover it is a good opportunity to spread open codecs.

* Ubuntu really could be free (libre), and if you want loads of illegal/non-free/buggy codecs, then these could be provided in a derived distro. We inherit from Debian, and I think Multimedia Ubuntu (MEPIS?) should be the route to providing these things; we shouldn't be too proud to make a good product and pass on the baton. Some aspects of this are discussed in EthicalInfo. The only issue with this for me is the branding.

* Replace the gnome cd burner with Brasero.  Brasero is stable, full featured (IE: cd/dvd blanking/formating, on-the-fly cd burning including Audio cd, fast loading) burning application.  The various parts of the program like burning a play list, burning an ISO, opening a blank data cd project, etc.. are accessible individually.  This makes it ideal to replace the gnome cd burner and serpentine. ~Alan

* Add a GUI mp3->ogg converter, associated with .mp3 files. (Some options: http://gnomefiles.com/app.php/audio_convert, http://gnomefiles.com/app.php/gnormalize and http://gnomefiles.com/app.php/Sound_Converter)
** You should '''never''' apply lossy compression to data already compressed using a lossy format, unless absolutely necessary.
** sound-converter in Universe can do this, but it suffers the same legal problems as just being able to play MP3 in the first place. Users will not want to convert their music and lose quality unless they get some kind of benefit, such as being able to play it with a default Ubuntu system, but if any MP3 code is going to be included, why not just make it a player? (I know MP3 cannot be included, I am just making the point) -- <nowiki>[[Warbo]]</nowiki>

* Why install Rhtymbox and Totem when the installation of VLC player (for video) and Beep Media Player or Exaile (for audio), or at least make them the default players when installed, would make the same but support a broader range of formats. I think the user would find it really useful.
