{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Grub / Booting ====
* Include a GUI front-end for editing Grub. Someone's already written this--it just needs to be included.
** ... and fixed. (The reason it was excluded is because it broke working menu.lst files; look for bug reports.) -- ColinWatson
** ... I'm going to assume this is like Mepis' grub boot. That is something that my non-linux friends really liked. -- TimAlexander
* Grub should also be configured as to add other Linux distros to the menu (in a working manner, that is)
** It already is, and it works well for me.  If it doesn't work for you, file bugs and help us fix them -- MattZimmerman
* A GUI for restoring Grub to the MBR. Mepis already has this. I'm not sure if the code is GPL'ed or not. An option on the install/desktop cds to do this would be great too.
** There's an option for this on the alternate CD already, but not yet on the desktop CD. -- ColinWatson
** Try this one http://phenix.rootshell.be/~muromec/grub-restore

* Fallback to a minimal X system (e.g. with a vesa driver) if the current xorg.conf fails to start X.
** VESA driver is forced with xforcevesa on the desktop CD.  We could of course add this for the installed system too. -- TollefFogHeen
** Perhaps a third choice for the current kernel update in grub in addition to recovery mode, and normal boot could be vesa mode -- TimAlexander
** Just for fun, how about a Kdrive Vesa X server?  It'd be like 300K :) --JohnMoser

* Remove older kernel versions in the menu once the latest kernel update is verified to work.
** This is part of https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/make-free-space-wizard -- MattZimmerman
* Include an InitNG (<nowiki>[[http://www.initng.org/]]</nowiki>) like in order too make ubuntu boot faster than XP (very recurent request over forums) (ReplacementInit)
** Something just as  crazy is already planned: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/replacement-init -- MattZimmerman
* Option to hide GRUB completely (when there's only one OS on the computer, user configurable)
** This is already planned: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/quieten-grub -- MattZimmerman
* Boot messages should be fully localized (incluging initrd.gz - probably this will need creating localized initrd-xx from kernel?)
** This is planned as part of https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/boot-message-logging -- MattZimmerman
* Localization of the GRUB interface, too. Strings like "(recovery mode)", "Other operating systems:", etc. Including the embedded help ("use the arrow keys to select an item...").
* Not sure if this should go as a boot option, or on the Install CD as an option, but somewhere needs to be an option to boot immediately into the command "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" so that people can reconfigure thier xserver to get it working. Windows has a bunch of problems with graphics cards (87% of blue screens in XP are graphics related) and I see this evolving with linux as well.
* A better splash screen
** This comes at the cost of breaking suspend to RAM; we may consider making it prettier on systems where STR isn't supported -- MattZimmerman
** Would the "splashy" splash screen from Simply Mepis work? Much better than usplash IMO. -- Nick Booker
* Support unionfs'd root in default initramfstools: for cluster of diskless NFS fat clients, read-only local boot etc. It is already implemented in Live CD.
** We tried unionfs+NFS for LTSP and they didn't get along at all -- MattZimmerman

* Add a boot option in Grub to search for new hardware. The default boot option could skip this step and thus boot faster. -- HenrikOmma
** I think that currently, hardware detection is fast enough that it's practically free (the time is taken by loading the drivers, not detecting hardware) -- MattZimmerman
*** You're probably right, Matt.  The hardware can be detected easy enough by lspci/lsusb/lshw/etc and reading the ID numbers on the hardware, then loading the module specified in the `/lib/modules/.../modules.*map` files.  I'm assuming that's roughly how it works, so it's O(1). --JohnMoser

* A simple "beep" (Ctrl-G) when boot: is shown, would alert blind people allowing them to type kernel paramters (to rise voice synthesis, for example)
** And a subsequent accesibility option at the grub prompt, in order to activate Gnome accesibility options (Orca or Gnopernicus). 
* On powerpc could it be automatically decided whether to use the 32bit or 64bit kernel. -- SamTygier
** When booting the installation CD, you select the appropriate kernel, and that kernel should be used for the installed system as well -- MattZimmerman
* Grub v2
** This was discussed briefly, but will probably only be offered as an option: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/grub2 -- MattZimmerman
* Default to logout + suspend-to-disk instead of reboot where possible, will save repeating lots of init tasks. Do reboot 1 in every 20 times, or just following updates needing reboots.
** There is no default; when the user selects System->Quit, they must choose what to do (and hibernate is one of the options) -- MattZimmerman
* Replace the SysV init stuff with something like InitNG, Solaris' 10 SMF (Service Management Framework), OS X's launchd or runit (which is already in the repos)
** Something just as crazy is already planned: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/replacement-init -- MattZimmerman
* Unbreak the shutdown usplash screen. At least in kubuntu it creates a mess on the screen with normal text scrolling over the usplash remnants at least 1 time out of 3.
** Works for me.  Bug reports go in the bug tracking system -- MattZimmerman
* Make recovery mode more useful. Currently it is not possible to use at all without setting a root password beforehand. If you did that the prompt still is barely useable as all filesystems are mounted, etc. I ended up having to use a bootcd to fix my /usr partition, even though that is exactly what a rescue mode is for!
** Recovery mode works for me. --JohnMoser

* Make "reboot" work without /usr. When fixing /usr I was not able to run "reboot" since the shutdown scripts broke on /usr not being there. All scripts in /etc/init.d should either function or get silently skipped if some filesystems are not there.
** Bug reports go in the bug tracking system -- MattZimmerman
* Add the ability for the user to skip fsck when it runs at boot (after 30 mounts).  Maybe do something like Windows does with chkdsk (put a certain amount of time before running fsck where the user can press any key to bypass it).
** We no longer fsck automatically based on a mount count -- MattZimmerman
* Add a graphical screen (or maybe just integrate into usplash) for fsck when it runs at boot.
*** Also, when a manual fsck is required, this screen should be simplified or more conviniently, the manual fsck should be ran automatically (with a user-friendly "Checking file system for errors..." graphical interface)
* If possible have only OS choices initially, such as Ubuntu and Windows, then after one is chosen present other options such as Normal, Recovery Mode or Memory Check.
* A graphical start!Desktop user is not interested in details.Simple a good resolution image with a progress bar and an option for looking at details.This will improve the look and feel
** We've had a graphical startup process for two releases already -- MattZimmerman
* There are too many UBuntus in the GRUB menu. There should uonly be one Ubuntu. When it boots up, it should boot normally by default, but you should be able to boot in recovery mode by pressing F1 or do a memory test by pressing F2.
* Make the regularly scheduled (ext3 default of 30 mounts) "fsck" run at shutdown instead of startup.  I have a ubuntu laptop and on sales demos I care a lot how fast it starts up and not at all about how fast it shuts down.
** "We no longer fsck automatically based on a mount count -- MattZimmerman"

* Make the "recovery" start a non-graphic session, but not login automatically as root (just ask for login and password), because this is too dangerous for shared/public computers.

* Make the default boot kernel "saved" as opposed to "0" when there is more than one operating system.
