{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Can Ubuntu do something like Windoze Xp's network bridging? If not, i think it should be added.
** bridge-utils can bridge network interfaces, take a look on http://tldp.org , also questions should be aimed more toward the forums or IRC where you will get a faster response
* A simple way to change a software MAC address and keep it permanent.  Some ISPs, like mine, only let you have one MAC per cable modem (in my case), so every time I connect my other computer (with Ubuntu on it) I need to enter that by hand on the terminal.  Windows has this, it's really nice and probably the only thing I would want.
* Also, can we replace ''dhclient'' with ''dhcpcd'', so that it updates automatically instead of making you send a request by hand?

=== Handeling Error conditions ===

* No way to manually add DNS servers permenantly

* Better way to change profiles / Gateway and Wifi settings need to change with profile

* Wifi error messages

* any error message at all would be helpfull actually

* Dialog not dissappearing on apply button press.

* It would nice to solve definitively the problems with bcm43xx cards in general, bcm4318 particularly. Broadcom people say they are willing to work on linux drivers, so maybe getting in touch with them would accelerate the process. Having no wifi capability when one computer has it may prevent people from using the distro.

* An easier setup for ndiswrapper would be nice, setting up ndiswrapper can be a pain because often people rely on wireless to connect to the internet, and would therefore need internet to download the wireless drivers for their computer. Also for people with a 64bit computer, they dont have the drivers on cd because the computer usually comes with a 32bit copy of window. So perhaps there could be a selection of Windows drivers included on the ubuntu cd which could be used with ndiswrapper.

* The bcm43xx driver causes problems on many Acer laptops, because the module included with ubuntu cannot control the wireless radio (there is a solution for this on 32bit machines), but when you try to setup ndiswrapper, the bcm43xx driver interferes with it and forces the card to use the builtin driver instead of ndiswrapper, a boot script is an easy workaround, but it would be nice to have a real fix for this problem

* The wireless network card for Mac G4 Powerbooks is not supported
