{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Multi-architecture support ====
* Better support for running 32 bit apps in 64 bit Ubuntu
  
** SebastianBreier: Any details? I was quite surprised yesterday when I could start a 32bit app on the amd64 server edition without even installing ia32libs (this wasn't possible on breezy)... so I guess it's getting better.
** Macromedia Flash.
*** If Macromedia has not released their official 64-bit Flash, could GPLFlash (or the most up to date alternative) be put on Edgy as default.
** On SPARC64? Just pointing out that it is very complex, and the x86_64 architecture's compatibility with the x86 architecture is the exception rather than the rule. Maybe x86_64 can be reclassified in dpkg's architecture system to be more closely related to x86, like Linux's configuration has subarchitectures. For example, 386 can be a subarchitecture of 686 and k7 (I am not sure of 686's and k7's exact relationship, maybe one can be a sub of the other?), they can be made subarchitectures of x86_32, x86_32 can be made a subarchitecture of x86_64, which would then be a subarchitecture of x86 (to allow for an easier transition in the future). Not only will many be happy at specifically-compiled packages for i686/k7 (I obviously refer to those ex-Gentoo users out there :) ), but the compatibilities can point down the tree, so a k7 system will happily install 386 packages, an x86_64 one will happily install 686 packages, but 386 cannot install 686 and 686 cannot install x86_64 packages, for example. This would require a pretty substantial restructuring of dpkg, but the more flexible the system is made now, the less problems will be faced when the entire world is using GNU/Linux desktops :) (I understand this will be far from Edgy though)
* Provide "key" packages for i686 kernel. It could be the first step to a complete i686 arch. See this spec : https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntu-686
** We already do (kernel, glibc, openssl, etc.) --MattZimmerman
* Full Gdebi multiarch support. Installing a package with Gdebi, from different architecture than the current one, is not possible (i.e. installing i386 package over amd64 flavour). A non internazionalized (or not translated, I don't know) status message appears (Error: Wrong architecture 'i386') but it's not possible to override this problem with a force-like option. Maybe, another force-like options not related to multiarch are desired.
* If Qemu is installed use it's "user space" emulation, along with bin-fmt support, to make more packages available for different architectures. This will benefit PPC users mostly as it will allow the installation of WINE, Macrodobe Flash, Realplayer, etc. (probably install software in special directories like "/usr/libx86" or a minimal system install like "/chroot-arm")
** Running a web browser under qemu is likely to be too slow to be useful.  An embedded development environment exists based on Ubuntu and qemu+bin-fmt --MattZimmerman
** Look into <nowiki>[[http://llvm.org/|LLVM]]</nowiki> --JohnMoser
** It seems like this is a compiler (or something to assist in compilation), but the original reason I suggested Qemu was to run proprietary code for which the source is not available. If the software is Free then it can be ported pretty easily to other architectures if it is written in C or something higher level, but software like the official Flash plugin and WINE (because it runs x86 code) cannot be ported to architectures like PPC at all unless the creator (or in WINE's case all of the Windows program makers) decide to port it (and if Windows software makers decided to port their software then WINE wouldn't actually be needed anyway). Partially emulating Epiphany, for instance, would be pretty useless when it has native versions for Ubuntu's architectures, but partially emulating some 32bit x86 app like, for instance,  eMule in WINE, would be the ONLY solution for PPC users to run eMule (I know, there are many Linux apps which do the same thing, but it was an example) apart from fully emulating an entire OS, of course.
*** Not true, eMule could be recompiled using winelib and run on PPC natively without emulation. It's a bit of work, though.  I'm thinking eMuleViaWineSpec --ScottRitchie
* Full Synaptic multiarch support. To be able to add 32 and 64 bit repositories in the 64 bit version of Edgy and install/remove applications for either architecture.
