{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Synaptic / apt-get ====
* Either a GUI frontend for aptitude (and when I say GUI I mean point-and-click, not the text-based graphical version of aptitude) or an easy way to make Synaptic and Adept remember dependencies that came with an application when uninstalling the application.
** Automatic dependency removal for Synaptic and friends is already planned for Edgy: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/dependency-removal --MattZimmerman
** Is this really needed? Edgy will come with SMART package manager, which will do these things.
** That's great, I hadn't heard of SMART. Will it be default now?
*** SMART http://labix.org/smart is supposed to be Edgy's package manager, if I correctly understood what I read.
*** What did you read and where?  SMART has been available in universe for some time and is not mutually exclusive with the other tools.  You can follow our thoughts about SMART here: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/smartpm --MattZimmerman
* When a kernel is upgraded, remove the old kernel after reboot.
** Can SMART do this as well?
** I think that it should be after system restarted. If the new kernel doesn't loading, you will still have your old one.
** Maybe it should ask at the time of removal, whether the user wants to keep the old kernel or not?
** I disagree, we should keep 2 versions of the kernel, the current and the previous.  We could remove the other ones (as I saw somewhere else in the wiki: provided we check if the kernel being removed is not the one currently in use!) - <nowiki>[[Quartz]]</nowiki>
** We really should keep the current and previous bootable kernels. Can we record grub info and kernels which have booted? This will reduce chances of an unbootable system.
** I interpret this as "don't keep every kernel package installed forever", which is something we do plan to address.  See https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/make-free-space-wizard --MattZimmerman
* Incremental updates of the packages database to reduce traffic
* AptServiceDiscovery
* Delta updates
** This is doubly important for people with slow/unreliable internet connections.  It would be nice to be able to download 1-5 mbytes of updates for a small OO.o change rather than a simple update requiring 80+ mbytes of downloads to fix.
** Perhaps seperating security updates from general updates would be useful for dial-up users who can install only critical updates without having to disable repositories during an upgrade (and possibly breaking dependencies in the process). This should be under an "advanced" level to keep the update/upgrade interface as simple as possible.
** <nowiki>[[apt-sync]]</nowiki>. --<nowiki>[[Sewar]]</nowiki>
* Tenshu : It is URGENT to bring localised descriptions for the synaptic packages. Because Ubuntu is for human beings and not for english humans :p . It alread exist under Debian : http://ddtp.debian.org/ See my spec at : https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/synaptic-packages-descriptions-localisation
* Tenshu : some people talk about an "apt-torrent". The idea is while the ubuntu users community is growing fast, bandwith needed for updates will grow too. A solution is to think about the use of a P2P technologie (similar to torrent) to save a LOT of this precious bandwith.  
**** Most people have in the Netherlands have a 10:1 download:upload ratio, other nations have (sometimes rather restrictive) bandwith limits or Fair Use Policies. You can not reasonably expect people to provide P2P updates in these cases. This could never be default due to privacy concerns in any case. The no open ports policy comes to mind as well. -HiddeBrugmans
**** yes you're right, it should remain optionnal. But if Ubuntu community keep on growing this way, we should really think about it. May be delta updates could be a (partial?) solution. Tenshu
**** HiddeBrugmans, you're right in saying it could not be applyed by default to all Ubuntu users. But maybe it exists a way to enable a P2P-like transfer method between mirrors servers. This would allow users to download packages simultaneously from, example, ca.archive.ubuntu.com, fr.archive.ubuntu.com, de.archive.ubuntu.com and us.archives.ubuntu.com, as well as other mirrors the community would provide. This would certainly better redistribute resources between all repositories, which (I agree with Tenshu) is something to be concerned if the community gets bigger. ''-- Alexandre P.''
**** It is a good idea I think, maybe not enabled by default but it should be possible to let user share their downloaded packages. And even if we have a 10:1 download:upload ratio, because we don't download all the time, this may be enough. '' mildred ''
**** It's fairly likely that the majority of users would be happy to donate their b/w as a way of giving something back to the community. P2P modes for the delivery of free software scale, while Canonical's resources are finite. 
* If dpkg is interrupted, it must be repaired in the console using dpkg --configure -a. Synaptic should detect it and should correct it.
* Synaptic should show the changelog in a tab like the update-manager does.
* <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam/CommonInstallHook]]</nowiki>

* Include firefox plug-in to trigger package installation from a special URL within a web page, as done by xapi from Guadalinex. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/aptgetinstallprotocol?highlight=%28aptget%29

* It would be nice to be able to test the bandwidth available from different mirrors in order to select the fastest one for a given user. 

* KurtKraut: apt-build should be tested/included with a script to (re)compile fundamental packages that acts like a bottleneck for other programs (like multimedia libs) or widely used packages (like python) that many other programs depends on. The compiling should optimize these packages to the processor architeture.

* Introduce a new kind of Repository called '''save-backports'''. In save-backports there should only get packages in from programms that are save to update. Generally seen, these should be applications that are the last in a line of dependencys. For example librarys are at the beginning of a dependency line, that's why updating them is NOT allowed, but a simple programm like a calculator might be in the last line of dependency so these kind of programm can be updated without trouble. And exactly such kind of programms should be in the new repository called '''save-backports'''.
** This is what `dapper-backports` is intended to be; it's intended to be safe to upgrade (though these packages don't receive security support) --MattZimmerman
*** That's not the same or at least dapper-backports does not work in this way.
      In dapper-backports you get new versions of kde, new versions of gnome etc. but this is
      a no go, because kdelibs is a library and to early in the dependency line.
      The conclusion is, dapper-backport might brake your system because of that.

* Add categories in Synaptic and Adept that just display the actual programs (don't show any libraries, data files, etc.).
** Add/Remove programs is available for this reason. --<nowiki>[[Sewar]]</nowiki>

* If SMART is about to be used as the default package manager, get rid of the tree-like view (reminds me of Xffm) and prefer a panel-view like Synaptic currently has.

* Configure apt to allow configuration of multiple hosts as backups for a repo. Then apt should use the first repo listed in /etc/apt/sources.list, and use subsequently listed servers as backups in instances where the main repo is down.

* Prelink
** Allow maintainers to specify whether a package is prelink safe. Allow an apt option to have prelink-safe packages prelinked on installation. Have the apt db reflect the prelink status of a package, and allow prelink of a package to be enabled/disabled through apt frontends, eg Synaptic.

** Combine prelinking and the use of delta updates, so that a package can be installed already prelinked. A checkbox could by added to Synaptic to select whether a package is installed prelinked or not, set to a default setting that's user configurable.

** Careful with prelink, it has <nowiki>[[http://lwn.net/Articles/190139/|security implications]]</nowiki>.  There are other methods of speeding up application start-up by 50-80% anyway, but we can't consider them until Edgy+1. -- JohnMoser

* Let the user uninstall/replace default applications. There are a lot of people asking for an special app to ship as default (for instance banshee instead of rhythmbox, epiphany instead of firefox, etc). Users should be able to uninstall an app if they are not using it without uninstalling ubuntu-desktop metapackage.
** Maybe the meta package ubuntu-desktop should be free configurable via GUI so that user is able to determine what packages (Firefox or Epiphany, Thunderbird or Evolution etc.) ubuntu-desktop depends on.

* Rather than having to have "dapper" or "breezy" in sources.list, you should be able to specify "stable". It should then update your system to the latest '''stable''' release. eg. right now, that would get you dapper, but in a few months time, at edgy's release, it would get you edgy.
