{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== September 2010 Community Review ==

The Ubuntu community is huge and has grown significantly over the years. Although the scale of the community has grown, the primary areas of participation have remained largely consistent - people take part in development, testing, documentation, advocacy and other key groups.

Unfortunately, as we have grown, I feel the typical community onboarding experience, that is, getting new people involved, has become overly complex. As such, I am kicking off an initiative with some of my fellow community members to identify areas in which we can fix this. -- JonoBacon

=== The Team ===

To assess how accessible our community is for newcomers, I have asked a team of volunteers to perform an assessment of the community and gather input from new community members to identify areas of improvement. This team is shown below:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Area
| Use Case
| Team
|-
| Total Beginner
| Sam is completely new to Ubuntu and is unsure of how, where and to what extent he/she can participate.
| Jorge Castro
|-
| Translations
| Sam speaks a second language and wants to translate Ubuntu in it.
| David Planella
|-
| Packaging
| Sam would like to contribute packages to Ubuntu.
| Daniel Holbach
|-
| Documentation
| Sam would like to help extend Ubuntu documentation in an area that is not covered.
| Matthew East
|-
| Advocacy
| Sam loves Ubuntu so much that he/she wants to tell the world about it. But how and where?
| Laura Czajkowski
|-
| Support
| Sam is a bit of a power user and enjoys helping people with technical questions. How and where can he/she provide this help?
| 
|-
| Art
| Sam would like to make Ubuntu and the community look prettier and doesn't know where to start?
| Martin Owens
|-
| Quality
| Sam would like to help test and improve the quality of Ubuntu but is not sure where to begin.
| Ara Pulido
|-
| Server
| Sam loves Ubuntu Server and would like to make it better but is not sure where to begin.
| Ahmed Kamal
|}

All of these use cases assume that the person does not possess the knowledge to participate (e.g. no knowledge of packaging or how to translate).

=== The Plan ===

Here are the reports the above folks will focus on:

* Total Beginner - <nowiki>[[CommunityReview-Sep2010-Beginner|READ REPORT]]</nowiki>
* Translations - <nowiki>[[CommunityReview-Sep2010-Translations|READ REPORT]]</nowiki>
* Packaging - <nowiki>[[CommunityReview-Sep2010-Packaging|READ REPORT]]</nowiki>
* Documentation - <nowiki>[[CommunityReview-Sep2010-Documentation|READ REPORT]]</nowiki>
* Advocacy - <nowiki>[[CommunityReview-Sep2010-Advocacy|READ REPORT]]</nowiki>
* Support - <nowiki>[[CommunityReview-Sep2010-Support|READ REPORT]]</nowiki>
* Art - <nowiki>[[CommunityReview-Sep2010-Art|READ REPORT]]</nowiki>
* Quality - <nowiki>[[CommunityReview-Sep2010-Quality|READ REPORT]]</nowiki>
* Server - <nowiki>[[CommunityReview-Sep2010-Server|READ REPORT]]</nowiki>
