{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Issues Relating To Printing ====
Note: This has been copied from <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/Printing]]</nowiki>. Please remove any comments that have already been implemented.

Printing is a must-have for many people, especially students who would have the easiest time switching to Ubuntu (lots of time, open minds, no corporate restraints).  What can we do to make printing work better?

** Make much more printers work out-of-the-box, for example my Canon S520x :) (Perhaps there could be something like a "default driver" for usb Inkjet printers and a default driver for usb laser printers..., so at least everyone could actually print!). ~DrOdal
** Make the default print dialog more like the Windows print dialog.  Put the number of copies on the first tab. ~kewldude606
** Allow adjusting of margins in print dialogs
** Advanced printing features: 
*** Printing on both sides on non-dublex printer: Print even-numbered pages first, turn the stack manually and then print the odd-numbered pages.
*** Printing four pages on one. Very useful when printing handouts from slideshows.
* Make xubuntu printing work without gnome-cups-manager. DONE.
* Dynamically add USB printers when they are plugged in DONE
** Pop up a notification when a printer has been dynamically added/removed DONE
** Suppress gnome cups manager when previously detected printer is turned on. DONE
* Fuji-Xerox print engine for CUPS, source and RPM's provided: <nowiki>[[http://download.fujixerox.co.jp/apeosport/download/c4300series/linux.html|fujixerox.co.jp]]</nowiki>.
* Add <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/alc900-cups|driver for Epson C900]]</nowiki> (GPL).
* Would greatly appreciate support for the Lexmark X2350 all in one printer. It's one of the most popular and indeed the cheapest all in one printer available, and yet there's no Linux support for it. 
* Beginners already have problems with printing out e.g. scanned images in the original size
** kdeprint interface lacks an option like "print in original size"
