{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Eye Candy ====
* Improvement on fonts is a must.
** <nowiki>[[http://turnerdavid.neuf.fr/freetype/patches/font-patches.html|David Turner's Font Rendering patches]]</nowiki> vastly improve font rendering. (See <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=180647|related forum thread]]</nowiki>)
** I'd really like to see this as well. RobTirrell
** Can OOo be patched to use the system's version of freetype so its fonts dont' look so horrible?
** Let's submit patches upstream to use the system's version of anything else you can't already ./configure out of OOo's code, because I hate excess bloat. --JohnMoser

* Improvement on fonts in usplash
** Is text really needed here? (see Minimalist proposal on Usplash/EdgyPropositions)
* Switch to <nowiki>[[Upower]]</nowiki>...?
** Upower development is closed, and the main developer is working on splashy instead.  See <nowiki>[[http://www.nanofreesoft.org/index.php?name=News&file=article&sid=3]]</nowiki>
* Usplash load text not shown by default, but with easy access to turn it back on, preferably with a larger text viewing area as well for more technical people
* I'm not fond of the status splash pages during boot and shutdown.  I suggest that verbose mode should be default, and the status splash page be turned on as an option.  The verbose mode is helpful to see if your computer is running properly.
* Turn on subpixel rendering by default if an LCD is detected?
* Xgl - I disagree with it being default, but there should be an easy installer, preferably with the more dangerous plugins left out of compiz
** I understand XGL basically is a GL-enabled fullscreen window on top of the X server. I have to say that makes me lean even more towards AIGLX. Sounds cluttered. -- RunarIngebrigtsen
** Eyecandy should never be default.  It should be entirely optional, perhaps easy to activate, but, I just can't see any reason that Ubuntu should attempt to be Vista, if I want Vista, I'll pay for it.  Eye-candy is nice, but let me activate it if and when I want it, otherwise I prefer my nice fast speedy plain jane display.
** Tenshu: Best way (i think) is to follow the direction of this spec : https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/gnome-bling-manager . It's a panel wich let user manage eye candy with software or hardware acceleration. We could imagine that the panel allow installation of proprietary drivers with a legal issue warning.
** I absolutely second this. This makes it easy, and quick to enable or disable all parts of Eyecandy. There is no need for another answer. Development should be prioritized on this pronto. -- TimAlexander
** I disagree. The gset-compiz plugins manager is much more mature than GnomeBlingManager. Have a look at the second screenshot on the <nowiki>[[CompositeManager/ConfiguringCompiz|compiz-config page]]</nowiki>. Like many others, I am  concerned about the proliferation of more and more control panels. I think we should concentrate working on a <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam:Universal_Control_Panel|Universal Control Panel]]</nowiki> a la <nowiki>[[http://shots.osdir.com/slideshows/slideshow.php?release=637&slide=44|YaST Control Center]]</nowiki> and en/disable hardware/software acceleration from there. See the <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/GUI|GUI proposals page]]</nowiki> for the discussion. -- archis 
** MichaëlArnauts: Why not? Edgy is meant to be experimental, so i think XGL is a MUST to be used as default (but it may need some more polish)
** The two biggest why nots, XGL/Compiz ends up with a whole nother can of worms very similar to the KDE/Gnome crap.  Do we really want XGLUbuntu and XGLKubuntu, and all that on top of all the other distributions?  Second reason why not is because it's very hardware intensive, I don't care if the computer can handle it, why do I want to waste system resources on something that quite frankly doesn't even look that good to me.  It has some neat tricks and toys, but, how useful is any of it?  It allows you to spin your desktop like a cube, it looks pretty but lacks any practical value.  Some argue that the eyecandy gains users, sure it does, for all of 15 minutes, when the users that care about eye-candy realize that the games they want don't run without paying for cedega or a lot of hassle, they'll lose interest and switch right back to Windows, especially with Vista and DirectX 10 coming out and DirectX 10 being developed ONLY for Windows Vista.  Working on resource demanding hardware specific features for the DESKTOP is bordering on the ignorant.  Desktop should focus on functionality and enough to make looking at it pleasant.  I can find no reason to even want to enable this by default.  If you want it, maybe they can provide a nice pretty easy installer, but, making default would just as likely agitate more users then it'd gain, especially when trying to make it work on all the great various machines out there.  The detecting whether XGL would run happy or not would be a huge undertaking on it's own, especially how to help a user who plans to install ubuntu only to find that the detection script messes up and leaves them with nothing more then a really expensive paperweight until they reinstall whatever operating system they were using previously. -- nanenj
** Qrious: There's a very good reason why not. Not all users have accelerated GL working.
** We can place a stupid boot script that whill check is there a supported videocard and configure OpenGL for it or disable xgl if can`t
** Yogarine: We should wait and see how Xgl and Mesa/glitz develop. Also a nice idea would be to make the installer / live CD detect the video card and enable Xgl/Compiz if it detects a supported GPU.
** SeanMiddleditch: XGL doesn't do anything particularly interesting in terms of user experience that X.org 7.1 can't do (now that AIGLX is merged).  AIGLX can even be defaulted to 'on' with no ill effects (theoretically).  The question then isn't whether we have a nifty X server, but if we have a nifty compositor/wm.  A possibility here is to write some code which can detect if the current X/GL driver is properly accelerated, and if so automatically enable the compositing_manager metacity gconf key.  This code should probably be merged into metacity proper, and the gconf key could become an enumeration between "always," "never," and "automatic."
** AlexBernson: One big difference between AIGLX and XGL is that XGL currently works on the proprietary ATI & Nvidia drivers with no need to modify them, while AIGLX requires vendors to modify their drivers (at least as I understand it). Plenty of people, especially with newer hardware, cannot get GL accelerated without proprietary drivers.
** MarkNelson: I'd like to see us use XGL (though there is no reason we can't also support AIGLX as it is included in Xorg 7.1).  David Reveman has been working hard to make XGLX polished enough for inclusion in Novell Desktop 10.  He's also the primary contributor to both XGL and Compiz.  If we include XGL now we'll have an easier time migrating to XeGL later once David can focus on it after Novell Desktop 10 ships.  Ultimately I think XeGL is the direction we want to be going in the long term and packaging XGL now will help us prepare for it.
** TSmithe: I think that AIGLX should be used: it enables OpenGL programs to be run through the server, when Xorg 7.1 is released, vendors will have to update their driver model, and it uses a simpler method for doing the drawing, being a more gradual upgrade, but still allowing for good compisiting support.
** Xgl (or AIGLX) should be enabled my only one click in some nice tool, maybe the X-Config-Tool. Which of both is selected, should be selected by the tool based on the used X drivers. If somebody wants to use another one, he needs to install the related package (should be 1 metapackage then) manually.
** Yogarine: A nice idea would be to make the installer / live CD detect the video card and enable Xgl/Compiz if it detects a supported GPU. I support Michael in his opinion that Xgl is a must for Edgy. (Users with lesser hardware should just use Xubuntu, or stick to Dapper - it has LTS anyway - until Ubuntu 7.04 is released.) Ubuntu Edgy with Xgl would be the ultimate Vista killer and would help a lot in converting people to switch (Normal People love Eye Candy) to Ubuntu, and thus help in squashing Bug #1.
** RunarIngebrigtsen: (Not being an expert) I consider the "evolution not revolution" arguments I've seen in this debate to be good. Then nVidia has been expressing official support of the AIGLX way. I don't know much about the technical details but I'd like to see good reasoning whichever option is chosen. From my view I tend to like the AIGLX approach and would like to see that extended.
** +1. Here's a <nowiki>[[http://download.nvidia.com/developer/presentations/2006/xdevconf/compositing-with-current-framework.pdf|link]]</nowiki> (pdf) to Nvidia's presentation at XDevConf.
** porchcth: I absolutely agree with Yogarine. The most important thing for Edgy in my opinion is to stay (or get) ahead of Windows Vista. I think I could convert a few people to move to Ubuntu if it would provide the same level of eye candy as Vista, only earlier...
** SamTygier: If its technically possible, could xgl be a session that one can choose at login. Have a GUI application to turn it on and off is no good, suppose you turn it on, reboot, and now you can't start X becuase your graphics card is not compatable, how do you turn it off again.
*** It already is possible, there are guides telling how to implement this.
** Callahan2: I'm concerned that XGL will be a power sucker on laptops.  If so it should not be used there by default.
** Phoenix50: I think AIGLX is the better choice. It is an extension of the normal X. XGL would be a standalone XServer. But please correct me if I'm wrong.
** aetherane: I personally think that XGL/AIGLX should be enabled by a toggle switch. Install both, and have an "Eye candy" preference pane to switch it on and off. If the user has a laptop, default to off to conserve power as well as if the computer can't support it. Otherwise, default to it being on. If a user decides that eye candy isn't for him, he can just simply turn it off so it would be a non-issue.

* Ubuntu mouse theme (spinning Ubuntu logo for wait mouse icon, ect.)
** Yogarine: What's wrong with the current mouse theme? A spinning Ubuntu logo would be too much I think. Mouse theme should be kept simple. Also, most Windows users have accustomed to the simple Windows mouse theme (Windows 3.0 to Windows Vista all use the same mouse theme :P).
** Yogarine: However, there should come more (good looking) alternate mouse themes with Ubuntu.
** Derick_eisenhardt: I agree we should keep a very simple mouse theme as is currently used for the default, but we should definitely include a few alternatives as it's still not a very user friendly experience to install mouse themes in gnome, etc...
** I really like the default mouse theme.
* Ubuntu theme for Firefox
** Already exists in Dapper repos (firefox-themes-ubuntu)
** So, make it defaults for a better desktop
** This is already planned for Edgy --MattZimmerman
* Get rid of the "icon loading" on the Gnome menu.
** What?  And why? --MattZimmerman
** I propose this might mean the delay from clicking the menu icon until menu icons appear on low-resource systems.
** MichaëlArnauts: not only low-resource systems, it happens on fast machines also (and more noticable on the live cd ofcourse)
** This is one of the big reason why KDE or windows actually feels snappier than gnome. God, is there a way to make the gnome menu load the icons faster ? 
* At least one wallpaper to match each included theme.
** The art team is accepting contributions for wallpaper --MattZimmerman
* <nowiki>[[http://shots.osdir.com/slideshows/slideshow.php?release=659&slide=3|Splashscreen]]</nowiki> could use the same icons theme that desktop.
** Please raise with the art team --MattZimmerman
* In distros like SuSE, the upsplash (or equiv) is full colour, why is Ubuntu limited to few colours, is the Ubuntu upsplash method quicker?  This might not be a good direction to go, but it's something to consider.
** I've heard it's a hardware support issue (it's problematic on some old hardware?)
** This is an odd justification - say 95% of hardware supports full-colour, hi-res splash screens, wouldn't it make more sense to have the best eye candy on those machines, and either fall back to usplash or nothing at all if the hi-res splash isn't supported? On the other hand, I understand that most of the other splash systems require kernel patching (a Bad Thing (tm))
** Perhaps let the low-def upsplash for Xubuntu (as it's designed for machines with low performances) and get an hi-color upsplash for the other versions ?
*** It's not a problem with old hardware; it's a problem with '''new''' hardware (laptops, suspend/resume). -- ColinWatson
** Yogarine: So what about <nowiki>[[Upower]]</nowiki>?
** usplash only uses vgafb, which is the only known as being suspend save. Fixing vesafb in this way might fix this issue.
* Consider a graphical GRUB screen (assuming this wont cause compatibility issues).
** See the "boot" section of Edgy suggestions. Someone already put this on there. -- TimAlexander
** We tried this during Dapper, and it caused the GRUB menu to be invisible for some users --MattZimmerman
* "check forced" at loading system should not break splashy. Some users (like friends of mine), can think, seing text lines on black screen, that system is bugging.
** It should be possible to skip the check forced, for people who need their computer to be available quickly just the day the disks should be checked. With a warning on the necessity of such a check, and the check tries to begin again on next boot, until the user agrees (or doesn't refuse) and let the process get to the end. Id est : if the user doesn't say anything, the check goes on, but the possibility to stop it by pressing a key is shown on usplash. If the key is pressed, the warning ( cf supra ) tells things to the user.
** We don't force filesystem checks by default anymore on new installs --MattZimmerman
* Ability to check graphically its own hard drives with an entry in System/Administration
** This doesn't seem like eye candy, and besides, the filesystem needs to be quiescent in order to check (that's why it's done at boot if at all)
* Only One Gnome Panel like Suse 10.1 - See interesting idea on page OnlyOneGnomePanel (or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/only-one-gnome-panel|spec]]</nowiki>)
** Derick_eisenhardt: I second this idea, as it's the first thing I do after I do a fresh install. By using a single panel, it frees up a lot of screen real estate, and the average user will never take advantage of the extra space left at the top for launchers and such. If someone wants the double panel setup, they can easily add it themselves.
** Michael_vb: But I really like these two panels, because you have much place for your tasks.
** Wzzrd: Actually, we should take a look at <nowiki>[[http://beatnik.infogami.com/Gimmie|Gimmie]]</nowiki> as a replacement for gnome-panel. Not quite mature yet, but I think it shows a lot of promise!

* Instead of XGL which is so too resource taker for me, we can wait for Gnome 2.16 that should be integreated compositing, alpha blending, drop shadows, window transparency and more and Cairo 1.2 based theming.  Do yuo agree? for more info visit <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/start/2.14/notes/en/rnlookingforward.html|the Gnome 2.16 developement page]]</nowiki>.
* Screensaver with Ubuntu Theme! (or one integrating better with the theme)

* Different colored Ubuntu main themes.  I like the widgets for Ubuntu's default theme, but I hate the color and know a lot of people who hate the color.  I prefer blue (using Clearlooks with the Human metacity theme here) personally, but I would really rather see "Human" "Human-Blue" "Human-Green" "Human-Grey"....  Although if you want to have something really unique you can try to mix blues with greens and grey-greens and grey-blues.  I can't think of a way to make blue and green not ugly; but throwing in a splash of orange or red here and there may be a possibility too.  The orange title bar really drives me away; perhaps this is why Windows and MacOS both use blue? --JohnMoser

** I think colour changing like QT is being worked on for future GTK versions, but it should be relatively simple to make a graphical application which can change values in a gtkrc (theme) file. Maybe have Human, and Human-Custom or something, so the main theme isn't changed. The theme would probably have to be switched away and back for the new settings to take effect.

* The fade effect used before and after entering the root password graphically is very 'bitty' and seems to flicker on all hardware I have tried.
** I second this. AFAIK there is neither a technical nor a usability-related reason to have this occur. In addition to the above, it causes screen update problems (applications appearing to have crashed), especially when using a composited environment (menus in the process of fading out are left visible). In my opinion the option to disable screen grabbing should also be available in the dialog presented which the user can enable if they are certain no malicious applications are running. This is even more relevant if technical limitations exist in the X server which make said fading and/or screen update disabling necessary for input grabbing. -- Adonikam2
* A Windoze-like theme should be included with ubuntu, to make the switch easier for hardcore windows-lovers. I know that the human theme is a million times better, but i know some windoze users who wouldn't lke it.
** I totally disagree. I don't think we'll become a leader by following the old mentality and slow pace of the obsessive market leader. We don't want to look like history. -- RunarIngebrigtsen
** I disagree with this, merely because it will result in less work being put into making optional themes downloaded from websites install easily and correctly merely by opening them with the default application, either by double-clicking the downloaded file or by opening directly from the browser, prompting for permissions to install to /usr/local and asking whether they wish to switch their theme immediately. In any case, the users of which you speak would need no persuading once they found that there are as many themes of their taste available for Ubuntu as there are for Windows, all available freely and ethically, or perhaps  they would just realise that it wasn't the ''theme'' that they liked about Windows, but the fact that it was pre-installed and pre-configured for optimum lock-in and future-proofed to ensure they purchase the next version (not to mention the fact that it had monopolistically obtained virtually universal hardware and software vendor support), and promptly return to Windows and install a new theme. -- Adonikam2
* The current emblems of nautilus are disorganized and ugly. It would be interesting to create new with the Human or Tango icons set.
