{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Moving On ===

Edgy is already available as a release candidate and is feature complete. It is time to start looking forward to the next release, Feisty Fawn. Please add your suggestions to the <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas]]</nowiki> page so we can help Ubuntu developers know what the community is thinking. Skim through what is on this page to see if there is anything that hasn't been implemented that you wish had been. You can put that on the new page.

=== Introduction ===
This page is a place for the Ubuntu community to collaborate on ideas for Ubuntu 6.10 (Edgy Eft).

This page is intended for the community. Ideas should be added, but unless they are outrageous, illegal etc (i.e. cannot be implemented) they should not be removed.  mdz's ideas can be seen at <nowiki>[[MattZimmerman/EdgyIdeas]]</nowiki>.

As this page grows it will most likely need to be turned into a list of links to separate pages.

=== Ideas ===

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Usability]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Boot]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Bugs]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Documentation]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/EyeCandy]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/GUI]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Install-CD]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Kernel]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Multiarch]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Multimedia]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Performance]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Printing]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Programs]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/apt]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Security]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Server]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Laptops]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Miscellaneous]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/WindowsCompatibility]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[CommunityEdgyIdeas/Networking]]</nowiki>

=== Kubuntu Specific Ideas ===

** KubuntuFutureIdeas

=== Xubuntu Specific Ideas ===

** XubuntuEdgyIdeas

=== Edubuntu Specific Ideas ===
 
** EdubuntuEdgyIdeas

=== More Edgy Eft Discussion ===

http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=183958

=== Non-Categorized Ideas ===

* <nowiki>[[JoeyStanford:MyUbuntu/UbuntuWishList|Joey Stanford's Ubuntu Wish List]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryNeedsExpansion
