{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Multimedia ====
* Configure the kernel to allow MIDI-sequencers to get sufficient resolution - As of today the kernel for edgy eft is configured with CONFIG_HZ being set at 250 only - all relevant linux-midi-sequencers (muse, rosegarden etc) do not work correctly with such settings, CONFIG_HZ should be set to 1000 at least to allow working with midi-sequencers on ubuntu. --zettberlin

* Find a solution to play sound from more than one source at the same time (esound? artsd?). I find it irritating when i am listening to music with totem i have to stop totem and restart firefox to view a flash movie with sound (and if i then want to play another song with totem i have to close the tab in firefox with te flash movie even if it's not playing).

** This was solved two releases ago using ALSA and dmix.  The problem with flash is that it doesn't use ALSA yet (reportedly, the next version of Flash for Linux will fix this, but that is beyond our control) --MattZimmerman

* Easy to set up sound support with ltsp.
** Thin client sound support was implemented in Dapper: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/thinclient-sound .  Configuration should be a one-line change in `lts.conf` --MattZimmerman

* Let Ubuntu install take a look at the country it's in and based on that offer to download and install codecs that are allowed there. (Make Mark hire a good lawyer to take a look at every countries law. :P)
** Bad idea- if the installer is capable of determining the users' country, and allows them to install a codec that the system says is illegal there, there's a chance Canonical could be liable. (Of course, the good lawyer would have told Mark that. ;-) ) - jhjessup
** Take a look at RestrictedFormatsAssistant.  No one can force Canonical to be an international patent police, just like they don't force Microsoft. 
* Change Totem to the Xine engine (totem-xine). I've never good experiences with gstreamer, even gstreamer .10.
** VincentUntz: GStreamer works as well as xine now... It's only a matter of having the correct plugins installed.
** Not quite. Almost as well - informally, about 10% of (mostly proprietary) video files have issues with gstreamer not present with the xine backend (with all the right bits installed!)
*** CarlVanTonder: Seconding Vincent's point; with w32codecs, gstreamer0.10-pitfdll and the -ugly plugins I have yet to find a video that won't play. The 'xine is better' myth is a throwback to Breezy.
*** OnkarShinde: I agree with Vincent and Carl. I was even able to play DVD with Totem (not directly from totem menu, with command 'totem dvd://'), although I was not able to have any subtitles or access DVD menu. Many other formats like .mov, .m4v, .avi, .rm played well.
** Not to mention the lack of AC/3 passthrough for Dolby Digital/DTS sound :D
** In short: make gstreamer REALLY the best engine available, and help users, who want to add plugins to it.
** The only problem with GStreamer was A/V sync, but this has (supposedly) been fixed in 0.10
* Multimedia support - Add an EasyUbuntu-like tool to the desktop, or give the option to run one when a propriatary format is opened. (https://launchpad.net/products/easyubuntu/)
** Like CommonCustomizations ?
* Totem should prompt users with meaningful errors when their multimedia files won't play.
** https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/easy-codec-installation --MattZimmerman
** Ex. When a DVD is inserted for the first time and totem loads up; alert the user to legality issue and ask if they would like to install the necessary pacakges to play their DVD (assuming that DVD playback will be supported in Edgy; big disappointment that gstreamer0.10 still doesn't support DVD playback properly in Dapper).
** Same process for all multimedia files; don't just tell users they don't have the codec; offer them a solution (such as downloading the required gstreamer package).
** Be sure to explain the legal issues surrounding the codecs.0
* Rhythmbox should have a "simple playback" mode when double-clicking a file from a nautilus window to open.  At present, it loads the entire application and my entire music library--but it doesn't play back the file I've selected if its not a part of my library.  There is no way (by default) to just get a quick playback of the file you selected.
** You could open the file in Totem, could you not? Maybe Totem could be made the default application for individual audio files.
** Totem already is.  Try it on the live CD with the example content. --MattZimmerman
* Users should be prompted (with an option to disable the prompt) as to what action they would like to perform when an audio CD is inserted.  Sometimes people just want to play their CD.
** AFAIK, Sound Juicer currently auto plays CD when inserted. Correct me if I am wrong. - OnkarShinde
*** Sound Juicer auto-starts, but does not auto-play - PaulCutler
** Can't the user already change this setting via System > Preferences > Removeable Drives and Media? - jhjessup
* Probably upstream; but the totem-firefox plugin needs work; it often will not play files that will open if opened directly in totem.
** Totem Firefox plugin is really improved in 2.16 which is included in Edgy. -- OnkarShinde
* Do everything possible to quell the "xine and mplayer are better" myths that persist to this day by solidifying the apps which use gstreamer.  The most notable case where mplayer appears to outshine gstreamer is in the firefox plugin area.  I understand that its largely psychological; but the more solid gstreamer-based apps become, 
** Totem Firefox plugin is really improved in 2.16 which is included in Edgy. -- OnkarShinde
* What about VideoLan(VLC) as default movie/media player? Very stable, supports almost all media formats (if plug-in correcty installed) and many many more features than Totem, like saving streams for exemple.
** VLC is probably too advanced for the majority of desktop users.
** Is this really a showstopper ? i can understand the problem of illegal codecs, but there's nothing stopping the newbie to *not* use the "advanced" features of VLC. The UI itself is quite simple, just watch your movies and that's it.
** VLC does not seem to allow for codecs to be split into separate packages, a necessity for codecs whose use is restricted by law --MattZimmerman
* I (ArthurPeters) would rather be able to use totem for all my video watching but there is no way (that I can find) to adjust for flaws in the video file like incorrect A/V sync or dim video (or dim monitor on the computer). Because of this I often use mplayer. I think it would be very good to add a few simple hot keys and perhaps menu options to totem to make A/V sync, brightness and contrast adjustments. If they already exist then they may need to be documented better.
* If there is a file that can't be played because the codec is not installed, offer to activate Universe and/or Multiverse repository and to download and install the appropriate codec from the Internet (via apt-get). The same would be nice in Firefox for Flash, Video-Streams and Java applets.
* Please include w32codecs in the Multiverse repository.
* One meta package '''all-codecs''' to install alle Multiverse and Universe multimedia codecs.
* Listen  ( http://listengnome.free.fr/ ) is a good audio player and also you can get info about autors and lyrics  without find  in you web browser
** I think it's a good idea, Listen is young but it's faster and better than Rythmbox, but it's subjective ;) .
* Let the screensaver know, when there is a video playing in fullscreen. So you don't have to adjust screensaver time before and after watching a movie. --ChristianStamm
** In my experience, the screensaver correctly deactivates, but the monitor power-save mode does not. So the video will be interrupted by the screen going blank instead of the screensaver starting. So the fix is needed in the gnome-power-manager (or something like that), not in gnome-screensaver. --ArthurPeters
* Add Ubuntu build of FreeBob to repositories for support of firewire audio interfaces.

* Add list to choose speakers type : stereo, headset, quadriphonic, 2.1, 5.1, 7.1,...  and possibility to configure position of speakers in the room. --JérômeDubois
 
* The ability to create screencasts. Something like Applications>Accessories>Take Screencast. Just a simple dialog which will ask you what file format (Ogg by default and others if you install the codecs) and to which location you'd like to save the file. Once you've selected the options, it then minimizes to the system tray with only "Record/Stop" and "Options" buttons. After all, we need to make this easier for the sysadmins to SHOW their users the proper way of doing things. It will also make it much easier for people to show off their desktop bling on their blogs. The more people see a true linux desktop functioning, the better. - Technodigifreak (this is also on the Usability suggestions page)
** Warbo: See my comment on Usability page

* Use AmaroK for audio playback as well as maintaining a library. It's compatible with iPods and is all the rage. http://amarok.kde.org/
