{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== No Regressions ====

* It's extremely important to make sure that the flow of bug fixes is working properly such that all of the work that went into making Dapper great isn't reverted with the next sync to the Debian Unstable tree.  No other feature is as important for the long term health of the Ubuntu distributions.
** only universe imports from debian. And that comes from debian/testing. Afaik more or less all regressions are hardware related. I don't know, if it's possible to totally avoid those, as we would need a much bigger group of testers for that.

==== Bug Reporting ====

** Get users involved in reporting bugs by integrating launchpad more tightly with the desktop.
*** Unfortunately, this may result in more garbage bug reports 
*** Could be possible to have two levels of bug report, one which consists of bugs reported by users which have to be vetted by semi-techi volunteers before being passed on as serious bugs.
*** I don't know about having them individually reviewed, that would be a lot of work. Maybe if they were only prompted to report crashes, and these reports were built into a seperate database. For anything else, they should really be directed to help instead of just reporting a bug.
*** Derivative distros could be of use in screening bugs directly reported by users if the user reporting tool can be adjusted to use the distro's bug reporting system.
** Fix reportbug to actually report bugs to launchpad.

* keep fixing bugs after the release

* Ubuntu should detect kernel crash and other bugs, suggest auto submit of bug report, with users input and willingness to help resolve the issue.
** AutomatedProblemReports has a spec.  I am really excited about this because I wanted to have upstream modify GccSsp to use `__stack_chk_fail2(char *function_name)` in place of `__stack_chk_fail()`, and then have automated detection of new vulnerabilities.  Instead we'll have the glibc `__stack_chk_fail()` exit in a detectable manner for AutomatedProblemReports.  It's not quite as robust for reporting where the vuln is with stack smashes; but it'll work for now, and the AutomatedProblemReports also detects a large number of problems besides stack smashes, like generic crashes!  :)  --JohnMoser
