{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Documentation ====
* The 'Tips and Tricks' page of the Ubuntu Desktop Guide be linked on the opening screen of the Help program
** There isn't such a section. However, please feel free to discuss documentation on the docteam mailing list. Thanks! (<nowiki>[[mdke]]</nowiki>)
* Would short user's manual for the Ubuntu ShipIt CD's be practical/affordable? It could include basic things like multimedia codecs, installing programs, where to get help, etc. If needed, there could be a small (optional) charge for the addition of the manual.
** Some stores are actually selling Ubuntu CD's now. Should we facilitate this, or leave them to their own devices? What about selling them documentation to include with the CD's they sell? What about just giving them the resources to print the documentation themselves? The only problem I see is possible inconsistency between vendors in the quality/existence of documentation.
** Is this even a direction that Ubuntu wants to go in?
** Ubuntu provide documentation at http://help.ubuntu.com/ which is also available in PDF format
* Add useful accessibility documentation to the standard docs. The Gnome content is largely outdated and does not cover all the Ubuntu features.
* EthicalInfo
* A system of certification for hardwares that Ubuntu supports with drivers, performance, etc. As the system of certification of Windows Vista. Ex: Ubuntu Edgy Ready! (all hardware works "out of box" in Ubuntu Edgy).
** If implemented at all, this should ONLY be on product packaging/manuals, NOT in any setup. The Windows driver certification is a way for Microsoft to manipulate the hardware market (if they don't like the idea behind a product then they won't certify it, a warning pops up saying the device is "dangerous" and this scares users away from the device). Ubuntu must never enter such a situation.

''Note: I haven't actually seen the Dapper ShipIt CD's, so I don't know what kind of documentation they provide. I do remember that the Breezy one's didn't have much though.''
