{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is for ideas that don't fit in any other category.

* Update pci.ids file so that a lspci report is up to date
* Make a tab in the Device Manager that behaves similarly to Gnome-Disks-Admin, so people can manage their drives and automount new ones.
* Autodetect when certain hardware changes post-install, like monitors. It is currently unfeasible to install Ubuntu at, for instance, a computer repair shop, and then give it to the customer because once connected at home the monitor settings will not be set (leaving the customer with a terrible resolution and bad impression on Ubuntu).
* Easier to eject devices graphically.  Right now you have to go to the desktop, right click, and eject devices.  I think you should be able to go to Places and right click-->eject on the device you want to eject. ~ kewldude606
* Autodetect HW for X. Fedora core 6 claims it can start X without an xorg.conf file: http://jrb.webwynk.net/news-2006-10.html#29 maybe it's worth looking at it.
* How about a full featured IDE for gnome/python. Since python is the prefered language for ubuntu, there are some python development packages already included and gnome is the default DE I think offering a python IDE will make it more suitable for newcommers to start creating apps for the ubuntu plataform. I'm really asking here for a ide with refactoring/unit testing/debugger/code completion support. Maybe some plugins for gedit? -- What about providing base templates or samples with the IDE? Making it is as simple as possible to create the 'first' gnome python scripted app with GUI. ~ausimage--
* Some time if I update the system the GURP menu get changed and I has to modify it manually to include other operating system. It will be nice to keep other OS menu items.
* The update size is usually very big since ubuntu downloads the full package every time an update available (e.g. FireFox update under windows is only a few kilobytes while in Upuntu it will be several megabytes). It will benefit the users with slow or costly internet connections and save bandwidth for the repository.
** <nowiki>[[https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/succinct|apt-sync spec]]</nowiki>
* Please please please can someone write a utility/install feature that saves the first 446 bytes of the boot disk boot sector after a successful Grub install. So many people wipe this out after subsequently installing Windows and have to go through the hassle of the Grub reinstall process when all that is needed to restore their systems is a simple "dd" command using this saved data. A simple "Restore my saved Boot Sector" command in the Live CD would be appreciated by quite a few people if the forums are anything to go by!
