{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/community-server-hardware-testing
* '''Created''':  by IvanKrstic
* '''Contributors''': IvanKrstic
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

In addition to providing a formal certification process via TestingServerHardware, we want lots of community members to submit results of their own server installation and burn-in tests, and then make those available to the public. For Dapper, we will be doing this on the wiki, much in the same way as we currently do with laptops.

=== Rationale ===

Vendors will ship us only the newest server hardware for certification. We can widely increase our testing coverage by allowing community testing, which is clearly delineated from our certification process.

=== Use cases ===

* Dan administers a number of servers that aren't certified for Dapper. He wants to know if there are problems with running Dapper on them, but can't afford to hose any of them by trying it out himself. He looks at the community testing database.

* Julia is migrating a bunch of her exotic servers to Ubuntu, and wants to help others who are curious if Dapper installs and runs properly on them. She wants to run the burn-in test suite and follow it by a full installation, reporting how both went to the community testing database.

=== Scope ===

A Wiki-based testing system directly paralleling that of LaptopTesting will be constructed for servers.

=== Design ===

Direct clone of LaptopTesting.

=== Implementation ===

The simple checklist for community server testing has been created at ServerTesting.

=== Timeframe ===

The wiki-based system will be put in place immediately. In the future, we want to move to a specific web application for hardware testing, as detailed in HardwareTestingCatalog.

----
CategorySpec
