{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Note: This has been copeid from <nowiki>[[CommunityFeistyIdeas/PlatformInteroperability]]</nowiki>. Please remove any comments that have already been implemented.

It's a pain to get Ubuntu to work with other systems. This includes connecting to servers like Exchange or Sharepoint used in the office, or trying to fully integrate with a network of non-Ubuntu machines. Some of this is beyond our control, but there are some things we could do to make using Ubuntu an easier choice.

=== Discussion ===

* One thing Ubuntu can start doing is marketing itself as a small business office solution. This includes supporting packages like http://www.exchange4linux.org/ (now http://www.zarafa.com/) and http://www.open-xchange.com/EN/ and http://www.zimbra.com/. 

** We already include evolution-exchange as part of ubuntu-desktop. Are there other packages like this that let Ubuntu fit into a typical office setup easily?
** Last time i tried to get evolution working with ms exchange i wasted a lot of time and it finally didn't work. (not sure, but i think this was under dapper). What i miss under linux is a solid working groupware solution (like ms outlook/exchange or Apple's Ical) I also tried Kolab, but i don't consider it since it's way too buggy. However, Mozilla's Sunbird project looks promising.

* How does Ubuntu scale on common office technologies like VoIP, web conferencing, and remote system access (both for graphical administration and to work like Citrix does -- meaning for users.) 

* Does Ubuntu mix well with common office VPN/secure connection software? Is there a way we could improve this?  Adding out of the box connectivity options like:
** Internet connection sharing: ethernet, firewire, bluetooth, usb, wifi, dialup, etc.

** VPN (Connect to office): IPSEC, PPTP, OpenVPN, etc.  The issue here is desktop integration of connection status and management.

* Perhaps this should be looked at from the other direction. If Ubuntu can be pushed as an excellent platform for office server systems then many would adopt it because the unease about widespread disruption of employee's desktops would be gone, they can continue running their regular OS and only the sysadmin knows that anything has even changed. Since Ubuntu would have got businesses using openly accessible technologies instead of Exchange, etc. then switching the clients at a later date becomes a much simpler task.

*** Agreed. www.collax.com is a company that makes a "turn-key" small business solution. Ubuntu probably wouldn't have the same nice interface, but it could easily be made to have the same software with good default configs. --DavidTansey

* Syncing mobile devices is awful in heterogeneous environments. Having Exchange interoperability is valuable, but we should be more ambitious. I want to be able to sync my PDA, cell phone, laptop, web contacts, etc. effortlessly with Evolution and Thunderbird. This is possible: you can do it sanely on a Mac, and web-centric solutions like Plaxo seem to be able to tie things together on this variety of devices. This is potentially a killer app, and the source of vast amounts of annoyance to business and many home users. (q.v. Opensync, Multisync, www.plaxo.com, .Mac, etc.) At the moment, you need men in white coats to even get a connection to the cell phone, let along sync. N.b. this may include timely instructions on how to configure your (auto-detected) phone/PDA model. Maybe a Plaxo-like solution is the future... Ubuntu could fund them to intergrate Evolution. JackWasey

=== Specs ===

https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/multiple-computers-sync

*** Just thought of another thing -- we should make it so ubuntu server is easily setup to providte unattended Ubuntu as well as Windows installs. I don't know a lot about Ubuntu unattended installs, but we can use unattended.sf.net to setup a server to provide unattended Windows installs. That would save a lot of small to medium sized businesses a lot of money. But only if it was easy to configure.
 
* I don't know if this fits under "PlatformInteroperability" -- but it would fit into an office server scenario. Could we have Ubuntu automatically compress files that haven't been accessed for some user-configurable time? This is probably filesystem dependent. Does ext3 support this? Can it distinguish between formats that could be compressed highly and those that couldn't? (There's no point in compressing most multimedia, for instance. But if the system is running as an office server and has lots of documents that are not used regularly, this would help save space.) 

* Centralized management tools. Others such as
** Specific server technical support categories in forums. 
** Samba4
** Better file server management.
** Web services interface for application/file servers
   -RajasekarKarthik
** Support for configuring a central server for package retrieval and distribution to desktops? --maccam94

== Specs == 

https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/sync-from-old-to-new-computer

https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/enterprise-management-features

https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntu-small-business-server
** Note: this doesn't have much at all. It would be great if someone could create a wiki.ubuntu.com/SmallBusinessServer and link the spec to it.
