{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Performance ====
* dir_index enabled on ext3 filesystems by default (Fedora and Mandrake have been doing this for years, apparently)
*** We get this when we sync the newest e2fsprogs from Debian -- TollefFogHeen
* prelink by default (Fedora now does this). Could also improve security. -- Jeffschroeder Prelink will break md5sums of software and render things like debsums
 worthless. prelink will likely not be ever enabled by default.
*** Suggest prelink in an easy way after install. Something like post-install "Improve programs performance" pop-up, etc... - gogothebee

* InitNG for faster boot
** Ack. Urgent necessary: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/optimize-boot
** HowTo: Speed up ubuntu boot process: http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=89491
** Besides InitNG there are other fast SysV Init replacement: <nowiki>[[http://smarden.org/runit/|runit]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://linux.schottelius.org/cinit/|cinit]]</nowiki>. On linux.com there is an article about runit: http://www.linux.com/article.pl?sid=06/05/03/2126222
** Don't forget about apple's launchd which is now under and apache license: <nowiki>[[http://launchd.macosforge.org/]]</nowiki>.
** It may be obvious to many by now, but for those reading the above without hearing recent news then I should mention <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionReportUpstart|upstart]]</nowiki>
* Remove packages dependent on hardware which is not present, e.g. pcmcia, bluetooth, laptop-mode
** esp for bluetooth, this could change within seconds, so very bad idea.
** provide the user with a choice to remove currently unneeded support. I.e. "There are currently no bluetooth devices in this system. Would you like to remove bluetooth support (can be re-installed later) or do you plan to use bluetooth soon?"
* Install one "universal" font which displays all unicode code-points
* Install only fonts that the user needs, e.g. exclude the bulk of India and Chinese fonts for most users not selecting the relevant language packs
** how to select, what's "relevant"? Think about Wikipedia... But: fontconfig shouldn't run after each fontpackage.
** It's nice to be able to correctly display web pages written in an other language than yours, even though you don't really understand what it says. I personaly can bear seeing bunches of "square" caracters instead of the real glyphes just because I don't have the right font to display the text.
** Would it be possible then to not list these other language fonts in font selection dialogs?  I don't know if the fonts themselves contain language information, but if they do can the fonts not be filtered by language; that is: if "English" is selected as the default language for the system, only fonts which display the roman alphabet show up in font selection dialogues.
** I disagree. As a graphist, I sometimes use fonts of other languages than mine (japanese characters, for example).
** Install-on-demand fonts?
* Evaluate available filesystems for performance (and stability).
** Adding to the previous point, I think a proper survey should be done between ext3, XFS and ReiserFS to decide the next default FS for Ubuntu. (I'm not sure, but I've heard a lot of rumours that Reiser4 isn't quite stable yet). 
** Switch to another default file system: http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/388
** ''XFS appears to be the most appropriate filesystem to install on a file server for home or small-business needs''
** As far as I understand it: ReiserFS is fast for many small files (so I use it for /), XFS is fast for very large files (so it is useful on PVRs for example) and I think ext3 is the easiest to recover/repair/uncorrupt data  (so I use it for my main Files partition, just in case)
* Not sure if this should be in applications, or here, but make BUM a default progam installed. This could fix the problem with pcmcia and laptop-mode, and even bluetooth booting up and slowing things down.
** System>Admin>Services already exists, and I think there are plans to make it a little more comprehensive, thus making BUM irrelevant (which might be a good thing, since it always hangs for me)
* Enhance ldconfig to update libs selectively. Dpkg running ldconfig for every library package is very slow on systems where it swaps and/or disk is slow. Has been discussed at debian forums - possibly defer ldconfig after all packages have been unpacked (dpkg issue), similarly to the fontconfig proposition above.

* 7zip and/or binary diff for apt archives will increase install and update speed for slow connections especially.
* 686, k7, k8 versions of compression, decompression and other very frequently called libs.
** automatic installation of these, and the correct -686 kernel and libc6-686 (what about libc6-k7 libc6-k8 etc?)
** <nowiki>[[http://liboil.freedesktop.org/wiki/|liboil]]</nowiki> use should be encouraged. This allows proper (MMX, SSE, Altivec etc.) optimisation with the safety and simplicity of autodetection.

* binary packages compiled to 686 (or 586 at least) with mmx support. Anyone run Ubuntu in 386 and 486 for justify use of 386 compiled packages ?
** Old PCs recycled as thin clients?
*** Why should be vast majority Ubuntu desktops limited/slow downed by thin clients minority?
*** It just doesn't make much difference. Ignoring that, there's also some Via processors (C5) made just a few years ago that don't support some 686 instructions. Also the "correct" way to do things is just to check the processor at run time and do whatever accordingly. (see <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2006-June/018730.html|ubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>)
**** Afaik that VIA thing is not even fully 586 compatible, or?
** It doesn't really make much a difference at all.  That being said, Ubuntu on a 350MHz processor with 192 megs of RAM is unbearable.  The LiveCD takes 10-15 minutes to boot, shave 3-5 minutes off once it's installed.  MMX won't have instructions auto-generated for it anyway, nor SSE, nor should they (MMX reuses FPU registers thus needs loads of excess store and restore instructions when used with floating point math; SSE is only useful for highly specialized instruction paths, otherwise it wastes IIRC ~17 cycles for each value that has to be loaded into an SSE register). --JohnMoser
** Cutting through all of the GNOME stuff and running something like Fluxbox or E16 gives a perfectly usable system on such a computer, so killing support for older machines would be a sad thing. I recently set somebody up with a 700MB installation on their 200MHz system with 128MB RAM which includes E16, ROX-Filer, Mplayer, Abiword and Dillo and it works perfectly (I fixed Windows 98 for them and "charged" them one Ubuntu install :) ). Of course I used the text-mode CD to install this.
** Very good idea. May be include something like "automatic 686/k7/etc" replacement. In case of Athlon detected, the "k7" mode is entered and all the runtime-performance-critical packages are installed in their respective k7 variant: libc, compression/decompression, kernel, GNOME UI resposivness-related stuff, Wine for k7, etc... - gogothebee

* KurtKraut: apt-build should be tested/included with a script to (re)compile fundamental packages that acts like a bottleneck for other programs (like multimedia libs) or widely used packages (like python) that many other programs depends on. The compiling should optimize these packages to the processor architeture. I second this recommendation.
* Better hdparm defaults.
* Decrease over memory footprint while in X. Depending on the metacity theme used memory usage can be quite large
* a trick to improve boot time which is also used by Windwows: pre-load the desktop in the background while the user logs in
** I am a little confused about what you mean. Do you mean run GNOME login programs in parallel instead of in a certain order?
** Agreeed. While waiting for Username/Password, a task could be spawned in background. It will "cat" all the needed files after login and cache them in RAM, so after entering username/password, the system will log in in 1-2 seconds. - gogothebee
** OK, I am still confused. You are either proposing to load every user's default desktop programs (nautilus, gnome-panel, update notification, GNOME volume manager, gnome-settings-daemon, etc., etc.), take up loads of RAM, then kick almost all of those out when one of those users logs on, which seems a little overkill to me, and also seems unsecure since every possible user is being logged in and having programs run under their UID (maybe one user puts a malicious program in their session startup, which they have permission to do, but then that will be run at every system boot without that user even physically logging in and affects any user who wishes to use the computer). Either that or you are proposing that one user's system is loaded, which still has the problems above, but then doesn't even gain any speed advantages for any of the system's other users. (Oh, and in UNIX-based systems pretty much everything is a file, so loading "needed files" does mean loading everything)
* There is a script named faster-dapper.sh, which promises to speed up Dapper Drake: http://www.dylanknightrogers.com/2006/07/17/faster-dappersh/ - Maybe you can use some of its techniques?
** -- Jeffschroeder I took ideas for this script from edgy development. CFQ is default in edgy and dash is /bin/sh in the latest faster-dapper.sh
* The automatic detection whether the used Computer is a Laptop or not works very good. Maby after an installation the setup could ask "The setup detects your Computer ist not a Laptop. Should laptop-specific sevices (laptop-mode, pcmcia, pcmciautils) be removed?"
** Maybe the meta package ubuntu-desktop could be split into ubuntu-desktop and ubuntu-laptop
** This is nothing more than a naming issue really. There is already a laptop-detect package (which is tiny anyway), so just having this removable without forcing the removal of ubuntu-desktop should be fine (the name "ubuntu-desktop" seems valid anyway, since it provides desktop applications no matter what it is installed on. The difference between "laptop" (more correctly "notebook") and "desktop" computers these days is merely the size and weight of the machine and whether it runs on batteries. They are used for the same purposes)
* For the deskop installation: If the PC has more than 1 GB of RAM (and is not a Laptop) use <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/preload|preload]]</nowiki> for a faster launch of applications
** Would this cause many problems if no swap is used? With 1GB RAM there is little need for swap, but I am all too familiar with the problems of running out of RAM (The GIMP eats it up, especially when running from CD, and then the pictures are lost :( ) so would this fill up valuable RAM with programs which may not be run during a particular session? (Personally I make heavy use of the GIMP, Inkscape, Blender, etc. so the only program I might want to preload are ones which are relatively huge)
** Add Vista-like "superfetch" feature. Simply explained it's background task which monitors the applications and files opened from the user in particular periods of the day. For example it will detect that Firefox is issued very often and will add Firefox's files ot its prefetch database. Then it will detect that the user opens a large file everyday many times a day and will cache it's contents in RAM. The "superfetch" feature should configure itself how much to prefetch considering the available RAM. For example: If the user likes to launch firefox and evolution right after startup, prefetch them while log on and the user will perceive their first launch as immediate. Prefetch the most widely used programs this way and persieved latency will drop significally. The Superfetch should be dynamically adjustable - it should monitor everyday patterns and auto-adjust itself regarding new frequently used software. After few days experience with Vista this seems to work like a charm!!! It "detected" almost all of my test cases and for example when launching Photoshop in 12:30 pm the third day (I was doing it for 3 days before and having booted 10 minutes ago with NO USER ACTIVITY), the Photoshop got loaded in 1 or 2 seconds without disk activity at all. It was already detected as "commonly used around 12:30" and already prefetched in memory! Amazing! - gogothebee
