{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Many users experience a range of problems immediately after an upgrade. This page is an attempt to address only a ''limited'' few of the most common problems, '''''not''' every'' problem that may occur.

=== System is slow or crashes frequently ===
Try creating a '''new user''' via ''System > Administration > Users & Groups > Unlock > Add User''

Log in as the new user. If you are able to log in as the new user and don't experience the unresponsiveness or crashes that you were previously experiencing then there exist configuration files in your ''~/'' (home) that are incompatible with the new version of programs.

In general these steps will work (for Gnome / Ubuntu):
<pre>
mkdir OLD_CONFIGS
mv .gnome* OLD_CONFIGS # Gnome Settings
mv .gconf* OLD_CONFIGS # Gnome gconfd Settings (similar to the windows registry)
mv .nautilus OLD_CONFIGS # Nautilus (The Gnome file manager) Settings
mv .metacity OLD_CONFIGS # Metacity (The non-compiz window manager)
mv .mozilla OLD_CONFIGS # Firefox Settings
</pre>

You may wish to try these one at a time rather than all at once. You will need to redo customizations to your desktop (such as the desktop background).

If a particular program is continually freezing or being unresponsive find out what it's configuration folder / file is and move it.

If you want to start entirely afresh with the configurations for all programs
<code>mv .[^.]* OLD_CONFIGS</code>

=== DVDs, MP3s, and other Media no longer work ===
Support for some of the media codecs with questionable legal concern surrounding them have been moved to other repositories.

Follow the directions here: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu or look through this script (and use it if you wish): http://twdp.hobby-site.org/pub/ubuntu/media-ubuntu.sh
