{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Note:''' This is work in progress. It aims to provide quick answers to common problems from the forums and irc chats. Hopefully it can be a useful reference, an one included in the main docs. It could become CommonProblemsGuideSpec.
|}

=== Installing applications in Ubuntu ===

Installing software in Linux is often different from in Windows. In linux the easiest method is to use the package manager. This is a program for installing programs. It can be accessed from Applications -> Add Application in the gnome menu.

Read http://help.ubuntu.com/starterguide/C/ch02.html for more instructions

If you can't find the software you need try adding the Univeres and Multiverse Repositories, see AddingRepositoriesHowto

=== Installing downloaded applications ===

You should only do this if you the application is not avaiable through the package manager. See above.

If you have downloaded a .tar.gz source package see ConfigureMakeMakeInstall

=== Windows Equivalents ===

There are several lists of equivalent applications.
* http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=33183
* http://www.linuxrsp.ru/win-lin-soft/table-eng.html

=== Need a new version of something ===

Ubuntu has a policy of freezing the version number of software in each release. If you need something newer a good place to look is UbuntuBackports.

=== Cannot find an application ===

If you can't find what you want in Synaptic Package Manager make sure you have <nowiki>[[AddingRepositoriesHowto|enabled]]</nowiki> the Universe and Multiverse repositories. These contain many thousands of packages. If it is still not there do a <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/search.php|search]]</nowiki> of the forums, to see if someone has writen a howto for installing it.
