{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a description of my proposal for Google Summer of Code -- Richard Szopa

== Tool for computer aided vocabulary learning ==

An important part of learning a foreign language is improvement of
your vocabulary: learning new words and consolidating the vocabulary
from earlier lessons. The paper-and-pencil method, when you have a
notebook in which you write down each new word, has some serious
drawbacks. You cannot easily link words from different lessons, and you
never know if the word didn't appear in a different context four
lessons ago. If you aren't disciplined enough, your notes may easily
become a mess (dysgraphia doesn't help). Every correction you make
makes the whole thing a little less readable. If you didn't manage to
note down the meaning of a word, you have to consult a separate
dictionary.

Also, there is no obvious way of checking whether you have
memorized a group of words, at least if you don't have someone to help
you.

On the other hand, computer aided vocabulary learning could be much
more pleasant. You don't have to worry about organizing graphically
your lexicon. You could change the order in which the words appear,
group them, assign tags to them, link them... All of this without
making the readability worse. Finally, the computer could perform a
test in order to check how well you have memorized the last
lesson. Computer aided vocabulary learning could be less tedious, more
fun, and much more efficient than the traditional paper-and-pencil
method.

I think it would be very nice if Edubuntu (or even Ubuntu) would
incorporate such a tool for computer aided vocabulary learning.

Firstly, it is crucial that we realize that a program for enhancing
ones vocabulary has very little to do with a dictionary.The main
profit for the student comes not from storing lexical information, but
from the very process of *building* his or her
vocabulary. Categorizing words, linking them, attaching pictures
allows the student to remember the word in a specific context and,
effectively, designing some kind of a mind-map of the vocabulary he or
she is learning.

The program would have three main modules. The first would help the
student to organize his or her vocabulary. The second one would allow
him or her to explore it. The third one would perform some quiz-like
tests to check how well the student has memorized a lesson. The last
module would give the student feedback on how well is he doing and
suggest lessons to review.

1. Organizing the vocabulary

The organization has two levels. The basic unit for grouping is a
_lesson_: a set of words that have been presented during one learning
session. Secondly, a number of tags could be attached to each word
(think “people”, “animals”, “vehicles” and such stuff). Thirdly, words
can be linked (for example, words connected with cooking). Finlay,
each entry has a field for grammatical information. For example (if
the learnt language would be Dutch), a noun could have an annotation
whether it is a “het” or “de” word. The program would recognize the
situation when a word has been defined in an earlier and offer to copy
the information from that entry (*not* just do it, because of homonyms
and words whose meaning depends heavily on the context). It may be
considered adding an option to browse the Internet to find an
appropriate picture.

2. Exploring the vocabulary

The words would be displayed on a lesson basis. Links to other words
would be clicable, but always with an easy possibility of returning to
the former location (the links shouldn't distract the student from the
lesson he or she is trying to learn).

3. Testing module

There is a number of possibilities of how the program may asses the
student's proficiency in a given lesson. For example:

* The program presents a word in language A and the student has to input its translation in language B. Or vice versa. A variation would be that the student can ask for hints: then the computer reveals some metainformation attached to the word (what is it linked to, etc.). The input is tested not only for exact matching, but also for being similar to the correct answer (for example, Levenshtein distance).

* A quiz: the program presents a word in language A and three words from language B, from which only one is a correct translation. The student has of course to find which of the three matches the word from language A.

4. Feedback

First of all, the most obvious: how well has the student done in the
exercises. Also, plotted against time, and how much has the student
spent exploring that lesson. Also, this module would keep track on
which word-sets are explored when, and e.g. suggested a lesson that
hasn't been reviewed for a longer time or from which lessons the
student has the lowest scores.

=== Technicalities ===

The program would be written in Python, with a GTK+ GUI. I'd like the
design to be very “gnomish”---clean and easy to use.

There are at least two possibilities of storing the vocabulary and
other data. The first would be an Sqlite database, the second---an XML
file. The first option would be good if the vocabulary gets rather
large. The second one is good because it is a human-readable text
format, and can be easily manipulated (a nice option would be the
possibility to
export the whole vocabulary as a densely hyperlinked HTML page).

(It is also possible to combine this two approaches... The program
should collect quite a lot information about how much time the user
spends on each lesson, the scores and so on---and this could be stored
in the database, while keeping the vocabulary as XML.)

The program should enable the user to create different profiles. For
example, one person may be learning at the same time Russian and
Norwegian and these two vocabularies should be kept separate (at least
we are not aiming for some kind of Russenorsk (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russenorsk_language).

There are also some possibilities of integrating the program with
other Gnome components. For example, I think it would be nice that the
fields in the“foreign” (learnt) language would be spellchecked by
gnome-spell. It could also somehow make use of gnome-dict, but I
wouldn't overemphasize it (the main purpose of using this program
would be to create a vocabulary, not a custom dictionary).

I have already written a program that implements some of the described
functionality (nom. testing), and it can be found at http://szopa.tasak.gda.pl/programy.html. Part of it
was written before a German exam, and the rest before a Hungarian exam
my girlfriend was taking. It was fun and it was the first GUI program
I wrote in Python.
