{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Jon Dowd / Computer Drop Off - Recycling donated computers with Ubuntu ===
===== See also Jondowd =====
<nowiki>[[Jondowd]]</nowiki>

Email: info@computerdropoff.org
----
==== Delivering donated computers to New Orleans February 2006 ====
I arrive on Thursday, both myself and my 17-year-old truck, in pretty good 
shape considering we'd just driven 2,500 miles. There is no visible effect 
from Katrina until about 10 miles north of the city where one can see downed 
trees and roofs clad with blue tarps. (Click the link below for more)

<nowiki>[[Computerdropoff\FirstTrip]]</nowiki>

----
==== Opening Computer Drop Off - Refubishing and Recycling Center ====
Returning from New Orleans, I'm inspired to do more. March 18, 2006 - I open Computer Drop Off in a rented storage unit in Talent Oregon and begin taking donated computers, refurbishing them with Ubuntu and preparing them for delivery to decimated schools affected by Hurricane Katrina. (Click the link below for more)

<nowiki>[[Computerdropoff\Opening]]</nowiki>

We did it! we rented a large Penske truck, loaded 62 Ubuntu computers, and delivered them to Common Ground Relief in New Orleans. More than 5,000 miles all of them filled with satisfaction and gratitude. Thanks Ubuntu! Go to http://www.computerdropoff.org/blog.html for the full story.
----
