{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Delivering donated computers February 2006 ===

(originally from http://www.rogueimc.org/en/2006/02/6096.shtml includes pictures)

I arrive on Thursday, both myself and my 17-year-old truck, in pretty good 
shape considering we'd just driven 2,500 miles. There is no visible effect 
from Katrina until about 10 miles north of the city where one can see downed 
trees and roofs clad with blue tarps. The freeway is elevated throughout 
most of the city and I don't really get a sense of the devastation until my 
exit on to Franklin Avenue. 

Exiting the freeway I am immediately struck by the aftermath of Katrina: 
curbside trash covers sidewalks, and piles up against buildings, stop lights 
at most intersections don't work. Lines of filth, marking where the 
extraordinary height of the floodwaters had been, are visible on every 
building, that is, the ones that are still standing. Some intersections have 
temporary stop signs at each corner; most do not. One really takes their 
life lightly driving on this side of town. Not only are the intersections 
uncontrolled, but there seems to be a wild-west mentality when it comes to 
driving-the scofflaws rule the day, as many people zoom about at 40~50mph 
with little regard for the consequences. 

I drop off the computers at the "House of Excellence"-a place where a dozen 
computers and a satellite system are set up for folks to have free internet 
access-and head for the volunteer sign-in table at the Common Ground 
Distribution Center. Orientation isn't until 5:30, so I busy myself taking 
pictures (see 'Photo Essay of Day One'). Later that evening I'm assigned my 
bunk and directed to show up at the 'morning meeting' the next day. My place 
of rest is in an old Catholic School cafeteria. Driving through the pitch 
black, litter strewn narrow streets, I see row after row of empty dark 
houses, finally ending with a single light bulb (from a generator) which 
leads the way to a sea of cots. 

Right now there are about 500 volunteers (mostly college students) in 
various locations, many of them preparing space for the 2,000 more expected 
to arrive during the spring break season. All the houses for miles were 
filled 3 to 8 feet of standing water for many weeks. This has created a huge 
mold infestation and the only remedy is to 'gut' the house-removing all 
belongings, shoveling out buckets of mud, all the carpet, padding and other 
flooring, all appliances (all ruined) and then bashing out the drywall until 
all that is left is the sub-floor and bare studs. Almost all the volunteers 
are asked to do this task. Each day exhausted volunteers return to the 
center where their Tyvek suits are tossed in the trash and tools, gloves and 
boots are de-contaminated and hung on racks to go back out the next day. 

Rather than join a house gutting crew, I land a sweet gig setting up a new 
office for the Common Ground co-founder, former Black Panther Malik Rahim. 
So back to the first place I go to retrieve my computers and over the river 
to Algiers. My work is rewarding and appreciated, and the stories of the 
sixties and of what happened here just six months ago are riveting. 

Saturday I take a tour of the Lower Ninth ward. Here a massive barge blasted 
through a levee holding back a canal that bisects the city connecting Lake 
Pontchartrain to the north all the way to the Mississippi River. I expect to 
see only traces of the devastation that occurred here six month ago, but 
other than streets being cleared of debris, no significant clean up has 
occurred. The scene of destruction in the Lower Ninth is apocalyptic, 
macabre. Overturned cars litter abandon lots where houses once stood, 
crushed houses contain their owner's precious belongings which have been 
untouched since the water was finally pumped back over the levee five months 
ago. 

The devastation in the Lower Ninth is complete. It's ground zero of atomic 
proportions. But perhaps more disheartening is the political shenanigans at 
work keeping these people from their homes. While the former residents here 
certainly are poor, 80% own these homes. It will be interesting to visit the 
Lower Ninth ward five years from now and see if it's filled with luxury 
condos and white faces. To borrow from Buffalo Springfield: Looks like 
there's a 'land grab' happening here, and what we should do ain't exactly 
clear. 

Later - Jon 

(From Wednesday 3/1/06) 
My final day is Tuesday and there are heartfelt goodbyes to new and deep 
friends. Not the least of these is an adorable puppy named 'Roscoe'. I have 
stayed at Malik Rahim's house for four days, sleeping in the garage on a cot 
with three or four other volunteers. The garage is now setup as a new office 
complete with the donated computers I brought from Oregon. This garage is 
the first distribution center of Common Ground Relief. CGR was started by 
Malik 
 http://64.233.161.104/search?q=cache:srAYPPZyUWwJ:www.endsound.com/nopf/socialcomment/desireshootout.htm ) 
and two white guys who were stranded in New Orleans, Scott Crow and Brandon 
Darby, 
 http://www.infoshop.org/inews/article.php?story=2006021717595192 ) both of 
whom slept on Malik's front porch, armed and prepared to defend Malik from 
the gangs of vigilantes who were roaming the city carrying out the 
Governor's 'Shoot to Kill' order of suspected looters. Scott and Brandon 
were able to prove (at least to themselves) that the dusk to dawn curfew was 
actually aimed at African Americans; they were able to travel at will-24 
hours a day-to scrounge up whatever supplies they needed. Within two days, 
Malik's garage and front yard were packed with water bottles and canned food 
for neighbors who were stranded in their homes, unable to pass the 
barricades setup by law enforcement and vigilante groups. 

As I leave, I reflect upon my newfound knowledge that between 17 and 19 
known 'looters' were shot to death and left where they died for days and 
days. There is also an unsubstantiated rumor that 400 bodies-suspected 
victims of vigilantes or law enforcement-are stored in the morgue for fear 
that the murders will become publicly known. 

The local TV news ran a story while I was there about a City Council man 
trying to pass a measure that residents of the New Orleans housing projects 
not be allowed to return to unless they prove they have continuing 
employment or willingness to engage in job training. Houston, Texas city 
representatives are livid, pointing out that they made no stipulations about 
whom they would take in during the evacuation and now that it's time to send 
residents back, they want New Orleans to honor its commitment. I videotaped 
a 60 minute interview myself and some students from Vermont conducted with 
Malik and, hopefully, I can get some help to produce a mini-documentary for 
RVTV. 

Maybe the political and racial stories I was immersed in were exaggerated or 
made up, but the fact remains there is a tremendous amount of work left to 
be done in New Orleans. There remains a need for more computers and a need 
for more volunteers to gut houses and, who knows, maybe direct some traffic. 
Let's all encourage our friends to take the 'vacation of a lifetime' that I 
had and keep up the good work. 

I want to express my deepest thanks to all who made this trip possible for 
me - together we did a great thing and our efforts will be remembered in New 
Orleans for a long time to come. 

Thank you all, Jon. 
