{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

Bugs relating to <package name/category> typically fall into X categories:
# User interface bugs - require a detailed description of the issue, steps to reproduce and screen captures where appropriate. 
# Crasher bugs - Log files from the crash incident are required to track down these.
# Hardware specific bugs - The developers may not have access to the hardware that triggers this bug. Certain log files and command outputs can help
# Package selection - Help to find the right package (may be specific to category -- a bug filed as ubiquity may in fact be a casper d-i bug, an xorg bug may be an xorg-driver bug, etc.)

== How to file ==

Useful for bug-filers and as a boiler-plate advice for triagers.

== Debugging procedure ==

Specific to this type of package.

== Known bugs ==

Description of known issues, how to recognise them and stock responses/actions.

'''Open'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#eeeeee"> '''Bug#'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Action'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/synaptic/+bug/8896|#8896]]</nowiki>
| This bug can be identified by ...
| Mark as duplicate of 8896 with the comment "Thank you for reporting. This issue has already been reported as bug #8896. Marking as Duplicate."
|}

'''Closed'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#eeeeee"> '''Bug#'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Action'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/synaptic/+bug/8896|#8896]]</nowiki>
| This bug can be identified by ...
| Mark as duplicate of 8896 with the comment "Thank you for reporting. This issue has already been reported as bug #8896. Marking as Duplicate."
|}

== Non-bugs ==

How to recognise common issues arising from hardware failures, common feature requests and other invalid bugs for this category. Advice how triage them and stock responses.

== Also see ==

* DebuggingProcedures

----
CategoryBugSquad
