{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[ConnMan|Back to main page]]</nowiki>

== ConnMan Hardware Test ==

For getting an understanding of the current hardware supported by ConnMan there's an automated tool for gathering info and uploading it to a server.

''Warning! ubuntu-connman-test hasn't received extensive testing yet and there might be bugs. Be careful, and if you see issues please <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-connman-test|file bugs]]</nowiki>.''

Usage:

1. Install the indicator-network-developers PPA which contains the test script:
  <pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:indicator-network-developers/ppa
sudo apt-get update
  </pre>

1. Install ubuntu-connman-test package:
  <pre>
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-connman-test
  </pre>

1. Run the script and follow the instructions:
  <pre>
sudo ubuntu-connman-test
  </pre>

While the script is running it will run a series of tests and ask some questions. In the end it will create a report and ask if the report can be uploaded to the server. The report is anonymous and there isn't any way it can be linked to a user. But the report will have unique id which can be used to find the report. This can be used, for example, in a bug report to find the report.

After the script is executed you can clean up (this is optional):

1. Remove ubuntu-connman-test package
  <pre>
sudo apt-get remove ubuntu-connman-test
  </pre>

1. Remove the PPA. You can do that from System/Administration/Software Sources/Other Software. Remove the entry "http://ppa.launchpad.net/indicator-network-developers/ppa/ubuntu".
