{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:noneyet
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

This sub-spec of ConnectingHelpSystems focuses on ways to connect the wiki (primary reference) and forums (primary activity).

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

Connecting these two powerhouses together, so that the forums keep the docs fresh and up to date, while the docs keep information available long after the forums scroll past would dramatically improve the quality of the help the community provides for itself. 

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

Notes:
* originally I thought that forums should be spread throughout the wiki page, but that makes mapping forums to the right place too hard.  I think ConnectingSuggestionsToManagedPages handles point feedback better and they don't need to be clones

Some extra ideas:
* allow users to request help/more information
* keep track of the age of requests, and list them for the user
* make clear notification when there has been feedback on their request
* track questions from accounts with designated support personnel, for their support teams to respond? (Son, Helpdesk, Paid Support Companies) - this lets the community benefit from paid support and the reverse.
* found some specs about forum+launchpad trying to integrate: ForumIntegration and LaunchpadForumIntegration
* integrating forums into the wiki will help give them structure and applicability, but it defrays their community aspects some.  It would be a very good idea to also show the same threads in a wiki-less, more community oriented view so people can spot happening activity without scanning the whole wiki, or stumbling on the same page.  Ratings would help filter this view. (mostly handled by new method, but point remains that forums must remain presentable in forum view).

=== Implementation ===

* the first step is to map pages to forums, and get a macro that links to the related forum at the bottom of each page
* the second step is to get the forums to link to their related pages at the top
* the third step is just to work on automating and polishing the connection, mashing them closer and transitioning smoother

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
