{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:noneyet
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

This sub-spec of ConnectingHelpSystems focuses on connecting the Wiki to the IRC chat system.  

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

The IRC chat system provides real time interaction with other users, but people are often unsure how to get started.

As part of the greater plan to allow all the help systems to leverage each other's strengths, the wiki, which is the primary structured reference for information, should link to the appropriate irc channels for each page, and help people get started using IRC. 

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

Notes:
* once activated, the teaser expands to offer links, explanation, and mini-chat
* a flash or java chat client would have a simple interface, as most options are hard-coded
* suggest appropriate channel at the top of each page
* allow users to open a tiny, basic in frame java/flash irc client
* hardcode the appropriate server and channel for the page's content
* mimic the ubuntu help ui as closely as possible to help the learning curve
* look for a good way to manage channel selection/inheritance for pages

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
