{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

While testing the new <nowiki>[[Networking|Network Menu]]</nowiki> and ConnMan, there are most probably issues which need to be reported. This page has instruction where to report bugs and what information is needed.

<nowiki>[[ConnMan|Back to main page]]</nowiki>

==== Bugs ====

Report bugs to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/indicator-network|indicator-network]]</nowiki> project.

When dealing with bugs, you might be interested in <nowiki>[[ConnMan-Debugging|debugging instructions]]</nowiki>.

For Wi-Fi bugs, this kind of information helps when investigating the issue:

* lspci/lsusb output of the Wi-Fi device (pci or usb id)
* name of the Wi-Fi kernel driver, if known
* connman version
* indicator-network version
* kernel version
* wpasupplicant version
* preferably connman and wpasupplicant debug logs, see <nowiki>[[ConnMan-Debugging|ConnMan-Debugging]]</nowiki>

For 3G bugs the list is a bit different:

* lsusb output for the 3G modem (especially usb id is important)
* name and brand of your modem (from a sticker on the device, can be different from lsusb output)
* connman version
* indicator-network version
* kernel version
* ofono version
* usb-modeswitch version
* ofono debug logs are highly recommended, see <nowiki>[[ConnMan-Debugging|ConnMan-Debugging]]</nowiki>
* connman debug logs also help

Tips for reporting bugs:

* If unsure, file a new bug instead of commenting on old one. It's easy to make a bug duplicate afterwards.
* The more information you provide, the easier (and faster!) it will be to fix the bug.
* Separate bugs for each 3G modem. Modem models have so much differences.

''The lists above are just to get an idea what kind of information is needed. Definitely it's not required to include all (or even any) of the above in a bug report!''

==== Success stories ====

We are not only interested about bug reports, but also success stories. If your 3G modem works, please update the <nowiki>[[ConnMan-Hardware-3G|modem list]]</nowiki>.
