{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/consolidate-spell-checkers
* '''Packages affected''': hunspell, myspell, aspell, ispell and depending packages

=== Summary ===

Reduce the number of spelling libraries used in main; modify / extend
applications currently not using the One True Spellchecker to do so. 

=== Rationale ===

Supporting only one implementation and set of dictionaries eases
long-term maintenance. Also, words which the user teaches to the
spellcheckers will be consistently available throughout the system.

=== Use cases ===

* Jane spell-checks a document in Open``Office and adds a few new ones
 to her personal dictionary. Half an hour later she discusses the
 document with a colleague in ICQ. Pidgin's spell checking automatically
 knows about the newly added words.

* Hans pays by the byte for his internet connection. When installing Intrepid, it downloads a lot less for language support than Hardy did. He is happy that it installs faster, too.

* Bob is a user who is affected with anger management issues. When he sees that a word he told Pidgin to remember isn't known by Open``Office the next day, his Ubuntu installation might suffer physical/virtual damage, posing a risk to his health.

=== Scope ===

This affects all supported packages in Ubuntu which have
spell-checking capability.

=== Design ===

==== Status quo ====

Currently four implementations are in use in current Intrepid:

* ispell: still used by some applications, it's getting replaced by
 aspell. Not used in Ubuntu main any more, and just 4 reverse
 dependencies in Universe (spell, sqwebmail, liblingua-ispell-perl,
 gnumed-client)

* aspell: ispell replacement. Biggest users in main are Gnome and
 KDE. Other reverse dependency in main: ekg, pan, php5-pspell,
 python-gnome2-extras. About 20 reverse dependencies in universe.

* myspell: ispell replacement. Not used by anything in Ubuntu any
 more.

* hunspell: fork/replacement for myspell, dictionaries being
 compatible with myspell. Currently used by openoffice, Thunderbird,
 and Firefox.

* Finnish currently uses the voikko system, which computes the
 multitude of possible word permissions from a common stem. Altaic
 (Turkish and related languages) and Ugric (Estonian, Finnish,
 Hungarian and relatives) languages with complex prefix and suffix
 systems generally work badly with above systems. So we will continue
 to support Voikko for Finnish. Since the supported languages of
 Voikko and hunspell do not overlap, this does not cause large
 compatibility problems.

ispell and aspell provide a C interface, myspell and hunspell provide
a C++ interface. The enchant library provides a way to abstract from
the underlying spell checker (aspell or myspell) and can be used to
convert applications to a common interface.

Dictionary support is splitted out in its own spec ConsolidateDictionaries.

==== Goal in Intrepid ====

hunspell is the most modern implementation and considered the best
choice in the free software world. 

* Change GNOME, KDE, and other packages in main to use hunspell.

* Drop ispell/aspell dictionaries from `language-support-*` and from
 main.

* Demote ispell to universe. Remove myspell from the archive.

* Drop myspell dictionaries from `language-support-*` where a
 hunspell dictionary is available. Keep the myspell one for other
 languages.

=== Implementation ===

==== GNOME ====

* Fedora has patches to support hunspell through enchant now;
 The http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Releases/FeatureDictionary spec has
 pointers to bugzilla.

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~phanatic/+archive|Szilveszter Farkas's PPA]]</nowiki>
 has test packages with those patches applied.

==== KDE ====

KDE4 upstream already uses enchant/hunspell. Above Fedora
specification has patches for KDE 3, but since Intrepid will only ship
KDE 4.1, we do not need to do anything in particular for KDE for this
specification.

=== Outstanding issues ===

The demotion of aspell has not been discussed. It would require
porting php and ekg to hunspell, which hasn't happened upstream yet.
Thus we will keep the aspell library itself in main for the time being.

=== Comments ===
* Can you please also look into installing a dictionary for English (Canada) by default? When en_CA.UTF8 is selected, no Canadian dictionary is selected for OpenOffice. For Firefox, I believe the Great Britian English lib is installed. This is okay but not great. It would be nice to have that for a minimum with OpenOffice instead of having to manually install a dictionary for our language. But what would be best, of course, is the full blown Canadian English lib. Where is it anyway? I'm fully prepared to work on getting this packaged, or creating it myself if need be, just tell me what to do! -- brett.jr.alton@gmail.com (I forget how to sign my name).
* Why not use enchant (http://www.abisource.com/enchant/) everywhere? It support all these *spell and Voikko, plus it also supports Zemberek (Turkish spellchecking library) Currently, Debian Lenny's gtkspell uses it and it rocks!
