{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Willow for Internet content filtering ==

=== Description ===
Currently testing this software for content filtering. The nice thing about Willow is: it uses a Bayesian filter (well known for filtering out SPAM). In short: when a page is requested it determines on the fly if the page is “good” or “bad”. To determine this it uses a set of good and bad pages (the set which is included in the package seems to work well). No need for crappy white/black lists! Personally I couldn’t find any porn website which slipped through the filter.

=== Notes ===
** It depends on an multiverse package `python2.4-profiles`.
** The webinterface works by using the user configured in willow.conf and the password hardcoded on line  1607 of willow.py
** The documentation is a bit scarce. You’ll need your linux experience to set it up.
** The page which appears if you visit a blocked site is hardcoded in several python scripts. Not a big deal but not really convienant.

=== Future ===
Ogra was considering it for Edubuntu inclusion but obviously the multiverse dependancy is a problem. If included there will probably be some GTK interface instead of the current webinterface.

=== Installation ===
Just get it from the website. And untar it. In configuration example we untarred it into /opt/willow.

=== Configuration ===
example willow.conf
<pre>
syspath = ['/opt/willow']
port = 8080
filters = ['urlfilter','domainfilter','contentfilter']
domainfilterpath = '/opt/willow/filters/domain'
urlfilterpath = '/opt/willow/filters/url'
contentfilterpath = '/opt/willow/filters/content'
</pre>

=== Run it ===
<pre>
/opt/willow/willow.py --config=/opt/willow/willow.conf
</pre>

=== Sources ===
** Blog: http://users.lichtsnel.nl/~spacey/?p=129
** Willow homepage: http://www.digitallumber.net/software/willow/

=== Discussion ===
