{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Information ==

* Home: '''http://CoolAJ86.Havenite.net/'''

* IM: '''xmpp://coolaj86_NO@SPAM_gmail.com''' (<nowiki>[[http://wiki.freeculture.org/index.php/Google_Talk_with_Gaim|Google Talk]]</nowiki>) (<nowiki>[[http://wiki.freeculture.org/index.php/Jabber_with_Gaim|Jabber]]</nowiki>)

* <nowiki>[[http://CoolAJ86.Havenite.net/files/bookmarks.html|Bookmarks]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/search?&as_q=CoolAJ86+linux&as_oq=linux+gnu+opensource+microsoft|CoolAJ86 on the Web!]]</nowiki>

== Reap what you sow ==
'''<nowiki>[[http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/conline/pubs/buspubs/canspam.htm|Legal Notice]]</nowiki>:''' The transfer of email addresses for the purpose of sending email is prohibited.

For all of the e-mail harvesters out there we have a special treat today: For an unlimited time you can report yourself as being in violation of the FTC's <nowiki>[[http://www.ftc.gov/spam/|'''C A N - S P A M''']]</nowiki> act. Simply harvest the addresses below and mail away. All messages will be automatically forwarded to the appropriate department without further consideration. Yay!
 
<nowiki>[[mailto:IntoTheBlackhole@gmail.com|IntoTheBlackhole@gmail.com]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[mailto:IntoTheBlackhole@havenite.net|IntoTheBlackhole@havenite.net]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[mailto:blackhole@havenite.net|blackhole@havenite.net]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[mailto:spam@havenite.net|spam@havenite.net]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[mailto:spoof@Havenite.net|spoof@Havenite.net]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[mailto:junk@Havenite.net|junk@Havenite.net]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[mailto:ajoneal@Havenite.net|ajoneal@Havenite.net]]</nowiki>

Y'all come back now, ya hear!? :-D
