{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[http://cordova.apache.org/|Apache Cordova]]</nowiki> is a toolkit for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and !JavaScript.

Ubuntu is an official target platform for Cordova apps. This means that you can:
* build Cordova apps on Ubuntu
* and run Cordova apps on Ubuntu devices

Cordova provides a command line tool (cordova-cli), to create and build apps for multiple platforms, like Android, or Ubuntu.

Cordova apps rely on platform support code to run as native applications. cordova-ubuntu is the name of the module providing the adaptation layer for Cordova apps to run on Ubuntu. This module is compiled and linked into the main application executable.

=== Installation ===

On Ubuntu, the recommended way of installing the cordova-cli tool is from packages available in this PPA: https://launchpad.net/~cordova-ubuntu/+archive/ppa
The packages generally contain Ubuntu-specific bug fixes and improvements which may not yet be present in the NPM version.

To start creating a Cordova app on Ubuntu, please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/phone/apps/html-5/guides/cordova-guide/|Cordova Guide]]</nowiki>

=== Support ===

The cordova-ubuntu module primarily supports Ubuntu devices, like phones, running with an ARM processor. It should still be possible to create native cordova apps to run on a legacy Ubuntu desktop (X11) but this part of the toolchain is not actively maintained.

The cordova-ubuntu module is maintained within the Apache Cordova development community.

The source code is at: https://github.com/apache/cordova-ubuntu

Bugs can be filed at: https://issues.apache.org/jira/ (select Cordova and the component Ubuntu)

=== Release Notes ===

See https://github.com/apache/cordova-ubuntu/blob/master/RELEASENOTES.md
