{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~forsakenpariah|forsakenpariah]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''forsaken_pariah''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|}

=== About Me ===
 I started using Linux around September of 2006. I tried several distros (as well as a couple flavors of BSD) before finally settling down with Kubuntu around Thanksgiving of the same year. With the exception of a few month's hiatus, I've been using it constantly since then (though I have migrated from KDE to GNOME). I have a little bit of programming experience as well.

=== Availability ===
 I live in the Central time zone (GMT -6). I am usually available between 11:00PM and 4:00AM CST (06:00 to 11:00 GMT) every day, and usually much longer on two to three days throughout the week.

=== My Involvement ===
 I do not currently have any prior experience with any Ubuntu or F/OSS projects, though I now feel a need to become involved and give back to the community. I hope to start with the Bug Squad as a way to get my feet wet in the community and develop a feel for the structure and flow of the Ubuntu project. From there I hope to get more involved, though I'm not yet sure which direction I want to take.

----
CategoryHomepage
