{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Cornell Sternbergh ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cornell-sternbergh|CornellSternbergh]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=289698|cornell737]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''Cornell''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Website''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.sternbergh.org]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
==== Personal ====
I live in the United States, south east Pennsylvania, with the little woman, and my sweet little one.  My hobbies, in no particular order, include computers, sailing, skiing, practical pistol shooting and woodworking. (Most of which I don't have time for anymore ;-) )
==== Professional ====
I work as a programmer, mostly in Java, for a truck leasing firm.  I began programming in 1974, on an IBM 360, and have worked with COBOL, PL/I, 360 assembler, FORTRAN, Pascal, Java, and, of course, HTML and Javascript.  And just getting started on PHP.

=== My Microcomputer History ===
I was around when the head of IBM asserted that world wide computer consumption might achieve, maybe, five computers.  When the ARPANET was new, and the smallest machines were them new fangled mini-computers, like PDP's.  When Motorola came out with a CPU on a chip that would allow creation of a computer so small, it would fit, not in a room, but on top of a desk (No?, really?, how could it get THAT small?)
* Bought an Apple, when they were Apple's
* First microcomputer OS was UCSD, with Pascal (cross platform, worked on Apple's and PC's) (working with IBM made me leary of proprietary OS's)
* Bought a PC, when there was only one kind
* Started with Suse, in the early '90's
* Mucked about with Mandrake for about a decade
* Registered my domain and created my website. (which is not actively maintained at this time ;-( )
* Actually started learning about linux when I started my home LAN, in the early '00's
* Switched to Ubuntu with Dapper, and try to keep up to date ;-)
* Currently have a home LAN, with three workstations, laptop, ipcop firewall, mythbuntu fe/be, fileserver and backupserver (just about right for two adults and a 4 year old ;-) )
* I do Windows, if you pay me ;-)

=== Current Computer Focus ===
* Maintain an online <nowiki>[[http://www.sternbergh.org/genealogy/PhpGedView/|Sternberg/Sternbergh Family Geneaology]]</nowiki>.
* Maintain my home LAN
* Installing/Tweaking/Using MythTV
* Learning PHP
* Hanging in some chat rooms, and learning, and trying to help

=== Todo ===
* Add links where possible
* Add navigation

----
CategoryHomepage
