{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Nicola Corti ==
''I am a pessimist by nature. Many people can only keep on fighting when they expect to win. I'm not like that, I always expect to lose. I fight anyway, and sometimes I win. (R.M.S.)''
----

Welcome everybody! I'm Nicola, I'm a Computer Science Student at University of Pisa - <nowiki>[[http://www.di.unipi.it/|http://www.di.unipi.it/]]</nowiki>

=== Dati ===

* Year of birth: 1990
* Email: corti.nico AT gmail DOT com
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~corti-nico|corti-nico]]</nowiki>
* Website: http://www.ncorti.it
* Italian Ubuntu Wiki page: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/corti-nico|http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/corti-nico]]</nowiki>

=== GULP ===

Right now, I try to help the free software world throug GULP - Gruppo Utenti Linux Pisa, the Linux User Group of Pisa (<nowiki>[[http://www.gulp.linux.it/|http://www.gulp.linux.it/]]</nowiki>).
If you want to see some seminars I've made you can go on: <nowiki>[[http://www.ncorti.it/seminari|Seminars List]]</nowiki> (unfortunatly they are all in italian...)

Here there are most important seminars:
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ncorti.it/seminari/pillole-di-programmazione-c|Beginning programming with C.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ncorti.it/seminari/come-dove-perch%C3%A9-ubuntu|How? Where? Why'? Ubuntu!]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ncorti.it/seminari/evolution-e-thunderbird-i-client-di-posta-liberi|Evolution & Thunderbird, free mail clients.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ncorti.it/seminari/openofficeorg-come-rendersi-indipendenti-da-ms-office|OpenOffice.org, how to escape from MS Office]]</nowiki>

=== Hobbies ===

Some of my hobbies:
* I'm a boy scout since 2001, and since 2011 i'm a scout chief.
* I started playing guitar long ago...
* I like playing and collecting Nintendo games
* etc...

