{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 18.10 Cosmic Cuttlefish ==

Please see <nowiki>[[CosmicCuttlefish-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

Ubuntu Studio shares some of the desktop features with Xubuntu. Please see <nowiki>[[http://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/18.10/release-notes | Xubuntu release notes]]</nowiki> for additional information.

<<BR>>
== Getting Ubuntu Studio Cosmic Cuttlefish (18.10) ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/18.10/release/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your installation goes smoothly. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/18.10/release/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

<<BR>>
== Changes for this release (compared to Bionic Beaver) ==

=== Amd64 architecture only ===

Like some of the other flavours of Ubuntu, Ubuntu Studio have elected to only release on the amd64 (64 bit) architecture for this Cosmic release and from now on. This is due to 32 bit hardware becoming rarer, and to reduce the effort of our already stretched volunteer team (volunteers are always welcome; see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CosmicCuttlefish/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuStudio#Contact_Us|Contact Us]]</nowiki> section below if you would like to help out). Packages for 32 bit hardware (i386) are still produced, and it is possible to upgrade an existing 32 bit installation. But now might be a good time to start buying all that new fancy hardware and plan for an upgrade to a 64 bit computer.  

=== Audio ===

* Ubuntu Studio Controls has been upgraded to Version 1.6. Many changes have been made for the Cosmic Release, and the following is a summary of some of those changes:
** Many bug fixes
** General graphical interface improvements
** Code refactoring (new autojack module).
** Detects plugin of USB devices
** The status of Jack (started or stopped) is carried through a reboot.
** For more information about Ubuntu Studio Controls, see:
** The README
** The manpages for ubuntustudio-controls, autojack and ubuntustudio-system

=== Graphics ===

* GNU Image Manipulation Program (GIMP) upgraded to version 2.10.6
** Please note that there are file incompatibilities between v2.8 and v2.10 which are important to note when sharing files with other people.
* Krita upgraded to version 4.1.5
* Mypaint temporarily removed to allow for the latest Gimp
* Pikopixel.app added

=== Publishing ===

* no changes

=== Video ===

* kdenlive upgraded to version 18.04.3

<<BR>>
== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blender | Blender]]</nowiki> v2.79.b
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdenlive | KDEnlive]]</nowiki> v18.04.3
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/krita | Krita]]</nowiki> v4.1.5
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp | Gimp]]</nowiki> v2.10.6
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qjackctl | qJackCtl]]</nowiki> v0.4.5
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ardour | Ardour]]</nowiki> v5.12.0
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scribus | Scribus]]</nowiki> v1.4.7
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/darktable | Darktable]]</nowiki> v2.4.4 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pitivi | Pitivi]]</nowiki> v0.999
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/inkscape | Inkscape]]</nowiki> v0.92.3

<<BR>>
== Known Problems ==

* Ubuntu Studio uses the same XFCE desktop environment as the official Xubuntu release, and thus, may be affected by some of the same issues.  This is also true of the core packages of the mainline Ubuntu release.  You can see their release notes <nowiki>[[https://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/18.10/release-notes|here]]</nowiki> (Xubuntu) and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CosmicCuttlefish/ReleaseNotes|here]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu)

* There is a potential problem with installing Ubuntu Cosmic alongside an existing Cosmic installation, where the existing installation can be corrupted. If you are planning to do this, please check the latest status of this <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1798562|bug]]</nowiki> first.

* A problem has been discovered related to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-volumed/+bug/1291855|this bug in xfce4-volumed]]</nowiki> where a user's hardware volume keys will not respond after restarting !PulseAudio, such as when starting and stopping Jack. Only workaround is running the following in a terminal:

`killall xfce4-volumed && xfce4-volumed`
 
* Timidity (not installed by default) has been known to cause problems with audio configurations on Ubuntu and will lock-up ALSA.

<<BR>>
== Support ==

Ubuntu Studio Bionic Beaver (18.10) will be supported for 9 months until August 2019. If you need Long Term Support, it is recommended you use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuStudio | Ubuntu Studio Xenial 16.04 LTS]]</nowiki> instead.

<<BR>>
== Contact Us ==
Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are listed <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | here]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryUbuntuStudio
