{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Jono:
* categorization of LoCos
** USA is like little independant countries
*** Might be nice to have an overriding group to collate information and act as focal point
** Need to think about categorization on a per country basis
** Country-wide contacts, state-wide contacts, city-wide contacts as required)
** (demo of Melissa's map - consider using it on official webpage)
 
 
* We have started with coalition of Educational teams in each LoCo. Can we use this model at Country levels?
** If we have Educational contacts in each LoCo then we might be able to get them interested in producing further documentations which can be shared
** What other contacts can LoCo's provide to help Ubuntu? (Like Education) We'd like to tied in LoCo resources.
*** Marketing/Press
**** Comment: Marketing team has loco contacts. Who should take the initiative?
***** We could think of the Marketing team as an upstream team. LoCo's push info to them
**** It might be ideal to have a loco marketing contact feed information on a weekly basis to the Marketing team (e.g. weekly newsletter)
**** More needs to be done with the Marketing team
**** We need a process by which LoCo teams send material upstream to newsletter/fridge/case study/etc
**** we should create a page on the LoCo wiki. e.g. how to submit news to Fridge
**** Would like to have a press contact at each loco
*** Local Ship-it? Mako says "not reasonable to support with money". But it can be done for free to avoid customs issues such as are being experienced by Brazil.
*** any others?????
 
 
* Previously, there hasn't been a lot of contact between loco teams. e.g. reporting. It's become much better now.
** The recent development/refinement of new and existing LoCo docs on the web has been fantastic.
** Easy win is to encourage every LoCo to have a contacts page.
** Jono is drafting a simple list of expecations for LoCo teams
** Planets are a great way to establishing a direction/publishing information
** We should define a master loco contact index on the wiki. 
** need to consider languages
** We should probably have a second/backup contact for each LoCo in the event that the primary contact steps down

Richard: 
* It helps to establish a confidence factor in Ubuntu if someone can select a country and locate local contacts with them to converse.
* We need to find ways of getting information upstream from the LoCos.

Communication methods
* central mailing list, loco-contacts
* irc on #ubuntu-localteam
* web <nowiki>[[locoteams]]</nowiki>
* each team has their own communications methods (email, web, etc.)
 
Action Points:
 
** Make a document about how to push success stuff upstream - Rich (Nixternal) has agreed to lead this
** Jono to finish approval clarification document.
** Get LoCo teams to develop their contacts panel.
** Defer countrywide alliances until we have a bigger LoCo community in those countries.
  
  jono -- think about what happens when a leader goes AWOL.
