{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Chris Peterson, apply for core-dev'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Chris Peterson
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~cpete
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/cpete
|-
| '''IRC''
| cpete
|-
| '''Email'''
| chris.peterson@canonical.com
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.
* I'd like to be more involved in the community (sponsoring, patch pilot, etc.)
* My work may require touching various packages, including those in main, for which there is no distinct package-set goal and MOTU/PPU won't cover packages in main.
* It will facilitate my general distro related work (+1 maintenance, proposed-migrations, etc.)

== Who I am ==
Hi, my name is Chris Peterson and I am a software engineer on Canonical's Foundations team.

Prior to joining Canonical, I received my Master's in Computer Science from the University of California, Davis, where I researched semantic parsing in the areas Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics. Before that, I received my Bachelor's in Computer Science & Engineering from the University of Nevada, Reno, where I performed research in a Social Robotics laboratory.

I live in California, United States, and when I'm not writing software I enjoy building keyboards, playing the bass guitar, or playing video games.

== My Ubuntu story ==
Back in my first year of college when I started to learn programming and what Linux was all about, I started with Ubuntu (Trusty). For a short time I bounced around different distributions, though mostly Ubuntu based, and eventually came back to Ubuntu after working in a robotics lab which relied on it for its software (ROS). Since then it's been my daily driver for everything I do. I am passionate about open source and working on Ubuntu everyday brings me great joy.

=== My involvement ===

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* An exhaustive search of my <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=*&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*Peterson*&sponsoree_search=name|Sponsored Uploads]]</nowiki>
* Four +1 maintenance shifts so far:
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2023-December/042858.html
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2024-February/042911.html
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2024-April/042958.html
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2024-June/043020.html
* MIR
* python-aiohttp
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-aiohttp/+bug/2048808
** A sort of pseudo-MIR, where I performed a comprehensive analysis of python-aiohttp, a dependency of Subiquity, and determined it's not a good candidate for MIR but still merits some serious security review. I received positive remarks for this MIR by Seth Arnold on the security team, which felt nice considering it was my first MIR :)
* libsub-prototype-perl
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libsub-prototype-perl/+bug/2067654
** I began this MIR due to libsub-override-perl growing a dependency on it. However, by the time I went to post my findings on libsub-prototype-perl, libsub-override-perl had been marked for demotion to Universe. While I didn't take this MIR to completion either, I believe it still helps to demonstrate my familiarity with the process.
* seed changes
* https://code.launchpad.net/~cpete/ubuntu-seeds/+git/ubuntu/+merge/468628
** Remove ssh-import-id from server-minimal in jammy. See the livecd-rootfs + ubuntu-meta entry in SRUs for more details.

***** https://code.launchpad.net/~cpete/ubuntu-seeds/+git/ubuntu/+merge/473312
** Add kdump-tools as a Recommends to the server-minimal and desktop-minimal seeds. This is to make sure our ubuntu-server and ubuntu-desktop installer ISOS are built with kdump-tools installed by default. 
* livecd-rootfs
* https://code.launchpad.net/~cpete/livecd-rootfs/+git/livecd-rootfs/+merge/473230
** Adds chroot hooks to the ubuntu and ubuntu-server projects to disable kdump-tools by default. This ensures it's not enabled in the live layer / installation environment and also acts as a safeguard in the event the installer's disable functionality fails. Related to the seed change above adding kdump-tools to server-minimal and desktop-minimal.
* https://code.launchpad.net/~cpete/livecd-rootfs/+git/livecd-rootfs/+merge/473411
** Fix the chroot hooks disabling kdump-tools to only disable it in the live layer. The above livecd-rootfs upload worked /too/ well and broke enabling the package later due to ucf mismatch :facepalm:.
* SRU
* apport
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apport/+bug/2067775
** The listed bug outlines the SRU for updating the apport package hook for subiquity, targeting Noble and Jammy. In this effort, I also coordinated with bdrung to stage other uploads for the Noble SRU, fix issues we found in autopkgtest after upload, and verify the other SRU bugs.
* livecd-rootfs + ubuntu-meta:
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/subiquity/+bug/1974483
** A complicated SRU. Jammy ubuntu-server images were getting shipped with the behavior of openssh-server always being installed invariant of user choice due to a dependency on ssh-import-id in the server-minimal seed. Because the ubuntu-server-minimal metapackage is defined by this seed, which also gets installed during image builds, this required a seed change (see above) and an ubuntu-meta SRU to update the metapackage dependencies. The final complexity here was the usage of Task headers, which can't be fixed post release, so it required some livecd-rootfs changes as well.
* livecd-rootfs:
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/livecd-rootfs/+bug/2077899
** A relatively simple SRU, which required updating a hard coded model assertion in one of the ubuntu project's hooks in preparation for the 24.04.1 release.
* SRU Verification
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apport/+bug/2066995
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apport/+bug/2069360
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apport/+bug/2072751
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tzdata/+bug/2047314
* Merges
** needrestart 3.6-8
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/needrestart/+bug/2064680
** This was my first merge and definitely could have gone better in a few ways: TIL is not always the best person to ask about a package (read the changelog! sorry @schopin), I could have squashed all of the autopkgtest changes, and I made some rookie mistakes with the changelog formatting.
** skimage 0.23.2-1
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/skimage/+bug/2068540
** Two for the price of one: I was investigating an autopkgtest regression in skimage on s390x due to the pytest8 transition, and while we drifted a few versions out of sync with Debian it so happened the upstream fix for the regression I encountered had made it to Debian.
* util-linux 2.40.2-1
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/util-linux/+bug/2072813
** A slightly non-standard merge. At the time util-linux was version 2.40.2-7 in Debian, but to avoid the login package transition introduced in 2.40.2-3, I decided to merge at an earlier version. git-ubuntu made this surprisingly easy, although in the end I needed to supply a debdiff since it seems that the git-ubuntu importer doesn't support non-tip merges.
* Syncs
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/privoxy/+bug/2071115
***** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-secretstorage/+bug/2045320
* Transitions
** pytest 
** I worked to move along the pytest 7 to pytest 8 transition during my <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2024-June/043020.html|June 2024 +1 maintenance shift]]</nowiki>. Some details of this work:
** Pytest 8 <nowiki>[[https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/deprecations.html#support-for-tests-written-for-nose|deprecated nose style test support]]</nowiki>, which means packages which relied on a bare "teardown" and/or "setup" previously would need to migrate to using setup_{module,class,method} or otherwise fail. I addressed this issue in particular for yt, ipykernel, ipython, and python-dtcwt by porting the affected test code, either creating my own fixes or (mostly) cherry-picking upstream changes where possible.
** Pytest itself had a bug where tests inheriting from unittest were not torn down correctly, particular when used in conjunction with flaky test runners (python-flaky or pytest-rerunfailures). This caused many dependent packages to fail against the new version. I applied a patch to fix the regressions for python-flaky and mass retried failed autopkgtests.
** Changes to the pytest plugin API in pytest 8.1 additionally caused test failures for ipython. I cherry-picked the upstream patch for this and applied it.
** Changes to test teardown in pytest 8+ revealed a use-after-free bug in silx. I cherry-picked the upstream patch for this and applied it.
** Terminado faced similar errors due to test teardown changes and poor test cleanup. It also had an undeclared test dependency on python3-pytest-timeout. I fixed the control file and cherry-picked the upstream patch for the test code cleanup.
** Changes to the caplog fixture in pytest 8 caused protontricks tests to fail. I cherry-picked the upstream patch and applied it.
** Retrying a lot of autopkgtests with the right triggers. Many of pytest's reverse-dependencies also rely on pytest plugin packages, some of which required updates for compatibility with pytest 8. For example, a good amount of packages happened to depend on python-pytest-asyncio and were able to migrate with the additional trigger.
* 64-bit time_t
*** During the time_t 32-bit to 64-bit transition I assisted in identifying relevant regressions, retrying tests/builds, hinting packages, and creating tracking bugs for related test failures
* Documentation:
* Update the wiki on Mirrors to explicitly list how to find existing mirror information: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mirrors?action=info
* Subiquity:
* Improved error handling and UX in Subiquity to inform users about <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/subiquity/releases/tag/24.04.1|avoidable errors]]</nowiki> caused by faulty autoinstall configurations.
* I re-wrote the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/subiquity/pull/1901|autoinstall validation script]]</nowiki> and made it user facing so users can prevalidate their autoinstall configurations.
* I've been working to support MOK enrollment in Subiquity and while we're not there yet, I've worked to make this type of work <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/subiquity/pull/2026|testable even in the absence of relevant hardware]]</nowiki>.
* Reduced the overall installation time significantly by modifying the final <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/subiquity/pull/1797|unattended-upgrades]]</nowiki> step when setting up the target system.
* Many improvements to the bug reporting experience in Subiquity. In particular I've worked to make the manual apport bug reporting process (i.e., via ubuntu-bug or similar) more useful (LP: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apport/+bug/2067775|#2067775]]</nowiki>) and <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/subiquity/pull/1851/files|make that consistent with Subiquity's automatic crash report generation]]</nowiki>.

=== Areas of work ===

As part of Canonical's Foundations Team I spend a majority of my time working on installer related things, primarily <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/subiquity|Subiquity]]</nowiki>. While this often includes work in projects which are also not conventionally packaged, such as <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/curtin|Curtin]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/probert|Probert]]</nowiki>, it also includes work in archive packages such as <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/livecd-rootfs|livecd-rootfs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper|Casper]]</nowiki>, or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-meta|ubuntu-meta]]</nowiki>. I expect core dev privileges will most facilitate my work by removing the need for sponsorship to make changes to these packages. However, given my experience is still limited with some of these core archive packages, I certainly still expect to ask for review and thoroughly test changes before committing something I'm not 100% certain about.

I also spend time working on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apport|Apport]]</nowiki>, fixing bugs and working to improve bug reporting in the installers. In particular, over the last two release cycles I have been collaborating within Foundations and across Desktop and Server to improve the Apport bug reporting process in general among the various installer related tools.

As part of my more general packaging related responsibilities on the Foundations team, I also participate in regular +1 maintenance and proposed-migration work.

=== Things I could do better ===
* Get more familiar with the automation/tooling that's available to better standardize my workflow.
* Increase my participation on IRC
* Improve my knowledge of Debian and their processes/tooling.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
* Continue to make contributions to Subiquity, making it more robust and improving the overall installation experience.
* I would also like to leverage my upload privileges to help sponsor work within my team, engage in patch piloting, and conduct more effective +1 shifts.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
* Ubuntu development process documentation is very disjoint, which makes things difficult for newcomers. Best practices are not always clear and may also depend on who you ask. Continued work on centralized documentation, like the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-packaging-guide|ubuntu-packaging-guide]]</nowiki>, is sorely needed.
* The Launchpad UI. Finding what you are looking for can be difficult if you don't know exactly where it is. Dedicated sections in the developer documentation would greatly help with this.

----
== Comments ==
'' If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`. ''
''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Łukasz 'sil2100' Zemczak ===
==== General feedback ====
Chris, even though still relatively new in the Ubuntu ecosystem, demonstrated multiple times his passion, determination and growing experience with regards to distro-work. Chris actively participated in multiple archive activities, such as helping with transitions, +1 maintenance, proposed-migration etc. Chris also is never afraid to ask for clarification or help when in doubt, which is essential when starting off as a core developer. Furthermore, Chris seeks mentorship actively, being trained by more experienced core-developers on a weekly basis.
I gladly endorse Chris on his road to an official Ubuntu Core Developer. I think he's ready.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have officially sponsored only one package for Chris so far, but as his manager and co-mentor, I have insight into all the great work that Chris is performing. In my mind he demonstrated particular excellence during the infamous xzutils vulnerability and time_t crunches: when we announced an all-hands-on-deck, Chris answered. And even though he didn't yet feel 100% comfortable back then with distro-related topics, his help was invaluable.
At the same time, as a main developer of subiquity, Chris by default has a lot of contact with Ubuntu per-se, making him a great candidate.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Chris sometimes can be overly ambitious, taking on his back too much for comfort. So I would like him to be a bit more mindful of his limits.

=== Daniel Bungert ===
==== General feedback ====
Chris is a colleague on Subiquity, and my mentee as part of the Foundations
team.

From Day 1 I stressed the importance of a mix of distro work as part of the
Foundations experience.  Someone new to working on the installer might find
that surprising, but the fact is that sometimes the best place to fix an
install issue is the archive, so core-dev is a useful skill.  Plus, multiple
core installer-related components are, and will remain, following the archive
process, such as livecd-rootfs and casper.

Chris has taken that feedback seriously, incorporating a mix of various distro
tasks into the narrow slice of time in the week for things not directly on the
Subiquity or related codebases.

I appreciate that Chris is involving himself in Apport as of late, both
something we're trying to improve within Subiquity and also land bug reporting
improvements in related components.

I trust Chris to seek out code reviews and ask questions.

Please approve Chris for core-dev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I am pleased with the growth Chris has shown in core-dev type tasks.  Recently
he took on the challenge of landing seed changes in a SRU along with paired
livecd-rootfs changes so that we could fix an issue where openssh-server was
installed when it shouldn't.  (LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/subiquity/+bug/1974483|1974483]]</nowiki>)

Numerous Subiquity examples could be listed here, I'm choosing one that I'm particularly happy with.  As part of work on autoinstall user experience improvements, Chris saw the opportunity to make it easier to validate autoinstall outside of the installer environment - https://github.com/canonical/subiquity/pull/1901 - this was work that Chris identified and drove.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I have no particular concerns to list here - if I did, I would be working on
them with Chris during our 1:1s.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dbungert]]</nowiki> 
=== Dave Jones ===
==== General feedback ====

While relatively new to the team, Chris has dived in and tackled everything thrown at him, even when novel and unfamiliar (the time_t work springs to mind, in particular). He's always happy to ask for information, but demonstrates good instincts when needed (picking the minimal change necessary without prompting).

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I've only sponsored one upload for Chris, specifically jruby in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jruby/+bug/2023589|LP: #2023589]]</nowiki>. However, as someone else involved in building images for Ubuntu, I've watched some of his contributions to livecd-rootfs, the meta-package and the Ubuntu seeds. He's handled these complex areas well -- likely rather better than I did when first faced with them! Finally, he's covered quite a broad range of responsibilities in the short time he's been with the team, including +1 shifts, SRUs, MIRs; all the essentials I'm used to seeing in core devs!

==== Areas of Improvement ====

None spring to mind.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:waveform]]</nowiki> 
=== Vladimir Petko ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored two packages for Chris: <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~cpete/ubuntu/+source/needrestart/+git/needrestart/+merge/465736|needrestart merge]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~cpete/ubuntu/+source/bonnie++/+git/bonnie++/+merge/469958|bonnie++ framepointer fix]]</nowiki>. Both merge proposals were of good quality and needrestart only requiring some minor changelog nits. 

Chris effectively works on complex areas of Ubuntu packaging and addressed MIR, SRUs and +1s.

A number of the packages I have sponsored do not justify a fully qualified endorsement, but I think it would be helpful to unblock Chris in their work, given they work productively as a project member.

=== Graham Inggs ===
==== General feedback ====
I've only sponsored three uploads for Chris.  A fix for Python <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ipyparallel/7.1.0-5ubuntu1|ipyparallel]]</nowiki>, a fix for NumPy <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/astroml/1.0.2-3ubuntu1|astroml]]</nowiki> and a rather complicated merge <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/util-linux/2.40.2-1ubuntu1|util-linux]]</nowiki>.  The quality has been good, and any queries promptly resolved.  I trust Chris.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
While reviewing the util-linux merge in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/util-linux/+bug/2072813|LP: #2072813]]</nowiki> merge, we discovered a breaking change (taking over the login package from src:shadow), which after a good discussion we decided to avoid.  Chris quickly re-based his merge on the Debian upload prior to this change and I sponsored.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
None in particular.

=== Michael Hudson-Doyle ===
==== General feedback ====
Chris has been a solid and reliable member of the Foundations team since day 1 (honestly, it seems surprising that he has only been around for a year!). Although he has mostly focused on installer topics, he has also got stuck in with the general distro tasks and I fully support this application.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I have sponsored a few packages for Chris (yt, diffoscope, livecd-rootfs, skimage, protontricks, ...) but to be honest I don't have any great recollection of any of these -- a sign that they were so correct I could just upload them without thinking much, I guess!

I have also worked with Chris on issues around image building and seeds and so on and he has developed a pretty good understanding of how our images are made.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
There are always more corners of Ubuntu development to learn but I am not aware of any particular gaps at this point.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
