{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== CraigAdams ==

Welcome to the member page for '''Craig Adams'''.

Based in Durban http://www.durban.gov.za/eThekwini/ , South Africa, an avid supporter and promoter of Free http://www.fsf.org/ and Open Source Software http://www.opensource.org/ , with a definite emphasis on the "Free as in Freedom" aspects.

I have been promoting Ubuntu since it was first made available, and have distributed numerous copies to date. Amongst other target groups I ensure that local libraries and schools have current copies Ubuntu available at their reference and media counters.

I am also the Co-Lead of the Ubuntu-ZA LoCo http://www.ubuntu-za.org/ .

I am a long standing member of the OpenOffice.org http://www.openoffice.org/ community and act as the project lead and Marcon (Marketing Contact) for OpenOffice.org in Southern Africa http://www.openoffice.org.za/ (Website Depreciated).

I am also a founding member of eTux http://etux.osrn.org.za/ , a community volunteer group focusing on providing GNU/Linux, predominantly Edubuntu, labs to schools and communities.

For those interested in contacting me, you can reach me at craigaa|at|karg|dot|co|dot|za or craigaa|at|openoffice|dot|org.

My Launchpad profile can be found at https://launchpad.net/~craigaa .

I am also occasionally on IRC with a handle of craigaa.
----
CategoryHomepage
