{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Alice C. Munduruca, apply for the
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team
membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| '''Alice C. Munduruca <Last>'''
|-
| Launchpad Page
| '''https://launchpad.net/~cremfuelled'''
|-
| Wiki Page
| '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/cremfuelled'''
|}

== Who I am ==

My name is Alice C. Munduruca, and I have been a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team
since Jul. 2025.

=== My Ubuntu story ===

My first time really using Ubuntu was when I helped out with research during university. At that
time, There was a image used for testing SPEC CPU 2017 on Xenial, which was in need of updates for
the architecture simulation software we were using at the time. This allowed me to learn a lot about
linux, debian packaging, and more.  

=== My involvement ===

I help prepare upstream stable updates for the Ubuntu kernel as well as CVE backports.

=== Sponsoring ===

To be filled...

=== Comments ===
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

=== Endorsements ===

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
</pre>
