{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Here we have a sampling of bugs to work on for Hug Day.  After you have triaged or fixed a bug put your name in the last column and set the row background to a green color by adding '''lightgreen''' in the first cell of the column after "background-color:" and before ";".  This will let people know that the bug in that row has been worked on.

=== 50 bugs in status "Incomplete" without an owner ===
These bugs may just need to be rejected as they have been marked "Incomplete" but nobody may be watching them.  There are about #### <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-date_last_updated&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=Incomplete&assignee_option=none&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_contact=&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.tag=&field.has_cve.used=&field.has_no_package.used=&start=2175|unowned bugs]]</nowiki>.

'''To mark it off the list you should:'''
* Ask the reporter if it is still an issue, assign it to yourself and mark it "Incomplete" '''or'''
* Set it "Confirmed" and set an importance (if you are not a QA member ask someone for help) '''or'''
* Search for duplicates (and mark if found) '''or'''
* Reject it due to no response

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug
| Subject
| Triager
|}

=== 50 bugs without a package ===
These bugs were just reported against Ubuntu which means they are less likely to get attention.  There are about #### <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-datecreated&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=New&field.importance%3Alist=Undecided&field.assignee=&field.owner=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=on|bugs]]</nowiki> in this state.
'''To mark it off the list you should:'''
* Assign it to a package and mark it "Confirmed" '''or'''
* Assign it to a package, ask a question, mark it "Incomplete" and assign it to yourself '''or'''
* Search for duplicates (and mark if found) '''or'''
* Reject it for a good reason

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug
| Subject
| Triager
|}
----
CategoryTemplate
