{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Csaba Kertész, apply for <MOTU>.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Csaba Kertész
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~csaba-kertesz
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CsabaKertesz/YourDeveloperApplication
|}

== Who I am ==
I am Csaba Kertész, a Hungarian who works/lives in Finland now.
I worked as a consultant/architect/scrum master for Maemo/Nokia (Debian based distribution for Nokia handsets e.g. N900) in Finland in the past three years.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I use Debian/Ubuntu at home and my workplaces since ~2002. I contributed to Ubuntu only forum activities from the community side so far.

=== My involvement ===
I would like to include my hobby research project in Ubuntu+provide fixes for existing softwares. (See below)

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
I have a hobby research project (AiBO+, http://aiboplus.sf.net) to enhance the artificial intelligence of the Sony's AIBO robot dog. I use OpenCV (http://opencv.willowgarage.com/wiki/) for computer vision in this project and I contribute to this upstream project as a developer since ~2004.
At my workplace, I worked together/contributed to various open source projects (e.g. libical - iCalendar implementation, libkcal - KDE's calendar library in kdepimpi).

=== Areas of work ===
My main experiences in developer means:
- C/C++
- maintaining debian packages
- cmake/qmake/autotools
- Gtk/Qt
- svn/cvs/git
- gstreamer
etc.

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
Near future: I would like to contribute fixes to the OpenCV in Ubuntu and add my research project to Ubuntu.
Later: Contribute fixes/reviews for other softwares in Ubuntu.

<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
