{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

 My Name is Eslam Mostafa, i am from Soahag, I study in commerce faculty although i am fond of programming.
 I am an opensource lover, i am fully enthusiast about linux community and opensource applications, always support linux users and encourage other to use linux and other opensource substitutions. I have worked on a lot of linux distros like Fedora, OpenSUSE, Mandriva, Arch Linux and of course Ubuntu.

 I am an active member on many Facebook groups like <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/ubuntueg/| "Ubuntu-eg"]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/LinuxCommunity.fci/| "Linux Community"]]</nowiki>, Also i am the creator of <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/250181351754133/| "Arch Linux Egypt"]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/ArabOpenSource/| "المصادر المفتوحة"]]</nowiki>.

 Python/Gtk are my life right this moment, i am writing applications and contributing in opensource projects.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad:
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~cseslam| cseslam]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email:
| 
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[http://eslammostafa.blogspot.com| Personal Blog]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC:
| cseslam on irc.freenode.net
|}
=== Contributions ===

 {*} Was the first one to held linux-related sessions in my city.

 {*} I held two sessions about linux in my city, one of them was Ubuntu 12.04 release party.

 {*} Contributed in <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/indicator-prayer-times| "Indicator Prayer Times"]]</nowiki>.

 {*} Contributed in writing a telepathy class in vala for zeitgeist.

 {*} Helping my colleagues to install ubuntu, and solving their problems.

 {*} Creator of <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/250181351754133/| Arch Linux Egypt]]</nowiki>.

 {*} Creator of <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/ArabOpenSource/| المصادر المفتوحة Arab Open Source]]</nowiki>

 {*} Active member in <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/ubuntueg/| "Ubuntu-eg"]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/LinuxCommunity.fci/| "Linux Community"]]</nowiki>.

 {*} Writing and developing a text editor called <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/tahrir| Tahrir]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu.

 {*} Wrote and developing a pomodoro timer called <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/tahrir | DoMore ]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu.

 {*} participated in developing gnome-clocks.

=== Future Goals ===

 {*} Become an Ubuntu-eg member.

 {*} To become a GNOME member.

 {*} Spread GNU/Linux and opensource applications.

 {*} Become a Linux Administrator.

 {*} Contribute in gnome's and zeitgeist's projects.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 

* Eslam is a very enthusiastic person. I never met him in person but we became friends really quick. He showed interests in organizing a release party for Precise at his home town and actually succeeded. He's continuously learning and appreciates opensource and free software concepts. In a small period of time he learned Python/GTK, python packaging, Debian packaging plus he contributed code for the Zeitgeist project. So it's a +1 from me :) <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~thelinuxer | Ahmed Toulan]]</nowiki>

* Eslam is a very active person. He helped me a lot to solve problems and to learn Python/GTK, and also helps others. He was the first one to organize a release party in his city, and to held sessions about opensource. I hope he became an Ubuntu member, he'll be a great addition. --<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nadeen-spirit | Nadeen Spirit]]</nowiki>

* Eslam is a Python/GTK+ super programmer, He's very active, He always wants to help other people, He wants to learn more, He have done 2 awesome projects <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/tahrir|Tahrir]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/domore|Do More]]</nowiki>, He did an awesome work in the Gnome-Clocks project, He did some work for the Zeitgeist project, He can do debian packaging, also He have done alot of development in indicator-prayer-times project with me, We have formed a very good team together, and we have been involved in a project named Moratel and we are still unitl now working on it, I really reccomend him to be an ubuntu member, and +1 from me. Keep the good work up bro :) --<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~m-alaa8 | Mohamed Alaa]]</nowiki>
