{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''See also''': BlueScreenOfLife, XorgCtrlAltBackspace

=== Summary ===

When the user presses Ctrl-Alt-Delete, show a countdown timer giving the user the option of canceling the the restart of the X-server.

=== Rationale ===

Some users accidentally hit Ctrl-Alt-Backspace, losing all unsaved work. The upstream solution is simply to disable CAB by default. This is not ideal as other users experience problems and expect CAB to kill the X-server; these users may not know of Alt-Sysreq-K or may not have a functioning Sysreq key on their keyboard.

If the X-server cannot display the dialog the user cannot cancel the countdown, however this doesn't really matter as if the X server cannot display a simple dialog the user probably wants the X-server to be killed and restarted.

=== Use Cases ===

** Adrian does not realize that Ubuntu has disabled Ctrl-Alt-Backspace, and assumed that his machine was locking up so hard that even Ctrl-Alt-Backspace doesn't work. Next time the X-server crashes he tries Ctrl-Alt-Backspace a few times; eventually it seems to work.
** Brian remembers something about Ubuntu disabling Ctrl-Alt-Backspace, but he doesn't remember the key sequence Alt-Sysreq-k for killing X. He cannot look it up on the internet because his computer is frozen. He presses CAB once and waits a few seconds.
** Carol doesn't know how to install dontzap, but is willing to wait ten seconds for X server to be killed.
** David often presses CAB by mistake, but needs to use the flgrx driver for serious 3D work and suffers frequent X crashes that cannot be debugged by the Ubuntu team. He also doesn't have a Sysreq key on his  When he presses CAB by mistake he can cancel it.
the the restart of the X-server.

=== Assumptions ===
** Many users want the Ctrl-Alt-Backspace functionality <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1040988|(they do)]]</nowiki>.
** Many users will not remember to enable the CAB before X crashes, forcing them to do at least one reset (etc).
** If the user hits CAB by accident they will be able to click Cancel in time.

=== Design ===

The script to display the countdown timer is trivial. See for example <nowiki>[[www.ucc.asn.au-~mccabedj-CAB.sh|this prototype]]</nowiki>.
We can make CAB a shortcut for this script and allow the script to kill X by adding "%plugdev ALL=NOPASSWD: killall Xorg" to the default sudoers file.
