{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The New project Cubuntu Is ready.  100% Ubuntu with Cinnamon Gnome and Extras..

Cubuntu enjoy the best of Cinnamon with Ubuntu, Gnome, and Unity.

With Cubuntu well you will not be lost is a 100% Ubuntu Ultimate Edition.

We added the best without remove. 

My priority was to keep completeness of Ubuntu, do not remove this in order to keep the compatibility, stability and the updates that have made its reputation. We have added your choice of graphical interface between Unity, Gnome, Cinnamon, and many applications update: Chrome, Geany, Radiotray, virtualbox, Skype, VLC, Audacity, Tweak, Filezilla, synaptic + many codecs, MP3, Divx, Flash, etc. .. 

With Cubuntu, you can use all applications designed for Ubuntu Debian and without limitation, software, Ubuntu repositories are enabled by default, you can enjoy all the updates of ubuntu. Cubuntu 12.04-5 RC

The Website is French, But Cubuntu is multi-languages : http://cubuntu.fr

Note : 
Cubuntu is not a variant can be as Xubuntu or Kubuntu or Lubuntu. a variant is different from the original, different applications, different deposits, etc. Cubuntu is an extra edition "Ultimate" because 100% ubuntu original is in Cubuntu.

_____________________________

En français :

Cubuntu profitez du meilleur d'Ubuntu avec Cinnamon, Gnome, Unity et bien +
Avec Cubuntu vous ne serez pas perdu, c'est 100% Ubuntu dans une édition Ultimate, nous avons ajouté le meilleur sans rien retirer.

Notre priorité a été de garder l'intégralité d'Ubuntu, ne rien retirer, cela afin de garder la compatiblité, stabilité et les mises à jours qui ont fait sa réputation.

Nous y avons ajouté le choix de votre interface graphique entre Unity , Gnome, Cinnamon, et de nombreuses applications mise à jour :  Chrome, Geany, Radiotray, virtualbox, skype, Vlc,  Audacity, Tweak, Filezilla, synaptic + de nombreux codecs, Mp3, Divx, Flash, etc..

Avec Cubuntu, vous pouvez utiliser toutes les applications conçu pour Ubuntu et Debian sans restriction, les dépots des logiciels Ubuntu sont activés par default, vous pourrez  profiter de toutes les mises à jour d'ubuntu. : http://www.cubuntu.fr

Note : 
Cubuntu n'est pas une variante comme peut l'être Xubuntu ou Kubuntu ou Lubuntu.
Une variante est assez différente d'Ubuntu originale , applications différentes, dépots différents, etc.
Cubuntu c'est un plutôt un extra en édition "Ultimate", car 100% d'ubuntu originale est dans Cubuntu.
