{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Cameron Will / cwill747
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cwill747|cwill747's Launchpad]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Forums'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=418592|Forum Member Info]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email'''
| <nowiki>[[mailto:cameron@newgenweb.com|cameron@newgenweb.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog'''
| <nowiki>[[http://blog.newgenweb.com|My Blog]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
I'm cwill747. I've been involved in the North Carolina LoCo team and the forums, but I've been especially involved in Ubuntu Launchpad Answers. I believe that it is vital for every Ubuntu user to have quick access to support, as there are many people that are not familiar with Linux. I'm trying to help answer their questions, one question at a time. I might not do it as much as I should be, but I really try to get out there and get through a bunch of questions every once in a while.

I'm working to become CACert certified, and would be happy to certify anybody else from the NC Loco once that happens. I'm also working on my Ubuntu certification, to be completed who knows when. I have to pass my classes first.

I try to blog occasionally about things that are interesting. <nowiki>[[http://blog.newgenweb.com|Check it out]]</nowiki> if you have a sec, and please leave a comment.

=== Contributions ===

===== Answers =====

My answer contributions can be viewed at <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~cwill747|Launchpad]]</nowiki>

I believe that answering questions on launchpad is pretty dang important. I've seen, and experience myself, innocent first time users asking very basic questions on the forums, and having their posts buried under everything else of interest. Not because we don't care, but simply because there are too many things to focus on. I think Launchpad Answers has become a tad bit neglected. The FAQ system is a great idea, and I believe it should be implemented a little more heavily. For that reason, I try to make some FAQs out of questions I see come up the most. Hopefully we can clean this system up, and work to answer the 600+ open questions at the moment. But I need your help.

===== Testing =====
I began testing during the Lucid Alpha 1 iso. I've decided to test the standard i386 and Netbook Remix versions using Virtualbox machines. I'm part of the Ubuntu Testing Team, and will continue to test as long as I have spare time and a computer. It's a pretty easy thing to get started with, and it's somewhere that we'd love to have you helping out in! Check out the page for the <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/|QA Team]]</nowiki> if you're interested.

===== NC Loco =====
I'm trying, slowly, to become more involved with the NC Loco. I failed to find a group in the Triangle to have an Ubuntu meetup with, so I recently jumped on the <nowiki>[[NorthCarolinaTeam-ProfileRoulette|Profile Roulette]]</nowiki> project. If you're a member of the Loco, we'd love to have you on the roulette list! That way, you can have your profile viewed by the Loco, and have people comment or send some recommendations your way. 

=== Current Activity ===

Before 2010 stuff is pretty much listed above, but I guess I'll start keeping a record of what I'm working on.

===== 2010 =====
* July
** <nowiki>[[NorthCarolinaTeam-ProfileRoulette|Profile Roulette]]</nowiki> for the NC LoCo. 
** <nowiki>[[NorthCarolinaTeam-Marketing|Marketing]]</nowiki> started for the NC LoCo team. Updated a CD Jacket image for our loco to hand out to others.
* August
** Coming soonish - NC Ubuntu CD shipping request. NC residents can request a CD to be shipped to them, from the NC LoCo. Will include a small welcome message from the LoCo.
----
<nowiki>[[NorthCarolinaTeam-CategoryNorthCarolinaTeamProfile]]</nowiki>
