{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

(See below for the short version.)

My real name is David Tombs and out of all things that I am, three are the most important. I follow Jesus. I am married to a woman I will love for the rest of my life. And, I am an engineer. The first two are very relevant those who know me personally, but you reading this page probably care most for the third. So, I'll talk about that.

I am currently (as of Spring 2009) finishing up my degree in Computer Engineering from the University of Florida. Yes, some might say I am actually ''not'' an engineer yet, but I say engineering is more a thought process than a degree. So what I wrote above is mostly true. :)

I chose a degree in Computer Engineering because I love writing software. Unlike most in this world, I think computers are a blessing to mankind and can make our lives so much easier. Unfortunately, they usually don't, and the idea of improving this calamity inspires me. Thus, I program.

I'm not very experienced when it comes to Ubuntu or linux in general, though, so my chief goal for now is to assist the community by triaging bugs.

==== Short Version ====

Or, if you didn't read all that, here's the I-don't-have-time-for-this version:
* I'm a Christian.
* I'm married, and I like it!
* I like programming.
* I like triaging bugs for Ubuntu.

=== I triage. ===

I've been trying to triage bugs as much as I can since I started using Ubuntu heavily in late 2008. Only recently has this drive really picked up, mostly because I am excited about the direction Ubuntu is going and really think that--with some good bugfixing--it can be a great alternative to Microsoft Windows.

I don't have any specialty in triaging right now, though I've been working on bugs without a package. My overall computer interests are in low-level programming, so I'm attracted to the kernel but haven't dived in yet. I also want to make lives easier, so I'm also interested in GNOME desktop bugs.

=== Contact Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email
| See LP profile.
|-
| IRC
| cyan-spam on freenode
|-
| lp
| https://launchpad.net/~dgtombs
|-
| Time
| USA Eastern
|-
| Avail
| Monday, Thursday, Saturday nights ET
|}

Note: In Mar 2010, I changed my LP name from cyan-spam to dgtombs to be a bit more professional.

=== Testimonials ===

* "You're cool... most of the time." -- My wife

----
CategoryHomepage
