{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:left; float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:400px; background:#f3eedb; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 10px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 10px;" style="border: 0;">
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:left; font-size: 0.9em; width: auto; background: #e8f3db; margin: 1em 1em; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 10px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 10px;" style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;"> When:
| <style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;">May 2nd, 2009 (2009-05-02)<<BR>>10:00 – 13:00
|-
| <style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;">Where:
| <style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;">Intercollege Campus<<BR>>Ayias Phylaxeos Str., 92, Limassol
|}

<<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>>
Source: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntucy.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=834|1]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntucy.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=833|2]]</nowiki>

== English ==
3rd Ubuntu/Fedora Release Party

The Cyprus Ubuntu/Fedora Linux Community and the Intercollege Limassol invites you...

With the new Linux releases of Ubuntu 9.04 “Jaunty Jackalope” and Fedora 11 “Leonidas”, we would like to take this opportunity to welcome you to a Linux and Free Software Seminar which will be held at Intercollege Campus in Limassol. During the event, there will be two presentations (in English) as well as Linux workshops, where users will have the opportunity to use these new systems as well as their applications. The participants will have the opportunity to ask questions about Linux and get help from members of the community if they need. All workshops will be supervised by members of the community who will assist the public in familiarizing themselves with Linux. Everyone is encouraged to bring their own Computer for a demonstration or to even receive technical support from the community.

Free Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu and Fedora CDs will be distributed to everyone!!

The event will take place on the 2th of May, 2009 at 10:00 – 13:00 at the Intercollege Campus on 92 Ayias Phylaxeos Str. in Limassol.

Agenda

Presentations (Intecollege Limassol 5th Floor – Presentation Room):

1. 10:00. Introduction – History/Philosophy of GNU/Linux and Free Software
2. 10:30. Educational – Academic Applications

Workshops (Intecollege Limassol 5th Floor – Computer Labs):
1. Installation of Ubuntu Linux 9.04
2. Navigating in the Gnome Desktop Environment

Everyone is invited to the event.
Come and meet the world of Linux!

More information:
www.ubuntucy.org
info@ubuntucy.org

== Ελληνικά ==
3o Πάρτυ Κυκλοφορίας Ubuntu/Fedora

Η Κυπριακή Κοινότητα Χρηστών Ubuntu/Fedora Linux σε Συνεργασία με το Intercollege Λεμεσού σας προσκαλεί...

Με την ευκαιρία της κυκλοφορίας των καινούργιων εκδόσεων Linux, Ubuntu 9.04 “Jaunty Jackalope” και Fedora 11 “Leonidas” θα θέλαμε να σας προσκαλέσουμε στo σεμινάριο παρουσίασης του Linux και του Ελεύθερου Λογισμικού που θα γίνει στις εγκαταστάσεις του Intercollege στη Λεμεσό. Η εκδήλωση θα περιλαμβάνει δύο παρουσιάσεις (στα Αγγλικά) καθώς και εργαστήρια με Linux λειτουργικά όπου οι χρήστες θα μπορούν να χρησιμοποιήσουν τα καινούργια συστήματα και τις εφαρμογές τους. Οι παρευρισκόμενοι θα μπορούν να λύσουν τις απορίες τους για το Linux και να τύχουν βοήθειας από μέλη της κοινότητας. Όλα τα εργαστήρια θα επιβλέπονται από μέλη της κοινότητας οι οποίοι θα μπορούν να βοηθήσουν το κοινό στην εξοικείωση του με το Linux. Μπορείτε επίσης να φέρετε τον προσωπικό σας υπολογιστή για παρουσίαση ή ακόμη και για τεχνική υποστήριξη από την κοινότητα.

Θα διανέμονται δωρεάν CDs του Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu και Fedora για όλους!!!

Η εκδήλωση θα γίνει στις 2 Μαΐου, 2009 μεταξύ 10:00 – 13:00 στις εγκαταστάσεις του Intercollege, Αγίας Φυλάξεως 92 Λεμεσός.

Πρόγραμμα εκδηλώσεων

Παρουσιάσεις (Intercollege 5ος Όροφος – Αίθουσα Παρουσιάσεων):
1. 10:00. Εισαγωγή – Ιστορία / Φιλοσοφία του GNU/Linux και Ελεύθερου Λογισμικού.
2. 10:30. Εκπαιδευτικές – Ακαδημαϊκές Εφαρμογές.

Εργαστήρια (Intercollege 5ος Όροφος – Εργαστήρια Υπολογιστών):
1. Εγκατάσταση Ubuntu Linux 9.04
2. Παρουσίαση του περιβάλλοντος εργασίας GNOME

Η εκδήλωση θα είναι ανοικτή για όλους.
Ελάτε να γνωρίσετε το κόσμο των Linux!

Περισσότερες Πληροφορίες:
http://www.ubuntucy.org
info@ubuntucy.org

== Türkçe ==

----
CypriotTeam CategoryCypriotTeamEvents ReleaseParties JauntyReleaseParties CategoryCypriotTeamUpcomingEvents
