{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:left; font-size: 0.9em; width: auto; background: #e8f3db; margin: 1em 1em; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 10px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 10px;" style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;"> When:
| <style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;">Thursday, 26th February 2009<<BR>>11:35-13:35
|-
| <style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;">Where:
| <style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;">St. Neophythos high school (Limassol)
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:left; float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:400px; background:#f3eedb; margin:1em 1em1em 1em; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 10px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 10px;" style="border: 0;">
|}

<<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>>

Source: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-cy/2009-January/000176.html|1]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntucy.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=697|2]]</nowiki>

== English ==

Thanks to the "Day for Innovation and Creativity" that is organised
among all the schools in Cyprus, at the 28th of February the Ubuntu cy
LoCo team was invited by the Group of Informatics of the St. Neophytos
high school in Limassol, in order to present the educational (and
more) possibilities of GNU/Linux.

The programme will include a short (we mean it this time!)
presentation of Linux. It will also include practice using the
environment and various applications.

The event will last from 9:00 until 11:00 am (approximately). theo and
charizan will take "leave permission" from work in order to attend the
event. Everyone is welcome!

This is a good idea if the Ministry does not reply for the
presentation. We'll be "intruding" one school at a time! A lot of
professors of Informatics have begun to use Linux as a webserver,
firewall, fileserver etc.

== Ελληνικά ==

Στα πλαίσια της "ΜΕΡΑΣ ΚΑΙΝΟΤΟΜΙΑΣ ΚΑΙ ΔΗΜΙΟΥΡΓΗΚΟΤΗΤΑΣ" που
οργανώνεται σε όλα τα σχολεία της Κύπρου στις 28 Φεβρουαρίου μας έχει
προσκαλέσει ο Όμιλος Πληροφορικής του Γυμνασίου Αγίου Νεοφύτου στην
Λεμεσο για να κάνουμε παρουσίαση για τις εκπαιδευτικές (και όχι μονο)
δυνατότητες του Linux.

Το πρόγραμμα θα περιλαμβάνει σύντομη (το εννοούμε αυτή την φορά!)
παρουσίαση του Linux και θα ακολουθήσει πρακτική εξάσκηση στο
περιβάλλον και τις διάφορες εφαρμογές.

Υπολογίζουμε να αρχίσουμε κατα τις 9:00 και θα διαρκέσει μέχρι τις
11:00. Τόσο εγώ όσο και ο charizan θα πάρουμε άδεια από την δουλειά
για να είμαστε εκεί. Όσοι πιστοί προσέλθετε!

Αυτό είναι και μια καλή ιδέα αν τελικα δεν μας απαντήσουν από το
Υπουργείο για την παρουσίαση. Να διεισδύσουμε ένα σχολείο την φορά!
Ήδη αρκετοι καθηγητές πληροφορικής άρχισαν να χρησιμοποιούν το Linux
σαν webserver, firewall, fileserver κτλ.

== Türkçe ==

----
CypriotTeam CategoryCypriotTeamEvents CategoryPresentations CategoryCypriotTeamPresentations CategoryCypriotTeamPastEvents
