{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:left; font-size: 0.9em; width: auto; background: #e8f3db; margin: 1em 1em; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 10px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 10px;" style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;"> When:
| <style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;">Thursday, 26th February 2009<<BR>>16:00-17:00
|-
| <style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;">Where:
| <style="border: 0; padding: 5px 10px;">Ministry of Education
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:left; float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:400px; background:#f3eedb; margin:1em 1em1em 1em; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 10px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 10px;" style="border: 0;">
|}

<<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>>
== English ==

The ubuntu-cy team will host two presentations for the Ministry of Education. The first will be an introduction to GNU/Linux and FOSS and the second about educational and education-related applications.

There will be short interventions by the teachers/professors Πανίκος Βρυωνίδης (Panikos Vryonides) and Χρίστος Βασιλειάδης (Christos Vasiliades).

* 16:00  Introduction/History of FLOSS and Linux
* 16:20  Educational and education-related applications
* 16:50  Intervention by Πανίκος Βρυωνίδης (Panikos Vryonides)
* 17:00  Intervention by Χρίστος Βασιλειάδης (Christos Vasiliades)

== Ελληνικά ==

Η ομάδα των παρουσιαστών του Ubuntu-cy θα κάνει δυο παρουσιάσεις. Η μια θα είναι ιστορία/εισαγωγή [στο GNU/Linux και FOSS] και η άλλη Εκαπιδευτικές εφαρμογές.

Θα έχουμε και κάποιες μικρές παρεμβάσεις από τους εκπαιδευτικούς Πανίκο Βρυωνίδη και Χρίστο Βασιλειάδη.

* 16:00  Εισαγωγή/Ιστορία του ελευθερου Λογισμικού και του Linux
* 16:20  Εκπαιδευτικές Εφαρμογές
* 16:50  Παρέμβαση από Πανίκο Βρυωνίδη
* 17:00  Παρέμβαση από Χρίστο Βασιλειάδη

Την υπόλοιπη ώρα θα την αφιερώσουμε σε πρακτική εξάσκηση στους Υπολογιστές.

Η προετοιμασία θα γίνει από τις 15:00

== Türkçe ==

----
CypriotTeam CategoryCypriotTeamEvents CategoryPresentations CategoryCypriotTeamPresentations CategoryCypriotTeamPastEvents
