{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Approval Application for Cypriot LoCo Team (ubuntu-cy) ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[LoCoTeams|Home]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamList|Teams List]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamJoining|Join a Team]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamHowto|Start a LoCo Team!]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamMentoring|Team Mentoring]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoFAQ|FAQ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamContacts|Contacts]]</nowiki>
|}

 The Cypriot Local Community Team aims to bring free/open source software in Cyprus and provide free community support to users of the various flavours of Ubuntu, as well as advocating the use of Ubuntu to individuals and organisations alike.

 As it is mentioned in our wiki page, this group is for anyone in the Republic of Cyprus (but we welcome non-Cypriot residents) who use or are interested in some flavour of Ubuntu, whether it's Ubuntu, Kubuntu or any others. This group consists of people of various technical knowledge levels, from beginners to experienced users.<<BR>>

 What's different about us? The history of Cyprus brought Greek-Cypriots and Turkish-Cypriots apart, we aim not to be affected by any political beliefs. Moreover, we are against discrimination of any kind concerning Ubuntu-CY members of any colour or origin, and treat all members with the same respect.

 After several presentations and a couple of release parties of tremendous success, I believe that the team has grown exponentially and is ready to apply and to become accepted to the family of approved Ubuntu LoCo teams.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''list the date of application'')
* '''Team Contacts''' (and their current assignments)
1. Loucas Soteriou (founder, wiki, old website)
2. Savvas Radevic (co-founder, some artwork, wiki, mailing list)
3. Theodotos Andreou (website, forums, events, presentations, release parties)
* '''Membership''' - Unknown number of members, estimating 40+
* '''Wiki Page''' - http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CypriotTeam 
* '''Website''' -  http://www.ubuntucy.org
* '''Mailing list''' - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-cy
* '''IRC channel''' - <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.ubuntu.com-#ubuntu-cy|#ubuntu-cy at irc.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://freenode.net|Freenode]]</nowiki>)

=== Roadmap ===

Here you should provide a list of things you plan on doing. Include links to where these are discussed online and on mailing lists.

* ''Example item'' - here I am listing an activity on the roadmap.
* ''Another item'' - here is another item on the roadmap.

=== Experience ===

List here activities that the group has already done. Again provide links to online discussions, reviews, blog entries etc:

* ''Example activity'' - here I am listing an activity.
* ''Another activity'' - here is another item.
