{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:left; float:right; font-size: 0.9em; border: none; width:400px; background:#f3eedb; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 10px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 10px;" style="border: 0;">
|}

This is the report from the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CypriotTeam/Events/HardyReleaseParty|HardyReleaseParty]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Source: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-cy/2008-May/000038.html <<BR>>
Pictures: http://www.ubuntucy.org/pics1.html

== English ==
* Results of the Linux Event*

=== Presentations ===
1. 4:30 Introduction in Greek - Started Normally and lasted one hour
2. 6:30 Educational Applications/Edubuntu - It was supposed to start at 5:30 but it got out of hand. It lasted 30 minutes or so.
3. Introduction in English - It didn't happen. The English speaking people had already left for beers :)
4. The event was supposed to finish at 9:00 but people already left at 7:30

=== CDs ===
We gave 20 official Ubuntu CDs, 30 copies of Ubuntu/Kubuntu and 10 
Fedora CDs

=== People ===
Our goal was to have about 50 people and we reached it. 28 people signed our guestbook. If we take into account 3 important sports events that were taking place the same day (Cyprus Rally, Football Cup finals in 
Cyprus and Greece) this is pretty good! In the even we had no journalists or politicians. The latter, had they knew who and how many are using Linux http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_adoption, they would probably be less proud for signing an agreement http://www.typos.com.cy/nqcontent.cfm?a_id=79534 with an organisation 
that was fined by the European Union more than 1 Billion Euros http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Union_Microsoft_competition_case for abusing its domination position in the market.
orgavisation

=== Reactions ===
Generally people said it was interesting but the experienced users were 
expecting something more.

=== We thank ===
* Frederick University: We thank Dr Cristoforos Christoforou for letting us use their facilities. Without an appropriate place the event would not have been possible.
* Intercollege: We thank Costas Perdikis for announcing the event in Intercollege.
* TEPAK: We thank Andreas Mouskos for promoting the event in TEPAK. We hope to see him next time.
* Cyprus University: we thank the guys from the IEEE student Branch of the University that posted the announcement on their sites.
* CISCO Academy: We thank Leonidas Hatzimitsis of the Axis Regional Academy for forwarding the announcement to ex and present Academy students.
* Leonid Mamchenkov: For announcing the event in his Blog and the rest of Fedora team. Leonid you were right. A beerless party ends fast :) If we find a sponsor we will arrange it for the next time.
* Cylug: we thank you for forwarding the announcement to all that were interested.
* lemesorama.com: We thank the good people at lemesorama for announcing the event.
* Loukas Soteriou/Savvas Radevic: The first people that started the effort to create an Ubuntu Community in Cyprus. We are expecting you back in action.

Finally we thank all those that came - and those that did not - and we hope to see you again in November with more interesting subjects. We can send us your reactions, opinions, criticism, suggestions, flames, irony, curses, spells...

You can find the presentation here:Cyprus University
http://www.ubuntucy.org/downloads/Presentation.pdf

And some photos here:
http://ubuntucy.org/pics1.html

Thank You

(Yet) Unofficial Ubuntu Cyprus Loco team.

== Ελληνικά ==
* Ο απολογισμός της εκδήλωσης για το Linux.*

=== Παρουσιάσεις ===
1. 4:30 Εισαγωγή στα ελληνικά - Άρχισε κανονικά τελείωσε σε μια ώρα.
2. 6:30 Εκπαιδευτικές Εφαρμογές/Edubuntu - Επρόκειτο να αρχίσει στις 5:30 αλλά ξεφύγαμε. Διάρκεσε μισή ώρα περίπου.
3. Εισαγωγή στα Αγγλικά - Δεν έγινε τελικά.  Η αγγλόφωνη ομάδα  είχε ήδη πάει για μπύρες :)
4. Η εκδήλωση τέλειωσε στις 7:30 αντι στις 9:00 που ανακοινώσαμε.

=== CD ===
Συνολικά δόθηκαν 20 επίσημα CD του ubuntu, 30 αντίγραφα Ubuntu/Kubuntu και 10 Fedora

=== Κόσμος ===
Ο στόχος μας ήταν 50 άτομα και περίπου τόσα ήρθαν. 28 άτομα υπόγραψαν το βιβλίο επισκεπτών. Αν λάβουμε υπόψιν και τα 3 αθλητικά γεγονότα της ημέρας (Ράλλυ Κύπρου, Τελικός Κυπέλλου Ελλάδας και Κύπρου μάλλον ήταν επιτυχία! Στην εκδήλωση δεν παρευρέθηκαν δημοσιογράφοι ούτε πολιτικοί. Οι τελευταίοι  αν έβλεπαν ποιοι και πόσοι χρησιμοποιούν Linux http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_adoption ίσως να μην ήταν τόσο περήφανοι για την συμφωνία που έκαμαν http://www.typos.com.cy/nqcontent.cfm?a_id=79534 με ένα οργανισμό που "έφαγε" πέραν του ενός δισεκατομμυρίου Ευρώ πρόστιμο http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Union_Microsoft_competition_case για υποθέσεις αθέμιτου ανταγωνισμού από την Ευρωπαϊκή Ένωση.

=== Αντιδράσεις ===
Γενικά ο κόσμος έδειξε ενδιαφέρον αλλά οι έμπειροι χρήστες μας είπαν ότι 
περίμεναν κάτι πιο ενδιαφέρον.

=== Ευχαριστίες ===
* Frederick University: Ευχαριστούμε τον Δρ. Χριστόφορο Χριστοφόρου για την παραχώρηση των εργαστηρίων. Χωρίς τον κατάλληλο χώρο και εξοπλισμό η εκδήλωση δε θα ήταν δυνατή.
* Intercollege: Ευχαριστούμε τον Κώστα Περδίκη για την προβολή της εκδήλωσης εντός του δικού τους χώρου.
* ΤΕΠΑΚ: Ευχαριστούμε τον Ανδρέα Μούσκο για τη προβολή της εκδήλωσης στο Πανεπιστήμιο. Ελπίζουμε να σε δούμε την επόμενη φορά.
* Πανεπιστήμιο Κύπρου: Ευχαριστούμε τα παιδιά του πανεπιστημίου από το φοιτητικό παράρτημα του IEEE που ανακοίνωσαν το γεγονός στις σελίδες τους.
* Ακαδημία Cisco: Ευχαριστίες στον Λεωνίδα Χατζημιτσή του Axis Regional Academy για την ενημέρωση πρώην και νυν φοιτητών της ακαδημίας. Σε περιμένουμε στην επόμενη.
* Leonid Mamchenkov: για την ανακοίνωση στο Blog του καθώς και την υπόλοιπη ομάδα της Fedora. Τελικά Leonid είχες δίκιο. Εκδήλωση χωρίς μπύρες τελειώνει γρήγορα :) Αν βρούμε χορηγό την επόμενή φορά θα το οργανώσουμε.
* Cylug: ευχαριστούμε για την προώθηση της ανακοίνωσης σε όλους τους ενδιαφερόμενους.
* lemesorama.com: Ευχαριστούμε τα παιδιά από το Λεμεσόραμα για την ανακοίνωση της εκδήλωσης.
* Λούκας Σωτηρίου/Σάββας Ράντεβιτς: Οι πρώτοι που ξεκίνησαν την προσπάθεια για την δημιουργία Κοινότητας Ubuntu. Σας περιμένουμε πίσω στην ενεργό δράση.

Τέλος, ευχαριστούμε όλους εσάς που ήρθατε - και όσους δεν ήρθατε - και περιμένουμε να σας δούμε ξανά τον Νοέμβρη με πιο ενδιαφέροντα θέματα. Αναμένουμε τις αντιδράσεις σας, απόψεις, κριτική, εισηγήσεις, κακίες, μπηκτές, κατάρες, ξόρκια...

Μπορείτε να βρείτε την παρουσίαση εδώ:
http://www.ubuntucy.org/downloads/Presentation.pdf

Και κάποιες φωτογραφίες εδώ:
http://ubuntucy.org/pics1.html

Ευχαριστούμε

Ανεπίσημη (ακόμα) Κυπριακή Κοινότητα Χρηστών Ubuntu Linux.

----
CypriotTeam CategoryReports CategoryEvents ReleaseParties HardyReleaseParties
