{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:left; float:right; font-size: 0.9em; border: none; width:400px; background:#f3eedb; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 10px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 10px;" style="border: 0;">
|}

This is the report from the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CypriotTeam/Events/StNeophytosHighSchoolPresentation|St. Neophythos high school]]</nowiki>

Source: http://www.ubuntucy.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=782

== English ==
St. Neophythos high school presentation

3 presentations in total:

 1. Introduction to Free and open source software (FLOSS) ('''Grigoris Chrysanthou''').

 2. Graphical environment/Educational applications ('''Theodoros Andreou''').

 3. 3-D desktop effects/Compiz ('''Constantinos Mikellides''').

The pupils were excited with what they have seen. They took all our DVDs and we had to burn more for the presentation at the Ministry. :)

We helped them with the environment and worked through Live DVDs. They were fascinated by applications such as Celestia, Kstars etc. They were thrilled by Compiz and constantly asked for help on how to activate various effects. Impression was also achieved on some of the professors, who liked the easiness one could change the language from Greek to English in Linux.

Some of the students have already installed Ubuntu as their professor has informed us.

Acknowledgments
* Mr. '''Costas Tryphonos''' for organising of the event.

== Ελληνικά ==
Εκδήλωση στο γυμνάσιο Αγίου Νεοφύτου

Έγιναν συνολικά 3 παρουσιάσεις:

 1. Εισαγωγή/Ιστορία του Ελεύθερου Λογισμικού ('''Γρηγόρης Χρυσάνθου''')

 2. Γραφικό Περιβάλλον/Εκπαιδευτικές Εφαρμογές ('''Θεόδοτος Ανδρέου''')

 3. Compiz ('''Κωνσταντίνος Μικελλίδης''')

Τα παιδιά ήταν ενθουσιασμένα με αυτά που τους δείξαμε. Μας πήραν όλα τα DVD και αναγκαστήκαμε να κάψουμε και άλλα για να δώσουμε στους ανθρώπους του Υπουργείου :).

Τους βοηθήσαμε με το περιβάλλον και δουλέψαμε με τα liveDVDs. Τους έκαναν εντύπωση εφαρμογές όπως to Celestia , KGeography, Kstars και άλλες. Έμειναν επίσης κατενθουσιασμένοι με το Compiz και μας ζητούσαν συνεχώς βοήθεια για να ενεργοποιήσουν τα διάφορα εφφέ. Κάποιοι από τους εκπαιδευτικούς εντυπωσιάστηκαν με την ευκολία που μπορείς να αλλάξεις την γλώσσα από ελληνικά σε αγγλικά στο Linux.

Κάποιοι από τους μαθητές το έχουν ήδη εγκαταστήσει όπως μάθαμε εκ των υστέρων από τον καθηγητή τους.

Ευχαριστίες

* Κ. Κώστα Τρύφωνος για την οργάνωση της εκδήλωσης

----
CypriotTeam CategoryReports CategoryEvents
