{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:left; float:right; font-size: 0.9em; border: none; width:400px; background:#f3eedb; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 10px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 10px;" style="border: 0;">
|}

This is the report from the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CypriotTeam/Events/UoCLinuxFOSSPresentation|IEEE/University of Cyprus presentation]]</nowiki>

Source: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-cy/2008-September/000091.html

Pictures: http://www.ubuntucy.org/pics2.html

== English ==

We would like to thank the guys of the IT Club/Electrical Engineers -
IEEE Branch of University of Cyprus for the organisation of the event to
Promote Free Software and GNU/Linux. The 60 persons capacity room was
almost full and there was great interaction with the audience.

Thank you and we look forward to closer cooperation in the future.

http://ieee.bytefreaks.net

== Ελληνικά ==
Θα θέλαμε να ευχαριστήσουμε τα παιδιά του Ομίλου
Πληροφορικής/Ηλεκτρολόγων Μηχανικών - Παράρτημα IEEE του Πανεπιστημίου
Κύπρου για την οργάνωση της εκδήλωσης Παρουσίασης του Ελεύθερου
Λογισμικού και του GNU/Linux. Η αίθουσα χωρητικότητας 60 ατόμων ήταν
σχεδόν πλήρης και είχαμε αρκετή αλληλεπίδραση με το ακροατήριο.

Ευχαριστούμε και προσδοκούμε σε ακόμα στενότερες συνεργασίες στο μέλλον.

----
CypriotTeam CategoryReports CategoryEvents
