{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:left; float:right; font-size: 0.9em; border: none; width:400px; background:#f3eedb; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 10px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 10px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 10px;" style="border: 0;">
|}

Report: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CypriotTeam/Reports/Events/HardyReleaseParty

Source: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-cy/2008-May/000017.html

== English ==
=== Announcement ===
The Cyprus Ubuntu/Fedora Linux Community welcomes you...

Taking the opportunity of the Linux releases of Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron and Fedora 9 Sulphur we would like to welcome you to the Ubuntu/Fedora release party which is going to be held in the Frederic University Campus in Limassol.  

The event will include a brief presentation of Linux History and Advantages over other Operating Systems, demonstration labs, Installation labs, and Introduction to basic Programs. There are going to be computers for everyone and we are encouraging you to bring you own Laptop/Desktop to the event. You can also bring your own favorite Linux Distribution to demonstrate. We are also going to present some alternative computers like the Asus EeePC subnotebook , DecTOP low cost/profile PC and Linux installed on Sony PlayStation 3. 

Free Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Fedora CDs for everyone!!

When: 17, May 2008 between 4:00 – 9:00 pm . You can come and leave any time you want.

Where: Frederick University Campus in Limassol. The event will take place in the computer labs in the first floor (Rooms 304 and 305)

Agenta:
* 4:30 pm Brief Presentation in Greek
* 5:30 pm Brief Presentation in English
* Linux Installation workshops
* Linux Demonstration
* Educational Software
* Office Utilities
* Games

 <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntucy.org|www.ubuntu.org]]</nowiki>
=== Results ===
Results of the event can be viewed <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CypriotTeam/Reports/Events/HardyReleaseParty|here]]</nowiki>.

== Ελληνικά ==
=== Ανακοίνωση ===
Η Κυπριακή Κοινότητα Cyprus Ubuntu/Fedora Linux σας καλοσορίζει...

Με την ευκαιρία της κυκλοφορίας των καινούργιων εκδόσεων Linux, Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron και Fedora 9 Sulphur θα θέλαμε να σας προσκαλέσουμε στο Ubuntu/Fedora πάρτυ κυκλοφορίας που θα γίνει στις εγκαταστάσεις του  Frederic University στη Λεμεσό.  

Η εκδήλωση θα περιλαμβάνει  σύντομη παρουσίαση του Ιστορικού του Linux  και τα Πλεονεκτήματα του έναντι άλλων Λειτουργικών Συστημάτων, Εργαστήρια παρουσίασης του Περιβάλλοντος εργασίας, Εργαστήρια εγκατάστασης, και εισαγωγή σε βασικά προγράμματα. Θα υπάρχουν Υπολογιστές για όλους και μπορείτε να φέρετε και τους δικούς σας Υπολογιστές, φορητούς και συμβατούς. Μπορείτε αν θέλετε να φέρετε την αγαπημένη σας διανομή Linux για να την παρουσιάσετε. Θα παρουσιάσουμε επίσης εναλακτικούς υπολογιστές όπως το φορητό Asus EeePC  , τον μίνι υπολογιστή DecTOP και εγκατάσταση Linux πάνω σε Sony PlayStation 3. 

Θα διανέμονται δωρεάν CDs του Ubuntu, Kubuntu και Fedora για όλους!!!

Πότε: 17, Μαίου 2008 μεταξύ των ωρών 4:00 – 9:00 μμ . Μπορείτε να έρθετε και να φύγετε ότι ώρα θέλετε.

Που: Εγκαταστάσεις του Frederick University στη Λεμεσό. Η εκδήλωση θα γίνει στα εργαστήρια των υπολογιστών στον πρώτο όροφο (Αίθουσες 304 και 305). 

Πρόγραμμα εκδηλώσεων:
* 4:30 μμ. Σύντομη Παρουσίαση στα ελληνικά.
* 5:30 μμ. Σύντομη Παρουσίαση στα αγγλικά.
* Εργαστήρια εγκατάστασης Linux
* Εργαστήρια Παρουσίασης Linux
* Εκπαιδευτικά Προγράμματα
* Εφαρμογές Γραφείου
* Παιχνίδια

 <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntucy.org|www.ubuntucy.org]]</nowiki>

=== Απολογισμός ===
Μπορείτε να δείτε τον απολογισμό της εκδήλωσης <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CypriotTeam/Reports/Events/HardyReleaseParty|εδώ]]</nowiki>

== Türkçe ==

----
CypriotTeam CategoryCypriotTeamEvents ReleaseParties HardyReleaseParties CategoryCypriotTeamPastEvents
