{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Preparing Ubuntu team for <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxdays.cz/english/|LinuxDays]]</nowiki> in Prague
** LinuxDays is an annual Czech open-source conference that takes place in Prague. It was held in 2012 for the first time to replace the LinuxExpo conference, which had a long tradition, but unfortunately was cancelled this year.

** When the open-source community learned about the cancellation of LinuxExpo, it organized itself and as everybody wanted to have something like LinuxExpo (but even better and cooler), we came up with a conference of our own. Who are we? Who is the community behind the LinuxDays conference? We started as a group of people who know each other from conferences and thanks to that we have people from various communities. We have people who are behind another big conference – Installfest. Thanks to them, we have huge support of FIT ČVUT. When it comes to media, we have editors-in-chief of LinuxEXPRES and ROOT. From distributions we have Fedora, Gentoo, openSUSE and Ubuntu. So, it is really a community event, and many various communities participate. Organized by the open-source community for the open-source community.

** This year will take a place from 5th to 6th October in Prague at ČVUT.

* Preparing for Release Party in Prague (probably at the end of October)

 
