{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Introduction ===
''The goal of the dashboard is to automatically show a user useful files and other objects as he goes about his day. While you read email, browse the web, write a document, or talk to your friends on IM, the dashboard does its best to proactively find objects that are relevant to your current activity, and to display them in a friendly way, saving you from digging around through your stuff like a disorganized filing clerk.''

'''NOTE:''' This tutorial uses the command line for installation and configuration. A basic knowledge of the command line/terminal is recommended. Prior to using this tutorial, make sure you have successfully installed beagle along with the inotify patched kernel. See <nowiki>[[Beagle]]</nowiki> for instructions on  doing this.

=== Installation ===
==== Step 1: Dependencies ====
At the command line, issue the following command:
<pre>
</pre>

==== Step 2: Copy Beagle Config ====
At the command line, issue the following command:
<pre>
</pre>

==== Step 3: CVS ====
===== Connect to Server =====
Move into your cvs directory by <code>cd /path_to_cvs/directory</code>. At the command line, issue the following command:
<pre>
</pre>
'''NOTE:''' When it asks for a password, just press enter, using a blank password.

===== Download Source =====
At the command line issue the following command:
<pre>
</pre>

==== Step 4: Install ====
Change into the dashboard directory now by <code>cd dashboard</code>. At the command line, issue the following command:
<pre>
</pre>

=== Post Installation ===
More information on Beagle and Dashboard is found on their <nowiki>[[http://beaglewiki.org|Wiki]]</nowiki>.
