{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

This page outlines the procedure needed in order to automatically boot from a degraded '''Software RAID''' partition when using Ubuntu 8.04 LTS (Hardy Heron).

== Upgrading ==

First, make sure all updates are applied to the system.  Perform the updates by entering the following in a terminal:

<pre>
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get -y dist-upgrade
</pre>

== Updating Grub ==

Once the utilities are upgraded, '''grub''' will need to be installed on each drive in the Array:

Determine if your /boot is on a RAID device:

<pre>
df /boot | tail -n 1 | awk '{print $1}'
</pre>

If so, install grub to that device.

<pre>
sudo grub-install /dev/md0
</pre>

'''Note:''' replace ''/dev/md0'' with the actual '''/boot''' device in your machine.

== Boot Configuration ==

With grub updated, configure the boot behavior.  There are several options available, see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/serverguide/C/advanced-installation.html#raid-degraded|Degraded RAID]]</nowiki> section of the Ubuntu Server Guide for details.

== See Also ==

For information on installing Ubuntu Server Edition on Software RAID see <nowiki>[[Installation-SoftwareRAID]]</nowiki>.

Also, refer to LP #290885:
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mdadm/+bug/290885|SRU: Backport of Boot Degraded RAID functionality from Intrepid to Hardy]]</nowiki>.
