{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Setserial''' sets and/or reports the configuration information associated with a serial port. This information includes what I/O port and which IRQ a particular serial port is using. 

This version has a completely new approach to configuration, so if you have a setup other than the standard ttyS0 and 1, you will have to get your hands dirty. 

By default, only ttyS0-ttyS3 (COM1-4 in DOS/Windows terminology) are configured by the kernel, using IRQ 3 and 4. If you have other serial ports (such as an AST Fourport card), or if you have mapped the IRQs differently (perhaps COM3 and 4 to other IRQs to allow concurrent access with COM1 and 2) then you must have this package. 

=== USB ===
For USB, instead of setserial, the usb-storage and/or usbserial modules must be loaded, whether manually or by HAL is up to you and/or your system. 

<pre>
$ sleep 6 # the modem may take a while to initialize
$ ls /dev/ttyUSB*
</pre>

You should see three renditions of ttyUSB. If not, we will get to that later. This is a "Quick Start" after all, no? The ports: 

<pre>
ttyUSB0 - The modem 
ttyUSB1 - USB? 
ttyUSB2 - Nothing 
</pre>
So, you can use Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0 in your wvdial.conf file (there is a problem if you are use the Ubuntu Live CD: you cannot save, and so use, the modified file, because CD-ROMs are read-only media).

See <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Huawei]]</nowiki>

=== Options ===
seserial with -g option help to find out what physical serial ports your Linux box has. 

=== Programs ===
Once serial ports identified you can configure Linux box using various utilities:

* <nowiki>[[wvdial]]</nowiki> or other GUI dial up networking program - a PPP dialer with built-in intelligence, installed in Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[minicom]]</nowiki> -the best friendly serial communication program for controlling modems and connecting to dump devices. 
* getty / agetty - agetty opens a tty port, prompts for a login name and invokes the /bin/login command. 
* <nowiki>[[grub]]</nowiki> configuration - To configure serial port as the system console. 

=== External links ===
* http://packages.ubuntu.com/edgy/base/setserial
----
CategoryNetworking CategoryHardware
