{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Huawei E220 ===

It does not work out of the box in Ubuntu.

Huawei E220 is an attached USB peripheral, not mass storage (bug interprets this 3g Modem as Mass Storage at first).The modem offers three virtual usb-connection. Two command-connection and one virtual cd-drive that holds some useless windows-drivers. So, technically it is a modem, USB and (due to the CDFS format) virtual CD-ROM device.

With new Kernels, you may have maybe two desktop icons and three entries if you do: 

<pre>

ls -la /dev/ttyU* 

</pre>

Basically, what has been done is that you have removed the initial inclination to treat the device only as a bulk storage (removing the module that handles that). You've also manually caused the recognition of the device (using the modprobe command). So that when you re-plugged it, it should now be able to work with the modem part of the device addressing it as '''/dev/ttyUSB0''', rather than that being the bulk storage device (virtual CD-ROM). 

In Ubuntu 10.04 you may require the usb-modeswitch package for this device to operate correctly as a modem.

==== Wvdial and its graphical frontend gnome-ppp ====

This is the recommended way: see <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Huawei-E220]]</nowiki>.

==== Vodafone / Telia GUI ====

The Huawei E220 can be a USB 'dongle' for HSDPA connection through the Vodaphone network. 

Download vodafone-mobile-connect-card-driver-for-linux (in short, VMCCfl)  : 

Project details and downloads here: https://forge.betavine.net/projects/vodafonemobilec/

Click in the file to open it with <nowiki>[[GDebi]]</nowiki>.

Plug-in the modem in the USB port.

Start Vodafone Mobile Connect Card Driver for Linux in Program->Internet 

Include your  username, password and ISP data and click on Connect. Now, you can use Internet (try it opening a web browser).

===== Dependencies and sub-dependencies =====

If you are using the Ubuntu 7.10 Live CD, you need to download these dependency packages (not included in the Live CD) and install them using Gebi: 

 1.  Python-twisted-conch

 2.  Python-pysqlite2

 3.  Python-2.4-minimal

 4.  Python-twisted-words

 5.  Python-twisted-web

 6.  Python-twisted-runner

 7.  Python-tz

 8.  Python-twisted-bin

 9.  Python-twisted-news

 10. Python-zopeinterface

 11. Python-crypto

 12. Python-twisted

 13. Python-twisted-core

 14. Python-twisted-lore

 15. Python-twisted-mail

 16. Python 2.4

 17. Python-twisted-names

 18. Python-serial.

Some of these packages need others (sub-dependencies): 

 1. libc6 

If you want more automatization and are offline, you can use an <nowiki>[[AptGet-Offline-Repository|offline repository]]</nowiki> or download the packages from other computer with Internet connection and install them in Ubuntu.

You can don´t want or can install all this dependencias, you can try the  <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Huawei-E220|wvdial config file for Huawei E220]]</nowiki>

===== Telia =====

<pre>

Profile name = Telia3G

username = 3G

password = internet

Preferred connection = 3G 

Authentication mode = default

APN host = online.telia.se

</pre>

In other networks, you can change "online.telia.se" to "internet"

==== umtsmon GUI ====

umtsmon provides a GUI, allows you to send SMS and change your PIN, has a connect- and disconnect-button.

=== See also ===

* <nowiki>[[lsusb]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[modprobe]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[setserial]]</nowiki>

=== External links ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.huawei.com/mobileweb/en/products/view.do?id=282|Official Huawei E220]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Huawei/E220|Huawei E220 in Debian]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.howtoforge.com/vodafone_mobile_connect_card_driver_linux|HowToForge VMCCDfL]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-cell|Ubuntu Cell list]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://forum.huawei.com/jive4/forum.jspa?forumID=130&start=0&orderStr=26|Huawei forums]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://linux.softpedia.com/get/Internet/HUAWEI-E220-Installer-34846.shtml|HUAWEI-E220-Installer]]</nowiki> 

* <nowiki>[[http://www.goldfisch.at/knowwiki/howtos/huawei_e220|umtsmon]]</nowiki>

----

CategoryNetworking CategoryHardware
