{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Modems supported by the Lucent driver ==
This section is for you if the output of scanModem tells you something like: 'The modem has a supported Lucent/Agere DSP (digital signal processing) chipset.'. You will be able to use either a driver from the "restricted-modules" package called ltmodem, or a opensource driver called martian_modem.

== Gutsy Gibbon 7.10 ==
The ltmodem driver does not work, install the martian_modem driver.

See PanDan entry/post at
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=328050|http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=328050]]</nowiki>
... for a successful setup of the martian_modem driver on an internal Lucent winmodem

== Feisty Fawn 7.04 ==
From Feisty Fawn (and possibly previously) the generic restricted modules package does not include the ltmodem drivers, you will need to install the linux-386 package and then follow the instructions in the Pre Feisty Fawn section.
<pre>

== Pre Feisty Fawn 7.04 ==
To check that the necessary package is installed, use your package manager, e.g. Synaptic or Adept. You need to look for a package, which is called <code>linux-restricted-modules-ARCH</code>, where ARCH is the last part of the <code>$ uname -r</code> output, i.e. your kernel flavor. If it is not installed yet, install it there.

=== Setup steps for ltmodem ===

* In a terminal type
 <pre>
  $ sudo sh -c "echo ltserial >> /etc/modules"
  $ sudo sh -c "echo ltmodem >> /etc/modules"
</pre> to add them to the module autoloading list.
* Since udev rewrites /dev on each boot, and some dialup programs rely on the existence of /dev/modem, you need to have a symlink created on boot (from /dev/ttyLTM0 to /dev/modem). To do this, create the file /etc/udev/rules.d/10-local.rules, and put these lines in it:
<pre>
## ltmodem
  KERNEL="ttyLTM0", SYMLINK="modem"
</pre>
* Now load the drivers for the first time:
<pre>
  $ sudo modprobe ltserial
  $ sudo modprobe ltmodem
</pre>

 This should have created the device <code>/dev/modem</code> and you can now go on to configure your dialup connection.

* No, I get an error about "FATAL: module not found" for this step - then follow the Feisty Fawn instructions :)

* '''Note for "5.04 Hoary" users:''' Ubuntu 5.04 Hoary was shipped with kernel 2.6.10, which has some problems with these modules. To fix, change the grub boot commands <code>/boot/grub/menu.lst</code> as follows (<code>pci=routeirq</code> is new):
<pre>
## # ## Start Default Options ##
## # default kernel options
## # default kernel options for automagic boot options
## # If you want special options for specifiv kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## # where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## # e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
## kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro pci=routeirq
</pre>
 Do not forget to update grub: <code>$ sudo update-grub</code>

* '''For kppp users:''' if kppp return an error regarding the impossibility to create a lock file, it should be necessary to edit the  file ''/etc/ppp/options'' commenting out the ''noauth'' line.

== Martian, an alternative to ltmodem ==

On 6.06.1, It's possible that as part of trying to load the <code>ltserial</code> module, you'll
get the error: "FATAL: Error inserting ltserial (...): Invalid argument".

In this case, Installing the <nowiki>[[http://martian.barrelsoutofbond.org/|Martian driver]]</nowiki> may be a solution to get
your Lucent winmodem to work.  First, you'll need to follow the instructions above to install <code>build-essential</code>
and your kernel headers packages, to prepare to compile the driver.

Download the most recent version with "full" in the name, from here:
http://www.barrelsoutofbond.org/downloads/martian/

Instructions for installing the file software are in the "INSTALL" file.
Until someone makes an "init" script for it, There is an additional step needed
to be able to use the modem after you boot up.

<pre>
sudo martian_helper --daemon
</pre>

If your software expects the modem to be located at <code>/dev/modem</code>, you
may also need to run this command:

<pre>
   sudo ln -s /dev/ttySM0 /dev/modem
</pre>

Hopefully "Martian" will become an official Ubuntu package to make this whole
process easier.

There is also a simple <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=804378|Tutorial]]</nowiki> on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>  (not working yet for 64 bit machines)

== Updated Agere Instructions ==

More up-to-date instructions for Lucent Agere modems are available at <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Lucent-Agere]]</nowiki>.
