{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Modems supported by ALSA drivers (snd_atiixp_modem, snd_via82xx_modem, snd_intel8x0m) ==
If <code>Modem/ModemData.txt</code> tells you that the modem can be set up by loading (''modprobe'') the modules snd_atiixp_modem, snd_via82xx_modem or snd_intel8x0mcd, this section may be for you. You need the ''sl-modem-daemon'' package.

* If you can go online with your Ubuntu, you can install the package/daemon by enabling the <code> multiverse </code> repository and then install the <code>sl-modem-daemon</code> package.

* If you cannot go online with your Ubuntu, search for the package using http://packages.ubuntu.com/ , download (link to .deb is given under the text "Architecture") and transfer the package for your version of Ubuntu to your Desktop. After making sure you do not have any other .deb files in your Desktop, open a terminal (Alt+F2, type gnome-desktop -Ubuntu- or konsole -Kubuntu, hit enter), and type or copy-paste the following commands:
<pre>
cd ~/Desktop
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
</pre>
You can delete the .deb file you used if the installation was successful.

* To set your country, run <code> sudo dpkg-reconfigure sl-modem-daemon -plow </code> and follow instructions on the terminal. Restart the daemon with <code> sudo /etc/init.d/sl-modem-daemon restart </code>

* For further information to configure the daemon (if it is not working), see the following "text" files (using a text editor like gedit or nano): <code> /etc/default/sl-modem-daemon </code> and/or <code>/usr/share/doc/sl-modem-daemon/README.Debian </code>

* Now you can go on to use a dialing tool (see table of contents of this wiki page; preferably wvdial for slmodems).

* If you get an error that says
<pre>
FATAL: Module slamr not found.
SmartLink modem driver not available for this Kernel. Please read README.Debian
or try to install the package sl-modem-modules-2.6.15-20-686. Exiting...
invoke-rc.d: initscript sl-modem-daemon, action "start" failed.
</pre> You will need to follow the instructions per section "Modems supported by the Smartlink driver" in DialupModemHowto wiki page.

TODO: x86_64 architecture

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto|Go back to the main wiki page]]</nowiki>
