{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== If compiling from source ==

On your way to configuring your modem drivers, you may find out that you need to compile from source. In that case, prior to compiling, insert your Ubuntu installation CD.

Instructions for adding the contents of the CD to your respositories list should appear on the screen as soon as the CD is inserted, if you are using Ubuntu 6.06 (Dapper Drake) or above.

If no instructions appear, or you are not using the graphical environment, you can add the CD to your list of repositories manually, by running
<pre>
sudo apt-cdrom add
</pre>

If you installed Ubuntu using the Alternate CD, or you are using a version of Ubuntu older than 6.06, the CD repository is already part of your list and you do not need to add it again.

Now, to install the packages needed for compiling, run
<pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-`uname -r`
</pre>

If you need more packages for compiling, you can find them from http://packages.ubuntu.com - always check that your system  satisfies the dependencies before installing a new package using this website. The website will list you a number of dependencies for each package. Make sure those dependencies are installed before installing a new package. You can use Synaptic or equivalent to check for installed packages.

== Installing GCC 3.4 ==

In some instances, you will need the packages for version 3.4 of the GCC compiler, which, unfortunately, are not present on the installation CD, and will have to be obtained from another machine.

The appropriate files, at the time of writing, can be found here:
** http://ftp.interlegis.gov.br/pub/ubuntu/archive/pool/main/g/gcc-3.4/gcc-3.4-base_3.4.4-6ubuntu8_i386.deb
** http://ftp.interlegis.gov.br/pub/ubuntu/archive/pool/main/g/gcc-3.4/cpp-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8_i386.deb
** http://ftp.interlegis.gov.br/pub/ubuntu/archive/pool/main/g/gcc-3.4/gcc-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8_i386.deb
** http://ftp.interlegis.gov.br/pub/ubuntu/archive/pool/main/g/gcc-3.4/g++-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8_i386.deb

 Assuming you have downloaded the files, and know where they are, you
 can install them using `dpkg`:
<pre>
 sudo dpkg -i gcc-3.4-base_3.4.4-6ubuntu8_i386.deb
 sudo dpkg -i cpp-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8_i386.deb
 sudo dpkg -i gcc-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8_i386.deb
 sudo dpkg -i g++-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8_i386.deb
</pre>

 The order is important.

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto|Go back to the main wiki page]]</nowiki>
