{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== LG LXU 800 ===
It does not work out of the box in Ubuntu.

The device shows up, if '''lsusb''' is run. But no driver claims this device. But if on standard ubuntu run following command:
<pre>
modprobe usbserial vendor=0xeab product=0x9357
</pre>

The device is detected. It shows up as three tty devices  

<pre>
ls -la /dev/ttyU* 
</pre>

For purpose of using it as modem we are interested in only '''/dev/ttyUSB0''' device. The modem can be configured with '''wvdial''' with this configuration in '''/etc/wvdial.conf'''

<pre>
[Dialer Defaults]
Init1 = AT
Init2 = ATE0V1
Modem Type = Analog Modem
Baud = 115200
New PPPD = yes
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
ISDN = 0
Phone = "#777"
Password = <your password>
Username = <your username>
</pre>
 
==== Wvdial and its graphical frontend gnome-ppp ====
Many graphical frontends are available like gnome-app to connect using this device.

==== Reliance ====
Reliance claims that this device runs on linux. But no configuration details or step by step technical documentation is available. 

===== Dependencies and sub-dependencies =====
1.  wvdial
Some of these packages need others (sub-dependencies): 
1. libc6 

=== See also ===
* <nowiki>[[lsusb]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[modprobe]]</nowiki>

=== External links ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.rimweb.in/forums/index.php?showtopic=17832|LG LXU800 Help]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryNetworking CategoryHardware
