{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Modems supported by the Conexant drivers ==
'''Note:''' Conexant does not provide drivers for Linux, but commercial Linux drivers are available from Linuxant, a separate company. Licenses cost 19.99 US dollars. (But note that full-featured versions of the drivers are also freely available from Dell.) That comes with at least one year support and kernel-version upgrades, after which you need to purchase it again if you are running a different kernel which needs a newer version of the driver (although if you have the kernel headers installed it may be able to rebuild itself for your kernel, depending on what changes have been made in the driver - just try installing the deb and see). Without the license, the drivers are limited to a maximum speed of 14.4Kbps (this restriction does not apply to the drivers supplied by Dell). However, some Conexant modems can be run with the sl-modem-drivers (smart link) or an open source driver. Note that in general, you can buy a Lucent or Intel (smartlink, or other brand with intel chipset) modem for less than 19.99 US.

== Conexant drivers provided by Dell (full-speed and free) ==
 Dell provides drivers for the Conexant modems of their Linux-based laptops which should work with almost all Conexant HSF modems [1]. These drivers can be downloaded from the following addresses: <<BR>>

 '''For Ubuntu 11.10 (Oneiric Ocelot):''' You can follow the steps on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1903439|this thread]]</nowiki>.

 '''For Ubuntu 11.04 (Natty Narwhal):''' You can follow the steps on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1781268|this thread]]</nowiki>.

 '''For Ubuntu 10.10 (Maverick Meerkat):''' You can follow the steps on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10100007#post10100007|this thread]]</nowiki>.

 '''For Ubuntu 9.04, 9.10 and 10.04:''' Use <nowiki>[[attachment:hsfmodem-7.80.02.03full_Jaunty.tar.bz2|this]]</nowiki> file. Unpack it and enter the resulting directory, do <code>sudo make install</code> and <code>sudo /usr/sbin/hsfconfig</code> <<BR>> <<BR>>

  '''Note:''' The above didn't work for me when tested on listed-as-supported Conexant HDA modem. See section below for instructions of installing updated alsa-drivers-linuxant + latest hsfmodem + Dell's free & full-speed binaries on Ubuntu/Jaunty 9.04 which works with HDA based Conexant Modems :D <<BR>>
  - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jasmine-aura|jasmineaura]]</nowiki> 19/7/2009 <<BR>><<BR>>

  The above driver worked for me and didn't break my sound, if after sudo hsfconfig say NO to the option, "Would you like to use the replacement HDA modules? [yes]" - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~liveonaware|Hosed]]</nowiki> Nov162009 <<BR>><<BR>>

 '''For Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex):''' <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6405320#post6405320|This hybrid approach has been reported to work]]</nowiki> (you can use <nowiki>[[http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/hardy/modem-drivers/hsf/hsfmodem-7.68.00.09oem.tar.gz|this more recent package from Dell]]</nowiki> instead of the one mentioned in the forum post). For the lazy, just download <nowiki>[[attachment:hsfmodem-7.80.02.03full-dellhybrid.tar.bz2|this ready-made package]]</nowiki>; after unpacking it and entering the resulting directory, do <code>sudo make install</code> and <code>sudo /usr/sbin/hsfconfig</code> <<BR>>

 '''For Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron):''' <nowiki>[[http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/hardy/modem-drivers/hsf/]]</nowiki>. <<BR>>

 '''For Ubuntu 7.10 (Gusty Gibbon):''' <nowiki>[[http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/gutsy/modem-drivers/hsf/]]</nowiki>.
  Download the <code>.deb</code> file there, double click it and it will be installed automatically. <<BR>>

 '''Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty)''' users can use <nowiki>[[http://support.dell.com/support/downloads/download.aspx?c=us&l=en&s=gen&releaseid=R155004&SystemID=INSPIRONI6400/E1505&servicetag=&os=UBLN&osl=en&deviceid=8593&devlib=0&typecnt=0&vercnt=1&catid=-1&impid=-1&formatcnt=1&libid=20&fileid=206745|this link]]</nowiki> to install their Conexant HSF driver. <<BR>>

== Building latest hsfmodem driver + free & full-speed Dell binaries ==
- <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jasmine-aura|jasmineaura]]</nowiki> 19/7/2009

=== Preparation ===
'''Note:''' For modems hosted on High Definition Audio (HDA) cards, there is dependence upon the snd-hda-intel ALSA driver already on your System. If you upgrade ALSA beyond the version supported in the Linuxant-based driver code (including the oem distributed by Dell), the hsfmodem drivers will fail and your sound will most likely break.

'''Note:''' Ubuntu Jaunty (9.04), Hardy (8.04) and SUSE (11.0, 11.1) users with ''HDA modems'': Installing the latest <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxant.com/alsa-driver/|alsa-driver-linuxant]]</nowiki> package is '''necessary''' before installing this driver. 
* Installing a ''pre-compiled alsa-driver-linux package'':
  http://www.linuxant.com/alsa-driver/#pre-compiled

 If your distribution/architecture is not listed, or you are using a special enterprise/secure/SMP or custom (self-compiled) kernel, or the package does not work with your kernel version, try generic source package:

* Installing ''Generic alsa-driver-linux package with source'':
   '''Note:''' Before installing this package, make sure that you have the ''build-essential'' installed (for <code>gcc</code> and <code>make</code> are required). Additionally, the kernel headers are also needed, this is the ''linux-headers'' package.
  <pre>
  wget http://www.linuxant.com/alsa-driver/archive/alsa-driver-linuxant-1.0.20.3/alsa-driver-linuxant_1.0.20.3_all.deb.zip
  unzip *.zip
  dpkg -i alsa-driver-linuxant_1.0.20.3_all.deb
  </pre>

==== Step 1 ====
 Download latest '''generic''' TAR package from '''Linuxant'''
 <pre>
 wget http://www.linuxant.com/drivers/hsf/full/archive/hsfmodem-7.80.02.04full/hsfmodem-7.80.02.04full.tar.gz
 </pre>

==== Step 2 ====
 Download '''oem''' TAR package from '''Dell''' in same directory
 <pre>
 wget http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/hardy/modem-drivers/hsf/hsfmodem-7.68.00.09oem.tar.gz
 </pre>

==== Step 3 ====
 Extract both tarballs
 <pre>
 for i in *.tar.gz; do tar -xzf "$i"; done
 </pre>

==== Step 4 ====
 Replace the <code>modules/imported/</code> sub-directory of the Linuxant (latest) driver with that of Dell
 <pre>
 rm -r hsfmodem-7.80.02.04full/modules/imported
 cp -R hsfmodem-7.68.00.09oem/modules/imported hsfmodem-7.80.02.04full/modules/
 </pre>

==== Step 5 ====
 Change working directory to the Linuxant (latest) driver folder and install
 <pre>
 cd hsfmodem-7.80.02.04full
 sudo make install
 sudo hsfconfig
 </pre>

=== For Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic users ===
Note: Using this driver may cause sound problems for (karmic) users. Read this post to fix it: http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8258559&postcount=21

After "Preparation" section download this zip archive, extract it & directly go to step 5.
 <pre>
 wget http://www.bargweb.net/images/2009/november/hsfmodem-7.80.02.05-DiacoEdition.zip
 </pre>

=== Troubleshooting - string.h error ===
 '''If using Jaunty 9.04 (or recent kernel on Hardy 8.04)''', you will get an error like the following (unless you first take the steps described below to circumvent this issue):
 <code>/usr/lib/hsfmodem/modules/imported/include/osservices.h:356:20: error: string.h: No such file or directory</code>
 '''To fix it, you have two options:'''
* Option 1:
 <pre>
 sudo gedit /usr/lib/hsfmodem/modules/imported/include/osservices.h
 </pre>
 Then, on line 356: '''change''' ''string.h'' to ''linux/string.h''
 Then re-run <code>sudo hsfconfig</code>
* Option 2:
 <pre>
 cd hsfmodem-7.80.02.04full
 gedit modules/imported/include/osservices.h
 </pre>
 Then, on line 356, change '''string.h''' to '''linux/string.h'''
 Then reinstall and recompile driver <code>sudo make install && sudo hsfconfig</code>

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto|Go back to the main wiki]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryInternet
