{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



[DialupAndFax]

== Dialup Modem Howto ==

This page is designed to help you set up the driver, and configure your dial-up connection over a modem. If you need information about modems, see <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Modems|Modems]]</nowiki>. If you need to buy a new modem, see the appropriate section at <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-GeneralDiscussion|Discussion]]</nowiki>. 

Some general discussion about this page as well as '''useful links''' can be found at <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-GeneralDiscussion|Discussion]]</nowiki>. 

Unfortunately Ubuntu does not configure modems during installation (there is some <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Outofthebox/Modem|work in progress]]</nowiki>), but installs <nowiki>[[Wvdial]]</nowiki> and NetworkManager. It does not come with many of the controller-less / software modem drivers! So you may need a way to transfer data to your machine!

== Overview ==
* Identify the modem with the <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-ScanModem| ScanModem tool]]</nowiki> or wvdialconf.
* Download, configure and install driver. If needed, it's often more economical to buy an easy one.
* Configure the dial-up connection to your provider.

== Download / Detect and Configure / Install ==

You will need a way to transfer data to your machine! (e.g. floppies, USB memory sticks, discs, or a working ethernet connection, or another modem, lots of keyboard entries or temporary connection to the Internet).

You have to '''detect''' the modem, if not really detected. For this, you can use :

* <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-ScanModem|scanModem]]</nowiki>
* NetworkAdmin
* wvdialconf (command-line) or its graphical frontend (<nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-SetUpDialer#head-f229b8b898575bbd996c4dac3de0772d430f2a02|GnomePPP]]</nowiki>). 

Now, choose one of the following options:

## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Setserial|Setserial]]</nowiki> controller based / hardware modems should just work: use the information provided below to '''configure your connection''' to your ISP. 
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-FromSource|If compiling from source & Installing GCC 3.4]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-AlsaModem|Setup ALSA drivers (snd_atiixp_modem, snd_via82xx_modem, snd_intel8x0m)]]</nowiki> 
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Conexant|Setup Conexant drivers]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Huawei|Setup Huawei Modems]]</nowiki> 
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Intel537EP|Setup Intel537EP driver]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Intel536EP|Setup Intel536EP driver]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Lucent|Setup Lucent driver]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-LXU800|Setup LG LXU 800]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-MobilePhone|Setup Mobile Phone Modem]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-PcTel|Setup PCTel Modems]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-Smartlink|Setup Smartlink driver]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-NoModem|No information was available in the output files]]</nowiki>
 
== Configure Connection to Internet Service Provider ==
# <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-SetUpDialer#head-f5120acdc3ef62fe7d37bfd3f0c9157ebe9c8ef6|For Ubuntu, without installing additional software (a.k.a NetworkAdmin in  System => Administration => Networking)]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-SetUpDialer#head-f229b8b898575bbd996c4dac3de0772d430f2a02|For Ubuntu, alternative approach (using gnome-ppp)]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-SetUpDialer#head-f80f2865d7f29664a8506ef25b0e40eaf4420c10|For Kubuntu (using kppp)]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-SetUpDialer#head-277fdde88a3b04feee00e14834388d58d7add4f9|Alternative Way 1 (using wvdialconf & wvdial)]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-SetUpDialer#head-0769b0061bf81bfba710118540bd86223e815761|Alternative Way 2 (using pppconfig & pon-poff)]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-SetUpDialer#head-646d5d221b37e407c2f3031a4cfd63c40ba246c3|Alternative Way 3 (using minicom)]]</nowiki>
 
== See also ==
* http://www.linmodems.org 
* http://xmodem.org/modems/index.html
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pppd|pppd]]</nowiki>
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Outofthebox/Modem
* CableDialup ( how to use a cell phone and a USB cable to connect your pc to the internet).
* BluetoothDialup

-----
CategoryNetworking CategoryHardware CategoryNetworking
