{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

So, the output of the <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-ScanModem|scanModem tool]]</nowiki> couldn't give you any useful pointers to follow? Or you couldn't understand what the output is telling you even after reading it '''several times''' in order to find your modem in this <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto-ScanModem|list]]</nowiki>? Yes, please read the contents of that file several times ;)

Did you try the support channels for Ubuntu, including the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/forums|web forums]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/irc|IRC chat rooms]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/lists|email lists]]</nowiki>? Yes? 

Than it might be time to email the list server of <nowiki>[[http://www.linmodems.org/|linmodems.org]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[mailto:DISCUSS@linmodems.org|DISCUSS@linmodems.org]]</nowiki>, to '''politely''' ask for help. Please keep in mind that the people you will be asking for help are volunteers. 

But '''wait'''! Don't just send that email yet. You have to follow some guidelines, which are provided at the beginning of your ModemData.txt (one of the output files of scanModem). You also have to send them your <code>ModemData.txt</code>, by copying and pasting the whole thing to your email message. 

Below is an example. Please do not use this example to email the list. That will '''not''' help you. Please use the guidelines provided in your '''own''' <code>ModemData.txt</code>.

<pre>
Only plain text email is forwarded by the DISCUSS@linmodems.org List Server.
Do use the following as the email Subject Line:
         SomeName, YourCountry Ubuntu 6.06 LTS kernel 2.6.15-23-386
This will alert cogent experts, and distinguish cases in the Archives.
YourCountry will enable Country Code guidance.
Occassionally responses are blocked by an Internet Provider mail filters.
So in a day, also check the Archived responses at http://www.linmodems.org .
Local Linux experts can be found through: http://www.linux.org/groups/index.html
</pre>

<nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto|Go to the main Dialup Howto page]]</nowiki>
