{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===

Django is a high-level Python Web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design. Python's equivalent to the famous Ruby on rails, Django lets you build high-performing, elegant Web applications quickly. Django focuses on automating as much as possible and adhering to the "Don't Repeat Yourself" (DRY) principle.

It can be found at http://www.djangoproject.com/.

=== How it works ===

In Django, first you define your database models, which generate SQL for the database and allow Django to know about the data. This is essential for the DRY (don't repeat yourself) concept. Next, the views are defined, this is where any business logic, interactions with the database and the like go. Then, the URLs are defined as regular expression the map to views. Finally, templates are written, which are html (or anything composed of text) with data and simple data control sprinkled throughout.

Also see http://www.djangobook.com/

=== Installation ===

==== Alternative to manual installation ====

Some users may prefer to skip manual installation by using the unofficial pre-integrated <nowiki>[[http://www.turnkeylinux.org/django|TurnKey Django Appliance]]</nowiki> based on Ubuntu LTS.

==== Installing on Apache using mod_python ====

Install Ubuntu-Server
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-python python-django
sudo vim /etc/apache2/sites-available/django-example
</pre>
<pre>
<Location "/">
    SetHandler python-program
    PythonHandler django.core.handlers.modpython
    PythonDebug On
    PythonPath "['/usr/share/doc/python-django'] + sys.path"
    SetEnv DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE examples.settings
</Location>
</pre>
<pre>
sudo a2dissite default
sudo a2ensite django-example
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 reload</pre>

Hit the box with a browser, and you should see "Django examples" and some links.  
