{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

DMG2IMG is an Apple's compressed dmg to standard (hfsplus) image disk file convert tool.
It is derived from dmg2iso v0.2c by vu1tur.

It will allow you to convert a DMG file into an IMG file that can be mounted as described in ManageDiscImages.

Website: http://vu1tur.eu.org/tools/

== Installation Instructions ==

The tool is in the Universe repository for Lucid:

<code> sudo apt-get install dmg2img </code>

=== Install from .deb on Karmic ===
The Lucid package works fine with Karmic. Download and install it from here:
http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/dmg2img.

=== Install from PPA ===

There is also a PPA at https://launchpad.net/~rzr/+archive/ppa.

=== Install from source ===

The following assumes the latest version is 1.6.2, so check if a more recent version is available <nowiki>[[http://vu1tur.eu.org/tools/|here]]</nowiki> first. To download, compile and install, open an terminal and type:
<pre>
wget http://vu1tur.eu.org/tools/download.pl?dmg2img-1.6.2.tar.gz -O dmg2img-1.6.2.tar.gz
tar -xvf dmg2img-1.6.2.tar.gz
sudo apt-get install zlib1g-dev libssl-dev libbz2-dev
cd dmg2img-1.6.2
make
sudo make install
</pre>
You can now remove the installation files if you want to tidy up:
<pre>
rm dmg2img-1.6.2.tar.gz
rm -R dmg2img-1.6.2
</pre>
== Getting Started With DMG2IMG ==

You can now convert .dmg files to .img by typing:
<pre>
dmg2img filename.dmg
</pre>
This will create a file called filename.img
