{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[http://dotdeb.org/|Dotdeb.org]]</nowiki> offers a growing source of 32 bit .deb packages compatible with Gnome.

'''Note: The repositories are targeted at Debian, not Ubuntu. This means that in addition to potentially not working with Ubuntu, they might in some cases break an Ubuntu installation or a part of it. Proceed at your own risk only.'''

The Packages offered include, Card games, 2d side scroll games, Mario Brothers, Sonic the Hedge Hog, Zoid Quest, Arcade Games, Role Playing Games, Text To Speech, Wallpaper rotator / Screensavers, Antivirus software, Animations and more.

Most of the packages available on this site are not included in the Debian or Ubuntu repositories making it a great place to visit for more and unique programs.

It was founded by Zach Callaway in 2009.

This site offers packages with screen shots and descriptions of the programs it offers.  The package descriptions contain information on what licenses the programs are released under, as well as a list of operating systems that they have been tested on.  Users download these packages by clicking on the links below the screenshots and then saving them.  Once downloaded the packages can then be saved for a later date and/or installed by double clicking on them.
