{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Gwget ==

<nowiki>[[http://gnome.org/projects/gwget/|Gwget]]</nowiki> is a gnome frontend for the popular downloading application wget. gwget also has firefox integration with the help of the firefox extension <nowiki>[[http://gnome.org/projects/gwget/download.html|FireGet]]</nowiki>. Gwget also integrates with the panel tray, so closing it will move the program to the notification area. 

==== How to install ====

Make sure you have packages from '''universe''' enabled in your repositories. Then install the <code>gwget</code> package.
Or you can install from the terminal using '''sudo apt-get install gwget'''

You need Ubuntu 11.04 or older to install this software from the official repositories.

If you use Firefox, you can get <nowiki>[[http://gnome.org/projects/gwget/download.html|FireGet]]</nowiki> to enable the context menu which enables you to download the link or download directories recursively. 

== Uget ==

<nowiki>[[http://urlget.sourceforge.net/|Uget]]</nowiki> (formerly urlgfe) is a Free and Open Source download manager written in GTK+ , it has many of features like easy-to-use , cross-platform (Windows & GNU/Linux) , support pause and resume , classify download , every category has an independent configuration , and more ...

==== Features ====

* Free (as in freedom , also free of charge ) and Open Source .
* Simple , easy-to-use and lightweight .
* Support resume download , so if your connction lost you don’t need to start from first .
* Classify downloads , and every category has independent configuration and queue .
* Queue download .
* Integrate with Firefox through Flashgot plugin .
* Monitoring clipboard .
* Import downloads from HTML file .
* Batch download , you can download many files has same arrange , like file_1 file_2 …. file_20 , you don’t need to add all links , just one link and changeable character .
* Can be used from command line .

==== How to install ====

Install from <nowiki>[[http://www.getdeb.net/|GetDeb]]</nowiki>. GetDeb provides downloadable DEB packages and also Ubuntu repository for these applications.

== flareGet ==

<nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/flareget/|flareGet]]</nowiki> is an advanced multi-threaded and multisegment download manager  written in Qt. It is a full featured download manager, having lots of features. Browser integration for firefox is supported through flashgot.

==== Features ====

* It is an extremely fast download manager
* It uses a robust Dynamic file segmentation algorithm to speed up the download
* HTTP-Pipelining: In addition to dynamic file segmentation, each segment is further accelerated upto six times
* Smart Segments : When one segment ends, it starts another segment to help terminate another segment more fast
* It supports upto 32 segments per download
* Add or remove download segments dynamically
* Automatic retry when a segment or download fails
* Resume support for broken/paused downloads
* Clipboard Monitoring
* Queue the downloads to download them later
* Limits the number of simultaneous downloads, when  one download ends, it starts another automatically
* Multi-protocol support
* Intelligent file management
* Video download from most of the sites is supported through Flashgot addon
  

==== How to install ====

You can download the debian package from <nowiki>[[https://apps.ubuntu.com/cat/applications/trusty/flareget/| Ubuntu software center]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://flareget.com/download|the official site]]</nowiki>.
