{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


These guides concern storage devices. They explain how to use hard disks, CD-ROMs, USB drives and such with Ubuntu.

== Hard Drives ==

* <nowiki>[[InstallingANewHardDrive|Installing a new hard drive]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[TestingStorageMedia|Testing Storage Media]]</nowiki> - How to test hard disks etc. for physical defects - methods similar to Scan``Disk.
* <nowiki>[[MoveMountpointHowto|Renaming Internal Partitions]]</nowiki> - How to change the display name (and mount point) of an internal hard drive.
* <nowiki>[[RenameUSBDrive|Renaming External Drives]]</nowiki> - How to change the label name (and mount point) of an external drive.
* <nowiki>[[MountingWindowsPartitions|Accessing files on your Windows drive]]</nowiki> - FAT and NTFS.
* <nowiki>[[RenameUSBDrive|Renaming Windows Partitions]]</nowiki> - Renaming FAT32 / NTFS / Ext2 / Ext3 Partition Labels .
* <nowiki>[[HowtoPartition|Partitioning]]</nowiki> - Partition your HD for other OS's and swap space.
* <nowiki>[[DiskSpace]]</nowiki> - How many partitions and which size for an Ubuntu installation.
* <nowiki>[[SwapFaq]]</nowiki> - Swap memory requirements.
* <nowiki>[[EncryptedFilesystems|Encrypted Filesystems]]</nowiki> - Encrypting the entire hard disk during installation and on existing installs.
* <nowiki>[[StripedVolumeHowTo|Striped volumes]]</nowiki> - Set up a RAID0, or "striped" volume to boost hard drive performance
* <nowiki>[[clonezilla]]</nowiki> backup and restore drives or partitions

== CD/DVD Drives ==

* <nowiki>[[ManageDiscImages|Manage Disc Images]]</nowiki> - How to convert CloneCD to ISO and mount ISO files.
* <nowiki>[[CdDvdBurning|Burning CDs and DVDs]]</nowiki> - How to burn CD-R and DVR/+-R/+-RW/DL.
* <nowiki>[[EjectCDLauncher|Eject CD]]</nowiki> - How to add a launcher on your panel to eject your cdrom.

== Removable Storage ==

* <nowiki>[[Mount-USB|USB drives]]</nowiki> - How to use a USB stick with Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[EncryptedFilesystems|Encrypted Filesystems]]</nowiki> - Transparently encrypt removable storage devices (USB flash drives, portable hard drives, etc).
* <nowiki>[[TrueCrypt|TrueCrypt Hidden Volume (GUI)]]</nowiki> - How to create a hidden encrypted volume with TrueCrypt.
* <nowiki>[[TruecryptHiddenVolume|Truecrypt hidden volume (command line)]]</nowiki> - How to create a hidden encrypted volume with Truecrypt.
* <nowiki>[[WorldWritableFloppyDrive|World-writable floppy drive]]</nowiki> - How to allow any user to write to and unmount any mounted floppy. 

== Security ==
* <nowiki>[[DrivesAndPartitionsSecurity]]</nowiki> - Security considerations when creating partitions and mounting volumes.
* <nowiki>[[EncryptedFilesystems|Encrypted Filesystems]]</nowiki> - Securing storage at the filesystem level.

== Data Recovery ==
* <nowiki>[[DataRecovery]]</nowiki> - Recover lost data from failed or formatted media.

== External information on Drives and Partitions ==
* http://www.linuxsa.org.au/tips/disk-partitioning.html - Disk partitioning tips.

----
CategoryHardware
