{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This page will help you to output 5.1 DTS through Alsa, enabling Pulseaudio to use it. 
original manual here: https://github.com/darealshinji/dcaenc 

== Automated installer script ==
The following script does the steps outlined in the rest of the document. It has only been
tested on Ubuntu 14.04. Warning though, do not run it twice since you'll end up inserting same stuff to asound.conf and PulseAudio default.conf twice. 
Download and run script
<pre>
chmod +x ./DTSPulseaudioInstaller
sudo ./DTSPulseaudioInstaller
</pre>

<nowiki>[[attachment:DTSPulseaudioInstaller]]</nowiki>

== Manual install ==

if you don't want compile dcaenc from git 
you can simply install it from repository
<pre>
add-apt-repository ppa:rebuntu16/avidemux+unofficial

(for ubuntu 18.04 change repository in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/rebuntu16-ubuntu-avidemux_unofficial-bionic.list from "bionic" to "trusty" , like:
 deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/rebuntu16/avidemux+unofficial/ubuntu trusty main
for 16.04 similarly)
 
apt-get update
apt-get install dcaenc libdcaenc0
</pre>

== Configuring asound.conf ==
add the line to /etc/asound.conf:
<pre>
<confdir:pcm/dca.conf>
</pre>

== Configuring PulseAudio ==

The ALSA plugin can be used with PulseAudio. To do so, add the following lines
to the end of the /usr/share/pulseaudio/alsa-mixer/profile-sets/default.conf
file:
<pre>
[Mapping iec958-dts-surround-51]
device-strings = dca:%f
channel-map = front-left,front-right,rear-left,rear-right,front-center,lfe
paths-output = iec958-stereo-output
priority = 3
direction = output

[Mapping hdmi-dts-surround-51]
device-strings = dcahdmi:%f
channel-map = front-left,front-right,rear-left,rear-right,front-center,lfe
paths-output = hdmi-output-0
priority = 1
direction = output
</pre>

=== Restart ALSA ===

Either restart your computer or reload ALSA with the following:<<BR>>
<pre>
sudo alsa reload
killall pulseaudio
</pre>

== If there is no sound ==

In my case my Sony receiver don't want to play sound
so... then i had put the line defaults.pcm.dca.aes0 0x04 into /etc/asound.conf 
and it see like that
<pre>
<confdir:pcm/dca.conf>
defaults.pcm.dca.aes0 0x04
</pre>
then i restarted alsa and all work's, however in original manual tell's that for some receivers or tv's you need add another line if that fix won't work
Add the following line to the end of /etc/asound.conf like that:
<pre>
<confdir:pcm/dca.conf> 
defaults.pcm.dca.iec61937 1
</pre>
