{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

These pages describe how to setup your computer to dual, or multi-boot Ubuntu, with another instance of Ubuntu, and additional operating systems.

== Back Up Your Data ==

First, backup your data files and settings to an external backup medium (ex. USB hard drive) before attempting any kind of changes.

== Recovery CD for existing operating system ==

It is best to have OEM provided external recovery media prior to making any changes to your hard drive. If you don't have any please contact your vendor for support.

== Some Cases ==

Most operating systems during install automatically check for other currently existing operating systems. They then add the existing ones into a boot-menu along with the new one so that you can choose which OS to boot into. However, Windows does not.

=== General Case ===

Usually you already have an existing OS which you use. As you go through the Ubuntu installer you reach a section called "Partitioning Section", this offers you a choice to install Ubuntu alongside your existing OS. This does all the work for you. When you reboot the machine you get to a menu with these choices:
# Ubuntu
# Ubuntu in recovery mode = housekeeping & handy fix-it tools
# Old OS 1
# Old OS 2 (if you are making a multi-boot rather than just a dual-boot)
# Memtest
# There might be other options

If you installed Ubuntu first and a different OS last then the menu will look something like this:
# non-Windows other OS
# Ubuntu
# Memtest (usually)
# There might be other options
So, if Ubuntu is not installed last then the "recovery mode" is missed but can be edited into the list. 

=== Windows ===

For instructions on Windows, please see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Mac ===

Please see section 4 of <nowiki>[[MactelSupportTeam-AppleIntelInstallation#Dual-Boot:%20Mac%20OSX%20and%20Ubuntu | this guide]]</nowiki> on <nowiki>[[DualBoot-MacOSX| Mac Dual-boot]]</nowiki>.  The Mac guide is not as complete as the sections for other Operating Systems but i think it is being worked on.

=== Xen Server ===

There is a guide but also this question might help.  Note at the end it mentions using "chainloader"
* https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/110331

----
CategoryHardware
