{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== General USB DVB-T ====

You can identify your device (and whether or not it is supported) from <nowiki>[[http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/DVB_USB|this list]]</nowiki> (just hit ctrl-F and look for your device). In case your device isn't listed it might already be supported by default, try <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV|this documentation]]</nowiki>.

Else copy the firmware for your card to `/lib/firmware/` from <nowiki>[[http://linuxtv.org/downloads/firmware/|here]]</nowiki>.

Then follow <nowiki>[[http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/How_to_Obtain,_Build_and_Install_V4L-DVB_Device_Drivers|this guide]]</nowiki>.

The specific steps needed on Ubuntu are:

Get the required packages ($ means your home directory in the shell) ''('''EDIT''': '$' actually just means you're an unprivileged user; make sure to check your path. '~' signifies your home directory. e.g. bob@computer:~$ means you're logged in as bob (an unprivileged user) on computer and that you're currently working in your home directory)'':

<code>$ sudo apt-get install git linux-headers-$(uname -r) build-essential patchutils libproc-processtable-perl</code>

Fetch source code:

<code>$ git clone git://linuxtv.org/media_build.git </code>

Change to the directory created before:

<code>$ cd media_build</code>

Compile the code (takes some time):

<code>$ ./build</code>

Install the compiled code:

<code>sudo make install</code>

Restart your system.

Now you can start kaffeine and it should automatically detect your DVB-T tuner.  
If you don't have kaffeine installed you just need to:
<code>sudo apt-get install kaffeine</code>
Although kaffeine is a KDE app it will work fine on GNOME.
