{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
DVD authoring requires a large number of separate libraries and scripts. Several graphical applications exist to bring these scripts together and control them using a coherent interface. This page explains some of the options for authoring DVD's under Linux and the applications that can help.

== Ubuntu Packages ==
DVD Authoring packages are available from the Ubuntu repositories and compiled to run on Ubuntu. Be sure you understand the differences between the Main, Universe and Multiverse repositories before installing any of the packages listed here.

=== ManDVD ===
Comparable to Devede, but allows you to use DVD encoded video files without re-encoding them (for a power user this is a must). Unfortunately I could not figure out how to add random images (like a title banner) to the DVD menu. I have tried every DVD authoring application listed here and available in Ubuntu's repositories, and this is my favorite (mostly because of the ability to use my own encoded DVD files).

Tested 2010/06/05

<nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=mandvd| Package name: mandvd]]</nowiki>

=== Bombono DVD ===
Bombono DVD is a Gtk-based authoring program. Provides custom menu creation, authoring, reauthoring and optionally burning on DVD.

<nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=bombono-dvd| Package name: bombono-dvd]]</nowiki>

=== DeVeDe ===
DeVeDe is a program to create video DVDs, suitables for home players, from any number of video files, in any of the formats supported by Mplayer.

<nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=devede| Package name: devede]]</nowiki>

=== k3b ===
K3b provides a comfortable user interface to perform most CD/DVD burning tasks. While the experienced user can take influence in all steps of the burning process the beginner may find comfort in the automatic settings and the reasonable k3b defaults which allow a quick start.

<nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=k3b| Package name: k3b]]</nowiki>

=== KMediaFactory ===
kMediaFactory is an easy to use template based DVD authoring tool. You can quickly create DVD menus for home videos and TV recordings in three simple steps.

<nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=kmediafactory| Package name: kmediafactory]]</nowiki>

=== Mistelix ===
Mistelix is a DVD authoring application with also Theora slideshow creation capabilities. It allows you to create slideshows with transition effects from a set of images, and even include videos in your presentations.

<nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=mistelix| Package name: mistelix]]</nowiki>

=== 'Q' DVD-Author ===

QDVDAuthor is a graphical video DVD creator using dvdauthor and other related console tools as its backend. 

<nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=qdvdauthor| Package name: qdvdauthor]]</nowiki>

== Available from external sources ==
DVD Authoring packages which are not in the Ubuntu repositories. This does not mean they are of a poorer standard, but they have not been compiled by an Ubuntu developer to run in Ubuntu or gone through Ubuntu's testing process.

=== DVD Styler ===
7.04: This is now being packaged by an individual for installing to Ubuntu 7.04. I tried it and it crashed, see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/105653|bug 105653]]</nowiki>.

6.10: <nowiki>[[http://www.dvdstyler.de/|DVD Styler]]</nowiki> promises to be the same, but uses wxWindows, which should port nicely to Windows. DVDStyler is not in the Ubuntu Repositories as of Ubuntu 6.10 (Edgy Eft).

See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/install-file.html|Installing a Single Package File]]</nowiki> on how to install .deb packages.

=== Tovid ===
<nowiki>[[http://tovid.wikia.com/wiki/Main_Page|tovid]]</nowiki> is a collection of video disc authoring tools; it can help you create your own DVDs, VCDs, and SVCDs for playback on your home DVD player.

=== Polidori ===
The <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/polidori|Polidori]]</nowiki> project seems to have died, it was last updated October 18, 2004 as of December 2006. It can't be used for DVD authoring.

DuncanLithgow tested version 0.1 and it simply doesn't do anything.

== Task list ==
* Page needs an update for Ubuntu 8.10

== Comments ==

Page maintainers: DuncanLithgow
----
