{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Matrix Council Application ==

=== About me ===

My name is Nils Büchner, also known in the community as “ravage” on IRC.
I have been a user, supporter and contributor to Ubuntu projects since 2009.
My journey with Ubuntu began with hosting an official Ubuntu archive mirror.

I was an IRCOp of my own network for a few years.
Soon after that i joined the Ubuntu IRC support room and try to give support to users whenever possible since.
I recently started to build <nowiki>[[https://snapcraft.io/publisher/nbuechner|snaps]]</nowiki>. Still learning.

I got admin status on the unofficial Ubuntu Matrix room after it was left without moderation and spam took over.
Following Ubuntu’s interest in exploring Matrix as a communication platform, I was selected for the temporary Matrix council to assist in this transition, bringing my experience from running my own homeserver and moderating the Ubuntu Matrix room.

Very recently i became an <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/nils-buchner-membership-application/42376|Ubuntu member]]</nowiki> so i am able to be apply for this election. You can find some more details about me there.

=== Why I would like to be on the Matrix Council ===

I am keen to continue my work with the Matrix council and further enhance Matrix as a communication platform for the Ubuntu Community.

I implemented some bot functions of the IRC bot Ubottu to a new Matrix bot based on maubot. You can test it on the <nowiki>[[https://matrix.to/#/#support:ubuntu.com|Ubuntu support room]]</nowiki>.

We hope to enable IRC bridging soon so both support platforms can be joined. I'm currently testing that bridge with my own homeserver. 

Thank you for considering my application. Please contact me on Matrix or IRC if you have any questions.
Contact information on https://launchpad.net/nbuechner
