{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Nacho Blanco ===

Email: 
I'm an Electronics Ingenieer. I live in Madrid, Spain and my job is Sales Ingenieer in an industrial electronics company.

Currently helping on:

Translatig in Launchpad.net and some other pograms.

Other external projects:

<nowiki>[[http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/index.php/Spain|Mapping Spain for Open Street Map.]]</nowiki>

Mi very old an not actualiced <nowiki>[[http://www.nachoblanco.tk|web page (in Spanish)]]</nowiki>, where I talk about Personal Social Responsability.

What I did before:

<nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/AcerAspire3003LMi]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMagazine/TranslateFullCircle/Spanish|Translating Full Circle magazine into Spanish.]]</nowiki>

----

Correo: 
Soy ingeniero electrónico. Vivo en Madrid, España y trabajo como Ingeniero de Ventas en una empresa de electrónico industrial.

Actualmente, ayudando en:

Traducciones en Launchpad.net y otros programas.

Otros proyectos externos:

<nowiki>[[http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/index.php/Spain|Creando el mapa de España en Open Street Map.]]</nowiki>

Mi vieja y desactualizada <nowiki>[[http://www.nachoblanco.tk|página web (en español)]]</nowiki>, en la que hablo sobre Responsabilidad Social Personal.

Lo que he hecho anteriormente:

<nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/AcerAspire3003LMi]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMagazine/TranslateFullCircle/Spanish|Traducir la revista Full Circle a Español.]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
