{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



==== Get Involved ====

If you want to help contribute to Ubuntu then you've come to the right place. Keep reading to learn how.

You have just taken your first step toward getting involved. Before you get started, we ask that you please observe the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>, it's not very long and it will help you get started.

Now that's done. To find out the best way to get started, you should check out our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community|community page]]</nowiki>.

==== Teams ====

The <nowiki>[[Teams]]</nowiki> page contains a listing of all the various Community Teams, links to their Wiki Home Pages and who the best person to contact is.

* <nowiki>[[Accessibility]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Artwork]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Teams#Community_Lead_Teams|Community]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Teams#Ubuntu_Engineering_Team|Engineering]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Teams#Distributions|Distributions]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Hardware]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/marketing|Marketing and Advocacy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam|Quality Assurance]]</nowiki>
* Software Developers
* Support and Documentation
* Training 

Most Teams' Wiki Home Pages provide information about who they are, what they do, when their meetings are and how to contact them. Using these pages, teammates are able communicate and coordinate projects.

==== Governance and Membership ====

Like most communities, we have our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|rules]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/project/about-ubuntu/governance|governing body]]</nowiki>.

Anyone can join and participate in most, if not all, of our Teams and Projects. But if you want an "@ubuntu.com" e-mail address, it has to be earned. Find out how in our <nowiki>[[Membership]]</nowiki> section.

==== Community Links ====

As an active member of our community, you probably should check out what else is going on in the world of Ubuntu:

* <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/|The Fridge]]</nowiki> posts all the latest News and Upcoming Events.

* <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com/|Planet Ubuntu]]</nowiki> is a collection of community blogs.

Also you can help at <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Brainstorm]]</nowiki> by submitting your ideas to make Ubuntu better OS for everyone.

If you are interested to get to know other Ubuntu users or see a list of Ubuntu teams outside the general Ubuntu world, check out our <nowiki>[[Social|social network page]]</nowiki>.

==== Releases ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Released (Current & Stable)'''
|-
| Hardy Heron
| 8.04 LTS
| April 24, 2008
| Supported until April 2013 (Server)
|-
| Lucid Lynx
| 10.04 LTS
| April 29, 2010
| Supported until April 2013 (Desktop), April 2015 (Server)
|-
| Oneiric Ocelot
| 11.10
| October 13, 2011
| Supported until April 2013
|-
| Precise Pangolin
| 12.04 LTS
| April 26, 2012
| Supported until April 2017
|-
| Quantal Quetzal
| 12.10
| October 18, 2012
| Supported until April 2014
|-
| '''To be Released'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Release Schedule'''
| '''Support Date'''
|-
| Raring Ringtail
| 13.04
| April 25, 2013
| Supported until October 2014
|}

For the '''FULL''' Release information, go to the <nowiki>[[Releases]]</nowiki> page.
----
CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryLoCoTeams
