{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===
Hi, I'm Nairolf (my reverse name), aged 23 from France. I'm beginner as Xubuntu user, and also in open source community. But I really want to learn more and more. I like this helpful community. I'm still student. I would like to study science computer, and become a good dev one day ;) 
  
I was not really interested by computers until one year. I had my first computer tardily, I was not used playing games on computer, or console. So I hadn't a long experience with computers. I don't know why, but suddenly I'm starting to take an interest to computer world, and free software. It was like a revelation for me ! Indeed, I'm discovering a wonderful world, and values I share. I like this spirit for too many reasons that all of us can share. 

As a beginner, I would like to be more familiar with ubuntu distributions, open source community organizations, and also learn development in order to contribute. As a student, I've already learnt some development skills, and languages, but I could not be very qualified (yet), because as I said, I was not very familiar with this computer world one year ago. So I need to learn many things (some months ago, I had never used IRC), but I learn fast (I hope ). 

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC Nick
| Nairolf
|-
| Email
| fcoste21@gmail.com
|-
| Ubuntu forum Profile
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1953733|Nairolf2112]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===
==== Lubuntu ====
I would like to help for some translations, and testing. And develop maybe.

=== Future Goals ===
* Become more familiar with Lubuntu and Xubuntu distribution 
* Learn how to programm in C++/Java (know only some concepts) 
* I will be interested to contribute to Libreoffice, or Firefox, because there are very big software 
* I will also be interested to contribute to smaller software projects, I didn't find yet

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
