{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Nasir Khan ==
I am '''Nasir Khan''' living in Dhaka Bangladesh. I am student of <nowiki>[[http://www.uiu.ac.bd|United International University]]</nowiki>. I am doing some translation tasks for ubuntu and the documentation parts of different ubuntu-packages. Beside these i am writing a Ubuntu manual in Bengali. I have conducted more than 10 workshops on Ubuntu in different universities of Bangladesh. 

==== link to my launchpad profile ====
* Me (https://launchpad.net/people/nasir8891)
* Karma (https://launchpad.net/people/nasir8891/+karma)

* Personal Blog (http://nasir8891.wordpress.com)

==== Activity ====

* I try to work for Bengali Language. Recently i am working as a member of <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-bn|Ubuntu Bengali Translators]]</nowiki> team. 
* I have started to translate the Ubuntu community documents into Bengali . 
* I am involved in translating the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-manual|Ubuntu Manual]]</nowiki> and the Ubuntu Manual Website
* i am trying to write a Bengali manual on ubuntu. it is not done yet but most of the parts are available here http://nasir8891.wordpress.com/ubuntu 
* i have conducted more than 10 workshops/training sessions on ubuntu in different universities of Bangladesh . 
* Designed several posters and CD covers for distributing ubuntu locally. 
* Maintain a Open Source Network at <nowiki>[[http://www.uiu.ac.bd|United International University]]</nowiki>.
* For last three years i have been working as a <nowiki>[[http://bdosn.org/support_center.php|support team]]</nowiki> volunteer of <nowiki>[[http://bdosn.org|Bangladesh Open Source Network]]</nowiki>.

==== Plans for the future ====
 
* Publish a Ubuntu user manual in Bengali language.
* Organize more workshop and training sessions to spread Ubuntu.
* Establish a Ubuntu training institute
* Join the ubuntu core documentation team 

==== Contact me ====
* nasir8891@gmail.com
* nasir.khan@bdosn.org
----
CategoryHomepage CategoryHomepage
