{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Natalia Bidart, apply for upload rights for the following packages:'''

* ubuntu-sso-client
* ubuntuone-client
* ubuntuone-storage-protocol
* ubuntuone-control-panel
* magicicada

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Natalia Bidart
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~nataliabidart
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NataliaBidart
|}

== Who I am ==

I graduated as Computer Scientist in March, 2007, in the National University of Córdoba, Argentina. I've been developing open source software since 2005, using different programming languages such as C, Eiffel, Python, and technologies such as zope/plone, django, GTK+, and some more.

Python is one of the best things that happened to -the geek part of- my life, and I love working in a daily basis with it.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===

I joined the Ubuntu One team back in October, 2009. I started working with the foundations+ team, and then in March, 2010, I was moved to the Ubuntu One desktop+ team. Since then, I've been developing desktop applications such as the Ubuntu SSO Client, the Ubuntu One control panel, and maintaining the Ubuntu One service in general that runs in the Ubuntu desktops.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I developed the Ubuntu SSO Client from scratch, providing both a DBus service for managing Ubuntu SSO credentials, and a GTK+ desktop application to create a new SSO accounts or logging in using an existent account.

After that, I developed the Ubuntu One Control Panel, which is also a GTK+ desktop application, and exposes information about the Ubuntu One service/account by gathering data from different lower-layer services, such as the ubuntuone-syncademon.

=== Areas of work ===

I started working on the packaging of the ubuntu-sso-client and ubuntuone-control-panel projects in 2010, and since then I've been managing both the upstream releases and the ubuntu packaging for those projects. I also make releases for other Ubuntu One related projects such as the ubuntuone-storage-protocol and ubuntuone-windows-installer.

As a hobby, I develop a GTK+ desktop application called Magicicada, which provides detailed information about the Ubuntu One file sync service. I'm also in charge of providing the Ubuntu package for that project, and I love doing that.

=== Things I could do better ===

I still have some learning to do regading Ubuntu packages, but I'm trying very hard to improve my knowledge in that area, by reading the available documentation and taking notes of the review comments I get when seeking sponsorship for packaging branches.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

I plan to keep working on Ubuntu SSO Client and Ubuntu One, and I'm also considering getting to know some other desktop applications such as the Software Center, which is another project that uses the Ubuntu SSO Client service.

I also plan to continue improving Magicicada, which often involves contributing to the Ubuntu One syncdaemon in my free time, to either fix specific bugs or improve some API.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Well, I must confess that sometimes the sponsorship process is a bit slow, specially regarding packages that are not in the main repo (such as Magicicada). Though is worth noting that lately the process has improved significantly.

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Natalia has been doing an excellent job maintaining the packages mentioned above in Ubuntu. She is very active on the upstream side and knows the code. I never had complaints about the suggested updates to Ubuntu. I would definitely trust her with upload rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.1.5-0ubuntu1
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntuone-control-panel/+bug/762803
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-sso-client/+bug/834224
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntuone-control-panel/0.5.1-0ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.1.11-0ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/2.99.0-0ubuntu1

=== Sebastien Bacher ===

==== General feedback ====
I've been sponsoring Natalia's work for some cycle and I've only good things to say on her work. She's usually trying to understanding what she's doing, welcome comments and learn from those and produce good quality work. I strongly recommend her for upload rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
<pre>
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.1.1-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.1.2-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.1.7-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.1.8-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.1.9-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.1.10-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.1.12-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.2.0-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/1.2.1-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+source/ubuntu-sso-client/2.99.2-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntuone-control-panel/0.9.5-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntuone-control-panel/0.9.6-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntuone-control-panel/1.0.0-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/ubuntuone-control-panel/1.0.0-0ubuntu1.1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+source/ubuntuone-control-panel/2.99.1-0ubuntu1
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+source/ubuntuone-control-panel/2.99.2-0ubuntu1
</pre>
==== Areas of Improvement ====
Nothing specific, keep the good work ;-)

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===
==== General feedback ====
I uploaded/sponsored some ubuntu-sso-client uploads. Both code and packaging were of excellent quality.
She is ready for per-package uploading.

=== Ken VanDine ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored UbuntuOne package for Natalia many times, she has consistently shown quality work.  Natalia is easy to work with and always works hard to understand packaging concepts/policies instead of just trying to "getting by".  

Natalia is ready for per-package upload rights.

=== Rodney Dawes (dobey) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored some uploads for Natalia, and as already said, she does quality work. She is quick to resolve any issues with her uploads, and consistently tries to fully understand concepts and policies.

I support her in the endeavor for per-package upload rights, and for rights to the currently proposed Ubuntu One package set.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
