{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-server-n-qa|Natty Server QA]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===
Fine-tune the current efforts on server testing (including regression testing), SRU tracking, bug management, EC2 image refresh tests, and daily upstream builds.
=== Scope ===

==== Server Testing ====

* Standardise test output (should be done in sync with desktop and other Platform areas)

* test output should have a summary view (test area, name, date, number of successes/failures, etc)

* review current tests; augment/improve as needed

* request ideas/new tests from the community

* upgrading testing (from Maverick)

* prepare (with James Page) a as-soon-as-possible deployment of Hudson QA-wise; check <nowiki>[[http://cloudbees.com/|CloudBees]]</nowiki> as an interim option, or deploy on AWS -- a small instance should do the trick; each of us with machines available can add one such machine as a slave to this Hudson server. When possible, migrate Hudson to a QA server.

==== Server Regression Testing ====

* whenever possible, a small test should be written for a fix; as time goes by we will collect a series of tests, which should be included in the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bugcontrol/qa-regression-testing/master/changes|QA Regression Testing]]</nowiki> project. When applicable, the test should be upstreamed.

* send email to the appropriate MLs (ubuntu-server, and others) asking for these tests

* set up & run the applicable regression test whenever a new build of a package is accepted.

==== SRU Tracking ====

* discuss with QA and Server Teams what can be assimilated by QA for SRUs (Chuck Short currently does all of this work)

* QA take over of appropriate pieces

==== Bug Management ====

* to be discussed

==== EC2 Images Refresh Tests ====

* take over (from Scott Moser) the EC2 image tests

* run the tests whenever a new image is provided; provide feedback to the server team

/!\ Although it was proposed that QA should take over the actual image refresh, I do not think this (publishing new images) should be performed by QA

==== Daily Build (from upstream VCS) for Server Packages ====

* currently maintained by Chuck Short

* discuss usage/maintenance with Server team

* take over parts, or all
----
CategorySpec
