{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''Any serious issue should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as a bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
* still the same bug of 100 years ago /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf has false instead of true = user will not able to get ethernet up :S  sudo sed -i "s/managed=false/managed=true/g" /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf && sudo restart network-manager <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nowardev]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
* Blur effect in desktop effects has no effect. It works well on Kubuntu 10.10 with KDE 4.6.1 however. The graphic card is Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03) I believe the issue is in the intel graphics driver as kwin detects less card capabilities in 11.04 than in 10.10.  <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ktech]]</nowiki>  * Kubuntu Natty is going to rock!! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:claydoh]]</nowiki>  * Please fix the link to OwnCloud in the announcement. So far things work nicely, thanks for the superb work done! <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dolph-centrum]]</nowiki>  * Smooth install on a HP 8530p . Only problem is the power saving , setting "low" for power_profile improves things a bit <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:adriannuta]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
* Kubuntu Natty First, dolphin is not set well for desktop, filter bar , disk usage are missing. samba is not working like ubuntu for missing packages... Semantic destkop shoul be turned off like default, too heavy for a normal pc,dropbox support is very pity, need  service menu and kfiledrop ,Quassel is not a serious irc client like konversation, rekonq is a joke , normal person wil remove that to use firefox,Dragon player is another joke for plugin is much more better kmplayer ,phonon-backend-xine shoul be replaced by vlc one ,kffmpegthumbnailer is missing for video preview,double click to open a folder should be set to be consistent with ubuntu , bluedevil i guess is missing some packages to work better, easy firewall should be added there is a kcm module,missing iso mount service menu <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nowardev]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
 
