{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

"Form and function are a unity, two sides of one coin. In order to 
enhance function, appropriate form must exist or be created."
- Ida P. Rolf

The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce Ubuntu 11.04, code-named
"Natty Narwhal". 11.04 continues Ubuntu's proud tradition of integrating
the latest and greatest open source technologies into a high-quality,
easy-to-use Linux distribution.

For PC users, Ubuntu 11.04 supports laptops, desktops and netbooks 
with a unified look and feel based on a new desktop shell called "Unity".
This version supersedes Ubuntu Netbook Edition for all PC netbooks.

Developer reference images are provided for select Texas Instruments (TI) ARM
platforms, specifically the "PandaBoard" and "BeagleBoard" developer systems.

Ubuntu Server 11.04 has made it easier to provision servers, and reduce 
power consumption.   Ubuntu Server 11.04 for UEC and EC2 has a new kernel and 
improved initialization and configuration options. 

Read more about the features of Ubuntu 11.04 in the following press releases:

  http://www.canonical.com/content/latest-ubuntu-offers-businesses-added-cloud-feaures-and-sleek-new-desktop-interface
  http://www.canonical.com/content/ubuntu-transforms-your-pc-experience

Standard maintenance updates will be provided for Ubuntu 11.04 for 18 months,
through October 2012.

Thanks to the efforts of the global translation community, Ubuntu is
available in 43 languages.  For a list of available languages and detailed
translation statistics for these and other languages, see:

  http://people.canonical.com/~dpm/stats/ubuntu-11.04-translation-stats.html

Ubuntu 11.04 is also the basis for new 11.04 releases of Kubuntu,
Xubuntu, Edubuntu, UbuntuStudio, and Mythbuntu:

        Kubuntu  http://kubuntu.org/news/11.04-release
        Xubuntu  http://xubuntu.org/news/11.04-release
       Edubuntu  http://edubuntu.org/news/11.04-release
      Mythbuntu  http://mythbuntu.org/11.04/release
  Ubuntu Studio  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/11.04release_notes

To Get Ubuntu 11.04
-------------------

To download Ubuntu 11.04, or obtain CDs, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/download

Users of Ubuntu 10.10 will be offered an automatic upgrade to 11.04
via Update Manager. For further information about upgrading, see:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/upgrade

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free of
charge.

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes

Find out what's new in this release with a graphical overview:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/whats-new
  http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/features

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, you can try asking in any of the following places:

## ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/
  http://askubuntu.com/

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
netbooks and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular
releases.  A tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications
is included, and an incredible variety of add-on software is just a
few clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical
and hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information
about support, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this release on our website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
