{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== General Information ==

<nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/478|"Natty Narwhal"]]</nowiki> is the code name for Ubuntu 11.04, released on April 28th, 2011.  See the <nowiki>[[NattyReleaseSchedule|Natty release schedule]]</nowiki>.

See also <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-n/|the Ubuntu Developer Summit for Natty]]</nowiki>, which took place from October 25th to 29th, 2010 at the Caribe Royal in Orlando, Florida.

If you want to see what the developers have cooking for Natty, feel free to take a look through the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty|Natty Narwhal blueprint page]]</nowiki> or the <nowiki>[[TechnicalOverview|Natty Narwhal Technical Overview]]</nowiki>.

For more information on the final Ubuntu 11.04 release:
** <nowiki>[[ReleaseNotes|Natty Release Notes]]</nowiki>
** instructions for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NattyUpgrades|upgrading to Natty]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu 11.04 release announcement <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2011-April/000147.html|April 28, 2011]]</nowiki>

== Bugs in Natty ==

It should come as no surprise that the beta release of Natty Narwhal will contain bugs. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs per the instructions on ReportingBugs.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[BugSquad|Ubuntu Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== More Information ==

The next release after Natty is codenamed <nowiki>[[OneiricOcelot|"Oneiric Ocelot"]]</nowiki>; the <nowiki>[[Releases]]</nowiki> page contains a list of all Ubuntu releases.

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, please take a look at the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|Get Involved]]</nowiki> page.

To have future Ubuntu development announcements emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce|ubuntu-devel-announce]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

To have future Ubuntu package updates emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/natty-changes|natty-changes]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

More Kubuntu information can also be found at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Natty|Kubuntuguide]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryMarketing
