{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

The Ubuntu developers are moving quickly to bring you the absolute latest and greatest software the open source community has to offer. Ubuntu 11.04 "Natty Narwhal" Beta 2 gives a preview of the next version of Ubuntu.  

=== Naming Changes ===

Ubuntu Netbook Edition and Ubuntu Desktop Edition have been combined into a single Edition called simply "Ubuntu" (with no "Edition").

Ubuntu Server Edition has been renamed to simply "Ubuntu Server" (again, the "Edition" has been dropped).

== Get Ubuntu 11.04 ==

=== Upgrade from Ubuntu 10.10 ===

To upgrade from Ubuntu 10.10 on a desktop system, press Alt+F2, type in "update-manager -d" (without the quotes), and press Enter. Update Manager will open up and display the message, "New distribution release '11.04' is available." Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions.

To upgrade from Ubuntu 10.10 on a server system, install the package <code>update-manager-core</code> if it is not already installed. Then execute the command <code>sudo do-release-upgrade -d</code>, and follow the on-screen instructions. Note that the server upgrade is now more robust, and thus will utilize GNU screen and automatically re-attach in case unexpected problems arise, e.g. dropped connection problems.

The same instructions apply to all other editions of Ubuntu (such as Kubuntu, Xubuntu, etc.)

=== Download Beta 2 ===

Beta 2 images can be downloaded from a location near you:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/download (Ubuntu and Ubuntu Server) <<BR>>

In addition, they can be found at the following links: 

 http://releases.ubuntu.com/natty/ (Ubuntu, Ubuntu Server) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/natty/beta-2/ (64-Bit for Mac, Ubuntu DVD, source) <<BR>>
 http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/natty/beta-2/ (Ubuntu Server for UEC and EC2) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook/releases/natty/beta-2/ (Ubuntu Netbook ARM) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/11.04/beta-2/ (Ubuntu Netboot) <<BR>>
 http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/natty/ (Kubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/natty/beta-2/ (64-Bit for Mac, Kubuntu DVD, preinstalled ARM images) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/natty/beta-2/ (Xubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/natty/beta-2/ (Edubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/natty/beta-2/ (Ubuntu Studio) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/natty/beta-2/ (Mythbuntu) <<BR>>

== Features new to Natty Narwhal ==

For complete details and plans for Ubuntu 11.04, please see the Natty blueprints list:
  https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+specs

=== Updated packages ===

As with every new release, packages--applications and software of all kinds--are being updated at a rapid pace. Many of these packages came from an automatic sync from Debian's Unstable branch, while others have been explicitly pulled in for the development of Natty Narwhal.

For a list of all packages being accepted into Ubuntu 11.04 "Natty Narwhal", please subscribe to <code>natty-changes</code>: 

 https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/natty-changes 

Some of the key updated packages in Ubuntu 11.04 Beta 2 release are:
* Linux kernel 2.6.38
* <nowiki>[[http://www.libreoffice.org|LibreOffice]]</nowiki> 3.3.2
* GCC 4.5
* Python 2.7
* dpkg 1.16.0
* Upstart 0.9
* <nowiki>[[http://www.x.org|X.org]]</nowiki> 1.10.0 and Mesa 7.10.1
* <nowiki>[[http://firefox.com|Firefox 4.0]]</nowiki> as standard web browser
* <nowiki>[[http://yorba.org/shotwell/|Shotwell]]</nowiki> 0.9.1
* <nowiki>[[http://projects.gnome.org/evolution/|Evolution]]</nowiki> 2.32.2

==== Linux kernel 2.6.38 ====

Beta 2 includes the 2.6.38-8.42 kernel which is based on the latest <nowiki>[[http://kernel.org|mainline kernel]]</nowiki> (stable branch), 2.6.38.2.  This is a major update from the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Configs/MaverickToNatty|v2.6.35 in Maverick]]</nowiki>, and a minor update from the 2.6.38-7.39 shipped with Beta 1. 

This kernel update brings little new functionality updates over the version available in Beta 1, it primarily carries bug fixes.  This update brings the first two upstream stable updates addressing a number of regressions, plus a number of selected bug fixes.  These include a major update to EEEPC hardware support, updates to ntrig touch support, plus several fixes for regressions found in Beta 1.

The 2.6.38 mainline kernel is a major update from the v2.6.35 kernel in Maverick.  Some of the highlights include upstream acceptance of AppArmor, support for Intel IPS (Intelligent Power Sharing), removal of the Big Kernel Lock, file system improvements to Btrfs, Ext4, and XFS, and of course the usual driver updates and support for new hardware.

==== GCC	4.5 ====

The GNU toolchain has transitioned to be based off of gcc 4.5 for i386, amd64, ARM omap/omap4 and PowerPC architectures.

==== Python 2.7 ====

All main packages have now been built and and are installable with <nowiki>[[http://python.org|Python]]</nowiki> 2.7.  

If any incompatibilities are detected during runtime, please report them on the broken package in Ubuntu, and add the official tag 'python27' on the bug.

==== dpkg 1.16.0-pre ====

This is a merge from the <nowiki>[[git:--git.debian.org-users-hertzog-dpkg.git multiarch-snapshot-20110225|community snapshot]]</nowiki> for multiarch support. This brings us up-to-date with staged changes for the upcoming Debian 1.16.0 dpkg release, as well as pulling in the current version of the in-progress multiarch work from Raphael Hertzog, sponsored by Linaro Ltd.

==== Upstart 0.9 ====

<nowiki>[[Upstart]]</nowiki> has been updated to 0.9.7-1. There are a lot of new features: it is now "chroot-aware", there is support for basic job/event visualization, there are two new initctl commands (`show-config`, `check-config`), a socket bridge is now provided, the latest D-Bus version now allows D-Bus services to be activated via Upstart, a manual job configuration stanza, and override file support is now available. 

Please see <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyNarwhal/TechnicalOverviewUpstart|Upstart Technical overview]]</nowiki> for more details.

=== Ubuntu ===

==== Unity ====

<nowiki>[[http://unity.ubuntu.com/|Unity]]</nowiki> is now the default Ubuntu Desktop session. 

The Unity Launcher has many new features in Natty Narwhal, a few of which are:
* drag and drop re-ordering of launcher icons
* full <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/28086/unity-keyboard-mouse-shortcuts|keyboard navigation support]]</nowiki>
* launcher activation through keyboard shortcuts
* right-click context menu quick-lists
* switching between running applications

There is a full <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/Lenses|Lens implementation]]</nowiki> for applications and files now, in addition to the "Dash" start screen (which will come up when clicking on the Ubuntu logo on the top-left of the screen) for the most common actions, such as searching. Also, icons can be dragged and dropped from Dash to the Unity Launcher.

There are now three session types available in GDM:
* Ubuntu: it runs Unity. It requires 3D driver support.
* Ubuntu Classic: it runs GNOME with gnome-panel. It supports all video hardware and video drivers.
* Ubuntu Classic (No Effects): it runs GNOME with gnome-panel. It is in 2D mode only.

Classic GNOME panel applets are not supported in Unity, only indicators such as nm-applet.

If you encounter a problem with Unity, and it is not mentioned in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyNarwhal/TechnicalOverview/#Known issues|known issues]]</nowiki> below, please follow the directions for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/FilingBugs|filing a Unity-specific bugs]]</nowiki>.

==== Multitouch in X.org and Qt ====

The X server includes a prototype of the multitouch input extension (XInput 2.1). The Qt toolkit also includes pre-release support for multitouch.

==== Network Manager ====

The <nowiki>[[http://projects.gnome.org/NetworkManager/|Network Manager]]</nowiki> applet has been patched to use appindicator. 

Putting nm-applet through as many test scenarios as possible will be much appreciated!

==== Banshee ====

<nowiki>[[http://banshee.fm|Banshee]]</nowiki> 2.0 is the standard music player now and has been integrated into the sound menu.

==== Ubiquity ====

Preparing your computer for Ubuntu is now much simpler, with clearly worded options detailing the exact set of actions that will take place with your choice.

Also, you can now replace or upgrade existing Ubuntu installations with the Desktop CD installer.

==== Ubuntu One ====

The <nowiki>[[https://one.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu One]]</nowiki> control panel now allows selective syncing. Note: music purchased from the Ubuntu One Music Store is not selected to sync by default.

The Ubuntu One launcher icon now displays sync progress. Important notifications will be displayed through OSD notifications.

File syncing is faster now, thanks to the improvement of scanning which files to sync.

==== Software Center ====

Ubuntu Software Center now allows users to "rate & review" installed applications, provided that they have Ubuntu Single Sign On accounts. 

Users can also optionally share reviews via integration with social networking services added into <nowiki>[[http://gwibber.com/|Gwibber]]</nowiki>.

Ubuntu Software Center has also had improvements made in the usability (fully integrated software purchase workflow, improved feedback on install/remove, and alternate search suggestions).  The startup time performance has also improved in 11.04.
  

=== Ubuntu Netbook on ARM ===

In Natty the dedicated Ubuntu Netbook is only used on the preinstalled OMAP3 and OMAP4 armel images. On all other architectures the Ubuntu Netbook edition has been merged with the Ubuntu's Desktop.  

The ARM version is the first one to ship our new Unity 2D interface by default, as there are no free 3D drivers available initially in a default installation.

One click enablement of the TI OMAP4 addons to install the 3D SGX drivers was added back to the image.

=== Ubuntu Headless ===

Ubuntu 11.04 Beta 2 release had updated the "Headless" developer image for OMAP3 and OMAP4 hardware.

This image is fully set up for the serial port and contains a minimal command line install.

=== Ubuntu Server ===

Provisioning servers have been made a bit more easier with <nowiki>[[https://fedorahosted.org/cobbler/|cobbler]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://docs.puppetlabs.com/mcollective/|mcollective]]</nowiki> now available. 

Powernap has been updated to 2.0. Powernap uses a new method to reduce power consumption, seen power savings of around 14% in most cases. It can now monitor user activity (Console, Mouse, Keyboard), system activity (load, processors, process IO), and network activity (wake-on-lan, udp ports tcp ports)

Default dhcpd server updated from dhcp3 to isc-dhcp (version 4).

<nowiki>[[http://www.eucalyptus.com/|Eucalyptus]]</nowiki> is now the latest stable point release (2.0.2) with security and efficiency fixes.  (Known bug against the dhcpd server)

<nowiki>[[http://www.openstack.org|OpenStack]]</nowiki> (nova) in Universe is a technology preview, with a recent snapshot of 2011.2 (Cactus) release.

libvirt is updated to 0.8.8 with new features and bug fixes (see upstream <nowiki>[[http://libvirt.org/news.html|changelog for full information]]</nowiki> 0.8.3 → 0.8.8)
 
The Beta 2 installs in most scenarios on both bare hardware and in virtual environments.  Testing of the platform server, and additional server tasks is welcomed. 

==== Cloud images ====

The Ubuntu Server cloud has a newer kernel inside.  See the kernel section for more information.

cloud-init has been updated to 0.60, new features. This feature includes support resizing of / at first boot, adds minimal OVF transport (iso) support and allow setting of hostname when first booting.   Rightscale support has been added to cloud-config and cloud-init. 

Webscale technologies have been packaged and included,  Cassandra 0.7.0, ZeroMQ, Membase, and XtraBackup.

Running images in EC2, t1.micro is currently limited to arch amd64.

Images are now available in OVF format, and requires further testing.

=== Kubuntu ===

Kubuntu 11.04 Beta 2 sports the latest <nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org|KDE]]</nowiki> software including KDE Platform 4.6.2.

Kubuntu now provides a working Samba filesharing module that lets you add and manage shares from the folder's Properties dialogs.

The new Language Selector module allows you to add, remove, and manage system languages directly from System Settings.

An updated system-config-printer-kde brings a number of bugfixes to Kubuntu's printer management tool.

For more information, please refer to:

 https://wiki.kubuntu.org/NattyNarwhal/Beta2/Kubuntu

=== Xubuntu ===

As Xubuntu uses <nowiki>[[http://www.xfce.org|Xfce]]</nowiki> instead of Gnome Desktop Environment, Unity will not be the default.

This milestone includes the Xubuntu wallpaper for this release. The wallpaper is designed to integrate well with the new graybird theme.

The installation slideshow has been updated for Natty Narwhal, and really displays the best of Xubuntu.

There is a new panel layout including a launcher panel in this release. The launcher panel is hidden at the bottom of the screen. 

The Elementary Xubuntu icon theme has been updated.

Xubuntu is using the Droid font by default, since it is a lightweight, good visibility font.

==== Xfce 4.8 ====

<nowiki>[[http://www.xfce.org|Xfce 4.8]]</nowiki> has been released and is included in Natty Narwhal:
 "The Xfce open source desktop is out with its first major update in two years this week. Xfce 4.8 brings the low-resource desktop into the modern era and provides usability improvements across the board. Xfce 4.8 is our attempt to update the Xfce code base to all the new desktop frameworks that were introduced in the past few years," The Xfce development team wrote in a statement. "We hope that our efforts to drop pieces like ThunarVFS and HAL with GIO, udev, Console``Kit and Policy``Kit will help bringing the Xfce desktop to modern distributions."

Menus in Xfce 4.8 are now editable with any menu editor that meets the freedesktop.org standards. The suggested editor is alacarte.

=== Edubuntu ===

Ubiquity now has an additional step allowing users to fine-tune which applications should be installed on the final system.

Edubuntu 11.04 ships with the classical Gnome desktop by default but Unity is available as an option in the installer. When selecting Unity, both the 3D and 2D versions will be installed to ensure you'll get the Unity experience even on slower hardware.

You can test Edubuntu 11.04 directly from your web browser by going at http://www.edubuntu.org/weblive

!WebLive is also directly integrated in the Ubuntu Software Center letting you test the most popular apps without installing them on your machine. Just click the "Test drive" button below the screenshot of an available software.

Edubuntu now ships with Arkose, which provides application sandboxing for downloaded apps.

New software packages in Edubuntu include Pencil, Geogebra, Calibre, LibreCAD, Freemind and Stellarium.

Theming improvements include a new LDM theme when installing LTSP from the Edubuntu installer. The text-mode boot mode now displays "Edubuntu" instead of "Ubuntu". Our ongoing menu refinements include new icons where they were missing, and more consistent case use in menu entries.

For the latest information on Edubuntu 11.04, please refer to the <nowiki>[[http://edubuntu.org/|Edubuntu Website]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Studio ===

==== Installation tasks ====
The task selections during installation have been updated.  The audio tasks have been parsed into two groups: generation and recording.  The 'generation' task selections is focused more on synthesizers and sequencers (i.e. tone __generation__) and the 'recording' task focuses on __recording__ live musician performances.

==== Kernel ====
Currently, Ubuntu Studio is shipping the -generic kernel.  We are working with the Ubuntu Kernel Team to get a -lowlatency kernel into the archives which will then ship, in addition to the -generic kernel, in Ubuntu Studio.  An interim -lowlatency kernel is available in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~abogani/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=natty|Allesio Bogani's PPA]]</nowiki>.

If possible please report any testing results comparing the -generic kernel performance compared to the -lowlatency kernel performance at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RealTime#Natty%20Benchmarks.

==== Network ====
Due to continuing problems, network-manager will replace gnome-network-admin. If performance degradation is experienced, please contact the Ubuntu Studio developer via email <nowiki>[[ubuntu-studio-devel@lists.ubuntu.com|email]]</nowiki> or on IRC (#ubuntustudio-devel on freenode).

==== Package selection ====
The installed packages have changed. The packages shipped in Ubuntu Studio are more focused to support identified tasks and their derived work flows.  Please note that this is a work in progress.  If your favorite package is not include, please inform us about it and consider updating the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Workflows|task/work flows wiki page]]</nowiki>.

==== Unity ====
Ubuntu Studio does not currently use Unity.  As the user logs in it will default to Gnome Classic Desktop (i.e. Gnome2).

==== ubuntustudio-controls ====
We were hoping to have -controls updated for Natty but it appears to we will not be done in time.  Therefore we will be removing -controls from Natty as it's functionality is either not needed or broken.

We plan to continue working on it and hopefully SRU it into Natty later.

=== Mythbuntu ===

The Mythbuntu-bare (Backup and Restore for the database and configuration files) Mythbuntu Control Centre plugin now has the ability to schedule backups on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis.

Android and iOS devices can now be used as remote controls.

MythTV 0.24 is now integrated into the builds.  

== Known issues ==

As is to be expected at this stage of the release process, there are still some known bugs. Please read the known bugs carefully and do not make duplicate bug reports.

=== Boot, installation and post-install ===

* There is a problem creating a bootable 10.04.2 or earlier USB image from Ubuntu 10.10 or 11.04 system.  Booting from the USB can be made to work, but using the workaround of typing "help" and pressing Return. (Bug:645818)
* The swap partition appears become unusable during some installations (UUID not set).   This issue is under investigation. (Bug:709363)
* The return_to_partitioning function executes and returns as normal, but seemingly fails to properly clean up after partman-commit and initialize partman. (Bug:740903)
* During boot, on the cryptsetup passphrase prompt, every character typed causes a repeat of the prompt. (Bug:566818)
* When making the keyboard layout selection from Ubiquity, cannot get the right selection. (Bug:656777, Bug:745635)
* After selecting "Continue testing" rather than "restart now" there is no GUI option to do the restart. (Bug:657086)
* There are some cosmetic effects that need cleaning up on the installation slideshow (Bug:529201, Bug:628159) and some translations are missing (Bug:644736, Bug:758658, Bug:758739)
* When installing the i386 version on systems with more than 4 GB of memory the PAE kernel variant gets installed, which removes the NVidia and other installed proprietary drivers. (Bug:759804)
* The link to "Release Notes" directs to ubuntu.com,  not the actual release notes.  (Bug:759870)
* iscsi root with or without auth fails to boot (Bug:728088)
* Does occasionally not reboot after completing the installation and clicking 'Reboot Now' (Bug:712654)
* Unable to boot grub after installing an encrypted LVM. (Bug:745960)
* On ARM platforms update-initramfs -c does not update the bootloader (Bug:701698) 
* Installing proprietary Nvidia drivers causes Plymouth to hang on some systems. (Bug:684083)
* Crash trying to install over btrfs partition in live installer. (Bug:759503)
* When installing the amd64+mac version, please do not use LVM.  Also avoid using multiple linux instances at this time. (Bug:745960, Bug:746313)

=== Upgrades from Ubuntu 10.10 ===

* When upgrading a server installation you might get an inappropriate configuration file change prompt for dovecot. (Bug:661453)
* After the upgrade the KDE desktop might have a wrong or no background image. (Bug:712612) 

=== Graphics and display ===

* The -nouveau video driver has had an ABI change but lacked a version number increment.  Following Debian we're versioning it as 'libdrm-nouveau1a'.  Be aware this can cause difficulties in upgrading/downgrading from PPAs that include libdrm packages.
* The NVidia-graphics-driver on 8600 GTS cards needs "NoPowerConnectorCheck" option to work. (Bug:522588)
* Video error - [drm:radeon_ttm_backend_bind] *ERROR* failed to bind 1772 pages (Bug:656486)

=== Desktop ===

* Nautilus keeps opening when ubuntu one plugin is installed. (Bug:674876)
* When starting the live session on a system without 3D support, the GNOME panel is not displayed. As a workaround, you can press Alt+F2 and run `gnome-panel --replace`. On installed systems you should pick the "Ubuntu Classic (No effects)" session in the login manager. (Bug:711378)
* The 'universal access' icon is missing from gdm login screen. (Bug:745347)
* When switching between windows, Orca does not speak the title of the focused window. (Bug:724093)
* In the classic session gnome-panel sometimes fails to load applets. (Bug:716714)
* On ARM images, the Unity 2D version crashes on various occasions. (Bug:739386)
* Unity may not behave correctly if DRI settings are present in ~/.drirc (Bug:745996)
* Unity does not yet fully support focus-follows-mouse/sloppy-focus/point-to-click. Enabling this feature may cause unexpected behavior (Bug:674138)

<<BR>> Unity is just emerging from active development right now, please check the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/|unity bug reports]]</nowiki> before filing new bugs.  If you encounter a bug and it is not mentioned in the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/|unity bug reports]]</nowiki>,  please follow the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/FilingBugs|directions for filing a Unity bug]]</nowiki>.

=== Trackpads, touchscreens, mice, and keyboards ===

* The -synaptics driver has received a new acceleration mechanism.  Trackpad users may notice a significant decrease (or increase) in acceleration as a result.  We are investigating configuration options for this new behavior.
* The -evdev driver no longer provides middle mouse button emulation.  2-button mice that need this functionality are quite rare these days.  The emulation mode causes a laggy pointer in cases where emulation is not needed, so this change improves responsiveness for all users.  If you have a 2-button mouse that needs this, please see the directions for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Quirks#2-button%20Mice|creating a 2-button mouse quirk]]</nowiki>. (Bug:710762)
* Trackpads now have kinetic scrolling. If you flick to perform a scroll, then press a keyboard key while kinetic scroll events are generated, unexpected application behavior may result. (Bug:728643)
* The -evtouch driver is not available anymore due to a lack of upstream support. Users are encouraged to switch to the default -evdev driver. Please <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-evdev/+filebug|file a bug report against the -evdev driver]]</nowiki> for any broken or missing functionality.

=== Linux kernel ===

* Toshiba NB305 hangs for 5 minutes after suspend. Workaround: specify "nohz=off highres=off" as kernel parameters at boot. (Bug:508516)
* Suspend fails on Lenovo/Thinkpad models R500/T6x/T400[s]/T500/W500/W700/X60/X200.  (Bug:625364) 
* ThinkPad BIOS/EC models may have outdated firmware. (Bug:745363)
* On certain hardware, enabling power saving for the SATA link can cause disk errors and data corruption. (Bug:539467)
* On amd64/Mac the main physical screen (iMac display) is detected by the OS radeon driver as output eDP-0, name 'Color LCD', and it is connected but not lit. (Bug:542660) 
* X will flicker, and will dmesg: "[drm:drm_edid_block_valid] *ERROR* EDID checksum is invalid".  Intermittently the screen may go dark after one of these flickers.  This can be worked around by 'sudo get-edid'. (Bug:712075)
* On t1.micro server, instance hangs when installing Sun java. (Bug:634487)
* Screenful of errors like "[drm:radeon_ttm_backend_bind] *ERROR* failed to bind 1772 pages" may be seen during a liveCD restart. (Bug:656486)
* Samsung N150 hangs indefinitely after suspend. Workaround: specify "intel_idle.max_cstate=3" as kernel parameter at boot. (Bug:640100)

=== Ubuntu Software Center ===

* Race condition appears to cause Software Center to crash (DatabaseModifiedError in _database_gen_postlist_iter()) after doing updates.(Bug:507836)
* When deauthorize my computer is used, the packages are removed but the sources.list entries are not disabled. (Bug:723911)
* In some cases, software-center crashed with "AlreadyCalledDeferred in callback()". (Bug:636429)

=== Ubuntu Server ===

* In a small number of cases some cloud instances are not reachable via ssh.  (Bug:712026)
* dovecot.conf always shows as having been locally modified on update.  (Bug:661453)
* user prompted to update unmodified grub configuration during Ubuntu server upgrade.  (Bug:759545)
* euca-bundle-image can fail on small images.  (Bug:760157)
* Cryptsetup passphrase prompt during boot: every character typed repeats the prompt. (Bug:566818)
* JeOS is oversized (should be under 500MB, actually ~535MB) (Bug:760288)

=== Ubuntu Netbook on ARM ===

* flash-kernel fails to handle raw boot partitions on eMMC. (Bug:615773)
* There are known problems with sound on omap/omap4. (Bug:651302, Bug:746023)
* "update-initramfs -c" does not update the bootloader. (Bug:701698)
* omapdss DISPC error on Panda platform. (Bug:758486)
* ubuntu-omap4-extras from the TI PPA is not installable. (Bug:759817)

=== Kubuntu ===
 
* Kubuntu Wubi shows a Black screen during stage 2 (Bug:758614)
* When restarting Kubuntu Live CD, in a language other than English, errors may be seen on screen before desktop starts. (Bug:656486)
* The installer (ubiquity) might still be installed after oem-config on kubuntu netbook (Bug:745607)
* Existing Kubuntu is listed twice in grub boot page after auto-resize install. (Bug:759459)

=== Xubuntu ===

* There is a bug in the "session-menu" plugin in Xfce4. To reboot or shutdown from Virtual``Box, you must logout, then reboot or shutdown from GDM. (Bug:711571)
* When updating Xubuntu 10.10 to 11.04 beta
** In Xubuntu, update-manager -d fails to allow upgrade from 10.10, the command <code>sudo do-release-upgrade -d</code> is a workaround (Bug:756763)
** the update manager offers to install the whole gnome (xubuntu-desktop recommends indicator-messages). As a workaround, please install xfce4-indicator-plugin before upgrading (Bug:757754)
** The network-manager icon is missing from indicator area after upgrading to Xubuntu 11.04 (Bug:759608)

=== Edubuntu ===

* Edubuntu Wallpapers are not updated on upgrade to Natty (Bug:746028)
* There is no Edubuntu AMD64+mac image for Edubuntu. Users of Apple hardware should use the 32bit version of Edubuntu.

=== Ubuntu Studio ===

* In Ubuntu Studio, the network-manager icon is missing from the indicator area. (Bug:745549)
 
== Report bugs ==

The Beta 2 release of Natty Narwhal still contains some bugs. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions are welcome and will help improve the quality of future releases. Please see this page for more information:
 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== Participate in Ubuntu ==

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

== Find out more ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

To receive Ubuntu developer-related announcements, please subscribe to <code>ubuntu-devel-announce</code>:

 https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce
