{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== DRAFT - under development ==

== Introduction ==

The Ubuntu developers are moving quickly to bring you the absolute latest and greatest software the Open Source community has to offer. The Natty Narwhal Alpha 1 Release of Ubuntu 11.04, bringing with it new features for the next version of Ubuntu.

== Get Ubuntu 11.04 ==
=== Upgrading from Ubuntu 10.04 LTS ===

''' to be updated '''

To upgrade from Ubuntu 10.04 LTS on a desktop system, press Alt+F2 and type in "update-manager -d" (without the quotes) into the command box. Update Manager should open up and tell you: New distribution release '11.04' is available. Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions.

To upgrade from Ubuntu 10.04 LTS on a server system: install the <code>update-manager-core</code> package if it is not already installed; edit <code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> and set <code>Prompt=normal</code>; launch the upgrade tool with the command <code>sudo do-release-upgrade -d</code>; and follow the on-screen instructions.  

To upgrade from Kubuntu 10.04 LTS follow the instructions at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MaverickUpgrades/Kubuntu

=== Download Release Candidate ===

Get it while it's hot. The following link will direct you to a download location near you:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/download (Ubuntu Desktop, Server, and Netbook) <<BR>>

''' update to Natty '''
Additional ISOs and torrents are also available at:
 http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/10.10/rc/ (Ubuntu Server for UEC and EC2) <<BR>>
 http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/10.10/ (Kubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/10.10/rc/ (Xubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/10.10/rc/ (Edubuntu DVD) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/10.10/rc/ (Ubuntu Studio) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook/ports/releases/10.10/rc/ (Ubuntu ARM) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/10.10/rc/ (Mythbuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu-mobile/releases/10.10/rc/ (Kubuntu Mobile Preview) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu-mobile/ports/releases/10.10/rc/ (Kubuntu Mobile Preview ARM) <<BR>>

== New features in Natty ==

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+specs|Natty blueprint list]]</nowiki> for details.

Please test and report any bugs you find:

  http://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs

=== Updated Packages ===

As with every new release, packages--applications and software of all kinds--are being updated at a rapid pace. Many of these packages came from an automatic sync from Debian's Unstable branch. 

For a list of all packages being accepted for 11.04 Natty Narwhal, please subscribe to natty-changes:

  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/natty-changes 

=== Ubuntu Desktop Edition ===

=== Ubuntu Netbook Edition ===

=== Kubuntu ===

=== Xubuntu ===

=== Edubuntu ===

=== Ubuntu Studio ===

=== Mythbuntu ===

=== Ubuntu Server Cloud images ===

=== Installation ===

=== Linux kernel 2.6.XX ===

Alpha 1 includes the 2.6.XX kernel which is based on the 2.6.XX.Y Upstream stable <nowiki>[[http://kernel.org|kernel]]</nowiki>.

This kernel includes ...  

== Known issues ==

As is to be expected at this very early stage of the release process, there are known bugs that users may run into with the Natty Alpha 1 Release.  The more serious ones we know about at this point (and some of the workarounds), are documented here so you don't need to spend time reporting these bugs again: 

  
=== Graphics and Display ===
* ...

=== Networking & WiFi ===
* ...
 
=== Common Desktop applications ===
* ...

=== Input devices ===
* ...
 
=== Boot, installation and post-install ===
* ...

=== Ubuntu server edition ===
* ...

=== Issues affecting other Ubuntu  flavors ===
* Kubuntu
** ...

* Ubuntu Netbook:
** ...

* Ubuntu ARM
** ...

'''For a listing of more known issues, please refer to the Natty Narwhal <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+bugs|bug tracker]]</nowiki> in Launchpad.'''
 
== Reporting bugs ==

It should come as no surprise that this alpha 1 release of Natty Narwhal contains other bugs. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|report bugs using the tools provided]]</nowiki>.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== Participate in Ubuntu ==

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

 http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

== More information ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

To sign up for future Ubuntu development announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's development announcement list at:

 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce
