{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:nautilus-scripts
* '''Packages affected''': nautilus

=== Summary ===

A simple way of providing nautilus scripts in packages, and make it easy for non-technical users to activate them.

=== Rationale ===

Nautilus scripts are an easy and nice way for users to extend nautilus. Therefore a lot of these scripts exist, and users are interested in installing them easily.

=== Use Cases ===

* Joe is an Ubuntu user who wrote some nautilus scripts that he would love to share with his friends, he creates one package for them, and they can install it and choose which scripts they want to use.
* Richard is an Ubuntu developer who saw some scripts that he thinks can be useful for many users.

=== Scope ===

Users should be able to easily install and enable scripts they want. There will be no advanced administration possibilities for larger systems, e.g. by managing the enabled scripts list using gconf.

=== Design ===

Using one system-wide script directory directly would also be possible, but would not allow the user to enable/disable specific scripts. Therefore the existing user directory will be used, and links from there to a pseudo system-wide directory will be created.

The user can control this process by using a dialog in nautilus, that provides a list where he can select the scripts that are active.

=== Implementation ===

* Patch nautilus to provide the dialog
* Remove old nautilus-script-manager package
* Try merging the patch into nautilus upstream

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
