{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Copied everything to UsabilityWishlist, if i delete this can i set up a redirect?
|}

The thread http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=100262 on the forums discusses some problems with the way nautilus handles permission that could confuse and inconvenience the user. In some cases the user would be forced to use the command line to do what would be a simple task.

The main ideas are:
* A user should be able to perform all everyday tasks with out having to use the command line. This would make Ubuntu easier, friendlier more accessible, etc (The command line is great, but not ideal for all users)
* The linux permission system is good and powerful, but if it is hard change permission it can be a hindrance. (Note, there was a misunderstanding in the forums that these ideas effected the Ubuntu security model. They do not, they just let users do what can be done from the command line in the gui)

This document is intended to be a summery of the issues, and some possible solutions. hopefully it can evolve to a spec, and can one day be implemented. Please comment

=== Example Cases and Issues ===

==== Copying files from a read only disk ====
User has a cd rom with a nested folders of files. User drags a folder from the cd to their home folder. Now user want to be able to delete/edit the files, but can't because they do not have the write flag set. Permissions cannot be change recursively from the properties tab.
===== issues =====
* The permissions that a file/folder that arrives in a User's home get
* Can't change permissions recursively

==== Stopping other users on systems reading my home folder ====
User wants to change the permissions on their home folder, to stop other local users reading their files.
===== issues =====
* Can't change permissions recursively
* new files are readable for everyone

==== Making a shared folder ====
User wants to create a local shared folder that other users can read and write files to.
===== issues =====
* Can't change permissions recursively
* new files are not writable for everyone

==== Editing a config file ====
User in the admin group wants to edit a config file (eg /etc/fstab). User navigates to /etc and double click the file.
===== issues =====
* Nautilus does not know that the user has permission via sudo.

=== Solutions ===

==== Recursive Permission ====
This task is easy to do from the command line, but is not properly implemented in nautilus. see bug http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=44767 .

Should recursive be the default option when you change the permissions on a folder? In what user case would this be bad?

==== Umask ====
Is this the best way to decide the permissions of a new file?

Would it be better to use the permission to the folder the file is created in.

==== Copying files ====
What permissions should a file get when its copied to someones home folder? Those specified by Umask

==== Sudo in nautilus ====
If an admin user want to perform a task that they'd need to use sudo for, they should be asked to authenticate, and then allowed to do it from the GUI.

It would probably be best that this was done at the gnome-vfs level. Then it would work for all gnome-vfs programs.
