{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/nautilus-archive-extension
* '''Created''':  by RaphaelBosshard
* '''Contributors''': RaphaelBosshard
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Make Nautilus able to open/view compressed folders and extract/add files from/to them.

=== Rationale ===
Archives are not more than folders. Compressed folders, but folders nontheless. All file/folder operations also apply to archives and all archive operations have their equivalent file/folder operations.

Even though archives and ordinary folders look and behave much the same, they are handled through two different applications; archives are handled with Fileroller, files and folders with Nautilus. Users are required to learn two different user interfaces for nearly the same tasks.

=== Use cases ===
Ursula wants to open an archive she just downloaded. She double-clicks the archive-icon and Fileroller pops up. She has no experience with the Fileroller interface and drag & drop does not work. Though the window looks a bit like a normal folder with all it's filetype icons, she cannot use it like a normal folder.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===
Nautilus should be able to open archives and extract files and folders. Archives should be presented like folders, maybe in a different color or with a special emblem added.  (Background of window could be a different color to indicate that the contents are compressed?)
==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

<nowiki>[[Warbo]]</nowiki>: Perhaps it would be better to somehow mount the compressed folder so that its contents are accessible to everything? I can easily forsee situations like entering MyPhotos.zip then selecting Open With > GIMP Image Editor, only to get an error from the GIMP that it can't find the file (and temporarily extracting to /tmp or something is messy, not particularly general and could involve needlessly decompressing/copying very large files).

Raphael Bosshard:
Such an implementation would ideally happen at the GnomeVS/GVFS level. Thus all GVFS-enabled applications (that would be almost all applications on the Ubuntu desktop) would gain access. An implementation via fuse and pmount would also be possible, but less stable, I'd guess.

----
CategorySpec
