{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Many people access their internet over wlan, so it can be tricky to set up the wlan without internet access... 

This guide is meant for people who CAN'T get their internet up before setting up ndiswrapper. A second guide ( <nowiki>[[WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper]]</nowiki> ) is made for both scenarios: setup with and without internet!

'''If you can, use https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WifiDocs/Device/NetgearMA111 , as the ndiswrapper method isn't futureproof. You might as well learn to use the native drivers! ndiswrapper will work on hoary, breezy, dapper, but after that, it probably WON'T!'''

This method got my netgear ma111 working in no time at all:

Download the ndiswrapper and ndiswrapper-utils .deb packages from packages.ubuntu.com and save them on a floppy, or on a partition that is accessable by linux.

I got this from azz on http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=15425&page=1&pp=10&highlight=ndis+wrapper

Put the ndiswrapper and ndiswrapper-utils .deb packages in /usr/src

then type into Applications->System Tools->Terminal

<pre>
cd /usr/src

sudo dpkg -i ndiswrapper*.deb

sudo dpkg -i ndiswrapper-utils*.deb

sudo gedit /etc/hotplug/blacklist}}}

and add to the textfile:

{{{
prism2_usb

p80211}}}

To avoid the modules being loaded (they interfere with ndiswrapper)

restart your computer

cd to your wireless-device's windowsxp-driver directory (on a CD for example)

{{{
sudo ndiswrapper -i NETMA111.INF

sudo modprobe ndiswrapper}}}

You can use ndiswrapper -l to check if all was successful, if hardware&driver are both present, then everything is going fine!

Then, use the network utility to configure your interface (wep key, ssid etc), under System->Administration->Networking (in gnome 2.12)

To load ndiswrapper automatically at startup:

{{{
sudo gedit /etc/modules
</pre>

and add "ndiswrapper"

You may want to type "about:config" into the address bar of firefox if loading webpages is slow, when you've got internet-access, to speed it up, filter "network.dns.disable.IPv6" -> toggle to "true".
