{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Neal Bussett ===

	Name: Neal Bussett<<BR>>
	Location: San Diego, CA, USA<<BR>>
	Email:  <<BR>>
	Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/people/nealbussett <<BR>>
	IRC: Flannel<<BR>>

-----

==== About ====
I am currently a student studying electrical engineering at San Diego State University, in San Diego, California.<<BR>>
I have been using linux since 2003, and Ubuntu since Hoary.  I mostly use linux as a server, both for day-to-day use as well as development, including SSH, a webserver, Subversion, IMAP (and a few more acronyms).<<BR>>
I am comfortable in a good deal of programming languages, including C, C++, Perl, PHP, (and some not-so-programming-languages: SQL, CSS, HTML, etc).  (I’m going to get around to learning Python eventually, honest.)

==== Contributions ====
My contributions to Ubuntu so far have been concentrated in IRC, where I have been an active participant since Fall of 2005.
I also played a large part in the restructuring and resurrection of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam|California LoCo team]]</nowiki>, which I am now the LoCo contact for, and we have recently held a number of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Meetings|meetings]]</nowiki>.

==== Goals ====
Sometime in the near future I hope to become a developer, I’m still not sure what I’d like to help with yet though.  I’d also like to become a package maintainer for some curses based programs I’d like to see in ubuntu.  I'd also like to see the California Loco team thrive.  I think we've got some good direction and energy currently and I hope it continues to grow and develop.

----
CategoryHomepage
