{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Hardy Heron Release Party!!! ==

Come join us as we celebrate the release of the newest version of Ubuntu Linux!  We'll have demos, door prizes, and lots of free CD's!!!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| What :
| Hardy Heron Release Party and Demo
|-
| When :
| Saturday May 3rd from Noon until 4pm
|-
| Where :
| UNO's Peter Kiewit Institute, 1110 S 67th Street, Room 279
|}

Google Map: (<nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&hl=en&msa=0&ll=41.244192,-96.013856&spn=0.01394,0.026178&t=h&z=15&msid=101303332687828038647.00044acc21a56b6f0f748|Map]]</nowiki>)

== Monthly IRC Meetings ==
We're currently scheduled to meet the second Thursday of every month at 2100 CST.  We meet in the #ubuntu-nebraska channel on freenode.net.  The next IRC meeting will be '''Thursday, October 11th at 2100 (9pm) Central Daylight Time.'''

Live and in person meetings will be held quarterly, none are currently scheduled.  

== Meeting Agenda ==

=== Adding Items to Agenda ===
You are welcome to add any items that you feel should be discussed to the agenda for the next meeting. In the interests of keeping everything neat, please, however, add them using the the example below.  First a half line subject, followed by a short description as a sub-point of the subject, and signing it with your wikiname or irc nick after that... for example...

* Half line subject
** Short description - YourWikiName (yourIRCnick)

Note: If your item requires discusion, please also email it to the list, this will aid in keeping meetings short and discusion open.

(Thanks to Austrailian Team for suggesting this method)

=== Current Agenda ===

** Welcome New Members

** Infrastructure Update
*** No changes since last meeting. Should have an irc backup and email backup by the end of the month.
  
** CD Distribution
*** Getting prices for pressed CD's  More info by the end of the month

** Gutsy Release Party
*** We'll have a Gutsy Release party in Omaha on Saturday, October 20th.  The party will be held at the meeting room at Panera bread, 134th and West Maple Road, in the Eagle Run shopping Center.  Dave Thacker has been promised an event pack from Canonical with T-Shirts, stickers and other stuff to give away. 
*** We need volunteers who can download an iso and burn a few copies to give away.
*** We need volunteers who can bring a laptop or system for a Demo.  I will have (1) Dell laptop running Kubuntu
*** We need volunteers who can just answer questions
    
    
** Mini Installfest in November
*** We'll see if we can generate interest at the release party. 

** Other Projects?
