{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== About Netfract ==

As a leading hosting provider, Netfract offers a wide range of products and services. From basic to advanced web hosting or a simple VPS or a large Web cluster, we provide it. 
 

== Our involvement with Ubuntu ==

As a world class provider we believe that it is our duty to contribute to the evolution of the I.T. Industry. Our very foundation lays in the various open source communities. We have a strong belief that together and with the proper tools, we can achieve bigger things than privately owned companies. We believe that Ubuntu is a very unique project, suitable for the Linux neophyte up to the most advanced UNIX system architect. Ubuntu delivers a unique easy to use/install/maintain OS. We are pushing more and more our clients on UNIX Based systems for multiple reasons including; stability, security, reliability, community based support and affordability. 

== Current and future projects. ==

•	Setup of a mirror deserving eastern Canada and North-Eastern USA (Dedicated 100 MBPS)

•	Setup of a mirror deserving western Canada and North-Western USA (Dedicated 100 MBPS)

•	Conversion campaign to migrate our existing Windows clients on Ubuntu dedicated servers.

•	Education campaign on ubuntu, the key points of all the distributions and the benefits over the competitors.

•	Creation of a promotion campaign for future clients choosing Ubuntu as their server operating systems.

•	Organize contests to raise interests in the development community and create prospects.

== Our team ==

to be added later…

== Contact ==

''Jean-Michel Poulin'' <<BR>>
C.E.O. Marketing & Operations <<BR>>
Netfract Inc. <<BR>>
http://www.netfract.com <<BR>>
Info@netfract.com <<BR>>
