{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


About me 

My human name is Salles, Jose F. and i have 55 years old. 
nethell is my nickname since 1995 to my personal and machine
identification. I'm very interested in computers and systems at least
20 years, it's my work and my hobby. The Ubuntu GNU/Linux is my
effective system since 2008, January and now i'm a contribuitor and
translator in the Ubuntu Teams and a voluntary helper support in the
Ubuntu-br LocoTeam to encourage more people to use Ubuntu.

Contact me on-line 

 http://launchpad.net/~nethell in Launchpad, by mail jfsalles@yandex.com, in my site http://www.gohc.net.br or in irc, nethell on irc.ubuntu.com in freenodem channel #ubuntu-br-doc.

Involvement 

 Colaborating in mailing list Ubuntu-br, a new user in mailing list Kubuntu-br and colaborating in Translations Teams Ubuntu and LXDE.

Working on 

 Ubuntu Brazilian Translators in Launchpad and Ubuntu Brazilian Mailing List.

Next works 

 Work hard in the Ubuntu pt-br translations amd in the Ubuntu pt-br documentation, continue support for new Ubuntu users in mail list and facebook groups.

Testimonials 

 Thank's my old and new friends in the Ubuntu mailing lists, you are a winners.
----
CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryComments
