{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

My name is Netanel Shine. I have started my way with Linux back in 2001. In 2004 I've became a user of Ubuntu(Warty Warthog), and since 2009 I am an active user and involved in open source projects. In addition to that, I am a member of the "Hamakor" foundation ( an Israeli society for free and open source software), and I'm taking part in the Ubuntu Israeli Loco. In nowdays I am a student of computer science and a Java developer.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~netsan
|-
| IRC
| netshine
|-
| Email
| netanelshine@gmail.com
|-
| Personal Blog(Hebrew)
| http://netshine.wordpress.com
|}

=== Activities ===

* Active Ubuntu user and an open source supporter.
* A member of the "Hamakor" foundation ( an Israeli society for free and open source software)
* Giving support in the Ubuntu israeli Loco forums and IRC channel.
* Writing about Ubuntu and FOSS subjects on my blog pages.
* Working with an Israeli university about support of open source.
* Helping to arrange Software Freedom Day in Israel. 
* Writing guides for the Hebrew Ubuntu users.
* Developer in the Gnome-Paint project, and also uploaded the project to launchpad.

=== Contributions ===

* Was elected to be the Point of contact of the Israeli Loco in front of the "Hamakor" foundation.
* Wrote and published an assay about the IDS system and how to apply it on the Ubuntu system.
* Wrote guides about Ubuntu on my blog pages.
* Translated in launchpad.
* Translated the IRC Meetings in the loco channel

=== Future Goals ===

* Help to increase the use of Ubuntu and FOSS in the Israeli community through the Israeli Loco, forums and my blog pages.
* Becoming more active and dominant member in the Israely Loco and the FOSS Israeli community.
* Becoming involved in the Ubuntu developments efforts.
 

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

* Shuldon - Netanel is a very active member of the Israeli Loco, a very good guy and runs a very successful and interesting blog about Information Security in Ubuntu.

* Netanel have been very helpful to the LoCo, without him we were not standing where we are today, he is a real freedom believer besides being a great man. Hope to see him as a member soon! -- <nowiki>[[Ddorda]]</nowiki>
