{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foo
* '''Packages affected''': network-manager(-gnome)

=== Summary ===

The idea would be to have a plugin for Network Manager that handles ipsec configuration, via racoon or another tool.

The aim would be to have a plugin like the vpn plugins, that support the different kinds of ipsec configuration and that is able to detect the networks and load the correct ipsec config.

=== Release Note ===

This package is to provide the end-user a much more user-friendly interface to high security network connection options.

=== Rationale ===

Network security, especially on wireless networks is a growing issue. Eventhough solution such as WPA2 tends to be secure enough, for some greater networks or networks where security is critical, methods such as vpn or ipsec based methods may be the only solutions.

Vpn like methods are supported by quite a few range of plugins for network-manager, but there is none for using directly ipsec over ip.

Such a plugin may help users to configure easily their connection, and network administrators to give simple instruction on how to connect.

=== Use Cases ===

This should be a plugin for Network-Manager, that also autodetect the network (at least in case of wireless connection) and load the correct settings.

=== Assumptions ===

This plugin is probably most likely an interface to racoon/racoon-tools or directly to ipsec-tools.

=== Design ===

 a python plugin should do the trick

 
 
=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
