{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Introduction ===

Server support, unless some industrious individuals are willing to work on it, should be postponed until client support is in a suitable state. No reason to have a server we can't join.

=== Summary ===
This is a first effort to try to move out serverstuff from NetworkAuthentication.

The aim of this spec is to make it simple to set up the serverside for NetworkAuthentication on Ubuntu. 

=== Rationale ===
Ubuntu Server should easily provide the infrastructure to provide a centralized authentication service for Ubuntu Clients and other Linux distributions to. Preferably later also for Windows and other Unixes.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===
*** Metapackage to depend on slapd & krb5-admin-server
*** User/group administration tools - Creation of Kerberos principals & modifying entries in LDAP
*** migrationtools equivalent to also create kerberos principals & LDAP entries

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====
* slapd
* krb5-admin-server
* krb5-kdc
* ...

==== User Interface requirements ====

* Server-side
   There should be an authconfig analogue for server configuration which:
*** makes the simple easy: This auth-server tool should enable simple, straightforward configuration, with all the details being handled by underlying scripts.
*** makes the difficult possible: Administrators can still modify the underlying configuration files.
   User/group administration tools: 
*** `adduser` & similar tools will be patched or equivalents written.

===== Existing GUI managementtools =====
These tools may be interesting to evaluate:
*** luma
*** Directory Administrator
        No clue on Active Directory, NIS, or Kerberose; but Directory Administrator works 
        pretty great for LDAP if OpenLDAP has SchemaCheck off.  Interesting spatial mode of 
        operation, with users and groups being objects in an icon view instead of a list as 
        well.  Importantly, it handles the "Windows authenticates with this" case.  Interface 
        can go, but something this featureful is needed for network authentication.
*** Complement Administration->Users and Groups(usersadmin) to work with ldap/kerberos(nis?)

=== Unresolved issues ===

* <nowiki>[[http://directory.fedora.redhat.com/wiki/Main_Page|Fedora Directory Server]]</nowiki> should be evaluated. Currently it would require significant packaging work to ship in edgy, even for universe.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

=== Additional Remarks ===

----
CategorySpec
