{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-karmic-directory-service-configuration
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

===== UDS Karmic discussion =====

<pre>
== Directory Integration for Services ==

* Services to automatically leverage the directory.
 
* setup-kerberos-service script (domain-join)
** Creates necessary Kerberos principals.
** Get keytab from KDC.
** Use /etc/keytab.d for keytab files.
** One keytab per service. 
** Where in the directory the service config options are.
** Add DNS entry?
** Modify service config file for Kerberos.
** Enable GSSAPI.
** Register service on the network.
  
** Step 0: Discovery -- scripted.
** DNS SRV records.
** Use the rootDSE to identify an Ubuntu directory.
** Step 1: Enable krb5
** Add a principal for each packages service/s.
** Step 2: Enable Directory (LDAP) service.
** Configures local slapd to replicate the directory.
*** Only replicated needed objects for each service.
*** Use the caching overlay.
  
  
* Packages
** Samba
** Postfix
** Dovecot
** OpenLDAP -- as a client.
** OpenSSH
** User Login.
  
* How does each service dertermine the LDAP server location, credentials, etc.
** DNS
** debconf
** Ask at install time.
  
* Need X509 certificate for LDAP server.
** Can also be done with SASL.
 
* Enable traffic encryption after authentication.
 
* Create a client certificate and publish it in the Directory.
** Don't need a full CA for Karmic.
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
