{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ethernet card not enabled at Boot ==

Some installations of Ubuntu, particularly <code>server</code> installs, may leave the network card inactive (not working) upon boot up.

If your cannot connect, check to see if your network card is activated by typing <code>ip addr</code>.

You should see something like

<pre>
1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 16436 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN 
    link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00
    inet 127.0.0.1/8 brd 127.255.255.255 scope host lo
    inet6 ::1/128 scope host 
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
2: eth0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc pfifo_fast state UP qlen 1000
    link/ether 00:b0:d0:07:17:6b brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 192.168.1.203/24 brd 192.168.1.255 scope global eth0
    inet6 fe80::2b0:d0ff:fe07:176b/64 scope link 
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
</pre>

However, if there is no inet line for eth0, then try <code>sudo ifup eth0</code>.

If that worked, (check with <code>ping -c 2 ubuntu.com</code>) great, but you don't want to have to do that every time you reboot the machine. Check your /etc/network/interfaces file. Using your favorite text editor, edit the file so that the line (you may have to add it)

<pre>
auto eth0
</pre>

comes at some point before

<pre>
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.203
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        network 192.168.1.0
        broadcast 192.168.1.255}}}

(your numbers may differ).

Save, reboot, and recheck. Did that work?

For reference, my very typical fixed-IP single-Network-Card interfaces file looks like this:

{{{

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0

iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.201
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        network 192.168.1.0
        broadcast 192.168.1.255
        gateway 192.168.1.1
##### dns-* options are implemented by the resolvconf package, if installed
        dns-nameservers 68.87.64.196 68.87.66.196
</pre>
