{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/network-authentication
* '''Created''':  by JerryHaltom

----

* <nowiki>[[FeistyNetworkAuthentication]]</nowiki>  Specification for Feisty goals.
* <nowiki>[[NetworkAuthentication/Client]]</nowiki> Sub-specification for client-side support.
* <nowiki>[[NetworkAuthentication/Server]]</nowiki> Sub-specification for server-side infrastructure.
* <nowiki>[[NetworkAuthentication/Old]]</nowiki>    Previous content of this page.
* <nowiki>[[NetworkAuthentication/KerberizeServices]]</nowiki>

----

[JerryHaltom] I am reorganizing this specification and splitting it into two parts, client and server. This page will contain a general overview of the need for directory service integrating in Ubuntu. Old content of this page is referenced above. Don't mean to swipe this out from under people, just trying to get it organized for UMV.

== Introduction ==

TBD

== Rationale ==

TBD

== Scope ==

TBD

== References ==

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDownUnder/BOFs/KerberizingUbuntu|KerberizingUbuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/Glockenspiel|Glockenspiel]]</nowiki> - GNOME spec for lockdown/admin stuff.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=191858|Ubuntu Forums "Enterprise" thread]]</nowiki>

== Comments ==

Please place comments under here:

----

----
CategorySpec 
