{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Marc Lüthi (1973), living in northern Argovia (Switzerland) near <nowiki>[[http://www.baden.ch/|Baden]]</nowiki>.

=== Linux ===
==== Career ====
* collected first experience with Red Hat, Mandrake and Debian, but never really made the switch over to Linux.
* discovered Gentoo and loved it, for about a year on one PC and several Sun Ultra workstations. It taught me a lot about Linux and helped to complete the migration to Linux - great support community.
* found Ubuntu in it's late 4.10 days and was instantly upon it.
* running Ubuntu 11.04 on another Laptop (HP Pavilion dv5000) 
* running Ubuntu 10.10 on a Shuttle SN95Gv3 barebone with an AMD Athlon 64 X2 4400+ (Toledo).
* running Ubuntu 10.04 server with some services (NFSv4, Samba, DNS) on an AMD Athlon 64 X2 5050e (Brisbane EE)
* all in a fully dual-stack IPv4/IPv6 environment

==== Involvement ====
* my page on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~netztier|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* spurious visits to the local Linux User Group <nowiki>[[http://www.lug-ag.ch/]]</nowiki>
* helping out with the networking part (switches/routers, wireless, mirror server) at SwissTeam's release parties for 7.04, 7.10, 8.04 and 8.10

=== Education and Career ===
==== Education ====
* dropout in summer '96 at <nowiki>[[http://www.epfl.ch/|Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (Lausanne)]]</nowiki>, Department of Electrical Engineering, after two failures at first preliminary exams. I hate maths ever since then.
* a short visit to <nowiki>[[http://www.unisg.ch/|Uni St.Gallen]]</nowiki> turned out to be a dead end in spring '94; I just didn't feel at home with the ties and white collars, and left after one semester.
* Matura '93 at <nowiki>[[http://www.ksb-lu.ch/|Kantonschule Beromünster]]</nowiki>. Those were the golden years.

==== Jobs ====
* Senior System Engineer at <nowiki>[[http://www.econis.ch/|Econis]]</nowiki> (Oct.'10 and counting )
* Network engineer in the IT & Logistics division at <nowiki>[[http://www.six-group.com/|SIX Group]]</nowiki> ('09- Sept.'10)
* Network specialist at <nowiki>[[http://www.six-swiss-exchange.com/|SIX - Swiss Exchange]]</nowiki> ('02-'09)
* IT supporter with <nowiki>[[http://www.holcim.ch/|Holcim (Switzerland)]]</nowiki> during almost five years ('96-'01)

==== Certifications and other Qualifications ====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.cisco.com/go/ccna|CCNA]]</nowiki> since February 2005, recertified in Feb. 2012.
* complete and utter failure to become a <nowiki>[[http://www.cisco.com/go/ccie|CCIE]]</nowiki> during summer 2005. Sometimes, you can aim too high indeed.
* Cisco Live! 2008 in Orlando/FL, with a good focus on IPv6
* <nowiki>[[http://campus.training.fortinet.com/|FCSNA and FCSNP]]</nowiki> for the Fortigate products by <nowiki>[[http://www.fortinet.com/|Fortinet]]</nowiki>
* Cisco Live! 2012 in London(UK)

=== Fields of Interest ===
==== professional ====
* Networking. TCP/IP, Routing, Switching, Firewalls (mainly Cisco-oriented)
* Network Management. HP OpenView Network Node Manager, CiscoWorks 2000
* Redundancy, fault-tolerance and resilience in networking
* unixoid operating systems
* the protocols of the Internet in general, with some deep love for IPv6.

==== private ====
* inline skating and <nowiki>[[http://www.airboard.com/|airboarding]]</nowiki> in wintertime.
* Discworld novels by Terry Pratchett <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discworld]]</nowiki>.
* Life, the Universe and Everything <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hitchhiker%27s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy]]</nowiki>.
* listening to what people (don't) say when they open their hearts to let grief, anger, pain, sorrow or old memories out.
* Goa and Psychedelic Trance music and parties, Didgeridoo.
* Geocaching: The Global GPS Cache Hunt <nowiki>[[http://www.geocaching.com/]]</nowiki>
