{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Created: <<Date>> by MarcoDallaVecchia
* Contributors: MarcoDallaVecchia
* Status: BrainDump
* Packages affected: gnome-panel

=== Summary ===
I propose to create a new configuration app, placed in System->Preferences and named "Panels", from where you can configure every panel. The design of the app should be taken by the preexisting gnome-panel-preferences UI.
From this application you could also create and remove panels, thus removing the options "Delete this panel" and "New panel" from the right-click popup menu and leaving the "Properties" one (which launches the general application).

=== Rationale ===
By now, to configure the properties for a  panel, you have to right-click on an empty space of the panel and choose "properties". 
The problem with this design is that a panel full of applets (like the bottom panel in default Gnome), lacks this empty space, leaving no choice but:
- removing an existing applet (say, the "show desktop one")
- configure the panel
- re-adding the applet (this is problematic even when you want to add a new applet in a panel already full).
Having a central application in System->Preferences->Panels may resolve these issues.

=== Implementation ===
Create a new application, taking the UI from the existing gnome-panel-preferences.glade adding to it a combo box on the top where you can choose the panel to configure. Beside this combo box there are buttons that permit to create a new panel and delete the selected panel.
From the popup menu in the panels, remove the "new panel" and "delete this panel" items. The properties item lauches the new panel preferences app.
