{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


NH LoCo meeting for August 16, 2008

=== Location ===

Business Center @ <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=1+waterford+Way,+manchester+nh&sll=43.047942,-71.494775&sspn=0.008703,0.022745&ie=UTF8&ll=43.019584,-71.4501&spn=0.069655,0.181961&z=13|1 Waterford Way, Manchester NH]]</nowiki>

=== Minutes ===

Facilitator: <nowiki>[[NikkiHenninger|Nikki Henninger]]</nowiki>

Note Taker: <nowiki>[[ArcRiley|Arc Riley]]</nowiki>

Present: <nowiki>[[NikkiHenninger|Nikki Henninger]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Employeeno5|Broderick Lang]]</nowiki>, Kyle Batley, Jeremy MacKinney, and <nowiki>[[ArcRiley|Arc Riley]]</nowiki>

==== Results from Ubuntu Community Council decision ====

We briefly discussed <nowiki>[[NikkiHenninger|Nikki]]</nowiki> replacing <nowiki>[[MatthewTCraig|Matthew Craig]]</nowiki> as our launchpad admin.  She's since opened membership and approved all pending members as we decided at our last meeting.

As a result, our membership has risen >10% in 3 days.  We discussed ways to outreach to more Ubuntu users/developers.  Broderick commented on the number of new mailing list subscriptions.

<nowiki>[[ArcRiley|Arc]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Employeeno5|Broderick]]</nowiki> previously got our mailing list approved and setup, which had more subscribers than LoCo members.  An email needs to be sent to our list inviting everyone to join on launchpad.

==== Contact person ====

<nowiki>[[ArcRiley|Arc]]</nowiki> nominated <nowiki>[[NikkiHenninger|Nikki]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Employeeno5|Broderick]]</nowiki> seconded, consensus was had.

==== Software Freedom Day ====

We're co-hosting <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/northamerica/NH/Concord|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki> in Concord, NH with <nowiki>[[http://wiki.gnhlug.org/twiki2/bin/view/Www/WebHome|GNHLUG]]</nowiki>.  We're getting a permit for the park in front of the State House and are working out a location for an Ubuntu workshop that night.  We may be able to host this at the <nowiki>[[http://www.concordfoodcoop.coop/|Concord Food Coop]]</nowiki>.

We'll have an pre-SFD meeting next month instead of a LoCo monthly meeting next month.

==== Ubuntu SIG ====

We talked at length about the proposed GNHLUG Ubuntu SIG.  <nowiki>[[NikkiHenninger|Nikki]]</nowiki>, Matt H, and <nowiki>[[ArcRiley|Arc]]</nowiki> brought this to the GNHLUG board of directors last month.  <nowiki>[[Employeeno5|Broderick]]</nowiki> suggested alternative names and we led into a discussion as to the need for a SIG.

We resolved that now that the LoCo isn't limited to only FOSS activists, we can host the proposed SIG functions ourselves and "Desktop workshops" at <nowiki>[[http://wiki.gnhlug.org/twiki2/bin/view/Www/WebHome|GNHLUG]]</nowiki> chapters.  Kyle talked about hosting a Linux Audio workshop and could show off <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio|Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki>.

We closed the meeting and walked back to <nowiki>[[NikkiHenninger|Nikki]]</nowiki>'s for pizza and beer.

----
CategoryNewHampshireTeam
