{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== New Jersey Team IRC Meeting 05 September 2007 ==

<pre>
   1. * Joe_CoT changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-nj to: Meeting Now, 9 - 10 PM. Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewJerseyTeam/Agenda/20070905
   2. * mode/#ubuntu-us-nj [-o Joe_CoT] by Joe_CoT
   3. <jkb973> installing Edubuntu in the other room as we chat
   4. <henrygf> im not a noob but im new here
   5. <harda> Welcome, henrygf.
   6. <jkb973> hi Henry
   7. <henrygf> hello
   8. <henrygf> middlesex county is in the house
   9. <recon> lets see... first thing on the agenda, Software Freedom Day at PACS.
  10. <Joe_CoT> right
  11. <recon> toms river jr. rep here.
  12. <harda> Maybe first thing should be introductions?
  13. <Joe_CoT> sure
  14. <Joe_CoT> harda?
  15. <harda> I'm Dave Harding, Loco member at large. I'll be the speaker at Software Freedom Day at PACS.
  16. <Siph01> Im Shawn McCarthy. joined the loco a few days ago. been using ubuntu for little over a year. and im also from middlesex county
  17. <Joe_CoT> I'm Joe Terranova, "Team Leader" by self-appointment, and benevolent dictator until someone wrangles it from me.
  18. <recon> I'm REMOVED-BY-REQUEST, Been using ubuntu since breezy, resident of Toms River. I prefer to use my psedonym.
  19. <jedijf> i am jim fisher supporting member
  20. <jedijf> cinnaminson,nj and abington,pa
  21. <henrygf> I'm Henry Franco. Ubuntu supporter all the way. perth amboy to be exact
  22. <jkb973> Jack Boyle, new guy from way up north in Passaic County. Dabbling with Ubuntu and Edubuntu since 6.10. Starting to get serious.
  23. <gQuigs> I'm Bryan Quigley, and I might be leaving and then coming back in the middle of this meeting.. cherry hill, nj and I use Ubuntu.
  24. <Joe_CoT> ok. last call. Anyone else?
  25. <dch1969> I'm Craig Holland in Essex County. I've been using Ubuntu/Edubuntu since 6.10... started my 2 year old on it :-) I'm going to lurk most of the meeting, apologies.
  26. <Joe_CoT> alrighty then
  27. <Joe_CoT> agenda's here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewJerseyTeam/Agenda/20070905
  28. <Joe_CoT> First up, a reminder:
  29. <Joe_CoT> The NJ team will be supporting the PA at their Software Freedom Day event at PACS. Links for location and directions are on the agenda. Try to show up if you can. Should be a fun event, you'll get to meet quite a few Ubuntu people
  30. <harda> What does supporting them entail? Who should we report to for assignments and when?
  31. <harda> s/when/by when/
  32. <jedijf> support other demonstrators before main 12 noon presentation
  33. <jedijf> or do your own demos
  34. <jedijf> brb
  35. <Joe_CoT> sheesh, pa is still going? :D
  36. <Siph01> i will not be at the PACS, NJ volunteer firefighters go to wildwood that weekend
  37. <recon> neither will i, due to time constraints and family obligations.
  38. <harda> So, those of us going should find somebody with a GNU+Linux computer and offer to help them?
  39. <harda> That's a simple enough plan.
  40. <Joe_CoT> by support I generally mean "show up". If anyone who's going has another idea, discuss it on the list or with the PA team.
  41. <Joe_CoT> But yeah, answering questions, etc
  42. <harda> Ok! Next agenda item?
  43. <jedijf> or do your own demos
  44. <Joe_CoT> yessir
  45. <Joe_CoT> September's Event.
  46. <Joe_CoT> Ok, so the doodle poll is on the agenda. Let's see what it looks like so far ...
  47. <recon> Seem's Sat. 22 is the most popular date.
  48. * tehk [n=tehk@c-71-59-90-172.hsd1.nj.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-nj
  49. <Siph01> oh yea i saw that event! :) i didnt get a chance to look up the distances.... does anyone know how far each is from central jersey?
  50. <Joe_CoT> Where central?
  51. <Siph01> middlesex county, south river/east brunswick
  52. <harda> Siph01: Both locations are about 1 hour and 20 minutes from there.
  53. <Siph01> ok :) thx
  54. <Joe_CoT> columbus is apparently closer. HEH, i thought columbus was more south.
  55. <jkb973> doodle poll is kinda vague. what is the sept event? an installfest?
  56. <Joe_CoT> ok, both of those are for farmer's markets. The point was to decide which date and which one
  57. <Joe_CoT> harda, how rural an area is columbus?
  58. <harda> Joe_CoT: Very.
  59. <Joe_CoT> hmm
  60. <harda> They let me live out here, for heaven's sake. There can't be many people around.
  61. <Joe_CoT> haddonfield might be a better shot then, since it's actually an urban area.
  62. * harda shrugs
  63. <Siph01> either is good for me...
  64. <Joe_CoT> if no one has any strong opinions either way, i'll be calling haddonfield tomorrow to see rates for them. Columbus was pretty cheap
  65. <recon> The distance between them isn't very big, so I'd go for either (assuming i can pool the resources to go).
  66. <Siph01> what is a farmers market?
  67. <harda> I decided not to vote: I think somebody should just pick a location and date and run with it. It's a farmer's market, any three of us can run the show for a day.
  68. <Joe_CoT> ok.
  69. <recon> Joe_CoT: What exactly would we be doing at a farmer's market?
  70. <Joe_CoT> well, if haddonfield is open, i'm probably going to go with that, since it's more along the target audience.
  71. <Joe_CoT> recon: setting up a both, showing ubuntu, giving out CDs
  72. <Joe_CoT> *booth
  73. <harda> By booth, Joe_CoT means a table, which they provide.
  74. <jkb973> they got 'lectricty out there?
  75. <Joe_CoT> it may seem out of place, but to be honest, there's little point in showing linux at a computer show. you've either seen it or you haven't
  76. <harda> jkb973: Not at Columbus; I don't know abut Haddonfield.
  77. <harda> Yeah, they don't show farms at farmer's markets either.
  78. <Joe_CoT> probably not at haddonfield either. jedijf i believe previously suggested a car battery. I'm sure we can figure out electricity
  79. <jkb973> there's always laptops...
  80. <jedijf> van can recharge laptops if necessary
  81. <harda> It'd have to be laptops; full PCs won't run long even on a car battery.
  82. <jedijf> two inverters
  83. <Joe_CoT> harda: I'll just bring LCDs and turn off the water cooling. it'll be fine ;)
  84. <recon> Joe_CoT: if i were you, i'd bring an extra battery.
  85. <jedijf> i can run van to power inverters to power desktops
  86. <harda> I think this talk isn't about picking a location.
  87. <Joe_CoT> ok, any other caveats for a farmer's market? Milk spilling on the keyboard? Perhaps hay getting into the fan intake?
  88. <jkb973> cow pies
  89. <recon> Joe_CoT: actually, most farmer's market's are sandy, and with people walking and kicking up dirt, the fan system might nuke the motherboard or something.
  90. <harda> The weather is the only possible problem.
  91. <jedijf> nike - just do it
  92. <jedijf> except for columbus which has cover
  93. <harda> I suggest that we don't go if the weather is going to suck.
  94. <harda> Nobody goes to farmers markets if the weather sucks. So even if we have cover, nobody will see us.
  95. <Joe_CoT> i'll see us.
  96. <jedijf> harda, +1
  97. <Joe_CoT> but, okay
  98. <Joe_CoT> if people are already down by haddonfield when the weather goes downhill, we can retreat to my house
  99. <harda> I vote that whoever is bringing the computers is responsible for calling off the event in the case of bad weather.
 100. <jedijf> or lan party at my warehouse :)
 101. <harda> Since they have a vested interest.
 102. <recon> harda: Seconded.
 103. <Joe_CoT> so noted.
 104. <jedijf> harda, +1
 105. <Joe_CoT> Okay, moving on?
 106. <jkb973> so let it be written
 107. <jedijf> so let it be done
 108. <jedijf> *gong*
 109. <harda> Joe_CoT: Hey! Pick at date!
 110. <harda> s/at/a/
 111. <Joe_CoT> 22nd
 112. <harda> At Haddonfield?
 113. <jedijf> re *gong*
 114. <Joe_CoT> at haddonfield, pending me finding out if we can be there tomorrow
 115. <harda> Good! Hoorah. Joe_CoT++
 116. <Joe_CoT> ok, one more thing before we go talking about the vague future...
 117. <recon> ...too...many....increments....
 118. <jedijf> Joe_CoT, be there tomorrow?
 119. <Joe_CoT> jedijf: no, i'll call tomorrow. If i need to meat meet, I'll be there on friday
 120. <harda> jedijf: He's going to investiage the availablility of tables.
 121. <jedijf> ahh
 122. <jedijf> sorry bouncing states
 123. <Joe_CoT> Gutsy comes out in the middle of October (sometime). Since we actually have a large enough LoCo this release, we should have a Release Party.
 124. <harda> I'm in.
 125. <henrygf> im in
 126. <Siph01> Im in!
 127. * jedijf is negotiable
 128. <jkb973> depends on date/time/place.
 129. <Joe_CoT> keep in mind, PA is tired of planning things, so I think they'll be in, at least those in the philly area.
 130. <Joe_CoT> but yeah, release party. If things go well, I'll be putting us in for approval soon after that.
 131. <recon> Joe_CoT: if parents give permission and it's feasible in my schedule, i'm in.
 132. <jedijf> we want to reciprocate support
 133. <jedijf> grow both LoCo's
 134. <recon> Joe_CoT: Where'd a likely place be?
 135. <harda> If we're inviting Philly, I imagine it'd by in Cherry Hill area.
 136. <harda> s/by/be/
 137. <Joe_CoT> recon: good question. that's something we'll need to talk about (though not right now). In fact, bring up good questions that need discussing later, people.
 138. <jedijf> don't worry about philly in your plans - they(we) will get to you
 139. <jedijf> (us)
 140. <harda> jedijf: Ok.
 141. <Joe_CoT> (them)
 142. <recon> Joe_CoT: the type of party is also a good subject. Food? Lan? Dare I say, BOTH!?!
 143. <harda> I gathered that most release parties happen at local food joints.
 144. <Joe_CoT> harda: correct. Most release parties are just parties and meet-and-greets, with some computers and installs creeping in here and there
 145. <recon> harda: well, you're the expert on this sort of thing.
 146. <harda> I guess we should ask these questions on the list and collect suggestions.
 147. <harda> Especially since it isn't urgent yet. Should we move on?
 148. <Joe_CoT> yes, to more not urgent things.
 149. <Joe_CoT> next up: recruiting
 150. <harda> I vote for the draft.
 151. <Joe_CoT> How do we get people into the LoCo? keep in mind, there's varying levels of participation, from coming to events, to planning and organizing.
 152. <Joe_CoT> harda: selective service for everyone that downloads an ubuntu iso? i'll bring it up at the CC
 153. <harda> Joe_CoT: Thanks.
 154. <jkb973> steal from PA?
 155. <recon> Joe_CoT: Well, at the High School level, posters and general awareness is pretty much would I'd be working for. We can't recruit into the LoCo if they don't know anything about Ubuntu. Recruting is technically stage 2 of my plan.
 156. <harda> recon: Is stage one taking over the world? That was my plan when I was your age.
 157. <recon> harda: stage 1 is awareness, aka brainwashing.
 158. <harda> recon: Oh, ok, Pinky.
 159. <Joe_CoT> recon, you'd be surprise how many "technically adept" people know about ubuntu. It might be worth asking around (computer groups? gamers?) to see if people know about it and are interested in helping.
 160. <Joe_CoT> my high school had a computer club ..
 161. <recon> Joe_CoT: I had. The response wasn't very enthusiastic. I'm planning on surveying and giving out CD's at the first meeting of the computer club.
 162. <dch1969> I've installed Edubuntu for several neighbors, on spare hardware we/they had...for their kids. They've had very positive experiences with it. I run our neighborhood groups (~300 families, and am active in the school district). I'm hoping to give away the rest of my spare hardware with XUbuntu 7.10 pre-installed.
 163. <Joe_CoT> recon: ok, so you /do/ have a computer club.
 164. <jkb973> dch: we need to talk... :)
 165. <harda> Giving away old hardware is a good idea.
 166. <recon> Joe_CoT: yeah, but it won't be in session until further notice. the teach's are still hacking things together w/the freshmen.
 167. <dch1969> neighborhood groups = yahoo groups. Yes, I'm a big advocate. I've already pre-conditioned my in-laws harddrives to be ready for Ubuntu when Windows 98 dies :-)
 168. <jedijf> i think recon can open doors for toms river area
 169. <jkb973> heh. it so happens I'm in the middle of collecting and giving away old PCs. Edubuntu, not Xubuntu
 170. <Joe_CoT> going on the LAN idea, and something I've been kicking to death since the LoCo started, I'd like to have a Linux LAN party this fall, if we can get enough interest this fall
 171. <dch1969> I have very old old old hardware...not enough memory unfortunately and not cost effective to upgrade.
 172. <recon> jedijf: only virtually and locally. i'm basically stuck in my house, and w/o any budget.
 173. <Siph01> id be in for the linux lan party too....
 174. <recon> jedijf: however, i'm doing what i can.
 175. <harda> I'll participate in the free software events at a LAN party.
 176. <dch1969> It might be worth looking for a source for donated hardware that is capable of a base low-memory install...
 177. <Joe_CoT> recon: it's OK. you don't actually -need- any money to advocate linux ;D
 178. <recon> Joe_CoT: it helps. but i'm doing my share.
 179. <jedijf> always need troops on the ground recon :)
 180. <Joe_CoT> ok. besides schools, what else can we do to get people interested in the team?
 181. <jkb973> strippers?
 182. <jedijf> are you ready for npo's
 183. <recon> Joe_CoT: a ubuntu ARG?\
 184. <harda> Give status reports at every LUG meeting?
 185. <harda> Remind people we still exist.
 186. <Joe_CoT> jkb973--
 187. <Siph01> posters around towns?
 188. <Joe_CoT> well here's a quick question to those of you new to us: how did you find out about the LoCo?
 189. <harda> I don't think postering is effective advocacy.
 190. <Siph01> ubuntuforums.org
 191. <recon> Browsing the ubuntu wiki
 192. <dch1969> groklaw, probably... their newspicks.
 193. <henrygf> ubuntu forum
 194. <jkb973> WIFM. Whats In It For Me. Need a 30-second elevator pitch.
 195. <jkb973> two good sentences to grab and hold their attention.
 196. * harda always takes the stairs; I need something I can say without breathing
 197. <jedijf> ahh presentations for/at general computer users groups
 198. <Joe_CoT> jkb973: for Ubuntu, or for LoCo teams
 199. <jkb973> both
 200. <jkb973> differnt msg for each
 201. <Joe_CoT> hrm. Any takers?
 202. <jkb973> kids have a short attention span these days
 203. <harda> I think what we need most is activities people want to help with or participate in. If we're the life of the party, people will want to join us.
 204. <recon> Joe_CoT: I find while giving sermons, I end up focusing on the fact that ubuntu is easy for beginners, and more advanced users can easily access the more advanced features.
 205. <Joe_CoT> dch1969: We made it on Groklaw? when? Was it the Ubuntu US Teams that made it?
 206. <dch1969> My boss at work was blown away by the perf difference between Vista and Ubuntu on the same hardware...and decided he never wanted to look at another MS OS again.
 207. <jkb973> recon: same is true of Windows
 208. <recon> jkb973: in comparison to other linux distros.
 209. <jkb973> Ubuntu. Cool software. Free.
 210. <jkb973> recon: agreed
 211. <dch1969> Groklaw... I think PJ blogrolled a post about Ubuntu was sponsoring regional groups to support installed, and I followed that to the ubuntu forums.
 212. <recon> Ubuntu-- Powerful, Easy to use, and your grandma could use it. And it's free.
 213. <Joe_CoT> ok. can we move onto the next item?
 214. <dch1969> For the small businesses, it might be interesting to demonstrate what they could do to quickly develop a kiosk app or stand-alone information workstation to enhance customer experience.
 215. <recon> Joe_CoT: sure.
 216. <Joe_CoT> dch1969: i'd like to see that as well
 217. <jkb973> for free
 218. <harda> Next Item!
 219. <recon> * What events do we want to work on in the future?
 220. <Joe_CoT> The PA team has had quite a bit of success working with non-profits. Their relationship with NTR has translated into several events so far
 221. <jedijf> long term stuff
 222. <jedijf> not one and done
 223. <harda> I want a confrence like Penguicon.
 224. <Joe_CoT> harda++ on a conference
 225. <harda> I've made a few contacts in Deleware and Maryland who might be willing to work on it with me. We're getting started this Saturday; you'll all receive the email.
 226. <Joe_CoT> oh?
 227. <Joe_CoT> also, your contacts in delaware should start a delaware team already
 228. <jedijf> great kickoff for delaware
 229. <jedijf> a con
 230. <harda> Joe_CoT: I'm giving a presentation at University of Deleware; you're welcome to carpool with me and pitch a LoCo to the LUG there.
 231. <Joe_CoT> sheesh. you've got better contacts than i do. I didn't get anywhere with DelLUG
 232. <Joe_CoT> when are you presenting?
 233. <harda> It's not scheduled yet. I told them it'd have to be after SFD; I'm waiting for their LUG president to contact me.
 234. <Joe_CoT> ok
 235. <harda> I'll let you know.
 236. <dch1969> Just ideas here... Better business bureau / Small business networking events? Possibly career/job/networking events (people interested in acquiring new job/tools skills)?
 237. <Joe_CoT> how would people feel about working with local PC shops? To me, it seems like one of the easiest ways in the door. You get them selling Ubuntu PCs, we link to them on the site.
 238. <harda> I'm not interested in working with them unless I'm getting a cut of the sale.
 239. <harda> That's just me.
 240. <jedijf> dch1969, burl cty has small business resource center at moorestown mall
 241. <jedijf> burlington county
 242. <jedijf> it may be worth a contact
 243. <Joe_CoT> small business resource center?
 244. <jedijf> yep
 245. <jedijf> salvation army camden county has computer center
 246. <recon> Joe_CoT: That's a great idea. They'd even save money. However, there aren't any indie computer shops in my share of toms river, to my knowledge. and they probably wouldn't listen to a freshman, anyway.
 247. <dch1969> I find it easy to capture the "nothing to lose" crowd, who's hard drive has just died. I've gone to recover files with a linux distro, and they often do not have an OS to restore to a new HD. I've had Ubuntu handy to give them something to "make do" .... they never look back. :-)
 248. * harda got his Dad that way
 249. <jedijf> or find a ntr type establishment in nj
 250. <dch1969> Who wants to spend $2k+ on a vista-compatible machine...
 251. <jedijf> refurbishes and provides free/low cost computers and support to the community
 252. <recon> Joe_CoT: however, i know of a few indie computer repair stores that I could "informnate" of Ubuntu as a free, alternate OS for those that don't want to (re)purchase windows.
 253. <recon> s/informnate/inform
 254. <jkb973> i liked informnate better
 255. <gQuigs> Someone posted on the list about partnering with bookstores..
 256. <Joe_CoT> recon, unfortunately, a lot of pc shops actually just pirate windows. I think it's pretty worth it to show them Ubuntu as an alternative to that
 257. <recon> Joe_CoT: I'll see what I can do on that front.
 258. <gQuigs> Has anyone ever approached a pc vendor about preloading Ubuntu? If so, how did it turn out?
 259. <jkb973> my church is having an old computer collection day in late october, in support of the refurbishing project for the school. Can give out CDs, flyers, etc there.
 260. <jedijf> jkb973, perfect
 261. <Joe_CoT> gQuigs: nope. How about this: how about everyone tries it over the weekend, and let's us know how it goes
 262. <jkb973> remember the WIFM for the PC vendor too...
 263. <gQuigs> Joe_CoT: Sounds good to me, I call those on 70
 264. <Joe_CoT> gQuigs: damn
 265. <Joe_CoT> WIFM?
 266. <jkb973> what's in it for me.
 267. <Joe_CoT> ah
 268. <recon> So, I think that about concludes the meeting.
 269. <gQuigs> Better Performance, Better Product, Easier Sell
 270. <Joe_CoT> ok. lots of stuff for the list
 271. <jedijf> nice meeting Joe_CoT
 272. <recon> Umm... Who's keeping the logs?
 273. <Joe_CoT> but, most of all, thanks for coming. I look forward to working with you all
</pre>
