{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== New Jersey LoCo Team ==

The New Jersey <nowiki>[[LoCoTeams|Local Community Team]]</nowiki> exists to advocate and educate Linux users from the entire state of New Jersey about Ubuntu Linux, help out new Linux users, work with and connect users to New Jersey LUGs, and planning events where everyone has fun!

=== How do I join? ===
Easy, follow these steps:
* Subscribe and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewJerseyTeam#Communication Channels|Say hello]]</nowiki> on the mailing List!
* Join our Team! <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-nj|Launchpad page]]</nowiki>

When you've been brought on the Launchpad team, we strongly encourage you to:
* Sign the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/community/conduct/|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. This can be done via your Launchpad account.

If you have any questions, visit the #ubuntu-us-nj channel on irc.freenode.net. If you only find tumbleweeds in that channel, feel free to contact  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~joeterranova|JoeTerranova]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jzacsh|jzacsh]]</nowiki>.

=== Community Resources ===
==== Communication Channels ====
* '''Launch Pad''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-nj|NJ Team Launchpad page]]</nowiki> - Please sign up here.
* '''Mailing list''': <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-us-nj|mailing list]]</nowiki>
* '''IRC Channel''': #ubuntu-us-nj on Freenode (irc://irc.freenode.net/#ubuntu-us-nj)

== Team Activities ==

=== IRC Meeting ===
Next IRC Meeting: 

For more information read our <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam-IRC| IRC page]]</nowiki>.

=== Goals ===
* Have events where people can see using Linux is fun!
* Learn and Share GNU/Linux
* Help users install and setup Ubuntu
* Promote Ubuntu
* Connect users with New Jersey LUGs

=== SubPages ===

----
 . CategoryLoCoTeams
