{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{{#!irc
* Joe_CoT has changed the topic to: IRC meeting NOW. If you're not here, you get 2 demerits
<RickHahn13> if it werent for the occasional accident i doubt most of us wouldnt be here
<Joe_CoT>  /anyway/....
<RickHahn13> sorry
<Joe_CoT> okay, so i think this is most of the people that were at the regional meetings. hi
<joincamp> hi
<gQuig1> hello
<undertherift> hi
* Joe_CoT pokes Grarg
<Joe_CoT> ok, things that went on at the meetings: people talked about how annoying Xorg configuration was, we thought a linux LAN party was a good idea, and TCF is April 28th-29th
<Joe_CoT> TCF + linux lan = 2 events. we need to think of another good one
<FrostyColdDrink> helpdesk?
<gQuig1> elaborate...
<FrostyColdDrink> workshop, apple genius bar style
<Joe_CoT> we can do a installfest/helpfest, but it needs to be promoted, heavily
<undertherift> How about a presentation at a library or elementary school?
<joincamp> and we fix people's xp problems?
<gQuig1> by installing ubuntu
<joincamp> there it is
<FrostyColdDrink> heh there we go :)
<Joe_CoT> it's not as simple as that, and that's the problem. Feisty will help with that
<undertherift> A helpdesk is nice - but people have to have it to get help... if they don't have ubuntu, why would they need help?
<FrostyColdDrink> well thats why its not going to be the first thing to do :)
<Joe_CoT> we wouldn't just have a helpdesk. it'd be an installfest. I think having a helpdesk/installfest every month or so would be a really good idea
<undertherift> so as a follow up to an installfest?
<FrostyColdDrink> apple is getting a lot of peopel to swich partially becasue they can stop in and get help, one on one and in workshops
<FrostyColdDrink> it woudl be nice to offer than after some other events
<joincamp> lets do it
<FrostyColdDrink> yeah!
<undertherift> I think once a month is pretty ambitious, especially initially.
<FrostyColdDrink> yeah, quarterly may be good
<Joe_CoT> I'd like to get the first 3 done quickly.
<Joe_CoT> So we wouldn't have an event before tcf, but we should be planning and getting prepared for ones
<gQuig1> I wouldn't, I want them to be done well
<joincamp> i doubt people would be showing up in droves, so it wouldnt be all that bad to do a few
<FrostyColdDrink> well a couple weeks after the install fest we could workshop, then set up quartlerly after that if we think its good
<gQuig1> I think we might want to start out with a presentation, before an installfest, to gather support for it
<gQuig1> install fests might get more people out for the loco team, they generally don't get the average joe out to em
<Joe_CoT> qQuig1: I'm talking weeks, not days. in my mind, the order would go: tcf, installfest, lan. tcf and the installfest won't talk a whole lot of planning. the installfest needs promoting, and the lan needs a lot of preparing
<FrostyColdDrink> i dont think it needs to be said but cordinatign any event, particuarly an install fest with LUGs would be a nice bon, so long as its an ubuntu events :)
<Joe_CoT> gQuig1: what do you think would get the average Joe out?
<FrostyColdDrink> "What your computer to just work? Ubuntu - Linux for Human Beings"
<undertherift> Joe: Maybe a 'don't want to spend $400 on vista?' Check this out
<RickHahn13> what if we set up a table in a best buy somewhere and showed off fiesty?
<FrostyColdDrink> they would never allow that
<Joe_CoT> i don't think setting up in a store would be good for anything but getting arrested
<undertherift> ok lets do it
<RickHahn13> well i'm just talking concept here
<joincamp> haha
<RickHahn13> somewhere where people can get face time with it
<RickHahn13> a college campus maybe
<joincamp> i work at a lab in drexel, maybe i could set up some of the lab pc's for a night
<undertherift> bookstore?
<FrostyColdDrink> campus areas, libraries, coffee joints, merchants association meetings, ...
<joincamp> invite people in to see what its about?
<Joe_CoT> is there anything that we could do, where it wouldn't be so much people going to it, but people happening upon it? those seem to work the best
<FrostyColdDrink> yeah, just being ther efor drive bys is cool to
<RickHahn13> we could distribute live cds
<undertherift> joe: 'happening upon it'?
<FrostyColdDrink> thats why we ste up on campus and libraries and such :) People will come by, probably have a few minutes to spare
<Joe_CoT> does a library really get that much foot traffic? (i wouldn't know, i haven't been to one for years except for chlug)
<undertherift> yeah definitely
<FrostyColdDrink> the cherry hill llibrary seems to have a good bit during meeting time
<joincamp> people could set up a table outside my lab and promote it, and then send them inside to see more
<FrostyColdDrink> we have to catch the groups going out of the computer labs for schedueld events too, you know, for extra boost
<FrostyColdDrink> to timing is key
* gQuigs (n=bryan@c-24-0-105-148.hsd1.nj.comcast.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nj
<Joe_CoT> how about an installfest /at/ a college campus?
<Joe_CoT> we can promote it with demos in public areas, and then have the installfest later.
<joincamp> sounds good
<Joe_CoT> only problem is that there's only about a month left of this school year :-/
<FrostyColdDrink> yeah thats cool
<FrostyColdDrink> youd better hurry then :)
<joincamp> drexel is year round ;)
* gQuig1 has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
<undertherift> I think that would do better in the fall
<Joe_CoT> most places are, but are empty in the summer.
<undertherift> get those young, impressionable freshmen
<joincamp> yeah but drexel is really year round
<joincamp> and not empty
<gQuigs> yea I know, but half of us aren't there at any given time ....
<Joe_CoT> yeah, but drexel's in philadelphia ;) Let's not steal all of the PA team's thunder just yet.
<joincamp> haha
<Joe_CoT> ok, how many people would be interested/able to be at tcf?
<gQuigs> ./
* FrostyColdDrink will be in LA
<joincamp> i think im good for it
<gQuigs> you giving a talk / demo there?
<Joe_CoT> i have to email the guy. If i haven't done so by the end of this week, come to my house and slap me
<FrostyColdDrink> just do it now
<Joe_CoT> i'm at work
<FrostyColdDrink> we'll wait
<FrostyColdDrink> you can't send e-mails?
<gQuigs> but you can hold an IRC meeting
<FrostyColdDrink> something isn't adding up here
<Joe_CoT> i'll email them tonight, ok?
<gQuigs> ok
<FrostyColdDrink> sure
<joincamp> uh huh
<Joe_CoT> ok. like i said, only 2 badges, but it looks like that doesn't matter past set up. I need one other badge person who can be there to set up / take down. Doesn't need to be the same person both days
<gQuigs> I can be there at least one day
<gQuigs> what's a badge
<gQuigs> ?
<Joe_CoT> "vendor" badge
<Joe_CoT> ie you're allowed to be at the table. during the show, doesn't matter, but it probably matters when vendors are setting up
<joincamp> i think i would be able to be there one day
<Joe_CoT> okay, i stand corrected:
<Joe_CoT> http://www.tcf-nj.org/web/Purchase-Advance-Tickets.html
<Joe_CoT> it's apparently cheaper to get a vendor badge than to get admission o.O
<FrostyColdDrink> it makes sense
<Joe_CoT> which is a bummer, so we'll need to talk about that when people know when they can come
<Joe_CoT> ok, so what's the first thing you guys want to do after tcf?
<FrostyColdDrink> installfest
<FrostyColdDrink> so they can participate in the lan party :)
<joincamp> yah
* gQuig1 (n=bryan@c-24-0-105-148.hsd1.nj.comcast.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nj
<Joe_CoT> haha. they can participate in the lan party either way. linux games are like that
<FrostyColdDrink> hmm but the lan party is a good dry run to get people to want to install :)
<Joe_CoT> if we want to do the lan party first, we need to start working on it pronto
* gQuigs has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
<FrostyColdDrink> no install fest first is better :)
<FrostyColdDrink> do we have a specific date for fiesty release yet?
<gQuig1> "When it's Done"
<Joe_CoT> it's supposed to be April 19th. It'll definately be before tcf, so we'll be giving it out then
<FrostyColdDrink> well we'd want to do the fest as soon after fiesty release as possible.
<FrostyColdDrink> right?
<FrostyColdDrink> But I won't be here :)
<Joe_CoT> yeah, but we wouldn't want to plan it close enough to the 19th to chance it not being out yet
<FrostyColdDrink> how about cinco de mayo?
<Joe_CoT> and there might be issues that need resolving. Edgy broke everyone's wireless cards when it first came out
<FrostyColdDrink> thats roughly 2 weeks
<undertherift> If you're gonna do it at a college, may is around finals time
<Joe_CoT> that could work, but is a week after tcf. i can do it, i don't know who else would, esp because of finals
<FrostyColdDrink> yeah no one will car the week or two before finals, through the end
<FrostyColdDrink> wussie college students
<Joe_CoT> i could do it the 12th. that's right after finals. on the 19th i'll be at pacs
<FrostyColdDrink> so it seems unless we do soemthing before the tcf we aren't going to get the college boon, am i right?
<FrostyColdDrink> yes people will be around after finals, but i know a lot of students take the summers off
<Joe_CoT> right, and before tcf we risk Feisty badness. I think the college thing is a good thing to remember for the fall
<FrostyColdDrink> yeah, so noted
<FrostyColdDrink> so tenetive install fest mat 12?
<Joe_CoT> so we'd need to think of somewhere else to have it if we wanted it in mid-may, and we'd need to find a way to get the word out
<FrostyColdDrink> i do have a coffee shop I can try and scam :)
<Joe_CoT> that's pretty far south though. that's the other problem. people won't come far and wide for an installfest
<joincamp> what if we put out a ad saying something to the effect of "you got the slick new computer, but lets put some life back in that old one"
<FrostyColdDrink> jersey sucks. Cali peeps would do it
<FrostyColdDrink> how much do you really want to coordinate state-wide though? I mean, you cant even get north jersey to come out :)
<joincamp> i know lots of people with old p3's that they dont know what to do with
<FrostyColdDrink> if you pick central jersey, that w ould be least pain for all, but who would come from the far north?
<Joe_CoT> who would come from the south?
<gQuig1> lol
<FrostyColdDrink> i would
<joincamp> farmers dont use computers ;)\
<gQuig1> we could carpool, but we aren't going to attract any other people from the south
<Joe_CoT> yeah. i think we'd be better picking a region for the install fest and promoting it there
<FrostyColdDrink> yeah, so it may be a good idea to do sattilite events, as much as that sucks ass
<Joe_CoT> we could have 2, a couple weeks apart
<Joe_CoT> but i'm only hearing 2 ppl for cherry hill talk right now, so i don't know how well that would pan out
<Joe_CoT> *from
<FrostyColdDrink> and i have to travel to get up to cherry hill too
<FrostyColdDrink> well your the loco team leader so its on you to work it out :)
<Joe_CoT> well thanks ;P
<gQuig1> I still like the invade a school idea :)
<Joe_CoT> gQuig1: me too, but i think it'll probably have to wait til the fall
<gQuig1> err. . I mean not the college thing, the edubuntu lab at local school thingy
<gQuig1> its sortof easier than an installfest
<FrostyColdDrink> so burlington is as far north as I'm willign to travel on my own, and it ould have to be a long affair.
<undertherift> I think attacking a public library is a good option too
<undertherift> lots of different age groups, and a lot of people loitering
<FrostyColdDrink> and people receptive to education, hopefully :)
<undertherift> right
<joincamp> haha
<undertherift> and then we 'demo' to the staff that it works
<Joe_CoT> well, i could definitely car pool you guys up, it's definitely easy enough for gQuig, and you're willing to drive to cherry hill as it is. but i don't think a split installfest would be that bad either. We've got some people in the south, and enough people in the north when combined with ruslug for it to work
<undertherift> perhaps try and get a promo session with them
<Joe_CoT> gQuig1: how'd things go with haddonfield/cherry hill?
<undertherift> I gotta jet for now, enjoy yourselves.
<gQuig1> cya
<joincamp> bye
<Joe_CoT> later
<gQuig1> yea... procrastination got me too
<FrostyColdDrink> later
<Joe_CoT> haha. it's not so much procrastination as work, school, everything
<Joe_CoT> okay, so it mostly looks like it's just gQuig1, FrostyColdDrink, joincamp, and I at this point. anyone else alive still?
<FrostyColdDrink> ping?
<gQuig1> pong!
<FrostyColdDrink> yeah but we alreadt knew you were there
<Joe_CoT> okay. I think that's about it for the "meeting" then. we can keep talking about stuff, but realize there's no one from north jersey on at all.
<FrostyColdDrink> heh. seems like you are just going to have to call some shots, and hope you can bus in eough people to make it work
<Joe_CoT> gQuig1: getting back to something you said earlier, i do want this stuff done right, but I'm anxious to get the 3 planned. Getting approved means canonical stops treating us like lepers
<Joe_CoT> FrostyColdDrink: yeah, i know. but i did that for the north jersey meeting location, and only 1 person that was outside new brunswick came.
<RickHahn13> i'm here... just eating
<FrostyColdDrink> if living in NJ has tought me anything, its that people who drive in NJ either pass through, or don't go far
<Joe_CoT> i think we could get people to go far for the linux lan, but that one's the most important to me as far as planning it very well
<gQuig1> agreed, but I know ppl that would travel pretty far for LAN party
<FrostyColdDrink> yeah, network capacity is easy, but power reqiirements are tough
<Joe_CoT> ruslug guaranteed me a location. they're friends with a gaming league in new brunswick. that's space + power + parking
<gQuig1> sweet
<Joe_CoT> yeah
<RickHahn13> i'm in
<Joe_CoT> the lan needs a lot of planning, though. i'm anxious to plan the event that's going to come after tcf, so we can start planning the lan
<gQuig1> How should I address the Haddonfield guy?  I now have a team willing to help your school get a lab set up running edubuntu.... Do I ?
<FrostyColdDrink> well we can note the wiki as we have ideas, yhen sit downto plan, sowe dont forget
<joincamp> yeah
<Joe_CoT> gQuig1: if they say yes, we'll have people to do it. tell them you can demo Ubuntu to them. I can come with if you want.
<gQuig1> I've already demoed it :/
<joincamp> what'd they say?
<Joe_CoT> oh, ok. do they seem interested?
<gQuig1> the superintendent loved it thought it was the future
<gQuig1> the IT Admin likes vista
<joincamp> thats good
<joincamp> thats not
<FrostyColdDrink> ha
<gQuig1> the IT Administrator has reviewed openoffice and found compatibility problems....
<Joe_CoT> strange, france didn't
<FrostyColdDrink> of course...
<gQuig1> ah.. IT Admin /= to IT Adminstrator,
<gQuig1> 2 people
<gQuig1> IT Admin = Sysadmin
<Joe_CoT> what i'd suggest is telling them we could do it on only a few PCs initially, so they can try it out and see how well it works for them.
<gQuig1> I think fiesty is worth another demo though
<Joe_CoT> besides them, what about schools that don't bleed money? their IT departments might be a bit more willing
<FrostyColdDrink> politics is the problem. youve got to be insidious and gurilla like
<gQuig1> Cherry hill, but they won't return my emails
<gQuig1> I'm gonna start writing the email
<FrostyColdDrink> write them and fax them
<FrostyColdDrink> it will get more attention
<Joe_CoT> gQuig: we might want to just consider making an appointment with someone high up at west or east to demo
<Joe_CoT> phone works a lot better than email. I can put west/east on the list of people i need to call this week
<gQuig1> that would prolli work much better
<gQuig1> thanks
<Joe_CoT> ok, i'll give them a call tuesday sometime to see if they're interested. I can meet with them as early as friday. when are you around?
<gQuig1> i start working fulltime monday morning :/
<Joe_CoT> ah, lol
<joincamp> co-op?
<gQuig1> yup
<joincamp> where?
<gQuig1> PJM Interconnection
<Joe_CoT> yeah, i'm completely off on fridays, so I'll see what I can arrange with them
<joincamp> cool
<Joe_CoT> okay, i think i'm gonna get back to work :) I'll post meeting notes raw now, and summarize it later. It'll probably be more productive to move installfest/tcf/lan discussion to the mailing list
<FrostyColdDrink> yeah probably :)
<RickHahn13> yeah i need my beauty sleep
<FrostyColdDrink> make sure you get everyone to briainstorm on teh wiki though :)
<RickHahn13> sorry i havnt had much to contribute i am just a n00b
<joincamp> night
<gQuig1> night
<FrostyColdDrink> night
<RickHahn13> g'nite all
<Joe_CoT> i'm going to post a signup list for tcf on the wiki. if you know you can make it, put your name on the list on that day, and then i'll get vendor badges when i have numbers
}}}
