{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Wiki Page for the December LAN Party.

'''Note''' : This page is a '''work in progress''', and will be updated. Please <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewJerseyTeam/DecemberLAN?action=subscribe|Subscribe]]</nowiki> if you wish to keep yourself informed.

=== Details ===
Place: <nowiki>[[JoeTerranova|Joe Terranova]]</nowiki>'s house in Cherry Hill, NJ

Time: To Be Announced. Answer <nowiki>[[http://www.doodle.ch/p294cazhvs97paa7|this poll]]</nowiki> as to when you'd be available.

RVSP: To Be Announced.

=== Games ===

To be decided. Here's a list of games:

==== FPS ====
* Sauerbraten
* OpenArena
* Urban Terror
* Warsow
* World of Padman
* Alien Arena
* Nexuiz
==== Action ====
* Armagetron Advanced/GLtron
==== Strategy ====
* Bos Wars
* The Battle for Wesnoth

Please add to the list if you know of more, or leave comments on games if you have an opinion on which ones should be played. If you know of a whole category of (multiplayer) games that I'm not listing, go ahead and add it!

=== Equipment Needed ===

JoeTerranova has:
* room
* router
* switch
* surge protectors

We need (JoeTerranova can provide most of this, but would rather not)
* folding tables
* Power cables (big ones, to pull power from adjacent rooms)
* Ethernet
* A game server

Feel free to make a note if you can provide things we need, or add things we might need to the list.

gQuigs may be unable to go but can still provide:
* A Server with apt-cacher containing a partial repository and File Sharing (for Windows)

dev_n00b (John O'Hara) will bring:
* 50 ft extension cord
* 2 surge suppressors (9 sockets, network, and phone surge suppression ports)
* Celeron M 1.6ghz Notebook for anyone not able to bring PC
* 2.6Ghz Celeron D running Ubuntu 7.10 as another spare PC.  I have a spare monitor for it, but need a keyboard and mouse.  Possibly a server?
* 1 Linksys WRT54G router and 1 Linksys BEFW11S4 Router, both with 4 ports to run in bridged mode, if necesary.

Caveat : I am unable to drive and need a ride from 605 Doris Avenue, Millville, NJ 08332-1403.  It's just off exit 26 on 55
