{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Wiki Page for the August LAN Party.

'''Note''' : This page is a '''work in progress''', and will be updated. Please <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewJerseyTeam/AugustLAN?action=subscribe|Subscribe]]</nowiki> if you wish to keep yourself informed.

=== Details ===
Place: Cherry Hill, NJ and Butler, NJ

Time: August 23rd, 

Signup: http://nj.ubuntu-us.org/node/16

RVSP: http://nj.ubuntu-us.org/node/19

=== Games ===

Last LAN (Chronicled <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2008/04/14/15_hours_in_my_basement/|here]]</nowiki>), the games we played were Urban Terror, Armagetron, and Frozen Bubble.

What are we playing this time? To be decided. Here's a list of games:

==== FPS ====
* Sauerbraten
* Urban Terror
* Warsow
* Alien Arena
* Nexuiz
==== Action ====
* Armagetron Advanced/GLtron
==== Strategy ====
* The Battle for Wesnoth
* Liquid Wars
* Warzone 2100
==== Puzzle ====
* Frozen Bubble

Please add to the list if you know of more, or leave comments on games if you have an opinion on which ones should be played. If you know of a whole category of (multiplayer) games that I'm not listing, go ahead and add it!

=== Equipment Needed ===
Feel free to make a note if you can provide things we need, or add things we might need to the list.
