{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Signups for TCF 2008
Location: TCF http://tcf-nj.org/web/

Location: TCNJ, Trenton, NJ. <nowiki>[[http://tcf-nj.org/web/TCF-2008-Dates-and-Location.html|Directions]]</nowiki>

At TCF we will have a table, with demos of Hardy Heron. We will have Gutsy Gibbon (shiny!) and Hardy Heron (new!) CDs to give away, as well as other Ubuntu Shwag. On Saturday, I'll be giving a presentation on Ubuntu and Hardy Heron at 1:30 PM on Saturday. The only thing you need to bring is what you need -- if you need a laptop to survive for the day, bring one. We'll have power and internet.

First people there each day get their choice of swag. I have one (1) Ubuntu Hat, four (4) Ubuntu shirts, and stickers and pens. (Of course, I expect you to '''wear''' it at the show if you take it).

Please sign up below, and leave your email address so I can contact you with information. There will be at least 4 spots each day; if more people want to come, sign up, but I can't guarantee we'll have badges for you (of course, if you really want to be there, I can get more badges, but it'll cost me money, which I'd appreciate some help with).

I need to know who's going by '''Thursday, April 24'''.

Saturday 10AM - 5PM
# <nowiki>[[JoeTerranova|Joe Terranova]]</nowiki> (I'll be there at 9 to set up)
# <nowiki>[[Gary4412|Gary Steinert]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[Nosrednaekim|Michael Anderson]]</nowiki>
# Gentoo Anderson
# <nowiki>[[Gquigs|Bryan Quigley]]</nowiki>

Sunday 10AM - 4PM
# <nowiki>[[JoeTerranova|Joe Terranova]]</nowiki> (I'll be there at 9 to set up)
# <nowiki>[[Gquigs|Bryan Quigley]]</nowiki> (might come saturday too if noone goes for the extra spot.
 1.
 1.
