{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== New Jersey LoCo Team ==

The six core members and more auxiliary members of our New Jersey LoCo Team organize one public event every second month.  We frequently work with the approved <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam|Pennsylvania LoCo team]]</nowiki> and several New Jersey Linux User Groups (LUGs).  New event ideas are discussed on our <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-nj|mailing list]]</nowiki> and at our bi-monthly social events.

In 2007, the team distributed over 800 Ubuntu and Kubuntu CDs and anticipates distributing 400 more before year's end.  We helped a dozen people install or configure Ubuntu at our June InstallFest; one week later, we helped a nearby LUG teach new GNU/Linux user skills at our first New User Night.

In 2008, we plan to double our efforts.  We'll distribute even more CDs, host two install fests, and teach people at two new user nights.  We'll be spreading our efforts across a larger part of the state, and will hopefully have more frequent and higher quality events.

'''Brief History'''

The New Jersey Ubuntu LoCo was founded by Ubuntu Member <nowiki>[[OgMaciel|Og Maciel]]</nowiki>.  In 2006, Mr. Maciel moved out of state and leadership passed to Ubuntu Member <nowiki>[[JoeTerranova|Joe Terranova]]</nowiki>.  Mr. Terranova leads the team today with a support base in South-Central New Jersey.  In October 2007, Jerry Rivera joined the team as North New Jersey event coordinator.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' September 30, 2007
* '''Team Contact''' - Joe Terranova <joeterranova@gmail.com>
* '''Membership''' - 63 as of September 2007
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-us-nj on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-us-nj on Freenode

=== IRC Logs ===
* <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam/IRCLog20070905|2007/09/05]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam/IRCLog20070919|2007/09/19]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===
Most of this Roadmap is from our IRC chat meeting September 5th, 2007
(<nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam/IRCLog20070905|Chat Log]]</nowiki>)

 1. Events Throughout New Jersey
*** Active Areas <<BR>>
        South Jersey <<BR>>
        Central Jersey <<BR>>

*** Areas to Develop <<BR>>
        North Jersey <<BR>>
        East Jersey <<BR>>

 1. Future Events
*** <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam/DecemberLAN|Linux LAN Party, December Event]]</nowiki>
*** Gutsy Gibbon Installfest
*** Farmers Market Spring Tour
*** Annual <nowiki>[[http://tcf-nj.org|Trenton Computer Festival]]</nowiki> Participation (April 26-27th)
*** Develop relationship with <nowiki>[[http://www.tri-statefairs.com/|Tri-State Fairs Computer Shows]]</nowiki> to do presentations and public information at their shows in NJ.

 1. Community Cooperation
*** Support meetings and activities of existing LUG's and general User Groups.
***** <nowiki>[[http://ruslug.rutgers.edu|RUSLUG's bi-annual InstallFests]]</nowiki>
***** <nowiki>[[http://chlug.org|CHLUG's month meetings]]</nowiki>
***** <nowiki>[[http://lugip.org|LUG/IP's semi-annual social events]]</nowiki>
*** Support cross-state LoCo events (PA & NY)
***** <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam/EventsTeam/PhillyGutsyRelease| Gutsy Release Party]]</nowiki> with <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam|PA Team]]</nowiki>
*** Assist in the development of a Delaware LoCo using our contacts in the <nowiki>[[http://www.lug.udel.edu/doku.php|LUG at University of Delware]]</nowiki>

 1. Community Outreach
*** Salvation Army Computer Education - Establish a Linux class as part of their training.
*** Salvation Army Thrift Store computer reconditioning - Install Ubuntu on donated pc's for resale in the thrift shops.
*** County Based Small Business Initiatives - Provide guidance to small businesses in the utilization, or the option of Linux as viable solution for their business requirements.
*** Assist local private education, afterschool, and daycare institutions in the use of Linux as an alternative to current systems.

 1. Regional Coordination 
*** We will co-ordinate our activities within the <nowiki>[[http://gnuisance.net/archives/rml/|Mid-Atlantic States Regional Meta-LUG]]</nowiki>
=== Experience ===

{*} '''<nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam/Meetings/MarchSouthJersey|South Jersey Meeting]]</nowiki>'''
* <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2007/03/20/south-jersey-meeting-saturday-march-24th-300-pm/|Announcement]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2007/03/27/the-ubuntu-new-jersey-loco-team-are-go/|Follow-up]]</nowiki>

{*} '''<nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam/Meetings/MarchNorthJersey|North Jersey Meeting]]</nowiki>'''
* <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2007/03/27/the-ubuntu-new-jersey-loco-team-are-go/|Annoucement]]</nowiki>

{*} '''<nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam/Events/TCF|Trenton Computer Festival, April 28-29]]</nowiki>'''
* <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2007/05/01/tcf/|Joe's Blog Entry]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/photos/tcf/index.html|Pictures]]</nowiki>

{*} '''<nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam/Events/InstallfestJune| Cherry Hill June Installfest]]</nowiki>'''
* <nowiki>[[http://nj.ubuntu-us.org/node/5|Announcement]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2007/07/03/cherry-hill-june-installfest-a-success-et-al/|Joe's Blog Entry]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://joeterranova.net/photos/CherryHillJuneInstallfest/|Pictures]]</nowiki>
* CHLUG Follow-Up Meeting, July 6
** <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2007/07/08/chlug-follow-up-new-user-night/|Joe's Blog Entry]]</nowiki>

{*} '''August BBQ'''
* <nowiki>[[http://nj.ubuntu-us.org/node/7|Announcment]]</nowiki>

{*} '''Software Freedom Day: Joint Event at PACS with the PA Team'''
* <nowiki>[[http://nj.ubuntu-us.org/node/8|NJ Announcement]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2007/09/23/events-pictures/|Joe's Blog Entry]]</nowiki> (See first part)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/photos/PACS_Software_Freedom_Day/index.html|Pictures]]</nowiki>

{*} '''Columbus Farmer's Market, September 28'''
* <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2007/09/23/events-pictures/|Joe's blog post]]</nowiki> (see 2nd part)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/photos/September_Columbus/index.html|Pictures]]</nowiki>

{*} '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewJerseyTeam/GroupOrders|Canonical Store Group Order]]</nowiki>'''
* The group order saved participants 42% or more of the cost of international shipping

=== Endorsements / Comments ===

Joe_CoT and other members of the NJ team have been a huge help to us (the PA team). They have a vast knowledge of the OS, as well as the drive and determination to bring the pain in NJ. +1 from lamalex.
