{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Hey, man, don't you know we're LoCo?

== Introduction ==
This is the US Ubuntu New Mexico LoCo Team.  Many of us are in Albuquerque.  However, we are a statewide team, and membership is open to everyone.  Our goal is to promote Ubuntu, Open Source Software, and the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu_%28philosophy%29|ideal]]</nowiki> behind Ubuntu -- "Humanity to others."

== Join The Team ==
There are many ways to join the team, or get more information about the New Mexico Ubuntu LoCo.  New Mexico Team membership is open to everyone.  Please join and start contributing and learning today!

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/IRC|IRC]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-nm|Mailing List]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=187|Forum]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-newmexico|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://nm.ubuntu-us.org/|Team Webpage]]</nowiki>
 
If you'd like hop into our channel and see what happening or just say Hi! Click <nowiki>[[http://java.freenode.net//index.php?channel=ubuntu-us-nm|HERE]]</nowiki> to connect.

== Newest Projects ==

 {o} Planning for <nowiki>[[NewMexicoTeam-January_2013_MG|January 2013 Meet and Greet]]</nowiki> is on the table.
 
== News ==
''' July 2011 '''

Thanks to <nowiki>[[http://quelab.net/|Quelab]]</nowiki> for Inviting New Mexico Ubuntu LoCo to the Learn about Linux Night on July 12.

''' March 2010 '''

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/New_Mexico_Ubuntu_News_Archive|New Mexico Ubuntu News Archive]]</nowiki>

== Progress ==

=== Goals ===
* Promote, educate, and advocate Ubuntu in the state of New Mexico and world wide.
* Coordinate a yearly Linux Expo in the state of New Mexico.
* Set up a support structure for Ubuntu in the state of New Mexico.
* Have numerous community-based projects based on the idea and spirit of Ubuntu.
* Hold quarterly InstallFest

=== Accomplishments ===
* Had a successful Jaunty Jackalope Release Party on 05/02/2009
* Had a successful Intrepid Ibex Release Party on 11/08/2008
* Coordinated and hosted the 2008 Software Freedom Day Team in Albuquerque, New Mexico
* Had a successful Hardy Heron Release Party on 04/25/2008
* Have established an IRC channel, team forum, launchpad, mailing list, and team wiki.
* Coordinated and hosted the 2007 Software Freedom Day Team in Rio Rancho, New Mexico.
* Established a weekly IRC meeting.
* Established a monthly face to face meeting.
* Membership as of 05/26/2009 is at 47
* Have Started working with New Mexico LUG's all organizations benefiting. 
* Had a successful Gutsy Gibbon Release Party on 10/19/2007
* Obtained Official LoCo Status 11/2007

== Official Ubuntu Loco The New Mexico Team ==

In November of 2007 the New Mexico LoCo achieved official status.  Go <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams|here]]</nowiki> to find out more about LoCo Teams. 

Below is a link to our approval application for those that are interested in seeing what we did.

NewMexicoTeamApprovalApplication

== New Mexico Linux User Group Resources ==
We at the New Mexico Ubuntu LoCo just love Ubuntu, but we think Linux in all it's shapes and forms is just fantastic, so if you need any information about other Linux distributions, or just Linux in general, check out these other Linux users' groups:

=== Mesilla Valley Linux Users Group (MVLUG) ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.mvlug.org|MVLUG]]</nowiki><<BR>>

These guys have a meeting on the first Tuesday of every month at 5:30pm MST at NMSU Science Hall (SH) 124, so go check them out.<<BR>>
Join the <nowiki>[[http://lists.fastwave.biz/mailman/listinfo/mvlug-list|MVLUG mailing list]]</nowiki>

=== New Mexico Linux Users Group (NMLUG) ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.nmlug.org|NMLUG]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Join the mailing list <nowiki>[[http://lists.b9.com/mailman/listinfo/nmlug|NMLUG mailing list]]</nowiki><<BR>>

=== New Mexico Gnu & Linux Users Group (NMGLUG) ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.nmglug.org|NMGLUG]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Join the mailing <nowiki>[[http://www.nmglug.org/mailman/listinfo/nmglug|NMGLUG mailing list]]</nowiki><<BR>>

NMGLUG is a user group in the Santa Fe area of New Mexico that is dedicated to the use of the GNU/Linux Operating System and other Free Software.  Meetings are held every other Thursday.

=== New Mexico Open Source User Group (NMOSUG) ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.nmosug.org/|NMOSUG]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Join the Mailing List <nowiki>[[http://mailman.swcp.com/mailman/listinfo/nmosug-l|NMOSUG mailing list]]</nowiki>

NMOSUG has it's roots as an open-source user's group affiliated with the Albuquerque Technical Vocational institute (TVI), now known as the Community College of Central New Mexico (CNM).
It started before 2002, but is no longer affiliated with CNM.
It is still in operation as a List Server for Open Source Professionals, Hobbyists and Students in the Greater Albuquerque area. NMOSUG's main purpose is to provide a forum for technology professionals to discuss issues pertaining to Open Source, running on Open Source and non-open source operating systems.

If you know of any more New Mexico Linux resources, please let us know, and we will add them to this wiki. Or join the group to add changes, too.

CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryLoCoTeams
