{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Agenda ====
Feel free to update the pages on the wiki

* The NM LoCo's EPC project was featured in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue161|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter Issue 161]]</nowiki> and on <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1915|The Fridge]]</nowiki>!
* Let's firm up some plans for the Ubuntu 9.10 "Karmic Koala" release party!
** Once details have been established, tritium will post them to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KarmicReleaseParties]]</nowiki>
* Discussion on LoCo leadership
** tritium has been taking some paternity leave
** dthomasdigital has been attending to family issues
** What are the group's needs, and how can we assure that they are met?
* In case you have not heard, the NM Linux Fest has been postponed to 2010.
* As the holidays approach, what activities should the group be thinking of for the next few months?
** Update EPC computers to 9.10, or wait for a Long Term Support (LTS) release?
** Other ideas?

If you want to add anything else to the agenda, please feel free! 

{{http://myweb.cableone.net/dthomas/images/ub.png}}

===== Members Present =====

* tritium
* genfool
* jay4rest
* mneptok
* protonchris
* smooge
* ColonelPanik
* fgleich
* nick125

===== Summary =====
* The LoCo's EPC project has been mentioned in the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter and on The Fridge. 
* The LoCo's release party for Karmic Koala will likely be on November 7th, 2009. We are still exploring different venues, but we are trying to get accommodations at Giovanni's. 
* The LoCo discussed the effects of the absence of dthomasdigital and the future leadership of the LoCo. 
** The LoCo agreed that there needs to be efforts to allow new individuals to contribute to the project easier. 
** Postponed further decision until the next meeting on October 20th, 2009, pending further thought on the issue. 
* Item #5 (activities) has been postponed to the next meeting. 

===== IRC Log =====
<pre>
20:00 < tritium> Here's tonight's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/October_13_2009
20:00 < genfool> hello protonchris
20:01 < tritium> Who else do we have active in the channel tonight?
20:03 < genfool> hmmm,  nick125   WAKE UP!  was here a little while ago.
20:04 < tritium> ColonelPanik, kdegel667, mneptok, nick125, nlb4hp, smooge, |mando|: ping!
20:04 < smooge> ping
20:04 -!- jay4rest [n=jay4rest@c-68-42-42-61.hsd1.nm.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
20:04 < tritium> There he is.  I was just about to ask.  ;)
20:04 < jay4rest> hi
20:04 < tritium> Hi, jay4rest.
20:04 < genfool> hello jay4rest
20:05 < jay4rest> Hi genfool
20:05 < mneptok> tritium: i'm here
20:05 < tritium> Thanks, mneptok.
20:05 < protonchris> Let the party begin
20:05 < tritium> Great, I'm getting started.
20:06 < tritium> Item 1: The NM LoCo's EPC project was featured in Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter Issue 161 and on The Fridge!
20:06 < mneptok> niiiiice
20:06 < tritium> Mostly just an FYI, in case you haven't seen that.  Links are on the agenda page.
20:06 < smooge> ok what is the EPC project :)
20:06 < jay4rest> very cool write up
20:06 < tritium> Indeed, what an honor.
20:07 < tritium> That's at least the 2nd time we've been in the weekly news.  Very cool.  And to make the fridge is quite humbling.
20:07 < genfool> +5
20:08 < mneptok> that project is only the success that it is because of my level of involvement.
20:08 < mneptok> (which was 0)
20:08 < mneptok> (hence the success)
20:08 < tritium> =)
20:08 < tritium> We'll have to get you out there with us next time, mneptok.
20:08 < jay4rest> me too
20:08 < tritium> Yes, definitely.
20:09 < jay4rest> I had to work last time
20:09 < tritium> No problem.  We've all had times when we couldn't make it for one reason or another.
20:09 < jay4rest> but now i am unemployed
20:09 < tritium> Oh, sorry to hear that.
20:09 < jay4rest> kind of a bummer
20:10 < mneptok> daytime TV stinks.
20:10 < jay4rest> lol
20:10 < tritium> Quite.  If you're looking for some tasks to keep you occupied, we could put you in charge of item 2.  ;)
20:10 < jay4rest> i will do whatever I can
20:11 < tritium> Item 2 is that we need to have a rocking release party near the end of the month for the release of 9.10, Karmic Koala.
20:11 < genfool> jay4rest,  with internet you have it all  :)
20:11 < jay4rest> the world at my figure tips
20:11 < tritium> In all prior release parties, we've rented a space at a Flying Star (to the best of my recollection).
20:11 < smooge> jay4rest, what is your specialty?
20:12 < jay4rest> jack of all trades master of none
20:12 < mneptok> let's stay om-yopic as much as possible. my dinner will be ready in ~15m.
20:12 < mneptok> *on-topic
20:12 < tritium> Yes, let's.
20:12 < jay4rest> 1+
20:13 < tritium> Any objections to Flying Star yet again?  If you have another suggestion, please voice it.
20:13 < protonchris> Our last release was at the Corrales Flying star.  IIRC
20:13 < mneptok> protonchris: quite right.
20:13 < jay4rest> what do we need from a restaurant?
20:13 < genfool> mneptok,  the meeting is scheduled to 9:00 pm
20:13 < mneptok> tritium: maybe we could get cheap accommodations from Ros and Dana at Giovanni's?
20:14 < mneptok> (perhaps free)
20:14 < jay4rest> good idea
20:14 < tritium> mneptok: I like it!  Do they have wireless access?
20:14 < mneptok> no idea.
20:14 < mneptok> i'll ask them this week. they may have Internet. i could provide a WAP.
20:14 < tritium> I really like the idea.
20:15 < tritium> +1 from me.
20:15 < jay4rest> +1
20:15 < genfool> Does any one know the cost of the last release?
20:15 < tritium> ~$150, if I recall correctly.
20:15 < tritium> protonchris: sound right?
20:15 < protonchris> +1, I like giovannis
20:15 < protonchris> tritium: yeah, around there.
20:15 < genfool>  I mean the restaurant.
20:16 < tritium> mneptok: please do ask Ros and Dana.
20:16 < mneptok> i'll have to twist the Zito's arms to get them to charge us anything, i think
20:16 < genfool> way cool  :)
20:16 < mneptok> "Just show up! we'll hold a few tables."
20:17 < mneptok> East coast thing ;)
20:17 < jay4rest> just have everyone rsvp
20:17 < tritium> OK, 9.10 release date is 10/29 (a Thursday).
20:17 < tritium> I propose either Friday the 30th, or Saturday the 31st.
20:17 < mneptok> it needs to be before UDS, but with enough time to get media via Ship-It
20:17 < tritium> Yikes!  Just over 2 weeks!
20:18 < jay4rest> either one works for me
20:18 < tritium> mneptok: when is UDS?
20:19 < genfool> Can we get any of the goodies, cd's swag etc...
20:19 < tritium> genfool: they've not announced the free CDs for official LoCos yet, but I always request them.
20:19 < tritium> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingCds  <-- Still Jaunty
20:20 < mneptok> tritium: Nov 14-something
20:20 < tritium> mneptok: ok
20:20 < mneptok> tritium: no worries. i can harass Jono's cell phone about Ship-It
20:20 < genfool> we might need to be prepared.
20:20 < tritium> mneptok: nice :)
20:21 < tritium> Please also ask Jono about my request for the free copy for the LoCo of his recent book.
20:21 < mneptok> yeah, i never got my signed copy, either.
20:21 < mneptok> slacker.
20:21 < jay4rest> you know you can get a free copy online
20:21 < tritium> Correct, jay4rest.
20:21 < ColonelPanik> Got it read it, great book.
20:21 < mneptok> jay4rest: tough to put in a bookcase ;)
20:22 < mneptok> we may want to schedule the party around Open Week, as well
20:22 < jay4rest> true, but works on the kindle
20:22 < tritium> Is Open Week the first week of Nov.?
20:23 < mneptok> yep
20:23  * genfool wonders if online is the same as a signed copy.
20:23 < tritium> Plus, that gives us more time to receive the shipit CDs.
20:23 < tritium> genfool: nope
20:23 < mneptok> maybe have it Sat, 11/07
20:23 < genfool> :|
20:23 < jay4rest> http://www.jonobacon.org/2009/09/18/the-art-of-community-available-for-free-download/
20:24 < protonchris> mneptok: works for me
20:24 < tritium> genfool: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1896
20:24 < mneptok> after Open Week, enough time to get media via Ship-It, and a good week before UDS.
20:25 < tritium> +1 from me for Saturday, 11/07.
20:25  * mneptok has to run an Open Week session and attend UDS. does it show? ;)
20:25 < tritium> Do us proud, mneptok!
20:26 < mneptok> does that mean i have to wear pants? :?
20:26 < tritium> Unless there are objections to the above, we'll plan the release party for the 7th of Nov. at Giovani's.  mneptok will get back to with with a go/no go from the owners.
20:26 < genfool> weekends are always better for me   +1
20:26 < tritium> mneptok: haha
20:26 < protonchris> mneptok has to wear pants.
20:26 < tritium> mneptok: to the release party, or UDS and Open Week?
20:27 < mneptok> expect that next week.
20:27 < genfool> at least clothes
20:27 < tritium> Perhaps that depends on the meaning of "Open".
20:27 < protonchris> release party.  I won't see him during UDS or Open week.
20:27 < tritium> Anyone who shows up to the release party without pants will be waterboarded.
20:28 < protonchris> tritium: excellent idea!
20:28 < mneptok> oooo! kinky! does that cost extra?
20:28 < protonchris> +1
20:28 < jay4rest> sounds good
20:28 < tritium> No, it's all included in one low introductory price.
20:29 < tritium> OK, let's move on to item 3, a discussion of the LoCo leadership.
20:29 < tritium> jay4rest, genfool:  would you like to present your concerns?
20:29 < mneptok> anyone can be leader, as long as i'm Treasurer.
20:29 < jay4rest> just feeling the a void from dthomas's absence
20:30 < genfool> think clothes are a good option  date is fine.
20:30 < jay4rest> i think we need a moderator to help keep us focused and organized
20:30 < mneptok> jay4rest: is the council not getting it done?
20:31 < jay4rest> no one has been moderatin g
20:31 < genfool> we should possibly make a few cd's in case the package is not delivered on time.
20:31 < jay4rest> the wiki is now a month old
20:31 -!- fgleich [n=fgleich@76.113.42.129] has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
20:31 < tritium> It's true, for sure, that I've been more absent recently than normal.
20:31 < genfool> hello fgleich
20:32 < fgleich> hello genfool
20:32 < jay4rest> It is nice to have you tonight
20:32 < mneptok> jay4rest: anyone can edit the wiki. it doesn;t have to be some appointed "leader."
20:32 < jay4rest> : - )
20:32 < tritium> Thanks, jay4rest.
20:32 < jay4rest> Anybody has been nobody
20:32 < tritium> In fact, we established the council, specifically because we don't want a "leader".
20:33  * fgleich does 20 before ColonelPanik can pick on him
20:33 < jay4rest> I am not saying leader, I am saying moderator
20:33 < mneptok> jay4rest: no offense, but "anybody has been nobody" includes you (and me)
20:33 < tritium> Welcome, fgleich.
20:33 < fgleich> ty tritium
20:33 < jay4rest> facilitator if you will
20:33 < genfool> no leader is fine, still need direction.
20:33 < jay4rest> What you are doing right now
20:33 < tritium> I would like to challenge the team to step up and facilitate, if none of us are present.
20:34 < fgleich> genfool: got the lights hung and working
20:34 < mneptok> jay4rest: and i don't mean that as a slight. it's just the facts.
20:34 < fgleich> is this a bonafide meeting ?
20:34 < genfool> fgleich,   pm
20:34 < tritium> fgleich: yes
20:34 < jay4rest> Me and nick have
20:35 < protonchris> fgleich: as bonafide as it gets ;)
20:35 < fgleich> guess I came at the right time then
20:35 < genfool> I wish I had direction on how I can help,  pretty sharp some ways, noob others.
20:36 < jay4rest> appoint no body to be in charge and no body will take charge
20:36 < mneptok> jay4rest: untrue.
20:36 < fgleich> what is on the schedule for tonight ?
20:37 < mneptok> jay4rest: nobody "appointed" sabdfl to start Ubuntu. he Just Did It.
20:37 < fgleich> er.....I mean, the docket
20:37 < tritium> fgleich: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/October_13_2009
20:37 < fgleich> ok ty tritium
20:37 < jay4rest> not the same thing
20:37 < jay4rest> we have a council
20:37 < jay4rest> we have leadership
20:38 < jay4rest> but the leadership doesn't want to guide and direct the group
20:38 < mneptok> jay4rest: and sometimes these people can organize meetings, like tonight.
20:38 < tritium> jay4rest: it's not a matter of not wanting to.
20:38 < jay4rest> they can if they are empowered to
20:38 < mneptok> jay4rest: but because they can;t do it every week without fail is not a reason to trash the council idea and appoint Chancellor Palpatine. :)
20:39 < jay4rest> again, please listen to what I am saying - not boss facilitator
20:40 < tritium> A few thoughts:  Summers have been slower for us, traditionally.  We don't always have an active project to update.  There are times when there is little to discuss on the agenda.
20:40 < jay4rest> guide, coach, direction setter, organizer
20:40 < genfool> mneptok,  tis true, a regular meeting like this needs some direction from members, nfl needs a quarterback.... our quarterback seems to be busy.
20:40 < tritium> We have had meetings where, even with a council member or more present, there has been an empty agenda.
20:41 < jay4rest> But a bonafide meeting has a chairperson
20:41 < tritium> FYI, Council is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/Contacts
20:41 < jay4rest> No chairperson, no bonafide meeting
20:41 < genfool> tritium,  for the last several weeks the members have been no show as there is nothing to see.
20:42 < tritium> genfool: I'm aware.  Please be aware, too, that Dave and I have had family obligations.
20:43 < jay4rest> We are not blaming you
20:43 < jay4rest> family first
20:43 < jay4rest> just delegate whatever you call what you do to someone
20:43 < fgleich> hmmmm
20:44 < mneptok> i don't understand the need for titles and appointments.
20:44 < genfool> tritium,  I am fully aware and wish both you and dave the best, A good football team will have a few extra quarterbacks to lead in case one is not available.
20:44 < mneptok> "who wants to run the meeting tonight?"
20:44 < mneptok> problem solved
20:44 < tritium> That's my thougth, too, mneptok.
20:44 < genfool> I vote mneptok
20:45 < tritium> In fact, that's one of the strengths of the ubuntu community.  People step in where there is a need.
20:45 < jay4rest> dthomas emailed me and said, "You're right the group needs a leader"
20:45 < mneptok> instead of stepping up and asking if you can have an official duty and title, step up and *just get the job done*
20:45 < jay4rest> I vote mneptok
20:46 < tritium> jay4rest: I think he mis-spoke, in that case.  He seems to have forgotten the council, for one.  Further, the group can step in.
20:46 < tritium> For my part, I will do what I can to attend more regularly, now that my daughter is a bit older.
20:46 < jay4rest> Is the council in charge of this group?
20:47 < ColonelPanik> http://www.jonobacon.org/2009/09/18/the-art-of-community-available-for-free-download/
20:47 < mneptok> no one is "in charge" of anything, i hope.
20:47 < genfool> I am only saying, we rely on dave to much.  Time for us to step up and do things without dave   how do we get started?
20:47 < ColonelPanik> Read the damn book, this is what it is all about.
20:47 < mneptok> my understanding is that the council provides overall direction that meets the goals of the members
20:48 < tritium> "In charge" is a bit too authoritative, in my mind.
20:48 < nick125> yeah
20:48 < jay4rest> is leads better?
20:48 < nick125> I think we need someone who "guides" rather than someone in charge.
20:49 < jay4rest> I agree with nick
20:49 < jay4rest> I think that is what dave meant
20:49 < genfool> jay4rest,  I prefer a leader that has a vision,  am open to someone that breathes air>
20:50 < jay4rest> ColonelPanik, good book by the way
20:50 < mneptok> FYI, the council idea was meant to lessen the reliance on any single person.
20:50 < tritium> precisely
20:50 < mneptok> Dave realized that dependence on him alone was not a good practice.
20:50 < fgleich> ok, so who all is on this council ?
20:50 < fgleich> let them guide this meeting
20:50 < tritium> fgleich: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/Contacts
20:50 < mneptok> so why would we make the exact same mistake again?
20:50 < fgleich> ?
20:50 < nick125> I think the council is a good idea, at least on paper....but we want to make sure we aren't creating a big beaurcracy. 
20:51 < tritium> Let me ask it another way.  What needs of the group are not being met?
20:51 < protonchris> and what is a possible solution?
20:51 < genfool> I simply do not want to see the group implode.
20:52 < tritium> Implode from what?
20:52 < mneptok> and, how are those needs not addressable without council members' involvement?
20:52 < jay4rest> I think it is easy, make a list of people willing to guide the discussion and rotate them
20:52 < fgleich> btw, ty tritium
20:52 < tritium> fgleich: sure
20:52 < jay4rest> if the person on the list can guide that night, they have to find one one the list that can
20:53 < mneptok> jay4rest: what do you see wrong with someone who is actually in attendance volunteering to guide the discussion?
20:53 < fgleich> I second that
20:53 < mneptok> jay4rest: communities that cannot self-organize are doomed.
20:53 < nick125> mneptok: I think that works best.
20:53 < tritium> Well said, mneptok.
20:53 < jay4rest> Very simple - that haven't been doing it
20:53 < genfool> +1
20:53 < mneptok> jay4rest: have you witnessed this yourself?
20:54 < fgleich> ok then, if everyone were on this council, then they would be bound to stepup and guide
20:54 < jay4rest> yes, you can read the transcripts
20:54 < mneptok> jay4rest: so then ... step up and volunteer to run the meeting when you see that happening.
20:54 < jay4rest> rambling talk is not a "meeting"
20:54 < nick125> What was/is the duties of the council?
20:55 < jay4rest> good question nick125
20:55 < tritium> nick125: generally, to provide for the needs of the group
20:55 < genfool> we have been growing with the hard work of others, time to do some of the work ourselves.
20:55 < ColonelPanik> Getting together with friends is cool.  Meetings just to have meetings does not do much.
20:55 < mneptok> nick125: run meetings. organize events. represent NM to the larger Ubuntu community. deal with any issues.
20:56 < jay4rest> I would if the council would communicate their agenda and plans
20:56 < mneptok> you just saw us doing that earlier.
20:56 < genfool> ColonelPanik,  +1
20:57 < tritium> For reference: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamLeader
20:57 < jay4rest> I think it is silly to be arguing about keeping the meetings unorganized
20:57 < tritium> NO specific references to agendas, plans, or meeting facilitation.
20:58 < jay4rest> i have voiced my opinion
20:58 < jay4rest> let you all decide what is best for the group
20:59 < jay4rest> i am still a noob here
20:59 < tritium> So, all you're asking for is meetings that are facilitated?
20:59 < jay4rest> yes
20:59 < mneptok> jay4rest: if you see the ship headed for the iceberg, be willing to take the wheel without wearing the captain's hat.
20:59 < jay4rest> that is all
20:59 < genfool> either way, dave has moved on, so it seems. we have a group....what direction do we want to move it in?
20:59 < tritium> genfool: Dave has not moved on.
21:00  * mneptok votes "a direction that is less dependent on any one person or small group of people"
21:00 < jay4rest> if the captain doesn't have a enough sense to have others help him, maybe it's best to find another boat
21:00 < tritium> He is dealing with family issues.
21:00 < nick125> mneptok: That's a nice idea, but does it work in practice?
21:01 < tritium> jay4rest: we have one of the most active, and recognized, LoCos.  We have done quite a lot, particularly with EPC.
21:01 < ColonelPanik> We do need direction.  Where is Captain Hazelwood when we need him?
21:01 < jay4rest> Yes with one man leading us - dave
21:01 < tritium> jay4rest: no, Dave was never the only leader of this group
21:01 < mneptok> nick125: there is no one person reponsible for approving updates to the package repos. whatever core dev happens to be around at the time the package is ready can approve it.
21:01 < jay4rest> and tritium
21:01 < genfool> tritium,  he is also dealing with nmfest, sorry to here about family issues.   we should be able to ste up and please him and us.
21:02 < mneptok> nick125: Ubuntu can release updates without a single control mechanism. it would be sad if we can;t run meetings without one.
21:02 < tritium> genfool: that has been postponed to next year (Item 4)
21:02 < jay4rest> mneptok there is one man in charge of Ubuntu
21:02 < jay4rest> BDFL
21:02 < jay4rest> Mark is the boss
21:02 < tritium> jay4rest: actually, sabdfl has appointed a community council
21:03 < mneptok> jay4rest: and that's to bus-proof the project
21:03 < tritium> And there is a Technical Board, and so on.
21:03 < jay4rest> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Shuttleworth
21:03 < mneptok> a single leader is not bus-proof. and Dave is the example.
21:03 < tritium> We modeled the LoCo Council on all the various councils in ubuntu.
21:04 < jay4rest> Self-Appointed Benevolent Dictator for Life,
21:04 < mneptok> jay4rest: you'd be very surprised how detahced Mark is from many aspects of Ubuntu
21:04 < jay4rest> I guess I am not a believer in anarchy
21:04 < jay4rest> not the point
21:05 < jay4rest> he delegates
21:05 < tritium> It's surprising to hear that we "need direction", when we've accomplished so much, and have been so generously recognized for it all.
21:05 < tritium> All our EPC work isn't exactly chopped liver.
21:05 < jay4rest> again we have had leadership with you and dave
21:05 < nick125> tritium: I don't think anyone is saying it's chopped liver.
21:05 < mneptok> jay4rest: tritium and Dave were in no way repsonsible for organizing EPC
21:06 < nick125> I think people are noticing that it appears that the group is stagnating without Dave's presense.
21:06 < jay4rest> Is there anyone that will deny dave a lion's share of the credit?
21:06 < tritium> jay4rest: gcleric was most responsible for EPC.
21:06 < jay4rest> I mean about the loco
21:06 < mneptok> jay4rest: Dave did a lot, for sure.
21:06 < jay4rest> we are not talking about the leadership of the EPC
21:07 < tritium> jay4rest: only if you mean meeting notices and meeting summaries, which are not necessities.
21:07 < genfool> tritium,  the group has worked hard to get where it is, we have a glitch and need to correct it so we can continue.   The attendance for the last few months says alot.
21:07 < mneptok> jay4rest: and now he's gone. and you're saying it's anarchy. and they way to solve it is to set up the *exact same mechanism* again. i don;t get it.
21:07 < jay4rest> genfool they don't want to correct it
21:07 < tritium> There are many resources behind the scenes: the IRC channel, mailing lists, wiki pages, web pages, etc.
21:08 < mneptok> jay4rest: please don't make this an "us and them" issue.
21:08 < tritium> jay4rest: accusations don't help
21:08 < nick125> I don't see a failproof way around this. We can create councils and committees until we're blue in the face...but..
21:08 < jay4rest> gotta run
21:08 -!- jay4rest [n=jay4rest@c-68-42-42-61.hsd1.nm.comcast.net] has quit ["Leaving"]
21:08 < mneptok> jay4rest: good community organizers find common ground and consensus. build bridges, not walls.
21:08 < mneptok> too late
21:08 < tritium> Wow.
21:08 < genfool> jay4rest,  I spend way to much time on support in irc and enjoy it.  :)
21:09 < tritium> That felt a bit like a drive-by.
21:09 < mneptok> "I would be willing to run a meeting from the wiki agenda if I'm the only one around willing to do so." +1?
21:10 < mneptok> +1
21:10 < tritium> +1
21:10 < nick125> That's how things work and how they should work.
21:10 < mneptok> anyone else?
21:10 < genfool> +1
21:10 < mneptok> i figure if we get >5 +1s the meeting problem is solved.
21:10 < protonchris> +1
21:11 < genfool> +5
21:11 < mneptok> hehehehe :)
21:11 < nick125> +1, even though I don't think we really need to "vote" on it...it's common sense. 
21:11 < protonchris> I think I am still missing his point.
21:11 < mneptok> protonchris: mine? it's at the top of my head.
21:11 < genfool> so we do work on a positive direction
21:11 < nick125> Like mneptok said, if you see the ship about to hit an iceburg, feel free to guide it 
21:12 < protonchris> mneptok: HeHe.  Jay's point.
21:12 < tritium> nick125: yes, it's common sense, so I think we don't fully see Jay's point.
21:12 < nick125> But...how do we make sure that, for instance, someone creates the agenda, etc?
21:12 < protonchris> Why do we need to "make sure"?
21:12 < mneptok> appoint someone at the end of each meeting to summarize and create the next agenda?
21:13 < genfool> I nominate nick125  to make agenda.
21:13 < nick125> I think part of the issue is that only a few key people will do these things, even though others can do it as well.
21:13 < mneptok> but yeah, protonchris has a good point. if no one is anxious to go add an agenda item(s), is a meeting really necessary?
21:13 < ColonelPanik> Maybe jay4rest has a different definition of "meeting"?  I kinda like the free-for-all style.  But As the new guy here all I care about it that we continue in some form or other.  You guys have been nice to me, don't want to lose you.
21:13 < mneptok> ColonelPanik: "new guy?"
21:14 < mneptok> ColonelPanik: you have lichen growing under your shoes.
21:14 < nick125> haha
21:14 < ColonelPanik> You were on this channel before I.
21:14 < tritium> Open topic nights are inevitable, I feel.  We won't always have an ongoing project, or upcoming meeting, to update.  There will be times when we just meet.
21:14 < mneptok> ColonelPanik: don;t make ya "new"
21:14 < nick125> tritium: Good point.
21:15  * genfool is red headed step child.... loves this group.
21:15 < mneptok> tritium: i'm fine with that. projects and plans are cool. but i also really, REALLy like the camaraderie
21:15 < tritium> mneptok: me too
21:15 < nick125> Maybe we could appoint/someone could volunteer to be some type of "meeting director"...someone to manage the logs, create agendas, etc.
21:16 < protonchris> If someone wants to add agenda items, suggest group activities or volunteer for a LoCo role ..... I EMPOWER them.
21:16 < nick125> It still doesn't fix the problem....but it would be a work around
21:16 < tritium> This is always on the agenda page:  "If you want to add anything else to the agenda, please feel free!"
21:16 < nick125> I think the problem is that there are only a few people who will actually do that, though.
21:17 < tritium> Well, for starters, I will carry over item 5 to next week's agenda.
21:17 < ColonelPanik> I think that nick125 should be the laundry and moral director
21:17 < tritium> Perhaps jay4rest would like to volunteer, nick125.
21:17 < mneptok> ColonelPanik: that means he has monitor both my underwear and morality. that's a conflict of interest.
21:18 < nick125> Perhaps we should look at, instead of who will direct a meeting, how we can inspire people to contribute.
21:18 < mneptok> nick125: damned well said.
21:18 < protonchris> nick125: I agree.
21:18 < nick125> mneptok: thank you.
21:18 < tritium> nick125: truly inspiring
21:18 < genfool> I think more would do these things, if they knew how. not a big deal
21:18 < tritium> (Just thought I'd contribute that comment.)
21:20 < mneptok> drooling perspiring.
21:21 < genfool> So we have a few things to think about, should we put it on next weeks agenda and move on?
21:21 < nick125> genfool: Well, how can we lower the barier to entry for new contributors?
21:21 < tritium> genfool: moving item 5 to next week, we've covered the full aenda.
21:22 < tritium> genfool: is it wiki editing that is the most daunting?
21:23 < nick125> tritium: I think people are kind of afraid to get involved...they don't want to "mess things up," per say.
21:23 < nick125> *per se
21:24 < genfool> tritium,  seems so permanent  and always thought....not my job     poor attitude, willing to help.
21:24 < tritium> genfool: understood.  Please think on it for next week, and give us your thoughts?
21:24 < mneptok> OK, i gotta jet. nicotine addiction is killing me, and i have a "Sopranos" episode date with woo
21:24 < tritium> I need to go too, all.
21:24 < tritium> Have a good night.
21:24 < nick125> I say we wrap things up. Who wants to summary/log?
21:25 < protonchris> I am going to take off as well.
21:25 < protonchris> Have a good night.
21:25 -!- woowoo [n=woowoo@mneptok.com] has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
</pre>
