{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

== We were first approved on 11/29/2007 ==
Thanks to all that helped!

=== Approval Application for The New Mexico Ubuntu Loco ===

The New Mexico Ubuntu Loco is a small but growing group of Ubuntu and Linux enthusiast with members through out the state of New Mexico in the United States of America. As New Mexico has not only a deep tradition but many historical events dealing with the early days of computing <nowiki>[[http://www.startupgallery.org/|Microsoft and the Altair were started in New Mexico]]</nowiki> we feel as a group that the ideals behind Ubuntu, Linux, and Open Source Software will allow us to continue in those traditions.

We also are very lucky to have a diverse membership from college students and electrical engineers to business owners and Information Technology Professionals. This diversity gives us the unique ability to serve not only the Ubuntu community but promote the spirit of Ubuntu as well. 

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''08/03/2010'')
* '''Team Contact''' - Michael Rimbert <mrimbert@ubuntu.com>
* '''Membership''' - 51 as of August 3, 2010, including 3 Ubuntu Members.
* '''Mailing List''' - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-nm|ubuntu-us-nm]]</nowiki> on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/IRC|#ubuntu-us-nm]]</nowiki> on Freenode

==== Team Activity Archives ====
 
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/New_Mexico_Ubuntu_News_Archive|Team News Archives]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-nm/|Team Mailing List Archives]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/Meetings|Meeting Minutes]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===

The New Mexico Ubuntu LoCo has become determined to be a vital part of the Ubuntu community, we have many but obtainable goals. 

==== Goals ====
* '''Promote, educate, and advocate Ubuntu in the state of New Mexico and world wide.'''<<BR>>
Promote, educate, and advocate Ubuntu in the state of New Mexico and world wide this really is the mission statement for the New Mexico Ubuntu LoCo. The members of the LoCo truly believe in the Ubuntu Code of Conduct and strive to help others, as more and more users make the transition from other Computer Operating System to Ubuntu and other distributions of Linux we hope to be the support they need to help Linux and the end user succeed. 

* '''Have regular IRC weekly meetings.'''<<BR>>
Starting in August of 2007 the New Mexico Ubuntu LoCo established a consistent meeting time and date for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/Meetings|weekly IRC meetings]]</nowiki>. These meetings have become the main communication avenue between members and people seeking more information on Ubuntu and the New Mexico LoCo. Our IRC information is located <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/IRC|here]]</nowiki>.
* '''Have regular face to face monthly meetings.'''<<BR>>
Nothing beats meeting and talking with your fellow Ubuntu users and having a meeting once a month gives a certain creditability to the LoCo. Face to face meetings help with recruitment, morale, and knowledge. Here is a listing of the meetings we have had so far <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Flying_Star_Meet_and_Greet|August 30th 2007 meeting]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gutsy_Gibbon_Release_Party%3a_October_18,_2007|October 19th meeting]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/November,_8_2007|November 8th 2007 meeting]]</nowiki>. The December 2007 meeting is scheduled for the 14th.   
* '''Coordinate a yearly Linux Expo in the state of New Mexico.'''<<BR>>
We have a long term goal of creating a Linux expo in coordination with other New Mexico LUG's. We would like it to be similar in scope to the <nowiki>[[http://www.utosc.org/|Utah Open Source Conference]]</nowiki>.
* '''Set up a support structure for Ubuntu in the state of New Mexico.'''<<BR>>
This will be the most challenging of all our goals, but we feel it is vital in the continued growth of Ubuntu. As new users start using Ubuntu they will need a place to go to get good quality hands on support. We've had plenty of discussions about this but have yet to come up with any proper solutions. Fortunately we have an ambitious project in the works that will require technical support from the New Mexico LoCo. The Endorphin Power Company project details on this project as well as it progress can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Endorphin_Power_Company_Ubuntu_Install_and_Support%3a_October_1,_2007|here]]</nowiki>. Part of this project is the creation of a SLA or service level agreement, this document should lay the foundation of how we handle support in the future. We have four core members to date that have agreed to help with technical support in some from or another. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GrammatonCleric|Eric Krieger]]</nowiki>, Chris Brotherton, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichaelRimbert|Michael Rimbert]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/dthomasdigital|David Thomas]]</nowiki>.
* '''Have numerous community based projects based on the idea and spirit of Ubuntu.''' <<BR>>
We have started to create projects for the LoCo using the guidelines found in the Ubuntu Code of Conduct and the spirit of Ubuntu. Projects so far have included. <<BR>>

==== Current Projects ====

 {*} <nowiki>[[Endorphin_Power_Company_Ubuntu_Install_and_Support]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[NewMexicoTeam-WebPage|Team Webpage]]</nowiki>

==== Past Projects ====

 {o} <nowiki>[[NewMexicoTeam-Lucid_Release_Party_2010|Lucid Lynx 10.04 LTS Release Party]]</nowiki>

 {o} <nowiki>[[NewMexicoTeam-trade_show_2010|Silver Spur Trade Show]]</nowiki> booth. The first was the weekend of February 13-14, 2010 in Rio Rancho, NM. The 2^nd^ show is the weekend of May 1-2, 2010 in Albuquerque, NM.

 {o} <nowiki>[[Software_Freedom_Day:_September_19,_2009]]</nowiki>

 {o} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/IntrepidIbexParty|Intrepid Ibex Release Party November 8th 2008]]</nowiki>

 {o} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/April,_25_2008|Hardy Release Party April 25 2008]]</nowiki>

 {o} <nowiki>[[Software_Freedom_Day:_September_20,_2008]]</nowiki>

 {o} <nowiki>[[Gutsy_Gibbon_Release_Party:_October_18,_2007]]</nowiki> Changed to the 19th
 
 {o} <nowiki>[[Software_Freedom_Day:_September_15,_2007]]</nowiki> 

During are weekly meetings we keep the floor open to any other community projects that might be a good fit for the LoCo.

* '''Grow the membership of the New Mexico Team.''' <<BR>>
Membership growth is the cornerstone to a successful Ubuntu LoCo. The New Mexico LoCo started out with just two members and in just five short months have grown the membership to twenty one, with numerous others showing interest in joining we feel our membership will continue with this upward trend. With planned events like install fest, release parties, and community projects helping to spur further growth.  
* '''Work with the New Mexico LUG's''' <<BR>>
One of the main goals we first talked about after forming the New Mexico Ubuntu LoCo was the desire to work closely with other New Mexico Linux groups. This has been a real successes story for us. Many of the different New Mexico Lug members are also members of The New Mexico LoCo, as well as New Mexico LoCo members being members of New Mexico LUGS. The New Mexico Member <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/dthomasdigital|David Thomas]]</nowiki> is the Liaison between all the New Mexico LUGS and the New Mexico LoCo. He keeps the LUGS  updated on the coming and goings of the LoCo as well as keeps the LoCo updated of the coming and goings of the LUGS. For more information about New Mexico LUGS just go <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam#head-6d9df824a8743993ea022bfa87b96181a0b3a3a0|here]]</nowiki>.
* '''Hold quarterly Install fest.'''<<BR>>
We have just started to get this project off the ground, our goal is to have quarterly install fest starting in January of 2008. Details can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Quarterly_Install_Fest|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Experience ===

The New Mexico Ubuntu Loco truly strive to maintain continuity in every thing we do . From meetings that are held at predictable times to email announcements that have a  standard format.

==== Accomplishments ====

''' September 27th 2009 '''

The NM LoCo's EPC project was featured in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue161#Ubuntu%20New%20Mexico%20team%20helps%20the%20Endorphine%20Power%20Company|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter Issue 161]]</nowiki>!

''' September 24th 2009 '''

The NM LoCo's EPC project was featured on <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1915|The Fridge]]</nowiki>!

''' March, 2009 '''

David Thomas of the NM LoCo is interviewed on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntupodcast.net/2009/03/12/ubuntu-podcast-episode-21/|Ubuntu Podcast Issue #21]]</nowiki>

''' March, 2008 '''

The NM LoCo's EPC project was featured on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue82#Ubuntu New Mexico LoCo: Endorphin Power Company Ubuntu Install and Support|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter Issue 82]]</nowiki>!

* Have established an <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/IRC|IRC channel]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=187|team forum]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-newmexico|launchpad]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-nm|mailing list]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam|team wiki]]</nowiki>.
* Coordinated and hosted the 2007 <nowiki>[[http://www.softwarefreedomday.org/teams/northamerica/NM/Albuquerque/NewMexicoUbuntuLoco|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki> Team in Rio Rancho, New Mexico. Our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Software_Freedom_Day%3a_September_15,_2007|wiki project page link]]</nowiki> for SFD
* Established a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/Meetings|weekly IRC meeting.]]</nowiki>
* Established a monthly face to face meeting. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Flying_Star_Meet_and_Greet|August 30th 2007 meeting]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gutsy_Gibbon_Release_Party%3a_October_18,_2007|October 19th meeting]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/November,_8_2007|November 8th 2007 meeting]]</nowiki>. The December 2007 meeting is scheduled for the 14th.
* Grown the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-newmexico|membership]]</nowiki> from 2 to 21 in 5 months.
* Have Started working with New Mexico LUG's all organizations benefiting. Thanks to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam#head-6d9df824a8743993ea022bfa87b96181a0b3a3a0|MVLUG, NMLUG, and NMGLUG]]</nowiki> for their support.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Endorphin_Power_Company_Ubuntu_Install_and_Support%3a_October_1,_2007|Endorphin Power Company]]</nowiki> This ambitious project includes installing 25 networked computers all with Ubuntu. The New Mexico Ubuntu Loco will also be supporting this installation with a limited service level agreement. We would like to thank <nowiki>[[http://www.charterco.com|Charter Bank]]</nowiki> for the donation of the 25 computers for this project.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gutsy_Gibbon_Release_Party%3a_October_18,_2007|Gutsy Gibbon Release Party]]</nowiki> - Our First Release Party.

==== Forum Contributions ====

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/dthomasdigital|David Thomas]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=263125|Forum Post]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GrammatonCleric|Eric Krieger]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=24155|Forum Post]]</nowiki>

== Links ==

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-nm/|Archive]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/Members|Members]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/Meetings|Meetings]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/Projects|Projects]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/Contacts|Contacts]]</nowiki>
