{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}
 
==== Agenda ====

 
If you want to add anything else to the agenda, please feel free!

{{http://myweb.cableone.net/dthomas/images/ub.png}}

'''Members Present'''

* dthomasdigital
* [mando]
* protonchris
* weazzle
* source3
* carpenterguy
* kenneth
* webmaven
* tritium
* deinerson1
* gcleric
* DrDogwelder
* genfool
* randancing
* mneptok
* Yggdrasil

'''Proceedings'''

Meeting started around 8:05. looked like it was going to be a slow meeting and ended up being a large meeting and very productive at 9:30 conversations were still on going.

'''Topics Discussed'''

New items were talked about that need to be added to the next meetings agenda.

Talked about a new Face-to-Face meeting in January

Talked about EPC and increasing our activity with the organization, also moving the lab to LTS.

Other topics were issues with Ubuntu 8.10, and later Linux gaming and the PS3.
