{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

==== Agenda ====
* Next F2F at the EPC - we could make it a LAN party have fun while testing the open mesh network.
* They are updating the LoCo Directory more information <nowiki>[[http://blog.nixternal.com/2009.03.15/loco-teams/|here]]</nowiki> we need to gather the information and get it sent to nixternal at ubuntu dot com
* Webpage update
 
If you want to add anything else to the agenda, please feel free! 

{{http://myweb.cableone.net/dthomas/images/ub.png}}

'''Members Present'''

* Doomcat
* dthomasdigital
* genfool
* jimrz
* protonchris
* kenneth
* deinerson1
* Pjay

 
'''Proceedings'''
Meeting started at 8:01pm by dthomasdigital

'''Topics Discussed'''
<pre>
* jimrz (n=jriordan@c-68-54-8-56.hsd1.nm.comcast.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
<protonchris> jimrz: good evening
<jimrz> hi protonchris
<jimrz> good evening everyone
* genfool (n=fred@70-57-254-172.albq.qwest.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
<dthomasdigital> Hello
<genfool> dthomasdigital, howdy
<dthomasdigital> Hey when you go to our wiki page do you see a date on the right upper corner?
* Doomcat (n=logcat@67-61-60-11.cpe.cableone.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
<genfool> for meetings? yes
<dthomasdigital> I see it on all the pages
<genfool> I am not seeing it, just date for meetings on wiki
<jimrz> genfol: same here
<dthomasdigital> Must be something I did on all my wiki pages I see November 18 2008 in the upper right hand corner
<genfool> Hi jimrz
<jimrz> hi genfool
<dthomasdigital> Looks like it might be a slow meeting.
<Doomcat> hi jimerz
<jimrz> hey Doomcat
<genfool> Doomcat,  whats up, how is the game going?
<Doomcat> well havent started still looking for ideas
<genfool> Anyone have ideas for location on install party?
<dthomasdigital> How about EPC, we could test the network and do a little gaming
<protonchris> EPC sounds good to me and denerson is up for it.
<dthomasdigital> So I guess we started the meeting
* kenneth (n=kenneth@c-69-254-140-79.hsd1.nm.comcast.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
<dthomasdigital> Let's see if Dave shows up and we can see what he thinks
<dthomasdigital> hey ken
<genfool> I have same thoughts. Had an idea last week, road construction at the moment hard to get to to check out
* deinerson1 (n=chatzill@c-68-35-135-32.hsd1.nm.comcast.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
<genfool> Hello ken
<dthomasdigital> speak of the devil
<kenneth> hi there
<protonchris> deinerson1: what are you thoughts on have a LAN gaming get together at the EPC?
<deinerson1> I like it :)
<protonchris> dthomasdigital: Did you have a date in mind?
<dthomasdigital> nope that deinerson1 would have a better idea
<protonchris> Is this LAN get together the same as or in addition to the release party?
<genfool> could be attractive to put them together, more attention
<deinerson1> perhaps a weekend afternoon or early evening?
<protonchris> Either works for me.
<deinerson1> me, too
<jimrz> +1
<genfool> I would have to do weekends
<dthomasdigital> +1
<dthomasdigital> A Saturday would rock.
<genfool> +1
<dthomasdigital> Hey I want to say a huge thank you to Dave and all the hard work he did this week
<jimrz> +1
<deinerson1> looking at EPC calendar, early evenings work quite well in forseeable, except 3/28, and 4/25
<deinerson1> Thanks, it was fun and is winning a few over.
<protonchris> deinerson1: How about saturdays?
<deinerson1> few residents, that is
<deinerson1> Yes Saturdays except for the two mentioned above
* Traveler8 (n=traveler@67-130-216-251.cnsp.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
<genfool> We are lucky to have Dave close by :)
<dthomasdigital> 3/28 is out for me so that's good it's out
<dthomasdigital> 3/28 will be the NMLC board meeting
* Traveler8 has quit (Client Quit)
* Traveler0 (n=traveler@67-130-216-251.cnsp.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
<jimrz> guess 3/28 out for me too, then
<jimrz> dthomasdigital: do you know what time on the 28th yet?
* Traveler0 has quit (Client Quit)
<dthomasdigital> what works for you Jim
<jimrz> can make anytime
<dthomasdigital> How about April 18th for the LAN party?
<dthomasdigital> jimrz I'll be sending a email soon
<jimrz> dthomasdigiral: thx
<protonchris> dthomasdigital: How about the week before? :)
<deinerson1> 4/18 looks good
<deinerson1> and before, too
<dthomasdigital> The 11th works for me
<protonchris> 4/11?
* Pjay (n=Pjay@67-130-216-251.cnsp.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
<genfool> works for me
<jimrz> 11 or 18 works ok for me
<dthomasdigital> Ho Pjay
<dthomasdigital> OK I say 11th
<dthomasdigital> =1
<dthomasdigital> +1
<protonchris> +!
<protonchris> +1
<jimrz> +1
<genfool> +1
<dthomasdigital> deinerson1 what do we need to do to get ready
<dthomasdigital> I'll bring 2 laptops for sure
<dthomasdigital> So what about the release party?
<deinerson1> I'll reserve space. We would use the library, or do you think we might have more space in the Gallery?
<dthomasdigital> deinerson1 good question
<deinerson1> In the library we could actually be on the lan as opposed to wireless
<genfool> for lan party, still have room out the side door if needed?
<genfool> I mean in library
<jimrz> release date = 4/23, so are we planning a separate party for maybe the 1st or 2nd weekend in May
<dthomasdigital> I say library we have the outside.
<dthomasdigital> If we have it in may I might have some media ready better than usual
<deinerson1> yes, from library some could go out and smoke or lounge
<genfool> :)
<protonchris> jimrz: That would be best for me.  The end of april is pretty busy for me.
<dthomasdigital> It be nice to do it on the release date, but May looks better for me too
<deinerson1> EPC calendar is wide open for May
<jimrz> anybody had any more ideas / preferences for type of location for the release party?
<dthomasdigital> I'll add the May idea to the next meetings agenda page and give tritium a chance to give his thougths
<protonchris> IIRC, his baby is due around the beginning of May.  So he might be MIA
<jimrz> oops
* Doomcat has quit ("IM AH FIRIN MAH LAZOR!!!!!!!!!!I shall vanish for now...................(evil lagh happens)")
<genfool> Can we set up a table and have the baby at the release party?
<jimrz> sure can
<dthomasdigital> Only if it's born on release day
<genfool> :)
<protonchris> It certainly would be a first.
<protonchris> Shall we move on?
<dthomasdigital> +1
<jimrz> ok
<protonchris> Ok, next item is dthomasdigital's
<genfool> Who wants to share the idea with tritium wife
<genfool> +1
<dthomasdigital> Well they are updating the LoCo Directory and we need to send then our info, just wanted to make sure the Council voted on it before I do
<jimrz> +1
<protonchris> +1
<dthomasdigital> +1
<dthomasdigital> is that a majority
<protonchris> yeah.
<dthomasdigital> cool I gather the info and get it sent
<dthomasdigital> next item?
<protonchris> Last item is the website.  We have a decision to make
<protonchris> In order to use the openid/launchpad integration with drupal, the webhost has to support php-ssl.  Birdhouse does not and it doesn't seem like they want to install it.
<protonchris> Choices:
<protonchris> 1) Stay with birdhouse and not use openid/launchpad integration
<protonchris> 2) Leave birdhouse and hope canonical comes though
<dthomasdigital> I talk to tritium the other day and it looks like they are moving on are canonical hosting
<protonchris> Cool.
<dthomasdigital> I don't know the whole story but it looks better than it did
<protonchris> We could have both (birdhouse and canonical) and decide which one we like better.
<protonchris> Birdhouse will probably have better support, but canonical will have openid/launchpad integration.
<genfool> protonchris,  what is your best suggestion?
<dthomasdigital> Hey now your thinking
<protonchris> I suggest that we try out both and decide what is the most important to us.
<genfool> +1
<dthomasdigital> +1
<jimrz> +1
<protonchris> I am pretty sure tritium is on board with this suggestion as well.
<protonchris> deinerson1: ?
<protonchris> kenneth: ?
<deinerson1> +1
<protonchris> anyone else I am missing?
<dthomasdigital> Ok to wrap up Lan party april 11th at EPC. Release party in May Jim you still on that?
<deinerson1> I like using canonical rather than birdhouse
<jimrz> yes, sir
<deinerson1> +1 on LAN party
<protonchris> deinerson1: Are you still ok with trying both out before deciding?
<dthomasdigital> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/JauntyJackalope release party info page 
<dthomasdigital> Should I make on for the LAN party?
<jimrz> couldn't hurt
<jimrz> what time for LAN party?
<dthomasdigital> I'll make them on the same page. Get my coding on.
<protonchris> dthomasdigital: could you list the games we will most likely play.  That way we can have them installed before we show up.
<genfool> Think so for documentation, hate to ask as you do so much
<dthomasdigital> Perfect protonchris perfect
<protonchris> dthomasdigital: we spent a lot of time downloading on software freedom day :)
<dthomasdigital> I spent al ot of time getting killed.
<protonchris> dthomasdigital: that part was awesome.
<genfool> roflmao
<dthomasdigital> :p
<dthomasdigital> Well is that all for official stuff?
<dthomasdigital> Again I want to say a huge thank you to deinerson1, great work.
<protonchris> Agreed
<protonchris> deinerson1: well done.
<genfool> :)   :)    :)   Yea Dave, you ROCK!
<protonchris> I was getting concerned that a RMA was in our future.
<deinerson1> yay!
<protonchris> deinerson1: did you see my question above?
<deinerson1> the 11th?
<protonchris> deinerson1: Are you still ok with trying both out before deciding?
<deinerson1> sure
<protonchris> wrt hosting and your preference to canonical
<protonchris> to -> for
<protonchris> Cool.
<protonchris> I am all out of business.
<protonchris> Anyone else have business?
<protonchris> or general questions?
<genfool> Small group tonight, seemed productive
<dthomasdigital> back had to go do something sorry
<deinerson1> A real upper: I watched a new laptop get 500 KB/s on the epc-open-mesh network and that was for a large (27 MB) file.
<jimrz> nice
<deinerson1> the older network cards easily stay above 150 KB/s
<dthomasdigital> sounds like the mesh is coming together pretty good thanks to your hard work
<deinerson1> I am just happy for the patient residents. I have been expressing how fast that is by comparing it to the wired network at my former work, which topped out at 150 KB/s.
</pre>
