{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Agenda ====

* Software Freedom Day - Cottonwood mall declined, not sure of the motive. - posted by dthomasdigital
* Software Freedom Day - New Location Rio Rancho, New Mexico Main Library <nowiki>[[http://nm-riorancho.civicplus.com/documents/Library/Revised%20Map%20of%20Rio%20Rancho%20Libraries.pdf|Map to the library]]</nowiki> Time Sept 19th from 11:00am till 3:00pm - posted by dthomasdigital
* SFD - I have <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Software_Freedom_Day%3A_September_19%2C_2009|full colour flyers]]</nowiki> printed anyone want to get some to hand out, also any advertising ideas? I'll have it posted in the alibi for sure - posted by dthomasdigital
* A request from dthomasdigital

If you want to add anything else to the agenda, please feel free! 

{{http://myweb.cableone.net/dthomas/images/ub.png}}

'''Members Present'''

16 real people in the IRC channel tonight 

'''Proceedings'''

Meeting started at 8:05 by dthomasdigital

'''Topics Discussed'''

<pre>
<genfool> HI guys/gals
<nick125> I say we wait 3-4 minutes, as people are still trickling in.
<dthomasdigital> I say we start in about  5min
<doomcat> hi ColonelPanik and kenneth_
<ColonelPanik> Hey
<genfool> ColonelPanik,  is the fence done yet?
* jay4rest (n=jay@c-76-113-52-31.hsd1.nm.comcast.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
<dthomasdigital> tonights agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/August_25_2009
<doomcat> hi jay4rest
<jay4rest> hi
<ColonelPanik> No, nothing is done, lots of projects stuck in the middle.
<dthomasdigital> Guys It's going to be a short meeting for me tonight, I have to bow out early, I'll hit the points in the agenda then it's a open forum. 
<kenneth_> hi there
<jimrz> ok
<jay4rest> no prob
<dthomasdigital> 1st item, as you can see we did not get the cottonwood mall
<jay4rest> boo
<doomcat> : (
<dthomasdigital> I was told we don't meet the criteria they have for non-profits.
<dthomasdigital> A load of crap, and I let them know how pissed I was for being strung along.
<jimrz> shame about the mall, but nice rebound getting the library setup so quickly
<jay4rest> we are a 501 right?
<dthomasdigital> I'm sending a formal complain to the Simon company the company that owns the mall
<jay4rest> definately
<dthomasdigital> pending jay4rest it takes months even years to get your official 501
<jay4rest> sorry, my background it takes a few months
<jay4rest> 501(c)3
<jay4rest> religious
<dthomasdigital> The NMLC is registered with the state, and we have a pending letter filed with the IRS.
<nick125> That should be good enough proof
<jay4rest> Ya, a little different
<dthomasdigital> religious gets a fast track, but that should be that way.
<nick125> dthomasdigital: Why didn't you register NMLC as a religious organization? Go Cult Penguin!
<nick125> :D
<jay4rest> lol
<dthomasdigital> oh well we missed out, but thanks to jim, erik, kenneth and ColonelPanik we are book, and paid for at the RR main library
<jay4rest> Richard is the high priest, right?
<jay4rest> Stallman...
<jay4rest> Thanks jim, erik, kenneth and ColonelPanik
<dthomasdigital> Also I was able to build great looking display thanks to the same group looks real good and can be used for other events as well
<dthomasdigital> pics up soon of it
<gcleric> I'm just a minion.
<dthomasdigital> a minion maybe but you should see the nice acrylic holders we have now for brouchurs and flyers thansk to your minon donations
<jay4rest> your not a minion to us
<gcleric> igor... is the name minioning is my game....
<doomcat> yeah all of the tri fold is going good so far
<gcleric> yesss...master...
<gcleric> =)
<jimrz> <grin>
<doomcat> lol
<dthomasdigital> Oh yes and a big thanks to doomcat  whoas spent a good part of his time folding about 200 tr-fold flyers
* gcleric tosses doomcat a cookie.
<jimrz> thanks doomcat
<doomcat> your welcome
<jay4rest> purrrfect
<doomcat> : )
<dthomasdigital> The library sure looks nice, its a good location. But we will need to really advertise, w can all do that
<jay4rest> I plug it on the podcast
<dthomasdigital> I've got links to all the print media on the agenda page. we can meet again of people want mice color laser printed copies
<jimrz> yep...put me down on the list of folks to do flyers...when/where you want to meet up to distribute them?
<dthomasdigital> speaking of the podcast jay4rest it's soundign great
<dthomasdigital> I'll send it out on the mailing list ASAP
<jay4rest> thank you
<jay4rest> I need email comments
<dthomasdigital> What do you guys think of the flyer does it work?
<gcleric> jay4rest: excellent stuff!
<jay4rest> tell me what you think and I read it on the podcast
<dthomasdigital> ColonelPanik it's in SVG so you can change it up pretty easy in inkscape
<dthomasdigital> Also for some reason we did not get a SFD package, and I know I registered on time....thought I had this one planned out better.
<dthomasdigital> but we got lots of swag so it's not a big deal
<gcleric> dthomasdigital: at least this time there's no barcamps.
<dthomasdigital> Don't worry you see a black box when you view it, open it up in inkscape and all is well
<dthomasdigital> gcleric you are right I check nothing is competing with us this year.
<ColonelPanik> I have already sent it on to my co-event coordinator
<dthomasdigital> ColonelPanik do we need to send you printed tri-folds?
<dthomasdigital> I'll do them on a color laser.
<dthomasdigital> Just remember any ideas you have to promote the date and location please feel free to do so, I'll be sure the location is ready and set up.
<kenneth_> only til 3pm at the library?
<ColonelPanik> Rest a beat, gotta talk with the "other" guy.
<dthomasdigital> Yes, the 11:00 till 3:00 works pretty good for them and they got us that time with real short notice.
<dthomasdigital> we ready to move to the last item?
<jimrz> +1
<jay4rest> 1+
<jay4rest> +1
<gcleric> +1
<doomcat> +1
<dthomasdigital> The month of September I will not be around much, SFD the exception. Mostly work related
<dthomasdigital> I'm sure I'll miss the Tuesday meetings
<dthomasdigital> anyone want to take over all the wiki updates
<dthomasdigital> and email notices on the mailing list for September?
* smooge (n=smooge@int.smoogespace.com) has joined #ubuntu-us-nm
<dthomasdigital> Don't all volunteer at once ;)
<dthomasdigital> It's mainly just changing the meeting dates and meeting pages.
* doomcat hears crickets chirping
<jay4rest> I hear them too
<dthomasdigital> Well I'll do my best to keep the wiki updated
<gcleric> wheeew... I thought that I was hearing things again...
<gcleric> =)
<jay4rest> you are
<dthomasdigital> but if it falls behind you folks will know why.
<gcleric> what? can't hear ya...
<jay4rest> huh?
<gcleric> eh?
<dthomasdigital> OK folks that's all I had....
<gcleric> thanks dthomasdigital
<dthomasdigital> I gots to go, will send out some emails in the next few days with SFD updates
<jay4rest> thanks dthomasdigital
<jay4rest> have a great night
<doomcat> bye guys
* doomcat has quit ("whats this windows that you speak of? is it good? i dont think so!!")
<jay4rest> bye
* jay4rest has quit ("Ex-Chat")
<dthomasdigital> again thanks to all that helped pay for SFD,we got a good location a great new display and some nice printed media
<gcleric> np  dude..
<gcleric> well off to hit the hay... night all!
<jimrz> nite  gcleric
<dthomasdigital> ColonelPanik let me know if you guys need any more stuff out east!
* gcleric has quit ("It's better to burn out than to fade away!")
<ColonelPanik> Thanks Dave, I will be in touch.
</pre>
