{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



The News Team exists to gather and publish news on Ubuntu-related stories.

All in accordance with the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/project/about-ubuntu/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>

== To Join, Contact, or Contribute ==

Getting involved is as simple as joining the team and exploring a little. Any contribution is appreciated and you don't have to be a core team member or make a significant investment of time to participate.

* '''IRC Channel:''' <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.libera.chat-ubuntu-news|#ubuntu-news]]</nowiki> on irc.libera.chat
* '''Mailing list:''' <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-news-team|ubuntu-news-team@lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-news|https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-news]]</nowiki>

=== The Fridge ===

The Fridge is an information hub for the Ubuntu community, bringing together news, grassroots marketing, advocacy, team collaboration, and great original content about Ubuntu.

Visit the fridge here: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

For more information about The Fridge and contributing to the team: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fridge | https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fridge]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter collects Ubuntu News from around the community and around the world to bring readers a weekly dose of Ubuntu articles.

Visit the latest version of The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter here: <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/uwn/124]]</nowiki>

For more information about The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter and contributing to the team: <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-weekly-newsletter/40911]]</nowiki>

=== Developer News ===

We aim to get weekly news out about Ubuntu Development.

For more information about Developer news and contributing to the team: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/News]]</nowiki>

---
CategoryUbuntuTeams
