{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



El News Team existe para recolectar y publicar noticias en historias relacionadas a Ubuntu.

En acordancia con el <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/project/about-ubuntu/conduct|Código de Conducta de Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

== Para Unirte, Contactarnos, o Contribuir ==

Contribuir es tan simple como unirte al equipo y explorar un poco. Cualquier contribución es apreciada, y no tienes que ser un miembro fundamental del equipo o hacer una gran inversión de tiempo para participar.

* IRC: <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-news|#ubuntu-news]]</nowiki> en irc.freenode.net
* Lista de Correos (En Inlgés): https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-news-team
* Nuestra página de equipo en Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-news

=== El Fridge ===

El Fridge es un lugar informativo para la Ubuntu community, juntando noticias, marketing, advocación, colaboración de equipo, y gran contenido original sobre Ubuntu.

Visita el fridge aquí: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

For more information about The Fridge and contributing to the team: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fridge | https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fridge]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter collects Ubuntu News from around the community and around the world to bring readers a weekly dose of Ubuntu articles.

Visit the latest version of The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter here: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Current]]</nowiki>

For more information about The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter and contributing to the team: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter | https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter]]</nowiki>

=== Developer News ===

We aim to get weekly news out about Ubuntu Development.

For more information about Developer news and contributing to the team: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/News]]</nowiki>

---
CategoryUbuntuTeams
