{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== NewWikiAnnouncement ==

Our wiki is now integrated to the web site! A "wiki" is a set of web pages
that you can edit directly using only your web browser. We use the wiki to
develop a shared view of where Ubuntu should be headed. All members of the 
Ubuntu community are invited to shape the contents of the wiki, helping to
set the policy for future releases of Ubuntu.

  View the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/|Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki>

We have moved much of the content of the old wiki over, and locked the old
wiki so that new content will be created in the new wiki only. We will
complete the content migration within 24 hours of this announcement.

=== New Features ===

 1. Tight integration with the web site. Wiki content will now show up in searches on our web site, and the wiki carries the same skinning and theme as the main site.
 2. The new wiki supports more content formats. You can create wiki pages in the old Moin format as well as in HTML, or the recommended ReStructured Text, or another format called Structured Text.
    <pre>
     MoinMoin is the recommended format these days
    }}}
 3. Page renaming should now work better. If you rename a page then the wiki will attempt to rename all of the links to that page.
 4. Speaking of which, you can now see the backlinks to a page (the list of pages which link to a given page in the wiki).
 5. You can also create page aliases, which allow a page to appear at different URL's.
 6. The new wiki supports sub-pages like "HoaryHedgehog/HoaryReleaseSchedule" differently. You can continue to use those page names by using square brackets to link to them. Or, rename this page to HoaryReleaseSchedule, and parent it under a page [obsoleted by HoaryHedgehog / HoaryGoals] to help organize the wiki.
 7. Automatic subtopic links
 8. Quick <nowiki>[[http://zwiki.org/QuickReference#1|access keys]]</nowiki> (Alt-0 in modern browsers).
 9. Wysiwyg html editing
 10. <nowiki>[[http://zwiki.org/ExternalEditor|External editor]]</nowiki>

=== Features Lost ===

1. Moin macros. (Zwiki's DTML scripting has not been enabled.)

=== Formats ===

The new wiki software supports more formats. In addition to the Moin 
format of the old wiki, you can create wiki pages in HTML, 
which should be familiar to most of you, as well as in ReST ReStructured Text
and Structured Text. SteveA please comment: We strongly 
recommend Re-Structured Text as the preferred format for new pages.
{{{
 This is outdated: MoinMoin is the preferred format again
</pre>
Quick Reference for Re-Structured Text
* http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html

=== Permissions ===

You will have to log into the web site to be able to edit wiki pages. Any
member of the Ubuntu community is welcome to register at the site and then
to edit pages on the wiki. Your changes are immediately visible in the wiki
so please treat it as a public forum, and observe the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/community/conduct/|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
with regard to any changes you make. You can now also edit most pages on
the web site (a few pages are locked), but these edits will be reviewed
by our documentation team before being published. The wiki is more likely to
give you instant gratification and your name in lights :-)

=== Thanks ===

Thanks to Brad Bollenbach for getting the new wiki software up to speed and
to Lulu McCance-Price for her ongoing stewardship of ubuntulinux.org.
