{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''12th''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:30 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==

The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Announcements
* Discuss Major issues
** ask members to join the new facebook account page
** Discuss the Community Library Project section on the wiki (Based on our acceptance into the O'Reilly User Group Program. ( Note: Samiam010203 has already requested another box of donation books and swag from O'Reilly Publishing for use in this matter) )
** create list of possible team events
** Discuss the idea of creating sub teams for each region.
** Location for future RL meetings
** Should every district have its own RL meeting?
** If so, should there be a link between the meetings?
** How much communication if any is neccessary between the meetings?
** Should all districts meetings be on the same day?
** Improve wikitasks
** Improve management of wiki
** Should we create a HOWTO Section on the wiki for new users or should we point them to already made documentation?
* Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
----
CategoryNewYorkTeam
