{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Review 10.04 launch event
** turnout
** format
** general
* Discuss 10.10 initial plans

* Install fest in Ithaca -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * Linux workshops in Syracuse (UCF) and Rochester (Interlock)
* Review inconsistencies in the By-Laws -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>    * options:
*** revise by-laws
*** remove by-laws
* Discuss function of website
** maintain and revise or ??
* Posting 'location' on website
** a member of the loco council has indicated that this is an issue
* Discuss changes to membership process -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ausimage]]</nowiki>

== Minutes ==
{{{#!irc
2010-05-19T01:00:06  <cprofitt> Welcome everyone. Can I get a roll call please.
2010-05-19T01:00:15  <cprofitt> just say here or present
2010-05-19T01:00:22  <slick6661> here!
2010-05-19T01:00:24  <cprofitt> here
2010-05-19T01:00:26  <slick6661> first too
2010-05-19T01:00:30  <slick6661> ;)
2010-05-19T01:01:01  <cprofitt> We have some big topics to discuss tonight... but I want to get some of the smaller ones out of the way first.
2010-05-19T01:01:31  <cprofitt> the first topic is the 10.04 launch party we had in Waterloo on May 1st
2010-05-19T01:01:53  <cprofitt> I would like to thank slick6661, ducky and ausimage for putting together a well organized event
2010-05-19T01:01:58  <Dave123-road> preseny
2010-05-19T01:02:15  <cprofitt> the speakers were good, the install fest / help time was well done and the food was perfect
2010-05-19T01:02:15  <hal14450> i enjoyed it and would like to thank everyone involved in pulling it off
2010-05-19T01:02:28  <cprofitt> the format I thought was good...
2010-05-19T01:02:38  <cprofitt> did anyone else have comments about it?
2010-05-19T01:02:47  <hal14450> we may have sounded a bit preachy in regards to the MS/Apple comments
2010-05-19T01:03:09  * cprofitt nods
2010-05-19T01:03:16  <hal14450> that's my only complaint
2010-05-19T01:03:26  <cprofitt> I agree we were a bit harsh on them... given that it was a public information event
2010-05-19T01:03:33  <cprofitt> thanks for making that point hal14450
2010-05-19T01:03:37  <slick6661> I think we could have improved our outreach
2010-05-19T01:03:48  <slick6661> attendance was lower this time than in past events
2010-05-19T01:03:50  <cprofitt> outreach - meaning advertising?
2010-05-19T01:03:56  <hal14450> attendance was low
2010-05-19T01:03:57  <slick6661> yea
2010-05-19T01:04:04  *** AutumnAi has quit IRC
2010-05-19T01:04:08  <cprofitt> Yes, I think attendance was low...
2010-05-19T01:04:29  <Dave123-road> i think it may be better to hold it closer to either roc or syr or both
2010-05-19T01:04:34  <cprofitt> I think location may have impacted that... this was the 3rd event in Waterloo in a row
2010-05-19T01:04:46  <cprofitt> with no major launch events in Syracuse or Rochester
2010-05-19T01:05:03  <cprofitt> we pretty much saw the 'usual suspects' and less of them than normal
2010-05-19T01:05:08  * cprofitt nods to Dave123-road 
2010-05-19T01:05:12  <hal14450> agreed
2010-05-19T01:05:29  <cprofitt> I agree I think if we want to grow the 'reach' we need to do some stuff in local areas
2010-05-19T01:05:44  <cprofitt> slipping in to the next topic...
2010-05-19T01:05:54  <cprofitt> I have already reserved a date for a 10.10 launch in Rochester
2010-05-19T01:06:03  <cprofitt> November 6th - at Barnes and Noble
2010-05-19T01:06:19  <cprofitt> slick6661: I believe is planning for an event in Syracuse for 10.10 as well
2010-05-19T01:07:01  <slick6661> is it the opinoin of the group that we should have simulanous events?
2010-05-19T01:07:09  <cprofitt> same day?
2010-05-19T01:07:15  <cprofitt> I waiver on that...
2010-05-19T01:07:23  <hal14450> fair enough to have more local rls parties we've given the 'central' approach a shot
2010-05-19T01:07:28  <cprofitt> we have a very small core group who can pull these things off
2010-05-19T01:07:54  <Dave123-road> the venue in waterloo is fine just its in no mans land
2010-05-19T01:08:14  <cprofitt> but I think we are likely to have more people being willing and able to support the effort if we are closer to the two major population centers we have
2010-05-19T01:08:35  <hal14450> Dave123-road, yes it's just too far to draw a crowd and hasn't drawn much other than the choir to preach to
2010-05-19T01:08:42  <cprofitt> As we can discuss when the bylaws come up I think it might be best for local groups to pick a date that works for them
2010-05-19T01:08:59  <cprofitt> and not worry about other areas -- but it will impact where people can be
2010-05-19T01:09:19  <cprofitt> I try to support Syracuse, but if Syracuse and Rochester have events on the same day I can't do both...
2010-05-19T01:09:26  <cprofitt> the same goes for everyone
2010-05-19T01:09:38  <Dave123-road> cprofitt, we can help out where we can
2010-05-19T01:09:51  <cprofitt> in the end I think local 'leaders' need to figure out what is best for their area
2010-05-19T01:09:55  <cprofitt> Dave123-road: thanks
2010-05-19T01:10:16  <cprofitt> I think Rochester has a good pool of talent that simply has not made the trip to Waterloo
2010-05-19T01:10:25  <cprofitt> and I know Syracuse has a good pool as well
2010-05-19T01:10:37  <cprofitt> slick6661: have you thought about a date for Syracuse yet?
2010-05-19T01:10:51  <slick6661> weekends have worked out well for us in the past
2010-05-19T01:11:05  <cprofitt> yeah -- November 6th is the first Saturday I believe
2010-05-19T01:11:11  <slick6661> depending on the final realease date it will ikely be the next Saturday
2010-05-19T01:11:14  <hal14450> central might be good for a special event but not for every rls imho
2010-05-19T01:11:21  <Dave123-road> Saturdays are better in the fall
2010-05-19T01:11:38  <cprofitt> yeah -- I like the idea of doing a centralized or statewide event for each RTS
2010-05-19T01:12:05  <cprofitt> cool... well we can keep working on that...
2010-05-19T01:12:16  <cprofitt> but Rochester is set for November 6th
2010-05-19T01:12:31  <cprofitt> I had Barnes and Noble @ RIT reserve the room for 4 hours
2010-05-19T01:12:31  <slick6661> cool
2010-05-19T01:12:42  * deejoe_ looks around
2010-05-19T01:12:47  <hal14450> works for me
2010-05-19T01:12:48  *** deejoe_ is now known as deejoe
2010-05-19T01:12:49  <cprofitt> it was great to be able to get a Saturday from them
2010-05-19T01:12:51  <cprofitt> hey deejoe
2010-05-19T01:12:54  <hal14450> lo deejoe
2010-05-19T01:12:58  <cprofitt> alright... install fest in Ithace
2010-05-19T01:13:09  <deejoe> oh?
2010-05-19T01:13:16  <cprofitt> the IFSA has expressed an interest in holding a co-branded install fest with us
2010-05-19T01:13:27  <cprofitt> but we have not had time to get that planned with the LTS release
2010-05-19T01:13:32  <hal14450> they have a date in mind?
2010-05-19T01:13:37  <cprofitt> how many would be able to assist with such a venture
2010-05-19T01:13:44  <cprofitt> no, no date in mind at this time
2010-05-19T01:13:54  <Dave123-road> id be willing depending on date/time
2010-05-19T01:13:57  <cprofitt> I wanted to gauge general interest and then start working on it with those guys
2010-05-19T01:14:01  <hal14450> if we get a carpool i'm willing to venture down there
2010-05-19T01:14:04  <slick6661> I'm too close to miss that one
2010-05-19T01:14:12  <slick6661> I think you can count on Ducky too
2010-05-19T01:14:17  <cprofitt> alright... so we have good strong interest
2010-05-19T01:14:31  <cprofitt> slick6661: if the timing was right could you guys do your normal local repo setup?
2010-05-19T01:15:11  <slick6661> I think so
2010-05-19T01:15:13  <cprofitt> I will start with those guys on trying to get a good location for such an event -- Ithaca College, Cornell -- something like that...
2010-05-19T01:15:19  <cprofitt> thanks guys
2010-05-19T01:15:23  <cprofitt> I will keep you all posted
2010-05-19T01:15:29  <cprofitt> all right...
2010-05-19T01:15:47  <hal14450> i think cornell or ithaca college have repos but i'm not positive on that
2010-05-19T01:15:49  <deejoe> I wonder if storefronts on the Ithaca Commons might be available
2010-05-19T01:15:57  <deejoe> there's often some churn in their occupancy
2010-05-19T01:16:19  <cprofitt> I wanted to let folks know that the monthly events in Rochester have been converted to Saturdays and are now a Workshop once a month for four hours
2010-05-19T01:16:23  <hal14450> deejoe, that's an interesting idea
2010-05-19T01:16:25  <cprofitt> the idea is to have a more hands on session
2010-05-19T01:16:33  * cprofitt nods to deejoe about the storefront idea
2010-05-19T01:16:40  <cprofitt> its just the tubes we would need to worry about
2010-05-19T01:16:55  <deejoe> up in triphammer mall they have a computer recycling place that was supposed to have opened in the last month
2010-05-19T01:17:07  <deejoe> at least some of the involved folk are linux-savvy/friendly
2010-05-19T01:17:17  <hal14450> good to know
2010-05-19T01:17:18  <cprofitt> I also have been to the UCF in Syracuse and think its the perfect place for such workshops too.
2010-05-19T01:17:27  <cprofitt> deejoe: nice -- do you have any contact information?
2010-05-19T01:18:16  <deejoe> http://fingerlakesreuse.org/ecenter.shtml
2010-05-19T01:18:20  <deejoe> had to look it up
2010-05-19T01:18:29  <cprofitt> bookmarked
2010-05-19T01:18:53  <cprofitt> will look at that after the meetings
2010-05-19T01:19:05  <deejoe> ok
2010-05-19T01:19:24  <cprofitt> slick6661: will syracuse be holding any events in the next few months?
2010-05-19T01:20:33  <slick6661> the next event that has been discussed in another jam type session
2010-05-19T01:20:42  <slick6661> no dates set yet
2010-05-19T01:21:05  <cprofitt> cool... any thoughts about doing some hands-on or training type things?
2010-05-19T01:22:03  <slick6661> not much developement in that area but I'll bring it up
2010-05-19T01:22:12  <cprofitt> the last thing before we get to some of our larger topics is just an FYI -- due to a discussion with one of the LoCo Council we took down the page that had 'location' information for many of our members
2010-05-19T01:22:19  * cprofitt nods to slick
2010-05-19T01:22:25  <cprofitt> alright...
2010-05-19T01:22:35  <cprofitt> I would really like to hear from everyone on this next subject
2010-05-19T01:22:47  <cprofitt> it is an important topic
2010-05-19T01:23:09  <cprofitt> I hope you all got a chance to look at our current bylaws
2010-05-19T01:23:10  <cprofitt> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ByLaws
2010-05-19T01:23:28  <cprofitt> and some suggestions for ammendments or changes
2010-05-19T01:23:29  <cprofitt> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ByLawsAmendments
2010-05-19T01:24:12  <cprofitt> the reason for considering this is that the original bylaws were crafted with the intent of the LoCo being a not for profit corporation
2010-05-19T01:24:24  <cprofitt> hence the need for formal bylaws and officers, etc
2010-05-19T01:24:42  <cprofitt> this is not something that, at least with the name Ubuntu attached, is possible
2010-05-19T01:25:03  *** Zeike has quit IRC
2010-05-19T01:25:06  <cprofitt> I also looked at all the other state LoCos and unless I missed it none of them have bylaws
2010-05-19T01:25:18  <cprofitt> they have a more informal doocracy style and strucutre
2010-05-19T01:25:27  <cprofitt> which I think truly is how we function
2010-05-19T01:25:39  <cprofitt> our current bylaws require meetings that we have not held...
2010-05-19T01:25:49  <cprofitt> and other formalities that I think are intimidating to some
2010-05-19T01:26:06  <cprofitt> they mention dues... and fees
2010-05-19T01:26:11  *** Zeike has joined #ubuntu-us-ny
2010-05-19T01:26:25  <cprofitt> quarterly meetings
2010-05-19T01:26:35  <cprofitt> there are also some inconsistencies
2010-05-19T01:26:48  <cprofitt> with a mention of annual election meetings, but two year terms
2010-05-19T01:27:13  <cprofitt> to this end, as you know, I sent out notice that we are considering changing or eliminating the bylaws
2010-05-19T01:27:29  * deejoe has seen the ReLoCo structure when hanging out in #ubuntu-us-oh
2010-05-19T01:27:46  <cprofitt> yes, that is what I think we are aiming for... what we kind of already are
2010-05-19T01:27:47  <hal14450> i think, originally some of them did have bylaws but have since relaxed the structure, and i see no point in trying to maintain something we can't achieve while using the ubuntu name so there really isn't much point in a formal structure unless someone else has a reason i haven't thought of
2010-05-19T01:28:09  <cprofitt> I would like to ask for everyone to voice any opinions that they have
2010-05-19T01:28:31  <deejoe> I'm fine with a less formal structure
2010-05-19T01:28:42  <deejoe> I think it matches our resources and demonstrated abilities
2010-05-19T01:29:24  <hal14450> it does
2010-05-19T01:29:51  <cprofitt> JamesAdams: jMyles_ Zeike asymptote ausimage DavidLevin IamReck do any of you have thoughts?
2010-05-19T01:30:30  <hal14450> pick up the ball and trun w/ it in your area is an attitiude that promotes people getting involved in whatever capacity they feel is appropriate
2010-05-19T01:30:42  <cprofitt> Looking at the proposed ammendments -- really a total re-write and a elimiation of them
2010-05-19T01:30:53  <cprofitt> does anyone have a preference to which change would be adopted
2010-05-19T01:31:21  <deejoe> option 2 looks better to me, admittedly on a quick read through
2010-05-19T01:31:45  <cprofitt> also, drawing your attention to Article VIII -- Amendments -- I believe we are following the current bylaws
2010-05-19T01:31:49  <deejoe> not sure what option 1 would result in
2010-05-19T01:32:04  <cprofitt> deejoe: it would result in no formal document called bylaws
2010-05-19T01:32:07  <slick6661> I'm inclined to agree
2010-05-19T01:32:09  <cprofitt> but the same basic structure...
2010-05-19T01:32:12  <cprofitt> just not formalized
2010-05-19T01:32:29  <cprofitt> we would likely make a structure page and put the same stuff down
2010-05-19T01:32:38  <cprofitt> for option 1
2010-05-19T01:33:12  <deejoe> so, does option 2 only replace the indicated articles, and leave the other numbered articles intact?
2010-05-19T01:33:22  <cprofitt> no, option 2 is the total document
2010-05-19T01:33:28  <hal14450> it encourages and empowers more members to get involved on their own terms if we dissolve the formal structure via either means
2010-05-19T01:34:06  <cprofitt> I think I lean towards no official bylaws -- go with a structure page
2010-05-19T01:34:14  <cprofitt> and that lets us be more adaptable
2010-05-19T01:34:55  <deejoe> yeah, option 2 isn't probably structured enough to be bylaws as such
2010-05-19T01:35:01  <deejoe> so maybe option 1 would be better
2010-05-19T01:35:26  * cprofitt nods
2010-05-19T01:35:41  <cprofitt> I did not see a single other US LoCo with bylaws...
2010-05-19T01:35:50  <hal14450> i'm happy with either choice so long as we wind up w/ the same results as in encouraging people to become more active on their own terms and not worry about what the leadership thinks is appropriate
2010-05-19T01:35:52  <cprofitt> and really do not see the sense in having formal bylaws
2010-05-19T01:36:19  <cprofitt> to advert your attention back to our current bylaws
2010-05-19T01:36:27  <cprofitt> Article VIII Section 1
2010-05-19T01:37:16  <deejoe> hal14450 & cprofitt, does that cover the 2/3rds?
2010-05-19T01:37:21  <cprofitt> I sent the proposed changes - both options to slick6661 (our secretary) and because he was out of town I sent both the general meeting announcement and the special leadership meeting announcement out
2010-05-19T01:37:41  <cprofitt> I want to ensure that meets the requirements
2010-05-19T01:37:42  <hal14450> deejoe, good question
2010-05-19T01:37:53  <hal14450> i think it should
2010-05-19T01:37:56  <cprofitt> we have four leaders currently
2010-05-19T01:38:02  <hal14450> ausimage, you there?
2010-05-19T01:38:05  <cprofitt> ausimage, hal14450, slick6661 and myself
2010-05-19T01:38:10  <deejoe> ah
2010-05-19T01:38:18  <deejoe> well, then
2010-05-19T01:38:34  <cprofitt> if, at the leadership meeting, hal14450 - slick6661 - and myself agree we would have enough despite ausimage being absent
2010-05-19T01:38:39  <deejoe> hard to get exactly two thirds, but if hal14450 slick6661 and cprofitt agree, it's done, I'd say
2010-05-19T01:38:42  <deejoe> yeah
2010-05-19T01:38:49  <cprofitt> well... 3/4 > 2/3
2010-05-19T01:38:57  <deejoe> yup
2010-05-19T01:39:10  <slick6661> agreed
2010-05-19T01:39:26  <cprofitt> ok...
2010-05-19T01:39:38  <cprofitt> so the leaders will meet after this meeting and take a vote on that...
2010-05-19T01:39:42  <cprofitt> for formality sake
2010-05-19T01:39:47  <cprofitt> perhaps the last formallity sake
2010-05-19T01:39:49  <cprofitt> :-)
2010-05-19T01:40:22  <cprofitt> alright... website (the wiki maintained outside the Ubuntu sphere) and the wiki (wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam)
2010-05-19T01:40:38  <cprofitt> I would like to get feedback again on this issue
2010-05-19T01:41:30  <cprofitt> My concern is the out-of-date information on main.newyork-ubuntu.com
2010-05-19T01:41:35  <cprofitt> and the duplication of information
2010-05-19T01:41:40  <slick6661> agreed
2010-05-19T01:41:47  <cprofitt> does anyone have any thoughts on this?
2010-05-19T01:41:48  <hal14450> i've expressed my opinion that the team website should probably remain static as it's become difficult to insure it being up to date which can leave prospective members with the impression we're not very active
2010-05-19T01:42:18  <slick6661> what is the purpose of the main website?
2010-05-19T01:42:24  <cprofitt> keep in mind that ausimage maintains this site... it is his baby
2010-05-19T01:42:36  <cprofitt> slick6661: not sure... what the original purpose is
2010-05-19T01:42:38  <Dave123-road> is ausimage even here?
2010-05-19T01:42:56  <cprofitt> most LoCos seem to use it as a public facing portal to their team
2010-05-19T01:43:01  <hal14450> i think the site itself is well done and ausimage has put a lot of effort into it but it's not up to date last i checked
2010-05-19T01:43:25  <cprofitt> and the wiki.ubuntu.com site as their on going organizational keeping track of things site
2010-05-19T01:43:41  <cprofitt> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PennsylvaniaTeam
2010-05-19T01:43:51  <cprofitt> http://ubuntupennsylvania.org/
2010-05-19T01:44:03  <cprofitt> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam
2010-05-19T01:44:09  <cprofitt> http://www.ubuntu-massachusetts.com/
2010-05-19T01:44:40  <cprofitt> I personally am cool with any use -- as long as we do not duplicate data (effort) and that it is maintained and not out of date
2010-05-19T01:44:53  <deejoe> statename-ubuntu vs ubuntu-statename always drives me to distraction
2010-05-19T01:45:05  <hal14450> everyone can easily edit the official canonical site provided they sign up where as the team site isn't editable by everyone so being that we're leaning towards more locally active groups it makes even more sense to have the team webby static
2010-05-19T01:45:25  <cprofitt> http://main.newyork-ubuntu.com/Activities/HomePage
2010-05-19T01:45:38  <cprofitt> that page has one event listed since December of 2009
2010-05-19T01:46:21  <slick6661> love what the MA team has done
2010-05-19T01:46:22  <cprofitt> we have had 22
2010-05-19T01:46:30  <cprofitt> yeah -- I like the MA team too
2010-05-19T01:46:36  <cprofitt> doctormo does good work
2010-05-19T01:47:17  <hal14450> seems like a valid and sensible option to have the team site become a static page then
2010-05-19T01:47:37  <cprofitt> so I will take the opinion of the group and ask ausimage to act on it...
2010-05-19T01:47:56  <cprofitt> do we feel a more startic public facing presence is what we want out of our website?
2010-05-19T01:48:01  <cprofitt> or...
2010-05-19T01:48:33  *** paultag_ has joined #ubuntu-us-ny
2010-05-19T01:48:36  <hal14450> from talking w/ jag recently i think he wants the donate button removed as it defaults to his paypal
2010-05-19T01:48:47  <cprofitt> we can do that regardless then hal14450
2010-05-19T01:48:52  <deejoe> these seem like reasonable changes
2010-05-19T01:48:59  <hal14450> he's been hosting it for us for free for years now
2010-05-19T01:49:22  <cprofitt> ok... I would like to take a vote
2010-05-19T01:49:32  <cprofitt> does your bot do votes slick6661 ?
2010-05-19T01:49:56  <slick6661> hmmmm
2010-05-19T01:49:59  <slick6661> 1 sec
2010-05-19T01:50:04  <hal14450> lol
2010-05-19T01:50:09  <cprofitt> no worries... if not we can do it the old fashioned way
2010-05-19T01:50:29  <cprofitt> +1 = yes, 0 = abstain, -1 = no
2010-05-19T01:51:04  <cprofitt> we would like to convert our website to a static presentation similar to the MA page
2010-05-19T01:51:08  <cprofitt> +1
2010-05-19T01:51:11  <hal14450> +1
2010-05-19T01:51:14  <slick6661> +1
2010-05-19T01:51:27  <cprofitt> deejoe: Dave123-road
2010-05-19T01:51:40  <deejoe> +1
2010-05-19T01:51:44  <cprofitt> any other votes?
2010-05-19T01:51:57  <cprofitt> last call for votes
2010-05-19T01:52:10  <cprofitt> ok we have unanimously decided to make that change
2010-05-19T01:52:39  <cprofitt> I will send an email to ausimage and let him know... if anyone would like to offer assistance -- be it coding, text bits, layout, or art please let me know
2010-05-19T01:53:01  <cprofitt> I hope that this reduces the burden that ausimage has been carrying
2010-05-19T01:53:21  <cprofitt> the last topic was ausimage's topic
2010-05-19T01:53:25  <slick6661> I do have an account on the site
2010-05-19T01:53:27  <slick6661> FYI
2010-05-19T01:53:37  <cprofitt> does anyone wish to discuss the membership process?
2010-05-19T01:54:19  <cprofitt> ok... meeting adjourned
2010-05-19T01:54:22  <hal14450> i think the site looks good the way it is but we just need to make sure it's static and we should possibly keep the calendar feature but not rely on it for events and be certain to point people to the canonical wiki for up to date info
2010-05-19T01:54:22  <cprofitt> thanks everyone
2010-05-19T01:54:53  <cprofitt> leaders if you can meet in the leadership channel we can hold our conversation and vote about the bylaws
2010-05-19T01:55:42  <cprofitt> all other members are welcome to come and watch the meeting
2010-05-19T01:55:56  <cprofitt> it is a public meeting, but I did not want to tie this channel down with more meeting time
2010-05-19T01:56:12  <cprofitt> ##ubuntu-us-ny-leaders
2010-05-19T01:56:19  <cprofitt> please feel free to join us there
}}}

== Special Leadership meeting ==
In accordance with Article VI section 2 of our current by-laws I am calling a special leadership meeting. The purpose of this meeting will be to discuss the potential amendment of our current by-laws with the intention on holding a vote. In accordance with Article VIII section 1 I need you to send notice to the current leaders of the team including the proposed amendments.

The proposed amendments are:

-----

Amendment Option 1:

Abolishment of By-Laws which will be replaced by an informal team structure document.

-----

Amendment Option 2:

The current By-laws will be amended to read:

===== Article 1: Team Leadership =====
section 1: The NY State Local Community team will have a primary contact and a secondary contact.
* The lead contact will be responsible for distribution of the resources received from the Ubuntu community and Canonical
* The lead contact shall be responsible for organizing the teams re-application for approved status
* The lead contact shall be responsible for communicating the concerns of members to the greater Ubuntu community

section 2: The purpose of the secondary contact is in the case of the primary contact being out of contact for a period of three months. If the primary contact can not be reached the secondary contact will automatically be elevated to primary contact

section 3:

===== Article 2: Central Team Meetings =====
section 1: The team shall meet monthly on IRC to facilitate the co-ordination of regional or state-wide events
* The meeting time and date will be set by the lead contact in consultation with the membership
* The team will meet in #ubuntu-us-ny on freenode.net

section 2: The team irc channel shall be available to any sub-team for on-line meetings.
* The sub-group should post details of the meeting on the Ubuntu wiki meeting page so others are aware that they meeting is taking place

===== Article 3: Sub-Teams =====
section 1: The New York State Local Team acknowledges that New York State is a large geographic region containing several major cities and the needs of Ubuntu users would be best met by local groups organizing local events
* Any person interesting in running a 'really' local team will be able to add their team information to a special page on teams Ubuntu wiki
* Every attempt will be made to support the 'really' local teams with resources from the Ubuntu community and Canonical
----
== Minutes ==
{{{#!irc
2010-05-19T02:01:41  <cprofitt> I would like to call this special leadership meeting to order
2010-05-19T02:01:47  <cprofitt> can all leaders say here
2010-05-19T02:01:48  <cprofitt> here
2010-05-19T02:01:58  <hal14450> here
2010-05-19T02:02:43  <slick6661> here
2010-05-19T02:02:58  <cprofitt> please note that ausimage is not present
2010-05-19T02:03:04  <slick6661> noted
2010-05-19T02:03:16  <cprofitt> would anyone like to discuss this issue?
2010-05-19T02:03:38  <cprofitt> I did not see any objection from the general members present at the meeting
2010-05-19T02:03:45  <hal14450> from previous discussions with ausimage i can safely say that he's probably considering resigning at this point since he's disagreed with the positions that we take on just about every topic we've discussed tonight so it's no surprise he's absent
2010-05-19T02:04:09  <hal14450> and i find that sad to be honest
2010-05-19T02:04:31  <cprofitt> I certainly hope that he will not. His contribution to the team has been tremendous
2010-05-19T02:04:39  <hal14450> i agree
2010-05-19T02:05:10  <cprofitt> which option do you both prefer?
2010-05-19T02:05:24  <hal14450> regarding the bylaws?
2010-05-19T02:05:43  <cprofitt> yes
2010-05-19T02:06:01  <hal14450> i'd say we should rewrite them to reflect the decentralized nature which has been successful in other teams
2010-05-19T02:06:17  <slick6661> to me it doesn't really matter what form they are in so long as they do what we need
2010-05-19T02:06:20  <cprofitt> re-write them as bylaws -- or as a structure document?
2010-05-19T02:06:34  <slick6661> if a functional document fits the bill best lets go with that
2010-05-19T02:06:37  <cprofitt> slick6661: I agree...
2010-05-19T02:06:52  <cprofitt> I would prefer to just work out the specifics moving forward and put them on the wiki
2010-05-19T02:06:54  <hal14450> we have no hope of becoming a non-profit while retaining the ubuntu name so there really is no reason to keep such a formal structure
2010-05-19T02:07:02  <cprofitt> k
2010-05-19T02:07:09  <cprofitt> shall we vote on option 1 then...
2010-05-19T02:07:43  <cprofitt> we will have some stuff to discuss after the vote... so please stick around...
2010-05-19T02:07:49  <hal14450> i feel the same as slick does but i think option 1 shows respect to the initial efforts
2010-05-19T02:08:31  <cprofitt> option 1 being the replacment of the bylaws with an informal structure document?
2010-05-19T02:08:37  <cprofitt> just to make sure hal14450
2010-05-19T02:08:43  <cprofitt> I want to make sure we are all on the same page
2010-05-19T02:08:52  <hal14450> sorry i though option 1 was a rewrite
2010-05-19T02:09:13  <cprofitt> option 2 is a re-write with keeping an official bylaws document
2010-05-19T02:09:19  <hal14450> Review inconsistencies in the By-Laws -- cprofitt 2010-04-02 11:42:24
2010-05-19T02:09:19  <hal14450>     * options:
2010-05-19T02:09:19  <hal14450>           o revise by-laws
2010-05-19T02:09:19  <hal14450>           o remove by-laws
2010-05-19T02:09:20  <slick6661> nope option one is the new structure document, option 2 is a rewrite of the current doc
2010-05-19T02:09:53  <cprofitt> hal14450: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ByLawsAmendments
2010-05-19T02:10:07  <cprofitt> sorry reversed the options on the meeting page
2010-05-19T02:10:19  <cprofitt> the ammendments page is the Option 1 vs Option 2
2010-05-19T02:10:25  <hal14450> ahh
2010-05-19T02:10:28  <hal14450> my bad
2010-05-19T02:10:37  <cprofitt> basically Option 1 takes the stuff in Option 2 but will not call it bylaws
2010-05-19T02:10:44  <cprofitt> it will just be on a structure page
2010-05-19T02:10:53  <cprofitt> no need for the formality of bylaws
2010-05-19T02:11:02  <hal14450> 2 seems the best choice to me
2010-05-19T02:11:16  <cprofitt> as deejoe pointed out I am not even sure that Option 2 would qualify as a bylaw
2010-05-19T02:11:22  <hal14450> shows respect for the previous efforts and all
2010-05-19T02:11:31  * cprofitt nods
2010-05-19T02:11:43  <slick6661> hal14450 why does option 2 look more appealing?
2010-05-19T02:11:58  <hal14450> well if it can't be done like that then we'll have to kill them i suppose
2010-05-19T02:13:14  <hal14450> there was a lot of (wasted) effort we put into trying to get the team to become a non-profit and i'd like to respect that effort by revising instead of trashing
2010-05-19T02:13:19  <cprofitt> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bylaw
2010-05-19T02:13:35  <slick6661> I'm inclined to go with option 1 because I feel it gives us a little more flexibility (maybe) and I think it marks a clear change in direction
2010-05-19T02:13:53  <cprofitt> I certainly want to respect what was done...
2010-05-19T02:14:07  <cprofitt> but I am concerned with calling them bylaws because of the conotation that holds
2010-05-19T02:14:29  <cprofitt> just using the word bylaws with the LoCo council member I spoke to caused a 'raised eyebrow'
2010-05-19T02:14:32  <hal14450> i think either marks a clear change in direction but we clearly don't want formalities getting in the way any more so i'm okay with option 1 if need be
2010-05-19T02:15:13  <cprofitt> http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:9tvuRqzuBgEJ:tomstreeter.com/Minimum%2520Standard%2520Bylaws.pdf+bylaws+requirements&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESgDNSnyBUc8GvoJpDyr1IwGSmgcTmVg2YgfEnBuZLZN4-XPJUXdtAxX7I9ZHWgQwTKERBhYq4Pvkniq5DdFUxtHpH_nhpDNQPA3-FwBqW6DMTBATMx33bNCFqM987lYtGU59FRN&sig=AHIEtbQUu6mUd8-jsW0ZpQEWipsUDvQkcA
2010-05-19T02:15:19  <cprofitt> gah -- sorry for that
2010-05-19T02:15:35  <hal14450> damn google docs
2010-05-19T02:15:41  <cprofitt> those are supposeduly the minimum standards for bylaws
2010-05-19T02:15:51  * hal14450 doesn't trust google enough to let them run scripts
2010-05-19T02:15:52  <slick6661> lol
2010-05-19T02:15:54  <cprofitt> for mensa chapters
2010-05-19T02:16:10  <cprofitt> I dunno...
2010-05-19T02:16:20  <cprofitt> any objections to voting?
2010-05-19T02:16:44  <hal14450> no objections
2010-05-19T02:16:59  <slick6661> nope
2010-05-19T02:17:01  <cprofitt> +1/0/-1 again
2010-05-19T02:17:22  <hal14450> for which option?
2010-05-19T02:17:25  <slick6661> yea
2010-05-19T02:17:27  <cprofitt> Option 1 -- removal of bylaws replaced by a structure document with the details listed as in option 2
2010-05-19T02:18:07  <slick6661> +1
2010-05-19T02:18:45  <hal14450> gah this is tough
2010-05-19T02:18:57  <hal14450> what if we get hung?
2010-05-19T02:19:05  <hal14450> revote?
2010-05-19T02:19:12  <cprofitt> we can always vote on option 2 if this fails or revote
2010-05-19T02:19:16  <cprofitt> or they stay as is
2010-05-19T02:19:22  <hal14450> 0 for now
2010-05-19T02:19:26  <cprofitt> +1
2010-05-19T02:19:30  <hal14450> i know you hate me
2010-05-19T02:19:31  <cprofitt> so Option 1 fails
2010-05-19T02:19:47  <slick6661> Option 2
2010-05-19T02:19:51  <hal14450> +1
2010-05-19T02:20:00  <slick6661> -1
2010-05-19T02:20:05  <cprofitt> Option 2 - revise the bylaws as detailed -- with the understanding we may need to add additional language for them to be bylaws
2010-05-19T02:20:09  <hal14450> lol
2010-05-19T02:20:11  <cprofitt> 0
2010-05-19T02:20:15  <slick6661> lol
2010-05-19T02:20:16  <cprofitt> option 2 fails
2010-05-19T02:20:28  <slick6661> oh man
2010-05-19T02:20:32  <cprofitt> option 3 - leave them as is
2010-05-19T02:20:35  <cprofitt> -1
2010-05-19T02:20:37  <hal14450> -1
2010-05-19T02:20:38  <slick6661> -1
2010-05-19T02:20:40  <slick6661> lol
2010-05-19T02:20:46  <hal14450> well we want change
2010-05-19T02:20:48  <cprofitt> would anyone like to make any other suggestions?
2010-05-19T02:20:57  <hal14450> just not sure which i guess
2010-05-19T02:21:06  <cprofitt> hence the difficulty with having 'bylaws' and formality
2010-05-19T02:21:34  <slick6661> ok well since hal and I disagree the most I suggest we open up for discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of options 1 and 2
2010-05-19T02:21:47  <cprofitt> k
2010-05-19T02:21:50  <hal14450> honestly i'm willing to give them up if it means the team is going to benefit from it
2010-05-19T02:22:28  <hal14450> i just wanted to respect the previous efforts
2010-05-19T02:22:58  <slick6661> I think we could do that
2010-05-19T02:23:01  <slick6661> I think we could archive the bylaws as they stand
2010-05-19T02:23:55  <cprofitt> I do plan on archiving them... it is important
2010-05-19T02:24:08  <slick6661> I agree we should respect the efforts of past members
2010-05-19T02:24:14  <hal14450> there was a lot of effort that went into exploring the non-profit option and i just think changing the bylaws to the proposed new set respects that
2010-05-19T02:24:52  <cprofitt> I agree with that notion hal14450 -- I am just not comfortable with the fact that bylaws carry with them a 'conotation'
2010-05-19T02:25:00  <slick6661> I don't want to restrict us when typing up the new "rules" by using a format that was intended for other purposes
2010-05-19T02:25:02  <hal14450> i'm not keen on keeping the command structure however
2010-05-19T02:25:08  <cprofitt> all bylaws I have seen are very formal
2010-05-19T02:25:42  <cprofitt> yes... and we need to deal with the 'command structure' after this vote -- assuming a change is made
2010-05-19T02:26:37  <hal14450> i'd prefer a complete rewrite of the bylaws to reflect a decentralized command structure as in removal of certain parts instead of amending
2010-05-19T02:27:08  <hal14450> but if that's not possible i say +1 to option 1
2010-05-19T02:27:21  <cprofitt> well... we can not replace the current set then
2010-05-19T02:27:30  <cprofitt> and we can spend some more time revising them
2010-05-19T02:27:31  <slick6661> I think we're talking basically the same thing
2010-05-19T02:27:41  <hal14450> i want to put this behind us and focus on the future
2010-05-19T02:27:49  <cprofitt> we need to make sure that the new bylaws have all the necessary components of bylaws
2010-05-19T02:27:53  <slick6661> all I see thats different with iption 1 is llsing the current format and creating a new format
2010-05-19T02:28:06  <cprofitt> slick6661: basically...
2010-05-19T02:28:10  <cprofitt> one is called strucutre
2010-05-19T02:28:14  <cprofitt> the other is bylaws
2010-05-19T02:28:28  <hal14450> let's vote again
2010-05-19T02:28:28  <cprofitt> except using the word bylaws carried a conotation to some
2010-05-19T02:28:52  <cprofitt> option 2 - revised bylaws
2010-05-19T02:28:56  <cprofitt> +1/0/-1
2010-05-19T02:28:59  <hal14450> bylaws has a bad connotation in some peoples eyes agreed
2010-05-19T02:29:03  <cprofitt> 0
2010-05-19T02:29:07  <hal14450> 0
2010-05-19T02:29:43  <cprofitt> any more votes
2010-05-19T02:29:45  <cprofitt> slick6661:
2010-05-19T02:29:53  <slick6661> I'm sorry guys I'm lost on exactly what we're voting on
2010-05-19T02:29:58  <cprofitt> option 2
2010-05-19T02:29:59  <slick6661> option 1 or two
2010-05-19T02:29:59  <hal14450> option 2
2010-05-19T02:30:05  <slick6661> -1
2010-05-19T02:30:07  <cprofitt> option 2 failed
2010-05-19T02:30:15  <cprofitt> Option 1 +1/0/-1
2010-05-19T02:30:16  <cprofitt> +1
2010-05-19T02:30:19  <hal14450> +1
2010-05-19T02:30:25  <slick6661> +1
2010-05-19T02:30:33  <cprofitt> Option one has been adopted
2010-05-19T02:30:38  <slick6661> Noted
2010-05-19T02:30:45  <hal14450> thanks guys
2010-05-19T02:30:50  <cprofitt> please refelect that the bylaws will be replaced by a structure document
2010-05-19T02:30:54  <cprofitt> you are welcome hal
2010-05-19T02:31:07  <cprofitt> the bylaws will be archived
2010-05-19T02:31:13  <cprofitt> now...
2010-05-19T02:31:24  <hal14450> brb bathroom
2010-05-19T02:31:43  <cprofitt> I would like to discuss how to transition to the two contacts...
2010-05-19T02:31:46  <cprofitt> any ideas?
2010-05-19T02:32:10  <slick6661> well since we're at this point i would like to propose an adjournment
2010-05-19T02:32:22  <slick6661> I have to get up at 4:30 tomorrow
2010-05-19T02:32:22  <cprofitt> err... ok
2010-05-19T02:32:32  <cprofitt> we can adjourn
2010-05-19T02:32:41  <cprofitt> and discuss the transition
2010-05-19T02:32:43  * hal14450 back
2010-05-19T02:32:53  <cprofitt> I will try to post the structure tonight
2010-05-19T02:33:00  <cprofitt> and archive the bylaws
2010-05-19T02:33:03  <hal14450> ahh adjournment
2010-05-19T02:33:07  <slick6661> yea
2010-05-19T02:33:11  <slick6661> got to get up early tomorrow
2010-05-19T02:33:18  <hal14450> okay np 4:30 is wicked early
2010-05-19T02:33:21  <cprofitt> we do need to decide if we are going to hold an election for the two contacts or how to handle that
2010-05-19T02:33:29  <slick6661> before we adjourn can we agree on another date to meet?
2010-05-19T02:33:48  <cprofitt> slick6661: perhaps we need to bring in all the members anyway
2010-05-19T02:33:55  <cprofitt> now that we are officially not 'officers'
2010-05-19T02:34:02  <hal14450> i'm easy, just ping me on irc w/ a proposed date or email me
2010-05-19T02:34:14  <cprofitt> can you post these minutes before getting to sleep though?
2010-05-19T02:34:22  <cprofitt> if not morning is fine...
2010-05-19T02:34:26  <slick6661> almost done
2010-05-19T02:34:30  <hal14450> lol yeah we dissolved our ability to accomplish anything anymore lol
2010-05-19T02:34:40  <cprofitt> pretty much...
2010-05-19T02:34:45  <hal14450> haha
2010-05-19T02:34:50  <hal14450> footbullet
2010-05-19T02:34:51  <cprofitt> hence why I thought we needed to talk abou it...
2010-05-19T02:35:03  <cprofitt> for now... I think it leaves aus and myself as contacts
2010-05-19T02:35:14  <cprofitt> but we can cross that bridge when we get there
2010-05-19T02:35:35  <hal14450> i think we'll do fine honestly
2010-05-19T02:35:36  <slick6661> cool
2010-05-19T02:35:54  <slick6661> well cprofitt do you want to call this meeting?
2010-05-19T02:36:06  <cprofitt> adjourned
}}}
