{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Release Party Ubuntu 7.04 in New York - NYC ===

We would like to throw a party to celebrate the Ubuntu 7.04 "Feisty Fawn" release, open for everybody interested.

To find out how you can help with the party please contact Yosef Harrow .

'''To RSVP for this event Please add your name to the RSVP List at the bottom of this page.'''

* '''Date:''' April 22, 2007 - The Sunday Following The Release
* '''Time:''' 3:00 PM until whenever we get tired :)
* '''Location:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkcoffeenyc.com/|Think Coffee]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=248%20Mercer%20St%2C%20New%20York%2C%20New%20York%2010012|248 Mercer St]]</nowiki>
** Features
*** Great Layout for Trivia and Discussion
*** Free Wireless
*** Nice selection of good food and coffee
** Subway Directions from 42nd St Penn Station, Manhattan
*** Take the A, C, or E train heading Downtown/Lefferts Blvd.
*** Get off at W 4 St. - Washington Sq. 
*** Transfer to the D train from W 4 St. Washington Sq. station heading Downtown / Coney Island.
*** Get off at Broadway - Lafayette St. 
*** Exit near intersection of Bleecker St. and Lafayette St.
*** Start out going North on Lafayette St. towards Bond St. 
*** Turn left onto Great Jones St.
*** Turn right onto W 3rd St.
*** Arrive at 248 MERCER ST, Manhattan 

* '''Activities'''
** Hand out Ubuntu Feisty CDs that we burned.
** Ubuntu/Linux Trivia contest.  Winners get prizes!
** Discussion of the impact of technology in our lives.  How Ubuntu is making it better.

* '''Funding'''
** CD's will come from whoever is generous enough to burn them and bring them to the party ;).
** Everyone buys their own coffee and food (Think Coffee has a nice selection of good food and coffee.)
** Voluntary donations are welcome.

==== RSVP List ====

Add your name and email to this list to RSVP for the Feisty Release Party in NYC.

1. Yosef Harrow -  - 0 Guests
