{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu New York State LoCo Team Newsletter ==
=== Join ===

Join the Newsletter Committee of the New York State !LoCo Team today!

If you have a story idea or suggestions for the Team Newsletter, contact the chair of the Newsletter Committee. Ideas can also be <nowiki>[[Ideas|added]]</nowiki> to the wiki. If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the New York State !LoCo Team Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page.

=== Current Issue ===

This month's Team Newsletter:
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[2010-02-09|Feb 9, 2010]]</nowiki> is released.

=== Next Issue (work in progress) ===

The next Team Newsletter:
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[WIP | Work In Progress ]]</nowiki> is due to be released in March.

=== Previous Issues ===

We have kept an archive of all previous Issues just in case you missed one or would like to use them as a reference. The archive is located at:
<<BR>>
 <nowiki>[[Archive|Team Newsletter Archive]]</nowiki>

=== Team Newsletter Development Resources ===

 <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-EditingPolicies|Editing Policies and Release Checklist]]</nowiki> for the UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter <<BR>>
 <nowiki>[[Ideas|Ideas]]</nowiki> - Do you have any ideas for the newsletter? Let us know what you would like to see in future issues of the Team Newsletter by adding your idea to the Ideas page.
