{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Explore and Experience a New Way to Use Your Computer ====

'''FOR IMEDIATE RELEASE'''

You are invited to explore and experience an open source alternative to Windows and OS X on April 25th from 2:00 to 4:00 pm at the Holiday Inn, Waterloo, NY.  The New York State Ubuntu Community Team is holding a special presentation on Exploring and Experiencing Ubuntu.

Ubuntu is an easy, popular and free choice for many users seeking an alternative computer system.  A strong community of developers and users behind Ubuntu have worked to bring an easy and secure computer system to the average user. Most user's will find an experience where everything 'just works' and require no additional software after installing from a single CD. 

Ubuntu comes preinstalled with an office suite, web browser, email client, and multimedia software. The open source alternatives allow for full compatibility with most user's current files . It has a built in update manager that can update the entire computer system.

Ubuntu is a South African word that means 'Humanity to others'. Mark Shuttleworth, founder and benevolent leader, has worked to bring the best of the open source community into Ubuntu. Over the past five years, he and the community that have built and developed an increasingly friendly, introductory computer system.

The popular alternative open source computer system has been developed into several flavors suited to variety computer types and uses. The Ubuntu operating system can be found on Netbooks, Desktops, and Servers. It also provides several unique system configurations geared towards specific applications such as education.

===== FOR MORE INFORMATION: =====
* http://www.ubuntu.com
* http://www.newyork-ubuntu.com
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/20090425
