{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Rochester Meetup ==
'''When:''' September 14th at 7pm eastern

'''Where:''' Unos in Victor across (near the mall)
             7724 State Route 96, Victor, NY
             (585) 223-6100
             Googlemaps link http://tinyurl.com/2k3efo
'''What:''' Ubuntu Meetup, Socialize and Support

'''Who:''' anyone in the Rochester Area interested in Ubuntu

Bring your Ubuntu buddies and yourself to our casual dinner of pizza and beer. Talk about Ubuntu and other stuff. We will leave when we have nothing left to discuss or the restaurant closes. 

=== Attending ===
* <nowiki>[[Ausimage|Jeremy AustinBardo]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[hal14450| Brian Neil]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DaveL| Dave Liana]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[TylerOderkirk| Tyler Oderkirk]]</nowiki>
=== Summary ===
12 members showed up.

We socialized and talked about Ubuntu and FOSS issues. We discussed what we as members in the Rochester region could be doing help the State Local Community team with its mission. We also discussed meeting monthly on the East side of Rochester. AusImage will look into getting the meetup on linux.meetup.com.

[THOSE WHO WERE IN ATTENDANCE FEEL FREE TO ELABORATE]
