{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''XXth''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 7:00 PM EST and finishing at 8:00 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
* Meet Up Reports
** Rochester Meetup: Pittsford Wegmans @ 7pm March 6th
** Syracuse Meetup: Pizza Hut on Erie Blvd @ 7:30 March 22nd
** Encouraging more Meet Ups
* Upcoming Events
** Rochester Meetup: Pittsford Wegmans @ 7pm April 3rd
** Hardy Release Events
** Rochester
* Leadership
** Matthew Jording has agreed to help coordinate NYC
** Matt Arnold has agreed to help coordinate Syracuse
** Need leadership for other major metros
** Develop a core leaders group
* Membership
* Community Advocacy and Support
** Rochester Computer Refurbish with Ubuntu
** Developing more activities to benefit NY
** Possible Regional SIP Conferences for each region in NY
*** State leadership and local membership participate
*** Status advocacy and support in a region and ability to newtork
*** Precursor to local meetups?
** Possible State Meetup... need location, date, and local coordinator
*** just more forums or is there interest more?
** Encouraging Member Participation
* Team Application for official recognition
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Approval
** Jono approved it for consideration at the next Community Council meeting

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
(07:01:41 PM) ausimage: nice... lets get this meeting moving....
(07:01:50 PM) WeblionX: Rochester Computer Refurbish with Ubuntu <- Only thing I'm interested in. >_>
(07:02:02 PM) ausimage: ahhh
(07:02:26 PM) ausimage: First tonight are the meetup reports.....
(07:03:15 PM) ausimage: Rochester meet on the 6th... they discussed the possibilities for their hardy release party... 
(07:03:42 PM) ausimage: they also talked about a few other things that escape me
(07:03:56 PM) ausimage: CyberMatt: ??? you here ???
(07:04:48 PM) CyberMatt: back
(07:04:58 PM) ausimage: a report ?
(07:05:07 PM) ausimage: Syracuse meetup?
(07:05:45 PM) CyberMatt: We had two people from syrlug
(07:06:36 PM) CyberMatt: just sat around eating pizza and talking about Ubuntu and linux for about two hours
(07:06:49 PM) ausimage: nice
(07:06:55 PM) CyberMatt: was alot of fun
(07:07:30 PM) CyberMatt: i'll try to orginize another for late June
(07:08:20 PM) ausimage: Good... I think we should try and encourage more of these in other places too... it helps our community feel more connected ;)
(07:08:47 PM) ausimage: Rochester's next meeting is next week on the 3rd of April
(07:09:09 PM) ausimage: Next Hardy Release Party
(07:09:49 PM) ausimage: Rochester is planning a Release Party most likely for the May 3rd... the location is holding us up...
(07:10:18 PM) ausimage: We want a place that we can gather without disturbing other patrons...
(07:11:24 PM) ausimage: I think Rochester would love any hints at a suitable and available location that would not cost too much to rent
(07:11:41 PM) ausimage: Anyother upcoming Events?
(07:11:41 PM) CyberMatt: you have an old country buffet up there?
(07:12:20 PM) CyberMatt: they have nice banquet rooms as i recall
(07:12:22 PM) ausimage: hmmm... I do not recall
(07:13:08 PM) ausimage: oh almost forget we hope that everyone from Buffalo to Syracuse to Ithaca might be able to participate...
(07:13:10 PM) ausimage: ;)
(07:13:26 PM) ausimage: Next....
(07:13:33 PM) ausimage: Leadership...
(07:14:10 PM) ausimage: I would like to say that Mathew Jording has agreed to help with NYC coordination...
(07:14:42 PM) ausimage: if some would like to help him feel free to let me know and I can put you in touch if you do not know how to reach him
(07:15:45 PM) ausimage: I would also like to say that Matt Arnold has agreed to help with Syracuse... same applies here... I will help anyone willing to help get in touch
(07:16:03 PM) ausimage: Funny that both are Matts :)
(07:16:26 PM) CyberMatt: yes funny indeed
(07:16:41 PM) ausimage: That means that Rochesterm, New York City, and Syracuse have local coordinators...
(07:17:20 PM) ausimage: these coordinator main responsibility is to help bring about local activity in these communities....
(07:17:32 PM) ausimage: Meet Ups and what not... :)
(07:18:15 PM) ausimage: the state loco will do what it can to assist them with their local efforts as well
(07:18:57 PM) ausimage: I hope that more members think about stepping up to make activity in the local communities too....
(07:19:06 PM) ausimage: if you are interested let me know...
(07:19:34 PM) ausimage: I think CyberMatt will say it is not as bad as first thought ;)
(07:19:51 PM) ausimage: Next....
(07:20:00 PM) ausimage: hal14450: ?????
(07:20:39 PM) ausimage: I have only what I have heard from hal14450 on the Rochester Computer Refurbishing....
(07:21:27 PM) ausimage: He says he is looking into locations to setup the many computers he has collected...
(07:22:12 PM) ausimage: I think he says he has been in contact with A Better Community the local CAP program in Rochester...
(07:23:10 PM) ausimage: If hal14450 was here he could shed more light then this...
(07:23:38 PM) ausimage: Next... opportunities for further advocacy and support 
(07:24:08 PM) ausimage: Our access to a SIP network is available....
(07:24:32 PM) ausimage: members can get free accounts.... and their are a few access numbers too...
(07:25:22 PM) WeblionX: Does the SIP account let you call anyone else with one for free?
(07:25:31 PM) ausimage: I am thinking we could even host conference calls over that network as well...
(07:26:11 PM) ausimage: only those with SIP accounts... hal14450 has access to providers that give very low rates
(07:26:21 PM) ausimage: to call land lines
(07:26:26 PM) WeblionX: That's what I mean.
(07:26:50 PM) CyberMatt: I might try to do a Syracuse conference call going
(07:27:30 PM) ausimage: yeah... Rochester members routinely call each other...
(07:27:58 PM) ausimage: WeblionX:  ask hal14450 for the details
(07:28:33 PM) ausimage: Next... I am thinking that another State Gathering maybe nice...
(07:29:08 PM) ausimage: I am hoping to find someone willing to coordinate this in a truly central location....
(07:29:39 PM) ausimage: if you are interested let me know...
(07:30:00 PM) ausimage: I am willing to assist the member with the efforts...
(07:30:17 PM) ausimage: Lastly...
(07:30:25 PM) CyberMatt: weren't we thinking of one in syracuse that we had to put on hold for insurance or something
(07:30:59 PM) ausimage: that was conference... but Syracuse may work...
(07:31:46 PM) ausimage: this is just a chance for the entire membership to meet and work on ideas for projects and maybe share knowledge
(07:32:07 PM) ausimage: like the one last year in binghamton...
(07:32:07 PM) ***deejoe walks in quietly
(07:32:14 PM) ausimage: DEEJOE!!!!!!!!!
(07:32:14 PM) spudnoggin: rumour has it deejoe is looking forward to Hardy
(07:32:16 PM) ausimage: :P
(07:32:53 PM) ausimage: Last on the agenda is our application for official recognition by the Ubuntu Community
(07:33:02 PM) deejoe: o.O
(07:33:23 PM) ausimage: I got back an email saying the application was ready for consideration by the community council...
(07:33:39 PM) ausimage: now we just wait till the council decides to meet...
(07:34:06 PM) ausimage: Recognition brings increased shipit quantities to our loco I believe....
(07:34:46 PM) ausimage: it also brings an ubuntu domain which should be newyork.ubuntu.us 
(07:34:55 PM) ausimage: or something like that...
(07:35:05 PM) ausimage: anyother business???
(07:35:46 PM) deejoe: no one else here from ROC?
(07:36:18 PM) ausimage: whats up deejoe?
(07:36:25 PM) deejoe: anyway, to speak to the earlier item about the release party:
(07:36:41 PM) deejoe: initial estimates of what it would cost were way under.
(07:37:04 PM) deejoe: so, I think we'll struggle to come through on the vision for it discussed at the March meetup.
(07:37:26 PM) ausimage: yeah I agree deejoe
(07:37:40 PM) deejoe: anyway, that's probably enough on that topic.
(07:38:03 PM) ausimage: I hope to contact a Victor Hotel soon... to see what the rate might be
(07:38:08 PM) ausimage: cool....
(07:38:09 PM) deejoe: ok.
(07:38:22 PM) ausimage: hearing no other business... adjourned....
</pre>
