{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a meeting of the '''NewYork Local Community Team''', starting at 9:00 pm EDT and finishing at 10:10 pm EDT on irc #ubuntu-us-ny.

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT when the meeting starts to indicate who is online and paying attention.

'''Active Atendees:'''
* ausimage
* cproffit
* hal14450

== Agenda ==
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.
 
* Past Events
* Future Events
* Raising Awareness and Involvement

== Minutes ==
* A summary of the meeting will be placed here after the meeting. Topics will be linked to the topics in the log.

== Any Other Business ==

* 
===  Lugor / Ubuntu Event Planning ===  
# June 4th - White Hat Security Day - 7:30am - 2:30pm
# June 18th - Erlang Presentation w/ Justin Kirby - 7pm - 9pm
# July 16th - GIMP Presentation w/ Stefanie Milstead - 7pm - 9pm
# August 6th - Ubuntu @ School - 7pm - 9pm
# September 3rd - ?? - 7pm - 9pm
# September 17th - OWASP security meeting w/ LUGOR - 7pm - 9pm
# October 1st - ?? - 7pm - 9pm
# October 15th - ?? 7pm - 9pm
# November 5th - ?? - 7pm -9pm
# November 19th - ?? - 7pm -9pm
# November 21, 22, 23, 24 - NYSCATE - unsure of what I will be doing
# December 17th - DOCS Electronics Presentations (security) - 7pm - 9pm
===== Ideas =====
* GPG Mail Encryption and Signatures
* FOSS Friendly Gifts for the Season
* Bug Jam: How a Linux Community Works
* Home File Server w/ Linux
* Backup - How To for Home Users
* Podcasting with entirely FOSS software

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
(09:02:43 PM) ausimage: k
(09:02:56 PM) ausimage: First on the agenda is Past Events...
(09:03:36 PM) ausimage: It has been since december  since we discussed things... so a summary in total maybe best ;)
(09:04:23 PM) cprofitt: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/Past2009
(09:04:23 PM) ausimage: Rochester has been working with the lug there holding at least one meeting a month since december ?
(09:05:15 PM) cprofitt: we have merged some of our meetings with LUGOR
(09:05:24 PM) cprofitt: and have not held a sep. meeting per month
(09:05:45 PM) ausimage: thats good
(09:05:54 PM) cprofitt: we merged in April for OpenStreetMap
(09:06:03 PM) cprofitt: and again this month... though that event happens this Thursday
(09:06:14 PM) ausimage: Syracuse held one meetup... I see too
(09:06:22 PM) cprofitt: Yes, I attended
(09:06:39 PM) ausimage: and We also held an awesome Release Event IMHO
(09:07:36 PM) cprofitt: Yes.
(09:07:55 PM) cprofitt: What opinion do you have about the quality / content of our events in Rochester?
(09:08:11 PM) ***hal14450 is biased
(09:08:11 PM) ausimage: I think they are excellent... 
(09:08:37 PM) ausimage: did I miss any past events that need mentioning further
(09:09:11 PM) cprofitt: did you check the page I linked too?
(09:09:22 PM) ausimage: yeah...
(09:09:27 PM) ausimage: quickly scanned
(09:09:43 PM) ausimage: ah Ed tech day too 
(09:09:43 PM) cprofitt: k
(09:09:54 PM) cprofitt: yeah that was in Ithaca
(09:10:05 PM) cprofitt: though it was the Rochester group that made that happen
(09:10:11 PM) cprofitt: hal14450, you here yet bro?
(09:10:17 PM) hal14450: yep
(09:10:19 PM) ausimage: a participatory event that we did not sponsor ;)
(09:10:45 PM) ausimage: anything else to add to past events?
(09:10:52 PM) hal14450: bar camp was fun
(09:11:07 PM) ausimage: oh that too happend.... :)
(09:11:30 PM) ausimage: k... any other old business to speak of?
(09:11:45 PM) cprofitt: do you mean Future Events?
(09:12:07 PM) ausimage: Past Event is old business ;)
(09:12:17 PM) ausimage: future events is new business
(09:12:37 PM) ausimage: at least at this time..
(09:12:38 PM) cprofitt: I was just following your agenda
(09:12:50 PM) ausimage: Future events then
(09:13:04 PM) cprofitt: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/Upcoming
(09:13:21 PM) cprofitt: We have a virtualization meeting Thursday
(09:13:26 PM) cprofitt: and an install fest on the 30th
(09:13:28 PM) hal14450: White Hat Security Day is the next "event"
(09:13:39 PM) cprofitt: both are co-sponsored with Lugor
(09:13:40 PM) hal14450: oh yeah the install fest ;-)
(09:13:42 PM) ausimage: Rochester is kickin it ?
(09:14:02 PM) cprofitt: Rochester is pretty much kicking the US ass
(09:14:07 PM) cprofitt: but that is another issue
(09:14:09 PM) ausimage: We need to get the Karmic Koala Release Event rolling too
(09:14:24 PM) hal14450: i also have a meeting with micrecycle tomorrow in regards to adding ubuntu to the lineup there
(09:14:44 PM) ausimage: awesome hal14450.... let me know how that goes
(09:14:50 PM) hal14450: i will
(09:15:03 PM) ausimage: Oh we also have a new LUG in the state too....
(09:15:17 PM) cprofitt: I think I already noted that ausimage
(09:15:21 PM) hal14450: Carl will be attending w/ me he's also a lugor/LoCo/RCSI member
(09:15:21 PM) ausimage: hopefully... and it is my area. ;)
(09:15:38 PM) cprofitt: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam
(09:15:42 PM) cprofitt: look under goals
(09:15:44 PM) ausimage: you coming down hal?
(09:15:51 PM) hal14450: on the 9th of June deejoe and i will be doing an Open Street Map presentation for RCSI
(09:16:02 PM) cprofitt: hal14450, can you add that to the wiki?
(09:16:07 PM) hal14450: cool ausimage
(09:16:10 PM) cprofitt: we need to record that event... and let people know
(09:16:11 PM) hal14450: cprofitt, yes
(09:16:31 PM) ausimage: so we are making connections with RCSI now too ?
(09:17:00 PM) cprofitt: we already had them... but it is more formal now I guess
(09:17:11 PM) ausimage: that is great...
(09:17:26 PM) ausimage: we need to work on relations with the other LUGS too
(09:17:41 PM) hal14450: i9 think we made progress @ the rls party
(09:17:41 PM) cprofitt: We have some with SYRLUG and CAPLUG
(09:17:54 PM) cprofitt: and we have a relationship with WNYLUG
(09:18:00 PM) hal14450: yep
(09:18:06 PM) cprofitt: I have offered to do presentations for WNYLUG
(09:18:09 PM) ausimage: they are not listed?
(09:18:11 PM) cprofitt: as of yet they only want hal14450
(09:18:15 PM) hal14450: we should promote OnLinux for this year as well
(09:18:39 PM) cprofitt: we can add them to the page ausimage
(09:18:43 PM) hal14450: cprofitt, did they want me to speak about OSM or Asterisk?
(09:18:46 PM) cprofitt: as of yet we have not done anything...
(09:18:50 PM) ausimage: yeah the cigar and pipe smoking fest eh hal14450?
(09:18:57 PM) hal14450: haha
(09:19:00 PM) cprofitt: so I would prefer to wait until we actually have done an event with them
(09:19:02 PM) hal14450: no pipes
(09:19:12 PM) ausimage: thats good.
(09:19:16 PM) cprofitt: 'evidence' that we have accomplished it
(09:19:19 PM) hal14450: Brian Powell has been out here a few times
(09:19:27 PM) cprofitt: hal14450, he has
(09:19:31 PM) hal14450: he will be @ the install fest
(09:19:35 PM) cprofitt: as a Fedora Ambassador
(09:19:54 PM) ausimage: Do we have ideas how to get more motivation and action out of our team?
(09:19:55 PM) hal14450: well still it's a lug/lug connection right?
(09:20:08 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, hold on... not done with future events
(09:20:13 PM) ausimage: k
(09:20:19 PM) hal14450: we have a boatload on the agenda
(09:20:19 PM) ausimage: sorry for jumping
(09:20:33 PM) ausimage: yeah I saw some of it
(09:20:42 PM) cprofitt: http://pastebin.com/d6b4fb1d8
(09:20:53 PM) cprofitt: that includes some of the events that are confirmed for the fall
(09:20:56 PM) cprofitt: and some that are not
(09:21:19 PM) cprofitt: the biggest one I am focused on right now is this - http://ftbeowulf.files.wordpress.com/2009/05/nysflyer.jpg
(09:21:26 PM) ***ausimage leaves it open to append to the page
(09:21:31 PM) cprofitt: which I have fliers from System76 already
(09:21:39 PM) ausimage: awesomne...
(09:21:49 PM) cprofitt: and System76 will be providing a demo unit for (or two)
(09:22:05 PM) hal14450: cprofitt, as far as the discs go for that event i doante my time and we pay for the media
(09:22:16 PM) cprofitt: right... just need to know the cost of the media
(09:22:29 PM) ausimage: Should discuss a little about karmic too I gues
(09:22:39 PM) cprofitt: the summer events ausimage are with students from RIT giving the presentations
(09:22:49 PM) cprofitt: so we are increasing our exposure on campus...
(09:22:50 PM) ausimage: oh nice
(09:22:52 PM) cprofitt: which is a good thing
(09:22:54 PM) hal14450: i'd like to get a loaner/demo from another local retailer but i'll settle for something from micrecycle they really came through last time i asked
(09:23:00 PM) cprofitt: we made those contact through BarCamp
(09:23:08 PM) ausimage: awesome
(09:23:24 PM) hal14450: yeah there's an untapped resource of students there
(09:23:36 PM) ausimage: We really should have a seperate annoucement only list :/
(09:23:39 PM) cprofitt: I need to get some people in to cover the other topics - under ideas
(09:23:41 PM) hal14450: i'm not sure why they haven't attended lugor in the past
(09:23:52 PM) cprofitt: me either hal14450
(09:24:00 PM) cprofitt: perhaps it was the old men that scared them
(09:24:08 PM) cprofitt: and the lack of Lugor participating 'out'
(09:24:13 PM) hal14450: chris reich can probably do the podcasting thing
(09:24:23 PM) cprofitt: yep... I will be contacting him on that
(09:24:26 PM) ausimage: did they have a seperate on campus group too?
(09:24:31 PM) cprofitt: I would like to get a home server dude too
(09:24:42 PM) cprofitt: and a Bug Jam scheduled with Syracuse again
(09:24:50 PM) ausimage: nice...
(09:24:53 PM) hal14450: they have some groups there but i'm not sure how active they are
(09:24:57 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, they had a Linux group... but from what we hear it does not meet regularly
(09:25:03 PM) ausimage: k
(09:25:11 PM) ausimage: that could be a reason
(09:25:12 PM) hal14450: there is an opensoalris group as well
(09:25:18 PM) hal14450: damn typos
(09:25:21 PM) ausimage: ooh
(09:25:22 PM) cprofitt: so as you can see we have a good chunk of events scheduled through December
(09:25:40 PM) cprofitt: the only depressing part is Canonical has not responded about supporting NYSCATE
(09:25:41 PM) ausimage: yeah... I only hope we spark as much out here too ;)
(09:25:43 PM) cprofitt: with a booth
(09:26:06 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: you try asking for matching money?
(09:26:22 PM) cprofitt: I tried asking for the whole $750
(09:26:29 PM) cprofitt: they said they would talk about it...
(09:26:42 PM) hal14450: we still have avenues to pursue on that yet
(09:26:46 PM) ausimage: I thought you had a line on other money
(09:26:58 PM) cprofitt: I do... Fedora
(09:27:04 PM) cprofitt: Sugar Project
(09:27:09 PM) hal14450: not money connections is what i was talking about
(09:27:10 PM) cprofitt: and System76
(09:27:10 PM) ausimage: if they go half... perhaps Canonical would pick up the rest
(09:27:32 PM) cprofitt: I would like to get a response from Canonical...
(09:27:41 PM) ausimage: er what ever percentage...
(09:27:45 PM) cprofitt: but if Fedora responds with a suggestion like that...
(09:27:50 PM) cprofitt: we can pass that forward
(09:27:59 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: you try pinging sabdfl himself :/
(09:28:00 PM) hal14450: if we do a workshop or two they'll likely be willing to drop the price as they charge attendees for workshops
(09:28:02 PM) cprofitt: from the sounds of it... Fedora and Sugar may do booths
(09:28:08 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, I did try him yes
(09:28:12 PM) cprofitt: in the public meeting...
(09:28:13 PM) ausimage: k
(09:28:18 PM) cprofitt: his OpenWeek session
(09:28:27 PM) ausimage: in private ;)
(09:28:36 PM) hal14450: i'm really looking forward to nyscate it's the perfect opportunity
(09:28:43 PM) ausimage: I think so too..
(09:28:58 PM) ausimage: hal14450: you think jaguar can kick us a mailing list?
(09:29:00 PM) cprofitt: hal14450, it is...
(09:29:25 PM) hal14450: ausimage, i can set us up a mailing list but what do we want this one for?
(09:29:41 PM) ausimage: Announcements of events only....
(09:29:51 PM) ausimage: no posting 'cept by moderators...
(09:29:55 PM) cprofitt: I do think that in working with other LUGs we need to have 'presenters'
(09:29:58 PM) ausimage: who will post events
(09:30:02 PM) hal14450: seems like a bit much lol
(09:30:11 PM) cprofitt: available to go to their meetings / events
(09:30:22 PM) cprofitt: We have a wiki for events -- and the mailing list...
(09:30:26 PM) ausimage: That way people can sign up and keep track of events...
(09:30:28 PM) cprofitt: not sure we need another one...
(09:30:38 PM) hal14450: i can do it but that's just spreading the information sources wider which i think isn't necessarily a good thing
(09:30:38 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: lugor has both ?
(09:30:38 PM) cprofitt: we also have the Google Calendar
(09:30:52 PM) cprofitt: I think we have too many spots and not enough people know where
(09:30:58 PM) cprofitt: we have wiki, web, mailing list
(09:31:00 PM) ausimage: I was thinking of those who consider planning noise...
(09:31:05 PM) hal14450: best to consolidate imho
(09:31:08 PM) cprofitt: Lugor has web - mailing list - mailing list
(09:31:23 PM) ausimage: announce, discuss ?
(09:31:28 PM) hal14450: well we have a planning list for those that want to get involved in planning
(09:31:49 PM) hal14450: it's not private announcements only or anything
(09:31:49 PM) cprofitt: Lugor does have a planning list
(09:32:01 PM) cprofitt: and that would work... but we do not need a sep. for announcements
(09:32:32 PM) ausimage: I was thinking perhaps ubuntu list... planning... and a different one for announcements ?
(09:32:48 PM) hal14450: we can designate someone to send out emails to the everyone that is a member of the loco and or mailing list
(09:32:51 PM) ausimage: but maybe that is not as good
(09:33:19 PM) ausimage: we then need to maintain an address book seperate from the list :/
(09:33:45 PM) ausimage: to accumalate those interested in events... but really want involvement in the group ?
(09:34:05 PM) hal14450: we have email addy's from lp yes?
(09:34:18 PM) hal14450: and email addy's from list members right?
(09:34:22 PM) ausimage: I have all the addies... webbie, lp, list
(09:34:57 PM) hal14450: so no real need for a mailing list unless it's going to be interactive right?
(09:35:01 PM) ausimage: my thought would be put them in one place... and just send email to that place and email goes to all
(09:35:18 PM) hal14450: right that's what i mean
(09:35:25 PM) hal14450: no need for a list
(09:35:39 PM) ausimage: how do you control access to the magic list?
(09:35:45 PM) ausimage: of addies?
(09:35:47 PM) hal14450: just when an event is going to take place email all the members
(09:36:25 PM) ausimage: I was thinking a single address authorized members could send to.... and it goes to the entire addie collection 
(09:36:32 PM) hal14450: you have them all so you can ask for a trusted volunteer or email a reminder for events when they happen
(09:36:51 PM) ausimage: Guess that would work too
(09:36:55 PM) cprofitt: I dunno... I am happy with the current email ist
(09:37:00 PM) ausimage: k
(09:37:07 PM) hal14450: so am i
(09:37:08 PM) ausimage: just thinking loudly
(09:37:30 PM) ausimage: A little on our Karmic Party...
(09:37:37 PM) ausimage: then
(09:37:59 PM) cprofitt: go ahead sir - what are your plans?
(09:38:01 PM) ausimage: I would like to shoot for 90 this time in the same area...
(09:38:32 PM) ausimage: is reasonable goal... and what can we do to support such gathering....
(09:38:39 PM) ausimage: raise enough interest....
(09:38:40 PM) ausimage: etc
(09:39:05 PM) ***ausimage rather aim higher than lower ;)
(09:39:37 PM) cprofitt: sounds like a good plan...
(09:39:51 PM) hal14450: sounds good
(09:40:07 PM) ausimage: I am thinking this warrants break out sessions
(09:40:12 PM) cprofitt: I think sponsors will be needed for an event that size... but do you have a price on getting multiple rooms from the hotel -- assuming we use the hotel?
(09:40:14 PM) ausimage: and a lab
(09:40:29 PM) ausimage: I will need to check with the wife
(09:40:34 PM) cprofitt: You and I discussed three presentation rooms and one lab
(09:40:39 PM) ausimage: I am sure we will get a discount
(09:40:42 PM) cprofitt: we have to make sure the lab can handle power reqs
(09:40:48 PM) hal14450: let's not go too big
(09:40:49 PM) ausimage: yeah ;)
(09:41:06 PM) hal14450: the inet was pretty poor that weekend
(09:41:13 PM) ausimage: no... but if we have 90... and want about 30 to a session 
(09:41:29 PM) ausimage: I may try a few things to improve that ;)
(09:41:53 PM) cprofitt: I would suggest contacting Oracle about being a sponsor
(09:42:03 PM) ausimage: Oracle?
(09:42:07 PM) ausimage: Orielly?
(09:42:12 PM) ausimage: hmm
(09:42:14 PM) cprofitt: Oracle
(09:42:25 PM) cprofitt: Orielly will send books (maybe)
(09:42:34 PM) cprofitt: but I doubt they would provide cash
(09:42:50 PM) ausimage: I am thinking maybe playing nice with TW would not hurt either...
(09:43:06 PM) cprofitt: it might... or Verizon
(09:43:13 PM) ausimage: oooh
(09:43:13 PM) cprofitt: Or Newegg
(09:43:15 PM) cprofitt: or Dell
(09:43:37 PM) ausimage: I will put connectivity on my to do list...
(09:43:46 PM) cprofitt: or HP
(09:43:48 PM) cprofitt: etc...
(09:43:53 PM) ausimage: yeah....
(09:43:59 PM) ausimage: need those sponsors
(09:44:06 PM) cprofitt: If we have sponsors... they may want booths or some such...
(09:44:13 PM) ausimage: Yeah...
(09:44:15 PM) cprofitt: but I am not sure how to do a small show...
(09:44:22 PM) ducky: Newegg FTW
(09:44:27 PM) cprofitt: have you talked with the Ontario or Ohio organizers?
(09:44:27 PM) ausimage: ducky: !
(09:44:32 PM) ausimage: no
(09:44:54 PM) ausimage: perhaps hal14450 can ask OnLinux for pointers ?
(09:44:58 PM) ducky: ontario show was amazing
(09:45:13 PM) ausimage: ducky ideas?
(09:45:17 PM) ausimage: comments?
(09:45:26 PM) ducky: sorry i just got here
(09:45:32 PM) ducky: illl have to read back
(09:45:46 PM) ausimage: Karmic Koala Install Fest
(09:45:53 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, if you are going to be lead organizer -- it would be good to have hal14450 setup an conference call
(09:45:54 PM) hal14450: ausimage, we're not quite ready for that level yet lol
(09:45:57 PM) cprofitt: but have you included...
(09:46:06 PM) ausimage: er Release Evetn
(09:46:14 PM) cprofitt: hal14450, we are not... but some of their ideas may transfer to us buidling
(09:46:17 PM) cprofitt: building
(09:46:22 PM) hal14450: agreed
(09:46:28 PM) hal14450: i can ask richard for pointer
(09:46:29 PM) ausimage: will I know that... but 90 will take a little time to make happen
(09:46:33 PM) hal14450: pointers*
(09:46:52 PM) ausimage: hal14450: I don't mind party calling Onlinux with you...
(09:47:11 PM) ausimage: If I am lead... I am going to need a little more support too ;)
(09:47:13 PM) hal14450: lol i was thinking about emailing richard
(09:47:29 PM) hal14450: i'll help when and where i can
(09:47:41 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, I am not sure who else is out there to be a lead... so it is kind of in your court
(09:47:48 PM) cprofitt: I am sure we will help as we can...
(09:47:49 PM) ausimage: whichever... just trying to feel out what needs to happen to triple attendance ;)
(09:48:18 PM) ausimage: I will lead... but want help with sponsorships and sessions ;)
(09:48:19 PM) hal14450: gotten in touch with HWS people since then?
(09:48:33 PM) cprofitt: what help do you need ausimage ?
(09:48:34 PM) ausimage: yeah... Scotty is in the new LUG with me
(09:48:39 PM) hal14450: awesome
(09:48:52 PM) cprofitt: I think we need one person to handle sponsorship stuff...
(09:48:59 PM) ausimage: getting the sponsorships and locating speakers
(09:48:59 PM) cprofitt: and one person to set the rooms up
(09:49:07 PM) cprofitt: I can assist with speakers...
(09:49:17 PM) ausimage: I don't mind coordinating the team
(09:49:26 PM) cprofitt: I can suggest sponsors.. but I think you should contact them
(09:49:40 PM) hal14450: i'll have to work on speaking more but if i can come up w/ a good talk i'll speak
(09:49:42 PM) ausimage: k... I guess I can do that for nationals
(09:49:57 PM) ausimage: hal14450: if you have leads there too ;)
(09:49:58 PM) cprofitt: I just do not have the details they may need on the site, etc.
(09:50:24 PM) ausimage: I will see about nailing it down by the end of may perhaps...
(09:50:36 PM) cprofitt: I think grabbing local sponsors from Syracuse, etc can be guys there
(09:50:41 PM) cprofitt: as they will have relationships
(09:50:54 PM) cprofitt: I just do not want two or three people being the contact with a sponsor
(09:50:58 PM) ausimage: Yeah... and those in rochester and ithaca can too
(09:51:20 PM) ausimage: no one main per syracuse, ithace and rochester perhpas
(09:51:24 PM) hal14450: i'll see what interest i can drum up locally for the event
(09:51:24 PM) cprofitt: 'etc' yep... Albany, Rochester, Potsdam... etc.
(09:51:37 PM) cprofitt: but I think one Rochester person
(09:51:42 PM) cprofitt: one Syracuse person
(09:51:43 PM) ausimage: yeah... 
(09:51:46 PM) hal14450: if we have a few speakers on good topics it will be a draw
(09:51:53 PM) ausimage: yeah...
(09:52:02 PM) cprofitt: that might rotate per event, but I do not want a potential sponsor feeling ganged up on...
(09:52:13 PM) ausimage: true
(09:52:14 PM) cprofitt: or that we are not organized because four people contact them
(09:52:16 PM) hal14450: agreed
(09:52:28 PM) ausimage: I can maintain a contacted list ;)
(09:52:34 PM) hal14450: we need to make them feel included but not overwhelmed
(09:52:39 PM) cprofitt: national / international sponsors need to be you or I
(09:52:44 PM) cprofitt: as Pres / VP
(09:52:44 PM) ausimage: and those that want to contact can let me know first
(09:52:56 PM) ausimage: yeah...
(09:53:31 PM) ausimage: lots of good ideas flowing the event
(09:53:46 PM) ausimage: so to sum up...
(09:54:06 PM) cprofitt: the timing of the event may play a role in that
(09:54:21 PM) cprofitt: NYSCATE is in November and OnLinux is October I think
(09:54:44 PM) cprofitt: I really think a 'big' spring thing may be a better target date -- but can understand the excitement
(09:54:46 PM) ausimage: I will get a location with about 4 rooms... check connectivity, and coordinate other volunters... and also check national sponsors... :)
(09:54:51 PM) cprofitt: of pushing for fall
(09:55:28 PM) ausimage: cprofit is going to scout for talent and help with national sponsors....
(09:55:57 PM) ausimage: hal14450 was going to look at being the talent... and ?
(09:56:02 PM) cprofitt: yep... can you add a wiki page with these 'tasks' and 'assignments'
(09:56:11 PM) ausimage: yes I will
(09:56:16 PM) cprofitt: perhaps leaving open slots will encourage some to 'grab' a slot
(09:56:22 PM) ausimage: Yeah...
(09:56:32 PM) hal14450: well i'll offer to speak if i can find a good talk and do it well
(09:56:32 PM) cprofitt: I would like to use the Ubuntu wiki if possible as I think it is more accessible to editing by the group
(09:56:42 PM) ausimage: I think I was look at the first nov weeken
(09:56:50 PM) ausimage: definitely
(09:57:05 PM) ausimage: cause... the last weekend of oct is halloween :/
(09:57:26 PM) ausimage: are there conflicts in this?
(09:57:46 PM) hal14450: it's so far off i can't say
(09:58:07 PM) ausimage: but agree not halloween weekend ?
(09:58:08 PM) hal14450: i'd suggest beginning of Nov
(09:58:45 PM) ausimage: good... I will get the location for the first or second weekend then?
(09:58:50 PM) hal14450: you never know how busy rls wise things will be
(09:59:00 PM) ausimage: yeah true
(09:59:16 PM) ausimage: it may be an LTS too ?
(09:59:48 PM) ausimage: well I guess I can shoot an email to the list as well about this... so lets move to the last bit
(09:59:53 PM) ausimage: Raising Cain!
(10:00:10 PM) ausimage: er I mean involvement and awareness :D
(10:00:46 PM) ***cprofitt phone call
(10:00:57 PM) ausimage: The karmic event and rochester events will help with the awareness....
(10:01:06 PM) ausimage: but the invovlement ??
(10:03:55 PM) ausimage: anything hal14450
(10:03:56 PM) hal14450: well we're working w/ local places such as micrecycle so that's a step in that direction
(10:04:07 PM) ausimage: yeah true...
(10:04:27 PM) ausimage: I think getting more involment is crucial to our growth 
(10:04:29 PM) hal14450: we get new faces quite a lot
(10:06:09 PM) ausimage: new faces ~ new hands
(10:08:16 PM) ausimage: guess we can continue this discussion any time...
(10:08:42 PM) ausimage: next discussion will be 3rd week of June then ?
(10:09:03 PM) ausimage: on monday at 9pm then
(10:09:17 PM) ausimage: anything else before we end?
(10:10:19 PM) ausimage: righty then till next time
</pre>

----
CategoryNewYorkTeam
