{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''5th''' meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:30 EST
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Announcements
* Discuss Major issues
* Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting

== Minutes ==

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
(06:12:37 PM) yharrow_: ok everyone
(06:12:39 PM) yharrow_: Welcome to the New York teams 5th IRC meeting.
(06:12:41 PM) yharrow_: :)
(06:12:51 PM) samiam010203: hello all and have a fun time tonight
(06:13:11 PM) yharrow_: wow we got a lot of people in here tonight
(06:13:15 PM) yharrow_: thats good to see
(06:13:15 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:13:23 PM) ausimage: are they lurkers ???
(06:13:24 PM) samiam010203: were getting stronger every week
(06:13:31 PM) ausimage: :)
(06:13:38 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: possibility... woiuldnt be sure who though
(06:13:50 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: yeah thats true
(06:14:12 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: its great to be a part of
(06:14:17 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:14:19 PM) yharrow_: anyways
(06:14:27 PM) samiam010203: did u listen to the interview
(06:14:48 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: thanks for reminding me ;)
(06:15:00 PM) yharrow_: we are actually going to do a few announcements
(06:15:06 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:15:12 PM) yharrow_: one of them is as samiam010203 just mentioned
(06:15:22 PM) yharrow_: the podcast with sal and I is now out
(06:15:35 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: what was the link again?
(06:15:44 PM) samiam010203: http://ubuntuos.com
(06:15:59 PM) yharrow_: btw ... how is everyone feeling today ? :)
(06:16:09 PM) ausimage: good :)
(06:16:29 PM) endlessdamion: ok
(06:16:33 PM) samiam010203: good
(06:16:53 PM) yharrow_: *wonders if there is anyone else awake ;)
(06:16:55 PM) RawSewage: No, I dont like art
(06:17:01 PM) yharrow_: hehe
(06:17:11 PM) RawSewage: but I use GIMP a lot
(06:17:11 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: oh ok cool :)
(06:17:18 PM) samiam010203: hello raw how r u tonight
(06:17:21 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: hehe , yeah gimp is a real cool tool
(06:17:38 PM) RawSewage: are they still working on it
(06:17:59 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: working on gimp?
(06:18:15 PM) ausimage: gimp? sure are
(06:18:38 PM) RawSewage: http://www.gimp.org/
(06:18:44 PM) RawSewage: good
(06:18:58 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: oh almost forgot, welcome to the teams 5th IRC meeting :)
(06:19:10 PM) RawSewage: samiam010203, ok
(06:19:15 PM) RawSewage: oh sorry
(06:19:15 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:19:30 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: hehe, its cool man nothing to be sorry about ;)
(06:20:00 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: Its great to have you here
(06:20:06 PM) RawSewage: ty
(06:20:30 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: btw, are you yet part of our great team ?
(06:20:53 PM) RawSewage: no
(06:21:08 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: oh ok, would you be interested in joining?
(06:21:17 PM) RawSewage: no, I live in Oregon
(06:21:24 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: oh :)
(06:21:44 PM) yharrow_: ok still cool, feel free to spend as much time as you want on our channel
(06:21:57 PM) RawSewage: ok
(06:22:07 PM) yharrow_: anyone have any announcements to make?
(06:22:12 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:22:21 PM) yharrow_: ok
(06:22:41 PM) samiam010203: ill be back in nyc on the 16th of april and will have for everyone to SHARE 80 ubuntu cds
(06:22:49 PM) yharrow_: sweeet !
(06:22:52 PM) yharrow_: hehe
(06:22:56 PM) yharrow_: wish we had more though
(06:22:56 PM) yharrow_: lol
(06:23:08 PM) yharrow_: 80 between 19 people is kinda tough
(06:23:14 PM) samiam010203: im going to email johno bacon and try to make an aragment
(06:23:35 PM) yharrow_: that 4 cds a guy :)
(06:23:46 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: yeah that would be cool
(06:24:09 PM) samiam010203: well if people dont mind handing out breezy cds i have about 500 of those left as well
(06:25:02 PM) yharrow_: hmm
(06:25:17 PM) yharrow_: I would, but I think breezy had issues
(06:25:22 PM) samiam010203: yup
(06:25:25 PM) samiam010203: it did
(06:25:26 PM) ausimage: is not hairy to upgrade that much ???
(06:25:31 PM) samiam010203: no its not
(06:25:34 PM) yharrow_: also, I prefer to showcase the best of the ubuntu world
(06:25:46 PM) ausimage: need Feisty ;)
(06:25:50 PM) StarmanHaxor: Hey guys
(06:25:51 PM) samiam010203: then we can press our own feisty
(06:26:07 PM) yharrow_: ausimage to get to feisty from breezy we will neeed to go from breezy dapper to edgy to feisty ;)
(06:26:11 PM) samiam010203: hello starman
(06:26:22 PM) ausimage: yeah a pain ;)
(06:26:25 PM) samiam010203: no
(06:26:29 PM) yharrow_: hey StarmanHaxor :)
(06:26:35 PM) samiam010203: you can go from breezy to feisty
(06:26:41 PM) samiam010203: strait upgrade
(06:27:00 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: everthing I read advised against it
(06:27:25 PM) yharrow_: is it a new feature in feisty though
(06:27:27 PM) ausimage: i think I have heard stories about how bad it is to do that ;)
(06:27:28 PM) samiam010203: it would not be a problem if u only install the command line system and then edit your sources.list
(06:27:39 PM) yharrow_: cause all previous versions you had to do one version at a  time
(06:28:00 PM) yharrow_: oh.. ok
(06:28:11 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: in theory that would work
(06:28:14 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:28:18 PM) samiam010203:  i do it all the time
(06:28:24 PM) samiam010203: to test the releases
(06:28:58 PM) ausimage: what else is on the agenda ??? ;)
(06:29:00 PM) samiam010203: i will write a how to for the docs page when i get back to nyc
(06:29:03 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: however ppl are known to get weird breakages when not upgrading in direct succession
(06:29:28 PM) samiam010203: ill show you when i get back to the city yharrow
(06:29:29 PM) samiam010203: :)
(06:29:30 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: well if noone else has announcements we will move on.
(06:29:34 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:29:38 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: cool :)
(06:29:47 PM) samiam010203: yharrow your going to be gone for the next two weeks right?
(06:29:53 PM) StarmanHaxor: Did I walk in on a meeting?
(06:29:54 PM) yharrow_: hmm
(06:30:11 PM) samiam010203: yes starman but your welcome to stay and interact with us
(06:30:18 PM) StarmanHaxor: Ok cool
(06:30:19 PM) yharrow_: StarmanHaxor: well we are having meeting , yeah :), your welcome to participate if you want
(06:30:44 PM) yharrow_: hmm...
(06:30:57 PM) yharrow_: so yeah next week is a holiday for me
(06:31:04 PM) yharrow_: from april 2 thru 10
(06:31:09 PM) samiam010203: so we will not hold meeting then
(06:31:46 PM) samiam010203: on the 3rd of april we will  take off that week
(06:31:56 PM) yharrow_: however the week april 8 we can have a meeting
(06:32:04 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:32:06 PM) yharrow_: either wednesday or thursday
(06:32:14 PM) ausimage: sounds good...
(06:32:20 PM) samiam010203: so we should set the next meeting day for whats good for u yharrow
(06:32:31 PM) yharrow_: we'll discuss that a bit later towards the end of the meeting
(06:32:31 PM) StarmanHaxor: Can it be on a weekend?
(06:32:37 PM) samiam010203: and then send out a m,ailing with the mailing list
(06:32:50 PM) samiam010203: ok cool yharrow
(06:33:10 PM) yharrow_: StarmanHaxor: we will definitely consider it, I'd like to make a sort of poll to find the most convenient time and weekday for everyone
(06:33:38 PM) yharrow_: that way we get more attendance
(06:33:42 PM) yharrow_: ;)
(06:33:42 PM) samiam010203: starman where r u located?
(06:33:47 PM) StarmanHaxor: Upstate NY
(06:33:50 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:34:01 PM) samiam010203: you thinking about joining the team then?
(06:34:03 PM) StarmanHaxor: A suburb of Schenectady called Rotterdam Junction
(06:34:05 PM) StarmanHaxor: I already did
(06:34:08 PM) yharrow_: :)
(06:34:09 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:34:17 PM) samiam010203: welcome abord then
(06:34:29 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: we had a bunch of guys join this past week
(06:34:35 PM) yharrow_: I think we are at 19 members now ;)
(06:34:36 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:34:41 PM) samiam010203: thats grate
(06:34:44 PM) yharrow_: yeah
(06:34:55 PM) yharrow_: we've barely been around a month
(06:35:00 PM) samiam010203: i kno0w
(06:35:20 PM) yharrow_: anyone else have an announcement to make?
(06:35:31 PM) StarmanHaxor: I looked at the ubuntu website and it said there was a NY section so I joined as one of the three really computer literate people in the Junction. :P
(06:35:46 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:36:13 PM) yharrow_: StarmanHaxor: yo mean theres only 3 computer literate people in the whol e of schenectady :P?
(06:36:29 PM) StarmanHaxor: No, just rotterdam junction
(06:36:34 PM) yharrow_: oh ok :)
(06:36:44 PM) yharrow_: glad to have you part of our team ;)
(06:36:55 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:36:55 PM) StarmanHaxor: One is constantly working and the other guy works for a company, so...
(06:36:58 PM) StarmanHaxor: Thanks!
(06:37:09 PM) samiam010203: its always good to have new members
(06:37:10 PM) yharrow_: your welcome
(06:37:14 PM) yharrow_: ok then
(06:37:20 PM) yharrow_: on to major topics
(06:37:28 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:37:29 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:38:02 PM) yharrow_: o wait one more thing before we do that
(06:38:08 PM) yharrow_: There is a new process for creating projects. Instead of entering all your ideas as projects on the projects site. You can now post them to our project ideas thread where all of us can discuss your project ideas before they become actual projects. You can visit http://www.newyork-ubuntu.com/?pg=projects for more information about this process.
(06:38:46 PM) yharrow_: we encourage everyone to jot down any idea they may have for the team and submit in the forum
(06:38:50 PM) yharrow_: we thrive on ideas
(06:39:13 PM) yharrow_: the more ideas /tasks the faster they are implemented the faster we move :)
(06:39:51 PM) yharrow_: anyone have any questions about that?
(06:40:55 PM) yharrow_: ok then
(06:41:15 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: do you know of any major topics we need to discuss?
(06:41:19 PM) samiam010203: no
(06:41:34 PM) samiam010203: other then the cds and u beeing off thats about it this week i think
(06:41:53 PM) yharrow_: ok then, one major topic is community outreach
(06:41:58 PM) samiam010203: unless u wan t to get into a RL meet up dicusion
(06:42:01 PM) yharrow_: last week we discussed this some
(06:42:19 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: I think we may do that today but a little later :)
(06:42:28 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:42:41 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: during the planning of future meetings
(06:42:49 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:43:03 PM) StarmanHaxor: I'm not out of high school yet and most of you live in NYC right?
(06:43:11 PM) yharrow_: yeah
(06:43:16 PM) yharrow_: wel actually
(06:43:17 PM) ausimage: not me ;)
(06:43:17 PM) StarmanHaxor: So, yeah.
(06:43:19 PM) yharrow_: not most
(06:43:25 PM) yharrow_: most live outside NYC
(06:43:28 PM) yharrow_: 9 live in
(06:43:29 PM) yharrow_: 10 out
(06:43:33 PM) yharrow_: as far as I know
(06:43:36 PM) ausimage: YEAH ;)
(06:43:41 PM) samiam010203: so its a basic split then
(06:43:56 PM) yharrow_: we cover a very wide territory ;)
(06:44:12 PM) ausimage: I think there will have regional RLs ;)
(06:44:22 PM) StarmanHaxor: It would be nice to find some people who use it who never come on here until now like I did
(06:44:24 PM) yharrow_: you can take a look at the map on the members page to get an idea of memnber distribution
(06:45:13 PM) yharrow_: StarmanHaxor: yeah that would be nice
(06:45:45 PM) yharrow_: woiuld certainly be easier to convince someone like that to join the team and channel
(06:46:00 PM) yharrow_: rather then a person whos never been exposed to ubuntu before
(06:46:06 PM) yharrow_: that brings up a good point
(06:46:15 PM) ausimage: then the meetups should also be mini-fests ;)
(06:46:23 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:46:28 PM) samiam010203:  that sounds cool
(06:46:31 PM) yharrow_: I think there should be 2 different kinds of outreach efforts
(06:46:46 PM) yharrow_: one for simply recruiting average homeusers to ubuntu
(06:46:55 PM) yharrow_: one for recruiting ubuntu users to our team
(06:47:25 PM) StarmanHaxor: The biggest thing about Linux is...it isnt windows. If someone plugs something in and it doesnt work, most people get pissed and start to be mad. Or if they cant just download and run something, etc.
(06:47:26 PM) ausimage: an afternoon fest and evening meeting
(06:47:28 PM) samiam010203: so the classes idea i had would fall into your first typew of outreach then yharrow
(06:47:51 PM) StarmanHaxor: I mean, there are workarounds, ports, and alternatives to everything, but nobody wants to work at it (That I know)
(06:47:57 PM) yharrow_: the other idea that comes to mind is that even someone who has never been exposed to ubuntu but who is technically inclined may  be able to join the team
(06:48:08 PM) ausimage: I think it should be simple formula that we can repeat 
(06:48:15 PM) StarmanHaxor: They would just rather have it then and there, even if their computer is mad slow because they use Windows
(06:48:47 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: yeah thats true, althouh it could also be entering a third grey area of support and paid support
(06:49:00 PM) samiam010203: i see what your saying
(06:49:10 PM) yharrow_: support is focused on keeping people with ubuntu
(06:49:15 PM) yharrow_: not recruiting them to it
(06:49:23 PM) endlessdamion: ok question what is alternative to adobe flash
(06:49:28 PM) StarmanHaxor: I have been doing too much free tech support lately.
(06:49:31 PM) StarmanHaxor: :/
(06:49:34 PM) yharrow_: endlessdamion: creator studio?
(06:50:17 PM) yharrow_: StarmanHaxor: good point man :). we actually plan to get paid for support at some point
(06:50:34 PM) yharrow_: as much as i love contributing to free software
(06:50:38 PM) endlessdamion: some people i have spoken too seem interested in ubuntu but they dont want to work with the terminal would automatix be a good call
(06:50:43 PM) yharrow_: and as much as Im sure everyone else does
(06:51:01 PM) yharrow_: some people have a life outside of ubuntu and they need to support themselves ;)
(06:51:07 PM) RawSewage: free software doesnt mean free support
(06:51:14 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: I like that :)
(06:51:15 PM) StarmanHaxor: endless: What do they need to do in the terminal?
(06:51:36 PM) yharrow_: endlessdamion: I think so
(06:51:47 PM) RawSewage: whenever I ask on Linux channels how youre supposed to make money working on free software, the answer is always support
(06:51:47 PM) yharrow_: endlessdamion: Ive never had to use terminal with automatix2
(06:52:31 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: yeah, I think we can make an honest profit off of support, enough to fund our team activities for sure.
(06:52:32 PM) ausimage: I rarely use the CL without automatix :)
(06:52:49 PM) endlessdamion: well some user which to know how to mount there usb drivers and flash cards, but i am not going to lie i dont know how to do that either
(06:53:15 PM) endlessdamion: so there is no way i cant assist them in that matter
(06:53:16 PM) ausimage: endless the mount feature is gui in feisty
(06:53:37 PM) endlessdamion: well i am only handing out edgy eft cd's
(06:54:00 PM) ausimage: endlessdamion: nautilus shows all drives now and allow you to right click and mount the unmounted ones :)
(06:54:04 PM) yharrow_: endless what do you mean by know how to mount their usb drivers and flash cards?
(06:54:37 PM) endlessdamion: ok how do u mount usb drives in edgy eft!
(06:55:00 PM) yharrow_: endlessdamion: it should be automatic like ausimage said :)
(06:55:23 PM) ausimage: yeah gnome vfs automounts removeable drives
(06:55:34 PM) yharrow_: so basically I see 3 areas in community outreach
(06:56:16 PM) yharrow_: 1. recruiting people interested in ubuntu and willing to contribute , into our team
(06:56:46 PM) yharrow_: 2. introducing ubuntu to people who are completely or only vaguely familiar with it, fostering ubuntu adoption
(06:57:47 PM) yharrow_: 3. providing support both basic free support and paid support for more in depth cases. This is to keep existing users and also partially to provide a motivating factor for migrating
(06:57:57 PM) yharrow_: is everyone ok with this?
(06:58:01 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:58:18 PM) yharrow_: anyone think I am missing something?
(06:58:34 PM) ausimage: is education included?
(06:59:05 PM) samiam010203: fine
(06:59:17 PM) endlessdamion: very well
(06:59:28 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: hmm. Id say that education is included in group 2 :)
(06:59:37 PM) yharrow_: however...
(06:59:44 PM) yharrow_: it could also be group 3
(07:00:01 PM) ausimage: cool cause the two bigges I see are awareness and education 
(07:00:02 PM) yharrow_: depends on what kind of education and how its being introduced
(07:00:09 PM) yharrow_: examples
(07:01:00 PM) yharrow_: 1. free education about open source and ubuntu to people who have heard little about either would fall into method 2
(07:01:30 PM) yharrow_: 2. paid classes to improve existing knowledge of ubuntu and open source apps would fall into method 3
(07:01:55 PM) yharrow_: does this make sense?
(07:01:59 PM) ausimage: yeah....
(07:02:16 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: I agree with you completely although I think education leads to awareness ;)
(07:02:21 PM) yharrow_: although...
(07:02:24 PM) yharrow_: im not sure lol
(07:02:33 PM) yharrow_: the chicken or the egg kinda situation
(07:02:38 PM) ausimage: i thought is was the other way around ??
(07:02:50 PM) ausimage: :D
(07:03:02 PM) yharrow_: It may work both ways :)
(07:03:09 PM) StarmanHaxor: Sorry I edited the wiki like 5 times. I keep messing up adding my name
(07:03:29 PM) yharrow_: StarmanHaxor: you can add it to the list on the bottom ;)
(07:03:43 PM) yharrow_: StarmanHaxor: or.. you can just email your info to me
(07:03:51 PM) StarmanHaxor: UH OH
(07:03:52 PM) yharrow_: StarmanHaxor: I'll take care of it
(07:03:56 PM) StarmanHaxor: My edit lock will undo in 10mins
(07:03:59 PM) StarmanHaxor: :/
(07:04:12 PM) StarmanHaxor: NVM I fixed it
(07:04:12 PM) yharrow_: StarmanHaxor: yharrow AT gmail DOT com
(07:04:18 PM) yharrow_: oh ok
(07:04:20 PM) yharrow_: cool
(07:04:23 PM) StarmanHaxor: I could just /msg it to you, but I got it anyway thanks :)
(07:04:24 PM) ausimage: it is not that bad 
(07:04:27 PM) yharrow_: hehe
(07:04:30 PM) yharrow_: alright cool
(07:04:32 PM) yharrow_: :)
(07:04:37 PM) ausimage: StarmanHaxor:  it looks fine
(07:05:12 PM) yharrow_: I think that we need to draw up guidlines for community outreach emobodying what we have discussed thus far
(07:05:28 PM) yharrow_: maybe a documentation page
(07:05:35 PM) yharrow_: yeah I think that would be good
(07:05:39 PM) ausimage: or a policy page ??
(07:05:49 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: well we need a policty page too lol
(07:06:02 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: I think community oiutreach would get its own page though
(07:06:27 PM) ausimage: true
(07:06:32 PM) samiam010203: yes it should have its own page on the wiki
(07:07:17 PM) yharrow_: does anyone feel comfortable extracting the information about community outreach discussed in this meeting and transforming it into a wiki page in the NewYorkTeam/Documentation section?
(07:08:12 PM) samiam010203: will this meeting be loged yharrow
(07:08:13 PM) samiam010203: ?
(07:08:20 PM) yharrow_: thats also another topic for discussion, we need to populate and improve the documentation section of our wiki
(07:08:27 PM) ausimage: it is already being done samiam010203
(07:08:36 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: yes it is currently being done in at least 3 places ;)
(07:08:51 PM) samiam010203: if so i could do it when i get back to nyc i would like to massivly create pages for the wiki
(07:09:29 PM) yharrow_: that would be great, of course if anyone wants to start working on any documentation before then thats cool too ;)
(07:09:47 PM) ausimage: I think we need to be careful that we share things that everyone can use....
(07:10:06 PM) yharrow_: I myslef am going to try to get some work done, however may be a little difficult as I have a holiday coming up
(07:10:28 PM) ausimage: documents of public use probably should not go under our wiki page ;)
(07:10:48 PM) ausimage: er of greater good :)
(07:10:55 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: I Agree :) 
(07:11:03 PM) samiam010203: where should we put them
(07:11:10 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: however
(07:11:19 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: what do you define public use?
(07:11:20 PM) ausimage: in main directory ;)
(07:11:33 PM) ausimage: howtos are public 
(07:11:53 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: some things that benefit us may benefit other s as well however they may not be universally applicable
(07:12:58 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: anywho, Im not very experienced with it , so I'll trust your judgment as to waht is public
(07:13:02 PM) ausimage: that maybe true... just making a note... the profile page I wrote I put in the main directory because it was for everyone even though I wrote it because of the newyork team 
(07:13:13 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: however,  we can have a private and public copy
(07:13:40 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: private copy will be personalized for our team, public more generic
(07:14:17 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: that would be a way to give back to the community so if we are able to that I would defintiely approve of it
(07:14:22 PM) endlessdamion: i am sorry i must go good day to u all
(07:14:26 PM) yharrow_: ok endless
(07:14:28 PM) yharrow_: enjoy
(07:14:51 PM) ausimage: I think things under wiki page need to be exclusive to our needs... if it is applicable to others then it is the main dir 
(07:15:05 PM) samiam010203: that sounds fine
(07:15:51 PM) ausimage: yharrow that make sense ??
(07:15:53 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: well, what I am saying is that there may be some things that could be adapted /genericized for public use, so in that case we should keep a private copy and create a public copy,
(07:16:02 PM) ausimage: K
(07:16:11 PM) ausimage: there could be that as well
(07:16:12 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: its probably simpler for now just to keep everything internal
(07:16:41 PM) ausimage: true and we can push what needs to elsewhere when it comes to that
(07:16:43 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: we will decide what to do once we have more polished documentation
(07:16:45 PM) yharrow_: yeah
(07:16:47 PM) yharrow_: :)
(07:17:04 PM) yharrow_: so... anymore major topics
(07:17:13 PM) yharrow_: we are making great progress here
(07:17:21 PM) ausimage: BPM?
(07:17:23 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: what do you think ;)?
(07:17:29 PM) samiam010203: i thinmk its fine
(07:18:00 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: hmm I think BPM is kind of a private project between me and you a this point since it hasnt reached beta yet, but sure I'll let them know about it ;)
(07:18:32 PM) ausimage: that is all I was looking for :)
(07:18:40 PM) samiam010203: yharrow you wan tto start schedualing the next meeting
(07:18:40 PM) yharrow_: do to our inablity to find a sufficently simple and efficent project manager, ausimage and I have decided our own project manager
(07:18:58 PM) yharrow_: It is currently called Basic Project Manager
(07:18:58 PM) yharrow_: yeah
(07:19:03 PM) yharrow_: ok lets dot aht
(07:19:04 PM) yharrow_: that
(07:19:43 PM) yharrow_: I think next meeeting should be on wednesday the11th of april
(07:19:53 PM) yharrow_: at 6 or 7
(07:19:59 PM) yharrow_: what does everyone else feel?
(07:20:00 PM) ausimage: 2 weeks from now :)
(07:20:05 PM) yharrow_: yeah
(07:20:16 PM) samiam010203: april 11th at 6 pm is fine for me
(07:20:25 PM) ausimage: lets try 7??
(07:20:29 PM) yharrow_: and after that the meeting will be the week of april 22
(07:20:30 PM) RawSewage: are you still having a Feisty party
(07:20:38 PM) yharrow_: oh snap
(07:20:40 PM) yharrow_: thanks!
(07:20:45 PM) yharrow_: RawSewage: you are the man!
(07:20:48 PM) RawSewage: lol
(07:21:03 PM) yharrow_: we neeeeeed to plan for the feisty party
(07:21:06 PM) yharrow_: :)
(07:21:18 PM) samiam010203: we can do that on the 11th dont u think yharrow?
(07:21:26 PM) yharrow_: we will be dicsussing it later this week and on on the 11th
(07:21:29 PM) samiam010203: plus we can plan between now and then
(07:22:14 PM) yharrow_: all those interested in helping plan please let sal or I konw so we can add you to the Party Planning Commitee :P (Fun Stuff)
(07:22:26 PM) yharrow_: back to meeting planning
(07:22:47 PM) samiam010203: yharrow i have to go now so if there is any major stuff let me know by email or on irc tomorrow ok yharrow?
(07:22:47 PM) yharrow_: what day of the week of april 8th is best for everyone
(07:23:05 PM) samiam010203: ok yharrow
(07:23:06 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: Ok, you can check back for the decided date of the meeting,
(07:23:12 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:23:15 PM) yharrow_: samiam010203: what dates are good for you
(07:23:18 PM) yharrow_: real quick
(07:23:18 PM) samiam010203: see u guys tomorrow then
(07:23:26 PM) yharrow_: o well
(07:23:27 PM) yharrow_: ok guys
(07:23:39 PM) yharrow_: I think sal is prety flexible
(07:24:09 PM) yharrow_: anyone have a schedule that would prevent them from attending a meeting at 6pm on wednesday?
(07:24:18 PM) yharrow_: or thursday
(07:24:19 PM) ausimage: no
(07:24:43 PM) yharrow_: I'd like to do it thursday 6pm then.
(07:24:55 PM) ausimage: fine
(07:25:03 PM) ausimage: 12th?
(07:25:47 PM) yharrow_: alright guys I think we got alot done today, we will need to document some stuff and create some more organization but we certainly heading in the right direction
(07:26:15 PM) yharrow_: I look forward to seeing everyone here on  Thursday, April 12, 2007 at 18:00 EST
(07:26:28 PM) yharrow_: on.... #ubuntu-ny on IRC!
(07:26:36 PM) yharrow_: ;)
(07:26:52 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: any other issues we need to cover that we forgot?
(07:27:00 PM) yharrow_: we have 3 minutes :)
(07:27:05 PM) ausimage: not that I am aware of 
(07:27:09 PM) yharrow_: cool then
(07:27:21 PM) yharrow_: ausimage: wanna join the party planning comittee?
(07:27:22 PM) yharrow_: :P
(07:27:40 PM) ausimage: not sure at this moment
(07:27:56 PM) yharrow_: its ok man, not neccessary, youre doing so much already :)
(07:28:06 PM) yharrow_: alright guys....
(07:28:19 PM) yharrow_: I hope you found this meeting beneficial to you
(07:28:25 PM) yharrow_: Meeting Adjourned. 
</pre>
