{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''XXth''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 7:00 PM EST and finishing at 8:00 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
 OLD BUSINESS
* Intrepid Release Meet and Greet Sat Nov 1
* Install Fest Sat Nov 1
* Rochester Meetup Thu Nov 6
 <<BR>>NEW BUSINESS
* Monthly newsletter, as <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=969059 | suggested]]</nowiki> by PrivateVoid -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:daradib]]</nowiki>   * local events
** status of team
** perhaps modeled after the UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter
* <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLaws | ByLaws]]</nowiki> refer to Ubuntu as "Ubuntu Linux Operating System" -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:daradib]]</nowiki>   * perhaps "Ubuntu" (''preferred'') or "Ubuntu Operating System" is a better idea, reasons below -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:daradib]]</nowiki>    * "Linux" is not a technically correct term
** Debian's official name is "Debian GNU/Linux"
** Ubuntu's official name does not include "Linux"
** ''The Official Ubuntu Book'' uses "Ubuntu" to refer to the distribution and "GNU/Linux" to refer to the class of operating system
* <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-Nominations2008 | Nominations]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:daradib]]</nowiki>  * Website and Wiki work -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ausimage]]</nowiki>  * <nowiki>[[http://main.newyork-ubuntu.com/Main/MembershipMeetUps | Local Events]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:daradib]]</nowiki>   * Rockland County
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=970119 | forum thread]]</nowiki>
** Rochester 
** Syracuse 

== Attendance ==

DaraAdib sends regrets -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:daradib]]</nowiki> 
== Minutes ==

== IRC Log ==
<pre>
(07:01:46 PM) ***ausimage scans way to the back of the room...
(07:02:20 PM) ausimage: Well lets get this meeting moving then...
(07:02:26 PM) ausimage: First up old business
(07:02:41 PM) ausimage: Intrepid Release Party
(07:03:25 PM) ausimage: I attended the one in Waterloo.... and despite everyone coming late... I think it was an awesome time :)
(07:04:01 PM) ausimage: We had four show up... 
(07:04:12 PM) ausimage: anything to add to that?
(07:04:24 PM) PrivateVoid: no
(07:04:27 PM) ausimage: K
(07:04:34 PM) ausimage: Install Fest 
(07:04:39 PM) ausimage: PrivateVoid: ?
(07:05:13 PM) PrivateVoid: The install fest was downtown rochester
(07:05:27 PM) PrivateVoid: and there were probably 25-30 people that showed up through out the day
(07:05:35 PM) ausimage: nice
(07:05:36 PM) PrivateVoid: the event was from 10am to 4pm
(07:06:05 PM) PrivateVoid: the average age of the attendees was 50s
(07:06:19 PM) PrivateVoid: there were several repeat users that were still novices and a few new users
(07:07:03 PM) PrivateVoid: in all it was a good time and opened the door for us to work with MIC Recycle and
(07:07:23 PM) PrivateVoid: RCSI -- Rochester Computer Society Inc
(07:07:51 PM) PrivateVoid: that is all from my perspective
(07:07:56 PM) PrivateVoid: unless people have questions about it
(07:08:07 PM) ausimage: ??
(07:08:38 PM) ausimage: K then Rochester Meetup 
(07:08:43 PM) ausimage: PrivateVoid: ?
(07:09:24 PM) PrivateVoid: The Rochester meetup was an informal event... and the Wegman's 'free' wireless did not work for anyone. It was a good meeting for people to chat and some new members (me) to get to know existing members
(07:09:43 PM) PrivateVoid: we discussed the potential of changing the Rochester meetup to be on the same night as Lugor or RCIS
(07:09:55 PM) PrivateVoid: RCSI... so there were not so many meeting to attend
(07:10:26 PM) PrivateVoid: We also talked about offering community classes and working with MIC Recycling to get Ubuntu machines in to people's hands
(07:10:35 PM) PrivateVoid: MIC Recycle currently uses Windows 2000
(07:10:55 PM) PrivateVoid: the idea was to offer our services to assist them assemble PCs and install Ubuntu
(07:11:00 PM) ***PrivateVoid done
(07:11:08 PM) ausimage: K 
(07:11:20 PM) ausimage: thanks PrivateVoid for the summaries 
(07:11:30 PM) ausimage: New Business then 
(07:11:39 PM) ausimage: Newsletter...
(07:11:57 PM) PrivateVoid: The general idea for a news letter is to announce things that have been done by the team, inform the team about things that are happning nationally / internationally, highlight events going on in the world of computers, highlight new programs, and/or have tips about how to use Ubuntu
(07:12:02 PM) ***PrivateVoid drinks a bit of water
(07:12:14 PM) PrivateVoid: I would love to have people assist to write some of the details...
(07:12:29 PM) calimer: I miss a meeting?
(07:12:30 PM) PrivateVoid: the Newsletter would start small and hopefully grow as we got more people from around the state involved
(07:12:35 PM) ***ausimage had attempted to do a little of that earlier this year...
(07:12:43 PM) PrivateVoid: we are in a meeting calimer
(07:12:44 PM) ausimage: no calimer in the middle ;)
(07:12:51 PM) calimer: woo
(07:13:19 PM) ausimage: How many would be interested in assisting with the Newsletter?
(07:13:36 PM) ***NewJack raises hand
(07:13:45 PM) ausimage: 0/
(07:14:11 PM) ausimage: So we have 3 or 4 interested....
(07:14:28 PM) NewJack: I know daradib stated he would be interested
(07:14:34 PM) ausimage: Perhaps a special committe meeting to work on the details and start our first issue?
(07:14:55 PM) PrivateVoid: cool... I will post details in the forums
(07:15:11 PM) calimer: I certainly would be happy to supply updates on my software for it, hehehe
(07:15:14 PM) PrivateVoid: I would like the newsletter to be both forum and wiki based so we catch people in both places
(07:15:21 PM) ausimage: does any interested have a date and time
(07:15:41 PM) ***ausimage thinks the list should be included somehow too
(07:15:55 PM) PrivateVoid: I would like to target January as the first ausimage
(07:16:00 PM) PrivateVoid: give us time to get things under way
(07:16:40 PM) ausimage: when should the first meeting for the newsletter committee be?
(07:16:57 PM) calimer: what are you interested in having in the newsletter?
(07:17:07 PM) ***ausimage guess the date could be set later too :/
(07:17:24 PM) NewJack: Any time after 6pm is good for me if we meet next week
(07:17:28 PM) TheDukeN1: I can be chif editor
(07:17:31 PM) PrivateVoid: yes, I think we can set the date at a later time... not sure we need to have regular IRC meetings, but maybe
(07:17:32 PM) TheDukeN1: *cheif
(07:17:48 PM) NewJack: :)
(07:17:55 PM) PrivateVoid: :-)
(07:18:02 PM) ausimage: calimer: Events... Statuses... like UWN ;)
(07:18:04 PM) PrivateVoid: sounds good to me TheDukeN1
(07:18:06 PM) calimer: I wouldn't mind helping to write stuff up
(07:18:07 PM) TheDukeN1: I guess, not I can't spelll
(07:18:17 PM) TheDukeN1: Why is everyone calling me TheDukeN1?
(07:18:22 PM) PrivateVoid: announce things that have been done by the team, inform the team about things that are happning nationally / internationally, highlight events going on in the world of computers, highlight new programs, and/or have tips about how to use Ubuntu
(07:18:25 PM) TheDukeN1 is now known as TheDukeNY
(07:18:28 PM) TheDukeNY: O
(07:18:32 PM) PrivateVoid: that is your current name... :-)
(07:18:40 PM) PrivateVoid: see ya caught that
(07:18:42 PM) TheDukeNY: Imust have had  double in here
(07:18:44 PM) ausimage: what day works best ?
(07:19:04 PM) ***TheDukeNY uses Pidgin, didnt notice b/c te way he set it up
(07:19:08 PM) calimer: thursday for me
(07:19:22 PM) PrivateVoid: what day for what?
(07:19:23 PM) ausimage: so the 20th works?
(07:19:25 PM) calimer: or tuesday after 6:30
(07:19:35 PM) NewJack: either day works for me
(07:19:38 PM) TheDukeNY: too early
(07:19:40 PM) ausimage: 20th at 8:00 
(07:19:42 PM) calimer: 20th works for me
(07:19:44 PM) NewJack: ok
(07:19:49 PM) PrivateVoid: what are we needing a date for?
(07:19:52 PM) TheDukeNY: 20 at 8
(07:19:55 PM) calimer: I will have a dual meeting on irc but it should be fine
(07:20:05 PM) TheDukeNY: but it cant be that the following thrusday if this is weekly newletter
(07:20:05 PM) NewJack: To discuss the newsletter
(07:20:06 PM) ausimage: discuss the newsletter PrivateVoid
(07:20:06 PM) PrivateVoid: I got blued in ubuntu-us and got lost
(07:20:10 PM) TheDukeNY: b/c thanksgiving
(07:20:10 PM) PrivateVoid: ah... ok
(07:20:27 PM) NewJack: It
(07:20:33 PM) NewJack: It's not going to be weekly
(07:20:37 PM) ausimage: yeah... the committe is just meeting to set thing up
(07:20:44 PM) TheDukeNY: okauy
(07:20:44 PM) ausimage: *things
(07:20:46 PM) PrivateVoid: yeah... I want a monthly news letter...
(07:20:57 PM) PrivateVoid: would think a monthly IRC to set topics might be enough
(07:21:06 PM) NewJack: sounds good
(07:21:16 PM) ausimage: Ok... the newsletter committee will 2008-11-20 at 8pm
(07:21:31 PM) ausimage: to discuss setting up
(07:21:40 PM) ***ausimage checks the agenda
(07:22:27 PM) PrivateVoid: as a question...
(07:22:31 PM) PrivateVoid: not on the agenda...
(07:22:41 PM) PrivateVoid: do we need two meeting a month as a team?
(07:22:48 PM) ausimage: daradib points out that that linux is misused in the bylaws... this will need an admendment if there is agreement
(07:23:15 PM) NewJack: The official Ubuntu book refers to itself as : "a distrobution of GNU/Linux"
(07:23:18 PM) ausimage: um.... no we can be monthly for meetings
(07:24:08 PM) ausimage: I guess on the bylaw question if we are in agreement then I will put forth an amendment to change it 
(07:24:24 PM) PrivateVoid: I agree it should be changed
(07:25:18 PM) ausimage: Ok... If in anyone wants to assist in the amendment process with me... let me know
(07:25:54 PM) ausimage: Next Nominations!
(07:26:27 PM) ausimage: There are up two three vacancies to fill in the leadership...
(07:26:39 PM) calimer: what are the positions?
(07:26:56 PM) ausimage: Vice President, Treasure, At-Large
(07:27:18 PM) ausimage: Treasure has no money at the moment but is still a position ;)
(07:27:34 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Nominations2008 <===
(07:28:08 PM) ausimage: Feel free nominate to the slate 
(07:28:14 PM) calimer: I'll be librarian
(07:28:24 PM) ausimage: until our next meeting 
(07:28:53 PM) ausimage: that would be more like our secretary ... I think
(07:29:25 PM) ausimage: calimer: you are welcome to assist us with wiki and website 
(07:29:30 PM) calimer: it was a joke, I don't think I can commit to any jobs with my schedule so nuts
(07:29:43 PM) calimer: but I wouldn't mind writing stuff on various software
(07:29:53 PM) ausimage: Cool...
(07:30:01 PM) NewJack: Your title is now journalist
(07:30:02 PM) calimer: I have 4 jobs that kind of go all over the place
(07:30:09 PM) PrivateVoid: calimer, a column for the newsletter
(07:30:26 PM) calimer: especially gaming stuff
(07:30:31 PM) calimer: since I have to keep current on that :D
(07:30:41 PM) ausimage: Ok... the elections will be Dec 11th
(07:30:43 PM) calimer: and development tool stuff
(07:30:53 PM) ausimage: during our regular meeting
(07:30:55 PM) PrivateVoid: http://gaming.gwos.org/doku.php
(07:31:46 PM) ausimage: Next, I would like to note that PrivateVoid and I with a few other have been updating the wiki and website...
(07:31:57 PM) ausimage: so check out the changes :)
(07:32:21 PM) ausimage: If you find things that need correction let us know about them...
(07:32:35 PM) ausimage: Oh and not on the agenda....
(07:32:39 PM) calimer: that gamers site could use a lot of love
(07:33:07 PM) ausimage: I placed PrivateVoid in charge of our forum on ubuntu forums
(07:33:26 PM) ausimage: and he has done a bang up job getting together !
(07:33:41 PM) ***NewJack pats PrivateVoid on the back
(07:34:01 PM) ausimage: A question has also been raised about frequency of General Meetings...
(07:34:17 PM) ausimage: it is twice a month 2 thu 4th tue now
(07:34:21 PM) ***PrivateVoid looks shocked
(07:34:23 PM) PrivateVoid: what?
(07:34:41 PM) PrivateVoid: oh
(07:34:45 PM) ausimage: well it was supposed to be ;)
(07:34:48 PM) PrivateVoid: sorry was in ubuntu-us again
(07:35:17 PM) ausimage: it has been suggested to be once a month...
(07:35:27 PM) ausimage: is there any discussion about this?
(07:35:35 PM) PrivateVoid: I would like to suggest -- once a month for overall state... and other meetings for local areas or focus teams
(07:35:51 PM) NewJack: That sounds good
(07:36:12 PM) PrivateVoid: potentially as there are 'releases' scheduled or 'special events' we can add some meeting for the entire state group
(07:36:13 PM) ausimage: k... If we do the new schedule would start in January ;)
(07:36:33 PM) PrivateVoid: Sounds good to me
(07:36:58 PM) ausimage: Do have a preference as to when during the month?
(07:37:13 PM) NewJack: Tuesday
(07:37:21 PM) ausimage: which Tuesday?
(07:37:29 PM) NewJack: 2nd Tuesday
(07:37:36 PM) NewJack: Just throwing it out there
(07:37:39 PM) ausimage: 2nd Tuesday...
(07:37:56 PM) NewJack: No particular reason
(07:37:59 PM) PrivateVoid: I prefer Wednesdays or Thursdays...
(07:38:08 PM) PrivateVoid: Tuesday is BT
(07:38:14 PM) PrivateVoid: and Thursday appears to be ubuntu-us
(07:38:18 PM) ausimage: ah;)
(07:38:24 PM) PrivateVoid: the first tuesday is BT
(07:38:29 PM) ausimage: US does not meet regualarly
(07:38:32 PM) PrivateVoid: so a second, third or fourth would be ok
(07:38:40 PM) PrivateVoid: they are debating a regular ausimage
(07:38:46 PM) ausimage: ahh k
(07:38:59 PM) PrivateVoid: or at least I think so from what I caught
(07:39:24 PM) PrivateVoid: but 2nd, 3rd or 4th Tuesday works
(07:39:58 PM) ausimage: um... Let us throw the 2nd Thu and 2nd Tue out to membership and discuss further on the 25th
(07:40:15 PM) ausimage: sounds good?
(07:40:26 PM) PrivateVoid: sounds good... we can take it to the forum
(07:40:28 PM) PrivateVoid: do a discussion
(07:40:29 PM) ausimage: perhaps other days may show up..
(07:40:32 PM) PrivateVoid: then make a poll
(07:40:36 PM) NewJack: Poll is good
(07:40:38 PM) ausimage: I will post it on the list to
(07:40:43 PM) PrivateVoid: cool
(07:40:45 PM) PrivateVoid: sounds good
(07:40:55 PM) ausimage: or PrivateVoid do you want to do that with a link to the poll ?
(07:41:26 PM) PrivateVoid: well I think we need to have an open discussion... then a poll
(07:41:39 PM) PrivateVoid: so first message to list can let people know it is being discussed
(07:41:49 PM) PrivateVoid: then after some discussion we can do a poll
(07:41:53 PM) ausimage: you want to do that?
(07:41:59 PM) PrivateVoid: say... December 1st for the poll
(07:42:03 PM) PrivateVoid: I can do both
(07:42:09 PM) ausimage: K thank you PrivateVoid
(07:42:18 PM) ***PrivateVoid hopes memory does not spill out of the back of his head
(07:42:19 PM) PrivateVoid: :-)
(07:42:23 PM) ausimage: Last on the Agenda...
(07:42:29 PM) ausimage: Local Meetups 
(07:42:55 PM) ausimage: Rockland is working on a Meetup in New City I believe ???
(07:42:57 PM) ausimage: NewJack: ?
(07:43:00 PM) NewJack: Yep
(07:43:11 PM) NewJack: I am going to have a simple meet planned by Sunday
(07:43:27 PM) NewJack: It will be set for about 2-3 weeks away
(07:43:37 PM) ausimage: nice... let us know and we will help get the word out ;)
(07:43:41 PM) NewJack: Just to see how many show up and to introduce ourselves
(07:43:43 PM) PrivateVoid: yes...
(07:43:48 PM) PrivateVoid: let us know
(07:44:03 PM) NewJack: I am also going to work with the Local PCUG
(07:44:03 PM) ***PrivateVoid wants to say something (again)
(07:44:14 PM) NewJack: Go ahead PV
(07:44:18 PM) ausimage: yeah
(07:44:20 PM) ausimage: ;)
(07:44:40 PM) ***ausimage has Rochester and Syracuse to mention yet
(07:44:45 PM) PrivateVoid: We have moved the Rochester meetup to Barnes & Noble and there was no cost, free wi-fi and a projector
(07:44:58 PM) PrivateVoid: I would think other groups should potentially looks for such locations as well
(07:45:07 PM) ausimage: nice
(07:45:19 PM) ausimage: you discussed rotating it too?
(07:45:26 PM) PrivateVoid: LUGs can meet in businesses if they want, but I think our meetups should be a little bit more 'public'
(07:45:40 PM) ausimage: I do agree
(07:45:59 PM) ausimage: we should really work on placards or banners :/
(07:46:00 PM) PrivateVoid: Yes, we are going to test meetings in the Pittsford Library as well... with free wi-fi, a projector and again in a public 'friendly' place
(07:46:24 PM) NewJack: Well, I already have the contact cards done
(07:46:27 PM) ausimage: To help announce Just in Time to the public
(07:46:28 PM) PrivateVoid: I will be asking my father if he can make a vinyl sign with his sign machine (shh! that is supposed to be a secret)
(07:46:38 PM) ausimage: Oh awesome
(07:46:46 PM) NewJack: If you want, LMK what you are looking for in a placard and I will work on it
(07:46:52 PM) PrivateVoid: I would also like to suggest putting up posters in local computer shops if they will allow it
(07:47:07 PM) ausimage: sounds good...
(07:47:18 PM) PrivateVoid: locally we have a company called JNCS that offers Linux machines...
(07:47:31 PM) PrivateVoid: and I would like to invite them to one so they could 'showcase' a few Ubuntu models
(07:47:41 PM) ausimage: I am thinking even if we have signs that say "Ubuntu New York Meetup.... Public Welcome"
(07:47:48 PM) PrivateVoid: and that will hopefully get them more interested in assisting us
(07:47:57 PM) ausimage: Nice... PrivateVoid
(07:48:11 PM) PrivateVoid: they have not responded to email so I have to call them
(07:48:23 PM) ausimage: I think that should be a goal get more businesses to support us and Ubuntu 
(07:48:29 PM) PrivateVoid: the Town of Pittsford is sending me 'course proposal' paperwork
(07:48:42 PM) NewJack: I am working on that too
(07:48:45 PM) PrivateVoid: when I grow some experience with doing this I will share with the LoCo
(07:48:54 PM) NewJack: Goodwill and Dell have a recycling program
(07:48:54 PM) ausimage: good work PrivateVoid
(07:49:05 PM) NewJack: and one of the donation stations is by my house
(07:49:29 PM) NewJack: I am going to stop there tomorrow or saturday and find out who to contact at Goodwill
(07:49:39 PM) PrivateVoid: cool.
(07:49:51 PM) NewJack: See if we can work out installing Ubuntu on the machines also
(07:49:52 PM) ausimage: On Syracuse, MattArnold share he was thinking about a January meeting for Syracuse... but has not given further details
(07:49:57 PM) PrivateVoid: One idea we had here NewJack is to build and donate recycled computers to senior centers
(07:50:05 PM) NewJack: Ok
(07:50:15 PM) PrivateVoid: ausimage, do we have a contact for MattArnold?
(07:50:28 PM) ausimage: yeah... when he is in the channel
(07:50:45 PM) ausimage: he is going to college... and the coursework is heavy ....
(07:50:50 PM) PrivateVoid: My parents still live in the Syracuse area so I may be able to get facilities in that area if we can get a statewide event
(07:51:12 PM) ***ausimage love that too
(07:51:17 PM) PrivateVoid: I have not worked on that at all... I feel we need to build some strong 'pockets' first
(07:51:31 PM) ausimage: I do agree...
(07:51:38 PM) PrivateVoid: and not get ahead of ourselves and then damage the momentum by setting our sites on something too high
(07:51:38 PM) NewJack: What is going on with NYC
(07:51:49 PM) PrivateVoid: smalls hills for now... mountains later
(07:51:57 PM) ausimage: NewJack: I spoke with dcolish...
(07:52:08 PM) ausimage: he said mjording is swamped...
(07:52:13 PM) NewJack: any interest there?
(07:52:26 PM) ausimage: I think there might be...
(07:52:29 PM) ausimage: TheDukeNY: ????
(07:52:48 PM) ***ausimage picks on the only NYC person here 
(07:53:23 PM) ausimage: NewJack: there are several lugs ant MeetUp.com group there....
(07:53:32 PM) NewJack: k
(07:53:40 PM) ausimage: but I also here occasionally about "what about us??"
(07:54:08 PM) ausimage: Since I am not there... I have been referring things to mjording... ;)
(07:54:17 PM) ausimage: who said he would do something :/
(07:54:23 PM) PrivateVoid: is our NY person still around?
(07:54:46 PM) ausimage: according dcolish he is busier than busy
(07:55:05 PM) ***ausimage should probably ping him and dcolish
(07:55:09 PM) PrivateVoid: do we need another NYC 'leader' then
(07:55:15 PM) PrivateVoid: so someone that can assist him?
(07:55:21 PM) ausimage: I think dcolish offered
(07:55:34 PM) ausimage: I have addies for both here...
(07:56:03 PM) ausimage: Any other Business?
(07:56:10 PM) PrivateVoid: cool... do not want to step on toes, but we need people who can be active...
(07:56:19 PM) NewJack: Was going to bring that up
(07:56:22 PM) PrivateVoid: I understand busy and can appreciate it
(07:56:23 PM) ausimage: yeah I thought he would be
(07:56:35 PM) NewJack: We have 159 listed members
(07:56:53 PM) PrivateVoid: no need for people to be sorry... reality kicks us all in the arse on occasion
(07:56:55 PM) ausimage: Yup... though I think most are barely active
(07:57:10 PM) NewJack: I wonder why?
(07:57:15 PM) PrivateVoid: is there a way to ensure that those listed are still interested in being on the list?
(07:57:20 PM) ausimage: Life most likely ;)
(07:57:53 PM) ausimage: PrivateVoid: I am going to work with the leadership in December on that issue
(07:57:59 PM) NewJack: Just having 5-6 of us being active is going to hurt us
(07:58:11 PM) ausimage: That is how it has been
(07:58:39 PM) NewJack: I noticed that alot of the listed members don't even have an IRC nick listed
(07:58:46 PM) ausimage: yeah...
(07:58:50 PM) PrivateVoid: cool
(07:58:54 PM) PrivateVoid: sounds like a plan
(07:59:12 PM) PrivateVoid: NewJack, it will not hurt us as much as you might think
(07:59:15 PM) ausimage: It was decided in the beginning the only pertinent thing we need was name email and county
(07:59:16 PM) NewJack: I think we need to change the membership procedure
(07:59:28 PM) PrivateVoid: we want to use that list to show people our 'activity' as we grow
(07:59:34 PM) PrivateVoid: then they will likely get interested
(07:59:45 PM) PrivateVoid: kinda like the crowd that gathered around the fights in school
(07:59:55 PM) NewJack: We have to demand more contact info from them I feel
(07:59:56 PM) ausimage: Yeah, most likely the procedure will need adjustments... but I think that also is a leadership issues to begin with at least
(07:59:59 PM) PrivateVoid: crowd momentum
(08:00:23 PM) ausimage: I do agree there too
(08:00:33 PM) NewJack: I'll give a for instance
(08:00:39 PM) PrivateVoid: NewJack, until the leadership and active members show activity it is unwise to press the issue with others
(08:00:49 PM) PrivateVoid: we must lead by example
(08:00:54 PM) ausimage: :)
(08:00:55 PM) PrivateVoid: "Lead the Way"
(08:01:05 PM) PrivateVoid: the Infantry soldiers moto
(08:01:10 PM) NewJack: I am checking one member, he has a Launchpad account, but isn't on our Lauchpad team
(08:01:15 PM) PrivateVoid: hohah!
(08:01:52 PM) ausimage: yeah... NewJack a lot of people failed to acknowledge the request to renew the membership on our LP team
(08:01:59 PM) NewJack: I kinda agree PV, but if no one is hanging around to begin with, how do we show them
(08:02:18 PM) PrivateVoid: NewJack, we have to button our collars first
(08:02:27 PM) ausimage: NewJack: I think the membership issue is for a leadership meeting ;)
(08:02:37 PM) NewJack: k
(08:02:40 PM) PrivateVoid: make sure that all leaders (once elections are done) have the LP pages, wiki pages, full details on the web site
(08:02:47 PM) PrivateVoid: then we can start requesting that of members
(08:02:56 PM) ausimage: The leaders need to put their heads together and make a plan to present to the membership
(08:03:00 PM) NewJack: I have to work on a wiki for myself
(08:03:06 PM) PrivateVoid: if we ask them before we make sure we have done that then they will not respect the request
(08:03:16 PM) PrivateVoid: +1 ausimage
(08:03:20 PM) NewJack: Roger that
(08:03:26 PM) ausimage: thank you PrivateVoid
(08:03:37 PM) ausimage: Ok... I think we are finished?
(08:03:44 PM) NewJack: One more thing....
(08:03:46 PM) ***PrivateVoid slumps in his chair
(08:03:48 PM) ausimage: OK
(08:03:49 PM) PrivateVoid: yes,... I
(08:03:51 PM) PrivateVoid: ok...
(08:03:52 PM) NewJack: Sorry
(08:03:55 PM) ***PrivateVoid listens
(08:04:00 PM) ***ausimage listens
(08:04:06 PM) PrivateVoid: no need to be sorry... it is good to be enthusiastic
(08:04:09 PM) NewJack: Do you guys have photos from the recent events you have gone to
(08:04:18 PM) NewJack: The installfest and the meetup?
(08:04:22 PM) PrivateVoid: I am working on getting some from the install fest
(08:04:29 PM) ausimage: the meetup no...
(08:04:29 PM) PrivateVoid: the meetup I did not think to bring a camera
(08:04:36 PM) NewJack: If you do, I think we need to get them up somewhere
(08:04:39 PM) PrivateVoid: I will bring a camera to the Dec 4th meet up
(08:04:49 PM) PrivateVoid: and then yes they will go up (newsletter)
(08:05:01 PM) ausimage: perhaps attached to the event as well?
(08:05:22 PM) NewJack: I feel that is important to have the images to go along with the words
(08:05:38 PM) NewJack: a picture tells a thousand of them you know ;)
(08:05:39 PM) ausimage: K... though some like their privacy :/
(08:05:45 PM) NewJack: Understood
(08:05:59 PM) PrivateVoid: I agree NewJack
(08:06:08 PM) ausimage: and probably should be released somehow :/
(08:06:08 PM) PrivateVoid: but we do have to make sure it is ok with people
(08:06:16 PM) NewJack: Absolutely
(08:06:23 PM) PrivateVoid: https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/50942
(08:06:32 PM) PrivateVoid: a recent comment from LP answers I got
(08:06:46 PM) PrivateVoid: sorry for interjecting that... but it was a very nice compliment
(08:06:50 PM) PrivateVoid: and wanted to share
(08:07:15 PM) ausimage: OK NewJack anything else?
(08:07:21 PM) ausimage: PrivateVoid: ?
(08:07:26 PM) NewJack: Nope
(08:07:33 PM) ***ausimage holds his gavel
(08:07:57 PM) ausimage: Adjourned...
(08:07:58 PM) PrivateVoid: nope
</pre>
