{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''13th''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:30 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==

The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Announcements
** Ask members to join the new facebook account page (http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=2389558839)
** Discuss the Community Library Project section on the wiki. Ask members to review books.

* Discuss Major issues
   
** Items to discuss for inclusion in the By Laws (to be handled by ausimage)
** * Location(s) for future RL meetings (high priority) (meeting spots based on location/sub-teams/divisions)
** * Should the leadership travel to In-Person meetings? (Leadership/Secretary) (discusion of funding for travel/lodging)
** * Determine Month for Annual Meeting (August/October - Albany ?).
** Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
** Wrap up and goals for next meeting

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
(05:59:23 PM) samiam010203: ok everyone welcome to the 13th meeting of the ubuntu loco new york team
(06:00:01 PM) samiam010203: tonight we only have a few things to dicuse but we will also be getting into the bylaws as well
(06:00:33 PM) samiam010203: for that ausi will take over and explain everything and we shall set a time when its best for every one to attend a gobby sesion to edit the bylaws
(06:00:47 PM) samiam010203: a quick radio check if your here say ya
(06:01:00 PM) vbabiy: ya
(06:01:07 PM) ***ausimage says aye
(06:01:15 PM) samiam010203: hello you guys
(06:01:20 PM) samiam010203: anyone els around ?
(06:01:52 PM) samiam010203: ok lets give everyone a few moments to get settled then we are going to get into are first topic
(06:02:30 PM) samiam010203: ausi you ready to take over when the time is right ?
(06:02:59 PM) dbist: yello
(06:03:06 PM) samiam010203: hello dbist
(06:03:17 PM) samiam010203: your just in time for tonights short meeting
(06:03:23 PM) dbist: sup samiam010203
(06:03:28 PM) ausimage: yeah I guess though there is not much to discuss on my side.. just need the participation  in only the most important document ever ;)
(06:03:57 PM) samiam010203: well your going to be the one to get a schedual down pat for the gobby sesion ausi :)
(06:04:13 PM) samiam010203: ok lets get going here
(06:04:15 PM) ausimage: yeah I know...
(06:04:19 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:04:52 PM) samiam010203: first off , if your on facebook we have a group on it if you would like to join the url is :http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=2389558839
(06:05:27 PM) samiam010203: we also have the community library project sponcered by o'reilly publishing
(06:05:41 PM) samiam010203: you can check that out here ands sign out books
(06:05:47 PM) samiam010203: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/CommunityLibrary
(06:06:00 PM) samiam010203: if need be we can ship the books to you by media mail
(06:06:16 PM) samiam010203: so dont think if your not in the city you cant get one of the books
(06:06:29 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:06:39 PM) samiam010203: how many people are here tonight from the city
(06:06:53 PM) dbist: bklyn
(06:06:56 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:07:01 PM) samiam010203: anyone els
(06:07:18 PM) vbabiy: i am upstate
(06:07:21 PM) samiam010203: n8 you around
(06:07:32 PM) vbabiy: Albany
(06:07:35 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:07:51 PM) samiam010203: so were going to skip a topic and move to the main course
(06:07:56 PM) samiam010203: the bylaws
(06:08:02 PM) ausimage: :D
(06:08:06 PM) samiam010203: for this im going to turn it over to ausimage
(06:08:11 PM) samiam010203: ausi go ahead
(06:08:06 PM) samiam010203: for this im going to turn it over to ausimage
(06:08:11 PM) samiam010203: ausi go ahead
(06:08:35 PM) ausimage: How many have looked at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/503c/bylaw
(06:08:39 PM) ausimage: ??
(06:08:42 PM) samiam010203: i have
(06:08:58 PM) dbist: doing now :)
(06:08:58 PM) ausimage: hmmm dbist vbabiy ??
(06:09:10 PM) vbabiy: quickly
(06:09:33 PM) samiam010203: auso you should put a link to them on the front page of the wiki
(06:10:02 PM) ausimage: Well these are the proposed bylaws for the organization... I have been helping draft them...
(06:10:40 PM) dbist: ill read later
(06:10:43 PM) dbist: too much
(06:11:01 PM) ausimage: But I really want them to reflect the team so I have been trying to get the team to examine them and try to understand them...
(06:11:42 PM) vbabiy: How many people do we currently have in NYLoCO
(06:12:08 PM) samiam010203: there is a lot but not all of them are active
(06:12:16 PM) ausimage: depends on the list vbabiy
(06:13:00 PM) ausimage: um a I would say handful active maybe less than a dozen and maybe near 50 overall
(06:13:18 PM) samiam010203: back to the bylaws :)
(06:14:06 PM) vbabiy: okay I have read over the bylaws and I don't see any changes (But I don't know much about this topic )
(06:14:44 PM) ausimage: great vbabiy... basically the bylaws define an organization...
(06:16:00 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: the two things under bylaws don't necessariily belong in the bylaws 
(06:16:13 PM) samiam010203: whats that ausi
(06:16:51 PM) ausimage: ** Location(s) for future RL meetings (high priority) (meeting spots based on location/sub-teams/divisions)
(06:16:51 PM) ausimage:   ** Should the leadership travel to In-Person meetings? (Leadership/Secretary) (discusion of funding for travel/lodging)
(06:17:20 PM) samiam010203: no those were just topics for discusion that i cut out for the bylaws
(06:17:24 PM) samiam010203: they are meeting notes
(06:17:28 PM) ausimage: essentially the first is a leadership decision made with the membership....
(06:17:32 PM) samiam010203: dont worry about them
(06:17:41 PM) ausimage: OK then.... :)
(06:17:56 PM) samiam010203: lets just set the date for a gobby meetup then
(06:18:15 PM) samiam010203: its your ballpark ausi :)
(06:18:32 PM) vbabiy: One thing I would like to suggest is a later time.
(06:19:11 PM) vbabiy: 8pm maybe
(06:19:12 PM) ausimage: K... I am wondering who else is active enough and will to participate... I have already tackled them with some of the more active members.
(06:19:47 PM) ausimage: perhaps a later time would be helpful... 
(06:20:30 PM) ausimage: do we have a consensus on a better time??? or even better day?? Mondays are usually best for me...
(06:20:47 PM) vbabiy: any day here
(06:21:40 PM) ausimage: I know the last couple meetings have been on tuesdays during the regular time....
(06:22:26 PM) ausimage: Any other suggested times?
(06:22:37 PM) vbabiy: will there be a email alter?
(06:23:03 PM) ausimage: yeah I can try and do that....
(06:23:04 PM) samiam010203: what ever time you think is best ausi
(06:23:56 PM) ausimage: K... lets make it for 8pm next monday and see who shows up...
(06:24:01 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:24:04 PM) samiam010203: so its set
(06:24:58 PM) samiam010203: now we move on to casual conversation
(06:25:29 PM) ausimage: what needs to be discussed?
(06:25:35 PM) samiam010203: nothing els
(06:25:38 PM) samiam010203: that was it
(06:25:41 PM) vbabiy: Well what else needs to be done to help move this group
(06:26:21 PM) samiam010203: well vbabiy, we would like people to help edit the wiki
(06:26:25 PM) ausimage: vbabiy: I think we need to find activities that will interest the members and help fulfill our goals
(06:27:01 PM) samiam010203: in a few im going to be installing gutsy kubuntu
(06:27:48 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: I think the goal is to find out what the memberships wants to do about bringing Ubuntu to New York
(06:28:02 PM) samiam010203: yes i aggry thats what it looks like
(06:28:16 PM) ausimage: How do they feel they can help make this a reality...
(06:28:58 PM) samiam010203: i think one thing we need to do is get everyone together at the 6 month meetup and start a sireus plan of action
(06:29:23 PM) ausimage: I don't have that answer for everyone... but for me working behind the scenes is where I want to be :)
(06:29:31 PM) samiam010203: thats cool
(06:29:59 PM) samiam010203: i like the idea of us getting more and more people into ubuntu threw outreach
(06:30:00 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: I wonder who all will travel if they do not even bother to participate in an IRC meeting
(06:30:11 PM) samiam010203: yes i think the3 same way
(06:30:24 PM) samiam010203: we could just kick them out opf the group :)
(06:30:44 PM) dbist: the best way is to find old machines install ubuntu and give to charity
(06:30:51 PM) ausimage: http://www.cypherbios.org/blog/?p=46&language=en read this samiam010203
(06:31:38 PM) ausimage: essential it quotes: The Matrix is a system, Neo. That system is our enemy. But when youâ€™re inside, you look around. What do you see?
(06:31:38 PM) ausimage: Business people, teachers, lawyers, carpenters. The very minds of thepeople we are trying to save. But until we do, these people are still apart of that system, and that makes them our enemy.
(06:31:38 PM) ausimage: You have to understand, most of these people are not ready to be unplugged. And many of them are so inert, so hopelessly dependant on the system, that they will fight to protect it.
(06:32:09 PM) ausimage: that is an analogy for Ubuntu and Linux in general 
(06:32:44 PM) samiam010203: i guess
(06:33:13 PM) dbist: where did i see that the other day
(06:33:49 PM) ausimage: I think it is about changing mindsets... and getting people to think outside of the box... getting them to see a new and better way....
(06:34:03 PM) dbist: i recruited a few guys :)
(06:34:15 PM) samiam010203: we need chicks :)
(06:34:19 PM) ausimage: dbist it was on Planet Ubuntu.... and the quote is from the Matrix
(06:35:19 PM) ausimage: cool dbist... I think the important thing is recruit more actors than audience...
(06:35:52 PM) dbist: oh early adopters are actors
(06:36:09 PM) ausimage: perhaps it is important to narrow the scope of what needs to be accomplished....
(06:36:27 PM) ausimage: edit wiki.... WOW that is a large....
(06:36:43 PM) dbist: i want to be at Ubuntu Live :(
(06:36:53 PM) ausimage: edit a page on how X affects you that is narrow
(06:37:09 PM) ausimage: yeah Ubuntu Live sounds like fun...
(06:37:23 PM) samiam010203: ill see you guys/ gals later
(06:37:37 PM) ausimage: dbist: maybe we should try to get Ubuntu Live! here 
</pre>
