{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Officers Election ==
Officers will be elected this month for the positions of President, Treasurer, Secretary and At-Large

=== nominations ===
* hal14450 and cws nominated cprofitt for President
* cprofitt and hal14450 nominate slick666 for Secretary
* cprofitt and ausimage nominate hal14450 for Treasurer

<pre>
(09:00:22 PM) ausimage: Lets get the elections over ;)
(09:00:29 PM) cprofitt: with an dispersed body like this having to have a qurrom would render it inert
(09:00:45 PM) ausimage: Any objections to voting in as a slate?
(09:01:07 PM) ausimage: Or any additions ....
(09:01:10 PM) cprofitt: can we take a rol...
(09:01:16 PM) cprofitt: roll call... and ping people
(09:01:44 PM) ausimage: cprofitt for pres... slick666 for secretary... and hal14450 for treasure
(09:01:53 PM) cprofitt: ping the people in the room ausimage
(09:02:01 PM) ausimage: acat ?
(09:02:06 PM) ausimage: andrew?
(09:02:12 PM) ausimage: asymptote ?
(09:02:17 PM) ausimage: Bossmanbeta ?\
(09:02:22 PM) ausimage: cws?
Dave123 Dave123-road 
(09:02:26 PM) ausimage: Dave123?
Dave123 Dave123-road 
(09:02:32 PM) ausimage: Dave123-road?
(09:02:35 PM) ausimage: deejoe: ?
(09:02:41 PM) ausimage: dhgwill: ?
(09:02:47 PM) ausimage: ducky: ?
(09:02:51 PM) ausimage: emma: ?
(09:02:52 PM) cws: i vote for
(09:02:55 PM) ausimage: hal14450: ?
(09:03:04 PM) ausimage: isacklow: ?
Jaguar jimbro jMyles 
(09:03:20 PM) ausimage: jMyles: ?
(09:03:23 PM) ausimage: Koltor: ?
(09:03:27 PM) cprofitt: thanks ausimage
(09:03:31 PM) ausimage: oneironaut: ?
r0bby R_D_U_B 
(09:03:38 PM) ausimage: r0bby: ?
(09:03:41 PM) ausimage: R_D_U_B: ?
(09:03:45 PM) ausimage: slick666: ?
(09:03:51 PM) ausimage: WeblionX: ?
(09:04:02 PM) cprofitt: I am ok with voting with the slate as proposed ausimage
(09:04:02 PM) WeblionX: :<
(09:04:54 PM) ausimage: All in favor of the slate of cprofitt as pres, slick666 as secretary, and hal14450 as treas.... say [aye|+1]
(09:05:04 PM) WeblionX: aye
(09:05:05 PM) cprofitt: +1
(09:05:07 PM) cws: aye
(09:05:13 PM) ausimage: +1
(09:05:29 PM) ausimage: 4 votes ?
(09:05:30 PM) ducky: aye
(09:05:35 PM) ausimage: 5 votes
(09:06:03 PM) ausimage: hmmm....
(09:06:17 PM) ausimage: opinion cprofitt?
(09:06:32 PM) cprofitt: opinion?
(09:06:39 PM) ausimage: is 5 enough?
(09:06:46 PM) cprofitt: I would assume that passes -- unless there are rules regarding
(09:06:51 PM) cprofitt: qurrom
(09:07:04 PM) ausimage: no none I am aware of...
(09:07:15 PM) cprofitt: which I did not see in the bylaws
(09:07:32 PM) cprofitt: so then it passes
(09:07:33 PM) ausimage: only vague recollection about a percentage of present members :/
(09:07:38 PM) ausimage: K...
(09:07:50 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: is president
(09:08:00 PM) ausimage: hal14450: is treasure
(09:08:16 PM) ausimage: slick666: is secretary then....
(09:08:55 PM) ausimage: I can handle the vp slot... till we agree on a replacement there :)
(09:09:04 PM) ducky: if we were going to hear objections we would have heard tehm by now anyway right?
(09:09:15 PM) ausimage: yeah I guess ducky
(09:09:29 PM) cprofitt: present members -- it would be the people who said here...
(09:09:50 PM) cprofitt: we will need to have an election for the VP slot...
(09:09:58 PM) cprofitt: I would like to motion that we do that now
(09:10:02 PM) cprofitt: any seconds?
(09:10:02 PM) ausimage: yeah... I agree there though all those idlers make it seem off-balance :/
(09:10:20 PM) ausimage: I am fine...
(09:10:34 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: me as vp?
(09:10:51 PM) ***ausimage thought that was the suggestion before
(09:11:17 PM) cprofitt: I nominate ausimage for VP for a full two year term if people accept us doing that now
(09:11:31 PM) cws: i'll second
(09:11:32 PM) ausimage: +1
(09:11:47 PM) ausimage: ducky, WeblionX?
(09:11:52 PM) cprofitt: +1
(09:11:55 PM) ducky: +1
(09:11:55 PM) WeblionX: Aye
(09:12:02 PM) cws: aye
(09:12:06 PM) ausimage: k then I am vp now ;)
(09:12:43 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: you want me to continue the meeting or do you want to assume control?
(09:12:54 PM) cprofitt: you can run it ausimage
(09:12:58 PM) ausimage: k
(09:13:07 PM) ausimage: next business...
(09:13:14 PM) ausimage: Release events:
(09:13:44 PM) ausimage: cprofitt, ducky and I met pleia2 on Saturday night at the Hotel Clarence....
(09:13:52 PM) cprofitt: I think the question here is if we have a 'central' release or smaller 'local' release events - right?
(09:13:58 PM) jMyles: Hey I'm here.  Let me read whatever I was alerted to.  :-)
(09:14:07 PM) cprofitt: or reviewing the event we just had?
(09:14:12 PM) ausimage: review
(09:14:26 PM) cprofitt: cool.
(09:14:44 PM) ausimage: It was wonderful evening... 
(09:14:50 PM) cws: are there pictures someplace?
(09:15:01 PM) ausimage: yeah on my blog at least...
(09:15:26 PM) ausimage: http://www.ausimage.us/Blog/20091108
(09:15:40 PM) cprofitt: it was added to the wiki as well cws
(09:15:48 PM) jMyles: acat and I of course wanted to make it, but we were in New Mexico at the drug policy alliance international conference.
(09:16:05 PM) ausimage: we discussed many linux related topics as well as the how the talks would go on sunday
(09:16:08 PM) cprofitt: slick666: added the images to the wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam page
(09:16:19 PM) ausimage: ah cool
(09:16:53 PM) ausimage: anything cprofitt or ducky wants to add about saturday?
(09:17:26 PM) cprofitt: no
(09:17:32 PM) ausimage: k
(09:17:51 PM) ducky: no i think that was a good meeting
(09:18:11 PM) ausimage: well sunday... was good event... despite ducky being almost 2hrs late...
(09:18:30 PM) ducky: um 30 min
(09:18:35 PM) ausimage: we had nice mix of users from throughout the area...
(09:19:01 PM) ausimage: ducky: you were supposed to be there at noon I thought :S
(09:19:35 PM) ausimage: people from Ithaca, Syracuse, and Rochester as well as point between were present
(09:20:14 PM) ausimage: both ducky and pleia2 gave wonderful talks about FOSS and Ubuntu that day...
(09:21:14 PM) R_D_U_B: from Binghamton too!
(09:21:32 PM) ausimage: I accepted donations for the pizza and pop... we collected $105 in donations... $85 went to pay that bill... I gave the remaining to hal14450 for more cds...
r0bby R_D_U_B 
(09:21:49 PM) ausimage: R_D_U_B: you were there?
(09:22:53 PM) ausimage: any thing else to add?
(09:23:10 PM) R_D_U_B: yes
(09:23:26 PM) R_D_U_B: not Sat - just Sun
(09:23:46 PM) ausimage: cool... I did not see your name on the sign in sheet... :/
(09:24:07 PM) ausimage: though that may not have been publicized well
(09:24:45 PM) ausimage: alright... new business then...
(09:24:56 PM) ausimage: nyscate.... cprofitt???
(09:25:09 PM) cprofitt: I will presenting Next week at Nyscate
(09:25:37 PM) cprofitt: Educational Technology and Equity in Today's Schools
(09:26:05 PM) ausimage: alright...
(09:26:17 PM) ausimage: any other other business ???
(09:26:55 PM) ausimage: if not... shall we adjourn ?
(09:28:05 PM) ausimage: hearing no objection this meeting is concluded
</pre>
