{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==
* Discuss NY State LoCo Teams -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>    * <nowiki>[[paultag]]</nowiki> from the Ohio LoCo will discuss the team stucture Ohio is using
* IRC channel etiquette and how to handle conversations and support professionally.
** Please review the Ubuntu Code of Conduct prior to the meeting
* 10.04 Launch plans (Waterloo) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ducky12432]]</nowiki>
* Discuss role of wiki and website -- (please discuss on the email list pre-meeting) 
** [IDEA] Migrate the current website to either Drupal or Joomla both of which I and others have had prior experience with. This would allow us to better help maintain the website. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ducky12432]]</nowiki>
* Discuss changes to membership process -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ausimage]]</nowiki> (please discuss this pre-meeting on the email list -- also note that a decision on this was made by the team last meeting)

== Minutes ==
<pre>
2010-04-21T01:01:55  <cprofitt> Meeting will come to order
2010-04-21T01:02:00  <paultag_> Ha!
2010-04-21T01:02:04  <cprofitt> can everyone here say here
2010-04-21T01:02:14  <JamesAdams> here
2010-04-21T01:02:23  <cprofitt> and all those not here say not here :-)
2010-04-21T01:02:28  <cprofitt> good to see you JamesAdams
2010-04-21T01:02:28  <asymptote> here
2010-04-21T01:02:31  <marnold> here
2010-04-21T01:02:38  <cprofitt> hey asymptote and marnold
2010-04-21T01:03:01  <cprofitt> slick6661: do you want to do somethign official with the bot?
2010-04-21T01:03:21  <JonathanD> howdy cprofitt. and good night ;)
2010-04-21T01:03:28  <cprofitt> Good JonathanD good...
2010-04-21T01:03:52  <cprofitt> Well... not sure if Slick666 needs to do something with the bot...
2010-04-21T01:03:58  <cprofitt> but lets move on to our first topic
2010-04-21T01:04:23  <cprofitt> I have asked paultag_,leader of Ohio, to come and talk to us a bit about how he has reorganized Ohio
2010-04-21T01:04:25  <cprofitt> paultag_:
2010-04-21T01:04:27  <paultag_> shalom shalom
2010-04-21T01:04:28  <cprofitt> welcome
2010-04-21T01:04:45  <paultag_> I'll go over it in general then field some questions, if that will work :)
2010-04-21T01:04:47  <cprofitt> would you like to tell us a bit about the challenge and the solutions
2010-04-21T01:04:53  <paultag_> I'd be glad to cprofitt
2010-04-21T01:04:55  * cprofitt nods
2010-04-21T01:05:39  <slick6661> the bot is for loggin :)
2010-04-21T01:05:48  <paultag_> So, Ohio is much like NY in that we have a lot of turf to cover. As a result, we have had issues with running the team in the past
2010-04-21T01:06:10  <paultag_> what I have done to help with this is switch and decentralize the process, and create "ReLoCOs"
2010-04-21T01:06:37  <paultag_> ReLoCo stands for Really Local Community, and every major population center is able to have one "ReLoCo"
2010-04-21T01:07:26  <paultag_> Each ReLoCo is able to govern the area without too much issue, and only very light reporting back to the contact. I check up about once a month and get a status report ( sitrep )
2010-04-21T01:08:17  <paultag_> The team is governed very transparently, with most decisions made by the ReLoCo leads. Wide team calls are voted on by the Contact, Ubuntu Members, ReLoCo leads and Canonical Employees
2010-04-21T01:08:41  <paultag_> ( we have about 300 members, this was a fair way to make it easier to vote )
2010-04-21T01:09:10  <paultag_> discussion takes place on the mailing list before any vote, but situations like that rarely crop up
2010-04-21T01:09:37  <paultag_> That is the basics, perhaps I can field some questions, if that's ok cprofitt
2010-04-21T01:09:42  <cprofitt> yes...
2010-04-21T01:09:48  <cprofitt> that was an excellent summary
2010-04-21T01:09:53  <idahoclint> wow
2010-04-21T01:09:56  <cprofitt> does anyone have any questions?
2010-04-21T01:10:10  <JamesAdams> how big is a typical ReLoco ?
2010-04-21T01:10:45  <paultag_> JamesAdams: My ReLoCo ( Cleveland ) is about 14 active members. Columbus has about 50 or so, and they are the biggest ( also as a result of the old contacts running the team from Columbus and not any other cities )
2010-04-21T01:11:09  <paultag_> JamesAdams: the rest are spread about the other cities, the smallest is about 5 or so
2010-04-21T01:11:43  <cprofitt> Does the state LoCo still have central events like launch parties and jams -- or is that decentralized too?
2010-04-21T01:12:47  <paultag_> cprofitt: that is decentralized, but we are working on getting everyone on video with eachother. People tend to flock to the bigger ReLoCos for big events ( other then Ubuntu Hour every other week ), so we end up with Two or Three major events.
2010-04-21T01:13:05  <marnold> What are the requirements for setting a ReLoco up?
2010-04-21T01:13:10  <paultag_> cprofitt: We all get together for stuff like OLF every once in a while, but we all idle together
2010-04-21T01:13:33  <paultag_> marnold: one person willing to become the "contact", time to manage, and a few interested members in the area
2010-04-21T01:14:06  <paultag_> marnold: they will be able to get a slice of the team resources according to their membership or how active they are. I'll mail out stuff to other ReLoCos ( as the contact ) to make sure they have CDs
2010-04-21T01:14:12  <cprofitt> what kind of support is offered to the ReLoco teams?
2010-04-21T01:14:58  <asymptote> paultag_: you said "Each ReLoCo is able to govern the area"...what does that mean - what type of things do you govern?
2010-04-21T01:15:08  <paultag_> cprofitt: It can get rough. No one in the team major is here pushing for ReLoCos in every city. If the lead drops off, so will the team. We have a drop box and share flyers that we create and images as well
2010-04-21T01:15:32  <paultag_> cprofitt: we try and help eachother out as much as we can, but we don't have a system for making sure they thrive.
2010-04-21T01:16:11  <cprofitt> I meant more in terms of helping them get speakers, books from publishers, etc
2010-04-21T01:16:13  <paultag_> asymptote: They are able to make all the decisions locally. I ask that they run an Ubuntu Hour as much as they can, but they control membership, what events they wish to run, and where / when.
2010-04-21T01:16:42  <asymptote> paultag_: understood - ty for the reply
2010-04-21T01:16:48  <paultag_> sure thing asymptote
2010-04-21T01:17:04  <paultag_> cprofitt: they are able to present themselfs as an administrator of the team
2010-04-21T01:17:21  <paultag_> cprofitt: if there is something that needs contact status, I will do my best to help them, but most of the stuff seems to work it's self out
2010-04-21T01:17:29  * cprofitt nods
2010-04-21T01:18:11  <cprofitt> any other questions for paultag_ -- slick6661 Slick666
2010-04-21T01:18:23  <slick6661> not atm
2010-04-21T01:18:26  <cprofitt> k
2010-04-21T01:18:42  <paultag_> http://blog.paultags.com/2009/11/details-on-the-one-year-ohio-team-plan/ <--
2010-04-21T01:18:47  <slick6661> It sounds interesting but I wonder how each groups orgnises for state wide events
2010-04-21T01:18:57  <cprofitt> paultag_: I thank you for sharing this with us... it has been fantastic watching how this worked in Ohio
2010-04-21T01:19:09  <paultag_> This is the post that I wrote when I first started.  I have followed it fairly closely ( sed s/LoLoCo/ReLoCo/ )
2010-04-21T01:19:25  <paultag_> slick6661: they don't for the most part. The contact does state wide, ReLoCo does local :)
2010-04-21T01:19:34  <paultag_> cprofitt: sure thing :) -- It's my pleasure
2010-04-21T01:19:56  <cprofitt> NY folks -- I would like us to consider this style as we move forward
2010-04-21T01:20:24  <cprofitt> we are a bit smaller in number presently... but I thought it worth taking a look at how things were changing in another state
2010-04-21T01:20:31  <cprofitt> one that is close to us and similar to us as well
2010-04-21T01:20:39  <paultag_> As one sidenote, I love feedback, and any ideas regarding how I run, or if you choose to use a system that is similar would really be taken well :)
2010-04-21T01:20:55  <slick6661> cprofitt I think we might be closer to that model than you think
2010-04-21T01:20:57  <paultag_> thanks cprofitt, it's all you. I'm all set, I'll stick around for the rest of the meeting :)
2010-04-21T01:21:14  <slick6661> thanks for sharing paultag_
2010-04-21T01:21:16  <cprofitt> slick6661: I agree... I think we are operating very close to that model
2010-04-21T01:21:25  <asymptote> paultag_: see ya
2010-04-21T01:21:26  <cprofitt> but not formally -- not by our bylaws
2010-04-21T01:21:28  <paultag_> sure thing. Thanks for listening slick6661
2010-04-21T01:21:37  <marnold> mmm
2010-04-21T01:21:47  <cprofitt> ok... is ducky_laptop present?
2010-04-21T01:21:59  <cprofitt> the next topic was his
2010-04-21T01:22:06  <cprofitt> IRC channel etiguette
2010-04-21T01:22:23  <marnold> thats how we've been operating since i've been a member
2010-04-21T01:22:58  <cprofitt> ok... slick6661 can you take the 10.04 plans in Waterloo
2010-04-21T01:23:07  <cprofitt> that was also ducky_laptop but since he is not here
2010-04-21T01:23:11  <cprofitt> perhaps you can take that one
2010-04-21T01:23:32  <slick6661> ducky said he's sorry
2010-04-21T01:23:37  <cprofitt> no problem
2010-04-21T01:23:38  * slick6661 just called him
2010-04-21T01:23:54  <slick6661> ok, 10.04 plans
2010-04-21T01:23:56  <cprofitt> my fault for not sending out the email earlier
2010-04-21T01:24:24  <slick6661> ducky ad I are working on the hardware needed for the event
2010-04-21T01:24:57  <slick6661> right now we're going on the assumption that we will be getting no demo systems outside the group and are working on setting up a couple of systems
2010-04-21T01:25:07  <slick6661> server and networking are comming together
2010-04-21T01:25:34  <slick6661> we have two speakers signed up as well and ausimage has the food covered
2010-04-21T01:25:45  <slick6661> are there any specific questions
2010-04-21T01:26:07  <cprofitt> no... but thanks for all the effort to get this done
2010-04-21T01:26:09  <asymptote> who's paying for the food
2010-04-21T01:26:13  <asymptote> or do we pay at the door
2010-04-21T01:26:18  <cprofitt> very sorry to hear that system76 is not coming through
2010-04-21T01:26:29  <cprofitt> asymptote: we pay -- slick6661 how much this year?
2010-04-21T01:27:00  <slick6661> I think this year the total costs will be around $100 dollars
2010-04-21T01:27:12  <asymptote> k well I'll try to make it - depends
2010-04-21T01:27:21  <cprofitt> I was thinking more of what are we asking people for individually for the food
2010-04-21T01:27:26  <marnold> I'm going up
2010-04-21T01:27:30  <slick6661> ausimage will be garunteering the food.
2010-04-21T01:27:31  <asymptote> ya I figured
2010-04-21T01:27:43  <cprofitt> ok
2010-04-21T01:27:59  <marnold> asymptote, if you wanna stand in the main quad with your thumb out
2010-04-21T01:28:05  <cprofitt> any other questions for slick?
2010-04-21T01:28:15  <slick6661> we'll be relying on donations to compensate ausimage
2010-04-21T01:28:31  <cprofitt> Next topic is wiki and website
2010-04-21T01:28:53  <cprofitt> Ducky has a suggestion and we will table that until next time, but I will give the basics for those here
2010-04-21T01:29:08  <cprofitt> I would like to see our website be kept current and up-to-date
2010-04-21T01:29:34  <cprofitt> and also would like to not see duplication of data (at least large amounts of it) between the two sites
2010-04-21T01:29:36  <asymptote> marnold: did you get my pm - I don't see it going through
2010-04-21T01:29:58  <cprofitt> I know that ausimage could use some folks to help him with the website as well
2010-04-21T01:30:11  <cprofitt> does anyone have any questions on that?
2010-04-21T01:30:47  <cprofitt> alright...
2010-04-21T01:31:01  <slick6661> lol
2010-04-21T01:31:07  <cprofitt> the last topic was ausimage
2010-04-21T01:31:10  <cprofitt> and he is not here
2010-04-21T01:31:18  <cprofitt> so we will table that until next time as well
2010-04-21T01:31:31  <cprofitt> does anyone have any thing they would like to bring up?
2010-04-21T01:31:48  <cprofitt> I would like to remind people that anyone is free to add an agenda item
2010-04-21T01:32:33  <cprofitt> the next one is here - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20100518
2010-04-21T01:33:00  <cprofitt> last call for topics
2010-04-21T01:33:11  <cprofitt> meeting is adjourned
</pre>
