{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a focus group meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''' for the Newsletter Focus Group, starting at 8:00 PM EST and finishing at 10:00 PM EST. When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
Unless otherwise noted, these items were added by DaraAdib. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:daradib]]</nowiki>  * what to write about
** team events (past and future/planned)
** local events
** spreading software freedom
** Ubuntu, GNU/Linux, FLOSS news
* assigning article topics at a meeting?
* organization of newsletter (sections)
** recommend following UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter style or <nowiki>[[http://www.fsf.org/free-software-supporter/|Free Software Supporter]]</nowiki> style
* article submission process
** wiki pages
* how to develop articles
** wiki pages
* article review
** proofreading
* output formats
** printable (PDF)
** software to use
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.lyx.org/|LyX]]</nowiki>/LaTeX (recommend)
*** Scribus
*** OpenOffice.org
** wiki page (see UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter)
** forum post (see UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter)
** PrivateVoid?
** mailing list (see UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter)
** team website? (not really necessary)
I would recommend following the ideas of UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter (except monthly) for development and wiki, forums, and mailing list output formats. The other sources can be used for inspiration on article topics. Also see <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-IssueTemplate|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter Template]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-EditingPolicies|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter Editing Policies]]</nowiki>.
* inspiration (basis for ideas)
** UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter
** <nowiki>[[http://www.fsf.org/free-software-supporter/|Free Software Supporter]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.fsf.org/bulletin|Free Software Bulletin]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuMagazine|Full Circle Magazine]]</nowiki>

== Attendance ==
ausimage PrivateVoid

DaraAdib sends regrets. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:daradib]]</nowiki> 
== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
<PrivateVoid> Meeting Started *** Roll Call - please say you are here if you are present
<ausimage> +1
<PrivateVoid> :-)
<PrivateVoid> end roll call
<PrivateVoid> ping Bossmanbeta calimer Dave123 deejoe hal14450 hendrixs1i l7 marnold NCommander r0bby 
<PrivateVoid> There is an agenda here if you would like to refer to it - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20081120
<PrivateVoid> The first topic is what to write about.
<PrivateVoid> I created a forum post going over some ideas for this - http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6220597
<ausimage> what are you thoughts PrivateVoid?
<PrivateVoid> Events -- a recap of previous events, and a list of upcoming events
<PrivateVoid> I would like to include both NYS LoCo sponsored events and SIG and LUG events
<PrivateVoid> This should assist with 'web searches' when people are looking for Linux meetings in their areas
<ausimage> sounds great!
<PrivateVoid> I also would like to have a welcome section for new members
<PrivateVoid> A team news section for the team in general, focus group news, and regional news
<PrivateVoid> A member news section for things going on with members... new babies, kids graduating college, becoming an Ubuntu member
<ausimage> perhaps we need to rank the ideas... and start off the top ones... adding more as interest grows
<PrivateVoid> my hope is the members news section will help us build a sense of 'family' amongst active members
<PrivateVoid> I have done that in the forum post ausimage 
<PrivateVoid> General Ubuntu news -- we can pull this form announcements, other team news, and the Weekly Newsletter being produced
<PrivateVoid> Then Open Source news... and last I would like to have someone make or find a CC open source cartoon
<PrivateVoid> That ends the what...
<PrivateVoid> any thing else to add aus?
<ausimage> I guess what I was hinting at is I do not want to see anyone bite off more than they can handle...
<PrivateVoid> I agree...
<PrivateVoid> I do not see us being able to produce all of it right away...
<ausimage> hence taking the top 3 and doing them well or something :/
<PrivateVoid> and certain parts might not have any submissions in given months
<PrivateVoid> but those would be the areas we 'include' and that people could submit articles / suggestions for
<PrivateVoid> moving on...
<PrivateVoid> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20081120That
<PrivateVoid> have you read daradib's wiki for the meeting?
<PrivateVoid> We need to cover how article will get in -- assignments or submissions
<PrivateVoid> the possibility of developing a wiki on how to write articles.
<PrivateVoid> what our output formats would be...
<ausimage> perhaps a combination of sources
<ausimage> my thought on final was to put it on site...
<PrivateVoid> I would like to do all three -- forums, wiki and LaTeX
<ausimage> but until then keep it on the wiki
<PrivateVoid> k
<ausimage> Though UWN uses gobby extensively in production of articles ;)
<PrivateVoid> daradib also posted some 'inspirational' sources...
<PrivateVoid> gobby?
<ausimage> yeah it is a networked shared editing app
<ausimage> so multiple editors can hack on it ;)
<PrivateVoid> cool... that would be a good idea...
<PrivateVoid> I will look in to that.
<PrivateVoid> My goal was to have an initial offering out for January.
<PrivateVoid> I want to make this even if the edition is small...
<ausimage> I agree
<PrivateVoid> I want to use the 'new years resolution' section to have people set some goals for themselves and the team
<PrivateVoid> in relation to Ubuntu and the team
<PrivateVoid> I would like to make a forum post (sticky) that asks them to send me (via email or private message) their resolutions
<PrivateVoid> and we can publish the best ones.
<ausimage> nice
<ausimage> you might consider Docbook as your format ;)
<PrivateVoid> that would be the one section I did not detail... the 'feature' section that would likely not be a regular section
<ausimage> k
<PrivateVoid> what is Docbook?
<PrivateVoid> XML?
<ausimage> yeah a special xml format...
<ausimage> or even sgml format
<ausimage> docbook.org
<ausimage> just a suggestion...
<PrivateVoid> ok... well... not sure if I can learn that in time... but a suggestion taken
<ausimage> I guess part of what doc code you use depends on what you expect
<PrivateVoid> I have no idea about doc code... 
<PrivateVoid> perhaps we can migrate to that.
<ausimage> if you want nice fine control over layout with lots of graphics...
<ausimage> or loose control with few graphics...
<PrivateVoid> I had not envisioned tight control, but that would be nice...
<ausimage> lyx != latex
<PrivateVoid> I like per pixel layouts
<ausimage> are going to have lots of graphics?
<PrivateVoid> Not sure...
<PrivateVoid> I suspect a few
<ausimage> then I think docbook or latex would work fine ;)
<PrivateVoid> but I don't think we will ever be like Full Circle
<PrivateVoid> though they use PDF
<ausimage> both have the facilities to generate other portable formats ;)
<ausimage> yeah It think web pages is as far as things needed to be ;)
<PrivateVoid> do you have docbook experience?
<NCommander> wait, we're having a meeting
<NCommander> argh
<ausimage> I have some experience... and the ubuntu wiki exports docbook
* NCommander stepped out for a minute
<ausimage> NCommander: newsletter committe
<PrivateVoid> ausimage, are you ok with calling committees focus groups?
<PrivateVoid> I like the less formal sound of focus group myself
<ausimage> yeah... thats fine... just use to calling them that ;)
<PrivateVoid> cool... thanks
<PrivateVoid> any other topics that people would like to bring up?
<PrivateVoid> (now that we have two people other than myself)
<ausimage> what decisions are gonna make?
<PrivateVoid> what decisions am I going to make tonight?
<ausimage> was not part of this to help decide a few things concerning the newsletter?
<PrivateVoid> I think that was the hope... but with so few people showing up
<ausimage> I know that feeling :/
<PrivateVoid> you were the person that asked for the meeting; correct?
<PrivateVoid> or was it daradib?
<ausimage> I called it to help seperate the discussions ;)
<ausimage> and provide additional interested members a chance ...
<PrivateVoid> Personally I think that I may have to take the reigns with daradibs assistance and just NIKE it
<PrivateVoid> then hope that we can build...
<ausimage> that is the spirit
<PrivateVoid> This is a Field of Dream moment
<PrivateVoid> IMHO
<PrivateVoid> build it and they will come
<ausimage> yup...
<PrivateVoid> ... so my decision moving forward is to call for 'new years resolution submissions', prepare to take pictures of the December events and as NewJack to do the same, and to collect some other news so that we can publish a January newsletter... 
<ausimage> sounds awesome...
<PrivateVoid> I am also still working on some things in Rochester to hopefully build some 'news'
<ausimage> that is good to here...
<PrivateVoid> tonight may have been a poor night for this (on hindsight) since LUGOR is having its meeting
* PrivateVoid motions for meeting to be adjourned
<ausimage> let me know what I can do resource/knowledge wise to be of assistance
<ausimage> :)
<PrivateVoid> ok... thanks
<ausimage> np
<PrivateVoid> any objections to ending the meeting?
<ausimage> nope
</pre>
