{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== recap ==
=== attendance ===
ausimage, cprofitt

* cprofitt updated the group that he has yet to hear back from the EdTech Day organizers, but expects to hear back in the next few days.
* ausimage and cprofitt discussed the May launch party for 10.4 - May 1st has been confirmed. The event will be from 10-6.
* ausimage and cprofitt discussed details on the install fest component of the event - timing and ensuring enough time for potential difficult installs.
* ausimage and cprofitt discussed forming a 'organizing committee' for the event 

== Agenda ==
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

* EdTech Day 2010 -- initial plans -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * 10.04 Launch plans (Waterloo) -- Update from ausimage and cprofitt -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  
* Feb 20th Installfest and workshop in Syracuse. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ducky12432]]</nowiki>
* IRC channel etiquette and how to handle support professionally. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ducky12432]]</nowiki>
