{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Importance of Naming (Branding) ===

I'v noticed that there has been '''several''' variations of our Loco team name all over the Internet. There have been cases where we are referred to as Ubuntu New York, New York Ubuntu, or some other mix. From the Ubuntu Wiki, the Loco Directory, Facebook group, LinkedIN group, IRC channel, blogs, etc, everything is mixed.

I think we should try to conform under a single name. This improves the brand name of the team, makes us easier to find on Google, creates matching campaigns for marketing material, and also just helps me know what to write =)

I've compiled here what the official Loco help page on the Ubuntu Wiki says, what we currently use around the net, and suggestions of possible names.

=== Official Naming Rules via Ubuntu Wiki ===
Official naming rules from the Ubuntu Wiki <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto|LoCoTeamHowto]]</nowiki> Page:
''in respects to our LoCo''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC Channel:
| #ubuntu-us-ny
|-
| Launchpad:
| ubuntu-newyork
|-
| Mailing List:
| ubuntu-us-ny
|-
| Ubuntu Forums:
| newyork.ubuntuforums.org (doesn't work as URL)
|-
| Team Wiki:
| NewYorkTeam
|}

There are several variations of our name used on the Internet:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Website(URL):
| http://newyork-ubuntu.com
|-
| Facebook:
| Ubuntu New York LoCo Team
|-
| LinkedIN:
| ubuntu-us-ny
|-
| LoCo Directory
| Ubuntu New York State loCo
|}

=== What is the official standard naming for us? ===

I suggest a full name, short name, and username/base name. An asterisk indicates my personal favorite.

'''Example full names:'''<<BR>>
Ubuntu New York State LoCo<<BR>>
Ubuntu New York LoCo*<<BR>>
New York Ubuntu LoCo<<BR>>
New York Ubuntu Local Community<<BR>>
Ubuntu New York Team

'''Example short names:'''<<BR>>
Ubuntu New York<<BR>>
Ubuntu NY LoCo<<BR>>
New York Ubuntu<<BR>>
Ubuntu NY*

'''Example username/basename:'''<<BR>>
ubuntu-us-ny*<<BR>>
ubuntu-newyork<<BR>>
ubuntu-ny

===== Things to consider: =====

"New York" or "NY"?<<BR>>
Include the word "State"?<<BR>>
"Loco" or "Local Community"?
