{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== Amendment Option 1: =====

Abolishment of By-Laws which will be replaced by an informal team structure document.<<BR>>

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki> 

====== comments ======

===== Amendment Option 2: =====

The current By-laws will be amended to read:

<pre>
===== Article 1: Team Leadership =====
section 1: The NY State Local Community team will have a primary contact and a secondary contact.
* The lead contact will be responsible for distribution of the resources received from the Ubuntu community and Canonical
* The lead contact shall be responsible for organizing the teams re-application for approved status
* The lead contact shall be responsible for communicating the concerns of members to the greater Ubuntu community

section 2: The purpose of the secondary contact is in the case of the primary contact being out of contact for a period of three months. If the primary contact can not be reached the secondary contact will automatically be elevated to primary contact

section 3: 

===== Article 2: Central Team Meetings =====
section 1: The team shall meet monthly on IRC to facilitate the co-ordination of regional or state-wide events
* The meeting time and date will be set by the lead contact in consultation with the membership
* The team will meet in #ubuntu-us-ny on freenode.net

section 2: The team irc channel shall be available to any sub-team for on-line meetings.
* The sub-group should post details of the meeting on the Ubuntu wiki meeting page so others are aware that they meeting is taking place

===== Article 3: Sub-Teams =====
section 1: The New York State Local Team acknowledges that New York State is a large geographic region containing several major cities and the needs of Ubuntu users would be best met by local groups organizing local events
* Any person interesting in running a 'really' local team will be able to add their team information to a special page on teams Ubuntu wiki
* Every attempt will be made to support the 'really' local teams with resources from the Ubuntu community and Canonical
</pre>
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki> 
====== comments ======

Please feel free to add your own option to this page. Do not edit the work of others though.
