{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''1st''' meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:15 EST with 30 Minutes of informal discussion after the meeting.

When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members and "Join-fest" where we will welcome people to the meeting. Anyone who has not yet joined will have the oppurtunity to become part of the team

The following topics will be discussed
 
* How to become an active member 
* Review status of current projects
* Project suggestions & Assignments
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting

The meeting will be followed by 30 minutes of informal discussion where you will be able to ask the team coordinators questions or chat with them in general.

== Minutes ==

Brief overview of important points covered in the meeting

'''<nowiki>[[#members|Discussed Membership]]</nowiki>'''
 We encouraged participants to join. Showed them how as well.

'''<nowiki>[[#projects|Discussed Projects]]</nowiki>'''
 We reviewed the projects list. Assigned members to projects. Added Projects to the list. Reviewed Status of some of the projects.

'''<nowiki>[[#nextmeeting|Set the next Meeting]]</nowiki>'''
 After much discussion the next meeting will March 6th at 6pm EST in #ubuntu-ny.

== IRC LOGS ==

<pre>
(06:07:19 PM) yharrow: ok guys Im going to start now.
(06:07:22 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:07:23 PM) n8k99: nice
(06:07:30 PM) ***ausimage wonders what ;)
(06:08:27 PM) knigh1: ok cool please do
(06:08:34 PM) yharrow: Hey everyone, Welcome to the New York teams first IRC meeting.
(06:08:43 PM) yharrow: We are very glad that you all showed up tonight.
(06:08:44 PM) n8k99: yay!
(06:08:46 PM) knigh1: glad to be here
(06:08:55 PM) yharrow: It gives us great encouragement to see so many people interested in the New York Team.
(06:09:12 PM) yharrow: glad your here too
(06:09:16 PM) yharrow: By the way, how many of you are not yet part of our amazing team?  If you are not yet a part of the team say “aye” :)
(06:09:30 PM) knigh1: Ed Johnson "aye"
(06:09:33 PM) SD-Plissken: aye
(06:09:46 PM) yharrow: Alright then, what we are going to do is spend the next couple minutes helping you guys join our great team, a kind of "Join-fest" if you will. :)
(06:10:19 PM) SD-Plissken: I'm more less here just as an observer.
(06:11:03 PM) yharrow: SD, you mean you are not interested in joining?
(06:11:09 PM) knigh1: I already joined
(06:11:22 PM) yharrow: Sd, not sure what you mean
(06:11:43 PM) SD-Plissken: I'm not ready to join if thats ok with you.
(06:12:12 PM) yharrow: oh thats fine, man, you can join whenever you want. :)
(06:12:46 PM) yharrow: everyone is  welcome here
(06:12:48 PM) knigh1: ok Whats next on the schedule
(06:13:09 PM) yharrow: btw, Congratulation knigh1
(06:13:13 PM) yharrow: welcome to the team
(06:13:20 PM) n8k99: yay knigh1
(06:13:22 PM) samiam010203: SD its perfectly fine that you dont want to join yet :)
(06:13:22 PM) ausimage: yeah welcome knigh1
(06:13:38 PM) samiam010203: but you're always welcome to if you feel like joining :)
(06:14:11 PM) yharrow: ok.. what we are going to do now is quickly go over the leadership postions in the team
(06:14:22 PM) knigh1: ok
(06:14:22 PM) yharrow: talk a little bit about who does what
(06:14:28 PM) knigh1: Cool
(06:14:28 PM) yharrow: If you visit https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Members you will see all the Leadership positions listed at the top of the page.
(06:14:50 PM) yharrow: alright then
(06:14:52 PM) yharrow: The first two members on the list are Salvatore (samiam010203) and myself  (Yosef). We are both Co-team leaders or coordinators of the team.
(06:14:52 PM) yharrow:  This means mainly that we are responsible for making sure that things get done on time and that everything that everything the team does goes smoothly.
(06:15:29 PM) yharrow: The next two members on the list are our 2 highly regarded mentors Aaron Toponce (atoponce) and Joey Stanford.
(06:15:30 PM) yharrow: These are two people whom have successfully built teams that are very active within the community. We are extremely grateful to them, for taking the time to help us grow as a team.
(06:15:30 PM) knigh1: Ok  i Got that
(06:15:33 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:15:36 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:15:46 PM) yharrow: everyone following so far?
(06:15:54 PM) knigh1: I am
(06:15:55 PM) knigh1: yes
(06:15:56 PM) ***ausimage is keeping up
(06:16:05 PM) n8k99: got it
(06:16:13 PM) yharrow: if you guys dont understand anything just ask and Ill explain
(06:16:20 PM) ***n8k99 nods head
(06:16:27 PM) knigh1: cool
(06:16:38 PM) yharrow: The fifth and last but certainly not least, member on the leadership list is Jdhoreotg who serves as the IRC Admin for the New York Teams Channel #ubuntu-ny. Jdhoreotg is one of the people who makes meetings like the one we are having now possible and we are grateful to him for that.
(06:16:58 PM) n8k99: yay jdhoreotg
(06:17:07 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:17:11 PM) ***jdhoreotg waves
(06:17:29 PM) yharrow: We are by no means bosses of any kind but we would appreciate if our decisions are respected.  We are very open to ideas as is the whole of the open source community. Although, it is impossible to implement every single suggestion that we hear, there is no suggestion too small or not important enough for us to at some point hear and consider.
(06:17:53 PM) yharrow: everyone okay with that?
(06:17:53 PM) knigh1: okay
(06:18:01 PM) ***ausimage full of helpful suggestions ;)
(06:18:26 PM) yharrow: thats good ausimage,
(06:18:31 PM) yharrow: keep em coming ;)
(06:18:38 PM) ausimage: but you knew that yharrow ;)
(06:18:51 PM) yharrow: hehe, well I assumed so.
(06:18:53 PM) yharrow: so yeah
(06:18:54 PM) ***n8k99 plays well with others
(06:19:04 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:19:07 PM) yharrow: thats great n8k99,
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(members)]]</nowiki><pre>
(06:19:23 PM) samiam010203: so now, should we get into membership yet?
(06:19:38 PM) yharrow: well yeah
(06:19:45 PM) samiam010203: There are teams out there who boast very high numbers of members.
(06:19:53 PM) yharrow: we are going to discuss how everyone can become an active member
(06:20:00 PM) samiam010203: And while a high number of members is great, what matters most in the long run is the number of 'active' members within a team.
(06:20:00 PM) samiam010203:  Right now we have been blessed or lucky enough to have a ratio of almost 1:1 of enrolled members to active members on our team.
(06:20:02 PM) n8k99: like australia
(06:20:21 PM) samiam010203: However, as the initial excitement of joining the team wears off, we would like you to remember that the team can thrive and flourish only as long as its members remain active.
(06:20:42 PM) samiam010203: so that meens people need to be dedicated to somedegree
(06:20:43 PM) ***ausimage plans on helping for a long time
(06:20:55 PM) samiam010203: A list of things that you can do in order to become and continue to stay an active member is listed on the members page https://www.wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Members
(06:20:56 PM) ***ausimage wants bug #1 solved ;)
(06:20:59 PM) samiam010203:  
(06:20:59 PM) samiam010203: I will post the short  list here for your convenience.
(06:20:59 PM) samiam010203: 1 Become a part of the  New York Loco Launchpad team
(06:20:59 PM) samiam010203: 2 Join our Team's IRC channel: #ubuntu-ny on freenode.net
(06:20:59 PM) samiam010203: 3 Edit the NewYorkTeam Wiki
(06:21:00 PM) samiam010203: 4 Suggest and claim Team projects and goals.
(06:21:12 PM) samiam010203: ausi whats the bug ?
(06:21:33 PM) ausimage: Bug 1 is something about MS dominance 
(06:21:43 PM) ausimage: it is in the LP bugs ;)
(06:21:43 PM) samiam010203: The plan is actually for everyone  to engage in the last item on the list (#4) for the next 30 or 40 minutes.
(06:21:44 PM) samiam010203: This is a great opportunity for all of us to become 'even more' active (those of us here on IRC are already ahead of the game)  if  only for the moment alone.
(06:21:45 PM) knigh1: you mean microsoft
(06:21:50 PM) ausimage: yeah
(06:22:12 PM) yharrow: haha, yeah MS has got to go
</pre><pre>
(06:22:22 PM) samiam010203: ok on to project discusion
(06:22:33 PM) ausimage: I put on the projects page  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Projects
(06:22:34 PM) samiam010203: if you look at the wiki we have a project page
(06:22:40 PM) samiam010203: thanks ausi
(06:22:54 PM) ***ausimage says your welcome
(06:22:57 PM) samiam010203: now there  are a bunch of projects that have yet to be claimed
(06:23:16 PM) samiam010203: so if people want to claim them their more than welcome to help out :)
(06:23:55 PM) samiam010203: feel free to look over the project and decide for your self what you feel most comfortable doing :)
(06:24:00 PM) samiam010203: and then claim it
(06:24:19 PM) samiam010203: or, if you feel there is somethign that can be done for the team thats not on the list yet
(06:24:23 PM) ausimage: I feel establishing a LoCo presence is very important, but I have not a clue where to start
(06:24:23 PM) samiam010203: let us know
(06:24:34 PM) knigh1: Ed Johnson will join and claim the last one Establish local presence
(06:24:41 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:24:44 PM) samiam010203: very good
(06:25:03 PM) samiam010203: as long as we work together we can make this work
(06:25:04 PM) ausimage: hey banjobacon
(06:25:07 PM) yharrow: well before we make new suggestions, do you guys mind if we go over the existing projects
(06:25:12 PM) samiam010203: hello banjo
(06:25:18 PM) banjobacon: hello
(06:25:19 PM) samiam010203: welcome to the meeting
(06:25:25 PM) n8k99: go ahead yharrow
(06:25:34 PM) yharrow: sam, is that okay with you?
(06:25:35 PM) samiam010203: we were just discusing the projects for the loco team
(06:25:43 PM) ausimage: I guess I do not mind doing the notes ;)
(06:25:43 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:25:55 PM) ausimage: after all I am a Scribe ;)
(06:26:06 PM) samiam010203: go ahead yharrow
(06:26:35 PM) yharrow: ok for starters everyone who is able to please take a look at the projects page.
(06:26:42 PM) ausimage: yharrow you editing project as we go or do you want me to ??
(06:26:54 PM) n8k99: on it
(06:26:54 PM) samiam010203: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Projects
(06:27:10 PM) yharrow: ausi, you can take notes of who gets what project if you want and add it later
(06:27:21 PM) yharrow: or we can just rely on the log
(06:27:23 PM) ausimage: I was just going to add as we go ;)
(06:27:38 PM) ausimage: if that is K yharrow
(06:27:43 PM) yharrow: I think it takes too much time but you can if you want :)
(06:27:54 PM) yharrow: anywho
(06:28:00 PM) ausimage: K I will I have edit lock on the page now ;)
(06:28:08 PM) yharrow: the first project on the page
(06:28:36 PM) samiam010203: Collaboration Tools should be set to implamented
(06:28:58 PM) yharrow: logging bot is being taken care of by jdhoreotg
(06:29:03 PM) ***ausimage sets it
(06:29:28 PM) yharrow: does anybody see a goal or project that they think they can help out with ?
(06:29:35 PM) samiam010203: now as for the mailing list, as soonas we get eveyones email addy we ca nimplament the mailing list
(06:30:08 PM) samiam010203: you can email you main addy to salvatore DOT carini@ AT ubuntuny D0T com
(06:30:18 PM) yharrow: sam, so the mailing list is being handled by you and it in "good progress"?
(06:30:20 PM) samiam010203: and we will get the mailing list rolling
(06:30:28 PM) samiam010203: yes
No such command.
(06:30:47 PM) samiam010203: please email at the above address your email addy and the list will be implamented
(06:30:50 PM) n8k99: i would like tosuggest that the team blog be a planet that aggregates all members individual blogs, as they relate to ubuntu & ubuntu-ny
(06:31:00 PM) samiam010203: good idea
(06:31:03 PM) ***ausimage notes it
(06:31:37 PM) samiam010203: now, about the furoms
(06:32:01 PM) samiam010203: i have sent the formal request to the proper channels at ubuntuforums and am awayting a responce
(06:32:02 PM) n8k99: i volunteer to helpadmin the forum
(06:32:28 PM) samiam010203: if i dont here back by next week i will implament another request
(06:32:32 PM) ***ausimage says n8k99 is now listed
(06:32:47 PM) yharrow: how many people actually have their own blog?
(06:32:53 PM) samiam010203: ya
(06:32:54 PM) jdhoreotg: i do
(06:32:58 PM) ***ausimage does not
(06:33:04 PM) n8k99: that will also have to be registered with ubuntuforum
(06:33:18 PM) yharrow: ok thats 2
(06:33:21 PM) ***n8k99 has too many
(06:33:26 PM) yharrow: anyone else?
(06:33:30 PM) yharrow: have a blog
(06:34:06 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:34:08 PM) n8k99: livejournal, blogger, & wordpress all offer free accounts
(06:34:28 PM) n8k99: if you are thinkingabout it
(06:34:28 PM) yharrow: I think we should make one blog for the whole team since not many people have one
(06:34:35 PM) n8k99: ok
(06:34:39 PM) knigh1: So does google and ning
(06:34:49 PM) n8k99: right-
(06:34:54 PM) samiam010203: now some of the goals we will most like ly not get to tonight and they will be defered until the next meeting or beforehand if they are claimed
(06:34:56 PM) n8k99: google== blogger
(06:35:33 PM) n8k99: is ubuntuny.com hosted on 'our' server?
(06:35:43 PM) samiam010203: so dose anyone els want to claim a goal :)
(06:35:55 PM) n8k99: i'll taketheblog initiative
(06:35:57 PM) ausimage: n8k99: I am working to the canonical hosting ;)
(06:36:12 PM) ausimage: * get
(06:36:15 PM) knigh1: Ed Johnson of ILO INFOSYSTEMS will get the word out the last item on the list
(06:36:24 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:36:27 PM) samiam010203: good to know
(06:37:00 PM) knigh1: I will joint later and send an eMail to confirm, is this okay?
(06:37:07 PM) samiam010203: thats fine
(06:37:11 PM) n8k99: if we go with blogger, then it can have http://blog.ubuntuny.com as url
(06:37:40 PM) samiam010203: what do you guys think of http://blog.ubuntuny.com
(06:37:41 PM) samiam010203: ?
(06:38:24 PM) ausimage: sounds fine... 
(06:38:30 PM) ***n8k99 likes it^_^
(06:38:40 PM) samiam010203: ok then lets mark it off the list :)
(06:38:40 PM) yharrow: sam, as long as the blog offers an RSS feed and has  an interface that ppl are familiiar with i think its fine
(06:38:42 PM) ausimage: our loco hosting my have an similar option though
(06:39:13 PM) samiam010203: ok so if the loco hosting has it too we ca n move the blog then
(06:39:40 PM) n8k99: yeah-that'sjust stuff that gets worked out as we push forward
(06:39:49 PM) samiam010203: as long as all team memebrs have access rights to the blog everything should be fine
(06:40:07 PM) ***ausimage says Wordpress blog set to Good Progress
(06:40:13 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:40:17 PM) n8k99: wordpress-mu then
(06:40:34 PM) samiam010203: what dose everyone think ?
(06:40:37 PM) yharrow: ausimage you can also set it to just plain team blog
(06:40:43 PM) n8k99: or multiple authors
(06:40:45 PM) yharrow: not neccesarily WP
(06:40:46 PM) yharrow: yeah
(06:40:49 PM) ausimage: will do
(06:40:50 PM) yharrow: multiple is good
(06:41:03 PM) yharrow: until we all get our own blog
(06:41:14 PM) yharrow: which probably wont happen soon
(06:41:25 PM) yharrow: but you never know
(06:41:31 PM) n8k99: i think that we can coordinate the signins with @ubuntuny.com addresses
(06:41:38 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:41:48 PM) yharrow: because its blogger?
(06:41:49 PM) samiam010203: thats another thing i want to bring up
(06:41:54 PM) n8k99: especially if we makethe signin OpenID
(06:42:40 PM) samiam010203: if you would like an ubuntuny.com gmail address please email me at salvatore DOT carini AT ubuntuny DOT com with your name/email tag so i can set u up with it
(06:42:42 PM) n8k99: yharrow: i believe that can be accomplished
(06:43:48 PM) yharrow: are there any more projects on the page that yo guys think we can get to tonight?
(06:44:17 PM) n8k99: i'll send off an email about the logo usage
(06:44:23 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:44:24 PM) n8k99: and follow that one up
(06:44:48 PM) yharrow: ausimage, did you Request - ubuntu.com subdomain
(06:44:59 PM) ausimage: yeah it is in the que
(06:45:15 PM) ausimage: I may poke #ubuntu-us for advice
(06:45:17 PM) yharrow: you can mark that with at least started
(06:45:35 PM) ausimage: it is
(06:45:46 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:45:48 PM) yharrow: great
(06:45:51 PM) samiam010203: I think we should spend about 5 minutes to set a date and goals for our next meeting.
(06:46:06 PM) yharrow: sam, I beleive we have about 10 minutes left
(06:46:10 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:46:13 PM) yharrow: at least
(06:46:15 PM) samiam010203: then let keep up
(06:46:27 PM) samiam010203: :)
(06:46:29 PM) yharrow: Id like to discuss future projects and goals
(06:46:30 PM) ***ausimage thinks to have an additional city represented could be a goal ;)
(06:47:01 PM) samiam010203: i think a good project would be community enlighenment
(06:47:14 PM) yharrow: noone hesitate to suggest something or comment on someone elses suggestion
(06:47:16 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:47:21 PM) knigh1: Reaching out to Nelson Mandela Education initiative would be great since he endoreses unbuntu
(06:47:25 PM) samiam010203: we would go into the community with pamphlets and ubuntu cds and try and talk to people about it
(06:48:20 PM) n8k99: how aboutfinding a site to have a meeting in meatspace/installfest
(06:48:20 PM) yharrow: knigh1, what would that entail?
(06:48:22 PM) ***ausimage thinks someone should contact Postdam NY
(06:48:32 PM) yharrow: ausimage, good one,
(06:48:44 PM) yharrow: ausimage, add that as a goal
(06:48:58 PM) yharrow: but as "contact other NY locos
(06:49:03 PM) knigh1: This is Ed using Knight it would entail contacting the foundation and speak with them about the Mission of the Group
(06:49:05 PM) yharrow: not specifically potsdam
(06:49:25 PM) knigh1: Questions what is the Mission?
(06:49:25 PM) yharrow: though you should include potsdam in the description
(06:50:15 PM) n8k99: ooh ooh,here'sa goal- setupthenext meeting!
(06:50:22 PM) samiam010203: hahaha
(06:50:29 PM) knigh1: Iol
(06:50:32 PM) ausimage: yharrow loco and LUG ??
(06:51:04 PM) yharrow: ausimage, yeah join them for now
(06:51:14 PM) ausimage: cool done :D
(06:51:14 PM) n8k99: am sitting in theNYLUG meeting right now
(06:51:22 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:51:24 PM) samiam010203: n8
(06:51:29 PM) samiam010203: talk us up :)
(06:51:31 PM) yharrow: n8, thats awsome
(06:51:32 PM) ausimage: n8k99: how use Ubuntu ???
(06:51:38 PM) ausimage: * many that is
(06:52:08 PM) yharrow: n8k, you can actually invite them to our chat room when they are done
(06:52:14 PM) n8k99: not certain, i only started with them 2months ago-
(06:52:16 PM) yharrow: tell them our channel name
(06:52:33 PM) n8k99: Chris Blizzard is speaking tonight
(06:52:40 PM) n8k99: OLPC
(06:52:43 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:52:48 PM) samiam010203: thats a nice mahcine
(06:52:52 PM) ***ausimage seen the machine awesome
(06:52:59 PM) yharrow: n8, where is the meeting being held?
(06:53:11 PM) n8k99: google 76 9th ave
(06:53:33 PM) yharrow: its going on right now?
(06:53:37 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:53:39 PM) n8k99: yes
(06:54:12 PM) knigh1: nice place to meet
(06:54:22 PM) ***ausimage says projects page is updated you may refresh now ;)
(06:54:24 PM) samiam010203: would be if we could score it :)
(06:54:47 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:55:03 PM) n8k99: i'll talk to the nylug guy who scored it tonight
(06:55:12 PM) samiam010203: cool:)
(06:55:28 PM) n8k99: we'd probably need significant bodies to come
(06:55:29 PM) ausimage: I used IRC nicks to reserve projects so it needs to be updated to wiki nicks
(06:56:34 PM) n8k99: ok
(06:57:17 PM) samiam010203: ok is there any other things in this topic people want to bring up or should we move on to future goals for next meeting ?
(06:57:19 PM) yharrow: whoever would like to attend the next nylug meeting should sign up for this mailing list
(06:57:20 PM) yharrow: http://nylug.org/mailman/listinfo/nylug-announce
(06:57:56 PM) yharrow: I plan on attending the next meeting along with whoever would like to be their as well
(06:59:23 PM) n8k99: ausimage: i said i'd lead the blog issues, set up and submitt
(06:59:38 PM) ausimage: will get that
(07:00:15 PM) yharrow: more then one person can work on a project if both ppl feel comfotable working together
(07:00:26 PM) ***ausimage has saved the page with the correction
(07:00:29 PM) yharrow: or all ppl I should say
(07:01:08 PM) n8k99: samiam010203: made theinitial submission for a subforum
(07:01:13 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:01:16 PM) samiam010203: i did
(07:01:37 PM) n8k99: there needs to be at least two admins i believe
(07:01:42 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:01:51 PM) samiam010203: i listed myself and yharrow
(07:02:05 PM) samiam010203: but we could change that if people want to volenter
(07:02:12 PM) yharrow: can there be a third one as well?
(07:02:22 PM) n8k99: i'dliketobe a part of that
(07:02:27 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:02:56 PM) yharrow: any more suggestions or is that about it?
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(nextmeeting)]]</nowiki><pre>
(07:03:18 PM) samiam010203: we should start to plan for the next meeting
(07:03:25 PM) yharrow: I agree
(07:04:01 PM) samiam010203: hows friday the 9th for everyone ?
(07:04:04 PM) samiam010203: say 6pm
(07:04:09 PM) n8k99: everyone should thinkaboutways wecantake thisoutintothe community
(07:04:12 PM) yharrow: not good for me
(07:04:16 PM) samiam010203: ok
(07:04:18 PM) samiam010203: whats good then
(07:04:26 PM) n8k99: what about in one week
(07:04:36 PM) samiam010203: so the 6th
(07:04:46 PM) ausimage: my birthday !!!
(07:04:55 PM) samiam010203: happy b-day
(07:05:02 PM) samiam010203: at 6pm ?
(07:05:03 PM) n8k99: perfect!
(07:05:06 PM) yharrow: sunday through thurday. I think we should do the meeting on the same day every time though.
(07:05:16 PM) yharrow: so for now tuesday
(07:05:19 PM) yharrow: what do you think
(07:05:24 PM) samiam010203: so how about the 11th at 6pm
(07:05:39 PM) n8k99: aye
(07:05:43 PM) ***ausimage will send notice to the fridge when all is decided
(07:06:18 PM) yharrow: sunday?
(07:06:19 PM) ausimage: next meeting is the 11th at 6 EST ???
(07:06:21 PM) samiam010203: what dose everyone say to 03-11-07 at 6:00pm?
(07:06:29 PM) knigh1: Advertisement is the key in new yorl
(07:06:35 PM) knigh1: new york
(07:06:38 PM) knigh1: cool
(07:06:51 PM) knigh1: I say we advertise it on the train stations
(07:06:53 PM) n8k99: is the11th a tues?
(07:06:55 PM) ausimage: that is fine I will get the notice to the fridge
(07:07:04 PM) knigh1: new york lives on the trains stations
(07:07:14 PM) samiam010203: yes is that good for you yharrow?
(07:07:47 PM) samiam010203: sunday the 11th of March at 6PM
(07:08:02 PM) yharrow: sam, I was just thinking we should give it a week but Im available sunday
(07:08:02 PM) knigh1: sunday
(07:08:07 PM) samiam010203: ok
(07:08:14 PM) knigh1: I am not available
(07:08:16 PM) samiam010203: so is everyone in agrement on sunday
(07:08:21 PM) knigh1: weekdays is good for me
(07:08:29 PM) ausimage: subday fine with me
(07:08:30 PM) samiam010203: so maby we should do it on tuesday
(07:08:43 PM) ***n8k99 would prefer tuesday
(07:08:48 PM) yharrow: sam , I chose tuesday cause monday is the day everyone goes back to work and is very busy
(07:08:48 PM) knigh1: cool tuesday
(07:08:54 PM) samiam010203: how about tuesday the 6th at 6pm
(07:08:56 PM) yharrow: and sunday is the weekend
(07:09:18 PM) samiam010203: is tuesday the 6th at 6pm good for everyone ?
(07:09:22 PM) yharrow: good for me
(07:09:26 PM) samiam010203: good for me
(07:09:26 PM) ***ausimage thinks some needs to bring cake then :)
(07:09:29 PM) knigh1: yeah
(07:09:50 PM) yharrow: *Ill bake an ascii-art cake. just for you
(07:09:54 PM) yharrow: ;)
(07:10:00 PM) ausimage: ahhh sweet yharrow
(07:10:05 PM) samiam010203: ok thats the date then ausi you can book it into the fridge and wiki :)
(07:10:11 PM) n8k99: with afile in it
(07:10:13 PM) knigh1: ibake mycake and eat it at home lol
(07:10:22 PM) yharrow: lol
(07:10:28 PM) ausimage: the 6th at 6
(07:10:49 PM) samiam010203: for it is a human number
(07:10:51 PM) yharrow: 6 at 6 at ? I just hope our meeting is not jinxed
(07:10:55 PM) yharrow: :P
(07:10:59 PM) samiam010203: his number is 666
(07:11:04 PM) yharrow: hehe
(07:11:06 PM) samiam010203: the number of the beast...
(07:11:09 PM) yharrow: lol
(07:11:13 PM) n8k99: that waslast year
(07:11:15 PM) samiam010203: hell and fire are sworn to be released!
(07:11:22 PM) yharrow: lmao, riiight
(07:11:26 PM) samiam010203: hahaha
(07:11:37 PM) yharrow: ok subjects for next meeting
(07:11:40 PM) samiam010203: ok
(07:11:43 PM) yharrow: anyone have ideas?
(07:12:02 PM) n8k99: first we'll give progress reports
(07:12:33 PM) samiam010203: then we can go over any unasigned goals
(07:12:35 PM) n8k99: then we can discuss ideas for raising awareness in our area
(07:12:42 PM) samiam010203: yup
(07:12:54 PM) yharrow: ok so a major topic will be awareness
(07:13:08 PM) yharrow: we should also discuss a meeting in meat space
(07:13:19 PM) samiam010203: a meet up in RL
(07:13:23 PM) yharrow: yeah
(07:13:23 PM) ausimage: perhaps we need to think how we can reach out outside of our areas??
(07:13:40 PM) samiam010203: didnt jd asay he knows a coffeee house ?
(07:13:50 PM) n8k99: that i thinkfalls under thelast project
(07:14:07 PM) n8k99: we could try alt.coffee
(07:14:14 PM) samiam010203: u go to alt
(07:14:21 PM) samiam010203: i used to go there  all the time
(07:14:22 PM) yharrow: sam, ya, he did, we'll ask details from him this week
(07:14:42 PM) samiam010203: alt dose not have outlets for the lappys any more though
(07:14:49 PM) yharrow: ping jdhore
(07:14:51 PM) n8k99: oh that's right
(07:14:53 PM) knigh1: This is Ed it was great attending the meeting and I will be in touchc
(07:14:55 PM) yharrow: ping jdhoreotg
(07:15:04 PM) jdhoreotg: yo
(07:15:18 PM) yharrow: remember the cofee house you spoke of?
(07:15:23 PM) samiam010203: there was this redhead that worked there that was very hot :)
(07:15:41 PM) jdhoreotg: heh...i forgot...i'll give the dude a call right now
(07:15:48 PM) yharrow: ok thanks man
(07:16:03 PM) samiam010203: u know who im talking about n8?
(07:16:12 PM) yharrow: ok guys i think thats it, sam, wanna give the closing message?
(07:16:17 PM) samiam010203: ytes
(07:16:22 PM) n8k99: hmm... when?
(07:16:23 PM) yharrow: 7:15
(07:16:33 PM) samiam010203: Yosef (yharrow) and I will be here for the next half hour at least. So anyone who wants to can stay on the channel to chat with us and ask questions.
(07:16:46 PM) samiam010203: Ok. our time is up for today, I'd like to thank all of you for taking time out of your schedule to attend this important meeting.  I believe that if we all make somewhat of a commitment to stay motivated and work together as a team we will go really big.
(07:16:46 PM) samiam010203: Maybe even big enough to convert the whole of New York to Ubuntu. :)
(07:16:46 PM) samiam010203: Well, perhaps not right away anyways.  But that certainly is our goal.
</pre>

----
CategoryNewYorkTeam
