{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
(08:00:29 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, you want to make it official?
(08:01:04 PM) ausimage: ahh 8pm...
(08:01:13 PM) ausimage: lets get things moving...
(08:01:22 PM) ***ausimage goes and gets agenda
(08:01:58 PM) ausimage: hmmm no agenda???
(08:02:07 PM) ausimage: oh well... lets wing it
(08:02:12 PM) slick666: lol
(08:02:20 PM) ausimage: Previous activities
(08:02:30 PM) cprofitt: I have some things we can discuss... but, no I did not set the agenda
(08:02:40 PM) ausimage: 2 I can think of... Rochester meetup and Syracuse meetup
(08:03:07 PM) ausimage: cproffit after reports ;)
(08:03:11 PM) cprofitt: yep...
(08:03:17 PM) cprofitt: slick666, take the Syracuse
(08:03:23 PM) ausimage: any one have reports on these
(08:03:31 PM) slick666: sure
(08:03:41 PM) slick666: I'll speak to the Syracuse meeting
(08:04:10 PM) slick666: the meeting was a success
(08:04:30 PM) slick666: no large action items moving forward from this
(08:04:35 PM) deejoe: who, what, when, where?
(08:04:40 PM) ausimage: :)
(08:05:16 PM) slick666: lol, ok
(08:05:17 PM) ausimage: what made it successful... any decisions
(08:05:20 PM) ausimage: ??
(08:06:10 PM) cprofitt: The Rochester event was not a meet up (as per how Ubuntu LoCo looks at things). It was an event. The topic was on the Future of business and Open Source. Barnaby Bienkowski presented the reasons Open Source will help you run faster than the fastest lion. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/20090205 - the topic was a bit broad for some and it was expressed to me in email that some people would like to see more specific implementati
(08:06:10 PM) cprofitt: ons.
(08:06:12 PM) slick666: I think it was a big help to get cprofitt out there to talk to the tree members that showed up
(08:06:26 PM) cprofitt: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/20090207
(08:06:56 PM) ausimage: cool looks like some great events...
(08:06:57 PM) slick666: lol, cprofitt you beat me to the link
(08:07:10 PM) cprofitt: sorry for stepping on you slick666 - had to hit the send so I could interject on SYR meeting
(08:07:11 PM) slick666: I just found it myselg
(08:07:17 PM) ausimage: anyother past events I missed?
(08:07:20 PM) deejoe: about 15 people at the Rochester event
(08:07:39 PM) cprofitt: yes, 15 people at the Rochester event ... many new faces as well...
(08:07:52 PM) ausimage: that is just awesome
(08:07:57 PM) deejoe: several RIT students promoting participation at BarCamp
(08:07:59 PM) cprofitt: We also had people representing Rochester BarCamp there
(08:08:02 PM) deejoe: heh
(08:08:07 PM) cprofitt: beer
(08:08:14 PM) deejoe: Rochester BarCamp 4 is in April
(08:08:22 PM) cprofitt: I am signed up to present there already
(08:08:32 PM) ausimage: K... new business then ?
(08:08:39 PM) cprofitt: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/20090418
(08:08:49 PM) ***Dave123-road is 3/5
(08:08:50 PM) cprofitt: can we cover upcoming events?
(08:08:52 PM) Dave123-road: :-)
(08:09:05 PM) ausimage: 3 there as well.. Bug jam, Meetup, Barcamp
(08:09:10 PM) ausimage: shot cprofitt
(08:09:12 PM) cprofitt: yes, Dave is presenting this Thursday -- MythTV
(08:09:16 PM) ausimage: *shoot
(08:09:27 PM) cprofitt: We have an RCSI Linux Sig meeting tomorrow night for those interested
(08:09:37 PM) ausimage: cool
(08:09:38 PM) deejoe: RCSi features Ubuntu
(08:09:40 PM) Dave123-road: cproffit I'm not this thirsday, I'm on 3/5
(08:09:46 PM) deejoe: well, the Linux SIG does, at least.
(08:09:47 PM) Dave123-road: at the ubuntu loco meeting
(08:09:57 PM) cprofitt: crap... you are right...
(08:10:09 PM) cprofitt: this Thursday is LUGOR and it is on the new i7 chipset
(08:10:10 PM) ***ausimage gives cprofit the floor to discuss future events.... [steps three steps back]
(08:10:11 PM) cprofitt: my fault
(08:10:18 PM) Dave123-road: scared me for a second :-)
(08:10:42 PM) cprofitt: This Saturday is the bug jam and it is in person at the B&N
(08:10:51 PM) cprofitt: slick666, do we have an in-person in SYR?
(08:11:00 PM) hal14450: Dave123-road, let me know if you need any help setting up before hand i'll be happy to help
(08:11:14 PM) Dave123-road: hal14450, i think i'll be goot
(08:11:15 PM) cprofitt: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/20090221 -- bug jam Rochester NY
(08:11:16 PM) Dave123-road: good
(08:11:29 PM) slick666: as far as I can see it doesn't look like we will be having an in person here in Syracuse
(08:11:42 PM) hal14450: lugging stuff around isn't beneath me so at the very least i'll help you with that
(08:11:44 PM) slick666: unfortunately
(08:11:50 PM) Dave123-road: i got a few extra tuner cards from circuit city and I'm going to set up a test db for the lappy
(08:11:50 PM) cprofitt: slick666, will you guys be joining us on IRC for the in-person at B&N in Rochester?
(08:11:57 PM) cprofitt: we can always get your guys to IRC in
(08:12:03 PM) Dave123-road: so i dont have to lug the backend :-)
(08:12:03 PM) slick666: Myself and marnold should be in attendance
(08:12:13 PM) cprofitt: slick666, outstanding
(08:12:13 PM) hal14450: hi slick666 btw ;-)
(08:12:32 PM) slick666: hey hal14450
(08:12:34 PM) cprofitt: we need power strips and a few extension cords for the in-person event if anyone can bring them
(08:12:48 PM) hal14450: we can use asterisk if anyone cares to
(08:12:58 PM) cprofitt: It would be good to get that setup hal14450
(08:12:59 PM) slick666: I don't think it is worth it if we can't get 3 or more togeather
(08:13:05 PM) hal14450: i can bring a couple i think
(08:13:46 PM) hal14450: cprofitt, it's already setup for the most part but i'd prefer people use a softphone instead of the 800 as that costs me money
(08:13:51 PM) cprofitt: slick666, at Morrisville likely not... but it could bring people over to ask what is going on
(08:13:59 PM) cprofitt: like that lady at the meetup in the LP Library
(08:14:12 PM) cprofitt: hal14450, yeah... we can Ekiga
(08:14:16 PM) slick666: I see what you mean
(08:14:31 PM) ausimage: hal14450: slick666 needs an account I believe ;)
(08:14:39 PM) cprofitt: slick666, you have to have meetings for people to come... you can't wait for people to show up without meetings
(08:14:47 PM) cprofitt: its a horse and cart type of question
(08:14:55 PM) cprofitt: or chicken and egg type thing
(08:15:02 PM) hal14450: slick666, pm me with a password and an email for an asterisk account and i'll set it up later
(08:15:13 PM) slick666: I see your point
(08:15:19 PM) deejoe: you have to be very "all the cool kids are going to be there"
(08:15:26 PM) deejoe: that's how we roped cprofitt in ;-)
(08:15:28 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, you want me to go out over the next few months as well -- as far as what is planned or just hold to next month?
(08:15:34 PM) hal14450: lol @ deejoe
(08:15:35 PM) slick666: let me pm marnold and see whats what
(08:15:39 PM) ausimage: next month
(08:15:42 PM) ausimage: I think
(08:16:03 PM) deejoe: RCSi Linux SIG's topic is going to be photo management, FWIW
(08:16:05 PM) ausimage: no need swamping us
(08:16:09 PM) cprofitt: Next month we have Dave123 doing MythTV on the 5th of March and we will be present at Ed Tech Day on March 26th
(08:16:27 PM) cprofitt: we will be working with the Ithaca Free Software Association at that event
(08:16:34 PM) deejoe: cprofitt: so you heard back from IFSA on that?
(08:16:34 PM) cprofitt: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/20090326
(08:16:40 PM) cprofitt: yes, deejoe
(08:16:41 PM) ***deejoe hasn't seen anything on the ifsa list
(08:16:49 PM) cprofitt: we are all set... and will share a booth with them
(08:16:54 PM) deejoe: sweet
(08:17:03 PM) cprofitt: I might even do the presentation as they do not have one done yet
(08:17:10 PM) cprofitt: I need to start working on that ASAP...
(08:17:23 PM) cprofitt: if anyone is interested in going down to Ithaca please let me know ASAP
(08:17:29 PM) cprofitt: so we can draw up plans
(08:17:39 PM) cprofitt: I also have a B type conference pack set for Ithaca
(08:17:51 PM) Dave123: cprofitt, I will get you my presentation (or the slides at least) in the next week or so
(08:18:03 PM) cprofitt: We ofcourse have the RCSI Linux SIG and LUGOR next month as well
(08:18:24 PM) cprofitt: LUGOR's topic will be on file system choice and optimization
(08:18:31 PM) cprofitt: sounds good Dave123
(08:18:49 PM) cprofitt: That covers the rest of this month and march for the events I know about
(08:19:02 PM) cprofitt: I also need to talk about the publisher program ausimage
(08:19:11 PM) ausimage: sure
(08:19:17 PM) ausimage: go ahead
(08:19:26 PM) cprofitt: anyone else have events before I do that?
(08:19:57 PM) cprofitt: ok...
(08:20:01 PM) cprofitt: moving along...
(08:20:17 PM) cprofitt: I signed up the LoCo for participation in the User Group program with Oreilly press
(08:20:31 PM) cprofitt: We can get books for events (door prizes) or for doing reviews
(08:20:42 PM) ***deejoe has noticed that the discount code is the same for all user groups
(08:20:54 PM) cprofitt: We also get discounts when ordering direct from them and discounts on the training courses
(08:20:57 PM) cprofitt: deejoe, it is
(08:21:07 PM) cprofitt: they can also help us get speakers...
(08:21:15 PM) slick666: cprofitt if you need another body for Ithaca I think I might be able to go
(08:21:21 PM) slick666: I'm not too far out of the area
(08:21:21 PM) cprofitt: I sent in a list of topics we are interested in, but have not heard from any authors yet
(08:21:35 PM) cprofitt: slick666, cool... pass it along to the SYRLUG guys too
(08:21:40 PM) deejoe: still, that's promising, cprofitt
(08:21:41 PM) slick666: will do
(08:21:46 PM) cprofitt: the show is free and having a FOSS contingent would be great
(08:21:54 PM) cprofitt: deejoe, it is promising...
(08:22:14 PM) deejoe: I have some business to bring up, just noticed it this evening.
(08:22:49 PM) deejoe: On https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-newyork there is a link for the mailing list archive.
(08:23:00 PM) ausimage: yeah
(08:23:08 PM) deejoe: But it's b0rked https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-newyork/
(08:23:21 PM) cprofitt: good catch deejoe
(08:23:27 PM) cprofitt: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-ny/
(08:23:30 PM) cprofitt: that is our real one
(08:23:31 PM) deejoe: did someone set us up the bomb
(08:23:48 PM) ausimage: oh... I think I may have put in for the launchpad mailing list feature...
(08:24:25 PM) deejoe: hmm.
(08:24:31 PM) ***ausimage will look at clarifying that
(08:25:07 PM) deejoe: anyway, since several group lists are not public (lugor, ifsa) it robs us of some significant google juice
(08:25:21 PM) cprofitt: yeah...
(08:25:31 PM) ausimage: ahhh...
(08:26:03 PM) ***cprofitt has another topic that deejoe just tickled
(08:26:10 PM) deejoe: o.O
(08:26:57 PM) cprofitt: For the Rochester area folks Lugor has planet Lugor and it would do us good to add our blogs to that...
(08:27:16 PM) cprofitt: and for the Syracuse folks please check if SYRLUG has such a setup too...
(08:27:20 PM) ***deejoe needs to get a blog set up
(08:27:22 PM) cprofitt: it again will help us
(08:27:29 PM) deejoe: good call, cprofitt
(08:27:41 PM) cprofitt: at the same time it will help them
(08:27:48 PM) ***cprofitt nods to deejoe 
(08:28:13 PM) ausimage: if you have a blog I can add it to our aggregator as well ;)
(08:28:56 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: you cover everything?
(08:29:10 PM) deejoe: cprofitt: can planet include only things that carry a certain tag?
(08:29:12 PM) cprofitt: all the NY LoCo stuff yeah
(08:29:17 PM) cprofitt: I got other things...
(08:29:27 PM) cprofitt: deejoe, not sure on the Lugor planet... i will have to check
(08:30:24 PM) ausimage: is that not a feature of the blogger's site?
(08:30:31 PM) cprofitt: I have other news that involves me... but not sure that applies here
(08:30:38 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, not sure...
(08:30:38 PM) ausimage: ie generating feeds based on tags?
(08:30:53 PM) cprofitt: you might be able to gen a feed with just one tag
(08:31:05 PM) cprofitt: aggregators have the ability to only catch categories too
(08:31:05 PM) ausimage: does it affect your abilities to perfom your job?
(08:31:12 PM) deejoe: so, should we adjourn?
(08:31:14 PM) cprofitt: so it bears research on both ends
(08:31:29 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, no... my dance card is not quite full yet
(08:31:51 PM) cprofitt: I became, as I think everyone knows, the lead contact for Lugor...
(08:32:00 PM) cprofitt: and I will be doing some development for the XO
(08:32:07 PM) ausimage: cool
(08:32:23 PM) cprofitt: yeah...
(08:32:24 PM) ausimage: it enhances your abilities then ;)
(08:32:25 PM) cprofitt: fun too
(08:32:43 PM) ausimage: k.... anything else....
(08:32:46 PM) cprofitt: you make it sounds like those pills the emails advertise
(08:32:51 PM) deejoe: heh
(08:32:57 PM) ausimage: :P
(08:33:10 PM) deejoe: going once . . .
(08:33:13 PM) ausimage: my bad :-$
(08:33:26 PM) ausimage: K... meeting is adjourned...
</pre>
