{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

* Meeting times -- what dates and times would be best for 2010? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * IFSA -- working with the IFSA on an install fest -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * EdTech Day 2010 -- initial plans -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * 10.04 Launch plans -- local / central / ? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>   * Waterloo -- Reservation has been placed for May 1st at the Holiday Inn -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ausimage]]</nowiki>    Discussion about a Full Day Event: Install Fest in the Late Morning, Talks in the Early Afternoon, and Party in the Late Afternoon. Even a possibility of night before Social.
* Put an Ubuntu-NY group on identi.ca--GNu_Joe 
* Feb 20th Installfest and workshop in Syracuse. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ducky12432]]</nowiki>
* IRC channel etiquette and how to handle support professionally. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ducky12432]]</nowiki>

=== minutes ===
{{{(08:47:21 PM) cprofitt: can we start at the top or have you moved on to another topic ausimage_oui ?
(08:47:31 PM) cprofitt: :-)
(08:47:34 PM) ausimage_oui: start at the top
(08:47:42 PM) cprofitt: yeah... it was messy
(08:47:46 PM) cprofitt: alright...
(08:47:52 PM) cprofitt: what times are good for you to meet?
(08:48:03 PM) ausimage_oui: I mentioned the topic I know about but no comments
(08:48:15 PM) cprofitt: did anyone say there were here?
(08:48:31 PM) ausimage_oui: marnold:  and Dave123
(08:48:40 PM) cprofitt: Cool...
(08:48:52 PM) ausimage_oui: ducky is out shopping AFAIK
(08:48:52 PM) cprofitt: Dave123: marnold how do Tuesdays work for you guys?
(08:49:13 PM) cprofitt: lol
(08:49:14 PM) marnold: excellently
(08:49:24 PM) cprofitt: OK... ausimage_oui you ok with this time slot?
(08:49:44 PM) cprofitt: I am thinking maybe 9pm would be better... to avoid shoppers
(08:49:53 PM) ausimage_oui: I am fine just at the whim of the wife occassionally
(08:50:00 PM) cprofitt: me too ausimage_oui
(08:50:07 PM) ausimage_oui: 9 is fine ;)
(08:50:19 PM) marnold: i also liked the list announcement
(08:50:22 PM) cprofitt: alright... 9pm Third Tuesday is adopted
(08:50:32 PM) cprofitt: which one marnold ?
(08:50:33 PM) ausimage_oui: +1
(08:50:48 PM) marnold: the one about the meeting
(08:50:57 PM) cprofitt: did I do that?
(08:51:05 PM) marnold: reminds us who are forgetful
(08:51:06 PM) cprofitt: or did I miss doing that?
(08:51:41 PM) marnold: you did
(08:52:15 PM) cprofitt: wow... I forgot I did that...
(08:52:20 PM) cprofitt: but ... glad I did it.
(08:52:28 PM) cprofitt: I will make a point of doing that again.
(08:52:31 PM) cprofitt: IFSA
(08:52:31 PM) Dave123: its ok, but may like start going to interlock
(08:52:49 PM) cprofitt: I will be trying to do Interlock too
(08:52:57 PM) cprofitt: Tuesday is there voting night Dave123
(08:53:03 PM) cprofitt: or members night...
(08:53:14 PM) Dave123: er ok
(08:53:18 PM) cprofitt: if we get too many conflicts we can move the meetings again
(08:53:37 PM) cprofitt: or have some people participate from Interlock
(08:53:41 PM) cprofitt: ... IFSA
(08:53:57 PM) cprofitt: I talked with the IFSA folks and they are interestedin doing ain install fest
(08:54:13 PM) cprofitt: I would like to know if anyone would be willing/able to travel for doing that on a weekend
(08:54:15 PM) ausimage_oui: cool
(08:54:26 PM) cprofitt: no specific date in mind yet
(08:54:43 PM) cprofitt: just want to get feedback on who could, with planning, take a Saturday and help out
(08:55:02 PM) cprofitt: feel free to let me know on the mailing list if you are interested
(08:55:10 PM) cprofitt: EdTech Day --
(08:55:34 PM) cprofitt: that is March 25th
(08:55:47 PM) cprofitt: I am working on trying to have a hands-on lab with them
(08:55:55 PM) cprofitt: instead of a one hour presentation
(08:56:01 PM) cprofitt: they have not gotten back to me on that yet
(08:56:13 PM) cprofitt: does anyone have questions about EdTech?
(08:56:32 PM) cprofitt: Dave123: sorry for feeling rushed... I just walked in to a crap storm (pun intended at home)...
(08:56:41 PM) cprofitt: so feel rushed myself
(08:57:10 PM) Dave123: ah fun styff
(08:57:13 PM) Dave123: stuff
(08:57:47 PM) cprofitt: ok -- since there are no questions if anyone has an interest in potentially helping out on the 25th of March (Thursday) please let me know on the mailing list.
(08:58:04 PM) cprofitt: I will update you all if the hands-on day is approved by their conference committee
(08:58:14 PM) cprofitt: 10.04 Launch...
(08:58:38 PM) ausimage_oui: Waterloo !!! :)
(08:58:47 PM) cprofitt: ausimage_oui: hal14450_ and I discussed this with ducky_laptop and slick and came to the conclusion that we will do another 'single' location event in Waterloo
(08:58:54 PM) cprofitt: I will let ausimage_oui talk a bit about that now
(08:58:57 PM) cprofitt: ausimage_oui: you have the floor
(08:59:31 PM) ausimage_oui: essential may 1 has been set to be reserved at HI waterloo
(09:00:30 PM) ausimage_oui: I think the wife wrote a confusing request as I got an email for clarifications
(09:00:37 PM) ausimage_oui: but...
(09:00:54 PM) ausimage_oui: the talk is a morning install fest
(09:01:07 PM) ausimage_oui: then lunch on your own....
(09:01:26 PM) ausimage_oui: maybe stipends for the volunteers to get lunch
(09:01:42 PM) cprofitt: Yes... we are trying for an all-day event... and are we still shooting for an install fest too?
(09:02:06 PM) ausimage_oui: that was what has been suggested
(09:02:26 PM) ausimage_oui: talks then party will follow
(09:02:34 PM) cprofitt: err...
(09:02:46 PM) cprofitt: when, if held, would the install fest be?
(09:03:05 PM) ausimage_oui: 10-2ish
(09:03:17 PM) ausimage_oui: or something
(09:03:28 PM) cprofitt: ok
(09:04:27 PM) ausimage_oui: we need volunteers and speakers
(09:04:42 PM) cprofitt: yes -- May 1st was the date right?
(09:04:45 PM) ausimage_oui: cprofitt: you were checking sponsors?
(09:04:56 PM) cprofitt: I am working on that... have not heard back from my contact
(09:05:09 PM) ausimage_oui: k
(09:05:28 PM) cprofitt: I think FOSSCON may possibly take some of the $$ available from sponsors
(09:05:44 PM) ausimage_oui: true
(09:05:47 PM) cprofitt: Dave123: or marnold any questions or comments?
(09:07:44 PM) cprofitt: ok... GNu_Joe your topic
(09:07:47 PM) cprofitt: identi.ca
(09:08:07 PM) GNu_Joe: It's slow IRC
(09:08:28 PM) GNu_Joe: In that you don't have to be online to see each 140 char. post
(09:08:44 PM) GNu_Joe: It's twitter with more options
(09:09:06 PM) cprofitt: who would 'get' the login information -- officers?
(09:09:11 PM) GNu_Joe: Thought it would fill the gap between email and IRC
(09:09:43 PM) cprofitt: I do like the idea... and like identi.ca better than twitter...
(09:09:46 PM) GNu_Joe: Well one account would follow members and they post one could see all the posts in one RSS feed
(09:09:58 PM) cprofitt: but we would need to figure out some logistics.
(09:10:12 PM) cprofitt: ah... so a # not an account?
(09:10:24 PM) cprofitt: or does identi.ca work differently than twitter?
(09:10:54 PM) GNu_Joe: yes so one could follow with a browser or smart phone without having to open an account
(09:11:15 PM) cprofitt: but posting would be from one account; yes?
(09:11:19 PM) GNu_Joe: only those who wanted to contribute would need to post to there accounts
(09:11:20 PM) marnold: no
(09:11:41 PM) cprofitt: so, one account aggregates the other users accounts?
(09:11:55 PM) GNu_Joe: think a planet but on a smaller level only 140 charters make it fast read
(09:12:02 PM) marnold: I'll proably show up a the party though
(09:12:28 PM) cprofitt: ok... well... I would like to hear more about identi.ca -- we can discuss a little more
(09:12:33 PM) cprofitt: I do like the idea
(09:12:42 PM) cprofitt: just not familiar with the setup.
(09:13:03 PM) cprofitt: ducky_laptop: ducky  - Feb 20th workshop -- are you here?
(09:13:14 PM) cprofitt: good to know you will make the party marnold
(09:13:17 PM) GNu_Joe: examples this is MHVLUG + friends http://identi.ca/api/statuses/friends_timeline/mhvlug.rss
(09:13:50 PM) cprofitt: GNu_Joe: but NY LoCo would make an account to make official 'posts'?
(09:13:58 PM) GNu_Joe: This is just MHVLUG as in announcements http://identi.ca/api/statuses/user_timeline/mhvlug.rss
(09:14:30 PM) cprofitt: ok... since ducky_laptop is not here we will table his two topics until the next meeting.
(09:14:37 PM) cprofitt: on other off-topic list item
(09:14:50 PM) cprofitt: I would like to discuss our topics on the mailing list prior to the meeting
(09:14:57 PM) GNu_Joe: So if you follow the last one you get just announcements, the other you get everyone that's subscribed in
(09:15:07 PM) cprofitt: both to hash things out and raise awareness of the meetings... does that sound good?
(09:15:20 PM) cprofitt: GNu_Joe: great idea... we just have to set it up
(09:15:21 PM) GNu_Joe: so... with one account you get two feeds ... {done}
(09:15:36 PM) ausimage_oui: sounds good cprofitt
(09:15:44 PM) GNu_Joe: and you can then embed it into your other sites
(09:15:55 PM) cprofitt: sounds great GNu_Joe
(09:15:59 PM) cprofitt: we will work on that...
(09:16:29 PM) cprofitt: GNu_Joe: are you going to add your LUG events to the wiki page for the LoCo?
(09:16:49 PM) GNu_Joe: sure
(09:16:57 PM) cprofitt: awesome...
(09:17:07 PM) cprofitt: my goal for that is to list all Linux related events / meetings
(09:17:15 PM) cprofitt: as a service for people browsing the wiki
(09:17:32 PM) cprofitt: any other topics?
(09:17:49 PM) GNu_Joe: Going to have a table at FOSSCON right?
(09:18:02 PM) cprofitt: depends on the cost... but my plan is yes
(09:18:19 PM) cprofitt: we plan on helping to plan and staff it too
(09:18:31 PM) GNu_Joe: With all the help your giving them, I can't see why they would charge
(09:18:47 PM) ***cprofitt nods
(09:18:55 PM) cprofitt: ok... I think the meeting is over...
}}}
