{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''XXth''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 7:00 PM EST and finishing at 8:00 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
* Meet Up Reports
** Encouraging more Meet Ups
* Upcoming Events
** Rochester Meetup: Pittsford Wegmans @ 7pm March 6th
** Syracuse Meetup: [Tennative Plans]
** Hardy Release Events
* Leadership
** Need leadership for New York City and other major metros
** Develop a core leaders group
* Membership
* Community Advocacy and Support
** Rochester Computer Refurbish with Ubuntu
** Developing more activities to benefit NY
** Possible Regional SIP Conferences for each region in NY
*** State leadership and local membership participate
*** Status advocacy and support in a region and ability to newtork
*** Precursor to local meetups?
** Possible State Meetup... need location, date, and local coordinator
*** just more forums or is there interest more?
** Encouraging Member Participation
* Team Application for official recognition
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Approval
** Team Resume of contributions to Ubuntu and its community involvement
** Recieved endorsements for Approval

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
(07:00:37 PM) ausimage: lets get this meeting started now...
(07:00:50 PM) ausimage: no sense waiting 
(07:01:23 PM) ausimage: Upcoming Events
(07:01:56 PM) ausimage: Rochester has their meetup coming up on the 6th of March at Pittsford Wegmans....
(07:02:03 PM) ausimage: it will be at 7pm
(07:02:32 PM) ausimage: I have been in discussion with Cybermatt about a Syracuse Meetup
(07:02:56 PM) ausimage: he gave me some tentative details but has not confirmed them yet
(07:03:14 PM) ausimage: HARDY
(07:03:40 PM) psychoneil: ??
(07:03:49 PM) ausimage: I am wondering if there is interest to get together in April when Hardy Herron is released...
(07:04:41 PM) ausimage: We could put together something in Rochester... and try and drag the few from buffalo and syracuse in as well :)
(07:04:51 PM) ausimage: maybe even ithaca perhaps :)
(07:05:28 PM) psychoneil: i would love a chance to come to another meetup.  have something on a sunday or monday :P
(07:05:52 PM) ausimage: We could also encourage other areas to hold release parties given the size of the state....
(07:06:05 PM) ***ausimage wishes hal14450 was here....
(07:06:37 PM) ausimage: psychoneil: I will do my best to bring it up at Rochester Meetup...
(07:07:03 PM) ausimage: That brings us to Leadership subtopic 
(07:07:07 PM) psychoneil: sounds good
(07:07:36 PM) ausimage: There.... I am hoping to get help locating local region leader for NYC 
(07:08:07 PM) ausimage: our last designated leader there has moved out of state
(07:08:46 PM) ausimage: The main responsibility for local region leaders being to coordinate local events and support efforts...
(07:08:57 PM) ausimage: for that region...
(07:09:54 PM) ausimage: I do not believe it is that much trouble to pull off 
(07:10:22 PM) ausimage: hmmm... K lets move onto the next topic
(07:10:46 PM) ausimage: Community Advocacy and Support
(07:11:03 PM) ausimage: I have put a couple ideas forward here...
(07:12:06 PM) ausimage: It has been brought up that perhaps we could hold regional sip calls to allow members in an area to work on plans and get comfortable with one another
(07:12:58 PM) ausimage: I think this would be a very good idea... though we would need to iron out the technical details.... ensuring everyone is capable of connecting and alll
(07:13:38 PM) ausimage: I think this would help regions prepare for regular meetups too
(07:13:51 PM) ausimage: comments on this?
(07:14:46 PM) psychoneil: might be fun.  though considering the lack of participation in a simple irc meeting i dont know how much we'd get for that
(07:14:57 PM) ausimage: yeah... I know...
(07:15:13 PM) psychoneil: especially with the extra effort to set up and all
(07:15:20 PM) ausimage: I know the most requested thing I hear.. is when I can I meet face to face...
(07:16:11 PM) ausimage: that is difficult thing with out local members coordinating 
(07:16:41 PM) ausimage: I surely do not know enough about other areas to do a good job...
(07:17:10 PM) ausimage: hmmm... let bring this up on the list then
(07:17:27 PM) ausimage: Next up is another State Meetup...
(07:17:50 PM) ausimage: I am thinking ahead and Spring will be breaking in few months
(07:18:15 PM) ausimage: Is there interest and support for another state meetup?
(07:19:02 PM) ausimage: If it is planned well we maybe able to include more than we did last time...
(07:19:20 PM) psychoneil: id be up for it
(07:19:50 PM) ausimage: awesome... is there concensus that it should be centrally located or does that matter?
(07:20:08 PM) ***ausimage thinks about the attendance at the last meeting
(07:21:01 PM) ausimage: Dave123, hal14450?
(07:21:45 PM) ausimage: again I will forward this to the list too then....
(07:21:47 PM) ausimage: :/
(07:22:16 PM) ausimage: Any other ideas to encourage participation?
(07:22:25 PM) ausimage: and involvement?
(07:23:16 PM) ausimage: K
(07:23:35 PM) ausimage: Last is an update on the Team Approval Application
(07:24:03 PM) ausimage: I got word back that we have been put on the agenda for consideration at a future CC meeting...
(07:24:16 PM) ausimage: I do not know when it will be yet....
(07:24:46 PM) ausimage: Depending on the time, I will be there to get us approved :)
(07:25:07 PM) ausimage: Any Other Business ???
(07:25:31 PM) psychoneil: yay approval!
(07:25:34 PM) Bossmanbeta entered the room.
(07:25:46 PM) ausimage: on its way yeah psychoneil
(07:26:03 PM) ausimage: Bossmanbeta:  meeting almost over :/
(07:26:16 PM) ausimage: anything you would like to add?
(07:26:37 PM) Bossmanbeta: sorry... no I just walked in ... (not for the meeting)
(07:26:45 PM) Bossmanbeta: thanks though
(07:26:51 PM) ausimage: yeah np
(07:27:04 PM) ausimage: K lets adjourn this meeting then
</pre>
