{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''3rd''' RL (Real Life) meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 5:00 PM EST and finishing at 6:00 PM EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==

* Activities

** Hand out Ubuntu Feisty CDs to anyone who has a computer.

CDs will be burnt by individual members or the use of the Dapper/Feisty shipit CD's will be used. Ideally they should be handed out along with the preprinted leaflet and placed in a plain inexpensive paper CD sleeve -- SalvatoreCarini

* the leaflet for the CD's can be download here: [ http://www.ubuntuny.com/ubuntu.odt ]

Please print it up and use it as a handout to go along with the CD's you distribute.

== RSVP for the Event ==
1* Salvatore Carini (samiam010203@gmail.com) [irc handle: samiam010203, salvatore_c]

2* Nathan Eckenrode (n8k99@newyork-ubuntu.com) [irc handle: n8k99]

3* Yosef Harrow (yharrow@newyork-ubuntu.com) [irc handle: yharrow]
== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

Time Usage

Topics Discussed and their solutions / Activities conducted and their outcome
