{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

We are happy to be having a Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat launch party in New York City. This event will be to celebrate the latest version of Ubuntu. Both experienced and newer users will be able to upgrade (if they haven't already), and share their experiences and tips. We are also hoping to draw people who haven't used Ubuntu before in order to teach them about this great operating system and give them a chance to see it in action.

This event will be taking place simultaneously with the Ubuntu 10.10 launch parties in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/20101106|Rochester, New York]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/20101106Syracuse|Syracuse, New York]]</nowiki>.

This event takes place in a private facility so attendees MUST RSVP to attend. The main RSVP will be managed by the <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=165160780163260|Facebook Event]]</nowiki>. If you cannot RSVP on Facebook for any reason, please send an email to jaricanese7@gmail.com with the subject "Launch Party". In the email please list your first and last name and of anyone that you will bring. RSVPs must be in by October 28, 2010 (2010-10-28). Thank you.

'''Details'''

* '''''Address:'''''
****** NYU Stern School of Business
****** 44 West Fourth Street
****** New York, NY 10012<<BR>>
 <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=44+West+Fourth+Street,+New+York,+NY,+10012&sll=40.729877,-73.995967&sspn=0.008797,0.01929&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=44+W+4th+St,+New+York,+10012&ll=40.729421,-73.995967&spn=0.009204,0.01929&t=h&z=16&iwloc=A|Google Map]]</nowiki>
* '''''Date''''': November 6, 2010
* '''''Time''''': 6pm (EST) to 9pm (EST)
* '''''Room''''': ''Tish Hall uc-25''
* '''''Amenities:'''''
****** WiFi
****** Outlets
****** Food
****** Drinks (non-alcoholic)

==== Transportation ====
'''Mass Transit'''

Depending on your location in the city, you can do one of the following to get to Stern: 
* Take the green Lexington Avenue subway (6 train) to Astor Place Station. Go west on Astor Place to Broadway. Turn left (south) on Broadway and walk to West Fourth Street. Turn right (west) on West Fourth Street and walk to Washington Square East. Turn left into the courtyard. NYU Stern will be on your left.
 
* Take the yellow Broadway subway (R or N train) to 8th St-NYU Station. At Broadway, walk south to West Fourth Street. Turn right (west) on West Fourth Street and walk to Washington Square East. Turn left into the courtyard. NYU Stern will be on your left.
 
* Take the orange Sixth Avenue subway (F, M, B, or D train) to West 4th Street Station. Walk east on West Fourth Street walk to WashingtonSquare East. Turn right into the courtyard. NYU Stern will be on your left.
 
* Take the blue Eighth Avenue subway (A, C, or E train) to West 4th Street Station. Walk east on West Fourth Street to Washington Square East. Turn right into the courtyard. NYU Stern will be on your left.
 
* Take the red Seventh Avenue subway (1 train) to Christopher Street-Sheridan Square Station. Walk east on Christopher Street to West Fourth Street. Continue east on West Fourth Street to Washington Square East. Turn right into the courtyard. NYU Stern will be on your left.

'''Driving'''

Keep in mind that this is Manhattan. There are several parking garages within the area but they are very expensive. There is parking along the streets but it's very limited.
* Thompson Parking Corporation - 221 Thompson St
* 410 Parking Corporation - 410 Lafayette Street
* Icon Parking Systems - 11 Fifth Avenue
