{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''17th''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:30 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==

The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Announcements
** Ask members to join the new facebook account page (http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=2389558839)
** Reminder: Community Library Project available for Team Members.
* Discuss Major issues
** Conference 2008 in Syracuse [Report Only]
** Regional Meet-Up Reports Rochester and NYC [Report Only]
** Building Regional Leadership
** Accepting Nominations  for Leadership
* Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting
* increase attendance at RL/IRC meetings (this is a must)

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
(06:00:11 PM) ausimage: OK
(06:00:22 PM) ausimage: let me get the agenda 
(06:00:46 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20070918 
(06:01:03 PM) maggit left the room (quit: Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)).
(06:01:09 PM) ausimage: I thought yharrow was supposed to be here....
(06:01:20 PM) ausimage: but since he has not showed up.....
(06:01:32 PM) ausimage: I will start the show... :D
(06:01:46 PM) n8k99 [n=nathan@dsl254-078-190.nyc1.dsl.speakeasy.net] entered the room.
(06:01:53 PM) gtr225: k
(06:01:55 PM) ausimage: Ok we all ready
(06:01:58 PM) hal14450: wb n8k99
(06:02:01 PM) gtr225: yea
(06:02:18 PM) n8k99: thanks hal14450
(06:02:30 PM) hal14450: i'm here by accident once again
(06:02:34 PM) hal14450: lol
(06:02:35 PM) ausimage: Our first report is on the Conference 2008
(06:03:13 PM) ausimage: We met on the 10th
(06:03:46 PM) ausimage: and discussed via VOIP where to hold the conference
(06:03:59 PM) ausimage: as well as looking at possible sponsors....
(06:04:25 PM) ausimage: The location is held up because we either need a sponsor or liability insurance
(06:04:50 PM) ausimage: It was encouraged that everyone ask about for possible sponsors...
(06:04:57 PM) hal14450: ausimage, did you happen to look into what that might cost?
(06:05:21 PM) ausimage: n8k99 has a sponsor letter that he was supposed to be written
(06:05:31 PM) n8k99: jeez not that again
(06:05:35 PM) hal14450: lol
(06:05:38 PM) ausimage: not yet hal14450.... parents took my time last week...
(06:05:39 PM) n8k99: yeah- i do
(06:06:02 PM) ausimage: That is pretty much where we stand with the conference....
(06:06:09 PM) hal14450: we still have time plenty of it as well
(06:06:22 PM) ausimage: We need members to help locate sponsors....
(06:06:57 PM) ausimage: Ok... we did not set a next date for the conference committee though
(06:07:08 PM) eggwarmer [n=cnobile@cpe-72-230-125-127.twcny.res.rr.com] entered the room.
(06:07:34 PM) hal14450: i can make a few calls to see about sponsorship but it would be essentially netwroking w/ people looking for possible sponsors
(06:07:41 PM) ausimage: I will ask the committee in the next week or so when they feel we should recovene
hal14450 hendrixski 
(06:07:47 PM) ausimage: great hal14450
(06:08:19 PM) ausimage: Next on the agenda are the Meetup reports....
(06:08:38 PM) psychoneil [n=psychone@pool-71-186-143-71.bflony.east.verizon.net] entered the room.
(06:08:39 PM) ausimage: First was Rochester met on the 14th....
(06:08:53 PM) ***hal14450 enjoyed that
(06:09:03 PM) ausimage: We met at Unos in Victor... 12 people showed up....
(06:09:06 PM) hal14450: lo psychoneil
(06:09:13 PM) hal14450: i counted 13
(06:09:15 PM) psychoneil: howdy folks
(06:09:21 PM) hal14450: my bad perhaps
(06:09:37 PM) ausimage: hendrixski directed some topics....
(06:09:49 PM) ausimage: and shared some schwag
(06:10:11 PM) hal14450: we made some videos with too much background noise and bad lighting as well
(06:10:18 PM) ausimage: There are plans for another Meetup next month
(06:10:40 PM) ausimage: did I miss anything with Rochester?
(06:11:11 PM) hal14450: we had a ton of fun and next time we'll know who to look for at the next venue ;-)
(06:11:25 PM) ausimage: Then NYC had an event on 16th.....
(06:11:30 PM) TheLastStatistic left the room (quit: Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)).
(06:11:40 PM) ausimage: anyone attend that NYC event?
(06:11:54 PM) hal14450: dhgwill did i think
(06:12:04 PM) ausimage: dhgwill: PING
(06:12:37 PM) ausimage: Well lets move on while we wait....
(06:12:41 PM) hal14450: they handed out cd's and it took a while for them to get comfortable w/ the approach of talking to people i guess
(06:12:51 PM) ausimage: ahhh
(06:12:53 PM) hal14450: <--- me reads logs
(06:13:01 PM) ausimage: ahhh 
(06:13:24 PM) ausimage: The next to items are sorta related....
(06:13:31 PM) ausimage: Leadership....
(06:14:08 PM) ausimage: I feel it is important for our team to be looking for potential regional leaders....
(06:14:32 PM) ausimage: It will help the team with events in those regions...
(06:14:32 PM) ***hendrixski likes the word "directed"
(06:15:03 PM) ausimage: what is that hendrixski?
(06:15:26 PM) ausimage: Rochester has a few potential leaders...
(06:15:29 PM) hal14450: you did a good job hendrixski i think we all had a good time and it was nice someone came prepared to talk about a few things
(06:15:43 PM) ausimage: ahh...
(06:15:55 PM) ausimage: NYC has had some difficulties....
(06:16:01 PM) hal14450: ausimage, you did a good job as well ;-)
(06:16:11 PM) ausimage: thanks hal14450
(06:16:34 PM) ausimage: We are still missing many leaders for other regions....
(06:16:39 PM) hendrixski: hal14450, I did the same thing for the NYC lunch and it worked out well
(06:16:52 PM) hendrixski: the main thing was I wanted to make a youTube video out of... but that didn't turn out
(06:16:55 PM) ausimage: like Albany, Buffalo etc....
(06:17:02 PM) hal14450: i guess they probably had the same sort of issues we had as to recognizing fellow ubunteros
(06:17:47 PM) ausimage: any comments so far about the leadership?
(06:18:01 PM) hal14450: once we got situated we had a good time so for a first meet i thought it was good
(06:18:02 PM) hendrixski: lol, everybody needs to have a giant tux and crossbones flag for these events, so as to be easily identifyable
(06:18:13 PM) ausimage: hmmmm
(06:18:30 PM) hal14450: lol either that or the facebook thing might work
(06:18:53 PM) hal14450: i've never joined one of those groups though they sort of freak me out
(06:18:56 PM) hendrixski: right, there is a facebook group
(06:19:10 PM) hendrixski: if anybody else needs administrative rights to that just give me a buzz at some point
(06:19:35 PM) ausimage: I think we just need a nice size logo for the location ;)
(06:19:56 PM) ausimage: The last part of the leadership is nominations....
(06:20:07 PM) hal14450: ausimage, i'm sure there's a wealth of experience to tap into but not everyone that's a leader is keen on irc or facebook and wiki's i think we need more traffic on the mailing list
(06:20:45 PM) ***hendrixski does his part to keep up trafic on the mailing list :-)
(06:20:57 PM) ausimage: Yeah... I am bring it up here... but should probably bring the regional leadership discussion to the List
(06:21:08 PM) dhgwill: yeah
(06:21:09 PM) dhgwill: the event
(06:21:10 PM) dhgwill: yeah
(06:21:13 PM) dhgwill: someone said my name
(06:21:15 PM) dhgwill: this is so exciting
(06:21:22 PM) ausimage: dhgwill: a report?
(06:21:34 PM) dhgwill: ah, i've been thinking about writing it upo
(06:21:37 PM) hal14450: i'm a slacker in most respects i should be more proactive on the mailing list
(06:21:40 PM) dhgwill: but i can just tell you
(06:21:57 PM) dhgwill: it was me and peter, and first we walked around trying to talk to people
(06:22:08 PM) dhgwill: but then we picked up a cardboard box and wrote FREE SOFTWARE on it
(06:22:11 PM) dhgwill: and sat down at a table
(06:22:20 PM) begert_ [n=booga@cpe-74-74-217-64.rochester.res.rr.com] entered the room.
(06:22:21 PM) hal14450: haha sweet
(06:22:24 PM) dhgwill: we talked to probably 8 or 9 dseparate parties
(06:22:31 PM) dhgwill: more than a dozen people
(06:22:36 PM) dhgwill: altogether
(06:22:42 PM) ausimage: that is great
(06:22:46 PM) dhgwill: some of them already knew FOSS
(06:23:02 PM) dhgwill: we gave out 4 ro 5 cds at least to people who were definitely going to try it
(06:23:10 PM) dhgwill: i didn't get a chance to burn OpenCDs
(06:23:14 PM) dhgwill: only feisty fawn cds
(06:23:18 PM) hal14450: that is very cool so it will give you an idea about how to do stuff next time then ;-)
(06:23:23 PM) dhgwill: there's a ppicture
(06:23:46 PM) dhgwill: i'll link to it
(06:23:55 PM) hendrixski: dhgwill, overall would you say that a CD handout is an effective event for an organization of our size?
(06:24:07 PM) ausimage: dhgwill: if you want you could put on the event page too
(06:24:10 PM) dhgwill: it would hav ebeen better if:
(06:24:16 PM) dhgwill: there had been more of us
(06:24:25 PM) dhgwill: it hadn't been the first chilly day of the end of the summer
(06:24:30 PM) hal14450: hendrixski got us hooked up w/ some free swag from On-Disk.com the only official Ubuntu distributor of cd's for the US
(06:24:35 PM) dhgwill: we had chosen a better spot, some where a little e
(06:24:41 PM) dhgwill: less ... chilly.
(06:24:50 PM) dhgwill: and maybe had a real table and a real sign
(06:24:52 PM) Jaguar [n=Jag@unaffiliated/jaguar] entered the room.
(06:24:52 PM) dhgwill: and pamphlets
(06:25:01 PM) n8k99: and a banner
(06:25:01 PM) dhgwill: i thought about pamphlets
(06:25:04 PM) n8k99: and a flag
(06:25:05 PM) dhgwill: right. banner.
(06:25:06 PM) hal14450: maybe Karlie can hook up NYC with some swag
(06:25:09 PM) dhgwill: and like a talk sheet
(06:25:11 PM) ausimage: yeah... there are pamphlets on the wiki
(06:25:12 PM) dhgwill: you know?
(06:25:14 PM) dhgwill: oh there are?
(06:25:15 PM) dhgwill: crap.
(06:25:19 PM) dhgwill: i googled for like 5 minutes
(06:25:27 PM) hendrixski: so, I guess the followup question... now that colder weather is coming, and we know that we want more people, should we delay doing CD handouts as an event until perhaps next summer?
(06:25:35 PM) dhgwill: not necessarily
(06:25:42 PM) ausimage: malls;)
(06:25:50 PM) dhgwill: lolol
(06:25:53 PM) dhgwill: yeah, malls
(06:26:05 PM) dhgwill: but also hanging out cds is kind of fun when people are interested.
(06:26:06 PM) hendrixski: that's a good point
(06:26:09 PM) hal14450: colleges ;-)
(06:26:38 PM) ausimage: cool
(06:26:44 PM) dhgwill: http://flickr.com/photos/gwilliam/1394309088/
(06:26:46 PM) hendrixski: what about attending other groups' events and handing out CD's there?
(06:26:50 PM) dhgwill: that's peter with our sign.
(06:27:14 PM) dhgwill: and it's amazing, people definitely noticed it
(06:27:34 PM) hal14450: this is gonna be the perfect time to introduce people to foss related stuff and ubuntu is the easiest way to do it.Winter is long and we all need something to keep us occupied
(06:27:36 PM) dhgwill: (btw, can somebody tell me why i can't use my backspace key right now? it only doesn't work in screen)
(06:27:40 PM) ausimage: nice picture
(06:27:51 PM) dhgwill: taken with my very new blackberry pearl :)
(06:28:09 PM) hendrixski: I C, so cold winter weather is actually in our favor then?
(06:28:12 PM) hal14450: screen as in gnu-screen?
(06:28:18 PM) dhgwill: right, i think yah
(06:28:28 PM) hal14450: odd
(06:28:35 PM) dhgwill: ^h works, but backspace doesn't
(06:28:37 PM) dhgwill: it's so annoying.
(06:28:51 PM) hal14450: oh man that sucks
(06:28:52 PM) ausimage: We have one last topic....
(06:29:01 PM) hal14450: hendrixski, i'm an optimist ;-)
(06:29:06 PM) eggwarmer: Hi all, my wife is stuffing food down my throat again, but I'm here.
(06:29:14 PM) ausimage: and we can have the shortest meeting ;)
(06:29:15 PM) dhgwill: i just set up mpd on my file server, which is awesome, because i can change the music from my pearl
(06:29:19 PM) hal14450: lo eggwarmer
(06:29:21 PM) hendrixski: hal14450, no, it's a good way of looking at it.. I hadn't thought of it that way before
(06:29:31 PM) hendrixski: eggwarmer, how dare she!
(06:29:37 PM) hal14450: lol
(06:29:42 PM) dhgwill: have we ever considered doing an SIP conference call?
(06:29:44 PM) dhgwill: btw?
(06:29:50 PM) eggwarmer: She's Chinese, so she does these things.
(06:29:53 PM) ausimage: we have done that ;)
(06:29:55 PM) hal14450: yes we have and we can
(06:30:09 PM) dhgwill: word.
(06:30:10 PM) hal14450: dhgwill, did i hook you up with an account already?
(06:30:21 PM) dhgwill: no? i have a gizmo and an ekiga account
(06:30:32 PM) ausimage: What is the opinion of the Team.... in regards to having elections....
(06:30:55 PM) ausimage: I have heard it both ways.....
(06:31:04 PM) hal14450: dhgwill, i'll set you up w/ an account as soon as the irc is over you ca use either i guess
(06:31:16 PM) dhgwill: thx hal14450
(06:31:27 PM) dhgwill: uh, about elections... are we really ready?
(06:31:35 PM) dhgwill: who is running for what positions?
(06:31:39 PM) dhgwill: are there even contested races?
(06:31:41 PM) ausimage: Well... that is the question on the table
(06:31:47 PM) hendrixski: dhgwill, so do you think you'd like to try handing out CD's in that way again, like in a mall... or would you rather try it in a different venue?
(06:31:50 PM) ausimage: some....
(06:31:56 PM) hendrixski: like for example attending other groups' events?
(06:32:04 PM) dhgwill: hendrixski: as long as there were more people, i'd be happy doing it anywhere
(06:32:14 PM) dhgwill: one of the most fun parts of the dafternoon was BSing with peter
(06:32:34 PM) hendrixski: right, numbers are important
(06:32:47 PM) hendrixski: 'cause I was thinking....tomorrow at RIT the "entrepreneurs club" is having a "meeting" where they're looking for ideas... I'm thinking of oging to it ad being like "look, I'm a rochester business, I will need Ubuntu support, you guys start thingking about business that support this"
(06:32:58 PM) hal14450: yeh i dunno for now it would be good to have leaders that have been elected but it can be a temp thing if they feel too loaded down or something the rest of us can pick up the slack
(06:33:00 PM) hendrixski: and if there were enough other people interested... we can do a sort of handout there
(06:33:10 PM) eggwarmer: I think we need to know what the posts that need to filled are first.
(06:33:39 PM) ausimage: '''President'''  JeremyAustinBardo   '''Vice President'''  YosefHarrow, NathanEckenrode   '''Secretary'''  BrianNeil   '''Treasure'''  YosefHarrow, NathanEckenrode  
(06:33:46 PM) hal14450: hendrixski, i'd join you but i have other plans for tomorrow night
(06:33:50 PM) ausimage: that is what we have
(06:34:05 PM) ***hal14450 that Brian Neil guy is a slacker
(06:34:22 PM) hendrixski: yeah, he doesn't even want to go to fun events tomorrow!
(06:34:23 PM) ausimage: Ideally the VP could share the another office
(06:34:23 PM) hendrixski: lol
(06:34:26 PM) dhgwill: hendrixski: that sounds like fun, but i can't get to rochester.
(06:34:40 PM) hal14450: lol my point exactly hendrixski
(06:34:46 PM) dhgwill: well, it looks like VP and Treasurer and kind of the same thing.
(06:35:04 PM) hendrixski: VP != treasurer
(06:35:37 PM) hendrixski: but then again... we don't really have enough people for the double work load of VP & treasurer to burn people out
(06:36:00 PM) ***hal14450 wonders how samiam is doing
hal14450 hendrixski 
(06:36:15 PM) dhgwill: well, obviously they're not the same positions, but they are being run for by the same persons
(06:36:20 PM) ausimage: hal14450: last I heard he is not answering yharrow
(06:36:20 PM) dhgwill: me too, hal14450
(06:36:21 PM) hal14450: anyone tried calling his sip extension?
(06:36:35 PM) hal14450: just for shits and giggles
(06:36:51 PM) ausimage: he has also deactivated his LP account on the Team
(06:37:03 PM) hal14450: maybe he just needs a break
(06:37:09 PM) ausimage: yeah perhaps...
(06:37:12 PM) dhgwill: his wiki still suggests that he's part of the group, just not part of the leadership
(06:37:42 PM) ausimage: hmmmm
(06:38:03 PM) ausimage: I think it is something that team as whole needs to be aware of in the future
(06:38:10 PM) hal14450: hell i talked to him for a bit and i like the guy regardless of affiliation i'd like to know he's doing well
(06:38:19 PM) dhgwill: hal14450: i agree
(06:38:22 PM) ausimage: Burn out.....
hal14450 hendrixski 
(06:38:29 PM) ausimage: yeah me too hal14450
(06:38:40 PM) dhgwill: i hope he still does his podcast
(06:39:06 PM) ausimage: Are there anything to add to the leadership discussion?
(06:39:18 PM) hal14450: we do need to move forward but let's not get too hung up on participation just yet since it can burn the more proactive members out
(06:39:20 PM) ausimage: nominations particuallarly
(06:39:28 PM) dhgwill: ausimage, i can take an official at-large position
(06:39:41 PM) dhgwill: if that's what you're looking for... would that be a good idea? executive board member at large?
(06:40:03 PM) dhgwill: or, i guess i could RUN for an at-large position
(06:40:17 PM) ausimage: that would be nice....
(06:40:17 PM) hal14450: run for sec dhgwill
(06:40:33 PM) dhgwill: haaaaaaal.
(06:40:38 PM) hal14450: lol
(06:40:39 PM) ausimage: I think this another for the list too
(06:40:53 PM) hal14450: i got nominated by proxy
(06:40:53 PM) dhgwill: well, i'd like to officially suggest adding an at-large position
(06:40:56 PM) ausimage: dhgwill: I will put your name down
(06:41:17 PM) dhgwill: i'll be more consistent about coming to meetings
(06:41:26 PM) dhgwill: i was working nights until i moved to nyc last month
(06:41:36 PM) ausimage: ahhh
(06:41:58 PM) hal14450: dhgwill, so where in NY are you then NYC i know but where abouts?
(06:42:11 PM) dhgwill: uh, my apartment is at 148th and harlem.
(06:42:15 PM) ausimage: Ok then is there anyother topics to be discussed then;)
(06:42:37 PM) dhgwill: ausimage: i'd move to end the meeting
(06:42:43 PM) dhgwill: though i missed the first part...
(06:42:45 PM) ausimage: alrighty
(06:43:01 PM) ausimage: the meeting is adjourned :D
</pre>
