{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''XXth''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 7:00 PM EST and finishing at 8:00 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
* Meet Up Reports
** Encouraging more Meet Ups
* Upcoming Events
** Rochester: First Thursday's at Pittsford Wegmans-Upstairs Cafe. Dec 6th 7pm
* IRC Channel changes
  We will be officially moving after the meeting to #ubuntu-us-ny. Please, adjust your IRC clients according. This is being to comply with a decission made by the Ubuntu IRC council.
* Leadership
** Responsibility changing hands
** Develop a core leaders group
* Membership
** Set team memberships to expire one year from join date
** Better identify members still in the community
* Community Advocacy and Support
** Rochester Computer Refurbish with Ubuntu
** Developing more activities to benefit NY
** Encouraging Member Participation
** Conference 2008
* Team Application for official recognition
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Approval
** Team Resume of contributions to Ubuntu and its community involvement
** Needs linkification to details.

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
(07:00:46 PM) ausimage: LETS GET THIS MOVING :)
(07:01:12 PM) ausimage: hmmmm am I going to be typing to myself tonight???
(07:01:21 PM) ***deejoe moos
(07:01:22 PM) ausimage: hope not... :S
(07:01:42 PM) ausimage: Ok... first on the agenda is Meetups...
(07:01:52 PM) deejoe: what's been the talk there?
(07:02:05 PM) deejoe: anything new happening anywhere but NYC and ROC?
(07:02:14 PM) ausimage: Rochester is meeting again on the first thursday at Pittsford wegmans... 7pm
(07:02:25 PM) deejoe: upstairs, presumably
(07:02:35 PM) ausimage: um... not much at all... I put a feeler out on my blog for Geneva
(07:02:40 PM) ausimage: yeah in the cafe
(07:02:46 PM) ausimage: I gues
(07:03:10 PM) ausimage: I am not sure what the status of the NYC meetup is  though...
(07:03:28 PM) deejoe: on my indefinite to-do list is to get some fliers etc suitable for printing
(07:03:28 PM) ausimage: though I hear they are trying to meetup first saturdays
(07:03:37 PM) deejoe: which we can scatter around
(07:03:51 PM) ausimage: nice... n8k99 said his wife would help make some....
(07:04:06 PM) deejoe: the more the merrier
(07:04:07 PM) ausimage: we talked of making the look the size of a cd cover
(07:04:31 PM) ausimage: to have look like it could be a cd 
(07:04:38 PM) ausimage: um....
(07:04:44 PM) deejoe: I like a couple of formats
(07:04:58 PM) ausimage: yeah?
(07:05:06 PM) deejoe: a) US Letter, portrait, folded twice parallel to the short edge, to make a tri-fold pamphlet
(07:05:17 PM) deejoe: oops, make that landscape.
(07:05:28 PM) ausimage: yeah that is a nice way very traditional
(07:05:52 PM) deejoe: anyway, another one is US Letter, portrait, with or without pull tabs at the bottom, with a URL on them.
(07:06:14 PM) ausimage: um next topic is the channel is being moved.... right after the meeting ;)
(07:06:19 PM) deejoe: and then, half US Letter, with or without pull tabs on the side.
(07:06:22 PM) ausimage: that is a nice way too
(07:06:33 PM) deejoe: ok, anyway, I guess we're moving on from "encouraging more meet ups"
(07:06:42 PM) ausimage: yup...
(07:06:53 PM) ausimage: There are not many in here :S
(07:07:08 PM) ausimage: deejoe: I do agree my fliers are important....
(07:07:18 PM) deejoe: ok, so do you know what you have to do to redirect the old channel to the new?
(07:07:18 PM) davebags [n=dave@cpe-74-70-232-142.nycap.res.rr.com] entered the room.
(07:07:30 PM) deejoe: hi davebags
(07:07:32 PM) ausimage: some should also post to the community websites in their area
(07:07:42 PM) deejoe: ausimage: yeah.
(07:07:53 PM) davebags: hey guys
(07:07:55 PM) ausimage: Next is Leadership
(07:08:06 PM) deejoe: ausimage: are we done with irc channel?
(07:08:26 PM) ausimage: hmmm.... what else needs to be said?
(07:08:39 PM) deejoe: ok, so do you know what you have to do to redirect the old channel to the new?
(07:08:55 PM) ausimage: yeah they have a document on the wiki...
(07:09:11 PM) ausimage: if not I probably can ask you, deejoe
(07:09:16 PM) ausimage: ;)
(07:09:36 PM) davebags: are we moving to a diff channel?
(07:09:39 PM) deejoe: PriceChild indicated it could be done.
(07:09:42 PM) deejoe: davebags, yes
(07:09:48 PM) deejoe: #ubuntu-us-ny
(07:09:58 PM) davebags: whats the reason
(07:10:05 PM) deejoe: makes the irc council feel important
(07:10:07 PM) ausimage: yeah... IRC council standards
(07:10:53 PM) davebags: jeez everything need standard nowadays :)
(07:11:00 PM) ausimage: On leadership... In case you do not get the email list....
Dave123 davebags 
(07:11:05 PM) ausimage: yeah davebags
(07:11:06 PM) deejoe: we went from ubuntu-ny to ubuntu-newyork now to ubuntu-us-ny
(07:11:21 PM) ausimage: yeah..... I know messy messy
(07:11:41 PM) davebags: on leadership??
(07:11:45 PM) deejoe: "In case you do not get the email list"
(07:11:56 PM) ausimage: I have taken responsibility of the IRC channel and Launchpad account for the team
(07:11:58 PM) deejoe: haha, like, that's been in the mailbox for all of about 40 hours
(07:12:17 PM) deejoe: ausimage: you go, man.
(07:12:24 PM) ausimage: yeah... I thought I would say at the meeting...
(07:12:31 PM) deejoe: good call.
(07:12:33 PM) davebags: nice
(07:12:56 PM) deejoe: now we have a "what if ausimage gets hit by a bus" problem ;-)
(07:12:56 PM) ausimage: I think an important thing to work towards besides approval is getting a solid core going....
(07:13:17 PM) deejoe: agreed
(07:13:24 PM) davebags: yah is there backup for u ausimage
(07:13:36 PM) deejoe: I think that's what we're talking about.
(07:13:42 PM) ausimage: I have talked with a few members about being apart of it...
(07:14:13 PM) ausimage: I need to feel that those in the core are going to come through for the team :)
(07:14:23 PM) davebags: oo right
(07:14:39 PM) deejoe: hmm.
(07:14:40 PM) ausimage: I hope to get a balance of members from different regions too
(07:15:00 PM) deejoe: that makes sense.  how do you intend to do that?
(07:15:00 PM) davebags: can i say something if i may
(07:15:01 PM) ausimage: If any feels they would be up to it I would like to talk with them
Dave123 davebags 
(07:15:13 PM) ausimage: sure davebags
(07:15:15 PM) hydrogen: hey hydrogens here!
(07:15:27 PM) deejoe: hi hydrogen.  davebags has the floor.
(07:16:01 PM) deejoe: you there, davebags?
(07:16:02 PM) davebags: this channel overall has a great purpose of linux ubuntu users alike
(07:16:23 PM) ausimage: yeah it does
(07:16:45 PM) davebags: but i want to be actually part of the opensource and linux movement
(07:16:52 PM) deejoe: heh.
Dave123 davebags 
(07:17:29 PM) ausimage: davebags: I too think that the teams mission could be greater than Ubuntu
(07:17:48 PM) davebags: right
(07:17:49 PM) ausimage: any support to linux usually helps ubuntu as well
(07:18:01 PM) deejoe: davebags: I see what you describe as having large overlap with Ubuntu's aims.
(07:18:20 PM) deejoe: I feel the same way:  I'm much more a free software, free culture kind of guy.
(07:18:38 PM) deejoe: which doesn't always *exactly* match an Ubuntu LoCo mission.
(07:18:47 PM) deejoe: but usually, the difference is too small to get hung up on.
(07:18:58 PM) deejoe: IMO, that is.
(07:19:19 PM) davebags: if we could somehow come together and start creating applications and new programs for ubuntu i think that would serve an even better purpose
(07:19:23 PM) ausimage: I feel the focus needs to be support of a culture shift
(07:19:57 PM) ausimage: away from proprietary  to free forms of software
(07:20:08 PM) deejoe: davebags: I think the team could be a way for you to attract like-minded folk.
(07:20:15 PM) ausimage: before any Linux can make great headway
(07:20:42 PM) ausimage: exactly deejoe
(07:21:04 PM) hydrogen: see
(07:21:10 PM) hydrogen: i'd go in the opposite direction
(07:21:15 PM) deejoe: oh?
(07:21:18 PM) ausimage: ?
(07:21:20 PM) hydrogen: creating programs "for ubuntu" to me hurts the open source movement
(07:21:41 PM) ausimage: you mean it should for LINUX?
(07:21:41 PM) hydrogen: this whole competition to create the best distrobution is just fragmenting an already small community
(07:21:44 PM) deejoe: if they are licensed appropriately, it shouldn't matter--whoever wants to can use it.
(07:22:13 PM) ***deejoe recommends folks look for Rick Moen's Fear of Forking essay.
(07:22:21 PM) hydrogen: right, but the majority of programs, while licensed that way.. are not made availible in such a way to allow it nicely.
(07:22:24 PM) ausimage: hydrogen I guess that is why I am open to broader definition of our mission
(07:22:48 PM) davebags: also it would give a great since of pride to say hey u no we help create or create that particular program
(07:22:58 PM) ausimage: I feel strongly that Ubuntu is one of the better "gateway" distributions available
(07:23:06 PM) deejoe: hydrogen: Ubuntu and Debian make original tarballs of packages available for download.  It doesn't get much easier than that.
(07:23:06 PM) davebags: hands down
(07:23:36 PM) hydrogen: deejoe: but they are all designed around working *for ubuntu* or *for debian*
(07:23:44 PM) hydrogen: if they work for others, thats cool, but they are not designed that way
(07:24:32 PM) ausimage: interesting points... but I guess I do not see that much a difference from upstream on most apps :S
(07:24:34 PM) deejoe: hydrogen: not true
(07:24:46 PM) deejoe: http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/games/cowsay
(07:24:57 PM) deejoe: look at the bottom, under "More Information on cowsay"
(07:25:03 PM) deejoe: there is a link to an orig.tar.gz
(07:25:08 PM) deejoe: and a link to a diff.gz file.
(07:25:14 PM) hydrogen: right
(07:25:18 PM) hydrogen: but thats not an ubuntu program
(07:25:19 PM) deejoe: the former is the original upstream tarball, not modified for any distro.
(07:25:24 PM) hydrogen: thats a program ubuntu packages
(07:25:28 PM) hydrogen: compare that to things that are ubuntu specific
(07:25:32 PM) hydrogen: which is what I'm speaking off
(07:25:44 PM) hydrogen: i.e. any of the configuration utilities
(07:25:44 PM) deejoe: anyway, I think this is a bit of tangent.
(07:25:51 PM) hydrogen: yes
(07:25:57 PM) deejoe: I don't think we are all going to sign on to develop.
(07:26:03 PM) ausimage: what specifically does ubuntu package that should be made available to everyone?
(07:26:12 PM) deejoe: though the team can be a point-of-contact for those who do want to go that route.
(07:26:42 PM) hydrogen: well, I think its simply an extension of the whole 	ubuntu	 loco team
(07:27:10 PM) deejoe: "it"?
(07:27:18 PM) hydrogen: would it not be better for this group to be an access point for anyone interested in getting involved with the FOSS movement in new york?
(07:27:42 PM) ausimage: hydrogen: We have bylaws that say... ``NY``Lo``Co shall be organized to encourage the use of Ubuntu Linux Operating System through networking, supporting and educating of citizens and businesses in the State of New York, USA. 
(07:27:43 PM) deejoe: to a degree, I think that's right on the money.
(07:28:05 PM) ausimage: I think encouraging FOSS encourages ubuntu
(07:28:23 PM) deejoe: hydrogen: a bit of focus isn't so bad.
(07:28:32 PM) deejoe: also, hydrogen, what's your local LUG?
(07:28:35 PM) hydrogen: but encouraging ubuntu is only encouraging a subset of open source
(07:28:46 PM) hydrogen: shrugs
(07:28:50 PM) hydrogen: I don't think I've got one!
(07:28:52 PM) ausimage: Well Ubuntu is in our name :/
(07:28:53 PM) davebags: guys was i bit out line with my statement earlier?
(07:29:07 PM) hydrogen: afaik i'm the only one in the town of alfred that is wild enough to use loonix
(07:29:09 PM) Dave123: sorry about that
(07:29:13 PM) ausimage: I don't think so
(07:29:21 PM) deejoe: no one else at alfred uses it?
(07:29:28 PM) deejoe: I find that hard to believe.
(07:29:31 PM) hydrogen: I havn't met anyone yet
(07:29:33 PM) hydrogen: but
(07:29:35 PM) hydrogen: I don't go searching for them either
(07:29:43 PM) deejoe: well, there you go
(07:29:55 PM) ***hydrogen shrugs
(07:30:04 PM) deejoe: I think hydrogen has just volunteered to be Alfred campus liason for NY Loco
(07:30:08 PM) deejoe: ;-)
(07:30:13 PM) deejoe: or, at least, to start a LUG
(07:30:17 PM) Dave123: hydrogen, you should look at the colleges
(07:30:20 PM) deejoe: to promote FOSS
(07:30:31 PM) Dave123: specifically cs/engineering depts
(07:30:37 PM) ausimage: lets move on we can finish this discussion after
(07:31:07 PM) deejoe: ausimage: ok, so long as we get back to this as "new business"
(07:31:15 PM) ausimage: Topic is Membership on our LP account
(07:31:19 PM) ausimage: yeah we can
(07:31:29 PM) deejoe: oh, the itinerary didn't specify LP
(07:31:46 PM) ausimage: I added it last minute :S
(07:31:49 PM) deejoe: that's launchpad, for those playing the home game.  launchpad is a canonical web app
(07:32:03 PM) ausimage: I have thought long about this... 
(07:32:10 PM) ***deejoe shrugs
(07:32:37 PM) ausimage: I feel we need to set one year expirations on memberships... which can be renewed annually
(07:32:52 PM) deejoe: whatever.  you may notice I've never signed on as a member.
(07:32:58 PM) ausimage: those who have moved on will most likely let themselves expire
(07:33:27 PM) deejoe: also, could you please remove my name from the newyork-ubuntu.com list?
(07:33:32 PM) ausimage: We have many on the LP list alone that I have never have seen
(07:33:36 PM) deejoe: I never signed up there, either, but someone put my name there.
(07:33:47 PM) ausimage: I can Dee Joe
(07:33:51 PM) deejoe: thanks.
(07:34:00 PM) ausimage: we considered you a member 
(07:34:14 PM) deejoe: whatever.
(07:34:18 PM) ausimage: :)
(07:34:40 PM) deejoe: to my mind, it's more about what you do than what someone writes down.
(07:35:00 PM) deejoe: also, I don't want to appear to endorse something that I'm still not decided about.
(07:35:05 PM) ausimage: so if there is no major reason not set terms for membership on LP... I will make it so
(07:35:31 PM) deejoe: how long has the agenda for today's meeting been available?
(07:35:56 PM) ausimage: the majority has been available a few days...
(07:36:03 PM) deejoe: ok, you said you just added that bit about membership
(07:36:11 PM) ausimage: I guess I could punt this to the list....
(07:36:23 PM) ausimage: to see what happens there as well
(07:36:36 PM) darweth left the room (quit: "Leaving").
(07:36:51 PM) deejoe: well, if it had been on the agenda for a while for people to read, I wouldn't say so, but yes, if you're in a hurry to make it so, it might be considerate to mention it more explicitly.;
(07:36:58 PM) deejoe: s/\;//
(07:37:27 PM) ausimage: I will make a better effort in the future deejoe...
(07:37:43 PM) deejoe: just my advice on how to make people feel more included :-)
(07:38:13 PM) ausimage: Yeah... 
(07:38:47 PM) ausimage: Last item I would like to touch on is Developing activities and Encouraging participation
(07:39:07 PM) ausimage: Do we have any ideas this week on the subject?
(07:39:30 PM) ausimage: deejoe your flier idea could help here too
(07:39:32 PM) deejoe: ok, maybe this would be a more appropriate time to geek out about fliers?
(07:39:35 PM) deejoe: hehe
(07:39:52 PM) Dave123: rochester meetup at pittsford wegmans?
(07:40:04 PM) deejoe: whoah, how long have you been lurking, Dave123?
(07:40:05 PM) ausimage: yeah meetups are helpful too
(07:40:20 PM) deejoe: I think meetups give fliers a purpose :-)
(07:40:22 PM) Dave123: deejoe, longer than you thing
(07:40:32 PM) deejoe: Dave123, you sneeky geek
(07:40:53 PM) deejoe: anyway, here's an observation.
(07:41:06 PM) deejoe: LUGOR seems to do little, if any, promotion in Rochester.
(07:41:30 PM) Dave123: deejoe, nick francesco?
(07:41:32 PM) ausimage: so we do the promoting?
(07:41:34 PM) deejoe: I've never seen a single Linux-related flier anywhere on the River Campus or Med Center at U. of Rochester.
(07:41:58 PM) deejoe: NF pimps LUGOR a little.
(07:42:25 PM) deejoe: but that seems to me more about him pointing people to LUGOR when it comes up, and less about LUGOR promoting itself.
(07:42:33 PM) ausimage: I really would like to develop a FOSS workshop
(07:42:46 PM) deejoe: ausimage: oh?
(07:42:48 PM) ausimage: that we can take the libraries
(07:42:52 PM) ausimage: yeah...
(07:43:00 PM) deejoe: Karlie has been talking about that.
(07:43:07 PM) deejoe: you been following that, ausimage?
(07:43:14 PM) ausimage: We demonstate x-platform apps on Ubuntu
(07:43:39 PM) ausimage: and give them the option of using Ubuntu with them or the current OS
(07:44:04 PM) ausimage: you have to start someplace with people caught inside the box
(07:44:18 PM) ausimage: yeah deejoe I saw that on the list...
(07:44:24 PM) deejoe: cool.
(07:44:55 PM) ausimage: I am not sure if the previous discusion dovetail in here or not...
(07:45:08 PM) deejoe: I think first things first.
(07:45:15 PM) ausimage: K
(07:45:19 PM) deejoe: concentrate on our strenghts, and build there.
(07:45:22 PM) deejoe: meetups.
(07:45:22 PM) falken: meetups are great for our Team...
(07:45:27 PM) deejoe: botsnack
(07:45:31 PM) deejoe: hmm.
(07:45:55 PM) davebags: do u guys carpool to the meetups
(07:46:07 PM) ausimage: yeah there are... meetups are important and that is why I pushed them for Rochester
(07:46:09 PM) deejoe: I don't think anyone has, davebags.
(07:46:37 PM) deejoe: then, fliers and other stuff.
(07:46:51 PM) ausimage: yeah... they could be helpful
(07:46:53 PM) deejoe: because honestly, we don't have manpower just oozing out of the woodwork to do many projects.
(07:47:04 PM) deejoe: and, there's a *ton* of low hanging fruit, IMO.
(07:47:06 PM) ausimage: no we do not
(07:47:09 PM) deejoe: that we are not even touching.
(07:47:37 PM) deejoe: to wit: no fliers at UR, no lug at Alfred, just to re-iterate some things from earlier.
(07:47:44 PM) deejoe: at RIT things might be better.
(07:47:59 PM) deejoe: because its more computer-geeky, so there's probably more word-of-mouth.
(07:48:16 PM) ausimage: I agree... we have a ~110 members...
(07:48:21 PM) deejoe: but even there, there's tremendous duplication of effort, what with the students having their own LUG while LUGOR *also* meets on campus.
(07:48:27 PM) deejoe: 110 nominal members.,
(07:48:38 PM) deejoe: <10 average at meetups.
(07:48:45 PM) deejoe: <10 average at IRC meetings.
(07:48:49 PM) ausimage: yeah... that is about right
(07:49:01 PM) ausimage: somehow we need to excite the membership 
(07:49:12 PM) deejoe: well, there are two ways to go:
(07:49:14 PM) ausimage: get them doing quick simple tasks
(07:49:31 PM) deejoe: one, to energize the membership one has--in other words, to boost percent efficiency.
(07:49:36 PM) ausimage: We need to develop a flier or two then ??
(07:49:52 PM) deejoe: The other one is to expect that only, say, 10% are ever going to be active, and so increase the pool.
(07:50:36 PM) deejoe: the latter I think reflects human nature better.
(07:50:43 PM) ausimage: One to raise interest in FLOSS and Ubuntu... another to offer guidance in setting up Gatherings?
(07:51:12 PM) ausimage: not sure how the later would work
(07:51:39 PM) deejoe: well, brian has volunteered to come down to meet with you if you identify folks more local to you who might want to meet
Dave123 davebags 
(07:52:01 PM) ausimage: Yeah... I have had an offer from Dave123 as well
(07:52:08 PM) deejoe: I think that's the sort of thing that could be a big confidence builder in a place where currently there isn't a core already.
(07:52:14 PM) ausimage: I did put a feeler on my blog today :)
(07:52:48 PM) deejoe: http://www.ausimage.us/Blog/20071127
(07:52:55 PM) deejoe: to be more specific :-)
(07:52:55 PM) ausimage: uhuh
(07:53:35 PM) ausimage: I hope some may see it...
(07:53:50 PM) deejoe: falken: seen bossmanbeta?
(07:53:50 PM) falken: bossmanbeta was last seen on #ubuntu-newyork 21 days, 20 hours, 49 minutes and 39 seconds ago, saying: yea I pretty much gave up on the meetings personally [Mon Nov  5 23:04:11 2007]
(07:53:59 PM) deejoe: too long ago, IMO
(07:54:13 PM) deejoe: also, interesting last words.
(07:54:24 PM) deejoe: recruitment *and* retention are important.
(07:54:25 PM) ausimage: yeah bossmanbeta seemed bummed by the turnout
(07:54:36 PM) deejoe: so, stick with us, hydrogen and davebags! :-)
(07:54:42 PM) ausimage: yes there are !
(07:55:10 PM) ausimage: It is very important that we know what the membership is looking for from us... :)
(07:55:14 PM) deejoe: I think this is why its important wherever possible to work to complement existing LUGs
(07:55:41 PM) ausimage: yeah that too... I got sobering details from isacklow_afk
(07:55:42 PM) deejoe: critical mass is hard to develop and maintain.
(07:55:55 PM) deejoe: oh, what about isacklow_afk?
(07:55:59 PM) ausimage: on his LUG that has assumed all others in that region
(07:56:15 PM) deejoe: assumed?
(07:56:19 PM) deejoe: you mean, assimilated?
(07:56:26 PM) ausimage: perhaps that
(07:56:33 PM) deejoe: like the Borg?
(07:56:46 PM) deejoe is now known as locutus_of_borg
(07:56:53 PM) ausimage: I guess... but that makes things less local then :S
(07:56:56 PM) locutus_of_borg: resistance is futile
(07:57:01 PM) locutus_of_borg is now known as deejoe
(07:57:31 PM) deejoe: hmm.
(07:57:58 PM) ausimage: I know... I think many small groups is better than a large mass 
(07:58:01 PM) Dave123: nice one, deejoe
(07:58:13 PM) deejoe: oh, look, Dave123 is still awake.
(07:58:34 PM) Dave123: we are on 5000
(07:58:39 PM) deejoe: feh
(07:58:55 PM) davebags: I would like to come to the meeting and meet u all in person but driving almost 3 hrs plus after work for me is not feasible
(07:58:56 PM) ausimage: So to sum up... We need to post fliers... about FLOSS and Support New Groups...???
(07:59:18 PM) Dave123: davebags, we had a meetup in binghamton a few weeks ago
(07:59:19 PM) deejoe: and help connect people to existing groups.
(07:59:22 PM) ausimage: and help by supporting meetups in the many regions
(07:59:33 PM) deejoe: davebags: what's your local LUG?
(07:59:44 PM) ausimage: SyrLug
(07:59:46 PM) davebags: albany
(07:59:51 PM) deejoe: aha
(07:59:52 PM) ausimage: oh right
(08:00:01 PM) deejoe: I ask that all the time, hard to remember.
(08:00:12 PM) davebags: most of u guys are from out west correct?
(08:00:13 PM) ***ausimage was thinking of another person :S
(08:00:24 PM) Dave123: davebags, yes
(08:00:26 PM) ***ausimage is in seneca county
Dave123 davebags 
(08:00:41 PM) deejoe: hydrogen: http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&client=iceweasel-a&rls=org.debian%3Aen-US%3Aunofficial&q=site%3Aalfred.edu+linux&btnG=Search
(08:00:46 PM) davebags: is that in buffalo
(08:01:04 PM) ausimage: no between Roch and Syr
(08:01:25 PM) deejoe: oops
(08:01:30 PM) ausimage: as Dave123 would say where cows get drunk on the grapes ;)
(08:01:32 PM) ausimage: :P
(08:01:43 PM) davebags: lol
(08:02:02 PM) davebags: whats a good way to contact albanylug
(08:02:12 PM) ausimage: ping isacklow_afk
(08:02:16 PM) davebags: is there a channel for them that u no of
(08:02:27 PM) ausimage: I believe so...
(08:02:35 PM) RobNyc [n=fedora@nylug/member/RobNyc] entered the room.
(08:02:39 PM) WeblionX left the room ("Leaving").
(08:02:39 PM) ausimage: but isacklow_afk is in here too ;)
Dave123 davebags 
(08:03:13 PM) deejoe: davebags: I'm looking
(08:03:20 PM) davebags: k thanks
(08:03:48 PM) deejoe: http://cdlug.net/ <-- davebags
(08:03:58 PM) deejoe: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Resources/NYLUGList
(08:04:00 PM) ausimage: I think that is all the topics , no???
(08:04:11 PM) deejoe: so, maybe now to new business?
(08:04:34 PM) ausimage: I did skip a few that are more informative or the representative is not here
(08:04:40 PM) ausimage: sure...
(08:05:00 PM) deejoe: I guess if hydrogen is still with us and still wants to hash out some of his concerns . . .
(08:05:03 PM) ausimage: the new business was the discussion early?
(08:05:04 PM) deejoe: hydrogen, you there?
(08:05:12 PM) hydrogen: yea on and offish
(08:05:16 PM) hydrogen: not enough
(08:05:20 PM) hydrogen: and my concerns arn't that major
(08:05:28 PM) hydrogen: I'm an advocate of foss without this channel
(08:05:32 PM) deejoe: ok, seriously, you have any interest in trying to find like minds at Alfred?
(08:06:29 PM) deejoe: ok, seriously, you have any interest in trying to find like minds at Alfred, hydrogen?
(08:06:41 PM) ***deejoe should remember to directly address folks, probably.
(08:06:43 PM) hydrogen: not at present
(08:06:46 PM) hydrogen: i saw what you said
(08:06:46 PM) deejoe: oh.
(08:06:48 PM) hydrogen: i'm just busy
(08:06:50 PM) hydrogen: right now
(08:06:54 PM) deejoe: heh.
(08:06:56 PM) hydrogen: got a bunch of papers to write
(08:06:56 PM) deejoe: ok, nm.
(08:06:59 PM) hydrogen: its okay
(08:07:04 PM) hydrogen: i'm procrastinating anyways :)
(08:07:09 PM) ausimage: ok... hydrogen if you would like to discuss more let us now 
(08:07:17 PM) deejoe: yeah, please do.
(08:07:30 PM) deejoe: as it stands now, you're the lone sentinel.
(08:07:35 PM) ausimage: Any other business tonight??
(08:07:49 PM) deejoe: davebags, you good?
(08:07:50 PM) ***ausimage is a lone setinel as well here ;)
(08:08:37 PM) ausimage: Ok this meeting is adjourned then :D
</pre>
