{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is a meeting for the <nowiki>[[..-..-Newsletter|Newsletter Committee]]</nowiki> of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 7:00 PM EST and finishing at 8:00 PM EST. When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

The meeting will occur on IRC (#ubuntu-us-ny) and Gobby (server TBA) simultaneously.

== Agenda ==

== Attendance ==

DaraAdib, PrivateVoid, calimer, Ausimage, InfectedWithDrew, hal14450, marnold

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
[19:28:40] <daradib> Started Meeting
[19:28:48] <daradib> So first thing
[19:28:51] <PrivateVoid> I am delaying my bubble bath to attend this meeting :-)
[19:28:53] <PrivateVoid> just kidding
[19:29:03] <InfectedWithDrew> Well, now that we got that out of the way <_<
[19:29:06] <daradib> Anyone interested in taking roles of Rochester and Syracuse articles
[19:29:19] <InfectedWithDrew> What is entailed in that job?
[19:29:35] <daradib> writing news of the local groups
[19:29:45] <daradib> and reporting about everything local
[19:29:59] <daradib> If you take a look at newsletter, there are blank spaces on those areas.
[19:30:03] <InfectedWithDrew> Oh, I'm not yet involved in SyrLUG or anything like that.  I'll pass.
[19:30:13] <hal14450> i'd like to write one about Open Street Maps but i feel someone or perhaps a gorup should be editors approving content per area
[19:30:13] <daradib> I meant from NY Ubuntu LoCo
[19:30:35] <PrivateVoid> InfectedWithDrew, I don't think you have to be involved with those groups...
[19:30:41] <PrivateVoid> just know what is going on with them
[19:30:56] <InfectedWithDrew> But the problem is that I don't know what's going on.
[19:30:59] <PrivateVoid> and other FOSS things in Syracuse
[19:31:02] <daradib> I was referring to specifically the regional groups of this loco team
[19:31:22] <daradib> PrivateVoid: where are you located?
[19:31:22] <InfectedWithDrew> Oh, but still, I don't know anything about what our members in Syracuse are doing.
[19:31:28] <PrivateVoid> I am in Rochester
[19:31:43] <daradib> You interested in writing about all Rochester events
[19:31:55] <calimer> I'm still interesting in writing the game news for the article
[19:32:03] <PrivateVoid> I will gladly bear the burden of writing an article, though I think we have many Rochester people that would be willing to do so as well.
[19:32:06] <daradib> including specifically regional team events in Rochester
[19:32:20] <calimer> er newsletter
[19:32:33] <daradib> PrivateVoid: well please bring it up
[19:32:44] <PrivateVoid> daradib, I will...
[19:32:48] <daradib> ok
[19:32:51] <daradib> Syracuse?
[19:32:58] <daradib> anyone here from Syracuse?
[19:33:01] <hal14450> i'm happy to write something i have information on or collaborate
[19:33:06] <PrivateVoid> we may want to use marnold for that as he is there
[19:33:11] <PrivateVoid> or... (give me a second)
[19:33:14] <InfectedWithDrew> I am from (near) Syracuse but I mentioned why I passed.
[19:33:24] <daradib> ok
[19:33:44] <PrivateVoid> http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=95090
[19:33:51] <daradib> and another question, should we use real names in newsletter
[19:33:52] <hal14450> InfectedWithDrew, i'm sure you could get in touch w/ a few of the syracuse area people and work something out
[19:33:52] <PrivateVoid> he is from Syracuse and active in the SYRLUG
[19:34:05] <PrivateVoid> daradib, I am torn on that....
[19:34:05] <InfectedWithDrew> hal14450, who are they?  o.<
[19:34:06] <daradib> for attribution and for election info
[19:34:11] <marnold> here
[19:34:14] <PrivateVoid> for security reasons I would prefer not...
[19:34:18] <hal14450> there's one ;-)
[19:34:20] <daradib> marnold: hello!
[19:34:38] <daradib> PrivateVoid: your real name shall be Private Void
[19:34:43] <hal14450> lol
[19:34:44] <daradib> haha
[19:34:45] <InfectedWithDrew> daradib, I think unless the person gives you permission, no.
[19:34:45] <PrivateVoid> marnold, is from Syracuse
[19:34:57] <PrivateVoid> daradib, there is no space in that... legally :-)
[19:35:03] <hal14450> i prefer to be known as hal14450 for the purposes of the newsletter as well
[19:35:13] <PrivateVoid> maybe I will pick the name Chad Johnson as a pen name
[19:35:15] <daradib> InfectedWithDrew: that sounds reasonable
[19:35:35] <daradib> the thing is, should i say ausimage is president
[19:35:37] <InfectedWithDrew> I do not mind being referred to as "Drew" but I don't want my surname up there.
[19:35:55] <daradib> and hal14450 is secretary
[19:36:20] <hal14450> otherwise known as slacker at large
[19:36:25] <hal14450> lol
[19:36:33] <PrivateVoid> Unless they want their name on there yes -- use their on-line name
[19:36:57] <daradib> so hal14450, is should change election info
[19:37:15] <hal14450> yes i need to update some stuff on the wiki
[19:37:30] <PrivateVoid> due to the security concerns and SS investigation I would prefer to stay screen name (perhaps with a first name)
[19:37:30] <hal14450> been sick all weekend though
[19:37:31] <daradib> So PrivateVoid you will remain PrivateVoid
[19:37:39] <PrivateVoid> thanks :-)
[19:37:45] <daradib> and hal14450 you wish to remain hal14450, correct?
[19:37:51] <hal14450> yep
[19:37:57] <daradib> ausimage, you?
[19:38:30] <ausimage> I think first names are fine...
[19:38:58] <hal14450> i could live with a first name as well
[19:39:03] <ausimage> I try not to use my full name... but that does not always work :/
[19:39:10] <daradib> Ok then
[19:39:22] <PrivateVoid> yep... PrivateVoid (aka Charles) or just plain Charles will work for me
[19:39:27] <daradib> please sent me a private message with the name you wish to be referred to
[19:39:45] <PrivateVoid> but... think we need to use the screen name somewhere so readers will know us when they irc
[19:39:55] <daradib> good point
[19:40:34] <InfectedWithDrew> All right.  May I ask something?
[19:41:07] <daradib> InfectedWithDrew: are you fine with being referred to as InfectedWithDrew and/or Drew?
[19:41:24] <PrivateVoid> hal14450, you are going to write up your presentation for the news letter right?
[19:41:33] <InfectedWithDrew> Yes daradib.
[19:41:37] <InfectedWithDrew> I'm just going to ask.
[19:41:38] <InfectedWithDrew> I was told to write an article about using Ubuntu for student needs but I wasn't given specifics on what that covered.  Would you like an article on using OpenOffice, or should I also explain how to do basic tasks like browsing and email?
[19:41:49] <hal14450> yeah i can do that one i need to work on it a bit more though
[19:42:39] <daradib> I suggest taking a look at the OpenDisc for Education
[19:42:39] <daradib> They have a lot of software mentioned. Perhaps some info on some of these as you see fit?
[19:42:53] <hal14450> openoffice might be more useful since most a lot of people use a browser for both email and browsing
[19:42:55] <daradib> This is just my suggestion, rather than an article on a specific application
[19:43:21] <daradib> OpenOffice vs. Word or OpenOffice from scratch explanation?
[19:43:25] <InfectedWithDrew> OpenDisc for Education is Windows-based, I think.
[19:43:30] <daradib> InfectedWithDrew: yes it is
[19:43:40] <daradib> I meant the applications, most of which run on Ubuntu
[19:44:04] <PrivateVoid> InfectedWithDrew, I think an article about Open Office is a good one... tie it in with how Firefox is an alternative to IE and Open Office is an alternative to Office
[19:44:23] <daradib> InfectedWithDrew: it's really up to you, though
[19:44:25] <InfectedWithDrew> Well, I think it was PrivateVoid who suggested the idea to me and it was to my understanding that he wanted me to write about Ubuntu, but I didn't know if it should include only OO, only the core apps, or anything that Ubuntu can use.
[19:44:28] <PrivateVoid> also make sure you cover how you can save to Office 2003 formats
[19:45:15] <PrivateVoid> the purpose, I had in mind, would be to highlight apps available in Ubuntu and how students would use them in education
[19:45:20] <InfectedWithDrew> Can't you also save to 2007 formats?
[19:45:24] <-- WeblionX has quit (Read error: 60 (Operation timed out))
[19:45:32] * daradib thinks an article about several _'s as alternatives to Windows-only _'s is better than one specific article, but that's just my opinion
[19:45:34] <hal14450> http://on-disk.com/product_info.php/products_id/578
[19:45:37] <PrivateVoid> It is also good to talk about how they can transition from Windows to Ubuntu
[19:45:45] <daradib> InfectedWithDrew: OpenOffice 3 i believe
[19:45:48] * hal14450 pimps the NY based on-disk.com
[19:45:51] <PrivateVoid> I am not sure if Open Office allows saving out as 2007 or not
[19:46:01] <daradib> it's a feature in version 3
[19:46:02] <PrivateVoid> not the one with Ubuntu anyway, but I am not sure about version 3
[19:46:16] <InfectedWithDrew> Ok.  I'll make sure that people are aware of that.
[19:46:37] <InfectedWithDrew> It's funny... they included FF3 beta last time but they didn't include OO3 (stable) this time.
[19:46:44] <PrivateVoid> presently 2003 format is likely better because not all schools have converted to 2007 yet
[19:47:15] <InfectedWithDrew> That's true.  Actually, presently, open formats are better ;)
[19:47:31] <daradib> right now, office 2007 support imho isn't much of an issue as most people use older format (.doc) or PDF
[19:47:55] <InfectedWithDrew> Ok.  I will write only about anything that comes in the Live CD.
[19:47:57] <daradib> and of course it's a good idea to promote free formats like ODF
[19:48:23] <hal14450> anything that isn't proprietary is key to promote
[19:48:28] <daradib> GIMP and Pidgin as well
[19:48:58] <InfectedWithDrew> Does Ubuntu come with Inkscape?
[19:49:03] <daradib> But it's up to you, whatever article you think is better
[19:49:04] <InfectedWithDrew> I forget if I installed it myself or not.
[19:49:08] <daradib> InfectedWithDrew: no
[19:49:22] <PrivateVoid> hal14450, in reality students may not be able to submit an ODF as Office has no support for it
[19:49:27] <daradib> PDF
[19:49:37] <daradib> mention that it has PDF export support, definitely
[19:49:44] <hal14450> true but you can save it in a .doc format if memory serves
[19:49:55] <PrivateVoid> daradib, do you see my updates to issue 1?
[19:50:07] <daradib> PrivateVoid: yes
[19:50:11] <PrivateVoid> k
[19:50:22] <PrivateVoid> you are the designated issue 'saver'?
[19:51:18] <daradib> sure
[19:51:19] <InfectedWithDrew> Ok, then I'll cover using OO and the GIMP and I will mention Firefox, Evolution, Pidgin, Ekiga, Transmission, Rhythmbox, and Brasero as alternatives to such and such Windows software (but not cover how to use them).
[19:51:33] <daradib> sounds good to me
[19:51:49] <hal14450> k3b is another fine alternative for burning
[19:51:55] <hal14450> i prefer it
[19:52:10] <PrivateVoid> InfectedWithDrew, perhaps pick one app per issue to focus on
[19:52:19] <PrivateVoid> really getting in depth with how to use them
[19:52:21] <InfectedWithDrew> Per issue?
[19:52:25] <InfectedWithDrew> Oh.
[19:52:28] <InfectedWithDrew> I could do that too.
[19:52:32] <PrivateVoid> yeah... we are going to do one a month
[19:52:43] <InfectedWithDrew> Perhaps I'll just start off doing equivalents, since that's a no-brainer
[19:52:58] <InfectedWithDrew> OO ~ MSO, GIMP ~ Photoshop, etc.
[19:53:00] <PrivateVoid> start with a general article on the apps that Ubuntu has and how they provide the ability to do work as the <blanl< app does in Windows
[19:53:11] <daradib> question: what's the Facebook status
[19:53:12] <hal14450> ahh there's an idea give the alternatives and then focus on one per month
[19:53:14] <PrivateVoid> then follow-up with an in-depth article on each
[19:53:14] <InfectedWithDrew> All right, that sounds good.
[19:53:22] <daradib> does a team member have admin status
[19:53:30] <daradib> (for the group)
[19:53:42] <daradib> rather specifically, an active team member
[19:53:46] <hal14450> for which resource?
[19:53:53] <daradib> facebook
[19:53:56] <hal14450> oh
[19:54:02] <InfectedWithDrew> Sounds good.  I think that I will divide each OO app separately.  I could do well with Impress and Writer (but I'm noob at Calc and don't really use Base or Draw).
[19:54:08] <hal14450> hendrixski does i think
[19:54:09] <PrivateVoid> yes someone was given that today
[19:54:14] <daradib> ok good
[19:54:15] <PrivateVoid> hendrixski, is also here and active
[19:54:16] <InfectedWithDrew> But then again Ubuntu doesn't come with Base...
[19:54:28] <PrivateVoid> InfectedWithDrew, but it can be installed -- it is in the repos
[19:55:16] <daradib> so PrivateVoid i'll give you the responsibility to find people to maintain Rochester and Syracuse articles
[19:55:36] <daradib> or groups of people
[19:55:37] <PrivateVoid> ah...
[19:55:38] <InfectedWithDrew> PrivateVoid, yes, but 1) it's not something most students use and 2) I want to cover just what's in the official release first, and then if I still have time when I'm done (because it'll be once I'm in college) I'll continue with others.
[19:55:49] <PrivateVoid> marnold, would likely be better for Syracuse until we can find another
[19:55:59] <InfectedWithDrew> Be right back.
[19:56:03] <PrivateVoid> sounds good InfectedWithDrew
[19:56:21] <daradib> do we need a general news section?
[19:56:36] <daradib> any related news (from blogs, etc --- post teasers and links)
[19:57:45] <PrivateVoid> daradib, I think it would be a good idea to include some news from other parts of the FOSS universe, but it is not needed
[19:57:47] <daradib> i'll add a member opinions section for all of InfectedWithDrew's article and any other essays/articles on something related to Ubuntu
[19:58:07] <PrivateVoid> once we get started I would like to have a 'letters to the editor' section
[19:58:10] <daradib> i'll leave it in, and strip it out at end if nothing is written
[19:58:48] <InfectedWithDrew> I am back.
[19:58:49] <daradib> ausimage: how did you calculated the team membership?
[19:59:06] <ausimage> calculate?
[19:59:15] <daradib> did you prevent against duplicated entries in website, Launchpad team, website
[19:59:22] <ausimage> yes
[19:59:33] <InfectedWithDrew> daradib, EXCELLENT idea!  Could I create a separate file for my article on the gobby server so others can check it?
[19:59:35] <daradib> ok, so number is accurate, ok good
[19:59:37] <ausimage> I merged all the sources I have access to
[19:59:42] <PrivateVoid> I think team membership is something we have to discuss....
[19:59:42] <daradib> InfectedWithDrew: sure
[19:59:50] <PrivateVoid> when to count them... and when not...
[20:00:04] <daradib> yes i agree
[20:00:04] * ausimage think the number is faux :?
[20:00:11] * PrivateVoid nods
[20:00:12] <hal14450> daradib, if you're going to be the editor maybe we should setup a mailbox for people to send stories to and then we can decide which ones get included i think that might be a better way to include member submissions than having them edit a wiki
[20:00:22] <PrivateVoid> I just question how active folks are...
[20:00:27] <daradib> sure, sounds acceptable to me
[20:00:40] <daradib> but perhaps we should count all registered users
[20:00:44] <PrivateVoid> and when we try for 'official' status I do not want to have anyone think we are inflating things
[20:00:49] <InfectedWithDrew> Do I need to use wiki-like headings?
[20:00:51] <daradib> active members is something different
[20:01:09] <ausimage> PrivateVoid: many teams do not limit the lp membership :/
[20:01:11] <daradib> InfectedWithDrew: you should, but if you don't i'll change it for newsletter
[20:01:18] <ausimage> but I chose that early on :)
[20:01:20] <PrivateVoid> I am not talking about that ausimage
[20:01:28] <ausimage> :?
[20:01:31] <hal14450> are we going to make printed copies of this and hand them out at meetups and such?
[20:01:33] <PrivateVoid> I am fine with using email list, etc...
[20:01:42] <daradib> hal14450: what about sending to mailing list?
[20:01:43] <PrivateVoid> but how often do we purge old emails?
[20:01:45] <InfectedWithDrew> daradib, more equal signs means smaller header, right?
[20:01:49] <daradib> yes
[20:01:55] <hal14450> daradib, that sounds like a viable option
[20:01:59] <daradib> or a form on team website from ausimage
[20:01:59] <PrivateVoid> hal14450, I would like to print some
[20:02:19] <hal14450> i can set up a seperate mailing list for it if need be
[20:02:29] <PrivateVoid> sep. mailing list for what?
[20:02:32] * hal14450 already has mailman installed
[20:02:32] <PrivateVoid> the newsletter?
[20:02:35] <hal14450> yeah
[20:02:37] <daradib> article submissions
[20:02:44] <hal14450> just a thought
[20:02:49] <daradib> i think it's better not to
[20:02:58] <daradib> keeps everything together
[20:03:05] <hal14450> PrivateVoid, i sure think it's a great idea to hand out a newslette at meetups
[20:03:06] <daradib> unless mail becomes too much
[20:03:11] <PrivateVoid> I would think we would want all people currently on the mailing list to get the first one, with an opt-out option for the future
[20:03:27] <hal14450> fair enough
[20:03:27] --> WeblionX (n=Webster@eggplant.rh.rit.edu) has joined #ubuntu-us-ny
[20:03:41] <hal14450> hello WeblionX 
[20:04:01] <PrivateVoid> do not want to risk offending a person to the point they leave the mailing list
[20:04:03] <daradib> hal14450: I could convert wiki syntax to docbook to LaTeX to PDF
[20:04:06] <InfectedWithDrew> How do I save a file on gobby?
[20:04:30] <ausimage> daradib: the ubuntu wiki does that automagicaly
[20:04:32] <ausimage> :)
[20:04:43] <hal14450> daradib, that sounds like a plan
[20:04:54] <daradib> ausimage: it should but doesn't have software installed if i remember correctly
[20:04:54] <hal14450> either way it works
[20:05:04] <ausimage> :/
[20:05:06] <daradib> the moinmoin -> docbook converter
[20:05:23] <ausimage> hows comes it says it shows the option?
[20:05:31] <daradib> try it, it gives error
[20:05:35] <hal14450> moinmoin is a bit confuzzling to use at times the syntax can drive you bonkers
[20:06:10] <daradib> and more motions?
[20:06:29] <daradib> ausimage: you going to add log of this meeting
[20:06:46] <hal14450> i should probably be the one to do that
[20:07:15] <ausimage> I can
[20:07:38] <ausimage> but yeah hal14450 should...
[20:07:38] <hal14450> been a while though and i'm sure i'll need help w/ the syntax yet again to be sure the lines are formatted properly
[20:07:47] <daradib> anyone opposed to ending meeting?
[20:08:17] <daradib> Meeting Adjourned

</pre>
