{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Release Party Ubuntu 7.04 in New York - Rochester ===

We would like to throw a party to celebrate the Ubuntu 7.04 "Feisty Fawn" release, open for everybody interested.  

To find out how you can help with the party please contact Barnaba Bieńkowski .

'''To RSVP for this event Please add your name to the RSVP List at the bottom of this page.'''

* '''Date:''' April 21, 2007 - The Saturday Following The Release
* '''Time:''' 3:30PM until whenever we get tired :)
*** There is an installfest hosted by LUGOR Saturday morning from 9 to 3 at RIT.  Bring a friend and install Ubuntu for them, or troubleshoot your upgrade.
*** You should register for the installfest at http://www.lugor.org/. We recommend an afternoon time-slot.

* '''Location:''' Jitters Café in ``South``Town Plaza, Rochester (Convenient for everyone from Buffalo to Syracuse)
** Features
** Great Layout for Trivia and Discussion
** Free Wireless
** Just installed plasma screen in the room we have reserved!!!
** West Henrietta Road, Rochester NY, 14623, next to Office Max.  Conveniently close to RIT campus, so come on over after the installfest.
** Driving Directions From the thruway:	
** Take thruway to exit 46 for I-390 toward Rochester/Corning
** Keep left at the fork to continue toward Lehigh Station Rd/RT-253
** Keep right at the fork, follow signs for RT-253/Lehigh Station Rd/RT-15	
** Keep left at the fork, follow signs for RT-253 W/RT-15	
** Turn left at Lehigh Station Rd/RT-253	
** Turn right at W Henrietta Rd/RT-15
* '''Activities'''
** Hand out Ubuntu Feisty CDs that we burned.
** Ubuntu/Linux Trivia contest.  Winners get prizes!
** Discussion of the impact of technology in our lives.  How Ubuntu is making it better.

* '''Funding'''
** CDs will come from whoever is generous enough to burn them and bring them to the party ;).
** everyone buys their own coffee and food (Jitters is very inexpensive, and tasty)
** Voluntary donations welcome.

==== RSVP List ====

Add your name and email to this list to RSVP for the Feisty Release Party in Rochester.

1. Barnaba Bieńkowski -  - 0 Guests
