{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''7th''' meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:30 EST
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==

The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Announcements
* Discuss Major issues
** Release Party - NYC & Rochester
** Increase Attendance at meetings
** Improve management of mailing List
** Improve management of wiki
* Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting

== Minutes ==

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
(06:09:02 PM) yharrow: wow, we have a very good attendance today
(06:09:43 PM) samiam010203: were getting nice and big yharrow
(06:09:53 PM) yharrow:  Hey everyone, and Welcome to the New York teams 7th General Meeting.
(06:09:59 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: ya
(06:10:15 PM) ***yharrow waits for applause
(06:10:22 PM) yharrow: ;)
(06:10:25 PM) ***hendrixski applauds
(06:10:35 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: I don't think we have VoIP here. ;)
(06:10:55 PM) cyrusjones: ausimage: this is the captcha I was talking about
(06:10:57 PM) cyrusjones: http://www.mehrayeen.com/wiki/index.php?title=Special:Userlogin&type=signup
(06:11:08 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: we actually do have a voip/conference system inthe workings
(06:11:26 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: we will probably hold a voice meeting once a month
(06:11:33 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: :o
(06:12:08 PM) yharrow: thanks to GNu_Joe i beleive for introducing the idea, and for helping us follow through with that
(06:12:13 PM) hendrixski: I still haven't tried Ekiga on Ubuntu, is that what we would use?
(06:12:27 PM) cyrusjones: what about twinkle
(06:12:36 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: personally Ihave an easier time with gizmo and skype
(06:12:50 PM) samiam010203: skype would be best i think yharrow
(06:12:56 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: never heard of twinkle. I will probably check it out a bit later
(06:13:02 PM) ***GNu_Joe wakes up and streaches 
(06:13:03 PM) cyrusjones: I love twinkle, it lets me transfer and have multiple lines in my gizmo account
(06:13:18 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: even though its closed source, I tend to agree with you
(06:13:19 PM) cyrusjones: which doesn't have those features it's program
(06:13:23 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: I'm not sure if my cam/mic is still installed. I had a hard time doing it the first time.
(06:13:25 PM) samiam010203: true
(06:13:35 PM) yharrow: ok.. so announcements for today
(06:13:37 PM) yharrow: lets see
(06:13:51 PM) cyrusjones: i disagree and say gizmo might be good cause at least we stick with SIP standard
(06:14:30 PM) yharrow: ok..
(06:14:35 PM) GNu_Joe: sticking with a standard like SIP is important
(06:14:40 PM) yharrow: first off, I would like to welcome all new members
(06:15:43 PM) yharrow: hmm
(06:16:21 PM) ***Zyrshnikashnu waits patiently
(06:16:43 PM) yharrow: Im hesitant to tell hendrixski and Zyrshnikashnu  "welcome to the team" since theyve done so much work in the time theyve been here
(06:16:52 PM) hendrixski: lol
(06:16:52 PM) yharrow: sorry guys, just focusing my thoughts here
(06:17:25 PM) hendrixski: 's Ok
(06:17:31 PM) yharrow: ok.. as for those for those of you who are unaware there is a release party coming
(06:17:37 PM) samiam010203: did we decide on a spot for the release party yet yharrow?
(06:17:39 PM) hendrixski: plural
(06:17:40 PM) ausimage: yharrow you know you pretype your speeches ;)
(06:17:54 PM) yharrow: sorry, 2 release parties
(06:17:58 PM) yharrow: ausimage: how did you find out?
(06:18:07 PM) yharrow: ausimage: that was supposed to be my little secret ;)
(06:18:14 PM) ***Azbadon thinks yharrow is a bot~
(06:18:18 PM) yharrow: lmao
(06:18:48 PM) yharrow: Azbadon: Free chili. go to http://getfreechili, to order your chili today!
(06:18:59 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: The only other op IS a bot...
(06:19:17 PM) Azbadon: So it only makes sense!
(06:19:19 PM) hendrixski: those bots, they're taking over
(06:19:19 PM) Azbadon: Anyways....
(06:19:20 PM) yharrow: the release parties will be held in 2 sepearate locations
(06:19:35 PM) yharrow: There will be one in Rochester, hosted by hendrixski
(06:19:42 PM) hendrixski: and it will rock
(06:19:48 PM) yharrow: yeah!
(06:19:54 PM) yharrow: and there will be one in NYC hosted by myself
(06:20:13 PM) samiam010203: i wish i could be there yharrow :)
(06:20:15 PM) yharrow: the one in Rochester will be held at a cafe down the block from the LUGOR installfest
(06:20:18 PM) cyrusjones: And what about NYC?
(06:20:32 PM) cyrusjones: :-)
(06:20:38 PM) cyrusjones: where will it be located?
(06:20:42 PM) yharrow: it will take place on Saturday april 21, at  3 PM
(06:20:56 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: The suspense is killing me.
(06:20:57 PM) yharrow: the one in NYC will be held at a cafe called "think coffee'
(06:21:03 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, at Jitters cafe.. the info on the wiki about it is up to date
(06:21:28 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Hmm.
(06:21:29 PM) jhendrixfan: hey all, sorry i was at the TV repair shop. this is Seabag on my desktop btw
(06:21:30 PM) yharrow: the NYC party will take place on Sunday April 21, at 3 PM.
(06:21:40 PM) cyrusjones: ???
(06:21:46 PM) yharrow: sorry small typo, the Rochester party is at 3:30PM
(06:22:02 PM) yharrow: and the NYC party is on the 22nd
(06:22:08 PM) cyrusjones: OK
(06:22:08 PM) yharrow: got mixed up for  a second
(06:22:10 PM) hendrixski: jhendrixfan, you're going to confuse people if you change usernames all the time
(06:22:29 PM) yharrow: who is jhendrixfan ?
(06:22:36 PM) jhendrixfan: 'tis me, seabg
(06:22:37 PM) jhendrixfan: seabag
(06:22:40 PM) ausimage: hendrixski: it is an omage toyou
(06:22:51 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: = jhendrixfan ?
(06:22:57 PM) jhendrixfan: yea
(06:22:59 PM) jhendrixfan: er no
(06:23:01 PM) cyrusjones: LOL
(06:23:01 PM) hendrixski: jhendrixfan, and if it's so close to mine...  you can change it back to seabag by clicking on your name just left of where you type stuff in
(06:23:03 PM) jhendrixfan: jhendrixfan knows hendrixski
(06:23:08 PM) yharrow: ahh, ok
(06:23:15 PM) hendrixski: jhendrixfan, a little box pops up and you just change the name
(06:23:17 PM) jhendrixfan: yea im on a whole different compy here
(06:23:20 PM) jhendrixfan: not evne using xchat
(06:23:24 PM) jhendrixfan: hold your horses
(06:23:24 PM) yharrow: ausimage: an homage, as you said, or rather 2 homages to jimmy hendrix
(06:23:31 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, yeah, it's one of my friends that I signed up yesterday
(06:24:01 PM) yharrow: hendrixski:  you mean jhendrixfan is now part of our team?
(06:24:26 PM) hendrixski: he's in rochester, he uses Ubuntu, and he'll be at the release party... so.. yes
(06:24:27 PM) ausimage: Yeah yharrow another one one for Monroe and Rochester
(06:24:48 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, he's on the members list as "seabag"  ... his name's marc
(06:24:56 PM) samiam010203: what other anoucnments do we have yharrow?
(06:24:57 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: sounds great.:D , the more people we can get interested the better
(06:25:19 PM) GNu_Joe: how many member are we up to?
(06:25:30 PM) ausimage: mid 20s I think
(06:25:51 PM) GNu_Joe: want to break 100
(06:25:58 PM) seabag: hhhokei
(06:26:29 PM) hendrixski: 29 I just counted
(06:26:33 PM) ausimage: GNu_Joe: there is a little friendly competition between Rochester Metro and NYC 
(06:26:39 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: other then the fact that oiur membership is booming, and that I'd like to see some activity on the idea thread, http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=387941 thats about it.
(06:26:48 PM) hendrixski: wb seabag :-)
(06:26:52 PM) samiam010203: cool yharrow
(06:26:53 PM) yharrow: anyone else have an announcement to make?
(06:26:56 PM) seabag: yarr
(06:27:04 PM) yharrow: seabag: welcome to the team! :D
(06:27:10 PM) GNu_Joe: samiam010203, BTW need 40 cd's so bump your order by at least that much
(06:27:12 PM) seabag: thanks this rules
(06:27:32 PM) samiam010203: i got 80 o9n the way and im email johno about the fesity cds
(06:27:36 PM) yharrow: yeah! we Rule!
(06:27:50 PM) GNu_Joe: question to all, when is the best time for a phone confrence? for the monthly voice meeting?
(06:27:50 PM) hendrixski: the only anouncement I got is that Rochester is all set up and ready for Saturdays release party (except for prizes and CD's)
(06:27:51 PM) ausimage: GNu_Joe: I saw the alotment for feisty today
(06:27:59 PM) yharrow: GNu_Joe: I don't know how many canonical will give me. We should start setting up a way to burn our own CDs at some point
(06:28:06 PM) hendrixski: that includes reservations being made and marketing on its way (but not yet posted)
(06:28:12 PM) cyrusjones: Imprinting is an issue
(06:28:19 PM) cyrusjones: everyone wants professional CDs
(06:28:25 PM) yharrow:  I take it there are no more announcements?
(06:28:39 PM) GNu_Joe: ya wonder if we can just get like bulk printed lables
(06:28:44 PM) cyrusjones: We have the Weekends vs. Weekday thread
(06:28:50 PM) yharrow: sorry, hendrixski  just saw your announcement
(06:29:15 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, that's Ok... I just gave it   :-)~
(06:29:19 PM) ausimage: to quote from the fridge:
(06:29:20 PM) ausimage: Like with Edgy, Feisty CDs will be available to Approved LoCo teams in pre-picked packs. These packs will include the following range of platforms:  200 Ubuntu PC 25 Ubuntu 64bit 30 Kubuntu PC 15 Kubuntu 64bit 30 Edubuntu  
(06:29:37 PM) yharrow: I think that our our only issue right now is funding and CDs,
(06:30:07 PM) yharrow: prizes for the trivia will cost a little about 40$ USD for each party
(06:30:27 PM) yharrow: we can of course cut the number down to 2 prizes instead of 3
(06:30:53 PM) ausimage: yharrow I think I read system76 has the stickers
(06:31:14 PM) cyrusjones: yeah, I have 4 (using 1)
(06:31:28 PM) GNu_Joe: also good news on my front: I have a meeting with the CIO of the local school district about OSS/Edubuntu etc.
(06:31:52 PM) yharrow: here are the prizes and there prices
(06:31:53 PM) yharrow:  Official Ubuntu Book - From Amazon.com 	 $22.04  	 Voucher for T-Shirt or actual T-shirt (ships in 2 bsnss days) - Logo on pocket - Logo in Middle 	 $8.99 	 Voucher for Mug or actual Mug (ships in 2 bsnss days) - Logo on Left Side 	$10.99	Voucher for Hat or actual Hat (ships in 2 bsnss days) - Logo in middle 	$12.99	 Barnes&Nobles Gift card (they have lots of Linux books)
(06:31:53 PM) yharrow: 	15$?
(06:32:09 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: There's an official Ubuntu book? I had no idea.
(06:32:28 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: yeah, we would like to give it out as a prize but it cost over 20$
(06:32:28 PM) seabag: neet
(06:32:29 PM) GNu_Joe: Zyrshnikashnu, ya and it's actually good
(06:32:42 PM) cyrusjones: What about a Kubuntu book (i've never seen any other than official ubuntu documentation)
(06:32:46 PM) cyrusjones: :-(
(06:32:49 PM) yharrow: the least expensive item on the list is a custom T-shirt
(06:32:53 PM) samiam010203: i have all the official ubuntu books in ebook format yharrow
(06:32:54 PM) yharrow: which can be viewed here
(06:33:02 PM) GNu_Joe: Zyrshnikashnu, I have a copy and it's one of few tech books I've read
(06:33:07 PM) yharrow: http://www.cafepress.com/cp/customize/product.aspx?clear=true&number=125363023
(06:33:29 PM) hendrixski: Maybe you can sell a few shirts for $10 at the event?  that would cover some of the costs?
(06:33:29 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Nice.
(06:33:29 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: There is no way we could print it though :D
(06:33:50 PM) samiam010203: no but we can give it to the members to read on their computers
(06:33:59 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: that makes sense except that our profit would be 1$ ;)
(06:34:21 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: we couild sell em for 12$ though
(06:34:34 PM) Azbadon: I dont know how many people you expect, but perhaps they would give you a bulk price? Or just up the price a little..
(06:34:37 PM) GNu_Joe: samiam010203, coping anything digital is illegal ;-)
(06:34:41 PM) Azbadon: Or you can suggest that before me =P
(06:34:45 PM) yharrow: Azbadon: I'll go check
(06:35:39 PM) cyrusjones: Out of curiosity, can you print out the Ubuntu documentation and sell it for like $2?
(06:36:12 PM) Azbadon: Good question, since Ubuntu is free and all...
(06:36:17 PM) hendrixski: cyrusjones, depends... if you're selling people the convenience of having printed it.. then YES,  if you're just selling the documentation then NO
(06:36:38 PM) cyrusjones: i meant printing it
(06:36:48 PM) cyrusjones: that's why only for about $2
(06:36:58 PM) cyrusjones: but will it be ready by Sunday?
(06:37:14 PM) yharrow: I opened an account and started a ubuntuny store on cafepress. There currently arent any products but I will add them in a few days
(06:37:20 PM) yharrow: or a bit later
(06:37:20 PM) yharrow: http://www.cafepress.com/ubuntuny
(06:37:22 PM) hendrixski: then yes, because you're selling the service, not the copylefted material.  :-)
(06:37:23 PM) seabag: sweet
(06:38:07 PM) hendrixski: seabag, I think I'll order a few shirts... I like the ones with the logo on the pocket... you want one?  just pay me back for it tomorrow?
(06:38:23 PM) seabag: neh not yet, i have 86056546 shirts
(06:39:15 PM) samiam010203: yharrow is someone going to be taking pictures of the release party ?
(06:39:18 PM) hendrixski: seabag, did your accountant keep track of how many shirts you had too?  that's awefully precise
(06:39:25 PM) seabag: :D
(06:39:26 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: excellent question!
(06:39:44 PM) yharrow: we need someone to bring a camera to each of the parties
(06:40:05 PM) yharrow: also if you plan on attending any of the parties please add your name to RSVP
(06:40:08 PM) yharrow: List on the page
(06:40:13 PM) samiam010203: when i get back to nyc i could do it
(06:40:20 PM) yharrow: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/FeistyReleaseParty/NYC
(06:40:25 PM) yharrow: and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/FeistyReleaseParty/Rochester
(06:40:31 PM) samiam010203: i have both a digitial camera and digitial video camera
(06:40:42 PM) hendrixski: seabag, you got a digital camera to bring to the Rochester release party?
(06:40:45 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: you will be in nyc for the party?
(06:40:53 PM) samiam010203: no not till may 3rd
(06:41:07 PM) samiam010203: but i will be bringing it to our monthly meetings
(06:42:09 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: sounds cool
(06:42:16 PM) samiam010203: thanks
(06:42:25 PM) yharrow: anyone here attending the NYC party and have a digital camera?
(06:43:16 PM) yharrow: I could probably arrange to get a camera... but would be good if someone else hasone
(06:43:26 PM) samiam010203: yharrow im out now ill catch up tomorrow. everyone have a good/safe evening
(06:44:02 PM) yharrow: ok later
(06:44:14 PM) yharrow: who is still here?
(06:44:18 PM) cyrusjones: me
(06:44:26 PM) Azbadon: Myself
(06:44:27 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Present
(06:44:29 PM) ausimage: muah
(06:44:34 PM) Azbadon: But I am a mute, for our purposes...
(06:44:54 PM) cyrusjones: Azbadon: that is funny
(06:44:59 PM) ***hendrixski is not here
(06:45:00 PM) ausimage: what is left to discuss in this general meeting?? yharrow
(06:45:08 PM) yharrow: Azbadon: heh. well if you feel like saying anything, feel free to speak up ;)
(06:45:13 PM) yharrow: #
(06:45:13 PM) yharrow: Increase Attendance at meetings
(06:45:13 PM) yharrow: #
(06:45:13 PM) yharrow: Improve management of mailing List
(06:45:13 PM) yharrow: #
(06:45:13 PM) yharrow: Improve management of wiki
(06:45:35 PM) yharrow: the last couple meetings had very poor attendance
(06:45:46 PM) cyrusjones: Promoting Ubuntu?? Increasing funds through selling stuff (sort of covered that already)??
(06:45:46 PM) yharrow: with less then 3 members appearing at the meeting
(06:46:00 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: that is definitel an issue that we should get to today
(06:46:08 PM) cyrusjones: so what does one say to downloading and printing entire documentation (Ubuntu and Kubuntu Desktop Guides) and charge about $2 (or something like that) each?
(06:46:12 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: I would like to resolve the funding issue
(06:46:41 PM) seabag: and whom do we sell these to?
(06:46:48 PM) cyrusjones: ourselves?
(06:46:52 PM) ausimage: hey part of the funding issue my require get a non-profit status ;)
(06:46:54 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: it sounds doable,how many pages is it?
(06:47:02 PM) cyrusjones: don't know
(06:47:09 PM) cyrusjones: it hasn't been released yet
(06:47:10 PM) yharrow: ausimage: good point.
(06:47:21 PM) cyrusjones: should be around like 80-90 pages
(06:47:25 PM) cyrusjones: fairly long
(06:47:46 PM) cyrusjones: Though I think like 20 pages are liscenses (do we need to include that)
(06:47:47 PM) yharrow: ausimage: If we have time later on we will discuss getting a non-profit status, I dunno if we can cover that this meeting
(06:47:57 PM) ausimage: yes cyrusjones
(06:48:07 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: printing it will probably cost us moer then 2$
(06:48:14 PM) ausimage: besides out of curteousy I would also email the authors...
(06:48:19 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: binding it will also cost money
(06:48:40 PM) ***Zyrshnikashnu is installing a webcam driver, so don't mind the silence
(06:48:56 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: ok
(06:49:25 PM) ***hendrixski thinks about the increasing meeting attendance issue
(06:49:49 PM) ausimage: perhaps using the mailing list would be helpful...
(06:49:52 PM) cyrusjones: I printed Kubuntu Edgy documentation (though I simply can't print the Feisty- I already printed a lot of pages) and binded with three hole puncher fasteners
(06:49:58 PM) ausimage: NO ONE is using it ;)
(06:50:07 PM) cyrusjones: good point
(06:50:08 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: I think that it would be nice if all of our members commited to attend at least 2 meetings a month.
(06:50:34 PM) ausimage: 2 a month or excused absence ??
(06:50:50 PM) cyrusjones: and then you become inactive?
(06:50:58 PM) ausimage: if not attend then set members inactive?
(06:51:02 PM) ausimage: jinx
(06:51:03 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: I like that idea :)
(06:51:12 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: a little harsh, but neccessary
(06:51:16 PM) cyrusjones: maybe once a month
(06:51:23 PM) cyrusjones: though recommend twice
(06:51:32 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: they will get 2 warnings
(06:51:35 PM) hendrixski: soo... if someone goes on vacation and forgets to tell.. they miss some meetings, and they find out they're not a member?
(06:51:38 PM) ausimage: I think there might be legitimate reasons for not attending....
(06:51:48 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: so 2 months in a row of non-attendance makes you inactive
(06:51:48 PM) cyrusjones: yes
(06:52:00 PM) cyrusjones: i agree on that i guess
(06:52:01 PM) hendrixski: When I was in a fraternity we had the same issue.. people just didn't want to come to meetings
(06:52:03 PM) ausimage: as long as there are active in a project.... 
(06:52:09 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: I mean non-attendance without reason
(06:52:36 PM) hendrixski: we found that punishing people for not attending was counter productive because it resulted in them showing up to NO MEETINGS AT ALL instead of once in a while
(06:52:51 PM) hendrixski: because they were just affraid that they'd show up and it would be uncomfortable
(06:53:06 PM) yharrow: hendrixski:thats a good point
(06:53:07 PM) cyrusjones: whatever we decide we should post on the home page of the wiki
(06:53:07 PM) ausimage: hmmm what about a raffle???
(06:53:08 PM) seabag: yea i agree with you (for once) hendrixski. :D
(06:53:11 PM) hendrixski: It's better to incentivise people to show up to meetings
(06:53:21 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: we should have rewards for showing up and stuff
(06:53:23 PM) cyrusjones: Good point
(06:53:28 PM) hendrixski: for example.  if someone makes 2 meetings each month they should get recognized for it
(06:53:30 PM) cyrusjones: but where do we gut funds from
(06:53:30 PM) ausimage: RAFFLE ;)
(06:53:33 PM) seabag: and in the fraternity, we took a vow to always show up
(06:53:43 PM) cyrusjones: I got an idea
(06:53:49 PM) cyrusjones: we name people of the month
(06:53:50 PM) hendrixski: like on the wiki say "these people are recognized for their dedication"
(06:53:52 PM) cyrusjones: or rather members
(06:53:59 PM) seabag: ya
(06:54:05 PM) hendrixski: cyrusjones, excelent idea
(06:54:07 PM) cyrusjones: who go to all the meetings in a month (or 3/4)
(06:54:26 PM) yharrow: I was about to say we would need to give a physical prize, but recognition is worth more
(06:54:40 PM) ausimage: What about putting those in attendance and participating get their names in a raffle and at the end of the month pull name and get a prize
(06:54:51 PM) cyrusjones: funds?
(06:54:56 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I like that idea, but it will cost us money
(06:55:16 PM) ausimage: the prize does not need to be big....
(06:55:21 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I dislike the idea of membership dues, but Ithink voluntary donations is neccessary at this point
(06:55:37 PM) yharrow: ausimage: we could give them a team , t-shirt/hat/mug
(06:55:39 PM) ***hendrixski seconds the notion of NOT having membership dues
(06:55:58 PM) cyrusjones: non-profit issue should be resolved
(06:56:14 PM) hendrixski: I think yharrow said it best. recognition is worth more to people than any physical prize
(06:56:20 PM) ausimage: yeah... need explore parentship and all that as well...
(06:56:25 PM) cyrusjones: I agree with yharrow, no dues required but dues get you a t-shirt, etc.
(06:56:37 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: ausimage  put up a page for all those willing to get involved in arranging our nonprofit status
(06:56:37 PM) cyrusjones: mean donations
(06:57:03 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: like a recognized supporter t-shirt
(06:57:06 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/503c
(06:57:11 PM) seabag: <- has bbq sauce all over his kb
(06:57:15 PM) cyrusjones: I don't have much exdperience with non-profit organizations, but will read up on it
(06:57:20 PM) cyrusjones: yharrow: exactly
(06:57:21 PM) yharrow: just out of curiosity who here is able to pledge money to the teams cause?
(06:57:30 PM) yharrow: I pledge 15$
(06:57:31 PM) hendrixski: Motion to bring this to a vote... all who are in favor of keeping a list on the wiki of people who attend 3 meetings each month say aye, all opposed say nay
(06:57:40 PM) cyrusjones: aye
(06:57:48 PM) hendrixski: aye
(06:57:49 PM) seabag: aye cap'n
(06:57:55 PM) cyrusjones: unanimous?
(06:57:56 PM) yharrow: aye
(06:57:56 PM) ***ausimage aye
(06:57:56 PM) GNu_Joe: nay
(06:58:03 PM) yharrow: GNu_Joe: whys that/
(06:58:24 PM) cyrusjones: maybe it's a waste of time in his opinion
(06:58:26 PM) GNu_Joe: I alway have the desending vote
(06:58:32 PM) yharrow: GNu_Joe: lal :D
(06:58:36 PM) hendrixski: at this point still the ayes have it
(06:58:46 PM) GNu_Joe: as long as you contribute that's good enough for me
(06:58:47 PM) hendrixski: the opposition can suck it  :-)~  lol
(06:58:53 PM) cyrusjones: it would waste resources possibly, but I still vote in favor
(06:58:55 PM) ausimage: yeah true
(06:59:04 PM) cyrusjones: GNu_Joe is leader of opposition party
(06:59:16 PM) hendrixski: splitters!!!
(06:59:27 PM) yharrow: GNu_Joe: people who attend 3 /4 meetings each month will be recognized, peopel who dont attend will not be as recognized unless they are very active during the week
(06:59:29 PM) seabag: yarr! forkers!!
(06:59:38 PM) ***hendrixski wonders if anyone else saw "life of brian" and got the "splitters" reference
(06:59:49 PM) cyrusjones: hendrixski: nope
(07:00:17 PM) seabag: hendrixski how do you do the "self wonders" thing
(07:00:25 PM) yharrow: We need a way of managing Team tasks
(07:00:35 PM) yharrow: up until recently we had a "Projects page"
(07:00:43 PM) yharrow: where all tasks were listed
(07:00:48 PM) cyrusjones: are we supposed to have a username and passowrd
(07:00:55 PM) cyrusjones: for things like projects
(07:00:57 PM) hendrixski: seabag, the same way we do it on Gaim for company meetings :-)  /me wonders...
(07:01:21 PM) seabag: hendrixski ohh
(07:01:24 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: we played with the idea of having a project manager with login
(07:01:29 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: didnt work out so well
(07:01:38 PM) ausimage: yharrow the basic bpm does work
(07:01:44 PM) cyrusjones: yharrow: i see
(07:01:45 PM) ***seabag figured out how to use the slash me
(07:01:50 PM) yharrow: ausimage: what is the link of the working version?
(07:01:58 PM) ***Azbadon slashes you
(07:02:01 PM) yharrow: :D
(07:02:06 PM) hendrixski: ouch
(07:02:22 PM) ***cyrusjones likes to get Feisty rockin'
(07:02:34 PM) ***hendrixski wonders who will maintain the list of those recognized for their commitment
(07:02:35 PM) ausimage: yharrow I can send out something to the list if there is interest in trying to use that
(07:02:55 PM) seabag: haha
(07:02:55 PM) cyrusjones: Another thing
(07:03:02 PM) cyrusjones: should we make a form for new users
(07:03:23 PM) cyrusjones: before I heard a few people say wiki might be hard for new users
(07:03:34 PM) ausimage: cyrusjones:  I have it on my todo list...
(07:03:38 PM) cyrusjones: We could make a forum thread for new users
(07:03:39 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I'd like to experiment with bpm a bit more before we move it to mainstream use
(07:03:50 PM) ausimage: ahh K
(07:03:53 PM) hendrixski: seabag, that's your cue.... how hard do you think that wiki is for new users
(07:04:07 PM) cyrusjones: Azbadon: what do you say
(07:04:09 PM) yharrow: ausimage: you could send a mail out about the parties though
(07:04:19 PM) ausimage: yeah sure can...
(07:04:23 PM) Azbadon: Im sorry, Cyrus?
(07:04:29 PM) seabag: welp the front page says, "to find out how to join, click the members page"
(07:04:30 PM) Azbadon: About the forum for new users?
(07:04:31 PM) yharrow: ausimage: also, please either make me an admin of the mailing list, or send me login info (yharrow AT gmail DOT com)
(07:04:35 PM) hendrixski: cyrusjones, not everyone is on the forums
(07:04:52 PM) cyrusjones: Azbadon: do you think it is hard to join the team (like adding yourself to the wiki)
(07:05:06 PM) ausimage: seabag I made an adjustment on the members page
(07:05:17 PM) Azbadon: Personally, I do not know much about the Wiki.
(07:05:21 PM) cyrusjones: Azbadon: see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam
(07:05:22 PM) Azbadon: I was just introduced today.
(07:05:23 PM) seabag: o neet  ok
(07:05:23 PM) yharrow: seabag: so the first thing you do when you see our team, is visit our members page?
(07:05:25 PM) ***hendrixski has to go soon
(07:06:05 PM) seabag: ahh neat ok
(07:06:10 PM) seabag: yea i like the new setup
(07:06:13 PM) yharrow: sebag how difficult is it for you too edit a wiki
(07:06:21 PM) seabag: i can edit wikis thanks to hendrixski
(07:06:27 PM) seabag: :D
(07:06:35 PM) seabag: but still for most people...
(07:06:44 PM) yharrow: btw,can anyone else pledge money to the cause?
(07:06:54 PM) seabag: basically i fix windells all the livelong day, so next time i do one i'm gonna put ubuntu on and recommend they join this group
(07:06:55 PM) ***yharrow pledged 15$
(07:07:04 PM) seabag: not yet but eventually i'll pledge $
(07:07:09 PM) hendrixski: yeah, my girlfriend had a hell of a time trying to edit that wiki... I basicly had to do it for her... and she just started contributing to wikipedia last week
(07:07:11 PM) yharrow: we should have a pledge page
(07:07:27 PM) yharrow: I say that making a new member form is top priority
(07:07:35 PM) hendrixski: second
(07:07:53 PM) seabag: hey im calling my buddy steve now. he uses ubuntu once in a while
(07:08:01 PM) ausimage: yharrow I will get on the new form ASAP
(07:08:05 PM) yharrow: I am going to reinsate a Projects page on the wiki w/e I get the chance
(07:08:08 PM) seabag: and he's a linux wizard
(07:08:22 PM) cyrusjones: I say forum as a temporary solution; but many people don't use forums
(07:08:23 PM) ausimage: GO ROCHESTER
(07:08:46 PM) yharrow: seabag, sounds awesome :)
(07:08:48 PM) cyrusjones: Form is a good idea, implementing with SVG would be even cooler
(07:09:06 PM) ausimage: everyone I have the db backend stuff to just hook up a DB Form... no probs just NEED TIME
(07:09:15 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: we are in for the "productive factor" before the "cool factor"
(07:09:26 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: sorry
(07:09:33 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: misunderstood for a minute
(07:09:36 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Where would I put a modprobe line to run at boot?
(07:09:43 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: yeah implementing with svg, would rock
(07:10:08 PM) yharrow: ok, to wrap up the attendance, issue. what is our final solution?
(07:10:32 PM) ausimage: have levels of participation....
(07:10:32 PM) hendrixski: bye all
(07:10:38 PM) yharrow: later hendrixski
(07:10:50 PM) ausimage: attend and particpate or work on project ACTIVE
(07:10:57 PM) ausimage: otherwise INACTIVE
(07:11:24 PM) seabag: taek care guys, im off!
(07:11:26 PM) cyrusjones: maybe too strict
(07:11:28 PM) cyrusjones: ?
(07:11:31 PM) cyrusjones: i dunno
(07:11:35 PM) yharrow: later seabag
(07:11:46 PM) yharrow: so there will be a MemberStatus wiki page to determine who is active?
(07:12:23 PM) ausimage: yharrow can that not be intergrated into the member page itself?
(07:12:24 PM) yharrow:  /Members/Status
(07:12:43 PM) yharrow: ausimage: like a new column?
(07:12:54 PM) ausimage: yeah or diff color ??
(07:12:58 PM) yharrow: ausimage: yeah that would work
(07:13:32 PM) yharrow: do we need an attendance check list?
(07:13:41 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: what part is too strict?
(07:13:56 PM) ausimage: hmmm I think just looking over meeting logs would suffice for now
(07:14:10 PM) cyrusjones: making people inactive
(07:14:14 PM) yharrow: ausimage: we could use a bot
(07:14:26 PM) ausimage: possibly
(07:14:32 PM) cyrusjones: you know what hendrixski said
(07:14:47 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: there is no punishment for being inactive, just less rewards
(07:14:51 PM) cyrusjones: but i'm not against the idea
(07:16:04 PM) yharrow: ok so for now we will use the logs and make a column in the members page
(07:16:08 PM) yharrow: Issue resolved
(07:16:53 PM) yharrow: ok lets wrap up the funding issue
(07:16:58 PM) yharrow: you guys still with me?
(07:17:03 PM) cyrusjones: yharrow: should ausimage and I get info on non-profit and make a iki page
(07:17:05 PM) cyrusjones: yes
(07:17:43 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: yes that would be good. You could probably work with the wiki page that ausimage has already made, and somehow integrate it
(07:18:30 PM) cyrusjones: where is the wiki page
(07:18:38 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/503c
(07:18:49 PM) yharrow: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/503c
(07:19:04 PM) cyrusjones: LOL
(07:19:07 PM) cyrusjones: jinx
(07:19:09 PM) yharrow: jinx!
(07:19:15 PM) yharrow: jinx - jinx
(07:19:44 PM) cyrusjones: i'll make a link to page on resources
(07:20:35 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: yeah it really is more of a resource page. We will need to make a BecomingNonProfit page in documentation as well
(07:21:13 PM) yharrow: so non profit issue being worked on?
(07:21:31 PM) ausimage: yeah... needs to be at least explored...
(07:22:04 PM) yharrow: as far as pledges go, should we make a pledge page and link to it under contributions?
(07:22:23 PM) ausimage: get your name on the page when you pledge...
(07:22:30 PM) ausimage: ??
(07:22:42 PM) yharrow: we will allow people to pledge time money and /or resources
(07:22:52 PM) yharrow: yeah
(07:23:44 PM) yharrow: when pledges are filled, we will check them off and move then to a sponsors list
(07:23:54 PM) ausimage: cool....
(07:24:00 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: That certification is written in high-level legalese.
(07:24:45 PM) yharrow: sponsors who donate a certain amount,will have a gold/silver sponsor status and will receive a special reward/award
(07:25:04 PM) ausimage: sponsors should probably included on the website as wekk
(07:25:07 PM) ausimage: *wll
(07:25:11 PM) ausimage: #well
(07:25:19 PM) yharrow: yeah, like a sponsors page
(07:26:25 PM) yharrow: should people appear on the website official list of sponsors regardless fo what they give?
(07:26:36 PM) ausimage: hmmm....
(07:27:07 PM) yharrow: ausimage: we can do that, we will just make it really small print and put it on the bottom of the list if they give 50cents for example
(07:27:23 PM) ausimage: yeah that works
(07:28:29 PM) yharrow: we will people who come to the party for a voluntary donation of about 5$
(07:28:39 PM) yharrow: we will make a small anouncement about it
(07:29:15 PM) ausimage: hmmm where is the money going to be put????
(07:29:16 PM) yharrow: prizes may in fact cost us over 30$ per party
(07:29:26 PM) yharrow: ausimage: we need a team treasurer
(07:29:43 PM) ausimage: I know most banks do not allow organizations to have personal accounts
(07:29:47 PM) yharrow: ausimage: we should vote for one at some points
(07:30:25 PM) ausimage: we need to be held accountable if money is given
(07:31:24 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: which certification are you recfering to/
(07:31:29 PM) ausimage: possibly if there is no non-profit status.... 
(07:31:34 PM) yharrow: reffering to*
(07:31:53 PM) ausimage: but also people like to be assured the money is being used for its intended purpose
(07:31:57 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: ausimage: The 503c NYS one. I was just making a joke. ;)
(07:32:25 PM) yharrow: ausimage: well, I rather have to give taxes, then have no funding at all at this point. I think the sooner we have nonprofit status probably the better
(07:32:35 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I think cyrusjones is willing to work with you on that
(07:32:39 PM) ausimage: yeah....
(07:33:15 PM) yharrow: ausimage: some money will need to come out of our own pockets though for the party.
(07:33:18 PM) cyrusjones: sorry
(07:33:20 PM) cyrusjones: back
(07:33:20 PM) ausimage: hmmm we really need a lawyer that uses Ubuntu in the State of New York
(07:33:30 PM) cyrusjones: yes
(07:33:42 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I think that having a trivia with prizes is  good thing to do
(07:33:52 PM) ausimage: yeah....
(07:34:43 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I already pledged 15$ if we can come up with about 50 $ more we will have everything covered
(07:35:05 PM) ausimage: cool... 
(07:35:28 PM) ausimage: though I don't have much to give at this point...
(07:35:28 PM) yharrow: ausimage: we will need to keep a record of how much money is collected.
(07:36:02 PM) yharrow: ausimage: donations are voluntary, 1$ is good enough from my point of view.
(07:36:19 PM) ausimage: yharrow perhaps you should go to Bank of America tomorrow and see what needs to be done about an account
(07:36:31 PM) yharrow: ausimage: why the bank of america?
(07:37:04 PM) ausimage: um it is state wide.... and that way us up here can goto the local branch to hand over moner
(07:37:08 PM) ausimage: *money...
(07:37:27 PM) yharrow: what about chase?
(07:38:03 PM) ausimage: not sure... I just know that there is a bank of america here....
(07:38:03 PM) yharrow: jp morgan chase
(07:38:19 PM) yharrow: ausimage:  you might be right.
(07:38:34 PM) ausimage: well perhaps explore the bank situation as a leader of the group....
(07:39:37 PM) yharrow: ausimage: yeah, I will do that.
(07:39:46 PM) yharrow: lemme put it on to do list
(07:39:57 PM) ausimage: you can let the non-profit committe know what you found...
(07:41:05 PM) cyrusjones: Most states require nonprofit corporations to have a minimum of three directors
(07:41:22 PM) cyrusjones: that shouldn't apply
(07:41:34 PM) cyrusjones: i think that's for different law
(07:41:37 PM) yharrow: ausimage:  ok, speaking of which, we should have a committee page in the wiki
(07:41:49 PM) ausimage: cyrus we have a lot to look at... ;)
(07:42:17 PM) yharrow: ausimage: the new member form should let people check which committees they are interested in joining
(07:42:20 PM) ausimage: cyrusjones: I also know there is cap before you have to rregister with the charities office
(07:42:37 PM) cyrusjones: ausimage: i believe so
(07:42:45 PM) cyrusjones: I have to leave now
(07:42:51 PM) yharrow: cyrusjones: take care
(07:42:52 PM) ausimage: cool email 
(07:42:53 PM) yharrow: bye
(07:43:14 PM) ***cyrusjones says "MAY THE FORCE BE WITH YOU"
(07:43:16 PM) yharrow: also, someone needs to add us tot he confirmed parties page :https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeistyReleaseParties
(07:43:19 PM) cyrusjones: Bye
(07:43:54 PM) ausimage: I can do that right quick
(07:44:03 PM) yharrow: ausimage: ok, before you do though
(07:44:13 PM) ausimage: what?
(07:44:21 PM) yharrow: ausimage: are there any other issues that need to be discussed?
(07:44:34 PM) ausimage: concerning which?
(07:44:42 PM) yharrow: concerning the team
(07:44:43 PM) yharrow: I think the only other issue was the mailing list one
(07:45:10 PM) yharrow: in that, we need to make more frequent mailings, and we need to make a documentation page for posting to the mailing list
(07:45:34 PM) Azbadon: Good night all
(07:45:43 PM) Azbadon: Thanks for letting me in =-)
(07:45:49 PM) yharrow: gnight Azbadon I hope you enjoyed the meeting
(07:45:50 PM) ausimage: ahhh yharrow I think there needs to be more communication with those who chose to lead a projects
(07:45:57 PM) Azbadon: Back next week
(07:46:13 PM) yharrow: ausimage: yeah, we need our project page back
(07:46:24 PM) yharrow: ausimage: at least until bpm is done
(07:46:44 PM) ausimage: back to wiki hell
(07:47:02 PM) yharrow: ausimage: agreed, iw ill make it simpler though this time. no tables, only bulleted lists
(07:47:07 PM) ausimage: Unless we seperate out the projects
(07:47:35 PM) yharrow:  ausimage, tables are too messsy IMHO
(07:47:49 PM) ausimage: ahhh but it keeps things organized
(07:47:58 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I love that!
(07:48:09 PM) ausimage: what?
(07:48:17 PM) yharrow: ausimage: beautiful irony
(07:48:22 PM) ausimage: :D
(07:48:32 PM) ausimage: the meeting done then?
(07:48:37 PM) yharrow: Tables are messy things that keep things organized
(07:49:07 PM) yharrow: ausimage: there is more I'd like to discuss, but we are out of time
(07:49:31 PM) ausimage: cool we need to discuss the mailing list at some point I guess... 
(07:50:32 PM) yharrow: ausimage: next voice meeting will be held 6PM May 24, next  IRC meeting will be Held 6PM May 1st 2007,
(07:50:46 PM) ausimage: k
(07:51:14 PM) yharrow: ausimage: we will probably use the same conference service.
(07:51:32 PM) ausimage: that is goodd
(07:51:47 PM) yharrow: ausimage: at some point we need to brush up the logs and summaries of the meetings
(07:51:51 PM) yharrow: weve come a long way
(07:51:55 PM) yharrow: a very long way
(07:51:58 PM) ausimage: yeah
(07:52:04 PM) yharrow: I think thats it for today
(07:52:25 PM) yharrow: Meeting adjourned
(07:53:06 PM) ***yharrow wipes brow, and sips iced tea
(07:53:09 PM) yharrow: :D
(07:53:15 PM) ***yharrow smiles contendedly
(07:53:41 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Hmm...
(07:53:51 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: I seem to have missed the end. :P
(07:54:33 PM) yharrow: meeting adjourned
</pre>
