{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''4th''' meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:45 EST
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Announcements
* Discuss Major issues
* Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting

== Minutes ==

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
(06:12:38 PM) yharrow: ok guys
(06:13:04 PM) yharrow: Welcome to the New York teams 4th IRC meeting.
(06:13:10 PM) n8k99: hooray
(06:13:52 PM) yharrow: im glad to see so many people turn out for the meeting today
(06:14:19 PM) yharrow: alright what im gonna do
(06:14:27 PM) yharrow: is make a few anouncments now
(06:14:34 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:15:13 PM) yharrow: first of all, I'm very happy to announce that our membership has reached a total of 17 members
(06:15:28 PM) yharrow:  -This is pretty good considering we've only been around for about 4 weeks. Hopefully if we all do things right we will attract even more members in the future.
(06:15:40 PM) yharrow: On that note, I would also like to welcome all of our new members to the team. I hope that you enjoy the time that you spend on our team. We will certainly enjoy having you part of our team.
(06:16:22 PM) yharrow: I think weve all been making alot of progress
(06:16:50 PM) yharrow: and to help our progress weve been using project management tools
(06:17:19 PM) yharrow: I dont think anyones had a clear idea of how to make a project though
(06:17:28 PM) yharrow: or at least some people have been confused
(06:17:37 PM) yharrow: so...There is a new process for creating projects. Instead of entering all your ideas as projects on the projects site. You can now post them to our project ideas thread where all of us can discuss your project ideas before they become actual projects. You can visit http://www.newyork-ubuntu.com/?pg=projects for more information about this process.
(06:17:53 PM) yharrow: is everyone ok with that so far?
(06:17:58 PM) n8k99: yeah
(06:18:35 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: does that make sense to you?
(06:18:40 PM) yharrow: just wondering
(06:18:40 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:18:43 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:18:46 PM) yharrow: cool
(06:18:52 PM) samiam010203: its a good idea and i saw the   thread earler today
(06:19:00 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:19:15 PM) yharrow: cool. i think its a good idea too
(06:19:17 PM) yharrow: I think thats about it for announcements
(06:19:30 PM) yharrow: anyone else have anything to announce?
(06:19:34 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:19:38 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:19:46 PM) samiam010203: i  have got word from nyc that my cds have arrived
(06:19:53 PM) yharrow: yay!
(06:19:56 PM) n8k99: yay!
(06:19:59 PM) yharrow: thats sweet
(06:20:02 PM) samiam010203: the doorman of my building has put them into my appartment for me
(06:20:07 PM) yharrow: awesome
(06:20:20 PM) samiam010203: so we have 80 ubuntu cds to start  with
(06:20:27 PM) n8k99: ok goodo
(06:20:37 PM) n8k99: i have another 20 in my place
(06:20:41 PM) yharrow: yeah we are gonna have to do 5 cds a person probably instead of 10
(06:21:20 PM) yharrow: I think we might want to set up a process for burning our own
(06:21:25 PM) yharrow: if all we can get is 80
(06:21:26 PM) samiam010203: im going to fire off an email to johno bacon as soon as im back in nyc to try and get us up for official status
(06:21:38 PM) samiam010203: that way we can get as many as we want
(06:21:44 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: I dont think we should do that yet
(06:21:54 PM) samiam010203: what do u see as a problem yharrow
(06:21:57 PM) n8k99: i'm with yharrow on that
(06:22:06 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:22:10 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: cause if we get denied  (which we probably will) then we will be worse off
(06:22:34 PM) samiam010203: then ill just inform him of our situation and see if he can interean on our behalf
(06:22:36 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: trust me, I want to be official as much as anyone else on this team
(06:22:40 PM) samiam010203: to get more cds that is
(06:22:46 PM) n8k99: i would suggest we let ourselves be in existence for at least 3 months before seriously considering officialhood
(06:22:53 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: it doesnt hurt to ask for more cds ;)
(06:23:14 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: I think thats a good idea
(06:23:29 PM) samiam010203: i have had a reschedualing of my stay in florida and wont be back into the empire state untill the 15th of april
(06:23:37 PM) yharrow: I just wouldnt touch on the topic of becoming official
(06:23:40 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:23:55 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: does that make any sense to you?
(06:24:07 PM) samiam010203: but this week im going to try and see if i can get us a permanint meeting spot becasue my building has a conferance room they rent out
(06:24:18 PM) samiam010203: for 20.00 per conferance
(06:24:32 PM) samiam010203: and if no one minds coming to the bronx we should be able touseit
(06:25:13 PM) n8k99: oh no! i never go to th mainland!
(06:25:15 PM) n8k99: ;-)
(06:25:17 PM) samiam010203: hahaha
(06:25:26 PM) yharrow: hmm... it sounds ok, how would we pay for it?
(06:25:30 PM) ***salvatore_c is listening to Wild Horses by Rolling Stones on soft [Amarok]
(06:25:35 PM) yharrow: also, I prefer manhattan for meetings
(06:25:37 PM) yharrow: ;)
(06:25:42 PM) samiam010203: ill cover it every month untill were on our feet
(06:26:10 PM) n8k99: we could all chip in $4 per meeting
(06:26:15 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:26:46 PM) samiam010203: see the thing is i might be able to finagle a free meal with it too if we do it once a month and aggree to give classes to the tenents
(06:26:49 PM) yharrow: I think manhattan is more of in a central place and more accessible (subway, bus)
(06:27:00 PM) samiam010203: like confernaces where we teach them basic computring
(06:27:58 PM) yharrow: I think it would be a great idea to reach out to the peole who live near you though
(06:28:29 PM) n8k99: that sounds cool
(06:28:36 PM) yharrow: reach out , meaning let them know about ubuntu
(06:28:38 PM) samiam010203: there are a lot of people in my building who could use comp0uter courses
(06:28:43 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:28:50 PM) samiam010203: teach them about open sources
(06:28:54 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:28:55 PM) yharrow: yeah
(06:28:56 PM) samiam010203: and hold installfests
(06:29:02 PM) yharrow: that would be cool
(06:29:03 PM) n8k99: yeah!
(06:29:11 PM) samiam010203: then they could be come members
(06:29:13 PM) n8k99: and keysignings!!
(06:29:17 PM) samiam010203: yup
(06:29:17 PM) yharrow: I think no matter what thta sounds like a good project
(06:29:21 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:29:22 PM) ***n8k99 jumps up and down
(06:29:34 PM) yharrow: however, Im not sure if we want to do that at the same time as the meeting
(06:29:39 PM) samiam010203: no
(06:29:45 PM) yharrow: I would think of it more as a separate project
(06:29:46 PM) n8k99: no, not at the same time
(06:29:46 PM) samiam010203: the meeting wuould be our time
(06:29:55 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:29:56 PM) n8k99: planning time
(06:29:59 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:30:13 PM) samiam010203: we could have private meetings and then public classes
(06:30:16 PM) samiam010203: to the tenants
(06:30:31 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: how far is the nearest subway station to you?
(06:30:33 PM) samiam010203: and some of them would be willing to pay for c omputer and ipod help :)
(06:30:42 PM) samiam010203: 4 train to mnt eden
(06:30:59 PM) ChanServ left the room (quit: pratchett.freenode.net irc.freenode.net).
(06:31:02 PM) samiam010203: 5 mins from yanke stadiom
(06:31:08 PM) samiam010203: 5 mins from yanke stadiom
(06:31:13 PM) ChanServ [ChanServ@services.] entered the room.
(06:31:13 PM) mode (+o ChanServ ) by irc.freenode.net
(06:31:26 PM) yharrow: we would have to do it during the day though cause Im white and paranoid and dont take trains in the bronx after 6pm if i can help it ;)
(06:31:37 PM) samiam010203: the area is safe
(06:31:46 PM) samiam010203: the cops hang out in  the building all the time
(06:31:57 PM) samiam010203: and u need valid id to get into the builiding
(06:32:05 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:32:10 PM) samiam010203: there is 24hr 7 day security
(06:32:47 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: I understand its secure, but the fact that i have to have id to get into an apartment building does scare me a little.. no offense man
(06:32:55 PM) samiam010203: no
(06:33:02 PM) samiam010203: thats to protect the tenants
(06:33:13 PM) samiam010203: i would not live there if it was not safe
(06:33:13 PM) yharrow: from what?
(06:33:31 PM) yharrow: good point :)
(06:33:39 PM) samiam010203: from the animalistic savages on the streets of new york hahaha
(06:33:43 PM) yharrow: lol
(06:33:50 PM) yharrow: see thats what im afraid of
(06:33:52 PM) yharrow: lol
(06:33:57 PM) samiam010203: snake from escape from ny is the security guard
(06:34:13 PM) n8k99: hehe
(06:34:27 PM) samiam010203: no trust me its safe
(06:34:28 PM) yharrow:  anywho, we'll ask other people how they feel about it, Im not gonna be the party pooper
(06:34:33 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:34:39 PM) samiam010203: its a place to meet
(06:34:51 PM) yharrow: yeah. also I think NYPC is an option
(06:34:55 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:34:57 PM) samiam010203: that too
(06:35:05 PM) yharrow: those are 2 options
(06:35:12 PM) yharrow: n8k99: do you have any ideas?
(06:35:32 PM) ***salvatore_c is listening to Popular by Nada Surf on soft [Amarok]
(06:35:35 PM) yharrow: btw are there any other people here besides for me samiam010203  and n8k99 ?
(06:35:43 PM) yharrow: ping isacklow_afk atoponce
(06:35:50 PM) n8k99: the fourth floor of barnes & noble in Union Square
(06:35:58 PM) yharrow: ping boredandblogging  ausimage
(06:36:15 PM) yharrow: n8k99: whats there?
(06:36:23 PM) samiam010203: there is a cafee
(06:36:24 PM) n8k99: its in manhattan
(06:36:25 PM) samiam010203: there
(06:36:30 PM) yharrow: cool.
(06:36:51 PM) n8k99: it has a really large open space that is used for presentations and book signings
(06:36:57 PM) yharrow: I think that we should start out like in a cafe or something and then graduate to a conference room /office of some sort
(06:37:05 PM) samiam010203: sounds good
(06:37:07 PM) n8k99: but usually there's just a bunch of people sitting around reading
(06:37:07 PM) yharrow: n8k99: cool
(06:37:26 PM) yharrow: n8k99: and b&b wouldnt mind?
(06:37:30 PM) samiam010203: no
(06:37:34 PM) samiam010203: they dont care
(06:37:40 PM) samiam010203: as long as u buy cofee
(06:37:44 PM) samiam010203: i know the place
(06:37:49 PM) samiam010203: i used to hang there
(06:37:51 PM) yharrow: it really is a cafe?
(06:37:55 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:37:58 PM) samiam010203: a starfucks
(06:38:36 PM) n8k99: i wasthinking the fourth floor just sit on thefloor, and we don't ecven need to buy coffee
(06:38:51 PM) samiam010203: might work
(06:38:59 PM) yharrow: umm..... I dunno.. we could
(06:38:59 PM) samiam010203: do they still have wifi
(06:39:19 PM) yharrow: *is thinking about getting his new pants dirty ;)
(06:39:25 PM) samiam010203: yharrow why are u scared of the bronx?
(06:39:46 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: I had a bad experience near yankee stadium
(06:39:56 PM) samiam010203: ouch!
(06:40:00 PM) n8k99: carpetted floor
(06:40:02 PM) yharrow: yeah
(06:41:36 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: also i was driving home with some friends who live in bx and I wasnt sure where the train station was to go the rest of the way home and they were like, listen man, tell us a good place to drop you off cause you dont wanna get stuck in the bronx
(06:41:57 PM) samiam010203: yharrow its safe trust me
(06:42:29 PM) yharrow: yeah, I guess im just biased because of the time some guy flashed me his prison id card lol
(06:42:40 PM) yharrow: either way
(06:42:43 PM) yharrow: if everyone goes
(06:42:48 PM) yharrow: i'll go too ;)
(06:42:54 PM) n8k99: yay!
(06:43:10 PM) yharrow: *like i said, Im not gonna be the one to hold anyone else up
(06:43:11 PM) samiam010203: ill protect you yharrow
(06:43:15 PM) yharrow: haha
(06:43:18 PM) samiam010203: i know the local thugs hahaha
(06:43:28 PM) yharrow: lol
(06:43:40 PM) yharrow: thanks man
(06:43:43 PM) yharrow: anywho...
(06:43:50 PM) samiam010203: yes time to move on
(06:43:53 PM) yharrow: ya
(06:44:01 PM) yharrow: so far we have 3 meeting places
(06:44:10 PM) yharrow: and the 4th generic choice
(06:44:18 PM) yharrow: meeting in a cafe with wifi
(06:44:30 PM) n8k99: yes
(06:44:47 PM) yharrow: we will need to look for places inbetween this week and next week
(06:45:16 PM) yharrow: I think that we can reinsate the projects page, since we now have the projects idea forum
(06:45:28 PM) yharrow: noone needs to edit the projects page
(06:45:31 PM) yharrow: my only concern
(06:45:44 PM) yharrow: is that we have too many projects for the page.
(06:45:58 PM) yharrow: I think that is solved by turning it from a table into a list
(06:46:05 PM) yharrow: what do you guys think?
(06:46:11 PM) samiam010203: sounds fine
(06:46:46 PM) yharrow: we are going to need to sort it out, right now the direction we are taking is to create a project in the forum and transfer it to the projects site
(06:47:11 PM) yharrow: does that make sense to everyone?
(06:47:14 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:47:40 PM) yharrow: ok... next topic
(06:47:59 PM) yharrow: community outreach
(06:48:03 PM) yharrow: anyone have ideas?
(06:48:05 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:48:13 PM) yharrow: ok.. cool.
(06:48:25 PM) samiam010203: we could do installfests
(06:48:32 PM) samiam010203: and invite the local media
(06:48:32 PM) yharrow: n8k99: you have any ideas for community outreach?
(06:48:43 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: sounds cool .
(06:48:49 PM) yharrow: where would we do it?
(06:48:54 PM) samiam010203: hand out cds and talk to people about ubuntu and nix
(06:48:57 PM) samiam010203: in the city
(06:49:05 PM) n8k99: i thought it was kinda nice teaching people in your building aboutcomputers
(06:49:07 PM) samiam010203: and we could get permision fromthe nypl
(06:49:12 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:49:19 PM) samiam010203: but yharrow wont come to the bronx
(06:49:26 PM) yharrow: I didnt say that
(06:49:28 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:49:42 PM) samiam010203: my building dose a lot of community outreahch and we would get a lot of connections from ti
(06:49:44 PM) samiam010203: it
(06:49:47 PM) yharrow: I said I prefer not to, thats it.
(06:49:48 PM) samiam010203: know what iu mean
(06:49:49 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:49:55 PM) samiam010203: i know yharrow hahaah
(06:50:26 PM) n8k99: it would bea new littleplace to start
(06:50:47 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: I think we could be especially active in your community
(06:52:23 PM) yharrow: n8k99: take a look at this http://www.palladiainc.org/html/about_us/about_us.html
(06:53:01 PM) ***n8k99 is looking
(06:53:20 PM) yharrow: n8k99: I think that we can hook up with them to offer computer services to people who cant otherwise afford it
(06:53:28 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:53:37 PM) samiam010203: and i can get u guys right in thefrondoor
(06:53:41 PM) yharrow: they would probably love it
(06:53:44 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:53:55 PM) n8k99: yeah that would be great
(06:53:55 PM) samiam010203: and they would give us graitude over time
(06:54:00 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: we do need a plan of action though before we go to them.
(06:54:02 PM) yharrow: :)
(06:54:06 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:54:24 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: I think we should practice first since they are a big organization
(06:54:39 PM) samiam010203: when i get back to home ill talk to them and lossen them to the idea of free computer support for the tenants
(06:54:47 PM) yharrow: if we are successful with small meetings/classes we can move to bigger thing
(06:54:50 PM) yharrow: things
(06:54:53 PM) samiam010203: yup
(06:54:58 PM) samiam010203: thats the idea yharrow
(06:55:08 PM) samiam010203: and they have the people we need to get on our side
(06:55:13 PM) yharrow: so i htink the priority is to setup and advertise at least one class in NY
(06:55:25 PM) yharrow: the class would be free and open registraition
(06:55:30 PM) samiam010203: advertise on craigslist
(06:55:35 PM) yharrow: with a maximum of 20 participants
(06:55:38 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:55:39 PM) n8k99: Introduction to Free and Open Source Software
(06:55:45 PM) samiam010203: yup
(06:55:57 PM) yharrow: we will need teachers and a lesson plan
(06:56:03 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:56:13 PM) samiam010203: this is why a rl meet up is a necesaty soon
(06:56:14 PM) yharrow: as well as  method for registration and advertising
(06:56:19 PM) samiam010203: to get all this together
(06:56:31 PM) yharrow: speaking of meetings
(06:56:48 PM) yharrow: i think we should make the meeting once every 2 weeks instead of every week
(06:57:02 PM) yharrow: and we should spend more time planning for the meeting so more people attend
(06:57:08 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:57:11 PM) samiam010203: sounds good
(06:57:18 PM) yharrow: and the quality of the meeting will be better as well
(06:57:22 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:57:42 PM) samiam010203: we could do a meeting on irc every two weeks and a phone coinferance one a week
(06:57:46 PM) samiam010203: just to chatter
(06:57:58 PM) n8k99: yes biweekly
(06:58:02 PM) samiam010203: yup
(06:58:09 PM) yharrow: yeah
(06:58:13 PM) yharrow: sounds cool :)
(06:58:13 PM) n8k99: biweekly irc phone conference monthly
(06:58:19 PM) yharrow: ya
(06:58:40 PM) samiam010203: by weekly phone/irc and monthly rl meetings
(06:59:25 PM) yharrow: so it would be first week: IRC second:PHone third:IRC fourth RL
(06:59:33 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:59:37 PM) yharrow: how does that sound?
(06:59:44 PM) n8k99: good schedule
(06:59:44 PM) samiam010203: sounds good
(06:59:51 PM) n8k99: mark the calendar!
(06:59:57 PM) samiam010203: we have to start utilizing the mailing list
(07:00:00 PM) yharrow: this way we have 2 weeks to plan for every irc meeting and 4 weeks to plan for RL
(07:00:02 PM) yharrow: yeah
(07:00:40 PM) samiam010203: send out mailings for everything
(07:01:10 PM) yharrow: at some point we need to start brushing up the wiki as well
(07:01:15 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:01:23 PM) samiam010203: we should get onto that soon
(07:01:33 PM) yharrow: we must decide on a clear path for projects soon,
(07:01:49 PM) yharrow: I wish we could do that now while the 3 of us are here
(07:02:07 PM) samiam010203: we should also have gnu here
(07:02:11 PM) yharrow: yeah
(07:02:29 PM) yharrow: you know what its prolly better to wait for ppl who have experience in these things
(07:02:34 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:03:03 PM) yharrow: in the mean time, all ideas such as the ones discussed in this meeting, should be posted to the project idea thread
(07:03:10 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:03:37 PM) yharrow: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=387941
(07:03:54 PM) yharrow: we need to just brainstorm and post
(07:03:58 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:03:59 PM) yharrow: brainstorm and post
(07:04:04 PM) yharrow: no holds
(07:04:21 PM) samiam010203: *sal puts fingers into his head hahaha
(07:04:31 PM) yharrow: haha
(07:04:38 PM) yharrow: dont kill yourself man
(07:04:41 PM) samiam010203: hahaa
(07:05:03 PM) samiam010203: what els do we have on the agenda tonight yharrow
(07:05:05 PM) yharrow: isacklow_afk: suggested an idea
(07:05:12 PM) samiam010203: whats that
(07:05:28 PM) yharrow: he said that we should have seperate meetings for specific subjects
(07:05:34 PM) samiam010203: sounds cool
(07:05:35 PM) yharrow: he didnt say we should
(07:05:38 PM) yharrow: but he does that
(07:05:43 PM) yharrow: and i thought it was cool
(07:05:53 PM) yharrow: why speak about something that not everyone is familiar with
(07:06:01 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:06:16 PM) yharrow: like the art crew could have their own meeting
(07:06:22 PM) yharrow: and the website crew could have one
(07:06:32 PM) yharrow: and the outreach and so on
(07:06:40 PM) samiam010203: there should be teams
(07:06:53 PM) samiam010203: i want to be on outreach
(07:07:22 PM) ***atoponce pokes his head in
(07:07:30 PM) yharrow: cool, I think I put you on outreach in the projects site
(07:07:33 PM) samiam010203: ill go into the streets and tell them "eda u use da ubuntu or is gonna break ur legs"
(07:07:33 PM) yharrow: hey atoponce :)
(07:07:37 PM) atoponce: sorry, got wrapped up in work
(07:07:41 PM) atoponce: yharrow: what's up?
(07:07:45 PM) atoponce: so, what did i miss? :)
(07:07:46 PM) ***n8k99 jumps up and down
(07:07:49 PM) samiam010203: hello atop
(07:07:57 PM) n8k99: hi atoponce
(07:07:59 PM) atoponce: samiam010203: howdy
(07:08:08 PM) atoponce: n8k99: hi
(07:08:20 PM) yharrow: atoponce: we were just discussing making our meetings biweekly as opposed to weekly
(07:08:26 PM) yharrow: with a monthly RL meeting
(07:08:32 PM) atoponce: cool
(07:08:42 PM) yharrow: and a phone conference in between for fun
(07:08:57 PM) samiam010203: yharrow give atop the link and see what he thinks about it for community outreach
(07:08:59 PM) yharrow: atoponce: we now have free phone confereicing :)
(07:09:08 PM) n8k99: and flying lessons for everyone ;-)
(07:09:23 PM) yharrow: http://www.palladiainc.org/html/about_us/about_us.html
(07:09:29 PM) atoponce: phone cenference with voip?
(07:09:31 PM) yharrow: lol n8k99
(07:09:35 PM) n8k99: hehe
(07:09:41 PM) yharrow: atoponce: you dial up and enter pin
(07:09:56 PM) samiam010203: the numbers : 8675309
(07:09:57 PM) yharrow: atoponce: only catch is that you have to dial montana or something
(07:10:09 PM) yharrow: atoponce: but with nationwide calling thats not an issue
(07:10:30 PM) yharrow: anyone have the link for phone conferencing site?
(07:10:32 PM) atoponce: 8675309 huh? funny, that's the same number i give retailers who ask for it
(07:10:34 PM) atoponce: :)
(07:10:37 PM) ***n8k99 wonders if atoponce is in utah or colorado 
(07:10:39 PM) samiam010203: hahaha
(07:10:45 PM) atoponce: n8k99: utah
(07:10:48 PM) samiam010203: its on the wiki yharrow on the meetings page
(07:10:55 PM) yharrow: ok lemme get it
(07:11:03 PM) atoponce: samiam010203: so, what's with the palladia link?
(07:11:37 PM) samiam010203: its a local agency that im involved with and they could be of good use to us in regards to political connections
(07:11:56 PM) atoponce: i see. using them to contact goverment officials?
(07:11:59 PM) samiam010203: and they own the building i live in and we could use the conferance room for 20.00 a month
(07:12:27 PM) samiam010203: well we could help there tenants with computer courses and in return they willhelpus
(07:12:31 PM) atoponce: cool. you should see if you can use a library or something for the meetings, for free
(07:12:42 PM) yharrow: aha
(07:12:42 PM) atoponce: ahh. ok. makes sense
(07:12:43 PM) n8k99: we were thinking of conducting a community outreach service through that organization
(07:12:43 PM) samiam010203: oh the 20.00 i will pay
(07:12:43 PM) yharrow: here it is
(07:12:45 PM) yharrow: http://freeconferencing.liveoffice.com/
(07:12:49 PM) yharrow: and...
(07:12:55 PM) yharrow: *is embarrased
(07:13:01 PM) samiam010203: why
(07:13:03 PM) yharrow: look at our front wiki page
(07:13:14 PM) yharrow: meeting section
(07:13:22 PM) atoponce: yharrow: you should look at skype for conferencing
(07:14:04 PM) yharrow: atoponce: we will certainly consider it, however I am not sure how to record with skype and it is easier for some to dial up
(07:14:06 PM) samiam010203: lets star a call now
(07:14:11 PM) atoponce: there are a few others, if you don't want to do that
(07:14:17 PM) samiam010203: i now how to record with skype
(07:14:25 PM) n8k99: gizmo
(07:14:26 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: we can call after the meeting
(07:14:30 PM) samiam010203: cooll
(07:14:37 PM) samiam010203: im going to get my phone then
(07:15:09 PM) samiam010203: back
(07:15:13 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: we are due to finish this meeting at 7:45 but if we get everything done we can prolly end at 7:30
(07:15:22 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:15:34 PM) yharrow: atoponce: which others?
(07:15:56 PM) yharrow: n8k99: gizmo has poor quality in my experience
(07:16:03 PM) n8k99: oh
(07:16:15 PM) yharrow: n8k99: good idea though :)
(07:16:41 PM) atoponce: yharrow: there's a jabber client that uses voip, if my memory serves me correctly
(07:16:45 PM) atoponce: lemme look
(07:16:53 PM) yharrow: n8k99: do you think wou would be able to help us out with maintaining the wiki?
(07:18:10 PM) n8k99: yeah- i have two big projects due this sunday, but i can slice up some of my mornings
(07:18:42 PM) n8k99: we can shout at each other in the morning and get some stuff banged out
(07:19:20 PM) samiam010203: yharrow is there anything els tonight?
(07:20:11 PM) yharrow: other then maintaining the wiki, working on projects process, and reworking the meetng schedule. I think not
(07:20:21 PM) samiam010203: ok
(07:20:30 PM) yharrow: lets just recap
(07:20:34 PM) samiam010203: so we have the agenda recorded with a log bot right
(07:20:49 PM) n8k99: oh good
(07:21:09 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: we have no bot in this chat, but I am logging it with my IRC client.
(07:21:14 PM) samiam010203: ok
(07:21:16 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:21:34 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: do you need to go?
(07:21:52 PM) samiam010203: i just want to say that i think  were really starting to get a foot hold into this loco team buisnes
(07:22:00 PM) samiam010203: no
(07:22:03 PM) samiam010203: i dont need to go
(07:22:04 PM) yharrow: yeah. we are really starting to shape up
(07:22:08 PM) yharrow: :)
(07:22:42 PM) yharrow: atoponce: do you have words of wisdom for us our dear mentor ;) ?
(07:22:51 PM) samiam010203: use the force
(07:22:54 PM) yharrow: haha
(07:22:58 PM) atoponce: lol
(07:23:08 PM) yharrow: i mean real wisdom :P
(07:23:10 PM) samiam010203: live long and prosper
(07:23:12 PM) atoponce: 'do or do not. there is no try'
(07:23:13 PM) yharrow: not yoda wisdom
(07:23:18 PM) atoponce: meh
(07:23:20 PM) atoponce: :)
(07:23:20 PM) samiam010203: hahaha
(07:23:51 PM) atoponce: just keep doing what you guys are doing. you are the loco example for the us teams project, and are doing great!
(07:24:15 PM) yharrow: atoponce: are you serious when you say we are the example?
(07:24:29 PM) atoponce: yeah. why?
(07:24:36 PM) atoponce: you guys are doing really good
(07:24:41 PM) yharrow: hehe
(07:24:42 PM) yharrow: ok
(07:24:47 PM) atoponce: you've gone from nothing to full blown in no time
(07:24:56 PM) samiam010203: thanks atop\
(07:25:00 PM) yharrow: I thought we were listed on the ubuntu site as an example or something
(07:25:01 PM) yharrow: hehe
(07:25:13 PM) atoponce: strong team, it seems like, good goals, consistency
(07:25:16 PM) atoponce: going well
(07:25:19 PM) yharrow: atoponce did you know we have 17 members :)
(07:25:39 PM) atoponce: see what i'm saying?
(07:25:41 PM) yharrow: and counting
(07:25:42 PM) yharrow: hehe
(07:25:46 PM) yharrow: yeah, I guess your right
(07:25:54 PM) yharrow: its a teams effort though
(07:26:07 PM) yharrow: none of us could do it on his/her own
(07:26:17 PM) yharrow: *loves this team
(07:26:18 PM) samiam010203: yharrow should we start the call?
(07:26:34 PM) yharrow: yeah sure theres only 3/4 of us anyways
(07:26:39 PM) yharrow: atoponce: wanna join?
(07:27:05 PM) yharrow: quick recap
(07:27:46 PM) yharrow: IRC meetings bi weekly, (week 1 and 3) phone and RL monthly (week 2 and 4)
(07:27:56 PM) samiam010203: yharrow do u have the mod key for the conferance can u call up and start the conferance
(07:28:02 PM) yharrow: yeah
(07:28:04 PM) atoponce: yharrow: join the team, you mean?
(07:28:10 PM) atoponce: i thought i already did...
(07:28:20 PM) yharrow: atoponce: the phone conference lol
(07:28:38 PM) atoponce: oh. no, that's okay. i'm still at work
(07:28:41 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: Im gonna finish recap and then start conference
(07:28:45 PM) yharrow: oh ok
(07:29:19 PM) samiam010203: OK
(07:29:21 PM) yharrow: wiki needs maintenance, so I think we will pull off a little on web site development and balance the manpower
(07:29:31 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: I seriously hope you dont mind
(07:29:38 PM) samiam010203: NO ITS FINE
(07:29:41 PM) samiam010203: sorry
(07:29:46 PM) yharrow: ahhhh
(07:29:48 PM) samiam010203: about the caps
(07:29:48 PM) yharrow: sorry man
(07:29:56 PM) yharrow: i thought you were angry
(07:29:58 PM) yharrow: lol
(07:29:59 PM) samiam010203: no
(07:30:03 PM) samiam010203: hahaha
(07:30:11 PM) samiam010203: just let me know when your coming on
(07:30:36 PM) yharrow: ok.. well yeah last point and then were done
(07:30:43 PM) yharrow: projects..
(07:30:57 PM) yharrow: i think we'll stick with the idea we spoke of today
(07:31:18 PM) yharrow: all project ideas will be posted in forum and discussed
(07:31:23 PM) yharrow: then we'll go from there
(07:31:45 PM) ***n8k99 going to hang with the wife and kid
(07:31:50 PM) yharrow: options include webcollab(project site) projects page in wiki, launchpad specs, and milk site
(07:31:56 PM) yharrow: remember the mil
(07:32:03 PM) yharrow: thats it guys
(07:36:28 PM) yharrow: ok next week is week 4
(07:36:38 PM) yharrow: that means we should by right have a RL meeting
(07:36:40 PM) yharrow: however
(07:37:08 PM) yharrow: since samiam010203  will not be in NY at the time and we have no set place, I think we will just have a phone conference
(07:37:19 PM) yharrow: what do you guys think?
(07:37:25 PM) yharrow: make sense?
(07:38:39 PM) yharrow: samiam010203 does that sound good?
(07:38:51 PM) samiam010203: yes
</pre>
