{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''XXth''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:30 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
* Meet Up Reports
** Rochester: First Thursday's at Victor Unos. Nov 1st 7pm
** State Leadership Meeting Nov 11th 2pm Binghamton Univ, NY
** NYC: Meetup
** Encouraging more Meet Ups
* Upcoming Events
** Thu, Nov 15, 2007, 10:50am-1:30pm Glenwood Lounge at Brooklyn College student center. <nowiki>[[http://mako.cc/copyrighteous/extra/dl_flier_20071115.pdf|details]]</nowiki>
** Fri, Nov 16, 5:00pm, Rockefeller 115, Cornell, Ithaca. <nowiki>[[http://cucodereview.org/|details]]</nowiki>

* Community Advocacy and Support
** Rochester Computer Refurbish with Ubuntu
** Developing more activities to benefit NY
** Encouraging Member Participation
** Conference 2008
* Team Application for official recognition
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Approval
** Team Resume of contributions to Ubuntu and its community involvement
** Needs linkification to details.

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
[19:00:59] <ausimage> Meeting STARTS NOW :)
[19:01:07] <ausimage> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20071113
[19:01:16] <ausimage> that is our agenda...
[19:01:29] <hendrixski> hooray for meeting
[19:01:31] <ausimage> Who is not lurking?
[19:03:17] <hydrogen> i'm kind of lurking!
[19:03:22] <hydrogen> i've gotta run soonish
[19:03:28] <ausimage> ahh
[19:03:29] <ausimage> k
[19:03:48] <ausimage> First on the agenda is reports and annoucements'
[19:04:09] <ausimage> Rochester held a meetup the first thursday in November
[19:04:44] <ausimage> We had only a few show up... I think this may have been due to poor notice of location...
[19:05:19] <ausimage> hal14450: is still looking into a library to meet at... and hopefully this can be set up soon
[19:05:37] <ausimage> anyone else attend that have anything to add?
[19:05:51] <hal14450> if not library something similar where we can talk without it costing us $$
[19:05:58] <ausimage> yeah
[19:06:16] <ausimage> FREE... no cost to those who attend
[19:06:32] <hal14450> exactly
[19:06:57] <ausimage> Ok... then next... I am unsure if NYC had a meetup or not... did they?
[19:07:08] <hendrixski> :-)
[19:07:34] <ausimage> Ok... anyone?
[19:07:37] <hendrixski> more people have shown up in the past when we were more aggressive
[19:07:46] <hendrixski> about advertising it
[19:07:48] <hendrixski> to the rochester one that is
[19:08:00] <ausimage> yeah... having the firm location does help
[19:08:19] <ausimage> Ok... um the Direction Meeting....
[19:08:47] <ausimage> We had about 20 attend... we talked about Linux, Community, and Leadership...
[19:09:12] <ausimage> We defined each and then looked at some pros and cons for them...
[19:09:30] <ausimage> We came up with a short list of goals we would like to accomplish
[19:09:47] <ausimage> First was more Meetups, Workshops,
[19:09:49] <hal14450> hendrixski, we sure could have used you there ;-)
[19:10:02] <hal14450> sorry you couldn't make it
[19:10:44] <ausimage> With meetups we feel lugs could fill the void in areas lacking LoCo meetups
[19:11:12] <ausimage> We really need someone to man the calendar and add ALL linux related events to it....
[19:11:25] <ausimage> Lug meetings especially
[19:12:09] <ausimage> It was also discussed that possible official representative and channel be established...
[19:12:22] <ausimage> was that most of that hal14450?
[19:12:35] <trenchant> where is the calendar?
[19:12:35] <falken> the calendar is http://www.google.com/calendar/hosted/newyork-ubuntu.com/render
[19:12:40] <trenchant> thanks buddy
[19:12:56] <ausimage> The next goal was a unified service...
[19:13:18] <ausimage> It was discussed about bringing the services under one domain....
[19:13:39] <ausimage> Jabber, Pops, Profiles, Website, Voip, Wiki
[19:13:42] <ausimage> etc
[19:13:48] <hal14450> well don't forget about getting people to just meet eachother 
[19:14:07] <ausimage> yeah that was what we found to be most important...
[19:14:22] <ausimage> being UN-NET-CENTRIC ;)
[19:14:39] * ausimage is skimming the notes...
[19:14:52] <hal14450> even if it's only just for an hour or two it helps to get together and discuss what you can do to promote linux locally as well as supporting eachother
[19:15:45] <ausimage> Yeah... It was felt face-to-face then voice-to-voice then text-to-text was the way to go ;)
[19:16:30] <ausimage> I am going to put together notes and write up a summary and get it posted hopefully this week...
[19:17:12] <ausimage> I had good time... and it was sad to not have those from NYC join us...
[19:17:26] <ausimage> anything that should be added...?
[19:17:55] <ausimage> OK then NEXT
[19:18:35] <ausimage> There is a special speaker in the state this week]\
[19:18:44] <ausimage> benjamin mako hill
[19:19:01] <ausimage> he is an ubuntu developer among other things...
[19:19:15] <ausimage> he is going to be speaking at...
[19:19:28] <ausimage>   Thu, Nov 15, 2007, 10:50am-1:30pm Glenwood Lounge at Brooklyn College student center.   Fri, Nov 16, 5:00pm, Rockefeller 115, Cornell, Ithaca.
[19:19:58] <ausimage> If any from Rochester wants to go we could carpool and meet in Seneca Falls...
[19:20:12] <ausimage> Let me know...
[19:20:29] <trenchant> what is the topic?
[19:20:51] <ausimage> http://mako.cc/copyrighteous/extra/dl_flier_20071115.pdf <==brooklyn
[19:21:00] <ausimage> http://cucodereview.org/ <== ithaca
[19:21:01] <hal14450> OLPC
[19:21:06] <ausimage> yeah
[19:21:09] <trenchant> thanks
[19:21:12] <hal14450> i think is the topic right?
[19:21:24] <ausimage> Yeah along those lines
[19:21:46] <hal14450> if you can attend you really should if you haven't seen one yet they are quite incredible
[19:22:30] <ausimage> The next topic is Team Official recognition...
[19:22:51] <ausimage> I contacted Jono about our app per the directions...
[19:23:07] <ausimage> he asked us to flesh out the app with more details...
[19:23:29] <hal14450> as in?
[19:23:29] <ausimage> So we are well on our way to approval...
[19:23:47] <ausimage> Looks great - I just recommend you flesh out the Roadmap and Experience
[19:23:47] <ausimage> sections with more detail and then it is ready for the CC. :)
[19:23:55] <ausimage> was all he wrote back
[19:24:01] <hal14450> hmm
[19:24:18] <hal14450> so maybe we just need to embellish it a bit then?
[19:24:30] <ausimage> I know... I was going to suggest we have a meeting to work on the app...
[19:24:39] <ausimage> It could be on voip ;)
[19:25:05] <ausimage> so we could come with some of missing detail
[19:25:43] <ausimage> would anyone participate?
[19:25:52] <-- hendrixski has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
[19:26:09] <ausimage> hal14450: ?
[19:26:23] <ausimage> or anyone else?
[19:26:28] <trenchant> what is the app for?
[19:26:44] <hal14450> sure i'll help out where i can i guess
[19:26:51] <ausimage> to be approved as the official LoCo for NY state
[19:27:04] <ausimage> it gives us some additional resources as well
[19:27:26] * ausimage would have to look that up though
[19:27:54] <-- hydrogen has quit ("Konversation terminated!")
[19:28:24] <trenchant> are there other LoCo's in the state?
[19:28:43] <ausimage> No... but it is apart of the Ubuntu process ;)
[19:28:55] <ausimage> every loco gets approved at some point
[19:28:55] <trenchant> OK. how can i help?
[19:29:17] <ausimage> umm... that is good question...
[19:29:34] <ausimage> we have our application here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Approval
[19:29:56] <ausimage> it contains links on how to make the application...
[19:30:03] <ausimage> as well as our application...
[19:30:22] <ausimage> we just need to figure out what jono wanted improved
[19:30:56] <ausimage> that is partly why I suggest getting our heads together...
[19:32:01] <hal14450> works for me
[19:32:02] <ausimage> lets say the 20th at 7
[19:32:11] <ausimage> that is our off tuesday
[19:32:15] <hal14450> on VoIP?
[19:32:29] <ausimage> yeah... I think we could get more done there...
[19:32:42] <ausimage> and use IRC as secondary perhaps...
[19:32:43] <hal14450> or here and VoIP could work
[19:32:54] <ausimage> yeah...
[19:33:10] <ausimage> does the date sound fine?
[19:33:26] <hal14450> yeh i guess
[19:33:32] <ausimage> OK
[19:33:42] <hal14450> i have jury duty the week after thanksgiving
[19:33:52] <ausimage> sounds fun...
[19:33:55] <hal14450> lol
[19:34:03] <hal14450> i hate doing that to be honest
[19:34:19] <ausimage> um last area to cover is Community Support and Advocacy
[19:34:20] <hal14450> but it's the price of voting i guess
[19:34:24] <ausimage> yup
[19:34:38] <ausimage> hal14450: any news on the recycling project?
[19:34:46] <hal14450> none yet
[19:34:49] <ausimage> ok
[19:35:10] <hal14450> but i am talking to Jag about doing a mail server for us if that's what we really want
[19:35:23] <ausimage> I wanted to through out a workshop idea for an additional
[19:35:48] <ausimage> yeah... I think the single service will help us
[19:35:54] <hal14450> yeh well the worksjop goes hand in hand with handing out free pc's
[19:36:26] <ausimage> yup... I was thinking about a FOSS workshop to be given at local libraries
[19:36:44] <hal14450> that does sound like a fine idea
[19:36:53] <ausimage> we can demo several FOSS apps on ubuntu... that are also on other platforms
[19:37:11] <ausimage> give them the option of taking a FOSS cd or an ubuntu cd...
[19:37:41] <hal14450> yep yep
[19:37:58] <ausimage> This is going to be some work... developing the  details... and committing some afternoons
[19:38:44] <ausimage> I think for this I should probably through it to the list to get it fleshed out and hopefully find some support
[19:39:04] <hal14450> well once we get a decent outline for something like that it works as a template for other presentations
[19:39:14] <ausimage> yeah...
[19:39:31] <ausimage> but this would be one of first workshops we do
[19:40:04] <ausimage> I will post the idea to the list to start things off
[19:40:06] <hal14450> well i'm willing to do some screencasts i guess
[19:40:22] <ausimage> Oh that would be nice too
[19:40:24] <hal14450> then all we need is a projector 
[19:40:40] <ausimage> live demos are good though too
[19:40:47] <hal14450> and demo boxes which we have
[19:40:54] <ausimage> yeah
[19:41:51] <ausimage> I think that is about all today?
[19:42:08] <hal14450> works for me
[19:42:10] <ausimage> I still do want to get a conference together though
[19:42:24] <hal14450> anyone else have any topics?
[19:42:27] <ausimage> Though that is stuck :(
[19:42:37] <ausimage> yeah any other business?
[19:43:11] <hal14450> well if anything we can plan more inter-regional meetups
[19:43:28] <ausimage> Yeah... that would be nice too
[19:43:32] <hal14450> maybe every 4-6 months?
[19:43:48] <ausimage> yeah... that is about right...
[19:44:25] <ausimage> we should probably look at getting a committee to work that out...
[19:44:29] <ausimage> :)
[19:44:52] <ausimage> though it would probably be just us :S
[19:45:13] <hal14450> that's a good idea and it also falls into the category of lug liasons
[19:45:22] <ausimage> yup
[19:45:36] <ausimage> I will get a post out on that too
[19:46:07] <ausimage> to see if we can get those not normally present on IRC...
[19:46:20] <ausimage> Anything else tonight?
[19:46:50] <ausimage> Cool... then we make this an early meeting...
[19:47:07] <ausimage> meeting is adjourned then
</pre>
