{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''8th''' IRC meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:45 EST
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==

The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Announcements
* Discuss Major issues
** Plan RL meeting - NYC & Rochester
** Implement solution for Increased Attendance at meetings
** Improve management of mailing List 
** Create Wiki page for mailings that need to be made? 
** Create Tutorial for using list?
** Improve management of wiki
** work on some <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-WikiTasks| Wiki Tasks]]</nowiki>
** Maintain Calendar
** Re-implement Wiki Projects Management Page
* Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting (Phone Conference 05/8/2007)

== Minutes ==

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
(06:10:51 PM) yharrow: ok guys
(06:10:54 PM) yharrow: lets get started
(06:11:17 PM) raffytaffy: ok
(06:11:48 PM) yharrow: welcome everyone to the NY loco team's 8th irc meeting!
(06:12:35 PM) yharrow: we are going to start off with some announcements first and then discuss some topics
(06:12:44 PM) yharrow: ok first off:
(06:13:19 PM) yharrow: Ubuntu Has been chosen as the operating system of choice for Dells new Linux preinstallation initiative
(06:13:46 PM) yharrow: This is an amazing milestone,
(06:14:02 PM) yharrow: and it means taht we are that much closer to solving bug number 1
(06:14:27 PM) yharrow: which for those of you who dont know is to solve the problem of MS's majority market share in computers
(06:15:04 PM) yharrow: This also means that soon we will be able to walk into an best buy or compusa and pick out an ubuntu computer off the shelves!
(06:15:20 PM) raffytaffy: yes like system 76
(06:16:12 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: yeah, exactly like system 76 except 100 times as great IMO. Dell is beleive it or not a first tier OEM and the seond largest OEM in america if i am not mistaken
(06:16:54 PM) yharrow: I forget who is the largest, but either way this is a great win for ubuntu and for linux in general
(06:17:15 PM) samiam010203: and a big digg at msft
(06:17:45 PM) yharrow: yep. one step closer to solving bug number 1
(06:17:48 PM) yharrow: http://www.informationweek.com/hardware/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=199203001&subSection=Personal+Computers
(06:18:07 PM) yharrow: theres a link to an article that you can read at your leisure
(06:18:09 PM) yharrow: ok,
(06:18:13 PM) yharrow: other announcements
(06:19:07 PM) yharrow: we have reached a number of 25 members which is a great number for our fast growing team
(06:19:32 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Excellent.
(06:19:50 PM) yharrow: this number is according to people who have posted their contact info on the wiki member page. the actual number of member may be higher.
(06:19:56 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: How does that compare with the other teams?
(06:19:59 PM) yharrow: but for now we will go with that number
(06:20:13 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: Its hard to tell. but for us it is a good number.
(06:20:20 PM) yharrow: :D
(06:21:06 PM) yharrow: speaking of which I would like to welcome one of our newest members, raffytaffy  to the team
(06:21:59 PM) yharrow: btw, just so I can get a head count, how many people here plan on staying for the rest of the meeting or at least a good part of it?
(06:23:59 PM) yharrow: hmm...
(06:24:05 PM) yharrow: ok another announcement
(06:24:21 PM) yharrow: the release party in rochester was a real success apparently
(06:24:31 PM) yharrow: with over 15 attendants if I am not mistaken
(06:25:26 PM) yharrow: was anyone at the rochester party?
(06:25:42 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: *crickets*
(06:25:48 PM) yharrow: lol :D
(06:25:55 PM) yharrow: ok, Ill ask hendrixsi again when I see him
(06:25:57 PM) yharrow: but yeah
(06:25:59 PM) yharrow: they did well
(06:26:13 PM) yharrow: thats about it I think
(06:26:14 PM) tjabri: good to hear!
(06:26:20 PM) yharrow: anyone else have anouncements to make?
(06:26:25 PM) yharrow: yeah :D
(06:26:35 PM) ausimage: what about NY?
(06:27:07 PM) ***ausimage thought they had a release party ???
(06:27:12 PM) yharrow:  ausimage oh it was a bit of a failure since I told people where to go but noone knew what I looked like ! so they couldnt find me!
(06:27:17 PM) yharrow: :D
(06:27:22 PM) yharrow: :(
(06:27:45 PM) ausimage: yharrow... you did not have pic on your wiki page??? :P
(06:27:46 PM) yharrow: that is definitely not a mistake that I will repeat
(06:27:54 PM) yharrow: ausimage: nah, I should I know
(06:29:24 PM) yharrow: ok, onto topics then
(06:32:21 PM) yharrow: issue number 1
(06:32:21 PM) yharrow: I think that we really need to get back into the habit of project/task management.
(06:32:21 PM) yharrow: people need to know what needs to be donw
(06:32:21 PM) yharrow: done*
(06:32:21 PM) yharrow: so that they can help out
(06:32:21 PM) yharrow: its bad when we have 3 people doing all the work
(06:32:21 PM) yharrow: and then 3 other ppl who want to help, but dont know what to do
(06:32:27 PM) yharrow: so... I have created a solution
(06:32:31 PM) yharrow: it is called a project page
(06:32:33 PM) yharrow: and it is located on the wiki
(06:32:37 PM) yharrow: the address is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ProjectGoals
(06:32:41 PM) yharrow: heh
(06:32:53 PM) yharrow: The solution is a modified version of a previous one.
(06:32:59 PM) yharrow: where we had a table instead of list
(06:33:12 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Huzzah!
(06:33:17 PM) yharrow: the previous version worked fairly well , except that tables were hard to manage
(06:33:28 PM) yharrow: thank you Zyrshnikashnu :D.
(06:33:44 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: I could never find the previous one. I always lost it.
(06:33:57 PM) yharrow: ok  guys please take a moment to check out the project goals page before we go on
(06:34:12 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: previous which?
(06:34:28 PM) yharrow: project managemetn?
(06:34:30 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: "yharrow: the previous version worked fairly well"
(06:34:35 PM) yharrow: yeah
(06:34:46 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: I remember seeing a table of projects, but I couldn't find it again.
(06:34:47 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: well, we kinda hid it after we tried to faze it out
(06:34:56 PM) yharrow: :P
(06:35:26 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: we tried some other fancy shmancy solutions which apparently didnt work as well as we hoped
(06:35:39 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: so we are going back to the wiki
(06:35:59 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: only this time projects go into 3 sections and  there is a list instead of table
(06:36:38 PM) yharrow: is everyone still with me?
(06:38:21 PM) yharrow: ok now that everyone has taken a look at the page, Id like some feedback, suggestions or questions :D
(06:38:43 PM) yharrow: any ideas or things you dont understand?
(06:40:21 PM) yharrow: oh one more thing that i forgot to mention
(06:41:03 PM) yharrow: as much as I like the wiki project page, I feel that it would be better if peopel could select some things from a menu rather then having to enter it by hand
(06:41:26 PM) yharrow: ausimage and I are working on a project manager that will allow us to do that
(06:41:35 PM) tjabri: yharrow: sorry, i just caught up
(06:41:35 PM) ausimage: not much you can do with a wiki in that regards
(06:41:38 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: its fairly simple but it takes some work
(06:41:53 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Yeah, but the concept isn't difficult. You've got a database, right?
(06:42:00 PM) ausimage: yup....
(06:42:05 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Good stuff.
Zyrshnikashnu: Shouldn't be too difficult, right?
(06:41:26 PM) yharrow: ausimage and I are working on a project manager that will allow us to do that
(06:41:35 PM) tjabri: yharrow: sorry, i just caught up
(06:41:35 PM) ausimage: not much you can do with a wiki in that regards
(06:41:38 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: its fairly simple but it takes some work
(06:42:10 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: if anyone here is fluent in php and would like to help then you are welcome to contribute as well
(06:42:33 PM) ausimage: I have a basic design set... but I may need some redesign to accomadate things...
(06:42:41 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: As much as I'd like to, I can't commit myself to anything right now. I've got school to bother me and a fundraising benefit to plan.
(06:42:54 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: the great thing about having a database is that we can resuse it and people can visit their own page and see what projects they personally have to do
(06:43:06 PM) tjabri: i'm trying to learn php, maybe i can help at some point down the road
(06:43:11 PM) raffytaffy: i run 2 forums...my php is not good. but im learning it
(06:44:03 PM) yharrow: tjabri, raffytaffy  that cool w/e you feel that you are ready, although im sure even if this project is done by that time, there will be other chances to help out with coding
(06:44:13 PM) tjabri: yharrow: the wiki page seems pretty easy to use as you have it right now
(06:44:23 PM) tjabri: ok!
(06:44:31 PM) yharrow: tjabri: thats waht we will be using in the mean time
(06:44:42 PM) tjabri: coo, i'm down wit dat
(06:44:48 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: brought a VERY good point that I would like to address
(06:44:49 PM) tjabri: i gotta practice my homeboy speak
(06:44:52 PM) yharrow: and that is content
(06:44:59 PM) yharrow: we need to start adding tasks
(06:45:02 PM) yharrow: and project
(06:45:29 PM) yharrow: anything you can think of related to this team should be added to the projects page
(06:45:52 PM) yharrow: install fests, parties, services, support, recruiting
(06:45:53 PM) yharrow: etc
(06:45:56 PM) ausimage: I should probably put my projects down....
(06:46:14 PM) yharrow: ausimage: yeah, that might be a good idea. I will do that too LD
(06:46:15 PM) yharrow: :D
(06:46:33 PM) ausimage: I have my list in my head at the moment...
(06:46:35 PM) yharrow: ausimage: that way other people can help out rather then 2 or 3 ppl doing everything
(06:47:01 PM) yharrow: we have 25 members and Im sure everyone wants a chance to help
(06:47:12 PM) ausimage: yup.... :)
(06:47:17 PM) yharrow: we just need to point them in the right direction
(06:47:27 PM) yharrow: tjabri: lol
(06:47:28 PM) ausimage: would be nice to have some assistance coding and what not
(06:48:01 PM) yharrow: ausimage: yeah :D having help is good
(06:48:21 PM) tjabri: i'm still working my way through html and css for dummies, but soon enough, i can actually help
(06:48:30 PM) ausimage: communication is good too ;)
(06:48:33 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: A temporary afk. I was changing the channel and getting a snack.
(06:48:42 PM) yharrow: tjabri: even if you cant code there will be other stuff to do :D.
(06:48:56 PM) raffytaffy: any projects relating to the kernel?
(06:49:10 PM) yharrow: we will be creating a form for everyone to fill otu where you can tell the team your skills and interests
(06:49:14 PM) ausimage: tjabri: wiki coding is not that hard
(06:49:34 PM) tjabri: ausimage: yeah i gotta learn that too :-)
(06:49:39 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: yharrow: Shall we add developing a new project page to the projects list?
(06:49:50 PM) ausimage: raffytaffy: check with the kernel team ;)
(06:49:57 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: you mean like bpm?
(06:50:03 PM) yharrow: basic project manager
(06:50:24 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: I have no idea. O_o
(06:50:36 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: ausimage is currently working on a new implementation of project management coded in php, It is called bpm
(06:50:42 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Oh, then yes.
(06:50:43 PM) yharrow: short for basic project manager
(06:50:55 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: yeah we should have a section for that
(06:51:13 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: are you good at coding the kernel?
(06:51:13 PM) ***ausimage says that is on my list
(06:51:22 PM) raffytaffy: learning it
(06:51:28 PM) tjabri: that's cool
(06:51:43 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: I guess ausimage will add it to the brainstorm list, although you can do it and then ausimage will add to it.
(06:51:54 PM) yharrow: hmm
(06:52:05 PM) yharrow: we need to yet again port ouir old projects
(06:52:07 PM) ausimage: bom should be an approved project no????
(06:52:21 PM) ausimage: *bpm
(06:52:22 PM) yharrow: ausimage: yeah you can approve it and put your name next to it
(06:52:57 PM) yharrow: ausimage: although, some tasks related to bpm may falll under brainstorming
(06:53:11 PM) yharrow: it is possible to have a project with some tasks in brainstorming
(06:53:16 PM) ausimage: yharrow, I am thinking it may be easier to have subpages for project details ;)
(06:53:17 PM) yharrow: and some tasks in approved
(06:53:24 PM) yharrow: and some in assigned
(06:53:42 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: I'll toss it under brainstorming for now and let you two fight over it. ;)
(06:53:43 PM) yharrow: ausimage: it might be. we will start out like this and develop it as time goes on
(06:53:47 PM) yharrow: hehe
(06:53:52 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: that works :D
(06:53:58 PM) yharrow: thats why i love brainstorm
(06:54:06 PM) yharrow: you can put *whatever* you want
(06:54:07 PM) ausimage: I know it would be better for me, cause I subscrive to the pages I am interested 
(06:54:14 PM) ***tjabri watches cat-fight
(06:54:16 PM) yharrow: you can even put buy cheerios!
(06:54:16 PM) ausimage: and follow changes to those pages
(06:54:41 PM) yharrow: tjabri: hehe
(06:54:55 PM) yharrow: tjabri: do you have any great ideas for our team?
(06:54:58 PM) yharrow: :D
(06:55:27 PM) tjabri: umm, everyone is covering great topics, so right now, nothing...
(06:55:44 PM) tjabri: but i'll make sure to speak up should neurons in my brain start firing
(06:55:47 PM) yharrow: ausimage: that is certainly a novel Idea. I did consider at one point. we will see as time goes on the best way to do things :D , you can even put it as a brainstorming project
(06:56:16 PM) yharrow: tjabri: sounds great:D
(06:57:54 PM) yharrow: ok, i just need to find the link to the list of old projects
(06:58:12 PM) yharrow: ausimage: any idea what the link to the public preview of our last project manager was?
(06:58:24 PM) ausimage: hmmm.... let me check
(06:59:21 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ProjectsArchived?highlight=%28Projects%29%7C%28NewYorkTeam%29 ?
(06:59:55 PM) ausimage: www.newyork-ubuntu.com/projects/publicsummary.php ???
(07:00:01 PM) yharrow: thats it!
(07:00:05 PM) yharrow: thanks ausimage
(07:00:16 PM) yharrow: ok guys take alook at that link if you wabnt
(07:00:22 PM) yharrow: those are our old projects
(07:00:34 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: It doesn't exist. O_o
(07:00:48 PM) yharrow: uh oh
(07:00:50 PM) yharrow: hes right
(07:00:59 PM) yharrow: ausimage: any idea wheere it went?
(07:01:03 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: And your ErrorDocument line is apparently wrong. :P
(07:01:42 PM) ausimage: let check again
(07:01:46 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: My link was wrong?
(07:01:50 PM) ausimage: I saw the file in question...
(07:02:05 PM) yharrow: weird
(07:02:13 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Also, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-newyork-us/+specs?show=all
(07:02:27 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu:oh those are 2 older implemations :D
(07:02:33 PM) yharrow: implementations*
(07:02:44 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: we tried 3 different things before :D
(07:02:45 PM) ausimage: http://www.newyork-ubuntu.com/projects/publicsumarry.php
(07:03:01 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Ah, the bad spelling does it!
(07:03:13 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: first the table, then the launchpad, then an online project manager
(07:03:18 PM) yharrow: Zyrshnikashnu: lol!
(07:03:29 PM) yharrow: yay
(07:03:31 PM) yharrow: there they are
(07:03:32 PM) tjabri: wow
(07:03:39 PM) yharrow: ok we need to start porting those
(07:03:43 PM) yharrow: tjabri: looks good?
(07:04:10 PM) tjabri: yeah
(07:04:14 PM) tjabri: where is this hosted?
(07:04:25 PM) yharrow: tjabri: on our team site. newyork-ubuntu.com
(07:04:29 PM) raffytaffy: these tshirts project...are you using something cafe press to make em?
(07:04:37 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: yep :D
(07:04:47 PM) tjabri: oh, i meant what hosting provider... or hosted at someone's home?
(07:04:50 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: if you go to the wiki page yhou will see a link
(07:04:54 PM) yharrow: tjabri: swizi.com
(07:05:05 PM) raffytaffy: ive seen some ubuntu ones . i shop there lol
(07:05:08 PM) tjabri: yharrow: thanks
(07:05:22 PM) yharrow: your welcome :)
(07:06:09 PM) yharrow: tjabri: i wish we could keep that project manager but apparently its too complicated for most folk
(07:06:26 PM) yharrow: between the login and the complicated forms
(07:07:12 PM) tjabri: oh i see, it's webcollab huh?
(07:07:16 PM) yharrow: yep
(07:07:25 PM) tjabri: i never used it, but heard of it
(07:07:30 PM) yharrow: ausimage: do you think we are better off modifying bpm, or continuing to create our own manager from ground up?
(07:07:51 PM) yharrow: tjabri: yeah its got a good framework
(07:08:10 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: Ilike cafepress alot
(07:08:17 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: On second thought...
(07:08:19 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: one sec. Ill get you the link for our shop
(07:08:23 PM) raffytaffy: i just got 2 tux shirtrs from them hehe
(07:08:28 PM) ausimage: hmmm... I would live to modify webcollab but not sure I am up to that task.... I do have an ok handle on BPM at this point
(07:10:16 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy:  here you go http://www.cafepress.com/ubuntuny
(07:10:32 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: buy some shirts and support our team ;)
(07:10:53 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: We have mugs too!
(07:10:54 PM) raffytaffy: i like the hat:O
(07:11:03 PM) tjabri: on an unrelated note, did everyone hear about vmware-server in the commercial repository as of.. umm.. a few days ago?
(07:11:05 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: yeah me too, its one of my favorite
(07:11:33 PM) ***ausimage wonders when the next topic is up ???
(07:11:36 PM) yharrow: hmm. no have not heard. is that good or bad?
(07:11:40 PM) yharrow: he
(07:11:44 PM) yharrow: ausimage: ok you are right
(07:11:48 PM) yharrow: lets move on
(07:12:11 PM) raffytaffy: once i start school i can distribute ubuntu cd's :P
(07:12:16 PM) yharrow: so we all pretty much know what we will be doing for project management
(07:12:32 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: we actually just got a shipment of 50 cds
(07:12:48 PM) raffytaffy: nice:D i ordered feisty..and i can always burn copies
(07:12:49 PM) yharrow: so we will be able to distribute those at our Real life meeting
(07:12:58 PM) yharrow: which brings us to our next topic
(07:13:12 PM) yharrow: discussing the details of a real life meeting
(07:13:25 PM) yharrow: there are several issues concerning that
(07:13:40 PM) yharrow: one is, location. which we discussed at earlier meetings
(07:13:52 PM) yharrow: ausimage: do you remember one of the meetings we had on that?
(07:14:04 PM) ausimage: yeah... somewhat...
(07:14:23 PM) raffytaffy: do u want this outside or inside? this meeting?
(07:14:29 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I dont think we came to any specific solution although there were several solutions
(07:14:34 PM) yharrow: suggestions i mean
(07:14:50 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: I think it should be inside, what do you guys think?
(07:14:57 PM) raffytaffy: ya
(07:14:58 PM) yharrow: should a loco meeting be indoors or out/
(07:15:02 PM) ausimage: I think we are always going to have upstate and downstate meetings.... 8-10hrs driving is too much for most ;)
(07:15:22 PM) yharrow: ausimage: exactly, that is also atopic related to loco meetings
(07:15:40 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I am pretty sure that we should have 2 seperate meetings
(07:16:01 PM) yharrow: the question is how will those meetings interact with each other, if at all
(07:16:08 PM) ausimage: but I don't think it means there should be an upstate and a downstate group... we should be able to coordinate
(07:16:42 PM) ausimage: yharrow should get out of the stuffy the city once in awhile :P
(07:16:48 PM) yharrow: ausimage: well to some extent certain activities will need to be area specific. but i think we should all be on the same stage
(07:16:51 PM) yharrow: hehe
(07:17:11 PM) yharrow: ausimage: one of these days I will take a trip upstate. trust me ;)
(07:17:43 PM) ausimage: hey I am sure you would find free lodging at one of the member's homes ;)
(07:17:49 PM) yharrow: hehe
(07:17:54 PM) yharrow: that would be nice :D
(07:17:59 PM) yharrow: although...
(07:18:11 PM) yharrow: I would only go if offered an invitation
(07:18:24 PM) yharrow: im not one to exploit my fellow members :P
(07:18:48 PM) ausimage: true... but I am sure any of us would open our homes to a fellow ubuntu user like yourself ;)
(07:19:18 PM) yharrow: ausimage: that sound great. I will definitely consider it before taking  a trip upsate :D
(07:19:21 PM) yharrow: so we have the following questions at hand.
(07:19:34 PM) yharrow: where to hold the RL meeting
(07:19:40 PM) yharrow: when to hold the RL meeting
(07:19:57 PM) ausimage: rochester is good... just better on the east side for me ;)
(07:20:07 PM) yharrow: and . how do the 2 meetings interact
(07:20:19 PM) yharrow: is anyone here from upsate?
(07:20:23 PM) ausimage: and not have too many family things happening
(07:20:33 PM) tjabri: maybe the agenda should be shared and always have one meeting after the other so that notes can be compared from the first meeting and then fill any gaps and rebuttals in the second
(07:21:18 PM) ausimage: yharrow I think this dovetails with possible bylaws ;)
(07:21:21 PM) yharrow: tjabri: hmm, that is a interesting idea. I never thought of that
(07:21:47 PM) yharrow: ausimage: which bylaws?
(07:21:50 PM) ausimage: we need some leadership up here that works with the leadership down there
(07:21:55 PM) tjabri: coo' son, coo'
(07:21:58 PM) tjabri: ;-)
(07:22:10 PM) ausimage: the bylaws that we discussed at the last meeting...
(07:22:21 PM) ausimage: about drafting ;;)
(07:22:22 PM) yharrow: ausimage: well, right now hendrixsi has done a good job with the party and such and seems to have experience leading things
(07:22:57 PM) ausimage: I am just saying maybe have a leadership meeting coordinate the meetings...
(07:22:59 PM) yharrow: ausimage:please refresh my memory :D, do you mean the rules about attendance
(07:23:32 PM) yharrow: tjabri: do you actually have a homeboy accent in real life ;)
(07:23:34 PM) yharrow: :P
(07:23:47 PM) tjabri: yharrow: nah, but i'm working on it!
(07:23:53 PM) yharrow: heh
(07:23:54 PM) ausimage: no I was talking about non-profit status stufff... bylaws are always important, even without the status it helps set the boundaries of the group
(07:23:58 PM) tjabri: i figure it may save my life at some point
(07:24:05 PM) yharrow: ohhhh ok :D
(07:24:09 PM) tjabri: lol
(07:24:18 PM) yharrow: tjabri: lol, I highly doubt that
(07:24:24 PM) tjabri: lol yeah, me too
(07:24:40 PM) yharrow: ausimage: how does it dovetail with bylaws?
(07:24:54 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: you still with us?
(07:25:01 PM) raffytaffy: yes lol reading the room
(07:25:03 PM) ausimage: with regards to that and RLs I think leaders from various regions need to be sought... they could be like our leaders council ;)
(07:25:24 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: cool :D. if you have any suggestions or comments feel free to join in
(07:25:27 PM) ausimage: and they would be responsible for communication amongst the regions
(07:25:49 PM) yharrow: ausimage: is it neccessary for non profit status?
(07:25:57 PM) ausimage: normal bylaw speak would be board members
(07:26:37 PM) ausimage: most nonprofits have boards that run the organization
(07:26:38 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I think in general the idea of district/county leaders is a good idea
(07:27:18 PM) ausimage: yeah.... part of their responsibilty would be communication between the others ;)
(07:27:46 PM) raffytaffy: my first meeting. ill have some on the next :P
(07:27:51 PM) yharrow: ausimage: sounds like that would work expecially since I am not familiar with the practices of every county
(07:27:57 PM) yharrow: raffytaffy: ok thats good too :D
(07:28:02 PM) ausimage: it could help keep the rls in sync
(07:28:27 PM) yharrow: ausimage: that would be great if you could think up some ideas to do that
(07:28:42 PM) ausimage: yeah... it is my list some place ;)
(07:29:06 PM) yharrow: ausimage: whether it be comparing notes, through irc, through phone conference, through live camera or sound feed. w/e works :D
(07:29:22 PM) ausimage: yeah... 
(07:29:38 PM) yharrow: ausimage: of course you can put your ideas in the project goals page and we will all add our suggestions and comments
(07:30:05 PM) ausimage: yeah I know... when my time allows I will get everything on the page ;)
(07:30:47 PM) yharrow: I beleive that both meetings should be held on the same day
(07:30:48 PM) yharrow: However
(07:31:02 PM) ausimage: yeah me too... with the leaders coordinating of course
(07:31:53 PM) yharrow: I am considering tjabri suggestion to have meetings one day after the other
(07:32:28 PM) yharrow: and passing issues from one meeting to the next
(07:32:47 PM) yharrow: the idea in that is to try to get more work done IMO
(07:32:47 PM) ausimage: hmmm.... why don't we take the  suggestions and mull them over till next meeting and move on to the other topics
(07:33:35 PM) yharrow: well I think the communication should be thought over.
(07:33:54 PM) tjabri: yeah, it seems like it's going to be an issue
(07:34:11 PM) ausimage: besides we can't plan RLs with out the leaders being present ;)
(07:34:20 PM) yharrow: as far as time and place of an RL meeting goes I think we should at least think up an way for finding a solution
(07:34:29 PM) yharrow: should we hold polls?
(07:36:07 PM) ausimage: yharrow on the mailing list issue I will email a short mailing list primer out to everyone very soon....
(07:36:14 PM) yharrow: ok that works
(07:36:46 PM) ausimage: yharrow if you come to me first I can come up with solutions that can work... with out having to lengthen the meetings ;)
(07:36:51 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I think the best way to find a time and place is to at some point have a suggestion thread  and add polls when we have enough suggestion
(07:37:21 PM) yharrow: ausimage: that sounds good. :D
(07:37:54 PM) ausimage: use your leaders er admins... talk with them... before bringing issues concerning them to the meeting... so they can prepare or suggest remedies ;)
(07:37:56 PM) yharrow: ausimage: ok the other topic at hand is communicating with local computer services  vendors
(07:38:19 PM) yharrow: ausimage: hmm. I think we should have mini meetings in between general meetings
(07:38:42 PM) yharrow: ausimage: we certainly need to start doing that
(07:38:44 PM) ausimage: leadership meetings, one on one with admins ;)
(07:39:19 PM) yharrow: ausimage: or anyone else who happens to join, unless its somehow a sensitive issue
(07:39:26 PM) yharrow: ;)
(07:39:35 PM) tjabri: that sounds like a good idea
(07:39:40 PM) ausimage: yeah will sensitive stuff can be in pm
(07:39:59 PM) yharrow: tjabri: you mean setting up an RL meeting?
(07:40:20 PM) tjabri: oh, no, just the in-between-meetings meetings
(07:40:39 PM) yharrow: tjabri: yeah I think its definitely a good idea
(07:40:57 PM) yharrow: thanks to ausimage for bringing it up :D
(07:41:14 PM) yharrow: we could have all sorts of mini meetings
(07:41:21 PM) tjabri: YAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
(07:41:33 PM) yharrow: like for art specifc stuff and site specif stuff, and party specific stuff
(07:41:34 PM) ausimage: you are welcome. it just seemed like you were trying to manage something you already delegated... not a good thing
(07:41:52 PM) yharrow: ausimage: what do you mean by that?
(07:42:35 PM) ausimage: hmmmm.... I mean you put me in charge of managing the list... and did not even ask me about the concerns... ;)
(07:43:05 PM) yharrow: ausimage: which specific concerns? about the Documentation?
(07:43:14 PM) ausimage: yeah...
(07:44:20 PM) yharrow: ausimage: so what you are saying is that I shouldve asked you if you minded me asking people to create documentation for the list since you are in charge of the list?
(07:45:12 PM) ausimage: sort of... you could have at least said I think we need to improve the use of the list.... perhaps documentaion would be nice  ;)
(07:45:49 PM) ausimage: I could have come up with other solutions as well :)
(07:46:02 PM) yharrow: ausimage: besides documentation?
(07:46:08 PM) ausimage: yeah...
(07:46:17 PM) yharrow: ausimage: what other solutions are there :)?
(07:46:39 PM) ausimage: hmmm....
(07:47:15 PM) yharrow: ausimage: we will continue this in a few minutes :D. I just wanted to finish with the meeting and then we can discuss this at length
(07:47:18 PM) ausimage: better welcome emails... maybe questions to the group to discuss
(07:47:51 PM) ausimage: yeah the meeting needs to be wrapping soon ??
(07:47:55 PM) yharrow: yep
(07:48:00 PM) yharrow: very soon
(07:48:03 PM) yharrow: ok
(07:48:26 PM) yharrow: the last topic was contacting computer vendors and service providers
(07:48:32 PM) yharrow:  tjabri you still with us?
(07:49:09 PM) ausimage: do we have pamphlets to hand out that explain Ubuntu and its bennies ???
(07:49:39 PM) yharrow: I think that at some point we need to compile a list of computer vendors and service providers and explain the philosophy and advatages of ubuntu
(07:49:53 PM) yharrow: ausimage: hmm, I dont think so although there might be some generic ones
(07:50:06 PM) yharrow: ausimage: we might want to put that on the projects list as well
(07:50:07 PM) ausimage: yeah perhaps we should search out what others have done here as well
(07:50:16 PM) yharrow: yeah
(07:50:42 PM) yharrow: we discuss this issue further at a later date.
(07:50:57 PM) yharrow: I think its about time for our meeting to end
(07:51:21 PM) tjabri: well, it was nice meeting all of you
(07:51:37 PM) yharrow: meaning that we are already running 5 minutes past our hour and 45 minute limit :D
(07:51:46 PM) yharrow: tjabri: it was a pleasure meeting you as well
(07:51:55 PM) yharrow: we will meet again in 2 weeks time
(07:52:27 PM) yharrow: Tuesday the 15th looks like a good date let me double check
(07:52:28 PM) yharrow: brb
(07:52:41 PM) yharrow: is tues the 15th good for you guys?
(07:52:56 PM) ***ausimage says fine
(07:53:27 PM) yharrow: tjabri: yep IRC for the rizzle :D
(07:54:15 PM) tjabri: lol
(07:54:25 PM) tjabri: ok the 15th is good for me
(07:54:29 PM) yharrow: the 15th is fine for me
(07:54:30 PM) ausimage: tue the 15th on irc same bat time ... same .... ;)
(07:54:42 PM) yharrow: 6PM the 15th
(07:54:45 PM) yharrow: ok guys
(07:54:56 PM) yharrow: I had a great time.
(07:55:09 PM) yharrow: hope to see you here next week as well!
(07:55:10 PM) yharrow: :D
(07:55:22 PM) yharrow: meeting adjourend
(07:55:35 PM) yharrow: sorry not next week
(07:55:41 PM) yharrow: i meant in 2 weekss
(07:56:02 PM) yharrow: but feel free to chat on IRC whenever you have time
</pre>
