{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Conference Committee Meeting ===

==== Summary ====
 <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-Conference2008]]</nowiki>
==== Logs ====
TZ UTC -4
<pre>
(06:36:10 PM) samiam010203: ausimage your on bat
(06:36:12 PM) yharrow: ausimage: yes. go ahead please
(06:36:22 PM) ausimage: posingaspopular: we are ready
(06:36:28 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ProjectGoals/StateWideMeetup is the page
(06:36:53 PM) ausimage: Now.. I feel we need to think about a few things...
(06:36:55 PM) eggwarmer: I think it's a great idea guys, but I'm just a bit too far for a 1 or 2 hour gig.
(06:37:32 PM) ausimage: Where do we want to hold this ?
(06:37:42 PM) ausimage: How many can attend...
(06:37:44 PM) posingaspopular: you guys should throw up a rideshare page, so you can co-ordinate meeting up
(06:37:46 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I think a central location will be best
(06:37:55 PM) eggwarmer: The two suggestions wer Geneva and Syracuse.
(06:37:58 PM) ausimage: Yeah Me... too...
(06:38:17 PM) yharrow: we can hold this meeting in Albany, and scout out places and lodging for a 2 or 3 day conference in October
(06:38:21 PM) ausimage: I can plan a Geneva easy but Syracuse will be more difficult for me
(06:38:41 PM) n8k99: i can go whereever the trains go
(06:38:43 PM) yharrow: conference spots*
(06:38:44 PM) ausimage: You need TIME to plan a good conferece
(06:38:57 PM) n8k99: >6months
(06:38:59 PM) ausimage: April is the earliest I would plan
(06:39:08 PM) ausimage: thank you n8k99
(06:39:21 PM) eggwarmer: If somebody gave me an idea of the size or preference in a building I could put together a Syracuse thing.
(06:39:27 PM) infinityxi: I'm interested in attending this.
(06:39:34 PM) yharrow: ausimage: hmm, What about January? 4 months
(06:39:38 PM) ausimage: that what I was hoping
(06:39:48 PM) ausimage: yharrow April no snow
(06:39:53 PM) yharrow: or the end  of December like we originally said.
(06:39:55 PM) n8k99: we planned the ubucon for nearly a year
(06:39:58 PM) ausimage: or least hopefull better weather
(06:40:06 PM) eggwarmer: The winters up here can be hell for a winter conference.
(06:40:12 PM) infinityxi: would end of december be accessible to most?
(06:40:13 PM) ausimage: exactly...
(06:40:27 PM) BrionS [n=BrionS@cpe-69-207-169-163.rochester.res.rr.com] entered the room.
(06:40:36 PM) yharrow: end of december is the beginning of winter. so the weather is not *that* bad.
(06:40:44 PM) posingaspopular: infinityxi: i would advise agianst that, simply because of travel costs, room availablity, people being on vacation...
(06:40:45 PM) samiam010203: december 08 ?
(06:40:46 PM) n8k99: i think a conference needs to be scheduled for july
(06:40:49 PM) yharrow: But summer conferences are definitely more comfortable
(06:40:53 PM) infinityxi: posingaspopular: I agree
(06:41:01 PM) ausimage: do people really want a conference they can proud of or do they want a crapp  half-a$$ one ?
(06:41:05 PM) infinityxi: my point was just that people may not be around i.e family
(06:41:25 PM) yharrow: I think that our orginal plan was to have 2 conferences a year 1 of which would be official and one of which would be unofficial
(06:41:32 PM) ausimage: the date needs to be in April or after...
(06:41:39 PM) infinityxi: ausimage: April+ is good for me
(06:41:45 PM) infinityxi: i'd rather wait and have something awesome
(06:41:46 PM) ausimage: to allow for adequate planning...
(06:41:50 PM) ***n8k99 repeats July July July
(06:41:58 PM) eggwarmer: I think we should stick to a Spring conference not near holidays.
(06:42:14 PM) ausimage: I was thinking that... but I know want two conference times...
(06:42:17 PM) eggwarmer: Or at least not earlier than Spring.
(06:42:25 PM) infinityxi: n8k99: has a point, I mean summer is a pretty good time as well.
(06:42:46 PM) n8k99: ausimage: i think one of the conferences- needs to be not about outsiders but about the Team
(06:42:51 PM) yharrow: posingaspopular: What time of year do you think is best for a 2 or 3 dpay conference?
(06:42:56 PM) yharrow: day*
(06:43:08 PM) posingaspopular: we've had one in april, we had one in july and we're planning one for september
(06:43:11 PM) posingaspopular: the july one was best.
(06:43:16 PM) posingaspopular: april had too many holidays
(06:43:21 PM) posingaspopular: not sure how sept. will turn out
(06:43:28 PM) yharrow: I think that July sounds good.
(06:43:37 PM) samiam010203: so lets go with that then
(06:43:51 PM) n8k99: stick it on the second or third week and we're golden!
(06:44:00 PM) yharrow: lets have a vote for April 1 or 0
(06:44:10 PM) ausimage: posingaspopular: maybe you could share a little about getting the conference expenses covered?
(06:44:14 PM) n8k99: april for what? a conference or a meeting?
(06:44:19 PM) posingaspopular: google
(06:44:19 PM) yharrow: conference
(06:44:23 PM) posingaspopular: ;P
(06:44:24 PM) n8k99: 0
(06:44:25 PM) ausimage: +1
(06:44:28 PM) samiam010203: +0 for april
(06:44:29 PM) yharrow: 0
(06:44:47 PM) eggwarmer: +0 for April
(06:44:55 PM) infinityxi: either way for me, so does that could as a null Boolean?
(06:44:58 PM) yharrow: ok . Let's have a vote for December.
(06:45:03 PM) infinityxi: 0
(06:45:04 PM) samiam010203: +0
(06:45:05 PM) ausimage: -2
(06:45:09 PM) yharrow: lol
(06:45:11 PM) yharrow: 0
(06:45:11 PM) eggwarmer: +0
(06:45:13 PM) n8k99: >-2
(06:45:19 PM) n8k99: or less than
(06:45:20 PM) yharrow: and a vote for July
(06:45:24 PM) samiam010203: +1
(06:45:25 PM) n8k99: +1
(06:45:25 PM) ausimage: +2
(06:45:28 PM) yharrow: +1
(06:45:29 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:45:31 PM) eggwarmer: +200
(06:45:32 PM) yharrow: July it is
(06:45:33 PM) infinityxi: 1
(06:45:50 PM) ausimage: Ok a july conference...
(06:45:52 PM) n8k99: if we can get Lake Placid that would be awesome
(06:45:56 PM) yharrow: Now as far as a 1 day meeting goes.
(06:46:02 PM) yharrow: or 2 days
(06:46:09 PM) yharrow: not sure if we want an overnight
(06:46:13 PM) samiam010203: 2 days would be nice
(06:46:17 PM) ausimage: I like the way I have it on the page ;)
(06:46:20 PM) yharrow: 2 days 1 night
(06:46:26 PM) yharrow: I'll check out the page
(06:46:27 PM) ausimage: 2 nite 1 day
(06:46:29 PM) yharrow: one sec
(06:46:31 PM) n8k99: if you have an overnight you need to have a serious schedule of events
(06:46:33 PM) ausimage: 3 nite 2 day
(06:46:38 PM) yharrow: what is the URL again ausimage
(06:46:39 PM) samiam010203: thats better
(06:46:46 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ProjectGoals/StateWideMeetup
(06:46:57 PM) ausimage: ^^ everyone there
(06:46:57 PM) yharrow: n8k99: That's why I was wary of an overnight
(06:46:58 PM) posingaspopular: so we had a bunch of corporate sponsors, google, rpath, defora, google and the university CS dept. threw in some cash for april. july was a bunch of OS companies, advertising companies, users bought their own beers and laptops. speakers were people from the city giving a talk about whatever they wanted. the next conf will likely be paid for by rpath, the univesity CS dept. and who knows what else
(06:47:12 PM) n8k99: that needs to be a _big_ deal
(06:47:19 PM) nixternal [n=nixterna@ubuntu/member/pdpc.active.nixternal] entered the room.
(06:47:29 PM) nixternal: Chicago is the real city! :D
(06:47:31 PM) n8k99: Jono and those guts only throw a single day event for LUGRadio
(06:47:35 PM) ausimage: hey nixternal
(06:47:45 PM) n8k99: and they make it chock full of nuts
(06:47:51 PM) nixternal: wasabi...I forgot 6pm NYC != 6PM Chicago
(06:47:53 PM) samiam010203: lug radio is 2 days
(06:48:05 PM) ausimage: exactly
(06:48:05 PM) n8k99: nixternal is learning to tell time
(06:48:11 PM) posingaspopular: hey nixternal
(06:48:11 PM) samiam010203: hahaha
(06:48:17 PM) posingaspopular: guess who else got dragged in here
(06:48:18 PM) yharrow: posingaspopular: wow, not bad at all
(06:48:21 PM) nixternal: oh jeesh, you guys let him in here
(06:48:26 PM) n8k99: yeah samiam010203 you are right but it is a huge event!
(06:48:32 PM) samiam010203: yes i know
(06:48:47 PM) posingaspopular: nixternal: im starting a lawn cutting company in NY though. it's fine.
(06:48:51 PM) nixternal: so what is NY planning for an event?
(06:48:56 PM) ausimage: n8k99:  I like the idea of coming the night before... cause so many will have to travel
(06:48:59 PM) yharrow: posingaspopular: how did you contact these companies about sponsorship, and what sort of wording did you use to request funding?
(06:49:03 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ProjectGoals/StateWideMeetup
(06:49:07 PM) nixternal: posingaspopular: I don't do the Mexican jokes in NYC, they beat you up there :)
(06:49:15 PM) infinityxi: haha
(06:49:17 PM) ausimage: nixternal that is my suggestion
(06:49:35 PM) posingaspopular: that's a very good question
(06:49:39 PM) posingaspopular: im not exactly sure
(06:49:45 PM) ***samiam010203 is listening to MILK AND HONEY by Jackson C.Frank on The Brown Bunny [Amarok]
(06:49:55 PM) nixternal: holy smokes, you guys are seriously looking at a BarCamp type setup ausimage
(06:50:04 PM) ausimage: really???
(06:50:09 PM) nixternal: yup
(06:50:13 PM) ausimage: I just pulled it of thin air
(06:50:19 PM) nixternal: Day 1: cool stuff, beer, and food
(06:50:25 PM) ausimage: thought it made the most sense
(06:50:28 PM) nixternal: Day 2: more cool stuff, more beer, and more food
(06:50:34 PM) infinityxi: haha
(06:50:38 PM) nixternal: Day 3: lots of asperine to rid thyself of hangover
(06:50:50 PM) ***n8k99 back from cleaning up toddler pee
(06:50:52 PM) nixternal: that is so BarCamp
(06:51:03 PM) ausimage: hmmm... 
(06:51:06 PM) yharrow: 2 most important things on my list are 1. Finding speakers. 2. Finding Sponsorships
(06:51:10 PM) posingaspopular: samiam010203: i can't get amarok to work in a stable fashion
(06:51:11 PM) nixternal: n8k99: I told you to wear diapers man, don't just stand up from the keyboard and pee where ever you want
(06:51:25 PM) samiam010203: why not posingaspopulare
(06:51:46 PM) ***n8k99 forgets
(06:51:50 PM) posingaspopular: it keeps telling me that mp3 support isn't included. ive installed it at least 4 times today
(06:51:51 PM) yharrow: posingaspopular: Who was the person who handled the planning for the event?
(06:52:04 PM) yharrow: come on guys, lets try to stay on topic :)
(06:52:04 PM) posingaspopular: barcamp was jason something
(06:52:11 PM) samiam010203: yes u have to get the restricted extras package
(06:52:14 PM) posingaspopular: flourish was samir something
(06:52:27 PM) nixternal: you guys can go to the barcamp website...they have a lot of good info on getting something like this started
(06:52:32 PM) eggwarmer: posingaspopular: Did you install the correct codecs?
(06:52:37 PM) yharrow: posingaspopular: I mean for your events
(06:52:46 PM) ausimage: :S
(06:52:53 PM) samiam010203: yharrow is correct lets stay on topic for now
(06:52:54 PM) yharrow: guys. please. let's try to stay on topic
(06:52:59 PM) posingaspopular: yea that's what i meant
(06:53:01 PM) ausimage: Yes please
(06:53:01 PM) nixternal: for Ubuntu Chicago event, if it is in the suburbs it is me, if it is in the city it is posingaspopular and his brother Admiral_Chicago
(06:53:18 PM) posingaspopular: it all depends heavily on what you guys want to talk/focus about in your events
(06:53:37 PM) samiam010203: we want to get the big guns at our event posing
(06:53:38 PM) nixternal: I think checking out barcamp might be the perfect opportunity for you to get your feet wet though
(06:53:42 PM) ausimage: I think a more intro to mediate conference 
(06:53:59 PM) yharrow: We need to define our audience
(06:54:15 PM) yharrow: who do we excpect to attend?
(06:54:31 PM) ausimage: I feel our membership and any lug member
(06:54:44 PM) ausimage: to broaden the base a bit
(06:55:05 PM) posingaspopular: ausimage: that's backwards. for the next conf. we specifically want desktop enthusiasts and free software advocates, to keep the business people out
(06:55:10 PM) yharrow: do we want any reps of businesses or organizations attending
(06:55:30 PM) ausimage: they could pay for booths ;)
(06:55:55 PM) samiam010203: dont forget we also have a contact at oreilly
(06:55:58 PM) samiam010203: :)
(06:56:01 PM) ausimage: oh yeah...
(06:56:18 PM) ausimage: what the url for barcamp?
(06:56:19 PM) samiam010203: :)
(06:56:24 PM) posingaspopular: barcampchicago.com
(06:56:27 PM) yharrow: posingaspopular: do you think it's a good idea for us to cater to business people during this first confernce?
(06:56:27 PM) posingaspopular: was the one that we used
(06:57:58 PM) ausimage: nixternal: how did you start with the conferences?
(06:58:27 PM) ausimage: I think we need to see how realistic we are in our goals....
(06:58:54 PM) yharrow: who thinks we should cater to businesses during this first conference?
(06:59:05 PM) nixternal left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(06:59:10 PM) eggwarmer: ausimage: I've been thinking this all along.
(06:59:12 PM) yharrow: I think that if we cater to business it can win us more sponsorships
(06:59:23 PM) yharrow: win ourselves*
(06:59:40 PM) ausimage: yharrow I think we need to make sure that its focus should be the individual user of ubunut
(06:59:45 PM) ausimage: *ubuntu
(07:00:04 PM) ausimage: but we also need to make sure the costs are controlled
(07:00:45 PM) ausimage: so if it means having business boths to make ends meet then there needs to be them...
(07:00:46 PM) eggwarmer: Guys!! If everybody showed up that we think could how many people would that be not including ventors?
(07:01:06 PM) ausimage: we have a membership of 60
(07:01:28 PM) samiam010203: but out of the 60 how many are active
(07:01:35 PM) yharrow: How many of our members have been active within the past 3 months?
(07:01:37 PM) eggwarmer: Plus lug members?
(07:02:03 PM) ausimage: I have heard some say IRC is not for them.... they went real world events
(07:02:30 PM) samiam010203: then this is there chance
(07:02:31 PM) nixternal [n=nixterna@ubuntu/member/pdpc.active.nixternal] entered the room.
(07:02:37 PM) infinityxi: yeah
(07:03:00 PM) eggwarmer: Ok, lets say we could get 100 people to come, how many TOP name speakers and business would show with that number?
(07:03:01 PM) ausimage: nixternal: how did you do for attendance the first time?
(07:03:54 PM) ausimage: hmmm... 
(07:04:13 PM) posingaspopular: we're averaging around 200, is that right nixternal?
(07:04:14 PM) eggwarmer: This is reality check time.
(07:04:15 PM) ausimage: you should be able to get a Motu to show up perhaps
(07:04:20 PM) yharrow: eggwarmer: I think alot depends on how well we advertise
(07:04:26 PM) posingaspopular: i duno how much the TOP names present to
(07:04:54 PM) eggwarmer: yharrow: Right, so that is what we need to talk about.
(07:05:14 PM) ausimage: hmmm we could have 3 rooms... KDE, GNOME and Other
(07:05:17 PM) ausimage: :)
(07:05:50 PM) ausimage: plus a common area to demonstrate Ubuntu to the public...
(07:06:22 PM) ausimage: does that sound about right?
(07:06:40 PM) samiam010203: sounds good ausi
(07:06:41 PM) ausimage: or does there need to be more space for 100 people
(07:06:49 PM) eggwarmer: IMHO we need to come up with an agenda then advertise the hell out of it, then see what we have and plan the size accoringly.
(07:07:10 PM) yharrow: here is what I am thinking. We need to have an informative conference to garner attention and customers. and at the same time we need to have a meeting to discuss action for our team. both past and future.
(07:07:19 PM) ausimage: eggwarmer: can you get costs for rooms at SUNY ?
(07:07:21 PM) yharrow: We need funding for the conference
(07:07:36 PM) ausimage: or other locations...
(07:07:50 PM) yharrow: in order to secure funding we need to speak with companies, and present a good conference layout
(07:07:54 PM) eggwarmer: ausimage: Sure, I'll make a not and call in the next few days.
(07:07:58 PM) ausimage: yes we need funding... but we also need to know how much needs to raised
(07:08:04 PM) yharrow: therefore securing funding will need to be last imo
(07:08:37 PM) yharrow: We should make a list of companies  and organizations to speak to about sponsorships.
(07:08:55 PM) ausimage: lets set a date of no later to then Oct 1 to get inquires out
(07:09:02 PM) yharrow: We need to decide whether or not we want to cater to business attendees or not
(07:09:30 PM) ausimage: nixternal:  you abouts?
(07:09:39 PM) yharrow: The differnce between holding a conference for businesses and home users/enthusiasts, is that the info has to be somewhat commercial oriented.
(07:09:44 PM) yharrow: as far as i can see
(07:09:45 PM) ausimage: you had an awesome start to a list to contact
(07:09:56 PM) ausimage: yeah that is true
(07:10:30 PM) yharrow: I beleive that we will benefit from catering to business people during our first meeting.
(07:10:37 PM) ausimage: probably...
(07:10:58 PM) yharrow: I think that catering to businesses will both help increase our popularity and funding
(07:11:18 PM) ausimage: I know there is lot to check to get a conference going..... 
(07:11:21 PM) yharrow: everyone still with me?
(07:11:30 PM) ausimage: I am
(07:11:36 PM) Deucalion_ [n=deucalio@h203.151.88.75.ip.alltel.net] entered the room.
(07:11:44 PM) ausimage: hey Deucalion_
(07:11:45 PM) Deucalion_: sorry i am late
(07:11:51 PM) eggwarmer: Catering to business people is a good idea as long as it dosn't look like they are running the show.
(07:11:55 PM) ausimage: just getting to meat
(07:11:56 PM) Deucalion_: my dad had me outside mowing lawn and i lost track of time
deejoe Deucalion_ 
(07:12:24 PM) yharrow: BrianG, BrionS, Dave123 , deejoe , eggwarmer , infinityxi , johnc4510 , n8k99  , nixternal , posingaspopular , psychoneil , RobNyc-work , rory096 , samiam010203 , WeblionX , you guys there?
(07:12:27 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:12:32 PM) ausimage: YES
(07:12:32 PM) samiam010203: im with you yharrow
(07:12:36 PM) infinityxi: i'm still around
(07:12:37 PM) infinityxi: yeah
(07:12:37 PM) posingaspopular: ?
(07:12:37 PM) eggwarmer: yup
(07:12:38 PM) yharrow: :)
(07:12:39 PM) yharrow: cool
(07:12:39 PM) rory096: i'm here, but i'm just a lurker
(07:12:43 PM) n8k99: sort of but not really
(07:12:53 PM) Deucalion_: so, whats the word so far on our April get-together
(07:12:55 PM) yharrow: browse up and tell me if you guys agree with what ive said so far?
(07:13:04 PM) samiam010203: im starting to get dizzy from all the chatter tonight hahahaha
(07:13:09 PM) ausimage: I do... 
(07:13:13 PM) samiam010203: yes i aggrey
(07:13:22 PM) eggwarmer: It's most likely July now.
(07:13:27 PM) yharrow: I'm going to wait a minute till we are all on the same page.
(07:13:30 PM) yharrow: :)
(07:13:30 PM) infinityxi: yharrow: I think we should but eggwarmer also has a good point.
(07:13:36 PM) posingaspopular: yharrow: it's a good start, but alot of this is more existential, decision making that i can't help with
(07:13:47 PM) ausimage: The first conference will most likely have more business
(07:13:58 PM) yharrow: posingaspopular: What sort of things are you able to help with?
(07:14:17 PM) yharrow: ausimage: agreed
(07:14:25 PM) yharrow: infinityxi: which point is that?
(07:14:40 PM) ausimage: posingaspopular: perhaps you can at least say if we are going in the wrong direction ???
(07:14:53 PM) posingaspopular: well most of the stuff i do is getting meeting space and setting the agenda
(07:14:55 PM) infinityxi: about the businesses not running the show. then it's fine
(07:15:02 PM) posingaspopular: you're going in the right direction for sure
(07:15:08 PM) ausimage: good...
(07:15:08 PM) yharrow: posingaspopular: we are about to get to that :)
(07:15:14 PM) yharrow: ok so this much we have down :
(07:15:20 PM) yharrow: The meeting will take place in July.
(07:15:40 PM) yharrow: The meeting will cater to business as well as home users/ enthusiasts
(07:15:48 PM) yharrow: The meeting will take place in Albany
(07:15:57 PM) ausimage: I though syracuse
(07:15:58 PM) yharrow: The meeting will last 3 days and 2 nights
(07:16:14 PM) Deucalion_: (is this the same meeting about he april syracuse "fun-day")
(07:16:14 PM) yharrow: ausimage: ok we will discuss location in a second
(07:16:19 PM) psychoneil: I would def. prefer syracuse or geneva
(07:16:27 PM) psychoneil: sorry ill wait :P
(07:16:31 PM) infinityxi: Albany?
(07:16:44 PM) posingaspopular: three days and two nights?
(07:16:48 PM) yharrow: We will speak with a list of potential sponsors after we have the following:
(07:16:54 PM) posingaspopular: that sounds like alot for me
(07:17:00 PM) ausimage: 3 nite 2 day ???
(07:17:03 PM) eggwarmer: Albany smells too much of politics.
(07:17:05 PM) yharrow: Location, Time, Speakers
(07:17:09 PM) yharrow: one second guys
(07:17:15 PM) yharrow: we will discuss location in a momments
(07:17:21 PM) Deucalion_: syracuse is more central, but considering most of our members are in Roch. and NYC, i think albany would be good, not to mention it's the capital and we could shake things up there, maybe get some media attention!!!! call thelocal news!
(07:17:40 PM) Deucalion_: Speakers?
(07:17:47 PM) ausimage: we could do that in syracuse as welll
(07:18:05 PM) psychoneil: would we really have enough to do for 3 days?
(07:18:05 PM) ausimage: if we had a solid day we could invite the media
(07:18:06 PM) yharrow: Deucalion_: yes. we need to have People who will speak at the conference :)
(07:18:11 PM) Deucalion_: true, but albany has a larger population, right? and what about speakers? i took a speech class!
(07:18:22 PM) Deucalion_: and i'm a good motivator
(07:18:22 PM) yharrow: ausimage: tech magazines?
(07:18:35 PM) ausimage: TV and radio ;)
(07:18:40 PM) yharrow: Deucalion_: You can be one of the speakers then :)
(07:18:47 PM) ausimage: get a short PSA on the news....
(07:18:50 PM) posingaspopular: ugh sorry guys, but i have to duck out and go handle other business. send me a PM or email at eddiemartinez AT gmail DOT com at the very least. i want to see what you guys have after this meeting is done
(07:18:51 PM) yharrow: n8k99: can be too. He has done a speach for us before
(07:18:53 PM) Deucalion_: i have a connection with ABC news in syracuse, i could get them to do us a favor!
(07:19:04 PM) n8k99: what's that?
(07:19:14 PM) yharrow: posingaspopular: thank you . I apreciate that :)
(07:19:19 PM) n8k99: oh yeah- i'll speak
(07:19:22 PM) samiam010203: youll be a speaker n8 :)
(07:19:23 PM) Deucalion_: And i would love to give a speech/presentation about Ubuntu
(07:19:31 PM) yharrow: Ok
(07:19:32 PM) ausimage: I was thinking of getting a Motu
(07:19:38 PM) Deucalion_: Motu?
(07:19:39 PM) yharrow: We need to start a wiki section for this
(07:19:42 PM) yharrow: guy
(07:19:46 PM) yharrow: guys*
(07:19:50 PM) n8k99: ok- we need to have our speeches as more than just "here is Ubuntu" over and over again
(07:19:54 PM) ausimage: the developers for ubuntu
(07:20:04 PM) yharrow: There can be a page for Speakers and speach topic suggestions
(07:20:08 PM) yharrow: actually
(07:20:09 PM) ausimage: the ones handling the universe packages
(07:20:11 PM) Deucalion_: i can do something on GPL, and open source, and such
(07:20:18 PM) yharrow: topics need to come firstI think
(07:20:20 PM) eggwarmer: I'm in motu from time to time.
(07:20:24 PM) Deucalion_: i could type up a draft soon
(07:20:29 PM) Deucalion_: what is motu??????
(07:20:33 PM) yharrow: We need to make a list of topics.
(07:20:36 PM) samiam010203: master of the univers
(07:20:42 PM) yharrow: Then assign speakers to topics
(07:20:53 PM) eggwarmer: It's for developers.
(07:21:03 PM) ausimage: How about the rise of Ubuntu in the Empire State as a theme
(07:21:12 PM) samiam010203: sounds good ausi
(07:21:15 PM) Deucalion_: Excelsior Ubuntu!
(07:21:19 PM) yharrow: Does everyone agree with what I just said?
(07:21:27 PM) samiam010203: yes yharrow
(07:21:27 PM) infinityxi: Media on Ubuntu?
(07:21:32 PM) Deucalion_: i do. list of topics for speakers
(07:21:39 PM) ausimage: Yeah there needs to be more pages 
(07:22:05 PM) yharrow: Who here volunteers to create a section in our wiki for the conference?
(07:22:10 PM) ausimage: I can
(07:22:15 PM) eggwarmer: Ubuntu and the Evil Empire.
(07:22:25 PM) yharrow: what should our conference be called?
(07:22:29 PM) yharrow: any suggestions?
(07:22:37 PM) ausimage: rise of Ubuntu in the Empire State
(07:22:41 PM) ausimage: ^^^^^^^^^
(07:22:46 PM) ausimage: :D
(07:22:54 PM) yharrow: lol
(07:22:58 PM) Deucalion_: lawl
(07:23:08 PM) yharrow: any others?
(07:23:13 PM) dbist [n=artem@ool-18b95214.dyn.optonline.net] entered the room.
(07:23:30 PM) ausimage: come one I cannot be the only creative one
(07:23:38 PM) dbist: sup fellas
(07:23:40 PM) yharrow: Ubuntu NY 2008?
(07:23:52 PM) samiam010203: why not call it an ubucon
(07:23:54 PM) yharrow: dbist: Hi welcome to the meeting :)
(07:23:56 PM) infinityxi: Maybe a topic on Multimedia
(07:24:04 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: sounds unoriginal i guess
(07:24:07 PM) nixternal: am I back?
(07:24:19 PM) ausimage: yeah
(07:24:20 PM) dbist: yjrtr
(07:24:20 PM) yharrow: ok
(07:24:26 PM) dbist: oops, there's a meeting today?
(07:24:36 PM) samiam010203: meeting is about to end dbist
(07:24:37 PM) ausimage: conference committe dbist
(07:24:46 PM) eggwarmer: Don't make the name too cute it will keep business away.
(07:24:46 PM) yharrow: for now the wiki section will be called /Conference2008
(07:24:50 PM) dbist: mwaahah oops
(07:25:06 PM) yharrow: we can have a page for name suggestions too .
(07:25:17 PM) yharrow: we need a page for:
(07:25:18 PM) Deucalion_: can i get a link to the wiki?
(07:25:19 PM) eggwarmer: yharrow: Good idea
(07:25:23 PM) yharrow: Conference topics
(07:25:29 PM) samiam010203: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam
(07:25:29 PM) yharrow: Conference speakers
(07:26:07 PM) yharrow: Potential Conference speakers I mean
(07:26:08 PM) ausimage: Yharrow
(07:26:11 PM) yharrow: yes
(07:26:31 PM) Deucalion_: ill do a speech
(07:26:31 PM) ausimage: I will start moving the pages to the appropriate places
(07:26:38 PM) yharrow: ausimage: Thank you :)
(07:26:43 PM) ***nixternal just pissed the family off - I told them to never call here again with Windows problems :)
(07:27:03 PM) yharrow: Deucalion_: Ok, soon as ausimage puts up the potential speaker page, you can add your name to the page
(07:27:06 PM) eggwarmer: nixternal: I get that all the time.
(07:27:26 PM) n8k99: nixternal: i fix family windows problems and they never call back again
(07:27:27 PM) yharrow: It should be located in NewYorkTeam/Conference2008/Speakers
(07:27:28 PM) eggwarmer: But I can't tell my dad to piss off.
(07:27:31 PM) nixternal: sorry, my connect went down and silly family people with windows problems...I havne't looked at the Windows desktop in over 7 years...forget what it even looks like
(07:27:33 PM) yharrow: actually
(07:27:34 PM) yharrow: my bad
(07:27:59 PM) yharrow: nm
(07:28:03 PM) nixternal: my neice, I built her an Edubuntu machine so she can play with...and never once has she broke it...every time she gets on my mom's xp machine, she breaks it
(07:28:05 PM) yharrow: nixternal: sorry to hear that
(07:28:16 PM) infinityxi: hah
(07:28:23 PM) yharrow: ok guys its almost 7:30
(07:28:26 PM) yharrow: we need to wrap up
(07:28:36 PM) nixternal: for over a year now...and I have never once had to fix it...she is like 6 or 7...but get her on a windows box and she will destroy it
(07:28:44 PM) ***nixternal is starting to think she is a hacker in the making
(07:28:51 PM) Deucalion_: we need to make a date for next meeting
(07:29:03 PM) Deucalion_: 6pm next tuesday the 21st?
(07:29:03 PM) yharrow: so for now we will focus on 3 main things.
(07:29:10 PM) yharrow: Yes
(07:29:14 PM) yharrow: Deucalion_:
(07:29:23 PM) yharrow: here are the 3 things we will focus on:
(07:29:24 PM) ausimage: next tuesday is bylaws
(07:29:28 PM) Deucalion_: ok
(07:29:29 PM) yharrow: Potential Speakers:
(07:29:35 PM) yharrow: Potential Sponsors
(07:29:45 PM) yharrow: Topics
(07:29:58 PM) ausimage: Potential Places ???
(07:30:12 PM) yharrow: ausimage: sure
(07:30:15 PM) yharrow: 4 things then
(07:30:24 PM) Deucalion_: ok
(07:30:43 PM) ausimage: I would combined topics and speakers...
(07:30:43 PM) Deucalion_: we have lots of potential, lol
(07:30:50 PM) infinityxi: sounds good, i'll try to think up some topics
(07:31:07 PM) yharrow: ausimage: please make a list of conference subpages on NewYorkTeam/Conference2008
(07:31:38 PM) ausimage: I will I am going to move the Project page there ;)
(07:31:50 PM) yharrow: ausimage: why is that?
(07:32:03 PM) Deucalion_: ok, well i move to adjourn this meeting.
(07:32:12 PM) yharrow: Deucalion_: one second :)
(07:32:15 PM) Deucalion_: ok
(07:32:34 PM) yharrow: ausimage: nm, we will discuss moving the project page after the meeting.
(07:32:59 PM) yharrow: ok guys, like Deucalion_ noted, the next meeting will take place on Tuesday the 21st of August
(07:33:03 PM) ausimage: will OK then... I thought the Project page outline was fairly good
(07:33:06 PM) yharrow: Hope to see you all there ! :)
</pre>
