{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.
* Fall Release Party -- Waterloo area for Syracuse, Rochester and Ithaca
* Discussion of goals for 2010 -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>   * Expand local area meet-ups
** Syracuse
** Fingerlakes
** Ithaca
** Capitol District
** New York City
** Attend state-wide events
** Ed Tech Day 2010
*** Obtain own booth next to IFSA
*** Develop presentation(s)
*** Work with IFSA to develop program
** Hold or contribute to install and information fests
** Rochester -- will work with RCSI Linux SIG and LUGOR to hold at least one Linux Fest
** Fingerlakes
*** can we get a location that will accommodate an install fest?
*** can we get enough experts to attend?
** Syracuse
*** Work with SYRLUG or hold our own?
** Hold NYS Bug Jam - try to get Syracuse, Fingerlakes and Rochester to meet on same day and have live communication between groups
      
* Spring 'agenda' ideas -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>   * GIMP presentation
** Backup options for Ubuntu
** Ubuntu 'genius' days
** Ubuntu educators events (Fingerlakes, Rochester, Ithaca, Syracuse)
* Spring 'release party' -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki> 
* 2009 Officer Nominations and Elections
<pre>
(09:00:38 PM) ausimage: 9:00
(09:00:41 PM) cprofitt: k - boss man -- kick the tires and light the fires
(09:00:41 PM) ausimage: :)
(09:00:54 PM) ausimage: alrighty....
(09:01:01 PM) ausimage: Old business...
(09:01:02 PM) cprofitt: # TOPIC Fall Release Party - Waterloo
(09:01:05 PM) ausimage: yup
(09:01:30 PM) ausimage: I am in negotiations with the wife as to when will be the best time
(09:01:34 PM) ausimage: :/
(09:02:06 PM) ausimage: We can get the HI again if decided...
(09:02:20 PM) ausimage: I think we can get a room in front too
(09:02:37 PM) cprofitt: what was your tentative date again ausimage ?
(09:02:43 PM) cprofitt: Slick666, you here?
(09:03:18 PM) ausimage: tenative is the 7th or 8th of Novemeber
(09:04:07 PM) cprofitt: Rochester will be holding a VirtualBox presentation on the 6th
(09:04:08 PM) ausimage: It is also the most likely weeked for the kids birthday too... hence the negotiations...
(09:04:37 PM) ausimage: I think we keep it similar to last year... but move the demo machines;)
(09:05:00 PM) cprofitt: Yes... I would like to have the demo machine not in the presentation room
(09:05:03 PM) ausimage: If in front at the HI I think we could be in the hall 
(09:05:36 PM) cprofitt: actually the presentation in on the 5th
(09:05:43 PM) ausimage: only cause other events have used it, but that would need checking
(09:05:58 PM) cprofitt: hall>
(09:06:10 PM) cprofitt: you mean the demo units would be in the hallway?
(09:06:17 PM) ***Slick666 is trying to stay in meeting and cook
(09:06:18 PM) ausimage: We just need a few um guinea pigs to speak ;)
(09:06:21 PM) Slick666: sry
(09:06:25 PM) Slick666: I AM following
(09:06:49 PM) cprofitt: I am sure we can get people out there...
(09:06:50 PM) ausimage: That was a thought of mine... those coming into the hotel would see them and maybe interested
(09:07:06 PM) cprofitt: maybe... too bad we can not use the college though
(09:07:11 PM) cprofitt: might be more traffic there
(09:07:30 PM) ausimage: It is there... but not as trafficked :/ IMHO
(09:07:49 PM) cprofitt: HI is more trafficked than the college?
(09:07:51 PM) ausimage: and in the middle of campus and hike from the lot
(09:07:52 PM) cprofitt: woah
(09:08:10 PM) cprofitt: if HI is better traffic that be the place then
(09:08:22 PM) cprofitt: any more on that before I move in to the next part ausimage ?
(09:08:39 PM) ausimage: any volunteers ????
(09:08:45 PM) Slick666: Has anyone inquired with marnold about his college connection and what might be available?
(09:08:53 PM) ausimage: to help with coordination and speaking
(09:09:02 PM) cprofitt: I have not... but he is in Morrisville right?
(09:09:04 PM) ausimage: Slick666: I prefer Waterloo
(09:09:16 PM) ausimage: It is central to the three
(09:09:20 PM) ausimage: his is not
(09:09:43 PM) Slick666: true
(09:09:50 PM) ausimage: make sense???
(09:09:54 PM) Slick666: but I would say he is more central than say RIT
(09:10:01 PM) cprofitt: Slick666, true...
(09:10:15 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, I can speak again -- if I can come...
(09:10:24 PM) cprofitt: I will know more once we clear September
(09:10:28 PM) Slick666: I don't have an SU connection yet ut that seems ideal
(09:10:28 PM) ausimage: you may come cprofitt ;)
(09:10:33 PM) cprofitt: the Fall is busy...
(09:10:44 PM) ausimage: SU sucks IMHO
(09:10:45 PM) Slick666: The issue is can that setting offer more space/internet/etc
(09:10:52 PM) cprofitt: if I end up with my presentation accepted for NYSCATE I may be involved in getting that set
(09:11:25 PM) ausimage: I liked Waterloo for the fact that it is an hour from three major locations 
(09:11:53 PM) ausimage: Next topic???
(09:11:57 PM) Slick666: do you know of any other venues int he area other than the HI?
(09:12:00 PM) Slick666: ok
(09:12:03 PM) cprofitt: 2010 goals
(09:12:14 PM) ausimage: yes HWS but that has drawbacks too
(09:12:19 PM) ausimage: IMHO
(09:12:30 PM) cprofitt: I would like to ensure that we expand the meetups in Syracuse, Fingerlakes, Ithaca, Albany and NYC
(09:12:42 PM) cprofitt: or at least do what we can to promote it
(09:12:44 PM) ausimage: I second
(09:13:07 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: No buffalo?
(09:13:12 PM) cprofitt: I would like to have the 'core' team make some appearances or presentations in locations relatively close to where they live
(09:13:21 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, we have not had activity in Buffalo
(09:13:28 PM) ausimage: :/
(09:13:28 PM) cprofitt: I would like to 'have meetups' there
(09:13:34 PM) cprofitt: but not 'expand'
(09:13:34 PM) ausimage: what about Rock County
(09:13:37 PM) Slick666: I think Syracuse is well on it's way to becoming independently organizing
(09:13:48 PM) cprofitt: I lump Rock County as NYC
(09:13:52 PM) ausimage: ahh
(09:14:07 PM) cprofitt: Slick666, would it help if ausimage or myself were to attend a meeting in Syracuse?
(09:14:10 PM) ausimage: I think FL is moving slowly in that direction
(09:14:15 PM) cprofitt: meaning the VP or P
(09:14:19 PM) cprofitt: vs. the two of us
(09:14:24 PM) ***cprofitt later on the agenda
(09:14:45 PM) Slick666: possibly
(09:14:54 PM) cprofitt: or would it help to just have a 'LoCo' member come speak
(09:14:58 PM) cprofitt: and officers do not matter
(09:15:39 PM) ausimage: Slick666: did you not say syrlug was so lockstep ???
(09:15:43 PM) Slick666: personally, I was satisfied with the tone and output of the last meeting and I got a positive response from the local LUG
(09:15:59 PM) cprofitt: good...
(09:16:22 PM) cprofitt: I would like to try and make one of the meeting in Syracuse, but time of meeting may play a factor in that...
(09:16:33 PM) cprofitt: I can easily make a meeting in the FLs
(09:16:36 PM) Slick666: SyrLUG has a rhythm that works for them
(09:17:01 PM) cprofitt: I think we need to work on getting more 'polished' presenters able to work with the LUGs
(09:17:12 PM) Slick666: the Loco meeting are very different in tone and focus and I think they have enough unique appeal to bring people back
(09:17:14 PM) cprofitt: to make us a 'benefit' to them
(09:17:23 PM) Slick666: as well as bring in new people that might not go to SyrLUG
(09:17:31 PM) cprofitt: Slick666, sounds good...
(09:17:36 PM) Slick666: I agree
(09:17:42 PM) cprofitt: are you shooting for every month or every other?
(09:17:48 PM) Slick666: I would love to see more LUG input int the Install Fest
(09:18:05 PM) cprofitt: -- k
(09:18:17 PM) cprofitt: need to move along to the next topic...
(09:18:25 PM) cprofitt: # Statewide events
(09:18:29 PM) Slick666: kk
(09:18:39 PM) cprofitt: I have contacted the folks at Ithaca and asked for our own booth this year
(09:18:47 PM) cprofitt: my hope is to be located near the IFSA folks
(09:19:03 PM) cprofitt: I would also like to submit 4+ presentation topics for them
(09:19:15 PM) cprofitt: LTSP, Why FOSS, Backup for Linux, etc
(09:19:46 PM) cprofitt: I would also like to work towards being able to attend NYSCATE for 2010
(09:20:01 PM) cprofitt: we could not get any sponsors for 2009 and could not afford the $700 booth cost
(09:20:08 PM) cprofitt: but we can work on things for 2010
(09:20:20 PM) cprofitt: # Install Fests
(09:20:36 PM) cprofitt: I would like to have an install fest in the Fingerlakes adn in Syracuse
(09:20:39 PM) ausimage: who is going to be our 501c3 sponsor?
(09:20:44 PM) cprofitt: is that possible guys?
(09:20:54 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, why do I need a 501c3 sponsor?
(09:21:02 PM) ausimage: yeah that might doable here...
(09:21:33 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: to raise money with
(09:22:09 PM) cprofitt: I was looking to get an actual sponsor -- like System76
(09:22:17 PM) ausimage: oh cool...
(09:22:18 PM) Slick666: The way I understand it if we want to do that there may be a way in Syracuse
(09:22:23 PM) cprofitt: if I need an umbrella I can work with RCSi
(09:22:37 PM) cprofitt: # back to install fests
(09:22:38 PM) ausimage: good to here...
(09:22:50 PM) Slick666: The DEC User's group still exists in somesmall fashion and already has 501c3 status
(09:22:54 PM) cprofitt: I would like to either work with the LUG or have our own
(09:23:02 PM) Slick666: we could form a group under them
(09:23:06 PM) Slick666: let me know
(09:23:08 PM) cprofitt: k
(09:23:24 PM) cprofitt: if we hold the install fest on a Saturday I can make that in Syracuse
(09:23:38 PM) cprofitt: -- I would like to consider a name other than install fest...
(09:23:48 PM) cprofitt: like perhaps just Linux Festival
(09:23:59 PM) cprofitt: and have both an install lab and a few presentations
(09:24:11 PM) cprofitt: that way we get existing and new people thinking they can come
(09:24:15 PM) cprofitt: how does that sound?
(09:24:22 PM) ausimage: good...
(09:24:58 PM) Slick666: perhaps Release Party helps sum up the spirit
(09:25:00 PM) ausimage: you think ifsa might join in Ithaca?
(09:25:01 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, do you want to tie the install fest in with the launch?
(09:25:20 PM) cprofitt: if we hold one in Ithaca they would be the people sponsoring it and finding the location
(09:25:26 PM) ausimage: I do not see them as inclusive of each other
(09:25:30 PM) cprofitt: they are not very responsive...
(09:25:37 PM) cprofitt: to email at times though
(09:26:31 PM) cprofitt: I will work on doing one there... ausimage
(09:26:54 PM) cprofitt: so did you want to tie the Linux Fest in with the launch?
(09:26:55 PM) ausimage: oh Fall ;)
(09:26:59 PM) cprofitt: and offer to do installs?
(09:27:11 PM) cprofitt: or wait until later in the year
(09:27:27 PM) ausimage: Not sure...
(09:27:40 PM) cprofitt: k -- think on it
(09:27:44 PM) ausimage: Perhaps raising interest and support is key
(09:27:57 PM) ausimage: then later offer install fest
(09:28:00 PM) cprofitt: if we do installs we need to line up 'experts' willing to assist...
(09:28:05 PM) cprofitt: and have 'stations' setup
(09:28:19 PM) ausimage: I am just thinking of last year
(09:28:29 PM) cprofitt: it might go hand in hand with your desire for a two day affair
(09:28:37 PM) ausimage: ah true
(09:28:47 PM) cprofitt: offer installs first day -- presentations / classes second day
(09:29:06 PM) cprofitt: Slick666, do you have a time frame in your mind for an Linux Festival / Install Fest
(09:29:15 PM) ausimage: Not sure If I can squeeze that out this time, though :/
(09:29:30 PM) ***deejoe has a simple kind of installfest:  Here's your bootable DVD/CD/USB keychain.  Done.
(09:29:46 PM) cprofitt: lol
(09:30:01 PM) ausimage: no hand holding... reassurances they can do it ???
(09:30:04 PM) ausimage: :D
(09:30:16 PM) cprofitt: next topic
(09:30:22 PM) cprofitt: and I look to Slick666 to take the lead here
(09:30:26 PM) cprofitt: BUGJAM - NYS
(09:30:53 PM) cprofitt: I would like to work for a spring bug jam with Syracuse / Rochester / FL / ?? all holding them on the same day
(09:31:07 PM) Slick666: hmmmm
(09:31:15 PM) ausimage: perhaps...
(09:31:24 PM) cprofitt: I would like to have it not focus on the public side of things... but on the actual bug side of things with experience Linux users
(09:31:39 PM) cprofitt: and the various locations get 'hooked' up via some method
(09:31:45 PM) Slick666: ah
(09:31:49 PM) Slick666: agreed
(09:31:59 PM) cprofitt: video, irc, shared text editing
(09:32:01 PM) cprofitt: IDK
(09:32:07 PM) ausimage: sounds good
(09:32:33 PM) cprofitt: can you take on trying to get that put together Slick666 ?
(09:32:42 PM) cprofitt: hey deejoe
(09:33:19 PM) cprofitt: # Presentation Ideas
(09:33:21 PM) Slick666: statewide or in the 'cuse?
(09:33:35 PM) cprofitt: the overall statewide part... + cuse
(09:33:36 PM) deejoe: hmm?
(09:33:37 PM) ***Slick666 burned dinner and made a mess Fing A!
(09:33:38 PM) ausimage: Slick666:  the whole enchilda ;)
(09:33:42 PM) Slick666: ok
(09:33:46 PM) cprofitt: I can take Rochester
(09:33:50 PM) cprofitt: for the local part...
(09:33:55 PM) cprofitt: and ausimage could do local FL
(09:34:07 PM) cprofitt: but you would do Syracuse and the 'communication' component
(09:34:14 PM) Slick666: will need to coordinate
(09:34:25 PM) ausimage: yeah... but I will look to Slick666 for guidance and direction ;)
(09:34:25 PM) cprofitt: yeah... it will be a team effort with you as the 'lead'
(09:34:27 PM) Slick666: phone?1
(09:34:42 PM) cprofitt: I think that means he has a phone call...
(09:34:46 PM) cprofitt: ok
(09:34:57 PM) cprofitt: # Presentation Ideas...
(09:35:08 PM) cprofitt: the first two on the agenda page are specific...
(09:35:11 PM) cprofitt: the last two are not...
(09:35:17 PM) cprofitt: so I want to discuss the last two
(09:35:21 PM) cprofitt: 'genius' days
(09:35:37 PM) cprofitt: I was inspired by pleia2's friend doctormo
(09:35:57 PM) cprofitt: they have a weekend location where they 'sit' and offer classes or assistance
(09:36:14 PM) cprofitt: I think it might be difficult for us to do that... but I like the idea
(09:36:23 PM) deejoe: applecider does that
(09:36:27 PM) cprofitt: and thought that perhaps we should schedule some 'genius' days
(09:36:43 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: I think MA is different than NY :S
(09:36:46 PM) cprofitt: where we would just offer assistance to the community and LUG members
(09:36:53 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, it is... its more like Ithaca
(09:36:59 PM) deejoe: ausimage: pleia2 is in PA, no?
(09:37:04 PM) cprofitt: pleia2, is in PA
(09:37:11 PM) cprofitt: but doctormo and she are friends...
(09:37:14 PM) ausimage: yeah DoctorMO is MA ;)
(09:37:15 PM) cprofitt: doctormo is in Boston
(09:37:20 PM) deejoe: ah
(09:37:42 PM) cprofitt: the other idea, near to my heart ofcourse, is to offer support to educators
(09:37:50 PM) cprofitt: and advertise it as such
(09:38:03 PM) deejoe: uh oh
(09:38:15 PM) deejoe: cprofitt is going to start monologueing? ;-)
(09:38:19 PM) cprofitt: I think part of the path to breaking the MS / Apple strangle hold on the desktop is to get another option in front of kids
(09:38:27 PM) ausimage: Wonder if FLCC or some other school would sponsor?
(09:38:30 PM) cprofitt: and that means making teachers comfortable with the options
(09:38:58 PM) cprofitt: so having classes on 'Linux basics' and showing them how to use the programs in Edubutu, etc would be helpful
(09:39:09 PM) ausimage: cprofitt: it would be interesting if the educator events offered Con Ed credits ;)
(09:39:13 PM) deejoe: FLCC, or MCC here
(09:39:16 PM) cprofitt: there are also many cross-platform programs we can 'teach' them about
(09:39:23 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, it would be...
(09:39:34 PM) cprofitt: that can be arranged through K-12 teacher centers...
(09:39:38 PM) ausimage: that would get teachers interested quickly :)
(09:39:39 PM) cprofitt: if we do it professionally enough
(09:39:52 PM) ausimage: of course
(09:39:59 PM) cprofitt: for graduate credit we would need people with masters degrees
(09:40:05 PM) cprofitt: and a college willing to offer the course
(09:40:19 PM) ***ausimage thinking of the carrot for the teachers 
(09:40:20 PM) ***cprofitt I am thinking of getting my Masters but do not have one
(09:40:38 PM) cprofitt: so... would like people to consider the 'genius' days and 'educator' days
(09:40:52 PM) ausimage: think they are seperate sorta
(09:40:57 PM) cprofitt: let it tumble around in the brain for a while and see if we can not develop a 'structure' for them
(09:41:01 PM) cprofitt: they are
(09:41:06 PM) ausimage: as Teacher's might have different needs
(09:41:09 PM) cprofitt: one is focused how to use classes
(09:41:30 PM) cprofitt: the other is more like being an Apple genius and taking people in by appointment or off the street if we have people availalbe
(09:41:43 PM) cprofitt: # Spring Release party
(09:42:00 PM) ausimage: Late April ;)
(09:42:02 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, with the fall release party are you still wanting to do a central Spring Party?
(09:42:10 PM) ausimage: yeah
(09:42:17 PM) deejoe: is there a name for 10.04 yet?
(09:42:23 PM) ausimage: I think it helps stretch resources
(09:42:23 PM) cprofitt: I would say first week of May would be best ausimage
(09:42:33 PM) cprofitt: but if we can do it... that would be good...
(09:42:46 PM) ausimage: Last Wkend April First Wknd May
(09:42:52 PM) cprofitt: we can start planning 10.04 when 9.10 is released
(09:42:57 PM) cprofitt: last topic
(09:43:00 PM) ausimage: yeah
(09:43:08 PM) cprofitt: # 2009 Officer Nominations and Elections
(09:43:14 PM) cprofitt: I will send a notice out on the list...
(09:43:27 PM) cprofitt: We will take nominations (send to ausimage or myself)
(09:43:46 PM) cprofitt: the positions open are President and Secretary
(09:44:05 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, do we want to declare treasurer as open since the person filling that is MIA?
(09:44:25 PM) ausimage: If I am encourage I will accept my old position
(09:44:29 PM) ausimage: yeah I think so
(09:44:33 PM) cprofitt: in 2007 the vote was on October 30th
(09:44:48 PM) cprofitt: do we want to schedule this one to be then as well... or make it November?
(09:45:01 PM) ausimage: so either 3rd Monday Oct or Nov I guess
(09:45:21 PM) ausimage: opinions??
(09:45:29 PM) cprofitt: lets go for 3rd Monday in October then
(09:46:01 PM) cprofitt: I made a wiki page for the nominations to be listed
(09:46:11 PM) cprofitt: what about treasurer ausimage ?
(09:46:21 PM) cprofitt: is that going to be open with thestace being MIA?
(09:46:30 PM) ausimage: it is open AFAIC
(09:46:58 PM) ***Slick666 is back from the phone
(09:47:09 PM) cprofitt: ok... I will send that out to the list tomorrow then
(09:47:19 PM) cprofitt: hey Slick666 we are discussing officer elections
(09:47:28 PM) Slick666: ah
(09:47:29 PM) cprofitt: nominations, etc
(09:47:33 PM) Slick666: I'm following
(09:47:47 PM) cprofitt: ausimage, do we want to have my position up as well... to put them all back on the same time line
(09:47:55 PM) cprofitt: I was kind of a 'fill-in' for another MIA
(09:48:10 PM) cprofitt: and I think we should keep them together... but was not sure of everyone else's thoughts
(09:48:13 PM) ausimage: I prefer staggering
(09:48:54 PM) cprofitt: Slick666, deejoe - staggered officers?
(09:50:09 PM) ***cprofitt pauses
(09:50:14 PM) Slick666: I like
(09:50:23 PM) cprofitt: ok .. staggered it is.
(09:50:36 PM) cprofitt: now... not saying this is an issue...
(09:50:59 PM) cprofitt: but what do we do if officer x who has 1yr left is nominated for officer spot y
(09:50:59 PM) Slick666: ok?
(09:51:19 PM) cprofitt: I would argue a person can not hold both...
(09:51:23 PM) ausimage: it opens I think
(09:51:30 PM) cprofitt: how would we fill a vacancy
(09:51:35 PM) cprofitt: immediate vote?
(09:51:41 PM) cprofitt: the following month?
(09:51:47 PM) ausimage: following month perhaps
(09:52:01 PM) Slick666: I think that soundsgood
(09:52:07 PM) cprofitt: I know it is a formality... but our constitution makes us rather formal...
(09:52:11 PM) cprofitt: ok... cool...
(09:52:37 PM) cprofitt: I will send out a letter tomorrow and make that modification to the constitution -- or do we need a vote on the constitution modification ausimage ?
(09:52:54 PM) ausimage: it needs to be voted...
(09:52:58 PM) ausimage: :/
(09:53:07 PM) Slick666: I agree
(09:53:23 PM) ausimage: Not sure if there are addendums still hanging now that you mention them...
(09:53:35 PM) Slick666: I think it would be cool if we could vote by e-mail (using gpg)
(09:53:39 PM) cprofitt: k... so we can hold that up for vote in September
(09:53:47 PM) cprofitt: I will put both in the email
(09:53:55 PM) ausimage: gpg? how do we verify?
(09:54:01 PM) cprofitt: it would be nice to allow votes by email... but I like to have people here...
(09:54:07 PM) cprofitt: to have 'active' members vote
(09:54:14 PM) Slick666: true
(09:54:24 PM) ausimage: I have in the past...
(09:54:29 PM) cprofitt: thought IRC should not be the sole method for activity
(09:54:30 PM) Slick666: I think of it as e-voting, but the open way, you know one thats secure and works ;)
(09:54:37 PM) cprofitt: gpg signatures should work
(09:55:10 PM) ausimage: end of the agenda???
(09:55:15 PM) cprofitt: would be interesting to have a web based secure system that required a GPG sig verification
(09:55:29 PM) cprofitt: and one that verified that they are members via launchpad openID
(09:55:37 PM) cprofitt: # end of agenda
(09:55:38 PM) ***Slick666 smells a new open source project brewing
(09:55:46 PM) Slick666: ;)
(09:56:23 PM) ausimage: meeting adjourned then :)
</pre>
