{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''XXth''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 7:00 PM EST and finishing at 8:00 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
 OLD BUSINESS
* News Letter Committe
 <<BR>>NEW BUSINESS
* <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLaws | ByLaws]]</nowiki> refer to Ubuntu as "Ubuntu Operating System" from now on
** <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLawsAmendments | Amendment Proposal]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-Nominations2008 | Nominations]]</nowiki>
* Approval 
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Approval]]</nowiki>
* Website and Wiki work
* <nowiki>[[http://main.newyork-ubuntu.com/Main/MembershipMeetUps | Local Events]]</nowiki>
** New City, Rockland County
** Rochester 
** Syracuse
* Getting activity on the <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/s.php?ref=search&init=q&q=Ubuntu+New+York&sid=52f318866d6260d8817c231d07d6d0d5#/group.php?sid=52f318866d6260d8817c231d07d6d0d5&refurl=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fs.php%3Fref%3Dsearch%26init%3Dq%26q%3DUbuntu%2BNew%2BYork%26sid%3D52f318866d6260d8817c231d07d6d0d5&gid=2389558839|Facebook Account]]</nowiki> suggested by <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:newjack]]</nowiki> <<DateTime(2008-11-14T01:07:41-0500)

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
(07:00:40 PM) ausimage: MEETING TIME!!!!
(07:00:42 PM) ausimage: :)
(07:00:48 PM) marnold: hello
(07:00:49 PM) NCommander: ICMP Route to Host Down
(07:01:39 PM) ausimage: K https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20081125 <== agenda
(07:01:51 PM) ausimage: who is listening at this time ???
(07:02:09 PM) ***ausimage wonders where PrivateVoid is ??
(07:02:14 PM) ***TheDukeNY hears the wind
(07:02:25 PM) Dave321 [i=nobody@cpe-72-230-182-200.rochester.res.rr.com] entered the room.
(07:02:32 PM) marnold: I' am
(07:02:45 PM) Dave321: im here
(07:02:46 PM) TheDukeNY: I only have a half hour so lets kick it
(07:03:06 PM) ausimage: The agenda is fairly thin... so lets see how quick this goes
(07:03:14 PM) ausimage: OLD BUSINESS:
(07:03:17 PM) TheDukeNY: News Letter Committe
(07:03:22 PM) ausimage: yup...
(07:03:28 PM) TheDukeNY: Anyone else want to join?
(07:03:47 PM) ausimage: http://main.newyork-ubuntu.com/Activities/200811202000 < log is here
(07:04:03 PM) ausimage: It was just me and the 'Void...
(07:04:35 PM) TheDukeNY: I asked to be an admin there becasue Im active there, but still have not been givena  response back
(07:04:58 PM) NewJack [n=NewJack@pool-70-104-136-137.nycmny.fios.verizon.net] entered the room.
(07:05:02 PM) marnold: i'll have to see how my schedule works out
(07:05:11 PM) ausimage: Essentially it was decided to shoot for a January deadline
(07:05:13 PM) TheDukeNY: it seems that Joe and I are the only onces cheeking it out frequently
(07:05:19 PM) NewJack: Sorry, I just got home guys
(07:05:25 PM) ausimage: NewJack: !
(07:05:26 PM) marnold: but i'm jumping back in
(07:05:27 PM) NewJack: I will be back in about 5-10
(07:05:32 PM) NewJack: minutes
(07:05:33 PM) ausimage: meeting is now ! :)
(07:05:54 PM) NewJack: I know, wasn't asking to hold it up.  Just that I would be back :)
(07:05:58 PM) marnold: so i'll see what i can do in ~2weeks
(07:06:04 PM) ausimage: Not sure what else can be added about the Newsletter...
(07:06:08 PM) ausimage: marnold: ?
(07:06:27 PM) TheDukeNY: This Barnaby Bienkowski guy still has not replied to me yet
(07:06:28 PM) ausimage: specifics not generics...
(07:06:29 PM) marnold: the newsletter thing
(07:06:36 PM) ausimage: K
(07:06:39 PM) ausimage: clear now :)
(07:06:55 PM) ausimage: anyother old business?
(07:07:13 PM) ausimage: K... New then
(07:07:32 PM) ausimage: Reminder that elections are next meeting!
(07:07:39 PM) TheDukeNY: NEW BUSINESS
(07:07:56 PM) ausimage: PrivateVoid, daradib, NewJack are up for our slate...
(07:08:01 PM) TheDukeNY: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Nominations2008
(07:08:07 PM) ausimage: yup
(07:08:17 PM) TheDukeNY: Dec 11th
(07:08:29 PM) ausimage: If you are interested in adding your name let me know tonight...
(07:09:08 PM) ausimage: Bylaw amendments... 
(07:09:12 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ByLawsAmendents
(07:09:23 PM) TheDukeNY: page doesnt exist
(07:09:39 PM) marnold: page not there
(07:09:53 PM) TheDukeNY: edit it if you want to propse something
(07:10:11 PM) TheDukeNY: hense, why it is empty right now
(07:10:31 PM) ausimage: I took time to make some proposed changes...
(07:10:54 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ByLawsAmendments
(07:11:09 PM) ausimage: there they are... bad spelling on my part
(07:12:02 PM) ausimage: I would just like to hear feedback tonight if any for them... then I will put these up for vote at a later meeting...
(07:13:28 PM) NewJack: back
(07:13:38 PM) TheDukeNY: I agree to that amendement
(07:13:44 PM) TheDukeNY: Yay
(07:13:45 PM) ausimage: all have a chance to look at the proposed bylaws
(07:13:55 PM) ausimage: NewJack: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ByLawsAmendments
(07:14:03 PM) ausimage: TheDukeNY: all of them?
Dave123 Dave123-road Dave321 
(07:14:47 PM) ausimage: marnold, Dave321
(07:14:48 PM) ausimage: ?
(07:14:50 PM) NewJack: I agree to the amendment
(07:14:51 PM) Dave123-road left the room (quit: Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)).
(07:14:53 PM) TheDukeNY: I agree to all of them
(07:15:05 PM) TheDukeNY: I certainly dont think e and f are fair
(07:15:06 PM) marnold: hang on
(07:15:17 PM) TheDukeNY: and I think students should be able to particpate
(07:15:21 PM) marnold: i'm still reading
(07:15:42 PM) ausimage: some of them were oversights... :/
(07:15:44 PM) marnold: looks good so far
(07:15:48 PM) TheDukeNY: I know many who live near Jesey border and like to partipate in NY stuff b/c they go to NY school
(07:15:57 PM) ausimage: Cool...
(07:16:00 PM) TheDukeNY: I think all laws are fair
(07:16:20 PM) TheDukeNY: I don't know how Article II section e and f ever came to be
(07:16:24 PM) TheDukeNY: but thats nonsense
(07:17:00 PM) ausimage: Thats good... I will be working on setting up a vote for the amendments...
(07:17:12 PM) ausimage: Approval!
(07:17:27 PM) marnold: I approve
(07:17:39 PM) ausimage: I think reviewing things once more... I think we just need to put ourselves on the agenda...
(07:18:19 PM) ausimage: So I will be working on that... and depending when it is I may ask for some help ;)
(07:18:25 PM) TheDukeNY: Approvals
(07:18:36 PM) ausimage: yup that...
(07:18:42 PM) TheDukeNY: We need to renew our LoCo approval?
(07:19:06 PM) ausimage: No... we need to be approved... then we have yearly reviews thereafter
(07:19:37 PM) TheDukeNY: I approve of us
(07:19:47 PM) ausimage: That requires amongst other things presence at a LoCo Council meeting ;)
(07:20:05 PM) Dave321: sal an yosef also feel off the face of the earth
(07:20:13 PM) ausimage: Yup... 
(07:20:24 PM) TheDukeNY: So, there are lots of us here active
(07:20:26 PM) ausimage: That is why I am dropping that ;)
(07:20:42 PM) TheDukeNY: I don't know why they had special treatment in the first place
(07:21:19 PM) TheDukeNY: when i recommended designs for leadership 2 summers ago, I could have swarn there was nothing like taht in our bylaws
(07:22:06 PM) ausimage: It got in there... and now it is leaving once the ammendments are approved..
(07:22:08 PM) TheDukeNY: continuing on
(07:22:21 PM) TheDukeNY: so we need some council meeting
(07:22:24 PM) TheDukeNY: whats the big deal?
(07:22:46 PM) ausimage: Time of Day;)
(07:23:03 PM) TheDukeNY: Resources CHECK, Memberships, Check, Roadmap, Check, Experience, Check
(07:23:04 PM) ausimage: I think the next one is condusive...
(07:23:20 PM) NewJack: We need more "experience"
(07:23:35 PM) TheDukeNY: Well, there are lots of you in Rochester
(07:23:42 PM) NewJack: Or I should say, "Current Experience"
(07:23:44 PM) TheDukeNY: What programs have you done so far
(07:24:04 PM) ausimage: Rochester has monthly meetups
(07:24:14 PM) ausimage: Rochester has attempted recycling
(07:24:16 PM) ausimage: :)
(07:24:28 PM) NewJack: Rochester, although they have the most active members, don't make up the rest of the state
(07:24:30 PM) TheDukeNY: Thanksgiving/Xmas season  is a perfect time to do that donation program
(07:24:36 PM) ausimage: umm... but back to the topic...
(07:25:03 PM) NewJack: We need more statewide participation
(07:25:22 PM) TheDukeNY: I would like to particpate in a reburish program too
(07:25:25 PM) ausimage: I am looking at one of the next LoCo Council Meetings... but want to ensure the leadership is sync first
(07:25:30 PM) TheDukeNY: but I can never find members in NYC
(07:25:45 PM) ausimage: TheDukeNY: a bunch are listed on the website
(07:25:55 PM) TheDukeNY: but they are never on IRC
(07:25:58 PM) TheDukeNY: at the meetings
(07:26:10 PM) ausimage: if you want to know how to contact them, let me know privately.
(07:26:11 PM) TheDukeNY: I suppose I will use the mailing list
(07:26:11 PM) marnold: I want to get Syracuse back in order
(07:26:21 PM) ausimage: Yeah marnold
(07:26:30 PM) ausimage: Ok moving on...
(07:26:37 PM) ausimage: Website and wiki work...
(07:27:04 PM) ausimage: I do not think much has changed lately, but you can always share your feedback
(07:27:21 PM) TheDukeNY: website has always been fine
(07:27:27 PM) ausimage: so they can be the best possible :)
(07:27:34 PM) TheDukeNY: Its a nice wensite
(07:27:46 PM) ausimage: anyone else?
(07:27:59 PM) NewJack: Website and Wiki are looking great lately
(07:28:11 PM) TheDukeNY: Even the wiki looks nice
(07:28:40 PM) ausimage: that is good to hear... 
(07:28:51 PM) TheDukeNY: It's improved greatly
(07:28:55 PM) ausimage: Next... Facebook...
(07:29:22 PM) TheDukeNY: back to that
(07:29:24 PM) ausimage: Well feeling abouts... hendrixski is out of town till december
(07:29:45 PM) TheDukeNY: I've sent Barnaby Bienkowski many messages and never got back to me
(07:29:49 PM) ausimage: so I am unsure what to do...
(07:30:00 PM) TheDukeNY: thats Hendrixski, right?
(07:30:00 PM) ausimage: facebook? or email?
(07:30:01 PM) NewJack: I will just keep doing what I am doing for now....
(07:30:04 PM) ausimage: yup
(07:30:08 PM) TheDukeNY: facebook messaing
(07:30:21 PM) NewJack: Posting updates on the wall and hope someone comes across them
(07:30:23 PM) ausimage: NewJack: I can get you his email to contact directly...
(07:30:27 PM) TheDukeNY: I would like to help him run the facebook group, but I need admin privlages to set up stuff
(07:30:42 PM) TheDukeNY: I suppose I will email him or something
(07:31:18 PM) NewJack: Just so you know Duke, I had sent him a message already
(07:31:26 PM) ausimage: I hope hendrixski will get back to us once he returns...
(07:31:30 PM) NewJack: I haven't heard back from him yet
(07:31:34 PM) NewJack: Ok
(07:31:51 PM) TheDukeNY: I sent him one 4 monts ago, and another one 2 months ago
(07:31:54 PM) ausimage: Last I have is Local Meetups...!!
(07:32:00 PM) TheDukeNY: I forgot to mention it whenever I see him on IRC...
(07:32:07 PM) TheDukeNY: :(
(07:32:19 PM) ***ausimage wonders if he even uses it 
(07:32:20 PM) TheDukeNY: Local meetings!
(07:32:24 PM) ausimage: yup...
(07:33:11 PM) ausimage: Rochester is coming up... 12/4 @ 7pm at BN on the west side
(07:33:28 PM) ausimage: NewJack: what about Rockland?
(07:33:33 PM) NewJack: Rockland Meetup is also coming up next Sat
(07:33:36 PM) NewJack: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/20081206
(07:33:55 PM) ausimage: Hope that goes great!
(07:34:03 PM) ausimage: marnold: Syracuse?
(07:34:07 PM) NewJack: It's more of a meet and greet more than anything else at this point
(07:34:10 PM) ausimage: any ideas....?
(07:34:20 PM) NCommander left the room (quit: Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)).
(07:34:33 PM) NewJack: I will move locations depending on future attendance
(07:34:34 PM) ausimage: meet and greets help build us 
(07:34:39 PM) NewJack: Agreed
(07:34:42 PM) marnold: I'm going to try to organize somthing in Jan
(07:35:05 PM) ausimage: Cool... Let us know when you have something definite...
(07:35:08 PM) TheDukeNY: Maybe organize something after the new year for us here in NY
(07:35:27 PM) ausimage: Sounds terrific TheDukeNY...
(07:35:32 PM) TheDukeNY: I will be in NYC a lot in the future. The trading expo is in Feb. That will be a busy month, maybe a good time to do one
(07:35:37 PM) NewJack: Duke, can I make a suggestion
(07:35:43 PM) TheDukeNY: shoot
(07:35:51 PM) NewJack: Maybe do what I am going to do....
(07:35:57 PM) TheDukeNY: Which is...
(07:36:06 PM) NewJack: Work with a local PCUG and build a base from there
(07:36:32 PM) NewJack: I am going to do a workshop with the one up here and a lot of them are interested in Linux
(07:36:36 PM) TheDukeNY: I dont know what PCUG is
(07:36:38 PM) ausimage: TheDukeNY: there was some willing to work on NYC meetup tooo...
(07:36:41 PM) NewJack: PC Users Group
(07:36:49 PM) ausimage: though his name escapes me
(07:36:57 PM) NewJack: dcolish maybe?
(07:37:01 PM) ausimage: yeah!
(07:37:12 PM) TheDukeNY: o
(07:37:13 PM) ausimage: he know mjording
(07:37:25 PM) TheDukeNY: mjording is near here, right?
(07:37:30 PM) ausimage: yup...
(07:37:41 PM) TheDukeNY: we 3 can try to come up with something
(07:37:43 PM) ausimage: mjording was to help but he got swamped
(07:37:58 PM) TheDukeNY: i've been swamped for the alst 6 months
(07:38:10 PM) TheDukeNY: next semester I have less classes, so Im more availabl
(07:38:13 PM) TheDukeNY: e
(07:38:45 PM) ausimage: TheDukeNY: I can try and arrange a meeting of the minds for you if like ;)
(07:39:06 PM) TheDukeNY: We shall talk about that another day
(07:39:15 PM) TheDukeNY: I got to go in 5
(07:39:21 PM) ausimage: K...
(07:39:29 PM) TheDukeNY: whats next on the list?
(07:39:30 PM) ausimage: Anyother business?
(07:39:49 PM) TheDukeNY: Advertising Competition
(07:40:02 PM) ***TheDukeNY is a marketing maniac
(07:40:05 PM) NewJack: How are we doing with Team based publications?
(07:40:40 PM) ausimage: you mean submit an advert for judging?
(07:40:58 PM) ausimage: um Team pubs... other then the newletter?
(07:41:13 PM) ausimage: nothing has happend AFAIK
(07:41:14 PM) NewJack: Yes, like the contact cards and CD Stand I worked on
(07:41:21 PM) NewJack: Oh, ok
(07:41:32 PM) NewJack: Has anyone made any suggestions at all?
(07:41:45 PM) ausimage: not that I am aware of :/
(07:42:09 PM) NewJack: I don't mind tinkering with some, if anyone has any ideas
(07:42:27 PM) ausimage: Feel free to tinker...
(07:42:34 PM) NewJack: I am also going to start work on a Impress Presentation regarding ......
(07:42:55 PM) NewJack: A brief History of Linux/Ubuntu & FOSS
(07:43:12 PM) ausimage: sounds awesome
(07:43:20 PM) NewJack: It will be basic and aimed at conveters (sp?)
(07:43:39 PM) TheDukeNY: ok, im out... I gatta go
(07:43:44 PM) ausimage: latter TheDukeNY
(07:43:46 PM) NewJack: It will also show how all the software that most people use is right there in Ubuntu
(07:43:51 PM) TheDukeNY: ausimage, I'll message you later
(07:43:52 PM) NewJack: Night Duke
(07:44:06 PM) TheDukeNY: nite NJ
(07:44:30 PM) ausimage: Any other business?
(07:44:39 PM) NewJack: My aim, is to be able to do a Presentation without having physical machines to show an install
(07:44:49 PM) NewJack: I don't have anything else
(07:45:27 PM) ausimage: cool with that... Meeting Adjourned...
</pre>
