{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This a General Statewide IRC meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 8:00 PM EST and finishing around 9:00 PM EST

When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

=== Agenda ===
* Global Bug Jam -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * Rochester area update -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * Syracuse plan -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * New City plan -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki> * Newsletter (February) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * Plan for this month -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * Target date of February 3rd for release -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki>  * Topic Suggestions -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki> 
=== Attendance ===

=== IRC Logs ===
{
(08:01:06 PM) ausimage: Oh well lets start this mini meeting... 
(08:01:34 PM) ausimage: hal14450:  you want to let us know about the rochester meetup in January?
(08:03:05 PM) hal14450: sure
(08:05:48 PM) ausimage: ???
(08:05:51 PM) hal14450: i did a presentation on asterisk which needs polishing and everyone was gracious enough to give me a pass on being nervous.We discussed the basics of using asterisk as a solution to compliment existing landlines and as a replacement as well.I touched on the myriad of of acronyms and tried to make it simple enough to understand
(08:06:30 PM) ausimage: nice... what was the attendance like ?
(08:06:34 PM) hal14450: so it was all about what asterisk is and what it can do
(08:06:55 PM) hal14450: ~20 people or so
(08:07:02 PM) hal14450: attendance was pretty good
(08:07:09 PM) ausimage: thats good...
(08:07:53 PM) ausimage: hal14450: you plan to put the talk up for us to read?
(08:08:18 PM) hal14450: i could but i'd like to polish it first
(08:08:22 PM) ausimage: cool
(08:08:48 PM) ausimage: so next week is the next rochester meetup?
(08:09:27 PM) hal14450: first thursday next month so 02/05/09
(08:09:58 PM) hal14450: at B&N @ RIT if memory serves it's hendrixski
(08:10:09 PM) ausimage: I guess that is all I have... 'cept a few reminders.
(08:10:42 PM) ausimage: Check our newletter out it is being released the 3rd of Feb...
(08:11:16 PM) ausimage: and that Charles is coordinating our states effort with the GBJ in february 
(08:11:32 PM) hal14450: GBJ is ?
(08:11:46 PM) ausimage: GLOBAL BUG JAM :D
(08:11:51 PM) hal14450: oh right
(08:11:55 PM) hal14450: sorry
(08:12:26 PM) ausimage: so feel free to ping cprofitt if you want more details about either
(08:12:37 PM) ausimage: anything else I missed?
(08:12:50 PM) hal14450: we're working on a collaborative installfest with LUGOR
(08:13:02 PM) ausimage: cool...
(08:13:14 PM) ausimage: when will that be... Jaunty Release?
(08:13:26 PM) hal14450: and we have a secret weapon, ubuntu discs with all the current updates installed
(08:13:42 PM) ausimage: yeah
(08:13:55 PM) hal14450: whatever is available at the time last weekend of may or first one in june
(08:14:16 PM) hal14450: i'll be armed with discs of all sorts
(08:14:20 PM) ausimage: cool anyother things to discuss?
(08:14:44 PM) hal14450: april is open street maps event which is also a collaborative presentation
(08:15:06 PM) hal14450: march is mythtv for ubuntu ny LoCo
(08:15:40 PM) ausimage: and some dug up Roc BarCamp too ??? ;)
(08:16:15 PM) hal14450: yeah hendrixski is probably the one to ask about that i would think
(08:16:22 PM) hal14450: or cproffit
(08:16:25 PM) ausimage: If no one has anything further....
(08:16:52 PM) ausimage: meeting adjourned...
}
