{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== New York Team Meeting Types ===

=== New York Team SIP Service ===
The New York team has access to an asterix box hosted by <nowiki>[[http://www.nerdsonlinux.com|Nerds On Linux]]</nowiki>. This supports SIP(Session Initiation Protocol) clients like the Gizmo, XLite, or Ekiga soft phones. The team uses the conference room at 5000 to hold VoIP (Voice over IP) meetings. It is recommended that you have a mic headset to reduce echos in the conference. 

* <nowiki>[[http://www.sipbroker.com/SipBroker Network]]</nowiki> Access: *8771-[Number]
* Other Network Acces: [Number]@sip.nerdsonlinux.net
* <nowiki>[[..-SIPExtensions|Member's Extensions]]</nowiki>
 
==== Gizmo ====
Gizmo is VoIP service and SIP client. It allows users to connect to Gizmo service and one asterix box. You can connect to other SIP URIs by appending the host name to the URI, 5555@sip.hostname.net or connect via a set up asterix account.

* Get Gizmo: http://www.gizmoproject.com/download-linux.html
* Either setup an account with gizmo or request an account from the team
* If you recieve a SIP account from us: http://support.gizmoproject.com/index.php?_a=knowledgebase&_j=questiondetails&_i=203
* If you create a Gizmo Account: Simply enter the SIP URI you find listed for the meeting in the URL box, appending @sip.nerdsonlinux.net if absent, and connect.

==== XLite ====
<nowiki>[[http://www.asteriskguru.com/tutorials/xlite_softphone.html]]</nowiki>

==== Ekiga ====

This _should_ be as simple as getting an ekiga.net account <nowiki>[[http://ekiga.net/]]</nowiki>, firing up ekiga (in Ubuntu main), putting your account into into ekiga, and connecting to the sip:5000@sip.nerdsonlinux.net address.

==== Phone ====
This _should_ be as simple as visiting <nowiki>[[http://www.sipbroker.com/|SipBroker Network]]</nowiki> and locating a local access number. You may also inquire with hal14450 about using his toll-free access number.

==== ATA ====
This _should_ be as simple as reading the adapters manual. If you decide to get SIP access elsewhere and that provider has a <nowiki>[[http://www.sipbroker.com/|SipBroker Network]]</nowiki> account just append the Sip Broker ID: 8771 before number and drop any server name present. (eg. *8771-5000) You can also request an account for hal14450.
