{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Syracuse Global Jam Event ==

=== Topic ===
'''Global Jam - Live! In Syracuse New York'''

The NY State Ubuntu LoCo in Syracuse will be hosting a live face-to-face meeting for the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam|Global Jam]]</nowiki>. The Global Jam involves Ubuntu users from around the world getting together to improve the Ubuntu operating system. Everyone can contribute and all are welcome. For more information about the <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam|Global Jam]]</nowiki> please see <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam| this link]]</nowiki>.

This years Global Jam is comprised of several areas:

* '''<nowiki>[[Jams-Bugs|Bugs]]</nowiki>''' - finding, triaging and fixing bugs.
* '''<nowiki>[[Jams-Testing|Testing]]</nowiki>''' - testing the new release and reporting your feedback.
* '''<nowiki>[[Jams-Docs|Documentation]]</nowiki>''' - writing documentation about how to use Ubuntu and how to join the community.
* '''<nowiki>[[Jams-Translations|Translations]]</nowiki>''' - translating Ubuntu and helping to make it available in everyone's local language.
* '''<nowiki>[[Jams-Packaging|Packaging]]</nowiki>''' - work on Ubuntu packages and improve them
* '''Other''' - other types of contribution such as marketing, packaging, advocacy etc.

Everyone is invited to contribute, watch, or ask questions about Ubuntu and Linux.

Details:
* '''address''': 
   TBD
* '''date''': October 3rd, 2009
* '''time''': TBD
* '''room''': TBD
* '''amenities''': TBD
