{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Meeting Venues ===

==== IRC ====
The team <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat|IRC channel]]</nowiki> is a place where members of the team communicate and collaborate with each other in real-time. People from New York State can also find out more information about Ubuntu.

 '''Server:''' irc.ubuntu.com<<BR>>
 '''Channel:''' #ubuntu-us-ny

===== Help with Comon IRC Clients =====
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GaimHowto|How to Use Gaim]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|How to Use Xchat]]</nowiki>

==== SIP ====
The team has access to an Asterisk box hosted by <nowiki>[[http://www.nerdsonlinux.com|Nerds On Linux]]</nowiki>, which provides a VoIP (Voice-over-IP) conference room to hold VoIP meetings. The conference room supports SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) clients, including Gizmo Project, XLite, and Ekiga. It is recommended that you have a mic headset to reduce echoes in the conference.

 '''<nowiki>[[http://www.sipbroker.com/|SIP Broker Network]]</nowiki> Access:''' *8771-5000 <<BR>>
 '''Access from Other Networks:''' 5000@sip.nerdsonlinux.net

===== Help with Comon SIP Clients =====
* <nowiki>[[..-SIP#Gizmo|Gizmo Project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[..-SIP#XLite|XLite]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[..-SIP#Ekiga|Ekiga]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[..-SIP#Phone|Plain Old Telephone]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[..-SIP#ATA|Analog Telephone Adapter]]</nowiki>

==== InPerson ====

The team may hold in-person meetings when possible.
