{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== NY LoCo Team Newsletter February 09, 2010 ===

=== Officer's Corner ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 60%;"rowstyle="background-color: #E0E0FF;">'''Officers'''
|-
| President
| <:> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cprofitt|Charles Profitt]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/cprofitt|IRC: cprofitt]]</nowiki>
|-
| Vice-President
| <:> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ausimage|Jeremy Austin-Bardo]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ausimage|IRC: ausimage]]</nowiki>
|-
| Treasurer
| <:> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hal14450|Brian Neil]]</nowiki>
| IRC: hal14450
|-
| Secretary
| <:> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slick666|Landon Jurgens]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/slick666|IRC: slick666]]</nowiki>
|}

==== A letter from the President ====
Hello Ubuntu users and LoCo members:

We have some amazing events lined up in our state in the coming months.

* Richards Stallman will be speaking at RIT on February 23rd from 10:30am to 12:30pm
* FOSSCON will hold its first event at RIT this June 19th
* The Ubuntu LoCo will (tentatively) be speaking at EdTech Day in Ithaca NY on March 25th
* We are planning a state wide launch party for 10.04 to be held May 1st in Waterloo, NY

Over the past year we have developed a pool of speakers and connections with publishers. If you have a local computer group or Linux user group and would like to have a LoCo member come and speak to your group about FOSS or Ubuntu please contact us and let us know.

==== A letter from the VP ====

My focus will be the release party and rounding up some volunteers to
speak and help with promotion and backstage stuff.

==== A letter from the Treasurer ====
Hi Guys,

I'm working on the FOSSCON which is going to be held @ RIT on Saturday
June 19th. Which is the last day of the POSSE week. Here are relevant
links:

http://teachingopensource.org/index.php/POSSE
http://fosscon.org/about/

We're still in planning stage but making good progress. I'd like to
encourage anyone who is willing to be a speaker or help organize to get
involved. The FOSSCON wiki has more information on this and can be
found here:

http://wiki.fosscon.org/index.php/Main_Page

On an unrelated note I hope to make it to your installfest this month
guys. I'll know soon if it's a sure thing or not. Let me know if
there's anything else I can do to help make it a success.

Sincerely,

Brian Neil
==== A letter from the Secretary ====

This Month I'm focused on supporting new event in the Syracuse area and
installing an IRC Bot to accurately and automatically gather meeting
notes.

=== Highlights And Goals ===

==== January 2010 Highlights ====
* The location of FOSSCON was settled to be in Rochester at RIT on June 19th

==== February 2010 Goals and Events ====
* There will be an event on Feb. 20th at 512 Westcott St,  Syracuse, NY, 13210 <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events/20100220| Link to details]]</nowiki>
* Richards Stallman will be speaking at RIT on February 23rd

==== IRC Meeting Notes ====

===== January 2010 =====
The meeting notes for January 2010 were not easily human readable and as such will not be posted here.
<<BR>>
If you wish to take a look here is the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20100119| link ]]</nowiki>

==== This Months Meetings ====

===== IRC =====
This month's meeting will be on Mon. Feb 15th, 9pm

===== Upcoming LUG meeting dates =====
This is not an all inclusive list of the active Lugs in NY State.
<<BR>> 
If there is a Lug missing that is going to have a meeting please add to the list and it will be included in following issues.
<<BR>>
Links to known active lugs websites have been provided so check their website for more info on meeting times and venues.
-----
<nowiki>[[http://cdlug.net/|Albany]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
Saturday March 6th 3-5pm
-----
<nowiki>[[http://www.syrlug.org/|Syracuse]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
Wednesday March 3rd @ 7:00pm
-----
<nowiki>[[http://www.lugor.org/|Rochester]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
Tuesday February 18th, 2010  7:00 - 9:00pm
-----
<nowiki>[[http://www.stnylug.org/|Southern Tier]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
Sat, February 13, 2pm – 5pm
<<BR>>

Second monthly meeting - Tuesday, February 23 - 7:30pm to 10:30pm
-----
<nowiki>[[http://wnylug.org/|Western NY]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
February 10, 2010 6:30PM – 9:00PM
-----
<nowiki>[[http://www.ausimage.us/Linux/HomePage|Upper Lakes]]</nowiki>
-----
===== NYC =====
----
==== Credits ====
<<BR>>                                                        
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ducky12432|Don Newell]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ducky|IRC: ducky]]</nowiki>     
