{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''1st''' RL meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 4:00 PM EST and finishing at 6:00 PM EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==

The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Announcements
* Discuss Major issues
** plan on how to go about handing out the ubuntu CDs we have on hand [ Stock Count: Sal 90 (Dapper)CDs, Yosef 50 (Feisty) ]
** Implement solution for Increased Attendance at meetings (This is a must to remain an active member)
** Improve wikitasks
** Improve management of wiki
* Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
** Ubuntu Trivia for prizes
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting

== Attendance ==

Salvatore Carini

Yosef Harrow 

Nathan Eckenrode

Tarik Jabri

== Minutes ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 4:15 - 5:00
| Greet each other, drink coffee, eat cake, hand out swag (too few people for trivia)
|-
| 5:00 - 6:15
| Address issues in Agenda, Create solutions, Set date for next meeting, Adjourn
|}

Topics Discussed and their solutions

'''1. How do we increase motivation and participation of members? Also, how do we manage inactivity of members?'''

'''Solutions:'''

Hold events as frequently as possible and establish a list of solid goals. People are more likely to get involved in an active team. These events will start out small and will grow in size and magnitude according to our teams ability and resources. 

 '''Here are some activities to start with:'''

 '''a.''' Hand out CDs (Feisty) 
  Stand in high traffic areas and ask people if they have a computer. Hand a Ubuntu 7.04 CD to everyone who answers yes to that quesiton. CDs will be burned by members. They will be marked with mailing labels and placed in inexpensive paper sleeves.
 '''b.''' Distribute fliers
  Stand in high traffic areas and distribute fliers that include a description of Ubuntu's benefits and a contact number and/or email address for our team.

Review member activity at bi-annual meetings. Send a notice to all inactive members. Take membership from all those who do not respond to the warning notice withing reasonable time period. These  meetings will serve other purposes as well and will be held in a central location such as Albany.

'''2. In what ways can we gain sponsorships and free items?'''

'''Solutions: '''

Contact companies and organizations with an interest in our group. One idea is to contact Oreilly in order to receive free Ubuntu books.

 Another Idea is to contact a volunteer organization in the Bronx called (forgot the name) that deals with helping the unprivileged. This organization has ties with the government and may be able to open doors for us. However, this idea is a long term goal. 

'''3. Who will record and publish meeting notes and transcripts?'''

'''Solutions: '''

There will be no permanent position of reporter. A reporter will be chosen at each meeting.

'''The next meeting will be a CD distribution event which will take place in or near Union Square train station in Manhattan at 5pm on Wednesday May 30, 2007.'''
