{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the ## Regular Meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:30 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==

The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Discuss Major issues
    
** Review and Approve the Bylaws
** <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLaws|ARTICLE I — NAME AND PURPOSE]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLaws|ARTICLE II — MEMBERSHIP]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLaws|ARTICLE III — LEADERSHIP]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLaws|ARTICLE IV — MEMBERSHIP MEETINGS]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLaws|ARTICLE V — LEADERSHIP MEETINGS]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLaws|ARTICLE VI — OTHER MEETINGS]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLaws|ARTICLE VII — COMMITTEES]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ByLaws|ARTICLE VIII — AMENDMENTS]]</nowiki>
** CERTIFICATION
** Conference 2008 in Syracuse [Report Only]
** <nowiki>[[http|--www.barcamp.org:BarCamp Style]]</nowiki> 
** Need Participants
** Open to all to entire community
** Looking for Sponsorships
** Moderate LP List...
** Are people signing up without thinking?
** What can be done to increase participation?
** Missing Information... No Email, No Location...
** Should we build Regional Leadership and operate more regionally. --- AusImage
** Leaders for local meetups
** Build Community Relationships
** Inquired about partnering with Potsdam Team ---AusImage
** No response... considered abandoned
** Meetups.com -- linux.meetups.com have very few meetups in state
** Looked into it --- Samiam010203
* Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting
* increase attendance at RL/IRC meetings (this is a must)

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
(06:13:40 PM) yharrow_mobile: looks like my nick went zombie on me
(06:13:42 PM) yharrow_mobile: sorry about that
(06:13:49 PM) psychoneil: what i read before sounds good to me.  and i cant imagine any changes we might make tonight would be bad
(06:13:57 PM) samiam010203: no problem yharrow
(06:14:22 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok , we have 8 sections of the bylaws that we need to review
(06:14:28 PM) yharrow_mobile: and perhaps a ninth one too
(06:14:35 PM) yharrow_mobile: I don't know how much of it we will be able to cover
(06:14:41 PM) yharrow_mobile: but we will do our best.
(06:15:27 PM) yharrow_mobile: ausimage: do you think it is fair to allocate a certain amouint of time for discussing each bylaw?
(06:15:33 PM) yharrow_mobile: or at least each section?
(06:15:50 PM) ausimage: Would you like me to do this ?
(06:16:06 PM) yharrow_mobile: lead the meeting?
(06:16:13 PM) ausimage: lead this section
(06:16:18 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok sure
(06:16:20 PM) yharrow_mobile: go ahead
(06:16:23 PM) ausimage: cool...
(06:17:06 PM) yharrow_mobile: ajour reknowned bylaw expert dr ausimage will be leading this part of the meeting ;)
(06:17:07 PM) ausimage: alright
(06:17:34 PM) ausimage: then... I lead a committe to write the team bylaws....
(06:18:02 PM) ausimage: the results have been linked in emails to the list and are here  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/503c/bylaw
(06:18:30 PM) ausimage: Lets review each section... making sure there are no outstanding issues
(06:18:50 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok
(06:19:19 PM) ausimage: With Article I anyone see anything needing discussion yet?
(06:19:56 PM) ausimage: everyone looking at the bylaws as well ??
(06:20:02 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:20:07 PM) ausimage: K
(06:20:32 PM) ausimage: seeing none... lets look at Section 2... any thing here ?
(06:20:33 PM) yharrow_mobile: small grammar error i think
(06:20:40 PM) ausimage: where ?
(06:20:52 PM) yharrow_mobile: it shall be at *the* leadership's
(06:20:59 PM) yharrow_mobile: sectoin 3
(06:21:14 PM) yharrow_mobile: 3c
(06:21:20 PM) ausimage: fixed :)
(06:21:31 PM) yharrow_mobile: cool
(06:21:35 PM) ausimage: anything with Section 2
(06:22:18 PM) yharrow_mobile: btw how do we know what is required of us a 201a or 501c3 organization?
(06:22:37 PM) ausimage: umm... let me get the links...
(06:23:37 PM) yharrow_mobile: 501c3 and 201a in the wiki should link to informative links
(06:23:48 PM) yharrow_mobile: informative pages*
(06:23:49 PM) ausimage: http://www.dos.state.ny.us/corp/nfpguide.htm 
(06:24:12 PM) ausimage: it describes state types about paragraph 4
(06:24:27 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok
(06:24:28 PM) ausimage: the titles tile actual paragraphs
(06:24:29 PM) yharrow_mobile: cool
(06:24:53 PM) yharrow_mobile: when we say that someone needs to agree to the Ubuntu COC
(06:25:01 PM) yharrow_mobile: does that mean they need to formally do so?
(06:25:06 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:25:15 PM) yharrow_mobile: by signing with a key and everything
(06:25:19 PM) samiam010203: no
(06:25:31 PM) samiam010203: just by agreeing to it
(06:25:41 PM) rory|zzz left the room (quit: Connection timed out).
(06:25:47 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok, we will then need to make membership restricted and tell ppl that by joining the group they are agreeing to the COC
(06:25:50 PM) yharrow_mobile: that should work
(06:25:53 PM) ausimage: just agreeing it helps govern the behavior of the team
(06:26:29 PM) yharrow_mobile: sagreed
(06:27:27 PM) yharrow_mobile: section 2c Additional membership information may be asked of prospective members
(06:27:40 PM) yharrow_mobile: Additional membership information may be *requested from* prospective members
(06:28:17 PM) yharrow_mobile: I think that sounds better
(06:28:29 PM) ausimage: that sounds good
(06:28:35 PM) yharrow_mobile: ausimage: do you think we should open up a gobi session?
(06:28:50 PM) yharrow_mobile: or whatever that editing program was called
(06:29:00 PM) ausimage: if all we have are little ones I think I can manage
(06:29:11 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok
(06:29:22 PM) ausimage: anything else with section 2
(06:29:30 PM) ausimage: er article 2
(06:30:04 PM) ausimage: K.... Art 3
(06:30:15 PM) yharrow left the room (quit: Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)).
(06:30:18 PM) yharrow_mobile: i think that it should  more closely define the process of clicking the button and then sending an email or filling out a form
(06:30:39 PM) yharrow_mobile: right now it says that they will click the button and then leadership will decide whether or not to accept the memeber
(06:30:47 PM) ausimage: I wanted it to stay simple...\
(06:30:59 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok, I guess it will work for now.
(06:31:02 PM) ausimage: we can specify elsewhere the details
(06:31:28 PM) ausimage: the less detail the fewer changes later to the bylaws
(06:32:04 PM) ausimage: Do we have concerns with section 2?
(06:32:13 PM) ausimage: er article 3 I mean
(06:32:32 PM) ***ausimage his brain is not cooperating :S
(06:32:58 PM) ausimage: This a longer one I know...
(06:33:07 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok
(06:33:12 PM) yharrow_mobile: lets read through it
(06:33:17 PM) yharrow_mobile: btw who is still with us?
(06:33:19 PM) ausimage: it defines the leadership and the specific roles
(06:33:21 PM) samiam010203: here
(06:33:27 PM) yharrow_mobile: psychoneil: you there?
(06:34:10 PM) ausimage: are samiam010203 and yharrow_mobile the only ones participating?
(06:34:57 PM) ausimage: this is such an important document :S
(06:35:28 PM) hal14450: i'm here i just haven't had a chance to look over the bylaws and given i just joined 2 days ago i figured i'd just sit and watch
(06:35:45 PM) ausimage: Well of those who are listening, how many have read them? 
(06:35:53 PM) ausimage: ok hal14450 understood
(06:36:01 PM) yharrow_mobile: hal14450: feel free to jump in and get wet ;)
(06:36:16 PM) hal14450: thanks ;-)
(06:36:27 PM) yharrow_mobile: hal14450: everybody's opinoin has weight around here :)
(06:36:29 PM) ausimage: I move to make the final vote by the email list....
(06:36:40 PM) hal14450: from waht i've read so far it looks fine to me
(06:36:49 PM) yharrow_mobile: ausimage: final vote on the laws?
(06:36:58 PM) yharrow_mobile: or membership?
(06:37:02 PM) rory|zzz [n=NotATarp@wikipedia/Rory096] entered the room.
(06:37:03 PM) yharrow_mobile: i mean leadership
(06:37:03 PM) ausimage: yeah... there are more on the list....
(06:37:12 PM) ausimage: than in the channel at this point
(06:37:35 PM) ausimage: allow a week to reply acking or not the bylaws...
(06:37:46 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok , that works
(06:37:53 PM) yharrow_mobile: what about in the forum?
(06:38:07 PM) ausimage: that could work but I don't use them :S
(06:38:16 PM) yharrow_mobile: and sending out a notice about the poll
(06:38:24 PM) yharrow_mobile: the only advantage i can think of is that on the mailing list we konw what everyone thinks, and we can discuss it
(06:38:33 PM) rory|zzz is now known as rory096
(06:38:52 PM) ausimage: let us do a combination then ???
(06:39:05 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok, lets stick to making the finall desicion on the list
(06:39:10 PM) yharrow_mobile: but we will give it about 7 days of discussion on the list
(06:39:18 PM) yharrow_mobile: no, i think it will get too complicated with both
(06:39:23 PM) yharrow_mobile: then again
(06:39:30 PM) yharrow_mobile: there are ppl who never use the list
(06:39:33 PM) yharrow_mobile: and cant figure it out
(06:39:40 PM) psychoneil: yharrow i told the rest that im semi-here but im good with whats already on the page
(06:39:41 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok, heres a compromise
(06:39:50 PM) yharrow_mobile: psychoneil: ok :)
(06:39:52 PM) yharrow_mobile: thanks
(06:39:59 PM) ausimage: cool psychoneil
(06:40:16 PM) yharrow_mobile: here: lets setup a poll on the forums, and then discuss the bylaws on the list for 7 days
(06:40:20 PM) yharrow_mobile: starting form today
(06:40:24 PM) yharrow_mobile: from*
(06:40:32 PM) ausimage: that sounds good...
(06:40:34 PM) yharrow_mobile: the list will have a url to the poll
(06:40:54 PM) ausimage: you want to send it to the list?
(06:41:10 PM) ausimage: I will make sure those with emails and not on the list get cc'ed
(06:41:16 PM) yharrow_mobile: send what?
(06:41:16 PM) samiam010203: i thought we were voting today though ?
(06:41:45 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: is it worth voting with mostly the same people that made them????
(06:41:47 PM) yharrow_mobile: samiam010203: we were going to but ausimage pointed out how few ppl have attended this meeting
(06:42:00 PM) samiam010203: yup
(06:42:02 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:42:35 PM) ***ausimage reminds that I did email the list... and the wiki has stated BYLAWS today... :(
(06:42:43 PM) yharrow_mobile: ausimage: actually, it may be better this way. because the team will have to get aquainted with the laws and read through them.
(06:43:29 PM) yharrow_mobile: I think that it might be better for us to take a retroactive postion
(06:43:33 PM) yharrow_mobile: where we vote now and if ppl find mistakes they let us know
(06:43:38 PM) yharrow_mobile: and we can make a revision later
(06:43:39 PM) ausimage: yeah... lets agree that you notify the list about the vote on the forum poll and I will cc the straglers on the mailing list... vote to last 7 days
(06:43:41 PM) yharrow_mobile: or amendment
(06:44:08 PM) yharrow_mobile: very well then
(06:44:14 PM) ausimage: all agree to my motion???
(06:44:18 PM) samiam010203: ok sounds fine
(06:44:20 PM) samiam010203: :)
(06:44:32 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok but by the end of 7 days we need to get this submitted
(06:44:46 PM) yharrow_mobile: if there are no major errors
(06:44:50 PM) yharrow_mobile: which i think there arent
(06:45:08 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok about the leader ship article
(06:45:22 PM) yharrow_mobile: if yo uare president you can only hold that postion?
(06:45:44 PM) ausimage: yes since it is supposed to be a very demanding position
(06:45:45 PM) yharrow_mobile: whereas a vice president can be secretrary as well?
(06:45:47 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok
(06:45:50 PM) yharrow_mobile: that makes sense
(06:45:55 PM) samiam010203: i think we should vote in new leadeer ship once a year
(06:46:14 PM) jk__ [n=jknight@ARennes-352-1-160-99.w86-214.abo.wanadoo.fr] entered the room.
(06:46:31 PM) yharrow_mobile: I do too
(06:46:34 PM) yharrow_mobile: I think it should be 1 year
(06:46:36 PM) ausimage: hmm  what an LP poll instead of the forums
(06:46:50 PM) yharrow_mobile: since this kind of team is so dynamic
(06:47:02 PM) yharrow_mobile: it changes quickly
(06:47:09 PM) ausimage: 1 yr would only be four meetings... not enough really to be effectiv
(06:47:29 PM) ausimage: the leader can always resign
(06:47:32 PM) yharrow_mobile: we are going to have 4 meetings a year?
(06:47:47 PM) samiam010203: i thought we were going to have 2
(06:47:54 PM) ausimage: Leadership Meetings: (a) Leadership shall meet at least quarterly
(06:47:58 PM) yharrow_mobile: i think 4 makes sense though
(06:48:04 PM) jk__: hello all just joined to listen in on the meeting
(06:48:09 PM) ausimage: they can be IRC though
(06:48:12 PM) yharrow_mobile: even though it may be more difficult to attend.
(06:48:15 PM) yharrow_mobile: oh ok
(06:48:20 PM) yharrow_mobile: so 2 in person and 2 irc?
(06:48:26 PM) samiam010203: sounds good
(06:48:32 PM) ausimage: if that is what the leadership chooses
(06:48:53 PM) yharrow_mobile: jk__: hi welcome to the team! :), glad to have you with us. feel free to chime in at any time ;)
(06:49:08 PM) yharrow_mobile: ok
(06:49:20 PM) jk__: thanks.  I've been horribly inconsistent, but I'm def. always interested in ny ubuntu.
(06:49:35 PM) psychoneil: what was decided in the elections meeting a couple weeks back?  1st election in october this year and december every year after?
(06:49:39 PM) ausimage: lets move forward... what is the official agreement about how to get the bylaws approved?
(06:50:00 PM) ausimage: that sounds right pyschoniel
(06:50:00 PM) samiam010203: poll should work fine and mailing list tally
(06:50:18 PM) ausimage: which poll forum or LP?
(06:50:22 PM) samiam010203: forum
(06:50:26 PM) ausimage: OK
(06:50:28 PM) samiam010203: no one realy hangs on LP
(06:50:35 PM) yharrow_mobile: psychoneil: yes
(06:50:49 PM) psychoneil: k
(06:50:53 PM) ausimage: that is fine then I will need to ack seperately somehow :S
(06:51:33 PM) yharrow_mobile: onto section 4?
(06:51:43 PM) yharrow_mobile: article iv i mean
(06:51:47 PM) ausimage: yharrow_mobile:  do you want to state for the record the next step decided and move to the next item
(06:51:55 PM) psychoneil: methinks we should set up some calendar to get a better idea of everyones free time for our irc meetings.  gotta get attendance up here
(06:52:17 PM) jk__: is there a list of items? ("next items")
(06:52:18 PM) jk__: link?
(06:52:33 PM) samiam010203: i think we should do our meetings on the weekends
(06:52:43 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20070821
(06:52:58 PM) psychoneil: maybe something can be imported to korganizer etc
(06:53:00 PM) yharrow_mobile: and rotate with the various designated regions. ---> and *may* rotate with the various designated regions.
(06:53:11 PM) yharrow_mobile: section 2c
(06:53:14 PM) yharrow_mobile: article IV
(06:53:17 PM) ausimage: next item would be conference 2008 report
(06:53:45 PM) yharrow_mobile: actually make that "and *may* rotate *within*
(06:54:03 PM) ausimage: yharrow we another 5 points that should be touched on the next half hour :S
(06:54:24 PM) yharrow_mobile: i dont know if my grammar is correct
(06:54:24 PM) yharrow_mobile: but i think it should say may because it may not rotate everytime
(06:54:25 PM) infinityxi [n=sday@cpe-66-65-97-95.nyc.res.rr.com] entered the room.
(06:54:36 PM) ausimage: *5 items on the agenda besides the bylaws that is
(06:54:56 PM) ausimage: yharrow_mobile: we can go over your suggestions after the meeting
(06:55:00 PM) yharrow_mobile: i didnt think we would cover it all in one day.
(06:55:00 PM) infinityxi: hey guys
(06:55:05 PM) yharrow_mobile: we have 2 options
(06:55:22 PM) yharrow_mobile: we can continue the meeting for 30 minutes longer
(06:55:26 PM) yharrow_mobile: or hold another meeting next week
(06:55:40 PM) yharrow_mobile: I rather hold another meeting next week
(06:55:55 PM) yharrow_mobile: anyways, lets see what we can cover
(06:55:55 PM) ausimage: yharrow the bylaws discussion and vote ==> LIST and FORUM POLL ;)
(06:56:11 PM) ausimage: 7days to decide on approval 
(06:56:23 PM) yharrow_mobile: ausimage: we need to do it like this first. then we will do the list
(06:56:44 PM) yharrow_mobile: ausimage: having everyone in one spot is  better for discussion imo
(06:56:49 PM) ausimage: We have MONTHS of discussions on the bylaws
(06:56:52 PM) yharrow_mobile: as few ppl as it may be
(06:57:00 PM) yharrow_mobile: we have the dynamic of a meeting
(06:57:14 PM) yharrow_mobile: well this is the final discussion by meeting
(06:57:26 PM) yharrow_mobile: then we will have the list discussion
(06:57:26 PM) yharrow_mobile: and the forum vote
(06:57:31 PM) yharrow_mobile: or forum discussion
(06:58:02 PM) samiam010203: yharrow what do you meen?
(06:58:06 PM) yharrow_mobile: actually lets just keep everything in the forum
(06:58:07 PM) yharrow_mobile: send out notice of it to the list and disucss the bylaws in the forum
(06:58:23 PM) ausimage: I prefer email :S
(06:58:25 PM) samiam010203: i thought we were done with the bylawss and decided to post a poll on the forums and LP
(06:58:47 PM) ausimage: that was my motion :S
(06:58:47 PM) yharrow_mobile: samiam010203: yeah, but there will still need to be discussion if ppl disagree with some point
(06:58:59 PM) samiam010203: what dont you agree with then ?
(06:59:02 PM) ausimage: yharrow_mobile: they have had months to disagree
(06:59:11 PM) infinityxi left the room (quit: Remote closed the connection).
(06:59:15 PM) samiam010203: at some point we have to finaliz this document
(06:59:28 PM) ausimage: I have been sending emails to list on them for some time and even blogged about them
(07:00:00 PM) yharrow_mobile: the truth is i dont know why we need a vote
(07:00:05 PM) samiam010203: yharrow, if people disagreed they would ahve been here to say something would they not ?
(07:00:06 PM) yharrow_mobile: what are we voting for?
(07:00:18 PM) samiam010203: to finaliz the bylaws
(07:00:19 PM) samiam010203: :)
(07:00:23 PM) ausimage: We need an official approval for the bylaws to effective
(07:00:32 PM) samiam010203: to say yes there good or no there not good
(07:00:48 PM) ausimage: These bylaws were ### at a meeting of membership and leadership by a 2/3(two-thirds) majority vote on ###
(07:01:13 PM) yharrow_mobile: but if they are not good ppl have to provide a reason, so in effect it will come down to discussion
(07:01:35 PM) samiam010203: yes but we have beeen having meetings about them already for over  3 months now
(07:01:35 PM) ausimage: All we are looking for is a yeah or neah 
(07:01:36 PM) yharrow_mobile: ppl can disagree with it cause they dont want to follow the coc
(07:01:45 PM) samiam010203: discusions have been made already
(07:02:07 PM) ausimage: do we want them if they can't handle the COC a vary fair and reasonable doc?
(07:02:14 PM) ausimage: *very
(07:02:30 PM) samiam010203: yharrow
(07:02:36 PM) yharrow_mobile: i think we should just have the final review and vote at either this meeting or another meeting held iwthin a week if we cant cover everything here
(07:02:39 PM) samiam010203: the coc is what ubuntu is built on top of
(07:02:44 PM) yharrow_mobile: yes
(07:02:51 PM) samiam010203: so if they dont want to follow it we dont need them then
(07:03:05 PM) ausimage: Have read the COC yharrow_mobile??????
(07:03:10 PM) yharrow_mobile: all that im saying is that if we let random ppl from our team vote down the bylaws without reason
(07:03:12 PM) samiam010203: yharrow
(07:03:15 PM) yharrow_mobile: what is the point of a voe
(07:03:17 PM) yharrow_mobile: vote*
(07:03:31 PM) samiam010203: do you remeember when we did the cd hand out i said we should have people sign the coc ?
(07:03:32 PM) yharrow_mobile: ausimage: i read and signed it.
(07:03:50 PM) ausimage: what can anyone really object to in the COC
(07:04:03 PM) ausimage: it is mostly common sense...
(07:04:10 PM) ausimage: and good manners
(07:04:15 PM) psychoneil: for what its worth i say final bylaw vote tonight.  anyone who doesnt agree with them is welcome to the group anyways but doesnt have a leadership vote
(07:04:31 PM) yharrow_mobile: ausimage: i have no idea. I'm just putting forth a reason why it may not be a good idea to give someone from the team a chance to vote down the bylaws without providing a reason
(07:05:01 PM) ausimage: how many do nay sayers do think are really going to vote?
(07:05:20 PM) samiam010203: here is what were going to do
(07:05:24 PM) ausimage: psychoneil: from my calculations the bylaws are passed....
(07:05:29 PM) samiam010203: and this is FINAL
(07:05:33 PM) ausimage: based on a vote tonight
(07:05:51 PM) samiam010203: we are going to have our regulaer meeting on the 4th of sep
(07:06:04 PM) samiam010203: at that meeting u will have to say yes or no to the by laws
(07:06:17 PM) ausimage: no discussions ?
(07:06:26 PM) samiam010203: betrween now and then we will send out mailins telling people to read the bylaws
(07:06:27 PM) yharrow_mobile: ausimage: he said its final
(07:06:29 PM) yharrow_mobile: so i guess not
(07:06:30 PM) samiam010203: and come to that meeting
(07:06:37 PM) samiam010203: if on that date they dont vote
(07:06:42 PM) samiam010203: they dont have a vote
(07:06:44 PM) samiam010203: thats that
(07:06:49 PM) ausimage: K
(07:06:55 PM) ausimage: sounds fine
(07:06:57 PM) psychoneil: agreed
(07:07:12 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:07:14 PM) yharrow_mobile: onto section 5 ?
(07:07:19 PM) samiam010203: now we can forge ahead :)
(07:07:23 PM) yharrow_mobile: section 4
(07:07:24 PM) yharrow_mobile: sorry
(07:07:36 PM) ausimage:  Conference 2008 in Syracuse [Report Only]
(07:07:40 PM) ausimage:  Moderate LP List...
(07:07:40 PM) psychoneil: GET OUT THE VOTE!!!
(07:07:46 PM) samiam010203: hahaha
(07:07:49 PM) ausimage:  Should we build Regional Leadership and operate more regionally
(07:07:56 PM) ausimage:  Inquired about partnering with Potsdam Team 
(07:08:02 PM) ausimage:  Meetups.com -- linux.meetups.com have very few meetups in state
(07:08:09 PM) ausimage: the rest of the agenda
(07:08:20 PM) samiam010203: i will be doing to linux meetups by the end of the week ausimage
(07:08:28 PM) ausimage: awesome ]
(07:08:31 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:09:08 PM) ausimage: I can say Conference 2008 is going good...
(07:09:20 PM) samiam010203: so ausimage, you send out the mailing tonight directing people to the by laws and telling them they HAVE to vote on the 4th of sep and then thats that ok ?
(07:09:31 PM) yharrow_mobile: ausimage: what is the quorum?
(07:09:41 PM) yharrow_mobile: for a normal meeting
(07:09:49 PM) ausimage: I have contacted some locations and are waiting for the responses
(07:10:35 PM) yharrow_mobile: change ubuntu-ny to ubuntu-newyork
(07:10:42 PM) ausimage: um the quorum hmmm ... 2/3 of of those at the next meeting
(07:11:06 PM) samiam010203: we already made the switch yharrow
(07:11:07 PM) samiam010203: :)
(07:11:32 PM) ausimage: yharrow_mobile: bylaws ==> after meeting
(07:12:09 PM) ausimage: The conference committe should get together again 
(07:12:20 PM) samiam010203: yes whats a good date ausiamge
(07:12:31 PM) samiam010203: yharrow r u on the commity ?
(07:12:47 PM) ausimage: he is.. anyone who wants to show up is
(07:12:56 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:13:41 PM) ausimage: lets do it the 28th at 9 pm for an hour only...
(07:13:55 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:14:01 PM) ausimage: sound good?
(07:14:40 PM) samiam010203: sounds grate :)
(07:15:08 PM) ausimage: Good for those listening Conference Committe Meeting 28th at 9 pm
(07:15:25 PM) ausimage: the moderate LP topic....
(07:15:40 PM) jk__: thanks ausimage
(07:15:41 PM) ausimage: I think is going to occur... am I correct?
(07:15:48 PM) ausimage: sure jk__
(07:16:30 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: ?
(07:16:54 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:17:01 PM) ausimage: K
(07:17:34 PM) ausimage: The point on Potsdam is essentially the team is defunct.... 
(07:17:42 PM) infinityxi [n=sday@cpe-66-65-97-95.nyc.res.rr.com] entered the room.
(07:17:49 PM) ausimage: I could not get a reply from them....
(07:18:09 PM) Dave123: potsdam is well..... cold
(07:18:11 PM) infinityxi: ahh finally on my good hard drive
(07:18:32 PM) ausimage: I think the point on Building Regional Leadership is important...
(07:19:12 PM) ausimage: but I think it important to start thinking amongst ourselves on how we can accomplish this within our State Team 
(07:20:06 PM) Dave123: if you need help in roc let me know
(07:20:15 PM) ausimage: awesome Dave123
(07:20:33 PM) ***hal14450 seconds that
(07:20:33 PM) ***Dave123 is always up for a good linux chat over a pint
(07:20:46 PM) ausimage: we may call on you all to help....
(07:21:03 PM) ausimage: I would not mind getting together in Victor sometime ;)
(07:21:14 PM) Dave123: yep
(07:21:37 PM) hal14450: that's close to me as well
(07:21:56 PM) ausimage: Rochester is a strong area.... but we have people around Albany and Syracuse, Buffalo and few other areas...
(07:22:59 PM) Dave123: ausimage, the only problem with victor is us west siders
(07:23:07 PM) ausimage: I hope every can agree on good regional leadership and events are important...
(07:23:24 PM) ausimage: yeah but I am coming from further east ;)
(07:23:24 PM) Dave123: sorry for the tangent though ;)
(07:24:16 PM) ausimage: actually if Rochester wants we could hold seperate meetings on the channel for Rochester I would think....
(07:24:49 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: do you think that is OK?
(07:25:03 PM) ausimage: provided those meetings do not conflict?
(07:25:05 PM) samiam010203: that shoul;d be fine but i would also talk to yharrow about it as well
(07:25:31 PM) ausimage: OK... is yharrow_mobile still around?
(07:25:43 PM) samiam010203: no he just called me hes on the city bus in FL
(07:27:05 PM) ausimage: cool... Time is winding down for this meeting....
(07:27:10 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:27:18 PM) samiam010203: its about time to end it :)
(07:27:20 PM) ausimage: do we have anything to add
(07:28:34 PM) ausimage: those from rochester could start discussing the possibilities  I guess
(07:28:56 PM) ausimage: hearing nothing... I move to close this meeting :D
(07:29:08 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:29:12 PM) ausimage: meeting adjourned  then
</pre>
