{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''16th''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:30 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==

The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Announcements
** Ask members to join the new facebook account page (http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=2389558839)
** Ask members to sign up for software freedom day
** Discuss the Community Library Project section on the wiki. Ask members to review books.
   
* Approve Bylaws

* Discuss Major issues
  
** Conference 2008 in Syracuse [Report Only]
** Moderate LP List...
** Building Regional Leadership
** Meetups.com -- linux.meetups.com have very few meetups in state
** Accepting Nominations  for Leadership [if bylaws pass]
* Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting
* increase attendance at RL/IRC meetings (this is a must)

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
(06:05:17 PM) yharrow: I think we should take the next 5 mins to browse through the bylaws looking for inconsistencies, errors, or missing points
(06:05:31 PM) yharrow: by that time ausimage should be here and we will be ready to start
(06:06:36 PM) yharrow: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/503c/bylaw
(06:06:42 PM) yharrow: I think thats the page
(06:07:12 PM) hendrixski: isn't the cardinal rule of meetings that they should start and end on time?
(06:09:10 PM) psychoneil: nah as long as sufficient time is wasted in between
(06:09:35 PM) yharrow: hendrixski, yes, and the meeting has started, but ausimage is supposed to lead us through this. so we are in just reading through the bylaws looking for inconsistencies till he comes
(06:09:59 PM) ausimage: hey I am here
(06:10:01 PM) ausimage: :)
(06:10:04 PM) yharrow: hey
(06:10:04 PM) hendrixski: yay
(06:10:06 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:10:07 PM) yharrow: yay
(06:10:15 PM) yharrow: coolness
(06:10:16 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:10:33 PM) yharrow: ausimage, do you remember which section we left off at ?
(06:10:36 PM) ausimage: I think to pass the bylaws a yeah neah
(06:10:45 PM) ausimage: No more discussions....
(06:10:56 PM) ausimage: do we pass them or not
(06:11:05 PM) samiam010203: yes all were doing tonight with the byulaws is approving or dening them
(06:11:19 PM) ausimage: :)
(06:11:25 PM) samiam010203: people had two weeks to edit them
(06:11:25 PM) yharrow: ausimage, i think we should continue with the section we left off at and quickly run through the points for errors
(06:11:42 PM) ausimage: I do not because I asked for feedback TWO weeks ago
(06:11:47 PM) samiam010203: true
(06:11:49 PM) yharrow: ok then
(06:11:54 PM) ausimage: and have not had none
(06:11:56 PM) ausimage: :D
(06:11:56 PM) samiam010203: we had two weeks to find errors
(06:12:01 PM) yharrow: lets vote then
(06:12:04 PM) ausimage: :)
(06:12:05 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:12:08 PM) ausimage: +1
(06:12:12 PM) yharrow: +1
(06:12:14 PM) samiam010203: +1
(06:12:35 PM) psychoneil: +1
(06:12:59 PM) samiam010203: anyone els
(06:13:00 PM) ausimage: I have 2 abstentia as well
(06:13:08 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:13:28 PM) psychoneil: hendrixski or hal14450?
(06:13:31 PM) yharrow: Aero, BrianG , Dave123 , deejoe hal14450 , infinityxi , isacklow_afk , JaguarF2o  RobNyc-work  , siculars_  , WeblionX , Zelut
(06:13:34 PM) psychoneil: i know you two are here...
(06:13:38 PM) psychoneil: VOTE!!
(06:13:39 PM) hal14450: damn email client just crashed on me
(06:13:39 PM) ausimage: 6 for no dissenting?
(06:13:48 PM) Aero: vote for what now?
(06:13:55 PM) samiam010203: the bylaws
(06:14:00 PM) samiam010203: yes or no
(06:14:05 PM) Aero: i'll have to read them first >_>
(06:14:07 PM) hal14450: i read them before and they looked fine to me
(06:14:11 PM) Aero: or would you rather i do it the congress way?
(06:14:22 PM) hal14450: i have no objections
(06:14:40 PM) ausimage: seabag and mr daly were the ones that sent in their votes
(06:14:53 PM) samiam010203: what was their chgoice
(06:14:58 PM) hendrixski: hey
(06:15:42 PM) hendrixski: sorry... I was drifting off into developer-lala-land.  I read them a little while ago they looked fine
(06:16:00 PM) ausimage: both in favor
(06:16:06 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:16:10 PM) yharrow: looks like we have a consensus?
(06:16:13 PM) ausimage: 8 then?
(06:16:15 PM) samiam010203: so i guess the bylaws are approved then
(06:16:20 PM) psychoneil: 8 yeas
(06:16:26 PM) ausimage: considering a we have core dozen
(06:16:33 PM) yharrow: worst comes to worst we will insititue an amendmant
(06:16:48 PM) yharrow: introduce*
(06:16:55 PM) ausimage: yeah... it was a notifed meeting...
(06:17:10 PM) ***Aero didn't vote! oh well.
(06:17:16 PM) psychoneil: man that was harder than it should have been :)  gotta beat a vote out of some people
(06:17:21 PM) ausimage: Aero: what is your opinion?
(06:17:30 PM) Aero: i... abstain!
(06:17:33 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:17:37 PM) yharrow: np
(06:17:38 PM) hendrixski: yeah, basically I'm satisfied with 'em,  and there isn't any article like "upon completion of the third season we all have to give Danny DiVito a blowjob"  or something, so they get my vote
(06:17:44 PM) yharrow: 4 /5 of the team abstained
(06:17:45 PM) yharrow: lol
(06:17:47 PM) yharrow: ausimage, will you take care of submitting our non profit application?
(06:18:02 PM) yharrow: lmao @ hendrixski
(06:18:26 PM) ausimage: I will take care of authorizing the bylaws... then we will need to work on the nonprofit application ;)
(06:18:44 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:18:45 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, there's some viral video going around about that now.
(06:18:45 PM) ausimage: I have samiam010203 address to send a signed copy to
(06:19:02 PM) samiam010203: so now we can make our minds up about leadership i guess
(06:19:12 PM) ausimage: yup...
(06:19:16 PM) samiam010203: get ready for a two hour dicusion hahahaha
(06:19:18 PM) yharrow: ausimage, you need a mailing address?
(06:19:25 PM) ausimage: I have samiam010203s
(06:19:36 PM) yharrow: ausimage, if you need mine, I can pm it to you
(06:19:52 PM) ausimage: sure if you want a a physical copy
(06:19:55 PM) samiam010203: ausimage you should also send a copy to yharrow
(06:20:02 PM) ausimage: ok....
(06:20:22 PM) ausimage: I will get bylaws printed and signed
(06:20:43 PM) samiam010203: ok next topic then
(06:20:58 PM) samiam010203: con report from ausimage
(06:21:12 PM) ausimage: um K....
(06:21:13 PM) yharrow: samiam010203, were you able to contact your building about giving lessons?
(06:21:23 PM) yharrow: con report?
(06:21:27 PM) samiam010203: no not yet they will be here tomorrow
(06:21:32 PM) ausimage: We had a conference committee meeting
(06:21:34 PM) samiam010203: and i will speak with them then
(06:21:35 PM) ausimage: :)
(06:21:50 PM) ausimage: with little attendance... :(
(06:22:15 PM) yharrow: ausimage, I don't think we picked a good time. it was a good experiment, but i don't think it works.
(06:22:48 PM) ausimage: but those who showed agreed to it be BarCamp Liberty
(06:22:59 PM) yharrow: ausimage, how many showed?
(06:23:01 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:23:08 PM) ausimage: I also discussed possible locations and sponsors
(06:23:12 PM) hendrixski: ausimage, does bar-camp include room for traditional presentations?
(06:23:27 PM) ausimage: it could but not usually...
(06:23:29 PM) hendrixski: like where you have Maddog Hall talking about how Linus is a young bratty 'kid'
(06:24:03 PM) ausimage: every gets the opportunity to do a talk if they please
(06:24:21 PM) ausimage: yharrow only psychoneil showed up :(
(06:24:30 PM) ausimage: but I did properly announce it...
(06:24:48 PM) ausimage: I got no complaints about the time at all
(06:24:53 PM) hendrixski: i've never been to a barcamp style meeting, :-) it sounds like fun and all
(06:25:02 PM) ausimage: yes it will be
(06:25:38 PM) ausimage: We need to find out when is a good time for the conference committee to meet
(06:26:05 PM) ausimage: any suggestions ?
(06:26:10 PM) yharrow: I like the idea of holding presentations
(06:26:42 PM) yharrow: i cant visualize a  professional conference without it
(06:27:01 PM) hal14450: how about an asterisk presentation? ... so i could figure out what the hell i'm doing lol
(06:27:14 PM) WeblionX: What'd I miss?
(06:27:17 PM) ausimage: if there are less then 10 who would like to participate at the next meeting I think I would like to try voice conference on gizmo
(06:27:48 PM) ausimage: any takers?
(06:27:53 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:28:22 PM) psychoneil: never used it but would be up for trying
(06:28:28 PM) yharrow: ausimage, only problem is logging. If someone takes notes it can work.
(06:28:37 PM) samiam010203: well
(06:28:42 PM) ausimage: would monday the 10th at 7 work?
(06:28:45 PM) samiam010203: if we do it over skype i can record it
(06:29:04 PM) ausimage: I can't get my skype to work :S
(06:29:06 PM) samiam010203: and then we could host it as our first podcast
(06:29:15 PM) ausimage: I know my gizmo does work...
(06:29:16 PM) hal14450: gizmo means more work for me heh i'd have to install it i'd rather add users to asterisk
(06:29:28 PM) ausimage: I think you can use sip to connect as well
(06:29:31 PM) samiam010203: if you give me a phone number i can call you from skype ausimage
(06:30:00 PM) yharrow: voip can also be a barrier to entry. I think that most mission dependent issues should be discussed over IRC
(06:30:06 PM) hal14450: samiam010203, isn't your account working ?
(06:30:06 PM) ausimage: hmmm... we will have to do a few tests... but I think voice conf will be better
(06:30:22 PM) samiam010203: i have not tried it hal14450
(06:30:39 PM) hal14450: teamspeak is always an option as well
(06:30:45 PM) yharrow: do we have any other topics for today btw?
(06:30:55 PM) ausimage: yeah
(06:31:00 PM) yharrow: ausimage, which ones?
(06:31:00 PM) hal14450: i'd appreciate if i got some feedback if something doesn't work
(06:31:05 PM) samiam010203: leadership votes
(06:31:09 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:31:10 PM) ausimage:  Moderate LP List...    Building Regional Leadership    Meetups.com -- linux.meetups.com have very few meetups in state    Accepting Nominations  for Leadership [if bylaws pass]  
(06:31:44 PM) ausimage: do we have a consensus on when to hold the next conf committee?
(06:31:55 PM) yharrow: ok guys lets discuss leadership votes i think its an important issue. we can continue future meeting planning in the last 20 mins of the meeting
(06:31:59 PM) samiam010203: monday the 10th at 7opm
(06:32:11 PM) samiam010203: monday the 10th at 7pm
(06:32:17 PM) ausimage: OK... expect it to be voip;)
(06:32:18 PM) hendrixski: I can probably do monday @ 7
(06:32:28 PM) samiam010203: skype should be used then
(06:32:30 PM) ausimage: specifics will be tackled soon
(06:32:38 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:32:38 PM) ***hendrixski just got a voip thingy from hal14450  :-)
(06:32:46 PM) ***hendrixski also has skype
hal14450 hendrixski 
(06:33:31 PM) samiam010203: ok on to leadership votes
(06:33:44 PM) samiam010203: everyone ready ?
(06:33:58 PM) ausimage: this is who wants to be considered.... not the actual vote ;)
(06:34:11 PM) yharrow: nominations?
(06:34:16 PM) ausimage: yeah....
(06:34:18 PM) yharrow: cool
(06:34:19 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:34:23 PM) samiam010203: well i think you should go for it ausimage
(06:34:25 PM) ausimage: that is what the agenda says
(06:34:27 PM) yharrow: i nominate ausimage
(06:34:32 PM) ausimage: for which
(06:34:37 PM) samiam010203: leader
(06:34:44 PM) ausimage: Pres, Vp, Sec, or Treas?
(06:34:49 PM) samiam010203: pres
(06:34:52 PM) ausimage: oh Pres...
(06:35:09 PM) ausimage: I will accept the nomination :)
(06:35:15 PM) yharrow: ausimage, its prolly bettter though if you aim high enough to let yourself have a chance and shoot low enough to remain comfortable
(06:35:40 PM) ausimage: Yeah I was have I expectations....
(06:35:45 PM) ausimage: *always
(06:35:46 PM) samiam010203: anyone have a problem with ausimage as pres
(06:35:54 PM) ausimage: no I accept
(06:36:01 PM) ausimage: who for VP...
(06:36:22 PM) WeblionX: Can I be Secretary of the Treasury?
(06:36:38 PM) ausimage: Weblion which would you prefer?
(06:36:48 PM) yharrow: anyone else want to run?
(06:36:55 PM) WeblionX: The one that allows for the most embezelling of money.
(06:37:00 PM) yharrow: samiam010203, for vp :D
(06:37:02 PM) yharrow: LMAO
(06:37:08 PM) hal14450: crappy voip provider have any takers?
(06:37:15 PM) samiam010203: no you should take that position ausimage
(06:37:20 PM) samiam010203: i meen yharrow
(06:37:20 PM) WeblionX: mumble server on a laptop?
(06:37:23 PM) yharrow: hal14450, you want to go for anything ?
(06:37:31 PM) samiam010203: yharrow for VP
(06:37:33 PM) hal14450: lol god no
(06:37:35 PM) ausimage: hal14450: sec?
(06:37:38 PM) ausimage: :D
(06:37:41 PM) yharrow: :D
(06:37:53 PM) ausimage: WeblionX: you would like the treasurer?
(06:38:08 PM) WeblionX: Not really.
(06:38:16 PM) yharrow: vp can hold 2 positions right?
(06:38:17 PM) hendrixski: the treasurer is the one in charge of laundering money
(06:38:21 PM) ausimage: yeah
(06:38:21 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:38:22 PM) hendrixski: also the least desireable position
(06:38:26 PM) yharrow: hendrixski, what do you want to go for?
(06:38:36 PM) hal14450: i can't even call hendrixski's extension and i just made it and checked it twice
(06:38:52 PM) ausimage: I would hope some one from albany can also get a leaderhip role
(06:39:03 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, I'm VP of product R&D in a startup... I hope you don't mind, but I'm not running for anything :-)
(06:39:07 PM) hendrixski: my docket is full
(06:39:44 PM) ausimage: Ausimage, Pres, Yharrow, VP, Sec?, Treas?
(06:39:50 PM) ausimage: is what I have...
(06:39:59 PM) ausimage: did I miss something?
(06:40:07 PM) samiam010203: no your on target ausimage
(06:40:15 PM) hal14450: i'm more than willing to help out but i do shoddy work at best as evidenced by my crappy voip accounts riddled with typos
(06:40:24 PM) yharrow: hendrixski, nice :).  i understand that you are all booked
(06:40:46 PM) ausimage: hal14450: you want the secretary?
(06:40:58 PM) hal14450: secretary of typos?
(06:41:03 PM) yharrow: heh
(06:41:05 PM) ausimage: n8k99 for treasure
(06:41:11 PM) ausimage: *treasurer
(06:41:11 PM) samiam010203: +1
(06:41:13 PM) hal14450: what does the job entail?
(06:41:21 PM) hendrixski: not typos... secretary of the ministry of silly spellings
(06:41:22 PM) ausimage: just keeping the minutes
(06:41:24 PM) yharrow: n8k99 for VP!
(06:41:35 PM) ausimage: OK
(06:41:35 PM) yharrow: or sec
(06:41:38 PM) hal14450: if nobody else wants it i'll take it i guess
(06:41:54 PM) samiam010203: yharrow you dont want to be VP?
(06:41:57 PM) hal14450: i can run logs easily
(06:42:06 PM) yharrow: samiam010203, i want to be everything :D
(06:42:08 PM) ausimage: Ausimage Pres, Yharrow|n8k99 VP, hal14450 Sec, n8k99 treas
(06:42:11 PM) samiam010203: hahahaha
(06:42:30 PM) hal14450: those don't allow for typos by me so i'm a shoe-in lol
(06:42:45 PM) yharrow: i don't mind going for VP and tres
(06:42:48 PM) ausimage: I was trying to think of a math minded person
(06:42:49 PM) yharrow: since we can hold 2 positions
(06:43:14 PM) yharrow: i like finance :D
(06:43:32 PM) ausimage: Currently... Ausimage Pres, Yharrow|n8k99 VP, hal14450 Sec, Yharrow|n8k99 treas
(06:43:47 PM) ausimage: anyone else want to run?
(06:43:59 PM) ausimage: understand that n8k99 can still refuse ;)
(06:44:11 PM) hendrixski: ***insert jewish joke about who should run the financials...***
(06:44:29 PM) ausimage: that is not too bad 2 from Roch and 2 from NYC :)
(06:44:36 PM) samiam010203: why are jewish noses so big? because the air is free
(06:44:42 PM) ausimage: wish Albany would be more active
(06:44:53 PM) hal14450: i'm all for the current nominees except for that hal14450 character he's a questionable guy
(06:44:55 PM) ausimage: psychoneil: you want to run?
(06:45:12 PM) yharrow: what about samiam010203
(06:45:14 PM) yharrow: hendrixski, lmao
(06:45:23 PM) psychoneil: i would be too afraid of screwing something major up :P
(06:45:35 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: still has an advisory role if he does not run ;)
(06:45:41 PM) samiam010203: i dont want to run for anything yharrow
(06:45:50 PM) ***yharrow want to run for money
(06:45:56 PM) yharrow: wants*
(06:45:56 PM) WeblionX: I'm too busy not doing schoolwork to hold any positions.
(06:46:07 PM) ***WeblionX gives yharrow a campaign contribution of $0.10
(06:46:14 PM) yharrow: infinityxi,  you want a position?
(06:46:36 PM) samiam010203: i want to be cunsultant to the cunsultants who cunsult the cunsultants of the councell
(06:46:45 PM) yharrow:  i think that we should set up a nominations page on the wiki
(06:46:51 PM) samiam010203: good idea
(06:46:53 PM) yharrow: this is not very effectice
(06:46:53 PM) ausimage: yeah... I agree
(06:46:56 PM) ausimage: Currently... Ausimage Pres, Yharrow|n8k99 VP, hal14450 Sec, Yharrow|n8k99 treas
(06:46:56 PM) yharrow: effective*
(06:46:59 PM) yharrow: SURE
(06:47:02 PM) yharrow: sorry caps
(06:47:07 PM) ausimage: those are current ;)
(06:47:26 PM) samiam010203: i think we should look into buisness cards as well
(06:47:31 PM) hendrixski: I wish I had time to run for something... :-/  I'm good at these kinds of things... but if that NYC lunch was any indication, It's one thing then I disappear for a while then I have a minute again, then disappear... yeah
(06:47:34 PM) ***hendrixski nominates himself to the position of "sparadic organizer of awesomeness"
(06:47:38 PM) ausimage: Um I want to bring up the concept of regionalizing the team some
(06:48:00 PM) samiam010203: i want to be sadated
(06:48:09 PM) hal14450: well ausimage you got my vote and yharrow is here and seems to be a nice guy so he's got mine for vp and the rest ... ?
(06:48:17 PM) ausimage: which I think we do already... to some extent...
(06:48:33 PM) ausimage: hal14450: votes are end of october ;)
(06:48:59 PM) ***hal14450 wipes his brow
(06:49:01 PM) ausimage: anyone have anything about regionalizing the team
(06:49:27 PM) psychoneil: what exactly do you mean by that?
(06:49:34 PM) yharrow: theres got to be at least one member on our team with decent literary skills
(06:49:34 PM) ausimage: I think the regions can better focus on events for their area... but should coordinate with the state
(06:49:48 PM) yharrow: also should we have a pr guy?
(06:49:49 PM) yharrow: lol
(06:50:02 PM) ausimage: PR committee;)
(06:50:04 PM) samiam010203: yes thats a good idea yharrow
(06:50:11 PM) samiam010203: i vote n8
(06:50:13 PM) hal14450: that is a great idea
(06:50:16 PM) yharrow: and chief artist ;)
(06:50:18 PM) yharrow: haha
(06:50:20 PM) ausimage: ME
(06:50:24 PM) ausimage: :)
(06:50:24 PM) yharrow: Meee
(06:50:37 PM) ausimage: Co-Chief Artistes ;)
(06:50:40 PM) yharrow: hahahaha
(06:50:47 PM) yharrow: i have a portfolio :P
(06:51:02 PM) yharrow: its empty
(06:51:04 PM) yharrow: but i have one
(06:51:06 PM) ausimage: I have a lot too... though not necessarily organized
(06:51:12 PM) ausimage: well I have one too
(06:51:15 PM) ausimage: :P
(06:51:16 PM) yharrow: lol
(06:51:17 PM) yharrow: kk
(06:51:28 PM) yharrow: so do we add a pr position?
(06:51:30 PM) yharrow: or not
(06:51:34 PM) yharrow: is that overkill
(06:51:36 PM) ausimage: a committee
(06:51:54 PM) ausimage: is better
(06:52:02 PM) ausimage: many sharing the pr task
(06:52:04 PM) WeblionX: Marketing department?
(06:52:09 PM) ausimage: ;)
(06:52:14 PM) ausimage: manys teams have one
(06:52:40 PM) ausimage: I should say that our new site is coming along well...
(06:53:18 PM) ausimage: If there is interest in giving feedback or assisting using the current code.... pm me :)
(06:53:21 PM) yharrow: ok guys
(06:53:36 PM) yharrow: samiam010203, hal14450 , you guys still with us?
(06:53:40 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:53:42 PM) yharrow: cool
(06:53:59 PM) yharrow: what do you think of a marketing department
(06:54:07 PM) samiam010203: its a good idea
(06:54:16 PM) ausimage: I thinking a marketing committee is great ;)
(06:54:21 PM) hal14450: i'm here
(06:54:23 PM) yharrow: i think that is for another discussion though  lol. we need to make committess at some point
(06:54:30 PM) ausimage: yeah
(06:54:34 PM) hal14450: fixed the error in asterisk
(06:54:46 PM) ausimage: yharrow a committee page on the wiki
(06:54:53 PM) yharrow: read my mind ;)
(06:55:19 PM) yharrow: anyways
(06:55:22 PM) ausimage: it might be able to be worked into the projects ;)
(06:55:22 PM) yharrow: hal14450, coolness
(06:55:41 PM) yharrow: ausimage, yeah that would be great to be able to assign projects to specific comittess.
(06:55:58 PM) ausimage: I have it partial setup that way on the new site;)
(06:55:59 PM) yharrow: are there any more topics that need to be discussed?
(06:56:09 PM) ausimage: meetup.com;)
(06:56:13 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: ?
(06:56:16 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:56:29 PM) samiam010203: as i told you the price was a little to much imo
(06:56:37 PM) ausimage: ok...
(06:56:46 PM) samiam010203: so i think we should use the already created linux.meetup.com
(06:57:09 PM) ausimage: it is almost too bad that we could not take this to the Ubuntu Loco and request support from other teams;)
(06:57:38 PM) ausimage: as other US Teams if they would like to make an Ubuntu.meetup.com :)
(06:57:47 PM) ausimage: *ask
(06:57:53 PM) samiam010203: we could bring it up on the forums
(06:58:14 PM) ausimage: coool...
(06:58:44 PM) yharrow: ausimage, should we add a little piece about meetup.com to team resources?
(06:58:55 PM) ausimage: I think NYC and Rochester could be using it to hold regular meetups...
(06:59:04 PM) ausimage: yeah I think so yharrow
(06:59:59 PM) ausimage: do you not think a Rochester and NYC linux.meetup.com would be nice?
(07:00:06 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:00:30 PM) yharrow: ausimage, what do you mean a rochester linux.meetup.com?"\
(07:00:34 PM) ausimage: we could be pulling in new members perhaps
(07:00:59 PM) ausimage: use linux.meetup.com to advertise a meetup in Rochester and NYC ;)
(07:01:14 PM) ausimage: that would be sanctioned by the team :)
(07:01:35 PM) ausimage: an official event :D
(07:02:08 PM) ausimage: at least we would be supporting the linux community...
(07:02:29 PM) ausimage: if not mostly Ubuntu since that is one of easier distros ;)
(07:02:50 PM) ausimage: hal14450, hendrixski?
(07:02:55 PM) yharrow: hmm
(07:03:26 PM) ausimage: it would be good for our image in the state :)
(07:03:30 PM) yharrow: i think that its a good idea.
(07:03:36 PM) hal14450: works for me
(07:03:37 PM) yharrow: ok guys
(07:03:44 PM) yharrow: any other topics for the day :D
(07:03:54 PM) ausimage: yeah... and that does go along with strong regional leadership;) 
(07:03:56 PM) ausimage: :D
(07:04:11 PM) ausimage: oh did you want mention that LP is now moderated?
(07:04:48 PM) yharrow: yes i did
(07:04:56 PM) yharrow: That was what I couldnt remember :D
(07:05:06 PM) yharrow: I think that it was a wise move.
(07:05:39 PM) yharrow: I beleive we are at the point where we can be selective and approve only ppl who have enough time in their day to give us simple info
(07:05:50 PM) ausimage: I too... we are able to get some demographics of our membership now ;)
(07:05:51 PM) samiam010203: true
(07:05:58 PM) yharrow: that way we has less urging to deal with
(07:06:07 PM) yharrow: and inactive members
(07:07:08 PM) ausimage: which reminds me if you have not stated at least your county.... I would like to know about so I can update the membership data ;)
(07:07:13 PM) yharrow: btw, in regard to elctions, we will need to also elect region leaders
(07:07:36 PM) ausimage: yharrow: I think that will be amongst the regions perhaps
(07:07:52 PM) yharrow: k
(07:08:06 PM) yharrow: irc electoins also?
(07:08:19 PM) yharrow: each region can take a slot to hold elections on here
(07:08:22 PM) ausimage: yeah on irc by halloween I believe
(07:08:38 PM) yharrow: we can elect regions one afer the other
(07:08:47 PM) ausimage: Rochester is gathering on the 14th 
(07:08:58 PM) yharrow: and ask that non-residents of a county abstain from voting
(07:09:06 PM) yharrow: until their county is up
(07:09:21 PM) ausimage: well I do consider my self rochester
(07:09:28 PM) yharrow: cool
(07:09:44 PM) yharrow: ausimage, what else is up on the topic list for today?
(07:09:45 PM) ausimage: not by county though by region.... proximity to a city ;)
(07:09:57 PM) yharrow: ahh ok :)
(07:09:58 PM) ausimage: um I think that is it
(07:10:00 PM) yharrow: i see what you mean
(07:10:18 PM) ausimage: yharrow: you need to get NYC regional events going :)
(07:10:23 PM) yharrow: we have 20 mins. I think we can take this time to discucss future meetings.
(07:10:45 PM) yharrow: ausimage, yeah, that is true. samiam010203 is working on the classes. I think that will be a major step forward
(07:10:52 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:11:00 PM) samiam010203: i would like to get it going asap
(07:11:04 PM) ausimage: get other members involved too
(07:11:16 PM) ausimage: not just samiam010203 and yharrow ;)
(07:11:19 PM) yharrow: we have software freedom event coming up on the 16th i beleie
(07:11:23 PM) yharrow: beleive*
(07:11:27 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:11:35 PM) yharrow: sunday
(07:11:42 PM) samiam010203: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20070916
(07:11:44 PM) yharrow: does anyone remember the time?
(07:11:47 PM) ausimage: oh hmmm a pre celebration for us huh?
(07:11:48 PM) yharrow: ok great
(07:11:50 PM) samiam010203: thats the link
(07:13:14 PM) yharrow: and we when will we have the conference comittte meeting?
(07:13:35 PM) samiam010203: monday the 10th at 7pm
(07:13:46 PM) ausimage: the 10th at 7pm on Voip hopefully
(07:14:07 PM) ausimage: we will work out the specifics of voip within the next few days
(07:14:31 PM) samiam010203: if we do it on skype wwe can record it and use it as podcast
(07:15:14 PM) ausimage: I am leaving the exact voip up in the air til we verify the system to be used
(07:15:21 PM) psychoneil: my only microphone is the built-in on my icky windows laptop :(
(07:15:58 PM) ausimage: psychoneil: you have a week to purchase a mic and headset if you want :)
(07:16:04 PM) yharrow: ausimage, why dont we just use that conference site we were using earlier
(07:16:10 PM) yharrow: i thought we decided upon that
(07:16:20 PM) ausimage: I do not want LD charges :S
(07:16:37 PM) yharrow: hmm
(07:16:44 PM) ausimage: otherwise I would...
(07:16:52 PM) yharrow: you dont have free national?
(07:17:00 PM) ausimage: no... not me...
(07:17:44 PM) yharrow: can you call the number using a voip client
(07:17:59 PM) yharrow: or does that cost skype out or something
(07:18:07 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:18:08 PM) ausimage: yeah it does
(07:18:13 PM) yharrow: hmm
(07:18:27 PM) yharrow: my view is that more ppl have national plans then have skype or gizmo aaccounts
(07:18:38 PM) yharrow: i could be wrong thouh
(07:18:44 PM) ausimage: but it easy to install;)
(07:19:02 PM) yharrow: ok then. well we may as well expriment. can't hurt
(07:19:07 PM) yharrow: so yeah
(07:19:14 PM) yharrow: how long would you like the meeting to last?
(07:19:26 PM) ausimage: about an hour
(07:20:10 PM) yharrow: 7-8?
(07:20:33 PM) ausimage: yeah
(07:20:58 PM) yharrow: general meeting on tuesday the 11th?
(07:21:05 PM) ausimage: no
(07:21:11 PM) yharrow: why not?
(07:21:16 PM) ausimage: gen is the 18
(07:21:25 PM) ausimage: every other week ;)
(07:21:26 PM) yharrow: i see
(07:21:37 PM) ausimage: that is what you decided :)
(07:21:49 PM) yharrow: I didnt realize that this was a general meeting :P
(07:21:57 PM) ausimage: yeah it is
(07:21:59 PM) yharrow: cool
(07:22:03 PM) yharrow: ok sounds good
(07:22:17 PM) hal14450: i have too many phones damn it
(07:22:18 PM) ausimage: it was supposed to be yesterday :S
(07:22:58 PM) yharrow: ausimage, yeah well i thought i would be in ny for my sisters bday. but unfortunately plans changed and It was too short notice to change back.
(07:23:00 PM) samiam010203: if we use the voip system that gnu set up i can call ausimage and the viop system on a conferance call from skype so that way ausimage wass no ld charges
(07:23:07 PM) hal14450: i was trying to call the asterisk server using the wrong voip and couldn't figure out why ext 200x wouldn't work
(07:23:21 PM) yharrow: my sisters bday is sept 4
(07:25:17 PM) ausimage: so meeting adjourned?
(07:26:09 PM) yharrow: ausimage, did we cover everything?
(07:26:19 PM) ausimage: I believe so
(07:26:24 PM) yharrow: then yes.
</pre>
