{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''14th''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:30 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==

The meeting will start off with an Introduction of Members where we will welcome people to the meeting. The following Topics will then be discussed.

* Announcements
** Ask members to join the new facebook account page (http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=2389558839)
** Discuss the Community Library Project section on the wiki. Ask members to review books.
** US Teams is looking for some continuity... They strongly suggest we move over to #ubuntu-newyork. This channel current redirect to #ubuntu-ny, so it will be just a move and a flip of the redirect.  Based on what the US Teams suggestions, the LP name probably should change as well to ~ubuntu-us-newyork. All simple changes, just need planning and coordination. -- AusImage

* Discuss Major issues
   
* Items to discuss:
** Support a National Organization that would support all states <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ProjectGoals-NationalCharter]]</nowiki> --- TheDukeNY and AusImage
** NewYorkTeam/ByLaws final discussion and report --- AusImage
** 501c3 Charity--needs additional monitoring of funds.
** 501c7 Hobby--needs monitoring of activities.
** Month for Annual Election Meeting IRC/RL.
** Software Freedome Day (http://softwarefreedomday.org/) 15th September 2007 [Our Part in it as a LoCo Team.] --- SalvatoreCarini 
** Review IRC policy --- yharrow IRC EXCERPT:
<pre>
...
(11:34:18 PM) atoponce: there is a #ubuntu rule, if you are on op there, however (and other official support channels, such as #kubuntu, -offtopic, and others)
(11:34:41 PM) atoponce: the rule, if you're an op in those channels, is to op when you need to use it, and then deop when you're done
(11:34:54 PM) atoponce: for the same reasons mentioned above
...
(11:36:00 PM) atoponce: my recommendation, is to not stay op'd unless you need to. otherwise, stay de-oped. it keeps other members from feeling 'lower' than the op
...
(11:36:24 PM) atoponce: it makes the operator 'one of the group' when he/she doesn't remain op'd
...
(11:36:53 PM) atoponce: besides, there is no need to stay op'd just to chat
...
(11:38:03 PM) atoponce: yharrow: you're the channel contact, and op. it's your call. what you say, the other channel ops in here should do
...
(11:39:54 PM) yharrow: In my opinion if one has no reason to remain op then he or she should not remain op. This is to reduce tension among members. I want everyone here to feel comfortable with each other, and as superficial as it may seem, people are intimidated to talk with or around an op.
</pre>
** Should focus be on building Regional Leadership and operating more on a regional level. --- AusImage
** Location(s) for future RL meetings (high priority) (meeting spots based on location/sub-teams/divisions)
** Possibility of <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-ProjectGoals-StateWideMeetupMeetup|MiniConference in Geneva, NY]]</nowiki> Late April 2008 ---AusImage
*** Meeting
*** Ubuntu Public Primer
*** Talks and Bofs
*** 2 nite/1 day or 3 nite/2 day
** Inquired about partnering with Potsdam Team ---AusImage
** Meetups.com -- linux.meetups.com have very few meetups in state ---AusImage
* Open Discussion (Ubuntu Related Topics)
* Wrap up and goals for next meeting
* increase attendance at RL/IRC meetings (this is a must)

== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
(06:01:55 PM) samiam010203: welcome everybody
(06:01:57 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20070807
(06:01:59 PM) samiam010203: to the meeting
(06:02:06 PM) n8k99: oh right meeting!
(06:02:13 PM) n8k99: yay! meeting time!
(06:02:27 PM) ausimage: yup it is full agenda so lets get started... :D
(06:03:13 PM) ausimage: A reminder that we have a facebook account, feel free to join there.... http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=2389558839
(06:03:20 PM) n8k99: okay dokey
(06:03:35 PM) ausimage: samiam010203:  any news with the library?
(06:03:47 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:03:55 PM) samiam010203: we still have books up for review
(06:04:13 PM) samiam010203: there are a bunch that are already out there and this month ill be ordering new ones
(06:04:24 PM) samiam010203: if you gte a chance go check the library out
(06:04:50 PM) samiam010203: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/CommunityLibrary
(06:04:52 PM) samiam010203: also
(06:05:05 PM) samiam010203: if you see a book on oreilly and you would like to review it
(06:05:19 PM) samiam010203: then let me know and ill have it sent strait to you for review
(06:05:28 PM) samiam010203: thats it ausi
(06:05:34 PM) ausimage: awesome samiam010203
(06:06:01 PM) samiam010203: coolk
(06:06:24 PM) ausimage: Next we have announcement that the channel needs to move over to #ubuntu-newyork to better conform to the other US state LoCos.....
(06:06:44 PM) ausimage: We need to decide when we want this to happen....
(06:06:55 PM) samiam010203: so ausi should we all move our cleints over to #ubuntu-newyork
(06:07:03 PM) yharrow [n=sysadmin@unaffiliated/yharrow] entered the room.
(06:07:07 PM) ausimage: Also the Launchpad account will changing
(06:07:09 PM) samiam010203: welcome yharrow
(06:07:15 PM) samiam010203: hello there budy
(06:07:22 PM) ausimage: Hey yharrow I got the meeting going for you...
(06:07:36 PM) samiam010203: continue on ausi
(06:07:45 PM) yharrow: thanks ausimage
(06:07:46 PM) gubluntu left the room.
(06:07:58 PM) yharrow: sorry im late
(06:08:01 PM) ausimage: So I think the best thing is to start entering #ubuntu-newyork instead of #ubuntu-ny
(06:08:05 PM) samiam010203: no big deal yharrow
(06:08:11 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:08:11 PM) ausimage: right now it redirects to here...
(06:08:18 PM) yharrow: wow, do we have alot of people in here tonight
(06:08:18 PM) samiam010203: what time/sdate should we start
(06:08:22 PM) ***n8k99 is trying to entertain a grumpy 2 yr old
(06:08:25 PM) samiam010203: i think after the meeting tonight
(06:08:38 PM) yharrow: I am both overjoyed and impressed
(06:08:48 PM) ausimage: Yeah we can do that... but the redirect needs to be turned off
(06:08:53 PM) samiam010203: i think after the meeting we should send out a mailing on the list then flip the switch
(06:09:08 PM) NickGarvey: can we get a redirect though?
(06:09:09 PM) ausimage: anyone else have something to say on this??
(06:09:19 PM) NickGarvey: so that /j #ubuntu-ny will forward to #ubuntu-newyork?
(06:09:24 PM) ausimage: Yeah... we will redirect the other way 
(06:10:20 PM) n8k99: hooray
(06:10:26 PM) ausimage: So there will be changes coming to some familiar locations... we will try and keep you informed on the team wiki page
(06:11:18 PM) samiam010203: so what els do we have tonight ausi
(06:11:22 PM) yharrow: ausimage: what is the primary reason for changing ubuntu-ny to ubuntu-new york
(06:11:30 PM) samiam010203: would you like to anounce the bylaws meeting
(06:11:31 PM) NickGarvey: to better conform to the other US state LoCos.....
(06:11:38 PM) ausimage: yeah that...
(06:11:44 PM) n8k99 left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(06:12:18 PM) ausimage: First issue is should we spearhead a national organization for the US....
(06:12:35 PM) ausimage: I spoke with AZ they seem interested in this as well
(06:12:38 PM) yharrow: ok sounds fine. I think the mailing list warning, and redirect makes sense
(06:12:51 PM) ausimage: yeah... yharrow...
(06:12:52 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:13:15 PM) yharrow: ausimage: what sort of national organization?
(06:13:15 PM) yharrow: What would the purpose of this organization be?
(06:13:17 PM) ausimage: This organization would provide our not-for-profit status....
(06:13:34 PM) ausimage: so not every state has to get one...
(06:13:49 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ProjectGoals/NationalCharter are some of the ideas behind it
(06:13:57 PM) yharrow: that seems pretty powerful
(06:14:13 PM) yharrow: would we be using the same bylaws that we are discussing now
(06:14:21 PM) ausimage: yeah... I think it will be cheaper to form one national than many state 
(06:14:30 PM) ausimage: yeah for the most part...
(06:14:56 PM) ausimage: If the team agrees  I will begin further discussions with other state teams
(06:15:01 PM) yharrow: ausimage: but ultimately the bylaws will be laid down by our team
(06:15:02 PM) yharrow: ?
(06:15:06 PM) ausimage: yeah....
(06:15:32 PM) yharrow: i its a great idea, if you really think this is an acheivable goal
(06:15:40 PM) ausimage: yeah me as well...
(06:15:41 PM) samiam010203: ausi when your done id like to bring up Software Freedome Da
(06:15:52 PM) ausimage: yeah it is on the agenda samiam010203
(06:15:56 PM) samiam010203: yesw
(06:16:12 PM) ausimage: does the team have any comments on the national org idea?
(06:16:31 PM) yharrow: ausimage: perhaps we should put up a document on the wiki to help develop this idea
(06:16:40 PM) ausimage: there is one.... https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/ProjectGoals/NationalCharter
(06:16:49 PM) eggwarmer: What is the benefit to us or any team for that matter?
(06:16:51 PM) NickGarvey: if it is plausible then yeah I'd say go for it, but if it takes a large amount of effort / commitment then it might not be worth the time
(06:16:56 PM) yharrow: personally, i have little to no experience with non profit negotiaion
(06:16:56 PM) psychoneil: what, if anything, would we lose by being a part of the national organization?
(06:17:15 PM) psychoneil: autonomy etc
(06:17:25 PM) yharrow: psychoneil: great question
(06:17:27 PM) ausimage: nothing to loose really especially since it will be a bottom up kind of group
(06:17:41 PM) yharrow: ausimage: what do you mean?
(06:18:22 PM) ausimage: it will be the state teams making the decisions... and besides it would be done mostly for that fincial and legal benifits
(06:18:50 PM) ausimage: I think the state teams all have the same goals in mind....
(06:19:05 PM) eggwarmer: Usually the reason to form a national NPG is for tax advantage, what is the advantage for us?
(06:19:40 PM) ausimage: eggwarmer: that and the power of many in getting donations
(06:20:51 PM) eggwarmer: OK, I didn't think of that.
(06:20:52 PM) ausimage: does that answer things?
(06:21:09 PM) Michael_M left the room (quit: "Leaving").
(06:21:19 PM) michael [n=michael@ool-18bc6e3a.dyn.optonline.net] entered the room.
(06:21:29 PM) ausimage: So do we feel this is something to go after?
(06:21:51 PM) eggwarmer: Sure, fine by me.
(06:21:53 PM) psychoneil: so we would have to choose if our donation would fund our own ny team or go to the national group?
(06:21:56 PM) yharrow: if there is nothing to lose, and everything to gain. I dont see why not
(06:22:42 PM) ausimage: psychoneil: the national would essentially not take from us only give... unless the teams opt to do a national event or campaign...
(06:22:53 PM) psychoneil: ok sounds good
(06:23:10 PM) ausimage: Ok I will begin discussions on this...
(06:23:26 PM) yharrow: ausimage: what wouldhappen if the teams opt to do a national event or campaign
(06:24:08 PM) ausimage: ahhh I think we would be able to choose if we want to contribute to it...
(06:24:54 PM) Zyr[afk] is now known as Zyrshnikashnu
(06:24:57 PM) ausimage: Bylaws are next
(06:25:05 PM) yharrow: ok should we put out a vote for this?
(06:25:10 PM) ausimage: sure...
(06:25:14 PM) ausimage: +1
(06:25:19 PM) yharrow: +1
(06:25:22 PM) samiam010203: +1
(06:25:25 PM) psychoneil: +1
(06:25:34 PM) eggwarmer: +1
(06:26:00 PM) ***ausimage wonders if all 20 are actually here
(06:26:12 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: +1
(06:26:21 PM) michael: +1
(06:26:39 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: I'm trying to read what I missed. ;)
(06:26:50 PM) eggwarmer: 19 ChanServ is a bot as far as I know.
(06:26:55 PM) yharrow: atoponce: , BrianG , Dave123 , dbristow , deejoe , isacklow_afk  , johnc4510  , NickGarvey  , RobNyc  , Zelut  you guys here, meeting has started already
(06:27:07 PM) NickGarvey: +1
(06:27:08 PM) yharrow: it is.
(06:27:13 PM) ausimage: johnc4510 and Zelut are mentos
(06:27:20 PM) ausimage: *mentors
(06:27:29 PM) yharrow: our mentors?
(06:27:40 PM) ausimage: mentors of all teams
(06:27:49 PM) ausimage: *US Teams
(06:27:54 PM) yharrow: ah ok
(06:28:04 PM) ausimage: so is atoponce
(06:28:10 PM) yharrow: thats 16 then
(06:28:31 PM) ausimage: 7 votes for none against then?
(06:28:37 PM) yharrow: i think all active nicks have responded
(06:28:42 PM) psychoneil: 8 for
(06:29:01 PM) ausimage: OK 8 for non against with 16 in the channel
(06:29:07 PM) yharrow: ausimage: how many other people do you know of on our team that ususally participate in any manner
(06:29:19 PM) yharrow: who are not present now
(06:29:30 PM) ausimage: none...
(06:29:57 PM) ausimage: so we should consider this matter carried then....
(06:30:14 PM) ausimage: approved... agreed...
(06:30:14 PM) yharrow: rockets:  has not voted, and perhaps 2 or 3 others, but even if they voted against it would still be a majority for.
(06:30:15 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:30:17 PM) yharrow: Yes
(06:30:20 PM) samiam010203: next bylaws
(06:30:24 PM) ausimage: Yeah...
(06:30:31 PM) NickGarvey: (dinner, I'll read logs later)
(06:30:40 PM) samiam010203: have agood meal nick
(06:30:45 PM) yharrow: later NickGarvey  , thanks for attending
(06:30:50 PM) ausimage: I had a discussion with TheDukeNY about the bylaws....
(06:30:57 PM) rockets: sorry, im at work . . . im basically idle
(06:31:03 PM) yharrow: ok
(06:31:06 PM) rockets: I dont even know whats going on :-P
(06:31:19 PM) ausimage: he suggest that the Public charity of a C3 might work....
(06:31:26 PM) yharrow: rockets: hehe, understood. you can shoot for next meeting :P
(06:31:36 PM) yharrow: august 21
(06:31:40 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:31:48 PM) samiam010203: thats the bylaws meeting date yharrow
(06:31:48 PM) rockets: what time
(06:31:54 PM) samiam010203: 6pm
(06:31:55 PM) yharrow: same time
(06:32:03 PM) yharrow: 6 - 7:30
(06:32:06 PM) yharrow: pm
(06:32:08 PM) ausimage: the main differences are the Charity needs more monitoring of funds....
(06:32:08 PM) yharrow: EST
(06:32:23 PM) ausimage: and C7 requires more monitoring of activities
(06:32:31 PM) eggwarmer: EDT actually
(06:32:45 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: EDT indeed
(06:32:57 PM) ausimage: I am actually leaning toward C3... despite extra funds monitoring...
(06:33:02 PM) yharrow: ausimage: both kinds of organizations will require an account.
(06:33:07 PM) ausimage: yeah...
(06:33:14 PM) rockets: Are we talking about what type of non-profit status we want?
(06:33:21 PM) ausimage: Yeah...
(06:33:25 PM) rockets: ok
(06:33:27 PM) yharrow: so would we be creating the same kind of account we discussed creating
(06:33:32 PM) ausimage: Yup
(06:33:32 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:33:43 PM) samiam010203: you cna hold the account yharrow
(06:34:00 PM) ausimage: C3 is tax-deductible but C7 is generally not...
(06:34:09 PM) ausimage: C3 requires more accounting....
(06:34:15 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: ok, that works. there is a bank of america not far from where i am in florida i think
(06:34:19 PM) samiam010203: how much should we put into the account to start it off ?
(06:34:26 PM) samiam010203: no yharrow
(06:34:32 PM) samiam010203: go with washington mutual
(06:34:39 PM) ausimage: :)
(06:34:41 PM) yharrow: there is one of those too
(06:34:43 PM) samiam010203: they have free checking
(06:34:48 PM) samiam010203: for life
(06:34:57 PM) ausimage: for business ???
(06:35:00 PM) samiam010203: and no account minumom limit
(06:35:05 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:35:26 PM) ausimage: I guess I want to know what the team thinks C3 or C7....
(06:35:29 PM) yharrow: do we all agree to go with C3?
(06:35:37 PM) samiam010203: yharrow, will you be coming back to nyc soon ?
(06:35:43 PM) ausimage: both have their detractors...
(06:35:45 PM) samiam010203: yes c3-pO
(06:35:55 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: within a few weeks i think
(06:35:59 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:36:11 PM) ausimage: So what is the consesus?
(06:36:21 PM) ausimage: C3 ??
(06:36:24 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:36:36 PM) eggwarmer: What is the extra monitoring all about?
(06:37:18 PM) ausimage: um as a not-for-profit public charity you must have a certain percentage of donations from the public..
(06:37:25 PM) eggwarmer: My wife is feeding me as i type.
(06:37:39 PM) ausimage: you have to track where donations come from
(06:38:00 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: And for C7?
(06:38:03 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: prolly be here till the end of the august
(06:38:03 PM) yharrow: i am stabilizedc now though
(06:38:03 PM) yharrow: more time to do things
(06:38:06 PM) yharrow: my grandmother is doing better, and has  been transferred to a hospital where i can only visit 3 times a week anyways.
(06:38:13 PM) yharrow: i will be back in time for our first meeting in albany
(06:38:19 PM) yharrow: eggwarmer: lol
(06:38:20 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:38:29 PM) eggwarmer: Can we garrentee that we can meet these requirenments?
(06:38:45 PM) ausimage: C7 is restricted to those of like interest and no tax deductable 
(06:38:57 PM) eggwarmer: I wasn't joking, she is Chinese and does these things.
(06:39:24 PM) yharrow: so the account holder will be accountant as well
(06:39:25 PM) yharrow: ?
(06:39:48 PM) ausimage: eggwarmer... I think we will be seeking additional advice as we apply for the tax certificates...
(06:39:58 PM) ausimage: yeah most likely yharrow 
(06:40:38 PM) rockets left the room (quit: "Leaving").
(06:40:42 PM) eggwarmer: OK, then lets not decide which type to do here and now, we can leave that for future research and discusion, OK?
(06:40:50 PM) samiam010203: cooll
(06:41:00 PM) yharrow: ok i am fine with taking on the responsibilities. and if I have any problems I will most likely go to you ausimage , since you seem to know alot about bylaw
(06:41:09 PM) ausimage: yeah I guess we can leave it to the day of....
(06:41:12 PM) yharrow: bylaws, and related subjects
(06:41:21 PM) samiam010203: now id like to get into sfd
(06:41:28 PM) yharrow: sfd?
(06:41:40 PM) samiam010203: software freedome day
(06:41:53 PM) samiam010203: ausi is it cool if i proced
(06:41:54 PM) samiam010203: ?
(06:41:58 PM) ausimage: Ok we need additional discussions on the mailing list
(06:42:03 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:42:04 PM) ausimage: sounds god
(06:42:08 PM) ausimage: *good
(06:42:19 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: let me do one more then you can
(06:42:22 PM) samiam010203: so software freedome day will take place on the 15th of september
(06:42:26 PM) samiam010203: ok ausi
(06:42:29 PM) eggwarmer: Oh i thought you were talking to me for a sec. LOL
(06:42:48 PM) yharrow: does anyone have a url for a info page on SFD?
(06:42:53 PM) yharrow: and when will sfd be taking place
(06:42:54 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:42:58 PM) ausimage: So the last bylaw item is the date of elections
(06:43:04 PM) samiam010203: im going to get into it yharrow
(06:43:06 PM) samiam010203: relaxe
(06:43:24 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: :) k
(06:43:31 PM) samiam010203: :)
(06:43:32 PM) ausimage: Does any one have preferences...
(06:43:45 PM) RobNyc left the room (quit: "Leaving").
(06:43:48 PM) ausimage: in person on IRC
(06:43:51 PM) ausimage: ?
(06:43:55 PM) yharrow: ausimage: ok
(06:44:07 PM) yharrow: ausimage:  for elections?
(06:44:10 PM) ausimage: yeah
(06:44:17 PM) ausimage: I think it can be done on IRC
(06:44:26 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: IRC would be preferred.
(06:44:26 PM) ausimage: just need a month at least...
(06:44:52 PM) samiam010203: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_Freedom_Day <-----| thats for you yharrow :0
(06:44:57 PM) yharrow: ausimage: if we hold them in person we are requiring voters to be physically present in order to be eleigible to vote
(06:45:00 PM) RobNyc [n=studio@nylug/member/RobNyc] entered the room.
(06:45:30 PM) ausimage: yeah... that is why IRC is preferred... I only bring up in person cause I heard it mentioned
(06:45:45 PM) yharrow: ok then.. so yeah would be on irc
(06:46:02 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:46:06 PM) yharrow: are there any other topics that need to be discussed other than bylaws and sfd?
(06:46:10 PM) eggwarmer: Fine by me
(06:46:15 PM) ausimage: hmmm perhaps Dec with jan start
(06:46:17 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Oh, by the way, would anyone like to move me to Rochester in the members page image?
(06:46:28 PM) samiam010203: so now can i get into sfd ausi ? :)
(06:46:29 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: I'm moving there at the end of the month
(06:46:30 PM) ausimage: yeah sure Z
(06:46:35 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Thank you
(06:46:48 PM) ausimage: Dec sound fine for elections?
(06:46:52 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:46:57 PM) RobNyc left the room (quit: Client Quit).
(06:47:03 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Yes
(06:47:09 PM) RobNyc [n=studio@nylug/member/RobNyc] entered the room.
(06:47:18 PM) samiam010203: the begining of dec though
(06:47:23 PM) ausimage: Yeah
(06:47:39 PM) samiam010203: once the hollidays start ill be partying it up :)
(06:47:42 PM) Deucalion [n=deucalio@h18.163.40.69.ip.alltel.net] entered the room.
(06:47:51 PM) ausimage: So all in favor in Dec elections ...
(06:47:51 PM) Deucalion: hello
(06:47:56 PM) samiam010203: +1
(06:47:59 PM) eggwarmer: +1
(06:48:02 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: +1
(06:48:11 PM) ausimage: Deucalion: Meeting in progress
(06:48:13 PM) yharrow: what are the other options
(06:48:15 PM) ausimage: +1
(06:48:25 PM) ausimage: your choice yharrow
(06:48:46 PM) yharrow: sept is no good, cause everyone is getting back into things
(06:48:56 PM) psychoneil: +1
(06:48:58 PM) yharrow: what about october
(06:49:12 PM) samiam010203: october is good
(06:49:13 PM) yharrow: i think its good to have a meeitng asap
(06:49:13 PM) ausimage: I was thinking new year new officers
(06:49:14 PM) samiam010203: as well
(06:49:25 PM) yharrow: ausimage: oh i see what you mean
(06:49:37 PM) ausimage: does not have to be but... 
(06:49:40 PM) yharrow: how about, our first meeting will be early, kind of like initaiton
(06:49:50 PM) yharrow: then every meeting after that will be december
(06:50:23 PM) ausimage: ahh... you mean have the Dec be normal elections... but vote this time in early?
(06:50:26 PM) RobNyc left the room (quit: Client Quit).
(06:50:29 PM) yharrow: exactly
(06:50:36 PM) yharrow: because right now we have no elected pres
(06:50:44 PM) ausimage: yeah that is true
(06:50:55 PM) Deucalion: I agree with that. we should get officers soon, but in following years, vote at the end of the year
(06:51:04 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:51:06 PM) ausimage: but we should have at least a month to decide
(06:51:09 PM) eggwarmer: I think early Dec is great, it's just before the holidays and then it will all be done by Jan 1st.
(06:51:11 PM) samiam010203: so that sounds good then everyone ?
(06:51:24 PM) eggwarmer: Yup
(06:51:25 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Yes, sounds excellent
(06:51:29 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:51:36 PM) Deucalion: i like it
(06:51:37 PM) yharrow: what month should our first meeting be held?
(06:51:42 PM) ausimage: Ok then lets say Oct... this year dec after that
(06:51:49 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:51:56 PM) yharrow: that makes sense
(06:52:33 PM) yharrow: we should have all the details worked out by the end of august. then septemeber everyone will be busy getting back from vacation. middle of october sounds fine.
(06:52:38 PM) ausimage: that means anyone interested in being apart of the inagural leadership get thinking and put your name in
(06:52:44 PM) samiam010203: so we are doing the voting in albany then right ?
(06:52:50 PM) RobNyc [n=studio@nylug/member/RobNyc] entered the room.
(06:52:52 PM) ausimage: no... on IRC
(06:52:56 PM) samiam010203: ok
(06:53:14 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: IRC is best
(06:53:19 PM) ausimage: OK sounds like a plan.... everyone seems in agreement
(06:53:25 PM) samiam010203: cool
(06:53:29 PM) eggwarmer: Yup
(06:53:31 PM) ***RobNyc Now playing { The Fray - She Is }
(06:53:32 PM) samiam010203: now can i get into sfd ausi ?
(06:53:33 PM) ausimage: Next SFD samiam010203
(06:53:37 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:53:40 PM) yharrow: the elections need to be widely publicized via calendar, irc, mailing etc
(06:53:45 PM) Deucalion: i think doing it on IRC works best, i mean, i will be close to albany, but may not be able to make it for a meeting w/ school and all
(06:53:49 PM) ausimage: yes they will be
(06:53:52 PM) samiam010203: Software Freedom Day (SFD) is an annual worldwide celebration of the free/open-source software. SFD is a public education effort, not only to celebrate the alleged virtues of free and open source software, but also to encourage its use, to the benefit of the public
(06:54:22 PM) samiam010203: this year its beeing held on the 15th of september but im thinking we should do it a day earler
(06:54:33 PM) Deucalion: i have some posters that would be awesome for SFD
(06:54:51 PM) samiam010203: becasue of yharrows religis following he wont be able to attend on the 15th as its as its a saturday
(06:54:52 PM) ausimage: 15th is a saturday
(06:54:57 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:55:01 PM) ausimage: ahhh
(06:55:07 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: It's even more excellent given that International Talk Like a Pirate Day is a few days later
(06:55:08 PM) samiam010203: thats why i think we should do it on friday the 14th
(06:55:12 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: are there any other os groups in ny that will be holding or planning local events. ie nylug
(06:55:21 PM) samiam010203: im not sure
(06:55:30 PM) samiam010203: but we should be doing it
(06:55:41 PM) samiam010203: http://softwarefreedomday.org/
(06:55:48 PM) samiam010203: the page is down right now though
(06:56:09 PM) samiam010203: so what do people think about doing it on a friday
(06:56:24 PM) ausimage: what do you have in mind for it?
(06:56:30 PM) eggwarmer: That depends on what we're doing i suppose.
(06:56:33 PM) samiam010203: i have already registered us with them so we will be getting some supplies for it
(06:56:44 PM) Deucalion: friday this year?
(06:56:49 PM) samiam010203: we will go downtown and hand out the open cd and ubuntu cds
(06:56:58 PM) yharrow: i think we should discover who else is holding an event in our local region, and attmept to hook up with them
(06:57:05 PM) samiam010203: and educate the public about open source freedomes
(06:57:06 PM) ausimage: I agree
(06:57:16 PM) Deucalion: what city are you planing on doing this in?
(06:57:20 PM) samiam010203: nyc
(06:57:31 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Rochester and NYC have the most members
(06:57:39 PM) samiam010203: gnu is handling upstae
(06:57:44 PM) eggwarmer: Would it be possible to go to local schools? too bad many may not be in session yet.
(06:57:53 PM) ausimage: Zyrshnikashnu: you want to handle rochester?
(06:57:56 PM) Deucalion: september is when they start
(06:58:09 PM) samiam010203: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_Freedom_Day
(06:58:12 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: I can't say now, aus. We'll see ater school starts.
(06:58:21 PM) ausimage: OK... 
(06:58:29 PM) Deucalion: Zyrshnikashnu: i can gibe you a Screen name of someone in Rochester who can help you out
(06:58:39 PM) eggwarmer: Yup, but the first few weeks of school they generally don't have people come in and give talks, etc.
(06:58:40 PM) ausimage: So it will be an NYC event then?
(06:58:45 PM) samiam010203: yes
(06:58:52 PM) samiam010203: but all are welcome to attend
(06:58:59 PM) ausimage: unless someone volunteers up here
(06:59:01 PM) Deucalion: (I dont know if i can make an NYC event. I live sorta far away!)
Dave123 dbristow deejoe Deucalion 
deejoe Deucalion 
(06:59:18 PM) yharrow: it think this is the sort of thing that could use a wiki page to suggest due course for hooking up with other os groups. and contain suggestions for creating our own parties
(06:59:19 PM) eggwarmer: Yup, so do I.
(06:59:25 PM) samiam010203: yharrow what do you think ?
(06:59:28 PM) ausimage: Deucalion: think of something localy you can do for it
(06:59:44 PM) samiam010203: ping yharrow
(07:00:01 PM) ausimage: Sounds good samiam010203
(07:00:17 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: did you get my suggestion?
(07:00:27 PM) samiam010203: yes it is a good idea but r people going to attend and play a part is what im wondering
(07:00:30 PM) samiam010203: no
(07:00:34 PM) samiam010203: yharrow
(07:00:39 PM) samiam010203: what did you suggest
(07:00:51 PM) samiam010203: oh about hocking up with another crew yes
(07:00:54 PM) samiam010203: igot that
(07:01:04 PM) samiam010203: we could send an email to the nylug
(07:01:05 PM) Deucalion: if i could get about 100 or so Ubuntu CDs,  i can print posters, and go down to the local wal mart and set up a demo outside and hand out CDs
(07:01:08 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: draw up a wiki page and post it to the list
(07:01:20 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:01:37 PM) samiam010203: ill do that and we will get into this furthewr at the meeting on the 21st
(07:01:47 PM) ausimage: Perhaps some of the Upstaters can come up with something for SFD
(07:01:49 PM) samiam010203: sound good ?
(07:01:55 PM) ausimage: yeah samiam010203
(07:02:04 PM) samiam010203: ok on to the next thing then
(07:02:08 PM) yharrow: lagging over here
(07:02:08 PM) yharrow: sorry guys
(07:02:26 PM) samiam010203: Review IRC policy --- yharrow
(07:02:27 PM) ausimage: yharrow: would you like to comment on the IRC policy...
(07:02:42 PM) ausimage: so it is on the record...
(07:02:54 PM) yharrow: ausimage: Where is IRC policy located?
(07:03:02 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20070807
(07:03:34 PM) ausimage: I snipped out a portion of the IRC traffic that precipitated it
(07:04:44 PM) yharrow: one sec
(07:05:13 PM) ausimage: I am going to drop a few of the agenda items from discussion... the mini conference is about the only other that needs to be touched on....
(07:05:45 PM) ausimage: yharrow mind if i discuss that idea first?
(07:05:56 PM) samiam010203: ausi we can gte into the other stuff on the 21st
(07:05:57 PM) samiam010203: :)
(07:06:03 PM) yharrow: ausimage: btw regarding the whole op-ping business, I had in mind that ppl should not remain as op unless they need to, but that there would be no penalty if they chose to remain as op
(07:06:29 PM) ausimage: yharrow what good is it then???
(07:06:36 PM) samiam010203: no it is cool not to always op yharrow
(07:06:40 PM) samiam010203: its a good idea
(07:06:48 PM) samiam010203: based on the snippet from the trafic
(07:06:57 PM) yharrow: What other agenda topics are there?
(07:07:14 PM) ausimage: that is like saying you need to stop on at light but you won't be penalized
(07:07:25 PM) ausimage: um my suggestion for a meetup 
(07:07:31 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:07:37 PM) samiam010203: meetup.com
(07:07:41 PM) ausimage: No...
(07:07:50 PM) samiam010203: miniconferancce
(07:08:02 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Temporary afk
(07:08:04 PM) Zyrshnikashnu is now known as Zyr[afk]
(07:08:08 PM) ausimage: I am contemplating putting together a state event... but want feed back and assistance
(07:08:26 PM) yharrow: ok, im alittle confused. are we finished discussing bylaw related topics for now?
(07:08:37 PM) samiam010203: sounds good where will it be held ausi
(07:08:45 PM) ausimage: It would be upstate probably in Geneva... I need to get costs
(07:09:00 PM) samiam010203: also what about lodging and travil fair ?
(07:09:02 PM) Deucalion: I could probably make that event
(07:09:07 PM) ausimage: but I wanted to know how the team felt...
(07:09:12 PM) eggwarmer: I used to live in geneva.
(07:09:30 PM) ausimage: 2nite1day 3nite/2day
(07:09:44 PM) samiam010203: whos paying for the lodging and travil fairs
(07:10:06 PM) yharrow: ausimage: what kind of penalty would you suggest.
(07:10:07 PM) ausimage: I am thinking of holding Team meeting... a few tutorials and installfest
(07:10:17 PM) samiam010203: sounds good ausi
(07:10:20 PM) yharrow: personally dont feel that there are any huge damages being done by remaining as op.
(07:10:23 PM) samiam010203: i like it the idea
(07:10:24 PM) ausimage: yharrow: I need to think about that
(07:10:26 PM) Deucalion: Install fest would be good!
(07:10:46 PM) ausimage: yeah... but the questions on how many activities do we want at once....
(07:10:51 PM) ausimage: how might show...
(07:10:53 PM) eggwarmer: Would this be a one day event?
(07:11:00 PM) samiam010203: yharrow: In my opinion if one has no reason to remain op then he or she should not remain op. This is to reduce tension among members. I want everyone here to feel comfortable with each other, and as superficial as it may seem, people are intimidated to talk with or around an op.
(07:11:01 PM) ausimage: 1 or two day....
(07:11:17 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20070807/NewYorkTeam/ProjectGoals/StateWideMeetupMeetup
(07:11:23 PM) ausimage: is part of the idea
(07:11:26 PM) eggwarmer: I live in Syracuse which is about an hour or so away.
(07:11:33 PM) ausimage: yeah....
(07:11:43 PM) Deucalion: i will be about 2 hrs away, but its not trouble
(07:11:48 PM) yharrow: samiam010203: do you agree with that?
(07:11:57 PM) samiam010203: its fine yharrow
(07:12:03 PM) ausimage: My plan is have the team meeting the night before... and the main event the next day
(07:12:20 PM) samiam010203: i like the idea ausi
(07:12:22 PM) ausimage: or even two days of activities
(07:12:28 PM) samiam010203: i just think we should get sponsers
(07:12:33 PM) ausimage: it is up to how the team feels
(07:12:36 PM) Deucalion: sponsors like who?
(07:12:45 PM) samiam010203: like linux companies
(07:12:51 PM) ausimage: yeah I need a committee of interested volunteers..
(07:13:00 PM) Deucalion: Novell, Canonical, and Red Hat
(07:13:04 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:13:07 PM) samiam010203: the big guns
(07:13:18 PM) Deucalion: how would they sponsor us?
(07:13:19 PM) eggwarmer: When is this planned for?
(07:13:25 PM) ausimage: I will try and find out possible expenses... but I need some numbers
(07:13:25 PM) yharrow: ausimage: i think it should be an unwritten rule for now. ops who violate it will be gently warned. if ppl abuse their op privileges they will receive consequences. but there will be no other consequences then warning, for simply remaining as op.
(07:13:40 PM) ausimage: yeah that is fine
(07:13:43 PM) samiam010203: sounds fine yharrow
(07:13:52 PM) ausimage: eggwarmer: April tenatively
(07:14:00 PM) samiam010203: april 08
(07:14:02 PM) ausimage: maybe even may
(07:14:13 PM) ausimage: depends on availabilty...
(07:14:30 PM) eggwarmer: Humm, I may not be in NY State then since I'l looking for work out of state right now.
(07:14:38 PM) ausimage: how many do feel will show.... 
(07:14:44 PM) samiam010203: i will show
(07:14:50 PM) ausimage: how much should be planned...
(07:15:03 PM) samiam010203: 2days/3nights
(07:15:10 PM) eggwarmer: If I'm here I'll show.
(07:15:14 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: I plan to look into getting a block of rooms at the hotel
(07:15:25 PM) ausimage: or maybe even dorms...
(07:15:32 PM) samiam010203: yes but you should try and get a sponcer for payments ausi
(07:15:41 PM) ausimage: I don't know what will be available
(07:15:42 PM) samiam010203: what about a youth hostel?
(07:15:45 PM) yharrow: order in the chat. guys.
(07:15:45 PM) yharrow: we have 15 minutes left
(07:15:51 PM) ausimage: Yeah
(07:15:56 PM) ausimage: I know...
(07:16:06 PM) yharrow: hold on a sec.
(07:16:09 PM) ausimage: Trying to feel out the team...
(07:16:39 PM) ausimage: yharrow?
(07:16:42 PM) yharrow: these are all good topics we are discussing. but i want to make sure all the meeting topcs are covered
(07:16:56 PM) ausimage: they all have been
(07:17:20 PM) ausimage: in interest of time I am focusing on the conference meetup
(07:17:34 PM) yharrow: ok then. we can discuss meeting details for the next 10 mins and then at 7:25 wrap up and discuss next meeting.
(07:17:40 PM) psychoneil: as of now i'd like to go.  bout a 2 hour drive for me but since a lot of you are in nyc or thereabouts its even more out of the way for you so i cant complain
(07:17:56 PM) Deucalion: I think the plan for a Night meeting, and then an Installday would be great. I just dont know if geneva is the best place to do it!
(07:17:59 PM) samiam010203: ausi dose amtrak go up there ?
(07:18:00 PM) yharrow: ausimage: sounds cool
(07:18:12 PM) yharrow: :)
(07:18:27 PM) ausimage: any willing to join me catch me after the meeting to further discuss
(07:18:36 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:18:37 PM) michael left the room (quit: "Leaving").
(07:19:22 PM) ausimage: yharrow: you have much else to add tonight ... the next meeting is already on the fridge for the 21st
(07:19:29 PM) yharrow: are we talking about the main annual meeting ehre?
(07:19:31 PM) yharrow: here*
(07:19:49 PM) ausimage: no a general real life meetup
(07:19:51 PM) eggwarmer: NY only?
(07:20:08 PM) Deucalion: Duh! NYLoCo
(07:20:14 PM) yharrow: :)
(07:20:15 PM) ausimage: For the most part... depending on interest we migh invite PA
(07:20:20 PM) yharrow: eggwarmer: where do y0ou live
(07:20:28 PM) eggwarmer: Syracuse NY
(07:20:37 PM) samiam010203: so your in egg
(07:20:47 PM) eggwarmer: Yup
(07:20:53 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:21:01 PM) eggwarmer: As long as I'm still in NY state.
(07:21:19 PM) michael [n=michael@ool-18bc6e3a.dyn.optonline.net] entered the room.
(07:21:32 PM) ausimage: anything else need taking care of ???
(07:21:32 PM) eggwarmer: BTW the eggwarmer is the male penguin.
(07:21:49 PM) yharrow: how far is geneva from albany, for someone coming from nyc
(07:22:01 PM) ausimage: um about 2 hrs
(07:22:04 PM) eggwarmer: About 3.5 hours
(07:22:19 PM) eggwarmer: Syracuse is 2 hours.
(07:22:20 PM) ausimage: there you go I was thinking Syracuse
(07:22:24 PM) yharrow: what is the advantage of choosing geneva
(07:22:37 PM) ausimage: I can visit there and plan on the groundf
(07:22:40 PM) ausimage: *ground
(07:22:41 PM) eggwarmer: Beautiful lake for one.
(07:22:46 PM) ausimage: yeah that too
(07:22:51 PM) ausimage: nice college
(07:22:52 PM) Deucalion: ok, a lake with fish that cant type
(07:22:58 PM) yharrow: Lol
(07:23:13 PM) Zyr[afk] is now known as Zyrshnikashnu
(07:23:20 PM) Deucalion: i think Syracuse or Albany would be better
(07:23:32 PM) ausimage: I was also thinking about auburn... closer to syracuse as well
(07:23:37 PM) yharrow: Deucalion that doesnt mean still cant sell ubuntu to their schools
(07:23:43 PM) ausimage: some place with a nice college 
(07:23:53 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Ah, the Finger Lakes!
(07:23:54 PM) ausimage: that I can get to easily
(07:23:57 PM) Zyrshnikashnu: Nice region
(07:24:08 PM) ausimage: since I volunteered to plan it ;)
(07:24:19 PM) eggwarmer: The Finger Lakes is a very large reagon.
(07:24:30 PM) yharrow: how far syracuse as from albany, coming from nyc
(07:24:34 PM) yharrow: is*
(07:25:05 PM) ausimage: what a 1.5
(07:25:10 PM) eggwarmer: It takes me 5 to 7 hours to drive to NYC from Syr.
(07:25:12 PM) ausimage: it is where the state fair is
(07:25:28 PM) Deucalion: yeah, St. Fair is in Syracuse
(07:25:40 PM) eggwarmer: 5 to downtown and 7 to my parents on the Island.
(07:25:53 PM) eggwarmer: Yup
(07:25:56 PM) Deucalion: Eggwarmer:where on the island?
(07:26:02 PM) eggwarmer: Bellmore
(07:26:12 PM) samiam010203: i got people in mastic
(07:26:33 PM) ausimage: I guess we need a committe to explore our options then???
(07:26:48 PM) ausimage: who will volunteer?
(07:27:02 PM) samiam010203: what will we have to do sarge
(07:27:06 PM) eggwarmer: The traffic sucks as soon as you get to the GW.
(07:27:12 PM) eggwarmer: GWB
(07:27:39 PM) ausimage: find a location, develop a program, procure supplies, market the event
(07:27:49 PM) samiam010203: cool
(07:28:02 PM) yharrow: ausimage: general 2 day meetup in syracuse?
(07:28:05 PM) eggwarmer: ausimage: what will need to be done, I can probably do something.
(07:28:05 PM) samiam010203: i could proably try and help with it ausi
(07:28:34 PM) Deucalion: how about SUNY campus in syracuse? or be outside the Carrier dome on a game day
(07:28:43 PM) Deucalion: hand out CDs to people walking in
(07:28:51 PM) ausimage: locate, plan, supply, market
(07:29:17 PM) psychoneil left the room (quit: Nick collision from services.).
(07:29:28 PM) Deucalion: Market, Execute
deejoe Deucalion 
(07:29:38 PM) psychoneil [n=psychone@pool-72-88-45-66.bflony.east.verizon.net] entered the room.
(07:29:39 PM) eggwarmer: Beleave me you don't want to be within 5 miles of the Carrier Dome on game day.
(07:29:46 PM) ausimage: yeah so samiam010203, eggwarmer, Deucalion
(07:29:52 PM) samiam010203: yes
(07:29:53 PM) Deucalion: lol, i guess thats kinda true
(07:29:58 PM) ausimage: you in too help develop
(07:30:13 PM) ausimage: thats four people 
(07:30:27 PM) Deucalion: my mom lives about 1hr from syracuse, so i can visit her and go to syracuse. if anyone from NYC wants a free place to stay, i can house about 4 people or so
(07:30:28 PM) yharrow: i can do whatever i can to help out too
(07:30:37 PM) yharrow: I dont know much about syracuse
(07:30:45 PM) ausimage: 5 then...
(07:30:57 PM) yharrow: but i would be willing to attend a meeting dedicated to planning such a meeting
(07:30:58 PM) ausimage: cool... I will put the event on the list 
(07:31:02 PM) yharrow: event*
(07:31:03 PM) Deucalion: Im in, for a syracuse event, ill do it!
(07:31:14 PM) ausimage: Alright times up
(07:31:18 PM) yharrow: how about next tuesday
(07:31:33 PM) Deucalion: next tuesday at 6:00?
(07:31:35 PM) yharrow: actually monday might be better
(07:31:36 PM) ausimage: next tuesday planning meeting is fine
(07:31:54 PM) yharrow: monday at 6pm
(07:31:55 PM) Deucalion: IRC, right?
(07:31:58 PM) yharrow: is everyone ok with tath?
(07:32:00 PM) yharrow: irc
(07:32:02 PM) ausimage: yeah
(07:32:12 PM) eggwarmer: yeah
(07:32:12 PM) ausimage: I will put this on the list then
(07:32:12 PM) yharrow: august 12
(07:32:16 PM) ausimage: yup
(07:32:18 PM) yharrow: sounds cool
(07:32:19 PM) yharrow: also
(07:32:24 PM) Deucalion: i can do that, Tuesday the 14th, 6:00pm
(07:32:34 PM) RobNyc: how do i get frostwire ?
(07:32:37 PM) yharrow: i mean august 13
(07:32:41 PM) eggwarmer: Aug 12 is a Sunday.
(07:32:45 PM) yharrow: Deucalion: can you do monday?
(07:32:49 PM) Deucalion: lol, so a monday planning meeting?
(07:32:56 PM) yharrow: yes
(07:32:56 PM) Deucalion: monday is fine, i dont have to work anyways
(07:33:02 PM) ausimage: sounds fine here
(07:33:07 PM) yharrow: are we going with bank of america , or washington mutual?
(07:33:13 PM) ausimage: meeting is adjourned then
</pre>
