{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''Software Freedom Day''' (http://softwarefreedomday.org/) is a global, grassroots effort to educate the public about the importance of software freedom and the virtues and availability of Free and Open Source Software. Local teams from all over the world organise events on the third Saturday in September. The most recent event involved over 200 teams from all over the world.
----

== September 16th, 2007 from 3:00pm to 4:00pm EDT in Bryant Park, NYC ==

The New York Ubuntu LoCo team has decided to celebrate Software Freedom Day on the 16th of September to make it easier on its members. We will meet in Bryant Park <nowiki>[[http://www.bryantpark.org/]]</nowiki> and hand out packets of the OpenCD (http://www.theopencd.org/) and Ubuntu Linux 7.04. After the handout is over we will have a general meeting (possible locations: a nearby coffee shop or restaurant)

=== Goals ===
''What are the goals of the New York Team on SFD?''

(in no particular order):

1. To hand out at least 10 copies of the <nowiki>[[http://linuxtracker.org/torrents-details.php?id=4496|OpenCD]]</nowiki>

2. To hand out at least 10 copies of Ubuntu Linux 7.04

3. To educate the general public about the uses of FLOSS

=== Sign Up ===
''Sign up for the Software Freedom Day Handout:''

1. <nowiki>[[PeterToreno]]</nowiki>

2. DavidGwilliam 
3. Peter Patalano

=== After Party ===
''Suggestions for where to hold the after party:''

1. There are at least ten '''Starbucks''' in the vicinity

2. <nowiki>[[http://www.notfortourists.com/citySearchMain.aspx?city=NY&cityName=New+York|This page]]</nowiki> suggests that there are '''over 40''' coffee shops with WiFi in the neighborhood
