{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== September 2010 Team Meeting Agenda ===
* Initial Planning for Launch Party Support
** Rochester
** Syracuse
** Ithaca
** Albany
** Plattsburgh
* (please add your items)

==== minutes ====

<pre>
20:59 < jaricanese7> hey everyone
21:00 < cprofitt> hello jaricanese7 
21:01 < jaricanese7> I don't have too much time but I heard there was a meeting today so I dropped in.
21:01 < jaricanese7> I'm from the New York City area.
21:02 < cprofitt> There is...
21:02 < cprofitt> beginning right now
21:02 < cprofitt> anyone else here for the meeting
21:03 < cprofitt> ausimage: 
21:03 < cprofitt> DavidLevin: 
21:03 < cprofitt> Dave123: 
21:03 < cprofitt> hal14450: 
21:03 < Dave123> hi cprofitt
21:03 < cprofitt> hey Dave123 -- we are having our meeting right now
21:03 < cprofitt> glad you could make it
21:03 < cprofitt> here is the planned agenda - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20100921
21:04 < asymptote-school> hey cprofitt is my name showing up as asymptote-school ?
21:04 < cprofitt> though I think we may discuss NYC with jaricanese7 
21:04 < cprofitt> yes it is asymptote-school 
21:04 < asymptote-school> k - I tried to change it to strAlan but I guess it didn't take
21:04 < cprofitt>   Begin Meeting
21:04 < cprofitt> welcome everyone.
21:04 < asymptote-school> I'm trying to centralize my aliases with ubuntuforums and stuff
21:04 < asymptote-school> ok go
21:04 < cprofitt> Glad to see you here
21:05 < cprofitt> The first and only pre-planned topic is Launch Parties
21:05 < cprofitt> I am sure you all know that 10.10 is closing in
21:05 < Dave123> yes
21:05 < cprofitt> and we currently have a launch party scheduled for Rochester
21:05 < jaricanese7> can't wait
21:05 < cprofitt> November 6th
21:05 < Dave123> planning to do it at B&N?
21:05 < cprofitt> and Syracuse is looking at either the 6th or 13th
21:05 < cprofitt> Yes, the Rochester will be at B&N
21:06 < cprofitt> 6pm to 9pm
21:06 < cprofitt> three hours in the big room
21:06 < cprofitt> jaricanese7: any chance you want to organize one for NYC?
21:06 < cprofitt> asymptote-school: where are you again?
21:06 < asymptote-school> cprofitt: morrisville
21:07 < asymptote-school> cprofitt: i'm Alan Nordman
21:07 < cprofitt> launch parties do not have to be tremendously formal affaird
21:07 < cprofitt> asymptote-school: I know... did not remember where you were though...
21:07 < asymptote-school> I've just been popping in and out w/ so many aliases
21:07 < cprofitt> should have with all our discussions of your getting a job -- Syr
21:07 < jaricanese7> I would love to however I'm not sure how effective it will be in such a short time span.
21:08 < cprofitt> jaricanese7: even if it was little more than an Ubuntu hour type event at a local coffee shop
21:08 < cprofitt> I would think it would be a success
21:08 < cprofitt> NYC has had little to nothing... and things must start... even if small
21:08 < jaricanese7> I have my own development company and I am trying to push support for Ubuntu on that end.
21:09 < cprofitt> if you would like to do it I can work with you to try to get some ideas flowing...
21:09 < jaricanese7> I'm also going to start offering discounts for NYC residents for computer services when it's Linux related
21:09 < cprofitt> and get some advertising out for the NYC folks via email lists, etc
21:09 < jaricanese7> Sure I would definitely like to hold an event here.
21:09 < asymptote-school> cprofitt: yeah I'm finally settled :D
21:10 < cprofitt> alright
21:10 < asymptote-school> jaricanese7: you know what you need to do
21:10 < asymptote-school> or is this not the right time
21:10 < cprofitt> not the right time asymptote-school 
21:10 < cprofitt> we can work out details after the meeting
21:10 < asymptote-school> k
21:11 < cprofitt> ok...
21:11 < cprofitt> one other small announcement
21:11 < cprofitt> I will be attending UDS this October
21:11 < cprofitt> I was fortunate and have been sponsored for the trip
21:11 < jaricanese7> cprofitt: I know some stuff. I sent you an email.
21:11 < asymptote-school> cprofitt: sweet
21:11 < cprofitt> I will try to represent NY State while there
21:12 < cprofitt> jaricanese7: awesome
21:12 < asymptote-school> cprofitt: are you a dev or are you just an observer ?
21:12 < jaricanese7> Hopefully you can meet more New Yorkers at the event.
21:12 < cprofitt> asymptote-school: not good enough to be a FOSS dev yet
21:13 < cprofitt> I do development, but I believe I am there mostly because of my advocacy
21:13 < cprofitt> any other topics that anyone else wants to bring up?
21:13 < asymptote-school> understood
21:13 < asymptote-school> cprofitt: well I'd just like to say that I'd definitely like to participate in any way I can
21:14 < cprofitt> with the launch?
21:14 < asymptote-school> like if I could demonstrate a service or show off a specific aspect
21:14 < asymptote-school> yes
21:14 < cprofitt> you should, if you want to work with the Syracuse folks
21:14 < cprofitt> work with ducky and slick666
21:14 < cprofitt> they have a base plan I believe
21:15 < jaricanese7> For some ideas, how is the Rochester launch going to me handled?
21:15 < cprofitt> I am holding it at a local book store
21:15 -!- ducky [~dnewell@pool-74-111-41-177.syrcny.fios.verizon.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-ny
21:15 < cprofitt> Barnes and Noble @ RIT
21:15 < cprofitt> I will, if others have their at the same day/time, setup a video feed
21:15 < asymptote-school> cprofitt: ok well I may be able to come chill in crackchester as well
21:16 < cprofitt> and we will also be going over the new features, etc
21:16 < cprofitt> mostly launch is to go over new features, see each other and advocate if non-Ubuntu users come by
21:16 < jaricanese7> Sounds good
21:16 < asymptote-school> are you planning on
21:16 < cprofitt> yeah... launch parties are fun
21:16 < asymptote-school> posting flyers or something
21:16 < asymptote-school> mailings
21:17 < asymptote-school> I dunno how this works - I would imagine you don't want to push it on people
21:17 < cprofitt> bug jams are fun, but take more work
21:17 < cprofitt> I usually send a message on LUG mailing lists
21:17 < cprofitt> announce at LUG meetings
21:17 < cprofitt> and post some fliers at local schools
21:17 < cprofitt> ducky: 
21:17 < ducky> hi
21:17 < cprofitt> if you can,... do you have a plan for Syr yet?
21:17 < cprofitt> we are discussing the launch
21:17 < ducky> ah
21:18 < cprofitt> jaricanese7: is from NYC and will try to put an event together...
21:18 < asymptote-school> yeah I could put up something at Morrisville - unfortunately there isn't a very large *nix contingent there though :(
21:18 < ducky> um i will talk to landon and post it
21:18 < cprofitt> though likely a simple meetup style just to get things rolling
21:18 < cprofitt> ducky: cool.
21:18 < ducky> it looks like it wil most likely be the 13th
21:18 < cprofitt> asymptote-school: may want to help
21:18 < cprofitt> jaricanese7: one other thing our team has been looking for is a News Letter team
21:18 < cprofitt> if you are interested in that or know of others... let us know
21:19 < jaricanese7> to write a newsletter for the NY LoCo?
21:19 < cprofitt> yes
21:19 < cprofitt> monthly
21:19 < ducky> ...
21:19 < asymptote-school> do we have enough to write about monthly ?
21:19 < ducky> its alot of work
21:19 < cprofitt> we do have stuff to write about...
21:19 < cprofitt> but we need a team
21:19 < ducky> and yes there is alot of stuff to write about
21:20 < cprofitt> one person can coordinate, but it takes a team willing to write some articles
21:20 < asymptote-school> alright - I'll go with it and I'll contribute in any way I can
21:20 < cprofitt> in the past it has been Ducky and me
21:20 < asymptote-school> I am slowly learning artwork
21:20 < cprofitt> two people can not make it happen
21:20 < jaricanese7> Yes I would't mind working on a newsletter as long as I'm not alone on it.
21:21 < cprofitt> cool... perhaps we can start to get a little steam on that as well...
21:21 < asymptote-school> jaricanese7: I'll support.  I think I should be flexible enough to contribute
21:21 < cprofitt> we can talk about the specifics on the newsletter after the meeting...
21:21 < cprofitt> anyone else have anything?
21:21 < asymptote-school> I don't have a family or other commitments so I should be able to support
21:21 < ducky> i dont mind leading
21:22 < ducky> i just cannot do the whole thing
21:22 < asymptote-school> cprofitt: can u recap and save me scrolling up, times/locations of launch party
21:22 < cprofitt> I agree ducky 
21:22 < cprofitt> asymptote-school: they are on the wiki
21:22 < asymptote-school> cprofitt: ok
21:22 < cprofitt> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Events
21:22 < cprofitt> Syracuse and NYC still have to set a date/time though
21:22 < asymptote-school> right I'll be sure to read it
21:22 < asymptote-school> ok that's fair
21:22 < asymptote-school> well we have some time right
21:22 < cprofitt> Ducky you have a good template for the newsletter
21:22 < asymptote-school> october 10th
21:22 < asymptote-school> well that's not very much time
21:23 < cprofitt> so we can have you focus on that and start rolling again
21:23 < cprofitt> asymptote-school: our lauch is usually after that... 
21:23 < cprofitt> November 6th
21:23 < asymptote-school> ohhh
21:23 < asymptote-school> oh right I remember now
21:23 < asymptote-school> my bad
21:23 < cprofitt> gives us time to get the new CDs, etc
21:23 < cprofitt> and makes sure if their is a delay that we are not celebrating Duke Nukem
21:23 < asymptote-school> yeah I should be in good position to contribute
21:23 < cprofitt> alright...
21:23 < cprofitt> I think the official stuff is over
21:24 < cprofitt> Meeting Closed
</pre>
