{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Topic ====
The New York State Ubuntu LoCo and Linux User Group of Rochester (LUGOR)
are proud to announce that Richard Weait will be coming to Rochester, NY
on Thursday April 16th for a presentation on <nowiki>[[http://OpenStreetMap.org|OpenStreetMap.org]]</nowiki>. The
presentation will run from 7pm to 9pm in room 1400 at building 70 on the
RIT campus.

==== Speakers ====
<nowiki>[[http://weait.com/|Richard Weait]]</nowiki> 

==== Description ====

<nowiki>[[http://OpenStreetMap.org|OpenStreetMap.org]]</nowiki> creates and provides free geographic data such as street maps to anyone who wants them. The project was started because most maps you think of as free actually have legal or technical restrictions on their use, holding back people from using them in creative, productive, or unexpected ways.

This presentation will introduce you to the breadth and depth of <nowiki>[[http://OpenStreetMap.org|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki> and related projects. You will learn why you should care about maps, how <nowiki>[[http://OpenStreetMap.org|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki> is beating every other map, and see some of the amazing things that are being done with <nowiki>[[http://OpenStreetMap.org|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki> data and software. The presentation will bring those with little or no OSM experience up to speed quickly and show how to use <nowiki>[[http://OpenStreetMap.org|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki> to make the maps you need.

This topic and presentation is suitable for those with no previous Linux experience as well as the Linux regulars. You can even bring your non-programming friends and colleagues to this presentation if they have any interest in maps, GPS, neighborhood advocacy, hiking, cycling, snowmobiling or geocaching. 

Some Background:
<nowiki>[[http://OpenStreetMap.org|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki> is a free editable map of the whole world. It is made by
people like you. 

<nowiki>[[http://OpenStreetMap.org|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki> allows you to view, edit and use geographical data in a
collaborative way from anywhere on Earth. 

link: http://www.openstreetmap.org/

Please feel free to pass this information on to any other groups that
may be interested. Cycling and hiking groups may be particularly
interested in the project.

Details:
* '''address''':<<BR>>
 Building 70<<BR>>
 RIT Campus<<BR>>
 Rochester,  NY 14623<<BR>>
* '''date''': April 16th, 2009
* '''time''': 7pm until 9pm
* '''room''': Large Lecture Hall / Auditorium
