{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
<nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam-Conference2008]]</nowiki>
* Theme
** barCamp Liberty
** other suggestions
* Lodging
* Food
* Facilities
* Sponsors
* publicity
=== Logs ===
<pre>
(09:03:18 PM) ausimage: Who is around for the meeting????
(09:03:52 PM) wastrel: committee eh
(09:03:56 PM) psychoneil: *handraise*
(09:05:03 PM) ausimage: give me moment...
(09:05:36 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20070828 is the agenda
(09:07:10 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: ??
(09:07:29 PM) ausimage: deejoe ??
(09:14:10 PM) ausimage: So are we all here?
(09:15:10 PM) ausimage: hmmm
(09:15:22 PM) ausimage: psychoneil: you still here?
(09:15:31 PM) psychoneil: yep
(09:15:50 PM) psychoneil: WAKE UP PEOPLES!!
(09:15:59 PM) wastrel: hi
(09:16:08 PM) ausimage: cool
(09:16:26 PM) ausimage: on the agenda is approving the theme 
(09:16:39 PM) ausimage: I propose barcamp liberty 
(09:16:51 PM) ausimage: anyother ideas ?
(09:17:12 PM) ausimage: psychoneil: ?
(09:17:14 PM) psychoneil: gee maybe 9pm was a bad idea.  worst.  attendance.  ever.
(09:17:19 PM) ausimage: samiam010203: ?
(09:17:23 PM) psychoneil: from what ive read its good
(09:17:32 PM) ausimage: yeah I am noticing it might be...
(09:17:45 PM) ausimage: but 6pm does not fair better :S
(09:18:14 PM) ausimage: well... hmmmm... no other better suggestions?
(09:18:41 PM) ausimage: I think barcamp liberty will be the name...
(09:19:00 PM) ***ausimage cannot help people who have been informed...
(09:19:06 PM) RobNyc left the room (quit: "Leaving").
(09:19:30 PM) ausimage: I am still working on facilities....
(09:19:32 PM) psychoneil: true
(09:20:14 PM) ausimage: one college does not allow outside groups to use their facilities... and I contacting another again today
(09:20:37 PM) ausimage: I think going the hotel route maybe more expensive... 
(09:20:37 PM) psychoneil: one possibly stupid question... what is BOFS?
(09:20:51 PM) ausimage: Birds of a Feather ;)
(09:20:59 PM) wastrel: bastard operator from seattle?
(09:21:01 PM) ausimage: groups of like minds...
(09:21:23 PM) psychoneil: ah ok
(09:21:39 PM) ausimage: We need to be trying to locate possible sponsors for our conference...
(09:22:11 PM) ausimage: n8k99 was working on a letter to be sent to potential business....
(09:22:21 PM) ausimage: had not heard more yet...
(09:22:57 PM) ausimage: anyone else with a personal contact do not hesitate to let us know and can contact them themselves
(09:25:02 PM) ausimage: on the phone 
(09:25:10 PM) psychoneil: k
(09:27:11 PM) ausimage: so the big things we need help on are sponsors and sponsors...
(09:27:45 PM) ausimage: From my understanding the sponsors will be direct-pay the vendors....
(09:28:11 PM) ausimage: Any have suggestions or comments or questions?
(09:29:13 PM) ausimage: Oh well nothing else... then ping me... meeting adjourned....
</pre>
