{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''XXth''' IRC General meeting of the '''NewYorkTeam''', starting at 6:00 PM EST and finishing at 7:30 EST
When adding new agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ (without the escape - `` marks) after each of your items. If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

== Agenda ==
* Meet Up Reports
** Rochester: First Thursday's at Victor Unos. October 4th 7pm
** Brooklyn: Saturday October 6, 2007 2:00 at K-Dog Cafe.
** Encouraging more Meet Ups
* Community Advocacy and Support
** Rochester Computer Refurbish with Ubuntu
** Developing more activities to benefit NY
** Encouraging Member Participation
** State Leadership Meeting
** Conference 2008
** Gutsy Release Parties?
* Discuss how to document incident resolution by a "lessons learned" section on the wiki.
** It would include a non-biased statement of the issue, how it was resolved, and an iWitness report or two.
** Pick a name for this which reflects the point that it is not a forum for personal agendas, but rather for team development and education.
* Team Application for official recognition
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Approval
** Team Resume of contributions to Ubuntu and its community involvement
== Attendance ==

== Minutes ==

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
(07:00:43 PM) ausimage: Hmmm... Who is present now?
(07:01:01 PM) ausimage: Agenda is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20071016
(07:01:45 PM) ausimage: deejoe, dhgwill, hendrixski, psychoneil_work, SMendelson, TheLastStatistic, WeblionX PING!!!!!
(07:02:12 PM) ausimage: Meeting will commence now
(07:02:16 PM) SMendelson: sry =\ busy-- kinda
(07:02:18 PM) SMendelson: lol
(07:02:24 PM) ausimage: ahh
(07:02:51 PM) ausimage: Well on the agenda we have 3 follow up reports
(07:02:57 PM) hendrixski: hey
(07:03:14 PM) ausimage: Rochester had a Meetup...
(07:03:26 PM) ausimage: someone like to say something about it?
hal14450 hendrixski 
(07:03:40 PM) hendrixski: oooh, meeting today?
(07:03:46 PM) hendrixski: wow, the first one I can make in a long time :-)
(07:03:48 PM) ausimage: yup
(07:03:53 PM) Dave123: im present
(07:04:26 PM) ausimage: hmmm well I guess I can briefly say some things then
(07:04:46 PM) ausimage: We met at unos again... eight showed up I think...
(07:04:59 PM) ausimage: We had few new faces too
(07:05:15 PM) ausimage: any thing else to add?
(07:05:27 PM) hendrixski: and a few of us went to Toronto
(07:05:32 PM) ausimage: yeah
(07:05:33 PM) hendrixski: for the Ontario Linuxfest
(07:05:35 PM) hal14450: ;-)
(07:05:44 PM) hendrixski: where we met this crazy dude, who owned a cafe
(07:05:50 PM) hendrixski: called the LINUX CAFFE
(07:05:50 PM) ausimage: We will get a report in a moment
(07:05:52 PM) hendrixski: with two f's
(07:06:05 PM) hendrixski: crazy SOB built his own cash register
(07:06:24 PM) ausimage: Um... next is the Report from NYC Meetup?
(07:06:55 PM) ausimage: anyone here that attended?
(07:07:58 PM) ausimage: oh well... then anyone want to share breifly about Torronto ?
(07:08:10 PM) hendrixski: as I was saying...
(07:08:16 PM) ausimage: :)
(07:08:22 PM) hendrixski: crazy MoFo built his own cash register
(07:08:26 PM) hal14450: we all had a really good time
(07:08:34 PM) Dave123: we got a pic wit the owner
(07:08:34 PM) hendrixski: and is going to be taking in old computers and giving them back to the communigyt
(07:09:07 PM) hal14450: yeah build your own pc from spare parts and learn how it works ;-)
(07:09:25 PM) yharrow [n=sysadmin@unaffiliated/yharrow] entered the room.
(07:09:36 PM) Dave123: we got a pic with maddog too
(07:09:37 PM) ausimage: hey yharrow meeting in progress
(07:09:52 PM) yharrow: cooness
(07:09:55 PM) hendrixski: yeah, that seemed like a pretty good business model, because it outsources the actual assembling computers, and installing linux part of it all
(07:09:56 PM) yharrow: thanks ausimage
(07:10:00 PM) yharrow: coolness*
(07:10:07 PM) ausimage: yeah I am the chairman;)
(07:10:19 PM) yharrow: ausimage: where are we up to?
(07:10:30 PM) ausimage: I have it yharrow...
(07:10:47 PM) ausimage: OK... next Encourage Meetups...
(07:11:15 PM) ausimage: um... I think it is good to encourage more Meetups...
(07:11:26 PM) yharrow: ausimage: not debating that ;), just wanted to know what I missed
(07:11:31 PM) ausimage: ahhh
(07:12:13 PM) ausimage: We need to be working with the LUGS and Computer groups to build more Meetups
(07:12:29 PM) hendrixski: and non-computer groups
(07:12:55 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: what sort of groups ?
(07:13:00 PM) hendrixski: "outreach" as it's called
(07:13:01 PM) ausimage: that too... I would love to see an Ubuntu meetup group in each major city and some minor cities as well
(07:13:17 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, like community groups, non-for profits.  that want a technology solution
(07:13:19 PM) hendrixski: or schools
(07:13:43 PM) yharrow: I think though we would have to take a differnt approach for non computer groups
(07:13:44 PM) hendrixski: or chatty teenage girls, who want to use Ubuntu to check their myspace and gossip about Paris Hilton
(07:13:49 PM) ausimage: Yeah their important sources too
(07:13:49 PM) yharrow: lol :P
(07:13:51 PM) hendrixski: well... maybe not that last group
(07:14:18 PM) ausimage: Um next on the agenda is Advocacy and Support
(07:14:39 PM) ausimage: Rochester Computers Refurbishing
(07:14:44 PM) ausimage: go hal14450`
(07:15:06 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, yes we would.  for example:  I tried getting my GF into this, and her problem is that 1) it's all guys, 2) it's all guys talking about nerdy things 3) it's all guys talking about nerdy things that don't apply to her
(07:15:26 PM) hal14450: we're still trying to figure out what to do w/ the computers we have but we did get some great ideas and made a couple of contacts w/ poeple at olf in TO
(07:15:26 PM) hendrixski: the approach we'd have to take is "what things interest you? Ok this is how Ubuntu can help you accomplish those"
(07:15:34 PM) SMendelson left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(07:15:39 PM) ausimage: hendrixski: she needs linux chix
(07:15:52 PM) yharrow: lol, that would indicate that we have to attach some kind of coolness factor in some of our approaches
hal14450 hendrixski 
(07:16:04 PM) ausimage: that is good hal14450
(07:16:10 PM) yharrow: beryl is a great start. and pointing out lack of virii
(07:16:14 PM) yharrow: imo
(07:16:36 PM) yharrow: hal14450: nice, how many computers were you able to obtain?
(07:17:28 PM) hal14450: 10 i think including a server
(07:17:36 PM) ausimage: that is great
(07:17:40 PM) yharrow: hal14450: very cool :)
(07:17:45 PM) yharrow: hal14450: you had help?
(07:18:18 PM) hal14450: we got them from someone that wanted to get rid of stuff through lugoer
(07:18:23 PM) hal14450: lugor
(07:18:52 PM) yharrow: hal14450: wow, its great that we are benefitting from the relationship with lugor.
(07:19:20 PM) hal14450: yeh we're off the ground at lease
(07:19:24 PM) yharrow: speaking of which , do you think we should make a policy to help out computer groups we partner with?
(07:19:44 PM) yharrow: sorta, like a give some get soem relationship
(07:20:03 PM) ausimage: Yeah that kinda goes into the next topic ;)
(07:20:04 PM) hal14450: try to facilitate reaching out to other gorpus is a great idea
(07:20:30 PM) ausimage: Developing more activities to benifit NY
(07:20:41 PM) yharrow: hmm
(07:20:56 PM) ausimage: and they work towards our application https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Approval ;)
(07:21:11 PM) yharrow: so we are talking classes and such?
(07:21:36 PM) ausimage: more than classes....
(07:21:42 PM) hal14450: that's a start i guess
(07:22:25 PM) ausimage: it is community outreach.... building linux labs and spreading ubuntu to every corner too
(07:22:52 PM) ausimage: get local community centers to go Ubuntu
(07:23:16 PM) hendrixski: ausimage, that approval thing's been submitted already, yes?
(07:23:24 PM) ausimage: no...
(07:23:31 PM) hal14450: http://unitedwaybrucegrey.blogspot.com/2007/10/stars.html   <--- these guys had a good presentation and some great dieas
(07:23:33 PM) hendrixski: what criteria don't we meet?
(07:23:38 PM) ausimage: we were trying to work on adding more things...
(07:23:40 PM) yharrow: ausimage: whats the defnintion of a llinux lab?
(07:23:53 PM) hendrixski: hal14450, ah, you went to the united way presentation at the linuxfest?
(07:24:00 PM) hal14450: yep ;-)
(07:24:13 PM) ausimage: um... computer labs that are Ubuntu primarily
(07:24:17 PM) hal14450: i couldn't hear much of anything at the linux advocacy one
(07:24:26 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: we need to have 3 big events or activites. and I think it might benefit us to  apply after n8k99 goes to the UN
(07:24:41 PM) yharrow: in fact
(07:24:48 PM) yharrow: I think we should apply directly after
(07:24:55 PM) ausimage: :D
(07:25:08 PM) yharrow: it will have a big effect
(07:25:13 PM) ausimage: we should make the sure app is in order and comprehensive too
(07:25:13 PM) yharrow: and will be hard to turn down
(07:25:24 PM) ausimage: yup
(07:25:44 PM) yharrow: we might even make the new s ^^
(07:25:58 PM) hal14450: would be nice
(07:26:12 PM) yharrow: if we do, then will have to capitalize on that publicity right awayy
(07:26:36 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, ah Ok
(07:26:41 PM) yharrow: I think it might help if we have procedures and experience already in place by the time that comes round
(07:27:13 PM) hendrixski: and once we apply, will Jono let us hold an event?
(07:27:18 PM) yharrow: so yeah, like ausimage said, I believe that its important for us to start reaching out asap
(07:27:23 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: what do you mean ?
(07:27:32 PM) yharrow: :)
(07:28:02 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, the entire thing about holding a conference, but needing to be a nonforprofit to do that... etc. etc.
(07:28:08 PM) ausimage: umm... the event thing is tied up needing a not-for-profit entity
(07:28:13 PM) hendrixski: and needing license rights to the ubuntu name, etc.
(07:28:47 PM) hendrixski: or getting a larger company to offer to act as the go between... a larger company like Canonical maybe?
(07:28:57 PM) ausimage: hendrixski: I do not know if cannonical would still give us the permission :S
(07:29:30 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: oh shucks. Well yes, once we are approved it will most probably make our position alot easier
(07:29:46 PM) hendrixski: easy is good
(07:29:55 PM) ausimage: yup
(07:30:29 PM) ausimage: I think as we get these many outreach projects going membership involvement is going to be crucial
(07:30:31 PM) ausimage: ...
(07:30:32 PM) hal14450: getting a sponsor seems like the best idea to me at least trying that avenue anyway
(07:30:58 PM) hal14450: it's the easiest solution
(07:31:18 PM) ausimage: Which is the next topic  Encouraging Member Participation
(07:31:50 PM) ausimage: Do those here have answers about how to get more participation from the team?
(07:32:00 PM) yharrow: I think project management will be a huge help
(07:32:06 PM) ausimage: spreading the load amongst alll
(07:32:06 PM) yharrow: if we get in place and working
(07:32:15 PM) ausimage: yharrow: It IS
(07:32:23 PM) yharrow: ok ,t hen we need to publicize
(07:32:30 PM) yharrow: let people know about it
(07:32:37 PM) yharrow: an make a wiki page or manual
(07:32:45 PM) yharrow: telling them how to use it
(07:33:07 PM) yharrow: it should be in a prominent place on both the wiki and website if its functional and effective
(07:33:22 PM) yharrow: we should also mention it frequently in chat
(07:33:32 PM) ausimage: projects.newyork-ubuntu.com
(07:33:45 PM) ausimage: is the addie I belive
(07:34:19 PM) yharrow: ok
(07:34:32 PM) yharrow: and we can add projects from there?
(07:34:32 PM) ausimage: I removed the need to login to add projects or add notes
(07:34:37 PM) yharrow: thats good
(07:34:38 PM) ausimage: YEAH
(07:35:16 PM) ausimage: I think part of it is the perception of the amount of time it will take to accomplish things
(07:35:26 PM) yharrow: I think we should all take a quick look at the page now.
(07:36:03 PM) yharrow: by the way, Dave123 , deejoe , dhgwill , falken , isacklow_afk , Jaguar  , Jaguar  psychoneil_work  , TheLastStatistic  , WeblionX  , Zelut  the meeting has started
(07:36:19 PM) ***hendrixski knows
(07:36:22 PM) ausimage: Um not all them are members
(07:36:27 PM) ausimage: :S
(07:36:47 PM) Dave123: im here
(07:36:59 PM) yharrow: ausimage:  which ones arent?
(07:37:04 PM) yharrow: Dave123: howdy :)
(07:37:09 PM) ***Dave123 has discussed all this stuff with ausimage and hal14450 
(07:37:20 PM) ausimage: Jaguar, falken, Zelut
(07:37:22 PM) yharrow: cool
(07:37:30 PM) yharrow: ok
(07:37:32 PM) Dave123: falken, hi
(07:37:32 PM) falken: bonjour, Dave123
(07:37:53 PM) hal14450: hello, falken
(07:37:53 PM) falken: hola, hal14450
(07:38:02 PM) hendrixski: bonjour
(07:38:04 PM) hal14450: falken you are the channel bot
(07:38:04 PM) falken: ...but falken is falken's bot?...
(07:38:05 PM) Dave123: falken, would you like to play a game
(07:38:05 PM) falken: Dave123: huh?
(07:38:14 PM) hal14450: channel bot
(07:38:16 PM) hendrixski: ça va
(07:38:21 PM) hal14450: falken channel bot
(07:38:21 PM) falken: hal14450: i'm not following you...
(07:38:23 PM) yharrow: falken, would you like to join the meeting?
(07:38:23 PM) falken: yharrow: no idea
(07:38:32 PM) Dave123: falken, the only winning move is not to play?
(07:38:32 PM) falken: i haven't a clue, dave123
(07:38:38 PM) hal14450: channel bot
(07:38:43 PM) yharrow: lol
(07:38:43 PM) ausimage: Um... I am open to suggestions to as improvements  to the site
(07:38:48 PM) yharrow: guys
(07:38:54 PM) ***hal14450 slaps his forehead
(07:38:57 PM) yharrow: i think we should all take a quick loko at the site
(07:39:00 PM) ausimage: But we need to keep moving too
(07:39:00 PM) yharrow: hehe
(07:39:10 PM) yharrow: projects. newyork-ubuntu.com
(07:39:18 PM) hendrixski: il y a un chanel bot    ouaou
(07:39:21 PM) yharrow: projects.newyork-ubuntu.com
(07:40:02 PM) ausimage: I think I made self explainatory
(07:40:05 PM) ausimage: :S
(07:40:17 PM) yharrow: ausimage: in regard to waht?
(07:40:36 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, le projects.newyork-ubuntu.com a besoin d'être en français
(07:40:43 PM) hendrixski: j/k
(07:40:46 PM) ausimage: there is a direct link suggest project
(07:41:09 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: yous peak french?
(07:41:10 PM) yharrow: lol
(07:41:20 PM) ausimage: which is web form
(07:41:21 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, I lived in Paris
(07:41:22 PM) hendrixski: once
(07:41:26 PM) hendrixski: long ago
(07:41:27 PM) yharrow: nice ^^
(07:41:37 PM) ausimage: each project has a web form at the bottom to add notes
(07:41:48 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, et toi?
(07:42:11 PM) ausimage: not sure how much easier it can be ??
(07:42:52 PM) yharrow: I am as american as apple pie
(07:42:52 PM) yharrow: lol
(07:43:06 PM) yharrow: ausimage: I think you did a great job man ;)
(07:43:16 PM) hendrixski: oh, I was going to suggest that maybe there may be immigrant communites we may want to outreach to as well :-/
(07:43:28 PM) yharrow: if we have any suggestions for the project manager though, we can prolly even make an project out of that :P
(07:44:06 PM) hal14450: lol
(07:44:17 PM) ausimage: yeah... I guess
(07:44:38 PM) ausimage: I get emails for all changes on the site
(07:44:46 PM) yharrow: nice
(07:44:55 PM) yharrow: ausimage:what is the next topic?
(07:44:59 PM) ausimage: ummm....
(07:45:11 PM) ausimage: State Leadership Meeting....
(07:45:16 PM) ausimage: is next...
(07:45:39 PM) ausimage: There are two dates in the air the 11th and the 17th
(07:45:47 PM) yharrow: ausimage: of november?
(07:45:54 PM) ausimage: this meeting is not conference per se....
(07:45:57 PM) ausimage: yeah
(07:46:22 PM) ausimage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewYorkTeam/Meetings/20071117
(07:46:39 PM) yharrow: if the meeting took place on the 17th I would not be able to attend but I guess ifyou want to have a meeitng without me you can do that.
(07:46:50 PM) ausimage: It is more a directional meeting to set our goals and such
(07:47:17 PM) yharrow: meeting*
(07:47:23 PM) yharrow: ausimage: so the date is already set?
(07:47:30 PM) ausimage: I have one recieved one other reply for the 11th
(07:47:39 PM) ausimage: and one prefering the 17th
(07:48:07 PM) yharrow: How do we determine what date to hold the meeting on?
(07:48:09 PM) ausimage: yharrow: can you actually come?
(07:48:10 PM) hal14450: well if we can get more people on another date i think we should keep that flexible until the end of the month
(07:48:26 PM) yharrow: ausimage: if its not a Friday or Saturday then yes
(07:48:42 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, I haven't met you in person yet... I'm all about making this a meeting that as many people can attend as possible
(07:48:52 PM) hal14450: i agree
(07:48:54 PM) ausimage: I am tooo....
(07:49:25 PM) hal14450: but the aim is to get as many people as possible to attend and hopefully we can all find a date that works
(07:49:34 PM) ***Dave123 cant do a lot of sundays until the end of the year
(07:49:44 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: same here. although I would like verymuch to meet the team. I guess if the day is good for everybody except me, I suppose its better to meet without me
(07:50:09 PM) hal14450: i'm pretty easy so sundays would work for me
(07:50:11 PM) ausimage: but there has been little in way of feedback from the team on this... even after I sent an email to the list
(07:50:30 PM) hal14450: but they might not work for other people that have to make long trips as well
(07:50:30 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, you can't drive on sat. right?
(07:50:37 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: correct
(07:51:18 PM) yharrow: hendrixski:a uestion will also be, who will be holding the meeting?
(07:51:21 PM) yharrow: question*
(07:51:31 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, what are the rules about guyum (spelling) driving you places?
(07:51:47 PM) yharrow: goyimyou mean?
(07:51:51 PM) yharrow: goyim*
(07:51:52 PM) yharrow: :P
(07:51:57 PM) hendrixski: yeah
(07:52:12 PM) yharrow: complicated. the easiest solution is not to get in a car at all
(07:52:13 PM) hendrixski: I've only heard it said, never saw it written out
(07:52:21 PM) hendrixski: ah  Ok
(07:52:48 PM) yharrow: you are right though, there are certain stipulations and conditions etc
(07:52:55 PM) hendrixski: and... if you were to travel on Friday before sun-down then spend the night... and wait until sat. sundown before heading back... then it's do-able?
(07:53:10 PM) yharrow: but the only obvious one is if its life threatening. and this as important as it may be, is not ;)
(07:53:54 PM) hendrixski: lol,  unless someone threatened to kill you if you didn't come :-p
(07:54:02 PM) hal14450: hehe
hal14450 hendrixski 
(07:54:15 PM) hendrixski: well, yharrow here's what I'm getting at:
(07:54:22 PM) ***ausimage wonders about hendrixski mob connections :S
(07:54:24 PM) yharrow: hendrixski: sure, but if the meeting is on sat, i wont be able to get in cars/busses, write, use comptuers turn on/off lights, cook, shop, use automatic doors, escalators, elevators, etc
(07:54:26 PM) Dave123: yharrow, i will haunt you down like bambi but you will be same in one spot
(07:54:28 PM) yharrow: lol
(07:54:44 PM) Dave123: safe
(07:54:44 PM) hal14450: lol
(07:54:51 PM) hendrixski: my parents live south of Albany, where there's great terrain for skiing....
(07:54:59 PM) hendrixski: and if we were to have a ski trip/ meeting
(07:55:02 PM) ***yharrow runs
(07:55:09 PM) hal14450: we should all talk this over on the phone
(07:55:12 PM) ausimage: Lets finish this on sip in a few
(07:55:31 PM) ausimage: we have about five minutes left for the meeting
(07:55:31 PM) hendrixski: we can get you up that way on friday before sundown, you'd have a place to stay, and then sat. we can meet up...
(07:55:34 PM) hal14450: for those w/ a sip account the extension is 5000
(07:55:59 PM) ausimage: or 5000@sip.nerdsonlinux.net
(07:56:12 PM) hendrixski: yharrow, ah, didn't know it extended to escalators and that stuff as well
(07:56:15 PM) ausimage: um.... last main topic is Gutsy parties
(07:56:35 PM) ausimage: I hear yharrow is thinking about one in NYC
(07:56:56 PM) ausimage: Are there any others being worked on?
(07:57:06 PM) hal14450: hendrixski, i guess i gave you an extension at one point
(07:57:18 PM) yharrow: I am indeed
(07:57:21 PM) hendrixski: hal14450, you have
(07:57:26 PM) hendrixski: I still haven't tried it
(07:57:33 PM) hal14450: lol okay
(07:57:40 PM) hendrixski: and my mic on this computer is... well, I can't figure it out
(07:57:46 PM) yharrow: it is going to be held in Think coffee between 2-4 pm but it may run later
(07:57:58 PM) yharrow: I am not sure about this sunday or next thoguh
(07:58:02 PM) hal14450: if push comes to shove you can use a regular phone and my 800 #
(07:58:05 PM) yharrow: i am leaning towards next sunday
(07:58:08 PM) ausimage: um... anything else important?
(07:58:30 PM) hal14450: cool gutsy rls party
(07:58:46 PM) ausimage: is there one for rochester?
(07:58:53 PM) hal14450: not that i know of
(07:58:58 PM) ausimage: k
(07:59:05 PM) ausimage: alright then.... 
(07:59:13 PM) ausimage: lets call this meeting to a close...
(07:59:16 PM) ausimage: :D
</pre>
