{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Memory benchmarking will allow us to see which programs are using more memory than they need, which will allow us to fix these programs, thereby reducing Ubuntu's memory footprint.  This will allow Ubuntu to run faster on machines with less memory, especially in the Mobile space.

=== How to Install Nexus7-Benchmarker ===

To install our benchmarking tool, simply add our ppa, and apt-get install it .[TODO cwayne: write actual instructions here]

=== How to run ===

Our benchmarking tool uses a special tool called 'atop' to get a certain set of results that are most helpful to us. Our tool does all of the calls to atop so that you don't have to.

The tool can be run either from command line, or from a GUI.  To run from the GUI simply search the dash for 'benchmark' and open Nexus7-Benchmarker.  This GUI will ask you which kind of benchmarking you'd like to do (either benchmark the entire system, or focus on a specific application).

=== Results ===

Please paste results here.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Buildstamp
| Launchpad ID
| Test Type
| Total Memory
| Free Memory
| Free Memory(Max)
| Used Memory(Avg)
| Used Memory(Max)
|-
| 20121223.1
| sfeole
| Sys Idle
| 8109104
| 1833040
| 1833708
| 6276064
| 6277400
|-
| 33333.3
| sfeole
| FF
| 8109104
| 1806316
| 1809884
| 6302788
| 6306700
|}
