{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


It’s time to look at the core of Ubuntu and review it through a mobile lens. During 13.04, we will like to measure and improve how the guts of our platform performs against mobile metrics.

Things like battery life, memory footprint, support for sensors... are areas where needs and expectation widely vary between a PC and a mobile devices. 13.04 will be a cycle of exploration and learning. Because there is no better way to learn that getting your hands dirty, our practical exercise will be to get Ubuntu Desktop working on the Nexus 7.

The Nexus 7 exercise will be less like a 100 meters sprint (if you don't cross the finish line you don't get a score) and more like Javelin competition. The further that we can throw it, the higher the score!

On those basis, here are 8 types of Javelins to throw and some distance markers to hit for Ubuntu Desktop on Nexus 7:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#CCCCCC> '''Javelin'''
| <#CCCCCC> 1st Marker
| <#CCCCCC> 2nd Marker
| <#CCCCCC> 3rd Marker
| <#CCCCCC> 4th Marker
| <#CCCCCC> 5th Marker
|-
| '''Memory Usage'''
| <#90EE90> Desktop runs well with 1GB RAM (!)
| Desktop, Web Browser and email app all run well within 1GB
| Desktop runs well with 512MB
| Desktop, Web Browser and email app all run well within 512MB
|-
| '''Power Management'''
| <#FF7F7F> <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-nexus7/+bug/1072670|Instant on]]</nowiki> {X}
| Suspend/Resume 100 cycles with only 1 error
| boot up time <1 min
| Sensible Auto Suspend policy
|-
| '''Battery Life'''
| CPU on idle <1%
| Standby battery life is > 150 hours
| Battery life while browsing is > 8 hours
| Battery life playing HD video is > 5 hours
| Standby battery life is > 275 hours
|-
| '''Testing'''
| Functional shell test that can be loaded manually into the ROM
| Performance tests can be run
| Automated battery life test
|-
| '''Desktop Apps'''
| Web browser boots < 3 sec
| Email client (local or web apps)
| Music Player
| Video Player
| Games
|-
| '''Desktop Unity Performance'''
| Fast App-Stack switching
| Launcher Reveal time < 2 secs
| Dash Reveal time < 3 secs
| Dash search < 5 sec
| Unity performs >60 FPS
|-
| '''Functionality'''
| <#90EE90> Unity Desktop works (!)
| <#FF7F7F> <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-nexus7/+bug/1068994|touch input performs well]]</nowiki> {X}
| <#90EE90> Play a youtube video of a cat (!)
| Play an HD movie
| Ubuntu one
|-
| '''Sensors'''
| Mic & Wifi
| Touch
| Camera
| position awareness sensors
| NFC
|}
