{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Developer area for Nexus 7 ===
==== Our Source Code ====
Ongoing development for the Nexus 7 for raring (13.04) is being done in the Ubuntu archive itself, 
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-nexus7/+archive/ppa|our old PPA]]</nowiki> contains the modified packages that were used for the 12.10 Ubuntu Nexus7 image.  If you're basing your work on 12.10, you may need to use this PPA, otherwise please ignore it and work with the sources in raring proper in the Ubuntu archive.

The <nowiki>[[Nexus7-Kernel|kernel code]]</nowiki> is a very slightly modified copy of the original Android kernel that the Nexus7 runs. The Original Google repository can be found at https://android.googlesource.com/kernel/tegra/. We sync up with new branches corresponding to new firmware updates there as Google makes them available.

Ubuntu repository: http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/ubuntu-nexus7.git;a=summary

==== Things to get involved with ====
===== Packaging and Bug fixing =====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-nexus7/+archive/ppa | Patched packages ]]</nowiki>. These patches will make it to Ubuntu 13.04 (raring) soon. If you have upload rights and know the packages well, you can help us getting the patches from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-nexus7/+archive/ppa|our PPA]]</nowiki> into 13.04.
* If you are not yet privy to Ubuntu Development, you can help us to <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage|triage bugs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Bugs-Upstream|forward bugs upstream]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/packaging/html/fixing-a-bug.html|fix bugs]]</nowiki>. The list of bugs for the Nexus 7 can be found here: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-nexus7

To get started, please read the <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/packaging/html/|first chapters of the packaging guide]]</nowiki>. Depending on how much you dived into Ubuntu Development already, the introduction, the instructions on how to get set up and how to fix bugs in Ubuntu will be helpful. 

To get a `armhf` pbuilder up and running simply run: <pre>
sudo apt-get install qemu-user-static
pbuilder-dist (quantal|raring) armhf create
pbuilder-dist (quantal|raring) armhf build somepackage_version.dsc
</pre>

Once the build is complete, cd into your ~/pbuilder/(quantal|raring)-armhf_result directory and you can copy over the .deb files and install them on your Nexus7. 

===== Measuring and debugging =====
You can also help out by doing performance tests. The following pages will help you get started:
* <nowiki>[[..-MeasuringPowerConsumption | Measuring Power Consumption]]</nowiki>. Everybody wants devices to run for ages without having to recharge. Help out here!
* <nowiki>[[..-MeasuringMemoryUsage | Measuring Memory Usage]]</nowiki>. It's important we get low memory foot-print. By measuring and finding issues, you can help us out a lot.
* <nowiki>[[..-BrowsingSimulation | Simulation Realistic Usage Using A Browser]]</nowiki>. When you are profiling what eats your battery or memory, it is important to use a realistic behaviour pattern. Here is a tool that does that within Chromium.

==== General info ====
<nowiki>[[..-Kernel | To build the kernel]]</nowiki> follow these instructions.

<<Anchor(ReachOut))>>
You can reach us in the #ubuntu-arm irc channel on irc.freenode.net. General discussion happens on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel|ubuntu-devel]]</nowiki> mailing list. (For Desktop issues you might want to refer to https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-desktop and for kernel issues to https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kernel-team)

The Ubuntu-Core-on-Nexus7 hackers have set up a wiki page to track <nowiki>[[Nexus7-raring-targets|their progress for the raring cycle]]</nowiki>. It should give you a good idea what's currently going on and where you should be able to help out.

=== UDS-R related blueprints ===

If you are interested in helping to optimize the Ubuntu core for mobile, subscribe to the following blueprints or get a good general overview on <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/group/topic-raring-desktop-targets-for-embedded.html|this status page]]</nowiki>.

If you are interested in any of the work items discussed in the blueprints, please <nowiki>[[#ReachOut|reach out to us]]</nowiki>. We want to work together with you as much as we can. 

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-r-targets-for-embedded]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-r-reduced-power-ram]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-r-arm-reduce-footprint]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-r-improve-cross-compilation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-r-arm-boot-resume-speedup]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-r-arm-usb-creator-fastboot-support]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-r-android-image-builds]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/hardware-r-arm-power-measurement]]</nowiki>
