{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



If you need to re-create some real-user browsing to drive power and memory profiling, there is a very good Chromium extension that repeats an one-hour usage pattern:

* [First 60% of the test] Browsing: a new website is loaded every minute.  The web page loaded is scrolled down one page every second, then scrolled back up one page every second.
* [Next 20%] Email: Gmail is loaded in the foreground tab and audio is streamed from a background tab.
* [Next 10%] Documents: Various Google Docs are loaded.
* [Final 10%] Video: A full screen 480p YouTube Video is played.

The original chromium extensions is part of the <nowiki>[[http://www.chromium.org/chromium-os/testing/power-testing|Chrome OS]]</nowiki> test suite. 

The modified extension for the nexus 7 is available <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~vtuson/+junk/load_test_nexus7/files | here]]</nowiki>.

To use the extension:
* branch the bzr branch locally into the nexus 7 (`$ bzr branch lp:~vtuson/+junk/load_test_nexus7`)
* install chromium: sudo apt-get install chromium-browser
* launch chromium and from the menu go to tools --> extensions
* In the extension view, click on "developer mode"
* now you will have an option called "Load unpacked extension..." , click in it and browse to your local folder called "extension/"

Once the extension is loaded, it will self-start any time that you open the browser. As an exampe test, there is a run_loadtest shell script in the same branch than the extension that will launch the browser and take battery and brightness levels every 15 minutes for ever.
