{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Known Issues ==

''' Please note as of 12/7/2012 we strongly urge users to push to Raring 13.04 '''

=== Fastboot failures ===

Occasionally, Fastboot will fail to run a command.  If this happens, the installer will fail gracefully, and tell you to restart.  The best way to get around this is to unplug the tablet, reboot into fastboot mode, plug back in, and run the installer again.

=== Low memory ===
In 13.04, the Nexus 7 is targeted as a development reference platform for the express purpose of optimizing Ubuntu core for CPU consumption, memory pressure, and power consumption.

By default, the desktop consumes too much RAM which can lead to crashes due to out of memory conditions.

If you are not a developer and simply wish to experiment with the Ubuntu desktop on the Nexus 7, you may wish to enable zram compression to slightly improve performance. To do so:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install zram-config
</pre>

and then reboot. 

/!\ '''Please Note:''' Enabling this will prevent you from helping us identify and resolve these issues.  If you want to help make things better, do '''NOT''' enable zram compression /!\

=== Sound ===
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-nexus7/+bug/1068804|Sound does not work immediately upon boot]]</nowiki>. However, it does work after a suspend/resume cycle.

=== Bluetooth ===

* --( <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1070770|Bluetooth not yet working]]</nowiki> )-- Fixed -- 12.10
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1087562|Bluetooth Currently does not work in 13.04 for Nexus7]]</nowiki>

=== Other ===
* --(<nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1065638|Unity Panels don't display visuals]]</nowiki> )--   - Fixed (13.04 specific)
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1068442|Rotation doesn't work when the tablet is physically rotated]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1067954|TTY1 doesn't work (switches but is blank)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1071228|Difficult to scroll in Unity]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1071326|No way to right click]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1059955|Suspend from power menu (when power button is pressed) does not work]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1068672|Webcam doesn't work]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1068994|Sometimes 'button 1' gets stuck down]]</nowiki>, making it impossible to click anything. There is a race-condition with active/passive input grabs in the xserver, easy to reproduce with unity by opening menus quickly
** workaround is to not rush it -- let the menus/dash open completely before doing something else 
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1071351|Shutdown is slow, taking 10-15 seconds]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1071508|Onboard onscreen keyboard doesn't always show when it should]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1075326|On screen keyboard doesn't re-position in order to see input]]</nowiki>

All <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-nexus7|ubuntu-nexus7 bugs]]</nowiki>.

=== Differences from Stock 13.04 ===

The image is not preconfigured, so the user will have a desktop like experience
after flashing. The user will configure their own username/password 

We have merged many of the Nexus7 related packages into the Raring PPA so there is no 
need to add the public PPA as done with 12.10.
* kernel image
* firmware blobs for Broadcom WiFi and Bluetooth -- Awaiting Bug# <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1087562| 1087562]]</nowiki>
* nvidia-tegra3 package tweaked to work around a library loading problem
* patched Unity and Nux to work around a Tegra3 driver limitation

----
''' This heading below is specific to the Initial Release Nexus7 Image, 12.10  '''

=== Differences from Stock 12.10 ===

The image is a preconfigured ext4 filesystem image, so no installer is being run.
The default user/pass are ubuntu/ubuntu and this user gets logged in automatically.
The hostname is nexus7-$SOME-RANDOM-WORD to avoid naming collisions in the network.

The extra package changes and additions reside in a public PPA. These include:
* kernel image
* firmware blobs for Broadcom WiFi and Bluetooth
* nvidia-tegra3 package tweaked to work around a library loading problem
* patched Unity and Nux to work around a Tegra3 driver limitation
* default settings for sound, autologin, etc.

While the image is aiming to be close to stock ubuntu-desktop, some packages are not included:

The rhythmbox-ubuntuone package is removed as it causes rhythmbox to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-nexus7/+bug/1068959|crash on startup]]</nowiki>.
LibreOffice and Thunderbird are removed in order to decrease the image size.
