{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Packages affected''': nfs-common, ...?

=== Summary ===
While a newly installed Ubuntu desktop is able to for example do

mount 10.1.2.3:/home /home -t nfs -o rw,defaults,nfsvers=3

it will perform very slow and even fail (timeout) if the nfs-common package is not installed. This spec suggests to wrap mount ...-t nfs... to send a notification to dbus(?) so that a popup can be present to the user to install nfs-common in case this is not already done.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use cases ===

* Bring laptop to work and mount the NFS servers there
* Setup an NFS network at home

=== Scope ===

Increase usability for laptop users and people unexperienced with NFS

=== Design ===

I suggest that the mount command is wrapped to aviod affecting upstream too much since dbus is a new and possibly a slightly Ubuntu specific concept. The gnome-mount package project https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/gnome-mount would be ideal. The wrapper should throw dbus events when the user or the automounter mounts a new filesystem.  The user should be able to make a setting to accept or ignore these suggestions automtically. The dbus event should be catched by a deamon responsible for handling the (lightbulb?) popup and trigger the package installer if the user so chooses.

=== Implementation ===

The DBUS event thrower could be implemented in gnome-mount.

The lightbulb-daemon daemon is either already existing for similar purposes or written similarily to the Ubuntu update checker.

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

When this wrapper is installed the original mount could be renamed to mount-debian or similar and a script installs as /bin/mount doing the correct things to generate the dbus events. This way all functionality is still preserved and the migration is transparent. There is probably a better way of doing this but we need to catch both /etc/fstab mounts, automounts and terminal mounts.

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec CategoryLaptop
