{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
This template would help in collecting infos on existing experiences.

== General Case Study Guidelines ==
'''Summary''' ''(100 words approx.) This should just be a brief overview covering the challenges faced by the NGO before deploying Ubuntu, what the Ubuntu solution consists of and how it works, then the amazing benefits.''

'''Challenge or situation''' ''(250 words approx.) This should probably include an opening paragraph that provides a general context. It should start with the kinds of issues NGOs generally have to deal with. Then it should focus on the specific problems or requirements the NGO you're interviewing had.''

'''Solution''' ''(250 words approx.) This should just outline the Ubuntu solution. How the new IT environment fits together, how users use it and how sys admins manage it. Here we should focus on the architectural part of the solutions and where Ubuntu has been used: servers, clients, other devices or a combination.''

'''Benefits – with subheadings''' ''(400 words approx.) I tend to break my benefits up under subheadings. Each benefit should hopefully have one paragraph talking about how much time or money has been saved and one paragraph with a supporting quote.''

== Interview Questions ==
* What is the mission of your organisation?
* Can you give us a few examples of what you have done? Maybe you have some pictures you can share?
* '''Other Software'''
** Did you also use other linux distros?
** Did you also use proprietary software?
** In this case, what feature do you think is missing in Ubuntu that forced you to choose proprietary software?
* '''Suggestions'''
** What do you suggest should be done in Ubuntu to better match your needs?
** What would you like to see improved in Ubuntu resources like documentation?
* '''Experiences'''
** What is the biggest difficulty you encountered with Ubuntu?
** and what do you think is the best trick you learned along the way?
** What would you suggest to our readers that are interested in an initiative like yours?
** How can interested readers help your organisation?
* ''' Photos and stories'''
** Collect few photos of the initiative
** Ask if there's particular anecdotes, good or funny stories, best lessons that reporter would like to tell to the world.

== Case Study Template ==
'''Name of reporter:'''

'''Name of NGO:'''

'''Location (city, country):'''

'''Web Links:'''

'''Other Software'''

'''Suggestions'''

'''Experiences'''

''' Photos and stories'''

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryNGO]]</nowiki>
