{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== What ===

We want to help and support areas with no internet. This page will list TODO items and ideas be fore move actual solutions to the <nowiki>[[NGO-KnowledgeBase]]</nowiki>.

* Offline wikipedia?
** http://www.moulinwiki.org/
** http://wwww.wikipediaondvd.com/
** http://schools-wikipedia.org/ (cuts back heavily on articles that are not appropriate for young readers)
** http://www.openzim.org/ The ZIM file format was created to provide a standard way to make webcontent offline available. Its major usage is to provide Wikipedia content offline, like in Wikipedia DVDs. The openZIM project is sponsored by [http://www.wikimedia.ch/ Wikimedia CH].
** http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:1.0
* Project Gutenburg
** http://www.gutenberg.org
* !OpenStreetMap
** http://www.openstreetmap.org/index.html

* customised Live CDs
* Ubuntu partial mirror (multiple arch's preferably)
* Ubuntu Add-on CD from already downloaded packages (Say from /var/cache/apt/archives)
** also see <nowiki>[[NGO-OfflineUpdating]]</nowiki>
* We need to investigate <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D-STAR|D-STAR]]</nowiki>. This is a technology that can give you ~128Kbs via long range radio signals. Linux drivers exist.
* We need to investigate mesh networking options like those demonstrated in OLPC XO computer.  One product might be Digi's Xbee usb adapter.  I believe it comes in both Zigbee and generic 802.15.4 models.  <nowiki>[[http://www.digi.com/products/wireless/zigbee-mesh/xbee-zb-adapters.jsp]]</nowiki>. Interesting application if low power mesh technology would give NGO's and other disaster first responders the ability to do immediate low power networking of mostly textual content (e.g. critical  updates).  Mesh's primary purpose would be to provide communication prior to when other wireless infrastructure becomes available.  Do Linux drivers exist.]]. 

* Maps
** OpenStreetMap Planet file: http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Planet.osm

* Include packages that can provide non-internet connectivity, such as FrontlineSMS, see https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/395886

=== Contacts ===
* Daniel Holbach
* Jonathan Carter
* Hardik Dalwadi
* Rory !McCann
* Hendra Indriyanto

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryNGO]]</nowiki>
