{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu IRC operators are responsible for managing the different Ubuntu <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-Scope|channels]]</nowiki> on freenode.

=== Requirements for becoming an Ubuntu operator ===

* Applicants should:
** Be active in the channel they are applying to be an operator in
** Have at least a basic understanding about how to perform different operator actions (i.e. banning, kicking, removing, quieting, etc.)
** Have a history of good participation and behavior
** Have signed the Ubuntu Code of Conduct

=== Procedure ===

If you feel that you meet all of the requirements for being an Ubuntu operator and you wish to apply as an operator for one (or more) of the Ubuntu IRC channels, you should perform the following steps:

# Apply to join the appropriate -ops team(s) on Launchpad. For example, if you wish to become an #ubuntu-devel operator, you should <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~irc-ubuntu-devel-ops/+join|apply]]</nowiki> to join <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~irc-ubuntu-devel-ops|~irc-ubuntu-devel-ops]]</nowiki> on Launchpad.
# You should add a section to your wiki page explaining why you wish to be an Ubuntu IRC operator for the channel(s) you applied to. Be sure to also explain how you are qualified to be an operator for the channel(s) in question. It is also recommended that you collect testimonials from other people who have worked closely with you in the past.
# When the <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|Ubuntu IRC Council]]</nowiki> feels the need to have more operators in a particular channel, they will send an email to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-irc|ubuntu-irc mailing list]]</nowiki>. After this email is sent, there will be a one (1) week period for any last minute applications and/or for applicants to finish updating their wiki pages.
# Once this one (1) week period has passed, the IRC Council will discuss amongst themselves and reach a decision about which applicant(s) will become operators. This decision will be sent to the ubuntu-irc mailing list.

Upon being approved as an Ubuntu operator, operators must go through an induction and training process documented '''here'''.
