{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Glossary of Terms ===

The following Glossary of Terms is meant to be an information resource and reference of commonly and uncommonly used terms, formatted for use in the UWN, and arranged alphabetically.  This is a work in progress.

<pre>
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

# acpid - Advanced Configuration and Power Interface Daemon.
# AGPLv3 - Affero General Public License, see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affero_General_Public_License.
# API - Application Programming Interface.
# BOF - Birds of a Feather - An informal discussion group, based on a shared interest, discussing without a pre-planned agenda
# BTS - Debian Bug Tracking System - http://bugs.debian.org/
# CC - Community Council - http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/council
# CC - Creative Commons.
# CLI - Command Line Interface.
# CMS - Content Management System.
# CoC - Code of Conduct - http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct
# DD - Debian Developer
# DFSG - Debian Free Software Guidelines
# DHCP - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol.
# d-i - debian-installer
# DIF - Debian Import Freeze - After this point, packages aren't automatically imported from Debian when updated. Time to focus on bugfixing & integration
# DIT - Directory Information Tree, for implementations of LDAP.
# DNS - Domain Name System.
# DPMT - Debian Python Module Team - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributingToDebian/PythonModulesTeam
# DRBD - a block device which is designed to build high availability clusters.
# EOL - End Of Life
# EVDO - Evolution-Data Optimized wireless communication.
# FF - Feature Freeze
# FFe - Feature Freeze exception
# FOSS - Free Open Source Software.
# FOSDEM - Free and Open Source Software Developers' European Meeting.
# FTP - File Transfer Protocol.
# FTBFS - Fails To Build From Source. - For example when building a package with debuild (http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/ftbfs/) 
# FUD - Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt.
# GDM - GNOME Display Manager.
# GPG - GNU Privacy Guard -  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GnuPrivacyGuardHowto http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gpg 
# GPL - General Public License.
# GSMA - Groupe Speciale Mobile Association.
# GUADEC - GNOME Users’ And Developers’ European Conference.
# GUI - Graphicical User Interface.
# ICT - Information and Communitcation Technology.
# IM - Instant Messaging.
# IMAP - Internet Message Access Protocol.
# IPsec - Internet Protocol Security.
# IRC - Internet Relay Chat.
# ISO - International Organization for Standardization.  Also, the suffix given to disk images that comply with the conventional Standards format.
# ITA - Intent To Adopt - http://people.debian.org/~mpalmer/debian-mentors_FAQ.html
# ITP - Intent To Package - http://people.debian.org/~mpalmer/debian-mentors_FAQ.html
# JDK - (OpenJDK) Java Developer's Kit.
# KVM - Kernel based Virtual Machine.
# LAMP - Linux, Apache, My``SQL, Perl (or some say PHP).
# LAPP - Linux, Apache, Postgre``SQL, Perl (or some say PHP).
# LCD - Liquid Crystal Display.
# LDAP - Lightweight Directory Access Protocol.
# LGPL - Lesser General Public License.
# LP - LaunchPad - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaunchPad https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/
# LKML - Linux Kernel Mailing List.
# LPI - Launchpad Integration.
# lrm - linux-restricted-modules
# LTS - Long Term Support. - Said of a release that will receive support for 3-years/5-years rather than the typical 18 months 
# LTSP - Linux Terminal Server Project.
# LUG - Linux User's Group.
# LVM - Logical Volume Manager.
# MC - MOTU Council - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Council
# MID - Mobile Internet Device.
# MIR - Main Inclusion Report - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionProcess
# MoM - Merge-o-Matic - The official Ubuntu merge system, which lists outstanding packages where there has been a Debian upload since the last Ubuntu upload. http://merges.ubuntu.com/
# MOTU - Master Of The Universe - Developers responsible for the Universe and Multiverse repositories. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU
# MOTU SWAT - MOTU Special Weapons And Tactics - Handles Universe Security
# NAS - Network-attached storage.
# NBS - Not Built from Source - Packages no longer built from source, and therefore candidates for removal from the archives. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/NBS
# NMU - Non-maintainer upload - Term from the Debian world. When someone other than the formal maintainer uploads a package, f.ex. containing a bug fix
# NTFS - the standard file system of Windows NT.
# NTP - Network Time Protocol.
# NTR - Nonprofit Technology Resources.
# ODF - Open Document Format.
# OEM - Original Equipment Manufacturer.
# OS - Operating System.
# OSD - On Screen Display.
# OSS - Open Source Software.
# OTFC - Open and Free Technology Community - #debian-python is on the OFTC IRC network (for example irc.debian.org to get a nearby server). #ubuntu-motu is on the freenode IRC network (for example irc.ubuntu.com to get a nearby server) http://www.oftc.net
# PAM - Pluggable Authentication Module.
# PAPT - Python Applications Packaging Team - Debian packaging team of python programs which don't provide public modules http://python-apps.alioth.debian.org/policy.html
# PDA - Personal Digital Assistant.
# POP3 - Post Office Protocol version 3.
# PPA - Personal Package Archive - http://help.launchpad.net/PPA
# PPA - Personal Project Archive.
# Q&A - Question And Answer.
# QA - Quality Assurance.
# RC - Release Candidate.
# RC - Release Critical
# REVU - ??? - A community developed package review site http://revu.ubuntuwire.com
# RFP - Request For Package - http://people.debian.org/~mpalmer/debian-mentors_FAQ.html
# ROCK - Recognised Of Considerable Knowledge - Used as a compliment
# SaaS - Software as a Service.
# sabdfl - Self Appointed Benevolent Dictator For Life - Mark Shuttleworth.
# SASL - Simple Authentication and Security Layer:  a framework for authentication and data security in Internet protocols.
# SFD - Software Freedom Day.
# So``C - System on a Chip.
# So``Ho - Small Office, Home Office.
# SMTP - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol.
# SRU - Search/Retrieve via URL.
# SRU - Stable release updates. - http://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates
# SSD - Solid State Drive.
# SSH - Secure SHell - a network protocol that allows data to be exchanged using a secure channel between two networked devices.
# SSL - Secure Sockets Layer.
# svm - Support Vector Machine.
# SWAT - Samba Web Administration Tool.
# TB - Technical Board - http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/techboard
# TIL - Touched-It-Last - The last person who uploaded a package. He's responsible for syncing or merging it when a new development cycle starts.
# Tls - Transport Layer Security, successor to Secure Sockets Layer (SSL).
# UF - Ubuntu Forums.
# UDS - Ubuntu Developer Summit.
# UEHS - Ubuntu External Health Status - http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/uehs/
# UME - Ubuntu Mobile and Embedded.
# u-m-s - ubuntu-main-sponsors - Sponsor list for packages that are in main or restricted https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-main-sponsors
# unmetdeps - UNMET DEPendencieS - Packages that cannot be installed as the dependencies cannot be satisfied
# USB - Universal Serial Bus.
# UTC - Coordinated Universal Time:  UTC replaced GMT as the basis for the main reference time scale or civil time in various regions on January 1, 1972.
# u-u-s - ubuntu-universe-sponsors - Sponsor list for packages that are in universe or multiverse https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-universe-sponsors
# UVF - Upstream Version Freeze
# UWN - Ubuntu Weekly News
# VGA - Video Graphics Array.
# VM - Virtual Machine
# VNC - Virtual Network Computing.
# VPN - Virtual Private Network.
# WNPP - Work-Needing and Prospective Packages - List of packages in need of new maintainers and prospective packages in Debian http://www.debian.org/devel/wnpp/
# WPA - Wi-Fi Protected Access.
# WS-Security - Web Service Security.
