{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* 2-6/nov.: Organization of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek_ES|Ubuntu Open Week in Spanish]]</nowiki> (Semana Ubuntera).
* 09 nov.  : <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-ni/2009-November/011614.html|Community survey]]</nowiki>: Planning for Lucid release cycle.
* 10 nov.  : Interview in radio show ''Somos Nicas'' in <nowiki>[[http://ladelcolor.com|Radio Universidad]]</nowiki>.
* 12 nov.  : <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/Krp|Karmic Release Party]]</nowiki> in the Universidad Centroamericana. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/nacross/Krp#|Photos here.]]</nowiki>
* 12 nov.  : Meeting with Education Comission, discussion on the <nowiki>[[http://leogg.wordpress.com/2009/11/13/nicaraguan-schools-go-ubuntu/|development of a national educational distro]]</nowiki>.
* 17 nov.  : Meeting for supporting the organization of <nowiki>[[http://softwarelibre.ca/wiki/MiniDebconf2010/Agenda|mini-Debconf 2010 in Panamá]]</nowiki>.
* 20 nov.  : <nowiki>[[http://linuxtour.org/Pizza-Bash-XI|Karmic Release Party]]</nowiki> at the Mansión Teodolinda hotel. 
* 20 nov.  : <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-ni/2009-November/011686.html|Released roadmap]]</nowiki> for the team during the Lucid Lynx cycle. 
* 24 nov.  : Follow up meeting with Education Comission, drafting plan for the <nowiki>[[http://leogg.wordpress.com/2009/11/24/20000-ubuntu-laptops-for-teachers-in-nicaragua/|development of a national educational distro]]</nowiki>.
* 24 nov.  : Meeting for supporting the organization of <nowiki>[[http://www.softwarelibrecr.org/node/848/|ECSL 2010 in Costa Rica]]</nowiki>.
* 26-28/nov: Members from local team participating giving talks in <nowiki>[[http://cgsol.slgt.org/node/21|CGSOL 2009 in Guatemala]]</nowiki>.
