{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* this page is out of date and needs to be updated! please stand by.*

Hi! I'm Nicholas Wheeler. Here is my contact information, feel free to contact me:

dragoncow2@gmail.com

nwheeler@devis.com

To view my launchpad information: https://launchpad.net/people/dragoncow2/

If you would like to contact me by phone, send an e-mail (and a reason), and I'll give you my number.

Currently I am interested in disaster backup/recovery solutions. MondoMindi is the open source program that I currently use most, in terms of backup/recovery. The wiki page MondoMindi describes how to install it by source (or by source via an install script, thanks to PaulFlint). 

Currently I am a Ubuntu member, and I'm attempting to go on to try to become a MOTU, so as to help with the universe. Mainly with MondoMindi. I'll also help contribute to the edubuntu cookbook.

I am the current system administrator for the DC LoCo's website, found at http://dc.ubuntu-us.org. 

I also help to promote Ubuntu by attending large conferences (NECC, FOSE), and spread the word. I try to attend any east-coast conference that I hear of, as long as my attendance is free (within 6-8 hours of driving from DC). I am willing to work for free attendance, of course, by 'work' i mean 'spreading ubuntu'. I'm currently in planning stages to attend NECC 2006 in San Diego.

I've created this page for those of us who use wireless cards based on the Broadcom43xx chipset. Be free of ndiswrapper! :)

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WifiDocs/Driver/Broadcom43xx
