{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Info ===

* Email: nickj-fox ATNOSPAM ubuntu DOT com
* IRC: foxbuntu, foxbuntu_laptop
** Channels (freenode): #ubuntu-mythtv, #ubuntu-mythtv-dev, #mythtv, #ubuntu-motu, #gloss, #ubuntu-devel, #cialug
* Ubuntu Forums: foxbuntu

=== Current Works ===

* Mythbuntu Backup and Restore: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mythbuntu/BackupRestore
* <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net/mythbuntu|Other Mythbuntu Projects]]</nowiki>
* Answering Questions in the Ubuntu Forums
* User support via IRC and Launchpad for Mythbuntu
* Bug Fixes for Mythbuntu
* Website Development for <nowiki>[[http://www.mythbuntu.org|Mythbuntu]]</nowiki> 
* Pre-Built/configured Mythbuntu based Linux Computer Systems
* Rebuild of Mythbuntu Log Grabber to convert to MCC Plugin

=== Ubuntu Contributions ===

* Mythbuntu Log Grabber
* Mythbuntu Apple Trailers (Packaging and minor code changes/further support)
* Mythbuntu Lircrc Generator (Co-Author)
* Packaging for Gloss Media Center
* Mythbuntu USplash (Code/Packaging)
* Mythbuntu GTK+ / GDM Themes
* Mirroring ISOs for Mythbuntu
* Assisting others with Packaging
* Plugins for Mythbuntu Control Centre

=== BIO ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Location:'''
| Des Moines, Iowa USA
|-
| '''Employment:'''
| Consultant - QCI
|-
| '''My roadmap to Ubuntu:'''
| Dos > Windows 3.1 > Windows 95 > Windows 98 > Mandrake > Redhat 9 > Windows NT 4 >  Suse > Fedora Core 4 > Gentoo > Windows XP > Fedora Core 6 > Ubuntu (6.04 to Current)
|-
| '''Favorite Distro:'''
| Ubuntu (Enter new release here)
|}

=== Affiliations ===

* Mythbuntu
* Iowa Python Users Group
* Central Iowa Linux Users Group
* Ubuntu Iowa Loco

=== Recommendations ===
==== Mario Limonciello (superm1) ====
Nick has been helping the Mythbuntu project since quite early on.  It's amazing to remember how far back his contributions go.  Just looking over the above list reminds me how long he's been helping out, and exactly how overdue his membership is.  When his time for contributing code is low, he still manages to help provide support in our support channel, and other ways to contribute which is great. If nothing else, Nick always brings humor into our IRC rooms and keeps us all sane.  +1
