{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Nick Presta ==

=== About Me ===
* My name is Nicholas Presta, a student from Southern Ontario,  Canada.
* I enjoy solving problems, helping others, and hacking away at various things, including GNU+Linux.

=== What I Do ===
* For the last 6 months, or so, I've been volunteering my time by helping those in the Kubuntu IRC channel (#kubuntu on <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|Freenode]]</nowiki>).
* I have also converted a few friends and interested colleagues to Kubuntu (or Ubuntu). I have raised awareness of GNU+Linux, specifically Kubuntu, in my school.

=== The Plan ===
* I would eventually like to provide bleeding edge LAMP (Apache, PHP, MySQL, PostgreSQL) packages, for home/development servers.
* I will continue to provide support via IRC and http://ubuntuforums.org/

=== Links and Information ===
==== Contact Information ====
* Location: Toronto, Ontario, Canada
* E-Mail: nick1presta@gmail.com
* Jabber: nick1presta@gmail.com
* AIM: nick1presta1

==== Related Links ====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nickpresta|Launchpad Profile]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=112289|Ubuntuforums.org Profile]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://nickpresta.ath.cx/|Homepage]]</nowiki>
