{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== My Contact Info ===
* '''Email:''' nickeigel@gmail.com
* '''IRC:''' Koji-Murasame on irc.freenode.net
* '''Ubuntu Forums:''' Koji-Murasame
* '''Public Key:''' 6B4ADA32

=== About Me ===
I am 20 year old college student at BCTC (Bluegrass Community and Technical College) in Lexington, KY. I work at a local college textbook store and am a member of the University of Kentucky Kendo Club. I have been using GNU/Linux for about 2 years now and tried out Suse, Slax, RedHat, and Knoppix before I decided that I like (X/K)Ubuntu the best of all the distros I tried.

==== Enter Ubuntu ====
I first installed Ubuntu on an old IBM Thinkpad 390X a friend gave me. After tooling around a bit a friend recommended I try KDE so I also played around with Kubuntu before finally settling on Xubuntu for it's minimalistic and lightweight install that included the programs I used most often out of the box. After my original experimentation with Ubuntu I also installed Kubuntu on my desktop on a separate hard drive from my Windows installation. I was satisfied with Kubuntu enough that I stopped using Windows at all after that and eventually formated my Windows harddrive for the extra space. I now run Kubuntu 7.04 on my desktop and Xubuntu 7.04 on my new IBM R60 laptop. I have just recently (Mar. 07) joined the KentuckyTeam LoCo Team
