{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Nicholas Thomas ==

=== Introduction ===
Hi, and welcome to the Wiki page of Nicholas Thomas. I'm a 20/m Biology student of York University (Yorkshire, UK), who's been obsessed with computers and linux for seven years, now. I've run various distributions - SuSE, Corel, Turbo, Debian, RedHat... and broken them all ;). I first discovered Ubuntu when Hoary came out, and I've been using it ever since... first as a dual boot, but (after b0rking Windows with a mobile phone driver) standalone for about 6 months, now. I think the Ubuntu goals are admirable, and an excellent model to work towards... so I want to help as much as I can :). 

=== Current system ===
==== Hardware ====
* AMD64 Sempron 2500+ processor
* 512MB DDR-333 RAM
* nVidia GeForce FX 5500
* AC '97 soundcard
* D-Link DWL-G122 (b1) USB WLAN card
* HP PSC 2355 printer

==== OS ====
Kubuntu Dapper Drake development branch: dist-upgrade from Kubuntu 5.10.

=== Contributions ===
I can be found on the Ubuntu mailing lists (lurking!), and I frequent the forums as well. Maybe I'll get onto the IRC channels at some time. See below for specific contributions (I'm angling for membership ;) )

==== Forum ====
My username is lupine_nickt. All my posts can be discovered by clicking <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?do=finduser&u=47721|here]]</nowiki> - I think. 

==== Launchpad ====
My launchpad username is lupine. I've contributed the following:-

===== Bug reports =====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone/bugs/36702|36702]]</nowiki>: Dapper: Broken arkrpg package on dist-upgrade

===== Translations =====
* Applying to be a member of the en-gb translation team. I've been speaking the language fluently for 15 years, after all... ;)
