{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Information ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| Nicolas Deschildre
|-
| '''My Blog:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ndeschildre.net/|WebLog Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ndeschildre|Launchpad Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NicolasDeschildre|Wiki Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''OpenPGP key:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x5F1C16CD&op=index|OpenPGP Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| nand on irc.freenode.net
|}

=== Who I am ===

Hi!

My name is Nicolas Deschildre, I'm a computer student currently finishing his studies by working in a small Linux company selling computers for people having trouble to learn new technologies.

I'm also involved in FOSS here and there, changing when the fun goes away. Right now, and since UDS-boston, I'm working with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/stgraber|Stéphane]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HenrikOmma|Henrik]]</nowiki> and Thorsten Wilms on the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/qa-website-tokamak|Tokamak spec]]</nowiki>, which is now more publicly known as <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu Brainstorm]]</nowiki>. I am working on the code part, while Stéphane is making a great admin job, Henrik is coordinating with Canonical, and Thorsten is doing some amazing artwork.

Right now, we are quite busy dealing with the awesome quantity of input we get, and if you are curious, here is my <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Brainstorm/TODOlist|TODO List]]</nowiki> that will probably keep me busy for the next month or two.

Oh, and I'm usually hanging around #ubuntu-brainstorm, if you want to say hi :)

=== Links ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.ideatorrent.org|The "homepage" of the Ubuntu Brainstorm project]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Brainstorm|The wiki pages concerning Brainstorm]]</nowiki>

=== Old stuff ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NicolasDeschildre/CommunityWishesAssessmentSpec|A pre-Brainstorm spec I made about a feedback site]]</nowiki>
