{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Nicolas Van Wambeke ==

Using Linux since 94' with Slackware as my main distribution, I've discovered Ubuntu with Breezy and was amazed that even on my KDS laptop most things would work out of the box. Since then, I've been transmitting this amazement to as many people as I could around me.

=== Contact ===

* Email: nicolasvw _at_ free.fr
* Blog: http://nicolas.vanwambeke.net/dotclear
* On IRC: <code>nicolasvw</code>

=== Ubuntu work ===

I'm most interested in participating in QA for Ubuntu as well as helping users. For this, I often answer user questions on Launchpad and try my best at some updates/bugs/merges/syncs. Recently, I've become interested in doing some translation work both in French and Spanish.

As I'm most experienced in Java development, I'm also interested in improving support for Java software availability in Ubuntu.

In order to keep track of the work I've performed, below is a list of LP bugs I worked on.

==== Bugs ====

===== Karmic =====

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/azureus/+bug/321922|LP #321922]]</nowiki> - azureus - After reviewing the debian package and discussing with Onkar, azureus was synced
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pypoker-eval/+bug/412945|LP #412945]]</nowiki> - pypoker-eval - Review debian package which included ubuntu changes, sync
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pybliographer/+bug/412890|LP #412890]]</nowiki> - pybliographer - Merge from debian and forwarded changes closing debbug 125637
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/txt2tags/+bug/411899|LP #411899]]</nowiki> - txt2tags - Made sure all ubuntu deltas were included in debian and requested the sync

===== Intrepid =====

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ripperx/+bug/229651|LP #229651]]</nowiki> - ripperx - while performing this merge I found out it could be a sync
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtkguitune/+bug/231346|LP #231346]]</nowiki> - gtkguitune - merged version 0.7-7.1 from debian
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/roundcube-webmail/+bug/202409|LP #202409]]</nowiki> - roundcube-webmail - obsolete package, found bug on LP for this missing sponsors so I subscribed sponsors.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notecase/+bug/230041|LP #230041]]</nowiki> - notecase - upgraded to 1.9.1 after getting the OK from previous uploader
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linpopup/+bug/228180|LP #228180]]</nowiki> - linpopup - corrected bug report asking for a merge as a sync could be done
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/237125|LP #237125]]</nowiki> - gdecrypt - upgrade, discussed patch to other bugs with author, first shot at dpatch usage to fix <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/231303|LP #231303]]</nowiki> too
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/237065|LP #237065]]</nowiki> - gtkedit - upgrade, minor packaging fixes
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/237040|LP #237040]]</nowiki> - gmusicbrowser - upgraded to new upstream
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/237042|LP #237042]]</nowiki> - tablelist - upgraded to new upstream
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/237282|LP #237282]]</nowiki> - hydrogen - merged from debian, included corrected patch which fixed <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/234139|LP #234139]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/210639|LP #210639]]</nowiki> - dvd95 - Upgraded to new upstream, adapted a dpatch
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/237055|LP #237055]]</nowiki> - nagcon - Upgraded to new upstream

==== Translations ====

I contribute to translations in Rosetta through the French translators team, a list of my contributions can be found <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~nicolasvw|here]]</nowiki>.

==== Answers ====

The list of questions in which I participated is available <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~nicolasvw|here]]</nowiki>.
