{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': LaunchpadSpec:better-community-wishes-assessment

 

=== Summary ===

There is currently a few ways for users to provide feedback on Ubuntu, but none of them allows us to evaluate '''effectively''' and '''quantitatively''' the wishes and demands of the community. Specifically, wishes reporting on Launchpad does not attract enough people at all to have a good global representation of the users wishes.

This spec propose a way to enhance wishes submission, discussion and to easily assess their importance. A new Launchpad set of pages dealing only with wishes should be created. Users would be able to interact with others' ideas, and a ranking system would help determining the most demanded ideas. These pages should be wildly publicized, very easily accessible and usable for any '''normal''' users.

This interface should integrate and reuse Launchpad current framework.

This spec is basically based on <nowiki>[[http://www.ideastorm.com/|Dell's Ideastorm website]]</nowiki> model.

=== Rationale ===

A successfull firm is one which can assess the market demand. Same goes for distros.

With the growing popularity of ubuntu, user feedback is growing fast and become difficult to follow. Wishes in forums posts are numerous, redundant and are quicky lost in the mass. Very few people post wishes via the bugreport system, because it is not publicized (''bug'' report system). Besides it was mainly designed to handle bugs and it does not show the "importance" of wishes (how many people requested them).

As information on users wishes is scattered and disorganized, it cannot be assessed quantitatively and globally. 
Consequently the main guidelines of ubuntu development does not optimally match the users demand.

==== Examples ====

Here is an <nowiki>[[http://www.openoffice.org/issues/show_bug.cgi?id=366|example]]</nowiki> of a essential feature missing in OO.o preventing some scientists to go Linux/Ubuntu for '''6 years'''. But does it concern only a ''few of them'', or a ''large part''? Should more manpower be put on it, or on some other wishes?

The issue is acknowledged at OO.o, but right now we can't assess how much people it does really bother. Having a large and successfull wishes reporting system that can quantitatively assess wishes would be of greater help here.

=== Use Cases ===

* Albert Dugenou is a ubuntu user since a few years. Unfortunately an area he would have liked ubuntu to work on have been neglected, giving him a bad desktop experience. He posts a request, some people promote it, and the neglected area is acknowledged and worked on, preventing him to switch to another distro.
* Alphone Dupied is a scientist working on a proprietary OS. Like many others colleagues, he uses a indispensable statistical function in his current spreadsheet, but this is not available in OOo. He posts the request, his colleagues promote it, and the missing feature preventing them to use Ubuntu is acknowledged and worked on. 
* Gaspard Dumollet and his friends form a ubuntu technical council. They need to discuss where to focus their effort on for the next release. They quickly assess users demand by looking at the popular ideas.

=== Design ===

==== Summary ====

This spec propose to solve this problem by:
* Making few changes to the current launchpad modelization.
** Including a new metric for the wishes indicating the demand level (e.g. "votes")
* Creating a new set of pages concerning wishes only. This could be a subsite, e.g. ideas.launchpad.net.
** The pages should be very user friendly to ''normal'' users.
** The pages should be easily accessible. (e.g. dot org domain)
** The pages should allow easy interaction with the wishes and its metric.
* Dramatically increasing Launchpad awareness, in order to get a good global representation of the wishes of the user base.
** Create a new dot com domain with strong meaning and link it to the subsite.
** The new domain should be strongly publicized at launch, and references should be made on software.
* TODO: add part on blueprints, metric generalization to blueprints and bugs

This should use the current bug reporting framework.

==== Make some changes to Launchpad Modelization ====

In the Launchpad model, a "wish" or "idea" remains a bug with the "wish" flag, but with some changes:
* New status. "Confirmed", "Fix released" are bug status.This is ambiguous. There should be only "New", "Under review", "Work in progress", "Done".
* A "score", "vote" or "hype" field should be added to wishes (and maybe its super category, bugs, too). Users may promote (incrementing score) or demote (decrementing score) a wish's score. Decrementing capability will let users discard fake wishes or spam.
* Importance shoud be hidden as it would be superseded by the score.

==== Design an attractive user interface ====

* The main page should be easily accesible and allow '''normal''' users to quickly interact with wishes. It should give an instant overview of the most demanded wishes, in an user friendly way. 
** Login should be mandatory and the only step before voting.
** The main page should be linked to a launchpad subsite domain name (e.g. ideas.launchpad.net).
** The URL should allow package selection, e.g. if i want only the wishes of package X, I go to ideas.launchpad.net/X
* Adding a wish should be easy and straightforward. Just a title and a description, nothing else. This should basically look like current Launchpad simple bug reporting form. 
** It should be possible to add media (pictures, videos) on the description to help users express themselves.
* A dedicated page for a wish should list all details plus all comments on it.
** Wishes could or not affect a package (e.g. "Make ubuntu work on MIPS").
** A normal user could post comments and change the status, set the package name.
** The wish creator could additionally delete its wishes. But he could not have the right to edit his title/description. (What if i get lots of vote and change the contents?)
** (to discuss) A "official comment" area should be added, to provide feedback on the work on the wish. Based on Dell's ideastorm experience, user comments can be overwhelming, and "official" comments in the public comment area is easily lost. Not sure who could be "official" enough : QA team?

This interface should collect any wishes concerning Launchpad projects.
* Non-ubuntu launchpad project or upstream project could put on their homepage a link redirecting to ideas.ubuntu.com/X, if they do want to use Launchpad wishes system.
* A lot of the wishes would concern upstream projects. They could be forwarded like now the bug reports are, and most importants should be emphasized to them.

==== Attracting a large portion of the user base ====

Now that we have a nice subsite ready, we want to attract as much users as possible, to have a good global representation of the users wishes.

I'd like to emphasize here that IMO, a new dot com/org/net domain name with strong meaning redirecting to the subsite (let's say ideas.launchpad.net) is essential. The name ideas.launchpad.net would be not obvious at all.

Let's try to think as a ''normal'' user. Like many people, he likes to chat, to give his opinion on what's right, what's wrong. But he does not have any technical Linux background. "ideas.launchpad.net? What the h** is it about? rockets? /me is confused. Ah you are telling me it is a bug reporting system! A geeky thing, that is! Related to ubuntu? What is the relation between rockets and Ubuntu? Oo Ah, and i can put wishes here? /me is totally confused". Real life example!

The name should be obvious. I'll give a try : ubuntu-ideas.com, ubuntu-brainstorming.com, ubuntustorming.com, ''<insert yours here :) >''

I bet a good lot of publicity at launch will help too. 

While it should represent a tiny portion of the visitors, I think completing the Help menus (which contains "Report a bug") with "Post a wish" could help attracting people wishes directly from the software. 

==== User Interface Modelization/Mockups ====

The front page should give us an instant overview of the most demanded wishes. Thus, it should be organized as follow:

* List of the most actively promoted ideas. Each idea has: 
** its title, its contents, a link to its dedicated page.
** Its current number of point. 
** Two buttons : one to promote, one to demote idea. Promoting increments, demoting decrements the number of point. Only possible when registered.
** A field indicating the status
* Login/Register (within launchpad)
* One button to add an idea. Only possible when registered.
Ideas should be organized with higher promotion/demotion-difference per day ideas on top.

Another tab should allow users to access the list of the most recently added ideas, following previous page organization.

We could also add others tabs.

The idea submittal form should contains the usual (title field, text field, submit...) and emphasize before posting that it should be idea or wishes, but *not bugreports*. Redirect to launchpad bugreport system if necessary.

An idea dedicated page should allow users to discuss (even if it will often be just blablah), and to be kept informed of the developpment. It should be organized as follow:
* Optionnal affected packages
* Title/Description of the idea.
* Name of the author.
* Status indicator.
* Field for "official" status comment. 
* Public comments for registered users.

=== Implementation ===

Implementation should take advantage of the existing Launchpad framework.

TODO: i don't know much about launchpad internals, the limitations, how hard it could be extended... Can a Launchpad guy help me here please?

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== Comments ===

* LunaTick : Mozilla's Bugzilla allows people to vote for bugs/wishes. This would go a fair way to solving the problem and would be easy to implement.
** NicolasDeschildre : While adding vote support solve a part of the problem, this is not it yet. We can't expect normal users (that is to say non power users) to navigate through a bug reporting system (a '''bug''' reporting system! Why should they expect to find wishes here??), find some wishes and vote for them. It is too cumbersome. As a result, only power users post wishes there. The power of ideastorm was to be '''very''' easy for normal users, and thus be accesible by a very large portion of their user base.

* <nowiki>[[Warbo]]</nowiki>: If this is made then I think it would be cool if to have an "easiness" rating as well (I think the MOTU and bug squad have 'low hanging fruit' style catagories), since that could encourage more people to help out with improving Ubuntu. For instance, I am teaching myself to program in Python, and if instead of setting myself arbitrary tasks as practice I could see that a large number of people are after a simple little tool to do XYZ then I could work on such a tool to improve my skills whilst also helping others. When there are a few things I would like to tackle I could base my decision on both the number of people who it would benefit, but also the amount of time I would need to invest in it. Also, I've been trying to tidy up the IdeaPool page, which is somewhat related, but the static nature of that page makes it rather difficult to maintain.
** Nicolas Deschildre : This could be a nice idea! And reusing again launchpad framework, we could use the mentoring system to offer mentoring on wishes.

----
CategorySpec
