{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:ubuntu-own-summer-of-code
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

This specification describes why and how a event similar to the Google Summer of Code should be organized by and for Ubuntu, every development cycle.

Basically, the event would be like the Google Summer of Code, except that:
* The event shall be open to everyone, not only students.
* No cash reward. The motivation factor would be the fact that the contribution would be included in Ubuntu's next version (provided it is completed)
* The event shall not be limited to code contribution. Packaging, documentation, I18n tasks shall also be submitted.
* The event shall be synchronized with Ubuntu development cycle, thus every 6 months.

=== Rationale ===

<nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/5991/|Lots]]</nowiki> of people are willing to help, but does not know how to start. Usually they are in the dark, and while some contribution docs may help some of them, it is not enough for a good part of them. Ubuntu have worked on lowering the entry barrier with <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|some easily accessible good doc]]</nowiki> on how to involve yourself, that's great. We should keep heading this way. 

Thus I propose a regular Google-Summer-of-Code-like event: Basically the concept would be similar to GSoC except that:
* The event shall be open to everyone, not only students.
* No cash reward. The motivation factor would be the fact that the contribution would be included in Ubuntu's next version (provided it is completed)
* The event shall not be limited to code contribution. Packaging, documentation, I18n tasks shall also be submitted.
* The event shall be synchronized with Ubuntu development cycle, thus every 6 months.

The event would cover Ubuntu "extensions" only (Well, unless some Upstream authors would be willing to mentor too). During the event, mentorees would be asked to post news on a "Mentoree planet" specially set up for the event. At the end, they would be asked to put online a report on their work.

How the entry barrier is lowered by this event:
* With the help of the mentorees posts and reports, and the buzz around the event, potential contributors see people starting contributing, realize how it works, and are getting motivated. 

=== Use Cases ===

** Bob is a potential contributor. He applies to the Ubuntu yet-to-be-named event, is being mentored and learn very quickly thanks to his helpful mentor.

** Jambon is a potential contributor. He is willing to help, but like many others, he does not know where to start. He hears about the Ubuntu yet-to-be-named event, read posts of the mentorees, read the reports of the last cycle mentorees. He is getting interested and has now some clues on how to start.

** Sauce is a Ubuntu developer. At first he is annoyed because mentoree = more work. But afterwards he is happy because the mentorees are beginning to produce good work, and others contributors are joining.

=== Design ===

A website should be set up to host the event. This website should contains the list of tasks, a "mentoree planet", and archives of previous years mentoree reports.

Additionally, a mailing list shall be set up.

Proposed timeline:
* Release day - UDS: Ubuntu developers post tasks they want to mentor. ?Approval of tasks?
* UDS - UDS+1month: Mentoree application and selection process: tasks are shown on the website, users can apply for them, mentor select the mentoree.
* UDS+1month - Feature Freeze: Mentoree are working, work is being integrated into Ubuntu. Mentoree post news on the mentoree planet.
* Feature Freeze - Beta Release: Mentoree are asked to produce their report.

=== Implementation ===

A website should be set up to host the event. Two choices:
* Use Launchpad mentoring feature, and set up a front website somewhere else for the event with links to the mentored tasks.
* Reuse Brainstorm codebase, and integrate the website with Brainstorm. (''As Brainstorm developer, my biaised choice would go there'')

=== Outstanding Issues ===
* Name of the event?

----
CategorySpec
