{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

 '''Name:''' Nicolai Tufar (a.k.a NICOLÆ·TVFAR·NFHNNP)

 '''Location:''' Athens, Greece

 '''E-mail:''' ntufar@gmail.com

=== System ===

 '''Laptop:''' Acer Aspire 5000

 '''OS:''' Ubuntu Dapper Drake 6.06 for AMD64

=== Wireless ===

   '''Model:''' Broadcom BCM4318

Follow <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx|this tutorial]]</nowiki> but do not install native bcm43xx driver. Native bcm43xx driver scans for access points, displays the correct information on ESSID, blinks wireless LED indicator but never connects. Blacklist bcm43xx driver and use ndiswrapper. It works just fine.

This is the situation on June 03, 2006. Later version of bcm43xx may work correctly. Please drop me a note if you notice that it is working so that I would switch to native driver.

=== Yahoo Messenger ===

I use Yahoo Messenger to voice and video call my friends and to place call to telephones
abroad chaply. So I need it.

Yahoo Messenger for Debian that we download is 32-bit so it requeres a couple of 32-bit libraries.
They are basically the same as 64-bit but placed in /usr/lib32 directory. What did I do?
I desided to install them manually. I found cecessary files on <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/allpackages|Ubuntu Package List]]</nowiki>.

Downloaded the following ones:

* libgdk-pixbuf2_0.22.0-11_i386.deb
* libglib1.2_1.2.10-9_i386.deb
* libgtk1.2_1.2.10-17_i386.deb

Extracted the contents and copied the files that are in usr/lib to /usr/lib32. Here is for example how I did it with libgdk-pixbuf2_0.22.0-11_i386.deb:

<pre>
mkdir tmp/
wget http://mirror.switch.ch/ftp/mirror/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gdk-pixbuf/libgdk-pixbuf2_0.22.0-11_i386.deb
dpkg -X libgdk-pixbuf2_0.22.0-11_i386.deb tmp/
cd tmp/usr/lib/
sudo mv * /usr/lib32/
</pre>

You get the idea.

Finaly the last library that was missing libgtkhtml.so.6 happened to be in Yahoo messanger's
own directory. Do the following to include it in library cache:

<pre>
sudo echo /opt/ymessenger/lib/ >>/etc/ld.so.conf
sudo ldconfig
</pre>

Enjoy.

=== Finishing Touches ===

To download necessary drivers and codecs I used <nowiki>[[http://easyubuntu.freecontrib.org/get.html|EasyBuntu]]</nowiki>. It works just fine on 64-bit machine.

=== Ask ===

I spent some time configuring 64-bit Ubuntu for my laptop. If you have any questions on running 64-bir Ubuntu on this hardware feel free to ask.
----
CategoryLaptop
