{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Nicolas (Nick) Barcet is the Ubuntu Server Product Manager at Canonical.

=== Contact ===

* He is known as '''nijaba''' on Freenode and hangs out on #ubuntu-server, #ubuntu-virt, ...

* He can be reached at '''nick(dot)barcet(at)canonical(dot)com'''

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nijaba|Profile on Launchpad]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions to Ubuntu ===

* Packaging of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nijaba/+archive|limesurvey]]</nowiki>.  <nowiki>[[http://limesurvey.org|Limesurvey]]</nowiki> is a PHP web application that allows to do virtually all kinds of online surveys.  This was my first attempt at a Debian packaging and I had quite a bit of fun with dbconfig, wwwconfig, and quilt. Even made upstream add a couple functions so that installation and upgrade could be handled smoothly and automatically.  Currently trying to convince them that libraries such as adodb, php-gettext or phpmailer should not be modified and directly included in their source.

* Some code to <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/vmbuilder/|ubuntu's vmbuilder]]</nowiki>, including IP address assignment, advanced partitioning, templating, building from and iso, firstboot and firstlogin, and multiple bug fixes.

* Prepared and run a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Survey|community survey]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu Server Edition. This survey will be put online shortly and has for goal to capture what are the strengths and weaknesses of Ubuntu as a Server.

* Wrote a <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JeOS|tutorial on Jeos]]</nowiki> with Soren that is included in the <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/jeos.html|8.04 server guide]]</nowiki>.  It was also published in the January edition of Linux Magazine.

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MacBookPro/SantaRosaFanControl|Script to control the fans]]</nowiki> of Mac Book Pro (santa rosa), which is really a daemon to help me keep my macbook cool.

* Complete refresh of the server pages on <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/server|ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> for 8.04 (went from 1 to 25 pages)

* Refresh of the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/files/server/UbuntuServerBrochure804LTS.pdf|Ubuntu Server Edition product brochure]]</nowiki> for 8.04.

* Some code to <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/screen-profiles/|screen profiles]]</nowiki>

* And a few other things...

==== Plans for the future ====

* Help fix bug #1 in as many ways as possible
 
* Work on making Ubuntu Server the best linux distribution for servers and virtual appliances

* Work with kamion on germinate and seed management to help users understand what is maintained and how everything is organized

* Help the community as best as I can

=== About me ===

* Linux user since 1998 (Red-hat then Suse to start with) and Ubuntu convert since 6.06LTS

* Member of the Solutions Linux program committee since 2006 (France's largest event about Linux and Open Source Software)

* Speaker at many Linux events (Solutions Linux, OSCON, Linux-World, Conocimiento Libre, etc...)

* <nowiki>[[http://nicolas.barcet.com|Personal blog]]</nowiki> (mostly in french) 

* Small contributor and hoster of <nowiki>[[http://hardware4linux.info|Hardware4linux]]</nowiki>

* and a few other things...
 
=== Testimonials ===
* Nick is an excellent contributor and an essential member of the Ubuntu Server Community, definitely a deserving member of the Ubuntu Community at large (DustinKirkland).
* Nick is a an excellent individual and an outstanding member of the Ubuntu Server community. I wholly support his application for Ubuntu membership. (ChuckShort)
* Nick has been of great help in the ServerTeam, by providing technical contribution (such as ubuntu-vm-builder) as well as marketing and user needs for the Ubuntu Server Product (MathiasGug)
* Nick got my support as well - he made great contributions to Ubuntu as a virtualisation platform - I love ubuntu-vm-builder :) He is also a very nice guy, helping out on IRC channels, contributing documentation... we need more people like him :) ( YannHamon )
