{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact ===

* '''Launchpad :''' [http://launchpad.net/~nicolas-robin/ nicolas-robin 
* '''Email:'''  *'''IRC :''' nikolas on irc.freenode.net

=== About Me ===

I am a 16 years old student living in France, near Paris. I discovered GNU/Linux with Mandrake 10.1, but really began to use it with Debian Sarge 3.1. I am using Ubuntu since Dapper, and I am tying to get more and more involved.

=== Ubuntu Involvement ===
I try to contribute as much as I can in Ubuntu:

* Translations
I am a member of the French translation team. I translate mostly with Rosetta, but I'm also involved in the translation of the Ubuntu Weekly News. I know a lot of people who can't speak english, so it's important for me to have a well-translated system.
My biggest involvement about translations is in the package descriptions, which needs a huge work to be finished !

* LoCo involvement
For each release of Ubuntu, we organize a huge party in Paris, which includes an install party, conferences, demonstrations... We distributed nearly 3000 CDs of Ubuntu Gutsy during 6 month ! We had more than 2500 visitors to the last party in Paris !
We are planning several parties in France at the same time for Hardy, it is going to be great !
I also created a non-profit organization (see below) which helps me to make a lot of advertising for Ubuntu.

* Bug triaging
I sometimes make some bug triaging by joining the channel #ubuntu-bugs. It seems easier than it is really ! I hope I will become more involved with bugs, I found it very instructive and interesting.

* Packaging
When I foud a bug, sometimes I think "I can fix it", and so do I. For the moment, I mostly care about packaging-related and little bugs, and packaging software which is not yet in Ubuntu. It is a part of my Ubuntu involvement that I found extremenly interesting, and I hope I will get more and more packaging skills with time.

=== Other Activities ===
I am part of the moderation team of <nowiki>[[http://www.tuxfamily.org|Tuxfamily]]</nowiki>. We provide free hosting (Web, DB, CVS, SVN, package repository...) for any free project who ask for.<<BR>>
I also created a non-profit organization (website under construction) which aims to give everyone access to Internet and computing. Every action we do are always free-software based.
=== Plans ===
The first thing I'd like to do is finishing the translation of the ddtp, which is actually the biggest work for the translation team. I'd also like to see the ubuntu and debian translation teams working together on these ddtp, the work is actually being done twice.  <<BR>>
I'd also like to make more and more people discover Ubuntu and free software, and I'm working on it with the french LoCo team. <<BR>>
I will probably be the main organizer of the SFD in Paris in 2008.
And I would really like getting more involved with bugs, in triaging them, and in fixing them. I will try to be more involved with the french classroom, to become more skilled in packaging and in my understanding of bugs.

----
CategoryHomepage
