{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

My name is Jorge Niedbalski. I have been a Linux enthusiast since my high school years (2001),
using Ubuntu as my development platform since precise 12.04.

I am also a member of the Canonical Sustaining Engineering Team, where I work as software engineer
fixing bugs and helping Ubuntu OpenStack customers ( Juju/MAAS/OpenStack ).

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| niedbalski
|-
| GTalk
| niedbalski@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| jorge.niedbalski@canonical.com
|-
| Website
| http://www.metaklass.org/
|-
| Twitter
| http://twitter.com/niedbalski
|}

=== Contributions ===

** Juju charmers member, where I regularly perform code reviews, bug fixing and charm authoring. (http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.juju.user/1431)

** You can check my package uploads for Ubuntu here: https://launchpad.net/~niedbalski/+uploaded-packages

** You can check my bugs reported for Ubuntu here: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~niedbalski/+bugs

** You can check my PPAs for community here: https://launchpad.net/~niedbalski/+ppa-packages

** You can check my side projects (some of them involving Ubuntu/Launchpad/Juju) https://github.com/niedbalski

=== Future Goals ===

Become a better bug reviewer/reporter of Ubuntu by providing more fixes (specially to stable releases).

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

Jorge is an awesome developer with deep understanding of Ubuntu and juju/MAAS as well as OpenStack. He can understand and diagnose issues on complex scenarios quickly, never giving excuses and always with a positive attitude. He is always willing to offer help and expertise when required. His attention to detail and helpful approach has made my life as quality engineer easier on countless occasions. Every time an error appears with one of my deployments I know I can trust Jorge to explain why the problem is there and how to fix it. Sometimes he will just go ahead at fix the bug (if there is one) straight away. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:gema]]</nowiki> 
I've sponsored many Ubuntu bug fixes for Jorge, as well as reviewed many of the numerous fixes he's completed. He's always had great attention to detail, is very good at communicating what needs to be done, and is very active in many parts in Ubuntu. I fully endorse Jorge for community member. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:arges]]</nowiki> 
Jorge is one of a kind. When I first start working with him I saw he was a really good engineer right away. From that day, more than one year ago, to today, only thing that changed is his passion about open-source projects and bug-fixing: it is bigger. I not only recommend Jorge's work with my eyes shut, to show the size of confidence I have on him (after working side-by-side with him so many times), but I would hire and/or recruit him to work with me again in any company and/or project I am or will be involved. I trully believe that Jorge is a must-have resource inside this awesome family called "Ubuntu Community" and he will be, definitely, a bar-raiser. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:inaddy]]</nowiki> 
I have been working with Jorge for more than a year now.  His dedication to improve the quality and usability of the opensource projects he has been involved with is remarkable. He went from zero to a full-fledged member of the Juju charmer teams in only a few weeks.

He is also actively contributing to the Juju ecosystem, as well as being involved with many more elements of the Ubuntu platform as the list of sponsored packages shows. I think that Jorge will be a valuable addition to the community. His insatiable enthusiasm is a great asset to our community.--<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:louis-bouchard]]</nowiki> 