{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===
I'm a member of the BT since December 2009 and an Ubuntu Member.  I work with the classroom team and also along with the education related teams in Ubuntu.  I was a contributor to the recently disbanded UCLP and intend to contribute and coordinate with the 3 projects that it has given birth to.
=== Education Related Contributions ===
==== Ubuntu User Days ====
Part of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays|Ubuntu User Days]]</nowiki> team whose main goal is to conduct classes for the beginner user to Ubuntu.  The last User Day held on Jan 23rd was a rocking success.  Major role was in getting instructors to sign up to take classes and taking a few classes myself.
==== Classroom Team ====
Recruiting instructors and helper during the actual sessions.
==== UCLP ====
Now broken into 3 projects, looking forward to helping all 3 in every possible way.
=== Future Goal for Education FG ===
 {*} Provide a path for new contributors to contribute towards education in Ubuntu.<<BR>>
 {*} Help fill open positions in various education-related projects with willing BT members.<<BR>>
 {*} Contribute as a team to Education related activities.
=== Testimonials ===

I have always found NigelB to be an enthusiastic and helpful individual. I believe he would be well suited for the role of leader of the BT Education FG. His infectious enthusiasm would be a definite asset to any team, and is vital especially in a focus group that is attempting to help people get involved in the Ubuntu community. I recommend him wholeheartedly. -- <nowiki>[[lukjad86|lukjad]]</nowiki>

I have High hopes that Nigel will be a great lead for this FG.In the time I have known him, he had shown the necessary skills to run in a perfect way this FG. This is why I fully support the confirmation for EDU FG Lead, and I wish him best of lucks in the new challenge. -- <nowiki>[[PabloRubianes]]</nowiki>  

Nigel is extremely motivated to improve the educational aspect of the Ubuntu community and I think he would make an excellent education focus group leader. He has had some great ideas for the Ubuntu Classroom and I am sure that he will have many more for the BT. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki> 