{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==

I've been an Ubuntu user since May 2006. I'm a web developer currently in <nowiki>[[http://drupal.org||Drupal]]</nowiki> theming. I'm a moderator at <nowiki>[[http://www.scrapbooksgonedigital.com/Forum/||Scrapbooks Gone Digital]]</nowiki>, a digital scrapbooking community dedicated to supporting and promoting The GIMP and other free software options within the greater digital scrapbooking community. 

== Ubuntu LoCo Involvement ==

I helped to organize Software Freedom Day 2008, and I'm currently the launchpad administrator for the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewHampshireTeam||New Hampshire LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.

== Future Plans ==

My desire is to contribute to documentation and educational efforts in the future. 

== Contact ==

* Launchpad:  https://launchpad.net/~nikkiana
* Email: nikkiana@gmail.com
* IRC: nikkiana on irc.freenode.net
* Blog: http://www.knitgeeklife.com/
* Ubuntuforums: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=140207||nikkiana]]</nowiki>

== Testimonials ==

Nikki has done more to foster an Ubuntu community in New Hampshire than the rest of the team combined.  Between initiating meetings and hosting team parties, her ambition and drive is invaluable.  She's the glue that holds the <nowiki>[[NewHampshireTeam|New Hampshire LoCo]]</nowiki> together.  -- ArcRiley [31 Aug 2008]

Place your testimonial about me here -- YourName [day month year] 
