{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== A little bit about me... ====
I am twentysomething and reside in Baltimore, Maryland. I am a music nerd, or maybe just a nerd in general. I am currently working full time at a web design company doing general support and network engineering. I am also taking some night classes to help me finish my bachelors degree and get some more certifications. My long term goal is to pursue a career in network security. 

==== Education ====
I have an associates degree in Information systems security and my network+ certification.

==== Experience with Ubuntu ====
I started using Ubuntu with Breezy Badger on a whim a and have not really looked back since. I am using hardy for them moment (I have an awful chip set in my laptop that doesn't play nice with Intrepid.) I tell pretty much everyone I know who has any interest in computers about Ubuntu. It really changed my outlook on what operating system could be and should be.

==== In Closing... ====
I have been working with computers for quite a while and in my opinion, the Ubuntu forum trumps any paid tech support that I have ever dealt with. I think the reason is that people help because they want to, not because they have to. It's that genuine care that sets Ubuntu and linux in general apart.

===== Contact Info: =====
'''Email:''' natekrk@gmail.com

'''AIM:''' nateak

'''Ubuntu Forums:''' user name ''nkirk1''
