{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Nikhil Kshirsagar, apply for Per Package Uploader rights for sosreport.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Nikhil Kshirsagar
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~nkshirsagar
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/nkshirsagar
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I spent the first 10 years of my career being a Linux userspace programmer, developing C/C++ storage based applications for various flavors of Linux. My first open-source related job was when I began working at Red Hat as a storage SME (SEG) in 2015, and have used Linux exclusively since then. During this role I got acquainted with several folks in the upstream community, particularly in the domains of performance and storage. This role led me to submit several upstream contributions, and I also presented talks at conferences like DevConf and PCPConf on topics like Modern C++, block layer caching, performance monitoring and LVM2.

Among the distributions I have used on my personal machine at various times are RHEL 7+, Debian, Fedora and Ubuntu. (all releases since xenial)

I joined the Sustaining Engineering team at Canonical in July 2021, working on Cloud as well as Platform storage customer issues. I then became familiar with the Debian/Ubuntu universe, including from a packaging point of view, as I took over the role of the maintainer of the sosreport packages in Ubuntu from slashd. I also work on multiple levels of the storage stack at Canonical, helping customers resolve (escalated) issues related to juju/charms, ceph, bcache, lvm, device-mapper and also the kernel.

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first contact with Ubuntu was more than a decade ago, when I was curious about the fact that the Linux Laptops that were available for purchase online or in the stores always only ever had Ubuntu installed on them, and I wondered why. I had then installed Ubuntu on my own laptop to give it a try, and found it a stable alternative to the crashes I routinely experienced on Windows. I became an instant fan of Ubuntu for its stability, its optimal use of the hardware and the wonderful community.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
Ubuntu:
* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Nikhil+Kshirsagar&sponsoree_search=name | My Uploads (sponsoree)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nkshirsagar/+uploaded-packages | Launchpad Uploaded packages]]</nowiki>
* [sosreport] Re-achitecture of the ceph sosreport plugin (investigation & commit upstream) https://github.com/sosreport/sos/commit/0a9e5dfc6b022b510498131ccc7aebbcbe1ec6b3 https://github.com/sosreport/sos/commit/2288f46bfd3ed88899d4177d11ff83161b23286e https://github.com/sosreport/sos/commit/22754fd1275c2c1597a953c02121b1fdf57dddd0 https://github.com/sosreport/sos/commit/13ce81156970034375e3a6985a7c147e281486f3
* [bcache] bcache deadlock during read IO in writeback mode (discovery, investigation & SRU) 
 https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1980925 
 https://evilpiepirate.org/git/bcachefs.git/commit/?h=bcache-journal_fix&id=7daa63c88d527494122f2a6d5270aae4d27a0544
* [ceph] ceph-osd takes all memory at boot (investigation & backport) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1978913
* [ceph] mon crashes when improper json is passed to rados https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1969000
* [ceph] "radosgw-admin bucket limit check" has duplicate entries if bucket count exceeds 1000 (max_entries) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1946211
* [hotkdump] Automated vmcore analysis for customer cases https://github.com/canonical/hotkdump

Upstream:
* [ceph-osd charm] zap-disk action should fail if target disk is actively used by LVM, or handle the LVM removal  (investigation & fixing upstream) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1858519 
* [LVM - thin pools] A thin_shrink tool https://github.com/nkshirsagar/thinpool_shrink 
* [PCP] Various performance related patches (investigation & commit upstream) https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/261b57b6a2ff3913980c44e5b316970f7b1e61a5 https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/2f8f8136e01702fe76889ce6241418abc882d28d https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/632114fcae44ff1c7f49c17254df05221e2d9cf0 https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/1dcdf46a42014dff5df8077cb4d7b9144b31f75f https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/6c492cc3eb26bf8e131391a36b30317650f57b0d https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/fdfedc367e8bc3152cd1544d51e6efb1696af261 https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/237f9b729d18f4ee320c4fd948108fc1932b3882
* [hotsos] Various improvements to hotsos for ceph/kernel https://github.com/canonical/hotsos/commits?author=nkshirsagar 
* [openstack cinder charm] Virtual Disk extend/resize not working (investigation & backports) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1939389
* [mdadm] Fix crash https://git.centos.org/rpms/mdadm/blob/d4a472a2c8e29a2dd5f0aa5ac673556c802b3ae3/f/SOURCES/mdadm-3.4-The-sys_name-array-in-the-mdinfo-structure-is-20-byt.patch 
* [vdo] Recovery of a full VDO device https://github.com/jakszewa/vdorecover/commits?author=nkshirsagar 
* [lvm] Repair a corrupt thin superblock https://github.com/jthornber/thin-provisioning-tools/pull/124/commits/91b4714e389b3e81fd2c18b64e30021e437f197c
* [thin tools] Shrink a thin pool (POC work) https://github.com/jthornber/thin-provisioning-tools/commit/b67b587a109ccdab49f9d5ca1ed90a5a8fcc9467
* [lvm] Improve VG logging https://github.com/sailfishos-mirror/lvm2/commit/e70d5d470c196f81c125c2705c065302608dbfbe
* [kernel] Improve scsi logging https://lore.kernel.org/linux-scsi/CAMNNMLFtQOHsjWUMs+q_+z9XqQYZmR34ewoB-5LrCpzGp1Ppkw@mail.gmail.com/
* [nfs-utils] Fix memory leaks https://linuxlists.cc/l/17/linux-nfs/t/3182554/(patch)_rpc.mountd:_fix_e_hostname_and_e_uuid_leaks_reported_in_bz1711210 
 
=== Areas of work ===
My main focus is ceph, but I have also been helping on lvm/kernel related issues, as well as cinder/osd charm bugs. I have also contributed in other areas like anbox and maas. And with mentoring from Dariusz and Eric, I have been priviliged to now be the maintainer of the sosreport package.

=== Things I could do better ===
I could definitely get more involved in the upstream Ubuntu community, and plan to do this by being at and also presenting at near-future Ubuntu conferences.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
Keep improving Ubuntu, maintain the sosreport packages for Ubuntu.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
There are tweaks that are needed when Ubuntu is installed (say from ISO) before 'my grandmother' can use it (my grandmother = any person who has only used windows/mac in the past). I believe the default out of the box install should make it as easy as possible to use Ubuntu for the layman with no tweaks required like needing customization to get a taskbar. I also think the Ubuntu knowledge base articles need improvement, in terms of quality as well as quantity. 

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''
----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== slashd ===
==== General feedback ====
The package (only sosreport and for version v4.3) I've sponsored and other updates I've witnessed from Nikhil were always high quality. 

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've worked with Nikhil at Canonical, both in the same team, the "Sustaining Engineering Group". Over this period, we exchange a lot about sosreport improvement, and Nikhil did the last sosreport bump alone with some minor help from my part.
 
==== Areas of Improvement ====
As a next step for Nikhil, I would like to see more involvement in development release aspect.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:slashd]]</nowiki> 
=== dgadomski ===
==== General feedback ====
I've been working with Nikhil on several sosreport releases since 4.3. I have been sponsoring his patches for stable releases. He learns very fast, is capable of communicating with upstream in regards to the releases and shows great determination in bringing things to conclusion.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

We are both members of the Sustaining Engineering team at Canonical. I have worked with Nikhil on a number of occasions, but only sponsored his sosreport work.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I would love to see Nikhil more involved in upstream sosreport work so his name gets more recognition for him as the sos SME.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dgadomski]]</nowiki> 
----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
