{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Nikhil Kshirsagar, apply for SRU developer rights.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Nikhil Kshirsagar
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~nkshirsagar
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/nkshirsagar
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I spent the first 10 years of my career being a Linux userspace programmer, developing C/C++ storage based applications for various flavors of Linux. My first purely open-source related job was when I began working at Red Hat as a storage SME (SEG) in 2015, and have used Linux exclusively since then. During this role. I got acquainted with several folks in the upstream community, particularly in the domains of performance and storage. This role led me to submit several upstream contributions, and I also presented talks at conferences like DevConf and PCPConf on topics like Modern C++, block layer caching, performance monitoring and LVM2.

Among the distributions I have used on my personal machine at various times are RHEL 7+, Debian, Fedora and Ubuntu. (all releases since xenial)

I joined the Sustaining Engineering team at Canonical in July 2021, working on Cloud as well as Platform storage customer issues. I then became familiar with the Debian/Ubuntu universe, including from a packaging point of view, as I took over the role of the maintainer of the sosreport apt packages in Ubuntu from slashd. I also work on multiple levels of the storage stack at Canonical, helping customers resolve (escalated) issues related to juju/charms, ceph, bcache, lvm, device-mapper and also the kernel.

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first contact with Ubuntu was when I was curious about the fact that the Linux Laptops that were available for purchase online or in the stores always only ever had Ubuntu installed on them, and I wondered why. I then had installed Ubuntu 18.04 on my own laptop to give it a try, and found it a stable alternative to the crashes I routinely experienced on Windows on my own laptop. However, my exploration of Linux distributions extended beyond Ubuntu back then, and I often experimented with Fedora as well as Arch Linux.

I started using Ubuntu as my main OS therefore only after I had joined Canonical, in July 2021. I became an instant fan of Ubuntu for its stability, its optimal use of the hardware, and of course, the wonderful community.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
Ubuntu:
* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Nikhil+Kshirsagar&sponsoree_search=name | My Uploads (sponsoree)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nkshirsagar/+uploaded-packages | Launchpad Uploaded packages]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>
* [ceph-osd charm] zap-disk action should fail if target disk is actively used by LVM, or handle the LVM removal  (investigation & fixing upstream) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1858519 
* [sosreport] Re-achitecture of the ceph sosreport plugin (investigation & commit upstream) https://github.com/sosreport/sos/commit/0a9e5dfc6b022b510498131ccc7aebbcbe1ec6b3 https://github.com/sosreport/sos/commit/2288f46bfd3ed88899d4177d11ff83161b23286e https://github.com/sosreport/sos/commit/22754fd1275c2c1597a953c02121b1fdf57dddd0 https://github.com/sosreport/sos/commit/13ce81156970034375e3a6985a7c147e281486f3
* [bcache] bcache deadlock during read IO in writeback mode (discovery, investigation & SRU) 
 https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1980925 
 https://evilpiepirate.org/git/bcachefs.git/commit/?h=bcache-journal_fix&id=7daa63c88d527494122f2a6d5270aae4d27a0544
* [hotsos] Various improvements to hotsos for ceph/kernel https://github.com/canonical/hotsos/commits?author=nkshirsagar 
* [openstack cinder charm] Virtual Disk extend/resize not working (investigation & backports) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1939389
* [ceph] ceph-osd takes all memory at boot (investigation & backport) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1978913
* [ceph] mon crashes when improper json is passed to rados https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1969000
* [ceph] "radosgw-admin bucket limit check" has duplicate entries if bucket count exceeds 1000 (max_entries) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1946211

Upstream:
* [LVM - thin pools] A thin_shrink tool https://github.com/nkshirsagar/thinpool_shrink 
* [PCP] Various performance related patches (investigation & commit upstream) https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/261b57b6a2ff3913980c44e5b316970f7b1e61a5 https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/2f8f8136e01702fe76889ce6241418abc882d28d https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/632114fcae44ff1c7f49c17254df05221e2d9cf0 https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/1dcdf46a42014dff5df8077cb4d7b9144b31f75f https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/6c492cc3eb26bf8e131391a36b30317650f57b0d https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/fdfedc367e8bc3152cd1544d51e6efb1696af261 https://github.com/performancecopilot/pcp/commit/237f9b729d18f4ee320c4fd948108fc1932b3882
* [mdadm] Fix crash https://git.centos.org/rpms/mdadm/blob/d4a472a2c8e29a2dd5f0aa5ac673556c802b3ae3/f/SOURCES/mdadm-3.4-The-sys_name-array-in-the-mdinfo-structure-is-20-byt.patch 
* [vdo] Recovery of a full VDO device https://github.com/jakszewa/vdorecover/commits?author=nkshirsagar 
* [lvm] Repair a corrupt thin superblock https://github.com/jthornber/thin-provisioning-tools/pull/124/commits/91b4714e389b3e81fd2c18b64e30021e437f197c
* [thin tools] Shrink a thin pool (POC work) https://github.com/jthornber/thin-provisioning-tools/commit/b67b587a109ccdab49f9d5ca1ed90a5a8fcc9467
* [lvm] Improve VG logging https://github.com/sailfishos-mirror/lvm2/commit/e70d5d470c196f81c125c2705c065302608dbfbe
* [kernel] Improve scsi logging https://lore.kernel.org/linux-scsi/CAMNNMLFtQOHsjWUMs+q_+z9XqQYZmR34ewoB-5LrCpzGp1Ppkw@mail.gmail.com/
* [nfs-utils] Fix memory leaks https://linuxlists.cc/l/17/linux-nfs/t/3182554/(patch)_rpc.mountd:_fix_e_hostname_and_e_uuid_leaks_reported_in_bz1711210 
 
=== Areas of work ===
My main focus is ceph, but I have also been helping on lvm/kernel related issues, as well as cinder/osd charm bugs. I have also contributed in other areas like anbox and maas. And with mentoring from Dariusz and Eric, I have been priviliged to now be the maintainer of the sosreport apt package.

=== Things I could do better ===
I could definitely get more involved in the upstream Ubuntu community, and plan to do this by being at and also presenting at near-future Ubuntu conferences.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
Keep improving Ubuntu, maintain the apt sosreport packages for Ubuntu.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
There are tweaks that are needed when Ubuntu is installed (say from ISO) before 'my grandmother' can use it (my grandmother = any person who has only used windows/mac in the past). I believe the default customization should make it as easy as possible to use Ubuntu for the layman with no tweaks required for example to have a taskbar, or maximising/minimising windows buttons. (This is noted on bionic and focal) 

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
