{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


----
CategoryHomepage

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nlsthzn/|nlsthzn]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1209987|not found]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| nlsthzn on Freenode
|-
| '''Contact''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nlsthzn/|Use launchpad contact form or my email ]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''More info''':
| <nowiki>[[http://nlsthzn.com]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===

My name is Neil Oosthuizen and I have been addicted to Ubuntu in some form or shape since I got my 6.06 discs via ship-it.  Currently I like to hang out and give a helping hand when possible on IRC, I am part of a group trying to get a Loco established in the UAE and more often than not I will be found at the Ubuntu Forums.

It was also my great privilege to be asked to assist as a moderator on the Ubuntu Forums, a chance I jumped at, and as it is early days yet I will start to play a bigger role in this capacity as I become more familiar with the culture, rules, etiquette etc. and the tools available on the forum.

Oh, and a special mention to all the awesome work the super unofficial Ubuntu News Team does... when ever I can I try and lend them a hand with the awesome task of the weekly Ubuntu Newsletter...

=== Team Memberships ===
 They have become numerous so I decided to just add this link <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nlsthzn/+participation]]</nowiki>

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
* Well, it is still early days but we are slowly building an Ubuntu community in the UAE - Plan is simple, become a recognized official Loco - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.ae]]</nowiki>
* I will continue to be an active member (and now also staff member) of the <nowiki>[[http:-ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> as I see it as an awesome tool in bringing Ubuntu to the masses.

=== Programming languages ===
 
* Python
  print 'Hello world!' (Yup, that is about the extent of my programming powers...)
* Python 3
  print("Hello world!") (Still can't do much more but at least I am current :p)

=== Testimonials ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/EmiratesLoCo/messages/boards/thread/16007212|Ubuntu Membership application thread]]</nowiki> for me on the Emirates LoCo Message Board
* <This space available for advertising>
