{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:nm-ifupdown-death-match
* '''Packages affected''': network-manager ifupdown

=== Summary ===

Review the upcoming changes for NetworkManager 0.7 to see whether that will be targeted for hardy; and in either case, evaluate improvements between the integration of NetworkManager and ifupdown -- in particular, is it possible for static information in /etc/network/interfaces to be used by NM when setting up the interface?

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

=== BoF Notes ===

Review the upcoming changes for NetworkManager 0.7 to see whether that will be targeted for hardy; and in either case, evaluate improvements between the integration of NetworkManager and ifupdown -- in particular, is it possible for static information in /etc/network/interfaces to be used by NM when setting up the interface?

Assumptions:

  NetworkManager 0.7 will be ready in time for hardy
  NetworkManager 0.7 will allow global interface configurations and doesn't require a
  user to be logged in.

Reasons to use ifupdown:
* not enough control
* make AP/ESSID sticky
* bring up interfaces before login (e.g. kerberos authentication) - should be
   resolved once there is a global configuration daemon exists (0.7)
* 

Problems with ifupdown:
* typo in one interface results in no runing interface after reboot

Network Manager 0.7 current state:
** https://www.redhat.com/archives/fedora-devel-list/2007-October/msg00125.html
** http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Releases/FeatureNetworkManager

Requirements to replace ifupdown by network-manager:
** static network configuration in installer
** command line tool replacement for ifup/ifdown - what about if-up/down hooks?
** global configuration file should be /etc/network/interfaces - if possible

----
CategorySpec
