{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== What is Ubuntu Kylin ? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for previous Windows users all over the world. We are committed to provide you with a simpler and more enjoyable experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing UKUI Desktop Environment which provide a ‘familiar Windows-style layout’ to windows. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since Ubuntu Kylin 13.04. 

== What's new in Ubuntu Kylin 24.04 ==

=== Kernel ===

Kernel 6.8:  

* Improved networking buffers for better caching efficiency

* Driver fixes for the Steam Controller

* Better color management for the Steam Deck

* A guest-first memory feature for KVM

* A change to the Intel P-State CPU frequency scaling driver (so those CPUs will be able to hit their advertised boost speeds)

* The ability to prevent direct writes to block devices

* Improved sys call entry performance for the IBM Z architecture

* Fixes to mitigate AMD RFI interference on Ryzen 7000 and 8000 laptops

* Optimizations for NUMA balancing and Deadline Scheduler

* IRQ override quirks for various laptops

* Improvements to the WMI bus driver

* Improvements for several Android devices

=== Installer ===

Migrate to a new installer and provide support for minimal mode.

=== Desktop Environment ===

Ubuntu Kylin 24.04 introduces some of the UKUI 4.0 component, which is focused on resolving issues and delivering an enhanced user experience.

== Upgrade Ubuntu Kylin from 23.10 to 24.04 ==

=== Back up your user data ===
The upgrade should preserve your user data, but it is always better to be prepared for the unexpected. For example, you could lose power during the upgrade.

=== Ensure your current installation is updated ===
$ sudo apt update && sudo apt dist-upgrade

=== Upgrade ===
$ sudo update-manager -c

== Support ==

* Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Project page: http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* Bug tracker: http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* IRC channel: <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntukylin-devel|irc.freenode.net #ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntukylin-devel | ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Chinese QQ Group: 
** Developers: 125729037
** Users 1: 262012757
** Users 2: 306929327
** Users 3: 75642661
** Users 4: 398104181
** Users 5: 8010855 
* Weibo: http://weibo.com/u/3265288504
* Business Email: contact@ubuntukylin.com

== Download ==

The Release ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/daily-live | here]]</nowiki>.

== Thanks ==
Thanks to Simon Quigley, Jeremy Bich, Mauro, sil2100 and others who involving in the work of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 24.04 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide and https://developer.ubuntukylin.com.
