{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Logs20090623 here.

Logs from 20090623 LoCo Meeting
Jun 23 19:00:20 <akgraner>	#startmeeting

Jun 23 19:00:22 <MootBot>	Meeting started at 18:00. The chair is akgraner.

Jun 23 19:00:22 <MootBot>	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]

Jun 23 19:00:31 <akgraner>	Welcome everyone...

Jun 23 19:00:43 <akgraner>	Agenda for this meeting can be found https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting

Jun 23 19:01:09 <akgraner>	so who is here for the meeting?

Jun 23 19:01:42 <pak33m>	aye just sitting in here

Jun 23 19:02:03 <akgraner>	_marx_, bac and JFo sent apologizes for the meeting.... they couldn't be here...

Jun 23 19:02:49 <akgraner>	[Topic] Install Fests

Jun 23 19:02:50 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Install Fests

Jun 23 19:03:34 <akgraner>	JFo is still trying to work on a plan for Fests around the state...

Jun 23 19:03:57 <akgraner>	I am going to jump ahead to a new items that ties into this one...

Jun 23 19:04:13 <akgraner>	[Topic] Ubuntu Global Jam

Jun 23 19:04:14 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Ubuntu Global Jam

Jun 23 19:04:26 <akgraner>	has anyone heard of it already?

Jun 23 19:04:47 *	BugeyeD raises his hand

Jun 23 19:04:54 <akgraner>	anyone else?

Jun 23 19:05:24 <akgraner>	ok so the week ok Oct 2-4, 2009 is when  this is going to take place

Jun 23 19:05:34 <akgraner>	all Ubuntu LoCo's are encouraged to take part...

Jun 23 19:06:02 <akgraner>	so on this weekend we are going to make it an all things Ubuntu weekend all over the State if possible...

Jun 23 19:06:14 <akgraner>	in preparing for the event...

Jun 23 19:06:43 <akgraner>	we want to explore some ideas leading up to the event...

Jun 23 19:07:02 <akgraner>	if someone has an idea please type the following

Jun 23 19:07:12 <akgraner>	[idea] bug jams

Jun 23 19:07:13 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  bug jams

Jun 23 19:07:25 <akgraner>	[idea] install fests

Jun 23 19:07:26 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  install fests

Jun 23 19:07:33 <akgraner>	see how that works...

Jun 23 19:07:43 <akgraner>	[idea] updating wiki's

Jun 23 19:07:44 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  updating wiki's

Jun 23 19:08:08 <akgraner>	so kenvandine had a suggestion that he would like to see happen...

Jun 23 19:08:33 *	jfrorie (n=jfrorie@cpe-071-075-118-086.carolina.res.rr.com) has joined #ubuntu-us-nc
Jun 23 19:08:55 <akgraner>	hey jfrorie  welcome

Jun 23 19:09:03 <BugeyeD>	[idea] placing cds in retail locations (this is ongoing)

Jun 23 19:09:04 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  placing cds in retail locations (this is ongoing)

Jun 23 19:09:18 <jfrorie>	hi all

Jun 23 19:09:32 <akgraner>	[idea] working on empathy and banshee prior.. I was thinking in July
 
Jun 23 19:09:33 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  working on empathy and banshee prior.. I was thinking in July

Jun 23 19:09:40 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, great idea...

Jun 23 19:10:06 <pak33m>	[idea] create a project page for the team

Jun 23 19:10:06 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  create a project page for the team

Jun 23 19:10:38 <pak33m>	to manage your proposed and active projects

Jun 23 19:10:44 <akgraner>	pak33m, great!  Do you know if the LoCo teams have an idea page for everyone to pull from or add too?

Jun 23 19:10:54 <pak33m>	hope you dont mind me chiming in here

Jun 23 19:11:06 <akgraner>	no please do ...everyone in the channel has a voice...

Jun 23 19:11:14 <akgraner>	:-)

Jun 23 19:11:46 <pak33m>	hmm not too sure about an idea page but thats the idea we talked around at the self bof

Jun 23 19:12:16 <akgraner>	yep..I need to go back an read the logs from the meeting about the Global Jam...

Jun 23 19:12:17 <akgraner>	:-)

Jun 23 19:12:50 <akgraner>	[action] create idea page for Global Bug Jam

Jun 23 19:12:52 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  create idea page for Global Bug Jam

Jun 23 19:13:00 <pak33m>	not to toot my own horn but youre more than welcome to take ideas from the -fl team projects page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects

Jun 23 19:13:10 <akgraner>	[action] set up a empathy and banshee jam in July

Jun 23 19:13:11 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  set up a empathy and banshee jam in July

Jun 23 19:13:28 *	akgraner looks now

Jun 23 19:13:33 <pak33m>	that is where we list all of our team projects to keep updated

Jun 23 19:13:55 <akgraner>	pak33m, oh I like that...did anyone else take a quick peek at it?

Jun 23 19:14:03 *	BugeyeD is looking now

Jun 23 19:14:14 <akgraner>	do you use that to help with your team reports as well
 
Jun 23 19:14:23 <pak33m>	we also have a page for reoccrring events, i.e. bug jams, etc.

Jun 23 19:14:40 <bgryderclock>	[idea] setup an educational table/booth at large malls with a large "bring your old PC back to life w/ Free Software" banner.

Jun 23 19:14:41 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  setup an educational table/booth at large malls with a large "bring your old PC back to life w/ Free Software" banner.

Jun 23 19:15:01 <BugeyeD>	nice. and a qimo project, too. i use that with my kids.

Jun 23 19:15:03 <akgraner>	pak33m, I am just now working on the new wiki pages...have to link then all in the nice fashion you all and other LoCo's have theirs...

Jun 23 19:15:09 <pak33m>	no as of last night i actually started using the new style of team reports and it works just dandy

Jun 23 19:15:37 <akgraner>	:-) 

Jun 23 19:15:57 <BugeyeD>	bgryderclock: one would normally have to rent space in a mall, right?

Jun 23 19:16:00 <pak33m>	BugeyeD: the qimo folks are members of our team

Jun 23 19:16:11 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, yeah that would be great too...

Jun 23 19:16:17 <pak33m>	BugeyeD: and they are awesome

Jun 23 19:16:19 <BugeyeD>	pak33m: i know, i sat in on their talk and shook their hands afterward. :)

Jun 23 19:16:20 <bgryderclock>	i am not sure

Jun 23 19:16:54 <akgraner>	which mall BugeyeD bgryderclock ?

Jun 23 19:17:28 <BugeyeD>	pak33m: one of their children was using an olpc laptop ... both my kids are on theirs as i type this. too bad qimo is to thick for those devices.

Jun 23 19:17:34 <BugeyeD>	s/to/too/

Jun 23 19:17:34 <sinBot>	pak33m: one of their children was using an olpc laptoop ... both my kids are on theirs as i type this. tooo bad qimo is too thick for those devices.

Jun 23 19:17:45 <BugeyeD>	krikey

Jun 23 19:17:56 <akgraner>	[action] if you want to do something at a mall check into the what is needed...

Jun 23 19:17:57 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  if you want to do something at a mall check into the what is needed...
Jun 23 19:18:12 <BugeyeD>	akgraner: i'm nearest hanes mall in winston, but oak hollow (high point) and four seasons (greensboro) are fairly close

Jun 23 19:18:31 <bgryderclock>	perhaps concord mills mall or South park mall in the charlotte area,

Jun 23 19:18:41 <akgraner>	does anyone have time to research what is needed for those malls 

Jun 23 19:19:00 <pak33m>	were getting ready to have a few qimo events coming up

Jun 23 19:19:00 <BugeyeD>	i can work on that tomorrow

Jun 23 19:19:17 <akgraner>	[action] BugeyeD to check on mall details...

Jun 23 19:19:18 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  BugeyeD to check on mall details...

Jun 23 19:19:36 <akgraner>	pak33m, great.. are they on your wiki?

Jun 23 19:19:47 <pak33m>	akgraner: yes

Jun 23 19:20:11 <akgraner>	great...I'll read up on them in a few then...  they Rock!

Jun 23 19:20:38 <akgraner>	[topic] events

Jun 23 19:20:39 <MootBot>	New Topic:  events

Jun 23 19:21:23 <akgraner>	Atlanta Linux Fest is coming up in September

Jun 23 19:22:07 <akgraner>	the 19th...  they have a great lineup already..
 
Jun 23 19:22:30 <akgraner>	do we want to do anything as LoCo or join up with the SE LoCo's for this...

Jun 23 19:22:43 <akgraner>	I am not sure how much space they will have...

Jun 23 19:22:59 <akgraner>	[idea] booth at Atlanta Linux Fest

Jun 23 19:23:00 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  booth at Atlanta Linux Fest

Jun 23 19:23:07 <BugeyeD>	at that time, i should be in georgia - but camping in my vw bus

Jun 23 19:23:12 <pak33m>	akgraner: that would be neat if we could do a southeast ubuntu loco display with -fl, -ga, -sc, -nc, etc.

Jun 23 19:23:32 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, :-)

Jun 23 19:23:41 <akgraner>	pak33m, I think together would be awesome

Jun 23 19:23:51 <pak33m>	or represent our locos in one place there i mean

Jun 23 19:24:06 <pak33m>	more bofs hosted by you of course

Jun 23 19:24:11 <akgraner>	is there a SE banner with all the loco teams listed by any chance

Jun 23 19:24:28 <pak33m>	no but that could be made

Jun 23 19:24:44 *	BugeyeD brb, need to reboot my client

Jun 23 19:24:48 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, k

Jun 23 19:24:55 <pak33m>	we would have to generate some noise about it on the -us mailing list

Jun 23 19:25:11 <akgraner>	ok.. you want to do that or do you want me too?

Jun 23 19:25:45 <pak33m>	you can do it i still need to bring it up  with the -fl team

Jun 23 19:25:49 <akgraner>	ahh ok

Jun 23 19:25:56 <pak33m>	if you want

Jun 23 19:26:02 <pak33m>	or i can

Jun 23 19:26:10 <pak33m>	ok i will

Jun 23 19:26:22 <akgraner>	ok..:-)

Jun 23 19:26:51 <akgraner>	[action] pak33m to bring up banner for SE LoCo joint events on the -us mailing list...

Jun 23 19:26:52 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  pak33m to bring up banner for SE LoCo joint events on the -us mailing list...

Jun 23 19:27:16 <akgraner>	I'll comment on it as soon as I see the email.. we can get some buzz going

Jun 23 19:27:30 <akgraner>	jfrorie, hey got any events in the CLT area?

Jun 23 19:27:39 <pak33m>	my thought there was to bring up repping our locos in general at alf

Jun 23 19:28:00 <pak33m>	good stuff

Jun 23 19:28:02 <akgraner>	pak ok I'll note that in the minutes...

Jun 23 19:28:04 <akgraner>	:-)

Jun 23 19:28:43 <jfrorie>	not a thing going on around here.  I finally got on the charlug mailing list and the organizer is stepping down.

Jun 23 19:28:54 <akgraner>	ahh ok...

Jun 23 19:29:24 <akgraner>	getting around to the lug stuff..:-) it's on the list  and congrats on the lug stuff
 
Jun 23 19:29:35 <akgraner>	[idea] BarcampRDU

Jun 23 19:29:36 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  BarcampRDU

Jun 23 19:29:48 <bgryderclock>	Will there be a CharLug meeting this week?

Jun 23 19:30:07 <akgraner>	sorry folks did anyone else have anything about ALF before I head into BarCAmp

Jun 23 19:30:29 <jfrorie>	bgryderclock, I haven;t heard a pep on this list for over a month.

Jun 23 19:30:36 <jfrorie>	pep == peep

Jun 23 19:30:40 <akgraner>	ok so...BarCamp...

Jun 23 19:30:53 <akgraner>	it's August 8th, 2009...
 
Jun 23 19:31:09 <akgraner>	I need to post some links one sec let me grab it... and ALF

Jun 23 19:31:21 <akgraner>	lovelace do you want to say anything about barcamp

Jun 23 19:31:55 <akgraner>	[link] ALF http://atlantalinuxfest.org/

Jun 23 19:31:56 <MootBot>	LINK received:  ALF http://atlantalinuxfest.org/

Jun 23 19:32:11 <BugeyeD>	will i need to register prior to showing up at barcamprdu? kinda looks like it might be full otherwise

Jun 23 19:32:14 <akgraner>	crap..the ALF doesn't belong in the link but you get the idea

Jun 23 19:32:32 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, there is a waiting list due to limited space

Jun 23 19:32:40 <akgraner>	you will need to add your name to the list

Jun 23 19:33:05 <akgraner>	[link] http://barcamp.org/BarCampRDU

Jun 23 19:33:07 <MootBot>	LINK received:  http://barcamp.org/BarCampRDU

Jun 23 19:33:53 <BugeyeD>	thought so. prolly won't do that, as i cannot guarantee i can be there at this time

Jun 23 19:33:57 <akgraner>	so think about that event  - the TriLug in charge of this event  - should be a great crowd - and a ton of info

Jun 23 19:34:15 <BugeyeD>	i'd love to go

Jun 23 19:34:31 <akgraner>	:-) as we would love to have you there!

Jun 23 19:34:46 <akgraner>	anything else about BarCamp anyone

Jun 23 19:34:49 *	bgryderclock has quit ("Page closed")

Jun 23 19:34:54 <akgraner>	before I move on

Jun 23 19:35:20 <akgraner>	[topic] advocacy 

Jun 23 19:35:20 <MootBot>	New Topic:  advocacy

Jun 23 19:36:07 <akgraner>	what can to bring ubuntu to our communities in the State

Jun 23 19:36:23 *	bgryderclock (i=184a94d2@gateway/web/freenode/x-7aa3f974f2294215) has joined #ubuntu-us-nc

Jun 23 19:36:34 <akgraner>	here are some ideas I thought about in addition to the ones listed for Global Jam 

Jun 23 19:36:41 <akgraner>	[idea] libraries

Jun 23 19:36:43 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  libraries

Jun 23 19:36:53 <akgraner>	wb bgryderclock !

Jun 23 19:37:10 <BugeyeD>	homeschool 2009/2010 is just getting ramped up around here. my wife is getting plugged in (this is our first year). i hope to start talking to folks about qimo and feeling them out for how else they can be helped with foss, but this will take some time.

Jun 23 19:37:17 <akgraner>	I talked to a couple libraries and they were excited about having Cd'

Jun 23 19:37:25 <akgraner>	cd's and fliers in them

Jun 23 19:37:41 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, Great!!!

Jun 23 19:38:06 <bgryderclock>	In a talk at SELF, Ryan "Icculus" Gordon talked about a "buy a MacBook get a free Ipod" poster. he asked where are the "want free games and a word processor that doesn't suck.. Try Linux" posters. Perhaps we could create some posters like that and blanket NC campuses with them.

Jun 23 19:38:08 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, let us know when you kick that off so we make sure we get it on our lists...

Jun 23 19:38:44 <BugeyeD>	np. i'm already talking to some folks, but don't yet know really where to start because i don't know the organization yet.

Jun 23 19:39:16 <akgraner>	bgryderclock, sounds like an idea   - do the ubuntu marketing folks have anything like that yet? does anyone know?

Jun 23 19:39:24 <BugeyeD>	i've contacted sheetz hq (the gas station/food store) but have yet to talk to a real person. just canned messages so far.

Jun 23 19:39:40 <BugeyeD>	i've also contacted lowes foods, more of the same.

Jun 23 19:40:02 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, you are on the ball...  let us know how all that goes...

Jun 23 19:40:05 <akgraner>	:-)

Jun 23 19:40:11 <BugeyeD>	next on my list is redbox, because folks expect to pick up dvds there - figure it's worth a shot.

Jun 23 19:40:34 <akgraner>	[idea] posters...

Jun 23 19:40:36 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  posters...

Jun 23 19:41:07 <akgraner>	all the community colleges are linked as well... so that is a place to start too...

Jun 23 19:41:15 <BugeyeD>	[idea] gas stations, red box, grocery stores

Jun 23 19:41:15 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  gas stations, red box, grocery stores

Jun 23 19:41:16 <akgraner>	[idea] community colleges

Jun 23 19:41:18 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  community colleges

Jun 23 19:41:58 <akgraner>	[idea] get involved and see how we can support our LUG and F/LOSS groups in our respective communities

Jun 23 19:41:59 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  get involved and see how we can support our LUG and F/LOSS groups in our respective communities

Jun 23 19:42:28 <akgraner>	see about giving talks or getting someone who knows something about what you are interested to come speak if you don't want to...

Jun 23 19:42:53 <akgraner>	[idea] bookstores/coffee shops
   
Jun 23 19:42:54 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  bookstores/coffee shops

Jun 23 19:43:10 <akgraner>	pak33m, I can see we really need an idea page..:-)

Jun 23 19:43:17 <BugeyeD>	no kidding

Jun 23 19:43:22 <pak33m>	oh yeah

Jun 23 19:44:20 <akgraner>	[idea] non-profits

Jun 23 19:44:21 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  non-profits

Jun 23 19:44:25 <pak33m>	thats why i mentioned a project page for your team at least

Jun 23 19:44:27 <BugeyeD>	would the idea page be a wiki that i could edit if/when i get anywhere with any of these contacts?

Jun 23 19:44:48 <akgraner>	if you know of a cause that you are personally passionate about..  see what they need...

Jun 23 19:45:03 <akgraner>	see if you can help them or if you can't put them in touch with someone who can...

Jun 23 19:45:38 <akgraner>	an non-profit you don't care about will fall off your radar but if you care about it.. the you can combine two things and go from there...

Jun 23 19:45:50 <akgraner>	make sense...

Jun 23 19:46:23 <pak33m>	something along the idea (no pun) of http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/

Jun 23 19:46:31 <pak33m>	for an idea page that is

Jun 23 19:46:37 *	Citizenjoefriday (n=Joe@adsl-070-145-232-086.sip.int.bellsouth.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-nc

Jun 23 19:47:09 <akgraner>	ahh..ok

Jun 23 19:47:25 <akgraner>	so anything else.. on this front before I move on to the logo?

Jun 23 19:47:36 <pak33m>	akgraner: but maybe somebody could create one for -locoteam

Jun 23 19:47:38 <akgraner>	don't want to keep people to long tonight...

Jun 23 19:47:38 <pak33m>	s
Jun 23 19:47:47 <pak33m>	and idea page that is

Jun 23 19:48:03 <akgraner>	pak33m, oh that would be great...  hmm when in the next loco teams meeting?

Jun 23 19:48:13 <akgraner>	maybe we could put that on the agenda..:-)

Jun 23 19:48:15 <pak33m>	you guys have a tonne of ideas floating around here :)

Jun 23 19:48:32 <pak33m>	akgraner: oh in dont know

Jun 23 19:48:51 <akgraner>	ok..just curious..

Jun 23 19:49:08 <akgraner>	aything else before I move on?

Jun 23 19:49:26 <akgraner>	[topic] logo

Jun 23 19:49:27 <MootBot>	New Topic:  logo

Jun 23 19:49:48 <akgraner>	so here is the basic idea the majority of folks wanted...

Jun 23 19:49:49 <akgraner>	http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=17577806624&ref=ts#/photo.php?pid=265993&o=all&op=1&view=all&subj=17577806624&aid=-1&id=1517809393&oid=17577806624

Jun 23 19:49:50 <MootBot>	LINK received:  http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=17577806624&ref=ts#/photo.php?pid=265993&o=all&op=1&view=all&subj=17577806624&aid=-1&id=1517809393&oid=17577806624

Jun 23 19:50:49 <pak33m>	akgraner: dont want to get you all off topic but i wanted to say thanks for letting me hang out with you all again. gotta pay attention to my kids now. ttyl

Jun 23 19:50:50 <akgraner>	it needs some simplifying  but those minus the stamper, keep the stamp on the state and use Tux...

Jun 23 19:51:00 <akgraner>	pak33m, thanks for coming...

Jun 23 19:51:04 <akgraner>	anytime

Jun 23 19:51:34 <pak33m>	akgraner: let me know if you need help with team stuff

Jun 23 19:51:34 <akgraner>	any comments?

Jun 23 19:51:46 <akgraner>	pak33m, I will I promise

Jun 23 19:51:48 <akgraner>	:-)

Jun 23 19:52:32 <akgraner>	any comments on the logo?

Jun 23 19:52:42 <bgryderclock>	i like it, perhaps tux could hold the stamper?

Jun 23 19:53:15 <akgraner>	bgryderclock, oh that would be good..

Jun 23 19:53:34 <akgraner>	we'll see what we can get someone to do for us on that..:-)

Jun 23 19:53:48 <bgryderclock>	like "I, the Linux mascot, PWND the state for ubuntu"

Jun 23 19:53:55 <BugeyeD>	i think it's too busy for some uses

Jun 23 19:54:24 <akgraner>	yes..that's why it will be simplified for things like..banners t-shirts etc...

Jun 23 19:54:31 <akgraner>	:-)

Jun 23 19:54:33 <BugeyeD>	shrinking it down to a size useful for shortcuts (ie web page logos) would make it useless

Jun 23 19:54:45 <BugeyeD>	that'd make a cool t-shirt :)

Jun 23 19:54:58 <BugeyeD>	cafepress anyone?

Jun 23 19:55:07 <akgraner>	so those are the symbols everyone wanted though...

Jun 23 19:55:12 <akgraner>	cafepress is cool..

Jun 23 19:55:37 <akgraner>	anything else about the logo...

Jun 23 19:55:53 <bgryderclock>	perhaps Tux standing on the state with a ubuntu flag...

Jun 23 19:56:13 <bgryderclock>	like" i claims this state in the name of ubunut."

Jun 23 19:56:21 <bgryderclock>	*ubuntu

Jun 23 19:56:30 <jfrorie>	I'm wondering if the red stamp is a good idea

Jun 23 19:56:47 <BugeyeD>	all your tarheels are belong to us

Jun 23 19:56:55 <jfrorie>	it doesn;t reenforce the logo.  It creates a new one.

Jun 23 19:57:18 <jfrorie>	Maybe he should stamp the same logo that on the stomach

Jun 23 19:57:27 <akgraner>	well there is another stamp that is the ubuntu logo

Jun 23 19:57:35 <akgraner>	that is the one I was going to ask to be used

Jun 23 19:57:37 <jfrorie>	Maybe make the stamp a little crackled to make it look like a stamp.

Jun 23 19:58:17 <jfrorie>	From a marketing standpoint, you don't want to create  a bunch of logo variations.  It confuses people.

Jun 23 19:58:48 <bgryderclock>	yeah, i'm just shooting out ideas...

Jun 23 19:58:51 <akgraner>	jfrorie, yep...that's why I was going to stick with the normal logo

Jun 23 19:59:16 <akgraner>	and those colors..but the general idea was people liked the stamp idea..:-)

Jun 23 20:00:00 <bgryderclock>	i like the stamp idea too

Jun 23 20:00:31 <jfrorie>	I like the stamp.

Jun 23 20:00:38 <akgraner>	so I was thinking to have to logo in place by 1 August, 2009

Jun 23 20:01:23 <akgraner>	however if someone else wants to take that link and run with it...  my time will be limited until August..

Jun 23 20:01:59 <akgraner>	would love to turn that over to someone...

Jun 23 20:02:04 <jfrorie>	I suck at drawing.  I can only plagerize and change colors :(

Jun 23 20:02:17 <akgraner>	:-(

Jun 23 20:02:54 <akgraner>	I'm feeling you're pain...

Jun 23 20:03:16 <akgraner>	ok so can we move on to the next topic?

Jun 23 20:03:42 <akgraner>	[action] finalize logo have in place by 1 Aug, 2009

Jun 23 20:03:43 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  finalize logo have in place by 1 Aug, 2009

Jun 23 20:04:03 <akgraner>	[topic] Karmic Release parties...

Jun 23 20:04:04 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Karmic Release parties...

Jun 23 20:04:36 <akgraner>	ok I know Karmic is in October.. 
 
Jun 23 20:05:02 <akgraner>	but can we start planning early so we can have 3 or 4 parties for this release...

Jun 23 20:05:26 <akgraner>	that way we can get the SWAG and stuff out to everyone and not request stuff last minute...

Jun 23 20:05:46 <akgraner>	any ideas for this one?

Jun 23 20:06:18 <BugeyeD>	lemme see if i'll even be in-country that month ...

Jun 23 20:06:30 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, ok...:-)

Jun 23 20:06:47 <akgraner>	well I know the Saucer in Raleigh said we could do something there...

Jun 23 20:06:58 <BugeyeD>	how many showed at the saucer last time?

Jun 23 20:07:11 <jfrorie>	From my standpoint, we need some lessor events in charlotte to get people together.  I will lead, but I haven;t had any takers.

Jun 23 20:07:14 <akgraner>	15 to 20 I think...

Jun 23 20:07:25 <BugeyeD>	i've heard good things about the saucer in charlotte ...

Jun 23 20:07:39 <BugeyeD>	i'd love to to to either of them. traffic turns me off.

Jun 23 20:07:41 <jfrorie>	I've never been, but I know where it is at.

Jun 23 20:07:55 <akgraner>	jfrorie, I can help you in Charlotte too I will only be about an hour + from there...
Jun 23 20:08:06 <jfrorie>	Who is online form charlotte tonite?

Jun 23 20:08:07 <BugeyeD>	i'll try to ping _marx_ to see if he wants to help me head one up somewhere near winston

Jun 23 20:08:07 <akgraner>	so let me know and if pgraner and or I can make we will

Jun 23 20:08:22 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, that would be sweet!!

Jun 23 20:08:24 <bgryderclock>	i'm in the charlotte southpark area

Jun 23 20:09:33 <akgraner>	jfrorie, what about a meet and greet to start?

Jun 23 20:09:42 <jfrorie>	that's what I'm thinking.

Jun 23 20:10:35 <akgraner>	oh cool...  maybe it can shawdow a LUG meet there or something

Jun 23 20:10:43 <akgraner>	meeting I mean...

Jun 23 20:11:11 <jfrorie>	I'm wondering if the people on the Charlug list might be interested.

Jun 23 20:11:22 <BugeyeD>	despite traffic, i'll be there if i can. unless it's race day, then the traffic is impossible.

Jun 23 20:11:34 <jfrorie>	There is NO traffic on it.  The UNCClug admin doesn;t even respond.

Jun 23 20:12:14 <bgryderclock>	i tried to get on it.

Jun 23 20:12:38 <akgraner>	jfrorie, so can you do the leg work on a meet and greet in your area...and send out the info to the mailing list here...

Jun 23 20:13:04 <BugeyeD>	(sorry, was talking about me navigating automobile traffic to show up at the meet-n-greet, not the list)

Jun 23 20:13:48 <jfrorie>	bgryderclock, which list did you try to get on?

Jun 23 20:13:56 <jfrorie>	amber, I can do that.

Jun 23 20:14:12 <akgraner>	Once we get settled in I'll see about a meet-n-greet in the Lake Lure/Asheville/Hendersonville Area...

Jun 23 20:14:22 <akgraner>	jfrorie, thanks

Jun 23 20:14:54 <jfrorie>	bgryderclock, what are good days/times for you?

Jun 23 20:15:01 <akgraner>	[action] jfrorie, to do the leg work on a meet and greet in CLT area..and send out the info to the mailing list here...

Jun 23 20:15:03 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  jfrorie, to do the leg work on a meet and greet in CLT area..and send out the info to the mailing list here...

Jun 23 20:15:06 <akgraner>	great...

Jun 23 20:15:09 <bgryderclock>	hold on, i did get a email from charlug@charlug.org, (sorry, i am a fool)

Jun 23 20:15:34 <bgryderclock>	weekends are good for me,

Jun 23 20:15:48 <bgryderclock>	all saturday or sunday mornings.

Jun 23 20:16:46 <akgraner>	bgryderclock, and jfrorie so you all will team up for all things ubuntu in CLT?  yes  :-) :-)

Jun 23 20:17:35 <bgryderclock>	I will try, I must warn you, i am a super n00b. :)

Jun 23 20:18:18 <akgraner>	bgryderclock, me too... and like magicfab said "every newbie is some else's ubuntu guru!"

Jun 23 20:19:25 <akgraner>	just let the channel or the mailing list or you can email me or _marx_  if you need help with LoCo stuff

Jun 23 20:19:40 *	mikeh789_afk is now known as mikeh789

Jun 23 20:19:50 <akgraner>	_marx_, is great!
  
Jun 23 20:20:21 <akgraner>	ok so.. anything else about Karmic and events leading up to it before I go to the next topic...

Jun 23 20:20:28 <akgraner>	folks we are in the home stretch...

Jun 23 20:21:02 <akgraner>	ok then

Jun 23 20:21:20 <akgraner>	[topic] new business

Jun 23 20:21:21 <MootBot>	New Topic:  new business

Jun 23 20:21:52 <akgraner>	I think we already discussed to 2 things on the agenda which were Global Jams and more team meetings in person..

Jun 23 20:22:13 <akgraner>	does anyone else have anything not on the agenda you want to bring up now?

Jun 23 20:22:38 <akgraner>	or something you felt needed to be discussed further?

Jun 23 20:23:11 <BugeyeD>	winston has a lug

Jun 23 20:23:24 <BugeyeD>	but it's self-appointed leader is a real piece of work

Jun 23 20:23:38 <BugeyeD>	things are digressing with that group, mostly because of him

Jun 23 20:23:46 <BugeyeD>	suggestions?

Jun 23 20:23:57 <akgraner>	BugeyeD, do you know the leader?

Jun 23 20:24:14 <akgraner>	I mean other than on line..

Jun 23 20:24:27 <BugeyeD>	i've met him in person, yes. friend? definitely not.

Jun 23 20:24:39 <akgraner>	where you could say have coffee with him and see what people can do at assist?

Jun 23 20:24:40 <sinBot>	mmmm.... coffee

Jun 23 20:25:08 <akgraner>	maybe see if this person has just taken on too much?

Jun 23 20:25:15 <BugeyeD>	_marx_ has already tried that, didn't work out too well.

Jun 23 20:25:18 <akgraner>	ahh

Jun 23 20:25:22 <akgraner>	ok..

Jun 23 20:25:25 <BugeyeD>	the guy is simply an arse.

Jun 23 20:25:31 <mikeh789>	i just got here , but I'm in asheville if you need help with a meet-and-greet location

Jun 23 20:25:33 <BugeyeD>	and proud of it, apparently.

Jun 23 20:25:57 <akgraner>	mikeh789, I will be in that area next week...wanna try to meet and plan something

Jun 23 20:26:11 <mikeh789>	akgraner: sure

Jun 23 20:26:17 <akgraner>	how close are you to Lake Lure?

Jun 23 20:26:39 <mikeh789>	not really close at all, but I'll make it work

Jun 23 20:26:46 <mikeh789>	are you goin to be in town at all?

Jun 23 20:26:54 <akgraner>	I can be.. :-)

Jun 23 20:26:57 <akgraner>	love it there

Jun 23 20:27:13 <akgraner>	hey catch me after the meeting and we can work it out..k

Jun 23 20:27:14 <bgryderclock>	BugeyeD, in band situations like that we would "fake-break-up the band" and then reform the band with out the trouble maker.

Jun 23 20:27:25 <mikeh789>	akgraner: will do

Jun 23 20:27:29 <akgraner>	thanks

Jun 23 20:27:54 <akgraner>	bgryderclock, I was searching for an article about that.. BugeyeD let me see if I can get you the link...

Jun 23 20:28:19 <akgraner>	in the meantime can you send an email to the mailing list about a meet-n-greet in the area?

Jun 23 20:28:55 <jfrorie>	charlug has bounced the last three introductions I sent out.  I got in tough with one of the guys, but have yet to successfully post.

Jun 23 20:29:02 <jfrorie>	I'm either in indian trail or university area on weekends.  What's a good middle point?

Jun 23 20:29:14 <jfrorie>	bgryderclock, I'm n00b friendly...

Jun 23 20:29:16 <jfrorie>	:0

Jun 23 20:29:18 <jfrorie>	:)

Jun 23 20:29:26 <bgryderclock>	:)

Jun 23 20:29:50 <akgraner>	ok..

Jun 23 20:30:13 <akgraner>	anything else...on new business....

Jun 23 20:30:24 <bgryderclock>	I can meet at UNCC, perhaps a restaurant in the area...

Jun 23 20:30:59 <akgraner>	oh cool...:-)

Jun 23 20:31:22 <akgraner>	sorry...wrong window...grrrr

Jun 23 20:31:51 <akgraner>	ok 

Jun 23 20:32:00 <akgraner>	[topic] next meeting

Jun 23 20:32:01 <MootBot>	New Topic:  next meeting

Jun 23 20:32:15 <akgraner>	July 7, 2009, at 7pm..

Jun 23 20:32:51 <akgraner>	[action] next meeting July 7, 2009 at 7pm EST in IRC LoCo channel...

Jun 23 20:32:52 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  next meeting July 7, 2009 at 7pm EST in IRC LoCo channel...

Jun 23 20:33:03 <akgraner>	so does anyone want to chair it?

Jun 23 20:33:20 <akgraner>	get a turn using mootbot...

Jun 23 20:33:26 *	_marx_ is back (gone 03:00:01)

Jun 23 20:33:44 <akgraner>	I'll send you link, and all that good stuff...

Jun 23 20:33:55 <akgraner>	hey _marx_ :-)

Jun 23 20:34:05 <akgraner>	wb

Jun 23 20:34:22 <akgraner>	ok so _marx_ you wanna chair the next one?

Jun 23 20:34:46 <jfrorie>	bgryderclock, are you on the NC mailing list?

Jun 23 20:34:47 <akgraner>	hmm maybe he isn't back...

Jun 23 20:35:38 <bgryderclock>	jfrorie, my contact info is  http://identi.ca/bgryderclock and/or bgryderclock at gmail.corn

Jun 23 20:36:11 <akgraner>	ok well unless otherwise note _marx_ to chair next meeting

Jun 23 20:36:20 <akgraner>	anything else anyone...

Jun 23 20:36:33 <akgraner>	we are 6 minutes over target time...:-) not bad

Jun 23 20:36:34 <BugeyeD>	i'm good

Jun 23 20:36:41 <jfrorie>	ok, I will throw out a note to see if I can get any takers.

Jun 23 20:36:58 <BugeyeD>	gotta go get the kids in bed, night all.

Jun 23 20:37:12 <akgraner>	ok then thanks everyone for an AWESOME meeting...try to get minutes out tonight for ya...

Jun 23 20:37:17 <akgraner>	#endmeeting
