{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width: 40px; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 15px ;-moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 15px; background-color: #D9D9F3; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topright: 15px;-moz-border-radius-bottomright: 15px; font-size: 1.10em; text-align: center;">'''Meeting Chair Agenda Planning Page'''
|}

This page is used for the Ubuntu North Carolina LoCo Team Meeting Chair.

Adding the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings/Mootbot-UKHowTo#How do I use it? | Mootbot-UK commands]]</nowiki> to the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings | agenda that the team reads]]</nowiki> can often make it look cluttered and difficult to focus on what is going to be discussed, especially if it is an extensive agenda. 

Please used the items from /Agenda when creating this page to make sure you have added all agenda items from there. '''Please do not add items before making sure they are on the Agenda page that the team will see and use.  This Agenda Page is for Meeting Chair to plan meeting with Mootbot-UK Commands.'''

This page is also meant as a guide so no time is wasted typing commands on the day of the meeting - you just cut and paste. In the event that the scheduled Chair can not make it to the meeting the person taking their place will not have to create something last minute. Keeping this page up to date will be the responsibility of the scheduled meeting Chair.

Please visit the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings/Mootbot-UKHowTo | Mootbot-UK How To page]]</nowiki> to learn more about using Mootbot-UK for the Ubuntu Women Project Meetings.

=== Meeting Chairpersons and order ===

marx

holstein

internalkernel

BugeyeD

coxn

akgraner

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/oscalation | oscalation]]</nowiki>

-if for some reason you can't chair, just ask in the IRC or mailing list for help covering it. 

-if you want to be added to the chair rotation, add yourself in, thanks.

=== Agenda for Upcoming Meeting ===

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda

==== Open Items ====

===== Advocacy =====

===== Projects =====

===== Team Approval =====

==== New Items ====

==== Announcements ====

=== Reminder about next Meeting ===

* [TOPIC] Date, Time, reminder that everyone can add to agenda, and link to agenda Location

 
