{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

/* Describe NorthCarolinaTeam/MeetingTemplate here. */

== Ubuntu NC LoCo Team IRC Meeting - July 15, 2010 ==

=== Agenda ===
/* copy from previous meeting and edit */
==== Open Items ====

===== Advocacy =====

*** Team advocacy - What is the team doing to get the word out?
       1. Located the founder of NC LoCo's Facebook page, <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/mighmos|Adam Petaccia]]</nowiki>.  Any one know him?
****** Chatted briefly on Facebook. 
****** Asked about gaining control of FB LoCo page.
****** Still no response yet.
****** Anyone else with success contacting him?
******* -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki>           * Ignore or mention to higher authority [vote]

       1. Offered support to CharLUG for an Installfest they are planning in 6 wks to 2 mos.
****** Have commitment for Ubuntu Live CDs from Amber. 
****** No word from CharLUG on date, yet.
******* -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki>           * Progress Report

==== New Items ====

* Discuss a new meeting time, and maybe changing the frequency to have more productive meetings less often. (holstein)
* Discuss starting a 'meeting chair group' of members that can chair the meetings in rotation. (holstein)
* Review member positions and the job requirements/responsibilities in order to discuss filling open positions. (holstein) 
* A new advocacy opportunity with the Kramden Institute; please see this forum post <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1507978]]</nowiki> 

==== Announcements ====

==== Reminder about next Meeting ====

* Date, Time, reminder that everyone can add to agenda, and link to agenda Location

=== MootBotUK ===
/* insert mootbot-uk content here */
== Meeting opened by _marx_ at 22:58 ==
 <''''''> I had some way of entering bash commands in pidgin... but I forgot

 <''''''> hi all, chime in if you are here for the meeting.

 <''''''> the bot does a head count

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> here

* '''''' here

 <''''''> yah, holstein made it

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> [link]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda[/link]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda[/link]''
|}

 <''''''> [topic] team facebook page

=== team facebook page ===
 <''''''> all attempts have been made to contact this guy

 <''''''> i friended the guy

 <''''''> no word

 <''''''> heard anything

 <''''''> o

 <''''''> jcg2 was trying hard as well

 <''''''> i sent the logo to his launchpad addresses

 <''''''> i guess we just stay on it

 <''''''> whoever has a facebook account and wants to bother him

 <''''''> can do, what is the name?

 <''''''> hey all sorry I'm late! :-)

 <''''''> Garagegoblin: i think you can find it on the agenda page

 <''''''> hi akgraner

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> this is the guy http://www.facebook.com/mighmos

 <''''''> thanks holstein

 <''''''> track some more and he has a launchpad id as well

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> i think jcg messaged him there

 <''''''> i did

 <''''''> as well

 <''''''> lets just all try to contact him

 <''''''> well if we can't get it we can just start a new one with Ubuntu NC LoCo Team

 <''''''> however

 <''''''> and nicely

 <''''''> hahaha, so we are trying to get access to the page from him?

 <''''''> and make sure 4 or 5 people on the team have sdmin

 <''''''> and yeah, we can always just make a new one like akgraner says

 <''''''> admin even

 <''''''> give it til next meeting?

 <''''''> then somebody make a new one?

 <''''''> i like that

 <''''''> I would think that is plenty of time

 <''''''> nods we've spent 6 months on this already

 <''''''> yeah, its been a while too

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> several have tried to contact hime

 <''''''> I did as well

 <''''''> k mootbot

 <''''''> well, you want to just go ahead on a new one then?

 <''''''> we did invite him to join the team and not just we want access right?

 <''''''> i just friended him

 <''''''> and that was my plan

 <''''''> if i had contact

 <''''''> holstein, yeah - go that route and ask him to become an active member to help get the word out etc

 <''''''> a cordial inclusive thank-you for starting the FB page

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> good good

 <''''''> [action] one more month on the facebook guy

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' one more month on the facebook guy''
|}

 <''''''> then if nothing by the next meeting - let's just fork it and start a new one

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> yeah... fork it...

 <''''''> and him too

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> in one month right?

 <''''''> :-)  (geek humor I'm getting it )

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> _marx_: not yet

 <''''''> _marx_, yep

 <''''''> you need to watch more IT Crowd akgraner

 <''''''> we can discuss all that

 <''''''> OH

 <''''''> if its set for a month already, thats cool

 <''''''> [topic]Charlug installfest

=== Charlug installfest ===
 <''''''> John isn't here so I'm closing it for this month

 <''''''> thoughts

 <''''''> yeah - I haven't heard anything about a date

 <''''''> +1 on closing it  - until we get more information it can always be added back

 <''''''> agreed

 <''''''> agreed

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> new items

 <''''''> i'm going to jump here to Garagegoblin on the Kramden Institute

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> [topic] new advocacy opp w/Kramden

=== new advocacy opp w/Kramden ===
 <''''''> that's the refurb computers with Ubuntu on it right?

 <''''''> half right

 <''''''> well they've been doing winders

 <''''''> that's right

 <''''''> where are they?

 <''''''> durham

 <''''''> I am a member of the Kramden Institute (www.kramden.org) management team

 <''''''> Garagegoblin: OH

 <''''''> We are located in Durham, NC

 <''''''> +1 for not using windows ;)

 <''''''> nah

 <''''''> what can we do Garagegoblin ?

 <''''''> do you want a demonstration or something like that?

 <''''''> something formal at the institute?

 <''''''> my apologies, no cue Garagegoblin

 <''''''> We have just decided that we are going to start a small side group to start exploring the opportunities gained from using Ubuntu

 <''''''> or ubuntu with LXDE or XFCE

 <''''''> something that can really sing on an old p3

 <''''''> We are more interested in Edubuntu for the software since these computers go out to students k -12

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> i think a lot of that stuff could and should be revamped to be easily used in lubuntu

 <''''''> or xubuntu

 <''''''> I would love to see a full implimentation at some point, but we will have to start slow

 <''''''> Garagegoblin, I've been working with a group in Minnesota who gives refurb computers with Ubuntu on it to military families who's service person is deployed

 <''''''> but, lucid really is rather light-weight

 <''''''> very nice akgraner, we also did laptops to kids of Ft. Bragg

 <''''''> Garagegoblin, yep exactly :-)

 <''''''> so, what can we do as a team for you Garagegoblin ?

 <''''''> so what were the reservations of senoir management?

* '''''' is in asheville

 <''''''> but anything i can do to help out, let me know

 <''''''> hey magedragon25

 <''''''> Well, we give unlimited tech support to our students

 <''''''> Garagegoblin, can you and I touch base next week - I'd like to pass some information to you about some folks at Fot bragg - I have a meeting with some of the MWR folks

 <''''''> hey

 <''''''> ok yea akgraner

 <''''''> hey magedragon25

 <''''''> you made it :)

 <''''''> Garagegoblin, thanks!

 <''''''> magedragon25, hey!!

 <''''''> and so we are going to start a pilot program to see what issues basic users that are used to windows may run into while they are getting used to it

 <''''''> hey all

 <''''''> Garagegoblin: once these machines are out there do they have internet connections

 <''''''> We would like to start collecting from the millions of great how-to's on the web and start a nice collection to be able to give to the students, if they don't have internet at home

 <''''''> no not all sadly

 <''''''> Garagegoblin, awesome!  Look at the ubuntu manual project

 <''''''> Garagegoblin, http://ubuntumanual.org/

 <''''''> we are also going to start looking into doing a server/thin client program we would be able to offer to schools that need computer labs they can't get funding for

 <''''''> personally

 <''''''> i think it should be offered as an equal alternative

 <''''''> and churches, also that need computer labs

 <''''''> i treid to do that at a church not to long ago

 <''''''> right, and that is what we are first going to start with

 <''''''> and it just didnt seem right for them

 <''''''> Garagegoblin, holstein has migrated a church/school in the weaverville area

 <''''''> the option of Ubuntu PC's

 <''''''> they didnt 'get it'

 <''''''> hahaha, that is one huge concern

 <''''''> they spent a lot of money that they didnt have on a windows outfit

 <''''''> what's to "get"

 <''''''> the learning curve for the parents will be much bigger than the kids most times

 <''''''> that will be obsolete in a couple years

 <''''''> and just as bad off as what they replaced

 <''''''> but whatever

 <''''''> hahaha I understand holstein

 <''''''> i hope it serves them well

 <''''''> all we can do is try

 <''''''> One major thing that I want to see, is for us to offer training for these machines

 <''''''> We need to first train our volunteers, and then have and help them train the end users

 <''''''> so Garagegoblin what can we do to help?

 <''''''> sounds like a great project Garagegoblin

 <''''''> why dont you blast the list if we can do anything

 <''''''> and you and akgraner talk soon

 <''''''> and i can talk to you sometime about what i did at a local church

 <''''''> Thanks,  well from the group, anyone local I would love to try to get involved in what we are doing, the more people comfortable with Ubuntu as a volunteer at Kramden the better

 <''''''> and hopefully, you can be cranking out refurbed ubuntu boxes in the near future :)

 <''''''> Garagegoblin, let's come up with some action items that we can do as a team to help you all get started

 <''''''> Garagegoblin: whatever i can do from asheville, count me in

 <''''''> if you need a support IRC channel or something

 <''''''> we can talk about it

 <''''''> as the team is loaded with talent that covers all areas of the Community and OS

 <''''''> its tough since the end user probably doesnt have internet

 <''''''> be do-able

 <''''''> well contacts in rdu area

 <''''''> but*

 <''''''> I don't mind driving to RDU once a month as long as I know in advance

 <''''''> Well I admit to saying this is still in its infancy but I am glad to get involved with you guys, and appreciate all the support I can get from this team as well

 <''''''> akgraner: i would try and go too

 <''''''> schedule permitting

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> Garagegoblin: maybe we could get some facetime with the others?

 <''''''> ideas can become action items

 <''''''> maybe some of us could come in a couple months?

 <''''''> whoever wants to

 <''''''> That would be really cool

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> well, lets do that then

 <''''''> maybe a training session for our management team and volunteers and a nice sitdown as well

 <''''''> lets talk next meeting about an acutal date somewhere down the road

 <''''''> Garagegoblin: and you can kick that around on your end

 <''''''> yea absolutely

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> We are going to start the planning of the pilot program to test how many issues, we can solve ahead of time with documentation and training

 <''''''> [topic] new meeting day and time

=== new meeting day and time ===
 <''''''> SO

 <''''''> what do you think guys?

 <''''''> bad transition

 <''''''> do we want to move the meetings?

 <''''''> i made a survey

 <''''''> AH

 <''''''> any week day is good for me

 <''''''> cool _marx_

 <''''''> I agree

 <''''''> i brought this up

 <''''''> most days are good for me as well...

 <''''''> seems like thurday evendins are not happening

 <''''''> for some reason

 <''''''> Tuesday and Thursdays are horrible for me :-(

 <''''''> evenings are bad for me

 <''''''> I think there were some other people that also said they had problems making Thursday night

 <''''''> but my off times are not going ot work for you guys

 <''''''> jcg is one

 <''''''> monday at 2pm

 <''''''> that would be ideal for me ;)

 <''''''> Monday would be fine with me

 <''''''> and thats not going to work for anyone here

 <''''''> dang musicians

 <''''''> during the day is perfect for me - but I know other people work so i get why it needs to be after 5

 <''''''> so, i will deal with whatever you guys come up with

 <''''''> wednesday?

 <''''''> 6p

 <''''''> 7p?

 <''''''> 8p?

 <''''''> should we do a survey monkey for this?

 <''''''> got one

 <''''''> another one??

 <''''''> push it out to the mailing list, include a forum post as well...

 <''''''> haven't posted it yet

 <''''''> oh - sorry missed the first few

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> _marx_: yeah, do that

 <''''''> _marx_, you have one right?

 <''''''> i really just wanted to see what you guys thought about the idea in general

 <''''''> or do you want me to recycle the one I used beofre?

 <''''''> before even

 <''''''> _marx_: does it address the other issue

 <''''''> meeting once a month?

 <''''''> well one question should i add a question geographic region of the state

 <''''''> dang I need to get may nails done  - I can't type they are just too long :-(  grrrrr

 <''''''> personally I think you are not going to be able to accommodate everyone, so pick a couple days and a times and let us chose from there

 <''''''> _marx_, for what purpose - we are all same time zone???

 <''''''> and the logs are always there

 <''''''> I say only list Mon, Wed Friday

 <''''''> and 3-7pm

 <''''''> akgraner: i think mine is pretty close to what you did before

 <''''''> sure

 <''''''> b/c if you give Tues Thurs then people will chose those

 <''''''> should i add a regional question?

 <''''''> and the most active people can't make it those days

 <''''''> for security?

 <''''''> welcome Garagegoblin

 <''''''> lol!

 <''''''> huh?

 <''''''> jk

 <''''''> hahaha

 <''''''> I mean if people want to list where they are from they can - but not sure what we would gain from having it on the survey

 <''''''> regional groups

 <''''''> as people are on LP and can list where they are from there if they want

 <''''''> we barely have enough for one group...

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> right

 <''''''> we really need to encourage people to join LP

 <''''''> as that is the only real means of tracking members

 <''''''> maybe when we have more people, if we have regional groups - then it's going to be me and holstein hanging out...

 <''''''> yeah, and i dont really like internalkernel *that* much

 <''''''> ;)

 <''''''> well the regional idea, it's a big state

 <''''''> ok I am going to ask the dumb question...what is LP??

 <''''''> I think we have the infrastructure in place for when we get groups in all areas

 <''''''> Launchpad

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> well not like *THAT* anyways,,, ehhh, holstein

 <''''''> oh duh

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> <---noob

 <''''''> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-northcarolina

 <''''''> [link]http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/L2HBFXG

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/L2HBFXG''
|}

 <''''''> so, for starters.. we're talking about mon, wed, or fri 3-7pm

 <''''''> Garagegoblin, we all are at some time - there are no bad questions :-)  I should have spelled it out - sorry about that

* '''''' is glad your here Garagegoblin :)

 <''''''> I like the way Mr. Garrison in South Park responds to that

 <''''''> there are no stupid questions... only...

 <''''''> Ill save it for an logged channel - so meeting times!

 <''''''> date

 <''''''> hahaha

 <''''''> an /un/logged/ channel

 <''''''> good call internalkernel

 <''''''> date? was that an invitation?

 <''''''> last call

 <''''''> meeting times - what's the last word on this?

 <''''''> we're going to have a poll

 <''''''> survey posting

 <''''''> sounds good... awesome... more surveys.

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> internalkernel, see link above :-P

 <''''''> we are starting to resemble congress...

 <''''''> hahaha

 <''''''> without the salaries :(

 <''''''> more red tape, we NEED more red tape!!!

 <''''''> does this cover the meetin frequency?

 <''''''> Garagegoblin: I agree, I think perhaps a survey to determine the questions on the next survey would be appropriate

 <''''''> hahaha

 <''''''> holstein: I think it does

 <''''''> [topic] meeting chair rotation

=== meeting chair rotation ===
 <''''''> left to right

 <''''''> Garagegoblin, more cowbell!!!

 <''''''> yeah, i guess we really cant do that though right?

 <''''''> with Mootbot-UK

 <''''''> which means your stuck with it _marx_

 <''''''> the bot won't care

 <''''''> unless we can work out a way to do it

 <''''''> what i had in mind

 <''''''> was whoever wants to chair meetings

 <''''''> no anyone can start a meeting w/moot

 <''''''> just say 'i want to chair meetings

 <''''''> and then we start rotating

 <''''''> if we meet once a month

 <''''''> and there are 6 of those folks

 <''''''> you want the next one holstein

 <''''''> then thats only twice a year

 <''''''> _marx_: sure

 <''''''> but i have to see when it is

 <''''''> lol...

 <''''''> minor detail

 <''''''> survey anyone?

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> I know there is talk for mootbot to be able to handle multiple chairs in the future

 <''''''> could we just ask that question on the mailing list

 <''''''> lets just sign up for them

 <''''''> stick a table on the meeting page

 <''''''> and just put a list up on the wiki

 <''''''> ^^^

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> we can add the dates for the year once the new day and time is decided

 <''''''> and if your next and cant do it

 <''''''> you just work it out

 <''''''> trade or whatever

 <''''''> SO

 <''''''> do we need somebody to put that emil together?

 <''''''> and post the folks?

 <''''''> holstein, can you do that

 <''''''> survey says!

 <''''''> i will

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> sorry couldn't resist that one

 <''''''> once it goes to the list - I an repost it to forums

 <''''''> OK

 <''''''> lets all try and talk soon

 <''''''> about the survey

 <''''''> [action] marx post survey to mailing list and forum

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' marx post survey to mailing list and forum''
|}

 <''''''> it would be nice to know the meeting day before the email

 <''''''> i think

 <''''''> I voted already

* '''''' too

 <''''''> no prob

* '''''' is going ot stuff the ballot box ;)

* '''''' kidding

 <''''''> hahaha

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 23:58 ==
=== People Present ===
* internalkernel

* _marx_

* Garagegoblin

* holstein

* akgraner

* magedragon25

=== Actions Recorded ===
* one more month on the facebook guy

* marx post survey to mailing list and forum

----
CategoryTeamMeeting
