{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by BugeyeD at 23:00 ==
 <''''''> o/

* '''''' is really not here

 <''''''> \o

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting''
|}

 <''''''> wow, lotsa contributors. :)

 <''''''> I'm half here

 <''''''> holstein: you fall in?

 <''''''> \o

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> good, you can swim

 <''''''> ignoring new stuff, this should be a quickie meeting. at least according to the agenda.

 <''''''> we ready?

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> the only thing i know of that's outstanding from last month ...

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Open Action Items: (holstein) document meeting chair schedule

=== Open Action Items: (holstein) document meeting chair schedule ===
 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> and i made that happen a bit ago

 <''''''> i sent out to the list just now

 <''''''> linkage

 <''''''> i added the list and order to

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda/MeetingChairAgendaPlanningPage

 <''''''> cool, thx

 <''''''> we can make a separate one if needed

 <''''''> but i figure since its just a few of us

 <''''''> and we'll be looking at that page anyways

 <''''''> works for me

 <''''''> +1 from me

 <''''''> +!

 <''''''> uh, i hate the shift key ...

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> looks good

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> and if somebody new wants to pop in there

 <''''''> go for it

 <''''''> wait no vote called

 <''''''> do we need to vote? it was an action item to make a list. he made a list.

 <''''''> yeah, we might not need to

 <''''''> we can

 <''''''> vote for what?

 <''''''> but i said i would do it last time

 <''''''> I thought we voted that we wanted people to do it last time

 <''''''> and it was voted in then as a package

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> so this is just closure. right?

 <''''''> yep

 <''''''> ditto

 <''''''> the action item from the last vote

 <''''''> anything else that was an action item that didn't actually  make it onto the agenda?

 <''''''> well nothing from last time - but something that came up yesterday

 <''''''> [TOPIC] New Items:

=== New Items: ===
 <''''''> So if you go to the wiki pages and change your preferences to the "light" theme

 <''''''> akgraner: personal pages?

 <''''''> all pages

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> this is the view starting on the 13th

 <''''''> user preferences on the wiki

 <''''''> the wiki's get the new theme next week

 <''''''> is there anything we need to do?

 <''''''> does this get rolled out automatically? are you suggesting we go ahead and change just to see it?

 <''''''> in preperation?

 <''''''> it's pretty ugly currently

 <''''''> I just wanted everyone to be prepared

 <''''''> that we may have to fix things

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> Sgiomlaireachd: you still around?

 <''''''> i believe moinmoin has a method of dictating a theme for a given page.

 <''''''> yes - but - after the 13th the default will be the light theme

 <''''''> [TOPIC] New Items: new 'light' theme rolled out on the 13th, check all team pages for breakage

=== New Items: new 'light' theme rolled out on the 13th, check all team pages for breakage ===
 <''''''> go to user preferences and change the theme and you'll see how it's going to look

 <''''''> great heads up akgraner  :)

 <''''''> yes i am

 <''''''> cool, just making sure you get counted present if you want to be Sgiomlaireachd

 <''''''> also I wanted to mention lets start thinking about goals for the -n cycle

 <''''''> hmm ... changing theme yields internal server error ...

 <''''''> UDS is the last week of the month

 <''''''> :/

 <''''''> BugeyeD, refresh and you should be able to see it

 <''''''> that happened to me yesterday when I changed my preferences as well

 <''''''> looks like it's going to time out. i think everyone on the planet followed your suggestion. right now.

 <''''''> um, ewww ...

* '''''' chuckles

 <''''''> so far i'm not a fan

 <''''''> it's colored like a retro kitchen

 <''''''> exactly

 <''''''> me neither

 <''''''> things like lines in the table and lines between sections aren't there anymore

 <''''''> definitely does not jive with our light blue stuff

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> you're right, borders are missing

 <''''''> so I was thinking one of the goals for the -n cycle would be updating the wikis to go with the new theme

 <''''''> dang i thought that was a purple ;)

 <''''''> so is this a work in progress?

 <''''''> we just got our light blue stuff :/

 <''''''> BugeyeD, yep

 <''''''> eh

 <''''''> wikis are always a work in progress

 <''''''> good. so hopefully it'll get somewhat better (borders back) by itself.

 <''''''> i dont think its all that bad

 <''''''> it's almost the color of circus peanuts

 <''''''> okay, plenty of work to get our colors re-coordinated.

 <''''''> anything else to add to the agenda?

 <''''''> -n team goals

 <''''''> [TOPIC] New Items: -n team goals

=== New Items: -n team goals ===
 <''''''> what page are y'all looking at?

 <''''''> er were looking at

 <''''''> we need to think about what we want to accomplish during the 11.04 release cycle

 <''''''> i'm just looking at our own team pages after having changed the theme to 'light'

 <''''''> adam_vollrath, our team wikis but you have to go under user preferences and change the theme to the 'light' theme

 <''''''> adam_vollrath: which means you have to log in.

 <''''''> o

 <''''''> nevermind thanx

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> without logging in and setting your own preference, you get the default which has not yet been changed

 <''''''> (thankfully)

 <''''''> akgraner: suggested goals?

 <''''''> yeah - wiki page updates :-)

 <''''''> my goal is to keep my chin above water

 <''''''> also a way to distribute the CD's around the team

 <''''''> [TOPIC] -n team goals: wiki page updates, color coordination, etc.

=== -n team goals: wiki page updates, color coordination, etc. ===
 <''''''> we need to try and list what events we as a team want to participate in during that cycle

 <''''''> maybe we can have a devide and conquer kind of IRC attack on the wikis sometime soon

 <''''''> do you guys do ubuntu hour together? that'd be my suggestion for cd distribution

 <''''''> sounds like a great plan for say a Global Jam :-)

 <''''''> sure

 <''''''> BugeyeD, I meant  - to get them to you all in the Winston area, to holstein et all in the Asheville area and others

 <''''''> akgraner: you get them?

 <''''''> the discs?

 <''''''> akgraner: exactly. come back to winston and have a cup'o'joe with us   :D

 <''''''> POC for the various areas based on the events people are attending etc

 <''''''> i go that way go that way often enough

 <''''''> if you get some to me

 <''''''> i can get them to someone who would meet me

* '''''' was out in raliegh a couple weeks ago

* '''''' will be there monday

 <''''''> so I would say - for the next meeting we work on 1 - list of events people will be attending  2- who needs pressed CD's vs burned cd's vs usb keys

 <''''''> 2 - game plan for attacking the wikis

 <''''''> i like it

 <''''''> 3- a simple way to get the word out in each of our areas about Ubuntu

 <''''''> (start simple then add to it)

 <''''''> maybe just the FB page

 <''''''> [TOPIC] New Items: generate list of events with planned attendance

=== New Items: generate list of events with planned attendance ===
 <''''''> a twitter

 <''''''> we have those :-)

 <''''''> ubuntunc on twitter and Identi.ca

 <''''''> next time :) we'll get more into that

 <''''''> [TOPIC] New Items: generate list of media needs (pressed cds vs burned vs usb keys)

=== New Items: generate list of media needs (pressed cds vs burned vs usb keys) ===
 <''''''> thats just easy

 <''''''> and effective

 <''''''> and whatever other people want to add to the list

 <''''''> [TOPIC] New Items: work up a plan of attack for the wiki fixes

=== New Items: work up a plan of attack for the wiki fixes ===
 <''''''> nothing is set in stone and if other people have cool ideas then we just need to get them added and acted upon

* '''''' wants a USB key :/

 <''''''> i didnt realize that was an option

* '''''' does too

 <''''''> but lets have a UDS-N goals landing area - so we can all see what people are wanting or working on and can decide what and where they would like to help

 <''''''> holstein, you have to make them :-)

 <''''''> OH

 <''''''> well, i got one then

 <''''''> i just read on our local list that ubuntu has an app for that

 <''''''> i was thinking some fancy thing with a sticker one it

 <''''''> on it*

 <''''''> I try to have one of each option for people when I go to an event - but failed to bring them to the last event I was at

 <''''''> usb-creator

 <''''''> BugeyeD: it works pretty well

 <''''''> never knew about it until today

 <''''''> i usually end up using unetbootin though

 <''''''> i've always rolled my own, not always a pretty sight

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> Oh Ubuntu Open Week is next week

 <''''''> i like it

 <''''''> in case people want to attend

 <''''''> can we get an email out to the list with the minutes?

 <''''''> or something

 <''''''> I need to email the list about that with links and stuff

 <''''''> with these upcoming branstorming ideas

 <''''''> akgraner: cool :)

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Announcements: ubuntu open week is this coming week

=== Announcements: ubuntu open week is this coming week ===
 <''''''> action me to email the list about Open Week

 <''''''> (that way I won't forget)

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Announcements: UDS is the last week of the month

=== Announcements: UDS is the last week of the month ===
 <''''''> [ACTION] akgraner to email the list regarding ubuntu open week

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' akgraner to email the list regarding ubuntu open week''
|}

 <''''''> I'll be there and don't forget you can participate in UDS via remote participation

 <''''''> oh yeah?

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> yep

 <''''''> I need to blog about that again

 <''''''> wait, you have a blog?

 <''''''> :-P

 <''''''> any other announcements? other topics?

 <''''''> ok that's all I got (sorry for not adding it to the agenda)

 <''''''> no worries, it should end up there now

 <''''''> anyone? beuller?

 <''''''> coxn: is up next in the rotation

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Next Meeting Chair: coxn

=== Next Meeting Chair: coxn ===
 <''''''> what is coxn

 <''''''> i'm not exactly sure, but it has the ability to type

 <''''''> who

 <''''''> anything else? last call.

 <''''''> a coxswain is the guy that calls the strokes in a rowboat

* '''''' probably should have known that, but didn't.

 <''''''> not that we used oars on the submarines ...

 <''''''> alrighty then

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 23:36 ==
=== People Present ===
* akgraner

* _marx_

* BugeyeD

* adam_vollrath

* holstein

* Sgiomlaireachd

=== Actions Recorded ===
* akgraner to email the list regarding ubuntu open week

----
CategoryTeamMeeting
