{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Road Map == ***MOVED TO ACTION PLAN PAGE****  

This <nowiki>[[NorthCarolinaTeam-Roadmap | wiki page]]</nowiki> will detail our future goals in NC for advocacy and support.

== Projects ==  THESE NEED TO BE ADDED TO THE PROJECTS PAGE or ROADMAP or PLAN OF ACTION  - once added to one of those areas we can delete them from here.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:akgraner]]</nowiki> 
** Goal to correspond with AAFES (Army and Airforce Exchange Service) to see what action items are needed to allow Ubuntu CD's to be placed at the facilities in North Carolina and to the greater extent all AAFES facilities.
** Use Linux Fest, BARCamp's and other events to promote the Ubuntu Project, Community and Spirit.
** Created Wiki for <nowiki>[[NorthCarolinaTeam-AnnualUbuntuUserConference | Annual Ubuntu User Conference]]</nowiki> sent to US teams mailing list

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/MonthlyProjects | Add projects completed each month here]]</nowiki>

=== Brainstorm Ideas ===

 If you have ideas for the team to participate in click <nowiki>[[NorthCarolinaTeam-BrainstormIdeas | here ]]</nowiki>

=== Events and Meetings ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="border:0">
| 
| <style="border:0">
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #bae396; display: block; margin: 10px 10px; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 5px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 5px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 5px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 5px;" style="border: 0;">'''Upcoming Events'''
|-
| <style="border: 0;">
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #E1E7E9; display: block; margin: 10px 10px; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 5px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 5px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 5px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 5px;" style="border: 0;">'''Upcoming Meetings'''
|-
| <style="border: 0;">
|}

To post an event or see past events go to the <nowiki>[[Events | Events]]</nowiki> page.

To schedule a meeting, see the agenda for the next meeting or to see minutes for past meetings go to the <nowiki>[[Meeting | Meeting]]</nowiki> page.

=== State ===
* We have a <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-nc|mailing list]]</nowiki>
* IRC: Channel #ubuntu-us-nc on Freenode
*** to join the IRC channel click <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-us-nc | here]]</nowiki>
* Forum: http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=278
* Our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-northcarolina|Launchpad team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=17577806624|Facebook group]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.orkut.com/Main#Community.aspx?cmm=82254889|Orkut community]]</nowiki>
* identi.ca #ubuntunc
