{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/2010-02-16/Log here.
Here are the raw logs from <nowiki>[[http://mootbot.ubuntu-uk.org | Mootbot-UK ]]</nowiki>. I altered the time stamp to local NC time.
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-us-nc
[19:00:50] <_marx_> take 34
[19:01:11] <internalkernel> o/
[19:01:13] <internalkernel> :)
[19:01:17] <_marx_> Meeting started who all is here for the meeting?
[19:01:25] <magedragon25> +1
[19:01:32] <internalkernel> o/
[19:02:01] <nameiner> o/
[19:02:13] <marco_polo> fake out
[19:02:37] <_marx_> BugeyeD: ping
[19:03:32] * _marx_ usually lets this go for 5 mikes
[19:04:19] <BugeyeD> o/
[19:04:20] <BugeyeD> pong
[19:04:27] <_marx_> hi
[19:04:34] <BugeyeD> hidey-ho!
[19:04:51] <akgraner> o/
[19:04:52] <BugeyeD> just put the youngest down a bit early in hopes of making it all the way through this meeting
[19:06:25] <_marx_> [TOPIC] Review the leadership wiki
[19:06:53] <_marx_> has everyone seen the revisions to council?
[19:07:15] <magedragon25> yes
[19:07:23] <BugeyeD> whoah, magedragon25 is here!
[19:07:30] <_marx_> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/council
[19:07:44] <magedragon25> been for a minute or two :D
[19:08:38] <BugeyeD> i'm still having issues with my lp/wiki account, so don't know when pages change ...
[19:11:12] <_marx_> BugeyeD: can you view that page?
[19:12:16] <BugeyeD> i can view the councel page, yes. sorry. thought i had responded to that question. i reckon mage through me off.
[19:13:19] <_marx_> hi Italian_Plumber
[19:13:21] <magedragon25> huh? sorry...
[19:14:52] <_marx_> hum
[19:15:15] <_marx_> has everyone read https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/council
[19:17:29] <_marx_> anyone?
[19:17:41] <internalkernel> yep... looks good
[19:17:55] <magedragon25> yes...
[19:19:24] <BugeyeD> eys
[19:19:27] <BugeyeD> er, yes
[19:21:10] <BugeyeD> anything in particular you're hoping to hear?
[19:21:35] <_marx_> [vote] approve changes and create /Council page
[19:22:42] <magedragon25> +1
[19:22:46] <BugeyeD> +1
[19:23:07] <internalkernel> +1
[19:23:33] <akgraner> +0
[19:25:07] <_marx_> [/vote]
[19:25:31] <_marx_> [agreed]
[19:26:07] <_marx_> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Advocacy
[19:27:49] <_marx_> anything to report here people?
[19:27:58] * BugeyeD dabbled in advocacy a bit today by talking to a few "everyday joes" about free desktops
[19:28:45] <BugeyeD> despite being "online" and "on facebook" where plenty of information abounds,
[19:28:51] <magedragon25> anyone that I can bring up the sunject with, I do....most of the time it's fellow students
[19:28:55] <akgraner> I've been asked to have a booth at the goat festival in Spindale, NC (that's all I know at the moment)
[19:29:10] <magedragon25> oops...subject
[19:29:28] <BugeyeD> none of the joes had a clue their pc didn't have to run windows. this discussion started after one complained about a virus and the others started nodding their heads.
[19:29:48] <_marx_> well advocacy at the goat festival
[19:29:49] <BugeyeD> akgraner: was that a misspelling?
[19:29:56] <internalkernel> I finished creating the interface for a Loom, which was based off ubuntu
[19:30:10] <internalkernel> its going to be part of the standard production of these machines now
[19:30:13] <akgraner> nope - goat festival
[19:30:17] <BugeyeD> internalkernel: as in weaving?
[19:30:22] <internalkernel> touch screen interface, no keyboard...
[19:30:30] <internalkernel> yeah, an automated loom
[19:30:30] <BugeyeD> sweet!
[19:30:40] <internalkernel> I believe it's a dobby loom at this point
[19:31:19] <_marx_> [TOPIC] Upcoming opportunities
[19:31:44] <BugeyeD> apparently we have the opportunity to convert a few goats
[19:31:52] <BugeyeD> or at least enlighten them
[19:31:58] <_marx_> we have a release party location booked for pti
[19:32:09] <BugeyeD> woo! where?
[19:32:43] <_marx_> BugeyeD: 4-29 at Foothills
[19:32:48] <akgraner> internalkernel, holstein I think we should have one at Firestorm
[19:33:03] <internalkernel> sounds good to me
[19:33:12] <internalkernel> ill probably be out of town though...
[19:33:31] <nameiner> alinuxfan and JFo and I talked about Raleigh release party last night
[19:33:55] <magedragon25> marx:what time at Foothils?
[19:34:02] <BugeyeD> _marx_ +1
[19:34:04] <_marx_> rdu area right nameiner
[19:34:14] <nameiner> correct _marx_
[19:34:58] <BugeyeD> i'd really like to be where jfo talked about, the saucer i think. will have to find a reason (ubuntu hour?) to go there soon
[19:34:59] <_marx_> magedragon25: i think 7 but i should check
[19:35:08] <magedragon25> ok
[19:35:29] <BugeyeD> magedragon25: you can bring the disco ball.
[19:35:37] <magedragon25> haha....
[19:35:38] <_marx_> jam days folks
[19:36:24] <nameiner> yes, we decided on the Flying Saucer
[19:36:41] <akgraner> nameiner, the Saucer rocks!
[19:36:49] <nameiner> I know akgraner
[19:38:09] <_marx_> so we have release day parties covered
[19:38:33] <BugeyeD> i'll participate in a jam day if at all possible. what are the dates? isn't it a string of three days?
[19:38:52] <_marx_> late march
[19:38:54] <magedragon25> I think we still need a place for jam days
[19:39:24] <_marx_> magedragon25: yes for us in pti area
[19:39:31] <BugeyeD> agreed.
[19:39:45] <magedragon25> anyone ask at foothills or krankies?
[19:39:49] <BugeyeD> the one in carrboro (thanks bac) worked out great, but it was a bit far for me
[19:40:09] <akgraner> I am sure we'll do something in WNC..
[19:42:01] <_marx_> global jam things need to get firmed up pretty quick
[19:42:19] <magedragon25> yeah
[19:44:05] <BugeyeD> krankies might work for pti, but i'm not sure about foothills. unless we can have a room there, and i don't even know if they have wifi.
[19:44:19] <BugeyeD> wifi is a necessity, and i don't have a mifi.
[19:45:15] <_marx_> family friendly
[19:45:20] <magedragon25> I've seen a room the one time I went to foothills, and I hear thay have wifi....but how big of a room do we need
[19:46:03] <BugeyeD> i've been in rooms at foothills (one up and one down) and they are plenty big unless you have over say 20 people.
[19:46:13] <_marx_> magedragon25: i've reserved the room at street level to the right
[19:46:20] <magedragon25> ok
[19:46:56] <_marx_> [TOPIC] Team Approval
[19:47:05] <BugeyeD> i approve of this team
[19:47:52] <internalkernel> +1
[19:48:01] <magedragon25> +1
[19:48:11] <BugeyeD> i'm not aware of any headway being made in the approval process, just that we're trying to more or less get stuff ready to start the process
[19:48:50] <BugeyeD> akgraner would likely know more, as she has contact with some of those types of folks that might actually do the approving ...
[19:50:09] <_marx_> current sandbox
[19:50:42] <akgraner> BugeyeD, we can get a couple people to look at the sandbox _marx_ is referring to..
[19:51:05] <akgraner> we need to include some pics from some of the events.. I'll link a few blog posts from some the events to it
[19:52:00] <nameiner> I have pics from the last release party
[19:52:36] <BugeyeD> i've been to several ubuntu days and completely forgot about taking pictures.
[19:52:45] <BugeyeD> i've tried to document them, though.
[19:53:27] <BugeyeD> i'll try to work on wiki format this weekend.
[19:53:53] <akgraner> so any events any of us have written/documented we need to put links on the approval wiki
[19:56:37] <BugeyeD> okay, where's the approval page?
[19:56:54] <BugeyeD> is that the roadmap page?
[19:57:11] <_marx_> sandbox
[19:57:53] <BugeyeD> i created sandbox so that i could mess with formatting without screwing up any of the official pages. has that become the approval page?
[19:58:14] <akgraner> _marx_, can you just rename sandbox to something like NCApprovalPage
[19:58:20] <_marx_> BugeyeD: no
[19:58:28] <akgraner> or just create it..
[19:59:17] <magedragon25> sorry....didn't realize my hour ran out...had to change my mac
[19:59:41] <_marx_> okay we're at the new goal of one hour
[19:59:53] <BugeyeD> magedragon25: heh. you at krankies?
[19:59:57] <magedragon25> yeah
[20:00:09] <BugeyeD> awesome. may meet you there next time.
[20:00:10] <magedragon25> what did i misss
[20:00:14] <magedragon25> ok
[20:00:33] <_marx_> [agreed] to new council definitions
[20:01:22] <_marx_> at one hour I'm closing the meeting
[20:01:41] <_marx_> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.

</pre>
