{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the NorthCarolinaTeam reporting page. Every month this page should be filled with bullet points indicating the summary of some of the work you have been working on. As you work on something, try to summarise it here. A few guidelines for how to write good points here:

'''Team Reporting How To'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width: 40px; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 15px ;-moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 15px; background-color: #D9D9F3; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topright: 15px;-moz-border-radius-bottomright: 15px; font-size: 1.10em; text-align: center;">'''NOTE: Check to see if Current Month Report has been created ''BEFORE'' creating another one'''
|}

1. Create a page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamReports/10/CURRENTMONTH and add bulleted items. A few guidelines for how to write good points here:

** Keep it simple and short - single sentences are best. :)
** Try to summarize your work and not be over-detailed - we don't need to know specifics, just a summary of the kind of work involved
** Where possible, include relevant links.
** Please use * (asterisk)   only, and ## for commenting out comments.  (in other words no == or / * - the reason this is important is the Ubuntu Weekly News uses a script that pulls the these reports and if anything but * is used the output from the script has to be cleaned up.)  Thank you in advance for only using * when adding items to the team reports.
** The name displayed on the team report pages need to match the name on of the Team in Launchpad - so NC's pages should read Ubuntu North Carolina LoCo Team

2. Edit the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamReports/Current| Team Reports Current]]</nowiki> page to include a link to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamReports/10/CURRENTMONTH.

{i} For more info check here <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/TeamReporting/HowTo | Team Reporting How To]]</nowiki>

=== The Reports ===

=== Previous Reports ===

==== 2010 ====

==== 2009 ====
----
CategoryTeamReport
