{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu NC LoCo IRC Meetings ==

 . {*} Team Meetings are held the '''1st''' '''Wednesday''' of the Month unless otherwise noted.

 . {*} Meetings take place on IRC in '''#ubuntu-us-nc''' at irc.freenode.net.

 . {*} For information about IRC (Internet Relay Chat) click <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Courses/IRC/|IRC Course | here]]</nowiki>.

 . {*} Email the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-nc | mailing list]]</nowiki> or drop by #ubuntu-us-nc on freenode.net topics agenda. You can add items to the Agenda by clicking <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda | here]]</nowiki>

=== Adding Items to Agenda ===

If you have an agenda item for the next meeting, please feel free to add it. If you add an agenda item and you have a personal Ubuntu wiki page, please sign you addition with @ SIG@ (With out the space between the @ and S). If you don't have an Ubuntu wiki page please add your irc nick or name and date you added it. Click <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda | here to add items to Agenda Wiki]]</nowiki>.

Thank you! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:akgraner]]</nowiki> 
==== Meeting Chair Information ====

If you are the Meeting Chair Please use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda/MeetingChairAgendaPlanningPage | the Meeting Chair Agenda Page]]</nowiki> to add the Mootbot-UK Commands for the meeting.

==== Mootbot-UK How To ====

Information on  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Mootbot-UKHowTo | how to use Mootbot-UK can be found here]]</nowiki>.

=== Calendar ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; margin: 10px 10px; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 5px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 5px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 5px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 5px;" style="border: 0;">
|-
| <style="border:0">
| 
| <style="border:0">
|}
To schedule a meeting click on the date, edit the template and save it.

=== List of meetings ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #D9D9F3; display: block; margin: 10px 10px; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 5px; -moz-border-radius-topright: 5px; -moz-border-radius-bottomright: 5px; -moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 5px;" style="border: 0;">
|-
| <style="border: 0;">
|}

----
NorthCarolinaTeam
