{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

/* Describe NorthCarolinaTeam/MeetingTemplate here. */

== Ubuntu NC LoCo Team IRC Meeting - May 20, 2010 ==

=== Agenda ===
/* copy from previous meeting and edit */

==== Open Items ====

===== Advocacy =====

    
*** individual advocacy - What are you doing to get the word out?

*** Team advocacy - What is the team doing to get the word out?
1. Located the founder of NC LoCo's Facebook page, <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/mighmos|Adam Petaccia]]</nowiki>.  Any one know him?  Chatted briefly on Facebook.  Asked about gaining control of FB LoCo page.  No response yet. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki>        1. Improving plan for publicity of LoCo events currently presented on a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Advocacy/PublicityPlan|wiki page]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki>        1. Offered support to CharLUG for an Installfest they are planning in 6 wks to 2 mos.  Have requested Ubuntu Live CDs from Amber. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki> 
===== Projects =====

* Outreach to rural areas 

*** Established a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/AdvocacyPlanning|plan]]</nowiki> for reaching rural areas
*** Plan is being implemented by Advocacy

===== Team Approval =====

* We're approved! 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/ApprovalApplication for our application for approval.
 

==== New Items ====

==== Announcements ====

==== Reminder about next Meeting ====

* Date, Time, reminder that everyone can add to agenda, and link to agenda Location

=== MootBotUK ===
/* insert mootbot-uk content here */
== Meeting opened by _marx_ at 22:59 ==
 <''''''> hey

 <''''''> getting a jump on the time, huh?  *grin*

 <''''''> must be lag, i have, or had, 1900

 <''''''> who wave for who's here for the meeting

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> this could be a very short mtg

 <''''''> [topic] individual advocacy

=== individual advocacy ===
 <''''''> anything crazy to report here

 <''''''> okay...

 <''''''> I'll contribute if I have anything.

 <''''''> LOL @ handheldCar

 <''''''> [topic] team advocacy

=== team advocacy ===
 <''''''> It's on the agenda ..

 <''''''> but I contacted the fellow who started our Facebook page ...

 <''''''> He has not replied whether he will give us an administrator seat on the page ...

 <''''''> when was this?

 <''''''> couple of weeks ago or more, as I recall

 <''''''> got a response to a msg I sent him on FB

 <''''''> msg'ed him again to inquire as above and heard nothing yet

 <''''''> But first response took nearly two months

 <''''''> dang

 <''''''> i've sent him email and FB messages

 <''''''> guess his PC is slow

 <''''''> lol yeah that must be it ;)

 <''''''> could be mia

 <''''''> Kinda wonder if there was some riff early in the Loco as he dropped out after being very involved

 <''''''> #2, I am updating the publicity plan to be more specific regarding publicity for individual events

 <''''''> Hope it to be used as a guide for publicity of Loco events, whatever they may be.

 <''''''> Will likely be a work in progress for a while, however.

 <''''''> [idea] boiler plate templates for various events

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' boiler plate templates for various events''
|}

 <''''''> good idea ... will take that approach

 <''''''> #3  Have approached the Charlotte LUG re: the installfest they are planning ...

 <''''''> do they have a location?

 <''''''> Will supply them with Ubuntu Live CDs and will be present whenever the event takes place...

 <''''''> no location or date as yet

 <''''''> LUG is reforming and there seems to be some struggling to get their feet under themselves again

 <''''''> Amber will be supplying Live CDs for me to take to event...

 <''''''> hum, the lifetime of a LUG...

 <''''''> Would welcome anyone who might entertain going to Charlotte with me whenever the event takes place ..

 <''''''> will provide more info when I know it

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> -- end of my team advocacy report --

 <''''''> i've found location to be the most difficult part

 <''''''> I can understand that

 <''''''> [topic] Projects rural outreach, road show

=== Projects rural outreach, road show ===
 <''''''> Haven't done much more in terms of rural outreach lately..

 <''''''> spent most of my time trying to contact LUGs and developing relationship with them

 <''''''> They are key to implementing the outreach plan so indirectly I have been working on that item

 <''''''> would y'all like me to e-mail my old classmate and ask if he'd like to start a LUG?

 <''''''> sure .. where?

 <''''''> pitt/beaufort counties. although I sent an email to the list a few months ago, I never asked in facebook group.

 <''''''> the only person on the list was too busy w/ grad school

 <''''''> I would be happy to work with anyone wanting to start a LUG ..

 <''''''> ok I'll do those two things

 <''''''> Identifying participants is difficult but doable in most areas

 <''''''> jim brady is starting one in Marion

 <''''''> he's a fedora guy but makes good coffee

 <''''''> Hmmm... glad to hear that ... don't think I know him, however

 <''''''> Put him in contact with me.  Maybe we can work together to assist both of us

 <''''''> coffee is a major food group

 <''''''> I added the FB group to one of those advocacy wiki pages you made jcg2

 <''''''> OK, thanks ... I guess I missed that, but I appreciate it

 <''''''> if Marion wasn't a county seat it would count as rural ;-)

 <''''''> LOL, I think it can count as rural regardless ... is there a college or university there?

 <''''''> nope

 <''''''> would y'all be interested in getting schools to adopt foss as a 2ndary long term project?

 <''''''> rural, then

 <''''''> absolutely

 <''''''> [topic]new items

=== new items ===
 <''''''> handheldCar, absolutely

 <''''''> there's a 2009 self video about it. brian somebody from va

 <''''''> oh no that's virtualbox

 <''''''> handheldCar, you have the link for the vid?

 <''''''> yep getting it

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://ia311036.us.archive.org/2/items/SouthEast_LinuxFest_2009_Videos/Chad_Wollenberg_SouthEast_LinuxFest.ogv''
|}

 <''''''> http://ia311036.us.archive.org/2/items/SouthEast_LinuxFest_2009_Videos/Chad_Wollenberg_SouthEast_LinuxFest.ogv

 <''''''> chad

 <''''''> OK, got it

 <''''''> Will review it and see what we might derive from it ..

 <''''''> handheldCar, you have any ideas you want to share?

 <''''''> I stress secondary, long-term back-burner stuff b/c it's an involved process that he describes, including going to board meetings.

 <''''''> Yep, won't happen overnight that is certain .. but with school budgets being cut now, the timing is right

 <''''''> good point handheldCar

 <''''''> perhaps we could facilitate sharing...

 <''''''> what works to gain access in one county may work in a nother

 <''''''> that's very likely true, _marx_

 <''''''> we need to record & document the experiences we have initially for use later

 <''''''> wiki pages would be a grand place to do that

 <''''''> hate to say it but political contacts can help too

 <''''''> definitely!

 <''''''> Chad mentioned anyone who can give a good sales pitch would be helpful.

 <''''''> well that's not me

 <''''''> btdt, often

 <''''''> me neither

 <''''''> I love being put on the spot in front of an audience

 <''''''> great!

 <''''''> That's been a large part of my career

 <''''''> I'm sure there are others who would function in that environment just as well

 <''''''> maybe even better

 <''''''> [idea] Investigate proposing FOSS to school systems in NC

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Investigate proposing FOSS to school systems in NC''
|}

 <''''''> thanks jcg2

 <''''''> we gotta start somewhere

 <''''''> ubuntu user days is coming up june 5

 <''''''> successful or not, it could be a fun project

 <''''''> what is UUD?

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays

 <''''''> LOL .. you and amber

 <''''''> wha?

 <''''''> never answer a question directly that you can instead provide a URL for

 <''''''> oh gee, rtfm 2010 eh ;-)

 <''''''> LOL

 <''''''> So are we planning to do anything for UUD?

 <''''''> oh that's an IRC thing

 <''''''> And if we are, why was it not as agenda item tonight?  :)

 <''''''> some blog pr would be good; looks like instructors are still needed too

 <''''''> because i didn't add it to new items

 <''''''> hi al

 <''''''> all*

 <''''''> hey alinuxfan

 <''''''> alinuxfan, hello

 <''''''> OK, so any action items for UUD?

 <''''''> i still haven't signed up...last time i did cli basics

 <''''''> put that down as an action item for you then

 <''''''> a personal one

 <''''''> Hey, it's good advocacy stuff

 <''''''> yep

 <''''''> needs to show in the minutes and in our action items!

 <''''''> [action] _marx_ to sign up for UUD basic cli instructor

 <''''''> [action] _marx_ to sign up for UUD basic cli  instructor

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' _marx_ to sign up for UUD basic cli  instructor''
|}

 <''''''> I think that's very helpful and a little fun too.

 <''''''> *grin*

 <''''''> instructors are still needed so if you think you can do an hour on irc on some basic to medium topic...

 <''''''> How to turn on the switch of your PC, maybe?

 <''''''> I probably could. LOL

 <''''''> not that basic ;)

 <''''''> time

 <''''''> er, date

 <''''''> i don't know where the off button is on my computer...oh well, i guess I will find it when I need it

 <''''''> aye de mi

 <''''''> alinuxfan, sign up from my upcoming class

 <''''''> all yall need to keep your day jobs

 <''''''> what else do we have on the agenda tonight?

 <''''''> 10.04.1 is due sometime in July.

 <''''''> I need to get outa here soon and don't want to miss a thing

 <''''''> i think that's it

 <''''''> I'm about to run an errand, too.

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 23:59 ==
=== People Present ===
* _marx_

* jcg2

* handheldCar

* olympus

* alinuxfan

=== Actions Recorded ===
* _marx_ to sign up for UUD basic cli  instructor

----
CategoryTeamMeeting
