{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu NC LoCo Team IRC Meeting - March 18, 2010 - 7pm ==

=== Agenda ===
 
The agenda that was used to conduct the meeting can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/2010-03-18/Agenda | here]]</nowiki>. 
 
== Meeting opened by akgraner at 23:07 ==
 <''''''> aaaaa

 <''''''> i'm here, i'm here

 <''''''> not enough hours in the day ...

 <''''''> ok I need to mute the mootbot one sec

 <''''''> YAY!! I am attending my first IRC meeting.

 <''''''> can some grab the agenda link and drop it in while I do that

 <''''''> alindgr1: welcome!

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> thank you!

 <''''''> ok so who is here for the meeting

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> Thanks, Bugeyed

 <''''''> alindgr1: hlrg.nc.charter.com ... hmmm, i give. where are you?

 <''''''> Richlands.

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> heh. gonna have to google that.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Review the leadership wiki

=== Review the leadership wiki ===
 <''''''> Close to Camp Lejeune

 <''''''> so far this meeting includes folks from richlands, greensboro, winston-salem, the mountains, charlotte ...

 <''''''> oh, and the UK.

 <''''''> has everyone looked over the leadership wiki

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamCouncil

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamCouncil''
|}

 <''''''> any suggestions for the forum maoderator

 <''''''> according to the agenda there is to be a final vote tonight

 <''''''> who is a forum user in the group

 <''''''> forum user here.

 <''''''> looks like we are a bunch of rebels here   LOL

 <''''''> it would make sense that it should be someone who uses forums and understands how to moderate

 <''''''> yeah, i'm not there yet.

 <''''''> I use the forum...but not much knowledge on how to moderate it

 <''''''> hmm let's keep that one open - I'll talk to the forums council and see if they have some suggestions

 <''''''> What is the issue?  I'm not that clear on what we are runnng against.

 <''''''> magedragon25, let me get all the info for forum moderation to you - you can read over it, ask some questions etc

 <''''''> ok...that works...

 <''''''> and if you want to do it - then we'll get you added

 <''''''> ok

* '''''' @gmail.com

 <''''''> thanks I'll get it for you but if you haven't heard from me by next Friday  - ping me and bug me about it :-)

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> [action] akgraner to get magedragon25 info for forums moderator

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' akgraner to get magedragon25 info for forums moderator''
|}

 <''''''> ACTION received:  akgraner to get magedragon25 info for forums moderator

 <''''''> grrrr

 <''''''> battle of the bots

 <''''''> [action] akgraner to get mootbot removed

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' akgraner to get mootbot removed''
|}

 <''''''> ACTION received:  akgraner to get mootbot removed

 <''''''> I'll clean up the logs :-/

 <''''''> [VOTE] do we want to adopt the current leadership council for the team for the term of 1 year?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion:  do we want to adopt the current leadership council for the team for the term of 1 year?''
|}
 <''''''> Please vote on:  do we want to adopt the current leadership council for the team for the term of 1 year?.

 <''''''> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

 <''''''> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-us-nc

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1 received from BugeyeD. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1

 <''''''> +1 received from jcg_. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1 received from nameiner_. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1 received from alindgr1. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4

 <''''''> anyone else?

 <''''''> +1 received from Mootbot-UK. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5

 <''''''> [endvote]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 5 in favour, 0 against, 0 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 5
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Carried:  do we want to adopt the current leadership council for the team for the term of 1 year?
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Denied:  do we want to adopt the current leadership council for the team for the term of 1 year?
|-
| <#55FF55>Deadlock. If someone has a casting vote now is the time to use it
|}
 <''''''> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5

 <''''''> Next topic

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Advocacy

=== Ubuntu Advocacy ===
 <''''''> New Topic:  Ubuntu Advocacy

 <''''''> individual advocacy - What are you doing to get the word out?

 <''''''> Team advocacy - What is the team doing to get the word out?

 <''''''> my connection dropped...what did I miss?

 <''''''> magedragon25, vote for leadership

 <''''''> oh..ok

 <''''''> so who has anything for the individual advocacy

 <''''''> Personally, I presented a Loco presentation to the Guilford County LUG last week

 <''''''> I am going to get the flyer that was edited by jcg posted around forsyth tech

 <''''''> And as the organizer of GCLUG, we I have scheduled our moderator to make a presentation in April

 <''''''> i talked about akgraner at gclug, if that helps. :)

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> i dropped by a flooring company yesterday, next to the pizza parlor i went to. i'm going tomorrow to install ubuntu on one of their boxes. if that goes well, i'll be taking over their windows server and installing ubuntu there too. :)

 <''''''> krikey, joe!

 <''''''> what?

 <''''''> you keep stepping on your network cable? :)

 <''''''> What can I do?  I am not really sure what I can do.

 <''''''> wireless

 <''''''> alindgr1: if you like using ubuntu, simply pass along the excitement.

 <''''''> magedragon25: less, for sure

 <''''''> alindgr1, let's talk after the meeting and we'll figure out what you can do

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> Thanks, akgraner.

 <''''''> there are tons of things let's figure out what you like, what you want to learn etc and go from there

 <''''''> Sounds good to me.

 <''''''> I spoke at the WNCLUG meeting

 <''''''> ok so Team advocacy?

 <''''''> We conducted an Ubuntu Hour in Winston-Salem last Saturday with 4 in attendance and 2 others that saw us and inquired abt Ubuntu

 <''''''> how did that go?

 <''''''> really well, IMO

 <''''''> great!!!

 <''''''> Put a sign on the table and it attracted the questioners

 <''''''> [idea] who on the team would like to be involved in the greater Ubuntu Community but isn't right now?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' who on the team would like to be involved in the greater Ubuntu Community but isn't right now?''
|}

 <''''''> IDEA received:  who on the team would like to be involved in the greater Ubuntu Community but isn't right now?

 <''''''> BugeyeD was the man with the answers

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> great

 <''''''> there are some great opportunities in the the: testing, learning team, Ubuntu Women, Ubuntu Weekly News etc

 <''''''> so throughout the next week lets's look at the projects in the community that team members can get involved with

 <''''''> OK

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> SELF is coming up in June which would be another way for the team to get involved

* '''''' is not going to be able to attend SELF

 <''''''> I've arranged for an Ubucon to be there - and help will be needed on it and at the Ubuntu Booth on June 12th there as well

 <''''''> [idea] i think we need info on what kind of involvement and how to move forward with it

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' i think we need info on what kind of involvement and how to move forward with it''
|}

 <''''''> IDEA received:  i think we need info on what kind of involvement and how to move forward with it

 <''''''> [agreed] akgraner to get more info on involvement - nothing is a half to just suggestions - remember that the ubuntu community is a lattice not a ladder so there are many ways to get involved

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' akgraner to get more info on involvement - nothing is a half to just suggestions - remember that the ubuntu community is a lattice not a ladder so there are many ways to get involved''
|}

 <''''''> AGREED received:  akgraner to get more info on involvement - nothing is a half to just suggestions - remember that the ubuntu community is a lattice not a ladder so there are many ways to get involved

 <''''''> any objections to moving on to Projects?

 <''''''> works for me

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Global Jam Days

=== Global Jam Days ===
 <''''''> New Topic:  Global Jam Days

 <''''''> well, that was crap. i make fun of joe and then my net goes down ... what'd i miss?

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam''
|}

 <''''''> What, if anything are we doing here?

 <''''''> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam

 <''''''> karma BugeyeD.....it will get you

 <''''''> I see little chance we can effectively manage a GJ project given the time frame and the lack of a venue

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> i think we dropped the ball in winston, though i can sit in my office and jam bugs and stuff for awhile.

 <''''''> BugeyeD, I'm going to get more information for the team to help  get people started on getting involved in the Ubuntu Community

 <''''''> magedragon25: that's different from the koala, right?

 <''''''> akgraner: good deal

 <''''''> hehe yeah

 <''''''> ok so I am working on getting an Virtual Global Jam going to the Ubuntu Women Project

 <''''''> so the team can do that as well here

 <''''''> lack of venue in winston with such short time left...

 <''''''> magedragon25,  you don't have to plan anything drawn out - basically you can show up at a coffee shop and invite people to join you

 <''''''> and you can talk about ubuntu

 <''''''> brainstorm ideas

 <''''''> etc

 <''''''> you don't even half to tell the cofffe shop

 <''''''> ok...guess that could work....

 <''''''> just send an email saying hey I'm going to be here from this time to this time want to join be to do X with Ubuntu

 <''''''> jcg, BugeyeD, I will reserve the room at Panera in Kville for one day and make a flyer to post around

 <''''''> magedragon25: what date? if the calendar works i'll be there

 <''''''> OK, then we need to come up with an idea for an agenda

 <''''''> bac was at my first, and showed us how to do it "the right way"

 <''''''> 27th sound ok?

 <''''''> jcg_, you can or you can just show up and wing unconference style

 <''''''> OK, works for me

 <''''''> winging it is my style

 <''''''> the more comfortable you are with just gathering together the more you can begin to do as time goes on...  comfort, fun, social all around ubuntu :-)

 <''''''> can't do much in the way of marketing, but given that fact, I'll be there

 <''''''> all day except the lunch hour...which I will reconfirm and post on the flyer

 <''''''> magedragon25: sounds good

 <''''''> ok anything else about global Jam?

 <''''''> not sure what we will do here but we'll do something in western NC

 <''''''> do we need to record an action item?

 <''''''> what is kville?

 <''''''> kernersville, nc

 <''''''> [action] ongoing planning for Ubuntu Global Jams

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' ongoing planning for Ubuntu Global Jams''
|}

 <''''''> got it

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Release Parties

=== Release Parties ===
 <''''''> April 29th is around the corner - release parties anyone

 <''''''> What was the result of pollling the list for plans, Joe?

 <''''''> we are going to do one the weekend after the 29 in Asheville

 <''''''> we have a collaborated made flyer that I am getting posted around Forsyth Tech in Winston....

 <''''''> foothills in winston-salem

 <''''''> I got one response...and it was from Mark

 <''''''> [action] release party in Asheville, NC April 1st weekend

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' release party in Asheville, NC April 1st weekend''
|}

 <''''''> [idea] appears we need to stir more excitement re: Ubuntu across NC

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' appears we need to stir more excitement re: Ubuntu across NC''
|}

 <''''''> [action] release party in Winston-Salem, NC April 29

 <''''''> nameiner_, what about Raleigh?

 <''''''> akgraner:  you mean may 1, right?

 <''''''> We still need a venue in Raleigh, I tried reserving the flying saucer but they already have a bigger group. So if anybody has an idea please post

 <''''''> BugeyeD, grrr yeah May 1st

 <''''''> nameiner_: here's an idea ... let's crash the other party!

 <''''''> I guess we could have it on Friday or Saturday after the 29th

 <''''''> [action] anyone in the Raleigh area send suggestions to nameiner_ or talk to nameiner_ and see what you all can come up with

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' anyone in the Raleigh area send suggestions to nameiner_ or talk to nameiner_ and see what you all can come up with''
|}

 <''''''> yoos guys can come to winston :)

 <''''''> so looks like  - Winston, Asheville, and Raleigh areas will most likely have a release Party of some sort - this is AWESOME!!!

 <''''''> tronyx: ping

 <''''''> i know a couple of folks in charlotte were talking about it a few weeks back, but ...

 <''''''> jfrorie, are you all planning anything in Charlotte? or do you know if anyone who is?

 <''''''> I would come if something is charlotte

 <''''''> I'm chekcing the dates.  Hang....

 <''''''> I will do kernersville, nc on the weekend too

 <''''''> As advocacy lead, I'll be happy to assist i getting something organized in both Charlotte and Raleigh

 <''''''> MAy 1st, right?

 <''''''> April 29th is release date

 <''''''> but many people just have the parties on the following weekend

 <''''''> I will be out of town....my brother is getting married may1st

 <''''''> what use is a release party if you can't overdo it and skip work the next day?

 <''''''> haha

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> Where are the others meeting.  Beer or coffee?

 <''''''> jfrorie, both

 <''''''> yeah, wide-awake drunk

 <''''''> am pm?

 <''''''> pm

 <''''''> I'm open to any suggestions, some nice food would be nice and beer is always welcome

 <''''''> winston is at a brewery, so ...

 <''''''> and the food is great at foothills. not typical bar food at all.

 <''''''> alright - anything else about release parties?

 <''''''> Ill host something, dunno the venue

 <''''''> GREAT!!!

 <''''''> jfrorie: if it's your place, i'll come!

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Outreach to rural areas

=== Outreach to rural areas ===
 <''''''> anything new with this or are we going to put this on hold for a while?

 <''''''> [LINK] see MD Tour

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' see MD Tour''
|}

 <''''''> continue or backburner?

 <''''''> enter below if time allows

 <''''''> New projects begun since last meeting

 <''''''> New project ideas

 <''''''> We are working on a presentation for LUGs in other areas

 <''''''> jcg_, who is we?

 <''''''> marx and I

 <''''''> great!

 <''''''> guess that could have been an advocacy topic but it fits here better, IMO

 <''''''> [action] _marx_ and jcg_ working on presentation for LUG's  see MD Tour Link

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' _marx_ and jcg_ working on presentation for LUG's  see MD Tour Link''
|}

 <''''''> I am in a rural area, pretty much.  There may be something I can help with.

 <''''''> I really want to see us presenting wherever and whenever we can re: the NC Loco

 <''''''> jcg_, I'll redo to the agenda

 <''''''> akgraner, good

 <''''''> so last but not least

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Team Approval

=== Team Approval ===
 <''''''> any progress?

 <''''''> how are the wiki's looking

 <''''''> magedragon25 was working on that from last mtg, but I think he's gone now

 <''''''> I am learning to how to make my own wiki so I can do the team wiki and make it look pretty

 <''''''> ahh ok are the pages still in sandbox?

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> ahh ok

 <''''''> I needed stuff to put on the team wiki

 <''''''> Joe if I can help, I'll be willing to do so.

 <''''''> ok...

 <''''''> Sure would like to see this thing kicked into high gear

 <''''''> usable application and updated roadmap wiki's by March 31st?

 <''''''> how does that sound?

 <''''''> that is about 2 weeks  - I can help a little

 <''''''> akgraner, can you tell us where we are re: the review of what we have?

 <''''''> oh sure

 <''''''> I have plenty of time, but not a lot in depth knowledge, but I would like to help if I can

 <''''''> we are doing a lot - and should have enough active participation to seek membership

 <''''''> we just need to clean up the wiki's

 <''''''> and get it all ready to go before the LoCo council

 <''''''> I have pictures from the last release party in Raleigh here: http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/sredir?uname=guethling&target=ALBUM&id=5444957222288049569&authkey=Gv1sRgCJak7Oi9yMr--QE&feat=email

 <''''''> so if we work hard on the wikis for the next two weeks, we should be in pretty good shape to apply?

 <''''''> they are also doing re-approvals - and their meetings are only lasting about an hour

 <''''''> i'll do what i can. i'm buried, but committed.

 <''''''> so we should add ours and make sure it is ready and if they get to us them great and if not we can just work on it some more

 <''''''> or should be committed.

 <''''''> something like that.

 <''''''> ok so I can block out about a couple hours next week between 8-10pm

 <''''''> What must we do to get it added to their agenda?

 <''''''> I'll just add it to the wiki

 <''''''> but we can't do that until our application is ready

 <''''''> their wiki or ours?

 <''''''> b/c they will look at it as soon as we put our name on it

 <''''''> their wiki

 <''''''> the way the council agendas work is you add your item to their wiki and it is 1st come 1st serve - they go in the order the agenda items were added

 <''''''> This is a bit frustrating .. for the last three meetings this has been the focal point of approval yet it has not hapened

 <''''''> jcg_, we all have day jobs - this is all volunteer

 <''''''> Maybe an action Item with a date needs to be getting the application ready

 <''''''> akgraner, I understand, but I don't have a job and have a fair amount of time ..

 <''''''> Yet, I'm not being used in the approval process at all

 <''''''> jcg_, let's talk tomorrow and come up with a timelime

 <''''''> maybe handing off finishing the app wiki to jcg would be a good idea....

 <''''''> sounds good

 <''''''> I also have a day job, but I am 103 days from military retirement, so I have lots of time during the day.  I am more of an advisor than a worker.

 <''''''> alindgr1: good for you!

 <''''''> congrats, alindgrl

 <''''''> (and thanks for your service)

 <''''''> ditto

 <''''''> jcg_, I'll log in about 10am tomorrow morning whom ever wants to work on the timeline and let's get a plan in place we can start working on it in the am

 <''''''> can't wait.  (Giant party at my house June 26)

 <''''''> I haven't had much time to work on the wiki since last meeting

 <''''''> OK, where will we meet?  here?

 <''''''> [action] 10am Friday March 19th, in #ubuntu-us-nc  approval planning timeline

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' 10am Friday March 19th, in #ubuntu-us-nc  approval planning timeline''
|}

 <''''''> alright folks anything else?

 <''''''> 10am it is .. on my cal

 <''''''> we have a plan for release parties, global jams, advocacy, and for approval planning timeline - anything else anyone want to add

 <''''''> or is there any announcements anyone wants to make?

 <''''''> akgraner: question ... we sometimes have training on

 <''''''> various topics right here in the channel. can that be used somehow for the approval request?

 <''''''> I've only gotten two weeks older since the last meeting

 <''''''> yep it sure can

 <''''''> mage has been doing quite a lot of that

 <''''''> aight, 'nuther bullet point then

 <''''''> BugeyeD, or anyone else who can summarize those can you send them too me

 <''''''> we'll work on that

 <''''''> BugeyeD,  conducted server install training last week

* '''''' couldn't find the general daily logs for this room

 <''''''> cool thanks

 <''''''> nor could I mage

 <''''''> magedragon25: i have logs for everything.

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> alright next meeting April 1st, 2010 at 7pm in #ubuntu-us-nc

 <''''''> I'm not sure this chan is actually being logged

 <''''''> 'cept a minute ago when karma kicked me off for making fun of you

 <''''''> jcg_, yep it is

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> would be good to know where, then

 <''''''> see the ubot2

 <''''''> it's the log bot

 <''''''> see topic  - it says were the logs can be found at

 <''''''> Announcement: retirement party at my house June 26.  Cookin a pig, lots of beer!

 <''''''> but they are NOT there ... that's my point

 <''''''> where is the log bot logging?  I think the topic url and I found nothing

 <''''''> tried that....not there

 <''''''> alindgr1: that sounds like fun

 <''''''> yes they are

 <''''''> go to the link

 <''''''> alindgr1, army

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/''
|}

 <''''''> http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/

 <''''''> that link?

 <''''''> Hope so, I have been waiting 20 years.

 <''''''> jcg_ Marines

 <''''''> then pick 2010

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> then pick o3

 <''''''> then pick date

 <''''''> then pick the channel

 <''''''> make sense?

 <''''''> OK, will look again ...

 <''''''> i don't see it

 <''''''> I'm looking now

 <''''''> keep in mind times are in UTC

 <''''''> what does o3 represent

 <''''''> I don't see it

 <''''''> hmmm, maybe march?

 <''''''> ok follow these links

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/''
|}

 <''''''> http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/''
|}

 <''''''> http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/

 <''''''> we seem to show up in feb but not march

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/03/''
|}

 <''''''> http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/03/

 <''''''> so, anyone from Raleigh, Durham, Chapel Hill area has an idea where we can have our release party???

 <''''''> and then?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/03/19/''
|}

 <''''''> http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/03/19/

 <''''''> nameiner, I know a restaurant in Durham

 <''''''> and then?

 <''''''> Could it not be there yet because the meeting is not over yet?

 <''''''> Owner is quite happy with Ubuntu and has wifi

 <''''''> That sounds good jcg_

 <''''''> we can talk later, if you like

 <''''''> ok, just call my name

 <''''''> hmm  - I guess nc isn't there any - I'll look into that  - sorruy guys

 <''''''> ok anything else

 <''''''> gotcha

 <''''''> akgraner: looks like it stopped sometime midway thru feb

 <''''''> I'll find out

 <''''''> ok if that's all

 <''''''> Thanks again!!

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 00:26 ==
=== People Present ===
* BugeyeD

* akgraner

* alindgr1

* magedragon25

* jcg_

* MootBot

* nameiner_

* magedragon251

* jeffrash

* jfrorie

=== Actions Recorded ===
* akgraner to get magedragon25 info for forums moderator

* akgraner to get mootbot removed

* ongoing planning for Ubuntu Global Jams

* release party in Asheville, NC April 1st weekend

* anyone in the Raleigh area send suggestions to nameiner_ or talk to nameiner_ and see what you all can come up with

* _marx_ and jcg_ working on presentation for LUG's  see MD Tour Link

* 10am Friday March 19th, in #ubuntu-us-nc  approval planning timeline

=== Log ===

Mootbot_UK gives many outputs of the meeting.  Below are all the outputs.  The file containing "moin" and ending in ".txt" is the one you use to created the wiki page of the meeting from.

Mootbot-UK log for this meeting <nowiki>[[http://mootbot.ubuntu-uk.org/ | here]]</nowiki>

Mootbot-UK IRC PM of Actions from meeting <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/20100325/Mootbot-UK%20IRC%20PM%20of%20Actions | here]]</nowiki>.

Mootbot-UK <nowiki>[[http://mootbot.ubuntu-uk.org/ubuntu-us-nc.20100318_2307.html | view of Meeting Logs]]</nowiki> 

Mootbot-UK <nowiki>[[http://mootbot.ubuntu-uk.org/ubuntu-us-nc.log.20100318_2307.html | view of Meeting Logs]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://mootbot.ubuntu-uk.org/ubuntu-us-nc.moin.20100318_2307.txt | File from Mootbot-UK]]</nowiki> used to create the wiki Log view of the meeting that you see above.
