{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by _marx_ at 00:00 ==
 <''''''> take 34

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> Meeting started who all is here for the meeting?

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> fake out

 <''''''> BugeyeD: ping

* '''''' usually lets this go for 5 mikes

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> pong

 <''''''> hi

 <''''''> hidey-ho!

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> just put the youngest down a bit early in hopes of making it all the way through this meeting

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Review the leadership wiki

=== Review the leadership wiki ===
 <''''''> has everyone seen the revisions to council?

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> whoah, magedragon25 is here!

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/council

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/council''
|}

 <''''''> been for a minute or two :D

 <''''''> i'm still having issues with my lp/wiki account, so don't know when pages change ...

 <''''''> BugeyeD: can you view that page?

 <''''''> i can view the councel page, yes. sorry. thought i had responded to that question. i reckon mage through me off.

 <''''''> hi Italian_Plumber

 <''''''> huh? sorry...

 <''''''> hum

 <''''''> has everyone read https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/council

 <''''''> anyone?

 <''''''> yep... looks good

 <''''''> yes...

 <''''''> eys

 <''''''> er, yes

 <''''''> anything in particular you're hoping to hear?

 <''''''> [vote] approve changes and create /Council page

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion:  approve changes and create /Council page''
|}
 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +0

 <''''''> [/vote]

 <''''''> [agreed]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Advocacy

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 3 in favour, 0 against, 1 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 3
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Carried:  approve changes and create /Council page
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Denied:  approve changes and create /Council page
|-
| <#55FF55>Deadlock. If someone has a casting vote now is the time to use it
|}
=== Ubuntu Advocacy ===
 <''''''> anything to report here people?

* '''''' dabbled in advocacy a bit today by talking to a few "everyday joes" about free desktops

 <''''''> despite being "online" and "on facebook" where plenty of information abounds,

 <''''''> anyone that I can bring up the sunject with, I do....most of the time it's fellow students

 <''''''> I've been asked to have a booth at the goat festival in Spindale, NC (that's all I know at the moment)

 <''''''> oops...subject

 <''''''> none of the joes had a clue their pc didn't have to run windows. this discussion started after one complained about a virus and the others started nodding their heads.

 <''''''> well advocacy at the goat festival

 <''''''> akgraner: was that a misspelling?

 <''''''> I finished creating the interface for a Loom, which was based off ubuntu

 <''''''> its going to be part of the standard production of these machines now

 <''''''> nope  - goat festival

 <''''''> internalkernel: as in weaving?

 <''''''> touch screen interface, no keyboard...

 <''''''> yeah, an automated loom

 <''''''> sweet!

 <''''''> I believe it's a dobby loom at this point

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Upcoming opportunities

=== Upcoming opportunities ===
 <''''''> apparently we have the opportunity to convert a few goats

 <''''''> or at least enlighten them

 <''''''> we have a release party location booked for pti

 <''''''> woo! where?

 <''''''> BugeyeD: 4-29 at Foothills

 <''''''> internalkernel, holstein I think we should have one at Firestorm

 <''''''> sounds good to  me

 <''''''> ill probably be out of town though...

 <''''''> alinuxfan and JFo and I talked about Raleigh release party last night

 <''''''> marx:what time at Foothils?

 <''''''> _marx_ +1

 <''''''> rdu area right nameiner

 <''''''> correct _marx_

 <''''''> i'd really like to be where jfo talked about, the saucer i think. will have to find a reason (ubuntu hour?) to go there soon

 <''''''> magedragon25: i think 7 but i should check

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> magedragon25: you can bring the disco ball.

 <''''''> haha....

 <''''''> jam days folks

 <''''''> yes, we decided on the Flying Saucer

 <''''''> nameiner, the Saucer rocks!

 <''''''> I know akgraner

 <''''''> so we have release day parties covered

 <''''''> i'll participate in a jam day if at all possible. what are the dates? isn't it a string of three days?

 <''''''> late march

 <''''''> I think we still need a place for jam days

 <''''''> magedragon25: yes for us in pti area

 <''''''> agreed.

 <''''''> anyone ask at foothills or krankies?

 <''''''> the one in carrboro (thanks bac) worked out great, but it was a bit far for me

 <''''''> I am sure we'll do something in WNC..

 <''''''> global jam things need to get firmed up pretty quick

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> krankies might work for pti, but i'm not sure about foothills. unless we can have a room there, and i don't even know if they have wifi.

 <''''''> wifi is a necessity, and i don't have a mifi.

 <''''''> family friendly

 <''''''> I've seen a room the one time I went to foothills, and I hear thay have wifi....but how big of a room do we need

 <''''''> i've been in rooms at foothills (one up and one down) and they are plenty big unless you have over say 20 people.

 <''''''> magedragon25: i've reserved the room at street level to the right

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Team Approval

=== Team Approval ===
 <''''''> i approve of this team

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> i'm not aware of any headway being made in the approval process, just that we're trying to more or less get stuff ready to start the process

 <''''''> akgraner would likely know more, as she has contact with some of those types of folks that might actually do the approving ...

 <''''''> current sandbox

 <''''''> BugeyeD, we can get a couple people to look at the sandbox _marx_ is referring to..

 <''''''> we need to include some pics from some of the events.. I'll link a few blog posts from some the events to it

 <''''''> I have pics from the last release party

 <''''''> i've been to several ubuntu days and completely forgot about taking pictures.

 <''''''> i've tried to document them, though.

 <''''''> i'll try to work on wiki format this weekend.

 <''''''> so any events any of us have written/documented we need to put links on the approval wiki

 <''''''> okay, where's the approval page?

 <''''''> is that the roadmap page?

 <''''''> sandbox

 <''''''> i created sandbox so that i could mess with formatting without screwing up any of the official pages. has that become the approval page?

 <''''''> _marx_, can you just rename sandbox to something like NCApprovalPage

 <''''''> BugeyeD: no

 <''''''> or just create it..

 <''''''> sorry....didn't realize my hour ran out...had to change my mac

 <''''''> okay we're at the new goal of one hour

 <''''''> magedragon25: heh. you at krankies?

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> awesome. may meet you there next time.

 <''''''> what did i misss

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> [agreed] to new council definitions

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' to new council definitions''
|}

 <''''''> at one hour I'm closing the meeting

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 01:01 ==
