{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

 

== Road Map ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width: 40px; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 15px ;-moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 15px; background-color: #fbf939; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topright: 15px;-moz-border-radius-bottomright: 15px; font-size: 1.10em; text-align: center;"> This Wiki needs some TLC as well
|}

This page details the roadmap for The North Carolina LoCo Team - goals for advocacy and support for the Ubuntu Local Community Team in North Carolina.

=== Team Meetings ===

* When: 1st and 3rd Thursdays of every month at present
* Where:  #ubuntu-us-nc on Freenode
* Time: 1900 to 2030 EST

=== Community Participation ===

Early on we decided the state was geographically broad enough that we needed to develop teams in major metropolitan areas first.

=== Local Advocacy ===

* Develop greater participation in statewide NC Loco Team by facilitating regional teams in metropolitan areas of North Carolina as stated above.
* Develop a program for presentation throughout North Carolina to LUGs, schools, and other venues promoting the NC LoCo Team and the Ubuntu Community.
* Promote greater participation by facilitating events throughout North Carolina to attract Ubuntu users as well as those interested in Linux and Ubuntu.
* Distribute, and promote the distribution of, Ubuntu Live CDs to introduce more users to the positive aspects of Ubuntu and Linux.

=== Events in North Carolina ===

==== Active event locations ====

* Asheville - Ubuntu Hour
* Asheville - LUG meeting
* Raleigh - LUG meeting
* Winston-Salem - Ubuntu Hour
* Lucid Lynx release parties April 29, 2010 weekend
     Asheville
     Charlotte
     Durham
     Winston-Salem

==== Planned events ====
 
* Ubuntu Hours in Charlotte, Fayetteville and Raleigh
* NC Loco presentations to various LUGs in NC

=== Goals ===

* Help Solve <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1|Bug #1]]</nowiki>
* Promote Ubuntu as a choice in how to solve Bug #1
* Have a little fun.
----
CategoryNorthCarolinaTeam
