{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== About Us ==
The North Carolina Local Community (Lo``Co) Team began to organize itself in July of 2007 with attempts to identify others who were interested in Linux and Ubuntu.  From that start the team continues to grow as more efforts to expose the diverse population of North Carolina increase each week.  Because of the independence and separation caused by the three distinct geographical regions of North Carolina, that task is daunting.  However, the team, with its determination to be inclusive and open, has bridged the geographic and societal gaps such that we can now celebrate state-wide participation from the western, mountainous section of the state to the beaches of the Atlantic sea coast.  Several major cities in North Carolina now have Linux user groups that are supported by the Lo``co Team and active Lo``co Team members reside in all parts of North Carolina.  The Team, from its earliest organizational efforts, has, and continues to be, very active.

The NC Lo``Co Team is a group of Ubuntu-Linux enthusiasts whose common goal is to share Ubuntu and its derivatives with all areas of the Tar Heel state. In accordance with the Ubuntu philosophy, this team is '''open and available to all'''. Our members range from non-technical end user (NTEU) to Ubuntu-Linux Kernel developers.

The team assists many North Carolinians through various individual and team initiatives to expose the Tar Heel State to Ubuntu, but the efforts to join such a diverse population through another commonality is a benefit to the state as a whole.  It is in that spirit that the team is adopting the motto of:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width: 40px; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 15px ;-moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 15px; background-color: #D9D9F3; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topright: 15px;-moz-border-radius-bottomright: 15px; font-size: 1.50em; text-align: center;">'''Spreading Ubuntu across the Tar Heel State'''
|}

.

== Ubuntu NC LoCo IRC Meetings ==

 . {*} Team Meetings are held the '''1st''' and '''3rd''' '''Thursdays''' of the Month unless otherwise noted.

 . {*} Meetings take place on IRC in '''#ubuntu-us-nc''' at irc.freenode.net.

 . {*} For information about IRC (Internet Relay Chat) click <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Courses/IRC/|IRC Course | here]]</nowiki>.

 . {*} Email the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-nc | mailing list]]</nowiki> or drop by #ubuntu-us-nc on freenode.net

== NC LoCo Leadership Team ==

The information below defines the positions and responsibilities of the leadership team and provides the IRC nicknames of the current holders of each position.

=== Description of positions and responsibilities ===

** '''Documentation''': 
*** Documentation Lead will coordinate contributions for editing and maintaining the wiki pages. First order/goal is to organize the current structure so that information can be found easily and effortlessly. This person is also the point of contact for wiki edits, they will be subscribed to all pages in the NC LoCo team so that when a page is edited or created they can review it. The main purpose here is to maintain the standard of documentation outlined by the Ubuntu Community in the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WikiGuide|WikiGuide]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/StyleGuide|StyleGuide]]</nowiki>.
** '''Administration''':
*** This position is responsible for being the chair at team meetings, organizing and updating the agenda as well as the team logs associated with those meetings. Mailing list administration and Team Reports are also the responsibility of this position. (possibly also forum moderation).
** '''Advocacy-Marketing''':
*** Advocacy position is focused in general on looking for opportunities for our LoCo to promote Ubuntu (and free, open source software) in the state of North Carolina. Promote team participation in the greater Ubuntu Community; coordinate release parties, global jams and other statewide events. The tasks that consist of this focus involve blueprints/roadmaps on Launchpad and monitoring this progress and involvement. 
** '''Team Lead''':
*** The Team Lead position is a general position, someone who will be ready to fulfil the duties of any of the other three positions in cases of absence or emergency. This position will also maintain an overview of the roles and responsibilities of the other positions and work to support the other team members in fulfilling the general responsibilities of the LoCo. If an issue is presented where these leadership positions need to vote in order to determine the outcome, the Team Lead position will not be involved in the vote. 

=== Current Positions ===

* Leads and helpers are listed below.
** '''Documentation''':
*** Lead <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~plug-hyltown | BugeyeD]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~internalkernel | internalkernel]]</nowiki> -helper
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cox.jmark | _marx_]]</nowiki> -helper
** '''Administration''':
*** Lead <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cox.jmark | _marx_]]</nowiki>
*** need forum moderator -helper
** '''Advocacy-Marketing''':
*** Lead <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~john-johnghormley | jcg2]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~akgraner | akgraner]]</nowiki> -helper
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cox.jmark | _marx_]]</nowiki> -helper
** '''Team Lead''':
*** Lead <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~akgraner | akgraner]]</nowiki>
