{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

/* Describe NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/2010-04-01 here. */

== Ubuntu NC LoCo Team IRC Meeting - April 1, 2010 - 7pm ==

=== Agenda ===
 
The agenda that was used to conduct the meeting can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/2010-04-01/Agenda | here]]</nowiki>. 

== Meeting opened by _marx_ at 23:00 ==
 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> Hi Yall

 <''''''> hi _marx_  :-)  thanks for Chairing tonights meeting - you rock! :-)

 <''''''> rocking chair rock ;)

 <''''''> quick roll call

 <''''''> who's awake for the meeting?

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> [link]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda''
|}

 <''''''> [topic] individual advocacy

=== individual advocacy ===
 <''''''> anything to report on individual activities?

 <''''''> participated in the huge Global Jam event last weekend

 <''''''> Ha, I met this guy in DC who runs Cyber Cafes in Ghana Africa - also supplies comps to children and schools...

 <''''''> turned him onto 'Buntu

 <''''''> we appear to have a new linux meetup in the area in clt

 <''''''> he was totally into... drop the hook when he asked, "How much does it cost?"

 <''''''> yeah lets see - I'm speaking at the Texas Linux Fest, GLUG, and attending POSSCON in April

 <''''''> i am in and out...just got home

 <''''''> alinuxfan: good day!

 <''''''> hey internalkernel :D

 <''''''> and _marx_ did one dual boot install for a neighbor

 <''''''> akgraner,  FWIW, there was in is a defunct GLUG but this one is GCLUG

 <''''''> outstanding internalkernel

 <''''''> I spoke at the Ubucon, WIOS, and UpSCaLE talks at SCaLE8x in Feb

 <''''''> jcg2, yeah that :-)

 <''''''> oh crap March not Feb

 <''''''> DOH!

 <''''''> oh also converted a couple other guys in Orlando - they may pop in here to say hi eventually, we'll have to connect them to the FL loco

 <''''''> see this is my day today

 <''''''> I spoke at the wnclug in March

 <''''''> i am showing off my database running ubuntu and apache and sqlite at work...talking about linux and burnt 4 cds for people today

 <''''''> akgraner: s/spoke/lectured

 <''''''> internalkernel, you weren't even there so ha!

 <''''''> I know you!

 <''''''> I've been trying to assist the new meetup, They are meeting next week. The leader appears interested in ubuntu subject matter.

 <''''''> trying to fix a guy's windows box that has a COMPLETELY FULL hd with all the linux distros that I can think to rescue a system with, but it won't mount the ntfs...tells me to boot into windows and run chkdsk /f

 <''''''> jfrorie, great

 <''''''> Im also moveing a company over the ubuntu for development

 <''''''> over to, rather

 <''''''> last call

 <''''''> 3 developers

 <''''''> oh and we re-org'd the wikis

 <''''''> jfrorie, there are two guys here in the Charlotte area who are interested too, did you make contact witht them

 <''''''> I'm here now, sorry for being late

 <''''''> jfrorie, I've been giving people in the Charlotte area your IRC nick to be on the lookout for

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> ditto

 <''''''> I didn;t.  I put note out on the charlug, ubunut-nc and UNCC lug groups for a potential meetup, but got no replies

 <''''''> davidvasta was one ... tronyx was the other

 <''''''> good point jcg2

 <''''''> The linux meetup appear to have some interest, but it's close timing to the release party date.

 <''''''> _marx_, also we have now populated the ubuntunc.com site

 <''''''> internalkernel, and I for now - if anyone else is interested in helping with that - let one of us know

 <''''''> some of these individual items could move to team items so let's keep that in mind

 <''''''> so yeah we have all been busy it seems

 <''''''> its a straight up wordpress blog... super simple...

 <''''''> last call

 <''''''> well individual stuff count toward team right?

* '''''' can not type tonight  - nm me

 <''''''> well efforts initiated by individuals move forward to having help from other team members

* '''''' neither

 <''''''> [topic] team advocacy

=== team advocacy ===
 <''''''> looking at the agenda

 <''''''> jcg2: have you contacted Adam Petaccia yet?

 <''''''> anyone know the fellow who set up the Facebook page?

 <''''''> Nope, I don't know him and he has not replied to me queries

 <''''''> [link]https://launchpad.net/~mighmos

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''https://launchpad.net/~mighmos''
|}

 <''''''> He set this up a bit over a year ago, I believe

 <''''''> No one knows him?

 <''''''> i do not

 <''''''> we can always start a new one and use the tag line "spreading Ubuntu across the Tar Heel state" or something and redirect people to the new one and make sure like 5 or 6 people have admin access or something

* '''''' sneaks in the back door

 <''''''> i think we should continue to try to contact him

 <''''''> OK, next item you can read.. mostly informational ... working on advocacy plan for the loco

 <''''''> I'll send and email to him tomorrow then

 <''''''> ak action item on that?

 <''''''> Maybe he'll reply to a female

 <''''''> akgraner: action item for you on that?

 <''''''> yep go for it

 <''''''> [action] akgraner to contact facebook page founder re: control

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' akgraner to contact facebook page founder re: control''
|}

 <''''''> oh jcg2 publicity stuff I need to get you the share ubuntu stuff

 <''''''> OK

 <''''''> dunno what that is

 <''''''> [topic] global jam reports

=== global jam reports ===
 <''''''> we had one

 <''''''> lasted 3 hours and had an attendance of two

 <''''''> and _marx_ bot infected with strep from grandson and missed it

 <''''''> /s/bot/got

 <''''''> there were people in atendance in the channel as well helping triage bugs and stuff

 <''''''> _marx_ a bot?  Wow.  That's kewl

 <''''''> hehe well it wasn't _that cool

 <''''''> a bot with strep that takes talent

 <''''''> jcg2: your contact at jamestown campus may be a good one for future global jam days

 <''''''> _marx_, may be, will have to work it a bit .. it's a gclug contact at the moment

 <''''''> okay so we didn't do that great on global jam events this go around

 <''''''> any thoughts on why?

 <''''''> [topic] release parties

=== release parties ===
 <''''''> sorry jcg2 trying to get to some cool new biz by 8

 <''''''> so far we have Winston, Raleigh

 <''''''> I understand...  just following the agenda .. no problem

 <''''''> any others

 <''''''> Raleigh will have one at the Big Boss Brewery

 <''''''> im not getting any response.  I'm going to put my weight behind the local linux meetup and see if I can get interst there.

 <''''''> nameiner: is that on the team wiki yet?

 <''''''> depends on where on the wiki you want it, nameiner

 <''''''> upcoming events

* '''''' wearing out the backspace button tonight

 <''''''> I think I put it on there or didn't I?

 <''''''> dunno, not my deal

 <''''''> nameiner, you need any help with set up for that?

 <''''''> nothing in the Asheville area?!

 <''''''> alinuxfan, so far we have not much to set up

 <''''''> it's a bar and we have a table reserved in a side room

 <''''''> nameiner, easy enough :d

 <''''''> PR on Release parties: jcg2 did that flyer ever get finalized?

 <''''''> we might get a tour through the brewery though

 <''''''> I think so.. think it's on the wiki

 <''''''> ooh, i might show up for that one

 <''''''> So there is no event in Asheville?

 <''''''> sure BugeyeD

 <''''''> jcg2: not that i'm aware of

 <''''''> OK, thanks

 <''''''> wish they would move release day to fridays

 <''''''> jfrorie, if you arrange something in CLT pls let me know

 <''''''> well that might make it more difficult to book joints

 <''''''> jcg2: are u in clt

 <''''''> ?

 <''''''> jfrorie, no, but am trying to assist from an advocacy standpoint with publicity

 <''''''> I'll be at the W-S party, I'm sure

 <''''''> Imight go to WS.  what's the time?

 <''''''> jcg2: we need to have an .odt format copy on the wiki so others can easily edit for their location

 <''''''> action item for me?

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> [action] jcg2 odt format release party flyier on wiki

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' jcg2 odt format release party flyier on wiki''
|}

 <''''''> holstein: glad you made it!

 <''''''> half-way

 <''''''> okay something may pop up for release parties in the a'ville are in days to come

 <''''''> we are doing one

 <''''''> last call on release parties

 <''''''> ah go ahead holstein

 <''''''> yolu know something you aren't sharing?  Or just being optimistic?

 <''''''> ^

* '''''' getting date

 <''''''> good!

 <''''''> we talked about doing it may 1st

 <''''''> at the firestorm

 <''''''> during the normal WNCLUG meeting time

 <''''''> well it doesn't have to be on release day

 <''''''> noon

 <''''''> thats what im planning on scheduling offically

 <''''''> after this saturdays meeting

 <''''''> holstein: can you wiki that once it's in "stone"

* '''''' has bad luck with adding dates to the wiki

 <''''''> k

 <''''''> i'll try

 <''''''> hollar and I'll help holstein

 <''''''> and if i have an issue

 <''''''> i'll holla

 <''''''> send it to the list and jcg2 will help

 <''''''> jcg2: :)

 <''''''> excellent!

 <''''''> [topic] team approval

=== team approval ===
 <''''''> That will be 3, maybe 4 parties in NC

 <''''''> I think we are on track with the AA ... page could use more pics but I cannot find photos of other events.

 <''''''> akgraner: who did you get to look at our approval app?

 <''''''> Ded we participate in the ALF last year?

* '''''' catches up - I got locked out of our server

 <''''''> did you get the pics from last Raleigh release party

 <''''''> i think akgraner was at alf

 <''''''> Oh I had dantalizing look at it

 <''''''> The last release party was a bit confused in labeling, but yes I think I did.

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> and laura czajkowski

 <''''''> loco council folks :-)

 <''''''> oh and itnet7

 <''''''> good, i was thinking of that irish polish name

 <''''''> yeppers I was one of the organizers

 <''''''> of ALF

 <''''''> what's up?

 <''''''> So, did the loco have a presence there at ALF

 <''''''> oh jcg2 yep we participated

 <''''''> ALF add that to the approval app?

 <''''''> I organized the ubucon and helped organized the main event

 <''''''> let me get you some links

 <''''''> Need more info Mark.   can't add unless it says something provable

 <''''''> i understand jcg2

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://amber.redvoodoo.org/2009/09/ohio-linux-fest.html here is Ohio''
|}

 <''''''> http://amber.redvoodoo.org/2009/09/ohio-linux-fest.html here is Ohio

 <''''''> i'm going to cut this off to give time for new stuff that is kind of exciting

 <''''''> here is Atlanta - http://amber.redvoodoo.org/2009/09/atlanta-linux-fest-and-mini-ubucon-o.html

 <''''''> another atlanta http://blog.redvoodoo.org/2009/09/atlanta-linuxfest-day-after.html

 <''''''> So are you suggesting I put your travels on the Approval page as team projects?

 <''''''> [topic] new items

=== new items ===
 <''''''> jfrorie: take it now

 <''''''> i went to disney in january

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> ok, today I had an exchange with Mr. shuttleworth that was rather interesting.

 <''''''> listen up people!

 <''''''> https://lists.launchpad.net/ayatana/msg01180.html

 <''''''> cool jfrorie

 <''''''> more atlanta - http://boredandblogging.com/2009/08/13/ubuntu-atlanta-linux-fest-2009/

 <''''''> I wanted to purse an ubuntu sound theme project contest using some of the online sites, like kompoz.com and freesound.org

 <''''''> jcg2, no - I was one of the organizers of Atlanta

 <''''''> and Pete spoke at Ohio

 <''''''> and I helped with a couple booths at Ohio

 <''''''> gotta read the posts

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> blessing is probabyl a strong word, but I'm in contact with dudes at canonical

 <''''''> I'm going to try to organize this. I thouhg it might be a good thing to open up to the loco.  Might help us get approved.

 <''''''> so a contest for a new sound theme?

 <''''''> jcg2, here is the spread ubuntu stuff - http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/

 <''''''> basically, that's the idea.  Similar to what they are doing now with wallpapers.

 <''''''> jfrorie, yeah that is awesome

 <''''''> I'm all for the Loco doing this...

 <''''''> let me know when you get the go - I'll blog and stuff about it

 <''''''> think it will be too late for approval, but still like the idea

 <''''''> I've been in contact with bram de jong a while back.  I need ot reestablish those contacts.  Id like input form audio artists from anywhere to get input on ideas, venue, etc.

 <''''''> jfrorie, what is the contest that is there now?

 <''''''> free and open something something something

 <''''''> right

 <''''''> me too, I know we have some strong sound audio folks here like holstein

 <''''''> akgraner: where?

 <''''''> given that ubuntu's sound performance is crippled (or mine is) it does resemble putting lipstick on a hog, tho .. still as a project, I like it

 <''''''> hum my sound rocks!

 <''''''> if anybody wants a hand with audio, let me know

 <''''''> in ubuntu let me find the link

 <''''''> My thinking is that it will bring a new segment to unbuntu that may nothave exposure

 <''''''> recording, mastering, whatever

 <''''''> this might bring improvments to the audio as a whole

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.jonobacon.org/2009/10/01/ubuntu-karmic-free-culture-showcase-winners-announced/''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.jonobacon.org/2009/10/01/ubuntu-karmic-free-culture-showcase-winners-announced/

 <''''''> lots a of windows talent we can nab

 <''''''> true, calling attention to deficits may get them fixed

 <''''''> free culture showcase

 <''''''> JACK knows no deficits

 <''''''> jono may want to get behind this as he is a musician. sorta :)

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> no he's not behind it  - it's a community thing

 <''''''> he is the community leader so he blogged about it

 <''''''> akgraner: that was sarcasm

 <''''''> am I the only one whose sound quits sometime after a flash video is played?

 <''''''> severed fifth FTW!

 <''''''> flash is mutt

 <''''''> a mutt

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuFreeCultureShowcase

* '''''' doesnt even have flash installed on audio production box

 <''''''> may be a mutt but it is a big part of the net that everyone wants to use

 <''''''> should we adopt this as a new project?

 <''''''> jcg2: agreed

 <''''''> oh sorry - sarcasm is lost on me tonight

 <''''''> :-(

 <''''''> jfrorie: would you like for this to be a team project?

 <''''''> so there is the wiki on the free Culture showcase - jfrorie I don't know that much about it but are we going to duplicate the effort there?

 <''''''> I fine with it.

 <''''''> marx: I'm fine with it.

 <''''''> i've been trying to keep these at an hour

 <''''''> Does anyone know the load we are looking at?

 <''''''> I run a point of contact.  Whoever joins in, it would be appreciated.

 <''''''> jfrorie, so will this be for 10.10?

 <''''''> not sure if a vote is in order though

 <''''''> can we take it to the mailing list

 <''''''> akgraner: dunno.  We need to see how long it take to get together

 <''''''> i think that's good

 <''''''> so more people can give imput and a longer discussion can happen

 <''''''> mailing list is a good idea since we seem ot be out of time

 <''''''> jfrorie, yep I like the idea

 <''''''> just want to make sure we aren't going to confuse community members and all

 <''''''> akgraner: confuse how?

 <''''''> b/c of the competition that already exists and all

 <''''''> [action] jfrorie report to mailing list on new project "sound theme contest"

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' jfrorie report to mailing list on new project "sound theme contest"''
|}

 <''''''> we don't want people thinking they are applying for the Free Culture stuff

 <''''''> and it's not

 <''''''> that kind of stuff

 <''''''> ah. I want this to be external to ubuntu.  I want this on outside websites.  I think we need a wider audeince.

 <''''''> I was these site to use this to drive traffic to them.  Thet way they will get behind it

 <''''''> In that case, I'm not sure its a loco project

 <''''''> so can you write up your idea and send it to the mailing list - I think I am not seeing the big picture

 <''''''> so the sounds would not be for Ubuntu

 <''''''> It is if it steer by the loco

 <''''''> I would think it needs to be ubuntu specific for us to back it?

 <''''''> They would be ubuntu.

 <''''''> I'd like to see a breakdown of the project

 <''''''> new splash sound the ultimate goal?

 <''''''> ubuntu system sounds

 <''''''> a system sound theme pack

 <''''''> right?

 <''''''> The whole freedesktop speicifcation

 <''''''> ah

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://0pointer.de/public/sound-naming-spec.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://0pointer.de/public/sound-naming-spec.html

 <''''''> so lernard writes pulse audio

 <''''''> upstream guy

 <''''''> who are the others and how are they related to ubuntu

 <''''''> dunno.  Its a community spec

 <''''''> well all that can go to the mailing list

 <''''''> ok big question

 <''''''> so people submit

 <''''''> what is plan to get it included in 10.10

 <''''''> or is the for upstream?

 <''''''> 10.10 if there is time

 <''''''> 7 months

 <''''''> Will there be DRM issues?  Ownership and copyright concerns?

 <''''''> I'm not to squash this....

 <''''''> cc licensing

 <''''''> but what is the incentive for people to submit

 <''''''> yup, submissions need to be CC'd

 <''''''> we as a loco can't promise it will be included

 <''''''> see your stuff in an os.

 <''''''> amber: that's correct

 <''''''> the loco just sponsors the contest

 <''''''> WELL, and they could be available

 <''''''> yeah but we can't promise Canonical will include anything

 <''''''> IT*

 <''''''> We need a much lengthier discussion than we have time for here

 <''''''> the sound theme

 <''''''> if its used or not

 <''''''> there are no promises

 <''''''> we could just offer the theme

 <''''''> on line

 <''''''> then it can't be a contest

 <''''''> contest has goals

 <''''''> and winners

 <''''''> what will the winner get?

 <''''''> the contest would be for review of inclusion

 <''''''> "review of inclusion"  people can do that without a contest

 <''''''> we gotta plan this out  - I like the idea

 <''''''> will the participants pay to enter?

 <''''''> but who has done it up to this point?

 <''''''> We are offering a path

 <''''''> well i made an action item on it

 <''''''> yeah but we can't call a path a competiton

 <''''''> competition

 <''''''> jfrorie: can you write up your idea/s and post to the team mailing list?

 <''''''> +1 jcg2 more discussion

 <''''''> jfrorie, who are you talking to at Canonical?

 <''''''> lets see if we can get some more guidance - I like the idea

 <''''''> connor and there appear to be two other that wont to get involved.

 <''''''> conner who?

 <''''''> I think an outline or mindmap would be very helpful for the member of the loco

 <''''''> audio guy?

 <''''''> hang a sec...

 <''''''> connor curran

 <''''''> ok - just want to make sure we touch all the right bases as far as Canonical is concerned

 <''''''> everyone cool with the action item i posted earlier?

 <''''''> cannot recall it

 <''''''> scrollback

 <''''''> oh DX team guy work for David Barth

 <''''''> t-2

 <''''''> sure

 <''''''> thanks jfrorie

 <''''''> not cool with that I don't know... sorry

 <''''''> well that's the action item, jim to post to maililing list

 <''''''> cool with me

 <''''''> OK.. thanks... I am cool with that

 <''''''> only reason I am wondering is the UW team has run to contests and there are a lot of i's to dot and t's to cross

 <''''''> two not to

 <''''''> okay ending now

 <''''''> noted akgraner

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 00:16 ==
=== People Present ===
* jcg2

* _marx_

* akgraner

* internalkernel

* jfrorie

* alinuxfan

* nameiner

* BugeyeD

* holstein

=== Actions Recorded ===
* akgraner to contact facebook page founder re: control

* jcg2 odt format release party flyier on wiki

* jfrorie report to mailing list on new project "sound theme contest"
