{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Logs20090721 here.

Jul 21 19:15:02 <_marx_>	#startmeeting

Jul 21 19:15:03 <MootBot>	Meeting started at 18:12. The chair is _marx_.

Jul 21 19:15:03 <MootBot>	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]

Jul 21 19:16:45 <_marx_>	17 minux 3 bots makes 14. who all is here? HI everyone!

Jul 21 19:19:39 <_marx_>	hi all

Jul 21 19:19:48 <_marx_>	mikeh789: was here

Jul 21 19:19:56 <mikeh789>	still here

Jul 21 19:20:49 <_marx_>	looks like me and you right now

Jul 21 19:21:00 <_marx_>	I imagine others will read logs

Jul 21 19:21:05 <mikeh789>	sure

Jul 21 19:21:48 <mikeh789>	so whats on the agenda?

Jul 21 19:22:01 <mikeh789>	akgraner and i met a couple weeks ago

Jul 21 19:22:05 <_marx_>	[TOPIC]Forsyth advo

Jul 21 19:22:06 <MootBot>	New Topic: Forsyth advo

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----

Jul 21 19:22:16 <_marx_>	how'd that go?

Jul 21 19:22:33 <mikeh789>	we are working on an asheville meet and greet

Jul 21 19:22:39 <_marx_>	cool

Jul 21 19:23:15 <mikeh789>	and i got some CD's form her, and i left them a couple places

Jul 21 19:23:18 <mikeh789>	from

Jul 21 19:24:12 <mikeh789>	working on reserving the venue, and I'll go from there

Jul 21 19:24:15 <_marx_>	I've contacted FCTC and we can post on their physical bulletin boards but no access to labs

Jul 21 19:25:15 <_marx_>	need to get something that will hold cd's on a vertical surface

Jul 21 19:25:35 <mikeh789>	how many cd's?

Jul 21 19:25:35 <_marx_>	poster that holds say 10 cd's

Jul 21 19:25:40 <mikeh789>	OK

Jul 21 19:26:13 <_marx_>	I wanted to action akgraner on that w/her contacts at canonical

Jul 21 19:26:38 <mikeh789>	i bet they have something like that

Jul 21 19:26:52 <_marx_>	[/TOPIC]

Jul 21 19:27:05 <_marx_>	I bet so too

Jul 21 19:27:51 *	_marx_ checks calender

Jul 21 19:28:44 <_marx_>	hum, i'm still not sure how to use mootbot

Jul 21 19:29:17 <mikeh789>	i can't be of any help im afraid

Jul 21 19:30:08 <_marx_>	I've made contact w/Recreation and Parks in Winston re using the computers in the rec 
centers w/livecd's

Jul 21 19:30:41 <mikeh789>	nice

Jul 21 19:30:52 <_marx_>	I've been swapping voicemails since last Thursday the 15th

Jul 21 19:31:07 <mikeh789>	sound promising?

Jul 21 19:31:21 <_marx_>	it does sound promising

Jul 21 19:32:20 <mikeh789>	i don't know why more places like that aren't using ltsp server-client

Jul 21 19:32:27 <mikeh789>	seems so much easier

Jul 21 19:33:08 <mikeh789>	dealing with a bunch of windows boxes (public) seems like a nightmare

Jul 21 19:33:10 <_marx_>	they are using some citrix solution

Jul 21 19:36:14 <mikeh789>	september 5th is the tentative date for the asheville meet and greet

Jul 21 19:36:15 <_marx_>	i'm thinking it could be a good location for an installfest as well

Jul 21 19:36:40 <mikeh789>	and thats all i really have to offer as far as buisness

Jul 21 19:37:00 <mikeh789>	so keep the updates you have coming

Jul 21 19:37:02 <_marx_>	my brother just got out of Memorial Mission from open heart surgery

Jul 21 19:37:14 <mikeh789>	is he home?

Jul 21 19:37:23 <_marx_>	yes

Jul 21 19:37:29 <_marx_>	wearverville

Jul 21 19:38:03 <mikeh789>	he doing OK?

Jul 21 19:38:25 <_marx_>	last I heard yes

Jul 21 19:38:27 <mikeh789>	thats a great hospital

Jul 21 19:38:44 <_marx_>	good 2 know

Jul 21 19:38:53 *	Jfrorie1 (n=Jfrorie@98.105.42.244) has joined #ubuntu-us-nc

Jul 21 19:39:00 <mikeh789>	lots of excellent phyisicians around here

Jul 21 19:39:57 <_marx_>	hey Jfrorie1 

Jul 21 19:40:29 <Jfrorie1>	hey all. Bberry again :p

Jul 21 19:40:46 <mikeh789>	Jfrorie1: hello

Jul 21 19:42:36 <_marx_>	I'll write up my progress for a report to the mailing list

Jul 21 19:44:11 <mikeh789>	cool

Jul 21 19:47:34 <mikeh789>	_marx_: are you talking to any other groups about using ubuntu?

Jul 21 19:50:12 <_marx_>	I'm a member of the forsyth county computer club which is largely a windows group

Jul 21 19:50:54 <_marx_>	when bro jeff recovers some I'll ask about home schooling groups in the A'ville area

Jul 21 19:51:33 <mikeh789>	the learing center i mentioned is in weaverville

Jul 21 19:51:41 <_marx_>	ah

Jul 21 19:51:43 <mikeh789>	woodland hills church

Jul 21 19:51:53 <_marx_>	ok

Jul 21 19:52:10 <_marx_>	I don't know the name of his church

Jul 21 19:52:11 <mikeh789>	they are working on a computer lab

Jul 21 19:52:22 <_marx_>	do you know a Jeff Cox

Jul 21 19:52:54 <mikeh789>	i dont think so, but my folks go to church there every sunday

Jul 21 19:53:13 <_marx_>	ah, you don't go every sunday?

Jul 21 19:53:38 <mikeh789>	i go once or twice a year

Jul 21 19:53:56 <_marx_>	pretty sure bro jeff is non-demominational

Jul 21 19:54:14 <mikeh789>	me too

Jul 21 19:54:37 <mikeh789>	this is a sothern baptist church

Jul 21 19:54:50 <_marx_>	oh he doesn't go there ;)

Jul 21 19:54:58 <_marx_>	we did when kids

Jul 21 19:55:03 <mikeh789>	rather open-minded one in my opinion

Jul 21 19:55:12 <mikeh789>	but i still don't go there

Jul 21 19:55:42 <mikeh789>	i'm going to run ubuntu in the area where my mother works

Jul 21 19:56:07 <mikeh789>	they have a pretty rough set-up right now

Jul 21 19:56:27 <_marx_>	report to the list on that effort, I think it could count as a team project

Jul 21 19:56:27 <mikeh789>	xp machines that were set up by an admin that is not there anymore

Jul 21 19:56:42 <mikeh789>	will do

Jul 21 19:56:45 <_marx_>	ugh

Jul 21 19:57:15 <mikeh789>	i hope to get them up and running before this next session

Jul 21 19:57:55 <mikeh789>	i have "alternate" hard drives to install to, so i can just label the one's there, 
and put them in a box

Jul 21 19:58:12 <mikeh789>	if anyone wants them back the way they were

Jul 21 19:58:13 <_marx_>	sounds like a good plan

Jul 21 19:58:57 <_marx_>	hah, may be same for R&P Winston too

Jul 21 19:59:28 <mikeh789>	i have a bunch of 8 to 20 gig HD's laying around

Jul 21 19:59:34 *	_marx_ going to make 2 actions

Jul 21 20:00:19 <_marx_>	both of us to report to team mailing list on efforts w/church/R&P

Jul 21 20:02:12 <mikeh789>	are you going to run the LTS there?

Jul 21 20:04:26 <_marx_>	hum hadn't considered that

Jul 21 20:04:46 <mikeh789>	i think compiz is almost manatory on 9.04

Jul 21 20:04:54 <mikeh789>	with the new notifications

Jul 21 20:04:55 <_marx_>	probably 9.04 as those are what I have to give away

Jul 21 20:05:12 <mikeh789>	and this hardware is not going to support compiz

Jul 21 20:05:24 <_marx_>	hum

Jul 21 20:05:57 <_marx_>	well notifications work ok on my laptop w/an old nvidia chip

Jul 21 20:06:08 <_marx_>	not using compiz

Jul 21 20:06:49 <mikeh789>	yeah, i guess it'll be fine for them as well

Jul 21 20:07:45 <_marx_>	I'm going to sneak in w/ a wireless router

Jul 21 20:08:01 <mikeh789>	i did that as well

Jul 21 20:08:11 <_marx_>	as a test run

Jul 21 20:08:34 <mikeh789>	i think it gets to stay now

Jul 21 20:10:19 <_marx_>	well I want to see if a plugged in indie wireless router will broadcast

Jul 21 20:11:21 <_marx_>	[ACTION]mikeh789 to report on church project

Jul 21 20:11:22 <MootBot>	ACTION received: mikeh789 to report on church project

Jul 21 20:11:51 <mikeh789>	so, you want to wrap this thing up?

Jul 21 20:12:02 <_marx_>	[ACTION _marx_ to report on Winston Recreation and Parks access

Jul 21 20:12:52 <_marx_>	nah, wait till 8:30 before I go move some dead branches from the front yard

Jul 21 20:13:04 <mikeh789>	and when i report, i just email to the email list whats going on?

Jul 21 20:13:13 <_marx_>	yes

Jul 21 20:13:16 <mikeh789>	just get the progress logged?

Jul 21 20:13:18 <mikeh789>	OK

Jul 21 20:13:30 <_marx_>	give a synopsis of what you've done

Jul 21 20:14:05 <mikeh789>	i wish i had photos from my first visit there

Jul 21 20:14:32 <_marx_>	Jfrorie1: remember to send a reminder email to all contacts re Charlotte meet and 
greet

Jul 21 20:14:35 <mikeh789>	network cables (about 6 of them) laying on top of someones desk

Jul 21 20:15:26 <mikeh789>	plugged into something, not just coiled up

Jul 21 20:15:40 <_marx_>	I investigated 501c too

Jul 21 20:15:54 <_marx_>	imho it's not worth the cost

Jul 21 20:16:15 <mikeh789>	i was envolved in a not for profit here in a-ville

Jul 21 20:16:47 <mikeh789>	thats what that is right?

Jul 21 20:17:21 <_marx_>	yes

Jul 21 20:17:27 <mikeh789>	it was difficult to get rolling, but we were able to recieve several large donations

Jul 21 20:17:36 <_marx_>	hum

Jul 21 20:17:48 <_marx_>	maybe down the road a bit

Jul 21 20:18:12 <mikeh789>	gotta have a lawyer friend, thats what helped us the most

Jul 21 20:18:45 <_marx_>	I have one of those, a former active plug member

Jul 21 20:19:01 <_marx_>	just remembered that

Jul 21 20:19:33 <mikeh789>	he hooked us up free of charge

Jul 21 20:20:44 <_marx_>	[ACTION] Mark to contact PLUG lawyer member re 501c

Jul 21 20:20:45 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Mark to contact PLUG lawyer member re 501c

Jul 21 20:21:06 <Jfrorie1>	marx: I sent one out last week. Did you see it?  I will agin in a few days

Jul 21 20:21:34 <_marx_>	Jfrorie1: you used most of my text! Yes

Jul 21 20:22:13 <Jfrorie1>	cool.  The list don't cc me.

Jul 21 20:22:56 <_marx_>	my webcam's USB mike isn't recognized 

Jul 21 20:23:23 <_marx_>	Jfrorie1: yes

Jul 21 20:24:10 <mikeh789>	_marx_: http://www.jazzcomposersforum.org/

Jul 21 20:24:23 <mikeh789>	this is the organization

Jul 21 20:24:34 <mikeh789>	i don't now if the site is helpful

Jul 21 20:24:37 <_marx_>	mikeh789: wanna try a Skype or Eckiga conference call sometime?

Jul 21 20:24:53 <mikeh789>	but i can ask them any questions you want

Jul 21 20:25:02 <mikeh789>	about the 501

Jul 21 20:25:06 <_marx_>	k

Jul 21 20:25:19 <mikeh789>	_marx_: i'm mikeh789 on skype

Jul 21 20:25:30 <_marx_>	lemme contact the lawyer on plug first

Jul 21 20:25:41 <mikeh789>	and i think its working these days

Jul 21 20:25:46 <mikeh789>	skype that is

Jul 21 20:26:09 <_marx_>	well, the mike on my webcam isn't working

Jul 21 20:26:32 <mikeh789>	drag

Jul 21 20:26:41 <mikeh789>	pulse?

Jul 21 20:27:12 <_marx_>	[IDEA] team members test video conferencing software as part of bug jam 

Jul 21 20:27:13 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  team members test video conferencing software as part of bug jam

Jul 21 20:27:31 <_marx_>	yes mikeh789 pulse audio

Jul 21 20:28:22 <mikeh789>	i have a hard time with my girlfriends mininote and the internal mic

Jul 21 20:28:58 <_marx_>	[ACTION] mark post to list re Skype/Eckiga testing

Jul 21 20:28:58 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  mark post to list re Skype/Eckiga testing

Jul 21 20:29:10 <_marx_>	#endmeeting

Jul 21 20:29:10 <MootBot>	Meeting finished at 19:26.

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

Jul 21 19:22:16 <_marx_>	how'd that go?

Jul 21 19:22:33 <mikeh789>	we are working on an asheville meet and greet

Jul 21 19:22:39 <_marx_>	cool

Jul 21 19:23:15 <mikeh789>	and i got some CD's form her, and i left them a couple places

Jul 21 19:23:18 <mikeh789>	from

Jul 21 19:24:12 <mikeh789>	working on reserving the venue, and I'll go from there

Jul 21 19:24:15 <_marx_>	I've contacted FCTC and we can post on their physical 
bulletin boards but no access to labs

Jul 21 19:25:15 <_marx_>	need to get something that will hold cd's on a vertical 
surface

Jul 21 19:25:35 <mikeh789>	how many cd's?

Jul 21 19:25:35 <_marx_>	poster that holds say 10 cd's

Jul 21 19:25:40 <mikeh789>	OK

Jul 21 19:26:13 <_marx_>	I wanted to action akgraner on that w/her contacts at canonical

Jul 21 19:26:38 <mikeh789>	i bet they have something like that

Jul 21 19:27:05 <_marx_>	I bet so too

Jul 21 19:27:51 *	_marx_ checks calender

Jul 21 19:28:44 <_marx_>	hum, i'm still not sure how to use mootbot

Jul 21 19:29:17 <mikeh789>	i can't be of any help im afraid

Jul 21 19:30:08 <_marx_>	I've made contact w/Recreation and Parks in Winston re using the computers in the rec centers w/livecd's

Jul 21 19:30:41 <mikeh789>	nice

Jul 21 19:30:52 <_marx_>	I've been swapping voicemails since last Thursday the 15th
Jul 21 19:31:07 <mikeh789>	sound promising?

Jul 21 19:31:21 <_marx_>	it does sound promising

Jul 21 19:32:20 <mikeh789>	i don't know why more places like that aren't using ltsp server-client

Jul 21 19:32:27 <mikeh789>	seems so much easier

Jul 21 19:33:08 <mikeh789>	dealing with a bunch of windows boxes (public) seems like a nightmare

Jul 21 19:33:10 <_marx_>	they are using some citrix solution

Jul 21 19:36:14 <mikeh789>	september 5th is the tentative date for the asheville meet and greet

Jul 21 19:36:15 <_marx_>	i'm thinking it could be a good location for an installfest as well

Jul 21 19:36:40 <mikeh789>	and thats all i really have to offer as far as buisness

Jul 21 19:37:00 <mikeh789>	so keep the updates you have coming

Jul 21 19:38:53 *	Jfrorie1 (n=Jfrorie@98.105.42.244) has joined #ubuntu-us-nc

Jul 21 19:39:57 <_marx_>	hey Jfrorie1

Jul 21 19:40:29 <Jfrorie1>	hey all. Bberry again :p

Jul 21 19:40:46 <mikeh789>	Jfrorie1: hello

Jul 21 19:42:36 <_marx_>	I'll write up my progress for a report to the mailing list

Jul 21 19:44:11 <mikeh789>	cool

Jul 21 19:47:34 <mikeh789>	_marx_: are you talking to any other groups about using ubuntu?

Jul 21 19:50:12 <_marx_>	I'm a member of the forsyth county computer club which is largely a windows group

Jul 21 19:50:54 <_marx_>	when bro jeff recovers some I'll ask about home schooling groups in the A'ville area

Jul 21 19:51:33 <mikeh789>	the learing center i mentioned is in weaverville

Jul 21 19:51:41 <_marx_>	ah

Jul 21 19:51:43 <mikeh789>	woodland hills church

Jul 21 19:51:53 <_marx_>	ok

Jul 21 19:52:10 <_marx_>	I don't know the name of his church

Jul 21 19:52:11 <mikeh789>	they are working on a computer lab

Jul 21 19:52:22 <_marx_>	do you know a Jeff Cox

Jul 21 19:52:54 <mikeh789>	i dont think so, but my folks go to church there every sunday

Jul 21 19:53:13 <_marx_>	ah, you don't go every sunday?

Jul 21 19:53:38 <mikeh789>	i go once or twice a year

Jul 21 19:53:56 <_marx_>	pretty sure bro jeff is non-demominational

Jul 21 19:54:14 <mikeh789>	me too

Jul 21 19:54:37 <mikeh789>	this is a sothern baptist church

Jul 21 19:54:50 <_marx_>	oh he doesn't go there ;)

Jul 21 19:54:58 <_marx_>	we did when kids

Jul 21 19:55:03 <mikeh789>	rather open-minded one in my opinion

Jul 21 19:55:12 <mikeh789>	but i still don't go there

Jul 21 19:55:42 <mikeh789>	i'm going to run ubuntu in the area where my mother works

Jul 21 19:56:07 <mikeh789>	they have a pretty rough set-up right now

Jul 21 19:56:27 <_marx_>	report to the list on that effort, I think it could count as a team project

Jul 21 19:56:27 <mikeh789>	xp machines that were set up by an admin that is not there anymore

Jul 21 19:56:42 <mikeh789>	will do

Jul 21 19:56:45 <_marx_>	ugh

Jul 21 19:57:15 <mikeh789>	i hope to get them up and running before this next session

Jul 21 19:57:55 <mikeh789>	i have "alternate" hard drives to install to, so i can just label the one's there, and put them in a box

Jul 21 19:58:12 <mikeh789>	if anyone wants them back the way they were

Jul 21 19:58:13 <_marx_>	sounds like a good plan

Jul 21 19:58:57 <_marx_>	hah, may be same for R&P Winston too

Jul 21 19:59:28 <mikeh789>	i have a bunch of 8 to 20 gig HD's laying around

Jul 21 19:59:34 *	_marx_ going to make 2 actions

Jul 21 20:00:19 <_marx_>	both of us to report to team mailing list on efforts w/church/R&P

Jul 21 20:02:12 <mikeh789>	are you going to run the LTS there?

Jul 21 20:04:26 <_marx_>	hum hadn't considered that

Jul 21 20:04:46 <mikeh789>	i think compiz is almost manatory on 9.04

Jul 21 20:04:54 <mikeh789>	with the new notifications

Jul 21 20:04:55 <_marx_>	probably 9.04 as those are what I have to give away

Jul 21 20:05:12 <mikeh789>	and this hardware is not going to support compiz

Jul 21 20:05:24 <_marx_>	hum

Jul 21 20:05:57 <_marx_>	well notifications work ok on my laptop w/an old nvidia chip

Jul 21 20:06:08 <_marx_>	not using compiz

Jul 21 20:06:49 <mikeh789>	yeah, i guess it'll be fine for them as well

Jul 21 20:07:45 <_marx_>	I'm going to sneak in w/ a wireless router

Jul 21 20:08:01 <mikeh789>	i did that as well

Jul 21 20:08:11 <_marx_>	as a test run

Jul 21 20:08:34 <mikeh789>	i think it gets to stay now

Jul 21 20:10:19 <_marx_>	well I want to see if a plugged in indie wireless router will broadcast

Jul 21 20:11:21 <_marx_>	[ACTION]mikeh789 to report on church project

Jul 21 20:11:22 <MootBot>	ACTION received: mikeh789 to report on church project

Jul 21 20:11:51 <mikeh789>	so, you want to wrap this thing up?

Jul 21 20:12:02 <_marx_>	[ACTION _marx_ to report on Winston Recreation and Parks access

Jul 21 20:12:52 <_marx_>	nah, wait till 8:30 before I go move some dead branches from the front yard

Jul 21 20:13:04 <mikeh789>	and when i report, i just email to the email list whats going on?

Jul 21 20:13:13 <_marx_>	yes

Jul 21 20:13:16 <mikeh789>	just get the progress logged?

Jul 21 20:13:18 <mikeh789>	OK

Jul 21 20:13:30 <_marx_>	give a synopsis of what you've done

Jul 21 20:14:05 <mikeh789>	i wish i had photos from my first visit there

Jul 21 20:14:32 <_marx_>	Jfrorie1: remember to send a reminder email to all contacts re Charlotte meet and greet

Jul 21 20:14:35 <mikeh789>	network cables (about 6 of them) laying on top of someones desk

Jul 21 20:15:26 <mikeh789>	plugged into something, not just coiled up

Jul 21 20:15:40 <_marx_>	I investigated 501c too

Jul 21 20:15:54 <_marx_>	imho it's not worth the cost

Jul 21 20:16:15 <mikeh789>	i was envolved in a not for profit here in a-ville

Jul 21 20:16:47 <mikeh789>	thats what that is right?

Jul 21 20:17:21 <_marx_>	yes

Jul 21 20:17:27 <mikeh789>	it was difficult to get rolling, but we were able to recieve several large donations

Jul 21 20:17:36 <_marx_>	hum

Jul 21 20:17:48 <_marx_>	maybe down the road a bit

Jul 21 20:18:12 <mikeh789>	gotta have a lawyer friend, thats what helped us the most

Jul 21 20:18:45 <_marx_>	I have one of those, a former active plug member

Jul 21 20:19:01 <_marx_>	just remembered that

Jul 21 20:19:33 <mikeh789>	he hooked us up free of charge

Jul 21 20:20:44 <_marx_>	[ACTION] Mark to contact PLUG lawyer member re 501c

Jul 21 20:20:45 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Mark to contact PLUG lawyer member re 501c

Jul 21 20:21:06 <Jfrorie1>	marx: I sent one out last week. Did you see it?  I will agin in a few days

Jul 21 20:21:34 <_marx_>	Jfrorie1: you used most of my text! Yes

Jul 21 20:22:13 <Jfrorie1>	cool.  The list don't cc me.

Jul 21 20:22:56 <_marx_>	my webcam's USB mike isn't recognized 

Jul 21 20:23:23 <_marx_>	Jfrorie1: yes

Jul 21 20:24:10 <mikeh789>	_marx_: http://www.jazzcomposersforum.org/

Jul 21 20:24:23 <mikeh789>	this is the organization

Jul 21 20:24:34 <mikeh789>	i don't now if the site is helpful

Jul 21 20:24:37 <_marx_>	mikeh789: wanna try a Skype or Eckiga conference call sometime?

Jul 21 20:24:53 <mikeh789>	but i can ask them any questions you want

Jul 21 20:25:02 <mikeh789>	about the 501

Jul 21 20:25:06 <_marx_>	k

Jul 21 20:25:19 <mikeh789>	_marx_: i'm mikeh789 on skype

Jul 21 20:25:30 <_marx_>	lemme contact the lawyer on plug first

Jul 21 20:25:41 <mikeh789>	and i think its working these days

Jul 21 20:25:46 <mikeh789>	skype that is

Jul 21 20:26:09 <_marx_>	well, the mike on my webcam isn't working

Jul 21 20:26:32 <mikeh789>	drag

Jul 21 20:26:41 <mikeh789>	pulse?

Jul 21 20:27:12 <_marx_>	[IDEA] team members test video conferencing software as part of bug jam 

Jul 21 20:27:13 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  team members test video conferencing software as part of bug jam

Jul 21 20:27:31 <_marx_>	yes mikeh789 pulse audio

Jul 21 20:28:22 <mikeh789>	i have a hard time with my girlfriends mininote and the internal mic

Jul 21 20:28:58 <_marx_>	[ACTION] mark post to list re Skype/Eckiga testing

Jul 21 20:28:58 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  mark post to list re Skype/Eckiga testing

Jul 21 20:29:10 <_marx_>	#endmeeting

Jul 21 20:29:10 <MootBot>	Meeting finished at 19:26.

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
