{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Team meeting Report January 19th, 2010 ==

=== Agenda for team meeting: Tuesday, January 19th, 7pm EST ===

** Welcome and attendance

** Ubuntu Advocacy
*** The month in review: 
*** individual advocacy - What are you doing to get the word out?
*** Team advocacy - What is the team doing to get the word out?
*** Upcoming opportunities
*** Projects
*** Outreach to rural areas see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/Events/MDTour/Finksburg|MD Tour]]</nowiki>
*** New projects begun since last meeting
*** New project ideas

** Update on the status of remaining items keeping us from being an "official" LoCo team.
*** See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved|Getting Approved]]</nowiki> for details
*** Status of action items in progress to meet the requirements

** Governance and leadership
*** LoCo/Community Governance requirements for Leadership of Loco teams
*** Review the leadership wiki (to be updated with a link once that is created) 
*** Roles and responsibilities (adjust and edit as necessary)
*** Nominations for 4 overall positions
*** Review feedback on mailing list and forums regarding this motion

** Next Meeting Information
*** Selection of Chair and meeting date

=== Attendance ===

People Present:

1. _marx_
2. BugeyeD
3. internalkernel
4. olympus
5. alinuxfan
6. JFo
7. akgraner
8. celem_

=== Minutes ===

 I. akgraner to add ubucon at self to agenda 
 I. akgraner to inform team on MN team effort to get old machines to National Guard families
 I. BugeyeD start action on rural tour with mailing list post
 I. Beginning of wiki team: BugeyeD, internalkernel, _marx_
 I. internalkernel continue governance discussion on team mailing list
 I. alinuxfan forum post on governance

=== Logs ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-us-nc.20100119_1759.html | MootBot Summary]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-us-nc.log.20100119_1759.html | MootBot Log]]</nowiki>

<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-us-nc
[18:00:15] <_marx_> Hey everyone! who all's here?
[18:00:20] <BugeyeD> o/
[18:00:24] <internalkernel> o/
[18:00:27] <olympus> o/
[18:00:35] <_marx_> this makes mootbot record attendance
[18:01:09] <alinuxfan> i am here :-)
[18:01:16] <_marx_> any one that speaks during the meeting gets recorded as attending by mootbot though
[18:01:34] <JFo> o/
[18:01:54] <_marx_> dang I'm missing action items from the last meeting :\
[18:02:22] <_marx_> [topci] Advocacy reports
[18:02:23] <internalkernel> _marx_: I'll PM them
[18:02:32] <_marx_> [topic] Advocacy reports
[18:03:13] <akgraner> opps sorry I was late
[18:03:14] <_marx_> anything to report on advocacy?
[18:03:37] <internalkernel> I did a presentation regarding general network security in Hendersonville yesterday...
[18:03:43] <JFo> naughty naughty akgraner :)
[18:03:47] <internalkernel> to a large MS group... lol...
[18:03:59] <_marx_> I've got a long time suse user using ubuntu on her laptop that's like not real advocacy
[18:04:13] <internalkernel> distro switching is...
[18:04:23] <celem_> celem
[18:04:40] <akgraner> where's the link to the agenda
[18:04:44] <internalkernel> I wore an ubuntu shirt yesterday too...
[18:04:47] <_marx_> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda
[18:04:48] <internalkernel> :)
[18:05:39] <_marx_> also handed out a LiveCD at the Ubuntu Hour in Winston
[18:06:51] <_marx_> anything upcoming on advocacy?
[18:07:19] <internalkernel> Lug meeting in NC on the 6th
[18:07:28] <internalkernel> at Firestorm
[18:07:31] <akgraner> Ubucon at SELF
[18:07:47] <internalkernel> JFo sings our praises constantly...
[18:07:53] <JFo> heh
[18:08:25] <akgraner> I need to turn the planning of Ubucon at SELF over to the NC and SC teams
[18:08:40] <akgraner> and find out who wants to staff the Ubuntu Booth
[18:08:48] <_marx_> hum action items need to get on the next agenda; mental note to self
[18:09:36] <alinuxfan> advocacy, installed 9.10 on one of my wife's co-worker'c computer :D
[18:09:47] * BugeyeD put ubuntu on 3 laptops for windows users to dual-boot into
[18:09:54] <akgraner> well there is still some time want me to dr the agenda with that this week?
[18:09:56] <internalkernel> smashed a mac book...
[18:10:46] <_marx_> akgraner: dr?
[18:10:59] <_marx_> internalkernel: not sure that counts :)
[18:11:10] <internalkernel> I screamed ubuntu as I did it...
[18:11:14] <BugeyeD> ha
[18:11:19] <akgraner> as in fix the action items for SELF
[18:11:21] <internalkernel> It was like the scene out of Office Space
[18:11:25] <_marx_> [topic] projects
[18:11:31] <akgraner> you know "dr something up"
[18:11:40] <BugeyeD> drudge report?
[18:11:41] <_marx_> ah cool
[18:11:51] <BugeyeD> drug rehab?
[18:12:29] <olympus> to sleep perchance to dr?
[18:13:06] <_marx_> [action] add ubucon at self to agenda akgraner
[18:13:16] <BugeyeD> projects - i've been talking to an it manager (not mine) about replacing some vmware with ubuntu/kvm in their lab
[18:13:20] <_marx_> cool akgraner
[18:13:23] <akgraner> cool
[18:13:53] <BugeyeD> or maybe that's advocacy, not sure
[18:14:12] <_marx_> BugeyeD: cross over item
[18:14:16] <BugeyeD> could turn into a big project for him, but that might be a different thing
[18:14:55] <akgraner> I was forwarded an email last week about a project concerning National Guard
[18:15:13] <akgraner> it may take me a minute to type out all the details so bare with me
[18:16:12] <akgraner> There is a group in MN that takes old computers
[18:16:14] <_marx_> what to yall think about the rural tour?
[18:16:20] <akgraner> puts ubuntu on them
[18:16:29] <akgraner> and gets them to the soldiers family
[18:16:47] <akgraner> it is based on the Yellow Ribbon Campaign
[18:17:01] <akgraner> and the Federal Electronics Challenge
[18:17:29] <akgraner> Since Canonial is aware that we are wanting to work with getting Ubuntu on the Bases
[18:17:46] <akgraner> and the person who sent the email is wanting to grow their project
[18:18:03] <akgraner> they thought we could take a look at trying something like that in our loco
[18:18:35] <BugeyeD> _marx_: i'm interested in talking about that
[18:18:43] <alinuxfan> that is an awesome idea akgraner
[18:18:46] <BugeyeD> akgraner: i'm interested in doing this.
[18:19:04] <alinuxfan> i have been wantin to do that for a while...i was basing mine of Helios's Komputers4Kids in Austin
[18:19:06] <akgraner> so I'll get all the info and get it to the list then
[18:19:14] <BugeyeD> akgraner: i already have a small stack of older computers available. what's the minimum requirement for this type of deployement, though?
[18:19:41] <akgraner> just that they can connect to the internet
[18:19:44] <akgraner> send emails
[18:19:49] <BugeyeD> alinuxfan: i subscribe to helios' feed, and have pumped some help his way. very good person/mission.
[18:19:53] <akgraner> and do like a skype call or something
[18:20:09] <BugeyeD> skype will probably be the hardest part, as it requires actual cpu.
[18:20:18] <akgraner> or empathy
[18:20:23] <akgraner> or yahoo
[18:20:24] <_marx_> [action] akgraner so I'll get all the info and get it to the list then on MN team effort to get old machines to National Guard families
[18:20:25] <BugeyeD> email not so much. web is getting bad with all the crummy flash.
[18:20:50] <akgraner> just so they can stay in touch with the soldiers that are deployed
[18:20:52] <BugeyeD> i'm thinking voip. if you're talking text, no problems.
[18:21:36] <alinuxfan> voip isnt that reliable downrange...it is more emails than anything
[18:21:42] <alinuxfan> (just my experience)
[18:21:50] <akgraner> I will snip the email so I don't blast the guy from MN personal info all over the list, but I'll get it to everyone
[18:22:00] <_marx_> alinuxfan: bandwidth issues?
[18:22:13] <BugeyeD> alinuxfan: not surprising; streaming needs relatively stable packet flow. satellites, well, you know.
[18:22:57] <_marx_> BugeyeD: thoughts on rural tour...
[18:23:26] <alinuxfan> yes, bandwidth
[18:23:29] <BugeyeD> how does the team get the word out for something like that?
[18:23:41] <alinuxfan> bunches of people using the same satellites
[18:23:52] <alinuxfan> and half are trying to myspace or facebook
[18:24:19] <_marx_> BugeyeD: decide on what to demo; book a place; flyers; web2.0 pr
[18:25:03] <akgraner> I like the rural tour idea
[18:25:03] <BugeyeD> i guess it's the same as in our normal cities; nobody knows the best way to get the word out to those who might be most interested
[18:25:21] <BugeyeD> i really like the rural idea, and the "bring your thumbdrive we'll put linux on it" is awesome
[18:25:24] <_marx_> BugeyeD: recall that i think it was opensuse demo at the last SELF
[18:25:38] <BugeyeD> _marx_: ?
[18:25:53] <olympus> BugeyeD: I'd like to work on that.
[18:25:54] <_marx_> it was something like edubuntu
[18:26:45] <_marx_> [idea] mailing list thread on developing a demo for rural area show
[18:27:16] <olympus> _marx_: That would be tailor made for a Teacher conference or work day in the schools
[18:27:27] <BugeyeD> do we have an ubuntu remix similar to puppy?
[18:27:38] <_marx_> olympus: getting in, do you have an "in"
[18:27:48] <akgraner> I know where I live I am planning on an ad in the paper, then having a few demo machines, then just answer questions and burn CD's as they need them
[18:28:04] <olympus> I have a couple of contacts in the Asheville/Hendersonville area
[18:28:39] <internalkernel> BugeyeD: easy enough to make if we don't
[18:28:55] <_marx_> any one want to start the mailing list action on this?
[18:29:55] <_marx_> dang too many military and ex-military here ;-)
[18:30:05] <BugeyeD> sir, yes sir!
[18:30:21] <BugeyeD> if nobody else does, i can start a thread
[18:30:37] <internalkernel> If we need a remix of an Ubuntu LiveCD, I can throw one together...
[18:30:38] <_marx_> ah, that's so navy!
[18:31:07] <BugeyeD> internalkernel: i'd like to be in on that, to learn how it's done if nothing else.
[18:31:27] <_marx_> [action] BugeyeD start action on rural tour with mailing list post
[18:31:29] <BugeyeD> but puppy really excels in being tiny and fast and working with a multitude of different old/new computers
[18:32:08] <_marx_> y'all ready for topic change?
[18:32:15] <BugeyeD> sir, yes sir!
[18:32:16] <internalkernel> BugeyeD: true true... but just PM me some time I can email you a bunch of stuff regarding the how to remix...
[18:32:24] <BugeyeD> internalkernel: np
[18:32:31] <internalkernel> I did it for another project Im working on...
[18:32:38] <internalkernel> _marx_: Im ready for a new topic
[18:33:16] <_marx_> [topic] Team Approval
[18:33:41] <_marx_> maybe this should be down the agenda...
[18:34:16] <BugeyeD> i approve of the team. next topic.
[18:34:23] <internalkernel> I concur
[18:34:29] <internalkernel> team hereby approved
[18:34:33] <_marx_> wiki clean up; making the application wiki page; governance stuff is all I see to do
[18:34:49] <internalkernel> yeah yeah, we should have nominations
[18:34:57] <internalkernel> beside bueller
[18:34:58] <akgraner> I suggest we keep putting items on the approval wiki with pictures from event
[18:35:14] <_marx_> oh add "smart aleck" position for BugeyeD I forgot that one :)
[18:35:16] <internalkernel> good call, where is the approval wiki?
[18:35:22] <akgraner> then at some time we ask someone from the LoCo Council to look over it for us
[18:35:31] <internalkernel> ok, but I want "constantly sarcastic"
[18:35:42] <_marx_> approval wike hasn't been created yet that I know of
[18:35:42] <internalkernel> or "never takes anything seriously"
[18:35:50] <internalkernel> wait, my girl has that one...
[18:35:55] <akgraner> I thought I did
[18:36:06] <internalkernel> Im waiting for a link...
[18:36:08] <internalkernel> :)
[18:36:10] <akgraner> I'll look after the meeting
[18:36:31] <BugeyeD> akgraner: so for the approval process, you're suggesting a bunch of "see, look what we did!" kinds of things?
[18:36:44] <BugeyeD> not that i disagree, just asking.
[18:36:59] <_marx_> action items with completion details
[18:37:01] <akgraner> yep, and what our future plans are via the roadmap
[18:37:06] <internalkernel> I think it's more like having a roadmap, and then showing how we accomplished our roadmap
[18:37:35] <internalkernel> so all these events and advocacy type things should get linked or inserted into the roadmap/wiki
[18:37:38] <BugeyeD> could be both trying to say the same thing, but i like internalkernel's wording better
[18:37:46] <akgraner> internalkernel, yes but you have to have future goals as well
[18:37:50] <_marx_> and for me roadmap doesn't work as a term
[18:38:01] <_marx_> terminalogy, just my brain
[18:38:08] <akgraner> _marx_, that's a community term
[18:38:09] <internalkernel> ok, what should we call it...
[18:38:33] <internalkernel> how bout "future stuff we're supposed to do but haven't yet"
[18:38:52] <_marx_> again just my brain a blueprint makes more sense to me
[18:39:01] <JFo> blueprints we have
[18:39:08] <JFo> this is a roadmap
[18:39:18] <JFo> it is a way to reach a destination
[18:39:23] <_marx_> ah, ic
[18:39:25] <akgraner> you can link the roadmap to the blueprint
[18:39:25] <olympus> footsteps
[18:39:26] <internalkernel> or a way to get lost
[18:39:30] <akgraner> and I can make one if you want
[18:39:39] <JFo> internalkernel, not if you define it properly
[18:39:53] <internalkernel> you have not met my wife
[18:40:07] <BugeyeD> internalkernel: you beat me to it!
[18:40:14] <internalkernel> lmao!
[18:40:34] <akgraner> _marx_, I can take the roadmap and create a blueprint
[18:40:44] <akgraner> and they can work together if you want
[18:41:50] <akgraner> _marx_, I love blueprints so it's not a hard think to make work if you all want to
[18:42:05] <BugeyeD> what's a blueprint?
[18:42:22] <BugeyeD> i've seen the term used, but am unsure what it means in ubuntuism
[18:42:27] <akgraner> BugeyeD, it's a way to keep track of a project in Launchpad
[18:42:41] <BugeyeD> like a status page?
[18:43:02] <akgraner> one sec let me find the one for UW
[18:43:12] <BugeyeD> i can look it up, we don't need to tie up the meeting with this
[18:43:26] <internalkernel> I think a blueprint is like an immediate action, while a roadmap is like a bunch of blueprints...
[18:43:43] <akgraner> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-women.org/+spec/community-ubuntu-women-project
[18:43:47] <_marx_> semantics I need to learn
[18:44:02] <BugeyeD> me too
[18:44:11] <_marx_> i won't make me learning semantics a action item
[18:44:31] <akgraner> so basically a roadmap it you long term goals
[18:44:42] <akgraner> a Blueprint you set for each cycle
[18:44:48] <internalkernel> I swear someone just said that
[18:44:51] <internalkernel> :)
[18:44:55] <internalkernel> ok where are we at?
[18:45:02] <alinuxfan> i am in Sanford
[18:45:10] <_marx_> [topic] Governance and Leadership
[18:45:13] <internalkernel> lol, thanks...
[18:45:19] <alinuxfan> internalkernel, yw
[18:45:37] <internalkernel> I nominate BugeyeD for something...
[18:45:58] <internalkernel> and _marx_ for chairing some more...
[18:46:17] <internalkernel> and akgraner for wiki and documenation
[18:46:20] <internalkernel> :/
[18:46:24] <akgraner> :-P uh no
[18:46:49] <_marx_> biggest thing I see is the wiki
[18:47:04] <_marx_> we have three peeps that can op here
[18:47:26] <_marx_> two on the mailing list admin list
[18:47:27] <BugeyeD> i'm decent with wiki markup (moinmoin) but i'm not sure i want to own it
[18:47:41] <internalkernel> the wiki needs to be a team effort
[18:47:42] <BugeyeD> i can definitely be a resource if deemed helpful
[18:48:04] <internalkernel> I don't mind helping with cleaning stuff up...
[18:48:21] <_marx_> [idea] BugeyeD helps w/wiki
[18:48:35] <internalkernel> I think the idea behind the governance was to create a more coherent team structure...
[18:48:38] <_marx_> [idea] internalkernel helps w/wiki
[18:49:26] <_marx_> internalkernel: with responsibilities?
[18:49:34] <internalkernel> does anyone else feel like we need to define how things get handled a little better?
[18:49:47] <internalkernel> responsibilities is part of it, but that's not all of it
[18:49:59] <internalkernel> It is a team effort, so its not about leadership or council
[18:50:05] <internalkernel> its really about organization
[18:50:09] * _marx_ looking at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/council
[18:50:11] <internalkernel> and effective channeling of effort
[18:50:36] <akgraner> here's the areas we have
[18:50:39] <internalkernel> like earlier you said - we have three peeps that can op - but I have no idea who that is...
[18:50:47] <akgraner> IRC, Forums, mailing list
[18:50:53] <internalkernel> this is what Im referring to when I say we need to define these things
[18:51:12] <internalkernel> so it's clear to everyone, especially the newcomer who installed ubuntu last week and wants to get involved
[18:51:17] <_marx_> okay I've been doing most of team lead and moderator since late '08 and early '09
[18:51:28] <internalkernel> right, I think you got that covered...
[18:51:43] <akgraner> who is the forums person?
[18:51:47] <internalkernel> maybe we can define a backup for you, in case life happens... and
[18:52:00] <internalkernel> we need define roles for forums moderation, wiki, etc
[18:52:09] * _marx_ is old as dirt
[18:53:06] <internalkernel> So, we need people to step up... Documentation, Moderation ( _marx_ ), Advocacy, and Team Lead
[18:53:12] <akgraner> internalkernel, how do you see the team structure?
[18:53:23] <internalkernel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/council
[18:53:32] <internalkernel> I made that page... that's how I see it...
[18:53:36] <akgraner> k
[18:53:55] <internalkernel> so let's talk about it... and Im totally open to adjusting it regarding what's best
[18:53:58] <BugeyeD> forums person? what forums?
[18:54:02] <internalkernel> lmao
[18:54:10] <internalkernel> don't get around much, do ya
[18:54:16] <_marx_> ditto lmao!
[18:54:29] <internalkernel> http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=278
[18:54:55] * BugeyeD enjoys being laughed AT. sometimes.
[18:55:02] <BugeyeD> no kidding - i had no idea we had a forum!
[18:55:13] <internalkernel> this is really about eleviating pressure from the chair, because there's a tendency for everyone to look to _marx_ in order to get this or that done
[18:55:28] <BugeyeD> i like expecting _marx_ to do everything
[18:55:34] <BugeyeD> well, the hard stuff at least
[18:55:36] <internalkernel> or it somehow magically gets accomplished when no one is looking ( akgraner )
[18:56:02] <internalkernel> so, I'm just saying... we should define this a little better... coherent team structure will help with team approval as well
[18:56:19] <internalkernel> jus' sayin...
[18:56:19] * _marx_ nods at internalkernel
[18:56:44] <internalkernel> this doesn tneed to happen on this meeting... full well expect this to be digested by the loco for a bit
[18:57:29] <internalkernel> do we have consensus?
[18:57:36] <internalkernel> BugeyeD now knows about the forums...
[18:57:42] <olympus> I'm curious regarding the Forums and would like more info
[18:57:55] <internalkernel> There's no terminal version of the Forums BugeyeD, so I figured you may have missed it
[18:58:06] <BugeyeD> internalkernel: that's exactly it, i'm sure
[18:58:11] <internalkernel> :)
[18:58:13] <BugeyeD> i even edit the wiki in terminail
[18:58:18] <BugeyeD> er, terminal
[18:58:23] <internalkernel> olympus: what exactly
[18:58:52] <olympus> internalkernel: what is expected of a "forums" person?
[18:59:02] * _marx_ is comfortable w/team lead and handing off moderator occasionnaly
[18:59:03] <BugeyeD> i think we're talking about a moderator for the forum
[18:59:22] <internalkernel> forums falls under moderation, along with mailing list
[18:59:27] <_marx_> BugeyeD: forum owner as well I believe
[18:59:29] <internalkernel> and other general duties
[18:59:32] <olympus> Ah, ic
[18:59:53] * BugeyeD could probably do most of those, though akgraner seems to be way better suited to advocacy
[19:00:03] <_marx_> I "own" this channel by rights of -F flag to chanserv
[19:00:05] <internalkernel> considering my work schedule coming up, I expect my time to be limited come spring... I think Team Lead would be a position I could handle...
[19:00:16] <_marx_> or +F
[19:00:29] <internalkernel> I agree, akgraner is great at advocacy
[19:00:51] <internalkernel> _marx_: has been handling chairing, no reason to change that...
[19:01:07] <internalkernel> BUT! we do need a wiki person... :(
[19:01:18] <_marx_> internalkernel: when is "spring"
[19:01:21] <internalkernel> someone who is willing to organize that mess...
[19:01:34] <internalkernel> March 1st to April 15th - I am out of town...
[19:01:38] <akgraner> the calendar thing is kicking my butt
[19:01:45] <internalkernel> I come home for about 3 days and then leave until June
[19:01:56] <akgraner> and it isn't easy to update stuff
[19:02:01] <BugeyeD> if nobody else is willing, i'll take a crack at the wiki. not sure about the calendar, though.
[19:02:04] <akgraner> upcoming meeting still is a dec meeting
[19:02:26] <internalkernel> I have no problem helping edit and adjust wikis - I'm not the person to organize that mess though
[19:03:13] <_marx_> internalkernel: you see irc as part of moderation?
[19:03:15] <internalkernel> while Im out of town, I can still be involved but my time and resources will be much more limited
[19:03:34] <internalkernel> I don't know _marx_
[19:03:49] <internalkernel> at first I did, but moderation in here has never been an issue
[19:04:00] <internalkernel> so probably not... maybe we can merge those two postions...
[19:04:04] <internalkernel> chair - and moderation
[19:04:10] <internalkernel> ?
[19:04:51] <BugeyeD> moderators typically keep things on-topic. but this is a community-type channel, not an official productX channel.
[19:05:18] <BugeyeD> i don't think that's an issue here either
[19:05:50] <_marx_> date
[19:05:53] <BugeyeD> if anything, i've heard some folks who joined the channel and were afraid to talk. still not sure why,.
[19:06:12] <_marx_> yeah i've seen that too BugeyeD
[19:06:18] <internalkernel> yeah...
[19:06:21] <internalkernel> lol
[19:06:29] <akgraner> How about we move the discussion of governance to the mailing list
[19:06:43] <akgraner> so people who may not be on IRC can weight in
[19:06:51] <_marx_> second akgraner
[19:07:02] <olympus> akgraner: good idea
[19:07:07] <_marx_> internalkernel: can i make that an action item for you?
[19:07:08] <internalkernel> +1
[19:07:14] <BugeyeD> +1
[19:07:16] <internalkernel> what exxactly?
[19:07:19] <alinuxfan> i would be willing to do something on the forum...havent ever done anything with wikis so I wouldnt be much help there
[19:07:40] <akgraner> so maybe we need more structure maybe not
[19:07:47] <_marx_> moving this discussion to the mailing list to keep non irc'ers informed?
[19:08:04] <akgraner> let's let the mailing list and forum people weigh in and see where it goes from there?
[19:08:07] <internalkernel> yes, I'll make a posting for that
[19:08:18] <internalkernel> and email the mailing list
[19:08:32] <akgraner> _marx_, internalkernel has the action item
[19:08:32] <internalkernel> I'm still working on getting the sticky edited from our last leader
[19:08:36] <BugeyeD> i vote for it to go out irc, email, and in the forum.
[19:08:49] <internalkernel> yes, agreed
[19:08:54] <akgraner> alinuxfan, once internalkernel sends to mailing list can you post it in the NC forum area
[19:09:10] <alinuxfan> yes ma'am
[19:09:11] <_marx_> [action] internalkernel continue governance discussion on team mailing list
[19:09:32] <akgraner> _marx_, alinuxfan has action to send to forum
[19:10:32] <_marx_> [action] alinuxfan forum post on governance
[19:11:21] <_marx_> BugeyeD: will you settle for "unofficial smart aleck"?
[19:11:58] <BugeyeD> you don't have to call me anything.
[19:12:01] <akgraner> _marx_, I think that should official
[19:12:04] <BugeyeD> i can be a smartarse without a title. :)
[19:12:05] <_marx_> [topic] next meeting chair and new business
[19:12:51] * _marx_ has booked FootHills Brewery for a release party
[19:13:06] <BugeyeD> woo!
[19:13:14] <BugeyeD> great food
[19:13:26] <internalkernel> sweet, sounds like another road trip...
[19:13:29] <_marx_> the private room so noise level is lower
[19:13:35] <internalkernel> wait that's April 30th right?
[19:13:36] <BugeyeD> upstairs or down?
[19:13:50] <_marx_> internalkernel: 29th
[19:13:50] <alinuxfan> what city is foothills brewery?
[19:13:56] <_marx_> BugeyeD: downstairs
[19:13:58] <BugeyeD> winston-salem
[19:13:59] <internalkernel> yeah, I'll be in Ft. Lauderdale...
[19:14:01] <akgraner> _marx_, can you send the details to the list I'll add them to the release party wiki
[19:14:18] <alinuxfan> cool, i can make W-S...Asheville is a *bit* far
[19:14:18] <_marx_> akgraner: will do
[19:14:23] <BugeyeD> internalkernel: so you could have your own release party at the candy store!
[19:14:34] <internalkernel> lol... I'll have a whole convention center...
[19:14:37] <internalkernel> :)
[19:14:49] <internalkernel> I wonder if I could boot all the machines off thumb drives...
[19:15:05] <internalkernel> I should have about 75 to 80 computers on that show...
[19:15:11] <internalkernel> it's a small one
[19:15:14] <BugeyeD> boot one off thumbdrive, setup dhcp/tftp and boot the rest over the network
[19:15:21] <_marx_> good to have celem_ and olympus with us tonight
[19:15:28] <internalkernel> lmao! actually they are all set for PXE as it is
[19:15:46] <akgraner> oh I have some new business
[19:15:55] <BugeyeD> celem_ is from brevard, right? and how about olympus?
[19:15:58] <olympus> _marx_ : glad to be here
[19:16:11] <olympus> from Fletcher, a Brevard suburd
[19:16:18] <_marx_> go ahead akgraner
[19:16:33] <akgraner> how many of you all know women who use Ubuntu
[19:16:38] <_marx_> lmao at olympus!
[19:16:58] <akgraner> ? anyone?
[19:17:07] <internalkernel> my girl does
[19:17:14] <internalkernel> because I said though...
[19:17:16] <BugeyeD> akgraner: someone i've known awhile uses ubuntu, and has installed it on her parent's pc - just found out today, didn't even know she had a computer :)
[19:17:18] <internalkernel> :)
[19:17:19] <_marx_> just the one, and she's a long time suse user
[19:17:39] <BugeyeD> oh yeah, i know that one too :)
[19:17:43] <alinuxfan> my wife, but only 'cause I manage the systems
[19:17:49] <olympus> trying to convince my wife! no luck yet
[19:17:58] <internalkernel> I smashed her macbook...
[19:17:59] <akgraner> ok so there is an International Women's Day Competition
[19:17:59] <_marx_> olympus: ditto
[19:18:00] <internalkernel> :)
[19:18:00] <akgraner> http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1969
[19:18:25] <akgraner> that the Ubuntu Women Project is running
[19:18:46] <akgraner> can you all please pass that along to women or girls you know who are using ubuntu
[19:19:54] <_marx_> akgraner: noted
[19:20:06] <olympus> akgraner: will do
[19:20:27] <internalkernel> only because you're so nice..
[19:20:29] <alinuxfan> akgraner, will do
[19:20:38] <akgraner> thank you - there is less than 2% of female Users in FLOSS
[19:20:51] <_marx_> BugeyeD: toadflax eh :)
[19:20:59] <akgraner> the percentage is a but higher in the Ubuntu Community about 4%
[19:21:04] <akgraner> but still way to low
[19:22:09] <alinuxfan> akgraner, that is about the percentage I saw at Trilug's meeting last week
[19:22:19] <_marx_> akgraner: i suspect flawed stats
[19:23:06] <akgraner> _marx_, nope those are pretty good stats
[19:23:41] <akgraner> so we as a community need to see how to encourage women to get involved in Open source and Ubuntu should they choose
[19:24:10] <akgraner> so distros's the % of women is lower than that
[19:24:16] <_marx_> could be part of rural tour as well
[19:24:21] <akgraner> yep
[19:24:41] <akgraner> but I would suggest going to the Ubuntu Women Website and reading it a bit
[19:24:51] <_marx_> our state is a good mix of rural and urban areas
[19:25:01] <akgraner> about the do's and don'ts to encouraging etc
[19:25:46] <_marx_> evangelism 101
[19:25:48] <akgraner> being outnumbered like that is often an intimidating place to be
[19:26:07] <_marx_> extrapolated
[19:26:20] <BugeyeD> probably wouldn't do very well for a bunch of guys to go on a tour advertising that they are looking for women to convert ...
[19:26:33] <akgraner> so any who - please try to pass the contest along
[19:26:41] <olympus> BugeyeD: lmao at that thought
[19:26:56] <akgraner> BugeyeD, nah please don't go out and say "We Need Women"
[19:27:29] <_marx_> aye, i often forget the age diff
[19:28:35] <akgraner> BugeyeD, :-)
[19:28:37] <_marx_> hormones and all, that sort of thing
[19:28:57] <BugeyeD> i bet it'd be a huge help to have a female on the tour.
[19:29:08] <_marx_> BugeyeD: +2
[19:29:57] * _marx_ to chair next meeting
[19:30:08] <_marx_> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
