{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

/* Describe NorthCarolinaTeam/MeetingTemplate here. */

== Ubuntu NC LoCo Team IRC Meeting - Month Date, Year ==

=== Agenda ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#D9D9F3">'''Agenda Item'''
| '''Date Item Added'''
| '''By Whom (please use wiki signature when possible'''
| '''Additional Comments'''
|-
| Changing Meeting Date to Once a month
| August 26, 2010
| -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:akgraner]]</nowiki>
| Suggestion made by holstein
|-
| Compose and post a list of meeting chairpersons
| August 26 2010
| -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
| 
|-
| Establish protocol for responsibility of clearing agenda items after each meeting
| August 26, 2010
| -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
| 
|-
| Establish protocol for insuring a current agenda is posted
| August 26, 2010
| -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
| 
|-
| Canonical Support for Lo``Co's QA
| September 1, 2010
| -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:akgraner]]</nowiki>
| Based on conversations with members of the Lo``Co team about what and why Canonical will and won't support.  I have asked various Canonical employees who belong to the NC LoCo team to attend to give better answers than I have been able to.  Please keep in mind that they are not here to be a verbal punching bag but to answer what they can and when necessary be another voice to your comments and concerns
|-
| Monthly Reports due this Saturday
| September 1, 2010
| -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:akgraner]]</nowiki>
| Please insure items that you or the team have been involved in to the reports.  Items can be added to : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamReports/10/August
|}

=== MootBotUK ===
== Meeting opened by holstein at 23:01 ==
 <''''''> wow, the big guns ...

 <''''''> im gonne get right to the meeting change

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> [topic] Changing Meeting Date to Once a month

=== Changing Meeting Date to Once a month ===
 <''''''> \o

 <''''''> role call?

 <''''''> just for the record...

 <''''''> yeah, shout out

 <''''''> i'm heeyuh

 <''''''> o/

* '''''' waves 0/

 <''''''> pgraner akgraner BugeyeD internalkernel holstein

 <''''''> i think thats us for now

 <''''''> me

 <''''''> AH hey bac :)

 <''''''> whoah

 <''''''> I thought adam_vollrath was here earlier as well

 <''''''> hi y'all

 <''''''> yeah, your right adam_vollrath is lurking

 <''''''> bac: long time no see

 <''''''> he was... and we can include as we move along...

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> so we vote? for the meeting change?

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> i didnt here any complaints in the email list

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> hey _marx_

 <''''''> For those who don't have the link here is the agenda for the meeting - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/Agenda

 <''''''> neither did I, and I think that was the most discussing I've heard on ourlist in a long time

 <''''''> chair has to do vote though

 <''''''> [vote]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion: ''
|}
 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> that should do it :)

 <''''''> [ENDVOTE]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 6 in favour, 0 against, 0 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 6
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Carried:
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Denied:
|-
| <#55FF55>Deadlock. If someone has a casting vote now is the time to use it
|}
 <''''''> so were monlthy now

 <''''''> so we didnt talk about when to change the meeting to

 <''''''> first wendnesday

 <''''''> not first and 3rd

 <''''''> wat

 <''''''> I abstain

 <''''''> i think thats what we were talking about in the email

 <''''''> just doint the first wednesday

 <''''''> everymonth

 <''''''> anyways

 <''''''> I thought so to, I don't think it was officially talked about... but that seems the best choice - 1st wednesday same time

 <''''''> Motion to move meeting to the 1st Wednesday of each month

 <''''''> 2nd

 <''''''> +!

 <''''''> +1 I mean

 <''''''> sorry, a little late

 <''''''> that's a handy bot

 <''''''> ubudog, no worries welcome!

 <''''''> thanks

 <''''''> [ACTION] meetings moved to the first wendnesday every month 7p

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' meetings moved to the first wendnesday every month 7p''
|}

 <''''''> im not a bot,

 <''''''> seriosly

 <''''''> I'm a bot.

 <''''''> What's wrong with being a bot?

 <''''''> can you prove it?

 <''''''> You have something against bots?

 <''''''> ubudog, no I think he is talking about mootbot-uk

 <''''''> oh

 <''''''> [topic] Compose and post a list of meeting chairpersons

=== Compose and post a list of meeting chairpersons ===
 <''''''> anywho

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> i have a list

 <''''''> i am not on it

 <''''''> holstein, can you list the people who have volunteered to do it please

 <''''''> [action] meeting chairpersons marx akgraner internalkernel holstein coxn BugeyeD

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' meeting chairpersons marx akgraner internalkernel holstein coxn BugeyeD''
|}

 <''''''> [action] holstein will email the list with a rotation schedule

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' holstein will email the list with a rotation schedule''
|}

 <''''''> is there anyone else who is not on the list that would like to take a turn chairing the meetings

 <''''''> brb

 <''''''> sry

 <''''''> excuse you

 <''''''> sorry guys

 <''''''> can we vote real quick on that meeting time?

 <''''''> we can also ask that question on the email you're going to send out...

 <''''''> [vote] for first wednesday of the month meetings

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion:  for first wednesday of the month meetings''
|}
 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> [endvote]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 5 in favour, 0 against, 0 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 5
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Carried:  for first wednesday of the month meetings
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Denied:  for first wednesday of the month meetings
|-
| <#55FF55>Deadlock. If someone has a casting vote now is the time to use it
|}
 <''''''> thats a healty majority :)

* '''''' observes "+1" at a command prompt returns file not found :)

 <''''''> shout out if im moving too fast

 <''''''> omg

 <''''''> [topic] Establish protocol for responsibility of clearing agenda items after each meeting

=== Establish protocol for responsibility of clearing agenda items after each meeting ===
 <''''''> i was thinking about shooting this around the list a bit

 <''''''> Motion meeting chair after meeting minutes have been sent out

 <''''''> for why?

 <''''''> but it doesnt have to be crazy official

 <''''''> akgraner: you mean decide at the end who goes next?

 <''''''> as long as meeting minutes are sent - the chair can clear all items discussed

 <''''''> don't we have a meeting chair page that explains the duties of the meeting chair?

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> holstein, no for clearing the items

 <''''''> OH

 <''''''> yeah totally

 <''''''> 2nd akgraner 's suggestion

 <''''''> I didnt grok, what was it again?

 <''''''> so the chair does it at the end

 <''''''> right?

 <''''''> right

 <''''''> clears the items on the current agenda...

 <''''''> I would suggest that you crib from: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/RunningTheIRCMeeting

 <''''''> and moves any items not covered to the top

 <''''''> [vote] Motion meeting chair after meeting minutes have been sent out

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion:  Motion meeting chair after meeting minutes have been sent out''
|}
 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> [endvote]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 5 in favour, 0 against, 0 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 5
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Carried:  Motion meeting chair after meeting minutes have been sent out
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Denied:  Motion meeting chair after meeting minutes have been sent out
|-
| <#55FF55>Deadlock. If someone has a casting vote now is the time to use it
|}
 <''''''> [action] meeting chair clears the agenda after meeting minutes have been sent out

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' meeting chair clears the agenda after meeting minutes have been sent out''
|}

 <''''''> pgraner: that link is great, thanks

 <''''''> [topic] Establish protocol for insuring a current agenda is posted

=== Establish protocol for insuring a current agenda is posted ===
 <''''''> BugeyeD, no prob, it takes the chaos out

 <''''''> totally... another bookmar

 <''''''> bookmark

 <''''''> i think we already did that right?

 <''''''> I thought that was taken care of already?

 <''''''> cleaning up that wiki

 <''''''> and making it more 'findable'

 <''''''> yes too many includes

 <''''''> can't we just move it to the meeting page

 <''''''> 1st part of being current would be the clean-up ... do we just add things individually as we come up with them or is there an official way to get things added?

 <''''''> so if you click edit - you get where to add items

 <''''''> akgraner: you mean the planning page?

 <''''''> well, we have revision control on the wiki - so technically it's okay to just edit it as things come up

 <''''''> BugeyeD, any team member can add items to the wiki

 <''''''> BugeyeD: its pretty clear at the wiki how to add

 <''''''> most of us are notified when something is edited anyways, right?

 <''''''> and anybody... ^^^

 <''''''> and if they don't know our don't want to they can just ask someone - we need to give them the info for leadership team

 <''''''> totally

 <''''''> agreed

 <''''''> i know _how to add, just asking if there was some agreed-upon way. guess not, and that's fine.

 <''''''> yeah, i think if you subscribe to the emails...

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> you get notified

 <''''''> BugeyeD: do you know how to edit the wiki? really? :P

 <''''''> agreed upon way would be anyone on the team can add to it :-)

 <''''''> yes, agree as well

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> [action] protocol is already in place for insuring a current agenda is posted

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' protocol is already in place for insuring a current agenda is posted''
|}

 <''''''> so, did I hear a motion to move the agenda to another page to make it more accessible?

 <''''''> but that limit can't be enforced w/the way the wiki works

 <''''''> remove an include or something to that effect?

 <''''''> agenda is on it's own page now

 <''''''> nope I was just asking about it

 <''''''> it's own it's own page now

 <''''''> an include pulls it to /Meeting

 <''''''>  /Meeting/Agenda

 <''''''> okay, wondering - I'm all for consolidating the amount of clicks it takes to find info

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> current agenda is listed on /Meetings

 <''''''> so editing /Meeting/Agenda

 <''''''> and its nice and shiny now :)

 <''''''> sounds good, I may have misunderstood what someone else menitoned earlier

 <''''''> akgraner: are we a go for the Q&A?

 <''''''> for meeting minutes it's nice to see what the agenda was for that meeting

 <''''''> i was hoping Jcg would be here

 <''''''> me too

 <''''''> i think he had the most concerns

 <''''''> i cant really remember the specifics

 <''''''> I wasn't aware of any concerns so you're doing better than I

 <''''''> ;)

 <''''''> but we can see how it goes and if no one has questions or if I answered them all the other day to everyone's satisfaction then I'll just say thank to people for being available

 <''''''> [topic] Canonical Support for LoCo's QA

=== Canonical Support for LoCo's QA ===
 <''''''> well, i remember the live CD questions

 <''''''> what were those?

 <''''''> at least we can get them in the log

 <''''''> but those were totally answered for me

 <''''''> So at the last meeting jcg and a few others had some questions about what Canonical would give the LoCo team

 <''''''> akgraner: maybe you just want to say again for the log..

 <''''''> im not clear on what the expectations were

 <''''''> what is expected to be given

 <''''''> As an approved LoCo team we get a set amount of pressed CD's for free each cycle

 <''''''> other than the live CD's

 <''''''> we will also be given a banner

 <''''''> and a table skirt

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> akgraner: an NC loco table skirt?

 <''''''> Ubuntu table skirt

 <''''''> +1 for free stuff...

 <''''''> nice

 <''''''> generic Ubuntu logo on it

 <''''''> still

 <''''''> pretty slick

 <''''''> so was there an issue with something?

 <''''''> however  - we can't expect to get 1000 + Cd's for whatever we want

 <''''''> this is all totally new to me, I wasnt at the last last meeting

 <''''''> when we have the ability to burn CD's ourselves

 <''''''> akgraner: do you think this might be able to play out on the mailing list?

 <''''''> more effectively?

 <''''''> with Jcg

 <''''''> well others had questions too

 <''''''> i dont mind to start a thread

 <''''''> so if anyone still has questions now would be the time

 <''''''> a mailing list thread about this *always* turns ugly everywhere else I have seen it

 <''''''> akgraner: any kubuntu cd's?

 <''''''> yes there are kubuntu CD's

 <''''''> and server

 <''''''> SO, if we do events

 <''''''> the only restriction to getting them is only one person on the team can request them - the team contact

 <''''''> we can request a conference pack

 <''''''> are there rules about what we need to do?

 <''''''> or cant do?

 <''''''> for example, to use that banner and all that

 <''''''> nope not really - we can handle a meeting the way we see fit

 <''''''> or event rather

 <''''''> i think that was an issue, now that i think about it

 <''''''> the only drawback is how I get it to other people

 <''''''> why do an ubuntu event for advocacy

 <''''''> if we get nothing from it

 <''''''> but we do get something  - we are sharing what we are passionate about

 <''''''> we can request the conference packs

 <''''''> hey

* '''''' wants a conference pack

 <''''''> holstein, its not about handing out free CD's, its about showing other how to download and burn for themselves

 <''''''> i think

 <''''''> (withing the right time limit)

 <''''''> pgraner: agreed

 <''''''> It's more about teaching people to fish rather than giving them the fish

 <''''''> holstein, unfortunately CD's are hugely expensive and we have found over the years they  really generate little real interest

 <''''''> or they dont acutally get used

 <''''''> holstein, +1

 <''''''> table coasters

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> very good for that... and frisbees as my 2 yr old demonstrates aptly

 <''''''> im comfortabel with the CD situation

* '''''' has 5.10 cds laying around somewhere

* '''''' has four on his desk atm

 <''''''> lmao

 <''''''> just to give you guys a benchmark currently Canonical spends about 2million USD on CDs a year

 <''''''> pgraner: and servers

 <''''''> and bandwidth

 <''''''> and salaries

 <''''''> However we are marketing and advocating for Ubuntu not Canonical

 <''''''> holstein, true we are not counting that, believe it or not server/bandwidth is far cheaper compared to the amount of CDs we produce and what gets downloaded.

 <''''''> downloads are usually pretty fast too

 <''''''> anyways

 <''''''> so are there any other questions

 <''''''> i was just trying to remember some of the questions that were brought up before

 <''''''> im totally cool

 <''''''> moving on...

 <''''''> awesome

 <''''''> akgraner: good point

 <''''''> thanks jono, pgraner bac for making yourselves available

 <''''''> np

 <''''''> thanks yall

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> yeah... woot :)

 <''''''> thanks for the reminder akgraner

 <''''''> (north carolina type of thanks)

 <''''''> [topic] Monthly Reports due this Saturday

=== Monthly Reports due this Saturday ===
 <''''''> will try to show up more often...

* '''''' is not sure what these are

 <''''''> can i do something?

 <''''''> If you have anything to add to these reports please do so here - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamReports/10/August

 <''''''> just a quick thanks to the folks that made time to show up to answer those questions as well... pgraner, jono, akgraner

 <''''''> akgraner: i see

 <''''''> each month we report what all we have been up to

 <''''''> i've been doing these and usually do the next months when the current one is complete

 <''''''> and it gets added to UWN and the Ubuntu Team Reports wiki for each month

 <''''''> well i've been making the base wiki page...anyone can add items

 <''''''> no worries

 <''''''> it didn't take much from me

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> jono: :)

 <''''''> there is no way as the team grows we are going to know what everyone is up to all the time

 <''''''> no

 <''''''> right now aug 25 meeting needs to be added and ubuntu hours

 <''''''> making sure everyone knows where to add their contributions is important

 <''''''> [action] If you have anything to add to these reports please do so here - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamReports/10/August

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' If you have anything to add to these reports please do so here - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamReports/10/August''
|}

 <''''''> or if you know someone on the team participated and contributed somewhere you can add that too

 <''''''> I know I forget to add half of the stuff I do

 <''''''> plus should you be thinking about going for Ubuntu Membership this also records your contribution to the LoCo team

* '''''' hasn't mentioned any of the ubuntu hours lately

 <''''''> BugeyeD: are you guys still doing one?

 <''''''> yup. sometimes it's a party of one, but there's always an ubuntu hat (and stickers all over my laptop)

 <''''''> nice

 <''''''> anyone got anything they want to add?

 <''''''> that's what its about constant, persistent, reliable presence...

 <''''''> i'd like to ask for a table kilt. i'm not so sure i want to sit at a table with a skirt.

 <''''''> BugeyeD, :-P

 <''''''> oh I forgot

 <''''''> BugeyeD: do you send announcements to the list?

 <''''''> no, i'm a slacker. _marx_ usually does, though.

 <''''''> Ubuntu App Developer Week is happening Sep 27 through Oct 1

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> if you want to learn more about writing applications  - check this week out

 <''''''> wassat?

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> ahh

 <''''''> [action] Ubuntu App Developer Week is happening Sep 27 through Oct 1

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Ubuntu App Developer Week is happening Sep 27 through Oct 1''
|}

 <''''''> i wonder if they use "quickly" ...

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAppDeveloperWeek?action=show&redirect=UbuntuOpportunisticDeveloperWeek

 <''''''> yeppers :-)

 <''''''> they sure do

 <''''''> that was a neat part of s.e.l.f. for me

 <''''''> Here is the announcement - http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/2115

 <''''''> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAppDeveloperWeek?action=show&redirect=UbuntuOpportunisticDeveloperWeek

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAppDeveloperWeek?action=show&redirect=UbuntuOpportunisticDeveloperWeek''
|}

 <''''''> also on the ubuntu-devel mailing list and jono's blog - he asked the question about getting more developers involved in Ubuntu  - so if you are a developer and you want to get more involved  - I'll get you some more information

 <''''''> [link] http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/2115

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/2115''
|}

 <''''''> that is going to be one of the community teams goal for the -n cycle

 <''''''> s/goal/goals

 <''''''> so, i'll just set up a rotation of the 6 chair folk

 <''''''> and email that out

 <''''''> thanks!

 <''''''> and post it somewheres

 <''''''> oh reminded if you haven't looked at the new loco directory please do

 <''''''> [action] holstein to email the list about the rotation order of chair persons

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' holstein to email the list about the rotation order of chair persons''
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/

 <''''''> now Mootbot-UK takes links ;)

 <''''''> [action] next meeting wednesday october 6th 7pm #ubuntu-us-nc

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' next meeting wednesday october 6th 7pm #ubuntu-us-nc''
|}

 <''''''> yeah, pretty cool bot

 <''''''> BugeyeD: you want to starts us out in the rotation?

 <''''''> and chair that meeting?

 <''''''> absitively posolutely!

 <''''''> i mean yes

 <''''''> awesome! - thanks BugeyeD!

 <''''''> cool :)

 <''''''> great meeting guys

 <''''''> yeah, n1

 <''''''> yes thanks holstein!

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 23:51 ==
=== People Present ===
* BugeyeD

* holstein

* internalkernel

* akgraner

* pgraner

* bac

* _marx_

* adam_vollrath

* ubudog

* jono

=== Actions Recorded ===
* meetings moved to the first wendnesday every month 7p

* meeting chairpersons marx akgraner internalkernel holstein coxn BugeyeD

* holstein will email the list with a rotation schedule

* meeting chair clears the agenda after meeting minutes have been sent out

* protocol is already in place for insuring a current agenda is posted

* If you have anything to add to these reports please do so here - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamReports/10/August

* Ubuntu App Developer Week is happening Sep 27 through Oct 1

* holstein to email the list about the rotation order of chair persons

* next meeting wednesday october 6th 7pm #ubuntu-us-nc

----
CategoryTeamMeeting
