{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

/* Describe NorthCarolinaTeam/MeetingTemplate here. */

== Ubuntu NC LoCo Team IRC Meeting - August 11th, 2010 ==

=== Agenda ===
/*  */
/* copy from previous meeting and edit */
==== Open Items ====

===== Advocacy =====

*** Team advocacy - What is the team doing to get the word out?
1. Located the founder of NC LoCo's Facebook page, <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/mighmos|Adam Petaccia]]</nowiki>.  Any one know him?
****** Chatted briefly on Facebook. 
****** Asked about gaining control of FB LoCo page.
****** Still no response yet.
****** Anyone else with success contacting him?
******* -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki>           * Ignore or mention to higher authority [vote]

1. Offered support to CharLUG for an Installfest they are planning in 6 wks to 2 mos.
****** Have commitment for Ubuntu Live CDs from Amber. 
******* -- I'm willing to throw in some Live CDs as well. Would have to get them there somehow though, I'm in the Triangle. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cwill747]]</nowiki>           * No word from CharLUG on date, yet.
******* -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki>           * Progress Report

==== New Items ====

* Discuss a new meeting time, and maybe changing the frequency to have more productive meetings less often. (holstein)
* Discuss starting a 'meeting chair group' of members that can chair the meetings in rotation. (holstein)
* Review member positions and the job requirements/responsibilities in order to discuss filling open positions. (holstein) 
* A new advocacy opportunity with the Kramden Institute; please see this forum post <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1507978]]</nowiki> 
* Implementing a system for NC residents to request a CD sent to them by our LoCo. This could help get the word out. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cwill747]]</nowiki>  * Discuss protocol for deleting agenda items.  What can one delete and when without irritation to other members.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:john-johnghormley]]</nowiki> 

==== Announcements ====

==== Reminder about next Meeting ====

* Date, Time, reminder that everyone can add to agenda, and link to agenda Location

=== MootBotUK ===
/* insert mootbot-uk content here */
== Meeting opened by holstein at 23:10 ==
 <''''''> [topic] advocacy

=== advocacy ===
 <''''''> i was going to try and get out to mars hill college with someone local

 <''''''> maybe talk internalkernel into it

* '''''' goes looking at the agenda

 <''''''> i was thinking we should try and get some manageable goals for advocacy

 <''''''> i think we could do something up there easy enough

 <''''''> maybe start emailing the list more actively about these kind of ideas

 <''''''> so the non-IRC'ers can get envolved

 <''''''> whoa a bot

 <''''''> does it enforce Robert's Rules of Order?

 <''''''> [action] start some email threads about some advocacy ideas

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' start some email threads about some advocacy ideas''
|}

 <''''''> hey adam_vollrath :)

 <''''''> i agree using the mailing list may get non-IRC's more involved

 <''''''> what about the facebook page?

 <''''''> hi adam_vollrath mostly it makes nice log files

 <''''''> [topic] facebook page

=== facebook page ===
 <''''''> didnt we say we would just start a new one if no contact was made by now?

 <''''''> last time we said just make a new one if we couldn't get ahold of adam*

 <''''''> yeah, lets move toward that

 <''''''> who was going to set one up?

 <''''''> i recall akgraner but she's not paying attention to defend herself

 <''''''> [action] email list about setting up a new facebook page

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' email list about setting up a new facebook page''
|}

 <''''''> see jcg2 made it

 <''''''> jcg2: HEY

 <''''''> jcg2: i was just talking about the facebook page

 <''''''> hey, yall..  been talking about me?

 <''''''> i think we have decided to just make a new one

 <''''''> i tried to reach adam* as well

 <''''''> OK, works for me .. I've had no luck

 <''''''> too me that was an ungraceful fading away

 <''''''> _marx_: you mean adam?

 <''''''> well, he might just not check that thing anymore

 <''''''> I suspect he has some unresolved anger re: the team

 <''''''> [topic]  CharLUG

=== CharLUG ===
 <''''''> jcg2: you want to talk about that for a minute

 <''''''> mention whatever you need to for the logs?

 <''''''> My sense is that they are no terribly active at the moment

 <''''''> OH

 <''''''> the lug?

 <''''''> I've gotten no response to the few queries I've sent re: the installfest they were planning

 <''''''> hmmm

 <''''''> at the moment he made the FB page?

 <''''''> oh charlug

 <''''''> sorry

 <''''''> we can talk about doing something like that over here

 <''''''> for the WNCLUG

 <''''''> nominate marx for remedial reading class   LOL

 <''''''> seems like charlotte is a more central location though

 <''''''> if i could find a location i'd push one for pti area too

 <''''''> The LUG in Charlotte has had a tough time staying alive, it seems

 <''''''> jcg2: should i action that the charlug is 'up in the air'?

 <''''''> install fest, that is

 <''''''> action what can team to do build charlug

 <''''''> I'd say we just remove it from the radar for the moment.

 <''''''> I am on their listserv and there has been no activity recently at all

 <''''''> sorry I am late

 <''''''> It can come off the agenda as I dare say an installfest isn't a priority for them at the moment

 <''''''> [action]  CharLUG install fest temporarily postponed

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''  CharLUG install fest temporarily postponed''
|}

 <''''''> If I missed something I am supposed to do just action item me please

 <''''''> is tronyx here?

 <''''''> [action] think about what the LoCo can do to help CharLUG

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' think about what the LoCo can do to help CharLUG''
|}

 <''''''> akgraner: did you say you wanted to make a new FB page?

 <''''''> holstein, I can

 <''''''> create an action item for me

 <''''''> how about...

 <''''''> [action] akgraner to oversee new facebook page

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' akgraner to oversee new facebook page''
|}

 <''''''> I know I was late, but what are we going to use the FB page for?

 <''''''> send some more contact to adam* saying here's what we've done...

 <''''''> jcg2: promo of events is one

 <''''''> jcg2: no plans yet

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> normal FB announcements

 <''''''> jcg2: like you could post gclug announcements there

 <''''''> May be a bit difficult, given FB's methods, to use it to promote the team.. announcements for us, yes that will work

 <''''''> cwill747: was here earlier

 <''''''> we were talking about the Kramden ideas

 <''''''> A new advocacy opportunity with the Kramden Institute; please see this forum post http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1507978

 <''''''> i believe that can fall under that action item for emailing advocacy ideas to the list

 <''''''> [topic] Discuss starting a 'meeting chair group' of members that can chair the meetings in rotation

=== Discuss starting a 'meeting chair group' of members that can chair the meetings in rotation ===
 <''''''> hopefully cwill747 will report back to mailing list on the kramden meeting

 <''''''> i'm all for it

 <''''''> [action] holstein will work on setting up a 'meeting chair group' of members that can chair the meetings in rotation

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' holstein will work on setting up a 'meeting chair group' of members that can chair the meetings in rotation''
|}

 <''''''> there's a bunch of wiki edits involved

 <''''''> i'll email the list about that

 <''''''> and talk with _marx_ about it

 <''''''> just to keep it, the wiki, up to date

 <''''''> what is the current topic, I'm lost

 <''''''> [topic] Review member positions and the job requirements/responsibilities in order to discuss filling open positions.

=== Review member positions and the job requirements/responsibilities in order to discuss filling open positions. ===
 <''''''> how about that one

 <''''''> i just did that other one real quick since its on me really

 <''''''> to email the list

 <''''''> are there positions needing filling?

 <''''''> thats the question

 <''''''> and if not

 <''''''> I mentioned stepping down as team lead and contact but I am not as busy as I thought

 <''''''> akgraner: wants to retire as team contact

 <''''''> we can remove that

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> so, lets remove that one

 <''''''> so I can say on for another cycle is that is cool with everyone

 <''''''> [action] remove 'Review member positions and the job requirements/responsibilities in order to discuss filling open positions' from agenda

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' remove 'Review member positions and the job requirements/responsibilities in order to discuss filling open positions' from agenda''
|}

 <''''''> w00t akgraner

 <''''''> however I want to mentor others to take on the leadership role

* '''''' moves on

 <''''''> [topic]

===  ===
 <''''''> [topic] Discuss protocol for deleting agenda items. What can one delete and when without irritation to other members

=== Discuss protocol for deleting agenda items. What can one delete and when without irritation to other members ===
 <''''''> jcg2: that is yours

 <''''''> what do you think?

 <''''''> what happened to cause this item to get put on the agenda?

 <''''''> just am not sure when I should simply remove an item ...

 <''''''> well all members can edit the /Meeting/Agenda wiki page

 <''''''> jcg2: good question

 <''''''> i think its all good in there

 <''''''> akgraner: the agenda remains the same...for months

 <''''''> I know I can but I was attempting to keep everyone posted on progress however slowly it happened...

 <''''''> I know ...

 <''''''> i say go for it

 <''''''> so if I just delete an item that I think doesn't belong there, that is OK?

 <''''''> same here, we need it to be more up to date

 <''''''> [action] all members can edit the /Meeting/Agenda wiki page

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' all members can edit the /Meeting/Agenda wiki page''
|}

 <''''''> why can't we just  just do it the way other teams do

 <''''''> akgraner: how is that?

 <''''''> jcg2: the wiki has versions

 <''''''> well instead of always listing the same stuff

 <''''''> why not tell us what that procedure is . that was the purpose of the agenda item

 <''''''> just have people add to a table the things that need to be discussed

 <''''''> The agenda is in a wiki amirite?  Could you email wiki revision diffs to anyone interested?  Like if you "watch" a page on Mediawiki?

 <''''''> adam_vollrath, people can subscribe to the page if they want to be notified

 <''''''> one sec let me get an example

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda

 <''''''> look at this agenda

 <''''''> word.  If all edits produce notifications that get notice, then there's not much point in restricting writes, I'd think.  Any controversial edits (hopefully rare) could be reverted or brought up for discussion.

 <''''''> im into that

 <''''''> while there isn't much there

 <''''''> Given Amber's suggestion, the agenda needs to be cleared after each meeting, I guess

 <''''''> so its new each time

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> it's just a table - people put their name and what they want to talk about

 <''''''> i like that

 <''''''> how do we get that?

 <''''''> just add a table

 <''''''> it's easy I can add it if you want

 <''''''> each agenda should be new

 <''''''> otherwise people get bored

 <''''''> do we need to vote?

 <''''''> or can we just do it?

 <''''''> if it is open item then we carry it over

 <''''''> jcg2, well you clear out the information but not the table

 <''''''> Does holstein need to call a vote for this?

 <''''''> doesnt seem like anyone is apposing it

 <''''''> well who does it each time?

 <''''''> hey KJ4UFG

 <''''''> we can decide at the meeting i guess

 <''''''> anyone can add to it

 <''''''> but who ever is chairing can clear it

 <''''''> that's me, jcg2 ... got dropped

 <''''''> i think this is a great idea

 <''''''> call sign i get it :)

* '''''' is going to action it

 <''''''> same thing for team reports

 <''''''> anyone can add to team reports as well

 <''''''> [action] change the way the meeting agenda works by starting with a clean slate each time

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' change the way the meeting agenda works by starting with a clean slate each time''
|}

 <''''''> hmmm

 <''''''> yeah, thats OK

 <''''''> OK one more that i see

 <''''''> OH

 <''''''> akgraner: your going to do that table there for us?

 <''''''> holstein, if you need help creating the table I'll help ya out

 <''''''> set that up?

 <''''''> yep I can do that

 <''''''> akgraner: i will

 <''''''> i'll action me on it

 <''''''> action item it for me and you if you want

 <''''''> and if i need you, i'll shout out

 <''''''> okie dokie

 <''''''> [action] holstein to change the meeting agenda WIKI

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' holstein to change the meeting agenda WIKI''
|}

 <''''''> [action] Implementing a system for NC residents to request a CD sent to them by our LoCo. This could help get the word out

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Implementing a system for NC residents to request a CD sent to them by our LoCo. This could help get the word out''
|}

 <''''''> OOPS

 <''''''> [topic] Implementing a system for NC residents to request a CD sent to them by our LoCo. This could help get the word out

=== Implementing a system for NC residents to request a CD sent to them by our LoCo. This could help get the word out ===
 <''''''> and cwill747 is not here now

 <''''''> I like the idea ..

 <''''''> while the idea sounds good  - I have some concerns about this idea

 <''''''> likewise

 <''''''> how will it be funded?

 <''''''> make contact info more visible on the wiki home page

 <''''''> 1) who will pay postage

 <''''''> 2) we only get x number of pressed cds for free

 <''''''> _marx_: can you do that?

 <''''''> lets just create a contact page

 <''''''> Is driving traffic to our wiki page a good idea?

 <''''''> why wouldn't it be

 <''''''> don't know... that's why I asked?

 <''''''> I think the front page can be updated to reflect current projects and things

 <''''''> akgraner: im fine with editing the current contact into too

 <''''''> but it is a complex URL to say the least about marketing it

 <''''''> to minimise the extra pages

 <''''''> that wouldn't be to hard to change just need people to stay on top of it

 <''''''> but im cool either way

 <''''''> we can create a shorted URL

 <''''''> totally

 <''''''> _marx_: you want to take that on?

 <''''''> either a new contact page, or more visible on the main page

 <''''''> yeah i can look into it anyway

 <''''''> i say, you can decide

 <''''''> [action] _marx_ to look into the contact information layout on the wiki and edit or add a new page

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' _marx_ to look into the contact information layout on the wiki and edit or add a new page''
|}

 <''''''> sorry i'm babysitting an 11 month old and green at that duty

 <''''''> akgraner: back to the other topic

 <''''''> ANYONE can request a CD from cannonical still right?

 <''''''> yes and no

 <''''''> hmmm

 <''''''> if you have requested on before you may be turned down

 <''''''> i was thinking we could just make that more visible

 <''''''> one sec let me get the new rules for requesting CD's from Shipit

 <''''''> i think right now, the cost is an issue

 <''''''> 19:45 < akgraner> 1) who will pay postage

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://blog.canonical.com/?p=264''
|}

 <''''''> http://blog.canonical.com/?p=264

 <''''''> i say we shelf this idea

 <''''''> until some funding is proposed

 <''''''> We will continue to supply CDs to LoCo teams and Ubuntu members.  And we hope to make CDs available to everyone who is just discovering Ubuntu.   And we continue to search for additional ways to make Ubuntu and Ubuntu materials available to everyone. But we are limiting shipments to people that we think have alternative paths of getting Ubuntu.  For instance,

 <''''''> * you can upgrade to the new release without a CD

 <''''''> * you can download your own CD for free

 <''''''> * you will be able to download the CD wallet artwork

 <''''''> * becoming an Ubuntu member by contributing to Ubuntu, and thereby becoming eligible for more CDs

 <''''''> its a great idea though

 <''''''> * And finally, you can purchase CDs.

 <''''''> yeah w/broadband dl's available

 <''''''> also I spoke with Jane about putting CD's in various stores - they will not send CD's fro teams to just add to retail facilities

 <''''''> the above information is from Jane Silber's announcement on the ship changes

 <''''''> [action] pending further discussion, a system for NC residents to request a CD sent to them by our LoCo will have to be taken on at a later time

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' pending further discussion, a system for NC residents to request a CD sent to them by our LoCo will have to be taken on at a later time''
|}

 <''''''> we should just refer them to shipit

 <''''''> that still leaves it open

 <''''''> yep

 <''''''> akgraner: totally

 <''''''> hum, at regional sources in NC for those w/o a broadband connection

 <''''''> [action] refer NC residents to shipit for ubuntu CD's

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' refer NC residents to shipit for ubuntu CD's''
|}

 <''''''> s/at/add

 <''''''> well, thats all i have...

 <''''''> anyone else?

 <''''''> oh I know

 <''''''> how many of us were here to participate

 <''''''> there's an installfest in VA just over the border

 <''''''> speaking of CD's I want to divid the CD's up when get them and send some to Marx

 <''''''> in the meeting KJ4UFG ?

 <''''''> some to holstein

 <''''''> Yes

 <''''''> _marx_ akgraner holstein KJ4UFG adam_vollrath

 <''''''> i think that was everyone

 <''''''> that should allow people close to them to be able to get CD's when needed

 <''''''> watup

 <''''''> there shows to be a ton of folks in the channel but few said anything

 <''''''> akgraner: w00t

 <''''''> i'll get em in good hands

 <''''''> KJ4UFG,  that happens with all teams

 <''''''> ten weeks for a CD is p rough

 <''''''> adam_vollrath, what?

 <''''''> that's what I see on shipit.ubuntu.com

 <''''''> so when is the next meeting?

 <''''''> oh yeah - they come from the netherlands

 <''''''> 2 weeks?

 <''''''> KJ4UFG: lurkers

 <''''''> also Ubuntu Global Jam

 <''''''> hang on, guys ..

 <''''''> hey I'm around

 <''''''> I need to tender my resignation as Advocacy lead.

 <''''''> cwill747: cool

 <''''''> KJ4UFG, I am sorry to hear that...

 <''''''> KJ4UFG: yeah?

 <''''''> anything we can do to make the job easier for you?

 <''''''> everything cool?

 <''''''> yep, I don't feel I've done an effective job and think you guys could do it better without me here.

* '''''' disagrees

 <''''''> KJ4UFG, I think you have done a great job

 <''''''> if your too busy or something, thats cool

 <''''''> KJ4UFG: how about holding off for a bit

 <''''''> and maybe we can talk about it

 <''''''> heck I have days where I feel like I accomplish nothing... how can we help you?  What tools and or information can we get you to help you

 <''''''> i had some advocacy ideas that i talked about at the beginning

 <''''''> when you werent here yet

 <''''''> I think I can use my time more wisely, yall.  Canocical and I don't seem to agree to a bunch of things regarding the team's responsibilities.

 <''''''> Canonical has nothing to do with LoCo teams and how they work

 <''''''> they only provide some swag for us

 <''''''> we have Community Council, and LoCo Councils for our governance

 <''''''> That's one of the things I disagree with.  Here we are trying to get new users for them and they want no contact with us.

 <''''''> no that is not true

 <''''''> I mean we're really trying to get new users for all of us.

 <''''''> but if they run things then we can no longer operate as non profits

 <''''''> may be but it sure seems taht way to me

 <''''''> they aren't supposed to be

 <''''''> they are the corporate sponsor for Ubuntu but we are the community

 <''''''> given that amber, what is advocacy for, then

 <''''''> what are we advocating?

 <''''''> to let people know they have a choice

 <''''''> KJ4UFG: are you OK with waiting til next meeting at least?

 <''''''> and they aren't locked into windows or osx

 <''''''> just so i can go ahead and end the meeting?

 <''''''> holstein: yes

 <''''''> COOL

 <''''''> SO next meeting in 2 weeks?

 <''''''> sure

 <''''''> sounds good

 <''''''> ditto

 <''''''> [aciton] next meeting August 25th 7pm EST in #ubuntu-us-nc

 <''''''> [action] next meeting August 25th 7pm EST in #ubuntu-us-nc

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' next meeting August 25th 7pm EST in #ubuntu-us-nc''
|}

 <''''''> and someone will chair

 <''''''> i'll try and really get that rotation worked out

 <''''''> by then

 <''''''> So I feel bad that I brought up a couple things and then had to run out and couldn't address them

 <''''''> feel free to end the meeting

 <''''''> but I thought if some people are gonna hang for a minute, I'll talk about what I missed

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 00:08 ==
=== People Present ===
* holstein

* _marx_

* adam_vollrath

* jcg2

* akgraner

* KJ4UFG

* cwill747

=== Actions Recorded ===
* start some email threads about some advocacy ideas

* email list about setting up a new facebook page

* CharLUG install fest temporarily postponed

* think about what the LoCo can do to help CharLUG

* akgraner to oversee new facebook page

* holstein will work on setting up a 'meeting chair group' of members that can chair the meetings in rotation

* remove 'Review member positions and the job requirements/responsibilities in order to discuss filling open positions' from agenda

* all members can edit the /Meeting/Agenda wiki page

* change the way the meeting agenda works by starting with a clean slate each time

* holstein to change the meeting agenda WIKI

* Implementing a system for NC residents to request a CD sent to them by our LoCo. This could help get the word out

* _marx_ to look into the contact information layout on the wiki and edit or add a new page

* pending further discussion, a system for NC residents to request a CD sent to them by our LoCo will have to be taken on at a later time

* refer NC residents to shipit for ubuntu CD's

* next meeting August 25th 7pm EST in #ubuntu-us-nc

----
CategoryTeamMeeting
