{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

NorthCarolinaTeam/Meeting/20100325/Mootbot-UK IRC PM of Actions

<pre>
[19:07] <Mootbot-UK> Meeting started at 23:07. The chair is akgraner.
[19:12] <Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Review the leadership wiki
[19:13] <Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/TeamCouncil
[19:18] <Mootbot-UK> ACTION received:  akgraner to get magedragon25 info for forums moderator
[19:19] <Mootbot-UK> ACTION received:  akgraner to get mootbot removed
[19:22] <Mootbot-UK> Please vote on:  do we want to adopt the current leadership council for the team for the term of 1 year?
[19:24] <Mootbot-UK> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
[19:25] <Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Ubuntu Advocacy
[19:32] <Mootbot-UK> IDEA received:  who on the team would like to be involved in the greater Ubuntu Community but isn't right now?
[19:36] <Mootbot-UK> IDEA received:  i think we need info on what kind of involvement and how to move forward with it
[19:38] <Mootbot-UK> AGREED received:  akgraner to get more info on involvement - nothing is a half to just suggestions - remember that the ubuntu community is a lattice not a ladder so there are many ways to get involved
[19:39] <Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Global Jam Days
[19:39] <Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[19:48] <Mootbot-UK> ACTION received:  ongoing planning for Ubuntu Global Jams
[19:48] <Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Release Parties
[19:50] <Mootbot-UK> ACTION received:  release party in Asheville, NC April 1st weekend
[19:50] <Mootbot-UK> IDEA received:  appears we need to stir more excitement re: Ubuntu across NC
[19:52] <Mootbot-UK> ACTION received:  anyone in the Raleigh area send suggestions to nameiner_ or talk to nameiner_ and see what you all can come up with
[20:00] <Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Outreach to rural areas
[20:00] <Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  see MD Tour
[20:02] <Mootbot-UK> ACTION received:  _marx_ and jcg_ working on presentation for LUG's  see MD Tour Link
[20:03] <Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Team Approval
[20:15] <Mootbot-UK> ACTION received:  10am Friday March 19th, in #ubuntu-us-nc  approval planning timeline
[20:22] <Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/
[20:23] <Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/
[20:23] <Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/
[20:24] <Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/03/
[20:24] <Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/03/19/
[20:26] <Mootbot-UK> Meeting finished at 00:26.
</pre>
