{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Cybernetisk Selskab (CYB) a student organization and IFI @ University of Oslo (UiO) held an installation party Monday September 13th at the main campus in Blindern.
** CDs were given to the organizers for distribution under the event and also to others in the computer labs at UiO later
* Planning Maverick Parties in several cities:
** General planning page for all events in Norway <nowiki>[[NorwegianTeam-Arrangementer-MaverickReleaseParty|here]]</nowiki>
** Bergen is planning an Installfest. This is arranged by <nowiki>[[http://blug.kvidder.com/2010/arrangement/installfest-10-oktober-2010/|BLUG]]</nowiki> and Ubuntu enthusiasts. BLUG planning page <nowiki>[[http://www.blug.linux.no/wiki/Installfest|here]]</nowiki>.
** Oslo will held an <nowiki>[[http://www.350.org/work-party-oslo|event]]</nowiki> in Humla @ Hausmania in coordination with the 10/10/10 intiative by 10:10 and 350.org. This in cooperation with Greenpeace, Critical Mass, Pimp-my-Bike, Norsk Klima Nettverk, <nowiki>[[350.org]]</nowiki>, 10:10 Norge, Norwegian Red Cross and the avail from the Oslo City Council. Two organizational meetings with the other groups in September.
** Trondheim will held a coffee gathering of some sort
