{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Work in progress: If you can contribute or add information, please do.

Here you should provide a summary of your group over a couple of short paragraphs.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''list the date of application'')
* '''Team Contact''' - John Doe <john@doh.com>
* '''Membership''' - 74 members on Launchpad as of 14th August 2011
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-no on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-no on freenode
* '''LoCo Directory Page''' - http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-no
* '''Website''' - http://www.ubuntu.no
* '''Launchpad''' - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-no

=== Roadmap ===

Here you should provide a list of things you plan on doing. Include links to where these are discussed online and on mailing lists.

* ''Example item'' - here I am listing an activity on the roadmap.
* ''Another item'' - here is another item on the roadmap.

=== Experience ===

==== Release parties ====
Several events, including release parties. See full list of events <nowiki>[[NorwegianTeam-Arrangementer|here]]</nowiki>.
* Maverick Release Party
* Lucid Release Party
* Karmic Release Party

==== PR / marketing ====
PR-related work listed <nowiki>[[NorwegianTeam-PR|here]]</nowiki>.

==== IRC meetings ====
Meeting logs from IRC meetings are available <nowiki>[[NorwegianTeam-Meetings|here]]</nowiki>.

List here activities that the group has already done. Again provide links to online discussions, reviews, blog entries etc:

* ''Example activity'' - here I am listing an activity.
* ''Another activity'' - here is another item.

=== TODO ===

* List/link to release parties properly.
* Someone should rewrite the release party pages to contain both a section on planning as well as a short summary or report on how it went. Does anyone have pictures from these events?
* Write more in detail about the digi.no interview.
* Fill in roadmap for plans we have for ubuntu-no, or individuals have for contributing to ubuntu.e
* Can someone find the old application which got us approved in the first place, and sum up how when have progressed since then (goals reached etc)
* Anything else which should be added. See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IrishTeamReApprovalApplication2011|Irish Team's application]]</nowiki> or other applications for inspiration.

----
NorwegianTeam
CategoryLoCoTeams
