{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

One of the things that servers, and linux servers especially, lack, is ease of access to the average user. Most people lack existing knowledge, want a next>next>done setup, don't want to learn and are scared of a CLI. As things like the <nowiki>[[https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.icecoldapps.serversultimate|Servers Ultimate]]</nowiki> app for android and pre-setup server OSes prove, there is a rather large market for an easy to set up, basic server. This will probably be based on lubuntu with the one click installer if it's an OS, written in Qt if it's an app.

=== Aim ===
Make a secure, lightweight OS that allows all basic server functions to be used with no existing knowledge, no CLI and less than three tabs of config. If something requires knowledge, a easy to understand, step by step guide MUST be available. i.e. No thinking or learning required - just works™

=== To-Do ===
Contact canonical about naming issues and eventual official-ness

Obtain hosting servers and buildds

Find scripts for all setup targets

Convert scripts to Qt or GTK3 apps

Make a working ISO

Investigate this being an app rather than an OS

=== minimum requirements ===

IRC server

minecraft server (Ideally server for major mods too)

Servers for major games

file server (Include option in right click menu to "share this folder")

UPNP/media server

Media converter

teamspeak or mumble server 

Remote access

Port forwarding

IRC bot

Torrent Server

Folding@Home
