{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

We’re replacing the notification area (popularly known as the “<nowiki>[[http://standards.freedesktop.org/systemtray-spec/latest/|system tray]]</nowiki>”) with a series of status menus.

Some of these are system-centric menus: the <nowiki>[[TimeAndDate|clock menu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MessagingMenu|messaging menu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[SoundMenu|sound menu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[BatteryStatusMenu|battery status menu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[KeyboardMenu|keyboard menu]]</nowiki>, and so on. Others are application-centric menus, using a D-Bus API based on the <nowiki>[[http://www.notmart.org/misc/statusnotifieritem/|Status Notifier]]</nowiki> specification.

Ubuntu developers are organizing this transition, with Ubuntu Netbook Edition 10.10 and Ubuntu 11.04 as targets. 

=== Why are we doing this? ===

The notification area is a chronic mess of redundant and inconsistent items, and cannot realistically be fixed without changing the API. For more details, see “<nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/2010/04/notification-area/|Farewell to the notification area]]</nowiki>”.

=== My program uses the notification area. What should I do? ===

Sometimes, the appropriate replacement is a custom status menu (“application indicator”), but often it is not. See CustomStatusMenuDesignGuidelines for our recommendations.

If you do need a custom menu, see <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-ApplicationIndicators]]</nowiki> for sample code.

=== How can I help? ===

Many programs use or refer to the notification area or “tray”. Help us compile a list of these programs, report bugs, and fix them, at <nowiki>[[CompatibilityFixes]]</nowiki>.
