{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Novacut|Novacut Wiki Home]]</nowiki> > '''GSoC 2012'''

== Novacut GSoC 2012 ==
=== Novacut in a Nutshell (For GSoC Students) ===
Novacut has a small but friendly and focused team of developers focused on making '''professional video editing''' on Linux shine.  We work very closely with our community of artists and developers, inviting contributions from everyone, from code to '''artist feedback'''.  We're not about just scratching an itch but really meeting the needs of professional artists.  As part of this, we want to help our students learn '''great UX design''' and get feedback from the artists in our community to see how well we're meeting their needs. 

The Novacut team is very active on IRC, and we're always in #novacut on irc.freenode.net and can be reached easily on <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/109582833728734114979/posts|Google Plus]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/pages/Novacut/116598565052941|Facebook]]</nowiki>, or via email.  If you'd like to get started with our code, we have a wiki at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Novacut|https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Novacut]]</nowiki>. The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Novacut/GetInvolved|Getting Started]]</nowiki> page is particularly helpful for well, getting started.  Be sure to check out our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Novacut/HelpNeeded|Help Needed]]</nowiki> page if you'd like to propose an idea.

We regularly share our progress on <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/109582833728734114979/posts|Google Plus]]</nowiki> and post videos of our current work in progress on <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/user/jasonderose?feature=watch|Youtube]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://vimeo.com/groups/novacutartistdiaries/videos|Vimeo]]</nowiki>.  There's different videos at both feeds due to a slightly different audience.

=== Project Ideas ===

==== EDL Export ====

Write a Python3 library that can convert the Novacut edit description to <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edit_decision_list|EDL]]</nowiki>.

EDL is a rather loose standard, but this seems like a good starting point as far as <nowiki>[[http://www.dbflix.com/ProductInfo/M2editCL/EDLsyntax.txt|documentation on the EDL format]]</nowiki>.

==== Color Correction UI ====

Develop the color correction user interface for Novacut using HTML/CSS/JavaScript and connect the interface to the GStreamer backend.  James Raymond will assist with the UI work and David Jordan will help with any GStreamer parts.

==== Color Correction Backend ====

There is also opportunity to work on the color correction backend.  Projects can include GEGL or OCIO integration and developing image processing plugins for GStreamer.  David Jordan will work closely with the student on this project.  This project might be challenging so be sure to talk with David about setting specific goals for the summer before applying!

==== Enable Dmedia for Blender ====
Write support for dmedia and Blender to work together.  This will include some work in blender to access resources in dmedia and work in dmedia to handle blender files and manage renders produced by Blender.  Most work for this project will be in Python.  Jason Derose will mentor on all dmedia related aspects.

==== Enable Dmedia for darktable ====

Write a <nowiki>[[http://www.darktable.org/|darktable]]</nowiki> plugin that allows darktable to reference files in Dmedia.  The plugin would use the Dmedia DBus API to resolve Dmedia URIs into regular file paths.

==== Interactive Rendering ====
Improve the render backend to playback directly within the webkit-gtk window.  This will require working with gstreamer to develop a plugin with a Custom URI handler that decodebin can use to play the current project directly in webkit.  David Jordan or Jason Derose will mentor.

==== User Testing ====
Conduct user testing for various aspects of the Novacut UI and make improvements to address usability concerns.  James Raymond will help the student get started with UI development, and Jason Derose will help with user testing and design decisions.
