{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[Novacut|Novacut Wiki Home]]</nowiki> > '''Testing'''

Novacut Testing

Getting started testing dmedia.

At this moment, dmedia is usable but many functionalities have not made it into the GUI yet. If you are interested in testing it here is how to get started. 

Also keep in mind that Novacut is still in development and therefore you should be aware of the potential for file loss.

Make sure you have the latest dmedia and novacut from the PPA.

To install novacut and dmedia.

<pre>
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:novacut/daily
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install novacut
</pre>

This should provide you with dmedia-cli

The default file store for dmedia is under your /home directory.

To do the following commands you'll need to go into the terminal.

If for instance you wanted to have dmedia store a copy of the files you import onto an external directory you'll want to type

<pre>
dmedia-cli AddFileStore /media/externaldrive
</pre>

At the moment if this is successful you'll receive the message None

You can also migrate existing files (ie files not on a external card) into dmedia via the command dmedia-migrate. 

The syntax is dmedia-migrate <directory>:

<pre>
dmedia-migrate /home/robbt/Videos/travel
</pre>

This will copy the files into the dmedia database, and will allow duplicate detection if you insert a SD card that contains the same files.

Keep in mind that at the moment dmedia stores tmp files on your home directory during the import so you'll need enough free space equivalent to the media you are trying to import. For instance if your trying to import a full 16GB SD card you'll need at least 16GB of free space on your computer even if you are using an external drive.
