{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Novacut|Novacut Wiki Home]]</nowiki> > <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Novacut/Meetings|Meetings]]</nowiki> > '''2011-12-18'''

''<nowiki>[[http://akshat.novacut.com/logs/novacut/2011/12/18.txt.html#t15:55:00|IRC logs from meeting]]</nowiki>''

=== Progress from last week ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~robbt|robbt]]</nowiki> started <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Novacut/Testing|a wiki page with tips for testing Dmedia]]</nowiki> - thanks, robbt!

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jamesmr|JamesMR]]</nowiki> landed the first piece of the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuone.com/4nXqgfB1Y50VCPM2Ix3UCb|stunning Dmedia UI]]</nowiki>, built with sweet, sweet !WebKit and HTML5 - checkout this <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/114471118004229223857/posts/R8yjscwT8Gz?hl=en|video of it in action!]]</nowiki> Thanks, James!

* jderose has been working on getting CouchDB 1.1.1 into Precise by starting with couchdb 1.1.1-1 from Debian testing and splitting it into couchdb and couchdb-bin packages as found in Ubuntu.  Jason filed <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/couchdb/+bug/903098|an Ubuntu bug about this]]</nowiki>, and also contacted the Debian maintainer as hopefully Debian will accept this split so it doesn't have to be an Ubuntu-specific change.  Packages are available for testing in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~novacut/+archive/daily?field.series_filter=precise|ppa:novacut/daily]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.wefearchange.org/2011/12/lessons-in-porting-to-python-3.html|Barry Warsaw's python-dbus Python3 port]]</nowiki> still needs a bit of work, so we couldn't start on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/dmedia/+bug/898325|Dmedia bug 898325]]</nowiki> yet, which might get pushed back to the 12.01 release

* jderose documented our newly revised <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Novacut/ReleaseProcess|monthly release process]]</nowiki>.  Each month's release is proceeded by a week-long QA window... if you can spare just an hour or two once a month, you can play a big part in making sure we deliver high quality software in the Stable Releases PPA!

* jderose will be attending the <nowiki>[[http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/wiki/GStreamerHackfest2012|GStreamer 1.0 applications and bindings hackfest]]</nowiki> at the end of January, on a mission to help apps currently using GStreamer 0.10 and the static python-gst bindings <nowiki>[[http://jderose.blogspot.com/2011/09/porting-gstreamer-apps-to-pygi.html|port to PyGI and GStreamer 1.0]]</nowiki> (and Python3, hehe)

=== Plans for this week ===

* This release is all about Dmedia, so we're all going to be working on getting a reasonably useful way to browse your files in Dmedia, and get a few more critical UI pieces in place

* Jason is cranking out some foundations needed for the Browser tab

* James is currently doing UI design for the History tab

* David (dmj726) is on Winter break now, and I think will be wowing us in the next month with the audio sync stuff he's been working on (think Pluraleyes, but hopped up on Dmedia)

* We need <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/dmedia/+bug/905836|a little PyGI/dconf trick]]</nowiki> so the importer can be "greedy" without have default apps pop up and harsh the user's mellow

* The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Novacut/ReleaseProcess#Pre-Stable_Releases|11.12 pre-stable release]]</nowiki> happens this Thursday!

=== Get involved ===

* Want to be part of the Novacut QA Squad?  Help us test-run the process this week!  We're looking for someone to lead this: it will require a small, but consistent time commitment each month.

* We'd love help testing the CouchDB 1.1.1 package jderose proposed for Ubuntu... builds are available in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~novacut/+archive/daily?field.series_filter=precise|ppa:novacut/daily]]</nowiki>

* Have USB3 hardware? Please help test with your hardware so we can have <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/904412|solid USB3 support is Precise!]]</nowiki>
