{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:left; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 1em 1em 0 0;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Launchpad ID:'''
| 
| <(><nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nUboon2Age|nuboon2age]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums:'''
| 
| <(><nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1070754|nUboon2Age]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| 
| <(>nUboon2Age on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
| <(>nUboon2Age AT gmail DOT com
|}
<<BR>><<BR>><<BR>>
<<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>>
== About nUboon2Age and Ubuntu ==
I first encountered GNU/Linux in 1997 when my ISP was using Debian. I liked its standardization, cautious development approach and the .deb packaging system. I flirted with Linux in 1998 with Corel Linux -- really easy install and beautiful KDE desktop, but was bewildered by the whole lilo/grub boot management dual booting w/ M$'s OSs.  I didn't really start dating until 2009 when I installed Xubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope dual boot w/ XP on an 5 year old laptop with only 238M Ram(!) In May 2010 I had just upgraded the laptop's memory but experienced an XP-related hard disk meltdown, so deleted the M$ virus from the system entirely and installed Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx and fell in love.  In July 2010 I started tinkering with Wubi and Kubuntu to get familiarized with them.

I love Lucid Lynx's gorgeous look and feel, ease of use and the many built-in benefits of Ubuntu like:<<BR>>
{*} The huge Ubuntu community that provides so much support to one another<<BR>>
{*} The Ubuntu Software Center & Synaptic being a quick one-stop 'shop' for loads of FLOSS software<<BR>>
{*} Fast boot time and good performance<<BR>>
{*} Installation that is quick and painless (usually)<<BR>>
{*} Its Debian foundation including the .deb packaging system <<BR>>
{*} The Gnome desktop and environment that is competitve with Windoze and Macintosh for ease of use<<BR>>
{*} The approach Ubuntu has taken to target everyday and new computer users<<BR>>
{*} The Lucid colors and themes<<BR>>
{*} The emphasis on Python for Ubuntu development<<BR>>
{*} More to come... :)  <<BR>>

<<BR>><<BR>>
=== Ubuntu Beginners Team Ambitions ===
{*} I help out where I can within the Ubuntu Forum and IRC channels (Ubuntu and Beginners Team)<<BR>>
{*} Provide wiki updates for the Ubuntu community documentation<<BR>>
{*} Aiming to become a Beginners Team Member.<<BR>>

=== Local ===
{*} Give away Ubuntu disks and pen drives to those interested
{*} Member of the Ubuntu California LoCo<<BR>>
{*} Advocate the use of Free and Open Source Software wherever possible<<BR>>
{*} Help folks get acquainted with Ubuntu and Free Libre Open Source software (FLOSS).<<BR>>
{*} Run several Ubuntu machines.<<BR>>

== Goals ==
{*} Help and support new users.<<BR>>
{*} Explore becoming an Ubuntu Developer and use what i learn to create an Ubuntu Beginning Developers wiki page<<BR>> 
{*} Create Free and Open software for all<<BR>>
{*} To bring about GNU/Linux's world domination.<<BR>>
{*} Help and support newcomers to Ubuntu.<<BR>>

----
CategoryHomepage
