{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Nicolas Valcárcel, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Nicolas Valcárcel
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/nvalcarcel
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Nxvl
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm Nicolas Valcárcel, a Peruvian Linux user and developer working at Canonical as Security Engineer in the OEM Solutions group. I also try to give talks in the Local events about ubuntu, ubuntu development, launchpad and such.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started contributing to Ubuntu on late 2007, but didn't got involved seriously until Hardy's release cycle, i worked on merges, syncs, FTBFS packages and such generalists stuff, as well as in the community side of the development. I got my MOTUship about a year ago (August 2008) after working on the server team, doing some minor bug fixings and help here and there, while in there i got interested in Augeas, a library for editing config files, which i maintain in Debian.

=== My involvement ===
* MOTU
* Mentoring Reception team
* Server team
* Security Team

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Augeas package, it is a mixed package, library, plus binary, plus some other stuff, it was quite hard package to work on, but thank to my sponsors at the time i got to finish it.
* MOTU Videos. I translated to Spanish the Getting started MOTU Video, for more spanish-speakers to begin in the development.

=== Areas of work ===
* I've worked closely with the Server team in the past, but had to be quite slow lately due work/time reasons, looking forward to change that.
* I also try to be closely to the Security team, as my daily works demands it, but haven't had the time to be as much involved as i wish i could. Lately i modified unembargo script to be able to copy from a ppa to a ppa, or from ubuntu to a ppa, as it only allowed to copy from a ppa to Ubuntu

=== Things I could do better ===
 I think my biggest issue is to give up on some stuff quickly, there has been a couple of things i have tried to do and after an hour just give up saying this is to hard for me, and a couple of days after that, sit more focused, read the documentation needed and fixed it without problems. Also i should be able to find more time to contribute, i do believe i can dedicate a little more time to ubuntu.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I would love to recover the work on server usability, i still want to have a management tool to do sysadmining more user-friendly and that don't rest control over the system to the sysadmin, for that i will continue working on Augeas and take a closer look to puppet and maybe start contributing on that.

Also since Ubuntu is becoming so popular lately, it's starting to be a thinkable target for malware, which is something we can work on before it starts, making the system more secure and limiting what a worm or virus can do inside ubuntu systems.

I would like to sponsor a lot of work done inside my team inside canonical, much of the patches there doesn't made it into ubuntu because the lack of sponsorship, it will be of benefit of both (Ubuntu and OEM Solutions group) to have more sponsorship into ubuntu, so we don't need to carry deltas, and ubuntu can benefit from those bugs the costumers pay us to fix for their images.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== JamieStrandboge ===

==== General feedback ====
I haven't worked with Nicolas on development tasks since he became MOTU. I can say he cares about his work, is a pleasure to be around and not afraid to ask questions. I wish him all the best on becoming core-dev and look forward to him helping sponsor the work of the OEM team.

=== MarcDeslauriers ===
==== General feedback ====
Although I haven't worked with Nicolas on actual development work, I can attest to the quality of the security updates he produces for the OEM team. He is easy to work with, and possesses the technical skill necessary to do his job without being afraid to ask questions when the need arises. I'm sure he'll be a great addition to the core-dev team.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
