{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== The downloader app gave me an error. What should I do? ==
In most cases, all you need to do is '''run the U1 downloader again'''.  It will detect which files failed the first time, and re-download them.

'''If you have a 32-bit computer''' running Linux, try using the <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-Architectures|32-bit version of the downloader]]</nowiki>.

'''If you have a very large file (bigger than 4 GiB)''' which refuses to download correctly, it may be possible that your local filesystem doesn't support files that big.  This can happen on old versions of Windows, or if you are downloading to a USB stick formatted with an old filesystem.  In this case, we recommend switching to a different computer or a different disk and downloading the file individually through the U1 web interface: https://one.ubuntu.com/files/  Downloading the file individually should save you the trouble of re-downloading all your other files.

'''If you get a <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-Linux-SSL_Error|X509_load_cert_crl_file error]]</nowiki>''', you may need to run the downloader app from source.

If you run into an error which can't be resolved by running the U1 downloader again, please contact U1 Support to let us know about the issue and to get further assistance.  https://one.ubuntu.com/help/contact/
