{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== All Platforms ====
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-DL_Gave_Error|The downloader app gave me an error.  What should I do?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-Can_I_Resume|Can I resume my downloader later if it stops or fails?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-Choose_Which_Files|I don't want to download all my files.  Can I choose which ones to download?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-Prereqs|Do I have to install anything else to get the downloader running?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-Disk_Full|What happens if I run out of space while downloading?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-Verify_Result|How can I know that all my files were correctly downloaded?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-Login_Issues|I'm having trouble logging in.  What can I do?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-Multiple_Accounts|I have more than one Ubuntu One account to download.  What should I do?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-Architectures|I have a 32-bit-64-bit computer, will the script work?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-All-From_Source|I'm getting linker-library errors.  Can I run the downloader from source code?]]</nowiki>

==== Linux ====
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-Linux-How_to_Use|How do I install and use the downloader?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-Linux-SSL_Error|I got a X509_load_cert_crl_file error. What should I do?]]</nowiki>

==== Windows ====
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-Windows-How_to_Use|How do I install and use the downloader?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-File_Too_Big|One of my files failed, and it was really big.  What can I do?]]</nowiki>

==== MacOS ====
* <nowiki>[[U1-Downloader-MacOS-How_to_Use|How do I install and use the downloader?]]</nowiki>
