{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Installing Ubuntu on a Fujitsu U820 LifeBook ==
The goal of this page is to help people get Ubuntu running on the Fujitsu U820 and familiarize them with software tools specific to the tablet PC environment.

== Hardware and Drivers ==

=== GMA 500 Chipset ===

The graphics chipset drivers need to be installed and properly configured to maximize performance, screen resolution and many other features such as monitor rotation and standby/resume.

Follow directions at: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345]]</nowiki>

=== Touchscreen and Screen Rotate ===
==== Jaunty 9.04 ====

The GMA 500 chipset drivers must be configured properly before this topic can be addressed.

Install fjbtndrv: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~khnz/+archive/ppa?field.name_filter=fjbtndrv&field.status_filter=published&field.series_filter=any]]</nowiki>

Then follow directions at: <nowiki>[[http://spareinfo.blogspot.com/2009/05/linux-on-u810-p1620-touchscreen-iv.html]]</nowiki>

=== Suspend and Resume ===
==== Jaunty 9.04 ====
Suspend works out of the box.

Resume appear to work but is not coordinated with the monitor (i.e., the computer resumes but the monitor does not).

=== Keyboard Lights ===
Add directions here.

=== Fingerprint Reader ===
Add directions here.

=== Webcam ===
Add directions here.

=== GPS ===
Add directions here.

== Software ==

=== Nautilus Open Terminal Here ===

<pre>
$ sudo aptitude install nautilus-open-terminal
</pre>

=== Onscreen keyboard ===
<pre>
$ onboard &
</pre>

=== Restricted Software ===
<nowiki>[[apt:ubuntu-restricted-extras|install the ''ubuntu-restricted-extras'' package]]</nowiki>

=== VLC Media Player ===
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install vlc vlc-plugin-* mozilla-plugin-vlc
</pre>

=== R Project for Statistical Computing ===
Ok, rather specific software.  But I use it, so I'm including it.
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install r-base-core
</pre>
Emacs Speaks Statistics:
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install ess
</pre>

== Links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6300992]]</nowiki> - Touchscreen and rotation 
* <nowiki>[[http://spareinfo.blogspot.com/2009/05/linux-on-u810-p1620-touchscreen-iv.html#comment-form]]</nowiki> - Touchscreen and rotation
* <nowiki>[[http://spareinfo.blogspot.com/2009/04/installing-linux-on-fujitsu-u810_07.html]]</nowiki> - Installation table
* <nowiki>[[http://www.umpcportal.com/modules/newbb/viewtopic.php?topic_id=5545]]</nowiki> - Installation notes and GPS.

----
CategoryHardware
