{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Find configuration settings and Driver information that will help your audio hardware perform the best.

== Sound Cards ==

With the notable exception of firewire devices, the vast majority of soundcards in UbuntuStudio will be supported through the ALSA-Project drivers.  These drivers tend to work 'out of the box' as they are the main sound drivers in Ubuntu.  Full compatibility listings can be found at <nowiki>[[http://www.alsa-project.org|http://www.alsa-project.org]]</nowiki> The following are tweaks to improve/fix common issues with particular cards.

=== FireWire Audio ===

FireWire audio support is maturing in Linux generally, but still can provide some challenges for the creative user.

UbuntuStudio 8.04 (Hardy Heron) ships with the <nowiki>[[http://freebob.sourceforge.net|FreeBoB]]</nowiki> FireWire audio drivers, which implement support for a small range of external audio devices. <nowiki>[[http://freebob.sourceforge.net/index.php/List_of_Supported_Devices|(FreeBoB supported devices)]]</nowiki>

UbuntuStudio 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope) and 9.10 (Karmic Koala) ship with the FFADO driver. <nowiki>[[http://ffado.org/?q=devicesupport/list|(FFADO supported devices)]]</nowiki>
Check to see if your device is supported before installing UbuntuStudio, or making a purchase.

<nowiki>[[http://www.ffado.org|FFADO]]</nowiki>, the successor project to FreeBoB, also notes that some FireWire host cards <nowiki>[[http://www.ffado.org/?q=node/251|are better than others]]</nowiki>

<pre>
Some of Ricoh chipsets are reported _not_ to work well, some seem to work fine. NEC chipset has been tested by a developer and is reported to work fine, but since Presonus advises against them, there must be a reason to avoid them.

So far, in order of preference (best to worst) according to developers: Texas Instruments, VIA, NEC, O2 Micro (all are OHCI controllers)</pre>

=== USB Audio ===

USB Audio devices are generally well supported - look particularly for devices that advertise 'Driver Free operation on Windows and Mac OS X'. This implies that the device is 'Class Compliant', a technical term for 'smart enough to talk to anything'! As always, though, check <nowiki>[[http://alsa-project.org/main/index.php/Matrix:Main|compatability]]</nowiki> first.

Most modern Linux distributions use a hot-pluggable architecture for USB, which means that you can add and remove devices on the fly. In everyday use, this is very helpful. However, for pro-audio use this often means that the Alsa device numbers (hw:X) of your USB sound cards and MIDI interfaces can change every time you plug them in - or boot up. See <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-UsbAudioDevices|UsbAudioDevices]]</nowiki> for some advice on this matter.

=== Creative ===

=== Echo Audio ===
Several Echo Audio cards are supported by alsa, but need a firmware blob to make them work. This is available in the alsa-firmware package from <nowiki>[[Medibuntu]]</nowiki>.

The best mixer for these cards is echomixer, which is included in the alsa-tools-gui package.

=== Intel ===
==== QuickFix poor sound qualtiy of intel 82801H ====
Choppy audio was reported for the Intel 82801H on Ubuntustudio Hardy out of the box.
* Run `lspci | grep audio` and if yours looks something like <pre>
00:lb.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (IHC8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
</pre>
* Run `sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base` and at the bottom, add: <pre>
options snd-hda-intel model=laptop position_fix=1
</pre>
=== M-Audio ===
=== VIA ===
==== QuickFix poor sound quality of snd-via82xx ====
Problem described on : http://alsa.opensrc.org/Via8233#Poor_sound_quality
* Create the file `/etc/modprobe.d/soundcards`
* Run `sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/soundcards`
* Enter the following line into the file: <pre>
options snd-via82xx dxs_support=4
</pre>
* Save and Reboot

== MIDI Hardware ==

== Graphics Cards ==
----
CategoryHardware
