{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction To Computer Aided Graphics ==

In computing, '''Graphics''' is a broad term used to invoke many things related to the visual feedback of a computer. In this guide we will use the term '''Graphics''' to describe CAD <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer-aided_design|(Computer Aided Design)]]</nowiki> and Photography. One could argue that video would fit into this guide. But given the complex nature of Computer Aided Video, it has it's own workflow explained in detail <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/UserGuide/Video|here.]]</nowiki>

=== The Realms Of Graphic Design ===

When we refer to graphic design executed with a computer, we have to understand the '''realms''' in which it operates and the distinctions between these realms. The main two realms we are going to focus on here are '''Prints''' and '''Digital Displays.''' It is important to understand these differences due to the way colors and shapes are generated to fit within these realms, and to be able to convert one realm to the other and vice versa. Even if both of these realms are (generally speaking) displayed in Two dimensions, they respectively include the notion of Three dimensional graphics (discussed later on in this article)

==== Resolution & Color On Digital Display ====

Because a computer screen uses light to display colors (as opposed to pigments in print), in this realm we generally talk about <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_color#Additive_primaries|the 3 Aditive Primary Colors:]]</nowiki> Red, Blue and Green. Often shortened with <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RGB_color_model|RGB.]]</nowiki> 

The resolution of a Digital Display is defined by the amount of pixels that can fit on the screen. There are two major ways in which shapes and colors are rendered on a computer monitor: using <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raster_graphics|raster graphics (pixels),]]</nowiki> and using <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_graphics|vector graphic.]]</nowiki> Due to their nature, raster graphics <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raster_graphics#Resolution|are resolution dependent,]]</nowiki> meaning they cannot scale up to an arbitrary resolution without <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pixelation|loss of apparent quality.]]</nowiki> This property contrasts with the capabilities of vector graphics, which easily scale up to the quality of the device rendering them. 

==== Resolution & Color In Prints ====
Becuase prints use pigments to display colors, in this realm we generally talk about 
<nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_color#Subtractive_primaries|Subtractive Primary Colors:]]</nowiki> Cyan, Magenta, Yellow and Black. Often shortened <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CMYK_color_model|CMYK]]</nowiki>

=== 3D Graphics In A Two Dimensional Space ===

=== Intro To Software, Fonts, File Formats, Supported Devices ===

=== Using Graphic Software – Some Workflow Examples ===

Some sections may just contain a list of links. It is sometimes useful to include a short explanation of what the links are for. For example: 'Ubuntu includes the following Internet applications by default.'

* <Link> - Lists of links should have bullets. Link text should not be in bold. Each link should be followed by a short explanation of the link.
* <Link> - Explanations of links should be written as full sentences.

== See Also ==

A see also section can be used to point users towards other trusted Ubuntu resources. For example, if a page exists in the official documentation on http://help.ubuntu.com, you can link to such a page. This section is optional.

* <Link> - Explanation of link.
* <Link> - Explanation of link.
* <Link> - Explanation of link.

== External Links ==

An external links section can be used to point users towards general information about the subject matter of the page, such as a <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org|wikipedia]]</nowiki> entry or project homepage. This section is optional.

* <Link> - Explanation of link.
* <Link> - Explanation of link.
* <Link> - Explanation of link.
----
== Troubleshooting ==
 → <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-TroubleShooting]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryUbuntuStudio
