{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''NOTE: MUCH OF THESE HOW-TOs ARE OBSOLETE AND SHOULD NOT BE USED. THEY ARE HERE FOR ARCHIVAL/HISTORICAL PURPOSES ONLY, AND IN MOST CASES, SHOULD NOT BE FOLLOWED'''

== HowTos ==

Add your howtos here! To add a howto, you will first need to create an account and login. Once you are logged in, just create a page and add your link to it on this page, so others may easily find it. A wiki guide can be found <nowiki>[[WikiGuide | here]]</nowiki>.

== Audio ==

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudioPreparation | Ubuntu Studio Preparation]]</nowiki> - Making any Ubuntu derived distro multimedia capable.

<nowiki>[[HowToQjackCtlConnections | Getting Sound into Jack]]</nowiki> - Example on how to use qjackctl with audio applications

<nowiki>[[HowToPureDataIntroduction]]</nowiki> Introduction to using Pure Data

<nowiki>[[HowToSeq24Introduction | HowToSeq24Introduction]]</nowiki> - Guide to using the seq24 sequencer

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Notation| Notation]]</nowiki> - Generally about notation software

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Audio | General Audio Howto]]</nowiki> - Generally about using audio applications on Ubuntu Studio

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-HowToJackArdour | HowTowJackArdour]]</nowiki> - Quick guide on using Ardour and Jack

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-MulticardQuickfix | MultiCardQuickFix]]</nowiki> - Multiple card setup

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Setting_CPU_Governor | Setting_CPU_Governor]]</nowiki> - Changing default CPU governor to Performance

== Video and Graphics ==

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Graphics | General Graphics Howto]]</nowiki> - Generally About using Graphic Applications on Ubuntu Studio

== Other ==

<nowiki>[[InstallKompozer|How to install Kompozer]]</nowiki> - Kompozer was dropped from the repos for newer releases - here's how to install it

<nowiki>[[BuildOldLowlatency | Build an old lowlatency kernel]]</nowiki> - Build from older source, if the current kernel is misbehaving, or you think you will get better performance with an older kernel.

<nowiki>[[MultimediaApplications]]</nowiki> - How to play, rip, convert and burn multimedia on Ubuntu

<nowiki>[[CDRipping]]</nowiki> - CD Ripping on Ubuntu

<nowiki>[[InternetRelayChat | Install IRC]]</nowiki> About different IRC Clients

----

== Outdated Howto's ==

<nowiki>[[HowToJACKConfiguration | Example Jack Configuration]]</nowiki> - A couple of examples on how to configure jack - '''outdated'''

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudioNetworkSetup | Network Setup]]</nowiki> - Managing network on Ubuntu Studio - '''outdated'''

<nowiki>[[FireWire]]</nowiki> - Setting up Firewire on older Ubuntu Studio releases - '''outdated'''

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudioControls | Ubuntu Studio Controls]]</nowiki> How to use Ubuntu Studio controls - '''outdated'''

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-HardwareOptimization | HardwareOptimization]]</nowiki> Mostly outdated info 

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-GettingStarted | GettingStarted]]</nowiki> - Outdated tutorial on getting started with Ubuntu Studio
