{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border: 1px solid lightgrey; width: 35%; color: #000000; background-color: #e7eef4; float: right; padding: 0px 5px; margin: 30px 0;">
|-
| '''Want to Contribute to the most widely used Linux Multimedia distro?'''
|-
| <style="background-color: #FFFFFF; border-radius: 5px; padding: 5px 5px;">- Go ahead! <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-JoinTheTeam|Join the team!]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Studio Releases:'''
|-
| <style="background-color: #FFFFFF; border-radius: 10px; padding: 5px 5px;">Latest LTS Release: <nowiki>[[https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/22.04.1/release/|22.04.1 Jammy Jellyfish]]</nowiki> <<BR>>Latest Release: <nowiki>[[https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/22.04.1/release/|22.04.1 Jammy Jellyfish]]</nowiki> <<BR>>  Current Development ISO: <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/dvd/current/| Daily Build]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Search the Ubuntu Studio Wiki:'''
|-
| <style="background-color: #FFFFFF; border-radius: 5px; padding: 5px 5px;"><nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-SubPages|Ubuntu Studio Subpages]]</nowiki><<BR>>'''By Category:'''<<BR>>CategoryUbuntuStudio<<BR>>'''Team Categories:'''<<BR>>CategoryUbuntuStudioTesting <<BR>>CategoryUbuntuStudioArtwork<<BR>>CategoryUbuntuStudioPlanning<<BR>>CategoryUbuntuStudioPublicRelations <<BR>> CategoryUbuntuStudioDev <<BR>>CategoryUbuntuStudioKernel
|}

== Welcome to Ubuntu Studio Community Help! ==

Ubuntu Studio is an official flavor of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.com|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>, and the most widely used multimedia orientated <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU/Linux|GNU/Linux]]</nowiki> distribution in the world.

Ubuntu Studio is a community effort, targeted towards all skill levels, from beginner to pro, and aims to be easy to install and easy to use, as well as providing all the tools necessary for any type of media content creation.

Please note that much of the information inuStudio/BackportsPPA this wiki is obsolete and needs updating. While we are working on updating much of this, please be patient. If you would like to help in this effort, let us know!

'''If you came here from the IRC Chat Room after waiting for an answer, <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-SilentIRC|Click Here]]</nowiki>.'''

<<BR>>
== Support ==

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-ProAudioIntro|Pro Audio Intro]]</nowiki>''' - Introduction to audio on Ubuntu Studio

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-AudioHandbook|Ubuntu Studio Audio Handbook]]</nowiki>''' - Handbook for audio and music production on Ubuntu Studio

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-SupportedHardware |Hardware Support]]</nowiki>''' - Information about linux supported hardware

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-UbuntuStudioControls|Ubuntu Studio Controls]]</nowiki>''' - Ubuntu Studio's definitive configuration tool

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-UbuntuStudioInstaller|Ubuntu Studio Installer]]</nowiki>''' - Adds additional packages and/or gives Ubuntu and its official flavors all of Ubuntu Studio's benefits.

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-BackportsPPA|Ubuntu Studio Backports PPA]]</nowiki>''' - Contains updated tools for Ubuntu Studio

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-RealTimeKernel|Kernel Information]]</nowiki>''' - Information about Real Time Kernels vs the Low Latency Kernel

=== Contact Us ===

'''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org|ubuntustudio.org]]</nowiki>''' - our website

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-IRC | IRC]]</nowiki>''' - '''Get online''' and talk with other users and Ubuntu Studio developers directly.

'''<nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-studio-users | Mail List]]</nowiki>''' - Join The Ubuntu Studio User Mail list

'''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/ | Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>''' - Join the Ubuntu Forums, where there's a special  <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=335 | category for Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki>

=== Common Questions ===

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Resources | Where can I find more help?]]</nowiki>''' - links to Manuals, User Guides, Mailing lists etc..

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-FindingSoftware | How do I find software?]]</nowiki>''' - Finding applications that may be useful for multimedia production.

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-UsingTheTerminal | How do I use the terminal?]]</nowiki>''' A simple guide on basic terminal usage

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-TroubleShooting | TroubleShooting]]</nowiki>''' - find answers to common problems

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryUbuntuStudio]]</nowiki>
