{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction to Blender ==

Blender is a free open source 3D content creation suite, available for all major operating systems under the GNU General Public License.
It is a solution for 3D modelling, sculpting, multi-layer UV mapping, procedural and bitmap texture creation and manipulation, creating complex shading networks through a node based interface, deforming geometry through an editable modifier stack, simple to complex armature/skeleton deformation with constraints and tracking options including the ability to animate between IK and FK, a full games development platform with a unique user friendly interface that alleviates the need to learn a programing language but can be extended through python, 2D and 3D animation that can be represented as blind data (in a dope sheet type of interface) or as interpolation curves, the ability to use non-destructive animation, support for multiple rendering interfaces including Renderman through free plugins such as MOSIAC, a node-based compositor and a non-linear video sequencer amongst many other features.  

== Installation Instructions ==

The easiest way to install Blender in ubuntu is through Synaptic. Click System > Administration > Synaptic Package Manager. Search for Blender, mark it for installation and click Apply.   

== Additional Installation Instructions ==

Alternatively in terminal type
* sudo apt-get install blender

 
=== Latest Releases ===
In order to obtain the latest stable version of Blender, as the version in ubuntu software repositories may not be the latest version. go to http://www.blender.org/download/get-blender/ and click on the appropriate version that suites your operating system.

=== Developers Builds ===
Developers and testers can obtain the latest builds of Blender from http://www.graphicall.org/builds/

== Blender Documentation ==

Blender documentation, videos, tutorials and examples can be found at the following locations.

* http://www.blender.org/ - The official Blender website.
* http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Main_Page - Blender wiki user manual and extensive documentation.

== See Also ==

* http://www.blendernation.com - A community maintained forum, with the latest news relating to Blender.
* http://blenderartists.org/forum/ - The best way to get answers to any questions you may have relating to blender.
* http://www.blender.org/features-gallery/ - Examples of work created with Blender.
