{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

When Ubuntu Netbook Edition is installed, it provides three different login sessions in GDM. The "Ubuntu Netbook Edition" is the default for netbooks capable of 3D acceleration, "Ubuntu Netbook Edition 2D" for netbooks without 3D acceleration, and "GNOME" which is equivalent to the non-netbook Ubuntu interface.

'''Why mess with the GNOME session?'''

The default UNE sessions lock the gnome panel and a few other GNOME settings in order to separate the UNE interface from the normal GNOME interface. This allows UNE users to switch between the normal GNOME interface and UNE interface cleanly. The downside is that currently users of the UNE sessions cannot change the panel or add applets to it. The instructions on this page will convert the GNOME login session into one that emulates the UNE sessions, but with the ability to add/change all settings.

== Convert System-wide ==

=== 3D Ubuntu Netbook Edition Session ===

In a terminal run:
<pre>
sudo ln -s /etc/xdg/xdg-une/autostart/maximus-autostart.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/
sudo ln -s /etc/xdg/xdg-une/autostart/netbook-launcher.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/
</pre>
to start the UNE Launcher and Maximus (window maximizer) at login. Then run:
<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/share/gconf/une/default/20_une-gconf-default /usr/share/gconf/defaults/
sudo ln -s /usr/share/gconf/une/mandatory/20_une-gconf-mandatory /usr/share/gconf/defaults/
sudo update-gconf-defaults
</pre>
to set the gconf default settings.

=== 2D Ubuntu Netbook Edition Session ===

<pre>
sudo ln -s /etc/xdg/xdg-une/autostart/maximus-autostart.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/
sudo ln -s /etc/xdg/xdg-une-efl/autostart/netbook-launcher-efl.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/
</pre>
to start the UNE Launcher and Maximus (window maximizer) at login. Then run:
<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/share/gconf/une/default/20_une-gconf-default /usr/share/gconf/defaults/
sudo ln -s /usr/share/gconf/une/mandatory/20_une-gconf-mandatory /usr/share/gconf/defaults/
sudo update-gconf-defaults
</pre>
to set the gconf default settings.

== And then? ==

Logout, and in GDM, choose the 'GNOME' session once you picked up your name.

or

Run gdmsetup to change your login setup.

=== When you have logged in as 'GNOME' session ===
In order to produce a netbook edition like interface in gnome session, you may want to take a few extra steps:

1. Remove the bottom panel.

2. Add 'go-home-applet' and 'window-picker-applet' in the top panel

3. Remove and arrange other applets as you wish.
