{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

/!\ This is instruction of Ubuntu 11.10.  For Ubuntu 12.04 LTS, please see <nowiki>[[UbuntuCloudInfrastructure]]</nowiki>.

Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure, which is the successor of Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud, is a ready to deploy Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) based on OpenStack. It is making it's official entry into Ubuntu 11.10.

== Installation ==

There are multiple ways to install Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure. 
* Ubuntu Cloud Live Image: a single node all in one cloud booting from USB
* Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure with Orchestra and Juju: our recommended method
* Install Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure from packages: the hard way

=== Ubuntu Cloud Live Image ===

# Download the image from http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-cloud-live/releases/11.10/
# Create a USB stick using USB Creator or some other tools as described <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick|here]]</nowiki>
# Boot from the created USB stick

Your Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure is ready to be used. See the section <nowiki>[[UbuntuCloudInfrastructure#Use_Your_Cloud|Use your cloud]]</nowiki> for more details.

=== Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure with Orchestra and Juju ===

This install is done in 3 steps:
1. Install the Orchestra server
2. Install Juju
3. Deploy Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure with Juju
Which are described below.

==== Requirements ====
* It should be assumed that the user deploying this setup has all nodes with two network interfaces linked to two seperate physical networks.  Deploying with a single network is possible with some hacking and workarounds, see original document for that. 
* It's also assumed the user has sufficient number of nodes available in Orchestra. The minimum deployment outlined below requires a minimum of 6 machines including the juju bootstrap node.

==== Installing the Orchestra server ====

# Follow the usual steps to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/serverguide/C/installation.html|install Ubuntu Server]]</nowiki>
# Once done, install the package named "ubuntu-orchestra-server"
 <pre> 
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-orchestra-server -y
</pre>
1. Answer some questions about your networking setup

Your basic Orchestra setup is now done.  To learn more about Orchestra see Dustin Kirland's excellent <nowiki>[[http://cloud.ubuntu.com/?p=29593|blog post]]</nowiki> on the subject.

==== Install Juju ====

This can be done on the same server you have deployed Orchestra onto.

===== 1. Installing juju =====

Starting Oneiric 11.10, juju is available in universe

<pre>
sudo apt-get install juju
</pre>

to install a daily build from PPA or to install from source code, check out the <nowiki>[[http://juju.ubuntu.com/docs/|juju documentation]]</nowiki>

===== 2. Configuring the environment =====

<pre>
sudo mkdir -p ~/.juju
sudo vim ~/.juju/environments.yaml
</pre>

And we copy the following

<pre>
juju: environments
environments:
  orchestra:
    type: orchestra
### Specify the orchestra server's IP address
    orchestra-server: 10.1.2.3
### Specify storage. In this case we are using webdav installed by orchestra.
    storage-url: http://10.1.2.3/webdav
### Specify cobbler's usr/pass
    orchestra-user: cobbler
    orchestra-pass: cobbler
    admin-secret: fooooo
### Branch from where we will install ensemble
### juju-branch: lp:juju
### Mangement classes
    acquired-mgmt-class: orchestra-juju-acquired
    available-mgmt-class: orchestra-juju-available
</pre>

===== 3. Creating SSH keys =====

Ensemble requires SSH keys to be able to access the deployed nodes. In case those keys do not exist, then we have to create them before we bootstrap our environment:

<pre>
ssh-keygen -t rsa
</pre>

===== 4. Bootstrapping the environment =====

After the configuration done above, we bootstrapped the environment:

<pre>
juju bootstrap
</pre>

This process will select any of the machines available to orchestra to be the zookeeper node. In this example, the machine's name is '''mabolo'''

<pre>
ubuntu@orchtrasrvr:~$ juju status
2011-09-08 18:02:22,148 INFO Connecting to environment.
machines:
  0: {dns-name: mabolo.lan, instance-id: MTMxNDMwNzI0OS40ODkyODE2MzAuODE5ODY}
</pre>

'''NOTE:''' Note that after executing the command we had to manually start/restart the system to PXE boot it. This can be automated if cobbler is configured to power-on the servers

==== Deploying Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure with Juju ====
 
===== 1. Clone Charms =====

Create local branches of the following Juju charms in '''~/charms'''

<pre>
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ mkdir -p charms/oneiric
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ cd charms/
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~/charms$ bzr branch lp:charm/rabbitmq-server oneiric/rabbitmq-server
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~/charms$ bzr branch lp:charm/mysql oneiric/mysql
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~/charms$ bzr branch lp:charm/nova-compute oneiric/nova-compute
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~/charms$ bzr branch lp:charm/nova-cloud-controller oneiric/nova-cloud-controller
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~/charms$ bzr branch lp:charm/glance oneiric/glance
</pre>

===== 2. Set Global Configuration =====

We'll need to set some global configuration for the installation.  Create a file '''/home/ubuntu/charms/openstack.yaml''':

<pre>
nova-cloud-controller:
  nova-release: distro
  nova-config: /etc/nova/nova.conf
  db-user: nova
  nova-db: nova
  rabbit-user: nova
  rabbit-vhost: nova
  network-manager: FlatDHCPManager
  bridge-interface: br100
nova-compute:
  nova-release: distro
  nova-config: /etc/nova/nova.conf
  db-user: nova
  nova-db: nova
  rabbit-user: nova
  rabbit-vhost: nova
  flat-interface: eth1
  virt-type: kvm
glance:
  glance-release: distro
  registry-config: /etc/glance/glance-registry.conf
  api-config: /etc/glance/glance-api.conf
  db-user: glance
  nova-db: nova
</pre>

'''Note:''' Most of these are defaults.  The only option specific to our example deployment is 'flat-interface: eth1'.  This will configure the virtual network on eth1.  Later, nova will create a virtual network on these bridges for instances.

===== 4. Deploy Services =====

After branching the necessary charms to '''/home/ubuntu/charms/''' and setting our configuration at '''/home/ubuntu/charms/openstack.yaml''', we can begin deploying the services.

====== MySQL and RabbitMQ ======

First, deploy the MySQL and RabbitMQ services.  

<pre>
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ export REPO=~/charms
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ export CONFIG=~/charms/openstack.yaml
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju deploy --repository=$REPO local:mysql
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju deploy --repository=$REPO local:rabbitmq
</pre>

====== Nova and Glance ======

Deploy nova-cloud-controller, nova-compute and glance to their own nodes:

<pre>
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju deploy --repository=$REPO --config=$CONFIG local:nova-cloud-controller
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju deploy --repository=$REPO --config=$CONFIG local:nova-compute
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju deploy --repository=$REPO --config=$CONFIG local:glance
</pre>

===== 6. Add Relations =====

Now we can add the necessary relations between the services.

Give nova-cloud-controller, nova-compute and glance access to the database:

<pre>
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju add-relation mysql nova-cloud-controller
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju add-relation mysql nova-compute
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju add-relation mysql glance
</pre>

'''NOTE:''' The first of these 3 relations runs the initial database migration.  It's a good idea to allow it time to complete entirely before adding the others.

Give the Nova components access to the messaging queue:

<pre>
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju add-relation rabbitmq nova-compute
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju add-relation rabbitmq nova-cloud-controller
</pre>

Configure the compute node for the network manager specified in our config.

<pre>
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju add-relation nova-cloud-controller:nova-network nova-compute:nova-network
</pre>

Let both the cloud controller and the compute nodes know where to fetch virtual machine images:

<pre>
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju add-relation glance:image-service nova-cloud-controller:image-service
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju add-relation glance:image-service nova-compute:image-service
</pre>

Your Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure is ready to be used. See the section <nowiki>[[UbuntuCloudInfrastructure#Use_Your_Cloud|Use your cloud]]</nowiki> for more details.

=== Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure from packages ===

This is a more complex process which is described in great details in the <nowiki>[[http://cssoss.files.wordpress.com/2011/11/openstackbookv2-0_csscorp.pdf|OpenStack Beginner’s Guide  V2.0]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu 11.10 written by CSS Corp.

=== Use Your Cloud ===

At this point, the Openstack cloud has been deployed and should be functioning.  If you login to the nova-cloud-controller node (as reported by 'juju status'), you can create the first nova users, projects, networks and export credentials to be used with euca-tools or other API tools.

<pre>
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju ssh 2
ubuntu@marula:~$ sudo nova-manage user admin admin
ubuntu@marula:~$ sudo nova-manage project create novaproject admin
ubuntu@marula:~$ sudo nova-manage network create \
                  --label=novanet \
                  --fixed_range_v4=10.0.0.0/24 \
                  --num_networks=1 \
                  --network_size=255 \
                  --bridge=br100 \
                  --bridge_interface=eth1 \
                  --multi_host=T \
                  --project_id=novaproject
ubuntu@marula:~$ sudo nova-manage project zipfile novaproject admin
</pre>

Now we can unzip our credentials and begin using the cloud.

<pre>
ubuntu@marula:~$ unzip nova.zip
ubuntu@marula:~$ . novarc
ubuntu@marula:~$ wget http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/server/server/releases/oneiric/beta-1/ubuntu-11.10-beta1-server-cloudimg-amd64.tar.gz
ubuntu@marula:~$ uec-publish-tarball ./ubuntu-11.10-beta1-server-cloudimg-amd64.tar.gz images
ubuntu@marula:~$ euca-add-keypair adam >adam.pk
ubuntu@marula:~$ euca-run-instances -k adam ami-00000002
</pre>

We still have 1 extra machine.  We can easily be added as a compute node through Juju to increase our resources:

<pre>
ubuntu@orchestrasrvr:~$ juju add-unit nova-compute
</pre>

== See Also ==
* http://docs.openstack.org/
* http://cloud.ubuntu.com/
* http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC/Images 
