{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Frequently asked questions about Ubuntu Studio.

== General ==
* '''What is Ubuntu Studio?'''
** Learn more about Ubuntu Studio at the <nowiki>[[What Is Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki> page.
* '''What is the Jack Audio Connection Kit?'''
** Also known as JACK for short, you can learn more at the <nowiki>[[What is JACK]]</nowiki> page.
* '''What is the difference between Ubuntu Studio and Ubuntu?'''
** Learn about some of the differences between Ubuntu and Ubuntu Studio at the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/What Is Ubuntu Studio#Ubuntu Studio vs. Ubuntu|Ubuntu Studio vs. Ubuntu page]]</nowiki>.
* '''What is a low latency kernel?'''
** See the <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-RealTimeKernel|low latency kernels]]</nowiki> page for information about the various low latency kernels available in Ubuntu Studio.
* '''When is the next version coming out?'''
** Ubuntu Studio follows the same <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:Releases|release cycle]]</nowiki> as Ubuntu.

== Installation ==
* '''How do I install Ubuntu Studio?'''
** Follow the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu Studio Installation|Installation Guide.]]</nowiki>
* '''Can I install Ubuntu Studio onto an existing Ubuntu installation?'''
** Yes, follow <nowiki>[[Ubuntu Studio Upgrade from Ubuntu|this guide]]</nowiki>.

== Applications ==
* '''What applications are included in Ubuntu Studio?'''
** A list of applications included in Ubuntu Studio can be found here: <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:UbuntuStudio-PackageList|Package List]]</nowiki>
* '''Why is application `xyz` included and `abc` is not included in Ubuntu Studio?'''
** To find reasons for inclusion or exclusion for a specific application, please see the <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-ApplicationSelection|Application Selection]]</nowiki> page.
** However, applications may be excluded be for many reasons, including:
** There currently does not exist a Debian/Ubuntu package for that application.
** There is no maintainer for the package.
** There are license issues restricting the application from being included.
** The application isn't stable or mature enough for inclusion.
  If it is either of the first two, feel free to help out by packaging the application and maintaining it. <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:MOTU-Packages-New-HowTo|Find out how]]</nowiki>.

  If none of the above seem to apply, feel free to add it to the list at <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:UbuntuStudio-Wishlist|UbuntuStudio-Wishlist]]</nowiki>

== How Can I Help? ==
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-howtohelp|How to help]]</nowiki> - a good write up about different ways to help with Ubuntu Studio

== Hardware ==
* '''Does `xyz` piece of hardware work with Ubuntu Studio?'''
** See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/SupportedHardware | Supported Hardware]]</nowiki>
** For all other pieces of hardware, check for  various Hardware Compatibility Lists, such as:
** <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:HardwareSupport|Hardware Support]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxcompatible.org/compatlist3.html|Linux Compatible]]</nowiki>

== Removal ==
* '''How can I safely remove Ubuntu Studio and return to "vanilla" Ubuntu?'''
** Ubuntu studio is a series of packages and can be removed from the command line using apt-get using three lines of code:
** 1) sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
** 2) sudo apt-get purge ubuntustudio-desktop
        ''in Ubuntu 10.10 (Maverick Meerkat), you may also need to run:''
        sudo apt-get purge ubuntustudio-default-settings plymouth-theme-ubuntustudio
** 3) sudo apt-get --purge autoremove
** This will replace the Ubuntu Studio desktop with the "vanilla" Ubuntu desktop, and then remove the Ubuntu Studio desktop packages.
