{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu Studio can create, edit, and manipulate many forms of images.

== Rasterized ==
Ubuntu Studio contains a variety of applications to perform a wide range of tasks in manipulating raster images.

=== Creation and Editing ===
<nowiki>[[TheGIMP|The GIMP]]</nowiki> is a versatile image editor included in Ubuntu Studio to perform both simple and complex tasks.

Also, Ubuntu Studio pre-loads The Gimp with common plug-ins to enable it to:
* Print
* Create Simple Animations
* Open SVG and RAW image formats

=== Capture ===
Ubuntu Studio can capture images from a scanner using <nowiki>[[XSane|XSane]]</nowiki>. XSane is a simple user interface to scan documents, and images from a scanner and export them to an appropriate file-format.

=== Viewing and Organizing ===
Photo management in Ubuntu Studio can be handled <nowiki>[[FSpot|F-Spot]]</nowiki>. F-Spot can collect images and display them in thumbnails along a timeline. F-Spot allows you to group and organize photos with tags. F-Spot also includes tools to perform basic editing tasks, such as cropping or straightening. 

=== Painting ===
Painting in Ubuntu Studio can be done with MyPaint. MyPaint offers a set of preset brushes including ink, charcoal, pencils, blur, smudge and many texture varieties such as cloud, smoke, grass and plant type brushes. These brushes are all customisable. MyPaint also has a customisable pressure mapping interface for human input devices to simulate a more natural painting experience.

=== Compositing ===
To combine multiple images to create one panoramic image, Ubuntu Studio includes <nowiki>[[Hugin|Hugin]]</nowiki>. Hugin makes the assembly of multiple images easy. Hugin then uses <nowiki>[[Enblend|Enblend]]</nowiki> to make the image seamless.

== Vectored ==
Creating vectored images is easy in Ubuntu Studio with <nowiki>[[..-..-Inkscape|Inkscape]]</nowiki>.

== 3-Dimensional ==
For 3D graphics editing, Ubuntu Studio has included <nowiki>[[Blender|Blender]]</nowiki>. Blender is useful in modelling, character rigging, animating, and rendering. Blender can use the popular raytracer <nowiki>[[yafray|Yafray]]</nowiki> for rendering images amongst other raytracers such as LuxRender and the Renderman API through interfaces such as MOSIAC.  Aqsis, K3d, PovRay, Pixie, Wings3D and KPovModeler are also available via synaptic.

== Animation ==
<nowiki>[[SynfigStudio|Synfig Studio]]</nowiki> is the application included in Ubuntu Studio for animation in two dimensions. Synfig eases the process of animation, by removing the need for manual tweening, and allowing motion to be controlled by key-frames.

== Desktop Publishing ==
For desktop publishing, <nowiki>[[Scribus|Scribus]]</nowiki> is used for page layout, and print-ready publishing.

== Miscellaneous Graphics Applications ==
There are a few applications in Ubuntu Studio with specific tasks in mind.

=== Font Creation and Editing ===
Ubuntu Studio allows you to create fonts through <nowiki>[[FontForge|Font Forge]]</nowiki>. Font``Forge is very very versatile editor that has the ability to create Post``Script, True``Type, Open``Type font formats, plus many others. Additionally Font``Forge can be used to edit existing fonts.

=== Color Scheme Generation ===
In Ubuntu Studio, <nowiki>[[Agave|Agave]]</nowiki> can be used to create a color scheme to be used in websites, applications, artwork, or any other medium. Agave makes available several different methods to take a color and provide one, two, or three additional colors that work well with the base color of choice.
