{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Use this page to discuss the UbuntuStudioPreparation page.

== Firewire content ==
There are now three pages all looking at how to connect and use firewire hardware. They are:
* <nowiki>[[Firewire]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[FireWire]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudioPreparation]]</nowiki> in the section ''Firewire (ieee1394 / raw1394) sound cards and cameras''

It would be great if these entries could be collected into one place, I suggest using the FireWire namespace as that seems to be the official spelling, see wikipedia.

2009-11-29 <nowiki>[[duncan-lithgow]]</nowiki>

(I am no longer an active editor of this wiki, so don't bother suggesting that I do it ;-) )

The purpose of the UbuntuStudioPreparation page is to have all basics informations. If one want to create a more detailed tutorial with screen captures, etc... feel free to do it. but it is still important to have firewire informations on this page, imho. 2010-03-28 - ttoine.

== Usage of English ==

This page needs a thorough review by a native speaker. It now contains so many spelling mistakes, badly formulated phrases and bad grammar to the point where it becomes illegible. I tried editing the part on real-time support but found myself correcting the whole page. But I just don't have time for that and I'm not a native speaker myself. 2010-06-08 <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AutoStatic|AutoStatic]]</nowiki>
