{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== PythonXY for Ubuntu ==

This is the effort to make scientific work using Ubuntu and Python a easiy go.

It builds on the successful work done by the <nowiki>[[https://code.google.com/p/pythonxy-linux/ | PythonXY (for Windows)]]</nowiki> team.

=== Activities ===

The efforts concentrate mainly on:

1. preparation of packages
   a. metapackages that install all recommended packages at once
   a. individual packages of useful Python modules / packages
1. in future: the integration of the xy package into Ubuntu with all its tools such 
   a. as menu icons,
   a. documentation links
   a. tray icons / indicators

=== Package Repositories ===

==== Stable PPA ====

The <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pythonxy/+archive/pythonxy-stable | Python XY Stable]]</nowiki> contains:

* The metapackages for the current stable Ubuntu version
** These  install only packages already available in the Ubuntu repositiories.
** The ideas is to get you started quickly and add new recommended useful packages easily.
* Individual package builds
** only if the upstream source released a (offical) stable package
** this is done in rare cases where the upstream packages has a huge and important improvement over the ones existing in the repositories

==== Development PPA ====

The <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pythonxy/+archive/pythonxy-devel | Python XY Development]]</nowiki> contains:

* The metapackages of new developments for the current and development Ubuntu version
** These  install additionally to the packages of the stable metapackages new packages.
** These new packages may orginiate from:
*** individual builds of in the very same devel PPA
*** other PPAs available (Matplotlib, IPython, NumPy, etc.)
* Individual package builds
** new builds by the Launchpad buildbot (recipies) upon latest upstream code changes
** new packages not yet available in the offical repositories
   
=== Support and Help needed! ===

==== Package-related Tasks ====

* Test packages and <nowiki>[[give feedback - report bugs|https:--bugs.launchpad.net-pythonxy]]</nowiki>
* Correct mistakes in the packages by changing and pushing to the relevant debian files repository
* Adopt a new package and package it!
 
==== Organisational Tasks ====

* Help to automatise the update of metapackages
** comparison of package list at <nowiki>[[https://code.google.com/p/pythonxy/wiki/StandardPlugins | StandardPlugins]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://code.google.com/p/pythonxy/wiki/AdditionalPlugins | AdditionalPlugins]]</nowiki>
** revise the metapackages
* Improve the infrastructure
** this wiki page
** the respective entries in the Launchpad pages
** the <nowiki>[[https://code.google.com/p/pythonxy-linux/ | pythonxy-linux page]]</nowiki>
** creation of download statistics (to see if this is actually needed...)

=== Q&A ===

* Why do you not work wth MOTU?
** We would like to have the latest code becuase some useful libraries are really improving and bug-fixing quickly.
** The Debian/Ubuntu packaging is a cumbersome process.
** This leads to delays which is not desired.
** But we appreciate any coordination and feedback from more experienced MOTUs to improve both packages and presence in the Ubuntu repositories.
