{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background:#ffffcc;border:1;">This page is specific to Ubuntu versions 8.04
|}
''If you find this information applicable to additional versions/releases, '''''please''''' edit this page and modify this header to reflect that. Please also include any necessary modifications for this information to apply to the additional versions.''
----

== Asus Eee 701 and 900 as a thin client ==

When you use the Asus Eee 701 or 900 as a thin client, you will need the atl2 module and a new xorg.conf file.

=== Add atl2 module ===

<pre>
admin-ltsp5@ubuntu-ltsp5:~$ sudo su
[sudo] password for admin-ltsp5:
</pre>

<pre>
chroot /opt/ltsp/i386
</pre>

<pre>
uname -a
Linux ubuntu-ltsp5 2.6.24-24-generic #1 SMP Tue Aug 18 17:04:53 UTC 2009 i686 GNU/Linux
</pre>

You need first to install 'nano' in chroot.

<pre>
nano /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
</pre>

Write 'atl2' in file.

<pre>
cat /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
atl2

</pre>

<pre>
update-initramfs -k 2.6.24-24-generic -c
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-24-generic
</pre>

<pre>
exit
</pre>

<pre>
mv /var/lib/tftpboot/ltsp/i386/initrd.img-2.6.24-24-generic /var/lib/tftpboot/ltsp/i386/initrd.img-2.6.24-24-generic.bak
</pre>

<pre>
cp /opt/ltsp/i386/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-24-generic /var/lib/tftpboot/ltsp/i386/
</pre>

Now your Asus Eee 701 or 900 can boot without a kernel panic.

=== Add new xorg.conf ===

<pre>
admin-ltsp5@ubuntu-ltsp5:~$ sudo su
[sudo] password for admin-ltsp5:
</pre>

<pre>
cd /etc/X11
</pre>

<pre>
wget http://www.arkki.info/howto/Wiki/LTSP5/asus-eee-xorg.conf
</pre>

Add these kinds of lines in your lts.conf file.  At least change the MAC address for your Asus Eee.

<pre>

[00:22:15:5C:D3:04]
X_CONF = /etc/X11/asus-eee-xorg.conf
X_COLOR_DEPTH = 16
LDM_DIRECTX = True

[00:22:15:15:4B:4C]
X_CONF = /etc/X11/asus-eee-xorg.conf
X_COLOR_DEPTH = 16
LDM_DIRECTX = True
</pre>

----
CategoryLtsp
