{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The aim of this page is to become a useful resource for physicists and students using Ubuntu (or any other) Linux. Please add information or comments.

=== Ubuntu Physics Packages ===

Ubuntu Linux includes many packages useful for physics.

==== Cernlib ====

'' A suite of data analysis tools and libraries created for use in physics experiments, but also with applications to other fields such as the chemical and biological sciences.''

The CERN Program Library is a large collection of general purpose libraries and modules maintained and offered in both source and object code form on the CERN central computers. 
The two most popular applications based on CERNLIB are PAW and GEANT 3.21. 
Most of these programs were developed at CERN and are therefore oriented towards the needs of 
a physics research laboratory that is general mathematics, data analysis, detectors simulation, 
data-handling etc... 

 '''<nowiki>[[http://cernlib.web.cern.ch/cernlib/|Homepage]]</nowiki><nowiki>[[http://wwwinfo.cern.ch/asdoc/Welcome.html|Documentation]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/cernlib|Package Information]]</nowiki>'''

==== Geant321 ====
    
'' A toolkit for the simulation of the passage of particles through matter ''

Particle detector description and simulation tool
Geant simulates the passage of subatomic particles through matter, for
instance, particle detectors.  For maximum flexibility, Geant simulations
are performed by linking Fortran code supplied by the user with the Geant
libraries, then running the resulting executable.

 '''<nowiki>[[http://wwwasd.web.cern.ch/wwwasd/geant/|Homepage]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://wwwinfo.cern.ch/asdoc/pdfdir/geant.pdf|Documentation(PDF)]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/Geant321|Package Information]]</nowiki>'''

==== Lightspeed ====

'' An OpenGL-based program developed to illustrate the effects of special relativity on the appearance of moving objects.''

Shows how objects moving at relativistic speeds look like
Light Speed! is an OpenGL-based program which illustrates the effects of
special relativity on the appearance of moving objects. When an object
accelerates past a few million meters per second, these effects begin to
grow noticeable, becoming more and more pronounced as the speed of light
is approached. These relativistic effects are viewpoint-dependent, and
include shifts in length, object hue, brightness and shape.

The moving object is, by default, a geometric lattice. 3D Studio and
LightWave 3D objects may be imported as well. Best of all, the simulator
is completely interactive, rendering the exotic distortions in real-time!

 '''<nowiki>[[http://lightspeed.sourceforge.net/|Homepage]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/lightspeed|Package Information]]</nowiki> '''

=== Unofficial Physics packages ===

=== Other Physics software not in Ubuntu ===

==== CLHEP ====

A Class Library for High Energy Physics

 <nowiki>[[http://wwwasd.web.cern.ch/wwwasd/lhc++/clhep/|Homepage]]</nowiki>

==== ELMER ====

 Finite Element Software for Multiphysical Problems.

 <nowiki>[[http://www.csc.fi/elmer/index.phtml|Homepage]]</nowiki>

==== JaxoDraw ====

A Java program for drawing Feynman diagrams.

 <nowiki>[[http://jaxodraw.sourceforge.net/|Homepage]]</nowiki>

==== PHYSICA ====

A high level, interactive programming environment with user friendly graphics and 
sophisticated mathematical analysis capabilities.
   
 <nowiki>[[http://trshare.triumf.ca/~chuma/physica/homepage.html|Homepage]]</nowiki>

==== Pluto++ ====

A Monte Carlo simulation tool for hadronic physics

 <nowiki>[[http://www-hades.gsi.de/computing/pluto/html/PlutoIndex.html|Hompage]]</nowiki>

==== PWscf ====

Also known as quantum ESPRESSO. 
A plane-wave Density Functional Theory code. It also has a not very friendly GUI.

 <nowiki>[[http://www.pwscf.org/|Homepage]]</nowiki>

==== ROOT ====

An Object Oriented Data Analysis Framework

 <nowiki>[[http://root.cern.ch/|Homepage]]</nowiki> 
    
==== SIESTA ====

Another Density Functional Theory code. 
This one uses atomic orbitals as its basis. Free for noncommercial use.

 <nowiki>[[http://www.uam.es/siesta/|Homepage]]</nowiki>
    
==== XCrySDen ====

A crystalline and molecular structure visualisation program. 
It is especially useful to display output files from DFT codes, such as PWscf, Wien2k and SIESTA.

 <nowiki>[[http://xcrysden.org/|Homepage]]</nowiki>

=== Web Based Physics tools ===

      
==== Firefox plugins ====
         
* <nowiki>[[http://mycroft.mozdev.org/download.html?name=arxiv&submitform=Search|Search the ArXiv]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://mycroft.mozdev.org/download.html?name=spires&submitform=Search|Search Spires]]</nowiki>

=== Links ===

* UbuntuScience
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/DebianSciencePhysics|Debian Science and Physics]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.hepforge.org/|HepForge]]</nowiki> - A website hosting high energy physics software development projects - ie. sourceforge for hep.
       - <nowiki>[[http://www.hepforge.org/projects|HepForge Projects]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.theory.physics.ubc.ca/arxiv/|arXiv on your harddrive]]</nowiki> - Get a local copy of the entire hep-th, gr-qc or quant-ph arXiv via BitTorrent.
* <nowiki>[[http://pdg.lbl.gov/2007/html/computer_read.html|Data files from the Particle Data Group]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryScience
