{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

"Quick Tips" is a place to share information on how to improve low-latency performance of UbuntuStudio and particularly JACK. Please report the steps you took to achieve your configuration, along with performance metrics: Your sampling rate, buffers/periods setting, and an estimate frequency of XRUNS.

--
e.g. Added line "module foo" to /etc/foo/foo.conf and entered "/etc/init.d/foo restart" to reload foo. Achieved six hours of performance at 96kHz/3/128 with XRUNS only happening when starting applications.
--

Setting and controling JACK is easy using '''JACK Control''' (''qjackctl''). For running JACK with ''Real-time Full-Duplex'' capabilities using Audio Card ''Intel Corporation (ICH6 Family) High Definition Audio Controller'', with ''ALSA ALC880 Analog Playback/Capture'', set JACK preferences on Setup.../Settings tab (''qjackctl'') to:
* check Realtime, with prioity: 0
* check Force 16-bit
* Frames/Period: 128 (lower this for reduce latency)
* Sample Rate: 44100 
* Periods/Buffer: 3
* Audio: Duplex (default)
* Driver: alsa (default)
* and leave the others to default.
Using ''linux-lowlatency'' package is recommended for better performance. This setting will achieve, 44.1kHz/3/128. The number of
XRUNS was not counted.
