{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Try Ubuntu Studio before installing ==

Ubuntu Studio 12.04 LTS is a live image, which means you can boot it and use all of the default Ubuntu Studio applications without actually installing it. Just burn a DVD, or make your USB stick bootable and try it out. Instructions for making a DVD or bootable USB stick are mentioned below.

The images can be found at:

* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/12.04.2/release/ubuntustudio-12.04.2-dvd-i386.iso.torrent | UbuntuStudio 12.04.2 LTS i386 Torrent]]</nowiki> (for 32 bit processors)
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/12.04.2/release/ubuntustudio-12.04.2-dvd-amd64.iso.torrent | UbuntuStudio 12.04.2 LTS amd64 Torrent]]</nowiki> (for 64 bit processors, including Intel)
* <nowiki>[[hhttp:--cdimage.ubuntu.com-ubuntustudio-releases-12.04.2-release-ubuntustudio-12.04.2-dvd-i386.iso | UbuntuStudio 12.04.2 LTS i386 ISO]]</nowiki> (for 32 bit processors)
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/12.04.2/release/ubuntustudio-12.04.2-dvd-amd64.iso| UbuntuStudio 12.04.2 LTS amd64 ISO]]</nowiki> (for 64 bit processors, including Intel)

=== Boot from DVD ===

* Download the image above. Burn it to DVD using your favorite software. Information on burning to CD/DVD can be found <nowiki>[[BurningIsoHowto | here]]</nowiki>.
* Make sure to set your BIOS to boot from CD/DVD. Information on troubleshooting booting from CD/DVD can be found <nowiki>[[BootFromCD#BIOS_is_not_set_to_boot_from_CD_or_DVD_drive | here]]</nowiki>
* Boot from your newly burned DVD and follow instructions.

=== Boot from USB Stick ===

* Download the image above. Use software like <nowiki>[[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/ | unetbootin]]</nowiki> to create your bootable usb stick. (included in Debian/Ubuntu repositories).
* Make sure to set your BIOS to boot from USB. Commonly, the usb stick is recognized as a bootable hard disk, and to boot from it, either set it first in the bios boot order, or find a way to select which device to boot from using a key command while starting the computer (Not all motherboards support booting from usb stick. Also, not all usb stick are bootable) <nowiki>[[Installation-FromUSBStick | more information]]</nowiki>
* Boot from your newly made bootable usb stick and follow instructions.

== Fresh Installation ==

A fresh installation from DVD is the recommended installation method. The DVD image is about 2GB, and can either be burned to DVD, or used to make a usb stick bootable. 

=== Using Wireless To Connect to the Internet While Installing ===
If you are using wireless to connect to the internet, you may first want to boot into the live system, connect to the internet and install from there. There is a starter for installing Ubuntu Studio in the menu.

=== Notes on partitioning and dual booting ===

If you are intending to dual boot (keeping more than one operating system on the same computer), you will need to know how to partition manually. Otherwise, the default option presented during the installation is the best choice (will overwrite everything on the hard disk). Information on dual booting can be found <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/DualBoot | here]]</nowiki>

== Upgrading from Ubuntu ==

Another option available is to "upgrade" from an existing Ubuntu install.  This method is more involved and requires installing additional packages along with modifying some configurations.

Upgrading to Ubuntu Studio is not only possible from Ubuntu, but also Xubuntu, and Kubuntu, and any other Ubuntu derived distribution that has the required Ubuntu repositories.

It is possible to also selective install various facets of Ubuntu Studio as required.  These might include:
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/precise/linux-lowlatency | linux-lowlatency]]</nowiki> - installs the lowlatency kernel to improve latency for realtime applications
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?searchon=names&keywords=ubuntustudio-audio|ubuntustudio-audio]]</nowiki> - install all the Ubuntu Studio audio packages
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?suite=default&section=all&arch=any&searchon=names&keywords=ubuntustudio-video|ubuntustudio-video]]</nowiki> - install all the Ubuntu Studio video packages
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?suite=default&section=all&arch=any&searchon=names&keywords=ubuntustudio-graphics|ubuntustudio-graphics]]</nowiki> - install all the Ubuntu Studio graphic packages 
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?suite=default&section=all&arch=any&searchon=names&keywords=ubuntustudio-desktop|ubuntustudio-desktop]]</nowiki> - install the Ubuntu Studio desktop, menu and theme

It is also possible to selective upgrade applications by categories, e.g. audio effects, real-time kernel, etc.

For more detailed instructions, there is a more extensive howto on the subject called <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudioPreparation]]</nowiki>
