{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Creating a Custom AMD64 Version of Ubuntu Netbook Edition for Ubuntu 10.04 LTS "Lucid Lynx"

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

'''This guide is for Ubuntu 10.04 LTS "Lucid Lynx", this guide does not apply for Ubuntu 10.10 or newer.  Ubuntu 10.10 is no longer receiving security updates as of April 10, 2012 and should not be used.  Starting with 11.04, amd64 netbook users can just use the Desktop Ubuntu .iso because there is no longer a separate Netbook Edition.'''

''**In this guide I will use the terms 'AMD64' and '64-bit' interchangeably.  The term 'x86-64' may also be used.**''

''**I also use the abbreviation, 'UNE' to stand for Ubuntu Netbook Edition.**''

This guide will show you how to make a 64-bit version of Ubuntu Netbook Edition using the Ubuntu Desktop AMD64 install disc.  You must have a 64-bit processor to install the AMD64 version of Ubuntu on your netbook.

'''Note: This guide is intended for a fresh installation of Ubuntu.  Following this guide may remove programs that you have manually installed and such programs may need to be redownloaded and installed.'''

== Part 1 - Install Regular AMD64 (64-bit) Ubuntu ==

Install the regular 64-bit Desktop version of Ubuntu on your netbook.  You can install Ubuntu using a USB drive if you don't have a disc drive.  You may use any method you want to install via USB.  I have also provided a link to another wiki at the bottom of this page.  A link to download Ubuntu is available in the External Links section below.  ''Don't worry, this first step is the hardest part of the whole process.'' ;)

If you do have a disc drive, you may simply burn the .iso to a disc and install it the way you normally would.

After you install the 64-bit Ubuntu Desktop edition, navigate to this page on your netbook.  This wiki provides you with an easy way to install the Netbook Edition by simply copy-and-pasting four commands into the '''Terminal'''.

== Part 2 - Install Netbook Edition ==

Copy these four commands into '''Terminal'''.  It is located from the GNOME Menu via '''Applications → Accessories → Terminal'''.  To paste a command into '''Terminal''', press '''Shift+Ctrl+V'''.

=== Step 1 - Resynchronize the Package Index Files ===

This command will update the index files on your computer to the latest version on the servers:

<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>

Press 'Enter' and type in your password when prompted.

'''If you get an error message about not being able to get a lock and being temporarily unavailable, your system is probably checking for updates, just wait a few seconds until the Update Manager pops up.'''

=== Step 2 - Remove Packages With Old Config Files ===

This command will remove packages that leave old configuration files behind:

<pre>
sudo apt-get --purge remove binutils brasero compiz-gnome gbrainy gdm-guest-session gnomine hal libbeagle1 libcompizconfig0 libcouchdb-glib-1.0-2 libdecoration0 libdesktopcouch-glib-1.0-2 libgoocanvas3 libgtk-vnc-1.0-0 libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio libwmf0.2-7-gtk pitivi tsclient vinagre vino
</pre>

Press 'Enter' then type 'y' to confirm your selection, then press 'Enter' again.

=== Step 3 - Remove the Packages not in Netbook Edition ===

This command will remove the rest of the packages that aren't in the Netbook Edition:

<pre>
sudo apt-get remove compiz-core compiz-fusion-plugins-main gstreamer0.10-gnonlin hal-info libc-dev-bin libc6-dev libgail-gnome-module libgoocanvas-common linux-libc-dev manpages-dev rdesktop smartdimmer
</pre>

Press 'Enter' then type 'y' to confirm your selection, then press 'Enter' again.

=== Step 4 - Install the Netbook Edition Specific Packages ===

This command will install the packages that are specific to the Netbook Edition:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install cheese cheese-common go-home-applet libcheese-gtk18 libclutk-0.2-0 libecore-con-svn-05 libecore-evas-svn-05 libecore-fb-svn-05 libecore-file-svn-05 libecore-imf-svn-05 libecore-input-svn-05 libecore-job-svn-05 libecore-svn-05 libecore-txt-svn-05 libecore-x-svn-05 libedje-svn-05 libeet1 libeina-svn-05 libelementary-data libelementary-svn-05 libembryo0 libevas-svn-05 libevas-svn-05-engines-core libevas-svn-05-engines-x libfakekey0 liblauncher-0.1-0 liblua5.1-0 libnetbook-launcher-0 maximus netbook-launcher netbook-launcher-efl ubuntu-netbook ubuntu-netbook-default-settings webfav window-picker-applet xserver-xorg-video-i740 xul-ext-webfav
</pre>

Press 'Enter'.

'''Log out then log back in, and you are done! (Make sure 'Ubuntu Netbook Edition' is listed under the 'Sessions' box on the bottom of the login screen.)'''

== See Also ==

* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick|FromUSBStick]]</nowiki> - You may use this to guide to help you install the 64-bit Desktop Ubuntu on your netbook using a USB drive.

== External Links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://releases.ubuntu.com/10.04/|Download Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu.com -- Make sure to select '64-bit PC (AMD64) desktop CD' under the 'Desktop CD' heading near the top of the page.

* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Intel_Atom_microprocessors|List of Intel Atom microprocessors]]</nowiki> - Wikipedia -- Look under the 'Netbook processors' section.  Your CPU must support 'Intel64' to run the AMD64 version of Ubuntu.
