{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Your options are as follows:

=== Either to install from within your current OS ===

==== Windows: ====
* Wubi: 
<nowiki>[[http://wubi-installer.org/|Wubi]]</nowiki> allows you to install and uninstall Ubuntu as any other Windows application.

==== Previous release of Ubuntu Studio: ====
* Upgrade: Press Alt+F2 and type "update-manager -d", this will update your current Ubuntu Studio to the latest release.

=== Or install from boot: ===

You can install from ''DVD'', ''USB'' or ''PXE''.

==== DVD: ====
* An iso image can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org/downloads|Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki> and burned onto a DVD or a copy can be obtained free of charge from Canonical.

==== USB: ====
* Thumbdrives and memory cards can be made bootable with <nowiki>[[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/|UNetbootin]]</nowiki> for Windows or Linux. Existing Ubuntu 8.10 users will find a tool for this in System->Administration->Create a USB startup disk.

==== PXE: ====
* You can install from network with <nowiki>[[http://syslinux.zytor.com/wiki/index.php/PXELINUX|PXELINUX]]</nowiki> 

Inside BIOS select respectively ''CD-ROM'', ''USB drive'' or ''network'' in the bootmanager.

Once installation media is found, the process is the same for all three options.
Follow directions given by installation.
