{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Ubuntu Netbook Edition (UNE) is a derivative of Ubuntu that is made specifically for use on netbooks. Installation can be done using a USB drive. UNE sports a simplified user interface that is optimized for smaller screens.

Ubuntu's initial netbook offering was call Ubuntu Netbook Remix (UNR) and is still commonly referred to as UNR. As of of the 10.04 (Lucid Lynx) release, UNR has been rebranded as Ubuntu Netbook Edition to reflect its official status and maturity.

== Installation ==

=== Will my netbook work with UNE? ===
For a list of netbook models that have been tested with Ubuntu Netbook Edition and/or Ubuntu please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks|Hardware Support]]</nowiki> page. Note that currently this list is for version 9.10 (Karmic Koala).

== Using Ubuntu Netbook Edition ==
** <nowiki>[[BasicUsage| The basics of using UNE]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[Sessions| Ubuntu Netbook Edition desktop sessions]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[ConvertGnomeSession| Convert GNOME session into editable UNE session]]</nowiki>

== Hardware Specific Help ==

=== Acer Aspire One ===

Acer <nowiki>[[AspireOne|Aspire One]]</nowiki> hardware documentation:
** <nowiki>[[AspireOne110L| Model 110L]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[AspireOne-AO751h| Model A0751h]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[AspireOneAOD250 | Model AOD250]]</nowiki>

General Acer Aspire One documentation:
** <nowiki>[[AA1]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[AA1-Fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[AA1-Using]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[AspireOneSDCardsAndSuspend]]</nowiki>

Version Specific documentation:
** <nowiki>[[AspireOne-Ubuntu8.04| Ubuntu 8.04]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[AspireOne-Ubuntu8.10| Ubuntu 8.10]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[AspireOne-Ubuntu9.10| Ubuntu 9.10]]</nowiki>

=== Asus EeePC ===

Asus <nowiki>[[EeePC]]</nowiki> documentation:
** <nowiki>[[EeePC-Installation | Installation]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[EeePC-Using | Usage]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[EeePC-Fixes | Fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[EeePC-Resources | Additional Resources]]</nowiki>

=== Dell Mini ===

** <nowiki>[[DellMini9| Dell Mini 9]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[DellMini9-Intrepid | Dell Mini 9]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu 8.10 specific

=== Lenovo IdeaPad ===
** <nowiki>[[IdeaPadS | IdeaPad S-series]]</nowiki> - S10 and S12
** <nowiki>[[IdeaPadS-Installation | Installation]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[IdeaPadS-Using | Usage]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[IdeaPadS-Fixes | Fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[IdeaPadS10 || IdeaPad S10]]</nowiki>

=== Samsung ===
** <nowiki>[[NC20|Samsung NC20]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu 9.10 specific
