{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

As of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, all component registration should be automatic, assuming:
 a. Public SSH keys have been exchanged properly
 a. The services are configured properly
 a. The services are publishing their existence
 a. The appropriate uec-component-listener is running
 a. Verify Registration.

Steps a to e should only be required if you're using the <nowiki>[[UEC-PackageInstall]]</nowiki> method.  Otherwise, if you are following the <nowiki>[[UEC-CDInstall]]</nowiki> method, these steps should already be completed automatically for you, and therefore you can skip a to e.

a. 
===== Exchange Public SSH Keys =====

b. 
===== Configure the Services =====
On the '''Cloud Controller''':
* For the '''Cluster Controller''' Registration:
** Define the shell variable '''CC_NAME''' in <code>/etc/eucalyptus/eucalyptus-cc.conf</code>
** Define the shell variable '''CC_IP_ADDR''' in <code>/etc/eucalyptus/eucalyptus-ipaddr.conf</code>, as a space separated list of one or more IP addresses.
* For the '''Walrus Controller''' Registration:
** Define the shell variable '''WALRUS_IP_ADDR''' in <code>/etc/eucalyptus/eucalyptus-ipaddr.conf</code>, as a single IP address.

On the '''Cluster Controller''':
* For '''Storage Controller''' Registration:
** Define the cluster name in the shell variable '''CC_NAME''' in <code>/etc/eucalyptus/eucalyptus-cc.conf</code>
** Define the shell variable '''SC_IP_ADDR''' in <code>/etc/eucalyptus/eucalyptus-ipaddr.conf</code>, as a space separated list of one or more IP addresses.

c. 
===== Publish =====
Now start the publication services.

* '''Walrus Controller''':
<pre>
sudo start eucalyptus-walrus-publication
</pre>
* '''Cluster Controller''':
<pre>
sudo start eucalyptus-cc-publication
</pre>
* '''Storage Controller''':
<pre>
sudo start eucalyptus-sc-publication
</pre>
* '''Node Controller'''
<pre>
sudo start eucalyptus-nc-publication
</pre>

d. 
===== Start the Listener =====
On the '''Cloud Controller''' and the '''Cluster Controller(s)''', run:
<pre>
sudo start uec-component-listener
</pre>

e. 
===== Verify Registration =====
<pre>
cat /var/log/eucalyptus/registration.log
2010-04-08 15:46:36-05:00 | 24243 -> Calling node cluster1 node 10.1.1.75
2010-04-08 15:46:36-05:00 | 24243 -> euca_conf --register-nodes returned 0
2010-04-08 15:48:47-05:00 | 25858 -> Calling walrus Walrus 10.1.1.71
2010-04-08 15:48:51-05:00 | 25858 -> euca_conf --register-walrus returned 0
2010-04-08 15:49:04-05:00 | 26237 -> Calling cluster cluster1 10.1.1.71
2010-04-08 15:49:08-05:00 | 26237 -> euca_conf --register-cluster returned 0
2010-04-08 15:49:17-05:00 | 26644 -> Calling storage cluster1 storage 10.1.1.71
2010-04-08 15:49:18-05:00 | 26644 -> euca_conf --register-sc returned 0
</pre>
