{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

The goal of this page is to document little tips or tricks for working with <nowiki>[[UEC]]</nowiki> that don't fit other places.

=== Multiple DHCP Servers / MAC Filtering ===
The installation of a CloudController adds a dhcp server to the network.  It is managed and will only respond to instances.  However, if you have another dhcp server on your same network, it may also respond, which could wreak havoc.

Eucalyptus creates its instances with MAC addresses starting with '''<code>d0:0d</code>'''.  This means that you can configure the other dhcp server on the network to ignore instance requests by filtering on that MAC address.

This can be accomplished in in various dhcp servers:

==== dnsmasq ====
dnsmasq, which is used by dd-wrt or other wrt projects, just need to have the following to the config added:
<pre>
dhcp-host=d0:0d:*:*:*:*,ignore
</pre>

==== dhcp3-server ====
You configuration need to define a class matching the Mac address prefix, then exclude the class from a pool. Example '''/etc/dhcpd.conf''':

<pre>
class "ignoreclass" {
    match if (substring(hardware,1,2)=d0:0d);
}

subnet 192.168.0.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
    option domain-name-servers 192.168.0.1;
### other options here
    pool{ 
##### this is where we deny attributing addresses
        deny members of "ignoreclass";
##### all other mac addresses will receive addresses from this range
        range 192.168.0.101 192.168.0.199;
    }
}
</pre>

=== Cloud in your pocket - UEC Live ISO ===

If you need to demo UEC, this could be all you need.  See the <nowiki>[[http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2010/06/cloud-in-your-pocket-uec-liveiso.html|details on Dustin Kirkland's post]]</nowiki>.

=== Hadoop cluster deployment ===

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntumathiaz.wordpress.com/2010/09/27/deploying-a-hadoop-cluster-on-ec2uec-with-puppet-and-ubuntu-maverick/|Excellent blog post by Mathias Gug]]</nowiki> on deploying a Hadoop cluster on EC2/UEC with Puppet and Ubuntu Maverick.
