{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Using UEC consists of creating and registering images with the Cloud Controller.

This page describes the process for Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.

There is more than one way to obtain a virtual image:
* Download an image from the network, bundle and upload it
* Create a custom image using VMBuilder
* Use the Image store to download and install and image

Here we will describe the process of downloading one of the <nowiki>[[http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/lucid/|daily builds]]</nowiki> that are built and published automatically.  The process is similar for <nowiki>[[http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/|Official Released Images]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="background-color: #91f49f;"> '''Note:''' the shell variables that are set in the below code snippets are very useful for scripts or to reuse them when typing commands.
|}

1. Download the UEC image for the architecture you want.  You can do it from your browser or from the command line:
<pre>
TIMESTAMP=$(date +%Y%m%d%H%M%S)
RELEASE=lucid
ARCH=amd64    # Or this might be i386
[ $ARCH = "amd64" ] && IARCH=x86_64 || IARCH=i386
UEC_IMG=$RELEASE-server-uec-$ARCH
URL=http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/$RELEASE/current/
[ ! -e $UEC_IMG.tar.gz ] &&  wget $URL/$UEC_IMG.tar.gz
uec-publish-tarball $UEC_IMG.tar.gz $RELEASE-$TIMESTAMP
</pre>
1. Now, your kernel and image will have been uploaded into Eucalyptus and should be ready to run.  To confirm, run the following command:
<pre>
euca-describe-images
EMI=$(euca-describe-images | grep emi- | head -n1 | awk '{print $2}')
</pre>
 You should see a registered kernel and image and they should be marked as 'available'.
