{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Getting Started with Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud ==

The <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/cloud|Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud]]</nowiki> (UEC), powered by <nowiki>[[http://www.eucalyptus.com|Eucalyptus]]</nowiki>, is highly configurable and customizable to a variety of environments.

'''Note:''' Starting with 11.10 (oneiric), Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud is replaced by <nowiki>[[UbuntuCloudInfrastructure|Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure]]</nowiki>, which is based on OpenStack.

You may use the following installation tutorials:
* <nowiki>[[UEC-CDInstall|Installation from the Installer CD]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
 This tutorial covers UEC installation from the Ubuntu 10.04 Server Edition CD, and assumes a basic network topology, with a single system serving as the "all-in-one controller", and one or more nodes attached. This is the recommended tutorial if you want to familiarize yourself with UEC with a (relatively) simple installation.
* <nowiki>[[UEC-PackageInstall|Normal installation using the packages]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
 This tutorial describes how to deploy UEC on already-installed Ubuntu servers in a setup similar to the default install.
* <nowiki>[[UEC-PackageInstallSeparate|Advanced installation using the packages on separate servers]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
 Use this tutorial if you want to deploy a more complex network topology (e.g., multiple clusters, or running the required cloud services from separate physical machines).

=== More details ===
Once installation is complete, you may use the following as reference:
* <nowiki>[[UEC-StorageController|Using the Storage Controller]]</nowiki> describes how to create and use virtual volumes
* <nowiki>[[UEC-BundlingImages|Bundling Images]]</nowiki> describes how to bundle and upload an image manually
* <nowiki>[[UEC-CreateYourImage| Creating your own image]]</nowiki> describes a few ways to create images from scratch
* <nowiki>[[UEC-Landscape| Connecting to Landscape]]</nowiki> describes how to connect your UEC installation to Canonical's Landscape service
* <nowiki>[[UEC-PowerManagement | Power Management]]</nowiki> how to enable the integrated power management feature
* A useful collection of <nowiki>[[UEC-Tips|Tips for UEC]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://cssoss.wordpress.com/2010/11/26/eucabook-v1-1/|Eucalyptus Beginner's Guide - UEC Edition(10.04.1-Lucid)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://cssoss.wordpress.com/2010/12/23/eucalyptus-beginners-guide-uec-edition-v2-0-maverick/|Eucalyptus Beginner's Guide - UEC Edition(10.10-Maverick)]]</nowiki>
