{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

The Purpose of this presentation is to give press a good understanding of what Ubuntu in the UK is about.

== Structure options ==

=== Option 1 ===

'''Introduction:''' The problem with expensive software

'''Body:''' The solution is Ubuntu

'''Conclusion:''' We can save money

=== Option 2 ===

'''Introduction:''' History and founding of Ubuntu project. What is Ubuntu?

'''Body:''' Why Ubuntu is so good. Why Ubuntu should be used and how to use it.  Basic showcase of Ubuntu and applications.  

'''Conclusion'''

'''Appendix:''' Technical stuff (e.g. based on Debian)

== Content for Pages ==

Here are some basic layouts for some of the slides for your presentation. 

1. What is Ubuntu? 
  a. Ubuntu is an ancient Zulu word meaning: “humanity towards others". Also: "I am    what I am because of who we all are". Translating Ubuntu into western languages literally is hard, Arch Bishop Desmond Tutu put it this way: "It means you are generous, you are hospitable, you are friendly and caring and compassionate. You share what you have."
  a. Started by Shuttleworth...
   i. Long-time Debian Developer
   i. He founded Thawte in 1995 and sold it to Verisign in 1999
   i. Went to space in 2002 as a member of the Soyuz TM-34 mission
   i. Started Ubuntu (the Linux distribution) in 2004
  a. Based on Debian linux  (
  a. Frequent Predicatble releases (every 6 months)
  a. GNOME Desktop (with screenshot) 
  a. Free Software Philosopy
  a. Support Through Cannonical for at least 5 years.
  a. Easily upgradeable
  a. Secure, no viruses

2. Easy to use: 
  a. Demo of ubuntu desktop
  b. Simple to install (demo of initial install/installation of programs)
  c. Existing programs they may already know/recognise)
   i. Firefox
   ii. OpenOffice.org
   iii.	Evolution

3. Flexibility
  a. Software universe
  b. Customizable

4. Lower Total cost of ownership than windows:

Can we get statistics on this? The amount of money the government is spending on computers for schools (including software (Windows/anti-virus software/applications[MS Office/Adobe/Macromedia]), hardware (replacing old computers [which Ubuntu could run on], administration and maintenance) compared with a predicted spending if all schools switched to Ubuntu?

  a. Lower hardware costs (lower requirements)
   i. Supports X86, X64, AMD, Apple
  a. Software cost = nothing
  a. Support cost = nothing
  a. Free CDs from ShipIt 
  a. Ubuntu Guarantee:  
   i. Ubuntu will always be free of charge – no separate Enterprise or Professional versions.
   i. Best Support of Localisations (95+ languages)
   i. 6 monthly releases, with 18 months of free Security support. 
   i. Distribution and Support of Free and Open Source Software.

5. Accessibility: 
  a. Localised language support
  b. Various tools for helping  special needs users, to use system

6. UK Local Teams	

=== Good Information to Include ===

1. Number of developers working on Ubuntu:

2. Up to date list of awards: 
  a. Rank 1 on www.distrowatch.com (page hits)
  a. PC World votes Ubuntu 5.04 as #26 of the Top 100 products of 2005.
  a. More than 1 million CDs for Ubuntu 4.10, and more than 1.2 million CDs for Ubuntu 5.04 were shipped into the whole world, free of charge.
  a. Tux Magazine Reader's Choice 2005: Favourite Linux Distribution
  a. ArsTechnica Linux award: choice distribution, community and best newcomer

3. Adoption Rate (i.e. how many people use it as primary machine/secondary machine)

=== Ubuntu Templates ===

Updated list can be found at: Wiki Presentations
GeemanUK: <nowiki>[[attachment:presentationglossyUK.otp]]</nowiki> (Based on Sakari's glossy however using Orange Background and UK flag)

== External Links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/talks/linuxdays.odp|Ubuntu: Linux for humans]]</nowiki> - Presentation by Daniel Holbach from Linuxdays Luxembourg

* <nowiki>[[http://mako.cc/talks/20041126-ubuntu/ubuntu_gulev-slides/img0.html|Introducing Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Presentation by Benjamin Mako

----
<nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page.]]</nowiki>

Categories: CategoryMarketing
