{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== How to get involved with writing this guide ==

You don't need to be an official Documentation Team member to get involved. 

See the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/GettingStarted|Getting Started]]</nowiki> page for how to contribute. A good way to sart out is by writing to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-mobile|Mailing list]]</nowiki> either with a new article or explaining where you would think you best can contribute

==== Normal Workflow ====

To export wiki pages paste the moin source into <nowiki>[[http://docbook.wikiwikiweb.de/MatthewEast|the wiki -> docbook exporter]]</nowiki>. Then tidy the exported docbook using 
<code>$ tidy -xml original.xml > new.xml</code>

To create po file for translation <code>xml2po -o ../mobileguide.pot bookinfo.xml introduction.xml mobileguide.xml app-framework.xml mobile-build-infrastructure.xml mobile-hw-decode.xml mobile-image-creation.xml mobile-kernel.xml mobile-ui.xml window-manager.xml gnome-components.xml on-screen-keyboard.xml mobile-browser.xml mobile-graphics.xml mobile-user-apps.xml </code>

To create pdf <code>dblatex  mobileguide.xml bookinfo.xml introduction.xml  app-framework.xml mobile-build-infrastructure.xml mobile-hw-decode.xml mobile-image-creation.xml mobile-kernel.xml mobile-ui.xml window-manager.xml gnome-components.xml on-screen-keyboard.xml mobile-browser.xml mobile-graphics.xml mobile-user-apps.xml</code>

To create docbook from html sources. First download <nowiki>[[http://www.dbdoclet.org/archives/herold_4.1.10-46_all.deb|herold]]</nowiki> (requires java). 
Then dpkg -i herold_4.1.10-46_all.deb. Use it like:
<code>user@machine:~$ herold --in=location.html --out=location-services.xml</code>

==== ToDo ====

 Tutorial on Package Creation

 Tutorial on both Clutter and the HTML User interfaces 

 Write a tutorial on <nowiki>[[https://stage.maemo.org/svn/maemo/projects/haf/trunk/hildon-audit/|hildon-audit]]</nowiki> 
 
 Write a DBUS tutorial. This will be based on <nowiki>[[http://www.alex-smith.me.uk/blog/dbus-tutorial-part-1.html|creating a DBUS daemon]]</nowiki>
