{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== OVERVIEW OF Hildon and GTK ==

A <code>HildonProgram</code> is a GObject representing the whole application. In this context it is important to note that a <code>HildonProgram</code> *is not* a <code>GtkWidget</code>.
Only one <code>HildonProgram</code> can be created per process. It is accessed with <code>hildon_program_get_instance</code>.

<code>HildonWindows</code> are registered to the <code>HildonProgram</code> using <code>hildon_program_add_window()</code> As the method name suggests, several <code>HildonWindows</code> are likely to be registered to a <code>HildonProgram</code>. 

An example 'OVERVIEW OF A PROGRAM' looks like:

<pre>
/* Create needed variables */
HildonProgram *program;
HildonWindow *window;
/* Initialize GTK. */
gtk_init (&argc, &argv);
/* Create the hildon program and setup the title */
program = HILDON_PROGRAM (hildon_program_get_instance());</pre>

=== MENU'S ===

Menu's are created externally using <code>GtkMenu</code>. They are then added to a <code>HildonWindow</code> with <code>hildon_window_set_menu()</code>
An example of this looks like:

<pre>
GtkMenu *menu;
menu = gtk_menu_new ();
fill_in_menu (menu);
hildon_window_set_menu (menu);</pre>

=== TOOLBARS ===

These are created using a call to <code>hildon_window_add_toolbar()</code>
An example of this looks like:

<pre>
GtkToolbar *toolbar;
toolbar = create_toolbar ();
/* Add toolbar to the HildonWindow */
hildon_window_add_toolbar (window, toolbar);</pre>

=== HIBERNATION ===
A programmer can tell the Hildon Task Navigator whether or not an application is ready to be set to hibernation (background-killed) by
calling <code>set_can_hibernate()</code>

=== WINDOW SPECIFIC SETTINGS ===
Window-speciﬁc commands can be sent  to the window manager and task navigator.
Applications can tell the task navigator that some window requires the user’s attention. This will trigger the blinking of the window’s icon
in the task navigator.
This is shown by:

<code>gtk_window_set_urgency_hint (GTK_WINDOW (window), TRUE);</code>

Similarly applications are able to change the icon representing each of their <code>HildonWindow</code> in the task navigator by using the <code>gtk_window_set _icon</code> set of functions.
This is shown by:

<pre>
GdkPixbuf *icon = create_icon();
gtk_window_set_icon (GTK_WINDOW (window), icon);
    
Also the title can be set per window with:
<code>gtk_window_set_title (GTK_WINDOW (window), "Window Title");</code>

If the application name was set with <code>g_set_application name()</code>, it will precede the window title in the title bar.

=== PROGRAM WIDE SETTINGS ===
The <code>HildonProgram</code> object provides the programmer with commodities to set program-wide settings for all the registered HildonWindow's.
The programmer can create a common menu which will be shared (memory and functionality-wise) by all the windows. A window can override this common
menu by having its own menu.

This is shown by:
<pre>
GtkMenu *common_menu = create_common_menu ();
GtkMenu *window_specific_menu = create_window_specific_menu ();
                
hildon_program_set_common_menu (program, common_menu);
hildon_window_set_menu (second_window, window_specific_menu);</pre>

Also, a common toolbar can be shared among all HildonWindow's. Windows can add window speciﬁc toolbars. The common toolbar will be displayed
on the bottom of the stack of toolbars.

This is shown by:
<pre>
GtkToolbar *common_toolbar = create_common_toolbar ();
GtkToolbar *window_specific_toolbar = create_window_specific_toolbar ();
hildon_program_set_common_toolbar (program, common_toolbar);
hildon_window_add_toolbar (second_window, window_specific_toolbar);</pre>

 

.
