{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Adding/Removing programs to your desktop'''

{{{
Historical purposes only this part:

UME keeps the .desktop files in /usr/share/mobile-basic-flash/applications, so you can either create a new .desktop file for your app, or make a symlink from your app's .desktop file in /usr/share/applications}}}

'''UPDATED INFO'''

Put your desktop file in  /usr/share/applications (or subdirectories thereof). Also add 

<code>OnlyShowIn=GNOME;Mobile;</code>

to the desktop file and the icon will appear on the desktop. 

Also something to note:

For example, cheese does not have <code>OnlyShowIn</code> but it appears in hildon desktop...others also do not have <code>OnlyShowIn</code> but do not appear..it seems that there is some special implementation for ubuntu mobile which is seen in the gconf keys:

<code>/desktop/hildon/htmlhomeplugin/onlyshowin_filter</code>            

Check <code>OnlyShowIn</code> value in .desktop.  If <code>_False_</code> then every .desktop is shown.

and

<code>/onlyshowin_ignore</code>          

Always show these apps, even if they don't have <code>OnlyShowIn</code>.  Cheese is in this list hence it is always shown  

Apparently this key should go away when every application is a good citizen and complies to the freedesktop.org standards.
