{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Warning:  Outdated! ==

The link originally provided in 2007 does not seem to provide a Linux driver any longer.

== Warning:  Outdated! ==

Many linux users who have integrated VIA graphics suffer from lack of 3D acceleration when running certain programs like fast-paced games and windows emulator wine.  Developers came up with at least 3 drivers: via-, unichrome- and openchrome-, none of them worked though, or at least did not stop their boxes from freezing or going to a hard lockup.

Read on to get 3D working on your via boxes.

== Introduction ==

This guide will help you enable 3D if via-, unichrome- or openchrome- drivers do not work with your VIA graphics chipset.

== Installation Instructions ==

* '''Download the driver from http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=2&Type=3.''' 
* '''Choose your distro.''' 
* '''Then pick Integrated Graphics.'''
* '''Pick the appropriate driver category. If you are not sure which one, check this site http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=5&ArticleID=68&P=5.'''
* '''Click on "Click here to begin free download." Save it.'''
* '''Unzip the file.'''
* '''Make a backup of your xorg.conf.'''
* '''CD to the directory where you unzipped the file to.'''
* '''Execute the *.run file. example "sudo sh VIA_U710_UniChrome-GFX-v40072d.run"'''
* '''Ctrl-Alt-Bckspce'''

== Check for 3D ==

----
== Feedback ==
tech0007@gmail.com
