{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

This page is a guide to upgrade supported releases of Ubuntu to other supported releases. For more information please refer to the <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki>.

To upgrade from unsupported releases of Ubuntu, see <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades]]</nowiki>.

== Before you upgrade ==

=== Backup ===

Please make sure you have a backup of your important data. For more on disk cloning, please see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DriveImaging|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Disable automatic Power Management ===

Ubuntu can be configured to automatically suspend and/or hibernate after a period of user inactivity.  If Ubuntu is configured as such, the user starts a release upgrade, and leaves the computer unattended during the upgrade, then Ubuntu stops in the middle of the upgrade. This can causes issues, and in the worst case, cause a corrupt install. Therefore, before upgrading Ubuntu, disable any power management feature until the upgrade process is complete. In Ubuntu with Unity, you find this setting in the System Settings application, inside "Power".

=== Release Notes ===

Please read the release notes before upgrading. They contain important information for the task of installing a given release, or upgrading to it. For example, they document high-impact bugs and their workarounds.

=== Upgrade policy ===

Check the file `/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades`. `Prompt=normal` offers upgrades from any release to a newer release; `Prompt=never` never offers release upgrades; `Prompt=lts` only offers upgrades from LTS to LTS. You need root privileges to edit this file.

Via the GUI:
1. On the Update manager, click on '''Settings...'''
2. Select the '''Updates''' Tab
3. Where it says '''Release Upgrade''', '''Show new distribution releases''' choose '''Normal Releases''' or '''LTS Releases'''

=== Upgrading Flash ===

If you want to upgrade flash, please add the following line to your sources.list: <pre>
deb http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu CODENAME partner
</pre> This will make sure the adobe-flashplugin package will be upgraded.

== Network upgrades ==

=== Desktop / GUI Upgrade ===

The simplest way to upgrade to a newer Ubuntu release is to start the Software Updater (update-manager). In Ubuntu with Unity:
* Open the Dash by hitting Super key on your keyboard. This may be done by either clicking the key between Ctrl and Alt that may have a Windows logo, or by clicking the Ubuntu logo in the upper left corner of the screen.
* Type "updater".
* Click the "Software Updater" icon under Applications.
* If a release upgrade is available, the '''Upgrade''' button will be active. Click it to begin upgrading.

=== Server / Command line Upgrade ===

<pre>
sudo apt install update-manager-core
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

== The Debian way of upgrading ==

Please be aware that while this method is valid, it is not supported by the Ubuntu developers. The ubuntu-release-upgrader package, which provides do-release-upgrade, is designed to handle quirks and transitions when moving between releases of Ubuntu. <pre>
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude safe-upgrade

sudo sed -i.ORIG 's/karmic/lucid/g' /etc/apt/sources.list

sudo mv /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ /etc/apt/sources.list.d.ORIG/
sudo mkdir /etc/apt/sources.list.d/

sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
sudo aptitude full-upgrade
</pre>

== Upgrading to development releases ==

Please be aware that development releases are unstable, and not suited for people who do not want to fix/report/triage bugs. If you want a stable Ubuntu version, stick to the official released versions.  For added stability, choose a Ubuntu LTS release.

=== Desktop / GUI Upgrade ===

<pre>
update-manager -d
</pre>

=== Server / Command line Upgrade ===

<pre>
sudo apt install update-manager-core
sudo do-release-upgrade -d
</pre> Beside the network upgrades you could upgrade to a development release via the Debian (manual) way. This is left as an exercise for the user.

== See Also ==

* https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/upgrading-ubuntu-desktop - Official upgrade documentation.
* <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki> - Upgrade notes for all Ubuntu releases
* <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades]]</nowiki> - Upgrade End-of-Life (unsupported) releases.

----
CategoryUpgrade
