{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Welcome! ===
This is the wiki page of the Zambia Local Community Team. We aim to provide free community support to users of the various flavours of Ubuntu as well as advocating the use of Ubuntu to individuals and organisations alike. We keep in touch via our active <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-zm|email list]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-IRC| IRC chatroom]]</nowiki>. This group is for anyone in Zambia (but we welcome non-Zambia residents) who uses or is interested in some flavour of Ubuntu, whether it's Ubuntu, Kubuntu or any others. This group is for people of all technical abilities from I've-never-heard-of-linux all the way to I'm-an-Ubuntu-Master.

=== How do I join? ===
There is no official process to join, however if you join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-zm|launchpad team]]</nowiki> you are then able to vote in polls organised by the group. Discussion happens on the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-zm|mailing list]]</nowiki> which you are free to join. There is also an active group of members who chat in real time on <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-IRC|IRC]]</nowiki> in the #ubuntu-zm channel on irc.freenode.net.

It would be nice if you could update the <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam]]</nowiki> if you are indeed a member of a LUG or <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-OtherGroups| Other Groups Members Page]]</nowiki> if you are a member of any other Linux or Free Software related groups.

=== Meetings ===
Meetings for Ubuntu-ZM usually happen once a month, in #ubuntu-zm-meeting on irc.freenode.net. The next scheduled meeting is <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=4&day=7&year=2010&hour=19&min=00&sec=0&p1=0|28th April 2010, 19:00 UTC (20:00 BST)]]</nowiki>

The next meeting agenda is located on <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeamMeetingAgenda]]</nowiki>. Please feel free to read this before the meeting, or add your own agenda items. 

Minutes of the last meeting can be found at <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-LastMeeting]]</nowiki>, and previous meetings are documented on <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-MeetingNotes]]</nowiki>. 

=== Contact ===
'''Team Point of Contact:''' Kafwana Wandi <<BR>>
'''Mailing list:''' <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-zm|ubuntu-zm]]</nowiki><<BR>>
'''Internet Relay Chat (<nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-IRC|IRC]]</nowiki>):''' #ubuntu-zm on irc.freenode.net

For a more detailed list of contacts and responsibilities you can review the <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-Contact]]</nowiki> page

=== Projects ===
The ZambiaTeam are involved in many long and short term projects which vary in goals from Advocacy to Linux User Groups and Expo attendance. Completed and longer term projects of the ZambiaTeam can be found <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-Projects| here]]</nowiki>.

We organsed a stall at Lug Radio Live 2005/6/7/8, and will be doing so again in 2009.

In addition the ZambiaTeam have an <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-IdeasPool| Ideas Pool]]</nowiki> where members can easily suggest things that the UKTeam should be doing.

Completed projects can be found on the <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-CompletedProjects| Completed Projects]]</nowiki> page.

=== Support ===
There is a whole load of documentation at <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki> but feel free to ask a question on the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-zm|mailing list]]</nowiki> or in <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-IRC|IRC]]</nowiki> if you need help with anything. We also maintain a list of some Zambia-specific <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-Hardware| hardware support]]</nowiki>. Support is also available from the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support|global Ubuntu community]]</nowiki>

If you intend to help support new users, please consider adopting the <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-Support_Guidelines|Support Guidelines]]</nowiki>

=== Additional Links ===
* '''Logo''' - Our official logo (approved by Ubuntu) is <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-Logo|here]]</nowiki>.

* '''Gallery''' - A gallery of various general Ubuntu-UK related pictures can be found <nowiki>[[UKTeam-Gallery|here]]</nowiki> and Ubuntu-ZM members <nowiki>[[ZambiaTeam-Gallery-Members|here]]</nowiki>.

* '''Map''' - <nowiki>[[http://www.frappr.com/?a=constellation_map&mapid=137439504139|Ubuntu-ZM Frappr Map]]</nowiki>

* '''Venues''' - <nowiki>[[ZMTeam-Venues|Venues]]</nowiki> where the UK team can host events.

----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryMarketing CategoryUbuntuTeams <nowiki>[[CategoryZambiaTeam]]</nowiki>
