{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Name:  Zarul Shahrin<<BR>> 
Email: <<BR>>
Launchpad ID: https://launchpad.net/people/zarulshahrin/ <<BR>>
'''IRC'''<<BR>>
Nickname: Zarul <<BR>>
Server: irc.freenode.org<<BR>>  
Channel: #ubuntu-my

=== About Me ===

My name is Zarul Shahrin.I've been using linux since 5 years ago and amongst the pioneers in introducing Ubuntu-Linux in my country. I founded the MalaysianTeam last year with the aim to get more people in my country to use linux. Though everything was a bit slow at first, we have been getting a lot of good responds lately due to our effort in distributing CDs in conferences, fairs etc. At the moment we have more than 20 active registered members helping us promoting Ubuntu. 

Among the things I have done:

1. Distribute Ubuntu Cds at conferences/fairs/events.

2. Recommending Ubuntu linux to my college lecturers and students.

3. Helping small business owners to setup Ubuntu on their machines/servers.

4. Helping local colleges/universities getting Ubuntu Cds.

5. Answering questions sent to me via email about Ubuntu.

Some of the things that I am doing now:

1. Building our local team website.

2. Recruiting new members.

3. Planning our group activities.

----

=== My Goal ===

1. To see MalaysianTeam becomes an official Loco team.

2. To come out with our own official local distro based on Ubuntu.

3. To make MalaysianTeam one of the best loco team.
  
CategoryHomepage
