{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===

* Welcome new members (meeting chair)
* Review minutes of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20101018 | previous meeting]]</nowiki> (meeting chair)
* Ubuntu and OpenOffice at schools (drubin)
** Demo to CAT/IT teachers in January? [1]
* Geeknic (maiatoday)
* Facebook group and events (drubin or maiatoday)
* bot-admin permissions on the #ubuntu-za channel (meeting chair)
* Next meeting? Cancel December and resume January? (maiatoday)
* CD's from canonical (drubin) 
* '''Agenda item 2''' (Topic``Leader)
** More details (optional)

[1] marcog is very likely going to present a Python workshop to ~30 CAT/IT teachers in January for Umonya. This might be an opportunity for someone to come give an Ubuntu+OO demo to them as well. If we can convert some teachers, I'd be more than happy to include Ubuntu+OO into our computer club syllabus.

=== Summary ===

<pre> 
Minutes

[17:34:13] STARTED (maiatoday)
[17:35:58] TOPIC: Introduce new members (maiatoday)
[17:41:27] TOPIC: review previous meeting minutes (maiatoday)
[17:43:19] AGREED: drubin will do a backup and restore test today after the meeting (drubin)
[17:44:27] AGREED: superfly will try to install the gcal module (maiatoday)
[17:45:04] TOPIC: Ubuntu and OpenOffice at schools (maiatoday)
[17:56:08] AGREED: discuss ubuntu in schools on the Mailing list (drubin or maiatoday or superfly) (maiatoday)
[17:56:54] TOPIC: Geeknic (maiatoday)
[17:59:22] AGREED: start ML thread to remind about geeknic and organise lifts (maiatoday) (maiatoday)
[18:00:48] TOPIC: Facebook group and events (maiatoday)
[18:05:37] AGREED: make link to facebook group on ubuntu-za.org (maiatoday) (maiatoday)
[18:06:31] AGREED: make ubuntu-hour events on facebook (drubin or maiatoday) (maiatoday)
[18:08:56] IDEA: fanpage or group on facebook, which is better? (superfly inetpro and drubin to investigate) (maiatoday)
[18:09:47] TOPIC: bot-admin permissions on the #ubuntu-za channel (maiatoday)
[18:12:46] TOPIC: Next meeting? Cancel December and resume January (maiatoday)
[18:18:57] AGREED: next meeting 13 dec 19h30 (maiatoday)
[18:21:10] AGREED: get cds from drubin and take them to joburg (maiatoday) (maiatoday)
[18:21:33] AGREED: give bob or some one else CDS to take to UCT (drubin) (drubin)
[18:22:51] ENDED (maiatoday)

Present

Johan Mynhardt (nuvolari)
Raoul Snyman (superfly)
Maia Grotepass (maiatoday)
David Rubin (drubin)
Corrie Strydom (corrie206)
cocooncrash
Hendrik van Wyk (Tonberry)
Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
marcog
tumbleweed
Rodemire Tarazone (Rodemire)
nlsthzn
</pre>

=== Log ===
<nowiki>[[http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2010-11-15-17-34-13.html|Detail Log]]</nowiki>
<pre>
Raw Log
[17:34:13] <maiatoday> Maaz: start meeting about ubuntu-za monthly meeting
[17:34:13] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[17:34:15] * nuvolari puts on his tutu and gets his pom-poms
[17:34:20] <nuvolari> :P
[17:34:26] <maiatoday> Maaz: I am Maia Grotepass
[17:34:26] <Maaz> maiatoday: Done
[17:34:26] <drubin> Maaz: I am David Rubin
[17:34:26] <Maaz> drubin: Alrighty
[17:34:32] <inetpro> I am Gustav Meyer
[17:34:41] <nuvolari> Maaz: I am Johan Mynhardt
[17:34:41] <Maaz> nuvolari: Okay
[17:34:49] <inetpro> hmm...
[17:34:51] <inetpro> I am Gustav H Meyer
[17:34:54] <drubin> inetpro: ^ test the bot
[17:34:57] <drubin> tell
[17:34:59] <maiatoday> you have to tell maaz
[17:34:59] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[17:34:59] <Maaz> inetpro: Righto
[17:34:59] <Tonberry> Maaz: I am Hendrik van Wyk
[17:34:59] <Maaz> Tonberry: Righto
[17:35:06] <Rodemire> Maaz: I am Rodemire Tarazone
[17:35:06] <Maaz> Rodemire: Alrighty
[17:35:21] <maiatoday> agenda at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20101115
[17:35:58] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic Introduce new members
[17:35:58] <Maaz> Current Topic: Introduce new members
[17:36:03] <nuvolari> ooh :D beautiful! It's the first time I see the new wiki
[17:36:07] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[17:36:07] <Maaz> superfly: Alrighty
[17:36:32] <maiatoday> hello new members, I don't know who is new, anybody wants to introduce themselves be my guest
[17:37:06] <superfly> Tonberry, Rodemire: You guys are quite new... do you know why we're having this monthly meeting?
[17:37:17] <drubin> Hi guys that are new... feel free to just shout out if you have something usefull to say (even if you think it isn't that useful)
[17:37:43] * nlsthzn is not a member but is new ;)
[17:37:58] <nuvolari> nlsthzn: it's never too late
[17:38:01] <maiatoday> newness is welcome :D
[17:38:06] <superfly> nlsthzn: Do you know why we're having this monthly meeting?
[17:38:16] <nuvolari> ya, we like new members, it's like new toys :P
[17:38:20] <nlsthzn> superfly: Not really, thats why I am here
[17:38:30] <maiatoday> anybody who wants to join ubuntu-za it's on launchpad
[17:38:33] <Rodemire> Its a monthly meeting, I attended last month.
[17:38:33] * inetpro new members? yay!! \o/
[17:38:42] <Tonberry> because they are better than daily meetings?
[17:38:48] <superfly> nlsthzn: well, one of the requirements of a registered LoCo is to have monthly meetings
[17:38:54] <maiatoday> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-za
[17:39:09] <nlsthzn> Gotcha (will come in handy starting one in the UAE :)
[17:39:22] <superfly> I think it's a way for the LoCos to be able to plan things and interact in a slightly more official communication as well
[17:39:37] <superfly> *slightly more official way
[17:39:49] * superfly was thinking about 2 sentences at the same time
[17:40:03] <nuvolari> heh, who's snowflake?
[17:40:21] <superfly> nlsthzn: LoCos have to show that they have sufficient activity in order to remain official Ubuntu LoCos
[17:40:42] <nlsthzn> superfly: sounds reasonable
[17:40:57] <corrie206> evening, sorry I'm late
[17:40:59] <superfly> so the monthly meetings are also a good way of maintaining activity :-)
[17:41:03] <Tonberry> oh yes that...
[17:41:05] <inetpro> nuvolari: snowflake?
[17:41:12] <corrie206> Maaz: I am Corrie Strydom
[17:41:12] <Maaz> corrie206: Alrighty
[17:41:15] <maiatoday> I'm going to move along a bit, new people you can always ask questions
[17:41:22] <nuvolari> inetpro: on the user list ~ubuntu-za
[17:41:27] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic review previous meeting minutes
[17:41:27] <Maaz> Current Topic: review previous meeting minutes
[17:41:29] <Kilos> Maaz, I am Miles Sharpe
[17:41:29] <Maaz> Kilos: Done
[17:41:46] <inetpro> nuvolari: ahh ok
[17:42:33] <maiatoday> I just scanned the old minutes and it looks like we are only missing two things, the gcal module and the backup restore, or did we do them?
[17:42:44] <drubin> I can start report back about "website security issues" I updated the website last month with the security updates.. and today updated the minor updates that were avaiable
[17:42:58] <drubin> No I didn't do a backup and restore...
[17:43:13] <maiatoday> oops I missed the security updates one
[17:43:19] <drubin> Maaz: agreed drubin will do a backup and restore test today after the meeting.
[17:43:19] <Maaz> Agreed: drubin will do a backup and restore test today after the meeting
[17:43:20] <maiatoday> it was just a topic
[17:43:37] <maiatoday> and the gcal thing?
[17:43:56] <superfly> Didn't do that :-( I'll look at installing it tonight as well
[17:44:10] <drubin> how badly could things break?
[17:44:27] <maiatoday> Maaz agreed superfly will try to install the gcal module
[17:44:27] <Maaz> Agreed: superfly will try to install the gcal module
[17:44:33] <superfly> drubin: they shouldn't. if they do, I can remove the module and things should be back to normal
[17:45:02] <maiatoday> ok then moving on?
[17:45:04] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic Ubuntu and OpenOffice at schools
[17:45:04] <Maaz> Current Topic: Ubuntu and OpenOffice at schools
[17:45:42] <drubin> O marcog added this..
[17:45:47] <maiatoday> this was your topic drubin?
[17:45:50] <inetpro> this is an interesting one, and I wish we could see this happen at some point
[17:46:00] <drubin> after the last month I emailed a few schools about using ubuntu and OO in schools
[17:46:09] <nuvolari> hmm, but wath about Libre office now?
[17:46:20] <nuvolari> since ubuntu is moving there
[17:46:24] <drubin> some schools have already started implementing this. (there are 2 that I know of) so wondered how we could help if possible
[17:46:39] <drubin> nuvolari: kinda off topic :) it does't really matter which one they pic (IMHO)
[17:47:03] <inetpro> there are to few schools that have done this
[17:47:06] <drubin> i am more intersted in the process and how we can help (if we can) as aposed to exactly what versions they use
[17:47:13] <inetpro> we have a lot of work to do still
[17:47:20] <drubin> inetpro: You seen to have the most dealings with schools what do you recomment?
[17:47:26] <maiatoday> how did we want to tackle this? demos? meetings with people?
[17:47:48] <inetpro> drubin: I'm only involved in a single school at the moment
[17:47:52] <corrie206> drubin: what was the feedback on your mails?
[17:48:01] <inetpro> and it is damn hard to change people's mindset
[17:48:16] <maiatoday> it feels like we need to make a blueprint and a project just a few suggestions in a monthly meeting may not be enough
[17:48:43] <Tonberry> open source propaganda at schools maybe?
[17:48:58] <inetpro> we need more people on the ground that know about and use OO.org/LibreOffice
[17:48:59] <drubin> corrie206: One amazing.. said we should do coffee and he would be glad to help out and explain stuff. Other one was slightly more "the principal mad me do this"
[17:49:12] <inetpro> the perception is very much that nobody is using it
[17:49:13] <drubin> but it is a serious issue because MS has stopped giving free student editions to schools
[17:49:26] <superfly> Tonberry: one has to be careful of propaganda... it can backfire horribly
[17:49:34] <drubin> so from a pure money reason it will be harder for public schools to keep supporting the Widnows and MS office licences
[17:49:36] <maiatoday> also I know head of a school who wants to use ubuntu, but I don't want to start it off if I don't have a good support company for him to use
[17:49:46] <maiatoday> I certainly don't want to do all the support
[17:49:53] <nuvolari> Maybe mentioning professional institutions that use it will help in spreading the word, like the CSIR use ODF exclusively
[17:50:05] <inetpro> maiatoday: I'm in the same boat
[17:50:30] <drubin> are there seriously NO compnaies in SA that provide professional support for FlOSS products?
[17:50:43] <superfly> yes, it would be great if there was a company to support schools, but I think the only problem is that there is very little money in that
[17:50:45] <maiatoday> we also need a list of people who will install and get things going, this guy spends money on it anyway and he'd rather spend the license money on equipment or support
[17:50:49] <drubin> i mean in these situations the support contracts would (possibly) be cheaper then the licences
[17:51:25] <drubin> superfly: are we so sure?
[17:51:30] <drubin> about the money I mean...
[17:51:38] <drubin> 1000's of schools needing support
[17:51:46] <superfly> drubin: honestly, no, but we know the schools themselves struggle with money
[17:52:04] <inetpro> superfly: that is for sure
[17:52:09] <Tonberry> one company cannot support every school in the country
[17:52:18] <Tonberry> distances become a problem...
[17:52:24] * inetpro agrees with Tonberry
[17:52:24] <drubin> it could if it was big enough. ;-p
[17:52:26] <superfly> inetpro: does your school have budget for IT support?
[17:52:37] <inetpro> superfly: very very limited
[17:52:44] <drubin> most schools seem to have IT staff on hand?
[17:52:50] <superfly> yeah, that's what I was thinking
[17:52:54] <drubin> what about training programs
[17:53:23] <drubin> i brought this up because I don't know what else we could do but it seems like something we should be invovled with or at least try
[17:53:50] <superfly> drubin: also cost moola, unfortunately, and who would pay?
[17:54:06] <maiatoday> drubin I aggree
[17:54:08] <drubin> maybe we should side line this?
[17:54:25] <drubin> it is a HUGE topic that we might need to have a whole nother meeting
[17:54:26] <maiatoday> yes I think we should take it to a separate brainstorm/meeting
[17:54:28] <superfly> drubin: I agree completely
[17:54:31] <superfly> (not that I really have the time or the money :-( )
[17:54:45] <inetpro> drubin: I think there are only two ways to tackle this, 1. dept of education and 2. get lots of people to use it at ground level
[17:54:52] <drubin> superfly: but you have the brains... good idea's often solve the other to issues.
[17:55:09] <maiatoday> ok shall we move this to a ML discussion?
[17:55:15] <drubin> agreed
[17:55:20] <maiatoday> or shall we make a separate meeting sometime?
[17:55:26] <superfly> maiatoday: yeah, or a separate meeting
[17:55:28] <superfly> heh
[17:55:30] <superfly> maiatoday: ^5
[17:55:30] <drubin> maybe petition and get schools/teachers/students to sign?
[17:55:45] <drubin> </end>
[17:55:52] <Tonberry> after telling them what openoffice is...
[17:56:01] <corrie206> maybe get the students involved?
[17:56:08] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed discuss ubuntu in schools on the Mailing list (drubin or maiatoday or superfly)
[17:56:08] <Maaz> Agreed: discuss ubuntu in schools on the Mailing list (drubin or maiatoday or superfly)
[17:56:54] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic Geeknic
[17:56:54] <Maaz> Current Topic: Geeknic
[17:57:08] <maiatoday> ok the geeknic is 28 Nov sunday at kirstenbosch
[17:57:16] <maiatoday> we meet at 10:00 at the main gate
[17:57:22] <maiatoday> email me if you need my number
[17:57:29] <drubin> maiatoday gets cookie credits for making yet another thing happen!!!!
[17:57:37] <drubin> maiatoday: and yes I will deliver at the geeknic
[17:57:40] <maiatoday> you can rsvp on the facebook group or loco.ubuntu.com
[17:57:45] <maiatoday> hehe
[17:57:49] <maiatoday> thanks drubin
[17:58:07] <maiatoday> there isn't much more to do about it except go and bring what you want to eat and drink
[17:58:13] <drubin> maiatoday: any thing else? lifts foods
[17:58:14] <maiatoday> any questions?
[17:58:25] <inetpro> maiatoday: maiatoday +1 [ for active participation ]
[17:58:35] <maiatoday> well if everybody brings what the want there will will be enough food :)
[17:58:39] <inetpro> Maaz: maiatoday +1 [ for active participation ]
[17:58:39] <Maaz> inetpro: Sorry...
[17:58:45] <inetpro> Maaz: maiatoday+1 [ for active participation ]
[17:58:45] <Maaz> inetpro: Sorry...
[17:58:53] <inetpro> eish...
[17:58:54] <nuvolari> inetpro: ++
[17:58:56] <maiatoday> email me if you need lifts
[17:59:05] <inetpro> Maaz: maiatoday++ [ for active participation ]
[17:59:22] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed start ML thread to remind about geeknic and organise lifts (maiatoday)
[17:59:22] <Maaz> Agreed: start ML thread to remind about geeknic and organise lifts (maiatoday)
[17:59:31] <superfly> maiatoday: I think we need to specify no computers :-P
[17:59:45] <maiatoday> I hate saying that to geeks
[17:59:54] <nuvolari> superfly: then you may also not take your phone with :P
[17:59:54] <superfly> hehe
[18:00:06] <superfly> nuvolari: blah! it's my phone, OK?
[18:00:07] <drubin> LOL
[18:00:14] <superfly> nuvolari: I can't help that it's also a mini-netbook!
[18:00:33] <nuvolari> lol, but it's running a full OS on there, it's o computer
[18:00:32] <maiatoday> qeeknic questions?
[18:00:46] <maiatoday> gone
[18:00:48] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic Facebook group and events
[18:00:48] <Maaz> Current Topic: Facebook group and events
[18:00:46] <maiatoday> going going ...
[18:00:48] <nuvolari> cool mini-netbook though
[18:01:02] <maiatoday> you all know there is an ubuntu-za facebook group
[18:01:12] <nuvolari> there is?
[18:01:17] * nuvolari looks for it
[18:01:23] * inetpro is a member already
[18:01:35] <superfly> Indeedy
[18:01:41] <drubin> http://www.facebook.com/#!/group.php?gid=4581390722
[18:01:41] <nuvolari> inetpro: geek
[18:01:44] <nuvolari> :P
[18:01:51] <inetpro> :-)
[18:02:09] <maiatoday> sorry about the duplicate geeknic event on there, but if I remove one it will cancel it and that will confuse everybody
[18:02:12]
[18:02:22] * nuvolari joined
[18:02:22] <drubin> http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=155801271130481&index=12 AND http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=141226859260177&index=1
[18:02:22] <maiatoday> drubin what else do we need to say on this topic?
[18:02:26] <drubin> we don't know how to fix it...
[18:02:45] <drubin> maiatoday: I wanted to say we should push these events on FB more often.. more people might come (the new non geeky people)
[18:02:54] <inetpro> don't worry about the duplicate, the event will soon be over
[18:03:09] <inetpro> next time just do it right :-)
[18:03:21] <Kilos> lol
[18:03:27] <drubin> i mean there are people on there I don't know. (great thing)
[18:03:29] <Kilos> cheeky
[18:03:32] <maiatoday> yeah tell that to facebook, it told me it messed up and then it did
[18:03:34] <inetpro> ahh... Kilos is here also :-)
[18:03:58] <drubin> maiatoday: that is all i had to say
[18:04:03] <maiatoday> ok cool
[18:04:10] <inetpro> maiatoday: wait
[18:04:35] <inetpro> I think you should/could also create the meeting events on facebook
[18:05:07] <drubin> mmm meetings maybe ubuntu-hours's yes :
[18:05:11] <maiatoday> also we should make a link to the facebook group on the ubuntu-za.org
[18:05:17] * inetpro wishes there was better integration between Google Calendar and facebook events
[18:05:37] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed make link to facebook group on ubuntu-za.org (maiatoday)
[18:05:37] <Maaz> Agreed: make link to facebook group on ubuntu-za.org (maiatoday)
[18:06:18] <maiatoday> Maaz: make ubuntu-hour events on facebook (drubin or maiatoday)
[18:06:18] <Maaz> maiatoday: Sorry...
[18:06:22] <superfly> maiatoday, drubin: I'm wondering if a Fan page might not be a better idea than a group?
[18:06:31] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed make ubuntu-hour events on facebook (drubin or maiatoday)
[18:06:31] <Maaz> Agreed: make ubuntu-hour events on facebook (drubin or maiatoday)
[18:06:33] * drubin doesn't know
[18:06:38] <drubin> I hardly use FB other then to stalk people
[18:06:42] * inetpro agrees with superfly
[18:06:59] <superfly> drubin: I'll look around at what is available for groups (in the forms of widgets and things)
[18:07:04] <inetpro> drubin is a spy?
[18:07:19] <superfly> a group is better from a changing admin point of view
[18:07:20] <drubin> superfly: Problem with fan page is can you invite people that aren't your friends?
[18:07:44] <drubin> changing admin? meaining?
[18:07:57] <superfly> drubin: well, if I create a Fan page, it is mine for life
[18:08:14] <superfly> if you create a group, and then leave the group, I can take over admin of the gorup
[18:08:15] <drubin> I see your point.
[18:08:16] <superfly> *group
[18:08:30] <inetpro> drubin: pages are better
[18:08:40] <drubin> but can you invite people to events?
[18:08:52] <inetpro> drubin: I think so yes
[18:08:56] <maiatoday> Maaz: idea fanpage or group on facebook, which is better? (superfly inetpro and drubin to investigate)
[18:08:56] <Maaz> Idea recorded: fanpage or group on facebook, which is better? (superfly inetpro and drubin to investigate)
[18:09:04] <drubin> because that was the biggest appeal for me.. create geeknic and invite random people that you don't know :)
[18:09:08] <superfly> not that I'm going anywhere, but if I get hit by a bus, it's easier if I was an admin of a group ;-)
[18:09:32] <drubin> superfly: We do need to plan for getting hit by the buss
[18:09:47] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic bot-admin permissions on the #ubuntu-za channel
[18:09:47] <Maaz> Current Topic: bot-admin permissions on the #ubuntu-za channel
[18:09:48] <inetpro> ok, we'll look into it later
[18:10:00] <inetpro> bot-admin is sorted
[18:10:02] <maiatoday> that's sorted no?
[18:10:14] <inetpro> thanks to cocooncrash
[18:10:33] <drubin> maiatoday: you are chairing the meeting and crash gave me "grant bot-access" permisions :)
[18:10:54] <maiatoday> woohoo, brain time to rule the world
[18:10:57] <inetpro> drubin: it would be nice if we could get permission from cocooncrash to invite the bot into our afrikaans channel
[18:11:13] <cocooncrash> Fine with me if you want it.
[18:11:25] <inetpro> cocooncrash: great, thanks
[18:11:32] <maiatoday> we'll have to teach her to speak afrikaans then :P
[18:11:36] <cocooncrash> Maaz: join #ubuntu-afr
[18:11:36] <Maaz> cocooncrash: Joining #ubuntu-afr
[18:11:48] <inetpro> maiatoday: Kilos has done a lot of it already :-)
[18:11:56] <maiatoday> cool
[18:12:06] <maiatoday> any more bot related requests
[18:12:42] <maiatoday> ok then
[18:12:46] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic Next meeting? Cancel December and resume January?
[18:12:46] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting? Cancel December and resume January
[18:12:56] <maiatoday> sounds good to me
[18:13:03] <inetpro> why?
[18:13:19] <superfly> we could meet on the 13th of Jan
[18:13:26] <superfly> I mean, 13th of Dec
[18:13:35] <drubin> how many people are going away during december?
[18:13:36] <maiatoday> ok I'm happy to do a meeting too, whatever you decide
[18:13:41] <drubin> Most people work any way...
[18:13:58] <drubin> I think we should have it, if no one pitches up then no one pitches up.
[18:14:09] * nlsthzn knows the schools are closing the 10th of Dec...
[18:14:14] <maiatoday> I didn't put the topic on the agenda and I have irc on my phone so eitherway
[18:14:15] <inetpro> ok, I might not be there but I think we should still have it
[18:14:29]
[18:14:36] <superfly> I'll still be around
[18:14:39] <inetpro> even if it's just very short
[18:14:50] <marcog> i was thinking rather not let the meetings dwindle with fewer people, cancel and focus on things in jan again
[18:14:50] <inetpro> continuity!
[18:14:51] <maiatoday> so it's going to be 13 dec then?
[18:15:05] <marcog> what's possibly gonna happen between 13 dec and 13 jan?
[18:15:13] <superfly> Christmas! :-P
[18:15:14] <corrie206> i'll be here (i hope, but those busses...)
[18:15:26] <marcog> superfly: i mean ubuntu-za stuff :P
[18:15:34] <superfly> hehe
[18:15:53] <drubin> marcog: Most of the people here dont "go home for the school holidays"
[18:16:04] <superfly> well, maybe drubin and I will have finally gotten to doing our site stuff :-P
[18:16:25] <drubin> that was what I was thinking but saying things like that invovle pormises
[18:16:28] <marcog> drubin: i know, but the purpose of meetings is to discuss what's happening in the next month or so...is anything happening this time of year?
[18:16:32] <drubin> promises*
[18:16:58] <drubin> moving on?
[18:17:18] <inetpro> google summer of code happens in holidays
[18:17:55] <maiatoday> whew mu usb hub crashed I almost lost you there
[18:17:57] <superfly> I'm happy to have the meeting
[18:18:19] <maiatoday> ok well the third monday is 20-dec so we move it earlier by a week and have it anyway
[18:18:33] <inetpro> +1
[18:18:57] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed next meeting 13 dec 19h30
[18:18:57] <Maaz> Agreed: next meeting 13 dec 19h30
[18:19:20] <maiatoday> ok is there anything else we need to talk about?
[18:19:29] <inetpro> CD's from canonical
[18:19:29] <marcog> inetpro: also the high school version :)
[18:19:48] <marcog> inetpro: ya, CT has none
[18:19:57] <drubin> ye what are we doing with them ;/
[18:20:19] <marcog> drubin: ~5 guys came from stellenbosch to uct this past saturday :/
[18:20:21] <drubin> maiatoday: you said you will take some up to JHB but the cpt ones I am bad at this we need to make a plan to give them out
[18:20:27] <marcog> and possibly again next weekend
[18:20:32] <drubin> marcog: I come though often.
[18:20:41] <inetpro> drubin: you can send some to me
[18:20:43] <maiatoday> yes I'll take them to joburg
[18:20:46] <drubin> the problem is reminding me to give them.
[18:20:50] * inetpro will hand them to kids at school
[18:21:01] <drubin> I am horidly bad and remembering I have them in my boot
[18:21:10] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed get cds from drubin and take them to joburg (maiatoday)
[18:21:10] <Maaz> Agreed: get cds from drubin and take them to joburg (maiatoday)
[18:21:12] <inetpro> will ask my son to hand them to who-ever want
[18:21:33] <drubin> Maaz: agreed give bob or some one else CDS to take to UCT (drubin)
[18:21:33] <Maaz> Agreed: give bob or some one else CDS to take to UCT (drubin)
[18:21:59] <drubin> are we done?
[18:22:09] <maiatoday> I have nothing else
[18:22:11] <inetpro> corrie206 will just have to be ready to support our locals around here :-)
[18:22:15] <superfly> me neither
[18:22:16] * tumbleweed arrives
[18:22:33] <inetpro> tumbleweed: wb
[18:22:35] <corrie206> inetpro: sure!
[18:22:38] <superfly> tumbleweed: just in time for the end of the meeting
[18:22:40] <maiatoday> ok I think we are done, going going
[18:22:48] <drubin> nlsthzn: Did you finish the popcorns
[18:22:49] <maiatoday> gone
[18:22:51] <maiatoday> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>

----
ZATeam
