{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Cape Town Global Jam, August 2010 ==

RSVP: <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/237/detail/|here]]</nowiki>

=== Schedule ===

* Start: 2pm
* <nowiki>[[http://umonya.co.za/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1&Itemid=8|Python Course]]</nowiki> kids arrive: 3-30pm 
* Talks: 3:30pm
* End: 6pm

=== Talks Offers ===

* My first Debian package -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:stefanor]]</nowiki>  * Merging and Syncing from Debian (a Packaging Talk) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:stefanor]]</nowiki>  * Anything else people want me to do -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:stefanor]]</nowiki>  * Different desktop managers a comparison. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:drubin]]</nowiki>  * Distributed Version Control with Bazaar -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:raoul-snyman]]</nowiki>  * Show some of these vids https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMovies
* The Making of the T-shirt -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:maiatoday]]</nowiki>

=== Talk Requests ===

* Translations (from a local translator)
* Bug Triaging
* Testing Development Releases

=== Ideas ===

* Have technical talks early, so people can get started. We can then have some more beginnery talks when the kids finish their python course.
   - You will also be getting potentially bob, Vaughan, Hamdulay, kieren, Michiel, Sigh, Nomad010, ShadowMaster, graham, gwylim, etc. after the Python course. Keep that in mind when scheduling the tech talks.
* If People haven't seen Big Buck Bunny (ie the python kids) we can show this again, it is only 10 minutes and was made in Blender. Maybe even the older Blender movie, Elephants dream or the Apricot game.
* Demo of games that run in Ubuntu e.g. Osmos, Machinarium or others
