{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Meeting Info ===

Monthly South African Ubuntu LoCo meeting on 15 April 2013 at 19:30 SAST.

'''South African Ubuntu team page''': <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>

'''Background''': Our meetings are held for about 60 minutes once a month in our IRC channel, #ubuntu-za on freenode. For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-za.org/| ubuntu-za page]]</nowiki>.

We are a community of ubuntu users and all interested people are welcome to join us and are encouraged to give comments and suggestions. Please subscribe to our mailing list to receive meeting announcements. 

* <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings| Previous meetings]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it. Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone collaborate and avoids last minute surprises.

Meeting Chair: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~wesley-werner|wesley-werner (Wesley Werner)]]</nowiki>

* Welcoming and Introduction
** The chairperson introduces him-/herself and welcomes everyone to the meeting while he asks everyone to sign the attendance register by way of introducing themselves to the channel bot Maaz. eg: Maaz: I am FirstName LastName 
* Review previous minutes (<nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20130318| March 18, 2013]]</nowiki> |  (<nowiki>[[http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2013-03-18-17-34-02.txt|text log]]</nowiki>)
** Reports & Committments from previous meetings
* Administrativia & Announcements
** The chair gves a brief background about procedures and makes a few announcements or allows somebody to talk on his behalf.
* Ubuntu+1 development status and community feedback
* Events
** See LoCo meeting details for more events
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule|RaringRingtail]]</nowiki> release on Thursday, 25 April 2013  
** Release Parties
* Miscellaneous
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 20 May 2013 to be chaired by: ???

=== Minutes ===
==== Attendance ====

Meeting convened on 2013-04-15 at 19:30 SAST by CHAIR in #ubuntu-za on freenode

* LIST OF ATTENDANTS TO BE PASTED HERE AFTER THE MEETING

==== Summary ====

SUMMARY OF MEETING TO BE PASTED HERE AFTER THE MEETING

==== Log ====

LINK TO RAW LOGS TO BE PASTED HERE AFTER THE MEETING

----
ZATeam
