{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting Info ===

Meeting about Ubuntu-ZA August 2010

insert meeting info from Maaz here after the meeting

=== Agenda ===

* Review <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20100708#Summary |previous minutes ]]</nowiki>
* Upcoming Events:
** Ubuntu demo to ~70 kids in TSL on Friday 27 Aug 14:30-16:00
*** Anyone is welcome to pitch in, talk to Ben (Sigh on shadowfire)
** Global Jam - <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/237/detail/ | 27th - 29th August]]</nowiki>
*** What have we got planned for CT Jam?
*** What do we have left to do?
*** Any other offers for talks?
*** Any other Jams we don't know about? Do they need help?
*** Posters printing and putting up
**** UCT and Stellenbosch; do we want to spread the word any further?
**** Email announcement to clug, sulug, etc.
*** Car pooling from Stellenbosch, maybe put info on website
** Software Freedom Day - 18 Sept
** Maverick release party - 10 Oct
*** Alternate release parties between UCT and Stellenbosch, with the next one at UCT?
*** Other centers try get hype going.
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/282/detail/| Geeknic?]]</nowiki> proposed date 21 Nov, Kirstenbosch
* Activity in other centers. CPT/Stellenbosch seems semi active try get others involved.
** Hop on the bandwagon of the Python courses in Jhb and Durban in 2011 to spark some interest?
* Website. Reviews/ Posts

=== Summary ===

<pre>
[17:04:19] STARTED (drubin)
[17:07:58] TOPIC: Previous Minutes (drubin)
[17:13:29] AGREED: drubin will post new pic from ubuntu hour (drubin)
[17:16:55] TOPIC: Events: Ubuntu Demo (drubin)
[17:22:22] AGREED: tumbleweed Will find out about Ubuntu CD's to hand out at Algo circle event (drubin)
[17:31:45] TOPIC: global jam (tumbleweed)
[17:37:05] AGREED: tumbleweed will organise transparent proxying to LEG (tumbleweed)
[17:38:12] AGREED: maiatoday will figure out what to demo and add it to the wiki (tumbleweed)
[17:39:08] AGREED: we need to give maiatoday driving meeting access to the bot (drubin)
[17:53:17] AGREED: maiatoday will write announcements and send to the appropriate mailing lists (tumbleweed)
[17:53:46] AGREED: drubin will add stuff about car pooling to the wiki (with links to website profiles for contact details) (drubin)
[17:55:27] TOPIC: Software Freedom Day - 18 Sept (tumbleweed)
[18:08:39] AGREED: we kind of like the idea fo an outside event, we want people to be able to use laptops / PCs if they want, we'd like to engage with a wider audience. to be discussed further on th ML (tumbleweed)
[18:09:36] TOPIC: maverick release party (tumbleweed)
[18:17:13] TOPIC: geeknic (drubin)
[18:18:57] TOPIC: other centers (drubin)
[18:21:58] ENDED (drubin)
</pre>

=== Log ===

<nowiki>[[http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2010-08-16-17-04-19.html|Complete log of meeting]]</nowiki>

----
ZATeam
