{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 23 August 2016 
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''chesedo'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20160726#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2016
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
*** magespawn - need testimonies
*** tareq
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu for Hope - update
* Events
** Past Month:
*** ?
** Other:
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** ?
* Miscellaneous
** Get more involved with lugs to promote Ubuntu and Foss together
** Discuss Ubuntu education project
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 27 September 2016

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:10] STARTED (chesedo)
[18:30:19] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (chesedo)
[18:34:59] AGREED: No one raised issue with agenda (chesedo)
[18:36:29] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (chesedo)
[18:39:25] AGREED: All happy with previous minutes (chesedo)
[18:40:05] TOPIC: Plans for 2016 (chesedo)
[18:51:27] AGREED: To add Kapanda's membership to our trello task list (chesedo)
[18:52:33] AGREED: chesedo needs to contact kulelu88 for Ubuntu for Hope website (chesedo)
[18:54:22] AGREED: To discuss testimonies for magespawn's membership at next meeting (chesedo)
[18:54:56] TOPIC: Events (chesedo)
[19:00:35] IDEA: At SFD (17 Sept) to next meeting's agenda (chesedo)
[19:04:52] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (chesedo)
[19:12:08] AGREED: To remove lug's involvement from agendas (chesedo)
[19:25:31] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (chesedo)
[19:26:43] AGREED: chesedo to chair next meeting (chesedo)
[19:27:04] TOPIC: Next meeting (chesedo)
[19:27:16] AGREED: Next meeting is 27 September 2016 @ 20:30 (chesedo)
[19:28:11] ENDED (chesedo)

Present
=======  ==

* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Matthew Thompson (SEptic)
* William Kinghorn (williamk)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Andrew Mac (andrewlsd)
* qwebirc13025
* Vincent Swart (Vince-0)
* JG du Preez (FusionSparc)
* Kapanda
* S. M. Pavel Sayekat (pavlushka)
* a willards cheese curl (nlsthzn)
* Zaki Chowdhury (zaki)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:10] <chesedo> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - August 2016
[18:30:10] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:30:19] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:19] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:24] <chesedo> A hearty welcome to all and thanks for joining in on out monthly meeting
[18:30:37] <chesedo> s/out/our/
[18:30:50] <chesedo> Our bot maaz does the minutes as usual so please introduce yourself to it using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg.
[18:30:58] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:30:58] <Maaz> chesedo: Yessir
[18:31:17] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer 
[18:31:17] <Maaz> inetpro: Yessir
[18:31:19] <SEptic> Maaz: I am Matthew Thompson
[18:31:19] <Maaz> SEptic: Righto
[18:31:23] <williamk> Maaz: I am William Kinghorn
[18:31:23] <Maaz> williamk: Done
[18:31:23] <chesedo> Today's agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160823
[18:31:24] <nlsthzn> Maaz: I am a willards cheese curl
[18:31:24] <Maaz> nlsthzn: Sure
[18:31:24] <zaki> Maaz: I am Zaki Chowdhury
[18:31:24] <Maaz> zaki: Done
[18:31:26] <FusionSparc> Maaz: I am JG du Preez
[18:31:26] <Maaz> FusionSparc: Sure
[18:31:40] <chesedo> the agenda is quite short so any last minute addition are welcome
[18:32:14] <Kilos> Maaz  I am Miles Sharpe
[18:32:14] <Maaz> Kilos: Sure
[18:32:18] <Kilos> hi inetpro 
[18:32:29] <andrewlsd> Maaz: I am Andrew Mac
[18:32:29] <Maaz> andrewlsd: Sure
[18:32:32] <chesedo> all happy with the agenda
[18:32:58] * nlsthzn is here for the free food, agenda's are optional
[18:32:59] <inetpro> hi everyone... oh and hi Kilos 
[18:33:11] <Kilos> lol
[18:33:20] <chesedo> nlsthzn: think you could be passed over the net... i am looking for a snack
[18:33:48] <nlsthzn> just give me access to your box via ssh and we see what we can do ;)
[18:33:55] * inetpro lurking again 
[18:34:06] * nlsthzn sees a lurking inetpro 
[18:34:13] <FusionSparc> lol
[18:34:25] * andrewlsd sees nlsthzn seeing inetpro lurking
[18:34:27] <chesedo> nlsthzn: preferably with a wooden bowl...
[18:34:51] <nlsthzn> bandwidth permitting 
[18:34:52] <andrewlsd> chesedo: I have never used a wooden bowl shell before. 
[18:34:59] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed No one raised issue with agenda
[18:34:59] <Maaz> Agreed: No one raised issue with agenda
[18:35:00] <andrewlsd> wbs
[18:35:24] <chesedo> andrewlsd: no, to hold the chips...
[18:35:26] 
[18:35:50] <Kilos> hi Kapanda 
[18:36:01] <Kapanda> Hi Kilos
[18:36:29] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:36:29] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:36:37] <chesedo> minutes of the previous meeting is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160726
[18:36:43] <chesedo> Feel free to go through it for a refresher
[18:37:19] <williamk> Hi Kapanda
[18:37:47] <chesedo> overall i think this has been a slow month with all previous 'tasks' still outstanding...
[18:38:03] <nlsthzn> I see I was there... 
[18:38:05] <chesedo> all also happy with previous minutes?
[18:38:30] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman 
[18:38:30] <Maaz> superfly: Alrighty
[18:38:30] <Kapanda> Hi williamk
[18:38:34] <inetpro> slow month? I thought it was just me 
[18:38:45] <nlsthzn> I am moderately satisfied with the minutes
[18:38:46] * chesedo has been too busy with studies, to have taken care of his tasks
[18:38:54] <superfly> Um, my month is anything but slow. 
[18:38:57] <Kilos> hi williamk 
[18:39:04] <Kilos> nice to see you here
[18:39:11] <chesedo> lol, thanks nlsthzn
[18:39:13] <FusionSparc> Nope...month does not want to end..
[18:39:16] <nlsthzn> superfly: America or bust
[18:39:25] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed All happy with previous minutes
[18:39:25] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with previous minutes
[18:39:55] <chesedo> the only issue there is that the chair called it Aug's meeting by mistake...
[18:40:05] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Plans for 2016
[18:40:05] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2016
[18:40:06] <nlsthzn> I call for a mistrail 
[18:40:08] <superfly> nlsthzn: dude, you have no idea... At least the US are on the ball. Kids' passports in less than 2 weeks. 
[18:40:13] <nlsthzn> mistrial even
[18:40:31] <Kapanda> I am happy
[18:40:34] <nlsthzn> passports or visa's?
[18:40:39] <williamk> Hi Kilos
[18:40:48] <superfly> Now to fight home affairs 
[18:40:54] <nlsthzn> glhf
[18:40:58] <chesedo> Anyone needing help with membership, launchpad ID, etc?
[18:41:05] <superfly> nlsthzn: passports, they are Americans
[18:41:12] <nlsthzn> oh ok
[18:41:20] <superfly> Oh yes. 
[18:41:21] <nlsthzn> pesky americans
[18:41:29] <chesedo> Kilos: i think mage's wiki page and testimonies will carry to next meeting?
[18:41:35] <FusionSparc> chesedo, I'd have to check those,havnt logged in for some time..
[18:41:48] * andrewlsd sees nlsthzn playing that trump card again.
[18:41:57] * nlsthzn had some interactions with ubuntu councils, yet again nothing good came from it
[18:41:58] <superfly> nlsthzn: I'm tell you more later 
[18:42:02] <chesedo> oh ok FusionSparc, which one?
[18:42:10] <nlsthzn> then again, it might have been two months ago
[18:42:14] <nlsthzn> superfly: k
[18:42:21] <FusionSparc> think the Launchpad ID
[18:42:34] <Kapanda> Yes I need membership certificate 
[18:43:14] <superfly> So who is chairing? 
[18:43:32] <chesedo> sesioned users help ^^ inetpro Kilos superfly nlsthzn
[18:43:36] <andrewlsd> chairing is caring.
[18:44:01] <superfly> chesedo: sessioned or seasoned? 
[18:44:04] <FusionSparc> Nvm, just logged in..Launchpad ID still good.. :)
[18:44:12] <chesedo> FusionSparc: login issue, missing...?
[18:44:21] <chesedo> oh ok
[18:44:22] * superfly doesn't know what sessioned means 
[18:44:31] <nlsthzn> I am very sessioned
[18:44:42] * andrewlsd thinks seasoned.
[18:45:02] <chesedo> Kapanda: Have you gone thru the details yet -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership
[18:45:05] <Kilos> nlsthzn get me involved with councils, ive made some friends there, so maybe we can sort something
[18:45:09] <FusionSparc> lol, nlsthzn . How long does your sessioned period last?
[18:45:26] <Kilos> chesedo add new member to that link
[18:45:27] <nlsthzn> FusionSparc: that is a very personal question :/
[18:45:45] <chesedo> superfly: depends on whether you are a summer or spice guy..:P
[18:46:03] <FusionSparc> lol, got it...
[18:46:08] <superfly> Well, sessioned would be neither 
[18:46:10] <nlsthzn> Kilos: nah , it all good... once bit etc.
[18:46:17] <nlsthzn> FusionSparc: :p
[18:46:20] <Kilos> nono
[18:46:28] <chesedo> superfly: lol yea that too
[18:46:29] <superfly> But now I have a new word in my dictionary 
[18:46:31] <Kilos> never accept defeat
[18:46:32] <Kapanda> Yeah, a bit much I always miss their meetings.
[18:46:34] <chesedo> Kilos: which link?
[18:47:01] <Kilos> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership with new member at the end i think
[18:47:05] <nlsthzn> I don't care and won't do anything for ubuntu again (except troll this meeting)
[18:47:06] <Kilos> ask inetpro 
[18:47:44] <Kilos> nlsthzn the whole of ubuntu cant be blamed for a few peeps decisions
[18:47:51] <chesedo> Oh this one https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/NewMember
[18:47:59] <Kilos> ya
[18:48:21] <nlsthzn> Kilos: the core is rotten, the rest of the system corrupted even if it doesn't know it
[18:48:21] <Kilos> getting membership isnt simple
[18:48:22] <inetpro> ssshhh... I'm trying to watch top chef :-)
[18:48:29] <inetpro> oops 
[18:48:31] <Kilos> nope nlsthzn 
[18:49:02] <Kilos> people are just too hot headed
[18:49:05] * nlsthzn closes the hatches, DIVE DIVE DIVE
[18:49:19] * nlsthzn is a submarine
[18:49:38] <superfly> nlsthzn: are you yellow, by any chance? 
[18:49:59] <chesedo> so I can go ahead and add Kapanda's membership application to our trello?
[18:50:00] <nlsthzn> only on the outside superfly 
[18:50:08] <superfly> And filled with a 4 man band from the  60's
[18:50:56] <Kapanda> Please. 
[18:50:59] <chesedo> update on the ubuntu for africa site: i still need to contact kulelu88
[18:51:14] <nlsthzn> superfly: only three now
[18:51:19] <andrewlsd> nlsthzn: did you use to contribute to "Ubuntu Weekly"?
[18:51:27] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed To add Kapanda's membership to our trello task list
[18:51:27] <Maaz> Agreed: To add Kapanda's membership to our trello task list
[18:51:29] <nlsthzn> long time ago andrewlsd 
[18:51:45] * andrewlsd googled 
[18:51:46] <nlsthzn> but when my work blocked everything my contributions where limites
[18:51:49] <nlsthzn> *limited
[18:52:12] <andrewlsd> k.
[18:52:31] <Kilos> chesedo huh
[18:52:33] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed chesedo needs to contact kulelu88 for Ubuntu for Hope website...
[18:52:33] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo needs to contact kulelu88 for Ubuntu for Hope website
[18:52:44] <andrewlsd> hence the vpn over icmp discussions with theblazehen82 earlier.
[18:52:46] <Kilos> kuleloo about the africa site
[18:52:56] <chesedo> Kilos: sorry get confused after long day...
[18:53:01] <Kilos> whew
[18:53:05] <Kilos> id say
[18:53:07] <chesedo> Ubuntu for Hope site...
[18:53:14] <Kilos> haha
[18:53:30] <chesedo> Kilos: answer to mage's application?
[18:53:45] * chesedo looking to move meeting along
[18:53:47] <Kilos> well next month then
[18:53:54] <chesedo> Kilos: ok
[18:53:55] <Kilos> why you think he left 
[18:54:03] <Kilos> he ducking
[18:54:10] 
[18:54:11] <Kilos> also playing submarine
[18:54:22] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed To discuss testimonies for magespawn's membership at next meeting
[18:54:22] <Maaz> Agreed: To discuss testimonies for magespawn's membership at next meeting
[18:54:31] <Kapanda> How is the Ubuntu for Hope coming along.
[18:54:42] * chesedo hopes sometimes that he is not chair so that he can too
[18:54:54] <Kilos> haha
[18:54:56] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Events
[18:54:56] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:54:59] 
[18:55:03] <Kilos> hard luck chesedo 
[18:55:14] <chesedo> yea
[18:55:16] <andrewlsd> chesedo: Software Freedom Day should be coming up soon
[18:55:28] <Kilos> hi Vince-0 
[18:55:39] <pavlushka> Maaz: I am S. M. Pavel Sayekat
[18:55:39] <Maaz> pavlushka: Righto
[18:55:39] <chesedo> we did not have any for the past month right?
[18:55:41] <Kilos> no irc client anymore
[18:55:54] <chesedo> oh yes, when andrewlsd
[18:55:56] <chesedo> ?
[18:55:59] <Vince-0> Maaz: I am Vincent Swart
[18:55:59] <Maaz> Vince-0: Okay
[18:56:24] <andrewlsd> chesedo: me googles.
[18:56:44] <andrewlsd> http://sfd.org.za
[18:56:45] <chesedo> ag, another submarine...
[18:56:56] <andrewlsd> usually kmf knows
[18:56:56] <Kilos> my main event happens in 7 days time
[18:57:03] 
[18:57:27] <andrewlsd> should be 17th or 24th Sept. not sure which
[18:57:34] <chesedo> andrewlsd: last year he started planning in June if i have it correct?
[18:57:47] <chesedo> Kilos: aus?
[18:57:53] <Kilos> yyip
[18:58:21] <chesedo> Kilos: hope you will still visit the chan??
[18:58:34] <Kilos> but i will visit here time allowing
[18:58:35] <andrewlsd> chesedo: you are probably correct re planning
[18:58:43] <Kilos> this is my home
[18:58:51] <chesedo> Kilos: great!
[18:59:11] <Kilos> just be 9 hours ahead of you
[18:59:16] <chesedo> andrewlsd: is he the organizer this year?
[18:59:23] <andrewlsd> according to softwarefreedomday.org it is 17 Sept.
[18:59:28] <Kilos> so ill say night when you all are waking up
[18:59:33] <andrewlsd> chesedo: I have no idea.
[18:59:55] <chesedo> ok will add that to the next agenda andrewlsd
[19:00:00] * inetpro is back
[19:00:15] <andrewlsd> chesedo: if it hasn't already been planned then it probably won't happen.
[19:00:19] <inetpro> chesedo: what did I miss?
[19:00:35] <chesedo> Maaz: idea At SFD (17 Sept) to next meeting's agenda
[19:00:35] <Maaz> Idea recorded: At SFD (17 Sept) to next meeting's agenda
[19:00:50] * pavlushka thinking of how to make up ubuntu-bd.org
[19:00:56] <chesedo> inetpro: the concord to your membership application... :P
[19:00:57] <inetpro> andrewlsd: can you talk to kmf perhaps?
[19:01:28] <andrewlsd> inetpro: finding my phone to telegram him
[19:01:34] <chesedo> There is not any release parties planned for 16.10 that i know too?
[19:02:27] <inetpro> can't imagine kmf skipping the SFD event
[19:02:40] <andrewlsd> inetpro: chesedo I'll have to check with kmf tomorrow. It's a bit late to ping  him now.
[19:02:51] <chesedo> andrewlsd: np
[19:03:14] <superfly> These hippies and their early nights... 
[19:03:22] <chesedo> andrewlsd: if it is still on, will you send detail on mailing list?
[19:03:22] <Kilos> hehe
[19:04:00] <andrewlsd> chesedo: yes
[19:04:04] * chesedo is already half way to sleep too
[19:04:05] <andrewlsd> superfly: lol
[19:04:39] <chesedo> all happy if i move on to Misc?
[19:04:47] <Kilos> ya
[19:04:47] <andrewlsd> chesedo: yes
[19:04:49] <FusionSparc> yes
[19:04:52] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:04:52] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:05:19] <chesedo> Kilos: any update on lug involvement?
[19:05:31] * chesedo thinks we discussed it at last meeting...
[19:05:34] <Kilos> not a word from lugs
[19:06:02] <Kilos> write them off for now unless you have time to approach them again
[19:06:18] <Kilos> williamk might have some feedback from durbs
[19:06:22] <Kapanda> lugs have gone quite for a while
[19:06:23] <inetpro> Kilos: you must have a safe flight, enjoy the ride of your life and I hope we see you back here in good spirit again next month... oh and obviously saying hi here in between as well
[19:06:40] <Kilos> 3 months
[19:06:48] <chesedo> "write off" as in remove from agenda's?
[19:06:54] <Kilos> ty for the wishes though
[19:07:01] <andrewlsd> chesedo: slack seems to be quite popular atm. lots of tech peeps there (related to lugs)
[19:07:07] <andrewlsd> chesedo: e.g zatech.co.za
[19:07:13] <Kilos> inetpro ^^ about lugs
[19:07:44] * andrewlsd thinks to remove lugs from agend
[19:07:46] <pavlushka> we bd guys need some help on how to make up our ubuntu-bd.org
[19:07:46] * andrewlsd thinks to remove lugs from agenda
[19:07:56] <chesedo> wow > 1000 members there...
[19:08:38] <inetpro> 1000 members? Yikes!
[19:08:52] <inetpro> that must be difficult to follow
[19:09:07] <williamk> Kilos - Don't know what is happening with DbnLUG, maybe Vince-0 can comment
[19:09:20] <Kilos> if lugs dont have time to be involved with us it is their loss
[19:09:35] <chesedo> pavlushka: with what specificlly?
[19:09:48] <Kilos> Vince-0 and williamk are the only ones here
[19:10:40] <pavlushka> what should be the procedure, the domain is ubuntu-bd.org and we can manage a host, but what is the official procedure?
[19:10:40] <chesedo> and then we also take ages to get to their programs...
[19:11:21] <SEptic> who was looking for sponsors to host some page the other day?
[19:11:27] <Vince-0> Nort ey, nothing on going
[19:11:32] <chesedo> any new info about how an education project will work williamk Kapanda?
[19:12:08] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed To remove lug's involvement from agendas
[19:12:08] <Maaz> Agreed: To remove lug's involvement from agendas
[19:12:27] <chesedo> pavlushka: i have no idea...
[19:12:27] <Kapanda> I was thinking we should build one.
[19:12:40] <chesedo> superfly: you should know^^^
[19:13:16] <chesedo> Kapanda: wasn't there something about being certified at the last discussion?
[19:13:28] <Kapanda> where is it going to be hosted
[19:14:01] <williamk> Kapanda : is your email still the same, I see that you moved
[19:14:18] <chesedo> Kapanda: physically?
[19:14:27] <Kapanda> Yes, I was thinking Ubuntu supplies that or we can come up with the certification
[19:14:33] <Kapanda> @ yes
[19:14:47] <Kapanda> @ williamk
[19:15:06] <andrewlsd> Kapanda: what certification (I missed the previous discussion)
[19:15:09] <Kilos> ai! another tweeter
[19:15:21] <andrewlsd> Kapanda: (so tl;dr version)
[19:15:29] <Kilos> Kapanda we dont need @ here
[19:15:31] <FusionSparc> yes, what does the certification entitle?
[19:15:46] <andrewlsd> s/entitle/entail/ ?
[19:15:59] <andrewlsd> ^ probably entitle and entail.
[19:16:01] <FusionSparc> hehe...that one..
[19:16:11] <FusionSparc> long day..:/
[19:16:49] <andrewlsd> fyi, RH certification has NQF-level points now.
[19:16:59] <andrewlsd> not sure if that is what you were aiming at.
[19:17:24] <chesedo> a summary from my side (as i remember): is having a computer usage education project that is not just aimed at Ubuntu(linux)...
[19:18:02] <Kapanda> yep NQF
[19:18:25] <chesedo> in was mostly born/related to Kapanda's book project of last year
[19:18:49] <andrewlsd> interesting stat I saw today re internet traffic. Nigeria and ZA have highest percentage of their countries total internet traffic (web-browsing) being consumed via mobile devices.
[19:18:55] <andrewlsd> ... ^ bring on Ubuntu phone.
[19:19:09] * andrewlsd would love to see that as a project in ZA
[19:19:52] <inetpro> if only our we could have real uncapped bandwidth in this country
[19:19:59] <chesedo> Kapanda: do you know the procedure needed for a NQF cert?
[19:20:25] <chesedo> andrewlsd: yip, that would be something...
[19:20:36] <inetpro> and with that I mean uncapped wireless data
[19:21:09] <andrewlsd> that stat I saw was at ubuntu-bd.org
[19:21:27] <Kapanda> I was looking into it, while back. I will check and send an email
[19:21:46] * chesedo can remember something his brother had to do in school (externally) a few years ago that might already be certified...
[19:22:03] <chesedo> Kapanda: ok
[19:22:06] <andrewlsd> inetpro: Most non-video stuff fits within 5GB/month.
[19:22:25] <inetpro> andrewlsd: no ways 
[19:22:40] <andrewlsd> correction. that stat I saw was at  https://www.techcentral.co.za/how-tulutulu-could-disrupt-african-media/67810/
[19:22:40] <andrewlsd> sorry about the copy-paste faile
[19:23:01] <andrewlsd> inetpro: only Showmax nukes me past 5GB
[19:23:12] <chesedo> yip, with video we are 30-45GB a month...
[19:23:14] <andrewlsd> inetpro: only Showmax nukes me past 5GB (and youtube)
[19:23:20] <inetpro> 5GB per month is never enough for a whole family, not even 20GB is enough
[19:23:53] <andrewlsd> inetpro: ? 5GB is a lot of text.
[19:24:16] <andrewlsd> so to use 5GB/person must involve some sort of media streaming.
[19:24:26] <FusionSparc> We do 150Gb a month, and thats just streaming and browsing...Data goes fast.. :/
[19:24:28] <andrewlsd> (not that media-streaming is an unusual useage of data)
[19:24:59] * andrewlsd always sets video streams to 360p
[19:25:01] <chesedo> last update for misc is that the trello cleanup has at least not gone backwards this month (nor forwards either)
[19:25:31] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:25:31] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:25:32] <Kilos> lol
[19:25:34] * andrewlsd would use more data if he had a faster link, for FHD video.
[19:25:45] <Kilos> chesedo +1
[19:25:51] <chesedo> Anyone that would like the magic wand in the next meeting?
[19:25:53] <andrewlsd> chesedo +1
[19:26:04] <andrewlsd> when is the next emeting
[19:26:10] <FusionSparc> chesedo +1
[19:26:12] <andrewlsd> s/emeting/meeting/
[19:26:13] <inetpro> chesedo: +1
[19:26:16] <chesedo> yeah speed keeps bandwidth down atleast too
[19:26:24] <chesedo> andrewlsd: 27 sept
[19:26:43] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:26:43] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:26:51] <Kilos> yay
[19:26:59] <inetpro> andrewlsd: "Meetings are held every 4th Tuesday of each month at 20:30"
[19:27:01] <chesedo> eish me can't duck again :P
[19:27:04] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:27:04] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:27:08] <andrewlsd> I'll volunteer for October's meeting then.
[19:27:11] <Kilos> hehe
[19:27:16] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 27 September 2016 @ 20:30 
[19:27:16] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 27 September 2016 @ 20:30
[19:27:25] <andrewlsd> inetpro: I can't count to 4th in weeks.
[19:27:31] <chesedo> andrewlsd: awesome!
[19:27:55] <chesedo> thank you all for joining in on the meeting..
[19:28:11] <chesedo> Maaz: end meeting
[19:28:11] <Kilos> thank youchesfor chairing for us

</pre>
