{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 22 November 2016 
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''andrewlsd''' ('''chesedo''' backup)
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20161025#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2016
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
*** magespawn - need testimonies
*** tareq
*** Kapanda - progress
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu for Hope - update
* Events
** Past Month:
*** <nowiki>[[https://devops.capetown/devopsdays/|DevOps]]</nowiki>
** Other:
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** ?
* Miscellaneous
** Discuss Ubuntu education project
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 24 January 2017

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:37:41] STARTED (chesedo).
[18:37:50] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (chesedo)
[18:43:49] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (andrewlsd)
[18:48:21] AGREED: All happy with previous minutes (andrewlsd)
[18:48:35] TOPIC: Plans for 2016 (andrewlsd)
[18:54:57] TOPIC: Events (andrewlsd)
[19:08:51] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (andrewlsd)
[19:19:36] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (andrewlsd)
[19:24:25] TOPIC: Next meeting (andrewlsd)
[19:25:42] AGREED: Next meeting is 24 January 2017 @ 20:30 SAST (andrewlsd)
[19:26:37] AGREED: Move next meeting before chairman on agenda (chesedo)
[19:27:59] ENDED (andrewlsd)

Present
=======  ==

* paddatrapper
* kulelu88 (kulelu88)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Wesley Werner (kbmonkey)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Andrew Mac (andrewlsd)
* theblazehen
* Charl le Roux (clr)
* Vincent Swart (Vince-0)
* nsnzero (nsnzero)
* AudaciousTUX
* <firstname lastname> (nlsthzn)
* mciverza

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:37:41] <chesedo> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - November 2016
[18:37:41] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:37:50] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:37:50] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:38:14] <chesedo> Evening all and thank you for joining in on our monthly meeting!
[18:38:26] <chesedo> Our bot maaz does the minutes as usual so please introduce yourself to it using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg. 
[18:38:36] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:38:36] <Maaz> chesedo: Done
[18:38:42] <nlsthzn> Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>
[18:38:42] <Maaz> nlsthzn: Yessir
[18:38:52] <nlsthzn> >.>
[18:38:57] <kbmonkey> nlsthzn, :p
[18:39:01] <andrewlsd> Maaz: I am Andrew Mac
[18:39:01] <Maaz> andrewlsd: Okay
[18:39:02] <chesedo> nlsthzn: lol
[18:39:14] <nsnzero> Maaz: I am nsnzero
[18:39:14] <Maaz> nsnzero: Done
[18:39:29] <chesedo> The agenda for today is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20161122
[18:39:31] <kbmonkey> Maaz, I am Wesley Werner
[18:39:31] <Maaz> kbmonkey: Done
[18:39:35] <kulelu88> Maaz: I am kulelu88 
[18:39:35] <Maaz> kulelu88: Righto
[18:39:50] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:39:50] <Maaz> superfly: Yessir
[18:39:52] <chesedo> any last minute additions are welcome
[18:40:05] * nlsthzn gets some more coffee as it is late over here
[18:40:27] <chesedo> else we can continue if i can get a thumbs up...
[18:40:49] <clr> Maaz: I am Charl le Roux
[18:40:49] <Maaz> clr: Okay
[18:41:00] <chesedo> andrewlsd: you can take over if you are ready?
[18:41:08] <andrewlsd> cool
[18:41:40] <andrewlsd> If everyone is comfy, and has their coffee we can proceed to review the minutes of the previous meeting.
[18:41:47] * chesedo is ok with the agenda btw
[18:42:01] <andrewlsd> Maaz: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:42:01] <Maaz> andrewlsd: Sorry...
[18:42:13] <andrewlsd> Maaz:  Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:42:13] <Maaz> andrewlsd: *blink*
[18:42:27] <kulelu88> Maaz: FML
[18:42:27] <Maaz> kulelu88: Today, I had to make a deal with my 22 year old fiancÃ©. What was the deal? If he put deodorant on, he could squeeze my boob for as long as he liked. FML
- http://www.fmylife.com/intimacy/16939716
[18:42:40] <kulelu88> 0.o
[18:42:58] <mciverza> Maaz: Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:42:58] <Maaz> mciverza: *blink*
[18:43:10] <mciverza> :-( sorry chesedo, you'll have to do it.
[18:43:32] <mciverza> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:43:32] <Maaz> mciverza: You're not the boss of me
[18:43:36] <nlsthzn> well that escalated quickly
[18:43:49] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:43:49] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:44:12] 
[18:44:28] <andrewlsd> last meeting was https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20161025
[18:44:38] <chesedo> oh boy, sorry about that... lost connection...
[18:44:55] <chesedo> did Maaz get my topic change?
[18:45:00] <andrewlsd> chesedo: np, I found out what I needed. 
[18:45:06] <andrewlsd> mz got mine.
[18:45:38] <chesedo> andrewlsd: great!
[18:45:39] <andrewlsd> Any feedback or comments on the minutes of the previous meeting
[18:46:13] <chesedo> andrewlsd: nope, all seems good to me
[18:46:44] <andrewlsd> thanks chesedo
[18:46:48] <andrewlsd> anyone else?
[18:46:55] <kbmonkey> nothing to add from me
[18:47:35] * nlsthzn regrets never learning to read
[18:48:15] <chesedo> nlsthzn: don't worry at least you can type :P
[18:48:21] <andrewlsd> Maaz: agreed All happy with previous minutes
[18:48:21] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with previous minutes
[18:48:35] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Plans for 2016
[18:48:35] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2016
[18:48:50] <andrewlsd> I think we need plans for 2017. Not much left of 2016
[18:49:08] <chesedo> andrewlsd: yeah...
[18:49:23] <andrewlsd> any updates on membership applications for tareq, magespawn and Kapanda?
[18:49:25] <chesedo> al thought i do not know if we will just rename it?
[18:49:54] <andrewlsd> hopefully magespawn (not here) has filledhis wiki page
[18:50:08] <andrewlsd> s/filledhis/filled\ his/
[18:50:08] <chesedo> andrewlsd: i checked if magespawn's wiki was up before the meeting, but still in works...
[18:50:17] <andrewlsd> thanks chesedo
[18:50:45] <chesedo> only kilos is in contact with tareq (i think)...
[18:50:59] <chesedo> and have not heard from Kapanda in a while...
[18:51:18] <andrewlsd> Any new folks around recently? Any one need help with the GPG keys or signing the Code of Conduct?
[18:51:38] <kulelu88> which GPG keys?
[18:52:06] <Vince-0> Maaz: I am Vincent Swart
[18:52:06] <Maaz> Vince-0: Okay
[18:52:08] <andrewlsd> IIRC GPG keys are needed to be able to sign the C-o-C 
[18:52:15] <andrewlsd> Welcome Vince-0
[18:52:21] <chesedo> good question... i think night is new...
[18:52:24] <kulelu88> oh, okay
[18:52:45] <andrewlsd> kulelu88: have you signed it? (if not, would you like to?)
[18:53:10] <kulelu88> I need my own GPG keys right?
[18:53:17] <andrewlsd> yip
[18:53:19] <chesedo> and i am too bad at remembering name to be 100% if zaki and ludo are new
[18:53:47] <kulelu88> aah well when I get to setting up my own email, I will get there, but for now, I'll pass
[18:54:14] <andrewlsd> np kulelu88, feel free to give a shout if/when that happens.
[18:54:34] <andrewlsd> Can we proceed to discuss upcoming events?
[18:54:52] <chesedo> andrewlsd: ok with me
[18:54:57] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Events
[18:54:57] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:55:09] <andrewlsd> Are there any upcoming Ubuntu or open source related events that anyone would like to mention?
[18:55:48] <kulelu88> all 2017 now
[18:55:51] <kulelu88> devconf 
[18:55:56] * chesedo is not aware of any
[18:56:02] <kulelu88> rubyfuza
[18:56:19] <chesedo> kulelu88: which dates are those
[18:56:23] <chesedo> *?
[18:56:36] <andrewlsd> Cape Linux Users Group (CLUG) is having a talk tomorrow ...
[18:56:55] <kulelu88> devconf: 9 March, 2017, Johannesburg
[18:57:14] <kulelu88> rubyfuza: 2-4 February 2017 Cape Town, South Africa
[18:57:21] <chesedo> wow awesome, can you give more details andrewlsd ?
[18:57:46] <andrewlsd> chesedo:  :-)... willl do as soon as my email opens.....
[18:57:58] <andrewlsd> woops, it was tonight.
[18:58:13] <chesedo> lol...
[18:58:43] 
[18:58:46] <andrewlsd> For what it is worth: The information: Speaker: Marc Welz; Topic: Archive Formats and Tricks ; Time: 18:30 ; Venue: UCT Chemical Engineering
[18:59:15] <chesedo> kulelu88: we will have to remember those
[18:59:25] <kulelu88> can't you tell Maaz to do so?
[18:59:34] <andrewlsd> if anyone here would like to get advance notice of their meetups, please sign up to their mailing list via https://wiki.clug.org.za/
[19:00:01] <chesedo> kulelu88: that is a feature that i often wish it had
[19:00:11] <andrewlsd> Thanks kulelu88
[19:00:34] <andrewlsd> the RubyFuZA website is http://www.rubyfuza.org/ and contains details about the conference.
[19:01:28] <chesedo> who here are ruby devs btw?
[19:01:48] <kulelu88> devug is having the geek of the year on 13 December 2016
[19:01:50] <andrewlsd> i::amNot
[19:02:32] <chesedo> kulelu88: link maybe?
[19:02:33] 
[19:02:42] <andrewlsd> chesedo: you beat me to it.
[19:02:55] <chesedo> :D
[19:03:13] * andrewlsd thinks kulelu88 is busy googling like mad or searching mails.
[19:03:34] <kulelu88> no, I try to keep track of dev events. get to meet all the local folks. 
[19:03:41] <nsnzero> which group is devug ?
[19:04:03] <chesedo> kulelu88: should that maybe have been debug?
[19:04:14] <kulelu88> DevUG: https://www.meetup.com/DeveloperUG/events/233441994/
[19:04:49] <kulelu88> I see you on zatech andrewlsd à¼¼ ã¤ â—•_â—• à¼½ã¤ :D
[19:04:55] <andrewlsd> kulelu88: yes.
[19:05:05] <kulelu88> ( Í¡Â° ÍœÊ– Í¡Â°)
[19:05:37] <andrewlsd> Did anyone here attend DevOps Days
[19:06:20] <kulelu88> in cape town? no
[19:06:22] * chesedo does not live in cpt
[19:06:51] <andrewlsd> chesedo: occasionally people travel to cpt
[19:06:56] <andrewlsd> :-P
[19:07:03] <chesedo> that too...
[19:07:32] <andrewlsd> If no other events, we can move to "miscellaneous" in 3 .. 
[19:07:34] <andrewlsd> ... 2
[19:07:41] <chesedo> yip
[19:07:48] <andrewlsd> ... 1
[19:07:54] <chesedo> and add that devug to the next agenda
[19:08:22] <andrewlsd> devug. developer user group <-- How to use developers?
[19:08:51] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:08:51] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:08:54] <kulelu88> the devug is nice. it's better than seeing 62 different meetups for each javascript library
[19:09:08] <andrewlsd> LOL
[19:09:35] <andrewlsd> ... because:
[19:09:44] <andrewlsd> https://hackernoon.com/how-it-feels-to-learn-javascript-in-2016-d3a717dd577f#.emys21i2g
[19:09:58] * chesedo was actually planning on announcing his js library soon :P
[19:10:46] <andrewlsd> I am releasing CinderJS. It's a lot like ember, but after it has burn out and cooled down completely.
[19:11:05] <theblazehen> andrewlsd: vanilla-js.com/
[19:11:07] * andrewlsd will re-release it as AshesJS
[19:11:28] <andrewlsd> Hashtag #GetYourOwnJS
[19:11:53] <andrewlsd> wonderfully miscellaneous all of this.
[19:12:07] * chesedo found this last week http://youmightnotneedjquery.com/
[19:12:28] <kulelu88> As an important part of ubuntu-za, is anyone aware of Kilos health, recovery and financial status in OZ?
[19:13:08] <andrewlsd> ty kulelu88. also keen to hear of that.
[19:13:53] <chesedo> theblazehen: that is some serious benchmarks!
[19:14:43] <andrewlsd> ?
[19:14:50] <andrewlsd> hello theblazehen
[19:14:53] <chesedo> kulelu88: last i know is that about $5000 is still outstanding
[19:14:54] <nlsthzn>  $4,865 of $14k goal 
[19:15:03] <chesedo> or more ^^
[19:15:07] <nlsthzn> from the website
[19:15:20] <nlsthzn> and he is in the last few weeks before returning
[19:15:25] <nlsthzn> last I heard
[19:15:27] <theblazehen> hi andrewlsd 
[19:15:54] <andrewlsd> thanks nlsthzn
[19:16:09] <kulelu88> that's very unfortunate :(
[19:16:16] <kbmonkey> his fund got a quick start but needs more backers
[19:16:18] <chesedo> thanks nlsthzn 
[19:16:26] <nlsthzn> np
[19:16:39] <nlsthzn> last donation 26 days ago
[19:16:40] <andrewlsd> is there anything we can do to re-invigorate the gofundme campaign again.
[19:17:01] * nlsthzn will wait for payday and add some more
[19:17:04] <kbmonkey> make another donation 
[19:17:08] <kbmonkey> :)
[19:17:39] <andrewlsd> kbmonkey: tru dat.
[19:17:58] 
[19:17:59] <andrewlsd> any other miscellaneous items?
[19:18:11] 
[19:18:17] <kbmonkey> whoops
[19:19:07] <andrewlsd> Ok, ... ready for the next topic?
[19:19:08] <chesedo> those on twitter can also share/retweet this https://twitter.com/sharpeys/status/798316504815017984
[19:19:17] <chesedo> andrewlsd: yes
[19:19:29] <andrewlsd> excellent chesedo (for the retweet link)
[19:19:36] <andrewlsd>  Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting 
[19:19:36] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:19:47] <chesedo> the fb guys may know of some of his fb posts too
[19:20:17] <andrewlsd> I think that our next meeting is likely to be 23 January 2017
[19:20:42] <chesedo> andrewlsd: in last meeting paddatrapper mentioned that will be able to takes jan if i am correct...
[19:21:01] <chesedo> andrewlsd: 24th
[19:21:13] <andrewlsd> yip. paddatrapper did say that
[19:21:14] <kulelu88> it's best if someone here can commit instead
[19:21:30] <kulelu88> maybe padda is not around 
[19:21:37] <andrewlsd> chesedo: correct, thanks. Next meeting is Tuesday 24 January 2017
[19:21:50] <paddatrapper> Whoops sorry 
[19:21:55] <paddatrapper> Yeah can do Jab
[19:21:59] <paddatrapper> Jan 
[19:22:02] <andrewlsd> Thanks paddatrapper
[19:22:30] <chesedo> he is just writting test this week, so studying hard... but we can choose someone (or backup) and then move it if he is still ok?
[19:22:41] <chesedo> *tests*
[19:22:41] <andrewlsd> I'm happy with that.
[19:22:57] <andrewlsd> chesedo: will you be on standby? or would kulelu88 like to do so?
[19:22:57] <chesedo> andrewlsd: me too
[19:23:24] <chesedo> kulelu88: would you like to chair sometime?
[19:23:45] <kulelu88> I'll confirm myself as second backup if padda or first backup fails to attend
[19:23:55] <andrewlsd> cool.
[19:23:59] <chesedo> kulelu88: righty
[19:23:59] <andrewlsd> ok, then...
[19:24:01] <kulelu88> (â˜žï¾Ÿâˆ€ï¾Ÿ)â˜ž
[19:24:10] <andrewlsd> Agreed: paddatrapper to chair next meeting
[19:24:12] <chesedo> andrewlsd: yes, i should be able to standby
[19:24:25] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:24:25] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:24:37] <andrewlsd> Is it agreed that the next meeting will be 24 January 2017
[19:24:50] <andrewlsd> (I always think we should do date before deciding chair)
[19:24:53] <chesedo> yes
[19:25:15] <chesedo> andrewlsd: sound like a good thought
[19:25:42] <andrewlsd> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 24 January 2017 @ 20:30 SAST
[19:25:42] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 24 January 2017 @ 20:30 SAST
[19:25:54] <chesedo> we should agree Maaz on that if all is happy with the swap.
[19:26:11] <andrewlsd> chesedo: go for it..
[19:26:33] <chesedo> Maaz: agree Move next meeting before chairman on agenda
[19:26:33] <Maaz> chesedo: Excuse me?
[19:26:37] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Move next meeting before chairman on agenda
[19:26:37] <Maaz> Agreed: Move next meeting before chairman on agenda
[19:26:46] <chesedo> andrewlsd: done
[19:26:51] <andrewlsd> superb
[19:27:04] <andrewlsd> Thanks everyone for being here. The minutes will be posted shortly once the meeting is closed.
[19:27:08] <chesedo> and thanks for the awesome chairing today
[19:27:33] <andrewlsd> thanks chesedo for kicking things off and backing me up.
[19:27:43] <chesedo> andrewlsd: yw
[19:27:47] <andrewlsd> Good night all.
[19:27:48] <kbmonkey> Thanks andrewlsd, chesedo :)
[19:27:59] <andrewlsd> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
