{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu-ZA Monthly Meeting for 16 January 2012 ===

<pre>
Convened at 2012-01-16 17:34:34.915533 by kbmonkey in #ubuntu-za on freenode
Convened at 2012-01-16 18:58:42.696425 by kbmonkey in #ubuntu-za on freenode
</pre>

==== Minutes ====

<pre>
[17:34:34] STARTED (kbmonkey)
[17:38:07] TOPIC: Precise release party suggestions (kbmonkey)
[17:50:09] IDEA: Wesley and Johan to discuss kzn release party (kbmonkey)
[17:52:14] IDEA: bring a newbie friend to the next release party (kbmonkey)
[17:53:13] IDEA: maiatoday will start discussion about release party ideas on the mailing list (kbmonkey)
[17:57:24] IDEA: have a games showcase at the release party (maiatoday)
[17:57:42] IDEA: make the theme for the release party games and newbies (maiatoday)
[18:01:40] TOPIC: Linux Certification (kbmonkey)
[18:08:26] AGREED: Wesley to kickstart the LPIC studies (kbmonkey)
[18:20:22] AGREED: magespawn to help setup a LPIC Q&A IRC schdule (kbmonkey)
[18:29:50] TOPIC: Wiki updates (kbmonkey)
[18:40:48] IDEA: everyone: document the ubuntu-za wiki (kbmonkey)
[18:45:35] TOPIC: Girl Geek Dinners (kbmonkey)
[18:54:09] IDEA: GGD on the 26th of every second month (Jan.. Mar..) (kbmonkey)
[18:55:53] ENDED (kbmonkey)

[18:58:42] STARTED (kbmonkey)
[18:58:53] TOPIC: Ubuntu Hour (kbmonkey)
[19:04:26] AGREED: superfly to mail the list with ideas for a CT Ubuntu Hour (kbmonkey)
[19:05:23] ENDED (kbmonkey)
</pre>

==== Present ====

* Johan Mynhardt (nuvolari)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Maia Grotepass (maiatoday)
* Greg Eames (magespawn)
* Christel (Whizper2me)
* POpsr
* Wesley Werner (kbmonkey)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* WOLFEYES (WOLFEYES)
* ZereF
* Mezenir
* Neil Oosthuizen (nlsthzn)
* highvoltage

==== Raw Log ====
<pre>
[17:34:34] <kbmonkey> Maaz start meeting about Ubuntu-ZA IRC meet
[17:34:34] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[17:34:39] <nuvolari> yo Maaz!
[17:35:04] <nuvolari> Maaz: I'm pikachu
[17:35:04] <Maaz> nuvolari: Sorry...
[17:35:22] <Kilos> hehe
[17:35:25] <kbmonkey> Maaz I am Wesley Werner
[17:35:25] <Maaz> kbmonkey: Okay
[17:35:28] <kbmonkey> Maaz coffee on
[17:35:28] * Maaz washes some mugs
[17:35:35] <maiatoday> Maaz I am Maia Grotepass
[17:35:35] <Maaz> maiatoday: Righto
[17:35:38] <nlsthzn> Maaz, I am Neil Oosthuizen
[17:35:38] <Maaz> nlsthzn: Alrighty
[17:35:38] <Kilos> Maaz, I am Miles Sharpe
[17:35:38] <Maaz> Kilos: Sure
[17:35:49] <nuvolari> Maaz: I am Johan Mynhardt
[17:35:49] <Maaz> nuvolari: Alrighty
[17:35:51] <magespawn> Mass I am Greg Eames
[17:36:10] <magespawn> Maaz I am Greg Eames
[17:36:10] <Maaz> magespawn: Done
[17:36:24] <kbmonkey> Oh happy new years #ubuntu-za just by the by :-)
[17:36:24] <Kilos> bakuman, you here?
[17:36:56] <kbmonkey> yes a bit late, but why not.
[17:37:02] * nlsthzn also wishes all the best for 2012 :)
[17:37:10] <Kilos> same there kbmonkey
[17:37:19] <nuvolari> likewise to everyone
[17:38:07] <kbmonkey> Maaz topic Precise release party suggestions
[17:38:07] <Maaz> Current Topic: Precise release party suggestions
[17:38:30] <maiatoday> yeah what does everyone want to do?
[17:38:50] <maiatoday> It's a LTS so a little bit of fanfare would be cool
[17:38:59] <kbmonkey> lots of tequila and install discs?
[17:39:05] <magespawn> When is the release?
[17:39:20] <maiatoday> in APril but I wanted to get some ideas so long
[17:39:28]
[17:39:28] <Maaz> Coffee's ready for kbmonkey!
[17:39:57] <nlsthzn> With the momentum Canonical is creating with their TV and what not coming I think 12.04 is a very big release and should be done right
[17:40:00]
[17:40:22] <Whizper2me> Hola
[17:40:23] <Kilos> hi Whizper2me
[17:40:31] <Kilos> welcome
[17:40:37] * nuvolari whispers to Whizper2me
[17:40:48] <nuvolari> lo
[17:41:07] <Whizper2me> confluency, highvoltage , kbmonkey *tips hat*
[17:41:18] <kbmonkey> to be honest, I haven't been following this release as closely. Keen to support a release party though
[17:41:22] <Whizper2me> all the others I don't know, hallo :)
[17:41:31] <nlsthzn> hi Whizper2me
[17:41:35] <maiatoday> I know the parties are for different areas but we can start thinking about what we want to do
[17:41:37] <maiatoday> hi Whizper2me
[17:41:44] <kbmonkey> hi Whizper2me. would you like to join our irc meeting?
[17:42:18] <magespawn> Maybe something bigger than normal. Like they do for SFD.
[17:42:20] <maiatoday> I'll also make a reminder to myself to remember to order the disks this time. sorry about the previous release we missed the disks :(
[17:42:25] <Whizper2me> @kbmonkey the cats think your poi are toys
[17:42:59] <maiatoday> also there were some ideas at the previous release party in cape town to have some activities to help beginners
[17:43:00] <Whizper2me> Thanks for the invitation kbmonkey :)
[17:43:15] <nlsthzn> Where are the release parties normally held, uni's?
[17:43:17] <maiatoday> demos or q&a or basic talks
[17:43:20]
[17:43:24] <kbmonkey> lol Whizper2me :)
[17:43:38] <maiatoday> unis or anywhere really, I've had 2 at my house before
[17:43:42] <Kilos> Whizper2me, log in with maaz
[17:43:53] <kbmonkey> nuvolari I'll be around that side in April, we can coordinate something?
[17:43:55] <maiatoday> last time we were at panarottis in canal walk
[17:44:14] <Mezenir> i like panarottis
[17:44:18] <Mezenir> when the service is good
[17:44:29] <nuvolari> kbmonkey: sure! I still have to organize something for here in Ballito
[17:44:30] <Kilos> hi POpsr welcome to #ubuntu-za
[17:44:31] <nlsthzn> would be nice to have it someplace with maximum exposure (but then having enough stuff to satisfy the curious)
[17:44:33] <Mezenir> eat all you can thursday ftw
[17:44:35] <nuvolari> are you keen on coming here?
[17:44:46] <POpsr> Hi
[17:44:48] <kbmonkey> I'm thinking a banner, someplace for exposure like a restaurant
[17:44:58] <maiatoday> I wouldn't suggest panarottis for a release party again becuase the tables of 6 or 8 people made the group not mingle properly
[17:44:58] <Mezenir> maximum exposure like grandwest ?
[17:45:20] <nlsthzn> Not sure if you guys have seen some of Randall Ross's blog posts for Vancouver, they know how to party :)
[17:45:22] <kbmonkey> sure nuvolari!
[17:45:47] <kbmonkey> need to check that out nlsthzn
[17:46:30] <magespawn> Maybe a local pc shop or internet cafe
[17:46:51] <nlsthzn> They take over a whole restaurant... and with a projector beam one of those smart phone barcode thingies outside so if people scan they go to a special web site for the event that invite them in etc. :)
[17:47:15] <magespawn> Qrcode
[17:47:22] <magespawn> Sounds good
[17:47:31] <nlsthzn> Interestingly enough... no PC's allowed.
[17:47:57] <nlsthzn> my 2c worth in any case :)
[17:48:06] <Whizper2me> Maaz I am Christel
[17:48:06] <Maaz> Whizper2me: Righto
[17:48:32] <maiatoday> it all sounds good, anybody who wants to jump in and organise, go for it, you don't need an invite or permission ;)
[17:48:34] <kbmonkey> a release party without pc's? that can be dangerous
[17:48:41] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[17:48:41] <Maaz> inetpro: Done
[17:48:54] * inetpro is late again
[17:49:02] <nlsthzn> Ah, it is thanks to inetpro that I made it tonight :)
[17:49:02] <Kilos> welcome inetpro better late than never
[17:49:15] <kbmonkey> sure, I will bug nuvolari with a kzn party ;)
[17:49:28] <maiatoday> minimum we need is a venue and a time and an external disk with repos
[17:49:37] <maiatoday> it could be a blanket at the beach
[17:49:51] <magespawn> kbmonkey I would like to come done for that if I can
[17:50:09] <kbmonkey> Maaz idea Wesley and Johan to discuss kzn release party
[17:50:09] <Maaz> Idea recorded: Wesley and Johan to discuss kzn release party
[17:50:19] <kbmonkey> cool magespawn
[17:50:35] <nuvolari> Maaz: will you be OK with Ballito?
[17:50:35] <Maaz> nuvolari: Sorry...
[17:50:41] <nuvolari> ag
[17:50:50] <nuvolari> magespawn: will you be OK with Ballito?
[17:50:53] <magespawn> Should be okay
[17:50:57] <maiatoday> ok I'll send an email on the mailing list to poll people for ideas too
[17:50:58] <nuvolari> cool
[17:50:58] <Kilos> lol
[17:50:59] <magespawn> Lol
[17:51:04] <inetpro> can we have a demo of the Ubuntu TV at the release party?
[17:51:16] <kbmonkey> Ubuntu TV?
[17:51:16] <maiatoday> that sounds good inetpro
[17:51:40] <nlsthzn> + 1
[17:51:51] <maiatoday> Maaz action maiatoday will start discussion about release party ideas on the mailing list
[17:51:51] <Maaz> maiatoday: Sorry...
[17:51:53] <nlsthzn> www.ubuntu.com/tv
[17:51:57] <maiatoday> bleargh
[17:51:59] <kbmonkey> revisiting a previous idea we had...
[17:52:14] <kbmonkey> Maaz idea bring a newbie friend to the next release party
[17:52:14] <Maaz> Idea recorded: bring a newbie friend to the next release party
[17:52:26] <maiatoday> kbmonkey: tell maaz my action please, I forgot the syntax
[17:52:34] <kbmonkey> sure :)
[17:52:35] <nuvolari> is ubuntutv like a mediacentre?
[17:53:13] <kbmonkey> Maaz idea maiatoday will start discussion about release party ideas on the mailing list
[17:53:13] <Maaz> Idea recorded: maiatoday will start discussion about release party ideas on the mailing list
[17:53:15] <maiatoday> connecting to bring a newbie is have something that would interest a newbie
[17:53:23] <nlsthzn> nuvolari, they plan on making it a TV that will play all your content... running with Unity interface (no more boxes needed)
[17:54:13] <kbmonkey> JabberwockyA19 are you in?
[17:54:33] <kbmonkey> last time you had a great idea to show off some games at parties
[17:54:34] <magespawn> Like lg/smasung smart tv?
[17:55:08] <nuvolari> just saw the video. very appealing
[17:55:17] <maiatoday> hey kbmonkey I just wanted to get the discussion going about this topic, it's ok if we probably won't resolve too much now
[17:55:22] <Mezenir> games ?
[17:55:27] <Mezenir> what kind of games
[17:55:29] <magespawn> Maybe have a lan of open arena or the like?
[17:55:30] <nuvolari> I don't watch TV though, but if it can handle series, im game :P
[17:55:57] <nuvolari> minecraft :D
[17:56:04] <nlsthzn> Get a few people to play Oil Rush... it is pretty
[17:56:10] <nlsthzn> or minecraft, it is addictive
[17:56:10] <nuvolari> or counterstrike :P
[17:56:38] <maiatoday> and all those beautiful humble indie bundle games
[17:56:51] <kbmonkey> most of us can't enjoy high bandwidth luxuries like online tv :/
[17:57:05] <kbmonkey> love that idea maiatoday !
[17:57:24] <maiatoday> maaz idea have a games showcase at the release party
[17:57:24] <Maaz> Idea recorded: have a games showcase at the release party
[17:57:42] <maiatoday> maaz idea make the theme for the release party games and newbies
[17:57:42] <Maaz> Idea recorded: make the theme for the release party games and newbies
[17:57:46] <kbmonkey> I bet we can make a nice poster with game screenshots too. people love pictures.
[17:58:29] <nlsthzn> Oh and Unity :p
[17:59:01] <kbmonkey> okay should we work the details on the ML then?
[17:59:11] <maiatoday> yup
[17:59:58] <kbmonkey> wow, so many ideas in advance. I like this :)
[18:00:24] <kbmonkey> oh, the agenda got shuffled, we skipped the minutes review
[18:01:40] <kbmonkey> Maaz topic Linux Certification
[18:01:40] <Maaz> Current Topic: Linux Certification
[18:01:53] <kbmonkey> ping? still online?...
[18:02:08] <Kilos> ya too
[18:02:11] <nlsthzn> Just another link to explain Ubuntu TV - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Q-pTFEHLC4 check it out later ;)
[18:02:19] <maiatoday> I just checked the previous meeting and there isn't much to review
[18:02:05] <Kilos> yqa
[18:02:28] <kbmonkey> Revisiting our studies, who wants in?
[18:02:43] * nlsthzn can't re-visit ... he still has to visit :p
[18:02:47] <kbmonkey> thanks maiatoday!
[18:02:56] <magespawn> I do would like to be certified
[18:02:58] <nlsthzn> But I am still keen
[18:03:02] <kbmonkey> okay then so be it nlsthzn
[18:03:43] <Kilos> i will study with you
[18:03:47] <nlsthzn> How do you plan on doing this kbmonkey ?
[18:03:55] <kbmonkey> realistically I envisioned this study group would carry on autonomously,
[18:04:13] <maiatoday> is anybody actively in the process of becoming a LPIC
[18:04:34] <kbmonkey> I want to restart this in the next 2-4 weeks nlsthzn
[18:04:49] * nlsthzn is toying with the idea... but as it has no bearing on my work it become harder to motivate the effort and time
[18:05:19] <nlsthzn> I want to go for it to be more proficiant at Linux and be able to help myself more than anything else
[18:05:23] <magespawn> No not yet
[18:05:27] <maiatoday> because if you had someone who is on a mission to become certified to drive it it may help
[18:05:45] <Mezenir> can it really teach you anything you cant teach yourself ?
[18:05:45] <kbmonkey> yes
[18:06:09] <nlsthzn> and in a shorter time frame (plus you get feedback if you really know what it what)
[18:06:26] <kbmonkey> the lpic is pretty much self study Mezenir. you do get classes based on it, but yes you can teach yourself
[18:06:38] <magespawn> Structured learning makes more sense generally
[18:07:00] <maiatoday> also deadlines do wonders ...
[18:07:14] <maiatoday> nothing like an exam to make you cram for 2 days
[18:07:15] <kbmonkey> basically it is a glorified collection of linux knowledge guaranteed to make one competent
[18:07:18] <nlsthzn> maiatoday, +1
[18:07:26] <kbmonkey> ++
[18:07:50] * nlsthzn sees a dead line is needed >.<
[18:07:53] <kbmonkey> okay I will mail the list into kickstart again
[18:08:32] <maiatoday> or maybe challenge each other to checkout an area and present to the others in irc
[18:08:32] <Kilos> kbmonkey, what happened to those that already joined you two
[18:08:44] * nlsthzn will re-energize some peeps on this side of the world to see who is in :)
[18:08:40] <Kilos> 20 i think you said
[18:08:26] <kbmonkey> maaz agreed Wesley to kickstart the LPIC studies
[18:08:26] <Maaz> Agreed: Wesley to kickstart the LPIC studies
[18:08:55] <kbmonkey> nlsthzn indeed, a deadline is needed
[18:09:19] <Whizper2me> poke
[18:09:47] <Whizper2me> apologies that was going to be : poke Teepog about the LPIC Wesley, he has indicated some interest before
[18:10:00] <Kilos> kbmonkey, is the manual still the same
[18:10:12] <kbmonkey> yes it is Kilos
[18:10:24] <Kilos> http://www.linuxcertification.co.za/lpi-study-manual
[18:10:33] <Kilos> ok ian wants to join as well
[18:10:55] <kbmonkey> we can work out a flexible deadline, with everyone's schedules, we can perhaps setup recurring deadlines for the work
[18:11:11] <maiatoday> so here's a suggestion, pick a day of the week and let someone commit to preparing to present a section to the others
[18:11:22] <maiatoday> the others must prepare so they can ask questions.
[18:11:22] <kbmonkey> that way, newcomers can still meet deadlines, and the rest can revisit old stuff to stay fresh
[18:11:31] <maiatoday> then the baton is passed on to the next person
[18:11:39] <nlsthzn> Clever idea
[18:11:46] <maiatoday> that way everyone gets to prepare a section thoroughly
[18:11:49] <magespawn> +1
[18:11:57] <inetpro> sounds interesting
[18:12:06] <maiatoday> and you have free "lectures"
[18:12:07] <kbmonkey> well maiatoday the material is layed out, so I thought everyone works through it themselves. then we meet on irc to ask, discuss and poke another about it
[18:12:22] <kbmonkey> oh I like that a lot too maiatoday !
[18:12:40] <maiatoday> yeah I know the material is layed out but you run the risk of flippin through it and saying yeah I know that, and that
[18:12:42] <nlsthzn> Left to my own devices I would be better of going back to DOS
[18:12:55] <maiatoday> whereas if you have to sortof lecture it you really have to know it
[18:13:33] <nlsthzn> When you learn with the aim to teach you learn more / quicker
[18:13:36] <inetpro> maiatoday: where dowe get the learning material? Are there costs involved?
[18:13:45] <kbmonkey> just so I understand maiatoday, you say someone presents a section, like in a classroom?
[18:13:51] <maiatoday> and it will give structure and a deadline for one person at least and the others can hear/read an explanation instead of reading a manual
[18:13:58] <maiatoday> yeah kbmonkey
[18:14:05] <nlsthzn> inetpro, there is a free study guide...
[18:14:05] <kbmonkey> inetpro the book is free, a pdf online. I will email the links through on the list
[18:14:10] <Kilos> inetpro, http://www.linuxcertification.co.za/lpi-study-manual
[18:14:21] <inetpro> ahh, thanks Kilos
[18:14:26]
[18:14:30] <Kilos> yw
[18:14:42] <Kilos> lo ZereF log in to our meet
[18:14:45] <magespawn> I could draw up a schedule if ppl will commit to the program
[18:14:49] <kbmonkey> Kilos for the win
[18:15:25] <kbmonkey> inetpro the material suggests CentOS, however is generic enough to apply to most distros
[18:15:43] <Mezenir> nice of them to provide free material
[18:15:48] <kbmonkey> If you can magespawn, thanks!
[18:15:48] <nlsthzn> they do cover RPM and debs and everything in between
[18:16:32] <kbmonkey> what period between classes would you say? a week? every 2 weeks?
[18:16:48] <nlsthzn> will depend on the size, complexity
[18:16:52] <magespawn> How big is the manual?
[18:17:28] <inetpro> maiatoday: 4.2MB as far as I can see
[18:17:29] <kbmonkey> let me check..
[18:17:39] <inetpro> oops... magespawn
[18:17:55] <maiatoday> make it a regular meeting even if you can't cover a whole section in a meeting, so that you get into the habit of keeping going
[18:17:57] <magespawn> No I meant chapters etc?
[18:18:21] <nlsthzn> I think it is best for the interested to get the manual and then we plan?
[18:18:23] <Kilos> quite big magespawn
[18:18:40] <Kilos> lots of info from bios on
[18:18:49] <nlsthzn> The chapters only scratch the surface... need more info then it gives often
[18:18:57] <kbmonkey> I don't have the book with me, but magespawn see inside it, they even show a chart of how many 'points' each section is valued, and how much time is suggested
[18:19:09] * inetpro just downloaded it
[18:19:17] <inetpro> 329 pages
[18:19:41] <magespawn> I'll have a look at the manual and get an educator friend of mine to draw up class material and such
[18:19:46] <kbmonkey> magespawn can we then chat about some schedule via mail then
[18:19:54] <magespawn> For sure
[18:20:00] <kbmonkey> awesome :)
[18:20:22] <kbmonkey> Maaz agreed magespawn to help setup a LPIC Q&A IRC schdule
[18:20:22] <Maaz> Agreed: magespawn to help setup a LPIC Q&A IRC schdule
[18:20:50] <kbmonkey> I propose we skip the beginning sections on BIOS and legacy hardware
[18:21:03] <inetpro> just keep me us updated on here as well... I tend to ignore emails
[18:21:22] <kbmonkey> it may be required, but daunting for newbies. get them stuck and interested in the juice bits, then revisit the technicals.
[18:21:35] <kbmonkey> sure inetpro
[18:21:41] <magespawn> Will do maybe set up a page or something.
[18:22:00] <kbmonkey> to that end, I'd risk saying I want to catch up with IRC meets and try for more a month :/
[18:22:30] <Kilos> yay kbmonkey about time
[18:22:36] <Kilos> been lonely here
[18:22:40] <kbmonkey> right, I'm glad to still see interest!
[18:22:47] * kbmonkey big smiles
[18:23:06] * Kilos missed the weenie
[18:23:07] <inetpro> kbmonkey: you mean like more than one meeting a month?
[18:23:35] <kbmonkey> yes inetpro, irc meets.
[18:23:41] <Kilos> lpi meets should be one a week
[18:23:58] <kbmonkey> the lpi meets still need to be scheduled out
[18:24:00] <inetpro> hmm... I guess we should try it
[18:24:44] <kbmonkey> or like mini-meets. like hi/bye action grenade meets
[18:24:46] * inetpro will definitely not be able to attend them all
[18:25:17] <Kilos> inetpro, you can read logs
[18:25:35] <inetpro> Kilos: I like the idea
[18:25:42] <kbmonkey> not required to attend all, just to make regular attempts is the idea :)
[18:25:53] <Kilos> most of the course you will understand anyway
[18:26:03] <kbmonkey> magespawn fyi we could try use the ubuntu-za wiki for our schedule
[18:26:11] <kbmonkey> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/
[18:26:23] <magespawn> yup
[18:26:32]
[18:26:40] <Kilos> lo WOLFEYES
[18:26:53] <WOLFEYES> Heya all...
[18:27:03] <nlsthzn> lo WOLFEYES
[18:27:04] <Kilos> tell maaz who you are
[18:27:11] <kbmonkey> Maaz minutes so far
[18:27:11] <Maaz> Minutes available at json: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2012-01-16-17-34-34.json :: txt: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2012-01-16-17-34-34.txt :: html: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2012-01-16-17-34-34.html
[18:27:42] <WOLFEYES> maaz I am WOLFEYES
[18:27:42] <Maaz> WOLFEYES: Alrighty
[18:27:46] <nlsthzn> :)
[18:27:46] <WOLFEYES> :-)
[18:27:48] <kbmonkey> not what I wanted Maaz, but thanks he he
[18:27:55] <Kilos> grr no fool
[18:28:21] <maiatoday> kbmonkey do you think we need to check previous minutes?
[18:28:28] <kbmonkey> collating this topic ideas in my head..
[18:28:39] <maiatoday> we sortof covered everything in there already
[18:28:59] <kbmonkey> maiatoday I did and apart from previous release party feedback it seems all covered here in some form
[18:29:07] <kbmonkey> snap
[18:29:23] <maiatoday> I agree, just the ubuntu hour but that's no biggie
[18:29:33] <kbmonkey> okay next...
[18:29:50] <kbmonkey> Maaz topic Wiki updates
[18:29:50] <Maaz> Current Topic: Wiki updates
[18:30:26] <maiatoday> hmm we haven't done any inages
[18:30:29] <maiatoday> in ages
[18:30:30] <kbmonkey> Unsure what this one entails, magespawn you know?
[18:30:37] <maiatoday> we should do a monthly report on the wiki
[18:30:44] <kbmonkey> what updates?
[18:30:57] <maiatoday> the monthly reports are due the first sunday of the month
[18:31:06] <kbmonkey> oooh
[18:31:15] <maiatoday> I am assuming that's what magespawn meant with the agenda item
[18:31:27] <magespawn> maiatoday asked me to help with that but did not see anything to add. Unsure of what to add.
[18:31:46] <maiatoday> we need to list what we do each month on a wiki page
[18:31:47] <inetpro> magespawn: I guess we can get more organised again
[18:31:59] <maiatoday> but if we don't do anything there is nothing to say :(
[18:32:03] <kbmonkey> there was a report in October
[18:32:09] <maiatoday> so for this month we have an irc meeting at least
[18:32:10] <magespawn> Maybe ppl could mail the list or me directly with things to be included
[18:32:25] <maiatoday> ok that sounds good
[18:32:40] <kbmonkey> there must be an easier way to post/remember team reports
[18:32:41] <inetpro> like updating meeting pages https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings
[18:33:10] <maiatoday> if I remember I usually ask on the list for events but I think the list mails aren't read that regularly
[18:33:41] <inetpro> see sub-pages at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam
[18:33:44] <magespawn> I will also ask for things on the list to jog ppls memory
[18:33:55] <kbmonkey> there's a report for December for a meeting.
[18:34:08] <maiatoday> everyone can add on the wiki so really when something happens we could add to the list
[18:34:25] <maiatoday> then magespawn can just check if it's all there round deadline time
[18:34:44] <Kilos> can we make an appeal to list members to visit here as well?
[18:35:09] <Kilos> there are many good brains there that dont come here
[18:35:11] <maiatoday> dunno Kilos people either go on irc or not, and we always invite people on the list to come to irc for the meeting
[18:35:25] <kbmonkey> so January Team Report is due first Sunday of Feb.
[18:35:25] <Kilos> ah ty maiatoday
[18:35:34] <maiatoday> yeah
[18:35:38] <inetpro> if we keep going and stay organised people will come automatically
[18:35:48] <magespawn> Maybe change the topic regularly for the meetings on orc
[18:36:12] <kbmonkey> True Kilos. I try suggest the web chat to make it easier. maybe they are shy?
[18:36:16] <maiatoday> I hope to have more time this year for ubuntu too
[18:36:17] <Kilos> superfly, welcome
[18:36:28] <kbmonkey> Maaz topic
[18:36:28] <Maaz> kbmonkey: Excuse me?
[18:36:35] <WOLFEYES> heya superfly :-)
[18:37:44] <maiatoday> is there an action for this topic
[18:37:57] <maiatoday> do you have a clearer idea now magespawn?
[18:37:58] <kbmonkey> not yet
[18:38:06] <magespawn> Yup
[18:38:14] <kbmonkey> the report is due the first Sun of Feb, maia?
[18:38:23] <maiatoday> kbmonkey: yes
[18:38:34] <kbmonkey> trying to see the Dec report... taking a while..
[18:38:38] <inetpro> maiatoday: I'd say everyone should try to make renewed attempts to document stuff on the wiki
[18:38:39] <superfly> hi Kilos, WOLFEYES, et al
[18:38:49] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:38:49] <Maaz> superfly: Alrighty
[18:38:50] <inetpro> superfly: wb
[18:39:01] <nlsthzn> hi superfly
[18:39:11] <superfly> inetpro: thanks, work meeting till just after 7pm
[18:39:14] <superfly> hey nlsthzn
[18:39:26] <maiatoday> hi superfly
[18:39:28] <kbmonkey> okay, so then we follow through with our plans, and we email activities for the report
[18:39:39] <superfly> naandsÃª maiatoday :-)
[18:39:40] <kbmonkey> hi superfly !
[18:39:44] <superfly> yo kbmonkey
[18:40:10]
[18:40:24] <Kilos> magespawn, wb
[18:40:26] <inetpro> anyone who doesn't know how to drive the wiki is welcome to ask around and we'll help out as far as possible
[18:40:27] <maiatoday> magespawn: you didn't miss anything :)
[18:40:48] <kbmonkey> Maaz idea everyone: document the ubuntu-za wiki.
[18:40:48] <Maaz> Idea recorded: everyone: document the ubuntu-za wiki
[18:40:58] <maiatoday> only one agenda item to go woohoo
[18:41:20] <kbmonkey> before the last, any more ideas for wiki updates to action?
[18:41:26] <magespawn> Back again
[18:41:26] <superfly> erm, anyone have a link to the previous minutes?
[18:41:37] <maiatoday> http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2011-10-24-17-37-27.html
[18:42:22] <maiatoday> and todays agenda http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-za/331/detail/
[18:42:26] <superfly> maiatoday: uh, no, here they are: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20111219
[18:42:53] <maiatoday> urk you're right time machine glitch
[18:43:30] * superfly remembers cause it was only himself, tumbleweed and Kilos at that meeting :-)
[18:43:41] <Kilos> hehe
[18:45:25] <maiatoday> thanks for holding the pre-xmas fort Kilos and superfly
[18:45:34] <kbmonkey> now for the geek girls :)
[18:45:35] <kbmonkey> Maaz topic Girl Geek Dinners
[18:45:35] <Maaz> Current Topic: Girl Geek Dinners
[18:45:35] <Kilos> yw maiatoday
[18:45:50] <WOLFEYES> lol
[18:46:05] * maiatoday went to a geek girl dinner in ct once
[18:46:19] <superfly> kbmonkey: may I add something to the agenda? I know it's late, but I haven't had an opportunity till now :-(
[18:46:27] <kbmonkey> so tell us more about the Girl Geek Dinner idea...
[18:47:11] <magespawn> I'll put all the details on the list but they are looking for sponsor for prizes and goody bages
[18:47:35] <maiatoday> http://ggdcpt.wordpress.com/
[18:47:38] <magespawn> Girls only dinner with a strpng geek flavour
[18:47:45] <maiatoday> no it isn't girls only
[18:47:50] <kbmonkey> np superfly
[18:47:58] <magespawn> Thats the one
[18:48:10] <superfly> kbmonkey: CT Ubuntu Hour
[18:48:29] <maiatoday> there were some guys at the one I went to
[18:48:58] <magespawn> Thought it was anyway my shop is going to sponsor flash drives for the bags filled with Foss
[18:48:59] <maiatoday> the geek flavour wasn't that strong either it seemed but maybe it has changed since
[18:49:17] <maiatoday> ah that's better, last time we got marmelade
[18:49:39] <magespawn> Was looking for ideas of what to included
[18:49:53] <maiatoday> for a flash drive of FOSS I'd consider going again :)
[18:50:00] <WOLFEYES> lol
[18:50:05] <nlsthzn> Any android device would be appreciated I am sure
[18:50:12] <Whizper2me> haha
[18:50:20] <magespawn> Not that rich
[18:50:50] <nlsthzn> ;)
[18:51:37] <nlsthzn> Guys and girls... it is way past my bed time (besides I haven't slept in 30 hours...) Good night :)
[18:51:49] <kbmonkey> a FOSS flash freebie!
[18:51:50] <Kilos> night nlsthzn
[18:51:54] <inetpro> todays minutes can go here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20120116
[18:51:54] <Kilos> sleep tight
[18:52:20] <inetpro> nlsthzn: good night
[18:52:25] <kbmonkey> thanks for coming nlsthzn
[18:52:27] <superfly> maiatoday, magespawn: anything else you wanna say about the GGD?
[18:52:35] <magespawn> Something like that yup also trials of other software and mags etc
[18:52:50] <kbmonkey> okay any actions to add for this topic to wrap up?
[18:53:09] <maiatoday> nope nothing else
[18:53:16] <magespawn> Only that they are on the 26 th of every second month
[18:53:35] <kbmonkey> noted :)
[18:53:37] <magespawn> Jan march etc
[18:54:09] <kbmonkey> Maaz idea GGD on the 26th of every second month (Jan.. Mar..)
[18:54:09] <Maaz> Idea recorded: GGD on the 26th of every second month (Jan.. Mar..)
[18:54:32] <kbmonkey> a 'note' for maaz would be handy
[18:55:41] <kbmonkey> okay I'm going to call it, bed time for some of you hey?
[18:55:53] <kbmonkey> Maaz end meeting

[18:58:42] <kbmonkey> Maaz start meeting about Ubuntu-za IRC meeting additions
[18:58:42] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:58:43] <Kilos> lo highvoltage
[18:58:53] <kbmonkey> Maaz topic Ubuntu Hour
[18:58:53] <Maaz> Current Topic: Ubuntu Hour
[18:59:05] <kbmonkey> sorry superfly it was a loong day of driving ;)
[18:59:14] <superfly> Well, Stellies is a bit far for me, and that's where most of the action has been.
[18:59:26] <kbmonkey> okay for additions only tell maaz your name if you have something to add
[18:59:59] <superfly> I recently got a netbook, and thought it would be cool to have an Ubuntu hour in Cape Town somewhere, preferably close to public transport, so that folks can access it easily
[19:00:17] <kbmonkey> Maaz I am Wesley Werner
[19:00:17] <Maaz> kbmonkey: Sure
[19:00:21] <superfly> probably mid-Feb, on a Saturday
[19:00:35] <maiatoday> Maaz I am Maia Grotepass
[19:00:35] <Maaz> maiatoday: Sure
[19:00:47] <superfly> I'll send out a mail to the list this evening, see if anyone is interested. tumbleweed said he'd likely be able to make it
[19:00:50] <maiatoday> cool superfly, decide when and I'll try to make it
[19:00:54] <kbmonkey> any location ideas yet superfly ?
[19:00:07] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[19:00:07] <Maaz> superfly: Done
[19:01:17] <superfly> kbmonkey: No, though I was thinking the Rondebosch area would probably be fairly central
[19:01:20] <Whizper2me> hola highvoltage how you keeping?
[19:02:03] <superfly> but I don't hang around in R'bosch much, so I'll ask the list if they have any ideas of where to meet
[19:02:11] <superfly> kbmonkey: where are you stationed these days?
[19:02:16] <Whizper2me> you could poke the observatory town hall
[19:02:44] <kbmonkey> does obz town hall have internet?
[19:03:01] <maiatoday> you can do an ubuntu hour without internet
[19:03:01] <superfly> Whizper2me: we want to rather go to a coffee shop, it's more informal, and a number have some sort of Internet access
[19:03:11] <superfly> maiatoday: true :-)
[19:03:14] <kbmonkey> I was in obz for a while superfly but currently on a road trip cross country, not in CT anymore
[19:03:24] <maiatoday> ubuntu hour without coffee, now that might be tricky :)
[19:03:26] <superfly> kbmonkey: ah, OK
[19:03:31] <kbmonkey> yes, and public presence
[19:03:32] <Whizper2me> mmm coffee shops ....
[19:03:44] <highvoltage> Whizper2me: good thanks and you?
[19:03:58] <highvoltage> Whizper2me: do I know you? :)
[19:04:06] <Whizper2me> a little knackered. it was hot today
[19:04:16] * WOLFEYES nodz in agreement
[19:04:26] <kbmonkey> Maaz agreed superfly to mail the list with ideas for a CT Ubuntu Hour
[19:04:26] <Maaz> Agreed: superfly to mail the list with ideas for a CT Ubuntu Hour
[19:04:32] <kbmonkey> cool :)
[19:04:42] <kbmonkey> thanks for reminding me superfly !
[19:04:42] <superfly> kbmonkey: excellent, was just about to suggest you do that :-)
[19:04:46] <Whizper2me> Maaz: I am Christel Breedt
[19:04:46] <Maaz> Whizper2me: Done
[19:05:00] <kbmonkey> okay additions complete?
[19:05:08] <superfly> Nothing more from me
[19:05:09] <kbmonkey> added agenda item
[19:05:23] <kbmonkey> Maaz end meeting
</pre>
