{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 28 March 2017 
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''chesedo'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20170228#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Next Steps
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
*** magespawn - need testimonies
*** Kapanda - progress
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
* Events
** Past Month:
*** <nowiki>[[http://scaleconf.org/|Scaleconf]]</nowiki>: 9-10 March, Cape Town
*** devconf: 9 March, Johannesburg
*** <nowiki>[[http://freebeersessions.co.za/node/86|FreeBeerSessions]]</nowiki>: 2 March, Cape Town/Johannesburg
** Other:
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** ...
* Miscellaneous
** Discuss Ubuntu education project - williamk, nsnzero
** <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuforhope.org/|Ubuntu for Hope]]</nowiki>
** Have a 'Help Wanted' section in mini meeting (or integrate into Job Openings)
* Next meeting: 25 April 2017
* Elect chairperson for next meeting

=== Summary ===

<pre>
Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:30] STARTED (chesedo)
[18:30:41] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (chesedo)
[18:33:54] AGREED: All happy with the agenda (chesedo)
[18:34:02] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (chesedo)
[18:35:38] AGREED: All happy with previous minutes (chesedo)
[18:35:51] TOPIC: Next Steps (chesedo)
[18:39:52] AGREED: nothing new to add to next steps (chesedo)
[18:40:10] TOPIC: Events (chesedo)
[18:51:19] AGREED: A lot of upcoming events including Python, CSS, GO and Elastic (chesedo)
[18:53:13] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (chesedo)
[19:07:58] ACCEPTED: Ubuntu 17.04 to be released 13 April (chesedo)
[19:08:17] ACCEPTED: Ubuntu 12.04 to be reach EOL 28 April (chesedo)
[19:09:24] ACCEPTED: To integrate "Help Wanted" with "Job Openings" in mini meeting (chesedo)
[19:09:47] TOPIC: Next meeting (chesedo)
[19:11:32] AGREED: next meeting is 25 April 2017 @ 20:30 (chesedo)
[19:12:29] AGREED: Next mini meeting 29 March 2017 and 12 April 2017 @ 20:30 (chesedo)
[19:12:37] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (chesedo)
[19:14:01] AGREED: chesedo to chair next meeting (chesedo)
[19:15:01] ENDED (chesedo)

Present
=======  ==

* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Paul Romano (londoner)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Jeandre Le Roux (theblazehen)
* dipraw
* nasan zero (nsnzero)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:30] <chesedo> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - March 2017
[18:30:30] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:30:41] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction 
[18:30:41] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:41] <chesedo> A warm welcome to all and thanks for joining in on out monthly meeting
[18:30:45] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:30:45] <Maaz> inetpro: Done
[18:30:52] <chesedo> Our bot maaz does the minutes as usual so please introduce yourself to it using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg.
[18:31:00] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:31:00] <Maaz> chesedo: Yessir
[18:31:09] <theblazehen> Maaz I am Jeandre Le Roux
[18:31:09] <Maaz> theblazehen: Yessir
[18:31:25] <nsnzero> Maaz: i am nasan zero
[18:31:25] <Maaz> nsnzero: Righto
[18:31:50] <chesedo> londoner: you were a bit too quick
[18:32:06] <londoner> Maaz: I am Paul Romano
[18:32:06] <Maaz> londoner: Alrighty
[18:32:16] <chesedo> Today's agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20170328
[18:32:32] <chesedo> any last minute changes are welcome
[18:33:04] <chesedo> and welcome to the meeting londoner
[18:33:29] <chesedo> I guess all happy with agenda?
[18:33:39] <inetpro> +1
[18:33:54] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed All happy with the agenda
[18:33:54] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with the agenda
[18:34:02] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:34:02] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:34:18] <chesedo> minutes of the previous meeting is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20170228#Summary
[18:34:37] <chesedo> Feel free to go through it for a refresher
[18:34:47] <chesedo> and raise any issues you may have
[18:35:38] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed All happy with previous minutes
[18:35:38] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with previous minutes
[18:35:51] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Next Steps
[18:35:51] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next Steps
[18:36:58] <chesedo> does anyone want to get an Ubuntu membership, coc or need help getting a launchpad ID, joining the mailing list or trello page
[18:37:01] <chesedo> *?
[18:38:26] <chesedo> magespawn's and kapanda's membership progress is still ongoing I see
[18:38:47] <nsnzero> i have signed the coc 
[18:39:16] <nsnzero> and i think i have a launchpad id - so i am good 
[18:39:52] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed nothing new to add to next steps
[18:39:52] <Maaz> Agreed: nothing new to add to next steps
[18:40:10] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Events
[18:40:10] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:40:38] <chesedo> These events took place in the past month:
[18:40:46] <chesedo> - Scaleconf: 9-10 March, Cape Town
[18:40:53] <chesedo> - devconf: 9 March, Johannesburg 
[18:41:00] <chesedo> - FreeBeerSessions: 2 March, Cape Town/Johannesburg 
[18:41:19] <chesedo> anyone attended any of these or other events?
[18:41:46] <chesedo> nsnzero: did you do the coc recently?
[18:41:48] <inetpro> -1
[18:42:10] <chesedo> inetpro: does that mean that i missed something?
[18:42:23] <chesedo> or just a "rogger, negative"?
[18:42:35] <inetpro> chesedo: haha no, just that I didn't attend any events
[18:42:47] <chesedo> oh...
[18:43:02] * chesedo breaths sigh of relieve
[18:43:17] <chesedo> anyone know of any new upcoming events?
[18:43:23] <nsnzero> yes couple months now - Kilos helped me 
[18:44:07] <chesedo> we should try and add those that pop up on the za-tech slack from time to time
[18:44:21] <chesedo> nsnzero: oh, great
[18:44:34] <inetpro> chesedo: I had a quick look there, not much that I noticed
[18:44:56] <inetpro> but maybe I missed something
[18:45:13] <superfly> oh dear, I missed the meeting
[18:45:16] <superfly> sorry guys :-(
[18:45:22] <chesedo> inetpro: i see some...
[18:45:27] <chesedo> let me list them:
[18:45:40] <inetpro> superfly: welcome back, you're not too late yet
[18:45:52] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:45:52] <Maaz> superfly: Okay
[18:45:56] <chesedo> - Using Go to build a real-time ad bidder (CPT 30th March) -> https://www.meetup.com/gocapetown/events/238382654/
[18:46:52] <chesedo> - CSS feature detection workshop: 08 April 2017 (CPT) -> https://www.meetup.com/ctfeds/events/236894086/
[18:47:12] <inetpro> superfly: anything interesting happening on the debian side in the near future?
[18:47:32] <chesedo> - Elastic Seminar and Meetup: 29 March 2017 (Grayton) -> https://www.meetup.com/Elasticsearch-South-Africa/events/238458339/
[18:47:58] <superfly> inetpro: not in ZA, but DebConf17 is happening in Montreal from the 6th ro the 12th of August: https://debconf17.debconf.org/
[18:48:07] <nsnzero> cape town is where the action is - read that parts or most of  amazon's ec2 was designed in cape town 
[18:48:18] <superfly> nsnzero: yep
[18:48:45] <chesedo> - The Gauteng Python group meetup 18 March 2017 (Jhb) -> https://www.meetup.com/Gauteng-Python-Users-Group/events/238264208/
[18:49:27] <superfly> PyConZA 2017 is happening in Cape Town again: https://za.pycon.org/
[18:49:38] <superfly> 5th and 6th of October
[18:49:57] <chesedo> lol 18 march is past due of course...
[18:51:19] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed A lot of upcoming events including Python, CSS, GO and Elastic
[18:51:19] <Maaz> Agreed: A lot of upcoming events including Python, CSS, GO and Elastic
[18:51:35] 
[18:51:53] <chesedo> there seems to be more, but i thing we will need a proper list to keep track of them all...
[18:52:12] <inetpro> interesting, thanks chesedo
[18:52:21] <superfly> chesedo, inetpro: Just had a thought, what about a learning slot? Links to courses, free tutorials, etc?
[18:52:48] <chesedo> superfly: here or the mini meetings?
[18:52:49] <nsnzero> i suggest that it be mailed to us for future reference 
[18:52:56] <chesedo> let me just switch to misc
[18:53:13] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous 
[18:53:13] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[18:53:48] <chesedo> nsnzero: that could work too... but how often?
[18:54:22] 
[18:54:26] <chesedo> and other misc updates are as follow:
[18:54:42] <nsnzero> ubuntu for hope : currently working on getting a few pc's ready for donation but its end of term - maybe i can sort something out during the holidays
[18:55:48] <chesedo> - Education project: william is not here and I was sick last week so could not yet get Booktype, OnlyOffice or Pubsweet setup for testing
[18:56:00] <inetpro> superfly: I think a announcing free learning resources like we do events could work
[18:56:30] <inetpro> superfly: I can just imagine this to be like a never ending list
[18:56:31] <chesedo> nsnzero: sounds great...
[18:57:15] <nsnzero> chesedo: i think one or twice a month if there is sufficient events / learning resources available 
[18:57:20] <chesedo> nsnzero: karl mentioned that the inflow of PCs is more that the request currently so a list of available one are currently kept...
[18:57:48] <inetpro> chesedo: oh that is interesting
[18:58:29] <inetpro> chesedo: is it PC's or laptops?
[18:58:31] <nsnzero> maybe i can get in touch with karl and find those pc's some good ubuntu homes 
[18:58:47] <chesedo> inetpro: i guess both will do...
[18:59:20] * inetpro should look at how to submit a request
[18:59:43] <inetpro> our kid's schools can always do with more resources
[19:00:57] <chesedo> inetpro: i think some level of pickyness might be involved with the low requests?
[19:01:07] <chesedo> s/?//
[19:01:36] <superfly> I made an upcoming events page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/UpcomingEvents
[19:01:56] <nsnzero> i advocate that kids need to be pc literate at an early age - drop ubuntu education edition on those pc's and let them have some educational fun
[19:02:27] <nsnzero> kids arent fussy if its entertaining them 
[19:02:54] <chesedo> superfly: great, i think that announcing it to the list might be helpfull to spread it around and get more items...
[19:03:13] <chesedo> nsnzero: true that
[19:04:04] * inetpro wonders whether Kilos is here
[19:04:34] <chesedo> then the other misc topic: at the last mini meeting is was suggested to add a "Help Wanted" section to the mini meeting..
[19:04:50] <chesedo> possible as part of Job Openings..
[19:05:22] <chesedo> and also an announcement... Ubuntu 17.04 in final beta is out now, official release date is on Thursday, 13 April...
[19:06:03] * chesedo thinks that the help wanted section can just integrate into jobs
[19:06:16] <inetpro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule
[19:07:28] <inetpro> chesedo: oh and Ubuntu 12.04 reaches end of life on 28 April 
[19:07:39] <nsnzero> any guesses what the next release will be code named ?
[19:07:41] <inetpro> the LTS version
[19:07:58] <chesedo> Maaz: accepted Ubuntu 17.04 to be released 13 April
[19:07:58] <Maaz> Accepted: Ubuntu 17.04 to be released 13 April
[19:08:17] <chesedo> Maaz: accepted Ubuntu 12.04 to be reach EOL 28 April
[19:08:17] <Maaz> Accepted: Ubuntu 12.04 to be reach EOL 28 April
[19:08:27] <inetpro> if you still rely heavily on Ubuntu 12.04 you can opt for ESM (Extended Security Maintenance) now
[19:09:24] <chesedo> Maaz: accepted To integrate "Help Wanted" with "Job Openings" in mini meeting
[19:09:24] <Maaz> Accepted: To integrate "Help Wanted" with "Job Openings" in mini meeting
[19:09:47] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:09:47] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:10:06] <chesedo> It seems that the next meeting is 25 Apr?
[19:10:35] <inetpro> correct 
[19:11:01] <chesedo> And mini meetings will be 29 March & 12 Apr?
[19:11:32] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed next meeting is 25 April 2017 @ 20:30
[19:11:32] <Maaz> Agreed: next meeting is 25 April 2017 @ 20:30
[19:12:29] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Next mini meeting 29 March 2017 and 12 April 2017 @ 20:30
[19:12:29] <Maaz> Agreed: Next mini meeting 29 March 2017 and 12 April 2017 @ 20:30
[19:12:37] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:12:37] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:12:56] <chesedo> anyone up for next chair?
[19:13:08] * inetpro votes for chesedo
[19:13:52] <nsnzero> you did an excellent job chesedo - why challenge that 
[19:14:01] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:14:01] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:14:15] <chesedo> nsnzero: just for diversity...
[19:14:24] <chesedo> and ty inetpro nsnzero
[19:14:47] <chesedo> Also thanks all for having joined on the monthly meeting
[19:14:56] <inetpro> chesedo: thanks for doing it again
[19:15:01] <chesedo> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
