{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 24 January 2017 
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''paddatrapper''' ('''chesedo''' & '''kulelu88''' backup)
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20161122#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2017
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
*** magespawn - need testimonies
*** tareq
*** Kapanda - progress
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu for Hope - update
* Events
** Past Month:
*** devug: geek of the year
** Other:
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.rubyfuza.org|rubyfuza]]</nowiki>: 2-4 February 2017 Cape Town, South Africa
*** devconf: 9 March, 2017, Johannesburg
* Miscellaneous
** Discuss Ubuntu education project
* Next meeting: 28 February 2017
* Elect chairperson for next meeting

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:31] STARTED (paddatrapper)
[18:30:47] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (paddatrapper)
[18:33:52] AGREED: All happy with previous minutes (paddatrapper)
[18:34:23] TOPIC: Review of previous minutes (paddatrapper)
[18:36:22] AGREED: All happy with previous minutes (paddatrapper)
[18:36:30] TOPIC: Plans for 2017 (paddatrapper)
[18:41:47] AGREED: magespawn still needs a wiki page, Kapanda hasn't been seen in a while and Kilos is the only one with contact with Kapanda (paddatrapper)
[18:42:05] AGREED: no update on Ubuntu for Hope (paddatrapper)
[18:42:51] TOPIC: Events (paddatrapper)
[18:47:07] AGREED: kmf wants to organise a GLUG part sometime soon for what may be their 20th year (paddatrapper)
[18:49:26] AGREED: no info about devug (paddatrapper)
[18:57:44] AGREED: Rubyfuza: 2-4 February, Cape Town :: Scaleconf: 9-10 March, Cape Town :: Devconf: 9 March, Johannesburg (paddatrapper)
[18:58:02] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (paddatrapper)
[19:02:47] TOPIC: Next meeting (paddatrapper)
[19:04:17] AGREED: Next meeting is 28 February 2017 @ 20:30 (paddatrapper)
[19:04:26] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (paddatrapper)
[19:06:19] AGREED: paddatrapper to chair next meeting (paddatrapper)
[19:06:27] ENDED (paddatrapper)

Present
=======  ==

* Karl Fischer (kmf)
* C Fleming (shifter)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Kyle Robbertze (paddatrapper)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* MaNI
* nsnzero (nsnzero)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:31] <paddatrapper> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - January 2017
[18:30:31] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:30:39] <kmf> chesedo: hello!
[18:30:47] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction 
[18:30:47] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:31:03] <paddatrapper> Welcome all those who made it, thanks for being here!
[18:31:16] <paddatrapper> Our bot maaz does the minutes as usual so please introduce yourself to it using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg. 
[18:31:21] <paddatrapper> Maaz: I am Kyle Robbertze
[18:31:21] <Maaz> paddatrapper: Okay
[18:31:37] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:31:37] <Maaz> chesedo: Yessir
[18:31:50] <paddatrapper> The agenda for today is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20170124 feel free to add any last minute stuff
[18:32:39] <paddatrapper> everyone happy with the agenda?
[18:33:17] <nsnzero> Maaz: i am nsnzero
[18:33:17] <Maaz> nsnzero: Righto
[18:33:30] <chesedo> paddatrapper: I'm ok with it
[18:33:48] <kmf> +1
[18:33:52] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed All happy with previous minutes
[18:33:52] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with previous minutes
[18:34:23] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Review of previous minutes
[18:34:23] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review of previous minutes
[18:34:55] <paddatrapper> Previous minutes are here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20161122#Summary
[18:35:48] <paddatrapper> Everyone happy with the minutes of last meeting? Even if it was a while ago
[18:35:52] <paddatrapper> ?
[18:36:16] <chesedo> yes
[18:36:19] <kmf> +1
[18:36:22] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed All happy with previous minutes
[18:36:22] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with previous minutes
[18:36:30] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Plans for 2017 
[18:36:30] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2017
[18:37:17] <paddatrapper> They aren't around, but does anyone know the status of magespawn's application or that of tareq or Kapanda?
[18:38:05] <chesedo> superfly kmf nsnzero thatgraemeguy shifter spinza  would you guys introduce yourself to Maaz with your fullnames
[18:38:26] <chesedo> paddatrapper: i am checking magespawns
[18:38:35] <paddatrapper> And while we're at it, anyone else wanting help with membership, launchpad IDs, etc?
[18:38:38] <kmf> Maaz: I am Karl Fischer
[18:38:38] <Maaz> kmf: Righto
[18:38:48] <chesedo> wiki page still missing for him
[18:38:52] <paddatrapper> superfly: word wakker man!
[18:39:30] <chesedo> lol, we took to long, he was eager 2h ago :P
[18:39:42] <paddatrapper> chesedo: cool. I haven't seen tareq or Kapanda around at all
[18:39:49] <paddatrapper> yeah kids must be calling
[18:40:20] <paddatrapper> Ok then is there an update on Ubuntu for Hope?
[18:40:29] <chesedo> paddatrapper: tareq is from somewhre in asia and only Kilos has contact with him...
[18:40:37] <superfly> sorry, busy with some other things
[18:40:42] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:40:42] <Maaz> superfly: Alrighty
[18:40:46] <chesedo> Kapanda has not been around in a while
[18:40:55] <paddatrapper> Wonder how Kilos is doing... Hasn't been online today at all
[18:41:29] <chesedo> paddatrapper: I do not know if we have any...
[18:41:35] * chesedo also wonders
[18:41:47] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed magespawn still needs a wiki page, Kapanda hasn't been seen in a while and Kilos is the only one with contact with Kapanda
[18:41:47] <Maaz> Agreed: magespawn still needs a wiki page, Kapanda hasn't been seen in a while and Kilos is the only one with contact with Kapanda
[18:42:05] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed no update on Ubuntu for Hope
[18:42:05] <Maaz> Agreed: no update on Ubuntu for Hope
[18:42:06] <chesedo> kmf: any events planned for Ubuntu for Hope that we can help with
[18:42:16] <kmf> chesedo: ...
[18:42:51] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Events 
[18:42:51] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:42:59] <paddatrapper> I'll take that as no kmf :)
[18:43:07] <kmf> chesedo: nothing major planned, but I want to organize a GLUG party
[18:43:29] <kmf> paddatrapper: ... sorry my wife called ... she has OP status ....
[18:43:40] <chesedo> kmf: sound exciting!!!
[18:43:43] <kmf> chesedo: GLUG is 20 years old I think 
[18:43:55] <paddatrapper> kmf: No problem. That she does!
[18:44:09] <paddatrapper> That's impressive
[18:44:18] <kmf> chesedo: spoke to Ross Addis and he is keen to do something from a RedHat side :D
[18:44:22] * paddatrapper has no idea how old CLUG is
[18:44:39] <inetpro> good evening 
[18:44:51] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer 
[18:44:51] <Maaz> inetpro: Done
[18:44:56] <paddatrapper> hey inetpro 
[18:45:02] <chesedo> kmf: is this in the near future?
[18:45:51] <kmf> chesedo: .... I hope so ... but he is busy now ... it's the RedHat forum
[18:46:02] <kmf> @inetpro hello Oom Gustav
[18:46:15] <paddatrapper> kmf: I take it GLUG is 20 y/o this year?
[18:46:32] <kmf> paddatrapper: .... ja ... I think 
[18:47:07] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed kmf wants to organise a GLUG part sometime soon for what may be their 20th year
[18:47:07] <Maaz> Agreed: kmf wants to organise a GLUG part sometime soon for what may be their 20th year
[18:47:19] <inetpro> chesedo: sorry, I forgot to tweet about the meeting 
[18:47:35] <chesedo> inetpro: np
[18:47:50] <paddatrapper> Anyone able to report back about devug that happend earlier this month?
[18:47:50] <inetpro> kmf: good to see you here 
[18:47:54] * chesedo forgot to got all things ready late last week
[18:48:37] <kmf> inetpro: my pleasure ... you look good have you lost some weight or is it my new font that makes you look smaller
[18:48:45] <paddatrapper> lol
[18:48:59] <inetpro> haha :) 
[18:49:02] <chesedo> paddatrapper: seemed like kulelu88 was interested in going, but do not know anything
[18:49:26] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed no info about devug
[18:49:26] <Maaz> Agreed: no info about devug
[18:49:27] * chesedo rofl
[18:49:54] <kmf> ;)
[18:50:00] <paddatrapper> Ok then there are two events coming up - rubyfuza and devconf, anyone know more?
[18:50:16] <paddatrapper> rubyfuza: 2-4 February 2017 Cape Town and devconf: 9 March, 2017, Johannesburg
[18:50:29] <inetpro> sounds good 
[18:50:59] <kmf> paddatrapper: ... yes ... what about scaleconf?
[18:51:26] <paddatrapper> kmf: I shall add it in! That's next month isn't it?
[18:52:06] <shifter> Maaz: I am C Fleming
[18:52:06] <Maaz> shifter: Okay
[18:52:24] <paddatrapper> Scaleconf - 9-10 March, Cape Town
[18:52:52] <paddatrapper> Kirstenbosch nog al!
[18:53:22] <kmf> paddatrapper: yebo ... same time as devconf ....
[18:53:48] <inetpro> anyone here been to previous scaleconf events? 
[18:54:51] <superfly> I went to ScaleConf 2013
[18:55:10] <paddatrapper> superfly: What's its focus?
[18:55:23] <superfly> paddatrapper: mostly boasting about how much data they're processing
[18:55:38] <chesedo> superfly: highpoint/best that you got from it?
[18:56:06] <superfly> chesedo: anyone can process a lot of data if you have a lot of money
[18:56:17] * superfly turns the sarcasm down a little
[18:56:36] * paddatrapper wonders if SKA will present anything considering the volumes they process
[18:56:41] <superfly> chesedo: the best talk, in my opinion, was actually my boss's
[18:56:51] <superfly> paddatrapper: they did in 2013
[18:57:10] <superfly> they had some MS salesdrone present on Azure
[18:57:34] <paddatrapper> As always
[18:57:44] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed Rubyfuza: 2-4 February, Cape Town :: Scaleconf: 9-10 March, Cape Town :: Devconf: 9 March, Johannesburg
[18:57:44] <Maaz> Agreed: Rubyfuza: 2-4 February, Cape Town :: Scaleconf: 9-10 March, Cape Town :: Devconf: 9 March, Johannesburg
[18:58:02] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous 
[18:58:02] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[18:58:22] <paddatrapper> Anyone know anything about the Ubuntu education project?
[18:58:52] <kmf> nope
[18:59:03] <superfly> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wmMofn2dKhA
[18:59:07] <chesedo> same here
[18:59:17] <superfly> (my boss's talk)
[18:59:36] <paddatrapper> superfly: was about to ask, thanks
[19:00:01] <paddatrapper> anything else anyone wants to bring up?
[19:00:05] * inetpro don't remember seeing anything about Ubuntu education recently 
[19:01:06] * inetpro wondering whether highvoltage is still involved with edubuntu
[19:01:07] <chesedo> inetpro: Kapanda and william are the main guys on it
[19:01:23] <paddatrapper> inetpro: as far as I know, yes
[19:01:44] <paddatrapper> in that I am redesigning stuff that he wants to include in it
[19:01:59] <inetpro> nice 
[19:02:21] 
[19:02:37] <inetpro> wb MaNI 
[19:02:47] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:02:47] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:03:13] <paddatrapper> Next meeting 28 February 2017 @ 20:30 according to the agenda, is that fine?
[19:03:58] <kmf> +1
[19:04:07] <inetpro> +1
[19:04:09] <chesedo> +1
[19:04:17] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 28 February 2017 @ 20:30
[19:04:17] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 28 February 2017 @ 20:30
[19:04:26] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:04:26] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:04:35] <MaNI> inetpro, thanks 
[19:04:38] <paddatrapper> Who feels like volunteering as tribute?
[19:04:42] <paddatrapper> hey MaNI 
[19:04:46] * inetpro votes for paddatrapper 
[19:05:14] <kmf> me 2
[19:05:17] <paddatrapper> It's still before the start of term, so should be possible
[19:05:25] <chesedo> inetpro: you are chickening out again :P
[19:05:29] <paddatrapper> lol
[19:05:42] <chesedo> I am also ok with that
[19:06:05] <inetpro> chesedo: you guys are better than me 
[19:06:19] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed paddatrapper to chair next meeting
[19:06:19] <Maaz> Agreed: paddatrapper to chair next meeting
[19:06:27] <paddatrapper> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
