{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 27 October 2015
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''pieter2627'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20150922#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2015
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
* Events
** Past Month:
*** <nowiki>[[https://za.pycon.org/|PyConZA 2015]]</nowiki> happening in October in Johannesburg/Milpark/Wits 
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/Drupal-Pretoria-Arcadia-NGO-gov| DASA]]</nowiki> on the 16th of October
** Other:
*** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn <nowiki>[[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kifest|Group Discussion]]</nowiki>
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
*** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn
*** Release Party for 16.04
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** ???
* Miscellaneous
** Ubuntu in the Wild
** get more involved with lugs to promote ubuntu and foss together
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 24 November 2015

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:31:32] STARTED (pieter2627)
[18:31:54] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (pieter2627)
[18:33:32] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (pieter2627)
[18:35:03] TOPIC: Plans for 2015 (pieter2627)
[18:36:03] TOPIC: Events (pieter2627)
[18:45:48] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (pieter2627)
[19:12:32] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:13:48] AGREED: pieter2627 to chair Nov's meeting (pieter2627)
[19:14:11] TOPIC: Next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:15:58] AGREED: Next meeting is 24 November 2015 @ 20:30 (pieter2627)
[19:16:38] ENDED (pieter2627)

Present
=======  ==

* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (pieter2627)
* Charl le Roux (clr_)
* Tonberry
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Vin Swart (Vince-0)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:31:32] <pieter2627> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - Oct 2015
[18:31:32] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:31:49] <Kilos> Maaz_ I am Miles Sharpe
[18:31:49] <Maaz> Kilos: Okay
[18:31:54] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction 
[18:31:54] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:31:55] <pieter2627> Evening  all and thanks for joining in on our monthly meeting 
[18:31:55] <pieter2627> Please introduce yourselves to Maaz for the minutes using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg. 
[18:31:55] <pieter2627> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:31:55] <Maaz> pieter2627: Righto
[18:32:20] <inetpro> Maaz_: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:32:20] <Maaz> inetpro: Sure
[18:32:21] <pieter2627> the agenda for today's meeting can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20151027 
[18:32:21] <pieter2627> check that nothing is missing and feel free to raise anything you might want to add
[18:33:22] * inetpro listening in with one ear
[18:33:32] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting 
[18:33:32] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:33:32] <pieter2627> the previous meeting's minutes is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150922 
[18:33:32] <pieter2627> please do not go and read it cause i'm in trouble for forgetting to have done stuff :P
[18:33:41] <Kilos> oh my inetpro what you doing
[18:33:59] <Kilos> haha pieter2627 
[18:34:22] * inetpro busy with some work in the background
[18:34:43] <Kilos> clr_ Vince-0 you guys wanna login?
[18:35:03] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Plans for 2015 
[18:35:03] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2015
[18:35:03] <pieter2627> the drill for this is short unless someone has something to say for its topics
[18:35:09] <superfly> Maaz_: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:35:09] <Maaz> superfly: Righto
[18:35:26] <Vince-0> Maaz: I am Vin Swart
[18:35:26] <Maaz> Vince-0: Alrighty
[18:35:47] <Kilos> oom clr_ ?
[18:36:03] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Events
[18:36:03] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:36:29] <pieter2627> Has anyone attended PyCon or DASA?
[18:37:09] <inetpro> pieter2627: not me
[18:37:18] <Kilos> everyone snowed under looks like
[18:37:26] <pieter2627> haha
[18:37:47] <inetpro> would have liked to go to DASA
[18:38:27] <pieter2627> then any news for the other events - install Fest, Ubuntu hour
[18:39:11] <inetpro> Ubuntu 15.10 has been released
[18:39:14] <superfly>  ^^
[18:39:35] <pieter2627> if anyone has anything about the 16.04 Release Party then now would be a good time
[18:39:52] <pieter2627> has anyone upgraded yet?
[18:40:25] * pieter2627 wanted to on the weekend - but things...
[18:40:38] <Kilos> ami is security becoming more of an isue
[18:40:52] <clr_> maaz: I am Charl le Roux
[18:40:52] <Maaz> clr_: Yessir
[18:40:56] <Kilos> many security updates
[18:41:20] <superfly> pieter2627: I upgraded my work PC today. No problems.
[18:41:21] 
[18:41:26] <superfly> Plasma 5.4 is yum yum
[18:41:28] * inetpro willing to wait some more before attempting to upgrade
[18:42:12] <pieter2627> ah ok, good to hear
[18:42:36] <superfly> but I'm using Kubuntu, not Ubuntu, so slightly different.
[18:42:44] <inetpro> superfly: you using yum in place of apt? :-)
[18:43:10] <Kilos> hahaha
[18:43:24] <Kilos> i had to think about that
[18:43:25] <superfly> Plasma 5.4 comes with the Application Dashboard instead of Kicker (the K-menu), and it makes life so much better. It's a bit like Unity's launcher.
[18:43:56] <inetpro> sounds interesting
[18:44:11] <clr_> I upgraded to 15.10, did a clean install as a matter of fact, and I am very happy
[18:44:35] <superfly> inetpro: then again, I'm a bit of a keyboard junkie. vim is my IDE of choice
[18:44:38] <clr_> the newer kernel solved some of my hardware issues with my laptop
[18:45:36] <inetpro> vim ftw!
[18:45:37] <pieter2627> i'll go over to the next topic as we cont. talking about upgrade...
[18:45:48] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[18:45:48] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[18:45:54] <clr_> I run ubuntu. Thought I could upgrade from 14.04, but that broke my system completely, so I had to reinsall
[18:46:10] <Kilos> oh my
[18:46:40] <Kilos> backed up /home hopefully
[18:46:52] <clr_> apparently you need to upgrade release by release
[18:47:00] <Kilos> yes
[18:47:08] <clr_> yes, /home on another disk
[18:47:10] <Kilos> only lts to lts works
[18:47:29] <pieter2627> that is interesting
[18:47:57] <pieter2627> oh, almost forgot anyone know of events for the upcoming month
[18:48:02] <clr_> right, I saw that, but then the upgrade tool allowed me to upgrade from 14.04 to 15.10, and I was.... Ok it must be possible then
[18:48:16] <Kilos> lol
[18:48:28] <Kilos> now you know
[18:48:57] <clr_> I normally end up doing a fresh install in any case, I prefer that
[18:49:09] * pieter2627 never jumped a version...
[18:49:18] <Kilos> i do clean installs everytime
[18:49:24] <Kilos> fly upgrades
[18:50:08] <pieter2627> shall i cont. with the other Misc?
[18:50:09] <clr_> So, I saw someone mentioned ubuntu install fests, and meetups etc. do have them?
[18:50:18] <Kilos> yip
[18:50:42] <Kilos> we used to clr_ but everyone too busy now
[18:51:00] <clr_> ha ok
[18:51:22] <pieter2627> well the meeting is about organizing them too if i'm correct
[18:51:33] <Kilos> correct
[18:51:52] <clr_> how about linuxconza
[18:52:00] <clr_> or linuxfestza
[18:52:11] <clr_> even australia have them, why not us
[18:52:36] <clr_> don't we need a linux conference in south africa
[18:53:21] <Kilos> inetpro comment?
[18:54:06] <pieter2627> SFD was last month, how would a linuxcon differ?
[18:54:10] <Vince-0> closest you're gonna get is sfd ya
[18:54:17] <Vince-0> obsidian is getting involved
[18:54:23] <Vince-0> and its well organised
[18:55:30] <clr_> well, SFD is supposed to promote foss software. Linuxcon should be for business etc. etc.  Like a proper conference.  Like the MyBroadband conference
[18:56:40] <inetpro> we just need people who are willing to step up and start arranging these events
[18:57:48] <pieter2627> should the ubuntu community arrange a linuxcon, or is this were Kilos's idea of getting involved with LUG's get into play?
[18:57:57] <clr_> that is where the challenge lies.  A lot of these around the world grew from the local lug meetup into something bigger
[18:58:50] <Kilos> i think working with lugs is  a good way 
[18:59:13] <pieter2627> Kilos: has this interaction lugs from us taken off yet?
[18:59:16] <Kilos> we all linux so why the apartheid
[18:59:55] <clr_> I agree, it must be all inclusive
[18:59:59] <Kilos> some of the durbs peeps were interested and jozilug but i see none of them here
[19:00:07] <Vince-0> get corporate sponsors, vendors, a venue, a schedule
[19:00:17] <Kilos> Vince-0 is here from durbs
[19:00:21] <Vince-0> oh and a committee 
[19:00:22] * pieter2627 thinks this might be a good thing to start the interaction
[19:00:28] <Kilos> i forgot to mail wwk
[19:02:19] <pieter2627> will we try this to improve the lug interaction? (quick vote pls)
[19:02:27] <Kilos> Vince-0 can you chat to the durbs guys for us please
[19:02:52] <Kilos> prob is we work here and they use G+
[19:03:20] <Kilos> so we need someone on both platforms
[19:03:35] <pieter2627> can't we sort the probs after the plan of action...
[19:03:56] <Kilos> whatever works
[19:04:16] <pieter2627> a few here will probably be able to help
[19:05:03] <pieter2627> Kilos: can you contact the know lugs to see if they are keen?
[19:05:26] <Kilos> Vince-0 is here from dbnlug
[19:05:44] <Kilos> i forget who the jozilug guys were
[19:05:57] <Kilos> ive had a slack 2 months
[19:05:58] <pieter2627> and gremble is at tuks lug
[19:06:12] <Kilos> there were 3 of them here 3 months ago
[19:06:42] <pieter2627> so will you take the task for the month?
[19:06:43] <Kilos> Vince-0 ^^
[19:07:13] <Kilos> haha ill need 4 more weeks of mostly sleeping i think
[19:07:41] <pieter2627> ai, inetpro you up for it?
[19:07:57] <pieter2627> :P
[19:08:02] <Kilos> lol
[19:08:26] <Kilos> Vince-0 and gremble are the guys to get to help
[19:08:35] <Kilos> they are insiders in the lugs
[19:08:58] <Kilos> i will mail wwk in durbs again though
[19:09:02] <pieter2627> Vince-0: could you contact the others if Kilos gave you missing details?
[19:09:28] <inetpro> pieter2627: unfortunately no
[19:09:36] * pieter2627 looking for a o/ here
[19:10:38] * inetpro has too many forks in hands to handle
[19:11:19] <pieter2627> that seems to cover lugs involvement
[19:11:25] * pieter2627 know the feeling
[19:11:28] <pieter2627> now for what i forgot - to create that Ubuntu-in-the-wild list on trello. will do it this month...
[19:11:55] <Kilos> oh my
[19:12:07] <pieter2627> can I move to next topic?
[19:12:13] <Kilos> ive totally even forgotten about trello
[19:12:16] <Kilos> yes
[19:12:32] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:12:32] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:12:56] * Kilos votes for pieter2627
[19:12:56] <pieter2627> so anyone up for chairing the next meeting
[19:13:01] <inetpro> +1 for pieter2627
[19:13:01] * pieter2627 still in
[19:13:34] <Kilos> can you manage it pieter2627 
[19:13:42] <Kilos> we need you 
[19:13:48] <pieter2627> Maaz_: agreed pieter2627 to chair Nov's meeting
[19:13:48] <Maaz> Agreed: pieter2627 to chair Nov's meeting
[19:14:01] <Kilos> yay ty
[19:14:01] <pieter2627> Kilos: yes
[19:14:11] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:14:11] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:14:29] <pieter2627> Next one seems to be 24 Nov right?
[19:14:45] * pieter2627 wonders what happens in Dec
[19:15:17] <Kilos> i think we have an ealy one if needed
[19:15:27] <Kilos> early
[19:15:47] <pieter2627> ah ok
[19:15:48] <Kilos> only if there is something needs discussing
[19:15:58] <pieter2627> Maaz_: agreed Next meeting is 24 November 2015 @ 20:30
[19:15:58] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 24 November 2015 @ 20:30
[19:16:13] <inetpro> 22 dec should be fine
[19:16:19] <pieter2627> thanks all for joining hope to see at the next one
[19:16:38] <pieter2627> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
