{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 24 March 2015
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Welcoming and Introduction
** Review minutes of previous meeting (meeting chair: nuvolari)
** Plans for 2015
** Get more people to sign the Ubuntu Code of Conduct
** Get more people to apply for Ubuntu Membership
** Get more people to get launchpad ID's
** Get more people to join ubuntu-za
** Get more people to Join our trello
* Events
* Miscellaneous
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 28 April 2015

=== Summary ===

<pre>
Minutes
=======  ==

[18:31:27] STARTED (nuvolari)
[18:31:36] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (nuvolari)
[18:36:03] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (nuvolari)
[19:04:46] TOPIC: Events (nuvolari)
[19:12:20] AGREED: take event discussions to mailing list (nuvolari)
[19:12:40] TOPIC: Plans for 2015 (nuvolari)
[19:18:47] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (nuvolari)
[19:37:02] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (nuvolari)
[19:38:50] AGREED: Chairperson for next meeting: nuvolari (nuvolari)
[19:38:58] TOPIC: Next meeting (nuvolari)
[19:39:53] AGREED: next meeting will be 28 April 2015 (nuvolari)
[19:40:49] TOPIC: Closing (nuvolari)
[19:43:27] ENDED (nuvolari)

Present
=======  ==

* Sinjin Swanepoel (Squirm)
* Jan Greeff (Langjan)
* qwebirc75581
* theblazehen
* qwebirc33542
* Vincent Swart (Vince-0)
* Johan Mynhardt (nuvolari)
* Jacques Strydom (Jacques_StrY)
* Greg Eames (magespawn)
* Charl le Roux (clr_)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Ashton van Niekerk (Mopkop)
* Bradley Putzier (captine)
* Marius Kruger (amanica1)
* DragonFly (dragonfly)
* kulelu88 (kulelu88)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* zipper
* williamk
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* eebrah
* Alan Orth (stickyboy)
* Padroni (Padroni)
* nardusg

</pre>

=== Log ===

<nowiki>[[http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2015-03-24-18-31-27.txt|Detailed Log]]</nowiki>

<pre>
[18:31:27] <nuvolari> Maaz: start meeting about Monthly IRC Meeting (March 2015)
[18:31:27] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:31:36] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:31:36] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:31:40] <Langjan> Lmga, nou het jy 'n nuwe truuk aangeleer
[18:31:42] <Kilos> Maaz  I am Miles Sharpe
[18:31:42] <Maaz> Kilos: Righto
[18:31:42] <nuvolari> Welcome everyone
[18:31:58] <magespawn> Maaz I am Greg Eames
[18:31:58] <Maaz> magespawn: Done
[18:31:59] <nuvolari> This is our IRC get-together for March
[18:32:00] <Jacques_StrY> Maaz I am Jacques Strydom
[18:32:00] <Maaz> Jacques_StrY: Sure
[18:32:12] <nuvolari> I trust everyone had a good month! Hopefully not too busy
[18:32:17] <nuvolari> Maaz: I am Johan Mynhardt
[18:32:17] <Maaz> nuvolari: Yessir
[18:32:43] <nuvolari> Hi oom Kilos, kulelu88, Langjan, magespawn, Jacques_StrY 
[18:32:46] <Kilos> wb superfly  
[18:32:54] <nuvolari> and stickyboy 
[18:33:03] <Kilos> hi nuvolari  ty for taking over
[18:33:04] <Langjan> I'm visiting short tonight, got up for the cricket then played bowls tournament all day, rekke is pap! 
[18:33:19] <Mopkop> Moet ek ook hierdie I am ding doen?
[18:33:21] <Kilos> sjoe ok Langjan  
[18:33:24] <nuvolari> heh, all good Langjan 
[18:33:28] <nuvolari> Mopkop: yes please
[18:33:29] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:33:29] <Maaz> superfly: Yessir
[18:33:34] <nuvolari> oh hi superfly 
[18:33:40] <Kilos> ja Mopkop  asb
[18:33:41] <Mopkop> Maaz I am Ashton van Niekerk
[18:33:41] <Maaz> Mopkop: Done
[18:33:44] <Padroni> Maaz I am Padroni
[18:33:44] <Maaz> Padroni: Yessir
[18:33:46] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:33:46] <Maaz> inetpro: Done
[18:34:02] <captine> Maaz, I am Bradley Putzier
[18:34:02] <Maaz> captine: Righto
[18:34:10] <Langjan> I am Jan Greeff
[18:34:28] <Kilos> you must put maaz in front Langjan  
[18:34:48] <nuvolari> for anyone interested, tonight's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150324
[18:35:03] <Kilos> the bot keeps records of meetings
[18:35:15] <amanica1> Maaz: I am Marius Kruger
[18:35:15] <Maaz> amanica1: Sure
[18:35:33] <nuvolari> oh hi captine, inetpro, amanica1 
[18:35:46] <dragonfly> Maaz: I am DragonFly
[18:35:46] <Maaz> dragonfly: Okay
[18:35:53] <kulelu88> hello nuvolari 
[18:35:57] <inetpro> Kilos: pong
[18:36:02] <inetpro> hi everyone
[18:36:03] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:36:03] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:36:16] <Kilos> lol inetpro  i was calling you for the meeting
[18:36:23] <inetpro> oh
[18:36:30] <nuvolari> I like the new structure we have, with the logs in the meeting page
[18:36:46] <kulelu88> Maaz, I am kulelu88 
[18:36:46] <Maaz> kulelu88: Yessir
[18:36:59] <nuvolari> so if you guys want to review the previous minutes, it's on last month's page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150224
[18:37:13] <nuvolari> *guys and ladies
[18:38:03] <amanica1> hi nuvolari :)
[18:38:05] * nuvolari smacks Squirm with a foam-bat
[18:38:19] <kulelu88> girls on the internet :O
[18:38:32] <clr_> Maaz: I am Charl le Roux
[18:38:32] <Maaz> clr_: Righto
[18:38:43] <Kilos> there are very clever ubuntu women
[18:38:47] <magespawn> ain't it cool
[18:39:02] <inetpro> confluency: please talk to kulelu88
[18:39:16] <kulelu88> I say after the meeting we all go do some digging
[18:39:34] <kulelu88> no I'm shy inetpro *blush*
[18:40:35] <nuvolari> lol
[18:40:44] <inetpro> digging sounds like hard work
[18:40:44] <inetpro> especially so after a CWC loss
[18:40:54] <Kilos> kulelu88  our number 1 contact person for ubuntu is a lady as well
[18:41:04] <nuvolari> we need more gurlz in the secret club though
[18:41:30] <nuvolari> ladies in tech need more support
[18:41:33] <kulelu88> What's on the agenda tonight
[18:42:02] <nuvolari> kulelu88: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150324
[18:42:05] <Kilos> i didnt add so will go with the flow
[18:42:17] 
[18:42:30] <nuvolari> we don't have a lot that's new, but we should focus on 15.04?
[18:42:36] <Kilos> hi qwebirc33542  welcome to ubuntu-za
[18:42:51] <nuvolari> do you maybe know of any events being planned?
[18:42:56] <nuvolari> it's next month...
[18:42:58] <Kilos> and welcome to our monthly meeting
[18:43:04] <kulelu88> nuvolari: is systemd now fully integrated into 15.04 and onwards?
[18:43:30] <nuvolari> the age old problem of everyone being busy is taking its toll :(
[18:43:43] <magespawn> as always
[18:43:46] <nuvolari> kulelu88: I'm not sure :) my ear is too far from the track these days
[18:44:25] <inetpro> nuvolari: DFD2015
[18:44:31] <inetpro> tomorrow
[18:44:42] <kulelu88> nuvolari: nobody is *that* busy. Let's just be honest and say that folks aren't that interested in these things
[18:44:51] <captine> inetpro, dont see any South african events for DFD
[18:45:14] <inetpro> captine: you can still arrange something
[18:45:18] <Jacques_StrY> kulelu88: systemd implemented is beta so yes
[18:45:23] <inetpro> like a office party
[18:45:39] <captine> inetpro, lol.  I sent details to our IT team... didnt get a positive feeling back...
[18:45:41] <Mopkop> What do you guys think of Mir?
[18:46:01] <inetpro> Mopkop: that's offtopic now
[18:46:11] <Kilos> lol
[18:46:14] <kulelu88> I'd attend an ubuntu event if its on the weekend
[18:46:15] 
[18:46:23] <Mopkop> inetpro: O sorry...
[18:46:30] <kulelu88> is anybody going for the software development weekend in April?
[18:46:38] <Kilos> hi nardusg  welcome to ubuntu-za
[18:46:56] <captine> kulelu88, never heard of software dev weekend.
[18:47:21] <nardusg> Howdy
[18:48:56] <amanica1> so far I'm not planing a release party for this release, will probably do one again for the next LTS 
[18:49:18] <Jacques_StrY> For those interested Ubuntu is hosting Openstack webinar tomorrow http://goo.gl/jWAatp
[18:49:54] <kulelu88> for anybody that is interested: http://www.meetup.com/coderetreat/events/221168158/
[18:50:14] <Kilos> inetpro  can you take over please
[18:50:21] <Kilos> netwerk is beneuk
[18:50:27] <Kilos> thats from nuvolari  
[18:50:37] <inetpro> Kilos: serious!?
[18:50:41] <inetpro> eish!
[18:51:08] <kulelu88> so do we wish to do more physical open-source related things now? like coding, documentation, etc. ?
[18:51:20] <Kilos> ek probeer net my mtn netwerk op kry
[18:51:35] <inetpro> ai!, ok, let's try
[18:51:45] <inetpro> where are we?
[18:51:50] 
[18:52:05] <Kilos> kulelu88  there are always opening for those that can help the bug report peeps
[18:52:11] <Kilos> hi eebrah  
[18:52:40] <Kilos> welcome to uibuntu-za
[18:52:41] <captine> daughter waking and going nuts.  gotto run.  will check the logs later.
[18:52:49] <nuvolari> dafuq :( mtn/afrihost
[18:52:49] <Kilos> ubuntu-za as well
[18:52:57] <Kilos> ok captine  
[18:53:04] <kulelu88> you need axxess, nuvolari 
[18:53:06] 
[18:53:15] <Kilos> hi zipper  wb
[18:53:33] <zipper> Kilos: Hi
[18:53:34] <magespawn> kulelu88: same company
[18:53:40] <inetpro> kulelu88: Gauteng 2015 Autumn Code Retreat a FLOSS event?
[18:53:41] * nuvolari googles SFD
[18:53:49] <nuvolari> when is SFD inetpro ?
[18:53:59] <kulelu88> inetpro: I think so.
[18:54:15] <kulelu88> I'm going to attend (I hope) so that I can write some code
[18:54:25] <Kilos> kulelu88  are you interested in helping fix bugs
[18:54:35] <eebrah> hi Kilos
[18:54:37] <kulelu88> Kilos: I could, depending on the language
[18:55:05] <Kilos> can i put you forward to the ubuntu council?
[18:55:13] <Kilos> english
[18:55:21] <zipper> I use ubuntu because I can't get viruses when I browse even the worst porn sites.
[18:55:33] <inetpro> nuvolari: SFD is only in September
[18:55:39] <nuvolari> oh, dfd
[18:55:41] <nuvolari> :P
[18:55:43] <kulelu88> oom Kilos, the programming language :P maybe they don't need code-fixers but more analysts to look at bugs
[18:56:02] <Kilos> oh those languages
[18:56:03] <Langjan> Maaz, I am Jan Greeff
[18:56:03] <Maaz> Langjan: Yessir
[18:56:11] <Kilos> i spose all
[18:56:24] <Kilos> well done oom Langjan  
[18:56:38] <inetpro> when is the next UDS?
[18:56:42] <Langjan> Slow but sure Kilos 
[18:56:43] <inetpro> UDS = Ubuntu Developer Summit
[18:56:46] <kulelu88> loads of Ubuntu is written in Python IMO
[18:56:58] <kulelu88> or rather, IIRC
[18:57:13] <nuvolari> ah, DFD: https://documentfreedom.org/
[18:57:14] <Kilos> ill find out more and let you know
[18:57:31] <Kilos> i know there is a request out for more helpers
[18:57:40] <inetpro> nuvolari: yes, sorry for not giving alink
[18:57:55] <Kilos> doing that will be a big + towards getting membership
[18:57:58] <nuvolari> I'm definitely going to spread the word tomorrow
[18:59:06] <inetpro> events we need to focus on are: Ubuntu Developer Summit, Ubuntu Global Jam, Ubuntu Hour, Installfest, Release Parties
[18:59:14] <inetpro> any others?
[18:59:37] 
[18:59:42] <nuvolari> oh hi Vince-0 
[18:59:44] <Kilos> hi Vince-0  
[18:59:49] <kulelu88> Why not get an Ubuntu Conference going
[18:59:54] <nuvolari> hmm, not that I can think of
[19:00:00] <Vince-0> SuP!
[19:00:08] <nuvolari> kulelu88: human resources :P
[19:00:11] <Kilos> meeting you can join Vince-0  
[19:00:15] <nuvolari> we're out of those :'(
[19:00:26] <Vince-0> Maaz, I am Vincent Swart
[19:00:26] <Maaz> Vince-0: Alrighty
[19:00:38] <magespawn> kulelu88: i like that idea
[19:01:01] <nuvolari> Actually there's much going on in Cape Town, I don't know why there aren't more Linux-related stuff happening
[19:01:26] <magespawn> nobody brought it up probably
[19:01:30] <nuvolari> a conference would be awesome
[19:01:47] <inetpro> Ubuntu Hours 2015 http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/2979/
[19:01:50] <kulelu88> well cape town would be the place to do it
[19:01:57] <superfly> There's DebConf16
[19:02:53] <inetpro> superfly: link?
[19:03:03] <kulelu88> here's something outrageous. have an ubuntu conference like how they have Joomla ones. at a varsity with cheap accommodation 
[19:03:06] <superfly> no link yet
[19:03:08] 
[19:03:11] <superfly> not an official one
[19:03:25] <inetpro> ok
[19:03:25] <stickyboy> Maaz: I am Alan Orth
[19:03:25] <Maaz> stickyboy: Alrighty
[19:03:27] <Kilos> hi williamk  
[19:03:35] <nuvolari> oh hi williamk, welcom e:)
[19:03:38] <stickyboy> Oh... what does that do. :D
[19:03:41] <williamk> Hi all
[19:03:42] <nuvolari> *welcome
[19:03:48] <superfly> inetpro: here's the bid page: https://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf16/Bids/Cape_Town
[19:04:13] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic
[19:04:13] <Maaz> nuvolari: *blink*
[19:04:19] <nuvolari> Maaz: current topic
[19:04:19] <Maaz> nuvolari: *blink*
[19:04:22] <nuvolari> :-/
[19:04:34] <kulelu88> untrusted connection
[19:04:35] <Kilos> lol different you
[19:04:46] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Events
[19:04:46] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[19:04:49] <Kilos> who trusts mtn anyway
[19:05:00] <Vince-0> brb
[19:05:01] <magespawn> inetpro maybe coordinate it all through trello
[19:05:12] <nuvolari> a bit late to add the topic :P
[19:05:36] * inetpro thought it was added already
[19:05:43] <nuvolari> williamk: I think I saw some meeting activity organised by you guys?
[19:05:49] <nuvolari> or did that pass already?
[19:05:59] * magespawn have nt been back in awhile
[19:06:08] <superfly> kulelu88: self-signed
[19:06:24] 
[19:07:00] <williamk> nuvolari - that did pass already? no one responded ( disappointed )
[19:07:10] <williamk> I will try again soon
[19:07:13] <Kilos> ai!
[19:07:31] <nuvolari> hmm :(
[19:07:40] <inetpro> Maaz: minutes so far
[19:07:40] <Maaz> Minutes available at json: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2015-03-24-18-31-27.json :: txt: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2015-03-24-18-31-27.txt :: html: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2015-03-24-18-31-27.html
[19:07:46] <nuvolari> ah!
[19:07:49] <nuvolari> thanks inetpro 
[19:08:16] <inetpro> nuvolari: your connection ok now?
[19:08:28] <nuvolari> inetpro: it seems like it, thank you
[19:08:46] <kulelu88> nuvolari: we only see you once a month
[19:08:59] <Vince-0> So what's the current topic 
[19:09:01] <inetpro> ok... time running out, please go ahead
[19:09:13] * nuvolari is ashamed of himself
[19:09:15] <nuvolari> :P
[19:09:20] <nuvolari> Vince-0: Events
[19:09:46] <Vince-0> Does anyone following Ubuntu UDS
[19:10:14] <nuvolari> unf! mtn you suck
[19:10:19] 
[19:10:35] <Jacques_StrY> Vince-0, that's in November i think
[19:11:01] <nuvolari> inetpro: we don't have a lot of topics, or should we move on to the plans for 2015 item?
[19:11:19] <nuvolari> (think we kinda switched them around)
[19:11:31] <inetpro> nuvolari: we were slack this month
[19:11:46] * inetpro still not quite ready for membership
[19:11:49] <inetpro> just yet
[19:11:52] <nuvolari> yeah
[19:11:54] <nuvolari> likewise
[19:12:10] <Kilos> ai1
[19:12:11] <nuvolari> Maaz: agreed: take event discussions to mailing list
[19:12:11] <Maaz> nuvolari: Excuse me?
[19:12:14] <williamk> may I add a topic
[19:12:16] <Kilos> ai! as well
[19:12:20] <nuvolari> Maaz: agreed take event discussions to mailing list
[19:12:20] <Maaz> Agreed: take event discussions to mailing list
[19:12:26] <Kilos> yes please williamk  
[19:12:37] <captine> Vince-0, I try, but havent managed to do it successfully.  just watch youtube videos after the fact
[19:12:40] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Plans for 2015
[19:12:40] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2015
[19:12:47] <Squirm> hello
[19:12:55] <Kilos> wb Squirm  
[19:13:06] <Squirm> Maaz: I am Sinjin Swanepoel
[19:13:06] <Maaz> Squirm: Righto
[19:13:12] <nuvolari> Right, so we really want to have more people apply for Ubuntu Membership. I've been putting it off for too long now
[19:13:15] <Squirm> Woop
[19:13:20] <nuvolari> but stuff gets in the way 
[19:13:47] <inetpro> nuvolari: williamk wanted to say something
[19:14:07] <kulelu88> individual ubuntu membership?
[19:14:21] <nuvolari> add topic vs. saying something 
[19:14:30] <nuvolari> but ok
[19:14:48] <inetpro> williamk: ?
[19:14:49] <nuvolari> williamk: you have the mic
[19:14:55] <williamk> Documentation User Group, creating ECDL manuals ( http://ecdl.org/ ) as well as manuals for School Subjects based on DBE curriculum
[19:15:17] <Kilos> Langjan  you watching?
[19:15:46] <inetpro> nuvolari: let's keep that for Miscellaneous
[19:15:49] <williamk> Based on Ubuntu LTS, and Debian
[19:16:07] <Kilos> ballies mustnt try multitask on meeting nights
[19:16:37] 
[19:16:43] <Mopkop> Suggestion: Maybe we should put available events with details on the website?
[19:16:57] <inetpro> nuvolari: mr chairman, are you still with us?
[19:17:22] <Kilos> hmm...
[19:17:25] <nuvolari> inetpro: I am
[19:17:29] <nuvolari> confused now
[19:17:35] <Kilos> lol
[19:17:36] <nuvolari> which should be for misc?
[19:17:46] <Kilos> dont eat and chair same time
[19:17:55] <nuvolari> I'm not
[19:18:01] * inetpro suggests moving on to the Miscellaneous topic and then to williamk's topic
[19:18:08] <nuvolari> right
[19:18:16] <williamk> Book/Manual creation software, Mediawiki, Pubsweet or Booktype
[19:18:33] <nuvolari> hang on williamk :P
[19:18:47] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:18:47] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:18:55] <nuvolari> ok, go
[19:19:51] <nuvolari> I was just wondering how involved school students would be able to become
[19:19:55] <inetpro> Mopkop: we should actually talk about events all the time and just summarise them in the agenda before each meeting
[19:20:45] <nuvolari> I know I had a passion for learning new things and as a matter of fact, back then I had more 'free time' and drive to document stuff for myself
[19:21:01] <williamk> Mediawiki : http://www.mediawiki.org , Pubsweet : https://github.com/BookSprints/PubSweet , Booktype : https://github.com/sourcefabric/Booktypeyout
[19:22:12] <inetpro> williamk: perhaps you should join us here more often and enlighten us as we go, or write up something for us on the mailing list
[19:22:28] * Kilos agrees
[19:22:40] <magespawn> +1
[19:22:49] <magespawn> i get a 404 of that laswt link
[19:23:00] <kulelu88> nuvolari: in the age of whatsapp and co, the interest will be faint
[19:23:27] <Kilos> yip 404 on last link williamk  
[19:23:38] <nuvolari> yeah... :-/
[19:23:45] <nuvolari> drones of social media
[19:24:13] <kulelu88> wouldn't it be better to spread ubuntu on a cost-based model. it's cheaper for schools
[19:24:50] * inetpro votes for moving on to other Miscellaneous topics
[19:24:53] <nuvolari> in terms of writing documentation?
[19:25:06] <nuvolari> ack, already at 25 past
[19:25:08] <magespawn> kulelu88: i have tried for four years at my sons school
[19:25:43] <kulelu88> outcome? magespawn 
[19:25:58] <nuvolari> was there anyone that tried signing the ubuntu code of conduct recently?
[19:26:07] <nuvolari> or that need help doing that?
[19:26:15] <magespawn> they installed win 7
[19:26:18] <Kilos> yes a few
[19:26:32] <Kilos> there is a how to on trello nuvolari  
[19:26:41] <nuvolari> Kilos: a few doing it or needing help
[19:26:42] <nuvolari> ah
[19:26:44] <nuvolari> nvm.
[19:26:45] <kulelu88> magespawn: aah well that makes it easier to give up
[19:26:46] <nuvolari> cool!
[19:27:12] <Kilos> b ut still stays a mission
[19:27:48] <kulelu88> I wonder if we could have monthly meetings on the minetest server. 
[19:27:55] <kulelu88> :D
[19:27:58] <Jacques_StrY> >.<
[19:28:01] <Jacques_StrY> haha
[19:28:11] <Kilos> lol
[19:28:16] <magespawn> no bot to record the meeting
[19:28:19] <nuvolari> I'll have a look, it can't be extremely difficult
[19:28:34] <williamk> Booktype : https://github.com/sourcefabric/Booktype
[19:28:53] <Kilos> the gpg key is what makes it harder nuvolari  
[19:29:00] <kulelu88> won't there be a text log on the server? ThatGraemeGuy 
[19:29:21] <Kilos> ty williamk  that works
[19:29:41] <inetpro> anything else?
[19:29:45] <Kilos> graeme isnt here nights
[19:29:52] <williamk> inetpro "write up something for us on the mailing list", will do
[19:29:55] <nuvolari> and how are we on ubuntu-za launchpad id's?
[19:29:56] <kulelu88> nuvolari: Something that would be nice for all of us to learn is how to use a nice linux mail client and to use pgp encryption for emails
[19:30:24] <Kilos> nuvolari  we have 81 peeps on launchpad
[19:30:58] <nuvolari> Kilos: that's good, an increase, I'm sure?
[19:31:16] <Kilos> but min here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Members
[19:31:32] 
[19:31:39] * inetpro thanks Kilos for efforts to grow the community
[19:31:44] <Kilos> I asked in the list for peeps to enter their info or mail me the details
[19:32:11] <Kilos> only a pleasure inetpro  
[19:32:23] <Kilos> then i get you guys to do the real work
[19:33:02] <nuvolari> hmm, need to urge them peeps to become members
[19:33:15] <inetpro> oh and thanks to superfly, Mopkop and captine for helping with building of our websites
[19:33:18] <nuvolari> it will be nice to have a good long list
[19:33:23] <inetpro> Kilos: did I leave out others?
[19:33:37] <Mopkop> My plessure!
[19:33:45] <Kilos> nope i dont think so
[19:33:55] <inetpro> guys, please get involved!
[19:34:03] <Kilos> mayjac
[19:34:10] <Kilos> maybe Jacques_StrY  
[19:34:16] <nuvolari> Trello is coming along quite well
[19:34:21] <nuvolari> lots of activity there
[19:34:23] <Jacques_StrY> Nah I'm not involved enough yet
[19:34:45] <inetpro> Kilos: oh, of course all the dudes on here on a daily basis are magic also
[19:34:47] <Kilos> any bit thats done we are grateful for Jacques_StrY  
[19:35:09] <kulelu88> what is the end game of spreading ubuntu? Kilos nuvolari 
[19:35:16] <Kilos> yes we must ask williamk  to try attend here more
[19:35:29] <nuvolari> kulelu88: hang on, we need to finish the agenda first
[19:35:41] <Kilos> he can pull the lug guys in with him
[19:36:04] * nuvolari misses kbmonkey :'(
[19:36:05] <Kilos> end game is world domination
[19:36:10] <Jacques_StrY> I'll give a report on state of OSS in schools and problems faced to implement
[19:36:11] <inetpro> nuvolari: topic please
[19:36:24] <Kilos> ill see if i can finf=d monkey again
[19:36:25] <captine> Jacques_StrY, you work on OSS in schools?
[19:36:34] <captine> I am very interested in that
[19:36:44] * Padroni thinks Jacques had DAMN WELL BETTER BE...
[19:36:50] <Kilos> lol
[19:36:51] <nuvolari> ok, moving on, need to close off
[19:37:02] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:37:02] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:37:11] * Kilos votes nuvolari
[19:37:18] * nuvolari will try to prepare a bit better for April
[19:37:18] * Jacques_StrY seconds
[19:37:41] <nuvolari> I'm available :)
[19:37:54] <Kilos> nuvolari  have your connection sorted
[19:38:03] <Kilos> fone and complain
[19:38:11] <Kilos> or email the ceos
[19:38:12] <inetpro> we need more volunteers as a backup next time
[19:38:12] * Mopkop thirds
[19:38:19] * Jacques_StrY feels nuvolari's pain - currently on wireless too
[19:38:25] * inetpro was ill prepared to take over as well
[19:38:45] <inetpro> +1 for nuvolari
[19:38:50] <nuvolari> Maaz: Agreed Chairperson for next meeting: nuvolari 
[19:38:50] <Maaz> Agreed: Chairperson for next meeting: nuvolari
[19:38:58] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:38:58] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:39:21] <inetpro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150428
[19:39:32] <inetpro> 28 April 2015
[19:39:53] <nuvolari> maaz: Agreed next meeting will be 28 April 2015
[19:39:53] <Maaz> Agreed: next meeting will be 28 April 2015
[19:39:59] <Kilos> lol he is looking for a calender
[19:40:16] <nuvolari> was. cli= cal -3
[19:40:17] <nuvolari> :P
[19:40:35] <nuvolari> ok
[19:40:49] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Closing
[19:40:49] <Maaz> Current Topic: Closing
[19:41:00] <nuvolari> thank you for taking the time to be here everyone
[19:41:09] <inetpro> how do we calculate the 4th Thursday of the month on the cli?
[19:41:10] <nuvolari> we appreciate your time and inlolvement
[19:41:13] * Kilos thanks nuvolari  for being our chair
[19:41:13] <magespawn> no problem
[19:41:30] <nuvolari> inetpro: well, visually, just do 'cal -3'
[19:41:35] <nuvolari> not 'cal 3'
[19:41:47] <nuvolari> cal -3 will show 3 months, prev, current, next
[19:41:52] <Squirm> ^^
[19:42:06] <nuvolari> cal 3 wil show the year's cal for the year 3
[19:42:16] <inetpro> nuvolari: no man, would just be nice to have a straight answer to that question :-)
[19:42:24] <nuvolari> oh
[19:42:26] <Kilos> lol
[19:42:37] <Kilos> jou beurt id=s jou beurt
[19:42:40] <Kilos> is
[19:42:50] <nuvolari> inetpro: my sed+awk skills aren't up to scratch yet
[19:43:09] <Jacques_StrY> captine, is it OK if I explain current state of OSS in schools tomorrow?
[19:43:23] <nuvolari> See you all at next month's meeting!
[19:43:27] <nuvolari> Maaz: End meeting
</pre>
