{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 23 June 2015
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''inetpro'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20150526|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2015
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
* Events
** past month?
** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn
** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2015|Software Freedom Day 2015]]</nowiki> on Saturday, 19 September
** ubuntu-in-the-wild
* Miscellaneous
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 28 July 2015

=== Summary ===

<pre> 

Minutes from Meeting about Monthly Meeting for June 2015
Convened at 2015-06-23 18:33:15.732562 by inetpro
in #ubuntu-za on freenode

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:33:15] STARTED (inetpro)
[18:33:26] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (inetpro)
[18:41:17] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (inetpro)
[18:50:40] TOPIC: Plans for 2015 (inetpro)
[18:50:50] TOPIC: - Ubuntu Code of Conduct (inetpro)
[18:54:15] TOPIC: - Ubuntu Membership (inetpro)
[19:00:16] TOPIC: Events: past month (inetpro)
[19:01:57] TOPIC: Events: Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn Installfest (inetpro)
[19:05:07] IDEA: Install Ubuntu on the computers for the Khayelitsha branch of the Bandwidth Barn (inetpro)
[19:07:36] ACCEPTED: subscribe to google group mailing list https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kifest (inetpro)
[19:08:28] TOPIC: Events: To be arranged: Ubuntu Hour, Installfests or other events (inetpro)
[19:16:45] AGREED: talk on irc and mailing list to get clarification about what comprises an "Ubuntu Hour" (inetpro)
[19:17:15] TOPIC: Events: Upcoming: Software Freedom Day 2015 on Saturday, 19 September (inetpro)
[19:26:12] TOPIC: ubuntu-in-the-wild (pieter2627) (inetpro)
[19:33:05] IDEA: keep a list of Ubuntu in the Wild to share with others (inetpro)
[19:33:19] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (inetpro)
[19:37:00] AGREED: create a wiki page or use tello as the basis for a proper page for Ubuntu in the Wild (inetpro)
[19:37:47] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (inetpro)
[19:40:11] ACCEPTED: inetpro to chair the next meeting (inetpro)
[19:40:30] TOPIC: Next meeting: 28 July 2015 (inetpro)
[19:41:04] ENDED (inetpro)

Present
=======  ==

* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* SilverCode
* Gavin Bauer (Cryterion)
* Greg Eames (magespawn)
* spinza
* amanica
* qwebirc23847
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Andrew Mac (andrewlsd)
* tumbleweed
* Marius Kruger (amanica_)
* qwebirc956
* Vincent Swart (Vince-0)
* Tonberry
* Pieter Engelbrecht (pieter2627)
* qwebirc33039

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:33:15] <inetpro> Maaz: start meeting about Monthly Meeting for June 2015
[18:33:15] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:33:26] <inetpro> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:33:26] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:33:34] <superfly> I'll try to be here, and I'll probably respond when you say my nick
[18:33:39] <Kilos> Maaz  I am Miles Sharpe
[18:33:39] <Maaz> Kilos: Alrighty
[18:33:44] <inetpro> thanks everyone for joining our monthly meeting again
[18:33:49] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:33:49] <Maaz> superfly: Righto
[18:33:56] <inetpro> please tell Maaz your name for the sake of the minutes
[18:33:57] <inetpro>  Maaz: I am <True Name>
[18:33:57] <Maaz> inetpro: Righto
[18:34:02] <Cryterion> Maaz I am Gavin Bauer
[18:34:02] <Maaz> Cryterion: Okay
[18:34:04] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:34:04] <Maaz> inetpro: Righto
[18:34:16] <andrewlsd> Maaz: I am Andrew Mac
[18:34:16] <Maaz> andrewlsd: Okay
[18:34:23] <tumbleweed> Kilos: nearly :)
[18:34:30] <Kilos> hhe
[18:34:52] <magespawn> Maaz I am Greg Eames
[18:34:52] <Maaz> magespawn: Done
[18:35:03] <Vince-0> Maaz I am Vincent Swart
[18:35:03] <Maaz> Vince-0: Alrighty
[18:35:13] <inetpro> the Agenda for this evening is at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150623
[18:35:48] <inetpro> anyone have anything to add, please tell me now 
[18:36:14] <pieter2627> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:36:14] <Maaz> pieter2627: Yessir
[18:36:33] <inetpro> pieter2627: ?
[18:36:41] <Kilos> hi qwebirc23847  
[18:36:50] <pieter2627> inetpro: I asked earlier about ubuntu-in-the-wild
[18:36:51] <Kilos> welcome to ubuntu-za
[18:37:08] <pieter2627> should maybe add that
[18:37:13] <inetpro> pieter2627: where should we add that?
[18:37:25] <pieter2627> agenda
[18:37:58] <inetpro> pieter2627: I mean under which sub-heading?
[18:38:33] <pieter2627> Plans or Misc - don't know which is best
[18:38:39] <Kilos> what is ubuntu--in-the-wild
[18:38:44] <inetpro> pieter2627: ok, I made a note to discuss under misc
[18:38:51] <inetpro> Kilos: later
[18:39:02] <inetpro> anything else?
[18:39:03] <Kilos> yessir
[18:39:10] <inetpro> andrewlsd: you here?
[18:39:36] <andrewlsd> yip
[18:39:40] * inetpro noticed something else from andrewlsd side this afternoon
[18:39:52] <Kilos> the fest andrewlsd  
[18:39:55] <andrewlsd> inetpro: yip
[18:40:00] <Kilos> you didnt add it
[18:40:13] * andrewlsd was going to apologize later....
[18:40:19] <Kilos> lol
[18:40:24] <inetpro> what was the topic?
[18:41:17] <inetpro> the previous minutes are at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150526
[18:41:17] <inetpro> ok, I shall find it in a minute... let's move on
[18:41:17] <inetpro> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:41:17] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:41:35] <inetpro> I
[18:41:51] <inetpro> oops... I will give everyone a minute to read through that
[18:43:01] * inetpro making a note under events for Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn Installfest
[18:43:20] <Kilos> yay i couldnt find it
[18:43:34] * andrewlsd was also making such a note
[18:43:57] <inetpro> ok, anyone have anything to raise from last meeting
[18:44:05] <pieter2627> The part(outcome) of rethinking goals - will that be discussed?
[18:44:27] <inetpro> pieter2627: hmm... good question
[18:45:14] * inetpro was thinking about it... never really had the time to start a conversation about it
[18:45:15] <inetpro> anyone want to talk about it?
[18:45:56] <inetpro> superfly raising some serious issues there to think about
[18:46:36] <inetpro> not sure whether we have a solution just yet... something we have to work on I guess
[18:46:42] <inetpro> Kilos: your views?
[18:46:53] <Kilos> none as yet
[18:47:04] <Kilos> everyone too busy with life
[18:47:15] <superfly> I mostly asked the questions to see why we do things. Hoping that through posing the questions and discussing them that we'd be motivated to do more and to be more effective.
[18:47:58] <inetpro> superfly: we shall keep trying, thanks for raising it
[18:48:09] <inetpro> shall we move on?
[18:48:20] <pieter2627> Most probably started out of a simple passion...
[18:48:43] <pieter2627> that we sometimes loose track of with time/life
[18:48:53] <Kilos> oh my
[18:49:02] <Kilos> hi qwebirc33039  qwebirc956  
[18:49:32] <inetpro> Kilos: more work for you there... you must keep the guys on track :-)
[18:49:36] <Kilos> welcome to our monthly meeting , feel free to join in
[18:49:36] <inetpro> anything else from last meeting?
[18:49:48] <pieter2627> other than that we could propably move on
[18:50:05] <Kilos> ai!
[18:50:09] <pieter2627> s/propably/probably/
[18:50:15] <inetpro> Kilos: thanks for being the ever observant greeting bot
[18:50:23] <Kilos> lol yw
[18:50:32] <Cryterion> lol
[18:50:40] <inetpro> moving on
[18:50:40] <inetpro> Maaz: topic Plans for 2015
[18:50:40] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2015
[18:50:50] <inetpro> Maaz: topic - Ubuntu Code of Conduct
[18:50:50] <Maaz> Current Topic: - Ubuntu Code of Conduct
[18:51:02] <inetpro> anyone still truggling with the CoC?
[18:51:04] <Cryterion> Signed :)
[18:51:54] <Kilos> sjoe amanica  you got connection probs hey
[18:52:25] <amanica> YES :(
[18:52:27] <Cryterion> There should maybe a section in the process to get the key sent to the keyserver, to make it easier for new members
[18:53:13] <inetpro> nobody?
[18:53:13] <inetpro> yay \o/ 
[18:53:20] * andrewlsd notes keybase.io as an easy way to find other's public keys
[18:53:45] <inetpro> hmm... signal getting lost again here
[18:54:09] <Cryterion> telkom lines have had problems today as well
[18:54:15] <inetpro> Maaz: topic - Ubuntu Membership
[18:54:15] <Maaz> Current Topic: - Ubuntu Membership
[18:54:38] <inetpro> guys we really need more members to sign up... please
[18:54:38] * Kilos waits for more applicants
[18:54:48] <inetpro> Kilos: how are we going to achieve this?
[18:54:52] <andrewlsd> inetpro: why?
[18:55:00] <Kilos> with difficulty i think
[18:55:24] <andrewlsd> as in, what is the purpose of membership. (not being snarky)
[18:55:31] <Kilos> the more members you have the beter chance of getting free ubuntu fone
[18:55:44] <Kilos> and there are other perks as well
[18:55:56] <andrewlsd> Kilos: lol. 
[18:55:57] <inetpro> andrewlsd: to show others that you care... 
[18:55:57] <inetpro> oops... but even I have not signed up :-(
[18:56:21] <Cryterion> don't think I did that yet, will do soon
[18:56:29] <inetpro> Kilos: I will sign up, honestly I will... just need a bit of time
[18:56:41] <andrewlsd> can I be a member of Ubuntu and Arch and {Insert distro community here}?
[18:56:44] <Kilos> how big is this bit?
[18:56:53] <inetpro> Kilos: one day
[18:56:58] <Kilos> lol
[18:57:02] <andrewlsd> inetpro: or is it exclusive.
[18:57:03] <inetpro> andrewlsd: sure, why not
[18:57:11] <andrewlsd> ty
[18:57:23] <Kilos> you can be a member of everything if you have time
[18:57:38] <inetpro> there's nothing preventing an official member of Ubuntu from taking part in other distros
[18:58:07] <inetpro> andrewlsd: it's not like you're signing up for a new job
[18:58:07] * andrewlsd doesn't see any Cape Town ubuntu members on the wiki page's map
[18:58:26] <Kilos> the map will be updated next month
[18:58:43] <inetpro> Kilos: thanks for taking that up
[18:58:56] * andrewlsd likes the LWN subscription.
[18:58:59] <Kilos> the maintainer cant do it anymore but we have someone else taking over
[18:59:46] <Kilos> the new maintainer is actually here but afk atm
[18:59:59] <inetpro> anyway... let's move on
[19:00:00] <inetpro> I think the other sub-topics speak for themselves
[19:00:16] <inetpro> Maaz: topic Events: past month?
[19:00:16] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events: past month
[19:00:46] <inetpro> anyone know of anything interesting that happened in the past month
[19:01:07] <Kilos> ya
[19:01:08] <andrewlsd> inetpro: the Installfest was supposed to be last Sunday 21 June. but was postponed at the last minute.
[19:01:27] <pieter2627> and a few came thru on the mailing list
[19:01:27] <Kilos> but it happened while load shedding so dunno what it was
[19:01:49] <inetpro> sounds interesting
[19:01:57] <inetpro> Maaz: topic Events: Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn Installfest
[19:01:57] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events: Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn Installfest
[19:02:19] <inetpro> andrewlsd: so when is it happening now?
[19:02:47] <inetpro> and do you have a link?
[19:02:49] <andrewlsd> A group of Cape Town Linux User Group folks have been discussing an opportunity...
[19:03:22] <andrewlsd> which is in progress to install Ubuntu on the computers for the Khayelitsha branch of the Bandwidth Barn
[19:03:38] <andrewlsd> there is a google-groups "group"
[19:03:47] * andrewlsd goes to find the link
[19:05:03] <inetpro> sounds like a very good initiative
[19:05:07] <inetpro> Maaz: idea Install Ubuntu on the computers for the Khayelitsha branch of the Bandwidth Barn
[19:05:07] <Maaz> Idea recorded: Install Ubuntu on the computers for the Khayelitsha branch of the Bandwidth Barn
[19:05:16] <andrewlsd> The plan was for a bunch of volunteers to do the installations of several machines on Sun 21 Jun, however it became necessary to postpone it. At the moment customized system images for easy deployment with all required apps are being prepared
[19:05:34] <amanica_> Maaz: I am Marius Kruger
[19:05:34] <Maaz> amanica_: Sure
[19:05:49] <andrewlsd> the link is: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kifest
[19:06:02] <inetpro> andrewlsd: thanks 
[19:06:34] <inetpro> andrewlsd: so it is open for anyone to subscribe to that?
[19:06:42] <inetpro> obviously
[19:06:47] <Kilos> lol
[19:06:52] <andrewlsd> To be clear, I am not the organizer of the event, but it is definitely appropriate to record it with Ubuntu-za
[19:07:22] <andrewlsd> yes, open to subscribe, afaik.
[19:07:36] <inetpro> Maaz: accepted subscribe to google group mailing list https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kifest
[19:07:36] <Maaz> Accepted: subscribe to google group mailing list https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kifest
[19:08:19] <inetpro> next
[19:08:28] <inetpro> Maaz: topic Events: To be arranged: Ubuntu Hour, Installfests or other events
[19:08:28] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events: To be arranged: Ubuntu Hour, Installfests or other events
[19:09:20] <andrewlsd> is there clarification about what comprises an "Ubuntu Hour"?
[19:10:27] <inetpro> feel free to talk to us here on irc or on the mailing list if you would like to arrange any event such event
[19:10:37] <inetpro> andrewlsd: superfly wrote something the other day
[19:10:55] <inetpro> any such event*
[19:11:06] <andrewlsd> ok, am asking because it was in the minutes from last meeting that superfly was going to get more info abou tit.
[19:11:23] * inetpro still wanted to get others to write about it... forgot to follow up
[19:11:26] <andrewlsd> s/abou\ tit/about\ it/
[19:12:03] <Kilos> sjoe
[19:12:11] <andrewlsd> I have an idea: Keysigning Party
[19:12:15] <Kilos> youll make me squint
[19:12:44] <amanica_> as I understand an Ubuntu hour is a quick meetup of ubuntu enthusiasts  at a coffee shop or something
[19:12:56] <andrewlsd> ... of course, it would probably have to be parties, since it requires actuall, physically meeting. And SFD would probably be a good place to try it.
[19:13:04] <Kilos> correct
[19:13:20] <andrewlsd> thanks for the clarification amanica 
[19:13:38] <inetpro> andrewlsd: SFD is a separate event on it's own
[19:13:57] <Kilos> one or 2 or more peeps get together and chat about, play on and promote ubuntu to any onlookers
[19:14:15] <andrewlsd> yip inetpro. was thinking "out loud" about the Key-signing Party idea.
[19:14:33] <inetpro> maybe as ubuntu-za we can take part and call it our Ubuntu Hour event :)
[19:15:09] <inetpro> but ideally I guess we should try encourage people to do something small separately as mentioned above
[19:15:15] <andrewlsd> ... where we sign each other's launchpad/ubuntu ID public keys.
[19:15:45] <andrewlsd> yes inetpro other smaller events would not be the key-signing party.
[19:15:53] <inetpro> let's talk more about it after the meeting or in coming days... keep it a hot topic
[19:16:43] <andrewlsd> ok. so about Coffee and Ubuntu: Can I just do one, and send photos? or?
[19:16:45] <inetpro> Maaz: agreed talk on irc and mailing list to get clarification about what comprises an "Ubuntu Hour"
[19:16:45] <Maaz> Agreed: talk on irc and mailing list to get clarification about what comprises an "Ubuntu Hour"
[19:16:55] <Kilos> you can
[19:17:02] <andrewlsd> ty
[19:17:15] <Kilos> pleie2 did it for months on her own
[19:17:15] <inetpro> Maaz: topic Events: Upcoming: Software Freedom Day 2015 on Saturday, 19 September 
[19:17:15] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events: Upcoming: Software Freedom Day 2015 on Saturday, 19 September
[19:18:06] * inetpro has been in contact with kmf and things have starte happening, though still a bit slow
[19:18:15] <inetpro> started*
[19:18:15] <Kilos> the idea it to maybe have a banner or something that can catch bypassers eyes so they come watch what you are doing and thereby you spread the word and interest
[19:18:57] <Kilos> s/it/is
[19:19:18] <andrewlsd> Kilos: I thought you sed that ;-)
[19:19:27] <Kilos> :D
[19:19:44] <inetpro> looks like people prefer the station so far but I don't think the venue is fixed just yet
[19:20:06] <Kilos> andrewlsd  you can get all the stuff to make banners etc , you just need to print them
[19:20:08] <andrewlsd> haha fixed -> stationery.
[19:20:26] <inetpro> andrewlsd: oops
[19:20:46] <inetpro> anyway, we started the SFD page for Pretoria at http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2015/South%20Africa/Pretoria/SFD%20Pretoria
[19:21:08] <inetpro> not much there yet but it's a start
[19:21:19] <andrewlsd> maybe one day Cape Town area will have its own SFD. superfly 
[19:21:49] <inetpro> next topic?
[19:22:12] <inetpro> Kilos: am I going too fast?
[19:22:23] <Kilos> nope inetpro  you doing fine
[19:22:27] <andrewlsd> last year's SFD link just for documentation http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2014/SouthAfrica/Pretoria/SFD
[19:23:02] <superfly> andrewlsd: *stationary = not moving, stationery = pens, pencils, etc.
[19:23:02] * andrewlsd is ready for next topic, thanks
[19:23:33] <andrewlsd> superfly: yeah, how to remember that?
[19:23:53] <superfly> pEn pEncil stationEry
[19:24:00] <Kilos> nary a movement
[19:24:01] <pieter2627> andrewlsd: e for email as in post
[19:24:06] <andrewlsd> st_a_tion_e_ry    P_a_p_e_r
[19:24:13] <andrewlsd> a followed by e.
[19:24:43] <andrewlsd> so, let's not be stationary, let's move along..... ;-)
[19:24:48] <pieter2627> a for automobile
[19:24:50] <Kilos> lol
[19:25:05] <Kilos> doesant nary mean not
[19:25:12] <Kilos> doesnt
[19:25:19] <Kilos> Maaz  define nary
[19:25:19] <Maaz> Kilos: nary
adj 1: (used with singular count nouns) colloquial for `not a'
or `not one' or `never a'; "heard nary a sound"
[19:25:23] <andrewlsd> it does mean not
[19:25:39] <andrewlsd> Kilos: ooh. expert of Maaz.
[19:25:45] <Kilos> so stationary is not a movemen
[19:25:46] <andrewlsd> ;-)
[19:26:11] <inetpro> andrewlsd: thanks
[19:26:12] <inetpro> we still need more ideas and volunteers to help as much as possible
[19:26:13] <inetpro> pieter2627: the floor is all yours 
[19:26:12] <inetpro> Maaz: topic ubuntu-in-the-wild (pieter2627)
[19:26:12] <Maaz> Current Topic: ubuntu-in-the-wild (pieter2627)
[19:26:17] <andrewlsd> lol. movemen  (men that move) as opposed to snowmen, that usually don't move
[19:26:35] <Kilos> sorry sticky t
[19:26:52] <pieter2627> just wanted to know if it is still on the cards
[19:27:26] <inetpro> pieter2627: we still have time for you :-)
[19:27:31] <andrewlsd> Ubuntu appears frequently on the computers used by NYPD in the series "Forever" 
[19:27:32] <andrewlsd> http://www.imdb.com/title/tt3487382/
[19:27:53] <Kilos> Maaz  google ubuntu-in-the-wild
[19:27:53] <Maaz> Kilos: "Latest 'Ubuntu in the Wild' - OMG! Ubuntu!" http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/03/ubuntu-in-the-wild-now-ubuntu-is-the-norm :: "Ubuntu in The Wild: Huffington Post - OMG! Ubuntu!" http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/ubuntu-in-the-wild-huffington-post :: "[Ubuntu In The Wild] Unity In Use By Norwegian Military - OMG ..." http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/03/ubuntu-in-the-wild-unity-in-use-by-norwegian-military :: "Ubuntu Powered Promo Booth? You Bet [Ubuntu In The Wild] - OMG ..." http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/03/ubuntu-powered-promo-booth-you-bet-ubuntu-in-the-wild :: "Ubuntu In The Wild (@UbuntuInTheWild) | Twitter" https://twitter.com/ubuntuinthewild :: "NBC, Today Show Use Ubuntu to Illustrate Celebrity Hacking Story ..." http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Used-by-NBC-and-Today-Show-to-Illustrate-Hacking-into-Celebrities-Accounts-457755.shtml :: "[Ubuntu In The Wild] Unity In Use By Norwegian Military Â· OMG ..." https://disqus.com/home/discussion/omgubuntu/ubuntu_in_the_wild_unity_in_use_by_norwegian_military/ :: "Lightweight "Snappy Ubuntu Core" OS targets IoT Â· LinuxGizmos.com" http://linuxgizmos.com/lightweight-snappy-ubuntu-core-os-targets-iot/
[19:28:34] <Kilos> sjoe
[19:28:54] <inetpro> pieter2627: nice!
[19:29:59] <pieter2627> ??
[19:30:15] <inetpro> oh, that was andrewlsd?
[19:31:12] <inetpro> pieter2627: we still waiting for you or was this andrewlsd's point of discussion?
[19:31:23] * inetpro clearly got mixed up
[19:31:40] <pieter2627> I can start to maintain a list if we are still going to add the section to the site
[19:32:14] <inetpro> sounds like a fun idea?
[19:32:39] <pieter2627> No planning has started on it yet, which is why I raised the issue
[19:33:05] <inetpro> Maaz: idea keep a list of Ubuntu in the Wild to share with others
[19:33:05] <Maaz> Idea recorded: keep a list of Ubuntu in the Wild to share with others
[19:33:19] <inetpro> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:33:19] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:33:21] <andrewlsd> I saw that Danie noted that Protea Hotels are using Linux Mint, which is ~almost~ Ubuntu
[19:33:35] <Kilos> pieter2627  get some ideas together and mail our list with the proposal
[19:33:58] <Kilos> im sure others will add more ideas
[19:34:24] <superfly> pieter2627: nikola supports galleries, as easy as dropping files into a folder. let's use that
[19:34:32] <andrewlsd> suggestion wiki page: that pieter2627 can then use as the basis for a proper page
[19:35:16] <amanica> pieter2627 you can probably add it to the web page https://ubuntu-za.org/getting-involved.html https://ubuntu-za.org/bazaar-tutorial.html
[19:35:18] <andrewlsd> .. or even trello ?
[19:35:20] <pieter2627> superfly: with captions maybe
[19:36:15] <magespawn> andrewlsd: that is interesting, because they have recently been bought my marroits international
[19:37:00] <inetpro> Maaz: agreed create a wiki page or use tello as the basis for a proper page for Ubuntu in the Wild 
[19:37:00] <Maaz> Agreed: create a wiki page or use tello as the basis for a proper page for Ubuntu in the Wild
[19:37:04] <magespawn> but the protea hotels are not all owned by the same company, protea is also a managment company
[19:37:40] <inetpro> time to close the meeting
[19:37:47] <inetpro> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:37:47] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:37:58] * Kilos votes inetpro
[19:38:43] <inetpro> Kilos: this was all done via GPRS... lights are still out... guess it can be done
[19:38:55] <inetpro> anyone else want to try the hot seat?
[19:38:56] <Kilos> yeah well done
[19:39:23] <Kilos> Maaz  inetpro  ++
[19:39:45] * andrewlsd also votes inetpro 
[19:39:55] <Kilos> come man do the agreed
[19:40:02] * inetpro won't be upset if anyone else does it :-)
[19:40:05] <amanica> yeah +!
[19:40:06] * andrewlsd agreed
[19:40:07] <amanica> +!
[19:40:09] <amanica> +1
[19:40:11] <inetpro> Maaz: accepted inetpro to chair the next meeting
[19:40:11] <Maaz> Accepted: inetpro to chair the next meeting
[19:40:16] <inetpro> thanks guys
[19:40:30] <inetpro> Maaz: topic Next meeting: 28 July 2015
[19:40:30] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting: 28 July 2015
[19:40:35] <Kilos> thatnk you inetpro  everything went nice and smooth
[19:40:41] <Kilos> thank
[19:40:47] <andrewlsd> Cool, g'nite all.
[19:40:50] <inetpro> just a bit over the time limts 
[19:40:52] <amanica> bye
[19:40:54] <Kilos> night andrewlsd  
[19:40:58] <inetpro> thaks everyone 
[19:40:59] <Kilos> night amanica  
[19:41:04] <inetpro> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
