{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===

* Welcome new members (meeting chair)
* Review minutes of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20101115 | previous meeting]]</nowiki> (meeting chair)
* Backup/Restore of website (Drubin)
* Geeknic
* Durban Ubuntu Hour finally (Drubin)
* '''Agenda item 2''' (Topic``Leader)
** More details (optional)

=== Summary ===

<pre> 
Minutes
Meeting about ubuntu-za monthly meeting

Convened at 2010-12-13 17:37:01.880889 by maiatoday in #ubuntu-za on freenode
Minutes

[17:37:01] STARTED (maiatoday)
[17:40:22] TOPIC: review previous meeting minutes (maiatoday)
[17:46:19] AGREED: make a discussion on the Mailing list about OpenOffice in schools (maiatoday)
[17:52:07] AGREED: superfly will make a fanpage for ubuntu-za (maiatoday)
[18:03:31] ENDED (maiatoday)
Present

Clement Mahlangu (DraZoro)
Johan Mynhardt (nuvolari)
Maia Grotepass (maiatoday)
Stefano Rivera (tumbleweed)
Greg Eames (magespawn)
Adrianna Pińska (confluency)
Raoul Snyman (superfly)
Sameer Morar (smorar)
David Rubin (drubin)
charlvn
Neil Oosthuizen (nlsthzn)

</pre>

=== Log ===
<nowiki>[[ http:--maaz.mene.za.net-logs-meetings-freenode-%23ubuntu-za-2010-12-13-17-37-01.html|Detail Log]]</nowiki>
<pre>
Raw Log

[17:37:01] <maiatoday> Maaz_: start meeting about ubuntu-za monthly meeting
[17:37:01] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[17:37:14] <maiatoday> Maaz_: I am Maia Grotepass
[17:37:14] <Maaz> maiatoday: Alrighty
[17:37:24] <nlsthzn> I am Neil Oosthuizen
[17:37:32] <maiatoday> new people please tell Maaz_ who you are
[17:37:32] <nlsthzn> Maaz_: I am Neil Oosthuizen
[17:37:32] <Maaz> nlsthzn: Okay
[17:37:37] <nlsthzn> soz
[17:37:39] <tumbleweed> Maaz_: I am Stefano Rivera
[17:37:39] <Maaz> tumbleweed: Done
[17:38:05] <smorar> Maaz_: I am Sameer Morar
[17:38:05] <Maaz> smorar: Done
[17:38:09] <DraZoro> Maaz_: I am Clement Mahlangu
[17:38:09] <Maaz> DraZoro: Alrighty
[17:38:11] <magespawn> Maaz_ : I am Greg Eames
[17:38:11] <Maaz> magespawn: Okay
[17:38:44] <maiatoday> the Agenda and minutes again https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20101213
[17:39:00] <drubin> Maaz_: I am David Rubin
[17:39:00] <Maaz> drubin: Okay
[17:39:29] <maiatoday> Welcome all new people, anybody want to introduce themselves?
[17:39:34] <nlsthzn> just for the record Kilos sends his regards but his data is a bit low
[17:39:38]
[17:39:46] <nlsthzn> Neil from the UAE *waves*
[17:40:22] <maiatoday> Maaz_: topic review previous meeting minutes
[17:40:22] <Maaz> Current Topic: review previous meeting minutes
[17:40:58] <maiatoday> drubin, did the backup and restore happen?
[17:41:04] <confluency> Maaz_: I am Adrianna Pińska
[17:41:04] <Maaz> confluency: Yessir
[17:41:07] <smorar> Hello everyone - this is my first ubuntu-za meeting :)
[17:41:19] <maiatoday> most welcome smorar
[17:41:35] <DraZoro> smorar : You are welcome ...enjoy :)
[17:41:44] <smorar> thanks :)
[17:42:03] * nlsthzn has lurked in a meeting once before, but is a member now!
[17:42:15] <maiatoday> superfly is that little event thing on the side of ubuntu-za.org the gcal plugin?
[17:42:26] <superfly> Maaz_: I am Raoul Snyman
[17:42:26] <Maaz> superfly: Sure
[17:42:38] <superfly> maiatoday yes
[17:42:59]
[17:43:15] <maiatoday> cool! Thanks that's great now I must just make sure I don't post weird events on the calendar hehe
[17:43:28] <superfly> Maiatoday and drubin's backup and restore did happen, iirc
[17:43:50] <maiatoday> yay we are so efficient, thanks superfly and drubin
[17:44:25] <maiatoday> we didn't discuss the OpenOffice in schools on the mailing list.
[17:44:46] <nlsthzn> ... and now school is closed
[17:45:23] <magespawn> get in for the new year
[17:45:29] <maiatoday> do we need make a note to do something?
[17:45:32] <drubin> smorar: shout if you have any questions
[17:45:41] <smorar> drubin: will do
[17:45:42] <drubin> maiatoday: we should make a note
[17:45:51] <drubin> sorry been a bit distracted adn typing is hard
[17:46:19] <maiatoday> Maaz_: agreed make a discussion on the Mailing list about OpenOffice in schools
[17:46:19] <Maaz> Agreed: make a discussion on the Mailing list about OpenOffice in schools
[17:46:28] <magespawn> may i put something up?
[17:46:39] <maiatoday> go ahead magespawn
[17:47:25] <maiatoday> ok the geeknic happened
[17:47:34] <maiatoday> it was small but fun
[17:47:45] <maiatoday> very relaxing
[17:48:22] <maiatoday> I made the link to the facebook group on ubuntu-za.org so that item is done too
[17:48:24] <nuvolari> great :/ I missed out on the first part of the meeting :P
[17:48:44] <nuvolari> Maaz_: I am Johan Mynhardt
[17:48:44] <Maaz> nuvolari: Sure
[17:48:50] <maiatoday> there will be minutes and archives nuvolari
[17:48:59] <nuvolari> cool thanks maiatoday
[17:49:04] <nlsthzn> nuvolari: welcome :)
[17:49:11] <maiatoday> any comments on fanpage vs group on facebook?
[17:49:28] <nuvolari> nlsthzn: thanks :>
[17:49:36] <nuvolari> I vote for fanpage
[17:49:37] * nlsthzn thinks facebook is evil and wishes diaspora will hurry up!
[17:49:48] <superfly> Maiatoday we raised it previously
[17:49:56] <nuvolari> we do most of the "group" management in other ways
[17:50:00] <maiatoday> yes I am going through the previous minutes
[17:50:30] <DraZoro> I vote for fanpage as well.
[17:50:44] <smorar> I vote for fanpage too
[17:50:52] <superfly> A group doesn't actually work that well, but a fan page is stuck to one particular person, and you have to ask FB to fix it
[17:50:55] <nlsthzn> the minustes seem a bit inconplete (as far as I can see)
[17:51:01] <maiatoday> ok well I am not going to do more facebook maintence than what we currently do, if anyone wants to change this and has experience they are welcome to help out with this
[17:51:05] <nlsthzn> *minutes *incomplete
[17:51:20] <superfly> But yes, a fan page is much better
[17:51:41] <superfly> Maiatoday i can create a page
[17:51:49] <maiatoday> great!
[17:52:07] <maiatoday> Maaz_: Agreed superfly will make a fanpage for ubuntu-za
[17:52:07] <Maaz> Agreed: superfly will make a fanpage for ubuntu-za
[17:52:33] <superfly> (when I have Internet again)
[17:52:39]
[17:52:39] * DraZoro hopes magespawn will re-spawn once again
[17:52:40] <maiatoday> we are having the meeting so I skip over that item
[17:53:03] <maiatoday> Also I did take the cds to Pretoria and Jo'burg and handed them out at the Ubuntu Hour and at Wits
[17:53:14] <magespawn> sorry all i am on gprs in a storm
[17:53:32] <maiatoday> drubin, did we get some cds to cape town?
[17:54:09] * DraZoro should distribute in UNISA as well.
[17:54:41] <drubin> maiatoday: a few not that many
[17:54:47] <nuvolari> oh dear :'( my 1/! key is on its way out
[17:54:48] <maiatoday> drubin can people contact you for cds?
[17:54:51] <drubin> but last one they got 2 boxes
[17:54:58] <drubin> maiatoday: I have a few yes
[17:55:25] <nlsthzn> as an official loco, how many CD's of a release do you (we) get?
[17:55:58] <maiatoday> yikes dunno? drubin ^
[17:56:10] <maiatoday> are we ready to move onto the agend?
[17:56:17] <maiatoday> agenda?
[17:56:18] <superfly> Ya
[17:56:21] <DraZoro> Yes
[17:56:23] <nlsthzn> seems so :)
[17:56:38] <maiatoday> we already talked about the backup, is there anything that needs to be added?
[17:57:02] <drubin> nlsthzn: +- 300
[17:57:12] * drubin is really out of it
[17:57:24] <nlsthzn> drubin: thanks (good to know)
[17:57:24] <maiatoday> ok we already talked about the geeknic too :D any comments?
[17:57:47] <maiatoday> next time I'll try to pick a time when there are more people available
[17:57:57] <superfly> :( i couldn't make it
[17:58:18] <maiatoday> next time I'll try to pick a time when there are less bugs bugging people too
[17:58:19] <nlsthzn> what was the main issue, the time or the venue?
[17:58:38] <maiatoday> I think the time, becaue the students had left already
[17:58:47] <superfly> Ya
[17:58:56] <maiatoday> and people were sick
[17:59:23] <nlsthzn> sucks
[17:59:44] <maiatoday> Ok Ubuntu Hour in Durban!!! fantastic
[18:00:02] <nuvolari> :D
[18:00:08] <nlsthzn> congrats on the first one!
[18:00:18] <nlsthzn> lekka by die see
[18:00:20] <nuvolari> whoop! it was fun
[18:00:27] <nuvolari> well, not right by the sea
[18:00:44] <nlsthzn> should have been in the sea :)
[18:00:44] * drubin thinks we should wrap up
[18:00:46] <drubin> considering there aren't any agenda items left
[18:00:46] <maiatoday> it is the last item drubin
[18:00:47] <drubin> woohoo
[18:00:49] <maiatoday> I wanted to say thanks to the ubuntu hour durban people and wrap up
[18:00:49] <drubin> congrsats guys
[18:00:54] <superfly> i saw some activity about it on the list today but didn't have a chance to read - was there feedback?
[18:01:04] <maiatoday> one post
[18:01:14] <nuvolari> and on the mailing list
[18:01:17] <nlsthzn> no pics? :(
[18:01:19] <maiatoday> it would be great to have some pics and a blog post next time too
[18:01:20] <nuvolari> one reply :P
[18:01:34] <nuvolari> no :/ was a bit dark for my flash-less android
[18:01:45] * nlsthzn thinks Durbanites are to laid back to worry about suck things
[18:01:58] <nuvolari> we plan to not have one venue
[18:02:05] <nuvolari> but rather to go places
[18:02:21] <maiatoday> ok anybody who wants to do an Ubuntu Hour just ask us and we;ll help you with getting all the posts in various spots sorted
[18:02:21] <nuvolari> as we're kinda scattered over a large area
[18:02:25]
[18:02:35] <nlsthzn> seems a decent stratagy
[18:02:59] <nuvolari> William shared his apt-mirrors
[18:03:07] <nuvolari> like 60Gb's repos
[18:03:13] <maiatoday> ok I am gonna end the meeting, going going ....
[18:03:21] <nlsthzn> when the next one?
[18:03:21] <maiatoday> gone
[18:03:22] <nuvolari> ok fine
[18:03:29] <smorar> :)
[18:03:30] * nuvolari sits in the corner
[18:03:31] <maiatoday> Maaz_: end meeting

</pre>

----
ZATeam
