{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* When: 26 January 2016
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''chesedo'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20151027#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2016
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
* Events
** Past Month:
*** ?
** Other:
*** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn <nowiki>[[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kifest|Group Discussion]]</nowiki>
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
*** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn
*** Release Party for 16.04
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** ???
* Miscellaneous
** Ubuntu in the Wild
** Get more involved with lugs to promote Ubuntu and Foss together (linuxconza or linuxfestza)
** Come up with 2 or 3 '''reachable''' goals that we want to do this year to have an impact in the Ubuntu community
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 23 February 2016

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:36] STARTED (pieter2627)
[18:30:50] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (pieter2627)
[18:33:54] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (pieter2627)
[18:35:33] TOPIC: Plans for 2016 (pieter2627)
[18:37:42] TOPIC: Events (pieter2627)
[18:46:32] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (pieter2627)
[18:51:51] IDEA: pieter2627 (chesedo) (and others) to reach out to the jozilug and dbnlug on g+ (pieter2627)
[19:17:08] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:17:40] AGREED: New goals discussion to continue on mailing list (pieter2627)
[19:18:09] AGREED: chesedo to chair next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:18:19] TOPIC: Next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:19:51] AGREED: Next meeting is 23 February 2016 @ 20:30 (pieter2627)
[19:20:39] ENDED (pieter2627)

Present
=======  ==

* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* arts
* Pieter Engelbrecht (pieter2627)
* Jos Visser (chinaboy)
* corruptdude
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Zoueidi Naeil (Na3iL)
* JG du Preez (FusionSparc)
* Private_User
* Kerasen Naidoo (K_K_N)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:36] <pieter2627> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - January 2016
[18:30:36] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:30:44] <FusionSparc> read somewhere I need to announce to bot...whats to line again?
[18:30:50] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:50] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:59] 
[18:31:01] <pieter2627> Good evening everyone and thanks for joining our first meeting for the year 2016 
[18:31:01] <pieter2627> Hope you were all also able to get well rested during the holiday 
[18:31:01] <pieter2627> Please introduce yourselves to Maaz who will keep the minutes using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg.
[18:31:02] <Kilos> like this
[18:31:19] <Kilos> Maaz I am Miles Sharpe
[18:31:19] <Maaz> Kilos: Okay
[18:31:31] <pieter2627> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:31:31] <Maaz> pieter2627: Righto
[18:31:35] <Kilos> hi K_K_N 
[18:31:46] <pieter2627> the agenda for today's meeting can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160126
[18:31:51] <FusionSparc> Maaz: I am JG du Preez
[18:31:51] <Maaz> FusionSparc: Yessir
[18:31:53] <Kilos> glad you could make it
[18:32:00] <pieter2627> we are still open to last minute changes if anyone has any
[18:32:12] <chinaboy> Maaz:  I am Jos Visser
[18:32:12] <Maaz> chinaboy: Yessir
[18:33:15] <pieter2627> ping arts dlPhreak 
[18:33:25] <pieter2627> Kilos: who did i miss? ^^
[18:33:28] <Kilos> pieter2627 peeps can sign in anytime through the meeting
[18:33:45] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman 
[18:33:45] <Maaz> superfly: Alrighty
[18:33:45] <pieter2627> yes..
[18:33:48] <Kilos> arts 
[18:33:54] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:33:54] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:34:05] <pieter2627> the previous meeting's minutes is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20151027 
[18:34:05] <pieter2627> as you can see it is quite old and might therefore be a good idea to skim it
[18:34:33] <Kilos> arts ping
[18:35:22] <K_K_N> Hi Kilos
[18:35:33] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Plans for 2016 
[18:35:33] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2016
[18:35:33] <pieter2627> short as always unless we have someone excited to sign the COC or to become a member :D...
[18:35:55] <pieter2627> Welcome to FusionSparc & arts who has joined us recently
[18:36:03] <FusionSparc> :)
[18:36:06] <Kilos> and
[18:36:07] <pieter2627> and spinza if i'm correct
[18:36:20] <Kilos> chinaboy 
[18:36:33] <Kilos> and K_K_N 
[18:36:45] <pieter2627> lol Kilos
[18:37:12] <Kilos> koo klux no clan
[18:37:41] <Kilos> Maaz welcome
[18:37:41] <Maaz> Welcome to tonights meeting everyone
[18:37:43] <pieter2627> no event  were missed in the last month(s), right?
[18:37:42] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Events 
[18:37:42] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:37:50] <arts> sorry was afk, thank s for being a awesome grop, especially Kilos... thanks a bunch!
[18:38:09] <Kilos> we not a grop
[18:38:31] <pieter2627> yip, we sure are lucky to have Kilos around
[18:38:34] <Kilos> arts sign in with the bot please
[18:38:48] <Kilos> and K_K_N 
[18:39:06] <pieter2627> anyone know of any events for the upcoming month?
[18:39:53] <Kilos> everyone is too busy
[18:40:14] <FusionSparc> New year, new challanges I guess.. :)
[18:40:18] <Kilos> but you can send get well soon cards to superfly 
[18:40:26] 
[18:40:33] <Kilos> hi Na3iL 
[18:40:47] <Kilos> login with maaz please
[18:41:11] <Na3iL> hiyas Kilos 
[18:41:17] <Kilos> storming here guys so if i disappear power gone
[18:41:43] <Na3iL> Maaz, help
[18:41:43] <Maaz> Na3iL: I can help you with: looking things up, remembering things, delivering messages, decisions, games, monitoring things, browsing the internet, conversions, silly fun stuff, calculations, system administration, software development and south african stuff.
Ask me "help me with ..." for more details.
[18:41:55] <Na3iL> Maaz, help meeting
[18:41:55] <Maaz> Na3iL: Take minutes of an IRC Meeting. You can use it like this:
  (start | end) meeting [about <title>]
  I am <True Name>
  topic <topic>
  (agreed | idea | accepted | rejected) <statement>
  minutes so far
  meeting title is <title>
[18:42:18] <pieter2627> so also no feedback for on the install fests or ubuntu hour from anyone?
[18:42:37] <Na3iL> Kilos, the commands that can manage QA is the same with Maaz ?
[18:42:44] <Kilos> yes Na3iL 
[18:42:54] <Kilos> same python bot
[18:43:12] <pieter2627> Kilos: the 'crowd' seems deadish tonight
[18:43:14] <Kilos> keep record
[18:43:26] <Kilos> peeps busy pieter2627 
[18:43:27] * pieter2627 guess the year is still young
[18:43:43] <Kilos> Na3iL pieter2627 is chesedo
[18:44:09] <Na3iL> ah good :D 
[18:44:11] <Kilos> Na3iL just type in maaz I am Full Name
[18:44:15] <pieter2627> i just did not have perm no handle maaz under chesedo
[18:44:53] <Na3iL> Maaz, I am Zoueidi Naeil
[18:44:53] <Maaz> Na3iL: Sure
[18:45:01] <Kilos> ty
[18:45:04] <pieter2627> oh, we also do not have any volunteers for  the release party for 16.04
[18:45:58] <pieter2627> but feel free to pitch in if anyone is interested...
[18:45:59] <Kilos> gonna be a tough year imo
[18:46:06] <pieter2627> will move on for now
[18:46:07] * inetpro lurking 
[18:46:07] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:46:07] <Maaz> inetpro: Alrighty
[18:46:32] <pieter2627> a list of possible Ubuntu-in-the-wild items can be found at https://trello.com/c/2hHvWUne
[18:46:32] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous 
[18:46:32] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[18:47:11] <pieter2627> it is small currently and anyone is free to expand it
[18:47:35] <Na3iL> btw, am taking a look at the previous meeting 
[18:47:44] <Na3iL> to know the process exactly :D 
[18:47:47] <pieter2627> np Na3iL
[18:47:53] <Kilos> cool  Na3iL 
[18:48:21] <pieter2627> Kilos: any news on the working with lugs?
[18:48:45] <pieter2627> also relating to a linuxconza or linuxfestza...
[18:48:48] <Kilos> not from me sorry ive been a bit slack but recovering
[18:49:29] <pieter2627> oh hey, forgot... again :)
[18:49:38] <Na3iL> pieter2627, there's a lug in Tunisia, it's new but they will assist the meeting tomorrow :D 
[18:49:44] <Kilos> when you have energy join jozilug and dbnlug on G+
[18:50:26] <pieter2627> yip that's what we discussed once
[18:51:51] <pieter2627> Maaz: idea pieter2627 (chesedo) (and others) to reach out to the jozilug and dbnlug on g+
[18:51:51] <Maaz> Idea recorded: pieter2627 (chesedo) (and others) to reach out to the jozilug and dbnlug on g+
[18:52:12] <pieter2627> ok next item...
[18:52:24] <Kilos> pieter2627 make a note to get perms for chesedo
[18:52:48] <pieter2627> Kilos: will do
[18:53:32] <superfly> pieter2627: BTW, I don't think it's always necessary to get permission for pictures of Linux in the wild.
[18:53:42] <pieter2627> i thought it might be a good idea if we had a few reachable goals for the loco this year to help things move forward a bit more
[18:53:55] <superfly> pieter2627: I think that as long as it's in the public, and it's easy enough to get a photo, then you're probably good.
[18:54:22] * superfly agrees with pieter2627
[18:54:32] <pieter2627> superfly: right
[18:54:58] <pieter2627> would like others input on this...
[18:55:06] <FusionSparc> What type of progress did you have in mind?
[18:55:15] <K_K_N> sorry Kilos stepped away but might have to step away again
[18:55:21] <superfly> FusionSparc: mostly just visible events
[18:55:24] <Kilos> np K_K_N 
[18:55:31] <K_K_N> Maaz: I am Kerasen Naidoo
[18:55:31] <Maaz> K_K_N: Alrighty
[18:55:32] <FusionSparc> I see.
[18:55:35] <pieter2627> superfly: do you maybe have any goal specific that you would like to see
[18:55:57] <Kilos> and guyds
[18:56:00] <Kilos> guys
[18:56:18] <Kilos> anything to liven up this channel is good as well
[18:56:27] <superfly> pieter2627: I don't know. I'm pretty swamped as it is
[18:56:31] * pieter2627 personally thinks that we should not have more than 3
[18:57:01] <pieter2627> since we are all quite busy
[18:57:02] <superfly> maybe a release party?
[18:57:14] <superfly> I'm sure I could probably host one in Cape Town
[18:57:30] <superfly> or maybe a code jam?
[18:57:30] <pieter2627> superfly: that's an idea
[18:57:51] <FusionSparc> define code jam.. :)
[18:58:11] <pieter2627> some that i have also come up with...
[18:58:30] <superfly> FusionSparc: bunch of people get together with specific goals in mind around free software
[18:58:37] <superfly> maybe fix a "bug"
[18:58:40] <FusionSparc> ok
[18:58:45] <superfly> (not necessarily code)
[18:58:52] <pieter2627> being more active as a community on promoting future events (we discussed the in past meetings)
[18:58:58] <pieter2627> fixing our bot
[18:59:08] <FusionSparc> Hack-o-thon sprang to mind.. lol
[18:59:16] <superfly> FusionSparc: sortov
[18:59:16] <Kilos> Na3iL was going to have a go at ibid
[18:59:20] <superfly> *sortof
[18:59:41] <pieter2627> Kilos: i mean as a group
[18:59:48] <superfly> FusionSparc: even if it's a documentation hack-a-thon
[18:59:53] <pieter2627> ... similar to the code-jam
[19:00:17] <Kilos> docs i can probable help with
[19:00:37] <FusionSparc> ok
[19:00:41] <pieter2627> another > grow the channel to x members...
[19:00:47] <Kilos> yes
[19:00:49] <Kilos> 60
[19:01:19] <superfly> interesting IP address
[19:01:29] <pieter2627> no no Kilos we know the limit is 49 to keep you :P
[19:01:37] <Kilos> nono
[19:01:53] <Kilos> ill die before i leave here
[19:02:01] <pieter2627> Kilos: who was that guy last year with the documentation/book
[19:02:12] <Kilos> wwk
[19:02:19] <Kilos> dbn lug
[19:02:23] <pieter2627> and what was it about again?
[19:02:27] <superfly> the one who wanted to use a web-based system for offline books
[19:02:34] <Kilos> yes
[19:02:40] 
[19:02:41] <Kilos> william walter
[19:02:45] * superfly facepalmed
[19:02:45] <pieter2627> he wanted to write one
[19:02:50] 
[19:03:49] <Kilos> i  have his email addy so can query
[19:03:54] <pieter2627> others that i had was bug fixes/translation etc. and events which superfly touched on
[19:03:55] <K_K_N> sorry connectivity issues as well
[19:04:14] <K_K_N> what did I miss?
[19:04:19] <Kilos> np K_K_N 
[19:04:51] <pieter2627> how if we work that ( as a documentation hack-a-thon thing) into one of the goals
[19:04:54] 
[19:05:06] <pieter2627> ...all should be able to participate
[19:05:16] 
[19:05:20] <Kilos> we need to arrange some time with william
[19:05:43] <Kilos> he is also swamped most of the time
[19:05:50] <pieter2627> and need to check the subject material...
[19:07:21] <pieter2627> another could be to have two? events (release party, ubuntu hour etc) in the year?
[19:07:30] <superfly> remember we do also have debconf in july
[19:07:44] <pieter2627> superfly: debconf?
[19:07:58] <superfly> annual Debian conference
[19:08:11] <superfly> this year's venue is UCT in Cape Town
[19:08:23] <superfly> and tumbleweed and I are part of the organisation team
[19:08:32] <FusionSparc> Would they stream the conf by chance?
[19:09:07] <pieter2627> that would not quite count as one of our loco events would it?
[19:09:08] <superfly> I don't know about streaming, it's been talked about, but we will have videos afterward
[19:09:22] <FusionSparc> makes sense..
[19:09:29] <pieter2627> or would you suggest a higher number?
[19:10:06] <superfly> we could "come alongside" or something
[19:10:08] <Kilos> wwk mailed
[19:11:20] <pieter2627> so so far the biggest goals seem to be around events and code jam (hack-o-thon)...
[19:11:49] <pieter2627> everyone ok if we created two around them?
[19:12:07] <Kilos> the book project was something to do with supplying books to schools
[19:12:19] <Kilos> ill feed back when i hear from wwk
[19:12:56] <pieter2627> no man, was sure it was about writing - he wanted help setting up booktype for collabrative writting
[19:12:58] <Kilos> or translating books
[19:13:06] * inetpro falling asleep
[19:13:06] <inetpro> good night
[19:13:14] <Kilos> sleep tight inetpro 
[19:13:21] <Kilos> look after your self
[19:13:42] <pieter2627> superfly and FusionSparc the above seem ok to you?
[19:13:52] <pieter2627> night inetpro
[19:13:58] <FusionSparc> pieter2627, agreed..
[19:14:24] <pieter2627> oh and also Kilos
[19:14:32] <FusionSparc> New to the group so just following along ..
[19:14:51] <Kilos> best way id to just jump in FusionSparc 
[19:15:04] <FusionSparc> noted..
[19:15:12] <Kilos> if you have skills dont be shy to share them
[19:15:30] <Kilos> we are a family
[19:15:44] * pieter2627 will wait a minute before moving on
[19:16:05] <superfly> pieter2627: all good
[19:16:06] <FusionSparc> hehe...standard tech support, spring chicken in the linux world..
[19:16:29] <pieter2627> great!!
[19:16:30] <Kilos> everyone starts somewhere
[19:16:38] <FusionSparc> agreed..
[19:17:02] <pieter2627> time is almost done so will take it to the mailing list for further 'refinement'
[19:17:08] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:17:08] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:17:34] * Kilos votes +1 for chesedo
[19:17:40] <pieter2627> Maaz: agreed New goals discussion to continue on mailing list
[19:17:40] <Maaz> Agreed: New goals discussion to continue on mailing list
[19:17:42] <FusionSparc> +1
[19:17:48] <Kilos> he will have permissions
[19:18:09] <pieter2627> Maaz: agreed chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:18:09] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:18:19] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:18:19] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:18:35] <Kilos> Maaz tell inetpro  Please sort permissions with maaz for chesedo
[19:18:35] <Maaz> Kilos: Righto, I'll tell inetpro on freenode
[19:18:43] <corruptdude> +1
[19:18:50] <pieter2627> The next meeting is on the 23 Feb, hope to see you all again
[19:19:05] <Kilos> ty for chairing pieter2627 
[19:19:12] <FusionSparc> sounds good...tnx
[19:19:21] <corruptdude> thanks pieter2627 
[19:19:46] <corruptdude> I've just been silently observing
[19:19:51] <pieter2627> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 23 February 2016 @ 20:30
[19:19:51] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 23 February 2016 @ 20:30
[19:19:59] <pieter2627> np guys
[19:20:12] <pieter2627> thanks for also joining in
[19:20:17] <Kilos> pieter2627 you getting good at this hey
[19:20:36] <pieter2627> you make the meetings possible
[19:20:39] <pieter2627> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
