{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Meeting Info ===

Monthly South African Ubuntu LoCo meeting on 19 March 2010 at 19:30 SAST.

'''South African Ubuntu team page''': <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>

'''Background''': Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes once a month in our IRC channel, #ubuntu-za on freenode. For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-za.org/| ubuntu-za page]]</nowiki>.

We are a community of ubuntu users and all interested people are welcome to join us and are encouraged to give comments and suggestions. Please subscribe to our mailing list to receive meeting announcements. 

* <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings| Previous meetings]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it. Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone collaborate and avoids last minute surprises.

Meeting Chair: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~wesley-werner|wesley-werner (Wesley Werner)]]</nowiki>

* Greetings and Introductions
** Add some text here so everyone knows how to introduce themselves to the bot 
* Incorporate any last minute items onto the agenda
* Review previous minutes (<nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20120220| February 20, 2012]]</nowiki> |  (<nowiki>[[http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2012-02-20-17-33-33.txt|text log]]</nowiki>)
** Reports & Committments from previous meetings
* Upcoming Events:
** See LoCo meeting details for more events
** PrecisePangolin release on Thursday, 26 April 2012  
** Release parties?
* Miscellaneous
* Next meeting: 16 April 2012 to be chaired by: ???

=== Minutes ===
==== Attendance ====

Meeting convened on 2012-03-19 at 19:30 SAST by CHAIR in #ubuntu-za on freenode

* LIST OF ATTENDANTS TO BE PASTED HERE AFTER THE MEETING

==== Summary ====

SUMMARY OF MEETING TO BE PASTED HERE AFTER THE MEETING

==== Log ====

LINK TO RAW LOGS TO BE PASTED HERE AFTER THE MEETING

----
ZATeam
