{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 25 August 2015
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''pieter2627'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20150728#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2015
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
* Events
** past month?
*** Google Dev Summit in CPT
** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn <nowiki>[[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kifest|Group Discussion]]</nowiki>
** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2015|Software Freedom Day 2015]]</nowiki> on Saturday, 19 September
** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn
** <nowiki>[[https://za.pycon.org/|PyConZA 2015]]</nowiki> happening in October in Johannesburg/Milpark/Wits 
* Miscellaneous
** Ubuntu in the Wild
** get more involved with lugs to promote ubuntu and foss together
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 22 September 2015

=== Summary ===

<pre> 

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:31:10] STARTED (pieter2627)
[18:31:47] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (pieter2627)
[18:35:54] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (pieter2627)
[18:43:01] TOPIC: Plans for 2015 (pieter2627)
[18:54:22] IDEA: add meeting to the fridge (pieter2627)
[18:54:32] IDEA: add meeting to meetup.com (pieter2627)
[18:56:28] IDEA: add meeting to a public google calendar (pieter2627)
[18:57:38] TOPIC: Events (pieter2627)
[19:11:23] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (pieter2627)
[19:25:37] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:28:55] AGREED: pieter2627 to chair next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:29:13] TOPIC: Next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:30:32] AGREED: next meeting on Tuesday, 22 September 2015 @ 20:30 (pieter2627)
[19:31:07] ENDED (pieter2627)

Present
=======  ==

* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* kulelu88 (kulelu88)
* Greg Eames (magespawn)
* Charl le Roux (clr_)
* Bradley Cloete (unlaudable)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Vince-0
* Bruce Pieterse (octoquad)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (pieter2627)
* Grant Woodford (gwood)
* nlsthzn
* kapanda

</pre>

=== Log ===

<pre>

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:31:10] <pieter2627> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - Aug 2015
[18:31:10] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:31:18] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:31:18] <Maaz> inetpro: Alrighty
[18:31:22] <kulelu88> gwood: which varsity?
[18:31:27] <gwood> NMMU
[18:31:43] <kulelu88> schweet
[18:31:47] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:31:47] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:31:47] <gwood> Maaz: I am Grant Woodford
[18:31:47] <Maaz> gwood: Sure
[18:31:51] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:31:51] <Maaz> superfly: Sure
[18:31:59] <pieter2627> Good evening everyone, welcome and thanks for attending the meeting
[18:32:01] <kulelu88> Maaz: I am kulelu88 
[18:32:01] <Maaz> kulelu88: Okay
[18:32:07] <pieter2627> Please introduce yourselves to maaz for the minutes using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg.
[18:32:09] <clr_> Maaz: I am Charl le Roux
[18:32:09] <Maaz> clr_: Okay
[18:32:18] <pieter2627> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:32:18] <Maaz> pieter2627: Righto
[18:32:47] <pieter2627> the agenda for today is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150825
[18:33:01] <unlaudable> Maaz: I am Bradley Cloete
[18:33:01] <Maaz> unlaudable: Okay
[18:33:07] <pieter2627> and last minute topic suggestions is welcomed if anyone has any
[18:33:44] * nlsthzn would love to stay but bed calls... gnight
[18:34:32] <Kilos> Maaz I am Miles Sharpe
[18:34:32] <Maaz> Kilos: Alrighty
[18:34:40] <unlaudable> topic: how on earth does safair's website not cope even when using cloudflare :-)
[18:35:09] <inetpro> haha
[18:35:17] <pieter2627> Kilos: anyone still seem missing?
[18:35:26] <Kilos> welcome to our new chairman
[18:35:38] <Kilos> octoquad ping
[18:35:54] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:35:54] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:35:56] <Kilos> many missing
[18:36:01] <inetpro> oh yes, thanks pieter2627 for taking the hot seat this evening
[18:36:18] <pieter2627> while we wait for others the previous meeting's minutes can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150728
[18:36:21] 
[18:36:27] <magespawn> good evening
[18:36:56] <Kilos> hi magespawn 
[18:37:38] <Kilos> magespawn meeting hey so login please
[18:37:53] <octoquad> Kilos, hello.
[18:37:56] <octoquad> Hello all
[18:38:17] <Kilos> yoohoo octoquad wb you attending the meeting sir?
[18:38:40] <octoquad> sure, forgot there was one tonight, thanks for pinging me
[18:38:48] <octoquad> Maaz: I am Bruce Pieterse
[18:38:48] <Maaz> octoquad: Sure
[18:39:11] <Kilos> Squirm nuvolari MaNI you guys are welcome to attend
[18:40:08] <Kilos> and ambo bmg505 cyrilb danfowler and whoever ive missed
[18:40:22] <pieter2627> everyone ok with the minutes from last meeting?
[18:41:46] <Kilos> Private_User are you attending??
[18:41:51] <superfly> Looks OK to me, I don't think I was here.
[18:42:19] 
[18:42:20] <pieter2627> not that i can remember superfly 
[18:42:35] 
[18:42:51] <magespawn> good evening (again)
[18:42:51] <pieter2627> right, moving on then
[18:43:01] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Plans for 2015
[18:43:01] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2015
[18:43:03] <Kilos> wb magespawn 
[18:43:10] <magespawn> Maaz I am Greg Eames
[18:43:10] <Maaz> magespawn: Sure
[18:43:30] <kulelu88> ping gremble
[18:43:46] <Kilos> he is offline here
[18:44:07] <pieter2627> i guess it is the usual for plans...
[18:44:48] <pieter2627> a question, 'Get more people to join [link to site]' - is that correct
[18:45:11] <gwood> Are there any plans/events close to PE?
[18:45:24] <pieter2627> it link to ubuntu za site..
[18:45:42] <Kilos> inetpro ^#
[18:45:45] <Kilos> 3
[18:45:48] <inetpro> pieter2627: you have a better suggestion?
[18:46:13] <inetpro> if people don't know about ubuntu-za where would they start?
[18:46:13] <Kilos> ai! i cant get use to this lappy b/board
[18:46:14] <pieter2627> no, just wondering how one joins a website
[18:46:35] <inetpro> fair point
[18:46:38] <Kilos> there are join buttons arent there
[18:46:51] <Kilos> to join us not the sight
[18:46:52] * pieter2627 checking
[18:47:06] <unlaudable> anyone here use meetup.com?
[18:47:09] <inetpro> it says right there, "Please join us in using, working on, and helping others with Ubuntu."
[18:47:24] <kulelu88> me unlaudable 
[18:47:28] <Kilos> there is an irc direc link to here ans the ML should be there too
[18:47:33] <unlaudable> it seems to be the popular way to organise an event these days, might work for this to
[18:47:48] <octoquad> unlaudable, me
[18:48:02] <pieter2627> inetpro: ok
[18:48:53] <kulelu88> unlaudable: there is already LUGs on meetup, so linux-related stuff happens
[18:49:14] <inetpro> unlaudable: we are not organised enough? :-)
[18:49:18] <pieter2627> anyone signed or planning on signing COC, membership, got LP IDs?
[18:50:08] * unlaudable cant remember if he's signed...
[18:50:21] <unlaudable> have a launchpad id... 
[18:50:23] <Kilos> hehe what a job
[18:50:47] <pieter2627> sorry meaning for last/this month
[18:50:58] <Kilos> anyone that has probs ping pro
[18:51:06] <unlaudable> I was just mentioning meetup as a way to enable people to "join"
[18:51:15] <unlaudable> convenience...
[18:51:31] <inetpro> for inspiration see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kilos
[18:51:40] <Kilos> ai!
[18:51:41] <magespawn> some people also like to have other people to talk to
[18:51:45] <octoquad> unlaudable, you mean alternative platforms to connect right?
[18:52:17] <unlaudable> well meetup wont do that, I was just thinking as a way to add to a calendar of sorts and be reminded
[18:52:54] <Kilos> inetpro we can add our meets to the fridge
[18:52:58] * inetpro has never used meetup
[18:53:02] <pieter2627> seems that it can also inform unaware users of us
[18:53:04] <Kilos> we=you of course
[18:53:35] <Kilos> the peeps that savvy thunderbird can get reminders
[18:53:38] <unlaudable> there are a ton of communities on there jozilug, ansible puppet
[18:53:41] <Kilos> then
[18:53:48] <kulelu88> I suggest you guys connect with JLUG to attract users here. they already have the target-market
[18:53:58] * unlaudable has a dream that there would be an event one day that will join them all :-)
[18:54:01] <magespawn> sorry unlaudable i thought you meant meetups as in launch parties etc
[18:54:03] <gwood> I think it makes sense to plan an event, but give notice through multiple avenues, such as meetup, facebooks, email, etc.
[18:54:05] <unlaudable> one event to rule them all
[18:54:22] <pieter2627> Maaz: idea add meeting to the fridge
[18:54:22] <Maaz> Idea recorded: add meeting to the fridge
[18:54:32] <pieter2627> Maaz: idea add meeting to meetup.com
[18:54:32] <Maaz> Idea recorded: add meeting to meetup.com
[18:54:50] <kulelu88> unlaudable: you cannot have 1 event where linux, BSD, Java and Haskell guys all get along. 
[18:55:06] <Kilos> and google calender pieter2627 
[18:55:06] <superfly> HAHAHAHA
[18:55:06] <unlaudable> heheh perhaps...
[18:55:23] <pieter2627> Kilos: are we not there already
[18:55:37] <pieter2627> and how?
[18:55:46] <Kilos> i have no idea pieter2627 thats pros department
[18:55:48] <unlaudable> but there is some synergy somewhere, the devops/ansible meetup guys had Jez Humble out for one meeting :-)
[18:55:56] <Kilos> he did all mine
[18:56:09] <Kilos> he also does G+ reminders
[18:56:14] <kulelu88> unlaudable: join "Developer User Group", its close enough I think
[18:56:20] <gwood> I regularly have fights with a Julia guy at varsity, I'm mainly a Java guy
[18:56:28] <pieter2627> Maaz: idea add meeting to a public google calendar
[18:56:28] <Maaz> Idea recorded: add meeting to a public google calendar
[18:56:45] <pieter2627> ok, any else for plan anyone?
[18:56:52] <kulelu88> gwood: no person at varsity should be calling themselves a Java guy in 2015 :O
[18:56:55] <pieter2627> s/any/anything/
[18:57:28] <superfly> pieter2627: let's move on.
[18:57:38] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Events
[18:57:38] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:57:49] <gwood> kulelu88: I do when 80% of my project is Java
[18:57:52] <superfly> we've already been here half an hour and we haven't even got past the first half of the agenda
[18:58:04] <Kilos> lol
[18:58:26] <inetpro> ai!
[18:58:31] <superfly> (seriously, every meeting we have those items on the agenda, and every meeting the outcome is the same: nothing)
[18:58:37] <pieter2627> superfly: can you tell us of the google summit today - quickly
[18:58:47] <superfly> pieter2627: Yes
[18:58:59] <unlaudable> is there a person appointed to broadcast meetings and such?
[18:59:22] <Kilos> unlaudable the pro
[18:59:22] <kulelu88> superfly: the only way things can get done in this country is complaining about government over a braai and doing the work on the side
[18:59:29] <unlaudable> 'k
[18:59:50] <superfly> The local Google crew came to introduce us to some of the newer stuff Google has been working on. I was on the "web" track, where we learnt about some new browser standards that Google has been pushing: ServiceWorkers and Push Notifications
[19:00:21] <pieter2627> superfly: interesting
[19:00:27] <superfly> We had a competition to see who could finish both codelab projects first, and I'm sad to say it wasn't me, but it WAS a guy running Ubuntu
[19:00:31] <inetpro> unlaudable: I've been a bit slack lately, sorry
[19:00:46] <pieter2627> lol
[19:00:51] <unlaudable> that sounds awesome
[19:01:00] <magespawn> it is now official, cape town has some cool stuff
[19:01:03] <kulelu88> sounds cool 
[19:01:14] <unlaudable> inetpro, dont beat yourself up :-)
[19:01:17] <pieter2627> also remember SFD is 19 sept
[19:01:26] <superfly> Not much more I can say, but if you want to know about ServiceWorkers and Push Notifications, I am happy to chat afterwards
[19:01:33] <gwood> cape town has some amazing tech meetings
[19:01:34] <inetpro> unlaudable: I don't :-)
[19:01:46] * pieter2627 is kind of sad that it was only in CPT
[19:01:52] 
[19:02:17] <superfly> pieter2627: not only in Cape Town, also in Nigeria and Nairobi, Kenya
[19:02:17] <inetpro> superfly: sounds interesting
[19:02:17] <pieter2627> anything else happened this month or happening in the one to ome?
[19:02:27] <Kilos> hi kapanda 
[19:02:31] <superfly> I have some feedback on SFD
[19:02:46] <kapanda> hi kilos
[19:02:57] <kulelu88> reminder that PyConZA is happening in October in Johannesburg/Wits
[19:03:08] <unlaudable> I only learned today about this... agile africa http://agileafrica.jcse.org.za/
[19:03:10] <Kilos> you want to join our meeting kapanda ?
[19:03:32] <Kilos> just type in Maaz  I am name surname
[19:03:36] <kapanda> yes please 
[19:03:41] <unlaudable> I'm keen to got pycon, not really a programmer though :-)
[19:04:00] <superfly> I spoke with Karl Fischer (kmf) earlier. He says that they have a few speakers lined up... But he would like some Ubuntu people involved for perhaps a talk or something. And they need more sponsorship.
[19:04:06] <inetpro> we have very little time left until the SFD event
[19:04:08] <superfly> This is SFD
[19:04:23] <inetpro> yep kmf is seriously looking for Speakers, Volunteers and donors for the SFD event
[19:04:52] * pieter2627 might be able to attend - can help volunteer then
[19:05:08] <kulelu88> SFD needs to advertise better. tweeting out requests wont help
[19:05:39] <superfly> kulelu88: it's a bit of a grass roots thing, so it needs the community to help out
[19:05:51] <pieter2627> kulelu88: is that more of our jobs (personally have not done anything)
[19:06:07] <kulelu88> superfly: suggest they make a meetup group and I'll assist through that
[19:07:28] <pieter2627> any news on the installFest from CPT inetpro?
[19:07:46] 
[19:07:51] <inetpro> pieter2627: no news unfortunately
[19:07:55] <Kilos> hi clr_ 
[19:08:15] <Kilos> wanna login with Maaz please
[19:08:21] <pieter2627> ouch, moving on then?
[19:08:32] <inetpro> oh, kmf saying the venue for SFD has been paid for 
[19:08:36] 
[19:08:52] <Kilos> hi Vince-0 wb
[19:08:57] <Vince-0> hi
[19:08:58] <inetpro> obviously donors would be welcome to help ease the bill
[19:09:08] <clr_> I have before
[19:09:31] <Kilos> oh my did i miss it
[19:09:34] <Kilos> sorry
[19:09:43] <pieter2627> clr_: kilos means signin for the meeting
[19:09:52] <Kilos> yes ty
[19:09:59] <kapanda> what kind of talks are you looking for at the SFD
[19:10:05] <clr_> hehe pieter2627 , I have before, was just logged out there for a mo
[19:10:06] <pieter2627> `Maaz: I am <first lastname>
[19:10:14] <octoquad> pieter2627, he has at 20:32:09
[19:10:32] <Kilos> ai! us blind peeps
[19:10:45] <kulelu88> kapanda: anything open-source friendly and relevant should do
[19:10:46] <pieter2627> haha, thanks octoquad 
[19:10:51] <octoquad> pieter2627, np
[19:11:03] <pieter2627> ok moving on
[19:11:04] <kulelu88> but talks at the intermediate level would be better
[19:11:23] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:11:23] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:12:30] <pieter2627> might have been to fast there, anyway Kilos any news on getting involved with lugs, etc?
[19:13:15] <Kilos> kulelu88 got some of the jozilug guys here but they only stayed one day or less
[19:13:28] <inetpro> anyone who wants to talk in more detail about SFD please talk to us here after the meeting or post an email to the mailing list 
[19:13:41] <Kilos> kulelu88 can you remind them again please
[19:13:47] <pieter2627> kulelu88: any feedback
[19:14:03] <pieter2627> ... that you might have gotten
[19:14:21] <kapanda> I am a member of the jozilug
[19:14:33] <Kilos> pieter2627 i greeted them and welcome them but maybe they were expecting more action here
[19:14:48] <Kilos> oh yes thats right sorry kapanda 
[19:15:15] <Kilos> there was someone else with you as well that day
[19:15:26] <pieter2627> for ubuntu-in-the-wild, my list is at 4 items - have to confirm(get) two after tomorrows meeting
[19:15:53] <kulelu88> kapanda is heavily involved with the LUG, please arrange for LUG members to troll #ubuntu-za @ kapanda 
[19:16:09] <pieter2627> superfly: you mentioned that nikola can create a photo gallery
[19:16:10] <Kilos> hehe
[19:16:19] <superfly> yes
[19:16:44] <superfly> pieter2627: it's pretty easy. you just drop photos into the one folder and Nikola does it for you
[19:16:45] <gwood> What is this talk about ubuntu-in-the-wild?
[19:17:09] <inetpro> gwood: Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150728
[19:17:14] <pieter2627> superfly: is captions possible?
[19:17:23] <superfly> pieter2627: I'm not sure
[19:17:46] <kapanda> most lug members like there own flavor of linux, so its hard to get them to support Ubuntu. 
[19:18:10] <pieter2627> gwood: to add a section to the za site which is to show that ubuntu is more popular than one might think
[19:18:11] <kapanda> I use Ubuntu for the Tech Hub am running 
[19:18:26] <pieter2627> that is how i remember it at least
[19:18:27] <Kilos> kapanda we all need to pull together to promote all of linux
[19:18:53] <Kilos> OS is a personal thing
[19:18:53] <gwood> pieter2627: thanks
[19:19:05] <superfly> pieter2627: https://getnikola.com/handbook.html#images-and-galleries
[19:20:44] <pieter2627> superfly: that index.txt file seems to be it for captions
[19:20:57] <superfly> pieter2627: no, it's for general text on the page
[19:21:05] <superfly> above the images
[19:21:05] <gwood> Very fringe, but Ubuntu is the only officially supported OS for some robotics frameworks I've been looking into: http://www.ros.org/ 
[19:21:05] <kapanda> Am all in for Linux
[19:21:59] <pieter2627> superfly: oh, from the demo it seems that a caption is created from the filename
[19:22:45] <unlaudable> nikola is a static site generator?
[19:22:52] <Kilos> yes
[19:22:55] <unlaudable> you seen hugo?
[19:23:08] <pieter2627> kapanda: as i understand it, we want to be more involved to better help new users
[19:23:12] <gwood> for python, looks quite interesting
[19:23:12] <Kilos> our site and the africa sites run nikola
[19:23:24] <unlaudable> static site generator written in go looks pretty good...
[19:23:25] <pieter2627> Kilos: am i correct?
[19:23:28] <unlaudable> Kilos, ah cool
[19:23:43] <Kilos> correct pieter2627 we welcome any linux users
[19:24:17] <inetpro> kapanda: we don't mind if people divert to other distros 
[19:24:17] <inetpro> important is that we catch those who experience Linux for the first time using Ubuntu and make it a smooth experience as far as possible
[19:24:41] <pieter2627> anything else for misc?
[19:25:37] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:25:37] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:25:39] <kapanda> Sure, I also introduce people to Ubuntu first then show them other distros
[19:25:42] <Kilos> we have yum peeps here too hehe
[19:26:15] <Kilos> Maaz pieter2627 ++
[19:26:31] * Kilos votes for pieter2627
[19:26:33] * inetpro votes +1 for pieter2627
[19:26:34] * pieter2627 would like to sit out the next one
[19:26:43] <Kilos> oh my
[19:26:45] <inetpro> hmm...
[19:26:51] <Kilos> you did well pieter2627 
[19:27:07] <pieter2627> just to check others again -can backup
[19:27:09] <Kilos> hard work chairing
[19:27:40] <kulelu88> I vote Kilos 
[19:27:47] * pieter2627 rofl
[19:28:03] <Kilos> lol kulelu88 you tried that before
[19:28:05] <inetpro> anyone else want to volunteer before we vote pieter2627 again?
[19:28:26] <pieter2627> giving 30 sec
[19:28:27] <inetpro> pieter2627: you can do it again man
[19:28:36] <Kilos> pieter2627 you in the groove, it gets easier
[19:28:51] <Kilos> first one is the big one
[19:28:55] <pieter2627> Maaz: agreed pieter2627 to chair next meeting
[19:28:55] <Maaz> Agreed: pieter2627 to chair next meeting
[19:29:04] <inetpro> nice!
[19:29:05] <Kilos> imo you did well
[19:29:07] <inetpro> thanks pieter2627
[19:29:13] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:29:13] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:29:34] <pieter2627> next meeting is at 22 Sept hope you all can join again
[19:29:52] <pieter2627> that date is right inetpro?
[19:30:00] <Kilos> im going in tha day for an op
[19:30:10] <inetpro> pieter2627: looks correct
[19:30:22] <inetpro> every 4th Tuesday of the month
[19:30:28] <Kilos> so you guys have to be greeter bots too
[19:30:32] <pieter2627> Maaz: agreed next meeting on Tuesday, 22 September 2015 @ 20:30
[19:30:32] <Maaz> Agreed: next meeting on Tuesday, 22 September 2015 @ 20:30
[19:30:56] <pieter2627> thats a wrap thanks for attending everyone
[19:31:00] <inetpro> good timing!
[19:31:07] <pieter2627> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
