{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 25 October 2016 
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''mciverza''' ('''chesedo''' backup)
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20160927#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2016
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
*** magespawn - need testimonies
*** tareq
*** Kapanda - progress
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu for Hope - update
* Events
** Past Two Month:
*** SFD
** Other:
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** ?
* Miscellaneous
** Discuss Ubuntu education project
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 22 November 2016

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:38] STARTED (andrewlsd)
[18:31:44] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (andrewlsd)
[18:34:58] AGREED: All happy with agenda (andrewlsd)
[18:35:13] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (andrewlsd)
[18:40:21] AGREED: All happy with previous minutes (andrewlsd)
[18:40:34] TOPIC: Plans for 2016 (andrewlsd)
[18:45:33] TOPIC: Events (andrewlsd)
[18:52:50] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (andrewlsd)
[18:58:04] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (andrewlsd)
[19:01:43] AGREED: andrewlsd to chair next meeting (andrewlsd)
[19:01:59] TOPIC: Next meeting (andrewlsd)
[19:03:02] AGREED: Next meeting is 22 November 2016 @ 20:30 (andrewlsd)
[19:03:16] ENDED (andrewlsd)

Present
=======  ==

* rwanyoike
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Kyle Robbertze (paddatrapper)
* Andrew Mac (andrewlsd)
* AudaciousTUX-
* urbanslug

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:38] <andrewlsd> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - October 2016
[18:30:38] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:30:46] <andrewlsd> Maaz: I am Andrew Mac
[18:30:46] <Maaz> andrewlsd: Yessir
[18:31:08] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:31:08] <Maaz> chesedo: Alrighty
[18:31:44] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction 
[18:31:44] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:31:49] <chesedo> superfly Cryterion  jerit paddatrapper SilverCode thatgraemeguy meeting time
[18:32:07] 
[18:32:07] <paddatrapper> Thanks chesedo
[18:32:08] <andrewlsd> Thank you all for being here. Feel free to continue your  "I am" introductions.
[18:32:16] 
[18:32:21] <paddatrapper> Maaz: I am Kyle Robbertze 
[18:32:21] <Maaz> paddatrapper: Righto
[18:33:08] <andrewlsd> The agenda for today is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20161025
[18:33:34] <andrewlsd> Are there any additions that anyone would like to make to it?
[18:34:08] <chesedo> andrewlsd: i'm good with it
[18:34:39] <paddatrapper> Lgtm
[18:34:56] <andrewlsd> aah.
[18:34:58] <andrewlsd> Maaz: agreed All happy with agenda
[18:34:58] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with agenda
[18:35:13] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting 
[18:35:13] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:35:44] <andrewlsd> The minutes of the previous meeting (20160927) are at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160927#Summary
[18:36:12] 
[18:37:13] <andrewlsd> Can I have a proposal and a second to accept the previous minutes.
[18:37:58] <andrewlsd> e.g paddatrapper / chesedo
[18:38:01] <paddatrapper> Am I missing something, but are there no minutes there...? I only see an agenda 
[18:38:08] <andrewlsd> aah.
[18:38:15] <chesedo> andrewlsd: i forgot that we did not have a meeting in sept, but also do not have an issue with Aug's...
[18:38:23] <chesedo> so all good with me
[18:38:55] <paddatrapper> Also no issue with Aug's, so second chesedo
[18:39:28] <andrewlsd> In which case, correction, the minutes for the previous meeting are at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160823
[18:40:21] <andrewlsd> Maaz: agreed All happy with previous minutes
[18:40:21] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with previous minutes
[18:40:34] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Plans for 2016 
[18:40:34] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2016
[18:41:26] <andrewlsd> Is there any news on tareq, magespawn and Kapanda's membership applications?
[18:41:58] <paddatrapper> I haven't heard anything
[18:42:19] <chesedo> magesawn's wiki page is still empty (waiting for him)...
[18:42:37] <andrewlsd> Thanks chesedo.
[18:42:49] <chesedo> Kapanda's just in idea stage I think...
[18:43:09] <chesedo> and Kilos will(may) know about tareq'a
[18:43:21] <andrewlsd> We will probably need to wait for oom Kilos and some other regulars to get any further feedback.
[18:43:36] <andrewlsd> (mis-timed that one)
[18:43:49] <chesedo> yip, seems so
[18:44:09] <andrewlsd> Are there any other folks that we know of that need assistance with ubuntu IDs or the Code of Conduct?
[18:44:45] * chesedo does not at this time
[18:44:55] * andrewlsd does not either.
[18:45:20] <andrewlsd> Moving right along then ...
[18:45:21] * paddatrapper neither
[18:45:33] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Events
[18:45:33] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:46:08] <andrewlsd> Are there any upcoming Ubuntu or open source related events that anyone would like to mention?
[18:46:46] <paddatrapper> There's a Debian Miniconf in Cambridge happening second week of November, but I think that's a little unrelated
[18:46:47] <chesedo> I received something on the sulug maillist, but forgot it now
[18:46:57] * chesedo goes to look
[18:47:38] <andrewlsd> *whatis sulug*
[18:48:47] <chesedo> stellenbosh university linux user group
[18:49:08] * andrewlsd is now enlightened
[18:49:11] * paddatrapper wishes UCT's LUG was more active
[18:49:35] * andrewlsd has been to a couple of CLUG meetings.
[18:49:49] <paddatrapper> CLUG is active, which is nice
[18:50:11] <andrewlsd> ... a nice CLUG meeting included an IPA tasting (ale, not the Identity Management foss project)
[18:50:13] <chesedo> paddatrapper: they had a (stirring) discussion about it last month or so, and became quite active afterwards...
[18:51:04] <chesedo> Here is that event: DevOps happening 7 & 8 Nov in CPT -> https://devops.capetown/devopsdays/
[18:51:10] <andrewlsd> Aah, yes.
[18:51:15] <paddatrapper> andrewlsd: Of course, no beer and the CLUG hasn't met
[18:51:32] <andrewlsd> Devops Days.
[18:51:46] <andrewlsd> thanks chesedo for the info and link.
[18:52:17] <andrewlsd> moving along in the agenda.
[18:52:31] <andrewlsd> shall we proceed to "Miscellaneous"
[18:52:31] <andrewlsd> ?
[18:52:39] <paddatrapper> Yup
[18:52:45] <chesedo> yip
[18:52:50] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous 
[18:52:50] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[18:53:05] <andrewlsd> Any misc bits n pieces to share?
[18:53:24] <chesedo> nothing new...
[18:54:14] <paddatrapper> Not sure if we covered it in a previous meeting, but PyConZA happened in CT 3 weeks ago. It went well with about double the attendees than the previous year
[18:54:15] <andrewlsd> Interesting news this week has been that the DDOS that took out dyn DNS and much of amazon, etc was largely due to exploited IoT devices such as consumer IP cameras/securityPVRs
[18:54:19] <chesedo> oh our Ubuntu For Hope site has been completed (needs some extra mods), just waiting for kmf to put it on his servers
[18:54:40] <andrewlsd> excellent paddatrapper.
[18:54:53] <andrewlsd> chesedo: looking forward to seeing the site go live
[18:54:54] <paddatrapper> Dirty COW means everyone should patch their kernels
[18:55:02] <chesedo> paddatrapper: you organised there as well right?
[18:55:29] <paddatrapper> chesedo: Yeah, I was responsible for organising the video equipment again
[18:55:41] <andrewlsd> live patching FTW, now available for Ubuntu via Canonical
[18:55:54] <chesedo> more on dirty cow for those interested -> https://dirtycow.ninja/ http://www.zdnet.com/article/the-dirty-cow-linux-security-bug-moos/
[18:56:31] <andrewlsd> Ty, useful link.
[18:56:42] <paddatrapper> .ninja ... First time I've seen that! Lol
[18:57:37] <andrewlsd> all righty then ....
[18:57:40] 
[18:57:51] <chesedo> all right
[18:58:04] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting 
[18:58:04] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[18:58:36] <chesedo> andrewlsd: you can do it again if you are up to it?
[18:58:37] <andrewlsd> chesedo or paddatrapper, either of you keen to chair November's meeting?
[18:59:02] <chesedo> else i'm available (for backup too)
[18:59:05] <paddatrapper> What date in November is it, 25th? If so I don't see why not
[18:59:20] <andrewlsd> I can do so. I was just about to ask which date 22 or 25
[18:59:24] <chesedo> paddatrapper: 22nd
[18:59:37] <chesedo> andrewlsd: ^^
[18:59:37] <andrewlsd> (I meant 22 or 29)
[18:59:42] <andrewlsd> 22nd.
[18:59:59] <paddatrapper> Ok then I may or may not be here - in the middle of exams, so probably not a good idea to put my hand up
[19:00:34] <andrewlsd> Ok, paddatrapper can volunteer for Dec or Jan. Not sure if we have a meeting in Dec.
[19:00:43] <andrewlsd> ... but Jan should be good.
[19:00:47] <paddatrapper> Cool
[19:00:59] <chesedo> lol, paddatrapper jan would be open...
[19:01:11] <andrewlsd> I'll do the next one if that is OK with you, chesedo?
[19:01:20] <chesedo> andrewlsd: ok
[19:01:43] <andrewlsd> Maaz: agreed andrewlsd to chair next meeting 
[19:01:43] <Maaz> Agreed: andrewlsd to chair next meeting
[19:01:59] <andrewlsd> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:01:59] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:02:32] <andrewlsd> Is it agreed that the next meeting will be 22 Nov at 20h30 SAST ?
[19:02:41] <paddatrapper> Yup
[19:02:58] <chesedo> yip
[19:03:02] <andrewlsd> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 22 November 2016 @ 20:30 
[19:03:02] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 22 November 2016 @ 20:30
[19:03:16] <andrewlsd> Maaz: end meeting 

</pre>
