{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 22 March 2016
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''chesedo'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20160223#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2016
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu for Hope - update
* Events
** 17th Annual Debian Conference, DebConf16, in Cape Town from 2 July to 9 July 2016
    "<tumbleweed> if anyone would like to get involved in debconf16, we could use someone local, to help..."
*** Announcement: <nowiki>[[https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2016/03/msg00008.html|Registration now open...]]</nowiki> Friday, 18 Mar 2016
*** Website: https://debconf16.debconf.org/
*** Wiki: https://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf16
*** FAQs: https://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf16/FAQs
** Past Month:
*** ?
** Other:
*** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn <nowiki>[[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kifest|Group Discussion]]</nowiki>
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
*** Release Party for 16.04
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** ?
* Miscellaneous
** Ubuntu in the Wild
** Get more involved with lugs to promote Ubuntu and Foss together (linuxconza or linuxfestza)
** Discuss Ubuntu education project
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 26 April 2016

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:07] STARTED (chesedo)
[18:30:17] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (chesedo)
[18:32:08] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (chesedo)
[18:34:37] AGREED: No raised issues for previous minutes (chesedo)
[18:34:45] TOPIC: Plans for 2016 (chesedo)
[18:36:46] TOPIC: Ubuntu for Hope (chesedo)
[18:43:20] TOPIC: Events (chesedo)
[18:45:58] TOPIC: DebConf (chesedo)
[19:00:24] AGREED: DebConf needs help and has to find video equipment for hire (chesedo)
[19:03:57] ACCEPTED: that Cryterion will try and register to help with DebConf (chesedo)
[19:06:18] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (chesedo)
[19:13:04] ACCEPTED: Kilos and inetpro to clean up trello (chesedo)
[19:16:55] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (chesedo)
[19:18:02] AGREED: chesedo to chair next meeting (chesedo)
[19:18:11] TOPIC: Next meeting (chesedo)
[19:19:09] AGREED: Next meeting is 26 April 2016 @ 20:30 (chesedo)
[19:20:03] ENDED (chesedo)

Present
=======  ==

* Karl Fischer (kmf)
* Gavin Bauer (Cryterion)
* Greg Eames (magespawn)
* Pavel Sayekat (pavlushka)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Stefano Rivera (tumbleweed)
* Zoueidi Naeil (Na3iL)
* Vincent Swart (Vince-0)
* Bradley Putzier (captine)
* magespaw2
* Kerasen Naidoo (K_K_N)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:07] <chesedo> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - March 2016
[18:30:07] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:30:17] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction 
[18:30:17] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:17] <chesedo> Welcome all and thank you for joining in on our monthly meeting
[18:30:34] <chesedo> Our bot Maaz will be doing the minutes so please introduce yourself to him using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg. 
[18:30:34] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:30:34] <Maaz> chesedo: Okay
[18:30:37] <Cryterion> Maaz: I am Gavin Bauer
[18:30:37] <Maaz> Cryterion: Alrighty
[18:31:01] <chesedo> please feel free to suggest last minutes changes now
[18:31:01] <chesedo> Today's meeting agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160322 
[18:31:06] <kmf> Maaz: I am Karl Fischer
[18:31:06] <Maaz> kmf: Alrighty
[18:31:23] <Kilos> Maaz I am Miles Sharpe
[18:31:23] <Maaz> Kilos: Okay
[18:31:38] <Kilos> superfly login time
[18:31:44] <Kilos> inetpro ping
[18:32:08] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:32:08] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:32:16] <chesedo> the last meeting's minutes is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160223 
[18:32:17] <chesedo> It was quite exciting so going over it should be fun
[18:32:32] <magespawn> Maaz: I am Greg Eames
[18:32:32] <Maaz> magespawn: Yessir
[18:32:59] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:32:59] <Maaz> superfly: Yessir
[18:33:05] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:33:05] <Maaz> inetpro: Done
[18:33:26] <chesedo> Is everyone happy with the agenda and previous minutes
[18:33:29] <Kilos> Na3iL you want to login with the bot please
[18:33:32] <chesedo> *?
[18:33:40] <Na3iL> sure
[18:33:46] <Na3iL> Maaz, I am Zoueidi Naeil
[18:33:46] <Maaz> Na3iL: Alrighty
[18:33:51] <Kilos> ty
[18:34:37] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed No raised issues for previous minutes
[18:34:37] <Maaz> Agreed: No raised issues for previous minutes
[18:34:38] <Kilos> ya chesedo go on
[18:34:45] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Plans for 2016
[18:34:45] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2016
[18:35:11] <chesedo> in the last meeting kapanda asked about Ubuntu membership
[18:35:22] <chesedo> ... do not know if he got sorted
[18:35:35] <Kilos> i havent seen him since
[18:36:07] <chesedo> He is also at Joburg LUG if anyone else might be there too?
[18:36:09] <Kilos> pavlushka you wanna login with our bot
[18:36:19] <Kilos> and watch how to use him
[18:36:31] 
[18:36:39] <pavlushka> sure, but how?
[18:36:46] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Ubuntu for Hope
[18:36:46] <Maaz> Current Topic: Ubuntu for Hope
[18:36:47] <Kilos> welcome K_K_N 
[18:36:59] <K_K_N> hi
[18:37:02] <K_K_N> thanks Kilos
[18:37:09] <K_K_N> am too late for the meeting forgot all about it
[18:37:18] <Kilos> login with the bot please sir
[18:37:19] <chesedo> kmf: release is next for, think we will have a get together before next meeting?
[18:37:25] <chesedo> next month
[18:37:28] <Cryterion> pavlushka - Maaz: I am Your Name, logs you in
[18:37:37] <K_K_N> Maaz: I am Kerasen Naidoo
[18:37:37] <Maaz> K_K_N: Okay
[18:38:07] <kmf> chesedo what did you have in mind .... you asking me on a date ;)
[18:38:25] <K_K_N> did I miss anything important so far or you guys just started?
[18:38:36] <pavlushka> Maaz: I am pavlushka
[18:38:36] <Maaz> pavlushka: Yessir
[18:38:40] <Kilos> one month to release of 16.04
[18:38:49] <Cryterion> nice
[18:38:57] <Kilos> your name pavlushka not your nick
[18:39:14] <chesedo> kmf: to pc need to be fixed up, resources 'leveled'  or OSes installed that you might need help from the Loco?
[18:39:21] <Kilos> not serious but next month
[18:40:08] <kmf> chesedo I'll have to make a plan, why not launch the project at a release party :) then we have a lot more interaction
[18:40:15] 
[18:40:20] <pavlushka> Maaz: I am Pavel Sayekat
[18:40:20] <Maaz> pavlushka: Alrighty
[18:40:24] <Kilos> wb Vince-0 
[18:40:30] <Vince-0> haai
[18:40:28] <Vince-0> Maaz: I am Vincent Swart
[18:40:28] <Maaz> Vince-0: Sure
[18:40:44] <chesedo> kmf: we could but have no release party plan for prt
[18:41:26] <kmf> ok
[18:41:51] <Kilos> kmf rope in inetpro he escapes too often
[18:42:14] * Cryterion starts tying a noose
[18:42:18] * chesedo has been thinking of having one, but his brother has b party that weekend
[18:42:29] <kmf> sure ... will do I need to run speak to you guys later ... sorry 
[18:42:46] <Kilos> ok kmf ty for joining
[18:42:47] <chesedo> ok kmf
[18:43:02] <kmf> ta 
[18:43:05] <kmf> laters
[18:43:20] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Events 
[18:43:20] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:43:20] <chesedo> nothing seems to have happened last month
[18:43:40] <chesedo> but we have DebConf comming up
[18:43:54] <chesedo> superfly: you available now
[18:43:57] <chesedo> *?
[18:44:08] <Kilos> tumbleweed you too
[18:44:51] <chesedo> in mean time, no one knows of anything else for upcoming month?
[18:45:01] <superfly> chesedo: Sortof. I'm sitting behind some really awful lag.
[18:45:17] <chesedo> or any other?
[18:45:31] <chesedo> superfly: ok will switch topic soon
[18:45:32] * superfly is not entirely sure where tumbleweed is right now
[18:45:33] <superfly> he seems to be talking from a plane all too often
[18:45:44] <chesedo> lol
[18:45:58] <Kilos> yeah the globe trotter
[18:45:58] <chesedo> Maaz: topic DebConf
[18:45:58] <Maaz> Current Topic: DebConf
[18:46:07] <chesedo> superfly: floor yours
[18:46:10] <superfly> uh, right
[18:46:21] <Cryterion> when and where is it being planned?
[18:46:26] <Kilos> tumbleweed ping
[18:46:35] <superfly> For those who don't know, DebConf is the annual Debian conference for developers and users.
[18:47:01] <Cryterion> tumbleweed is 0.44 seconds away
[18:47:13] <superfly> Ubuntu is based on Debian.
[18:47:34] <superfly> DebConf 16 is being held in Cape Town, from the 2nd to the 9th of July. Registration opened on Friday.
[18:47:35] <chesedo> Cryterion: in Cpt, 2-9 July
[18:48:07] <magespawn> how big is the conference?
[18:48:10] <Cryterion> will note, hopefully I can make it, will have to fly down for a few days
[18:48:23] <superfly> Attendance is free, and there are bursaries for those who can't afford travel and accommodation expenses.
[18:48:25] <Kilos> https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2016/03/msg00008.html
[18:48:35] 
[18:48:46] <Kilos> wb captine 
[18:48:51] <Kilos> login please
[18:48:57] <Vince-0> https://debconf16.debconf.org/
[18:49:00] <superfly> To request bursaries (sponsorship) for food, accommodation, or travel, you must be registered by Sunday, 10 April 2015. Any registrations after that can't be guaranteed bursaries.
[18:49:21] <superfly> To register, go to https://debconf16.debconf.org/ and sign up on the site. Once you're signed up, go to your profile and click on the "Register" button.
[18:49:35] <superfly> (I'm currently about 30 seconds behind everyone else)
[18:49:43] <captine> kilos thanks
[18:49:50] <captine> how do i do it again?
[18:49:50] <Kilos> sorry superfly 
[18:49:53] <tumbleweed> superfly: sorry :)
[18:49:59] * tumbleweed is in SF today
[18:50:09] <tumbleweed> (plane yesterday, plane tomorrow)
[18:50:22] <Kilos>  captine Maaz I am Full Name
[18:50:43] <superfly> Sorry guys I can't answer questions right now, my lag is sitting at 45 seconds
[18:50:48] <captine> Maaz I am Bradley Putzier
[18:50:48] <Maaz> captine: Sure
[18:50:49] <Kilos> tumbleweed you wanna login please
[18:50:52] * tumbleweed can answer questions
[18:50:55] <tumbleweed> Maaz: I am Stefano Rivera
[18:50:55] <Maaz> tumbleweed: Done
[18:51:01] <Kilos> ty
[18:51:02] <tumbleweed> also, o/
[18:51:17] <chesedo> o/ tumbleweed
[18:51:29] <superfly> tumbleweed: no need to apologise :-)
[18:51:31] <magespawn> tumbleweed: how big is the conference in attendance?
[18:51:37] * Kilos greets our globe trotter
[18:51:45] <tumbleweed> magespawn: we're estimating 250 people
[18:51:48] <tumbleweed> magespawn: not huge
[18:51:56] <tumbleweed> last year was over 500 - record size
[18:52:18] <chesedo> tumbleweed: is the conf very technical in nature?
[18:52:24] <magespawn> still fairly big
[18:52:34] <superfly> magespawn: Typically it's 350 people, I think we're expecting a little less than that, but tumbleweed will have a better estimate.
[18:52:57] <tumbleweed> chesedo: yes, pretty technical, but also very social
[18:53:01] <tumbleweed> people bring their whole families
[18:53:13] <tumbleweed> but they're there to get work done
[18:53:17] <tumbleweed> (and have fun)
[18:54:55] <tumbleweed> chesedo: have a look at previous years' programmes
[18:55:09] <tumbleweed> e.g. https://summit.debconf.org/debconf15/
[18:55:15] <chesedo> tumbleweed: ty
[18:55:17] <tumbleweed> https://summit.debconf.org/debconf14/
[18:56:39] <chesedo> anyone else have more questions?
[18:57:28] <tumbleweed> well, I'm here for another reason that just to tell you about it
[18:57:38] <tumbleweed> we are also starting to need some help, in preparation
[18:58:08] <tumbleweed> and we will need some help, when it's under way
[18:58:21] <tumbleweed> talk to me, or join #debconf-team on irc.debian.org, if you're interested
[18:58:23] <Kilos> i mailed maia and asked her to try attend tonight but no reply yet
[18:58:33] <Kilos> have you heard from her tumbleweed 
[18:58:40] <chesedo> Kilos: you are all our cpt peeps?
[18:58:49] <chesedo> *who
[18:58:55] <tumbleweed> one thing that comes to mind, is that we could use someone to try and find video equipment for hire (we have very specific needs, so it probably means quite a bit of time on the phone)
[18:59:24] <chesedo> wow, tall order...
[18:59:30] <Kilos> they are very short here tonight
[18:59:40] <Kilos> fly knows them all
[19:00:24] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed DebConf needs help and has to find video equipment for hire
[19:00:24] <Maaz> Agreed: DebConf needs help and has to find video equipment for hire
[19:00:36] <Kilos> kulelule was gonna help , dunno where he is tonight
[19:00:56] <Kilos> nuvolari is also down there
[19:01:38] <Kilos> Cryterion arent you there as well?
[19:01:58] <inetpro> even thatgraemeguy is there, not?
[19:02:00] <Cryterion> I'm in Durban
[19:02:04] <Kilos> yes
[19:02:12] <Kilos> sorry Cryterion 
[19:02:16] <Cryterion> well just south of durban
[19:02:19] <chesedo> Cryterion: if you would go?
[19:02:25] <Kilos> fly there they will sponsor
[19:02:41] <superfly> tumbleweed: hrm, I'll need a reminder, but if you  can give me some more specific information, I can ask one or two folks I know.
[19:02:52] <Cryterion> I would, any help would be appreciated, tks
[19:03:07] <Kilos> register Cryterion 
[19:03:11] <superfly> thatgraemeguy is down here, I'm not sure where kulele88 is
[19:03:13] <Cryterion> will do
[19:03:44] <Kilos> #debconf-team
[19:03:56] <Kilos> join them there too 
[19:03:57] <chesedo> Maaz: accepted that Cryterion will try and register to help with DebConf
[19:03:57] <Maaz> Accepted: that Cryterion will try and register to help with DebConf
[19:05:20] <chesedo> hmm... anyone got more?
[19:06:10] <chesedo> ty you for volunteering Cryterion
[19:06:18] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:06:18] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:06:30] <Cryterion> np :)
[19:06:56] <Kilos> make us proud of the banana boys Cryterion 
[19:07:06] <Cryterion> lol
[19:07:11] <chesedo> williamk does not seem to be here tonight
[19:07:16] <chesedo> lol
[19:07:18] <Cryterion> Must I bring some with
[19:07:42] <Kilos> na they are snoek eaters
[19:07:44] <Cryterion> still need to get hold of him, live the save small town now
[19:08:09] <chesedo> Ubuntu-in-the-wild is still up at trello if any has more to add to it (it has expanded since last i cheched)
[19:08:40] <Kilos> wowmive forgotten all about trello
[19:08:41] <tumbleweed> superfly: ack
[19:09:28] <chesedo> Kilos: do not have much to add about LUGs involvement (only got a response from kmf so far)
[19:09:52] <Kilos> np chesedo well keep working on them
[19:10:04] <Kilos> they also seem snowed under atm
[19:10:20] <Kilos> or have become social media addicts
[19:10:24] 
[19:10:28] <chesedo> speaking of trello though, maybe we should do some cleanup there
[19:10:30] <Kilos> wb magespawn 
[19:10:34] <magespawn> ty
[19:11:00] <Kilos> inetpro ^^ trello cleanup
[19:11:10] <chesedo> Kilos: you think you could maybe?
[19:11:24] <Kilos> could what?
[19:11:35] <Kilos> oh trello
[19:11:52] <chesedo> clean up... you most in the know of everyone
[19:12:26] <Kilos> ill  look yes and get pro to help he is the admin guy there
[19:12:42] <chesedo> lol ok
[19:12:50] <inetpro> Kilos: we can do it 
[19:12:55] <Vince-0> I need a reason to go to Cape Town
[19:12:56] 
[19:13:00] <Kilos> ty inetpro 
[19:13:04] <chesedo> Maaz: accepted Kilos and inetpro to clean up trello
[19:13:04] <Maaz> Accepted: Kilos and inetpro to clean up trello
[19:13:18] <Kilos> Vince-0 what reason do you need
[19:13:22] <chesedo> ty Kilos and inetpro
[19:13:34] <Kilos> oh chesedo Vince-0 is dbnlug
[19:13:49] <Kilos> and wiliam
[19:13:54] <Kilos> and magespawn 
[19:14:21] <chesedo> oh hey ty Kilos
[19:14:24] <Vince-0> debconf sounds like a good reason I mean
[19:14:29] <Kilos> dbnlug are G+ addicts
[19:14:39] <Kilos> yes Vince-0 it is
[19:14:40] <Cryterion> G+?
[19:14:54] <chesedo> Kilos: nope their was last updated years ago
[19:14:57] <chesedo> :P
[19:14:59] <Kilos> and if you volunteer to help theyll even feed you
[19:15:01] <Kilos> hehe
[19:15:13] <Kilos> oh my
[19:15:18] <chesedo> Vince-0: think you could volunteer?
[19:15:36] <Kilos> Cryterion google thing
[19:15:57] <Cryterion> yuck, I'm not google
[19:16:00] <Vince-0> ya lemme check my schedule
[19:16:10] <Kilos> https://plus.google.com/
[19:16:12] <chesedo> Vince-0: ok
[19:16:19] <Cryterion> still yuck
[19:16:29] <chesedo> that seems to cover the meeting stuff then...
[19:16:37] <Kilos> inetpro give Cryterion the link for our G+ please
[19:16:51] <Cryterion> Think I have it somewhere
[19:16:55] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:16:55] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:17:11] <Kilos> +1 for chesedo
[19:17:21] <magespawn> +1
[19:17:30] <Cryterion> +1
[19:17:42] * chesedo just gives another heads up that he will miss may's
[19:17:48] <Kilos> inetpro vote man
[19:17:53] <chesedo> lol
[19:17:56] <inetpro> +1
[19:17:58] <Kilos> inetpro may is yours
[19:18:02] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:18:02] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:18:11] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:18:11] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:18:37] <chesedo> it seems to be 26th april to you gues too?
[19:18:56] <Kilos> yip
[19:19:02] <chesedo> *guys
[19:19:06] <chesedo> great
[19:19:09] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 26 April 2016 @ 20:30
[19:19:09] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 26 April 2016 @ 20:30
[19:19:46] <chesedo> that's it... thanks you for joining in and hope to see again on next meeting or before
[19:19:56] <Vince-0> k
[19:20:00] <Kilos> ty for chairing again chesedo 
[19:20:03] <chesedo> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
