{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


** When: 27 January 2015
** Where: <nowiki>[[irc:--freenode.net-ubuntu-za|#ubuntu-za]]</nowiki> on Freenode.
** Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
** Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za 
** IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

** Welcoming and Introduction
** Superfly's butt kicking session
** Review minutes of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20141216 | previous meeting]]</nowiki> (meeting chair)
** Plans for 2015
*** Folks applying for Ubuntu membership
      Please click through to their pages and write a testimonial
**** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/superfly|Raoul Snyman]]</nowiki>
**** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kilos|Miles Sharpe]]</nowiki>
*** Get more people to sign the ubuntu code of conduct
** Events
** Miscellaneous
**** apt-offline
** Elect chairperson for next meeting
** Next meeting: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150224 | 24 February 2015]]</nowiki> 

=== Summary ===

<pre> 

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:35:24] STARTED (nuvolari)
[18:36:21] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (nuvolari)
[18:38:17] TOPIC: Superfly's butt kicking session (nuvolari)
[18:42:05] AGREED: Send a mail out, asking contributors to provide content for the new site (nuvolari)
[18:48:23] TOPIC: Review previous minutes (nuvolari)
[18:54:59] TOPIC: Plans for 2015 (nuvolari)
[19:18:05] TOPIC: Events (nuvolari)
[19:21:08] AGREED: Ubuntu Membership Application Meeting on Feb 5th, at 00:00 SAST (nuvolari)
[19:25:15] AGREED: Ubuntu Membership Application Meeting 2: Feb 18 at 14:00 SAST (nuvolari)
[19:26:18] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (nuvolari)
[19:33:49] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (nuvolari)
[19:36:43] AGREED: chair for next meeting: nuvolari (nuvolari)
[19:40:00] AGREED: Discuss Maaz and ibid at next meeting (nuvolari)
[19:40:08] TOPIC: next meeting (nuvolari)
[19:40:45] AGREED: Next meeting is on 24th of February 2015 (nuvolari)
[19:40:58] TOPIC: Closing (nuvolari)
[19:42:33] ENDED (nuvolari)

Present
=======  ==

* Johan Mynhardt (nuvolari)
* Jurgens du Toit (jrgns)
* Gregory Eames (magespawn)
* Leon Marincowitz (Lionthinker)
* Private_User
* Marius Kruger (amanica)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* kodez
* Marius Kruger (amanica_)
* ThatGraemeGuy
* Charl van Niekerk (charl)
* your master (Vince-0)
* Bradley Putzier (captine)
* Jaco Stroebel (gremble)

</pre>

=== Log ===
<nowiki>[[ http:--maaz.mene.za.net-logs-meetings-freenode-%23ubuntu-za-2015-01-27-18-35-24.txt|Detail Log]]</nowiki>
<pre>

[18:35:24] <nuvolari> Maaz: start meeting about Monthly IRC Meeting (January 2015)
[18:35:24] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:35:30] <Kilos> yay
[18:35:31] <nuvolari> ffs
[18:35:32] <inetpro> \o/
[18:35:40] <nuvolari> Maaz: botsnack
[18:35:40] <Maaz> YAY someone cares about me too!
[18:35:42] <Kilos> language
[18:35:43] <captine> lol.. this is where the artifial part of the AI comes to play... :)
[18:35:58] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:35:58] <Maaz> inetpro: Done
[18:36:11] <nuvolari> agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150127
[18:36:14] <Kilos> Maaz  I am Miles Sharpe
[18:36:14] <Maaz> Kilos: Righto
[18:36:16] <Lionthinker> I am Leon Marincowitz
[18:36:18] <charl> Maaz: i am Charl van Niekerk
[18:36:18] <Maaz> charl: Okay
[18:36:21] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:36:21] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:36:22] <Lionthinker> Maaz: I am Leon Marincowitz
[18:36:22] <Maaz> Lionthinker: Sure
[18:36:29] <magespawn> Maa: I am Gregory Eames
[18:36:30] <gremble> Maaz: I am Jaco Stroebel
[18:36:30] <Maaz> gremble: Righto
[18:36:30] <nuvolari> Maaz: I am Johan Mynhardt
[18:36:30] <Maaz> nuvolari: Done
[18:36:37] <nuvolari> wow, lots of people tonight
[18:36:39] <magespawn> Maaz: I am Gregory Eames
[18:36:39] <Maaz> magespawn: Righto
[18:36:52] <captine> Maaz I am Bradley Putzier
[18:36:52] <Maaz> captine: Done
[18:36:53] <nuvolari> interesting agenda
[18:37:01] <nuvolari> Welcome everyone
[18:37:11] <inetpro> nuvolari: some of them are here twice :-)
[18:37:13] <nuvolari> new peeps as well, welcome to you
[18:37:22] <Kilos> ty nuvolari  and welcome to you too
[18:37:40] <captine> nuvolari: i agree.  lets skip welcomes and go straight to butt kicking... :)
[18:38:00] <Kilos> zipper  stickyboy  you are welcome to join us just login with the bot please
[18:38:00] <nuvolari> the fly needs to be out soon
[18:38:11] <Kilos> yip let the fly go
[18:38:17] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Superfly's butt kicking session
[18:38:17] <Maaz> Current Topic: Superfly's butt kicking session
[18:38:21] <nuvolari> so, what's this about?
[18:38:22] <Kilos> superfly  in your court sir
[18:38:35] * nuvolari puts on some extra layers of undies
[18:38:40] <Kilos> ll
[18:39:00] <Lionthinker>  *just changed some nappies, if you want some of that you welcome
[18:39:06] <magespawn> Firefox cannot guarantee the safety of your data on wiki.ubuntu.com because it uses SSLv3, a broken security protocol.
[18:39:08] <nuvolari> superfly: ping
[18:39:27] <captine> Lionthinker: not the most fun thing to do... Feel your pain
[18:39:29] <Kilos> he most likely had to go
[18:39:30] <amanica> Maaz: i am Marius Kruger
[18:39:30] <Maaz> amanica: Okay
[18:39:38] <Lionthinker> captine, hehehe
[18:39:49] <nuvolari> aw :-|
[18:39:54] <Kilos> this from fly
[18:40:00] <Kilos> http://ubuntu-za.snyman.info/
[18:40:00] <nuvolari> anyone know what it was about?
[18:40:20] <inetpro> that is the new site in development
[18:40:21] <Lionthinker> magespawn: didn't know this about the fox, why don't they fix it?
[18:40:33] <Kilos> he asks can peeps please mail him their content for the new site
[18:40:57] <nuvolari> looking nice! I like that design, plain and simple
[18:41:02] <Kilos> nuvolari  we need to revive our site
[18:41:38] <nuvolari> we should send a mail out regarding that
[18:42:05] <Kilos> ok do it please
[18:42:05] <nuvolari> Maaz: agreed Send a mail out, asking contributors to provide content for the new site
[18:42:05] <Maaz> Agreed: Send a mail out, asking contributors to provide content for the new site
[18:42:13] <inetpro> +1
[18:42:21] <magespawn> Lionthinker: i think it is because of https with http it seems to be fine
[18:42:45] <captine> What type of content are we talking about?
[18:42:53] <Kilos> any posts
[18:42:57] <inetpro> magespawn: I guess we shall have to address that with canonical
[18:43:04] <Kilos> same as in the old site
[18:43:27] <Kilos> magespawn  file a bug report
[18:43:30] <Lionthinker> magespawn, this is only a fox problem?
[18:43:38] <inetpro> captine: anything crucial you feel that should be put on our site
[18:43:48] <captine> ok
[18:44:24] <magespawn> if i do http first it goes to the https website without a problem
[18:44:39] <magespawn> Lionthinker: let me see
[18:44:50] 
[18:45:05] <Kilos> wb jrgns  
[18:45:06] <magespawn> Lionthinker: i only have firefox on this pc
[18:45:18] <jrgns> Too late to join? 
[18:45:23] <Kilos> no
[18:45:33] <Kilos> join anytime in meeting
[18:45:34] <inetpro> jrgns: you're always welcome
[18:45:50] 
[18:46:01] <Kilos> amanica  wb
[18:46:31] <inetpro> nuvolari: shall we move on?
[18:46:47] <nuvolari> dafuq, laptop's wifi connection dropped
[18:46:55] <nuvolari> happens now and then
[18:47:00] <nuvolari> had to reboot
[18:47:01] <Kilos> ai!
[18:47:48] <nuvolari> the new site shouldn't be too busy
[18:47:53] <nuvolari> it's hard to find a balance
[18:48:12] <nuvolari> ok, moving on
[18:48:23] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Review previous minutes
[18:48:23] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review previous minutes
[18:49:17] <nuvolari> uhm, anyone have a link to the previous minutes?
[18:49:27] <nuvolari> not available in the agenda/previous meeting's agenda
[18:49:36] <inetpro> http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2014-10-28-18-31-48.txt
[18:49:44] <inetpro> is it that ^ ?
[18:50:06] <Lionthinker> guys can we have some focus here
[18:50:18] <jrgns> Maaz I am Jurgens du Toit 
[18:50:18] <Maaz> jrgns: Alrighty
[18:50:28] <inetpro> oops... no, that is old
[18:50:37] <nuvolari> we're trying to establish focus
[18:50:46] <nuvolari> we need the minutes for that :)
[18:50:48] 
[18:50:51] <inetpro> Kilos: your fault, you didn't check :-)
[18:50:55] <Kilos> hi Vince-0  
[18:51:02] <nuvolari> ugh, my available history don't go that far back :(
[18:51:06] <Kilos> sorry i was too busy
[18:51:10] <Vince-0> haai
[18:51:25] <Kilos> login with Maaz  Vince-0  
[18:51:44] <Vince-0> Maaz I'm Vincent Swart
[18:51:44] <Maaz> Vince-0: *blink*
[18:51:47] <Vince-0> meh
[18:51:52] <Kilos> I am
[18:51:56] <Vince-0> Maaz, I am Vincent Swart
[18:51:56] <Maaz> Vince-0: Done
[18:51:57] <inetpro> http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2014-11-25-18-32-00.txt
[18:52:02] <Vince-0> Maaz, I am your master
[18:52:02] <Maaz> Vince-0: Sure
[18:52:08] <Vince-0> omg
[18:52:13] <Kilos> hehe
[18:52:25] <amanica_> Maaz: I'm Marius Kruger
[18:52:25] <Maaz> amanica_: What?
[18:52:34] <Kilos> now you recorded as your master
[18:52:45] <Kilos> amanica_  I am
[18:52:46] <amanica_> Maaz: I am Marius Kruger
[18:52:46] <Maaz> amanica_: Righto
[18:52:53] <jrgns> Hellooo amanica_! Long time no see
[18:52:54] <Vince-0> nice
[18:52:58] <nuvolari> ah, thanks inetpro 
[18:53:02] <nuvolari> oh hi Vince-0!
[18:53:03] <Vince-0> so what's up
[18:53:06] <captine> maybe we should skip the minutes, and setup the next agenda to link to them?
[18:53:06] <amanica_> Hey jrgns, yeah :)
[18:53:27] <captine> my bad... i see the link now
[18:53:33] <Kilos> meeting then next thursday night ubuntu membership applications
[18:54:11] <inetpro> nuvolari: there wasn't much more than the talk about re-verification I think
[18:54:16] <nuvolari> yeah
[18:54:33] <nuvolari> moving on?
[18:54:39] <inetpro> +1
[18:54:59] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Plans for 2015
[18:54:59] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2015
[18:55:21] <nuvolari> So currently superfly and oom Kilos will be applying for membership
[18:55:30] <nuvolari> I think they are great candidates
[18:55:48] <nuvolari> I still need to do my piece for each of them
[18:55:49] * Kilos bows
[18:55:53] <Lionthinker> goodluck
[18:56:00] <inetpro> definitely
[18:56:00] <nuvolari> (what do you call that?)
[18:56:02] <magespawn> the most stable here 
[18:56:19] <magespawn> testimonial
[18:56:22] <inetpro> who else is joining in?
[18:56:23] <nuvolari> (getuigskrif)
[18:56:30] <nuvolari> thanks magespawn 
[18:56:42] * nuvolari is chickening out
[18:56:46] <inetpro> we need more members guys
[18:57:09] <Lionthinker> inetpro, I'm thinking about it
[18:57:09] <captine> i need to contribute first... will then apply
[18:57:14] 
[18:57:15] <captine> just getting into things
[18:57:18] <jrgns> What's the requirements and respow? 
[18:57:27] <jrgns> Urgh, responsibilities? 
[18:57:32] <Kilos> feedback from our re-verification from the council said we need more members
[18:57:33] <nuvolari> I'd like to, but I don't think I'm contributing nearly enough to justify applying just yet
[18:57:54] <Kilos> jrgns  major work
[18:58:00] <inetpro> nuvolari: you've been chairman often enough already
[18:58:07] <inetpro> anyone can do it
[18:58:11] <Kilos> inetpro  link to membership requirements
[18:58:14] <nuvolari> inetpro: is that enough though? :P
[18:58:16] <Kilos> please
[18:58:33] <Vince-0> what other activities constitute a member's participation, eg
[18:58:46] <inetpro>  Ubuntu Official Ubuntu Membership means recognition of significant and sustained contribution to Ubuntu or the Ubuntu community. 
[18:58:49] <nuvolari> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership
[18:58:54] <inetpro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/NewMember
[18:59:19] 
[19:00:04] <nuvolari> ooh... Ubuntu Member Flair on Reddit.
[19:00:09] <nuvolari> I'm sold!
[19:00:29] <Kilos> link
[19:01:02] <captine> maybe we should include something on the site with links to the membership etc.  if we wanting to encourage membership, we should push it (email signatures, etc etc)???
[19:01:08] <Kilos> storming here, if i disappear power has gone
[19:01:23] <nuvolari> ok, I think I will add my application too
[19:01:24] <magespawn> +1 captine 
[19:01:27] 
[19:01:27] 
[19:01:30] <Kilos> captine  +1
[19:01:35] <Kilos> hi ThatGraemeGuy  
[19:01:39] <jrgns> captine good idea
[19:01:45] <nuvolari> +1
[19:01:53] <ThatGraemeGuy> lo
[19:02:08] <Kilos> you come to join the meeting ThatGraemeGuy  
[19:02:13] <Kilos> ?
[19:02:19] <Vince-0> main page needs to mention it
[19:02:20] <Kilos> is that why its storming
[19:02:22] <Kilos> hehe
[19:02:53] <inetpro> so we have nuvolari, captine, jrgns and who else?
[19:02:59] <Kilos> Vince-0  can you give all suggestions and content to superfly  in his mail please
[19:03:16] <Vince-0> ubuntu-za has active forums
[19:03:26] <inetpro> Vince-0: we used to have
[19:03:30] <Lionthinker> as I said, I tentatively put my hand up
[19:03:33] <Kilos> i think our forum is archived
[19:03:45] <inetpro> Vince-0: drubin was very active in the forums
[19:03:47] <Lionthinker> worst thing is, one can be rejected right
[19:03:54] <jrgns> Hehe
[19:03:54] <inetpro> oh and Lionthinker
[19:04:01] <Kilos> they can just say no
[19:04:10] <amanica_> yeah, some camaraderie / ubuntu  for za ubunutu membership will be good. Back in the day I was really in the dark as to what membership entails and why one would apply. I sort of got the idea it is sort of by invite only..
[19:04:28] <nuvolari> kool kidz only :-/
[19:04:32] <nuvolari> :P
[19:04:39] <Lionthinker> amanica_, you are officially invited by Ubuntu ZA
[19:04:40] <nuvolari> we're all cool
[19:04:57] <nuvolari> oom Kilos is the coolest (^^,)
[19:05:07] <Kilos> ai!
[19:05:08] <inetpro> ok, so the first easy step is to create your page
[19:05:32] <nuvolari> NB to sign UCOC
[19:05:38] * inetpro created a page and got testimonials even before I have put content
[19:05:41] <nuvolari> I might need to update with my latest key 
[19:06:10] <inetpro> Kilos: I will try to have content before end of the week
[19:06:11] <amanica_> ok I'll give it a go if you insist :)
[19:06:12] <Kilos> ya if you change pcs i think you need new key as well
[19:06:17] <inetpro> so might be ready for next week
[19:06:20] <captine> ok, so what else are the plans for 2015... we have the website with a proposed go-live date?  if i recall, superfly was swamped, so not sure if a date is known yet?  we need to have more people apply for memberships and join the meeting to motivate for the current membership applications... what else?
[19:06:21] <nuvolari> oh dear, one can run out of karma on launchpad? :'(
[19:06:24] <Kilos> ty inetpro  
[19:06:41] <Kilos> my karma is ) 
[19:06:44] <Kilos> 0
[19:06:52] <nuvolari> likewise 
[19:06:53] <captine> should we try to see if there is anyone that can do somethign at software freedom day for ubuntu (think there were some Redhat people there last year... not sure.. just sw the agenda and didnt attend
[19:07:02] <Kilos> no idea what changes that
[19:07:07] <nuvolari> captine: where are you based?
[19:07:08] <inetpro> captine: good idea!
[19:07:18] <captine> nuvolari: Johannesburg
[19:07:23] <nuvolari> ah
[19:07:52] <amanica_> I was at SFD, yeah some ubuntu-ish presentation will be cool, not sure about what exactly though
[19:07:56] <inetpro> we definitely need to pick up on visibility at events... have banners and CD's, etc...
[19:08:15] <amanica_> maybe have an ubuntu stand again
[19:08:27] <Lionthinker> inetpro, we need to take seriously the ability to request an ubuntu phone
[19:08:36] <inetpro> Lionthinker: for sure
[19:08:40] <Kilos> yip
[19:08:43] <Lionthinker> Create a programme whereby we commit to contact journalists and the like
[19:08:56] <Lionthinker> x number of journalists, y number of prospective publicity etc
[19:09:14] <nuvolari> \o/ "Congratulations, you have already signed the Ubuntu Code of Conduct."
[19:09:20] <Kilos> lol
[19:09:21] <Lionthinker> Flog it at hacker days, SFD lug groups etc.
[19:09:39] <captine> ubuntu phone, and to find out if anyone in SA has tried the Orange Box yet?  any corporates etc?  
[19:09:46] <captine> http://www.ubuntu.com/cloud/jumpstart-training
[19:10:37] <inetpro> all good ideas, but let's try start by signing up for official membership first
[19:10:38] <Lionthinker> its stuff like that which should go ont eh site
[19:10:39] <amanica_> yeah the cloud stuff looks really exiting, I whish I had a chance to play with it. that sort of demo will be cool at SFD!
[19:10:46] <Lionthinker> like FNB uses Ubuntu
[19:10:58] <amanica_> seriusly Leon?
[19:10:59] * nuvolari <3 FNB
[19:11:01] <Lionthinker> we should highlight ubuntu in the wild
[19:11:02] <amanica_> nice 
[19:11:09] <Lionthinker> yip, 10.4
[19:11:17] <Lionthinker> still on the old shell
[19:11:17] * nuvolari saw an Ubuntu screen at the bank
[19:11:27] <Kilos> thats cool
[19:11:43] <Lionthinker> there's tons of stuff out there which we can use to populate the site and use as credit for membership
[19:12:08] <Kilos> Lionthinker  go for it
[19:12:22] <amanica_> I need to switch to FNB then, ASAP!
[19:12:28] <nuvolari> who here has *NOT* signed UCOC yet?
[19:12:30] 
[19:12:34] <captine> inetpro: agreed.  that is top priority (membership), but having a nice list of potentials and then honing in on the feasible ones would be good
[19:13:52] <Kilos> for starters all create your wiki pages
[19:14:05] <Lionthinker> Kilos, agreed
[19:14:20] <jrgns> Will read up and start cracking 
[19:14:40] <Kilos> lol i think it was easy
[19:14:40] <inetpro> Vince-0: you too
[19:14:53] <Kilos> ys Vince-0  
[19:14:54] <inetpro> and magespawn
[19:15:10] <nuvolari> hmm, should we move on?
[19:15:13] <nuvolari> or am I too hasty?
[19:15:42] <Vince-0> ya
[19:15:54] <captine> nuvolari: i think we can move on.  just to confirm, how are the minutes being handled?  they being loaded on the wiki?  should probably just list all the suggestions in them (easier than reading IRC logs
[19:16:51] <nuvolari> captine: I see there are space for the summary in the current agenda
[19:16:58] <captine> cool
[19:17:00] <Vince-0> make a to do list for newbs
[19:17:14] <nuvolari> a link to the meeting logs will be added too
[19:17:30] 
[19:18:05] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Events
[19:18:05] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[19:18:24] <nuvolari> well, I think the membership application ceremony is a big event...
[19:18:25] <inetpro> please post any web content ideas to the mailing list so we can discuss there
[19:18:34] <nuvolari> is that next Thursday?
[19:18:42] <Kilos> yip nuvolari  
[19:18:44] <nuvolari> 5th
[19:18:47] <nuvolari> of Feb
[19:18:47] <Kilos> at midnight
[19:18:51] <nuvolari> :-/
[19:18:53] <nuvolari> whut?
[19:18:58] <Kilos> yeah
[19:18:58] <nuvolari> do we need to be present?
[19:19:01] <Kilos> tough
[19:19:07] <inetpro> nuvolari: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/Boards
[19:19:10] <Kilos> not really
[19:19:17] <Kilos> mainly for support
[19:19:28] <inetpro>  Thursday, February 5th, 2014 at 22:00:00 UTC 
[19:19:39] <inetpro> that is 00:00 SAST
[19:19:44] <Kilos> but testimonials work as support too
[19:20:14] <nuvolari> ouch
[19:20:21] <nuvolari> ok, need to prepare mentally
[19:20:27] <Kilos> lol
[19:21:08] <nuvolari> Maaz: agreed Ubuntu Membership Application Meeting on Feb 5th, at 00:00 SAST
[19:21:08] <Maaz> Agreed: Ubuntu Membership Application Meeting on Feb 5th, at 00:00 SAST
[19:21:27] <nuvolari> any other upcoming events?
[19:21:47] <Kilos> the party afterwards
[19:21:48] <inetpro> others are welcome to choose the next timeslot for application on  Wednesday, 18 February 2014 at 14:00 SAST
[19:22:01] <Kilos> coffee and rusks from maaz
[19:22:04] <inetpro> we don't have to apply all at once :-)
[19:22:36] <inetpro> think it will be nice if we can sign up new members every month
[19:22:47] <Kilos> yeah
[19:23:11] <inetpro> we have enough talent in the country
[19:23:17] <inetpro> and even on the continent
[19:24:26] <inetpro> will be interesting to see how far we can go with this
[19:24:37] <nuvolari> yeah, maybe let's add that too
[19:25:15] <nuvolari> Maaz: agreed Ubuntu Membership Application Meeting 2: Feb 18 at 14:00 SAST
[19:25:15] <Maaz> Agreed: Ubuntu Membership Application Meeting 2: Feb 18 at 14:00 SAST
[19:25:28] <nuvolari> also a rough time
[19:25:40] <nuvolari> but might be more suitable to some
[19:25:46] <nuvolari> okiedokie,
[19:25:50] <nuvolari> I'm moving on
[19:25:55] <nuvolari> 5 min left
[19:26:18] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:26:18] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:26:29] <nuvolari> hmm, apt-offline
[19:26:36] <nuvolari> is that similar to apt-mirror?
[19:26:39] <Kilos> oh ya
[19:26:56] <Lionthinker> does it help anyone here in SA
[19:26:59] <inetpro> has anyone tried apt-offline yet
[19:26:59] * inetpro wanted to but haven't
[19:27:17] <captine> not yet
[19:27:18] <amanica_> I prefer apt-cacher-ng (after trying apt-offline)
[19:27:19] <charl> under miscellaneous, maaz and the unmaintained ibid bot
[19:27:24] <Lionthinker> we all have pretty good internet, but is there a use case out there for the broader community?
[19:27:41] <amanica_> depends what you need it for I guess
[19:27:42] <nuvolari> Lionthinker: well, back in Durban, William K helped a ton of people with apt-mirror, and repos for both 64 and 32-bit
[19:27:51] <Kilos> will try it soon
[19:27:53] <Lionthinker> nuvolari, thats good news
[19:27:55] <nuvolari> it is a great tool in the right hands
[19:27:58] <Kilos> got the info on how to
[19:28:03] <Kilos> http://slexy.org/view/s2hISUsWao
[19:28:05] <nuvolari> he has a far reaching hand in the community
[19:28:14] <Lionthinker> should go up on the site, help for internet strapped sa
[19:28:18] <captine> I plan to do an apt-mirror for my home network... not sure what else i can use it for
[19:28:20] <nuvolari> but isn't involved in IRC unfortunately
[19:28:46] <nuvolari> captine: new friends? :P
[19:28:55] <amanica_> well downloading the complete repo seems like a waste to me, I think 90% of people use the same core 90% of apps, and the last couple can be downloaded as needed..
[19:29:21] <amanica_> (I tried downloading the whole thing but ran out of space&time)
[19:29:30] <nuvolari> amanica_: agreed, but the 10% that really needs those last couple of apps might not have internet
[19:29:32] <Kilos> over 40g
[19:29:54] <nuvolari> yeah, like 60gb per architecture
[19:30:24] <nuvolari> on the downside, it gets outdated quick
[19:30:33] <Kilos> yeah
[19:30:38] <nuvolari> but having that first clone is great
[19:30:48] <inetpro> perhaps something to explore on the mailing list as well so we can help people without much bandwidth?
[19:30:49] <amanica_> yeah that's why it depends on what you need it for, if you have a release party with good internet, everybody can proxy through a pre-populated apt-cacher-ng and stuff only gets downloaded once
[19:31:10] <captine> I currently have 1TB of offpeak data (whihc is impossible to use on my speed of connection), so want to at least use as much of it as possible... :)
[19:31:10] <Kilos> we need to push Symmetria  for a deb-delta server
[19:31:16] <Lionthinker> amanica_, now that is useful
[19:31:39] <captine> deb-delta server??? whats that Kilos
[19:31:44] <Lionthinker> guys I have to go, early day tomorrow
[19:31:55] <Lionthinker> Will be great to see the new site when its up and ready.
[19:32:00] <amanica_> k, cya Lionthinker
[19:32:03] <Kilos> you only download the extras in upgrades not whole packages
[19:32:21] <captine> interesting
[19:32:23] <nuvolari> cheers L<tab>
[19:32:33] <Kilos> saves 80% time and data use
[19:32:44] <inetpro> hmm... he left too quick
[19:32:51] <Kilos> ya
[19:33:03] 
[19:33:11] <nuvolari> out of time
[19:33:17] <nuvolari> moving on?
[19:33:28] 
[19:33:49] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:33:49] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:33:53] <Kilos> hi kodez  
[19:33:58] <nuvolari> oh hi kodez 
[19:34:03] <Kilos> you in time to login
[19:34:09] <kodez> good evening all
[19:34:13] <nuvolari> I'll probably be available next meeting :P
[19:34:17] * Kilos votes nuvolari
[19:34:42] * nuvolari puts himself up for chair elective
[19:34:55] <inetpro> any other nominations?
[19:35:08] <nuvolari> kbmonkey: ping
[19:35:09] <amanica_> +1 for novolari
[19:35:27] <Kilos> the monkey has probs connecting
[19:35:31] <charl> nuvolari: i did note the issue of maaz but if we are out of time then i guess it can be discussed at a later point
[19:35:32] <captine> +1 nuvolari 
[19:35:33] <Kilos> moving or something
[19:35:40] <inetpro> nuvolari: it's yours again
[19:35:44] <Kilos> oh and apologies from neelsie
[19:35:48] <captine> i am good for time if everyone else is
[19:35:56] <nuvolari> okies
[19:36:06] <nuvolari> charl: the permission issue?
[19:36:14] <inetpro> hmm... he's ignoring you charl ?
[19:36:17] <Kilos> nlsthzn  sleeping now too tired
[19:36:29] <inetpro> :-)
[19:36:34] <charl> nuvolari: no i was asked the past week if i would be willing to contribute in maintaining the ibid platform
[19:36:43] <Kilos> oh yes
[19:36:43] <nuvolari> Maaz: agreed chair for next meeting: nuvolari
[19:36:43] <Maaz> Agreed: chair for next meeting: nuvolari
[19:36:56] <charl> the platform from what i understand is currently unmaintained
[19:37:08] <charl> and there was a question whether it could be moved to python3
[19:37:10] <nuvolari> ah
[19:37:18] <charl> as well as moved off some deprecated dependencies ....
[19:37:27] <charl> i said that i would be willing to help out
[19:37:42] <charl> but i am not too interested in taking over the maintinance of ibid
[19:37:52] <nuvolari> ok, can we add it to the agenda for the next meeting, so we can discuss it propperly?
[19:37:54] <charl> and my suggestion was to move to a different irc bot framework
[19:37:57] <jrgns> what's it built in? 
[19:38:09] <charl> nuvolari: that's ok by me :)
[19:38:15] <charl> jrgns: python 2.x
[19:38:15] <Kilos> python 2.7
[19:38:28] <jrgns> K
[19:38:33] * nuvolari hints to pircbot :P
[19:38:54] <nuvolari> *at
[19:38:59] <charl> i've built stuff on top of pircbot but it's a java library
[19:39:05] <inetpro> jrgns: the current bot is built using, see: ibid http://ibid.omnia.za.net/
[19:39:07] <charl> and many people here i beieve are more fans of python
[19:39:23] <inetpro> eish... fingers
[19:39:24] <gremble> We should build it in assembly
[19:39:37] <jrgns> You can always pull a java lib into jruby or it's python equivalent? 
[19:39:44] <charl> last relieve was on released on 2011-02-23
[19:39:49] <charl> *release
[19:40:00] <nuvolari> Maaz: agreed Discuss Maaz and ibid at next meeting
[19:40:00] <Maaz> Agreed: Discuss Maaz and ibid at next meeting
[19:40:08] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic next meeting
[19:40:08] <Maaz> Current Topic: next meeting
[19:40:12] <charl> cool thanks nuvolari 
[19:40:31] <nuvolari> next meeting is on 24th of February 2015
[19:40:45] <nuvolari> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is on 24th of February 2015
[19:40:45] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is on 24th of February 2015
[19:40:58] <nuvolari> Maaz: topic Closing
[19:40:58] <Maaz> Current Topic: Closing
[19:41:00] <captine> ooooh.  day before my wife's due date... might not make it.
[19:41:04] <nuvolari> thank you for beeing around everyone
[19:41:06] <amanica_> or discus it on the mailinglist..
[19:41:10] <Kilos> oh my
[19:41:15] <captine> quick one.  
[19:41:19] <nuvolari> we have the year started with a good meeting IMO
[19:41:27] <nuvolari> lots of people attending
[19:41:29] <captine> website suggestions.  we just post straight on ubuntu-za mailing list?
[19:41:29] <inetpro> that was a productive meeting!
[19:41:31] <Kilos> yeah ty nuvolari  
[19:41:42] <inetpro> captine: yes
[19:41:46] 
[19:41:57] <nuvolari> indeed! I didn't think it will be so busy
[19:42:22] <nuvolari> Alright, see you at the next meeting everyone!
[19:42:27] <nuvolari> I'll be back
[19:42:33] <nuvolari> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>

----
ZATeam
