{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Meeting Info ===

Monthly South African Ubuntu LoCo meeting on 20 February 2010 at 19:30 SAST.

'''LoCo Meeting Page''': <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-za/353/detail/]]</nowiki>

'''Background''': Our meetings are held for about 90 minutes once a month in our IRC channel, #ubuntu-za on freenode. For questions or help connecting, check out the InternetRelayChat page or use the Web client linked from the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-za.org/| ubuntu-za page]]</nowiki>.

We are a community of ubuntu users and all interested people are welcome to join us and are encouraged to give comments and suggestions. Please subscribe to our mailing list to receive meeting announcements. 

* <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings| Previous meetings]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===

If you have anything else you'd like to add to the agenda, or want to make some changes, please feel free to edit it. Please include an explanation of your item if it's not immediately apparent. Adding your item well in advance helps everyone collaborate and avoids last minute surprises.

Meeting Chair: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~wesley-werner|wesley-werner (Wesley Werner)]]</nowiki>

* Greetings and Introductions
* Incorporate any last minute items onto the agenda
* Review previous minutes (<nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20120116| January 16, 2012]]</nowiki> |  <nowiki>[[http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2012-01-16-18-58-42.txt | text log]]</nowiki>)
** Reports & Committments from previous meetings
* Upcoming Events:
** See <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-za/353/detail/|LoCo meeting details]]</nowiki> for more events.
** Global Jam (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam)
** Ubuntu Hours (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour)
** PrecisePangolin release on Thursday, 26 April 2012  
** Release parties?
* Linux Studies and our new site <nowiki>[[linux-studies.za.net]]</nowiki>
* Idea: Ubuntu Experience. Ask newcomers or old users to submit their stories to post on the site.
* Order Ubuntu CD's
* TeamReports needs a volunteer
* Raise point: Monthly meet clash with SULUG beer meet. Discuss possible date changes between the two teams.
* Miscellaneous
* Next meeting:  <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20120319| 19 March 2012]]</nowiki> to be chaired by: ???

=== Minutes ===
==== Attendance ====

Meeting convened on 2012-02-20 at 19:30 SAST by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~wesley-werner|wesley-werner (Wesley Werner)]]</nowiki> in #ubuntu-za on freenode

* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Bill Cairns (POps)
* Henk Joubert (hjoubert)
* Stefano Rivera (tumbleweed)
* nlsthzn
* drussell
* Frans de Waal (Meesterarend1)
* psydroid
* ScorpKing
* Wesley Werner (kbmonkey)
* Tonberry
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Squirm
* Graham Poulter (garaman_)
* Hendrik van Wyk (Tonberry_aao)
* zeref
* Bruce Pieterse (octoquad)
* oupamster (plustwo)
* zeref-Lap
* Ian Sharpe (WOLFEYES)

==== Summary ====

<pre>
[17:33:33] STARTED (kbmonkey)
[17:39:34] TOPIC: Review Previous minutes (kbmonkey)
[17:42:27] AGREED: kbmonkey to email maia for CT Ubuntu hour pics (kbmonkey)
[17:45:38] TOPIC: Upcoming Ubuntu Hours (kbmonkey)
[17:54:50] TOPIC: Upcoming global jam (kbmonkey)
[18:08:23] IDEA: email the list about the Global jam for 2-4 March -- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam (kbmonkey)
[18:10:58] TOPIC: Precise Pangolin release parties (26 April 2012) (kbmonkey)
[18:17:25] TOPIC: Linux Studies -- http://linux-studies.za.net (kbmonkey)
[18:21:12] TOPIC: Ubuntu Experience: Send in your stories (kbmonkey)
[18:34:03] TOPIC: Order Ubuntu CD's (kbmonkey)
[18:39:01] IDEA: Have install fests once our new release CD's arrive (kbmonkey)
[18:40:18] AGREED: kbmonkey/maiatoday to order Ubuntu discs (kbmonkey)
[18:41:56] TOPIC: Team Reports needs a volunteer (kbmonkey)
[18:56:16] TOPIC: Monthly meets clash with SULUG beer meets (kbmonkey)
[19:03:34] TOPIC: Next meeting chair (19 March 2012) (kbmonkey)
[19:06:32] ENDED (kbmonkey)
</pre>

==== Log ====

<nowiki>[[http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2012-02-20-17-33-33.txt]]</nowiki>

----
ZATeam
