{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 22 August 2017 
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''chesedo'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20170523#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Next Steps
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
*** magespawn - need testimonies
*** Kapanda - progress
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ZATeam-UpcomingEvents|Events]]</nowiki>
** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
* Miscellaneous
** Discuss Ubuntu education project - williamk, nsnzero
** <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuforhope.org/|Ubuntu for Hope]]</nowiki>
* Next meeting: 26 September 2017
* Elect chairperson for next meeting

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:05] STARTED (chesedo)
[18:30:13] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (chesedo)
[18:33:11] AGREED: All happy with agenda (chesedo)
[18:33:18] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (chesedo)
[18:34:42] AGREED: All happy with previous minutes (chesedo)
[18:34:50] TOPIC: Next Steps (chesedo)
[18:35:53] AGREED: No new Next Steps (chesedo)
[18:36:00] TOPIC: Events (chesedo)
[18:39:06] AGREED: No other events to add (chesedo)
[18:39:12] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (chesedo)
[18:53:04] AGREED: Mini meetings are dead for now (chesedo)
[18:53:12] TOPIC: Next meeting (chesedo)
[18:53:33] AGREED: Next meeting is 26 September 2017 @ 20:30 (chesedo)
[18:53:43] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (chesedo)
[18:56:11] AGREED: chesedo to chair next meeting (chesedo)
[18:56:19] ENDED (chesedo)

Present
=======  ==

* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Paul Romano (londoner)
* Pavel Sayekat (pavlushka)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Kyle Robbertze (paddatrapper)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:05] <chesedo> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - August 2017
[18:30:05] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:30:13] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:13] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:26] <chesedo> Welcome all and thank you for joining in on our 'renewed' monthly meeting
[18:30:34] <chesedo> As usual, our bot maaz does the minutes, so please introduce yourself to it using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg.
[18:30:41] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:30:41] <Maaz> chesedo: Alrighty
[18:31:10] <Kilos> Maaz I am Miles Sharpe
[18:31:10] <Maaz> Kilos: Sure
[18:31:32] <chesedo> inetpro Kilos superfly MaNI SugarHigh theblazehen paddatrapper  londoner ^
[18:31:44] <paddatrapper> chesedo: thanks
[18:31:49] <paddatrapper> Maaz: I am Kyle Robbertze
[18:31:49] <Maaz> paddatrapper: Sure
[18:31:56] <chesedo> paddatrapper: np
[18:31:58] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:31:58] <Maaz> superfly: Righto
[18:31:59] <londoner> Maaz: I am Paul Romano
[18:31:59] <Maaz> londoner: Alrighty
[18:32:07] <Kilos> hi londoner and everyone else
[18:32:09] <chesedo> psychicist: you might wanna join too
[18:32:18] <chesedo> Today's agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20170822
[18:32:23] <Kilos> nag them all chesedo 
[18:32:29] <chesedo> Any last minute additions are welcome
[18:32:55] <chesedo> Kilos: i will have to find my nagger first... :P
[18:33:11] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed All happy with agenda
[18:33:11] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with agenda
[18:33:18] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting 
[18:33:18] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:33:24] <chesedo> previous meeting minutes is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20170523
[18:33:28] <superfly> sjoe been ages since the last meeting
[18:33:44] <chesedo> I will try to be as quick today too :D
[18:33:57] <paddatrapper> superfly: yeah we kinda forgot the last couple...
[18:34:05] <chesedo> superfly: yip, we've been missing
[18:34:17] <chesedo> "forgot"
[18:34:42] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed All happy with previous minutes
[18:34:42] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with previous minutes
[18:34:50] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Next Steps
[18:34:50] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next Steps
[18:34:50] <Kilos> i been sleeping too
[18:34:56] <chesedo> Anyone needing help on any next steps activities?
[18:35:02] * inetpro o/
[18:35:02] <inetpro> Maaz I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:35:02] <Maaz> inetpro: Sure
[18:35:09] <inetpro> hello everybody
[18:35:09] <Kilos> lo pro
[18:35:26] <chesedo> aka: trello, launchpad IDs, mailing list, etc
[18:35:53] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed No new Next Steps
[18:35:53] <Maaz> Agreed: No new Next Steps
[18:36:00] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Events 
[18:36:00] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:36:04] <superfly> I need to kinda "hand over" the mantle of the website to someone, or someoneS preferably
[18:36:11] <chesedo> upcoming events for the next month are:
[18:36:11] <chesedo> - Deep Learning Indaba: 11-15 September 2017 (Johannesburg) -> http://www.deeplearningindaba.com/
[18:36:42] <paddatrapper> that does look interesting... Pitty it's in Joberg
[18:36:43] <chesedo> superfly: right, will cover under Misc...
[18:36:50] <superfly> chesedo: ack
[18:37:01] <chesedo> Is anyone organising anything else or knows of any other upcoming events?
[18:37:42] <paddatrapper> pyconZA is first week of October, still a while
[18:38:15] <chesedo> paddatrapper: the same one as here -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/UpcomingEvents
[18:38:23] <chesedo> *?
[18:38:40] 
[18:38:43] <paddatrapper> chesedo: that's the one
[18:38:50] * chesedo have been forgotting to update that too
[18:38:58] <chesedo> paddatrapper: awesome
[18:39:06] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed No other events to add
[18:39:06] <Maaz> Agreed: No other events to add
[18:39:12] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[18:39:12] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[18:39:16] <chesedo> superfly: syn
[18:40:15] <chesedo> i have not taken another look at the ubuntu edu project since exams
[18:40:45] <superfly> Right, so I'm on the other side of the world now, and it makes it difficult to co-ordinate with people, so I'm looking for volunteers to take over the website.
[18:40:49] <chesedo> nor know of any Ubuntu-for-Hope updates
[18:41:11] <chesedo> superfly: were is it currently at?
[18:41:19] <chesedo> hardware wise?
[18:41:36] <inetpro> I don't think there's a need to rush into moving the site
[18:42:13] <inetpro> unless someone is willing to host and maintain it for us for free
[18:42:34] <Kilos> take over as in maintain or move superfly 
[18:42:46] <chesedo> at least it is static - so light weight...
[18:43:52] <superfly> Kilos: maintain it
[18:44:02] <Kilos> there you go inetpro 
[18:44:07] <Kilos> ty superfly
[18:44:20] <chesedo> superfly: that would be just the bazaar branch right?
[18:44:39] <superfly> chesedo: it's currently hosted on a box at FrogFoot because it's the same box that hosts the CLUG website. tumbleweed organised it all.
[18:45:45] <chesedo> superfly: what does maintain currently involve?
[18:45:55] <superfly> chesedo: essentially yes. but sorting out hosting would probably also be good (I don't mind hosting it on a VPS of mine), and getting some sort of "control" over the domain name itself (Canonical I think owns the domain name and controls the DNS, so we'd need to talk to them if we move the hosting)
[18:45:58] <chesedo> copying over changes to the box?
[18:46:13] <superfly> chesedo: checking merge proposals on LP, deploying to the box
[18:46:28] <superfly> making sure information on the site is up to date, etc
[18:46:42] <chesedo> paddatrapper and inetpro: you game?
[18:46:50] <paddatrapper> can that deploy not be automated using a webhook to something?
[18:46:54] * chesedo can be one of the volunteers too
[18:46:55] <paddatrapper> chesedo: Not currently, sorry
[18:47:32] <chesedo> paddatrapper: np
[18:47:43] <inetpro> chesedo: between you and me I'm sure we can handle it
[18:47:59] <chesedo> superfly: pro and i are it :D
[18:48:11] <Kilos> cool 
[18:48:40] <Kilos> ty superfly for looking after us for so long
[18:48:53] <chesedo> yip, ty superfly
[18:49:24] <superfly> I'm happy to still be around, I just don't have the time to spend on the site (and I'm in the wrong timezone)
[18:50:27] <chesedo> then last misc, the mini meetings have also gone stale... did you guys find it helpful/interesting?
[18:51:05] <chesedo> superfly: we don't keep doom in the chan so that you can stay around :P
[18:51:25] <Kilos> superdoom isnt strong enough
[18:51:37] <Kilos> hes a tough bug
[18:51:39] <chesedo> lol, that too
[18:52:05] <pavlushka> Maaz: I am Pavel Sayekat
[18:52:05] <Maaz> pavlushka: Alrighty
[18:52:14] <Kilos> hi pavlushka 
[18:52:19] <pavlushka> o/ 
[18:52:21] <superfly> chesedo: I'm sorry, you're not getting rid of me! :-P
[18:52:32] <pavlushka> ;)
[18:52:36] <Kilos> dont you dare think of leaving superfly 
[18:52:42] <Kilos> ever ever ever
[18:52:48] <superfly> Kilos: I won't ever
[18:53:04] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Mini meetings are dead for now
[18:53:04] <Maaz> Agreed: Mini meetings are dead for now
[18:53:12] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[18:53:12] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[18:53:33] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 26 September 2017 @ 20:30
[18:53:33] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 26 September 2017 @ 20:30
[18:53:43] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting 
[18:53:43] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[18:53:56] <chesedo> any oldies game for next chair?
[18:54:03] * chesedo is available too
[18:54:04] <Kilos> i would like to thank the young guys for stepping up and doing so much for us
[18:54:07] * inetpro will skip 
[18:54:13] <Kilos> and inetpro for always being there
[18:54:38] <chesedo> inetpro: i will just have to arrange for Oct... exams again...
[18:54:50] * inetpro still has too much to catch up with at work
[18:55:20] <paddatrapper> I _should_ be free
[18:55:24] <chesedo> inetpro: np, wil see to find someone in next one then
[18:55:37] <chesedo> ty paddatrapper, will remember
[18:55:39] <inetpro> paddatrapper: \o/
[18:55:48] <chesedo> all good if i take Sept then
[18:55:57] <Kilos> yip
[18:56:05] <paddatrapper> cool
[18:56:11] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed chesedo to chair next meeting
[18:56:11] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo to chair next meeting
[18:56:19] <chesedo> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
