{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Monthly Ubuntu-ZA irc meeting for 24 June 2014 ==

Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.

Meeting link: http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-za/798/detail/

Meeting minutes: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2014-06-24-18-31-28.txt

Next meeting: <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20140722|22 July 2014]]</nowiki>

== Welcome ==

Welcome the room and introduce everyone. 

== Review previous minutes ==

http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2014-05-27-18-35-06.txt

There was not much discussion of TODOs last time, mostly post-release chatter and SFD reminders.

One item noteworthy of rehashing is:

* IDEA: seed the RMS video

== Releases ==

Discuss current and upcoming releases. 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases

== Events ==

* SFD 20 Sep http://www.softwarefreedomday.org/

== Tech ==

==== GnuPG ====

https://u.fsf.org/yu

The FSF created this nice guide how to set up GnuPG for your emails,
there is a neat info-graphic for sharing too!

It focuses on Thunderbird but of course GnuPG is applicable to any
email client. For those not using Thunderbird (I use Claws Mail myself)
there is Seahorse for retrieving keys from public key servers. A full
list is available at
https://www.gnupg.org/related_software/frontends.html

==== Freecode shuts down ====

freecode.com abruptly shut down, claiming low traffic. 

http://esr.ibiblio.org/?p=5948

== Elect chairperson for next meeting ==

Elligible canidates: 

* Wesley "kbmonkey"

== Next meeting Date ==

Decide the next meeting date - The 4th Tuesday of the month

22 July 2014
