{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* <nowiki>[[ZATeam|Ubuntu-ZA Loco Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ZATeam-TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings|Meetings]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting Info ===
Meeting about Ubuntu-ZA 20 September 2010. Meetings are held every 3rd Monday of each month, 19h00 UTC+2 in #ubuntu-za on irc.freenode.net.

 Minutes from Meeting about Ubuntu-ZA monthly meeting
Convened at 2010-09-20 17:04:50.800659 by tumbleweed
in #ubuntu-za on freenode
==== Present ====

* Johan Mynhardt (nuvolari)
* Clement Mahlangu (DraZoro)
* Alain Craven (MPD)
* Stefano Rivera (tumbleweed)
* dewald (queery19851)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Marco Gallotta (marcog)
* Maia Grotepass (maiatoday)
* deegee (deegee)
* Esquire
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* sKAApGIF
* highvoltage

=== Agenda ===

* Introduce new members
* '''Review minutes of <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20100816|previous meeting]]</nowiki>'''
* Maverick Release Party
* Maverick CDs for Ubuntu-ZA and Umonya
* Rest of the year?
* Discuss what we intend on doing with the books we got from Canonical.
* Review of Software Freedom Day Pretoria 2010 (#ubuntu-za point of view) (inetpro)
** Feedback from others at the sfdpta event
** Photos (awaiting feedback from kmf)
** SFD 2011 random thoughts and ideas
** fundraising
** define goals (what do we want to achieve?)
*** raise awareness of alternative software
*** grow our membership
** start planning early for sfdpta 2011
** ubuntu-za community stand 
*** arrange official resources like banners and handouts
*** get ubuntu-za volunteers to help man the stand (minimum of 3)
** introduce visitors to the ubuntu-za website, IRC channel and mailing list
** A word of appreciation to kmf, the DST and everyone else involved
* '''Add your item here''' (Topic``Leader)

=== Summary ===

<pre>
Minutes
=======  ==

[17:04:50] STARTED (tumbleweed)
[17:06:42] TOPIC: Review Previous Minutes (tumbleweed)
[17:08:31] TOPIC: Introduce new Members (tumbleweed)
[17:14:52] TOPIC: Previous Minutes (tumbleweed)
[17:30:05] TOPIC: Maverick CDs for Ubuntu-ZA and Umonya (tumbleweed)
[17:31:56] TOPIC: Maverick Release Party (tumbleweed)
[17:38:03] AGREED: maiatoday will get the Gauteng Release party listed on loco.u.c (tumbleweed)
[17:47:12] TOPIC: Rest of the year (tumbleweed)
[17:49:51] TOPIC: Discuss what we intend on doing with the books we got from Canonical (tumbleweed)
[18:01:02] TOPIC: Review of Software Freedom Day Pretoria 2010 (#ubuntu-za point of view) (inetpro) (tumbleweed)
[18:09:20] AGREED: maiatoday will get photos out of gauteng SFD people (tumbleweed)
[18:09:46] AGREED: actually, inetpro will get photos out of gauteng SFD people (tumbleweed)
[18:26:17] ENDED (tumbleweed)

</pre>

=== Log ===
<nowiki>[[http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2010-09-20-17-04-50.txt|Detail Log]]</nowiki>
<pre>
Raw Log
=======  ==

[17:04:50] <tumbleweed> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu-ZA monthly meeting
[17:04:50] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[17:05:02] <tumbleweed> Maaz: I am Stefano Rivera
[17:05:02] <Maaz> tumbleweed: Yessir
[17:05:15] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[17:05:15] <Maaz> superfly: Done
[17:05:17] <marcog> Maaz: i am Marco Gallotta
[17:05:17] <Maaz> marcog: Alrighty
[17:05:19] <inetpro> maiatoday: I am Gustav H Meyer
[17:05:23] <tumbleweed> ^ everyone, please identify yourselves to the bot for the minutes
[17:05:32] <queery19851> Lets get this patry started
[17:05:39] <nuvolari> Maaz: I am Johan Mynhardt
[17:05:39] <Maaz> nuvolari: Righto
[17:05:40] <MPD> Maaz: I am Alain Craven
[17:05:40] <Maaz> MPD: Yessir
[17:05:42] <inetpro> maiatoday: minutes so far
[17:05:48] <inetpro> oops
[17:05:52] <DraZoro> Maaz: I am Clement Mahlangu 
[17:05:52] <Maaz> DraZoro: Done
[17:05:54] <inetpro> Maaz: minutes so far
[17:05:54] <Maaz> Minutes available at json: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2010-09-20-17-04-50.json :: txt: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2010-09-20-17-04-50.txt :: html: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2010-09-20-17-04-50.html
[17:06:18] <deegee> Maaz: I am deegee
[17:06:18] <Maaz> deegee: Okay
[17:06:29] <queery19851> Sorry: dewald
[17:06:42] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[17:06:42] <Maaz> inetpro: Done
[17:06:42] <tumbleweed> Maaz: topic Review Previous Minutes
[17:06:42] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review Previous Minutes
[17:06:55] <tumbleweed> queery19851: address Maaz
[17:07:16] <queery19851> H
[17:07:24] <tumbleweed> Previous Minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20100708
[17:07:28] <queery19851> Maaz: dewald
[17:07:28] <Maaz> queery19851: What?
[17:07:51] <nuvolari> queery19851: "I am <name>"
[17:07:57] <queery19851> Maaz: i am dewald
[17:07:57] <Maaz> queery19851: Yessir
[17:07:58] <inetpro> tumbleweed: did you see the new Agenda? I thought introducing new members would be a nice way to open our meetings
[17:08:13] <tumbleweed> inetpro: I missed that
[17:08:31] <tumbleweed> Maaz: topic Introduce new Members
[17:08:31] <Maaz> Current Topic: Introduce new Members
[17:08:37] <tumbleweed> inetpro: go for it :)
[17:09:01] <inetpro> anyone here that has never been in these meetings?
[17:09:14] <queery19851> I
[17:09:22] <deegee> o/
[17:09:26] <MPD> me
[17:09:53] <DraZoro> Maaz: I am Clement Mahlangu 
[17:09:53] <Maaz> DraZoro: Righto
[17:10:02] <nuvolari> deegee: serious? :P thought I've seen you here before at meetings
[17:10:30] * inetpro sure we have seen him :-)
[17:10:32] <tumbleweed> queery19851, deegee, MPD: Welcome, we hope we'll see you at future meetings
[17:10:33] <superfly> well, welcome new users
[17:10:39] <maiatoday> I am Maia
[17:10:50] <tumbleweed> (and more importantly, elsewhere in Ubuntu-ZA)
[17:10:51] <maiatoday> or wait
[17:10:53] * inetpro is happy to see new members
[17:10:59] <queery19851> Tumbleweed thanx
[17:11:00] <maiatoday> Maaz: I am Maia Grotepass
[17:11:00] <Maaz> maiatoday: Okay
[17:11:23] * DraZoro thinks Software Freedom Day contributed 
[17:11:39] <MPD> yeah
[17:11:48] <tumbleweed> these meetings are really just a way for us to get gether and nail down what we want to do in the next month. If we don't do it, we might all just sit at home and not organise anything :)
[17:11:59] <inetpro> please feel free to raise your voice at any point, that is unless tumbleweed (our chair for the meeting) asks you to keep quiet
[17:12:33] <superfly> shall we move on to topic #2?
[17:12:34] <Kilos> Maaz, I am Miles Sharpe
[17:12:34] <Maaz> Kilos: Yessir
[17:12:43] <tumbleweed> yeah, please speak up and take on tasks. We need more people to get involved (otherwise people like maiatoday end up oorganising everything)
[17:13:19] <tumbleweed> (well, take on things you want to take on)
[17:14:19] <inetpro> tumbleweed: I guess we can move on
[17:14:32] <tumbleweed> we also want to try and keep the meetings shortish (they easily drag on for more than an hour), so I'll try and push for us to move quickly
[17:14:47] <tumbleweed> inetpro: yeah, lets try and get through these minutes quickly (the right ones this time)
[17:14:52] * superfly is not sure he can last an our tonight
[17:14:52] <tumbleweed> Maaz: topic Previous Minutes
[17:14:52] <Maaz> Current Topic: Previous Minutes
[17:14:58] <tumbleweed> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20100816
[17:15:25] <tumbleweed> we had Ubuntu Demos at both the UCT and Stellenbosch Umonya courses (www.umonya.co.za)
[17:15:43] <tumbleweed> unfortunatly I wasn't at either of them (I was running around)
[17:15:53] <tumbleweed> maiatoday: anything to report from the Stellenbosch one?
[17:16:01] <maiatoday> great!
[17:16:04] <maiatoday> exciting
[17:16:09] <tumbleweed> heh
[17:16:11] <marcog> maiatoday: who gave it?
[17:16:25] <maiatoday> it was the umonya volunteers
[17:16:28] <marcog> was it helge? (i think)
[17:16:34] <maiatoday> hele did the ubuntu demo
[17:16:43] <maiatoday> I meant the whole course was exciting
[17:16:51] <marcog> heh, good :)
[17:17:01] <maiatoday> the ubuntu demo was just the installation process but the children all wanted disks
[17:17:02] <superfly> We also had a fairly successful Global Jam
[17:17:19] <marcog> maiatoday: anything you saw from the ubuntu demo that could be improved?
[17:17:25] <tumbleweed> superfly: indeed, and that's the next previous agenda item
[17:17:25] <MPD> how can we start a gauteng version of umonya?
[17:17:40] <tumbleweed> marcog, maiatoday: Yeah, all the Ubuntu CDs are gone now (I think)
[17:17:47] <maiatoday> maybe in parallel just a few demos of things you can do on ubuntu
[17:17:51] <superfly> ah, oops, jumpong the gun
[17:17:53] <tumbleweed> (except a box of server ones)
[17:17:56] <superfly> *jumping
[17:18:02] <marcog> maiatoday: i think |3o|3 and tumbleweed did that at UCT ??
[17:18:20] <tumbleweed> marcog: no, I was running around there too
[17:18:41] <tumbleweed> MPD: it's coming to gauteng some time soon
[17:20:00] <tumbleweed> ok so the global jam: yeah I was pretty happy with it
[17:20:17] <tumbleweed> there was some concern that weren't very welcoming to newbies
[17:20:22] <tumbleweed> that we
[17:20:49] <tumbleweed> drubin made an Ubuntu contribution (it took a while to get processed)
[17:21:03] <tumbleweed> let me rephrase that, a technical MOTU contribution
[17:21:11] * marcog thinks we should better define n00b and experienced audiences and target different each separately
[17:21:26] <marcog> s/different//
[17:21:29] <superfly> i agree
[17:21:33] <tumbleweed> marcog: yes, the aim of global jams is to be a get together of highly technical users
[17:21:39] <marcog> tumbleweed: agreed
[17:21:50] <tumbleweed> in the past I didn't think we had enough people who were interested in contributing and had time + skills
[17:21:54] <marcog> and release parties should be for n00bs
[17:21:54] <tumbleweed> but we seem to be getting there
[17:22:08] <tumbleweed> well, release parties are for everyone
[17:22:10] <marcog> and they should have some n00b-related content
[17:22:28] <marcog> well, yes, but they should have n00b-targeted talks if there are any
[17:22:37] <tumbleweed> actually global jams don't have to be highly technical, the idea is just that everyone works on something together (like cleaning up part of the ubuntu wiki / triaging bugs for a package)
[17:22:51] <marcog> but they're not for new ubuntu users
[17:22:57] <tumbleweed> but that's still not "I've never used ubuntu" newbie-friendly
[17:23:01] <marcog> well, not like the python kids
[17:23:48] <tumbleweed> ok, SFD we'll be discussing later
[17:23:57] <inetpro> ok
[17:24:07] <inetpro> at least we're on time with this meeting
[17:24:09] <tumbleweed> Maverick too and Geeknic?
[17:24:24] <maiatoday> Maverick release in ct/stellenbosch will happen
[17:24:30] <maiatoday> geeknic is still on the cards
[17:24:38] <tumbleweed> I'm really glad to see th esuddent burst of activity in gauteng
[17:24:49] <superfly> We (me and the mrs) are really keen for the Geeknic
[17:25:01] <queery19851> Geeknic?
[17:25:04] <maiatoday> Yes I am happy too, we need to get the Gauteng info on loco.ubuntu.com
[17:25:20] <maiatoday> bring and picnic party at Kirtstenbosch on 21 nov queery19851 
[17:25:36] <maiatoday> no internet connection just talking
[17:25:57] <tumbleweed> hah: you'll see the smartphones come out
[17:26:01] <maiatoday> of course
[17:26:04] <queery19851> Hehe ok nice
[17:26:15] <maiatoday> but you don't have to bring your big bag of lan cables, tumbleweed 
[17:26:21] <tumbleweed> maiatoday: :P
[17:26:45] <tumbleweed> do we have anyone in durban / natal here?
[17:27:09] <tumbleweed> that's one area we still don't seem to be reaching
[17:27:12] <inetpro> tumbleweed: nuvolari?
[17:27:49] <tumbleweed> inetpro: yeah, he must be lonely :)
[17:27:49] <nuvolari> I'm in Ballito :P
[17:27:59] <nuvolari> lonely? what's that?
[17:28:03] <nuvolari> I just have work
[17:28:13] <tumbleweed> (re other ubuntu users)
[17:28:32] <inetpro> nuvolari: that is KZN?
[17:28:33] <nuvolari> wish work was pretty 
[17:28:48] <nuvolari> inetpro: ye, about 45Km north of durbs
[17:28:54] <marcog> tumbleweed: i've been hearing from some durban people from ubuntu-za and clug wrt umonay
[17:29:06] <marcog> perhaps reach out to them
[17:29:45] <tumbleweed> marcog: yeah, umonya may help there
[17:29:51] <tumbleweed> ok, I think time to move on
[17:29:59] <tumbleweed> Maaz: Maverick CDs for Ubuntu-ZA and Umonya
[17:29:59] <Maaz> tumbleweed: *blink*
[17:30:05] <tumbleweed> Maaz: topic Maverick CDs for Ubuntu-ZA and Umonya
[17:30:05] <Maaz> Current Topic: Maverick CDs for Ubuntu-ZA and Umonya
[17:30:16] <tumbleweed> marcog: did you add that?
[17:30:19] <marcog> yes
[17:30:24] <tumbleweed> all yours
[17:30:33] <marcog> are we getting a normal shipit for ubuntu-za?
[17:30:52] <tumbleweed> that I don't know, drubin is our loco contact
[17:30:56] <marcog> and can we order for umonya later once we know what will be before the 11.04 release?
[17:31:15] <marcog> ok, then move on we can nudge him afterwards
[17:31:56] <tumbleweed> Maaz: topic Maverick Release Party
[17:31:56] <Maaz> Current Topic: Maverick Release Party
[17:31:59] <tumbleweed> (I seem to be jumping around)
[17:32:19] <tumbleweed> maiatoday: thanks for offering your house again, it sounds like we'll be celebrating in Stellenbosch
[17:32:24] <Esquire> Mornin folks
[17:32:28] <marcog> yeah good idea
[17:32:29] <maiatoday> pleasure
[17:32:32] <Esquire> Busy here today heh
[17:32:33] <tumbleweed> I also see there'll be a party in JHB
[17:32:35] <marcog> it went great last time
[17:32:40] <tumbleweed> Esquire: team meeting in progress
[17:32:49] <Esquire> Oh okay 
[17:32:56] * Esquire shuts up :)
[17:33:01] <tumbleweed> Esquire: please don't let that scare you away, though :)
[17:33:11] <tumbleweed> maiatoday: is there anything we need to be doing to help?
[17:33:38] <maiatoday> no I think it's ok, if everybody brings what they want to eat and drink we'll be fine
[17:33:53] <maiatoday> then on the day we'll just people to braai
[17:34:10] <maiatoday> drubin will take the calls/sms/email from people who don't know where the venue is
[17:34:15] <tumbleweed> last time we just organised wors-buying at the event, right?
[17:34:27] <maiatoday> yes, this time I announced bring and braai
[17:34:36] <tumbleweed> oh, ok
[17:34:36] <queery19851> That is better
[17:34:42] <maiatoday> if people don't bring stuff we can just go to the shop again like last time
[17:34:54] <inetpro> we need guys to arrange a Gauteng event
[17:35:00] <maiatoday> I'm not too worried, it organised itself last time
[17:35:07] <tumbleweed> right, and I'll organise a mirror and equipment
[17:35:09] <inetpro> or perhaps even a Pretoria event
[17:35:20] <queery19851> Maia: will people meet at the spar again?
[17:35:20] <maiatoday> fantastic thanks tumbleweed
[17:35:32] <tumbleweed> inetpro: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2010-September/006598.html
[17:35:35] <marcog> tumbleweed: has anything been decided over direction for 11.04 yet?
[17:35:44] <tumbleweed> marcog: it has a name :P
[17:35:50] <tumbleweed> marcog: everything else gets decided at UDS
[17:35:51] <marcog> that means nothing
[17:35:53] <marcog> ok
[17:35:53] <maiatoday> We can do that again queery, depends how many people contact drubin
[17:36:03] <marcog> would've been cool to discuss at maverick release
[17:36:07] <tumbleweed> marcog: I applied for funding but wasn't accepted. highvoltage is presumably going
[17:36:20] <maiatoday> inetpro, do you guys need some help promoting the Gauteng release party
[17:36:45] <maiatoday> there is a Gauteng party discussed on the ML
[17:36:55] * inetpro has not been reading the mails
[17:37:13] <marcog> maiatoday: perhaps speak to steve kroon about advertising it around stellies? he seemed to do a great job of this for umonya
[17:37:14] <inetpro> I'm sure something will be arranged
[17:37:31] <queery19851> Who is organising the gauteng one
[17:37:36] <maiatoday> tumbleweed, you can action me to sort out getting the Gauteng event on the loco.ubuntu.com site
[17:37:54] <sKAApGIF> marcog: I can advertise around stellenbosch campus
[17:37:56] <maiatoday> not sure if the cheecky Maaz-bot will listen to me
[17:38:03] <tumbleweed> Maaz: agreed maiatoday will get the Gauteng Release party listed on loco.u.c
[17:38:03] <Maaz> Agreed: maiatoday will get the Gauteng Release party listed on loco.u.c
[17:38:28] <maiatoday> ok sKAApGIF I'll work with you I'll make a poster
[17:38:33] <tumbleweed> I'll obviously advertise to LEG and CLUG
[17:38:46] <tumbleweed> maiatoday: I'll just rebroadcast your announcement there
[17:38:55] <maiatoday> perfect
[17:39:07] <sKAApGIF> maiatoday: ill make sure it the screen saver of all the university computers
[17:39:17] <tumbleweed> sKAApGIF: heh
[17:39:25] <maiatoday> good idead sKAApGIF 
[17:39:36] <inetpro> deegee: perhaps we can try to arrange something closer to Pretoria, Randburg is very far away
[17:39:40] <marcog> maiatoday: steve did local radio + local paper :P would be a cool way to attract noobs
[17:39:52] <maiatoday> sKAApGIF: do you have my email so we can organise
[17:39:53] <deegee> inetpro: agreed!
[17:40:04] <sKAApGIF> all the computer user areas' computers go on screen saver mode after x mins... then it shows a folder of posters sent to the admin
[17:40:09] * maiatoday is not sure my house can handle a super huge event
[17:40:20] <sKAApGIF> yes maia
[17:40:25] <maiatoday> ok
[17:40:36] <queery19851> Maia it will be fine
[17:40:40] <tumbleweed> yeah, the whole of stellenbosch university won't fit :)
[17:40:56] * maiatoday imagines geeks doubling as bouncers
[17:41:02] <highvoltage> hi!
[17:41:08] <inetpro> highvoltage: wb
[17:41:11] <superfly> ohi voltage!
[17:41:14] <tumbleweed> highvoltage: got your attention did I? :)
[17:41:16] <highvoltage> (sorry I forgot that 1+6=7)
[17:41:39] <queery19851> I can put the bloukamer on standby
[17:42:02] <tumbleweed> anything else left re release party?
[17:42:09] <highvoltage> yes!
[17:42:16] <queery19851> If maia's house gets to crowded
[17:42:19] <highvoltage> well, first, when is it happening?
[17:42:31] <tumbleweed> highvoltage: 10.10.10 10:10:10
[17:42:33] <maiatoday> highvoltage: 10.10.10 of course it's a sunday
[17:42:41] <tumbleweed> GMT+2 works to our advantage
[17:42:45] <highvoltage> If possible, and if people aren't against the idea, I want to arrange the Sherbooke release party for the same day
[17:43:09] <highvoltage> when it's 10:30 here, it's 16:30 there in Stellenbosch, so I was thinking of doing a video link-up
[17:43:20] <inetpro> Sherbooke?
[17:43:28] <highvoltage> even if it's just using skype and if we just say hi to each other
[17:43:29] <tumbleweed> highvoltage: cool :)
[17:43:37] <highvoltage> inetpro: small city in canadaland
[17:43:45] <inetpro> ahh
[17:43:46] <tumbleweed> inetpro: highvoltage currently lives in canadia (he blogged about it a day or two ago)
[17:43:57] <inetpro> tumbleweed: ok
[17:44:02] <highvoltage> tumbleweed: no one actually reads that :)
[17:44:04] <maiatoday> highvoltage: sounds good
[17:44:18] <queery19851> HV: will be really nice
[17:44:24] <inetpro> highvoltage: you're wrong, I just missed it
[17:44:31] <maiatoday> we can hook up with gauteng too?
[17:44:43] <inetpro> maiatoday: you in Gauteng?
[17:44:47] <highvoltage> I guess if there could be a nice'ish size display that you could have a webcam on, that would be great
[17:44:50] <tumbleweed> their current plans include internet access, so it sounds plausible
[17:45:07] <maiatoday> no inetpro I'm in Stellenbosch
[17:45:10] <tumbleweed> highvoltage: (better organise a mumble server if we want video conferencing)
[17:45:15] <highvoltage> at least south africa has fast 3g pretty much everywhere :)
[17:45:54] <highvoltage> tumbleweed: I guess I'd rather use big blue button for video conferencing this time round, but if you want to set up, then it's your choice :)
[17:46:14] <queery19851> Will the GP party have internet?
[17:46:21] <maiatoday> I think they will
[17:46:25] <maiatoday> from the ML
[17:46:28] <tumbleweed> highvoltage: I mean one can't do >2 party skype
[17:46:29] <highvoltage> (that's all I had to say about release party :) )
[17:46:54] <tumbleweed> ok
[17:47:02] <highvoltage> tumbleweed: well, I mentioned skype as a minimum, anything more would be great
[17:47:12] <tumbleweed> Maaz: topic Rest of the year
[17:47:12] <Maaz> Current Topic: Rest of the year
[17:47:17] <tumbleweed> maiatoday: geeknic?
[17:47:34] <highvoltage> tumbleweed: it would suck if we ended up doing /nothing/ because no one had time do implement the ideal solution
[17:47:51] <maiatoday> we don't need to do anything, I'll just promote before the event and then everybody must pitch up
[17:47:54] <tumbleweed> highvoltage: I'm also a pragmatist, yes
[17:48:09] <tumbleweed> maiatoday: that's the advantage of non-technical events :)
[17:48:13] <highvoltage> tumbleweed: I know, sorry for overdramaticizing :)
[17:48:23] <inetpro> tumbleweed: I think we just need keep prompting guys for new ideas outside of the meeting
[17:48:36] <maiatoday> highvoltage: minimum I'll have my netbook with  a webcam and skype on my adsl
[17:48:54] <tumbleweed> inetpro: always welcome, and right now, we want ideas for things to do this year
[17:49:29] <inetpro> tumbleweed: time is moving fast
[17:49:43] <tumbleweed> ok, well that sounds like that
[17:49:51] <tumbleweed> Maaz: topic Discuss what we intend on doing with the books we got from Canonical
[17:49:51] <Maaz> Current Topic: Discuss what we intend on doing with the books we got from Canonical
[17:50:05] <MPD> what books were they?
[17:50:12] <MPD> is there a list I can see quick?
[17:50:23] <tumbleweed> http://blog.smartcube.co.za/2010/09/15/ubuntu-books-the-unboxing/
[17:50:42] <MPD> give me a minute.... 
[17:50:44] <marcog> i suggested giving them to the person who helps the most with the non-{CT,Stellies} release party
[17:51:19] <maiatoday> we need to find a fair way to give it to people who will really use it
[17:51:22] <tumbleweed> other suggestions listed in drubin's blog post are:
[17:51:26] <tumbleweed> Random raffle and give them out to the winner.
[17:51:26] <tumbleweed> Make it a prize for a competition such as designing our new Ubuntu-ZA T-Shirts(or any thing else we can think of)
[17:51:37] <MPD> how many are there?
[17:51:41] <maiatoday> 2
[17:51:50] <maiatoday> a desktop one and a server one
[17:52:25] <maiatoday> ideally they should be in a lab where lots of people can use them, but for ubuntu-za loco this is difficult to do in a fair way
[17:52:43] * inetpro agrees with maiatoday
[17:52:46] <tumbleweed> oh, also from drubin's blog comments: AIMS library / other libraries
[17:52:59] <inetpro> maiatoday: just send them to me, I'll read them :-)
[17:53:02] <tumbleweed> yeah, south africa is massive
[17:53:19] <maiatoday> inetpro, yes but will you get lots of other people to read them too
[17:53:26] <queery19851> A competition is nice but it has to go tosomeone who will use them
[17:53:29] <inetpro> maiatoday: just jokin
[17:54:30] <marcog> a person who organises a release party is likely to be able to get others to read it
[17:54:30] <tumbleweed> yeah a problem with prizes is that they end up going to someone who's keen but doesn't actually need the book
[17:55:16] <maiatoday> I would prefer not to have them, since I have the previous versions of the book, it would be good if the books are available to people who don't have google access
[17:56:09] <tumbleweed> which probably means people that don't even know of us...
[17:56:21] <queery19851> That will use it
[17:56:50] <tumbleweed> there's no reason we couldn't run our own library (i.e. post to people who want) but I seriousuly doubt there'd be much demand
[17:57:26] <marcog> tumbleweed: we've been thinking of doing this sort of thing for algorithm circle
[17:57:37] <marcog> perhaps we can run a joint library of sorts?
[17:57:49] <maiatoday> then if people don't return the books we know they really want them?
[17:58:01] <tumbleweed> maiatoday: heh
[17:58:17] <maiatoday> a joint library sounds good though
[17:58:24] <tumbleweed> marcog: I don't see why not
[17:58:38] <tumbleweed> I'd like to see someone request to be the first borrower before we actually decide to do something like that
[17:59:01] <queery19851> What's the copyright license on it?
[17:59:03] <tumbleweed> (like that = hold onot them)
[18:00:25] <tumbleweed> queery19851: I think it's open, not sure
[18:00:32] <maiatoday> we don't have a solution, maybe until we do, we should go with the joint library idea, we can always change our minds and move on to the next topic?
[18:00:54] * inetpro agrees
[18:00:44] <tumbleweed> agreed, we don't seem ot be coming to decsinions
[18:01:02] <tumbleweed> Maaz: topic Review of Software Freedom Day Pretoria 2010 (#ubuntu-za point of view) (inetpro)
[18:01:02] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review of Software Freedom Day Pretoria 2010 (#ubuntu-za point of view) (inetpro)
[18:01:08] <tumbleweed> inetpro: the floor is yours
[18:01:15] <inetpro> great, thanks tumbleweed
[18:01:26] <inetpro> as I mentioned this morning, I may not be fully qualified to give a good opinion about the whole event because I was not there for the full duration
[18:01:41] <inetpro> anyway, it was not a plain ubuntu-za event but more of a glug event
[18:02:07] <inetpro> we just need to grab the opportunity whenever it comes and take part
[18:02:19] <inetpro> I honestly think it was very well organised this year
[18:02:25] <inetpro> anybody else mind to give feedback about their experience
[18:02:39] <tumbleweed> that's pretty much how we do things in cpt (CLUG + LEG + SULUG) and ubuntu-za cooperate a lot)
[18:02:48] <queery19851> Inetro: Was it public
[18:02:52] <DraZoro> It was my first time attending and I more done enjoyed myself. 
[18:03:17] <inetpro> queery19851: public as can be
[18:03:33] <queery19851> Awesome 
[18:03:38] <MPD> also my first time and it was well organised
[18:03:59] <MPD> would have been nice to have had more info on the ubuntu contribution process
[18:04:01] <maiatoday> I am very excited about this event. Also something to keep in mind since we are an official loco we are supposed to get banner and such which we can use for the next event
[18:04:13] <DraZoro> Just that there were no enough event to last for the allocated time. 
[18:04:31] <tumbleweed> MPD: were there any Ubuntu developers there?
[18:04:37] <MPD> one suggestion for SFD : Make it a two day event and also have one day in the week
[18:04:50] <MPD> tumbleweed : I saw some people from ubuntu, and one or two contributors
[18:04:59] <MPD> but the contributors were not very vocal...
[18:05:11] <inetpro> kmf really got things on the roll with organisations who got involved in all kinds of aspects
[18:05:13] <tumbleweed> geeks often aren't :P
[18:05:28] <MPD> that is why we should have geek-interpreters :P
[18:05:31] <deegee> the event was very exciting
[18:05:51] * inetpro really enjoyed meeting more guys face to face and had a few nice chats
[18:06:00] * deegee agrees with inetpro
[18:06:09] <inetpro> the translate guys were there as usual
[18:06:20] <MPD> i enjoyed speaking with them
[18:06:27] * DraZoro met inetpro for the fist time :)
[18:06:30] <MPD> they did some good work there on Sat
[18:06:54] <inetpro> I think all in all it was very good
[18:07:07] <inetpro> we just need to follow up with stuffs like the photos
[18:07:19] <inetpro> I know kmf had 3 guys arranged for that
[18:07:30] <inetpro> I'm just waiting for feedback
[18:07:32] <MPD> I have the vid of me speaking, need to get that off camera and then give it out to whoever wants it
[18:07:36] <maiatoday> yes please photos for the monthly report and for ubuntu weekly newsletter
[18:07:59] <tumbleweed> maiatoday: hmm, I also have global jam photos somewhere
[18:08:19] <inetpro> maiatoday: I will follow up on that
[18:08:23] <maiatoday> tumbleweed: you can action me to chase the gauteng people for info on this event so we can add it to the wiki and weekly neswleter
[18:08:40] <maiatoday> yikes some fingers quicker than others
[18:08:56] <queery19851> Cant we get sponsors like dial a geek or something?
[18:09:20] <tumbleweed> Maaz: agreed maiatoday will get photos out of gauteng SFD people
[18:09:20] <Maaz> Agreed: maiatoday will get photos out of gauteng SFD people
[18:09:26] <maiatoday> sponsors for sfd? queery19851 
[18:09:27] <tumbleweed> Maaz: inetpro too
[18:09:27] <Maaz> tumbleweed: What?
[18:09:46] <tumbleweed> Maaz: agreed actually, inetpro will get photos out of gauteng SFD people
[18:09:46] <Maaz> Agreed: actually, inetpro will get photos out of gauteng SFD people
[18:10:05] * inetpro would have loved to get more involved but many factors make it very difficult
[18:10:26] <queery19851> Maia. Yes for cd's to burn on, posters tshirt give aways
[18:10:32] <MPD> we need more events like that
[18:10:37] <inetpro> I've spoken with a few people and I think we will try hard to make more of the opportunity next year
[18:10:39] <queery19851> That kind of thinf
[18:11:18] <inetpro> sfdpta 2011 will be a great ubuntu-za event
[18:11:23] <queery19851> Then also do a national video hookup. These are just suggestions
[18:11:29] <tumbleweed> qu	who sponsored?
[18:11:33] <MPD> agreed on hookup
[18:12:01] <inetpro> tumbleweed: kmf has a budget for it, but he mentioned that the DST almost pulled out
[18:12:15] <inetpro> so we may need to come prepared next time
[18:12:25] <tumbleweed> inetpro: I'm impressed
[18:12:39] <inetpro> funds are low
[18:12:49] <queery19851> They always are
[18:13:02] <inetpro> I think we need to try and raise the bar
[18:13:30] <queery19851> A bar. That's actually a good idea
[18:13:30] <queery19851> Hehe
[18:13:37] <inetpro> :-)
[18:13:49] <maiatoday> queery19851: cheers and have ubuntuinis
[18:13:52] <inetpro> but we will have to do our homework
[18:13:58] <inetpro> maiatoday: bye
[18:14:00] <tumbleweed> inetpro: anything else?
[18:14:11] <maiatoday> sorry not cheers as in bye cheers as in a bar
[18:14:21] <maiatoday> I'm still here
[18:14:24] <queery19851> Hehe
[18:14:27] <inetpro> well just the few points as in the Agenda
[18:14:48] <inetpro> I think we need to define our goals for next year
[18:15:00] <inetpro> and start planning early
[18:15:15] <tumbleweed> always good
[18:15:23] <inetpro> I would like to see a ubuntu-za stand 
[18:15:24] <queery19851> I think we should have a few people focused on funds and fund raising
[18:15:31] <inetpro> a community based stand that is
[18:16:06] <inetpro> we'll have to arrange official resources like banners and handouts
[18:16:12] <tumbleweed> inetpro: you say a stand, what kind of event was it?
[18:16:29] <queery19851> A stand in every big mall?
[18:16:33] <tumbleweed> maiatoday: http://stefanor.uctleg.net/tmp/globaljam-photos/ (that's all I have)
[18:16:53] <tumbleweed> whoops, the first two photos look like umonya
[18:17:14] <inetpro> tumbleweed: there were multiple stands, people were free to roam around
[18:17:31] <inetpro> theer were talks as well
[18:17:47] <inetpro> there*
[18:17:49] <tumbleweed> ok, that sounds like quite a big event
[18:17:56] <inetpro> tumbleweed: for sure
[18:18:10] <inetpro> lots of kids 
[18:18:18] <MPD> but not enough.
[18:18:31] <MPD> needs to be bigger and we need to reach more people
[18:18:32] <inetpro> lots of PC's with games
[18:18:36] <tumbleweed> inetpro: how did they get the kids? I mean how was it advertised?
[18:18:38] <inetpro> MPD: I agree
[18:18:47] <MPD> it was schools, tumbleweed 
[18:18:55] <MPD> I believe the DST had a say?
[18:18:55] <queery19851> Nice
[18:19:12] <inetpro> tumbleweed: I'm not sure how they got them in the end
[18:19:51] <inetpro> but I sure know that we should use the opportunity to make the most of it from an ubuntu-za Loco point of view
[18:19:58] <maiatoday> Thanks tumbleweed, I'll add it to the monthly report
[18:20:14] <inetpro> we can always stick to the basics 
[18:20:38] <inetpro> like introducing people to ubuntu-za resources
[18:20:53] <tumbleweed> inetpro: well, obviously having a presense at events like that is really important for us
[18:21:01] <tumbleweed> (and Ubuntu is shinkey and well known, so we have it easy)
[18:21:14] <tumbleweed> excuse me, I'm lagging, brb
[18:21:19] <inetpro> I'll finish off by saying that I think we need to extend a word of appreciation to kmf, the DST and everyone else involved
[18:21:34] <MPD> yup
[18:21:37] <queery19851> Agreed
[18:21:38] <inetpro> not sure everyone agrees with me
[18:22:23] <inetpro> I'm done
[18:22:25] <superfly> agreed
[18:22:36] <MPD> what I would love to see is some netbooks / laptops etc fully loaded with ubuntu at the next event. Buying laptops etc in ZA to use with linux is always a bit of a gamble
[18:22:54] <deegee> agreed
[18:23:01] <queery19851> Dito
[18:23:06] <maiatoday> there were quite a few netbooks at the globaljam
[18:23:08] <MPD> get some manufacturers to sponsor and show off some models
[18:23:24] <queery19851> I know IBM loves us
[18:23:37] <tumbleweed> there are a couple of south african ubuntu-preloaded sellers, but not many
[18:23:47] <MPD> get them there and let them be known
[18:23:57] <MPD> good for their business, good for us
[18:24:04] <inetpro> well I think you guys need to just go blog about it as well 
[18:24:06] <inetpro> that is everyone who was there :-)
[18:24:11] <superfly> I don't really care whether or not they have Ubuntu on there... I just don't want to pay the Microsoft tab
[18:24:13] <superfly> *tax
[18:24:33] <MPD> that as well - and for M$ to notch up another "sale" on their score card
[18:24:37] <tumbleweed> superfly: debian-preloaded is harder to find :)
[18:25:04] <superfly> tumbleweed: Mandriva pre-loaded is also fine by me :-P
[18:25:09] <queery19851> What is out there?
[18:25:33] <inetpro> mandriva?
[18:25:35] <tumbleweed> I know of http://www.bravium.co.za/
[18:25:52] <maiatoday> are we almost done? we are aren't we?
[18:26:01] <tumbleweed> I think so
[18:26:09] <MPD> I need to run soon :(
[18:26:17] <tumbleweed> Maaz: end meeting
</pre>

----
ZATeam
