{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 22 September 2015
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''pieter2627'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20150825#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2015
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
* Events
** Past Month:
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.sfd.org.za|Software Freedom Day 2015]]</nowiki> on Saturday, 19 September
** Other:
*** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn <nowiki>[[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kifest|Group Discussion]]</nowiki>
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
*** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** <nowiki>[[https://za.pycon.org/|PyConZA 2015]]</nowiki> happening in October in Johannesburg/Milpark/Wits 
* Miscellaneous
** Ubuntu in the Wild - all happy with using Nikola's gallery feature?
** get more involved with lugs to promote ubuntu and foss together
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 27 October 2015

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:32:24] STARTED (pieter2627)
[18:36:42] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (pieter2627)
[18:38:03] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (pieter2627)
[18:42:00] TOPIC: Plans for 2015 (pieter2627)
[18:47:16] TOPIC: Events (pieter2627)
[19:24:44] AGREED: to start talking about a release party for 16.04 LTS (pieter2627)
[19:25:34] AGREED: pieter2627 to mail the list about a release party (pieter2627)
[19:25:40] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (pieter2627)
[19:33:32] AGREED: pieter2627 to create a list on trello of ubuntu in the wild (pieter2627)
[19:33:36] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:35:10] AGREED: pieter2627 to chair the next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:35:15] TOPIC: Next meeting (pieter2627)
[19:36:17] AGREED: next meeting on Tuesday, 27 October 2015 @ 20:30 (pieter2627)
[19:36:55] ENDED (pieter2627)

Present
=======  ==

* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Gavin Bauer (Cryterion)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Cryterion_
* jeandre le roux (theblazehen)
* MaNI
* Pieter Engelbrecht (pieter2627)
* Jaco Stroebel (gremble)
* kulelu88 (kulelu88)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:32:24] <pieter2627> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - Sept 2015
[18:32:24] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:33:01] <pieter2627> Good evening again everyone and thank you for joining our monthly meeting.
[18:33:31] <pieter2627> As always, Maaz is taking the minutes so please introduce yourself using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg.
[18:33:35] <Kilos> ek hier pieter2627 
[18:33:43] <gremble> Maaz: I am Jaco Stroebel
[18:33:43] <Maaz> gremble: Done
[18:33:45] <pieter2627> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:33:45] <Maaz> pieter2627: Okay
[18:34:01] <Kilos> Maaz I am Miles Sharpe
[18:34:01] <Maaz> Kilos: Yessir
[18:34:09] * pieter2627 almost thought he was the only one
[18:34:31] <pieter2627> guess the others have to be pinged
[18:34:54] <Kilos> inetpro ping
[18:35:10] <Kilos> kulelu88 ping
[18:35:19] <Kilos> MaNI ping
[18:35:28] <gremble> gremble ping
[18:35:29] <Cryterion> Maaz: I am Gavin Bauer
[18:35:29] <Maaz> Cryterion: Done
[18:35:33] <Kilos> stucomplex ping
[18:35:42] <MaNI> pong
[18:35:44] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:35:44] <Maaz> inetpro: Yessir
[18:35:51] <inetpro> sanibonani
[18:35:58] <Kilos> hi inetpro 
[18:36:06] <pieter2627> today's meeting agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150922
[18:36:08] <pieter2627> take a quick min to go through it and please feel free to make any last minute topic suggestions
[18:36:34] <pieter2627> oops forgot something...
[18:36:42] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:36:42] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:36:55] <theblazehen> Maaz I am jeandre le roux
[18:36:55] <Maaz> theblazehen: Okay
[18:37:41] <Kilos> hi theblazehen 
[18:37:45] <kulelu88> Maaz: I am kulelu88 
[18:37:45] <Maaz> kulelu88: Done
[18:37:56] <theblazehen> hey Kilos
[18:38:03] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:38:03] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:38:11] <pieter2627> the previous meeting's minutes can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150728
[18:40:18] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:40:18] <Maaz> superfly: Sure
[18:40:24] <pieter2627> i made notes to the wrong link previous minutes is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20150825
[18:41:06] <pieter2627> i no has issues with it then we will be moving on in a bit...
[18:41:42] <Kilos> im fine
[18:42:00] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Plans for 2015
[18:42:00] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2015
[18:42:07] <inetpro> pieter2627: we can always fix it later if necessary
[18:42:12] <pieter2627> i am only going to give a minute's waiting time for anyone to add something that they might have here
[18:42:27] <Kilos> cool
[18:42:56] <pieter2627> no one spotted the error, so wonder who went to look anyway
[18:43:21] * inetpro is way too tired 
[18:43:22] <pieter2627> ok, in the future we would hopefully have more for this topic
[18:43:29] <pieter2627> so if anyone wants to sign the  COC or wants to become a member then speaking to Kilos or superfly would be your best bet
[18:43:37] <pieter2627> to join our Trello just speak to inetpro and for a launchpad ID just speak up
[18:43:53] <Kilos> everyone has too much on their minds to even remember what was agreed on  last meeting
[18:44:04] <Kilos> nono
[18:44:05] <gremble> I just signed up for the trello (again I think)
[18:44:11] <Kilos> inetpro and superfly 
[18:44:47] <pieter2627> Kilos: thought you are a member and not inetpro 
[18:45:38] <Kilos> lol ya but inetpro had to help me to sign the COC
[18:45:53] <Kilos> thats a big job
[18:46:09] <Kilos> we have a how to on trello as well
[18:46:18] <gremble> https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct for anyone interested
[18:46:35] <Cryterion> If the guideline got updated to include the posting key to keyserver, then the guideline would be 100%
[18:46:39] <Kilos> ty gremble 
[18:46:49] <pieter2627> ah ok, moving on...
[18:47:16] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Events
[18:47:16] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:47:47] <pieter2627> SFD was over the weekend and was quite exciting...
[18:47:55] <Kilos> theblazehen do you and gremble have feedback from sfd
[18:48:01] <pieter2627> i understand that gremble was also there
[18:48:17] <gremble> Yup.
[18:48:28] <inetpro> pieter2627: you ended up going as well?
[18:48:35] <pieter2627> inetpro: yes
[18:48:43] <inetpro> nice! 
[18:48:46] <Kilos> well done
[18:49:07] <gremble> I'm busy with a write-up. Took notes and stuff, so I will host it on the internet somewhere for those that didn't attend to read
[18:49:13] <Cryterion> we need them in more areas though
[18:49:32] <pieter2627> here is a quick summary - gremble and theblazehen correct me on errors
[18:49:45] <pieter2627> Seaparo Phala, the CIO for the Department of Arts and Culture, told us what government is trying to do to increase FOSS usage and he highlighted the 4 FOSS users 
[18:49:45] <pieter2627> as a note, he mentioned a few government departments that make use of FOSS
[18:50:24] <pieter2627> next, Dave Russell from Microsoft highlighted how they have had FOSS for awhile but it has not received the best of marketing and how they might increase that in the future
[18:50:40] <gremble> > Free as in beer not FOSS
[18:51:04] <inetpro> ai!
[18:51:07] <pieter2627> ^^ that for Microsoft
[18:51:12] <gremble> FOSS with the opening of stuff like .Net Core earlier this year
[18:51:37] <inetpro> sounds like old spinning tactics to me
[18:51:57] <pieter2627> Dr Leti Kleyn from UP highlighted why research should be more open and accessible
[18:52:16] <pieter2627> Aslam Raffee, the former CIO of the Department of Science and Technology, explained how the copyright amendment bill might go against OSS contribution in SA
[18:52:42] <pieter2627> Shahn van Zyl mentioned how a company called LSD runs assessments for public companies to help them switch over to FOSS
[18:53:01] <pieter2627> Tim Haak showed how to use docker and gave a few tips for new and advance users
[18:53:14] <pieter2627> Henti Smith explained how Bacula, a backup suite, works and highlighted its features
[18:53:30] <pieter2627> Nevar Fourie how digital contracts can be created using Ethereum - lents somewhat from bitCoin but is for where two items/entities are transfered between parties in a fool proof and open manner
[18:53:37] <pieter2627> almost done...
[18:54:18] <pieter2627> Mark Clarke showed the basics of react - a js library
[18:54:26] <pieter2627> Ross Addis from Redhat talked about the hybrid cloud and reasons for the open cloud
[18:55:08] <pieter2627> gremble: will you be able to post a link for your summary on the list
[18:55:25] <gremble> mailinglist? Sure
[18:55:36] <pieter2627> and is anyone interested in a more complete note set?
[18:55:37] <Kilos> or paste bin
[18:55:41] <inetpro> pieter2627: nice list, thanks for sharing
[18:55:51] <Kilos> ty pieter2627 
[18:56:03] <pieter2627> np
[18:56:57] <inetpro> pieter2627: how many people were there?
[18:57:40] <pieter2627> i would guess 60... depending on how many were behind me
[18:57:42] <theblazehen> Maybe ~50 to ~70?
[18:57:47] <theblazehen> yeah
[18:58:08] <pieter2627> 60 might be overstated also
[18:58:19] <gremble> The turn-out wasn't very good
[18:58:24] <theblazehen> Yeah :/
[18:58:28] <gremble> We should work on marketing I think
[18:58:29] <inetpro> hmm...
[18:58:36] <theblazehen> Pretty much no one did key signing
[18:58:46] <pieter2627> there were train problems as well... some arrived late
[18:58:50] <inetpro> more than 50 is not bad though
[18:58:52] <theblazehen> Just me, and charl Le Roux, the organiser
[18:59:25] <gremble> Needs more advertising
[18:59:33] <inetpro> clearly we have work to do for the next one :-)
[19:00:17] * inetpro wondering how we can get more people to come
[19:00:23] <pieter2627> anyone have anything to raise for other events on the agenda?
[19:00:24] <Kilos> media
[19:00:43] <Kilos> tswane tv and news papers
[19:00:49] <Kilos> and fb
[19:01:03] <inetpro> Kilos: it was advertised on fb
[19:01:11] <pieter2627> or whatever your media of choice is...
[19:01:33] <Kilos> ok
[19:02:19] <pieter2627> if each one those a little bit of what he/she can then is will add up i think
[19:02:37] <Kilos> yip
[19:02:48] <pieter2627> so no news for the installfests in cpt?
[19:03:16] <pieter2627> and no one planning on organizing any new events?
[19:03:51] <gremble> I just have the tlug, but that is not really an event, more of a thing
[19:04:21] <pieter2627> gremble: tlug?
[19:04:40] <inetpro> pieter2627: did the arts and culture guys talk about the DASA event coming in October?
[19:04:44] <gremble> Either TuksLUG or TshwaneLUG. We'll do both. Karl suggested that I link up with him
[19:05:25] <inetpro> Inaugural meeting of Drupal users in Government and NGO sector http://www.meetup.com/Drupal-Pretoria-Arcadia-NGO-gov
[19:05:37] <pieter2627> Kilos: does getting involved mean taking an interest in their events?
[19:05:50] <pieter2627> inetpro: not that i can remember
[19:05:57] <Kilos> glad you got together with kmf gremble 
[19:06:13] <pieter2627> Kilos: involved with lugs that is..
[19:06:23] <Kilos> inna way
[19:06:41] <Kilos> you choose what you want to get involved in
[19:07:19] <Kilos> tey must has stuff going thats of interet to you
[19:07:23] <Kilos> they
[19:07:31] <pieter2627> i mean under the Misc section we have 'get more involved with lugs to promote ubuntu and foss together'
[19:07:58] <Kilos> the plan was that we work together  more
[19:08:29] <Kilos> even though we are mainly ubuntu we are linux as well
[19:08:42] <Kilos> and foss
[19:09:27] <pieter2627> ok...
[19:09:45] <pieter2627> who is planning on attending PyCon?
[19:09:45] <Kilos> so why let lugs do their thing and we do ours
[19:10:09] <Kilos> strength in numbers
[19:10:15] <inetpro> Kilos: we are not a lug
[19:10:42] <Kilos> ya inetpro but we can work and play with them
[19:11:00] <Kilos> kindred spirits so to say
[19:11:45] <inetpro> each one has it's own character, oviously anyone can join anywhere else
[19:11:57] <pieter2627> so that covers events?
[19:12:30] <inetpro> pieter2627: no
[19:12:44] <pieter2627> inetpro: what did i miss?
[19:12:53] <inetpro> release party
[19:13:00] <inetpro> next release is coming soon now
[19:13:19] <inetpro> I think we should start organising something again
[19:13:36] <inetpro> at least we can try 
[19:14:21] <pieter2627> ok... what is a release party?
[19:14:48] <inetpro> Wily Werewolf getting released on 22 October 2015 
[19:15:00] <inetpro> Ubuntu 15.10
[19:15:46] <pieter2627> yes, so is the party on the weekend of the release? 
[19:15:53] <inetpro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/RunningReleaseParty
[19:16:14] <pieter2627> i have only seen photos of this stuff not what they are... will check the link
[19:17:12] <pieter2627> so inetpro do you need a vote to see if we will have one, want to check the interest, etc?
[19:17:38] <inetpro> somebody should just take the initiative and run with it
[19:17:53] <inetpro> arrange a venue and send invites, etc
[19:18:11] <inetpro> and we can have it in many locations all at the same time
[19:19:12] <inetpro> invite a few friends and make it your own
[19:19:47] <pieter2627> inetpro: can you get us going with the one?
[19:19:48] 
[19:20:06] <inetpro> eish!
[19:20:14] <Kilos> wb Cryterion_ 
[19:20:47] <Cryterion_> Lappy dead, going inside so can charge, be back soon
[19:20:57] <Kilos> kk
[19:21:33] <inetpro> pieter2627: I don't want to commit to anything right now, way too many other things on my plate
[19:22:08] <pieter2627> no other interest seem to arise...
[19:22:09] <inetpro> I just had to mantion so we don't all forget about these basics
[19:22:18] <inetpro> mention as well
[19:22:47] <inetpro> releases happen every six months, and release parties are kinda fun
[19:22:53] <pieter2627> can we set out to start planing/shaping the basics details for the next release?
[19:23:56] <pieter2627> a party for it i mean??
[19:24:14] <inetpro> yeah I think we should at least have a big one for the LTS release in April
[19:24:44] <pieter2627> Maaz: agreed to start talking about a release party for 16.04 LTS
[19:24:44] <Maaz> Agreed: to start talking about a release party for 16.04 LTS
[19:25:04] <pieter2627> i can mail the list about that tomorrow?
[19:25:13] <inetpro> ty
[19:25:34] <pieter2627> Maaz: agreed pieter2627 to mail the list about a release party
[19:25:34] <Maaz> Agreed: pieter2627 to mail the list about a release party
[19:25:40] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:25:40] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:26:24] <pieter2627> we have had the ubuntu-in-the-wild on for awhile now
[19:26:35] <pieter2627> are all ok if we go ahead and create the ubuntu-in-the-wild page using Nikola's gallery feature?
[19:27:50] <pieter2627> other than that does anyone have anything else to add for topics under Misc?
[19:28:59] * pieter2627 seems to be speaking to himself
[19:29:04] <Kilos> lol
[19:29:17] <inetpro> superfly: ^^
[19:29:19] <Kilos> no one is arguing with you man
[19:29:49] <pieter2627> i asked for confirmation not an argument...
[19:29:58] <inetpro> lol
[19:30:00] <Kilos> hehe
[19:30:27] <inetpro> how about putting stuff on the wiki?
[19:31:02] <pieter2627> inetpro: i guess we can do that...
[19:31:23] <inetpro> or on our fb, g+ and or twiiter feeds?
[19:31:41] <pieter2627> maybe i need to have a list of all the things i have for the next meeting so that we can make a choice..
[19:32:34] <pieter2627> time seems to be running out...
[19:32:34] * inetpro suggests using trello as a sandbox
[19:33:00] <pieter2627> ok will create the list there
[19:33:32] <pieter2627> Maaz: agreed pieter2627 to create a list on trello of ubuntu in the wild
[19:33:32] <Maaz> Agreed: pieter2627 to create a list on trello of ubuntu in the wild
[19:33:36] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:33:36] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:33:45] <inetpro> +1 for pieter2627
[19:33:55] <Kilos> pieter2627 +1
[19:34:16] <Kilos> pieter2627 yu are doing well
[19:34:28] <inetpro> pieter2627: you're doing a great job and I know I may not be available in October
[19:34:28] <Kilos> o
[19:34:31] <pieter2627> inetpro: we can also swap around sometime with africa's meetings if you want
[19:34:47] <pieter2627> oh ok
[19:35:10] <pieter2627> Maaz: agreed pieter2627 to chair the next meeting
[19:35:10] <Maaz> Agreed: pieter2627 to chair the next meeting
[19:35:15] <pieter2627> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:35:15] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:35:38] <pieter2627> The next meeting is the 27th of Oct hope to see you all again
[19:36:14] <Kilos> pieter2627 ty for stepping up and helping out
[19:36:17] <pieter2627> Maaz: agreed next meeting on Tuesday, 27 October 2015 @ 20:30
[19:36:17] <Maaz> Agreed: next meeting on Tuesday, 27 October 2015 @ 20:30
[19:36:18] <inetpro> thanks pieter2627
[19:36:26] <pieter2627> np Kilos and inetpro 
[19:36:47] * inetpro calls it a day
[19:36:52] <inetpro> good night everyone
[19:36:53] <pieter2627> that all thanks everyone for attending
[19:36:55] <pieter2627> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
