{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 26 September 2017 
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''chesedo'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20170822#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Next Steps
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
*** magespawn - need testimonies
*** Kapanda - progress
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ZATeam-UpcomingEvents|Events]]</nowiki>
** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
* Miscellaneous
** Discuss Ubuntu education project - williamk, nsnzero
** <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuforhope.org/|Ubuntu for Hope]]</nowiki>
* Next meeting: 24 October 2017
* Elect chairperson for next meeting

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:52:03] STARTED (chesedo)
[18:52:22] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (chesedo)
[18:53:51] AGREED: All happy with agenda (chesedo)
[18:54:03] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (chesedo)
[18:55:00] TOPIC: Events (chesedo)
[19:05:26] AGREED: No other events to add (chesedo)
[19:06:46] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (chesedo)
[19:10:50] TOPIC: Next meeting (chesedo)
[19:10:57] AGREED: Next meeting is 24 October 2017 @ 20:30 (chesedo)
[19:11:24] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (chesedo)
[19:15:36] AGREED: paddatrapper to chair next meeting (chesedo)
[19:16:19] ENDED (chesedo)

Present
=======  ==

* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Kyle Robbertze (paddatrapper)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Paul Romano (londoner)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:52:03] <chesedo> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - September 2017
[18:52:03] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:52:22] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction 
[18:52:22] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:52:22] <chesedo> Welcome all and thank you for joining in on our monthly meeting
[18:52:22] <chesedo> As usual, our bot maaz does the minutes, so please introduce yourself to it using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg. 
[18:52:22] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:52:22] <Maaz> chesedo: Righto
[18:52:31] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:52:31] <Maaz> inetpro: Done
[18:52:34] <londoner> Maaz: I am Paul Romano
[18:52:34] <Maaz> londoner: Okay
[18:52:38] <chesedo> Today's agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20170926
[18:53:14] <inetpro> londoner: nice to see you here as well
[18:53:29] <chesedo> i'll skip over the regular content since we are all regular... that ok with all?
[18:53:29] <londoner> hi all. thanks inetpro
[18:53:49] <inetpro> chesedo: +1
[18:53:51] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed All happy with agenda
[18:53:51] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with agenda
[18:54:03] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting 
[18:54:03] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:54:03] <chesedo> previous meeting minutes is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20170822
[18:54:09] <chesedo> just for a refresher
[18:54:30] <chesedo> londoner: will you be needing any next step help?
[18:54:44] <paddatrapper> Maaz: I am Kyle Robbertze 
[18:54:44] <Maaz> paddatrapper: Alrighty
[18:54:49] <chesedo> ...trello, mailing list, etc...
[18:55:00] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Events 
[18:55:00] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:55:09] <chesedo> upcoming events for the next month are:
[18:55:09] <chesedo> - PyCon ZA 2017: 5th and 6th October 2017 (Cape Town) -> https://za.pycon.org/
[18:55:29] <paddatrapper> Eish don't remind me... So much to organise before then
[18:55:36] <chesedo> paddatrapper: you were at debconf iirc?
[18:55:42] <paddatrapper> chesedo: yup
[18:55:42] <londoner> I opened a Launchpad account in May and, after waiting for 4 months, earlier this month finally got approved as an Ubuntu Wiki editor.
[18:55:57] <inetpro> londoner: wow
[18:56:17] <chesedo> paddatrapper: wow keeping busy... how was it?
[18:56:37] <chesedo> londoner: are you part of the wiki team?
[18:56:50] <londoner> I maintain the official Full Circle Magazine article index at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMagazine/FullIssueIndex - also in spreadsheet format at https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UgDCiTyVRrG5cRFSgOLmY-bEOaZ0TQwf83j7RFCUybg
[18:56:59] <paddatrapper> chesedo: it was good fun. Getting there and back was a mission, but lots of interesting talks and discussions
[18:57:27] <paddatrapper> Debian packages are over 95% reproducible! 
[18:57:31] <chesedo> ah cool, i have not read that in ages
[18:57:45] <inetpro> londoner: that is nice to know
[18:57:55] <chesedo> paddatrapper: reproducible?
[18:58:42] <paddatrapper> chesedo: so the binary built in the archive can be rebuilt on another machine with the same environment and be bit for bit identical 
[18:58:55] <chesedo> i see the full circle mag still has the py section
[18:59:13] <paddatrapper> https://reproducible-builds.org/
[19:00:39] <chesedo> paddatrapper: that is interesting, i though that machine languages might differ between machines...
[19:00:56] <chesedo> or is that covered by the "same environment"?
[19:01:13] <paddatrapper> chesedo: yup. Needs to be the same architecture 
[19:01:29] <chesedo> ah righto
[19:01:58] <chesedo> i am not aware of other events for the year
[19:02:03] <chesedo> are any of you?
[19:02:03] <paddatrapper> But seeing as the Debian build infrastructure builds for all supported architectures, it isn't that much if an issue 
[19:02:12] * inetpro should try to make an effort to print the Full Circle Magazine for coffee table reading in the office
[19:02:39] <paddatrapper> Nope. Wikimania happening in CT next year is the next one I know of 
[19:03:08] <chesedo> inetpro: that might be a lot of ink (colour wise)
[19:03:27] <chesedo> but a great distraction
[19:03:42] <inetpro> chesedo: true, that there's always nice content in there and we can't keep it to ourselves
[19:03:53] <inetpro> info is there to be shared
[19:03:57] <inetpro> :-)
[19:04:20] <chesedo> i remember saving each one years ago for the gimp content it had
[19:04:24] <inetpro> s/that there's/but there's/
[19:05:01] <chesedo> inetpro: how big is your office in head counts?
[19:05:26] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed No other events to add
[19:05:26] <Maaz> Agreed: No other events to add
[19:05:53] <inetpro> we have four in the office but a few other IT guys and users who come and go
[19:06:46] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:06:46] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:07:01] <chesedo> if anyone has any misc topics...
[19:07:30] <inetpro> chesedo: but you're right... maybe too much ink needed
[19:07:37] * chesedo now wonders if it is possible to get a copied subscription
[19:08:34] <chesedo> or maybe a print shop will work out cheaper... and better looking...
[19:08:39] <inetpro> would be nice if we could just do cheap printing and selling locally to cover the printing costs
[19:09:30] <chesedo> i think posting would be the biggest/killer issue here in SA
[19:09:59] <chesedo> but yeah...
[19:10:05] * chesedo sighs
[19:10:50] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:10:50] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:10:57] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 24 October 2017 @ 20:30
[19:10:57] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 24 October 2017 @ 20:30
[19:11:24] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:11:24] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:11:55] <chesedo> paddatrapper: are you still on for the next chair?
[19:12:35] <inetpro> +1 for paddatrapper, if he's available
[19:13:35] * chesedo has an exam on that and the next day
[19:14:48] <inetpro> chesedo: he said last time, "I _should_ be free"
[19:15:22] <chesedo> ok, i'll put him on for now... can change if need be
[19:15:31] <paddatrapper> Sorry, yes I am
[19:15:36] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed paddatrapper to chair next meeting 
[19:15:36] <Maaz> Agreed: paddatrapper to chair next meeting
[19:15:46] <chesedo> awesome, ty paddatrapper
[19:16:11] <chesedo> and thank you all for having joined in
[19:16:19] <chesedo> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
