{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ZATeam Reporting Page ==

Welcome to the ZATeam reporting page. Every month this page should be filled with bullet points indicating the summary of some of the work you have been working on. As you work on something, try to summarise it here. A few guidelines for how to write good points here:

* Keep it simple and short - single sentences are best. :)
* Try to summarize your work and not be over-detailed - we don't need to know specifics, just a summary of the kind of work involved
* Where possible, include relevant links
* The deadline to include our team's report in the monthly <nowiki>[[TeamReports|Ubuntu Team Reports]]</nowiki> is the first Sunday of the following Month. For example, January's report is due the first Sunday of February. 

==== After each event ====

* Add the event details to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/TeamReports/YEAR/MONTH (ex: /12/02)

==== At the end of each month ====

* Update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/TeamReports/Current

=== The Current Report ===

==== 2015 ====
 

=== Previous Reports ===

==== 2014 ====
 

==== 2013 ====
 

==== 2012 ====
 

==== 2011 ====
 

==== 2010 ====
 

==== 2009 ====
 

----
CategoryTeamReport
