{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 24 May 2016
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''chesedo'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20160426#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2016
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu for Hope - update
* Events
** 17th Annual Debian Conference, DebConf16, in Cape Town from 2 July to 9 July 2016
*** Announcement: <nowiki>[[https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2016/03/msg00008.html|Registration now open...]]</nowiki> Friday, 18 Mar 2016
*** Website: https://debconf16.debconf.org/
*** Wiki: https://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf16
*** FAQs: https://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf16/FAQs
*** Get feedback on volunteers
** Past Month:
*** Ubuntu for Hope launch and release party
** Other:
*** InstallFest in Cape Town at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn <nowiki>[[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kifest|Group Discussion]]</nowiki>
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** ?
* Miscellaneous
** Ubuntu in the Wild
** Get more involved with lugs to promote Ubuntu and Foss together
** Discuss Ubuntu education project
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 28 June 2016

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:36] STARTED (chesedo)
[18:30:46] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (chesedo)
[18:32:31] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (chesedo)
[18:35:07] AGREED: No one has an issue with previous minutes (chesedo)
[18:35:20] TOPIC: Plans for 2016 (chesedo)
[18:41:34] TOPIC: Events (chesedo)
[18:51:33] TOPIC: DebConf volunteers/update (chesedo)
[18:55:46] AGREED: volunteers for debConf should join #debconf-team on oftc (irc.debian.org) (chesedo)
[18:57:04] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (chesedo)
[19:05:31] AGREED: To remove Cpt installFest from agenda (chesedo)
[19:05:49] AGREED: To clean Trello page (chesedo)
[19:06:59] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (chesedo)
[19:08:18] AGREED: chesedo to chair next meeting (chesedo)
[19:08:27] TOPIC: Next meeting (chesedo)
[19:08:42] AGREED: Next meeting is 28 June 2016 @ 20:30 (chesedo)
[19:09:23] ENDED (chesedo)

Present
=======  ==

* Jan Greeff (Langjan)
* Wikus avn Dyk (mazal)
* Greg Eames (magespawn)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* paddatrapper
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* deegee
* tahaan
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:36] <chesedo> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - May 2016
[18:30:36] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:30:46] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:46] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:57] <chesedo> Welcome all and thanks for joining in on our meeting this evening
[18:30:57] <mazal> maaz I am Wikus
[18:30:57] <Maaz> mazal: Righto
[18:31:01] <Kilos> Maaz I am Miles Sharpe
[18:31:01] <Maaz> Kilos: Done
[18:31:05] <chesedo> Our  bot Maaz will do the minutes as usual so please introduce yourselves to him using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg.
[18:31:16] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:31:16] <Maaz> chesedo: Okay
[18:31:29] <chesedo> Today's meeting agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160524
[18:31:37] <chesedo> any last minute changes is welcome
[18:31:46] <Kilos> mazal die van der merwe deel ook
[18:32:20] <mazal> maaz I am Wikus avn Dyk
[18:32:20] <Maaz> mazal: Okay
[18:32:29] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:32:29] <Maaz> superfly: Alrighty
[18:32:31] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:32:31] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:32:34] <superfly> (but I'm not really here)
[18:32:43] <chesedo> the last meeting's minutes is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160426
[18:33:01] <Kilos> i have apologies from kmf, he has sick kids to care for
[18:33:09] <chesedo> superfly: will you be able to give us an update on debConf later?
[18:33:30] <chesedo> Going over the previous minutes might help as a refresher
[18:33:35] <Kilos> nlsthzn you joining?
[18:34:31] <chesedo> does anyone have something they want to raise from the previous minutes?
[18:35:07] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed No one has an issue with previous minutes
[18:35:07] <Maaz> Agreed: No one has an issue with previous minutes
[18:35:20] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Plans for 2016
[18:35:20] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2016
[18:35:34] <chesedo> is there any one needing help signing up for some or with Ubuntu membership?
[18:36:22] <Kilos> ai!
[18:36:27] <Kilos> everyone is afk
[18:36:34] <chesedo> Ubuntu for Hope has no current updates that i am aware of - still have to create its website
[18:36:41] <Kilos> yes
[18:36:49] <chesedo> Kilos:  so i see
[18:37:07] <Kilos> there is a guy in capetown that is wanting to do the same there
[18:37:08] <chesedo> has kapanda joined us again?
[18:37:31] <Kilos> he has only used mail so far
[18:37:37] <Kilos> peeps forget irc
[18:37:39] <chesedo> Kilos: almost... just somewhat in reverse
[18:38:04] <mazal> What is the Ubuntu for hope ?
[18:38:27] <Kilos> do you have the links chesedo 
[18:38:46] <chesedo> well kapanda is the cpt guy and in Jan's meeting he mentioned signing for ubuntu membership...
[18:38:50] <Kilos> its building pcs for others that cant afford them mazal 
[18:38:59] <chesedo> https://ubuntuforhope.org/ 
[18:38:59] <mazal> k
[18:39:08] <Kilos> he hasnt chesedo 
[18:39:33] <Kilos> he will need to do lots more first
[18:40:10] <Kilos> Maaz seen inetpro 
[18:40:10] <Maaz> Kilos: inetpro was last seen 11 hours, 44 minutes and 48 seconds ago in #ubuntu-za on freenode [2016-05-23 23:55:22 PDT], and has been online on freenode since 2016-05-22 07:43:15 PDT
[18:40:35] <chesedo> mazal: https://bin.snyman.info/mmmzy8ce
[18:41:00] <mazal> Thanx chesedo
[18:41:21] <chesedo> all ok if i move on to events
[18:41:26] <Kilos> yessir
[18:41:34] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Events
[18:41:34] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:42:58] <chesedo> Ubuntu for Hope's launch was in late April... kmf and I (with friends and family) enjoyed a mild morning in Pretoria's Betanical gardens to celebrate it
[18:42:58] <chesedo> seems like we have nothing upcoming this June?
[18:43:18] <chesedo> Kilos: you tried to orgainze a rp?
[18:43:59] * chesedo hopes superfly is available soon for a debConf update...
[18:44:04] <Kilos> that is a mail to the guys that control who has access to wiki pages
[18:44:18] <chesedo> rp = release party
[18:44:27] <chesedo> to get cds and stuff...
[18:44:27] <Kilos> oh that
[18:45:11] <Kilos> we need to first give all the info about the event before we can order the flash disks
[18:45:20] <Kilos> so we have let it slide
[18:45:50] <chesedo> ok so no flashes this release...
[18:45:57] <Kilos> sec
[18:45:58] 
[18:46:35] <chesedo> sec for 'wait a second' or 'secondar'
[18:46:49] <Kilos> wait a minute
[18:46:51] <Kilos> hehe
[18:47:08] 
[18:47:12] <Kilos> im in contact with the guy who gives wiki permissions
[18:47:20] <mazal> Oi I almost said something now :P
[18:47:37] <Langjan> Kilos,  whats the drill to report again plse?
[18:47:47] <mazal> Naand oom Jan
[18:47:52] <Kilos> i need the link for all our member on the wiki page we made
[18:47:55] <Langjan> hi mazal 
[18:47:56] * tahaan bows to chesedo
[18:48:01] <Kilos> i cant find it
[18:48:10] <chesedo> ok so we can move topics Kilos?
[18:48:10] * tahaan bows to Kilos
[18:48:11] <paddatrapper> Sorry I'm busy with DebConf meeting 
[18:48:14] <Kilos> hi Langjan tahaan 
[18:48:22] <mazal> Langjan, just say maaz I am name surname
[18:48:28] * chesedo claps hands and bows back to tahaan
[18:48:36] <Langjan> Maaz, I am Jan Greeff
[18:48:36] <Maaz> Langjan: Sure
[18:48:41] <chesedo> s/claps/clasps/
[18:48:53] <Langjan> tahaan?
[18:49:20] <Kilos> ai!
[18:49:23] 
[18:49:30] <Kilos>  <deej> Kilos: I'm going to need the team to be moderated or restricted before we do that
[18:49:30] <magespawn> hi all
[18:49:42] <Langjan> hi magespawn 
[18:49:49] <Langjan> hi tahaan 
[18:49:50] <Kilos> hi magespawn Langjan tahaan login please
[18:50:01] <magespawn> Maaz I am Greg Eames
[18:50:01] <Maaz> magespawn: Yessir
[18:50:16] <chesedo> paddatrapper: will you maybe be able to give us an update on it in a bit (if possible)?
[18:50:30] <paddatrapper> chesedo: sure
[18:50:49] <paddatrapper> Just ping me when you want it
[18:51:24] <chesedo> paddatrapper: you can start typing and just throw it in...
[18:51:33] <chesedo> Maaz: topic DebConf volunteers/update
[18:51:33] <Maaz> Current Topic: DebConf volunteers/update
[18:52:31] <chesedo> kmf also mentioned that he will be able to volunteer on-site at debConf (@paddatrapper, @superfly)
[18:52:51] <superfly> sorry, i'm in as
[18:53:00] <superfly> *another meeting
[18:53:02] <paddatrapper> Well it's happening. Everything seems on track. Bursaries are mostly finalised and re-confirmation emails have been sent out 
[18:53:38] <paddatrapper> Quotes for various things are being decided on at the moment 
[18:53:57] * chesedo hopes Cryterion & Vince made that list
[18:54:31] <chesedo> paddatrapper: great sounds like progress is going fast...
[18:54:36] <paddatrapper> kmf should join the #debconf-team channel on oftc and say how he wants to help 
[18:54:52] <paddatrapper> chesedo: yup! A month left until it starts 
[18:54:53] <chesedo> paddatrapper: righto
[18:55:46] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed volunteers for debConf should join #debconf-team on oftc (irc.debian.org)
[18:55:46] <Maaz> Agreed: volunteers for debConf should join #debconf-team on oftc (irc.debian.org)
[18:55:58] <chesedo> ty for the update paddatrapper
[18:56:29] <Kilos> whats oftc
[18:56:45] <paddatrapper> Kilos: The IRC server Debian uses 
[18:56:53] <Kilos> oh ty
[18:57:04] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[18:57:04] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[18:57:38] <chesedo> anyone that spots ubuntu in the wild can add the listing to out trello page
[18:58:06] <mazal> You mean if we see someone else using it ?
[18:58:20] <chesedo> Kilos: i see we still have to clean trello up
[18:58:29] <Kilos> eeeeek
[18:59:07] <paddatrapper> One lab at uct (Shuttleworth Lab) though currently effectively shutdown 
[18:59:25] <chesedo> mazal: like when you spot it at the kfc terminal / toll road ticketing system
[18:59:39] <mazal> k
[19:00:14] * chesedo might have a listing of train 'monitoring' systems using ubuntu
[19:01:39] <chesedo> no one here that joined mentioned coming from redit (from last agenda)
[19:01:44] <chesedo> *?
[19:02:05] <Kilos> nope
[19:03:01] <chesedo> Kilos: do we also still have to look up the logs on the Cpt installFest?
[19:03:21] <Kilos> i dont think so chesedo 
[19:03:34] <Kilos> there has been no feedback
[19:03:49] <Kilos> everyone is too busy
[19:04:15] <chesedo> so we can remove it from the agenda?
[19:04:21] <Kilos> yes
[19:04:25] <Kilos> oh
[19:04:53] <Kilos> can you keep records of what needs doing
[19:05:31] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed To remove Cpt installFest from agenda
[19:05:31] <Maaz> Agreed: To remove Cpt installFest from agenda
[19:05:49] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed To clean Trello page
[19:05:49] <Maaz> Agreed: To clean Trello page
[19:06:08] <chesedo> Maaz: you need a TASK action
[19:06:08] <Maaz> chesedo: Sorry...
[19:06:39] <chesedo> well that seems to be it, anything i missed?
[19:06:56] <Kilos> nope
[19:06:59] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:06:59] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:07:07] <tahaan> Kilos: Nickserv says I'm authenticated.
[19:07:07] <Kilos> next month should be better
[19:07:29] <chesedo> yip, hope so
[19:07:40] <tahaan> Hello langjan
[19:07:48] <Kilos> tell more tahaan 
[19:07:52] <chesedo> will i be chairing?
[19:08:00] <Kilos> of course
[19:08:00] <magespawn> +1
[19:08:09] <chesedo> lol
[19:08:10] <Kilos> chesedo +1
[19:08:18] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:08:18] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:08:25] <tahaan> Kilos - Nothing to tell really.
[19:08:27] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:08:27] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:08:30] <tahaan> Kinders ek gaan nou slaap.
[19:08:31] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[19:08:31] <Maaz> inetpro: Righto
[19:08:37] <tahaan> bye!
[19:08:39] * tahaan waves
[19:08:40] <inetpro> good evening
[19:08:42] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 28 June 2016 @ 20:30
[19:08:42] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 28 June 2016 @ 20:30
[19:08:44] <Kilos> that means it recognises you tahaan 
[19:09:13] <chesedo> inetpro: you just in time :D
[19:09:15] <inetpro> yikes, our chair is in a hurry this evening?
[19:09:23] <chesedo> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
