{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

 Moved <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/team/91/detail/ | meeting agenda]]</nowiki>to loco website please add your items there.

=== Summary ===

<pre> 
minutes from Meeting about ubuntu-za May 2011 monthly IRC meeting
Convened at 2011-05-16 17:36:58.926005 by maiatoday
in #ubuntu-za on freenode

Minutes
=======  ==

[17:36:58] STARTED (maiatoday)
[17:39:00] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (maiatoday)
[17:43:27] AGREED: maiatoday will mail pretoria release party people and see if they have photos (maiatoday)
[17:58:07] AGREED: drubin will contact the ML and discuss the follow up contact (maiatoday)
[17:59:09] TOPIC: Discuss how to get the CDs to everybody (maiatoday)
[18:04:41] AGREED: queery will make a list of LUGS so we can find out who to send the CDs to (maiatoday)
[18:06:19] AGREED: maiatody will get CDs to stellenbosch (maiatoday)
[18:08:28] TOPIC: Reminder of the things we try to do, e.g. irc meetings, monthly reports, any other (maiatoday)
[18:13:28] AGREED: maiatoday will send reminder to the mailing list about tasks and volunteers (maiatoday)
[18:15:52] TOPIC: LPI 101 Training Interest (maiatoday)
[18:26:22] ENDED (maiatoday)

Present
=======  ==

* also JP Meijers (jpm)
* Jedri Visser (ender)
* Hilton Gibson (oogway)
* zs6jce
* ender__
* Johan Mynhardt (nuvolari)
* Andre Hugo (cortexuvula)
* Gareth Cawood (Banlam)
* Wesley Werner (kbmonkey)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Marco Gallotta (marcog)
* Maia Grotepass (maiatoday)
* David Rubin (drubin)
* Dewald Noeth (queery)
* ghostknife
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Nicholas Thompson (koiosify)
* Hendrik van Wyk (Tonberry)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* highvoltage
* JP Meijers (Kerbero)
* Morgan van Dyk (Morganvd)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[17:36:58] <maiatoday> Maaz: start meeting about ubuntu-za May 2011 monthly IRC meeting
[17:36:58] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[17:37:05] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[17:37:05] <Maaz> superfly: Sure
[17:37:11] <nuvolari> Maaz: I am Johan Mynhardt
[17:37:11] <Maaz> nuvolari: Okay
[17:37:14] <maiatoday> Maaz: I am Maia Grotepass
[17:37:14] <Maaz> maiatoday: Yessir
[17:37:14] * drubin I am David Rubin
[17:37:19] <queery> Maaz, i am Dewald Noeth
[17:37:19] <Maaz> queery: Righto
[17:37:21] <Banlam> Maaz: I am Gareth Cawood
[17:37:21] <Maaz> Banlam: Done
[17:37:26] <cortexuvula> Maaz: I am Andre Hugo
[17:37:26] <Maaz> cortexuvula: Yessir
[17:37:26] <kbmonkey> Maaz: I am Wesley Werner
[17:37:26] <Maaz> kbmonkey: Okay
[17:37:39] <Kerbero> Maaz: I am JP Meijers
[17:37:39] <Maaz> Kerbero: Alrighty
[17:37:43] <Kilos> Maaz, I am Miles Sharpe
[17:37:43] <Maaz> Kilos: Alrighty
[17:37:50] <jpm> Maaz: I am also JP Meijers
[17:37:50] <Maaz> jpm: Righto
[17:37:55] <Banlam> lol
[17:37:58] <Kerbero> hehe
[17:38:02] <superfly> drubin: You need to speak to Maaz ;-)
[17:38:04] <queery> ai
[17:38:11] <drubin> Maaz: I am David Rubin
[17:38:11] <Maaz> drubin: Yessir
[17:38:12] <Morganvd> Maaz: I am Morgan van Dyk
[17:38:12] <Maaz> Morganvd: Righto
[17:38:22] <drubin> superfly: it has been a long time since I have used the bot :( a man forgets these things
[17:38:27] <superfly> hehe
[17:38:29] <nuvolari> attendance is good tonight!
[17:38:34] <superfly> indeed
[17:38:42] <queery> quite
[17:38:43] <Tonberry> Maaz: I am Hendrik van Wyk
[17:38:43] <Maaz> Tonberry: Alrighty
[17:38:52] <Kerbero> daar is nog twee mense oppad 
[17:38:54] 
[17:38:54] <Maaz> Coffee's ready for queery and Morganvd!
[17:39:00] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[17:39:00] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[17:39:03] <Kerbero> hulle stel nog freenode op
[17:39:05] <nuvolari> there is? who they be?
[17:39:09] <queery> Maaz, ty
[17:39:09] <Maaz> You're Welcome I'm sure
[17:39:10] <nuvolari> kaah
[17:39:14] <nuvolari> er
[17:39:14] <maiatoday> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20110221
[17:39:16] <nuvolari> lol
[17:39:46] <drubin> Kerbero: English in the meeting ;-p 
[17:39:53] <Kerbero> hoekom?
[17:40:13] <nuvolari> Kerbero: for the sake of everyone knowing it
[17:40:15] <maiatoday> does anyone have any comments on the minutes of the previous meeting besides that we missed some months?
[17:40:30] <Tonberry> for the sake of other countries reading the log
[17:40:31] <queery> cause the durbin peeps don't understand afrikaans or klingon
[17:40:40] <nuvolari> lol
[17:40:43] <drubin> queery: ek verstaan!!
[17:40:49] <Kerbero> translate.google.com verstaan afrikaans
[17:40:51] <nuvolari> queery: drubin understands well enough
[17:40:55] <queery> oops durban
[17:40:57] <queery> hehe
[17:41:11] <maiatoday> We had great release partys
[17:41:11] <nuvolari> did anyone of you saw the realtime translate on google during GoogleIO?
[17:41:15] <nuvolari> *youtube
[17:41:25] <superfly> nuvolari: let's concentrate on the meeting, ok?
[17:41:35] <maiatoday> Did anyone get pic for the Pretoria release party?
[17:41:37] <nuvolari> sorry
[17:42:03] <Tonberry> Did anyone take pics for Stellenbosch?
[17:42:06] <queery> maiatoday, thank you for posting the pics of the WC release party
[17:42:20] <Tonberry> i take that as a yes
[17:42:21] <Kerbero> yes i saw a pic
[17:42:24] <maiatoday> yes there were a few, I posted them on my blog
[17:42:25] <queery> yes I did and there are a few on facebook Tonberry 
[17:42:47] <maiatoday> did anybody here go to the pretoria release party?
[17:42:57] <kbmonkey> nope
[17:43:27] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed maiatoday will mail pretoria release party people and see if they have photos
[17:43:27] <Maaz> Agreed: maiatoday will mail pretoria release party people and see if they have photos
[17:43:32] <superfly> maiatoday: regarding reviewing the last meeting's minutes, they look fine, but I can't remember actually discussing any of it! :-P
[17:44:16] <maiatoday> I have jumped to third item on previous minutes already :P superfly
[17:44:32] <maiatoday> the third item on the previous minutes was loco-contact replacement
[17:44:38] <nuvolari> kbmonkey: we should organise something for 11.10
[17:44:43] <maiatoday> I don't think anything has happened with this
[17:44:45] <superfly> maiatoday: I know, just no one else said anything about them
[17:44:47] 
[17:44:54] <drubin> maiatoday: no nothing has happened with that.
[17:45:01] <nuvolari> welcome ender
[17:45:15] <maiatoday> what should we do drubin?
[17:45:16] <ender> Maaz: i am Jedri Visser
[17:45:16] <Maaz> ender: Yessir
[17:45:21] <drubin> I did look at the date that I was 'voted in' and it was JUST under 2 years ago, September 2009
[17:45:48] <drubin> So I am going to email the list next week, saying I would like to step down but I think a sane thing would be to have some one join me before I step down.
[17:45:53] <kbmonkey> yes I like that idea nuvolari!
[17:46:11] 
[17:46:13] <drubin> so that I can help them and get them updated and stuff better not leave them in the dark.
[17:46:21] <nuvolari> hello koiosify 
[17:46:31] <drubin> exactly how we pick that person I am not sure... 
[17:46:50] <koiosify> maaz: i am  Nicholas Thompson
[17:46:50] <Maaz> koiosify: Sure
[17:46:59] <marcog> Maaz: i am Marco Gallotta
[17:46:59] <Maaz> marcog: Sure
[17:46:59] <maiatoday> drubin I looked at the Loco team how to and they don't really prescrbe how we should decide on who takes over from you
[17:47:03] <queery> I guess we can do it here?
[17:47:07] <maiatoday> so I propose that we ask for volunteers
[17:47:29] <maiatoday> I also propose that we have more than one person so that is someone is busy the other one can help
[17:47:44] <oogway> Maaz: I am Hilton Gibson
[17:47:44] <Maaz> oogway: Okay
[17:47:56] <marcog> maiatoday: are there any obvious candidates?
[17:47:59] <maiatoday> Is there anybody here who wants to be the loco contact person
[17:48:00] <maiatoday> ?
[17:48:04] <marcog> i recall tumbleweed saying he was interested
[17:48:08] <kbmonkey> I'd volunteer however feel I could've been more around and involved lately, so ja
[17:48:08] <queery> maiatoday, i agree
[17:48:30] <queery> I would if someone would help me out
[17:48:33] <maiatoday> I am super busy so if I take the job I don't want to do it alone
[17:48:35] <maiatoday> snap
[17:48:44] <maiatoday> :)
[17:48:46] <queery> hehe
[17:48:53] <marcog> is it possible to do it from overseas? :P
[17:49:16] <drubin> marcog:  no
[17:49:19] <oogway> perhaps we should rotate by region ?
[17:49:24] <marcog> drubin: awe
[17:49:29] <drubin> we need one or 2 people
[17:49:40] <drubin> oogway:  no
[17:49:50] <queery> I also don't agree oogway 
[17:49:58] <kbmonkey> we could have a couple but one person still needs to be the official loco contact, correct? an ubuntu intermediary?
[17:50:05] <drubin> most places have 1 person. some people have 2
[17:50:06] <Morganvd> maybe even look at people from each region
[17:50:07] <marcog> we should really try get someone from outside of WC involved though
[17:50:13] <drubin> but we can\t have more then that and we can't really rotate them
[17:50:23] <marcog> 1 WC, 1 non-WC
[17:50:39] <drubin> the Loco-Contact is some one for the Loco council to contact and for Canonical to be in contact with.... it isnt some one that is incharge of the loco :)
[17:50:41] <maiatoday> ideally the loco should have lots of people involved and the contact is just the contact
[17:50:47] <drubin> maiatoday: ^5
[17:51:05] <queery> i like
[17:51:09] <kbmonkey> ah okay!
[17:51:18] <Morganvd> i like maiatoday for this
[17:51:29] <maiatoday> so if it is just to be the contact ie read the mails and pass things on, I am happy to take that roll if I can have queery helping me
[17:51:36] <Morganvd> seems to be the best person to flow information
[17:51:39] <drubin> yay!!
[17:51:44] <queery> im in
[17:52:12] <maiatoday> is the group ok with the contact changing in this way, or are there other volunteers who want to step forward?
[17:52:23] <Banlam> I approve
[17:52:27] <Kerbero> me too
[17:52:27] <queery> any second's?
[17:52:28] * superfly doesn't have the time
[17:52:32] <nuvolari> +1
[17:52:34] <superfly> I second it!
[17:52:36] <kbmonkey> I approve too
[17:52:37] <Kerbero> i'll voluteer next week
[17:52:41] <Kerbero> *year
[17:52:42] <Kerbero> lol
[17:52:44] <oogway> +1
[17:52:44] <Banlam> lol
[17:52:45] <kbmonkey> I'll help out more though, deal
[17:52:46] <nuvolari> lol
[17:52:52] <queery> Kerbero, you can still help out
[17:53:02] <Kerbero> as ek mag afrikaans praat
[17:53:13] <queery> ja maar nie in 'n meeting nie
[17:53:13] <nuvolari> I just feel that we are a bit disconnected in KZN and should do something about it :/
[17:53:34] <drubin> maiatoday: VERY happy :)
[17:53:39] <queery> what about other areas
[17:53:42] <Morganvd> same in johannesburf 
[17:53:44] <maiatoday> is there someone in KZN (or anywhere else for that matter) that wants to get involved on a more formal level
[17:53:52] <Morganvd> johannesburg*
[17:53:53] <kbmonkey> what nuvolari said, we need to get together that might add some glue 
[17:54:20] <nuvolari> kbmonkey: were you at the ubuntu hour we had the start of the year?
[17:54:39] <queery> who is we?
[17:54:46] <nuvolari> maiatoday: I would
[17:54:47] <kbmonkey> I can't recall nuvolari, I was absent during that time.
[17:54:48] <queery> *are
[17:54:52] <marcog> how about setting up regional contacts?
[17:55:04] <maiatoday> great nuvolari that would be great
[17:55:16] <nuvolari> kbmonkey: we anly had 1, so you would have remembered :P
[17:55:18] <maiatoday> regional contact would be handy for getting the CDs to the regions
[17:55:21] <superfly> marcog: in terms of inter-region communication?
[17:55:23] <queery> I like that nuvolari 
[17:55:42] <marcog> superfly: that, and also heading things in that province
[17:55:50] <nuvolari> i can get to durban at most once a month
[17:55:53] <marcog> superfly: i just fear we're too segmented
[17:56:02] <kbmonkey> I'm open for being a KZN contact / CD distributor
[17:56:12] <maiatoday> drubin marcog, I can make maaz agree that me and queery become contacts but I don't want to push the group into this if they feel more discussion ie ML is needed
[17:56:22] <queery> agree
[17:56:32] <superfly> marcog: absolutely
[17:56:35] <marcog> maiatoday: i think we need a ML confirmation here
[17:56:40] <nuvolari> marcog: ML?
[17:56:42] <queery> but drubin needs to decide
[17:56:50] <marcog> nuvolari: mailing list
[17:56:55] <nuvolari> ah
[17:57:03] <maiatoday> drubin can I task you to take this forward on the mailing list (ML)
[17:57:07] * highvoltage peeks in
[17:57:15] <maiatoday> hi highvoltage 
[17:57:16] <nuvolari> o/ highvoltage 
[17:57:33] <queery> close the door behind you highvoltage 
[17:57:50] <drubin> queery: no I don't :) I am just the contact not the boss
[17:57:53] <drubin> maiatoday: yes please please do
[17:58:07] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed drubin will contact the ML and discuss the follow up contact
[17:58:07] <Maaz> Agreed: drubin will contact the ML and discuss the follow up contact
[17:58:20] <drubin> maiatoday: I will help you and we can do coffee to help with the hand over proccesss but honestly you doing most of it any way
[17:58:32] <queery> NEXT!!!
[17:58:33] <maiatoday> ok on to the agend: look here http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/team/91/detail/
[17:58:33] * highvoltage closes door
[17:58:44] <drubin> maiatoday: but it might only be Wednesday or next week ;/ 
[17:58:54] <Banlam> drubin works too hard
[17:59:02] <queery> amen Banlam 
[17:59:04] <maiatoday> that's cool drubin, we can set a time later
[17:59:09] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic Discuss how to get the CDs to everybody
[17:59:09] <Maaz> Current Topic: Discuss how to get the CDs to everybody
[17:59:18] <highvoltage> maiatoday: nice job on keeping the team reports going. there was lots of discussion about team reports at UDS... and how the average team sucks at keeping them maintained :)
[17:59:28] <maiatoday> They are in my car boot (does that sound familiar drubin?)
[17:59:43] <maiatoday> we have been a bit lax in that department highvoltage 
[17:59:47] <maiatoday> but we try
[17:59:50] <drubin> maiatoday: it is the way of the loco-contact
[17:59:52] <Kerbero> maiatoday: when yo ubring me your HDD you can give me some cd's
[17:59:58] * nuvolari don't keep stuff in the boot anymore due to fear of waterdamage :P
[18:00:11] <drubin> highvoltage: Maia was a master at that! but then both me and Maia go really busy
[18:00:05] <queery> highvoltage, have you identified yet?
[18:00:27] <maiatoday> I was thinking more along the line of is there anybody travelling to durban, pretoria, bloem etc who will take cds
[18:00:35] <maiatoday> also do the people from UCT need cds
[18:00:32] <drubin> Kerbero: she has the printed cd's
[18:01:07] <Kerbero> drubin: printed cd's?
[18:01:11] <oogway> are there points of presence that we could use, for example public libraries ?
[18:01:19] <highvoltage> drubin: yeah, but sometimes just the effort and trying is already a great start!
[18:01:20] <nuvolari> ooh, think about it, the cd's are not free for ordering anymore, so it's like valuables :D
[18:01:34] 
[18:01:35] <maiatoday> I have had some individual request for cds but I don't want to start mailing all over the country, I'd rather send a box to a LUG or other local contact and let them distribute
[18:01:49] <drubin> maiatoday: yes that is the way to go.
[18:02:04] <superfly> maybe we should put out a request for "couriers" on the mailing list?
[18:02:10] <kbmonkey> Any requests from KZN maiatoday ?
[18:02:13] * Kerbero requests a box for stellenbosch university
[18:02:14] <queery> how many lugs do we have?
[18:02:28] <maiatoday> superfly: I have sent a request out on the mailing list asking just that
[18:02:28] <superfly> people who are going in those directions who can drop off CDs with the regional contact
[18:02:39] <superfly> maiatoday: oh, OK
[18:02:41] <maiatoday> kbmonkey: no only from pretoria
[18:02:51] * superfly has been out of the loop for the last 3 weeks
[18:03:15] <maiatoday> Kerbero: I'll get some to you
[18:03:20] <Kerbero> thanx
[18:03:28] 
[18:03:32] <maiatoday> marcog do you need cds
[18:03:43] <queery> drubin, how many LUG's do we have in SA do you know?
[18:03:49] <drubin> queery: not a clue
[18:03:58] <marcog> maiatoday: would be nice to have, but tbh uct students can always burn their own
[18:03:59] <queery> ok ill check on that
[18:04:05] <queery> and we can contact them
[18:04:12] * Kerbero only knows of sulug.sun and leg.uct
[18:04:19] <drubin> marcog: Kerbero : I requested they send another box I will email Canonical again tonight
[18:04:27] <marcog> cool beans
[18:04:35] <drubin> ^^ please remind me in a little bit... My memory isn't what it used to be
[18:04:35] <superfly> GLUG, Durban was restarting their LUG recently
[18:04:41] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed queery will make a list of LUGS so we can find out who to send the CDs to
[18:04:41] <Maaz> Agreed: queery will make a list of LUGS so we can find out who to send the CDs to
[18:04:44] <oogway> for lug's check: http://www.ubuntu.sun.ac.za/wiki/index.php/Help
[18:04:45] <queery> so can sun marcog, but it's nicer for official distrabution and getting new users
[18:04:48] <drubin> ie 2-3 hours
[18:04:49] <marcog> there's something else to consider, why not save the serious effort for LTS releases only?
[18:05:05] <queery> will do thanx oogway 
[18:05:12] <marcog> queery: yeah, but it's typically old users that grab them first
[18:05:13] <maiatoday> yeah sure marcog I agree
[18:05:28] <marcog> the exception is o-week and other events
[18:05:30] <maiatoday> but in the mean time the CDs are in my car and people could be using them
[18:05:39] <drubin> marcog: I am fine with that.
[18:05:56] <marcog> maiatoday: how many do you have?
[18:05:57] <queery> true
[18:05:59] <drubin> marcog: but at least with Stellies giving out the printed cd's has had huge success
[18:06:10] <drubin> marcog: +- 250 cds are given
[18:06:11] <marcog> drubin: how have you distributed?
[18:06:19] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed maiatody will get CDs to stellenbosch
[18:06:19] <Maaz> Agreed: maiatody will get CDs to stellenbosch
[18:06:22] <nuvolari> wow, that's a lot
[18:06:26] <kbmonkey> maiatoday, I request CD's, I will coordinate with you to courrier them (i'll pay) if we cant find a running hand :)
[18:06:26] <drubin> Maaz: I have done nothing! :)
[18:06:26] <Maaz> drubin: I already know stuff about I
[18:06:43] <drubin> marcog: I have done nothing... I have literally be wering around
[18:06:49] <drubin> working*
[18:06:53] <oogway> why no lug in KZN ?
[18:07:00] <maiatoday> cool kbmonkey that would be great
[18:07:08] <queery> lol at Maaz 
[18:07:11] <marcog> drubin: cause seriously, unless someone makes an effort to distribute them they end up in the hands of people who mostly just want to hold onto the CD
[18:07:14] <queery> and drubin 
[18:07:23] <nuvolari> oogway: we're a bit distributed :/
[18:07:26] <drubin> marcog: Honestly you are speaking to the brick wall...
[18:07:31] <marcog> lol
[18:07:39] <drubin> because currently I am less usefull then a brick wall.... at least that provides support
[18:07:46] <maiatoday> do we need more discussion on this topic?
[18:07:48] <Banlam> lol
[18:08:12] <queery> I think we can take it further on the list again
[18:08:18] <maiatoday> ok
[18:08:20] * kbmonkey nods
[18:08:24] <Kerbero> i think: 
[18:08:28] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic Reminder of the things we try to do, e.g. irc meetings, monthly reports, any other?
[18:08:28] <Maaz> Current Topic: Reminder of the things we try to do, e.g. irc meetings, monthly reports, any other
[18:08:32] <Kerbero> universities are the best place
[18:08:34] <drubin> we have +- 20mins left.. meetings over 1 hour become useless
[18:08:43] <Kerbero> to get new users
[18:08:57] <maiatoday> I just wanted to list again the things that I know of that we should do and ask if anyone wants to help
[18:09:12] <oogway> Kerbero: agreed !
[18:09:17] * inetpro stepping into the room... need to read all the discussions
[18:09:29] <inetpro> sorry forbeing late
[18:09:34] <maiatoday> So basically it's monthly reports and ubuntu hour and meetings and release parties
[18:09:40] <kbmonkey> hi inetpro 
[18:09:51] <queery> hi inetpro, remember to identify
[18:09:52] <Kilos> hi inetpro 
[18:09:54] <maiatoday> I seem to miss the meetings because I loose track so I would like someone to be the meeting prodder
[18:10:05] <maiatoday> someone who just reminds as and gets things going
[18:10:15] <maiatoday> is there someone who can take this task?
[18:10:19] <marcog> maiatoday: what's the next would-be date?
[18:10:31] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:10:31] <Maaz> inetpro: Alrighty
[18:10:35] <queery> the google cal helps me but sometimes I forget too
[18:10:37] <maiatoday> it is suposed to be once a month and we have ical
[18:10:43] <marcog> 13 june?
[18:10:48] <drubin> marcog: june 20th
[18:10:55] <drubin> at least according to the google cal
[18:11:07] <kbmonkey> fyi if you import the ical you can setup an email reminder. I forget everything unless there's a reminder attached.
[18:11:50] <inetpro> unfortunately somebody else can not set your reminders for you
[18:12:08] <inetpro> or fortunately
[18:12:09] <maiatoday> I am talking about setting up the agenda page and sending a reminder to the list
[18:12:12] <marcog> drubin: where's the calendar?
[18:12:32] <marcog> maiatoday: yeah, but topic at least might remind someone closer to the time
[18:12:55] <maiatoday> also I really want to ask everybody to add things to the monthly report because I don't always know of things that are happening
[18:13:01] <maiatoday> thanks marcog
[18:13:28] <maiatoday> Maaz: agreed maiatoday will send reminder to the mailing list about tasks and volunteers
[18:13:28] <Maaz> Agreed: maiatoday will send reminder to the mailing list about tasks and volunteers
[18:13:36] <oogway> ical is here: http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-za/ical
[18:13:43] <inetpro> we need to perhaps remember to alert/invite via twitter and or identica
[18:13:50] <Kerbero> Just to add my exporience: the only reason i ever know about ubuntu hours and release party's is because it is also mailed te the Sulug mailing list
[18:13:56] <marcog> ta oogway 
[18:13:57] <nuvolari> +1 for twitter
[18:14:32] <Kerbero> (just had the suggestion to use facebook events)
[18:14:37] <cortexuvula> +1 for identi.ca
[18:14:49] <queery> Kerbero, are you on the ubuntu-za mailing list?
[18:14:52] <maiatoday> ok I'll talk to Kerbero inetpro about after the meeting about setting this up
[18:14:53] <Kerbero> no
[18:14:55] <oogway> +1 for facebook
[18:14:58] <queery> +1 for twitter
[18:14:58] <marcog> i've been trialing facebook pages which post to twitter and it's been working really great
[18:15:04] <maiatoday> I want to move on to the last item on the agend
[18:15:14] <drubin> maiatoday: on the website
[18:15:17] <Kerbero> na @ ubuntu-za mailing list - reason: too much spam
[18:15:20] <Kerbero> *no
[18:15:30] <nuvolari> eh?
[18:15:34] <nuvolari> what spam?
[18:15:36] <marcog> https://www.facebook.com/algcircle pushes to https://twitter.com/#!/algcircle
[18:15:42] <drubin> ubuntu-za is getting HUGE pickup/spam
[18:15:45] <maiatoday> sorry to move you along but
[18:15:47] <marcog> and the feedback from it has been really positive
[18:15:48] <queery> ok well I will repost event's to sulug if I remember
[18:15:52] <drubin> we have had lots and lots of people unsubscribe :)
[18:15:52] <maiatoday> Maaz: topic LPI 101 Training Interest
[18:15:52] <Maaz> Current Topic: LPI 101 Training Interest
[18:15:54] <Kerbero> nuvolari: no idea, just heard rumours and i'm already on too many mailing lists
[18:15:55] <nuvolari> :? why do I miss the spam?
[18:16:03] <maiatoday> this was wesleys topic
[18:16:37] <oogway> where, with whom ?
[18:16:40] <maiatoday> kbmonkey
[18:16:42] <kbmonkey> yes, we had a sudden interest in the LPI exams, linux administration certification for those who missed it
[18:16:50] <Banlam> what exactly does the LPI entail?
[18:16:50] <Kerbero> can't me create a seperate mailing list that sends on the other only for events
[18:17:01] <Kerbero> *we
[18:17:24] <Banlam> and why do they have pictures of soccer players on their website?
[18:17:31] <Kerbero> (damn dvorak typo's)
[18:17:32] <maiatoday> kbmonkey do you have a link
[18:17:33] <nuvolari> I'm itching so bad to do LPI but I don't have time to study
[18:17:53] * kbmonkey finding the link
[18:18:01] <Banlam> www.lpi.org ?
[18:18:14] <queery> also want to but no time and no money
[18:18:23] <kbmonkey> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2011-May/007715.html
[18:18:34] <kbmonkey> thats the mailing list discussion, with links included
[18:18:43] <oogway> an example: http://staff.lib.sun.ac.za/~hgibson/docs/cv/lpi-1.html
[18:19:00] <Banlam> :P
[18:19:03] <Kerbero> nice
[18:19:13] <nuvolari> oogway: boetiful!
[18:19:37] <kbmonkey> so we were talking about organizing study groups, to help another learn for the LPI 101
[18:19:49] <Kerbero> nuvolari: nice dvorak typo there
[18:20:02] <nuvolari> Kerbero: lol, not a typo
[18:20:03] <kbmonkey> I guess they could be local meets, and IRC study groups could also work
[18:20:06] <nuvolari> intended
[18:20:06] <Kerbero> hehe
[18:20:28] <kbmonkey> I am pretty keen to do this cert, so count me in
[18:20:35] <inetpro> IRC study groups sounds like a cool idea
[18:20:46] <queery> whats the cost?
[18:20:52] <kbmonkey> as long as we help each other with problems, and keep working through the material...
[18:21:13] <nuvolari> +1 for IRC study groups
[18:21:18] <kbmonkey> there are training courses in Ct and JHB, but none here in KZN. 
[18:21:47] <kbmonkey> but I am confident and happy to self-learn the 101, hence the study group idea coming in
[18:21:47] * inetpro has never seen the study material, how can we get it?
[18:22:03] <queery> <kbmonkey> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2011-May/007715.html
[18:22:06] 
[18:22:13] <oogway> the lpi 101 gets you this: http://staff.lib.sun.ac.za/~hgibson/docs/cv/ubuntu.html
[18:22:33] <oogway> i would like lpi 201 and 202
[18:22:38] <nuvolari> lo ghostknife 
[18:22:40] <kbmonkey> follow the first link in there inetpro, there are two book links, and one free CC pdf with material
[18:22:53] <kbmonkey> thx queery :)
[18:22:59] <ghostknife> nuvolari: pong
[18:23:00] <queery> np
[18:23:04] <inetpro> kbmonkey: of course, /me should have followed the link :-)
[18:23:47] <maiatoday> kbmonkey: do you want people to mail you/ chat after so you guys can organise this, I think we can move on with the meeting or is there a decision that needs to be taken?
[18:24:01] 
[18:24:05] <kbmonkey> agreed maiatoday
[18:24:06] <Banlam> the peopel who manage the ICDL in south africa are apparently the people to conact for the IPL in SA, they do have KZN offices
[18:24:32] <kbmonkey> I suggest everyone interested join the ZA mailing list, we can start throwing ideas around there
[18:24:32] <inetpro> Maaz: minutes so far
[18:24:32] <Maaz> Minutes available at json: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2011-05-16-17-36-58.json :: txt: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2011-05-16-17-36-58.txt :: html: http://maaz.mene.za.net/logs/meetings/freenode-%23ubuntu-za/2011-05-16-17-36-58.html
[18:24:37] <nuvolari> LPI1 sounds manageable
[18:24:39] <oogway> Banlam: thx
[18:24:48] <nuvolari> *looks
[18:24:54] <maiatoday> okedoke I had a late entry agenda item from oogway, he wants to discuss the new unity interface
[18:25:04] <Kerbero> o
[18:25:07] <Kerbero> unity is awesome
[18:25:11] <maiatoday> I think this is a very wide topic that we can't really make a decision on in this meeting
[18:25:14] * nuvolari steps out of unity discussion
[18:25:22] <Kerbero> few bugs, but i'm impressed
[18:25:30] * maiatoday also steps out of the unity discussion
[18:25:31] <queery> oogway, anything specific?
[18:25:32] <kbmonkey> haven't used Unity yet
[18:25:32] <oogway> who uses it now ?
[18:25:39] <superfly> huh? unity? I'm happy with my KDE 4.6 - it's awesome
[18:25:42] * Banlam still runs 10.11
[18:25:47] <Banlam> *10.10
[18:25:51] * Kerbero uses it on both his laptop and main pc now
[18:25:52] <drubin> Banlam: me too
[18:25:55] <queery> same Banlam 
[18:26:02] <drubin> ok.. think we really need to end the meeting.
[18:26:04] <nuvolari> G3 rocks
[18:26:07] <maiatoday> I use unity but you can poll me about it outside the meeing oogway
[18:26:14] <oogway> how does it work with touchscreen ?
[18:26:22] <maiatoday> Maaz: end meeting
</pre>

----
ZATeam
