{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* When: 26 July 2016 
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''chesedo'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20160628#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2016
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki> - tareq and magespawn in progress
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu for Hope - update
* Events
** Past Month:
*** DebConf
*** AWS Summit
** Other:
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** ?
* Miscellaneous
** Ubuntu in the Wild - is it still relevant
** Get more involved with lugs to promote Ubuntu and Foss together
** Discuss Ubuntu education project
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 23 August 2016

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:41] STARTED (chesedo)
[18:30:52] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (chesedo)
[18:36:17] AGREED: No one raised issues with agenda (chesedo)
[18:36:27] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (chesedo)
[18:41:12] AGREED: All happy with previous minutes (chesedo)
[18:41:23] TOPIC: Plans for 2016 (chesedo)
[18:49:17] AGREED: Kilos will be of the first to add testimony for magespawn's membership (chesedo)
[18:51:16] AGREED: To discuss testimonies for magespawn's membership at next meeting (chesedo)
[19:00:21] AGREED: kulelu88 to help with Ubuntu for Hope site devel (need to add him to gitlab) (chesedo)
[19:02:34] IDEA: To add the Ubuntu for Hope website/tasks to team reports (chesedo)
[19:03:10] TOPIC: Events (chesedo)
[19:19:45] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (chesedo)
[19:29:54] AGREED: Ubuntu in the Wild can be archived (chesedo)
[19:31:36] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (chesedo)
[19:32:44] AGREED: chesedo to chair next meeting (chesedo)
[19:32:52] TOPIC: Next meeting (chesedo)
[19:33:01] AGREED: Next meeting is 23 August 2016 @ 20:30 (chesedo)
[19:33:35] ENDED (chesedo)

Present
=======  ==

* Sicelo A. Mhlongo (Sicelo)
* Gavin Bauer (Cryterion)
* Matthew J. Thompson (SEptic)
* William Kinghorn (williamk)
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Kyle Robbertze (paddatrapper)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* jerit
* Na3iL
* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Logan (jerit-)
* kulelu88 (kulelu88)
* Greg Eames (magespawn)
* S. M. Pavel Sayekat (pavlushka)
* Neil Oosthuizen (nlsthzn)
* Zaki Chowdhury (zaki)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:41] <chesedo> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - August 2016
[18:30:41] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:30:52] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:52] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:31:06] <chesedo> A warm welcome to all and thanks for joining in on our monthly meeting
[18:31:23] <Kilos> ty chesedo 
[18:31:23] <chesedo> Our bot maaz does the minutes as usual so please introduce yourself to it using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg.
[18:31:28] <Cryterion> maaz: I'm Gavin Bauer
[18:31:28] <Maaz> Cryterion: What?
[18:31:38] <Kilos> Maaz I am Miles Sharpe
[18:31:38] <Maaz> Kilos: Yessir
[18:31:40] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:31:40] <Maaz> chesedo: Okay
[18:31:41] <Cryterion> hmm, lol
[18:31:49] <Cryterion> Maaz: I am Gavin Bauer
[18:31:49] <Maaz> Cryterion: Done
[18:31:52] 
[18:31:53] <chesedo> Cryterion: 'I am'
[18:32:03] <Kilos> hi nlsthzn 
[18:32:03] <Sicelo> Maaz: I am Sicelo
[18:32:03] <Maaz> Sicelo: Yessir
[18:32:05] <williamk> Maaz : I am William Kinghorn
[18:32:05] <Maaz> williamk: Yessir
[18:32:06] <Kilos> just in time
[18:32:06] <Sicelo> or am I?
[18:32:10] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:32:10] <Maaz> superfly: Yessir
[18:32:12] 
[18:32:16] <chesedo> Today's agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160726
[18:32:27] <nlsthzn> Maaz, I am weasel
[18:32:27] <Maaz> nlsthzn: Righto
[18:32:28] <chesedo> Sicelo: that is the question...
[18:32:36] <Cryterion> maaz needs to learn some new vocabulary
[18:32:36] <Maaz> Cryterion: *blink*
[18:32:43] <Kilos> ai! neelsie
[18:32:48] <nlsthzn> >.>
[18:32:58] <chesedo> any last minute changes are welcome
[18:33:11] 
[18:33:17] <SEptic> Maaz, I am SEptic
[18:33:17] <Maaz> SEptic: Okay
[18:33:28] <kulelu88> Maaz: I am kulelu88 
[18:33:28] <Maaz> kulelu88: Yessir
[18:33:29] <Kilos> wb jerit- 
[18:33:35] <Kilos> you gonna login
[18:33:36] <pavlushka> maaz I am S. M. Pavel Sayekat
[18:33:36] <Maaz> pavlushka: Alrighty
[18:33:54] <Kilos> good lad pavlushka 
[18:34:04] <chesedo> Sicelo nlsthzn Sicelo: could you guys maybe use fullnames?
[18:34:12] <pavlushka> thanks Kilos 
[18:34:16] <Sicelo> Maaz: I am Sicelo A. Mhlongo
[18:34:16] <Maaz> Sicelo: Yessir
[18:34:18] <Cryterion> Maaz: you haven't logged in yet
[18:34:18] <Maaz> Cryterion: Excuse me?
[18:34:18] <Sicelo> :p
[18:34:40] <Kilos> ty Sicelo 
[18:34:46] <chesedo> ty Sicelo
[18:35:01] <chesedo> all happy with the agenda
[18:35:03] <SEptic> Maaz, I am Matthew J. Thompson
[18:35:03] <Maaz> SEptic: Okay
[18:35:04] <chesedo> *?
[18:35:14] <chesedo> ty SEptic
[18:35:27] <jerit-> why does quassel want me to connect to a Core account?
[18:35:31] <nlsthzn> chesedo, I could
[18:35:52] <chesedo> nlsthzn: but would you... :P
[18:35:54] <jerit-> what Core account am I supposed to connect to even?
[18:35:58] <Kilos> lol
[18:36:07] <nlsthzn> Maaz, I am Neil Oosthuizen
[18:36:07] <Maaz> nlsthzn: Righto
[18:36:17] <Kilos> superfly inetpro ping
[18:36:17] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed No one raised issues with agenda
[18:36:17] <Maaz> Agreed: No one raised issues with agenda
[18:36:27] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:36:27] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:36:28] <Kilos> ty nlsthzn 
[18:36:34] <chesedo> Kilos: fly is already here
[18:36:50] <Kilos> ooops
[18:36:52] <chesedo> minutes of the previous meeting is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160628
[18:37:00] <chesedo> Please read it for a refresher
[18:37:19] <magespawn> Maaz I am Greg Eames
[18:37:19] <Maaz> magespawn: Righto
[18:37:38] * Cryterion waits for browser to open
[18:37:43] <chesedo> lol
[18:38:21] <zaki> maaz I am zaki
[18:38:21] <Maaz> zaki: Sure
[18:38:33] <jerit-> Maaz I am Logan
[18:38:33] <Maaz> jerit-: Okay
[18:38:49] <jerit-> I'm also confused
[18:39:11] <chesedo> jerit-: quassel has a core and client component
[18:39:12] <Cryterion> jerit-: confused how?
[18:39:24] <zaki> maaz I am Zaki Chowdhury
[18:39:24] <Maaz> zaki: Yessir
[18:39:26] <jerit-> I don't understand what's happening here
[18:39:26] <Cryterion> ok not for me
[18:39:40] <Cryterion> jerit- monthly meeting
[18:39:40] <chesedo> the core is usually on a server that is on 24/7 to stay connected to IRC all the time
[18:39:50] 
[18:40:17] <chesedo> Any one have anything to raise from previous agenda?
[18:40:31] <chesedo> s/agenda/minutes/
[18:40:32] <Cryterion> nope
[18:40:52] <chesedo> Cryterion: awesome
[18:41:12] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed All happy with previous minutes
[18:41:12] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with previous minutes
[18:41:23] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Plans for 2016
[18:41:23] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2016
[18:41:33] <Cryterion> believe debconf went well, I couldn't make it unfortunately
[18:41:51] <chesedo> magespawn: you here?
[18:42:10] <chesedo> Kilos: how is it going with tareq's ubuntu membership?
[18:42:22] <chesedo> ... and sorry for the question :P
[18:42:35] <williamk> Unfortunatly I was in Cape Town the week before
[18:42:47] <magespawn> hi chesedo 
[18:43:05] <Kilos> magespawn can you please help jerit sort quassel after the meeting
[18:43:07] <pavlushka> chesedo: on Kilos behalf, tareq is busy fow a
[18:43:17] <chesedo> Cryterion and williamk: you guys were going to try for volunteers right?
[18:43:18] <pavlushka> *for a while.
[18:43:30] <Kilos> chesedo he is very busy as is everyone else but will get there
[18:43:39] <superfly> williamk: you could have visited us at DebCamp
[18:43:39] <Kilos> ty pavlushka 
[18:43:55] <zaki> Maaz: I am Zaki Chowdhury
[18:43:55] <Maaz> zaki: Okay
[18:44:03] <chesedo> magespawn: we are at ubuntu memberships with the meeting... any update on your page task?
[18:44:36] <pavlushka> Kilos: For one hand typing and pressing enter in the middle of a line?
[18:44:39] <williamk> I would have volunteered
[18:44:42] <chesedo> Kilos: you got my question ?
[18:44:52] <chesedo> williamk: right
[18:44:57] <magespawn> no  i have not done anything about that yet, but i will do before the end of august
[18:45:01] <Kilos> um
[18:45:09] <Kilos> about tareg
[18:45:24] <chesedo> magespawn: awesome... is it the wiki page?
[18:45:35] <chesedo> Kilos: yes
[18:45:38] <magespawn> yes
[18:45:50] <Kilos> i answered and so did pavlushka 
[18:46:02] <chesedo> magespawn: it will need testimonies right?
[18:46:23] <magespawn> yes iwll be asking for those once i have done the page 
[18:46:28] <chesedo> Kilos: oh boy, now i am falling behind... about where?
[18:46:33] <magespawn> i will
[18:46:51] <Kilos> Kilos> chesedo he is very busy as is everyone else but will get there
[18:47:46] <Kilos> we need to push the pro a bit as well
[18:48:03] <chesedo> magespawn: ok, want to maybe add the testimony discussion for the next meeting now or will later be better?
[18:48:39] <Kilos> when magespawn is ready ill add one too
[18:49:17] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Kilos will be of the first to add testimony for magespawn's membership
[18:49:17] <Maaz> Agreed: Kilos will be of the first to add testimony for magespawn's membership
[18:49:29] <Kilos> haha
[18:49:31] <chesedo> Anyone else needing help with membership, launchpad ID, etc?
[18:49:38] <Kilos> im always first sigh
[18:49:46] <kulelu88> does membership get me a free @ubuntu email address?
[18:49:55] <Kilos> yes
[18:50:02] <Kilos> its an alias
[18:50:13] <Kilos> on top of a gmail address
[18:50:19] <kulelu88> aah sies
[18:50:21] <Cryterion> yuck
[18:50:28] <Kilos> dunno how fly did his
[18:50:32] <magespawn> chesedo: bext meeting should be okay
[18:50:43] <kulelu88> shuttleworth greedy to host his own :/
[18:50:46] <chesedo> magespawn: great will do...
[18:51:01] <Kilos> ask superfly kulelu88 
[18:51:04] <Sicelo> haha kulelu88. i'm surprised too, tbh
[18:51:16] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed To discuss testimonies for magespawn's membership at next meeting
[18:51:16] <Maaz> Agreed: To discuss testimonies for magespawn's membership at next meeting
[18:52:06] <Cryterion> umm, why is www.ubuntu.co.za running windows server?
[18:52:17] <chesedo> i also got the basics for a Nikola docker image ready to start on the Ubuntu for Hope website
[18:52:17] <Sicelo> O.o
[18:52:22] <kulelu88> o.0
[18:52:30] <chesedo> oh boy, busted :D
[18:52:32] <SEptic> sies
[18:53:03] <kulelu88> chesedo: if you need a pelican version I can get it up and running quickly for you
[18:53:36] <chesedo> kulelu88: this is what is there currently -> http://ubuntuforhope.org/
[18:54:15] <chesedo> just need to convert it to a static site generator (nikola) and create a proper theme (bootstrap)
[18:54:20] <kulelu88> minimalist beauty right there <3
[18:54:24] <Kilos> chesedo 
[18:54:26] <pavlushka> me surprised on <26Cryterion18> umm, why is www.ubuntu.co.za running windows server?
[18:54:42] <chesedo> Kilos: ?
[18:54:48] <Kilos> you should say something about that in our team reports'
[18:55:03] <Kilos> you do team reports right'
[18:55:14] <kulelu88> Cryterion: can you verify it is windows-server?
[18:55:20] <chesedo> Kilos: nope
[18:55:46] <Kilos> well i propose chesedo to do our team reports
[18:55:52] <chesedo> kulelu88: on of interest, what is meant by 'pelican'?
[18:55:53] <magespawn> Cryterion: owned by Alistarir Carruthers
[18:55:58] <Cryterion> pavlushka, it's probably not ubuntuza related, there's a diferent ubuntu thing that goes on
[18:55:58] <Kilos> and seconders
[18:55:59] <chesedo> s/on/out/
[18:56:09] <kulelu88> pelican = nikola alternative
[18:56:41] <Kilos> pavlushka remember pelican
[18:56:59] <Kilos> peeps like the git thing
[18:57:04] <jerit-> if hosting is needed for www.ubuntu.co.za I can provide. Just need to discuss cost and whether or not I'll charge at all
[18:57:21] <chesedo> kulelu88: oh... don't know... i was eyeing hugo (another alt) but seems that nikola is prefered
[18:57:23] <pavlushka> Kilos: memorized it now and will remember :p
[18:57:31] <Kilos> we dont know who that is jerit- 
[18:57:40] <jerit-> oh I thought it was our site
[18:57:44] <Kilos> well i dont
[18:57:55] <kulelu88> superfly likes nikola and he normally does a lot of the work geen geld, so perhaps nikola 
[18:58:00] <Kilos> it opens to blue screen here
[18:58:56] <chesedo> kulelu88: will you be able to help with the site devel?
[18:59:14] <chesedo> Kilos: what is it that you wanted in the team reports?
[18:59:31] <kulelu88> I can definitely try, but I need to know *what* is needed to be done
[18:59:35] <Kilos> the ubuntuforhope thing
[18:59:42] <chesedo> kulelu88: 
[19:00:21] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed kulelu88 to help with Ubuntu for Hope site devel (need to add him to gitlab)
[19:00:21] <Maaz> Agreed: kulelu88 to help with Ubuntu for Hope site devel (need to add him to gitlab)
[19:00:39] <Kilos> well have to look at old reports chesedo 
[19:00:40] <chesedo> kulelu88: will pm you
[19:00:43] <magespawn> jerit-: ubuntu-za.org
[19:01:59] <chesedo> Kilos: i think there is something about the reports in the trello task as well... so will have to look to sort it
[19:02:11] <Kilos> cool ty
[19:02:18] <jerit-> website looks very bootstrap
[19:02:28] <Kilos> i dont know who did them after maia
[19:02:34] <chesedo> Maaz: idea To add the Ubuntu for Hope website/tasks to team reports
[19:02:34] <Maaz> Idea recorded: To add the Ubuntu for Hope website/tasks to team reports
[19:02:47] <Kilos> what is bootstrap jerit- 
[19:03:10] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Events
[19:03:10] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[19:03:10] <jerit-> the ubuntu-za website
[19:03:21] <jerit-> uses bootstrap for design but anyway, off topic :P
[19:03:31] <Kilos> yes its a cool site
[19:03:39] <chesedo> superfly: you can fire away with the debConf report
[19:03:39] <Kilos> no bzr and nikola
[19:04:04] <chesedo> Kilos: bootstrap is a css framework that the site uses...
[19:04:11] <Kilos> oh my
[19:04:50] <superfly> I don't have a report. If you want a report, watch the closing ceremony
[19:05:00] <chesedo> while fly is at it the channel can thank paddatrapper, superfly and tumbleweed who were part of the organizer...
[19:05:03] <superfly> http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2016/debconf16/Closing_Ceremony_2.webm
[19:05:25] <chesedo> superfly: lol, feedback would be better
[19:05:32] <superfly> All I can say is that it seemed to go well, people were happy.
[19:05:55] <chesedo> Sicelo who gave a talk...
[19:06:02] <chesedo> and andrewlsd and kmf who were volunteers
[19:06:29] <Kilos> kudos to the za guys
[19:07:01] <chesedo> thanks for all your efforts guys...
[19:07:19] <chesedo> Kilos: load cheers to that :D
[19:07:28] <chesedo> s/load/loud/
[19:07:30] * inetpro quietly takes a seat  
[19:07:44] <Kilos> inetpro we see you
[19:07:54] <chesedo> rofl
[19:07:59] <Kilos> speak up
[19:08:07] <inetpro> oh my... 
[19:08:07] <Kilos> login
[19:08:17] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer 
[19:08:17] <Maaz> inetpro: Sure
[19:08:20] <Kilos> answer you questions etc etc etc'
[19:08:28] <chesedo> was anyone at the AWS Summit in cpt as well?
[19:08:30] * Kilos hides
[19:08:51] * chesedo remembers that andrewlsd was going there
[19:10:09] <Kilos> hehe pro scrolling
[19:10:24] <Kilos> andrewlsd is afk atm
[19:10:26] * Cryterion pulls away inetpro's chair
[19:10:26] <Kilos> naughy
[19:10:28] <chesedo> now all seems exhuasted or am i going too fast?
[19:10:30] <Kilos> naughty
[19:10:40] * inetpro gives up scrolling 
[19:10:46] <Kilos> hahahaha
[19:11:13] <Kilos> oh inetpro there was mention of you membership application
[19:11:21] <chesedo> inetpro: team reports is the only thing that we wondered about...
[19:11:23] <inetpro> talk to me chief
[19:11:36] <chesedo> Kilos: there was?
[19:11:38] <Kilos> oh yes
[19:11:56] * chesedo seems to have missed that too
[19:12:01] <Kilos> yes chesedo you said we need to push him
[19:12:09] * Kilos hides
[19:12:23] <Sicelo> awesome .. so my wifi card is dead :(
[19:12:24] <Kilos> haha everyone scrolls
[19:12:31] <chesedo> oh yes now i remember *reading* something about that
[19:13:15] <inetpro> hmm... let's not disrupt the meeting Kilos... please continue chesedo
[19:13:26] * chesedo now understands what Kilos meant back there
[19:13:35] <chesedo> or up there :D
[19:13:42] <chesedo> ty inetpro
[19:13:42] <Kilos> haha
[19:13:47] <Cryterion> lol
[19:14:15] <chesedo> since no one else went to AWS, that seems to be it for events?
[19:14:24] 
[19:14:33] <jerit-> AWS meaning Amazon Web Services?
[19:14:44] <jerit-> oh wait, its an event you're talking about, my bad
[19:14:54] <chesedo> jerit-: yes... 
[19:15:31] <chesedo> oh, anyone planning any ubuntu hours, fests?
[19:16:32] <Kilos> superfly any news on loco packs
[19:16:35] <chesedo> ...moving on then
[19:16:47] * chesedo will wait a bit
[19:16:54] <Kilos> we havent even planned a release party
[19:17:10] <inetpro> we need to plan the next one now
[19:17:23] <chesedo> Kilos: not one that is recognized at least
[19:17:32] <Cryterion> it's already released
[19:17:43] <inetpro> that be 16.08?
[19:17:48] 
[19:17:50] <pavlushka> lol
[19:17:54] <Kilos> yes but normally we wait till the goodies arrive
[19:17:58] <chesedo> lol
[19:18:04] <Cryterion> ok
[19:18:15] <chesedo> inetpro: you want one for 16.10?
[19:18:27] <magespawn> sorry guys i have to go or i am going to get home very late
[19:18:39] <Kilos> go safe magespawn 
[19:18:41] <magespawn> chat later.
[19:18:43] <Kilos> ty for attending
[19:18:44] <pavlushka> see ya magespawn !
[19:18:46] <inetpro> oh 16.04.1 is out now, is it time to upgrade our servers yet?
[19:18:47] <chesedo> np magespawn and thanks for joining in
[19:19:02] <williamk> cheers magespawn
[19:19:39] <Kilos> williamk what did you want to announce
[19:19:42] <chesedo> brr... moving on then
[19:19:45] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:19:45] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:20:58] <chesedo> does the 'ubuntu in the wild' topic still seem relevant or can we maybe remove it?
[19:21:10] <williamk> Kilos : not going to announce anything, just wanted to join you guys tonite
[19:21:24] <Kilos> wonderful, ty williamk 
[19:21:51] <superfly> Kilos: no, sorry, I haven't gotten there yet
[19:22:05] <Kilos> np superfly 
[19:22:08] <Cryterion> inetpro: ubuntu server 16.04 been running 27days now with mail support and stable for me
[19:22:09] * pavlushka still laughing on 16.08
[19:22:31] <chesedo> williamk: you and kapanda were the guys that talked about the education program?
[19:22:37] <Kilos> pavlushka read the news letter
[19:22:52] <Kilos> lotsa funny nubers added now
[19:22:54] <pavlushka> Kilos: I have
[19:23:04] <Kilos> numbers
[19:23:45] <williamk> chesedo : still wanting to do that
[19:24:12] <Kilos> oh my inetpro save me please
[19:24:25] <Kilos> give the link for the funny numbers
[19:24:35] <chesedo> williamk: is it still in the fog (can past/other resources be used)?
[19:25:02] <chesedo> Kilos: this one -> http://askubuntu.com/questions/800310/what-is-ubuntu-16-05-16-06-etc
[19:25:15] <Kilos> yes ty chesedo 
[19:25:21] <Kilos> there pavlushka 
[19:25:40] <jerit-> mirc wasting my time again
[19:25:54] <chesedo> Kilos: your op on the 'ubuntu in the wild' agenda topic?
[19:26:01] <Cryterion> you still using mirc?
[19:26:36] <Kilos> he needs to get quassel sorted still Cryterion 
[19:26:52] <chesedo> i think we could keep the trello item up for a bit longer to see if it has interest
[19:26:58] <Kilos> chesedo i dont have one, was just interesting 
[19:27:16] <inetpro> haha, pavlushka see, it's true
[19:27:22] <Kilos> thats about other places using ubuntu right
[19:27:30] <chesedo> Kilos: yes
[19:27:49] <inetpro> sorry Kilos, Iwas drifting away to work again
[19:27:49] <Kilos> who has time to find these things out
[19:27:53] <chesedo> it has seven items currently
[19:27:55] <Kilos> np inetpro 
[19:28:12] <Kilos> we  can look again tomorrow chesedo 
[19:28:25] <Kilos> maybe archive it
[19:28:26] <williamk> chesedo: just do not seem to get anywhere, have to sit down and start something
[19:28:28] <chesedo> hmm... we will have to see who answers that
[19:28:36] * pavlushka now stopped laughing and looking stupid
[19:28:43] <Kilos> hahaha
[19:28:48] <chesedo> williamk: ok
[19:29:32] <chesedo> Kilos: right
[19:29:48] <inetpro> pavlushka: I must say I don't like the idea, guess we should just stop talking about it... will just confuse people
[19:29:53] <Kilos> not today
[19:29:54] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Ubuntu in the Wild can be archived
[19:29:54] <Maaz> Agreed: Ubuntu in the Wild can be archived
[19:30:25] <Kilos> been busy today so tired now
[19:30:28] <pavlushka> inetpro: so do I think, ;)
[19:30:34] <chesedo> Anyone have anything to add about getting more involved with lugs?
[19:30:48] <Kilos> the weekly news letter will tell with what
[19:30:51] <paddatrapper> Sorry I'm late
[19:30:55] <chesedo> Kilos: almost done..
[19:31:05] <inetpro> paddatrapper: you as well?
[19:31:28] <Kilos> haha welcome paddatrapper you can login with Maaz 
[19:31:29] <chesedo> does not seem so...
[19:31:31] <chesedo> hi paddatrapper
[19:31:36] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:31:36] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:31:37] <paddatrapper> inetpro: Lost track of time...
[19:31:43] <pavlushka> paddatrapper: keep standing :p
[19:31:44] <paddatrapper> Maaz: I'm Kyle Robbertze
[19:31:44] <Maaz> paddatrapper: Huh?
[19:31:50] * Kilos votes for chesedo
[19:32:02] <chesedo> anyone interested in the hot seat for next meeting...
[19:32:09] <paddatrapper> Maaz: I am Kyle Robbertze
[19:32:09] <Maaz> paddatrapper: Yessir
[19:32:35] <inetpro> +1 for chesedo
[19:32:36] <paddatrapper> chesedo always seems to do a great job
[19:32:44] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:32:44] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:32:52] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:32:52] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:33:01] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 23 August 2016 @ 20:30
[19:33:01] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 23 August 2016 @ 20:30
[19:33:13] <inetpro> chesedo: thanks for doing a great job!
[19:33:21] <chesedo> thank you all for joining in tonight and sorry for running a bit late
[19:33:25] <nlsthzn> good job all :)
[19:33:30] <Kilos> thanks a ton chesedo you keeping us alive
[19:33:35] <SEptic> chesedo for president
[19:33:35] <chesedo> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
