{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 28 February 2017 
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''paddatrapper'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20170124#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2017
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
*** magespawn - need testimonies
*** tareq
*** Kapanda - progress
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu for Hope - update
* Events
** Past Month:
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.rubyfuza.org|rubyfuza]]</nowiki>: 2-4 February 2017 Cape Town, South Africa
*** <nowiki>[[https://www.eventbrite.com/e/docker-south-african-roadshow-cape-town-tickets-29665647751?aff=erelpanelorg|Docker Roadshow Cpt]]</nowiki>: 21 February 2017 Cape Town, South Africa
*** <nowiki>[[https://www.eventbrite.com/e/docker-south-african-roadshow-johannesburg-tickets-29665584562|Docker Roadshow Jhb]]</nowiki>: 23 February 2017 Johannesburg, South Africa
** Other:
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** <nowiki>[[http://scaleconf.org/|Scaleconf]]</nowiki>: 9-10 March, Cape Town
*** devconf: 9 March, Johannesburg
*** <nowiki>[[http://freebeersessions.co.za/node/86|FreeBeerSessions]]</nowiki>: 2 March, Cape Town/Johannesburg
* Miscellaneous
** Discuss Ubuntu education project
* Next meeting: 28 March 2017
* Elect chairperson for next meeting

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:32:52] STARTED (paddatrapper)
[18:34:35] AGREED: All happy with agenda (paddatrapper)
[18:34:47] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (paddatrapper)
[18:36:31] AGREED: All happy with previous minutes (paddatrapper)
[18:36:40] TOPIC: Plans for 2017 (paddatrapper)
[18:39:12] AGREED: stop tracking tareg's membership application (paddatrapper)
[18:40:54] AGREED: rename Plan 2017 to Next Steps (paddatrapper)
[18:43:37] AGREED: Move Ubuntu for Hope to events (paddatrapper)
[18:45:29] AGREED: nsnzero is willing to help out with Ubuntu for Hope (paddatrapper)
[18:47:12] AGREED: paddatrapper to add links to next meeting's agenda for Ubuntu for Hope (paddatrapper)
[18:47:43] TOPIC: Events (paddatrapper)
[18:49:12] TOPIC: Plans for 2017 (paddatrapper)
[18:49:58] AGREED: chesedo to contact kmf and organise a few fb posts (paddatrapper)
[18:50:38] TOPIC: Events (paddatrapper)
[18:53:59] AGREED: no-one has info on the docker roadshow or rubyfuza (paddatrapper)
[18:59:44] AGREED: paddatrapper is attending the free beer sessions CT (paddatrapper)
[19:00:28] AGREED: scaleconf - 9-10 March, Johannesburg; devconf - 9 March, Johannesburg; FreeBeerSessions - 2 March, Cape Town/Johannesburg (paddatrapper)
[19:01:13] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (paddatrapper)
[19:14:50] AGREED: williamk wants to start a documentation project, Not only for FLOSS, but also creating Textbooks for schools, only using FLOSS software (paddatrapper)
[19:34:17] AGREED: biweekly mini meeting about the news, positions and maybe education on Wednesdays (paddatrapper)
[19:35:35] AGREED: Mini meeting start at 20:30 SAST (paddatrapper)
[19:36:31] AGREED: Starting in two weeks (14 March) theblazehen will handle the news (paddatrapper)
[19:36:47] TOPIC: Next meeting (paddatrapper)
[19:37:43] AGREED: mini meeting 15 March, not 14 march (paddatrapper)
[19:37:56] AGREED: Next meeting is 28 March 2017 @ 20:30 (paddatrapper)
[19:38:03] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (paddatrapper)
[19:40:05] AGREED: chesedo to chair next meeting (paddatrapper)
[19:40:21] ENDED (paddatrapper)

Present
=======  ==

* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* magespawn
* williamk
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Kilos
* Kyle Robbertze (paddatrapper)
* Jeandre Le Roux (theblazehen)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos-)
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* nasan zero (nsnzero)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:32:52] <paddatrapper> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - February 2017
[18:32:52] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:33:02] <paddatrapper> Welcome all and thanks for joining in on our monthly meeting
[18:33:10] <paddatrapper> Our bot maaz does the minutes as usual so please introduce yourself to it using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg.
[18:33:16] <paddatrapper> Maaz: I am Kyle Robbertze
[18:33:16] <Maaz> paddatrapper: Alrighty
[18:33:24] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht
[18:33:24] <Maaz> chesedo: Righto
[18:33:34] <paddatrapper> The agenda for today is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20170228
[18:33:40] <paddatrapper> the agenda is short so any last minute addition are welcome
[18:33:42] <nsnzero> Maaz : nasan zero present
[18:33:42] <Maaz> nsnzero: Sorry...
[18:33:45] <theblazehen> Maaz I am Jeandre Le Roux
[18:33:45] <Maaz> theblazehen: Righto
[18:34:03] <nsnzero> Maaz: i am nasan zero
[18:34:03] <Maaz> nsnzero: Sure
[18:34:17] <paddatrapper> Everyone happy with the agenda?
[18:34:28] <chesedo> yip
[18:34:35] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed All happy with agenda
[18:34:35] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with agenda
[18:34:47] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:34:47] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:34:58] <paddatrapper> previous meeting minutes is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20170124
[18:35:32] <paddatrapper> All good with the previous minutes?
[18:36:17] <nsnzero> yes - from myside
[18:36:21] <chesedo> seems so yes
[18:36:31] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed All happy with previous minutes
[18:36:31] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with previous minutes
[18:36:40] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Plans for 2017
[18:36:40] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2017
[18:36:58] <paddatrapper> Any updates on tareq, magespawn's and Kapanda's membership?
[18:37:39] <chesedo> nope, although I may know where to find tareq now
[18:37:45] <Kilos-> Maaz I am Miles Sharpe
[18:37:45] <Maaz> Kilos-: Righto
[18:37:55] <paddatrapper> chesedo: Haven't seen him
[18:37:57] <Kilos-> sorry im late guys
[18:38:06] <paddatrapper> no problem
[18:38:12] <nsnzero> apology accepted Kilos-
[18:38:24] <chesedo> i see magespawn's wiki is still blank too
[18:38:27] <chesedo> np Kilos-
[18:38:39] <Kilos-> tareg been offline for months
[18:38:39] <Kilos-> remove that paddatrapper
[18:38:46] <paddatrapper> ack
[18:38:54] <Kilos-> Maaz hi
[18:38:54] * Maaz waves to Kilos-
[18:39:12] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed stop tracking tareg's membership application
[18:39:12] <Maaz> Agreed: stop tracking tareg's membership application
[18:39:25] <paddatrapper> Anyone else need help with membership, launchpad ID, etc?
[18:39:42] <chesedo> nope...
[18:39:46] <Kilos> huh
[18:40:04] <nsnzero> i am good
[18:40:04] <paddatrapper> Any update on Ubuntu for Hope?
[18:40:14] <chesedo> may i propose that we rename this section (Plan 20xx) to Next Steps?
[18:40:24] <paddatrapper> I second that
[18:40:38] <Kilos> nsnzero when you applying
[18:40:38] <chesedo> as in next steps for new users and establishes ones...
[18:40:54] <Kilos> paddatrapper thats your field isnt it
[18:40:54] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed rename Plan 2017 to Next Steps
[18:40:54] <Maaz> Agreed: rename Plan 2017 to Next Steps
[18:40:58] <Kilos> oh no chesedo
[18:41:25] <nsnzero> applying for Kilos ?
[18:41:28] <chesedo> Kilos: what have i done???
[18:41:38] <paddatrapper> Kilos: what is my field?
[18:41:41] <Kilos> Maaz seen superfly
[18:41:41] <Maaz> Kilos: superfly was last seen 21 hours, 46 minutes and 42 seconds ago in #ubuntu-za on freenode [2017-02-27 20:54:58 GMT], and has been online on freenode since 2017-02-22 03:09:03 GMT
[18:41:48] <Kilos> the ubuntu for hope
[18:42:05] <Kilos> someone here was involved
[18:42:08] <chesedo> oh...
[18:42:10] * paddatrapper learns a new thing everyday :)
[18:42:24] <chesedo> we can move it to events?
[18:42:43] <Kilos> it was with karl wasnt it
[18:42:43] <chesedo> it is an (ongoing) event after all...
[18:42:45] <paddatrapper> If no-one knows who/what, maybe we strike it until someone who knows appears
[18:43:00] <Kilos> so much has happened i forget what went where
[18:43:02] <paddatrapper> Yeah or move it to events with Ubuntu education
[18:43:04] * chesedo kmf and other Prt guys are involved there
[18:43:24] <Kilos> yes
[18:43:25] <chesedo> although only kmf has done stuff so far...
[18:43:37] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed Move Ubuntu for Hope to events
[18:43:37] <Maaz> Agreed: Move Ubuntu for Hope to events
[18:43:40] <Kilos> im trying to remember who
[18:43:47] <nsnzero> i am in the education field i can help out there
[18:44:09] <chesedo> Kilos: karl is correct
[18:44:18] <paddatrapper> I work at/attend educational institutions, but we generally use Debian
[18:45:20] <chesedo> the initial talks of it was about general PC edu at schools...
[18:45:21] <nsnzero> ubuntu for hope - can only find a facebook page for it
[18:45:29] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed nsnzero is willing to help out with Ubuntu for Hope
[18:45:29] <Maaz> Agreed: nsnzero is willing to help out with Ubuntu for Hope
[18:45:34] <Kilos> inetpro ping
[18:45:36] <Kilos> chesedo you sure it wasnt you?
[18:45:36] <Kilos> oh maybe pieter
[18:45:37] <Kilos> forget his nick as well
[18:45:52] <paddatrapper> We probably should put more info out about it? Is it on the trello board?
[18:46:06] <chesedo> nsnzero: https://ubuntuforhope.org/
[18:46:15] <Kilos> nsnzero teach me not to forget
[18:46:18] <chesedo> nsnzero: https://gitlab.com/ubuntuforhope/ubuntuforhope.org
[18:46:26] <chesedo> Kilos: i am pieter
[18:46:26] <nsnzero> chesedo: thanks
[18:46:38] <Kilos> hahaha
[18:46:47] <chesedo> paddatrapper: good idea and no
[18:46:50] <Kilos> sorry
[18:47:12] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed paddatrapper to add links to next meeting's agenda for Ubuntu for Hope
[18:47:12] <Maaz> Agreed: paddatrapper to add links to next meeting's agenda for Ubuntu for Hope
[18:47:36] <paddatrapper> and trello board *
[18:47:43] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Events
[18:47:43] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:47:48] <inetpro> good morning everyone
[18:47:52] <paddatrapper> rubyfuza was earlier this month
[18:47:54] <paddatrapper> hi inetpro
[18:47:55] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer
[18:47:55] <Maaz> inetpro: Righto
[18:48:04] <Kilos> lo pro
[18:48:19] * chesedo will contact kmf as well... maybe we can get a few fb posts and tweets out...
[18:48:29] <inetpro> Am I on time again?
[18:48:35] <paddatrapper> inetpro: of course :)
[18:48:47] <chesedo> lol
[18:48:53] <Kilos> inetpro apologise for being late
[18:48:55] <Kilos> i did
[18:49:00] <chesedo> paddatrapper: you can add that too ^^
[18:49:01] <Kilos> makes the young ones feel good to say accepted
[18:49:03] <inetpro> thanks paddatrapper ;-)
[18:49:12] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Plans for 2017
[18:49:12] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2017
[18:49:24] <inetpro> oops, sorry Oom Kilos
[18:49:58] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed chesedo to contact kmf and organise a few fb posts
[18:49:58] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo to contact kmf and organise a few fb posts
[18:50:00] <chesedo> inetpro: see now we are starting all over again :P
[18:50:08] <paddatrapper> Sorry my connection is a little slow at the moment
[18:50:17] <chesedo> np
[18:50:17] <Kilos> hahahaa
[18:50:20] <paddatrapper> Ok, shall we move on?
[18:50:22] <paddatrapper> haha
[18:50:22]
[18:50:30] * chesedo just using it to tease inetpro
[18:50:38] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Events
[18:50:38] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:50:51] <Kilos> no answer from server for 2 mins
[18:50:57] <paddatrapper> any feedback from rubyfuza?
[18:51:03] <Kilos> im lagging bad guys
[18:51:31] <Kilos> hi williamk
[18:51:41] <inetpro> hy lag baie hard?
[18:52:00] <chesedo> nope, only know of unloadable that might have had for the docker event...
[18:52:05] <chesedo> hi williamk
[18:52:09] <paddatrapper> Ok, then the Docker roadshow?
[18:52:13] <nsnzero> off topic does ubuntu for hope have a letterhead or something similar ?
[18:52:26] <williamk> Hi All
[18:52:42] <nsnzero> hi there williamk
[18:52:51] <paddatrapper> hi williamk
[18:52:54] <chesedo> nsnzero: nope, it is very simple
[18:52:56] <inetpro> hi williamk
[18:52:57] <williamk> Maaz: I a William Kinghorn
[18:52:57] <Maaz> williamk: *blink*
[18:53:17] <Kilos> m
[18:53:31] <Kilos> maak reg willie
[18:53:35] <chesedo> nsnzero: you might also want to talk with williamk as he is in the know on education too
[18:53:59] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed no-one has info on the docker roadshow or rubyfuza
[18:53:59] <Maaz> Agreed: no-one has info on the docker roadshow or rubyfuza
[18:54:06] <chesedo> paddatrapper: seems that unloadable may have forgot...
[18:54:16] <paddatrapper> Lots happening this month though
[18:54:18] <nsnzero> me moves closer to williamk
[18:54:20] <Kilos> he does the books thi k
[18:54:21] <Kilos> thing
[18:54:43] <paddatrapper> scaleconf, devconf and FreeBeerSessions all in the beginning of march
[18:54:57] <williamk> Kilos: still trying
[18:55:12] <paddatrapper> Anyone planning on attending any?
[18:55:22] <Kilos> williamk maybe nsnzero can help
[18:56:06] <chesedo> all are a bit out of my reach
[18:56:22] <paddatrapper> I'm planning on going to the CT FreeBeerSession
[18:56:28] <Kilos> wbb
[18:56:29] <paddatrapper> Should be pretty cool
[18:56:30] <williamk> nsnzero: just joined so don't know what you talking about
[18:56:51] <nsnzero> freebeer i am guessing since its open source you get the recipe and make it yourself ?
[18:57:05] * chesedo rofl
[18:57:20] <paddatrapper> nsnzero: that would be libre beer sessions :)
[18:57:30] <chesedo> then the instruments also has to be open source i guess
[18:57:36] <inetpro> paddatrapper: I think it was unlaudable who was talking about docker
[18:57:44] <paddatrapper> inetpro: ack
[18:58:03] <nsnzero> williamk: sorry i am alitle lost also - we chat after the meeting
[18:58:37] <paddatrapper> scaleconf was looking for helpers, but I think they're now sorted
[18:59:03] <williamk> For you beer lovers, in the repos - Brewtarget and qbrew
[18:59:44] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed paddatrapper is attending the free beer sessions CT
[18:59:44] <Maaz> Agreed: paddatrapper is attending the free beer sessions CT
[19:00:28] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed scaleconf - 9-10 March, Johannesburg; devconf - 9 March, Johannesburg; FreeBeerSessions - 2 March, Cape Town/Johannesburg
[19:00:28] <Maaz> Agreed: scaleconf - 9-10 March, Johannesburg; devconf - 9 March, Johannesburg; FreeBeerSessions - 2 March, Cape Town/Johannesburg
[19:00:37] <paddatrapper> any other events coming up?
[19:01:07] <chesedo> nope
[19:01:13] <chesedo> afaik
[19:01:13] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[19:01:13] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:01:36] <Kilos> williamk they were talking about education stuff like ubuntu for hope and then you arrived just in time
[19:01:48] <paddatrapper> this may be a topic for nsnzero, williamk: Ubuntu education project
[19:01:58] <inetpro> chesedo: any developments after your discussion with superfly yesterday?
[19:02:22] <inetpro> re the bots with news etc
[19:02:43] <Kilos> yes where are the new bots paddatrapper
[19:02:43] <chesedo> inetpro: about trying to split tasks and job listings?
[19:02:51] * chesedo almost forgot
[19:02:57] <Kilos> you guys are slow you know
[19:03:00] <paddatrapper> Kilos: new bots? I just fix Maaz
[19:03:35] <paddatrapper> Is there a wiki-page/trello item that we can track progress on?
[19:03:37] <Kilos> fly rather goes and plays in the snow
[19:03:46] * paddatrapper hasn't looked at the trello board lately
[19:03:58] <paddatrapper> Kilos: and sick kids
[19:03:59] <chesedo> paddatrapper: may i have a (late) section after this one?
[19:04:07] <paddatrapper> chesedo: cool
[19:04:10] <Kilos> Maaz ddg weather
[19:04:10] <Maaz> Kilos: Excuse me?
[19:04:25] <paddatrapper> Kilos: next release of ibid
[19:04:26] <Kilos> the new ibids man
[19:04:28] <chesedo> williamk: what is your book about?
[19:05:37] <Kilos> its about supplying education books to needy kids like me
[19:06:01] <chesedo> which subject?
[19:06:14] <chesedo> and how is it going?
[19:06:30] <williamk> chesedo: Wanting to start Documentation Project, Not only for FLOSS, but also creating Textbooks for schools, only using FLOSS software
[19:07:00] <williamk> Subjects wii
[19:07:13] <Kilos> williamk didnt you have some links on the project
[19:07:30] <paddatrapper> I heard a KDE developer talk about an open source set of textbooks they were developing, but I'm struggling to find a link
[19:08:12] <chesedo> williamk: if i remember correctly, the issue last time was having a web space to co-ordinate things?
[19:08:14] <paddatrapper> found it: https://www.wikitolearn.org/
[19:08:16] <williamk> Subjects will be dependate on who wants to write what, and when teachers join
[19:08:58] <chesedo> wow, some site that paddatrapper
[19:09:04] <paddatrapper> williamk: similar to the Shuttleworth Foundation's (I think) Maths and Science textbooks from a few years back?
[19:09:12] <nsnzero> little info here - seems like the DOE likes to change textbooks every year - i have to get new books with the updates -costs a small fortune
[19:09:38] <paddatrapper> Maaz: wikiToLearn is https://www.wikitolearn.org/
[19:09:38] <Maaz> paddatrapper: Got it
[19:10:02] <paddatrapper> Maaz: KDE education project is also https://www.wikitolearn.org/
[19:10:02] <Maaz> paddatrapper: I'll remember that
[19:10:06] <williamk> Something more like http://flossmanuals.net/
[19:10:21] <Kilos> 2 min lag here guys
[19:11:10] <nsnzero> thutong.doe.gov.za
[19:11:43] <chesedo> williamk: will it be for sa schools (or aimed at)?
[19:11:48]
[19:12:32] <chesedo> nsnzero: that site does not exist
[19:12:44] <williamk> Where we have a book creation colloborative app , and a website where people can download to the finnished books
[19:12:53] <nsnzero> http://www.thutong.doe.gov.za/
[19:13:23] <williamk> chesedo: Yes for SA school, but others can adapt to their needs
[19:13:47] <chesedo> oh boy, that thing does not even have a dns record for when the www is missing
[19:14:26] <chesedo> williamk: so which next step is needed?
[19:14:50] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed williamk wants to start a documentation project, Not only for FLOSS, but also creating Textbooks for schools, only using FLOSS software
[19:14:50] <Maaz> Agreed: williamk wants to start a documentation project, Not only for FLOSS, but also creating Textbooks for schools, only using FLOSS software
[19:15:35] <superfly> Sorry I missed the meeting, it's in the middle of my morning
[19:15:51] <nsnzero> morning superfly
[19:15:55] <paddatrapper> np superfly, morning
[19:15:58] <superfly> or are we still in it?
[19:16:23] <inetpro> yep
[19:16:27] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[19:16:27] <Maaz> superfly: Okay
[19:16:33] <nsnzero> if i have some time i will work on leads to help out williamk
[19:16:35] <chesedo> np superfly, you are just in time to further yesterday's discussion... we are almost there
[19:16:41] <paddatrapper> superfly: talking about Ubuntu education projects
[19:16:58] <paddatrapper> alright, chesedo you have the floor
[19:17:09] <chesedo> thanks paddatrapper
[19:17:51] <chesedo> yesterday superfly shared the structure of their meetings over there and it sparked 3 ideas...
[19:18:16] <chesedo> to have a news and/or jobs listings sections?
[19:18:53] <chesedo> to divide these meeting sections to peers?
[19:19:19] <inetpro> bye zaki
[19:19:31] <nsnzero> like sub committees to report back ?
[19:19:32] <chesedo> like blaze always seems to be in the know on the latest stuff if he would like to share the highlights...
[19:19:36] * Kilos pricks ears
[19:20:28] <theblazehen> chesedo sounds good
[19:20:52] <chesedo> and hilton (from sulug) has posted a lot of jobs listing in the past... and then there is also the jobs listings at each's own works that others my find interesting...
[19:21:02] <paddatrapper> chesedo: and the third thing?
[19:21:18] <williamk> DBE has the National Curriculum Statement http://www.education.gov.za/Curriculum/CurriculumAssessmentPolicyStatements(CAPS)/CAPSFET.aspx
[19:21:24] <chesedo> paddatrapper: i went blank :D
[19:21:34] <williamk> We have to put that into manuals
[19:21:35] <paddatrapper> chesedo: lol :)
[19:22:29] <Kilos> old age
[19:22:32] <inetpro> 1. news, 2. jobs and 3. blank
[19:22:34] * Kilos feels good
[19:22:39] <paddatrapper> I like the job listings, I'm not sure how the peers idea would work in practice
[19:23:01] <inetpro> next time fill in the blank
[19:23:27] <chesedo> either point one was two things, or there was another...
[19:23:47] <paddatrapper> news is also good :)
[19:24:01] <Kilos> hahaha
[19:24:02] <chesedo> and sounds like theblazehen is up to it...
[19:24:08] <inetpro> superfly: help
[19:24:10] <nsnzero> ubuntu 17 beta 1 is released
[19:24:36] <superfly> inetpro: I have no idea, it was chesedo's ideas, I just shared the logs from the most recent AZLoCo meeting,.
[19:24:59] <superfly> chesedo: I also mentioned weekly meetings, but I think that's a bit much for Ubuntu-ZA
[19:25:12] <chesedo> paddatrapper: i can try to reach hilton to discuss his input (or find his methods)...
[19:25:21] <superfly> post on the mailing list?
[19:25:43] <paddatrapper> chesedo: Ok, but in principle I'm game
[19:25:43] <magespawn> good night all
[19:26:11] <chesedo> superfly: things like news and the positions can became stale in a month so we may have to see about that
[19:26:21] <nsnzero> night magespawn
[19:26:46] <paddatrapper> Maybe they should be plugins/knowledge we add to Maaz?
[19:26:53] <superfly> maybe a mini meeting once a week and a maxi meeting once a month? irrunno
[19:27:03] <superfly> that's a lot of work
[19:27:08] <inetpro> could work
[19:27:13] <chesedo> paddatrapper: the peers idea is like say has a collection of news (that get shared with him) and some else the positions...
[19:27:24] <paddatrapper> chesedo: ah ok
[19:27:43] <chesedo> then they would quickly list them (like events) in the meeting and we move on...
[19:28:33] <Kilos> thanks for joining us superfly
[19:28:50] <chesedo> theblazehen: are you up for it?
[19:28:51]
[19:28:53] <Kilos> we know you yanks are rather busy
[19:28:57] <paddatrapper> Ok shall we try it out next month and see how it goes? or try a mini weekly meeting?
[19:29:05] <theblazehen> chesedo: yeah
[19:29:08] <Kilos> wb williamk
[19:29:31] <inetpro> someone would have to go through the list of news and reduce it to just the top 5 or so
[19:29:34] <chesedo> maybe biweekly first, to test it and keep the load small
[19:29:57] <chesedo> inetpro: correct
[19:30:10] <paddatrapper> sounds good, though my attendance in the evening for the next while is going to be spotty
[19:30:11] <superfly> good idea, chesedo
[19:30:21] <williamk> Kilos : still here
[19:30:37] <Kilos> :D
[19:30:39] <chesedo> so the mini meeting will be about the news, positions and maybe education if we can start it
[19:30:54] <chesedo> ?
[19:30:55] <paddatrapper> what day of the week?
[19:31:33] <paddatrapper> I suggest a Wednesday or Monday
[19:31:48] <chesedo> i have no idea... guess there is a reason why it is Tuesdays?
[19:31:55] <chesedo> Kilos inetpro superfly nsnzero ^^
[19:32:06] <inetpro> tough one
[19:32:16] <superfly> irunno
[19:32:22] <chesedo> williamk your input too ^^
[19:32:22] <Kilos> was to accomodate maia
[19:32:38] <Kilos> anyday ok with me if i can stay awake
[19:32:52] <inetpro> book the meeting and have it with those who can make it
[19:32:53] <chesedo> paddatrapper: seems like your call
[19:33:05] * chesedo ok with both
[19:33:25] <paddatrapper> Wednesday then? Mondays seem to be a little slow
[19:33:30] * theblazehen is good with any day
[19:33:37] <chesedo> paddatrapper: +1
[19:33:39] <Kilos> check mailing list as well and see if you can get feedack form some new guys
[19:33:52] <inetpro> ya Mondays can be rough
[19:33:57] <Kilos> s/form/from
[19:34:02] <williamk> Kilos : start the meet at 7:30 or 8
[19:34:17] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed biweekly mini meeting about the news, positions and maybe education on Wednesdays
[19:34:17] <Maaz> Agreed: biweekly mini meeting about the news, positions and maybe education on Wednesdays
[19:34:24] <nsnzero> guys i am calling it a night - i will catch up tomorrow
[19:34:28] <nsnzero> good night all
[19:34:33] <chesedo> night nsnzero
[19:34:39] <Kilos> williamk the family gues prefer 8 or 8.30
[19:34:43] <Kilos> im easy
[19:34:57] <inetpro> peeps with kids need family time
[19:34:59] <williamk> nsnzero : do you still want to talk
[19:35:00] <paddatrapper> I'd go with 8:30, to keep it consistant
[19:35:16] <chesedo> right
[19:35:35] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed Mini meeting start at 20:30 SAST
[19:35:35] <Maaz> Agreed: Mini meeting start at 20:30 SAST
[19:35:53] <Kilos> 2 weeks time
[19:35:58] <chesedo> paddatrapper: and theblazehen to handle the news section
[19:36:09] <Kilos> get list feedback
[19:36:21] <chesedo> Kilos: right
[19:36:31] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed Starting in two weeks (14 March) theblazehen will handle the news
[19:36:31] <Maaz> Agreed: Starting in two weeks (14 March) theblazehen will handle the news
[19:36:47] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:36:47] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:37:08] <chesedo> paddatrapper: that would be the 15th (Wednesday)
[19:37:14] <paddatrapper> The next full meeting is 28 March 2017 @ 20:30
[19:37:23] <paddatrapper> chesedo: thanks
[19:37:31] <chesedo> +1
[19:37:42] <inetpro> +1
[19:37:43] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed mini meeting 15 March, not 14 march
[19:37:43] <Maaz> Agreed: mini meeting 15 March, not 14 march
[19:37:52] <Kilos> thanks for attending everyone and well done paddatrapper
[19:37:56] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 28 March 2017 @ 20:30
[19:37:56] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 28 March 2017 @ 20:30
[19:38:03] <paddatrapper> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:38:03] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:38:04] <williamk> Thanks all
[19:38:25] <inetpro> so we list the mini meetings in the topic as well?
[19:38:25] <paddatrapper> I will probably not be here next month, so who wants to chair?
[19:38:37] * chesedo thinks paddatrapper did an excelent job
[19:38:43] <Kilos> yip
[19:38:52] <chesedo> i will be here if no one else is
[19:38:55] <Kilos> you on next meet chesedo
[19:39:06] <chesedo> inetpro: you want another wack?
[19:39:06] <Kilos> chesedo +1
[19:39:11] <inetpro> +1 for chesedo
[19:39:17] <Kilos> haha
[19:39:50] <inetpro> my days are packed
[19:39:55] <paddatrapper> lol
[19:40:00] <chesedo> np inetpro
[19:40:03] <Kilos> and im busy
[19:40:05] <paddatrapper> Maaz: agreed chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:40:05] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:40:15] <Kilos> im getting like everyone else now
[19:40:16] <paddatrapper> Thanks everyone for coming
[19:40:21] <paddatrapper> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
