{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* When: 28 June 2016 
* Where: #ubuntu-za on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-za.org/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-za
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''chesedo'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[ZATeam-Meetings-20160524#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Plans for 2016
** Get more people to sign the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Signing%20the%20Ubuntu%20Code%20of%20Conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to apply for <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad ID's]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org/|join ubuntu-za]]</nowiki>
** Get more people to <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/GKXXiBxU/ubuntu-south-africa-loco|Join our trello]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu for Hope - update
* Events
** 17th Annual Debian Conference, DebConf16, in Cape Town from 2 July to 9 July 2016
*** Announcement: <nowiki>[[https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2016/03/msg00008.html|Registration now open...]]</nowiki> Friday, 18 Mar 2016
*** Website: https://debconf16.debconf.org/
*** Wiki: https://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf16
*** FAQs: https://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf16/FAQs
*** Get feedback on volunteers
** Past Month:
*** ?
** Other:
*** To be arranged: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-za/2015-May/011745.html|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>,  Installfests or other events
** Upcoming Next Month:
*** DebConf
* Miscellaneous
** Ubuntu in the Wild
** Get more involved with lugs to promote Ubuntu and Foss together
** Discuss Ubuntu education project
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 26 July 2016

=== Summary ===

<pre>

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:00] STARTED (chesedo)
[18:30:11] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (chesedo)
[18:33:13] AGREED: No one raised concerns with agenda (chesedo)
[18:33:16] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (chesedo)
[18:36:31] AGREED: All happy with previous minutes (chesedo)
[18:36:40] TOPIC: Plans for 2016 (chesedo)
[18:40:32] AGREED: Kilos to help tareq with Ubuntu membership (chesedo)
[18:47:58] AGREED: To get in contact with karl to organise help and website (chesedo)
[18:48:05] TOPIC: Events (chesedo)
[18:56:25] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (chesedo)
[19:08:07] AGREED: To start cleaning trello up bit by bit after family time (chesedo)
[19:08:24] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (chesedo)
[19:10:05] AGREED: chesedo to chair next meeting (chesedo)
[19:10:47] TOPIC: Next meeting (chesedo)
[19:11:53] AGREED: Next meeting is 26 July 2016 @ 20:30 (chesedo)
[19:12:01] ENDED (chesedo)

Present
=======  ==

* Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)
* Greg Eames (magespawn)
* AudaciousTUX_
* Pieter Engelbrecht (chesedo)
* Vincent Swart (Vince-0)
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Kyle Robbertze (paddatrapper)
* qwebirc98473
* AudaciousTUX
* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* S. M. Pavel Sayekat (pavlushka)
* Tareq from Bangladesh (tareq)

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:00] <chesedo> Maaz: start meeting about Ubuntu Monthly Meeting - May 2016
[18:30:00] * Maaz gets out his memo-pad and cracks his knuckles
[18:30:11] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:11] <Maaz> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:30:19] <magespawn> Maaz I am Greg Eames
[18:30:19] <Maaz> magespawn: Righto
[18:30:20] <chesedo> Evening all and thank you for joining in on our monthly
[18:30:32] <Kilos> Maaz I am Miles Sharpe
[18:30:32] <Maaz> Kilos: Done
[18:30:38] <chesedo> Our bot Maaz is doing the minutes as usual so please intro yourself to it using `Maaz: I am <firstname lastname>` eg.
[18:30:50] <chesedo> Maaz: I am Pieter Engelbrecht 
[18:30:50] <Maaz> chesedo: Righto
[18:31:03] <chesedo> The agenda for today can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160628
[18:31:15] <chesedo> any last minute changes are welcome
[18:31:27] <Kilos> pavlushka tareg you guys want to identify with Maaz 
[18:31:42] <paddatrapper> Maaz: I am Kyle Robbertze
[18:31:42] <Maaz> paddatrapper: Righto
[18:31:45] <chesedo> ready inetpro
[18:31:58] <tareq> Maaz: I am Tareq from Bangladesh
[18:31:58] <Maaz> tareq: Alrighty
[18:32:18] <inetpro> Maaz: I am Gustav H Meyer 
[18:32:18] <Maaz> inetpro: Alrighty
[18:32:25] 
[18:32:28] <chesedo> all happy with agenda?
[18:32:42] <pavlushka> Maaz I am pavlushka
[18:32:42] <Maaz> pavlushka: Righto
[18:32:53] <paddatrapper> I am
[18:33:05] 
[18:33:09] <Kilos> yip
[18:33:13] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed No one raised concerns with agenda
[18:33:13] <Maaz> Agreed: No one raised concerns with agenda
[18:33:16] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:33:16] <Maaz> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:33:26] <chesedo> minutes of the last meeting is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/Meetings/20160524
[18:33:32] 
[18:33:34] <chesedo> Please go over it for review
[18:34:00] <chesedo> ty Kilos
[18:34:03] <pavlushka> AudaciousTUX: identify yourself by "Maaz I am AudaciousTUX "
[18:34:21] <Kilos> chesedo for what
[18:34:44] <chesedo> Kilos: feedback...
[18:34:50] <chesedo> [20:33:09] <Kilos> yip
[18:34:55] <Kilos> oh
[18:35:09] <chesedo> all happy with the previous minutes?
[18:35:34] <paddatrapper> Yup, though I wasn't exactly there either
[18:36:28] <chesedo> paddatrapper: at previous meeting? (you have a debConf update)
[18:36:31] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed All happy with previous minutes
[18:36:31] <Maaz> Agreed: All happy with previous minutes
[18:36:40] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Plans for 2016
[18:36:40] <Maaz> Current Topic: Plans for 2016
[18:36:40] <paddatrapper> chesedo: Correct
[18:36:53] <chesedo> Anyone wanting to (or planning) on getting Ubuntu membership or want to sign code of conduct?
[18:37:56] <tareq> chesedo: I would like to
[18:38:06] <paddatrapper> I'll be back in a minute
[18:38:19] <chesedo> tareq: which one?
[18:38:22] <chesedo> Kilos: ^^
[18:38:26] <chesedo> paddatrapper: ok
[18:38:29] <tareq> membership
[18:38:35] * Kilos watching
[18:39:03] <tareq> I'm trying to make our loco team active
[18:39:24] <chesedo> Kilos: tareq wants to get Ubuntu membership can you give him some guidance?
[18:39:41] <Kilos> yip ill help him
[18:39:48] <tareq> planning to write some articles 
[18:40:06] <chesedo> Kilos: great \o/!!!
[18:40:12] <paddatrapper> I be back
[18:40:25] <Kilos> wb frog boots
[18:40:32] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Kilos to help tareq with Ubuntu membership
[18:40:32] <Maaz> Agreed: Kilos to help tareq with Ubuntu membership
[18:40:38] <chesedo> Ubuntu for Hope still has to get its official website up too
[18:40:51] <Kilos> oh my
[18:41:02] <Kilos> inetpro who is working on it
[18:41:14] <chesedo> magespawn: did you suggest starting with something for it?
[18:41:47] * chesedo used Hugo this week and might use it if no one else has started anything...
[18:42:26] <Kilos> karl seems to be too busy
[18:43:31] <chesedo> overall here, do you guys prefer any css framework (have issues with some) as I know bootstrap and uikit
[18:43:32] 
[18:43:43] <chesedo> and will use one of them...
[18:44:00] <Kilos> whatever works
[18:44:01] <chesedo> magespawn: did you suggest starting with something for the Ubuntu for Hope website?
[18:44:29] <tareq> thanks Maaz chesedo
[18:44:36] 
[18:44:44] <Kilos> hi qwebirc98473 
[18:44:47] <chesedo> with Hugo the content will be in Markdown so all should be ok there...
[18:44:51] <chesedo> hi qwebirc98473
[18:45:10] <Kilos> ohi Vince-0 wb
[18:45:16] <Vince-0> ohai
[18:45:58] <chesedo> will we try and have it up before next meeting guys? (me will start this week if anyone wants to help)
[18:47:03] <Kilos> oh chesedo tell karl if he wants some installs done i can help
[18:47:19] <chesedo> Kilos: will do...
[18:47:58] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed To get in contact with karl to organise help and website
[18:47:58] <Maaz> Agreed: To get in contact with karl to organise help and website
[18:48:05] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Events
[18:48:05] <Maaz> Current Topic: Events
[18:48:18] <chesedo> We have DebConf coming up this weekend with bootcamp currently being underway
[18:48:41] <chesedo> paddatrapper will be able to tell us more 
[18:48:54] <paddatrapper> Yup, most people here are having lots of fun and have finished the local craft beer (more to be sourced)
[18:49:06] <chesedo> lol
[18:49:08] <Kilos> lol
[18:49:14] <paddatrapper> Open Weekend this weekend is free to all
[18:49:31] <chesedo> from the channel, who all will be attending?
[18:49:35] <paddatrapper> Featuring exhibits from lots of local companies, groups, etc
[18:49:45] <paddatrapper> superfly and I are already here
[18:50:05] <paddatrapper> andrewdl is attending 
[18:50:16] <paddatrapper> From Saturday I think
[18:50:20] <superfly> kmf will be down too
[18:50:24] <superfly> hi
[18:50:31] <Kilos> hi superfly 
[18:50:33] <chesedo> Vince-0: did you make the volunteering list?
[18:50:36] <superfly> paddatrapper: sorry, I never got to give you my flash drive today
[18:50:44] <superfly> Maaz: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:50:44] <Maaz> superfly: Righto
[18:50:51] <chesedo> hi superfly
[18:50:52] <paddatrapper> hey superfly, didn't run into you today it seems. Tomorrow it will have to be :)
[18:51:17] <superfly> paddatrapper: yes, lavamind and a few others kidnapped me for a tour of the peninsula
[18:51:33] <superfly> amazing day, but now I am zonked
[18:51:33] <Kilos> you guys need to wear pink beanies so you can find ach other
[18:51:34] <chesedo> lol
[18:51:47] <paddatrapper> So you're one who replaced nattie! Lol
[18:51:57] 
[18:52:05] <paddatrapper> Kilos: Usually just heading to the orga room works
[18:52:17] <chesedo> will one of you be able to give us the exciting report of it at the next meeting?
[18:52:57] <superfly> chesedo: yes, there will be a report anyway
[18:53:11] <paddatrapper> Hopefully, if the orga team get their buts into gear, we'll be able to link the final report
[18:53:17] <chesedo> superfly: haha thanks
[18:53:30] <superfly> paddatrapper: you do know you're orga now, right?
[18:53:58] <Kilos> what is orga
[18:54:11] <chesedo> Kilos: think it is ORGAnizer
[18:54:15] <Vince-0> chesedo: no can do, i can't make it
[18:54:16] <Kilos> aha
[18:54:23] <Vince-0> Maaz: I am Vincent Swart
[18:54:23] <Maaz> Vince-0: Done
[18:54:27] <paddatrapper> superfly: Let me refrase: When highvoltage gets his butt into gear lol
[18:54:36] <Kilos> haha
[18:54:40] <chesedo> Vince-0: oh ok
[18:54:42] <paddatrapper> Kilos: Yeah - organiser
[18:55:03] <chesedo> all good if i move on?
[18:55:08] <pavlushka> Maaz I am S. M. Pavel Sayekat
[18:55:08] <Maaz> pavlushka: Righto
[18:55:10] <Kilos> eish paddatrapper you got dropped in at the deap end
[18:55:22] <paddatrapper> Kilos: And enjoying every moment of it :D
[18:55:24] <Kilos> deep
[18:55:30] <Kilos> goo
[18:55:33] <Kilos> d
[18:55:42] * pavlushka lol
[18:55:44] <chesedo> ok one last thing, superfly paddatrapper any last minute helpers can still reach you on the channel right?
[18:55:46] <Kilos> keep our flag flying
[18:55:58] <paddatrapper> chesedo: For sure
[18:56:12] <chesedo> awesome
[18:56:24] <paddatrapper> Though now I'd suggest we should be promoting the Open Weekend, as registration is pretty much over
[18:56:25] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Miscellaneous
[18:56:25] <Maaz> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[18:56:56] <chesedo> paddatrapper: twitter, facebook other links we can share?
[18:57:13] <paddatrapper> chesedo: One second, I'll find the email...
[18:57:35] <chesedo> paddatrapper: oky
[18:58:05] <paddatrapper> @debian@identi.ca in the Pump.io network, @debian@quitter.se in the GNU Social Network, @debian or @debconf on Twitter
[18:58:20] <paddatrapper> #debconf
[18:58:26] <paddatrapper> #debconf16 too
[18:59:17] <chesedo> paddatrapper: any about the open weekend that can be retweeted, shared, etc.
[18:59:52] * chesedo looking up @debconf
[19:00:25] <tareq> 1 AM here in Bangladesh
[19:00:37] <tareq> good night all
[19:00:40] <paddatrapper> https://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf16/Open_Festival https://debconf16.debconf.org/open-festival/
[19:00:43] <Kilos> rest well tareq 
[19:00:49] <Kilos> ty for visiting
[19:00:56] <tareq> :)
[19:01:59] <paddatrapper> chesedo: I'll keep looking and see what I can find
[19:02:00] <chesedo> inetpro: can our twitter channel retweet this -> https://twitter.com/trevorgowing/status/747418902682959877
[19:02:03] 
[19:02:48] <chesedo> paddatrapper: great, i just can look for any on facebook
[19:02:59] <chesedo> s/can/cannot/
[19:03:08] <inetpro> chesedo: I'll do it asap 
[19:03:17] <chesedo> inetpro: ty
[19:03:43] <paddatrapper> https://twitter.com/ConfChicken is the twitter account for Pollito - the DebConf chicken
[19:03:46] <chesedo> Kilos: I will carry the trello cleanup over to this month?
[19:04:03] <Kilos> lol
[19:04:25] <Kilos> were you going to do it chesedo ?
[19:04:43] <chesedo> Kilos: you
[19:04:52] <Kilos> what!
[19:04:55] <Kilos> you sure
[19:05:01] <paddatrapper> lol
[19:05:05] * chesedo was to make time to help you :P
[19:05:13] <Kilos> i think
[19:05:18] <Kilos> hmm...
[19:05:26] <Kilos> ideal job for inetpro 
[19:06:13] <chesedo> Kilos: guess we should do it at night (after family time) bit by bit so to get feedback when needed?
[19:06:54] <Kilos> the pro only gives feedback hours later
[19:07:06] <Kilos> after i have broken things
[19:07:17] <chesedo> Kilos: great so we and him can sleep on it :P
[19:07:27] <Kilos> lol yip
[19:07:35] <Kilos> you know where to find me
[19:08:07] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed To start cleaning trello up bit by bit after family time
[19:08:07] <Maaz> Agreed: To start cleaning trello up bit by bit after family time
[19:08:24] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting 
[19:08:24] <Maaz> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:08:34] <chesedo> Anyone want to carry the stick for the next meeting?
[19:08:37] * Kilos votes for chesedo
[19:08:59] <paddatrapper> I can't maths... When is the next meeting?
[19:09:00] <Kilos> if it aint broke dont try fix it
[19:09:16] <chesedo> paddatrapper: 26 jul
[19:09:25] <paddatrapper> chesedo: thanks
[19:09:43] <chesedo> no no Kilos
[19:09:58] <Kilos> what
[19:09:58] <chesedo> well seems like magority rule :P
[19:10:04] <Kilos> yes
[19:10:05] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:10:05] <Maaz> Agreed: chesedo to chair next meeting
[19:10:07] <Kilos> thats me
[19:10:15] <paddatrapper> Except in Britain it seems
[19:10:20] <chesedo> [21:09:01] <Kilos> if it aint broke dont try fix it
[19:10:21] <Kilos> hahaha
[19:10:39] <chesedo> ... square wheels was never broke either...
[19:10:46] <Kilos> lol
[19:10:47] <chesedo> Maaz: topic Next meeting
[19:10:47] <Maaz> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:10:50] <pavlushka> lol
[19:10:54] <paddatrapper> Well did those ever work in the first place?
[19:11:05] <chesedo> 26 jul is the correct date right?
[19:11:06] <pavlushka> ha ha ha
[19:11:37] <chesedo> paddatrapper: sure, everyone had a bounce it their step back then :P
[19:11:39] <Kilos> yip
[19:11:50] <paddatrapper> lol
[19:11:53] <chesedo> Maaz: agreed Next meeting is 26 July 2016 @ 20:30
[19:11:53] <Maaz> Agreed: Next meeting is 26 July 2016 @ 20:30
[19:12:01] <chesedo> Maaz: end meeting

</pre>
