{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Dean the IT guy ==
Gunnison, Colorado

=== About me ===
I'm a student attending Western State College of Colorado majoring in computer science and double minoring in math and physics. I work in the IT department of my college fixing the computers students and teachers bring in. I strongly support the philosophy of Ubuntu and open source software in general. I'm fairly new to Linux based systems, but eager to learn about them alongside my educational studies!

=== Why using Ubuntu? ===
As a practicing Buddhist, I strongly support the philosophy of Ubuntu and especially the meaning behind the word: "I am what I am because of who we all are". I believe information and knowledge should be shared freely with everyone, which is why I love open source software in general. I'm fairly new to Linux based systems, but eager to learn about them alongside my educational studies!

=== Why a challenge? ===
Life is boring without challenges! Anything difficult is worth doing, and if it is worth doing, it's worth doing well.

=== Life Goals ===
After I get my BA in computer science from Western, my plan is to go to the University of Edinburgh in Scotland to get my Masters Degree in artificial intelligence and robotic engineering, and get a career in which I attempt to contribute to the overall progress of humanity!

=== Social networking profile ===
You can find me on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/chris.d.mills.9?ref=tn_tnmn

Or email me at dean.chris.mills@gmail.com

=== Suggestions ===
Compassion to others is the key to happiness.
