{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

My name is Cheng-Chia Tseng. I was born in Chiayi city, Taiwan. The computer science teacher of my junior high school inspired me the passion with free software and the idea behind it. The first Linux distribution I used is B2D (Back2Debian) developed in Taiwan. B2D is a Live CD preinstalled with many handy programs and preconfigured for Taiwanese. I later switched to Ubuntu Linux since Jan, 2005.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| zerng07
|-
| GTalk
| pswo10680 AT gmail DOT com
|-
| Email
| pswo10680 AT gmail DOT com
|-
| Website
| http://breezymove.blogspot.tw/
|}

=== Contributions within Ubuntu ===

I started to contribute to LoCo community by editing local community wikis since 2008 and translating some translations for Ubuntu on Launchpad since 2010. After I had been contributing for some period of time, the leader of Traditional Chinese Local Team, BlueT, gave me the honor to better serve the community as one of the '''administrators''' of ''Ubuntu Traditional Chinese (Taiwan) Translators Team'' since 2011. 
I have kept translating in my free time and managing the team so far.

My launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~zerng07

I am also concerned about Chinese-related issues such as CJK fonts and fontconfig configurations, and I have been active in suggesting the proper way to deal with Traditional Chinese locale. 
Here are some of the bugs which I participated in:
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/language-selector/+bug/1173571
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fonts-android/+bug/1351092
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/language-selector/+bug/1335482
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-touch-meta/+bug/1346766
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubufox/+bug/542046
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/language-selector/+bug/713950

=== Other Contributions ===
* The Document Foundation <nowiki>[[https://www.documentfoundation.org/foundation/members/ | Member]]</nowiki>
* GNOME Foundation <nowiki>[[https://www.gnome.org/foundation/membership/ | Member]]</nowiki>
* GNOME Chinese (Traditional) Team <nowiki>[[ https:--l10n.gnome.org-teams-zh_trad- | Committer]]</nowiki>
* Launchpad Traditional Chinese (Taiwan) Team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lp-l10n-zh-tw | Leader]]</nowiki>
* Translation Project/TP Chinese (Traditional) Team <nowiki>[[http://translationproject.org/team/zh_TW.html | Translator]]</nowiki>

=== Future Goals ===

There are few people contributing to Ubuntu community in Taiwan now although Ubuntu is the most popular Linux distribution here. 

I believe it is time to change, so I read ''Art of Community'' by Jono Bacon and would like to improve the ramp-up process for getting involved as a contributor to Ubuntu LoCo team in Taiwan.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

==== Gunnar Hjalmarsson ====
As a contributor to i18n related areas in Ubuntu I have had the pleasure to interact with Cheng-Chia Tseng several times during the past few years. He has made valuable contributions with respect to fonts and fonts configuration for Chinese, and with that improved the rendering experience for many users. In particular his initiative and knowledgeable input resulted in a change of the default font for both simplified and traditional Chinese in Ubuntu 14.04 and derivatives. Cheng-Chia Tseng is cooperative, acts in the Ubuntu spirit, and I would welcome him as an Ubuntu member. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:gunnarhj]]</nowiki> 
==== Matthew Lien ====
I, as the LoCo founder and current lead of Ubuntu-TW in the past 10 years, am really glad to have Cheng-Chia Tseng in our team, and strongly recommend him to be an Ubuntu member. He had done many good jobs and helped a lot in improving Traditional Chinese enviroment for Ubuntu and other FLOSS software in the past years since about 2010.
He's also a key person in our LoCo responsible for Traslation and Documention. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:bluet]]</nowiki> 