{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/zeroconfpolicy
* '''Created''':  by Rob Caskey
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': 
* '''Packages''': avahi, libnss-mdns, zeroconf, network-manager

=== Introduction ===

This Spec describes the integration of ZeroConf technologies for Edgy+1 and the required alteration to the no-port policy that would be required.

=== Rationale ===

ZeroConf allows devices to communicate on a network with minimal configuration. ZeroConf enhanced applications facilatate network-sharing tasks (outlined below) in such a compelling manner that they justify an amendment of the no-open-ports (by default) policy.

Attack vectors are limited to the local area network. Upstream has been very responsive and submitted an <nowiki>[[http://avahi.org/wiki/SecurityConsiderations|outline of security considerations]]</nowiki> previously.

The codebase is compact relative to the scope of functionality.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

* Trent wants to send a file to Jeff, an OS X user, on the train over an ad-hoc network. Both machines use ZeroConf to negotiate IP addresses and Nautilus automatically displays the advertised shares of the OS X machines.
* Trent is at a conference and opens GAIM which advertises his presence via ZeroConf.
* Trent shares his ~/Photos using the shares admin tool, and Jeff discovers it on his Mac.
* Isaac discovers a ZeroConf printer.

=== Design ===

* Avahi/Zeroconf should be turned on by default. This poses a security risk.
* The no-open-ports policy will become a one-open-port policy.
* Users disable Zero-Conf by removing Avahi using Synaptic.

=== Implementation Plan ===

* The no-open-ports by default policy shall be amended to allow Avahi and only Avahi contingent upon the following:
    - a freedesktop.org and Ubuntu developer should be appointed by the technical board with the task of soliciting Coverity for inclusion in their defect-scanning project.

    - no security defects are outstanding in Avahi.

    - technical board issues a formal statement containing an outline of any areas of concern and designates a group to hand-audited those areas.
* Install/configure avahi and libnss-mdns by default, listening on all interfaces except those disabled by default in Avahi (like VPN, <nowiki>[[http://avahi.org/wiki/Avah4users#FAQ|see faq]]</nowiki>).
* All network-facing services should advertise via Avahi, even if no consumer currently exists. This should be achieved by wrapping init.d/ entries using the command line tools unless native Avahi support is present.

==== Packages Affected ====

* network-manager - configure IPv4 Link Local addresses when there is no static IP or DHCP address
* avahi - Handles service dicovery, allows applications to publish and browse for services
* libnss-mdns - Allows the system to resolve .local addresses, advertisd by avahi via the standard resolver interface.
* libknssd-avahi - Allows *all* kde programs already using dns-sd with the KDE api to use avahi
* various non-enhanced daemons should have advertising wrappers added to their init scripts

=== Comments ===

pitti posted a substantial contribution - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2006-July/019680.html

----
CategorySpec
