{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Ubuntu Budgie 17.04, Zesty Zapus, for distribution in April 2017. With this second alpha you can get a glimpse of what the next version will contain. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information.

'''NOTE:''' This is the Alpha 2 pre-release. 
Ubuntu Budgie Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues.
* Anyone who needs a stable system.
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system.
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable.

Ubuntu Budgie Alpha 2 pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs. You can find more about helping to test and bug triage at <nowiki>[[https://ubuntubudgie.org/17-04-testing| Ubuntu Budgie testing]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu Budgie developers.
* People wanting to see and test how the current snapshot of Ubuntu Budgie 17.04 will look and behave.

=== Getting Ubuntu Budgie 17.04 Alpha 2 ===

The full listing of available images is <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntubudgie/releases/zesty/alpha-2/ | here]]</nowiki>. You must <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM|check]]</nowiki> both the download and then the ''' check install media''' on 1st boot before attempting an install. Instructions for burning the image to a CD / DVD or copying to a USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

==== Upgrading from Previous Versions ====

We need feedback as to upgrading from budgie-remix 16.10.

=== Alpha 2 Highlights ===

* latest budgie-desktop stable release v10.2.9.
* latest budgie-welcome app with our browser ballot screen
* AppIndicator support is now default
* Terminix is the default terminal
* Many new GNOME based applications are included by default compared to previous budgie-remix releases
* This Zesty Zapus snapshot includes the v4.9 kernel.

----

== Known Problems ==

=== Ubuntu Budgie Applications ===
This is our list of known bugs affecting applications that Ubuntu Budgie uses but relies on others to maintain.

* none known currently

=== Ubuntu Budgie-specific Bugs ===
These are maintained by the Ubuntu Budgie team.

* panel or session occasional crash when installing or upgrading packages (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/budgie-desktop/+bug/1631745|1631745]]</nowiki>).

=== Ubuntu Budgie Desktop Installer ===

* Ubuntu Budgie does not boot directly to ubiquity try/install screen. (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-cd/+bug/1659278|1659278]]</nowiki>).
* Dont see plymouth when booting Alpha 2 Ubuntu Budgie ISO (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/1659279|1659279]]</nowiki>).
* ubuntu budgie does not display a background wallpaper nor window decorations (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1659280|1659280]]</nowiki>).
* When reinstalling Ubuntu Budgie, ubiquity does not correctly report previous installed OS (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1659283|1659283]]</nowiki>).
* Ubuntu Budgie - slideshow pictures do not match the words (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu/+bug/1659329|1659329]]</nowiki>).
* Ubuntu Budgie identifies itself in Grub as "Ubuntu" not "Ubuntu Budgie" (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/os-prober/+bug/1659402|1659402]]</nowiki>).
* Ubuntu Budgie live session in virtualbox not displayed correctly (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/1659412|1659412]]</nowiki>).

===== All Desktop images require a DVD or USB. =====

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu Budgie 17.04, the Zesty Zapus, is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day. Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up-to-date. For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntubudgie/daily-live/current/|Daily created images for standard PCs, laptops and netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to join our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~budgie-remix-bug-busters|testers]]</nowiki> and give us your feedback.
