{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 17.04 Zesty Zapus ==

Please see <nowiki>[[ZestyZapus-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

Ubuntu Studio shares some of the desktop features with Xubuntu. Please see <nowiki>[[http://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/17.04/release-notes | Xubuntu release notes]]</nowiki> for additional information.

== Getting Ubuntu Studio Zesty Zapus (17.04) ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/17.04/release/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your installation goes smoothly. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/17.04/release/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Changes for this release (compared to Yakkety Yak 16.10) ==
 
== Additions and Changes ==

=== General ===

* system-config-printer-gnome replaced with system-config-printer
* Added pm-utils

=== Audio ===

* no changes

=== Graphics ===

* Krita has been added back
* Darktable is removed from 32bit ISO due to lack of upstream support

=== Publishing ===

* no changes

=== Video ===

* no changes

== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blender | Blender v2.78.a]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdenlive | KDEnlive v16.12.3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/krita | Krita v3.1.2.1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp | Gimp v2.8.20]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qjackctl | qJackCtl v0.4.2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ardour | Ardour v5.5.0]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scribus | Scribus v1.4.6]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/darktable | Darktable v2.2.1]]</nowiki> (64bit only)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pitivi | Pitivi v0.98]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/inkscape | Inkscape v0.92.1]]</nowiki>

== Known Problems ==

* Installer
** Check Disc for Defects does not work in EFI mode (Bug:752994)
** Ubiquity resizes partition even when not asked to (Bug:1218702)

== Support ==

Ubuntu Studio Zesty Zapus (17.04) will be supported for 9 months until Jan 2018. If you need Long Term Support, it is recommended you use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuStudio | Ubuntu Studio Xenial 16.04 LTS]]</nowiki> instead.

== Contact Us ==
Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are listed <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | here]]</nowiki>
