{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Ubuntu Budgie 17.04, Zesty Zapus, for distribution in April 2017. With this first beta you will see what the next version will contain. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information.

'''NOTE:''' This is the Beta 1 pre-release. 
Ubuntu Budgie Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues.
* Anyone who needs a stable system.
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system.
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable.

Ubuntu Budgie Beta 1 pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs. You can find more about helping to test and bug triage at <nowiki>[[https://ubuntubudgie.org/17-04-testing| Ubuntu Budgie testing]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu Budgie developers.
* People wanting to see and test how the current snapshot of Ubuntu Budgie 17.04 will look and behave.

=== Getting Ubuntu Budgie 17.04 Beta 1 ===

The full listing of available images is <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-budgie/releases/17.04/beta-1/ | here]]</nowiki>. You must <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM|check]]</nowiki> both the download and then the ''' check install media''' on 1st boot before attempting an install. Instructions for burning the image to a CD / DVD or copying to a USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

==== Upgrading from Previous Versions ====

We need feedback as to upgrading from budgie-remix 16.10.

=== Beta 1 Highlights ===

* latest budgie-desktop stable release v10.2.9.
* Latest GNOME 3.24 applications (in beta) together with GTK+ 3.22 window manager 
* latest budgie-welcome app with our browser ballot screen
* AppIndicator support is now default
* Terminix is the default terminal
* Many new GNOME based applications are included by default compared to previous budgie-remix releases
* 17.04 Community Contest Winning Wallpapers
* This Zesty Zapus snapshot includes the v4.9 kernel.

----

== Known Problems ==

* QT based applications are not themed correctly - bug to be filed

=== Ubuntu Budgie Applications ===
This is our list of known bugs affecting applications that Ubuntu Budgie uses but relies on others to maintain.

* none known currently

=== Ubuntu Budgie-specific Bugs ===
These are maintained by the Ubuntu Budgie team.

* none known currently

=== Ubuntu Budgie Desktop Installer ===

* Dont see plymouth when booting Alpha 2 Ubuntu Budgie ISO (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/1659279|1659279]]</nowiki>).
* Ubuntu Budgie - slideshow pictures do not match the words (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu/+bug/1659329|1659329]]</nowiki>).

===== All Desktop images require a DVD or USB. =====

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu Budgie 17.04, the Zesty Zapus, is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day. Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up-to-date. For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntubudgie/daily-live/current/|Daily created images for standard PCs, laptops and netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to join our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~budgie-remix-bug-busters|testers]]</nowiki> and give us your feedback.
