{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Shengjing Zhu, apply for Ubuntu core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Shengjing Zhu
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~zhsj
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/zhsj
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.
* I'd like to review and sponsor others work.

== Who I am ==

I work at Canonical as a Software Engineer since 2023, part of the Foundations team.
I am a Debian developer since 2018.
I focus on the Go toolchain currently. I was a Go developer previously. 

== My Ubuntu story ==

I began my Linux journal with my first laptop, which was preinstalled with Ubuntu 12.04. I kept using Ubuntu until 2016 when I purchased my second laptop, and then I started using Debian.

As a Debian developer I have been working closely with Ubuntu, by integrating patches applied in Ubuntu, ensuring new versions are uploaded before Ubuntu freeze, fixing bugs (usually FTBFS bugs due the difference in Ubuntu and Debian builder farm).

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

As a Debian developer I mostly uploaded packages in Debian directly and file sync request when needed.

+1 maintenance report

* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2023-June/042592.html
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2023-August/042759.html
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2023-September/042789.html

SRU

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.20/+bug/2020658
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ccls/+bug/1874508
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gobject-introspection/+bug/2065902 (WIP)
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/llvm-toolchain-18/+bug/2064187 (WIP)

MIR

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dhcpcd/+bug/2019191

Merge

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/console-setup/+bug/2020749
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/ubuntu/+source/libgcrypt20/+git/libgcrypt20/+merge/452342
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/ubuntu/+source/libs3/+git/libs3/+merge/444228
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/ubuntu/+source/kmod/+git/kmod/+merge/446138
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/ubuntu/+source/kmod/+git/kmod/+merge/456590
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/ubuntu/+source/burp/+git/burp/+merge/457222
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/ubuntu/+source/bamf/+git/bamf/+merge/462686
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/ubuntu/+source/kmod/+git/kmod/+merge/464608
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/+git/pkgbinarymangler/+merge/437569
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/ubuntu/+source/kmod/+git/kmod/+merge/437338
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/ubuntu/+source/dpkg/+git/dpkg/+merge/435646
* https://code.launchpad.net/~zhsj/ubuntu/+source/dpkg/+git/dpkg/+merge/435346

Sync request

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-streadway-amqp/+bug/2024308
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ycmd/+bug/2024886
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-hhatto-gorst/+bug/2027759
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-opencontainers-runtime-tools/+bug/2028913
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/go-cve-dictionary/+bug/2031607
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gost/+bug/2031609
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/go-exploitdb/+bug/2031610
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-canonical-candid/+bug/2032150
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-mdlayher-socket/+bug/2032170
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-mdlayher-vsock/+bug/2032878
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/caddy/+bug/2032879
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kxd/+bug/2033013
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/beaker/+bug/2033056
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dh-golang/+bug/2033389
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hugo/+bug/2033617
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/aptly/+bug/2034102
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.21/+bug/2034690
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.19/+bug/2034692
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vuls/+bug/2034803
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/moc/+bug/2035615
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gcc-mingw-w64/+bug/2036979
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-mongodb-mongo-driver/+bug/2043075
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-fullsailor-pkcs7/+bug/2043077
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-masterminds-sprig/+bug/2043091
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-remyoudompheng-bigfft/+bug/2043143
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-google-martian/+bug/2043144
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-go-resty-resty/+bug/2043145
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-bugsnag-bugsnag-go/+bug/2043166
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/etcd/+bug/2055357
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.21/+bug/2056309
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.22/+bug/2056310
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gopacket/+bug/2059732
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-gopacket-gopacket/+bug/2059896
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-weppos-publicsuffix-go/+bug/2060018
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.21/+bug/2060192
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.22/+bug/2060195
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-hashicorp-golang-lru-v2/+bug/2060892
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.22/+bug/2061920
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/molly-brown/+bug/2061921
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ccls/+bug/2063085
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-containers-toolbox/+bug/2007138
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.19/+bug/2007220
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-go-openapi-spec/+bug/2008044
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-jhillyerd-enmime/+bug/2008171
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/arno-iptables-firewall/+bug/2009123
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-golang-x-tools/+bug/2011511
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/packer/+bug/2011514
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/git-sizer/+bug/2011561
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.20/+bug/2015339
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.19/+bug/2015340
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/docker-registry/+bug/2019532
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-matryer-try/+bug/2023471
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-github-avast-apkverifier/+bug/2023472

Debian work

* https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=zhsj I have maintained (as well as team upload) large amount of Go packages. I also maintain several C/C++ applications and libraries (s6, fmtlib, sdbus-cpp, fcitx5, etc.) and work with Debian release to handle library transitions.

=== Areas of work ===

My work at Canonical is about the Go toolchain in Ubuntu, and ensure we would have smooth transition for every new Go version. I don't intend to apply for Package Set Uploader, because I'm interested in all golang-* packages, which are more than 2k packages.

I also involve in +1 maintenance, for all the universe packages.

=== Things I could do better ===

* I have forgotten to run `update-maintainer` at first.
* I should have done more SRU instead of just fixing devel release.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

I would like to keep fixing bugs, reducing delta between Debian. I also want to sponsor others work and participate the patch pilot program. 

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I feel the active Ubuntu developers are much less than Debian. I'm not sure how to improve that. Maybe if patches are got reviewed more actively, these contributors would be more interested in becoming developers.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Michael Hudson-Doyle ===
==== General feedback ====
I have worked with Shengjing from before he joined Canonical, when I was maintaining the Go toolchain packages in Ubuntu. I have always found him to be a knowledgeable and diligent engineer and found his work to be of high quality. He is the only person I know who understands how to handle the various versions of the grpc packages!

Although he specializes in the Go toolchain, he clearly has a good knowledge of the whole packaging ecosystem and I trust him not to upload a change that he does not fully understand the consequences of. I completely support his application to be a core developer.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I am surprised to find that I have not sponsored any patches from zhsj! But I have handled mass no-change rebuilds at his request as part of Go toolchain transitions and found his requests to be well formed and easy to follow through on.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I feel he could spend more time on non-Go areas of the distro -- but balancing an area of expertise with general distro work is always difficult.

----
=== Gianfranco Costamagna ===
==== General feedback ====
I have worked with Shengjing since some time, I did sponsor some of his work, but mainly followed his contributions in Debian and Ubuntu. He is doing a great job keeping the archives in sync, this is why the need of finding Ubuntu sponsors was not that huge.
I like his work, and I think he has great skills and abilities to work without need of further sponsorship process.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

The work we did together was related to dpkg and llvm-toolchain-* fixes, in both Debian and Ubuntu.

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dpkg/+bug/2002582
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dpkg/+bug/2002201
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/llvm-toolchain-18/+bug/2064187

GianfrancoCostamagna

----
=== Graham Inggs ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored 28 uploads for Shengjing since March, 2023.  Most of these were syncs from Debian, reducing our delta there.  I've seen good work in Shengjing's +1 reports and in dealing with transitions.  I believe Shengjing, being a long-time DD, is ready to be a core developer right now.
==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I sponsored a golang SRU to three releases: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.21/+bug/2040269|LP: #2040269]]</nowiki>
where the autopkgtest regressions and SRU verification were followed through on nicely.
==== Areas of Improvement ====
Shengjing is already well-versed in Ubuntu specifics; FFes, SRUs, MIRs, proposed-migration, etc.  I can't think of any areas that need improvement.

----

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
