{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am a 28 year old IT consultant and computer science major from Denmark who has been using Ubuntu as a main OS since 2007 (experience with Linux systems since 2001). Through my studies and hobbies I am fairly experienced within programming as well as general problem solving and optimization within computer science. 

I currently work as an IT architecture consultant at NNIT in Denmark, where I daily work with IT infrastructure architecture, project leading, customer relationship mangement etc.

The reason why I like Ubuntu is most of all because of the philosophy behind it. Freedom and equality across all barriers is very important to me. I find it sad that major industries mostly focusing on economic gain above humanity towards its users and workers still have a greater influence and market share than free alternatives and would like to work against it.

From a technical perspective I am very interested in being a part of a relaxed and yet focused community and being able to help others in using Ubuntu and related tools through forums and networks.

My current hope for the future would be to work for and together with Canonical or a related company to be able to work for what I believe in and want to see happening. In my opinion, it is important to share the philosophy with the employing company not only to be motivated in the work but also to create a great working environment where people can work together and stay there because they like what they do and where everyone work for a common goal.

Additionally, the transparent and yet globalised processes that characterise this great company amaze me (especially after attending UDS-R) and I would very much like to be a greater part of it.

==== Skills ====
Programming
* C, C++, Java, Python, C#
* PHP, Javascript
* HTML, CSS
* scripting
System administration
IT infrastructure architecture
* System design
* Access Management
* Network setup
* Storage, Databases etc.
Project leading

Languages 
* Very good/fluent levels of Danish, Spanish, German, English
* Good understanding of other Latin and Scandinavian languages
* Basic levels of Russian, Indonesian and Mandarin Chinese
Web development
* Drupal: Maintainer and developer of several professional sites (http://e-sundhedsobservatoriet.dk/, http://medinfo2013.dk/ etc.)

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| zilvador
|-
| Skype
| zilvador
|-
| Email
| daniel at zilvador.dk
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~zilvador
|}

=== Contributions ===

==== Summary of contributions ====

Loco contact for Ubuntu Denmark for two years

Translator of the Ubuntu Manual and several applications.

Bug reporting, managing and organisation.

Community participation through forums and IRC channels.

==== Details ====

I have been a member of the Danish translation team (https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-da) since 2010 and in that connection I've been involved in translating several Ubuntu applications as well as taking great part of the Danish translation of the Ubuntu Manual in 2010.

Furthermore, I have since 2010 been very active in reporting, organising and gathering information on bugs on Launchpad. So far I have not actually been contributing code, since I have not gotten further than going through the code base of applications to get an idea of their structure. I hope to do so in the near future.

Since 2013 I have been the LoCo contact of Ubuntu Denmark and as such arranged and coordinated national IRC meetings and organisational activities.

=== Future Goals ===

'''Short term goal for Ubuntu''': Making the platform more stable, especially with respect to GUI, by bug management and code contribution and spread the word to make people know about Ubuntu. Continue translation work, primarily in popular applications.

'''Long term goal for Ubuntu''': Increase the OS market share by strengthening and localising the platform, the community and the selection of applications. Make more compatible with mobile platforms.

I very much enjoy contributing to Ubuntu and want to continue this effort, not only in the above mentioned areas but also in programming (patches and perhaps even full applications) as well as strengthening the community that is behind Ubuntu.

On a more concrete level I would very much like to both continue my work on translations to do what I can to make sure all can enjoy an Ubuntu environment in their own language.

I would also like to get involved with both developing and maintaining open source applications as well as managing and helping with bug administration in Launchpad, since I realise that information can easily be overseen if not handled carefully and in time. I frequently report bugs own my own where I take care to add all the necessary information whenever possible. My own goal in this area is to make Ubuntu as a platform more stable to make it more reliable and give new users a better impression.

Finally, I hope to raise more attention to Ubuntu and enjoy the experience other people will have of it through community work and support on forums and through other channels. I hope to spread the word of Ubuntu and give people a good impression of it, but most of all let them know of the existence of this free alternative and the reasons for using it.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 
