{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;"><<BR>>'''Other Pages'''<<BR>><<BR>><nowiki>[[PlanOfAction|Team Plan of Action]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[ZimProjects|Zimbabwe Projects]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[Meetings|Team Meetings]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[PromoMaterial|Promotional Material]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[Ubuntu-Shona|Shona Translation Team]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-zw|Join Mailing List]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[http://zimbabwe.ubuntuforums.org|Zimbabwe Forum]]</nowiki>
|}

== Introduction ==

The initial goals of the team will be:

* To bring together Ubuntu users within our local community
* To make Zimbabweans aware that Ubuntu exists
* To promote Ubuntu in Zimbabwe through the organisation of demonstrations and any other promotional activities
* To assist Ubuntu users with support and advice wherever possible

Although Ubuntu has not gained wide-spread popularity in Zimbabwe (yet!), there are evidently a number of people and organisations who are keenly interested in it and some who have whole-heartedly adopted it. The starting goal of the Zimbabwe Team is to bring those people together, thereby establishing a solid base to begin building on, to promote the overall growth of Ubuntu in our local community.

If you are already an Ubuntu user in Zimbabwe and feel that you might have something to offer as a team member, please feel free to contact us.

== Contact & Resources ==

Web site: http://www.ubuntu.org.zw
<<BR>>Mailing List: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-zw
<<BR>>Forum: http://zimbabwe.ubuntuforums.org
<<BR>>Repository Mirror: http://archive.ubuntu.org.zw
<<BR>>Team Leader/Contact: <nowiki>[[KThaker|Kalpesh Thaker]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>Team E-mail: team@ubuntu.org.zw

Presently, due to the small number of 'known' Ubuntu enthusiasts in Zimbabwe, the mailing list and forum are the main forms of contact. We do have an active and locally-hosted Zimbabwean site however, which provides local ISO downloads, contact details and info on the local repository, among other things. Check it out on the link given above.

== Team Members ==

Please refer to https://launchpad.net/~zimbabwe-team for a list of current LoCo Team Members.

== Other Zim Teams ==

<nowiki>[[Ubuntu-Shona|Shona Translation Team]]</nowiki>

== Team Leader History ==

2007-2010 - <nowiki>[[NeilCoetzer|Neil Coetzer]]</nowiki>

2010-2010 - <nowiki>[[donaldhobbs|Donald Hobbs]]</nowiki>

2012- Present - <nowiki>[[KThaker|Kalpesh Thaker]]</nowiki>

== Acknowledgements ==

A huge thank you to Yo!Africa for providing free hosting and bandwidth for the Zimbabwe Ubuntu repository mirror.
Thanks also to Webdev for the free hosting of our domain and site: http://www.ubuntu.org.zw

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryLoCoTeams
