{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Return to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/9w]]</nowiki>
-----

=== RAM and disk usage tests with Trusty non-pae ===

The testing was done in a computer desktop cube computer with

* ASUS M2N-VM motherboard
* AMD Athlon 64 X2 4400+, 2.3 GHz (dual core)
* RAM 2 GB DIMM DDR2 800 MHz
* onboard nvidia graphics (geforce 7050 PV / nforce 630a), running well with nouveau

This comparison of memory used (RAM and disk space) was made with the system installed from 'Trusty-npae-124-txt'''3'''.tar.xz' developed from Ubuntu 14.04 LTS mini.iso. Except from the text mode menus, it is the same system as in 'Trusty-npae-124-txt'''4'''.tar.xz'.

RAM was measured by '''free -m''' -/+ buffers/cache, idling after three reboots.
Disk usage was measured by '''df -h .'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4#CCFF99>Installed system developed from Ubuntu 14.04 LTS mini.iso
|-
| <#DDFFAA>Description
| <#DDFFAA>RAM
| <#DDFFAA>Disk
| <#DDFFAA>Comments
|-
| <#CCFF99>
| <#CCFF99>MiB
| <#CCFF99>GiB
| <#CCFF99>
|-
| Ubuntu minimal text
| 034
| 1.1
| 
|-
| Fluxbox, xinit, xterm
| 058
| 1.3
| no effort for sound
|-
| Openbox in LXDE
| 062
|-
| LXDE
| 074
| 1.6
| no sound in speakers
|-
| Lubuntu Core, midori, leafpad
| 125
| 2.3
| lubuntu restricted extras
|-
| Lubuntu desktop
| 123
| 2.8
| lubuntu restricted extras
|-
| Xubuntu desktop
| 246
| 3.1
| xubuntu restricted extras
|-
| <-4#CCFF99>OBI-9w developed from Debian Wheezy
|-
| <#DDFFAA>Description
| <#DDFFAA>RAM
| <#DDFFAA>Disk
| <#DDFFAA>Comments
|-
| <#CCFF99>
| <#CCFF99>MiB
| <#CCFF99>GiB
| <#CCFF99>
|-
| text screen
| 024
| 0.2
| 211 MiB iso file size (except tarball)
|-
| LXDE
| 037
| 0.2
| 211 MiB iso file size (except tarball)
|}

=== RAM needed for installation ===

The following link describes the RAM needed for different installers (for 32-bit systems)

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/AdvancedMethods]]</nowiki>

You need '''128 MiB RAM''' to install a system with OBI-9w and '''80 MiB RAM''' with 9w 'proper'. Near the limit you should run 9w in text mode. This is lower than what is possible with the standard installers (desktop, alternate and mini.iso alias netboot).

=== RAM needed for modern web browsing ===

But a computer with less than 256 MiB RAM will only be really useful as a server in text mode even if it can run a desktop environment in Ubuntu 14.04 LTS. Maybe it can be used for simple word processing, mail and other text communication. Modern web browsing requires '''at least 512 MiB RAM''', maybe even 1 GB. See the first post of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2130640|Old hardware brought back to life]]</nowiki> at the Ubuntu Forums.
-----
Return to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/9w]]</nowiki>
