{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Return to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/9w]]</nowiki>
-----

=== Trusty beta 1 versions ===

These versions are older, but can be updated and upgraded after installation.

==== Ultra-light text only system ====

The iso file <nowiki>[[http://phillw.net/isos/linux-tools/9w/TrustyB1npae-text.iso]]</nowiki>

contains an ultra-light text only system made from the Ubuntu Trusty beta 1 mini.iso 'dd_!TrustyB1npae-text.img.xz'

This system should run with 96 MB RAM. It should be possible to test it with a pre Pentium II CPU but that is probably not worthwile. Use older kernels for such old computers.

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2209683&page=8&p=12962755#post12962755|This system can be installed where the corresponding Ubuntu Server installer fails]]</nowiki>

==== Lubuntu Core ====

The iso file <nowiki>[[http://phillw.net/isos/linux-tools/9w/TrustyB1npae-LubuCore.iso]]</nowiki>

contains a very light Lubuntu Core system made from the Ubuntu Trusty beta 1 mini.iso 'dd_!TrustyB1npae-!LubuCore.img.xz'

This system is lighter than standard Lubuntu and should run with '''128 MB RAM''' (depending on how much RAM is pre-allocated by the system for graphics etc).

-----
Return to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/9w]]</nowiki>
