{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Team Management RoadMap ===
'''Please add the ``@``SIG``@`` macro at the end of your additions, revisions, so we can keep track of who is saying what.'''
==== Activities ====
===== Changes to QA =====
======= Preparation =======
Depends on:
* Effenberg0x0 finishes revision to Nick proposal (Effenberg0x0, Deadline Apr. 4th)
* Current draft chart: http://i.imgur.com/e4KBu.png
* Approach communities leaders: IRC-based, QA-Based (Mailing Lists). Prepare them, discuss.
* We need a unified channel to deal with feedback once it's announced
* Update/Changes to QA page ready to go
======= Execution =======
* Guitara does announcement on UF, U+1 Mailing-List, QA Mailing-List, other teams Mailing-Lists
* Endorsement: "big shots". Can we have it?
* New testing procedures, structures, must be presented, even if not ready. "we will have them soon".
* Apply structural changes (teams, sub-teams inclusion)
* Deal with feedback, try to calm down people, ensure it's for the good of Ubuntu. Not sure how.
===== New QA Testing =====
======= Structure =======
* "Indicator" initiative
* "Changelog" daily testing initiative
* "Live Testing" initiative
** Will be discussed Apr. 4th, 2100UTC, on IRC
* I'm drafting this inside my revision to Nick's proposal for QA change -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> ====== Ubuntu Open Week ======
* Opportunity to talk about QA and recent changes
* Opportunity to raise awareness and do recruitment
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
* Effenberg0x0 volunteers
===== U+1 Management =====
======= Recruitment =======
* Interview / recruit currently detected potential testers (60+)
* Create recruiter role
* Communicate to community
======= DOC Initiative =======
* Delegate
* Communicate to community
======= UF Partnership =======
* Formalize doc in U+1 Wiki, so far only a paragraph in "About"
* Communicate to community
* Execute, coordinate: Probably create a role for UF partnership coordinator?
* Will be made official (hopefully), if everything is OK, on next UF Council Meeting. Bodhi is OK with it.
======= U+1 Elections =======
* Make it work. Decide on leadership and at least three council positions (likely four)
* Update docs, fix procedure (Effenberg0x0, Status: ongoing Deadline: Apr. 5th)
* I think it would be good to keep Cariboo907 on the position. He had no time to actually run the team. @SIG
* Hopefully have 1 UF Council member (Bodhi?) and Guitara on Council (crucial partnerships). -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * Third position to be defined if Effenberg0x0 will run. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * Fourth position: No candidate so far. I think it should represent the community of users/testers.-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> ====== Team Roles ======
* Evaluate better, create more relevant roles, coordinate and follow-up.
* Delegate to correct people - interview members
* WHO will follow-up?
======= IRC =======
* Delegated to Kaldor
* No results so far - status unknown -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> ====== CC/TB OfficialTeams inclusion ======
* Ongoing (Effenberg0x0)

Organize everything in a doable / viable list with deadlines, who is responsible, etc
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1/Resources/U+1Calendar

Create organize "Testing schedule", using graham's work on it:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U%2B1/ideas/TestingOpportunities
