{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
As brainstorming over an idea gets more collaboration and the idea develops into some increased complexity, we can change its status to "ongoing" and move it to this wiki area and template.
=== Idea: Communicate immediate testing needs and opportunities ===
* '''Goal:''' Recruit testers for (or inform testers of) testing needs
* '''Description:'''There is something missing from this wiki. It is a page where anyone can find out what is the immediate need for testing in the Ubuntu development branch. It should be a place where we advertise vacancies for testers for particular testing needs. I would like to see a link to such a page on the wiki home page. It should not be in among the headings in the top banner but just before the news items.
** At the moment there is a need for Checkbox application testing before the final release. Is this need being advertised apart from the link near the bottom of a long page in the Precise Pangolin Technical Overview for Beta 2?
** The U+1 Testing Team is not a private club. It exists to help ordinary users become serious testers and dedicated testers to remain effective.
** We can, in-part, achieve this simple aim by advertising testing opportunities, providing easy to understand guides or links to existing guides. We can do this for the limited testing opportunities that come up from time to time and the more regular opportunities that already exist.
** If we show people how to get their results back to the existing Quality Assurance team we will help them to be more effective and this will bring satisfaction.
** As a first  step let us itemize the existing testing needs that we know of and seek to find what other testing needs might arise during the QQ development cycle and what would be the length of time for each testing need. (grahhammechanical)
* '''Edit by Effenberg0x0:''' I think it's a a really important suggestion grahammechanical, we need it now. 
** How do we make it happen? I can create the "box" in the wiki landing page aside the news & announcements part of it if no one opposes. 
** DOC: We don't have DOCs to support current testing needs. We'll have to link to currently existing ones.
** Do you think we should create a DOC explaining how to test with Checkbox? A basic one, we can enhance it in the future. Would you volunteer to do it?
** We can ask staff to sticky an announcement in Ubuntu+1 and use our mailing-list as an attempt to publicize it. Like we did with ISO-Testing (but Checkbox usually received better feedback and bigger adherence than ISO-Testing, which is great in this case). -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * '''Edit by grahammechanical:''' After further thought I have come to the conclusion that the answer is an Activities Planner - '''The U+1 Testing Activities Planner'''. I am at the moment studying moinmoin syntax and later today I will try to create my own wiki page where I can write drafts and practice creating an Activities Planner for U+1 wiki. I will put a link to that page here so that ideas and suggestions can be offered. I see three or four kinds of testing: Limited Period, Regular/On-going, Coordinated testing of fixes, work-a-rounds by groups of team members. Are there other kinds?
** A sample of what it might look like. The dates end a day before the milestone ISO is officially released and allow 5 days for testing but should not be taken as official. It is just me making it up as I go along<<BR>>

'''U+1 TESTING ACTIVITIES PLANNER'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-2>'''Pre-milestone ISO Testing'''
|-
| Alpha 1
| June 02-06
|-
| Alpha 2
| 
| 
| June 23 - 27
|-
| Alpha 3
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| July 28 - August 01
|-
| Beta 1
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| September 01 - 05
|-
| Beta 2
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| September 22 - 26
|-
| 12.10
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| October 13 - 17
|}

To see how this Activities Planner is being developed, go here: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U%2B1/ActivitesPlanner|Activities Planner]]</nowiki>

* '''Edit by Effenberg0x0:''' Ah, now I see what you are doing... It's great, would provide a clear view on the entire alpha to final process and the testing states. You can also use alternate colors on the lines with the "style" tag, like ``<``style="background-color: #F1F1DD;"``>``. Graham, if you want to, do it as I did with the NavBar at the top. Create this chart at a place like wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1/ActivitiesPlanner and then you can easily move it anywhere in the future by linking it to the target page with the tag ``<``include``>``. Your choice of course, whatever you prefer. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  
 
* '''Contact:''' <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~lucking|Grahammechanical]]</nowiki>
