{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Relation to QATeam ==
=== Team Creation ===
U+1 was created as the formalization of a naturally formed community of testers, who have been testing and supporting the Development releases of Ubuntu at UbuntuForum Ubuntu+1 sub-forum and have been doing so for many development cycles. The formalization process was started with the goals of providing better resources, tools and recognition to these testers. U+1 was designed to be a self-managed and independent team, dedicated to testing the Development Releases of Ubuntu and providing information and support for other testers and Ubuntu teams, developers, users and the community.
=== Team Formalization ===
The team formalization was communicated to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncil|Community Council]]</nowiki>  and to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam|QA Team]]</nowiki>. All of its members and leadership have signed the Ubuntu Code of Conduct and act according to it. All requirements and guidelines defined by Ubuntu governance boards have been followed. 
=== Team Independence ===
There are many official and unofficial QA-Centric groups and teams in the Ubuntu community. Yet, we see space for improvement in QA-Related activities. The U+1 Team was created with the goal of being a long-term objectives, community-driven, legacy-free, democratic and meritocratic structure, which will undertake QA-Related processes according to its members ideas and plans, and to the team available resources. In order to be able to do so, a comprehensive set of management, leadership and governance processes has been defined and will be preserved. The team has a strong belief that QA benefits from the community diversity, as do all working and healthy FOSS structures, and that centralized structures and management increase the risk of failure. We believe in alliances and partnerships of self-managed QA-Centric communities. 
=== Support to QA Team Official QA Activities ===
Initially, there was no expectation of having a relationship with the QA Team or to be included in its processes. An opportunity was presented of influencing the future of Ubuntu QA positively and to be a part of it. And so the team has been working to help the development of a QA Structure Plan and on defining the best way for U+1 to fit into it. Until such a plan and the new structure for QA is defined, U+1 continues to follow its processes, as defined in the team creation. Despite any alliance to the QA Team, the team will maintain its structure untouched, as a way to guarantee its independence and existence in the future. 
