{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Roles ==
As we go through the steps needed to organize our team for the QQ cycle, some needs had a high priority and roles were created and assigned to volunteers.
=== Team Roles ===
==== Team Leader ====
* '''Assigned to:''' cariboo
* '''Activities''':
** Manage the team staff and activities.
** Ensure the team activities are being done according to the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.
** Be the point-of-contact for all team management issues.
==== Team Council ====
* '''Assigned to:''' (council members will be voted)
* '''Activities''':
* Making sure the team and its members are operating accordingly to its roadmap and to the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.
* Managing team conflicts.
* Representation to the broader community.
* Managing delegation and division of labour.
* Organizing the team reports and making sure to keep its quality and flow.
* Recognition of competence and contribution of members.
* Providing advice to team leaders.
==== IRC Manager ====
* '''Assigned to:''' Kaldor
* '''Activities''':
** Understand the processes and steps required to use the Freenode IRC structure and Ubuntu-IRC-CC requirements.
** Setup our IRC channel properly and manage the use of IRC bots, if provided by IRC managing boards.
** Be the point-of-contact for anything IRC related
==== Wiki Content Manager ====
* '''Assigned to:''' Ventrical
* '''Activities''':
** Primarily develop the tester-wiki as a user friendly reference base focused on usability
** Engage into other activities within the team technical documentation
** Be the point-of-contact for anything related to the team wiki development
==== Content Proofreading and Improvement manager ====
* '''Assigned to:''' grahammechanical
* '''Activities''':
** Proofread the Wiki contents, suggesting and applying improvements to existing content
** Evaluates potential improvements to the team content, actively applying them
** Focuses on  enhancing clarity and correctness
** Engage into other activities within the team technical documentation
==== Team Custodian ====
* '''Assigned to:''' Effenberg0x0
* '''Activities''':
** The team Janitor.
** Responsible for cleaning, maintaining, providing basic housekeeping to the team.
** Makes minor repairs to the team infrastructure.
=== Open Roles ===
* '''Recruitment Manager:''' Will browse UbuntuForums, other forums, IRC and other online communities, locate Ubuntu users interested in learning more about Ubuntu and contributing to it, and invite them to join the team.
=== Future Team Roles ===
As we define testing activities for the QQ cycle, a number of new roles will be created. Some activities will include:
* '''Team Ambassador:''' Will locate other testing-communities, contact its leaders, propose alliances and exchange of resources and information
* '''Marketing Manager:''' Will promote the team internally (within the Ubuntu community) and externally (blogs, websites, etc), according to a marketing plan
* '''Education Manager:''' Will promote activities to bring knowledge to new and regular members of the team. Those include IRC sessions with developers, bug management specialists, other testing communities specialists, etc.
* '''Bug Manager:''' Will verify that all bugs found by the team are properly reported. Will contact developers to inform about the report and keep track of bugs fixed / not fixed.
<<BR>>
These are only a few of the ''possible'' roles to be created soon. Please read the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1/recuitment|requirements]]</nowiki> to join the U+1 team, to apply for a role, suggest or create one (self assignment).
