{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Deployed Projects ==
=== #U+1 Meeting Bot (Early Adopter) ===
* We have implemented our bot using the team infrastructure, therefore not using the bots provided by other contributors.
* The bot script will eventually  be adapted to integrate with other team tools.
=== Installing VirtualBox Tutorial ===
* We have developed a simple and straightforward walkthrough to help users install VirtualBox, as well as test and/or install Ubuntu ISOs in a VirtualBox VirtualMachine. This tutorial is available <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U%2B1/DeployedProjects/install-virtual-box-tutorial#preview|here]]</nowiki>
=== Ubuntu Release Candidate ISO Testing: A Step-by-Step Tutorial ===
* We have made improvements to our previous tutorial (Beta 2 ISO Testing), in order to adapt it to the specificities of the Release Candidate ISO Testing processes. It is available <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1/DeployedProjects/rc-iso-testing-main|here]]</nowiki> and it is targeted at new testers and the community in general.  
* Future versions will be adapted for internal use (new members tutoring) and will also focus on:
** '''Reporting bugs:''' How to properly report bugs and how to create good reports?
** '''Follow-up on bugs:''' How to make sure bugs are fixed? 
=== Ubuntu Beta 2 ISO Testing: A Step-by-Step Tutorial ===
* We have developed a comprehensive and easy to follow <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1/iso-testing-main|guide]]</nowiki> targeted at new testers and the community in general, explaining all the advantages, potential risks and safe procedures for testing Ubuntu Development Releases ISOs. 
* This guide was publicized at UbuntuForums and by members, in it's social networks, during the Beta 2 sprint. 
* Improvements are being made to this guide, to include:
** '''Reporting bugs:''' How to properly report bugs and how to create good reports?
** '''Follow-up on bugs:''' How to make sure bugs are fixed? 
* This document, as well as these additions, are going to be used at the Pre-Release ISO-Testing sprint and will support users in our Live (IRC) ISO-Testing session, to be held a couple days before release.
