{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Project name: Ubuntu Live Testing ==
* '''Members:''' <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1|U+1 Team]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuForums|UbuntuForums]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncil|Forum Council]]</nowiki>.
* '''Description''': An ongoing project to create regular testing sessions, targeted at specific packages and bugs, in which the package developers and Ubuntu testers interact directly via IRC.
=== Notes ===
* All details, meeting notes and agenda are <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1/OngoingProjects/LiveTesting|here]]</nowiki>
* Here are some links that can be used to identify bugs that can be worked with in this project.

** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-release-notes/precise/+bugs|Precise Release notes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/q-series/+bugs|Bugs set aside until QQ cycle]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+bugs|Bugs left from Precise Pangolin cycle]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+bugs?search=Search&field.importance=High&field.status=New&field.status=Incomplete&field.status=Confirmed&field.status=Triaged&field.status=In+Progress&field.status=Fix+Committed|High Importance Bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-12.04|Milestone Targeted Bugs 12.04]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-12.04.1|Milestone Targeted Bugs 12.04.1 - 2012 07 09]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-12.04.2|Milestone Targeted Bugs 12.04.2 - 2013 01 31]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-12.04.3|Milestone Targeted Bugs 12.04.3 - 2013 08 05]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-12.04.4|Milestone Targeted Bugs 12.04.4 - 2013 01 24]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/weatherreport.html|QA Weather Report]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates|Stable Release Updates]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html||Pending SRU]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/qa/qa-open-bugs.html|QA Opened Bugs list]]</nowiki>

== Project name: Daily Targets ==
* '''Members:''' Effenberg0x0
* '''Description''': An automated (cron) script, hosted at a cloud server in a data center will zsync daily builds of Ubuntu. The script will use common Linux tools to diff those builds, that is, it will detect which files (text or binaries) have had it's contents changed, have been removed or included in-between two days (or two builds). These will be presented to U+1 members in a sticky thread, as well as in a web page, including further details, as explained below. Testers will be encouraged to focus their daily testing/reporting efforts on the changed packages. 
=== Notes ===
* APT lib allow us to check which package a changed file belongs to;
* It also allow us to automatically verify and link any existing changelog;
* Launchpad lib allow us to automatically link (and sort) bugs referring to the changed packages;
* Moin lib allow us to automatically create and upload a Wiki page containing all the information above, eliminating costs with hosting/traffic a web page outside the ubuntu.com domain.  
* Pages will be hosted in the U+1 Wiki and open to the community.
* The development is being done in BASH and Python (cron'd script), using Launchpad, APT and Moin APIs by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Effenberg0x0|Effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>.
* Roll-out is expected to happen by QQ Alpha 1 release.
* '''Contact:''' <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~Effenberg0x0|Effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>
== Project name: NewQAPlan - Support plan for improvement of QA structure ==
* '''Members:''' Effenberg0x0, Guitara
* '''Description''': Help with suggestions to the initial specification developed by Guitara
=== Notes ===
* The initial specification (by Guitara) is published at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ProposedTeamStructure.
* Efenberg0x0's suggestions for improvement are being developed at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1/OngoingProjects/NewQAProposedStructure.
* The initial draft of Effenberg0x0's suggested structure is at http://i.imgur.com/e4KBu.png
* "The 7 Laws" (T7L), a suggestion by Effenberg0x0, is a set of 7 minimal laws/guidelines to be respected whatever we choose to do in processes that involve dealing with other communities. It is posted at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1/OngoingProjects/T7L
* If we can understand and properly publicize cprofitt's ideas on the "Problems Lifecycle", we can change the way QA prioritizes work, as well as make QA contributors realize the impact they have on Ubuntu adoption. The links to it are: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/devweek1201/ProblemLifecycle and http://ftbeowulf.files.wordpress.com/2011/11/ubuntu-problem2.png. 
* '''Contact:''' <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~Effenberg0x0|Effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>
== Project name: Team Hardware ==
* '''Description:''' Map members hardware profiles and testing preferences
=== Notes ===
* I believe this is easy and urgent.
* I have the resources to develop, host and conduct an online survey (closed, requiring login/passwd) and gather this info in an organized way.
* Once a first version is created and uploaded to the team Wiki, members can make small additions, changes to it with no need for another survey.
* I'll also add another idea from the Braistorming: Communities fail for lack of interest and involvement of their members. But they also never ask what are these users needs, problems, expectations, frustrations, what triggers them, what they love to do, what they hate to do.
* '''Contact:''' <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~Effenberg0x0|Effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>
== Project name: Enter Project Name #n ==
* '''Members:''' Enter members names
* '''Description''': Basic description
=== Notes ===
* Any note
* Any note
* Any note
== Project name: Enter Project Name #n+1 ==
* '''Members:''' Enter members names
* '''Description''': Basic description
=== Notes ===
* Any note
* Any note
* Any note
