{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

One of the forum community members created this howto/faq, due to formatting problems, is was deemed unacceptable for the forum, but due to all the effort <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1638499|c0nstant1n]]</nowiki> put in to create this, I thought is was a shame that this information be relegated to the Jail, where no one else can benefit from this information.

Screen brightness on laptops, has been a continuing problem through past releases, there have been many bugs reported about this problem, this is by no means a definitive list, but these are the bug reports I've found so far:

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/910536|#910536]]</nowiki> reported by Otto Kekäläinen on 2012-01-01 - the screen is OK in the boot menu (non-X) but as soon as X starts, the backlight of the screen turns off making the screen almost black, and thus unusable.. Pressing Fn+Left Arrow does not increase screen brightness.

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/571421|#571421]]</nowiki> reported by Chris van Hoof on 2010-04-28 - brightness hotkeys not functional

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/543294|#543294]]</nowiki> reported by KlavKalashj on 2010-03-21 - Brightness moves in random direction a couple of times, then stop responding.

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/518002|#518002]]</nowiki> reported by Wolfgang Kufner on 2010-02-06 - backlight dimming not working.

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/515214|#515214]]</nowiki> reported by travauxpublics on 2010-01-31 - i have no control (hardware or software) of brightness. The keyboard does not help any more, like Ubuntu 10.04 does not recognize this function.

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/513921|#513921]]</nowiki> reported by Rolf Leggewie on 2010-01-28 - I found out that the keys for adjusting display brightness (Fn+F5, Fn+F6) don't work as expected.
