{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
<style TYPE="text/css">
body {
text-align: justify; }
p {
text-align: justify; }
</style>
</pre>
== About the team ==
=== Context ===
==== The Ubuntu+1 sub-forum at UbuntuForums.org ====
UbuntuForums.org hosts a sub-forum dedicated to Ubuntu Development Releases. This sub-forum is closed and has its contents archived at the end of every development release cycle. It is reopened when a new release cycle starts. The archived content can be accessed <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=237|here]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>

From 2009 to 2015 (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidIbex|Intrepid Ibex]]</nowiki> to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin|Wily Werewolf]]</nowiki>) some users have naturally gathered at this sub-forum to report and discuss their experiences with Ubuntu Development Releases: opinions, bugs found and, sometimes, even workarounds.<<BR>><<BR>>

Some of these users gradually defined themselves as '''"testers"''' and engaged into uncoordinated and individual tasks related to testing the development releases of Ubuntu. A Ubuntu+1 tester is typically an individual with some Linux and Ubuntu experience, and enough skills to understand and solve problems and challenges presented when running unstable software. Doing so, these testers automatically create a knowledge base, spread into hundreds of threads and posts, regarding the specificities of the release under development. It's not unusual to see that, once a development cycle ends and a final version of Ubuntu is released, Ubuntu+1 testers jump into the common support areas of UbuntuForums (as well as other forums – including international ones) and share advanced knowledge about the new release. Having used, tested and discussed such releases since day one of alpha stage, their expertise on its particularities is not unexpected.
==== Changes at Ubuntu+1 during the Precise Pangolin development cycle ====
Up to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricOcelot|Oneiric Ocelot]]</nowiki> development cycle, the Ubuntu+1 area of UbuntuForums had hardly changed, if not for higher traffic and number of users. It had no official leadership, processes, objectives, collective activities and goals or any integration with other Ubuntu teams. Change started to happen during the Precise Pangolin development cycle. Some moves towards consolidating a community involving some regulars of that sub-forum and improving its integration to other teams and to Ubuntu processes were taken to the Community Team. One of the first actions towards publicizing the work done by some of those users was the participation of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Effenberg0x0|Effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubutu.com/cariboo|cariboo]]</nowiki> at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek|UDW]]</nowiki>, hosting a session named ''“Running the Development Release”''.
==== Changes at Ubuntu during the Precise Pangolin development cycle ====
Also during the PP cycle, a new goal of keeping the development releases usable and buildable was defined (see '"<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-plusonemaint-priorities|Priorities for development release maintenance]]</nowiki>"' and '"<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PlusOneMaintenanceTeam/Specs/Priorities|Priorities]]</nowiki>"'). That was triggered by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarkShuttleworth|Mark Shuttleworth]]</nowiki> as described <nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/938|here]]</nowiki>.<<BR>><<BR>>
Indirectly, these changes created new Development Release '''users''' (not properly testers) and thus a need to support them, as well as an opportunity to get new people involved in testing. The Ubuntu+1 forum section started receiving threads moved from other support areas and had to provide support to those users. With no proper leadership or processes defined to do it, some of the people at that forum section engaged into these activities.
==== A naturally formed community ====
The Ubuntu+1 sub-forum has lost a few good testers in past cycles. Some felt like they should find other ways to contribute to Ubuntu, as Ubuntu+1 had no feedback from other UbuntuForums areas or other Ubuntu teams and was loosely integrated to the larger Ubuntu structure. As a way to offer proper Ubuntu and community recognition to the work of some of those testers, enhance the integration of their work to Ubuntu, retain current talents and attract new ones, it became clear that it was time to make it an official team.<<BR>><<BR>>
In order to do so, goals, responsibilities, processes and leadership had to be defined. The '''U+1 Team''' initial plan for those is detailed in next sections.
==== The U+1 Team creation ====
The proposal for the creation of the U+1 team (including its initial view on goals, processes, roadmap, leadership, etc) was drafted by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Effenberg0x0|Effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> in a document and submit to Ubuntu Community Coordination. As a result, it become clear that the team would be able to operate as it is with no need of approval of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncil|Ubuntu Community Council]]</nowiki>. In the future, if its contributions to the community prove valid and useful, the team would be able to pledge the CC to be considered an <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Teams|Official Team]]</nowiki>. Nonetheless, this is not a mandatory process.
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Effenberg0x0|Effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> proceed with the team creation and invited some people from the Ubuntu+1 sub-forums at UbuntuForums, as well as people from other Ubuntu communities, to join the team. For the remaining of the PP (Precise Pangolin) development cycle, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Effenberg0x0|Effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> has chosen <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubutu.com/cariboo|cariboo]]</nowiki> to occupy the role of the team leader.
==== The U+1 Team connection to UbuntuForums and Ubuntu+1 sub-forum ====
UbuntuForums (and the Ubuntu+1 sub-forum) had an important role in the formation of the U+1 Team. As explained previously, it was the place in which many of current U+1 Team members met. It is also, unquestionably, one of the most successful ventures of Ubuntu (and Open Source projects in general) in building ever-growing, sustainable, responsibly managed and user-friendly online communities. While all Ubuntu medias have their appeal and public, some require special skills (i.e. mailing lists) or knowhow on specific software (i.e. IRC) from end-users. UbuntuForums, on the other hand, is an easy to use, open to guests, web-based support platform. Moreover, as it grows and is constantly indexed by search engines robots, it spreads Ubuntu presence over the web as many linux-related searches point to its threads. As a result, it's an obviously high-relevance media, which promotes a first point-of-contact for many end-users.<<BR>>These aspects make UbuntuForums an interesting option to recruit users and testers: It provides team managers with a constant flow of new users (potential contributors and testers) and a great sample on end-users evaluation of Ubuntu, it's features and problems - giving us material to work with.<<BR>>U+1 Team plans involve broadening our relation to UbuntuForums, its council and staff and supporting projects that aim at improving this great platform.<<BR>><<BR>>However, it is important to understand that:
* The Ubuntu+1 sub-forum was created by Ubuntu users and is managed by UbuntuForums staff and not by the U+1 team. Ubuntu+1 is a sub-forum, not a team or project. U+1 is a Team.
* The U+1 Team is not a project of UbuntuForums and its staff. UbuntuForums had no role in the creation and development of the team and currently have no role in its management.
* U+1 is, as mentioned before, an independent team. It has no connections, in terms of its management and governance, to UbuntuForums, Ubuntu+1 sub-forum and the forum staff.
* U+1 Team members may choose to use UbuntuForums or not, just as any other Ubuntu user is free to do so. Tey may also use IRC, AskUbuntu, or any other online media and community.
== Team responsibilities ==
The U+1 Team will engage into testing activities that:
* Are beneficial to Ubuntu in the members opinions;
* Are not necessarily endorsed or approved by other teams and Ubuntu structures;
* Are related to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UsingDevelopmentReleases|Development Releases]]</nowiki> of Ubuntu. Such activities may include:<<BR>>
** Intra-day updates testing and reporting;
** Custom Testing (e.g. CheckPoint, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UsingDevelopmentReleases#Using%20TestDrive|TestDrive]]</nowiki>, as well as answering to direct requests from developers);
** Creating high value-added Launchpad Bug Reports and working with triagers and developers to solve such bugs, if requested;
** Supporting new Development Release users;
** Attracting new talents to the team, retaining and motivating skilled testers;
** Developing, documenting and sharing testing procedures and techniques;
** Documenting its organizational and technical information and making it publicly accessible via Ubuntu Wiki;
** Supporting other teams in activities that relate to the Development Releases (QA, learning, documentation, etc).<<BR>>
However, the U+1 Team is not compromised with the success of the strategies adopted by other Ubuntu formal and informal groups, teams, leaders, medias, etc. The team will engage exclusively in the activities it chooses to adopt.
<<BR>>
U+1 members will sign and follow the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/project/aboutubuntu/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>, being respectful and responsible in all of its Ubuntu-related activities.
== Team governance ==
The U+1 Team is self-managed, meaning its members define the team goals, plan and regular activities. Members get a chance to propose changes and have their ideas voted by the others. Conflicts are handled internally and, only in punctual situations, taken to the Community Council (by the team leader, council members or team members directly).
== Team membership ==
Any Ubuntu user may apply for a 1-year U+1 Team Membership. In order to do so, the user must:
* Sign Ubuntu Code of Conduct and act according to it;
* Provide valuable contributions to the team activities and discussions;
* Engage productively into the team activities;
* Be accepted by other members in a U+1 Team Meeting. Current members that attend to the meeting will vote for or against the membership application.<<BR>>
Observations:
* U+1 activities require some degree of technical knowledge. Team memberships will not be granted to users that don't actively contribute to the team activities and/or that have no technical skills to assume a role in the team;
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership|Ubuntu Memberships]]</nowiki> are provided by Ubuntu Boards such as the Community Council, the Technical Board, Regional Boards, etc. No team (with some exceptions) can directly provide Ubuntu Memberships to its members.
== Recognition memberships ==
Team memberships will immediately be granted to all the Ubuntu+1 regulars that have clearly contributed to its development and provided support to Development Releases users. As with many Ubuntu Team Memberships, its length term is of one year (this is preset in the team settings in Launchpad as a way of tracking active members). Members automatically receive renewal requests via mail when their membership is about to expire.
== Ubuntu Membership ==
U+1 Team Memberships are not the same as <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership|Ubuntu Memberships]]</nowiki>. Every Ubuntu user can apply for an Ubuntu Membership by following the procedures described <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership|here]]</nowiki>.
== Team Founder / Ownership ==
* A team founder is automatically granted "ownership" of it in Launchpad. It is a known fact that many teams fail because the team founder (owner) refuses to share management with other members.
* In the case of U+1, the team founder, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~Effenberg0x0|Effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>, has voluntarily created the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~u+1-team-council|U+1 Team Council]]</nowiki> and transfered the ownership of the U+1 Team to this council. Therefore, leadership will always have to be shared among council members.
* The Team founder, who is the Team Council founder, will occupy a permanent position in the council. Therefore all of his decisions will have to be voted by other council members, to prevent any possibility of dictatorial ownership of the team.
== Leadership ==
* U+1 will be led by one of its members for the period of '''one complete development cycle''';
* The current leader will communicate all members the start of new elections up to two (2) weeks before the end of the current development cycle. This will be posted in the team Mailing List;
* Team members will immediately be notified through the mailing list of the candidates for election to team leader.
* Applications must be informed, by Mailing List, up to three days after the public announcement of elections;
* Applicants for the team leadership will provide links to:
** A Launchpad page (to check if the Ubuntu CoC was signed)
** A Ubuntu Wiki page containing a full description of his accomplishments, ideas and, ideally, plans for for the U+1 Team.
* A voting session via '''U+1 IRC Channel''' will be held up to one (1) week before the beginning of the new development cycle;
* The selected member will assume the leadership position immediately on day one of the new development cycle;
* Once elected, the team leader must communicate to all members the start of new elections for '''two (2) new council positions''', except for the QQ cycle, in which three '''(3) to four (4)''' new council positions will be created;
* Previous team leaders will automatically assume the position of Team Council members for the term length of one (1) development cycle, the same term length of other members of the council, except for the team founder (permanent position);
* Previous team leaders are allowed to run for re-election;
* If a team leader refuses the leadership role or resigns, an IRC session for voting on a new leader will be scheduled. The position of team leader is only open to team members. Notification of a willingness to be a candidate in the election of team leader is to be made through the mailing list.
* All team leaders are expected to have read and accepted the Ubuntu Code of Conduct, as well as the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/leadership-conduct|Leadership Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.

=== Current (WW) Leadership ===
* For the remaining days of the Wily Werewolf development cycle, team leadership will be held by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cariboo|cariboo]]</nowiki>. As an Ubuntu Member and a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncil|Ubuntu Forum Council member]]</nowiki>, he has the seniority to conduct the team, as it approaches the new development cycle;

* U+1 team members that wish to occupy a team leadership position must prepare for elections (to be started by the end of the current cycle) and publicly apply (via Mailing List) up to 3 days after the public announcement of election;
== Team Council ==
Besides the team founder (permanent position) and previous team leaders (term length of 1 development cycle), the team council will hopefully be composed of other experienced members. It will be responsible for:
* Making sure the team and its members are operating accordingly to its roadmap and to the Ubuntu Code of Conduct;
* Evaluating membership applications, before they are available for members voting;
* Managing team conflicts;
* Representation to the broader community;
* Managing delegation and division of labor;
* Organizing the team reports and making sure to keep its quality and flow;
* Recognition of competence and contribution of members;
* Providing advice to team leaders;
* The council has the power to veto decisions of the team leader and the members, as long as '''all''' (not the majority or a group of) council members vote and publicly agree on this decision;
* If a team council member refuses the council position or resigns, an IRC session for voting on a new council member will be scheduled. Only Team Council members are eligible for a position on the team council. Notification of a willingness to serve as a team council member is to be made through the team mailing-list. This process will be managed by the team council members;
* All members of the council are expected to have read and accepted the Ubuntu Code of Conduct, as well as the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/leadership-conduct|Leadership Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.
=== Composition of the team council ===
* By the start of every new development cycle, the team leader and the current council members will open elections for up to two (2) new council members (with the exception of the QQ cycle, in which 3 to 4 council positions will be made available);
* Current council members and the team leader may open up to one (1) additional position for council member '''once''' per development cycle;
* If a council member resigns, new elections will be held to elect a member for the vacant position. Only current Team Council members can vote for new council members;
* Previous council members are allowed to run for re-election. The term length of council members is of one (1) development cycle, with the exception of the team founder (permanent position);
* If the current team leader is not re-elected, or chooses not to run for re-election, he automatically becomes an additional Council Member, with the normal term length of 1 development cycle, even if the council max size is completed;
* The size of the team council shall not exceed eight members. No elections are necessary when the maximum size of the team council has been met. If an increase (or decrease) in the Team Council size is necessary, it will be voted by current council members.
* Any team member can apply for a council position;
* U+1 Team Members can indicate others to occupy a council position;
* U+1 Team Members that wish to occupy a team council position must prepare for elections (to be held as soon as the new cycle team leader is elected) and publicly apply up to two weeks before the next development cycle.
* Even if there are no applicants, the council will vote to choose and recruit council members;
* Only the current Team Council members can vote on the applicants for a new Team Council position;
=== Current Council (PP) ===
* The only members in the council, during the PP cycle, will be the team founder and the team leader;
* Any team member can apply for a council position;
* U+1 Team Members can indicate others to occupy a council position;
* U+1 Team Members that wish to occupy a team council position must prepare for elections (to be held as soon as the new cycle team leader is elected) and publicly apply up to two weeks before the next development cycle.
* Even if there are no applicants, the council will vote to choose and recruit council members;
* Only the current Team Council members can vote on the applicants for a new Team Council position;
== Decision Making Processes ==
Decisions of minor importance, which adhere to the team goals and processes and do not require a change in its plan might (and likely will) be taken by the team leader and/or the council with no participation of its members. At this initial phases of the U+1 Team, members are expected to help its development, engaging more in its productive activities than in its internal management. However, some other decisions may affect the group and its members. In these cases, the propositions will be presented to all members via mailing list and a meeting (IRC) will be scheduled. All members present at the session will vote on the subject.
== Delegation ==
Team members are expected to volunteer to its activities. Delegation will happen in an open and non-mandatory form during team meetings or via the team mailing list.
== Dispute Resolution ==
All U+1 Team members are expected to have signed and to operate according to the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. Conflict should be avoided and, when not possible, rapidly managed by the Team Council, in a way that it does not interfere with the team work.
* The Team Council will designate one member to manage the conflict;
* This member will speak with each party involved in the situation and gather the relevant details;
* A private session of the Team Council will be scheduled to evaluate the information collected;
* The team council will come up with a solution and vote on it;
* The  council has the authority to remove members from the Team, if needed;
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/DealingWithConflict|General guidelines]]</nowiki> proposed by the Ubuntu Community Council will be considered;
* If necessary, conflicts will be taken to the Community Council.
== Team and Members Evaluation ==
* The team council is responsible for evaluating its members and, eventually, supporting their Ubuntu membership request for the Community Council or other boards of governance;
* In such cases, the team council will provide the governance board with precise and true information about the members' contributions and performance, as requested.
== Team Technical Resources ==
=== Launchpad ===
The U+1 Team is registered at https://launchpad.net/~U+1. This page lists general information about the team and it's members.
=== Mailing-List ===
The U+1 Team Mailing-List is hosted at U+1@lists.launchpad.net. It is used exclusively for U+1 member discussions and also for interaction with other teams and developers. It's not targeted at end-user support. It is a moderated list and it requires subscription (see https://launchpad.net/~U+1).
=== Forum ===
The Ubuntu+1 sub-forum at UbuntuForums.org may be be used by U+1 Team members. That is, nonetheless, not mandatory. Using the forum for support has some advantages, as it creates a searchable knowledge base, that can be accessed by other users (unlike IRC). However, the sub-forum is not managed by the U+1 Team, but by the Forum Council. All issues regarding the forum must be addressed to the forum staff and the forum council.
=== IRC Channel ===
U+1 uses an IRC channel for it's internal management, discussions and events.<<BR>>
There's currently not enough resources to use the IRC channel for end-user support. The channel is registered and moderated, and hosted at irc.ubuntu.com at #U+1.
=== Wiki ===
The wiki is hosted at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1. Notice the uppercase letter 'U'.
== Team Reports ==
* It is important to track the team developments and activities;
* The team council will be responsible for keeping track of such information and reporting it;
* All team reports should be public and also directly provided to the Community Council.
=== Media ===
* Reports will be posted to the team <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/U+1/reports|reports]]</nowiki> wiki page;
* The information will also be posted to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncil/TeamReports|Community Council Reporting Page]]</nowiki>;
* Additionally, the Team Council will participate in IRC meetings to report its work and the activities of its members to the Community Council and other governance boards;
=== Regularity ===
* Team reports will be monthly updated;
* The team council is responsible for delegating this task and verifying that it is being done properly.
== International / Localized Content and Team Branches ==
* U+1 is a new team with limited human resources and experimental processes. It would be hard to spread its ideas to international groups (and to manage them).
* English is the common language of the U+1 team. Although many of its members speak other languages translation is not one of the aims of the U+1 testing team. This is to avoid diluting the team's efforts in its primary purpose of testing Ubuntu software. For the same reason there is no intention to translate the U+1 Testers wiki.
<<BR>><<BR>>
Contact U+1@lists.launchpad.net or Effenberg0x0 [at] Ubuntu.com for further info. <<BR>>
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> 

''' To be ammended. ''' (-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dale-f-beaudoin]]</nowiki> )
