{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Welcome! ===
This is the wiki page of the UA Local Community Team. We aim to provide free community support to users of the various flavours of Ubuntu as well as advocating the use of Ubuntu to individuals and organisations alike. We keep in touch via our active <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ua|email list]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[UATeam-IRC| IRC chatroom]]</nowiki>. This group is for anyone in the Ukraine (but we welcome non-UA residents) who uses or is interested in some flavour of Ubuntu, whether it's Ubuntu, Kubuntu or any others. This group is for people of all technical abilities from I've-never-heard-of-linux all the way to I'm-an-Ubuntu-Master.

=== How do I join? ===
There is no official process to join, however if you join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-ua|launchpad team]]</nowiki> you are then able to vote in polls organised by the group. Discussion happens on the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ua|mailing list]]</nowiki> which you are free to join. There is also an active group of members who chat in real time on <nowiki>[[UATeam-IRC|IRC]]</nowiki> in the #ubuntu-ua channel on irc.freenode.net.

It would be nice if you could update the <nowiki>[[UATeam| Members Page]]</nowiki> if you are indeed a member of a UATeam if you are a member of any other Linux or Free Software related groups.

=== Meetings ===
Meetings for Ubuntu-UA usually happen once a month, in #ubuntu-ua-meeting on irc.freenode.net. 

The next meeting agenda is located on <nowiki>[[UATeamMeetingAgenda]]</nowiki>. Please feel free to read this before the meeting, or add your own agenda items. 

Minutes of the last meeting can be found at <nowiki>[[UATeam-LastMeeting]]</nowiki>, and previous meetings are documented on <nowiki>[[UATeam-MeetingNotes]]</nowiki>. 

=== Contact ===
'''Team Point of Contact:''' Sergiy Matrunchyk <<BR>>
'''Mailing list:''' <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ua|ubuntu-ua]]</nowiki><<BR>>
'''Internet Relay Chat (<nowiki>[[UATeam-IRC|IRC]]</nowiki>):''' #ubuntu-ua on irc.freenode.net

For a more detailed list of contacts and responsibilities you can review the <nowiki>[[UATeam-Contact]]</nowiki> page

=== Support ===
There is a whole load of documentation at <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki> but feel free to ask a question on the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ua|mailing list]]</nowiki>. Support is also available from the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support|global Ubuntu community]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryMarketing CategoryUbuntuTeams <nowiki>[[CategoryUATeam]]</nowiki>
