{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:20%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

There are a few ways to manually test Ubiquity installer, here is information on how to get the latest installer, boot it, (optionally upgrade it) and test it.

=== Getting Latest Installation Media ===
 
* Go to <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
* Select relevant milestone, e.g. "Saucy Daily"
* Scroll to relevant product, e.g. "Product (Ubuntu)"
* Click relevant build, e.g. "Ubuntu Desktop amd64" for 64-bit image
* Click download instructions for links to various download methods

Alternatively you can download latest Ubuntu Desktop images directly from cdimages.ubuntu.com:
* Go to <nowiki>[[http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/]]</nowiki>
* Select correct image, e.g. '''release'''-desktop-amd64.iso

=== Prepare Installation Media ===

For Virtual Machines (VirtManager, Qemu, Virtual Box, VMWare, etc):
* No steps required, simply point your virtual machine to boot from the downloaded ISO file.

For USB-sticks to boot laptops/desktops:
* Windows:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/create-a-usb-stick-on-windows]]</nowiki>
* Mac OS X:
** option 1: Use Disk Utility to burn/restore the .iso onto the usb disk
** option 2: Follow <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/create-a-usb-stick-on-mac-osx]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu:
** option 1: use "Startup Disk Creator" app, Follow <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/create-a-usb-stick-on-ubuntu]]</nowiki>
** option 2: use `sudo dd if=/path/to/release-desktop-amd64.iso of=/dev/sdx` where `/dev/sdx` is your USB drive '''NB! be careful to not wipe your own machine'''
** option 3: use any other LiveUSB creators / apps

For DVDs to boot laptops/desktops:
* Mac OS X:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/burn-a-dvd-on-mac-osx]]</nowiki>
* Windows:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/burn-a-dvd-on-windows]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/burn-a-dvd-on-ubuntu]]</nowiki>

If you do ubuntu testing often, you might want to use USB-sticks or re-writable DVDs as one can reuse the same media multiple times.

=== Boot ===

As you are testing an in-development installer, make sure you boot it on a disposable machine with no useful data on it, as it can be accidentally removed. A Virtual Machine (VirtManager, Qemu, VirtualBox, VMWare, etc) or a spare old laptop are good candidates for testing.

* For Virtual Machine, point to boot from the downloaded `.iso` file
* For laptops/desktops, insert USB-stick or DVD disk and boot from it.

=== General test cases ===
The <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> website offers many test cases for our current images.
Browse the website for relevant test-cases. For example, some of Ubuntu Desktop installer standard test cases are:
* <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1303/info|Live Session]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1301/info|Install (auto-resize)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1300/info|Install (entire disk)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1451/info|Install (entire disk with lvm and encryption)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1302/info|Install (manual partitioning)]]</nowiki>
 
=== Upgrading Installer ===

* Boot into "Live Session" (see steps in the above test case)
* (optional) using software properties add a new PPA
* Using Software Updater, update & upgrade all packages
* Launch the installer
** (normal) click installer icon in the dash
* To activate additional modes, such as ```debug``` or a new hidden feature do following:
** Open Terminal from the dash or press ```CTRL-ALT-T```
** Execute ```ubiquity``` followed by feature flags, e.g. ```ubiquity --debug``` or ```ubiquity --sso```

=== Testing WiFi in VM ===

* Boot to Try Ubuntu
* modprobe virt_wifi module
* Use `ip link add link en0 name wlan0 type virt_wifi` to wrap wifi in ethernet
* Use network manager indicator to disable dhcp / networking on the ethernet device
* Then start ubiquity
* Wifi screen should offer to connect to a fake wifi ap that is visible on the wlan0 device, which in practice simply passes through the dhcp to the regular qemu eth device.
