{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Sine Ubiquity LVM and LUKS support is nearing completion, here is the test cases that you should performed: once over (to verify the spec); automated in jenkins (for continuous integration); manually (for ISO testing), as appropriate.

=== Automatic Partitioning, whole disk (2 tests) ===

Perform existing <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/DesktopWhole|DesktopWhole]]</nowiki> but with following changes
* Same, but with LVM ticked also see <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/AlternateLvm|AlternateLvm]]</nowiki>
* Same, but with Full Disk encryption ticked also see <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/AlternateEncryptedLvm||AlternateEncryptedLvm]]</nowiki>

=== Automatic Partitioning, whole disk, LVM twice in a row (1 test) ===

Perform existing <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/DesktopWhole|DesktopWhole]]</nowiki> again but with following

Pre-requisite:
* Full-disk installation, LVM whole disk

Test-case: 
* Overwrite, Full-disk installation, LVM ticked.

Due to partman-lvm quirks this might fail or show extra unneeded dialogues. (This is believed to be fixed, and hence both installations should be identical experience)

=== Automatic Partitioning, Resize, existing LVM (4 tests) ===

Perform something similar to the existing testcase <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/DesktopResize]]</nowiki>, but have an LVM group across the whole disk.

Pre-requisite:
* Full-disk installation, LVM whole disk

The goal here is to:
* Using Automatic Partitioning 
* Try to get a sensible installation within the existing LVM group
* Without destroying data
* Resizing LVM group and creating a second one

Attempt test case combinations of:
* In the "Install Ubuntu" (ubiquity-only) and "Try Ubuntu" (live-session) mode
* Using Automatic and Manual partinioning

=== Automatic Partitioning, Resize, existing encrypted LVM (4 tests) ===

Perform something similar to the existing testcase <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/DesktopResize]]</nowiki>, but have an LVM group across the whole disk.

Pre-requisites:
* Whole disk, encrypted, automatic partitioning installation.

The goal here is to:
* Try to get a sensible installation within the existing LVM group, insie
* Without destroying data
* Resizing LVM group and creating a second one

Attempt test case combinations of:
* In the "Install Ubuntu" (ubiquity-only) and "Try Ubuntu" (live-session) mode
* Using Automatic and Manual partinioning

=== Manual Partitioning (5 tests) ===

Perform regular manual partitioning test case <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/DesktopManual|DesktopManual]]</nowiki>
 
Perform manual partitioning with:
* 2 partitions: separate /boot  & encrypted /
* LVM (e.g. LVM spanning 2 disks, with LVs: /boot /usr /home /)
* 2 partitions: separate /boot & encrypted LVM group with LVs: /boot /usr /home /)
* 2 partitions: unencrypted / & encrypted /home

=== Conclusions ===

The above 15 tests should ideally be performed at least once on various types of hardware (VMs/bare metal) x supported arches.

Above tests are expected to uncover:
* bugs in the ubiquity implementation
* flaws in the design specification
* existing and known bugs in the underlying technologies (d-i, partman and its components)
* new bugs in the underlying technologies (d-i, partman and its components)
* missing functionality or features in the underlying technologies (d-i, partman and its components)
