{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This proposal was originally created by Andrew Sayers...

The content is in simple point form in the hopes that it will be easily remembered. It mainly focuses on the individual applications present in Ubuntu.

=== Welcome ===

* Thank you for choosing Ubuntu Linux.
* While Ubuntu is installing, we invite you to explore your new operating system.
* Let us know about your Ubuntu Experience at ubuntu.com/community!
* '''Ubuntu is built to be safe. Feel free to explore!'''

=== Browse the web with Firefox ===

* Ubuntu comes with Firefox 3, one of the most popular and useful web browsers in the world.
* Firefox keeps you safe by blocking pop-ups and warning about malware.
* You can download add-ons that adapt Firefox to your personal requirements.

=== Relive Memories with F-Spot Photo Manager ===

* F-Spot makes it easy to display, organise, edit and share all your photos.
* Import files from your phone and export them to Flickr.
* Find a picture in seconds with tagging and timelines.
* Make memories crystal clear by adjusting the colour, removing red-eye or adding effects.

=== Accessibility in Ubuntu ===

* Ubuntu makes computing easy whatever your circumstances.
* A range of assistive technologies make Ubuntu one of the most accessible operating systems around.
* We have you covered whether you want slow key support, magnification, braille or more.

=== Ubuntu speaks fluently ===

* Ubuntu is available in many different languages.
* Simply select your language in Language Support Administration
* Ubuntu's translations are contributed by our generous users. Feel free to help out at launchpad.net.

=== Control your digital life with Evolution ===

* Use Evolution for email, calendar, tasks and contact sharing.
* Comprehensive mail filters and search tools make managing your mail a breeze.
* Calendar events show up in the system clock, so you never miss an important meeting.

=== Keep in contact with Pidgin IM ===

* Pidgin IM is Ubuntu's instant messaging tool.
* Pidgin connects to all the major IM networks, so you only ever need to learn one interface.
* Plugins let you adapt Pidgin to your personal requirements.

=== OpenOffice - Office tools at your fingertips ===

* OpenOffice.org is a powerful office application that you can start using very quickly.
* OpenOffice.org creates letters, presentations and spreadsheets, as well as drawings and databases.
* OpenOffice.org keeps you compatible with your friends, no matter what office software they use.

=== Watch and listen on Ubuntu ===

* Movie Player makes it easy to play a huge variety of formats, including streamed content from the BBC, YouTube and other sources.
* Rhythmbox Music Player helps you share music with your friends, listen to Internet radio or download Creative Commons music.
* Rhythmbox also manages your Podcast subscriptions and connects to your MP3 player, so you can listen to your music on the go.

=== Installing additional software ===

* Use Add/Remove... to install and uninstall thousands of approved applications from our online repositories.
* The Ubuntu community makes sure these packages are polished and virus-free to make your life easier and safer.
* Regular updates keep you up-to-date when improvements and new versions become available.

=== Getting Help with Ubuntu ===

* All this is just the beginning!
* Ask your questions at ubuntuforums.org, where advanced users help people just like you.
* '''The installation will finish soon, we hope that you enjoy using Ubuntu!'''
