{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting minutes for 2021-09-11 ==

=== When ===
* 2021-09-11 18:30 ~ 19:30 UTC+9   
* Text chat meeting on telegram
=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Youngbin Han
* Note Taker: Vincent Wong
* RJ Hsiao
* Rohit Man Amatya
* fenris
=== Agendas ===
* Updates from teams 
* Action items from last meeting
* Topics for discussions

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team
*** Gather town
*** Community partner responses
*** https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iiQsjY-h0e7cjx0qGdDtF6dnF2TnX8O-AIino_ozhHA/edit#gid=0
*** community: except wslhub, .net dev all participating
*** sponsors: ubuntu, nipa need confirmation
*** Gather town information posting on ubucon website - done
* Marketing Team
*** Spreadshirt shop
*** https://ubucon-asia-2021.myspreadshop.com.au
*** Designs adjusted to include the back
*** Sartika to ask Gimpscape.ID for designs
*** MOPCON's promo post is now up on their social media
*** Ubuntu podcast will hopefully mention us in upcoming show
*** Sent email to OMG! Ubuntu! to see if he’ll post something
* Technical team
*** No updates
* Sponsorship team
*** New sponsor: NIPA (National IT Industry Promo agency of Korea) - nipa.kr
*** awaiting amount
* Content team
*** Keynote video - Ken needs some more time (for including content that requires contractual clearance)
*** TW’s volunteers will provide en subtitle for the zh-TW session

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* Sartika Lestari: Submit final promotion document
* Youngbin Han: Pass Hong Phuc Dang the information for Gathertown payment -> not yet
* Sartika Lestari: Check with Gimpscape ID for their help with t-shirt design (tshirt design deadline: 2021/08/24) -> Not received design yet
* Youngbin Han: Check with sticker vendors if we can issue coupons like t-shirts
* [DONE] Youngbin Han: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse
* [DONE] Youngbin Han: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting
* [DONE] Vincent Wong: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Vincent to contact Sartika and Gimpscape.ID to check if they have any tshirt design for our event.
* RJ: Bring Gather Town Map design idea
* [DONE] Youngbin: Open spreadshop store, supply legal information

==== Topics for discussion ====
* To Dos
*** Update panel discussion panel information
***** Confirmed: Sartika, Youngbin, Masafumi Ohta, fenris, RJ
***** Considering: TW (@BlueT_Lien), MY, JP
***** contact Hong Phuc to join as panel
***** Share list of questions for panel session
*** Spreadshop.com setup + T-shirts and other swag designs.
 
* [Topics leftover from last week]
* Marketing to bring more registration
*** promo video? - We can spend money for video maker subscription.
*** pre-event, post-event mail to all attendees
* Subtitle: Now need to send machine generated subtitles and videos to volunteers
*** Some videos have only machine generated subtitles with local language.
* Video call test with live session speakers (September 13 ~ 17)
*** email speakers to schedule a call
*** Compile speakers preferred time and have members from relevant LoCo organise test calld
*** Actions: Youngbin to prepare list of live session speakers
*** Things to test on test call
***** Did speaker register for UbuCon Asia 2021 on eventyay?
***** Can speaker hook up microphone and web cam?
***** Can speaker share desktop/laptop screen?
***** Can speaker share PDF slide?
***** Does speaker has any connectivity problem with Eventyay BBB?
* Keynote and Mark’s welcome video to arrive next week
* Pre-event, Post-event email to all attendees
*** Pre-event
***** Sponsor introduction email - according to sponsorship contract
***** Event dates reminder mail
***** Featured session intro mail
*** Post-event
***** post-event survey
* Opening session: intro video of each local community - will discuss next time.
 
=== Action Items ===
* Youngbin Han: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse
* Youngbin Han: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting
* Youngbin Han: Prepare list of live session speakers
* Vincent Wong: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Vincent/Sartika: Check with Gimpscape.ID for any further design ideas
* RJ: Think more about Gathertown map design, Video to finish manually translating by TW volunteers
* Hong Phuc: Provide list of questions for panel session
* Next meeting: 2020-09-18 18:30 UTC+9
