{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting minutes for 2021-08-18 ==
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuconAsia/2021/MeetingMinutes/2021-08-18

=== When ===
* 2021-08-18 22:00 ~ 24:00 UTC+9   
* Text chat meeting on telegram

=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Hong Phuc Dang
* Note taker: Gunyoung Yoon
* Youngbin Han
* Hong Phuc Dang
* Ko Ko Ye
* Sartika Lestari

=== Agendas ===
* Updates from teams 
* Action items from last meeting
* Topics for discussions

==== New members ====
* None

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team
* Marketing Team
** Blog Postings
*** Handle Ubuntu Blog posting
*** CloudMate posting helped by Youngbin
** Promotion Posts
*** Final documentation -> will be submitted tonight
* Technical team
** Migration to Dooray.com is complete (See separate spreadsheet for new login info)
* Sponsorship team
* Content team

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* Hong Phuc Dang: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse
* Hong Phuc Dang: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting
* Gunyoung yoon: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Next meeting: 2020-08-18 22:00 UTC+9
* Youngbin: Migrate email to dooray.com Contact fenris for setting up DNS for that
* Content team: Finalize event schedule before Aug 16

==== Topics for discussion ====
* Panel session - Ubuntu & other FOSS communities in Asia
** Moderator: Hong Phuc Dang?
** Who are the panels?
** List of panel questions?
* Social events
** Day 1 - Empty slot: 19:25 ~ 20:00
** Day 2 -  After 20:00?
** Check out some ideas from the last content team meeting.
*** MeetingMinutes_20210815_ContentTeam
** Meeting Time / Format change
*** bi-weekly -> weekly
*** wednesday -> saturday
*** telegram text chat -> video call
* Prioritized Items for next 2 weeks
** Schedule: Need detailed schedule for social events, Check with sponsors about their session slots
** T-shirts: Working on design, Pre-order 120 (31 Speakers, 31 Organizers, Some Sponsors)
*** Use www.spreadshirt.com/, Give people coupons for T-shirts
** Stickers: Need to check coupon availability (Action Item)
** Tika: design, Youngbin: Vendor negotiation, Payment: Hong Phuc Dang

=== Action Items ===
* Sartika Lestari: Submit final promotion document
* Hong Phuc Dang: Sending emails to speakers to remind them about the video upload deadline
* Tech Team: Setup Google Cloud for subtitles by end of this month (Use FOSSASIAâ€™s google account, tell Hong Phuc Dang how to set up & what to do; set up by sept 4)
* Youngbin Han: Pass Hong Phuc Dang the information for Gathertown payment 
* Sartika Lestari: Check with Gimpscape ID for their help with t-shirt design (tshirt design deadline: 2021/08/24)
* Youngbin Han: Check with sticker vendors if we can issue coupons like t-shirts
* Youngbin Han: Contact Ian(Microsoft) and Ubuntu for their session / workshop information 
* Gunyoung Yoon: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse
* Gunyoung Yoon: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting
* Gunyoung Yoon: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Next meeting: 2020-09-01 22:00 UTC+9
