{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2021-MeetingMinutes|Back to list of minutes]]</nowiki>

== Meeting minutes for 2021-05-12 ==
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuconAsia/2021/MeetingMinutes/2021-05-12

=== When ===
* 2021-05-12 22:00 ~ 24:00 UTC+9   
* Text chat meeting on telegram

=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Youngbin Han - KR
* Note taker: Hong Phuc Dang (Not present)
* Fumihito Yoshida - JP
* Rohit Man Amatya - NP
* Liam Zheng - CN
* Ravi Bhattarai- NP

=== Agendas ===
* Updates from teams 
* Action items from last meeting
* Topics for discussions

==== New members ====
None

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team: 
** Done same thing as usual. Scheduling and preparing meeting, publishing meeting notes on wiki
** Published partner community brochure on website and social media  
** KLAS(Indonesia) and WSL Korea User Group will join as our partner 

* Marketing Team
** Marketing team has published a CFS announcement on our website and our social media.

* Technical team 
** No updates to share.

* Sponsorship team
** Reviewed and finalized sponsorship packages details and brochure.
** Published the brochure and announcement on web and social media.

* Content team
** None present at this meeting.

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* DONE MY LoCo Teams: Add Local Language session information(Refer spreadsheet above)
* DONE ID, NP, CN LoCo Teams: Add budget information (If need any, add to the budget draft)
* DONE Fumihito: Share logo for Japanese Team with dark font
* DONE Content Team: Discuss about virtual booths with video calls (until May 5th)
* DONE Content Team: Confirmation of the sponsorship document's page 11
* DONE Content team: Prepare CFS announcement until May 5th
* Tech Team: Bring some more results on Google speech to text
* DONE Jeremy Cheng: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse 
* DONE Jeremy Cheng: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting 
* DONE Youngbin Han: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* DONE Next meeting: 2020-05-12 22:00 UTC+9

==== Topics for discussion ====
* Casting(contacting) potential speakers from each local team
** Sharing and spreading might not enough for gathering enough number of speakers.
* Opening session: 2 minutes intro video for each host community
* Gathering sponsorship
** Ubuntu Community fund - time to submit our application.
** fund application form: amount required - amount of sponsor package amount or total amount of our budget plan?

=== Action Items ===
* Hong Phuc Dang: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse 
* Hong Phuc Dang: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting 
* Gunyoung Yoon: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Next meeting: 2020-05-26 22:00 UTC+9
* Each local team: Contact(or cast) potential speakers and encourage them to join.(1~2 people for each team. until CFS ends)
* Liam, RJ, Youngbin
** Contact other event team who got “ubuntu” as sponsor and ask details about it
** Whether it’s from community fund or direct sponsorship
