{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Location ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Page maintainers
| <nowiki>[[svij]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Sturmflut]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[jonathan-liebers]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Location: The "Unperfekthaus" ===

TODO: Import all the info from svij's e-mail to the list

=== Getting there ===

Essen is part of the “Ruhrgebiet” (4th largest metropolitan area in Europe) area and is surrounded by airports:

** <nowiki>[[https://www.dus.com/de-de|Düsseldorf Airport]]</nowiki> (International)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.airport-weeze.de/de|Airport Düsseldorf-Weeze]]</nowiki> (RyanAir)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.dortmund-airport.de/|Airport Dortmund]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.koeln-bonn-airport.de/|Airport Köln-Bonn]]</nowiki>

The main station is well-connected to the european railway system. Some examples for train travel times:

** 2:20 from Amsterdam
** Three hours from Brussels or Stuttgart
** Four hours from Berlin
** 4:40 from Paris
** Five hours from Munich
** Six to seven hours from London

=== Accomodation ===

There are hotels for all budgets in and around Essen. Due to the good train connections it is also possible to stay farther away and commute.

=== Public transport ===

Essen has metro lines, trams and busses. The Unperfekthaus is centrally located and nearby the station "Berliner Platz" (<nowiki>[[http://efa.vrr.de/vrr/XSLT_TRIP_REQUEST2?language=en&sessionID=0&useRealtime=1&itdLPxx_transpCompany=vrr&execInst=readOnly&lineRestriction=403&ptOptionsActive=1&place_destination=Essen&name_destination=Berliner%20Platz&type_destination=stop&|journey planner]]</nowiki>). It is reached by the following lines: U11, U17, U18, 101, 103, 105, 106, 109 and busses SB16, 145, 166.
