{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Register for <nowiki>[[Ubucon-Boulder]]</nowiki> here in sequential order.

You'll need
to have a http://launchpad.net id to edit this page, but it just takes
a simple email round trip to get an id, and launchpad promises not to disclose or misuse your email address.  When you have that, click on "login" in the upper right of this page to register with the wiki, then click "edit" on this page (it will appear near the upper left after you login) and add a line for yourself, like the other entries.

If we're overcrowded (probably around 30 at any given time) we'll give preference to those that signed up first.

If you later find that you can't come, please remove your name.

# NealMcBurnett https://launchpad.net/~nealmcb - network auth, 
# JimHutchinson https://launchpad.net/~jimhutchinson - learn more, collaborate, TIE stuff
# JoeyStanford https://launchpad.net/~jjs - Canonical/Launchpad
# Nick Verbeck https://launchpad.net/~nerdynick - collaborate, network
# TristanRhodes https://launchpad.net/~tristanrhodes - Open source network management tools, Utah team 
# Brian Fromme https://launchpad.net/~fromme - Have fun, laugh often, learn something
# DavidOvercash https://launchpad.net/~funnylookinhat - (Can only attend till about 12:30) - TIE Stuff, Thin-Client Demonstration, Using RSYNC/SSH to Backup Home Folder
# KevinFries https://launchpad.net/~kevin-kevinfries - Embedded Linux Developer, Telecomm
# RebeccaSobol - LWN.net gal
# BrandanLloyd - using SSH to tunnel traffic
# Joe Pezzillo - http://www.metafy.com - among other things, a Mac developer...interested to attend with eyes open
# Dave Vanderploeg - learn, network 
# Bob Acker - Current - SUSE/Vmware; want to see Ubunto 
# Mitch Mahan https://launchpad.net/~mitchm87 - Cisco, Perl, Server Admin/Network Design
# Paul Casey https://launchpad.net/~pcasey Ubuntu user / fan
# ''yourNameHere" "your launchpad entry" "your interests''

We're not using the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/sprints/ubucon-boulder|launchpad meeting attendees list]]</nowiki> because that doesn't let us track who signed up first.
