{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2021-MeetingMinutes|Back to list of minutes]]</nowiki>

== Meeting minutes for 2021-04-28 ==
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuconAsia/2021/MeetingMinutes/2021-04-28

=== When ===
* 2021-04-28 22:00 ~ 24:00 UTC+9 -> 2021-04-29 22:00 ~ 24:00 UTC+9 (Postponed)   
* Text chat meeting on telegram

=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Gunyoung Yoon(KR)
* Note taker: Youngbin Han(KR)
* Fumihito Yoshida - JP
* Sartika Lestari - ID
* Rohit Man Amatya - NP
* Koala Yeung - HK
* RJ Hsiao - TW

=== Agendas ===
* Updates from teams 
* Action items from last meeting
* Topics for discussions
** Budget plan finalization
** CFS details
** Calling for new coordination team member

==== New members ====
* None

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team: 
** Usual works (Meeting minutes, arranging meeting, etc)
** Looking for new member (Jeremy will not be able to actively participate)
** Received contacts from KLAS (Indonesian Community), but denied, because we already have enough number of communities as a host.
** From this point on, other communities can participate in this event by joining as a partner community. (Details will be announced in sponsorship brochure; Will be released in May 1st)
** Info: Hong Phuc won’t be able to participate actively for a week or few weeks, due to her private issues.

* Marketing Team
** Sent marketing email to ubuntu loco channel
** Research about international swag makers. Kotis until now don’t give any feedback, But i have updated the budget plans for marketing team from 
** swagup.com 
*** t-shirt $17-$20
*** international shipping $32 shipping 

* Technical team: None

* Sponsorship team
** Had conference call with MCI
*** Our budget(Before updating swag budget) was too small for them to provide financial service
** FOSSASIA might be the only option for financial host
*** Will look into FOSSASIA’s detail after hp returns
** Will update sponsorship package amount based on updated budget plan.
*** Two things to confirm. Local team budget and swag budget. Swag budget is already confirmed.

* Content team
** The session info draft is fixed

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* Gunyoung: Update our main website with recent updates and make some improvements ->Done
* Youngbin: Update Eventyay page - CoC -> Done
* Sartika: Update Eventyay page - Partner logos -> Done
* Hong Phuc: Update sponsorship brochure - event venue page -> Done
* Content Team: Discuss about virtual booths with video calls
* Content Team: Discuss about session slots, breaktimes, and overall timetable of the event -> Done
* Content Team: Confirmation of the sponsorship document's page 11
* Tech Team: Bring some more results on Google speech to text -> Incomplete
* Gunyoung Yoon: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse -> Done
* Gunyoung Yoon: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting 
* Jeremy Cheng: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)

==== Topics for discussion ====

* Budget plan finalization
** Local team budget
*** Don't need extra budget: KR, JP
*** May need some extra budget: TW
*** Need confirmation: ID, NP, CN, HK, MY
** Swag budget: updated on budget plan sheet. (Candidate: Swagup)
* CFS details
** We'll accept talk session in: English, Korean, Japanese, Chinese(Taiwan, China(Optional)), Cantonese,  Indonesian
** Youngbin will ask fenris for confirmation about accepting Malaysian talk session. If no response, We won't accept talk session in Malaysian.
** Virtual booth details still not decided. Content team will discuss and bring outcome until May 5th.
* Looking for new coordination team member.
** As Jeremy Cheng, one of coordination team member can no longer do coordination team activiteis because of his many private issues. We're now looking for new member who will replace him. Anyone is welcomed to join, Don't hesitate.
* CFS accnouncement: based on what we discussed on meeting, We found we need more time to finalize some details before CFS. Therefore, CFS will be from May 5th not May 1st.
=== Action Items ===
* MY LoCo Teams: Add Local Language session information(Refer spreadsheet above)
* ID, NP, CN LoCo Teams: Add budget information (If need any, add to the budget draft)
* Fumihito: Share logo for Japanese Team with dark font, also intro text for Japanese team.
* Content Team: Discuss about virtual booths with video calls (until May 5th)
* Content Team: Confirmation of the sponsorship document's page 11
* Content team: Prepare CFS announcement until May 5th
* Tech Team: Bring some more results on Google speech to text
* Youngbin Han: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse 
* Youngbin Han: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting 
* Hong Phuc Dang: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Next meeting: 2020-05-12 22:00 UTC+9
