{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2021-MeetingMinutes|Back to list of minutes]]</nowiki>

== Meeting minutes for 2021-03-03 ==

=== When ===
* 2021-03-03 22:00 ~ 24:00 UTC+9   
* Whether it will be text chat or video call will be decided one day before the meeting based on poll result
=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Gunyoung Yoon(KR)
* Note taker: Koala Yeung(HK) - attend instead of Jeremy Cheng(HK)
 (more attendees will be added after the meeting)
* Youngbin Han(KR)
* RJ Hsiao(TW)
* Hong Phuc Dang (FOSSASIA)
* Sartika Lestari(ID)
* Liam Zheng(CN)
* Maynard Qin(CN)
* Robbi Nespu(MY)
* Fumihito Yoshida (JP)
* Aron Xu(CN)

=== Agendas ===
==== New members ====
* Maynard Qin(CN)

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team
** Gunyoung published meeting note on <nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2021-MeetingMinutes-2021-02-17|wiki]]</nowiki>
** Discussed about improving way of working
** Posted polls to ask everyone about their opinions.
** Gunyoung: Trying text-based meeting now as a result of coordination team discussion.

* Marketing Team 
** Marketing list of tasks for the next two weeks
** Prepare annouce CFS
*** Prepare social media artwork including link to CFS that could be seen in google drive as well and planned to release by 21 march.
*** Prepare announcement text for social media
** Add organizing partners into eventyay page and website 
** Contact Eventyay to feature UbuCon on eventyay.com main page 
** Discussed about marketing budget
** List of all Ubuntu channels that can be used for marketing 
** Direct http://ubucon.asia/speaker-registration/ to https://eventyay.com/e/75ac7f83/cfs 
** Announce CFS
*** Tentative released date: 21 March 2021
*** Release the CFS across channels

* Technical team 
** Tested eventyay’s BBB to see what features available
** Tested YouTube playback on BBB
*** Checked if it works for people in china without VPN/Proxy
*** On the other hand, Chinese people can still enter video call without video call but with some delay

* Sponsorship team
** Discussed about what benefits we can offer
*** Sponsored session, Logo on web, video, goods
** Discussed about sponsorship class and its criteria.
** Youngbin: Asked his friend has many years of experience organizing Open Infra Days. Advised to find an Agency that will help manage finance expenses. Contacted MCI Group in Singapore. waiting for a response.
*** Hong phuc advised to find similar organization or agency by asking team members first
** Youngbin asked Liam for Google Workspace sponsorship. Liam asked his boss.
*** Liam’s boss suggested the following things.
**** submit Ubuntu Community Funds
**** https://ubuntu.com/blog can be used for promotions

* Content team 
** No update last week.

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* Hong Phuc: provide twitter for members 
** Done
* Each Team: List the tasks for each team and share at the next meeting 
** Done, Updates shared
* Tech / Content Team: Discuss about the session format and subtitles, and prepare a draft about it to share everyone. 
** Work in Progress
* Content Team: Enter your contact information on the google spreadsheet(URL) 
** Done
* Sponsorship Team: Contact Liam, for the basic funding to start with. 
** Done. Updates shared.
* Hong Phuc: Provide access to eventyay to content team 
** Done. (Content team members should all get an email from eventyay)

==== Topics for discussion ====
* Sponsorship team needs a budget plan.
** To submit an Ubuntu Community Fund application: It requires a detailed budget plan and estimated amount of budget.
** Tech/Video team, Content team, Coordination team, Do you have anything that costs money?
** Let’s list items on Google Spreadsheet and co-edit.
** Tech/Video team
*** Google Cloud Credit: for Speech-to-text, Translation API
*** Storage for storing session videos temporary
*** VMs: If we automate video rendering and subtitle generation.
** Content team
*** None
** Coordination team
*** Google Workspace: 5 user, 1 year, business starter plan(the basic one)
** Sponsorship team
*** Goods shipping fees?
** Marketing team

* --(Our detailed event scale and program.)-- ⇒ postponed
** --(Other teams will be able to expect their required budget with detailed plans.)--
** --(When do we start calling for papers(was it already begun?))--
** --(Exact event start time and end time.)--
** --(How many tracks? (==How many sessions will happen at the same time?))--
** --(How many session slots?)--
** --(We have regular session and Lightning talks(recorded or live), Workshop, Panel talks,)--
*** --(Do we also have virtual booths(or virtual exhibitions) with video calls?)--

=== Action Items ===
* Each Team: List their cost and budget at the google doc (budget plan draft).
* Content Team: Discuss about event scale and details and bring some updates.
* Content Team: Setting up the telegram channel and starting the team.
* Koala Yeung: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse 
* Jeremy Cheng: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting 
* Youngbin Han - Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Next meeting: 2020-03-17 22:00 KST
