{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== On Site ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Page maintainers
| <nowiki>[[mister_q]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Sturmflut]]</nowiki>
|}

* TODO: Who organises everything on site?

=== Organisation ===

* hand out name batch
* hand out ubuntu merchandise
* hand out the programm in DIN A4 (atleast for those who are asking)
* print and DIN A1 Programms for the rooms and an overall plan

=== Location ===

The rooms are named after past Ubuntu release codenames. The conference schedule assigns talks to rooms.

All the important information for visitors (how to get there etc.) will be published beforehand.

* have PCs with the different ubuntu flavors to try out
* live-stream or recordings of the talks

=== Getting there ===

These information should be on the website for visitors: 

* show the different ways to get to essen (Train, Flight) and also where to go to find the exact place
* list the parking areas
* list nearby hotels (maybe with special ubucon conditions?)
* show the way to go to the social events

=== Sponsoring ===

* Canonical has already expressed their interest to sponsor the event again

* The following partner companies should be contacted: bq, Meizu, Erle, Mellanox

=== Catering ===

* organise catering with different (finger) food and drinks (like in the past ubucon.de years)
* maybe add fruits and vegetables

=== Social events ===

=== Thursday === 

The idea is to have a whole day for non-IT stuff. Possible ideas:

* play lasertag
* visit museums
* dinner

==== Friday ====

* dinner for friday night

==== Saturday ====
At past events there were guided excursions (e.g. a museum in Berlin) and organized dinners.

* dinner with a band maybe?

=== Hotels ===

Many people have asked for a list of suitable hotels, or maybe even rooms at a special Ubucon rate.

=== To-Do-List ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Item'''
| 
| '''Responsible person'''
| 
| '''Done ?'''
|-
| Catering
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Social Event
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Badges/Lanyards
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Poster
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Rooms
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Additional things
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}
