{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Basic Ideas ==

If you have any new ideas or found something missing feel, free to update this page.

=== Form of the event ===
* Virtual(online) event
* Pre-recorded and uploaded videos will be streamed with <nowiki>[[https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/9080341|YouTube Premieres]]</nowiki> on scheduled time.
** YouTube Premiere shows uploaded video in live streaming form.
** Mainland China region would need alternative that provides similar feature
* Session languages choice
** Allow both Local Language and English for speakers
*** Requires English subtitle works for non-English session, So that much more people can understand
*** Subtitle for English spoken session and translating English subtitle to Local language will be optional for each LoCos based on each LoCo's resource status.
** Just English Only
*** This would be easy, But We can't bring those no confident with English. (Some LoCos hesitate to join because they think they are not good enough at English)
==== Event scale ====
* Not defined yet. Needs discussions.
* Expected scale
** 8 regions (current)
** 3(min)~6(max) session for each region
** 1~2 keynotes(Max 2)
** Max numbers of sessions = number of regions * maximum session numbers for each region
*** (8 * 6) + 2 = Max 50 sessions expected
** Minimum numbers of sessions = (8 * 3) + 1 = 25
==== Session video standards ====
* Need discussion. It should be optimized for YouTube
* Resolution: 1920*1080(1080p), 1280*720(720p)
* Aspect ratio: 16:9
==== Working with subtitle ====
Common
* Require all speakers to submit their script for presentation with session video.
** It's to reduce volunteer's subtitle work. and to use it for correcting auto generated subtitles. Speaker knows exactly what speaker said.
** Script content should be exactly same as what speaker said on the video.
** Timestamp not required. scripts will be used to correct machine generated subtitles.
Sessions with local language
* Auto generate subtitle with online subtitle generation tool
** See list of tools below section for auto-generate subtitle
* Volunteers or hired workers compare with provided script and fix/improve subtitle
* Translate improved subtitle into English with machine translator
* Volunteers or hired workers fix and improve machine-translated subtitle

Session with English
* Just auto-generate with one of automation tools on the list below.
* Compare with provided script, Fix/improve generated subtitle

Translating English subtitle into Local language '''(Optional)'''
* Since all video will at least have English subtitle, translate that English subtitle into Local language.
* Use machine translator to translate into Local language first, then fix and improve by hand.
* This is optional, each LoCo(or Local event team) decide to whether translate into their language based on their resource status.

Automatic caption(subtitle) generation tools
* <nowiki>[[https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/6373554?hl=en|YouTube - Automatic caption]]</nowiki>
** Free
** Supported languages are not wide enough for this event
*** Dutch, English, French, German, Indonesian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Turkish, and Vietnamese. 
* <nowiki>[[https://cloud.google.com/speech-to-text|Google Cloud - Speech to text]]</nowiki>
** free for 60mins every month. pay to generate more
** <nowiki>[[https://cloud.google.com/speech-to-text/docs/languages|Supported Languages]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://cloud.google.com/speech-to-text/docs/video-model|Guides for generating subtitle]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/raryelcostasouza/pyTranscriber|pyTranscriber uses Google speech to text to generate subtitle]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://webcaptioner.com/|Web Captioner]]</nowiki>
** Free, Uses Chrome's Web speech API to do the job
** Does not generates captions with timestamps

=== What we need to prepare ===
* Core organizers
** 2~4 people for each region
* Volunteers
** Video editing
** Translating
** Writing subtitles
** Marketing
* Speakers
* Conference website - under construction https://ubucon-asia.github.io/2021
** Github Pages
** asia.ubucon.org/2021 address
** event timeline info
** session timetable and details
** Sponsors information
* YouTube channel for releasing contents
* Logo

=== Timeline Ideas ===

Any suggestions for schedules welcome

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 2020.10.27 ~ 2021.01.31
| Gather core organizers for each region (2~3 people)
|-
| 2021.02.01 ~ 2021.04.30 (3 months estimated)
| Calling for papers(CFP), Gather volunteers
|-
| ? ~ ?
| Review and adopt CFPs, notify adopted speakers
|-
| ? ~ ?
| Record and submit session videos
|-
| ? ~ ?
| Edit videos, create translations and subtitles for each videos
|-
| ? ~ ?
| Review session videos, plan session timetables
|-
| ? ~ ?
| Upload videos and set release time
|-
| 2021 Q3 or Q4 1~2days
| Release videos via YouTube premiere
|-
| ? ~ ?
| Gather feedbacks
|}

=== Session topics ===
* Local Community
** LoCo activities under COVID-19 pandemic
* Desktop
*** Ubuntu flavours
* Server, Cloud, Containers
* DevOps
* IoT
* AI/ML
* WSL(Windows Subsystem for Linux)
* i18n, l10n
** Fonts, Input Methods
* Security
