{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2021-MeetingMinutes|Back to list of minutes]]</nowiki>

== Meeting minutes for 2021-05-26 ==
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuconAsia/2021/MeetingMinutes/2021-05-26
=== When ===
2021-05-26 22:00 ~ 24:00 UTC+9   
* Text chat meeting on telegram

=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Hong Phuc Dang
* Note taker: Gunyoung Yoon (KR)
* Hong Phuc Dang
* Youngbin Han (KR)
* Rohit Man Amatya (NP)
* Sartika Lestari (ID)
* Yudhi Satrio (ID)
* Ko Ko Ye (MM)
* Koala Yeung (HK)
* Robbi (MY)

=== Agendas ===
* Updates from teams 
* Action items from last meeting
* Topics for discussions

==== New members ====
None

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team
*** New Partner(s) - 2
***** WSLHUB (South Korea)
***** KLAS (Indonesia)
*** In Contact
***** OpenStack Korea (South Korea) - will submit partner form soon
* Marketing Team
*** Promote Ubucon Asia on SNS
*** Event, CFS, Call for Volunteers, Call for Community Partners
*** Event Roadshow
***** Monthly meetup & podcast
***** https://www.facebook.com/kelompoklinuxareksuroboyo/photos/a.1906033776157076/4045530388874060/
*** Working on T-Shirt design
*** Youngbin suggested focusing on promoting CFS and sponsorship first
* Technical team
*** Tried remotion.dev for creating video templates
***** https://github.com/ubucon-asia/2021-video-template
***** Using this, we can simple create a video session covers by modifying params.json and running commands on CLI
***** Hong Phuc Dang suggested having a separate session(meeting) for sharing tool’s usage (Added to  the Action Item)
* Sponsorship team
*** Updates from Canonical (by Liam)
***** Forwarded sponsorship doc, and waiting for the reply
*** Prepared contact list for potential sponsors
*** Wrote some email templates for proposing sponsorship
***** and sent out some, but no reply yet (Except Canonical)
*** Trying to contact Samsung via Youngbin’s private connection
*** Hong Phuc Dang shared VMware contact (done) 
* Content team
*** 8 Speakers submitted
*** Indonesian subtitle generator looks good but still needs modification

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* Hong Phuc Dang: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse (Done)
* Hong Phuc Dang: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting (Done) 
* Gunyoung Yoon: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker) (Done)
* Each local team: Contact(or cast) potential speakers and encourage them to join.(1~2 people for each team. until CFS ends) 
* Liam, RJ, Youngbin (Done)
*** Contact other event team who got “ubuntu” as sponsor and ask details about it 
***** Whether it’s from community fund or direct sponsorship
*** Youngbin asked Ubucon Sintra team
***** They said to contact Monica(Ubuntu community representative) and Claire(Mark's secretary) before submitting a fund request form

==== Topics for discussion ====
* Gathering speakers / Session ideas for host communities & ubuntu LoCos
* Share potential speaker status from each local team
* Ideas
*** Each organizers to submit their own session
*** Submit session regarding each local team's activities
*** contact potential speakers, encourage them to join and invite them
*** Provide some session topic examples: examples below
***** Desktop example: Integrating Active Directory with Ubuntu Desktop
***** Cloud/Container: Operating edge k8s cluster with ubuntu and microk8s
***** Installfest: https://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-arizona/4089-virtual-azlocoplug-install-festlinux-workshop
*** A panel session to discuss and share LoCo activities of each local team
***** Ex. https://manage.ubucon.org/eu2019/talk/ZWEV9A/
*** A panel session to brainstorm about running local community in sustainable way would be also good and keep in touch
* Gathering sponsorship 
*** Reach out to companies that sponsor similar conference like Linux App Summit or previous UbuCon
*** What will happen if we don't get any sponsorship?
***** No swags
***** No subtitles
***** Video work all done by hand manually
***** promo on social media done by hand manually(no social media ads)
***** organizers may need spend their own money
*** Announcing about a donation ticket in the discourse, mailing list etc
***** Donation ticker buyers’ name will go on the event website
***** Try to develop a Batch system for creating a PR
***** if fails, add people’s name by hang typing (Gunyoung)
=== Action Items ===
* Hung Phuc Dang: Setup a donation ticket on our eventyay page
* Gunyoung Yoon: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse 
* Gunyoung Yoon: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting 
* Youngbin Han: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Tech team: Schedule seperate session about react remotion usage guideline
* Next meeting: 2020-06-09 22:00 UTC+9
