{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting minutes for 2021-07-07 ==
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuconAsia/2021/MeetingMinutes/2021-07-07

=== When ===
* 2021-07-07 22:00 ~ 24:00 UTC+9   
* Text chat meeting on telegram

=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Hong Phuc Dang (FOSSASIA)
* Note taker: Gunyoung Yoon (KR) 
* Youngbin Han (KR)
* Ko Ko Ye (MM)
* Rohit Man Amatya (NP)
* RJ Hsiao (TW)
* Aron Xu (CN)

=== Agendas ===
* Updates from teams 
* Action items from last meeting
* Topics for discussions

==== New members ====
* None

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team
** New partner: Ubuntu Unity, Ubuntu DDE
*** Ubuntu DDE will collaborate with Foss Nepal to bring some speakers and attendees from Nepal.
** Ubuntu Kylin team is coworking with Aron(Ubuntu CN) to bring some speakers
*** Expected to receive about 4 proposals
* Marketing Team
** Sartika tried to submit Twitter ads, but couldn’t because the AD submission form didn’t show any tweets that can choose to promote. Submitted a ticket to twitter ads team instead 
** Youngbin tried to submit ads on Facebook. It worked well on the first few days, But Facebook eventually denied ads because they thought the Ubucon CFP ad was a cryptocurrency ad(???)
** Liam and Sartika prepared a marketing post draft that will be published on Ubuntu blog. Since Sartika shared the draft to Liam, He will check the posting schedule and publish it soon.
** Hong Phuc made an announcement on UbuCon Asia on official FOSSASIA Social media.
** Youngbin created event on linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/events/6816022777355730944/
* Technical team
** Patron Page (https://2021.ubucon.asia/patrons/)
*** for Featuring people who purchased donation tickets
** CI for rendering video
*** Need to work on GCP storage bucket integration
* Sponsorship team
** Canonical Funding
*** Liam: Payment & PO will be approved next week
** More Funding Companies
*** CloudMate, WhaTap (South Korea)
* Content team
** We have 27 Session Proposal is made until now
** And 7 people submitted them as a speaker but not a session

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* All: please submit a session or a session holder to our own event 
* Youngbin: Check MS translator license for use in conference (Waiting response from MS)
* Youngbin: Publish donation ticket information on website and discourse
* Hong Phuc Dang: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse
* Hong Phuc Dang: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting
* Marketing team: publish a blog article on Ubuntu.com
* Gunyoung Yoon: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)

==== Topics for discussion ====
* Dedicated time slot for virtual booth
** Rather than ask sponsors/partners for their desired virtual booth video call time. Put 30min~1h breaktime in the middle of the timetable each day. and tell them to run video call during break time (It’s like office hours format)
** Postponed to after the CFS
* Workshops
** Debian packaging workshop / Robbi
*** Have issues with local ISP bandwidth to have long video call
*** Any progress on plan?
** Linux desktop customization / Rhoit - proposal submitted
** GPG + Ubuntu CoC signing workshop /  Any volunteers? (RJ - Pending)
** Some workshop sessions from canonical? - Liam will ask internal team
** microk8s workshop (Ko Ko Ye - Pending)
** Workshop requirements
*** submit proposals with some brief timetable and requirements for attendees
*** Will be a live workshop during event hours
* Suggestion: subtitle for Lightning talks? (based on each local team’s resource status of course)
** KR, ID - Possible
** Other - Decide later, since it’s related to each LoCo’s translation resources

=== Action Items ===
* All: please submit a session or workshop until July 14 (no further extension of deadline) 
* Gunyoung Yoon: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse
* Gunyoung Yoon: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting
* Youngbin Han: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Next meeting: 2020-07-21 22:00 UTC+9 
