{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting minutes for 2021-09-04 ==
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuconAsia/2021/MeetingMinutes/2021-09-04

=== When ===
* 2021-09-04 18:30 ~ 19:30 UTC+9   
* Text chat meeting on telegram
* Meeting is now Weekly meeting on Saturdays

=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Youngbin Han
* Note taker: Youngbin Han
* Vincent Wong
* Gyuseok Jung
* RJ Hsiao
* Ko Ko Ye
* Liam Zheng
* Hong Phuc Dang
* Rohit Man Amatya

=== Agendas ===
* Updates from teams 
* Action items from last meeting
* Topics for discussions

==== New members ====
* Vincent Wong (Ubuntu HK)

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team
*** Got new member - Vincent Wong
*** Vincent will do works instead of Jeremy
*** We supported sponsorship team to handle agreements and invoices
*** Help Tech team to setup Google Cloud
*** Work with marketing team on merchandise
*** Publish meeting minutes
* Marketing Team
*** Promotion post on Ubuntu blog
*** https://ubuntu.com/blog/introducing-ubucon-asia-2021-the-first-ubuntu-conference-in-asia
*** Promotion post on MOPCON social media. - Will be published soon.
*** Preparing spreadshop.com for merchandises
* Technical team
*** Pre-recorded videos with cover rendered and uploaded to YouTube
*** Subs generated with script. Also uploaded to YouTube
* Sponsorship team
*** Got sponsorship amount from Canonical
*** Microsoft joins as Gold sponsor
*** Youngbin working on to bring NIPA(A government agency in Korea)
***** Hong Phuc assisted for some legal documents
* Content team
*** Received recordings from speakers
*** Reviewed some videos. Satrio found some problems on a few videos: Few videos had ads about the speaker's company. asked them to remove it.

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* Sartika Lestari: Submit final promotion document
*** Vincent did this instead
* Hong Phuc Dang: Sending emails to speakers to remind them about the video upload deadline -> Done!
* Tech Team: Setup Google Cloud for subtitles by end of this month (Use FOSSASIA’s google account, tell Hong Phuc Dang how to set up & what to do; set up  * by sept 4)  -> Done!
* Youngbin Han: Pass Hong Phuc Dang the information for Gathertown payment -> not yet
* Sartika Lestari: Check with Gimpscape ID for their help with t-shirt design (tshirt design deadline: 2021/08/24) -> Not received design yet
* Youngbin Han: Check with sticker vendors if we can issue coupons like t-shirts -> Done!
* Youngbin Han: Contact Ian(Microsoft) and Ubuntu for their session / workshop information  -> Done!
* Gunyoung Yoon: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse -> Done!
* Gunyoung Yoon: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting -> Done!
* Gunyoung Yoon: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker) -> Done!
* Next meeting: 2020-09-01 22:00 UTC+9 -> Done!
 
==== Topics for discussion ====
To Dos

* Update panel discussion panel information
*** Confirmed: Sartika, Youngbin, Masafumi Ohta
*** Considering: TW, MY, JP
*** contact Hong Phuc to join as panel
* Share list of questions for panel session
*** Spreadshop.com setup + T-shirts and other swag design
*** Ask Gimpscape.id for design help?
*** Current design is too colourful in the background. Revision required?
*** Need legal info to open shop:
***** Use Youngbin’s info first. if not works, contact HP for help
*** Vincent to contact Sartika and Gimpscape.ID to check if they have any tshirt design for our event.
* Gather town space setup
*** Need to ask sponsors * community partners whether they will run virtual booths. (Quick Yes/No question)
*** Gather town information posting on ubucon website

[Will discuss on next week]

* Marketing to bring more registration
*** promo video? - We can spend money for video maker subscription.
* Subtitle: Now need to send machine generated subtitles and videos to volunteers
* Video call test with live session speakers
* Keynote and Mark’s welcome video to arrive next week
* Pre-event, Post-event email to all attendees
* Sponsor introduction email

=== Action Items ===
* Youngbin Han: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse
* Youngbin Han: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting
* Vincent Wong: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Next meeting: 2020-09-11 18:30 UTC+9
* Vincent to contact Sartika and Gimpscape.ID to check if they have any tshirt design for our event.
* RJ: Bring Gather Town Map design idea
* Youngbin: Open spreadshop store
