{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2021-MeetingMinutes|Back to list of minutes]]</nowiki>

== Meeting minutes for 2021-04-14 ==
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuconAsia/2021/MeetingMinutes/2021-04-14

=== When ===
* 2021-04-14 22:00 ~ 24:00 UTC+9   
* Text chat meeting on telegram

=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Hong Phuc Dang
* Note taker: Gunyoung Yoon - KR
* Sartika Lestari - ID
* Fumihito Yoshida - JP
* Robbi Nespu - MY
* Youngbin Han - KR
* Koala Yeung - HK
* Rohit Man Amatya - NP

=== Agendas ===
* Updates from teams 
* Sponsorship
* CFS Promotion 

==== New members ====
* None

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team: 
** Usual tasks (Note taking, Publishing meeting minutes, preparing agendas)

* Marketing Team
** Planning to contact potential Ubuntu channels around April to inform about this event and CFS.
** When CFS is shared from the Content Team in early May, the Marketing Team will start the promotion.

* Technical team 
** Mail server now works with sending & receiving emails
** Had difficulty with receiving emails, but found out that it was caused by the DNS MX record problem.
** Still has session consistency issue (automatically getting logged out in few minutes after logging in), and will look into this
** Tried pyTranscribe with some Cantonese tech present I got. It didn't quite work. Will probably have to do those manually.

* Sponsorship team
** Contacted two organization/company who will be our financial host
** FOSSASIA (Hong Phuc)
** Fee: 15%
** Limitation: Number of income and outcome transaction should be same (5 In, 5 Out)
** Will ask them to offer us more number of transactions
** MCI Group (Youngbin)
** Can handle same thing that fossasia fiscal team can do
** Can distribute on online services(cloud services, swag makers, etc)
** Can distribute budget to local team if required
** International shipping if needed.
** Fee: No information. Need to ask them at the meeting
** Updated sponsorship packages on sponsorship document (Request confirmation from content team @ page 11)
** Possible Funds 
** Swags: Ubuntu Partners (liam mentioned before)
** Cloud credits: Cloudmate(https://cloudmate.co.kr)
** Contact List: Google, Red Had, Microsoft, Etc

* Content team
** Sartika suggested the draft of the session slots, was not fully discussed
** Virtual Booth needs to be discussed 

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* All: Each community (fossasia, fossnp, openstack-id, gnome-id) please make a pull request to add your community logo and some intro text to https://2021.ubucon.asia/hosts (check this out on github) OR send the logo and intro text to Youngbin 
* All: add community details into page 6 of sponsorship doc
* Hong Phuc: check with FOSSASIA team on fiscal host fee 
* Sponsorship team: complete sponsorship brochure and select fiscal host 
* Content Team: Discuss about virtual booths with video calls
* Content Team: Discuss about session slots, breaktimes, and overall timetable of the event
* Tech Team: Bring some more results on Google speech to text
* Hong Phuc Dang: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse 
* Hong Phuc Dang: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting 
* Gunyoung Yoon: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Next meeting: 2020-04-14 22:00 UTC+9

==== Topics for discussion ====
* Swag: Let’s consider swag makers that can also handle international shipping.
** e.g. Kotis design
** Marketing team will discuss about this topic

* CFS Promotion 
** through our social media
** through each local team’s marketing channel
** Start CFS in 1 May, end in 30 June, acceptance notification in 30 July

* Updating out website(main page)
** Out-dated information exists (Call for organizers)
** Important information is stored too deep (Requires users to go into the tabs) - UX problem
** Copy logos to the front page (/hosts/ to / )
** Add more information to the main(front) page

=== Action Items ===
* Gunyoung: Update our main website with recent updates and make some improvements
* Youngbin: Update Eventyay page - CoC
* Sartika: Update Eventyay page - Partner logos
* Hong Phuc: Update Eventyay page - session slot data and intro text
* Content Team: Discuss about virtual booths with video calls
* Content Team: Discuss about session slots, breaktimes, and overall timetable of the event
* Content Team: Confirmation of the sponsorship document's page 11
* Tech Team: Bring some more results on Google speech to text
* Gunyoung Yoon: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse 
* Gunyoung Yoon: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting 
* Jeremy Cheng: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Next meeting: 2020-04-28 22:00 UTC+9
