{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2021-MeetingMinutes|Back to list of minutes]]</nowiki>

== Meeting minutes for 2021-06-09 ==
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuconAsia/2021/MeetingMinutes/2021-06-09
=== When ===
* 2021-06-09 22:00 ~ 24:00 UTC+9   
* Text chat meeting on telegram
=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Gunyoung Yoon
* Note taker: Youngbin Han (KR)
* Fumihito Yoshida (JP)
* Sartika Lestari (ID)
* Liam Zheng(CN)
* fenris(MY)
* Gyuseok Jung(KR)
* Ko Ko Ye(MY)

=== Agendas ===
* Updates from teams 
* Action items from last meeting
* Topics for discussions

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team
*** More community partners
***** Openstack Korea Group (KR)
***** .New Dev (KR)
*** Will join soon
***** Gimscape.ID

* Marketing Team
*** Publications about Calling for speakers, volunteers, partners and sponsors (For reminding purpose)
*** Will try to make some promotion video that the marketing team planned before. Will try the video platform first.
*** Sartika joined Podcast Indonesia Belajar and live session with KLAS to promote the event and encourage people to submit CFS

* Technical team
*** Had a tech meeting last weekend to try out a video template and subtitle tool and discussed what we need to do next.
*** Yoshida is testing video template with longer video(30min ~ 2h)
***** Has no problem currently, will test with more video
*** Youngbin configured subtitle and translation scripts with GitHub Actions to automate subtitle job
*** Rhoit is testing if tools run without problem and the output file is ok.
*** Gyuseok is working on configuring video template with CI

* Sponsorship team
*** No new updates regarding sponsorship from canonical
*** Got response from RedHat, GitLab and Samsung that they will consider sponsorship
***** Liam: ubuntu partners don’t have enough resources to support event
******* Partner-DFI: Waterball Liu: waterball.liu@dfi.com: 
******* Note: no plan for sponsorship 

* Content team
*** Got 8 submissions currently

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* [DONE] Hung Phuc Dang: Setup a donation ticket on our eventyay page
* [DONE] Gunyoung Yoon: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse 
* [DONE] Gunyoung Yoon: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting 
* [DONE] Youngbin Han: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* [DONE] Tech team: Schedule seperate session about react remotion usage guideline
* [DONE] Next meeting: 2020-06-09 22:00 UTC+9

==== Topics for discussion ====
* Fallback for no subtitle volunteer: language specific track (Back up plan)
*** Language specific track with live translation service (e.g. MS Translator)
*** Will consider the backup if no volunteers but have local language submissions a few days before the deadline.
*** Action item: youngbin to check license of MS translator
*** We can still provide machine generated subtitles. It’s just not corrected by volunteers.
* CFP Social media ads on Facebook and Twitter for efficient promotion(until deadline)
*** Will need to spend private money from one of our organizers and reimbursement later
*** From fenris and Sartika's experience, sharing on social media by organizers is better then FB ads.
*** Sartika to check the budget for Facebook and Twitter ads.
* Paypal account for donation ticket
*** KR, ID, MY personal account can’t receive payment from non-paypal user
*** KR personal accounts are not allowed for domestic payment because of local regulations.
*** US personal accounts can receive guest checkout payment.
***** Gyuseok has one, but he’s afraid to provide his account for handling budget of global events
***** Opening a US paypal account requires no ID or bank account.
***** Action item: youngbin, gyuseok, gunyoung: test opening US paypal and sending small amounts of money.
*** If we have no other option, we’ll use fossasia’s paypal
* Guest invitation from UbuntuOnAir: Who would like to join with Youngbin?
*** June 17th 13:00 UTC 
***** Yoshida, Sartika, Gunyoung not available at that time.
*** Please contact Youngbin by next monday.

=== Action Items ===
* Youngbin Han: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse 
* Youngbin Han: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting 
* Hong Phuc Dang: Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting (Note taker)
* Next meeting: 2020-06-23 22:00 UTC+9
* Gunyoung, Gyuseok, Youngbin: Try to open US paypal and test sending small amount of money to other paypal accounts.
* Sartika: Check Twitter ads budget.
* Youngbin: Check MS translator license for use in conference
* Everyone: share Calling for proposals info on their social media channels.

