{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2021-MeetingMinutes|Back to list of minutes]]</nowiki>

== Meeting minutes for 2021-02-17 ==

=== When ===
2021-02-17 22:00 ~ 24:00 KST
On Eventyay video call

=== Attendees ===
* Chair: Hong Phuc Dang(SG)
* Note taker: Gunyoung Yoon(KR)
* Youngbin Han(KR)
* RJ Hsiao (TW)
* Rohit Man Amatya (NP)
* Sartika Lestari (ID)
* Fumihito Yoshida(JP)
* Robbi Nespu (MY)

=== Agendas ===
==== New members ====
* Rohit 
* Robbi
* Ravi

==== Updates from teams ====
* Coordination team 
** Created a fixed agenda for all meetings 
** Organized the notes 
** Published meeting notes on the Wiki 

* Marketing Team 
** Sartika designed logo for Ubucon Asia 2021
** Hong Phuc created twitter account (@ubuconasia)
** Hong Phuc set up CFP https://eventyay.com/e/75ac7f83/cfs  
** Sartika created the facebook fanpage (Ubucon Asia)
** Sartika working on promotion template

* Technical team 
** Khairul (fenris) purchased ubucon.asia and Youngbin set up address with that domain
** www.ubucon.asia
** https://2021.ubucon.asia

* Sponsorship team
** No update

* Content team 
** No update

==== Action items from last meeting ====
* Hong Phuc: Setup CFP and share access
** Done
* Hong Phuc: Create Google drive shared directory
** Done
* Sartika: Set up trello. 
** Done
* Youngbin: Invite volunteers to join different dedicated teams
** Done
* Youngbin: Set up mailing list(contact address)
** Done. Google Group based email is all set.
** But we need domain-connected email addresses too. (see below)

==== Topics for discussion ====
* Which time zone to advertise?
** Asia/Korean Time (GMT+9)
* Feedback on the Call for Speakers, specially the important time (Ex. due date of the CFS submission)
** CFS Submission due date: 30th June
** Submitted CFS review: A month

* Contact email
** We need Ubucon domain connected email. (Ex. for sponsorship, etc)
** Budget problem when using custom domain email.
** 1. we contact Liam, since he said he might be able to get the basic funding for this event.
** 2. When we fail to get the basic funding, use yandex, since it gives 20? emails with custom domain

* About the session formats & subtitles 
** There was no conclusion about this topic, and we only shared about the individual's ideas.
** Tech team and content team should discuss and bring a draft idea for this.
** Some ideas which was shared at the meeting
*** eventyay + YouTube streaming: since YouTube is blocked in China
*** Accepting Recorded / Live Session both seems good (Language: English / Local language w/ English subtitles)
*** Consider using GCP's features(Ex. Speech to Text API, Translation API)
*** Using Tex2Voice services
*** Translations by LoCo Teams and volunteers 

=== Action Items ===
* Hong Phuc: provide twitter for members
* Each Team: List the tasks for each team and share at the next meeting
* Tech / Content Team: Discuss about the session format and subtitles, and prepare a draft about it to share everyone.
* Content Team: Enter your contact information on the google spreadsheet(URL)
* Sponsorship Team: Contact Liam, for the basic funding to start with.
* Hong Phuc: Provide access to eventyay to content team
* Gunyoung Yoon: Publish meeting minutes on Ubuntu wiki and discourse
* Gunyoung Yoon: Next meeting chair - prepare and invite people to next meeting
* Jeremy Cheng: Next meeting note taker - Prepare meeting minutes for next meeting
* Next meeting: 2020-03-03 22:00 KST
