{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Cluster Stack ===

* '''Goal''': Provide a fully supported cluster stack for Karmic based on Pacemaker.
* '''Future Goals''': Provide Pacemaker/OpenAIS/Corosync as an integrated cluster solution that works out of the box (No or minimal file configuration).

==== Current Status of Clustering Packages in Ubuntu ====

Currently, there are two main clustering solutions that are fully functional in Ubuntu: RHCS and Heartbeat. There's also another solution called Pacemaker, but it is not fully functional. 

During the past few years, many changes have been done around the Heartbeat project. Changes started with Heartbeat version 2. This is where Pacemaker came to life as a newer implementation of the Cluster Resource Manager (CRM) for Heartbeat (Which is called Heartbeat V2). Years later it was decided to split the CRM into its own project, Pacemaker, to support both OpenAIS and Heartbeat cluster stacks.

Nowadays, Heartbeat has become deprecated. The latest Heartbeat releases (2.99.x, which will become Heartbeat 3), are intended to work as the cluster stack for Pacemaker (Pacemaker-Heartbeat), and will be the last Heartbeat release. However, Pacemaker-OpenAIS is the recommended cluster solution.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Package'''
| '''Current Version'''
| '''Upstream/Intended Version'''
|-
| Pacemaker
| 0.6.5
| 1.0.x
|-
| OpenAIS
| 0.91
| 1.0.0
|-
| Corosync
| 0.92
| NA
|-
| Heartbeat
| 2.1.4
| 2.99.x
|-
| RHCS
| 2.20090127
| 3.0.0
|}

==== Approaches taken by the Ubuntu HA Team ====

* Provide a fully supported Pacemaker based Cluster Stack, primarily Pacemaker-OpenAIS (This also means the use of Corosync).
* Leave Heartbeat 2.99.x fully functional to work with Pacemaker (Pacemaker-Heartbeat), to help with the transition from Heartbeat to OpenAIS.
* Continue to support RHCS (which is also based on OpenAIS and Corosync).

=== Other Packages ===

Other packages related to the team:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Package'''
| '''Current Version'''
| '''Upstream Version'''
| '''Comments'''
|-
| ipvsadm
| 1.24
| 1.25
| Awaiting MAIN Sponsorship for karmic
|-
| DRBD
| 8.3.1
| 8.3.2
| Packaged with DKMS
|}

=== Documentation ===

Provide Documentation to be included in the Ubuntu Server Guide for the cluster stack.

* Pacemaker-Heartbeat: <nowiki>[[UbuntuHighAvailabilityTeam-PacemakerHeartbeat]]</nowiki>
