{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== What is Bazaar? ==

<nowiki>[[http://bazaar.canonical.com/en/|Bazaar]]</nowiki> is a GNU version control system, sponsored by Canonical and used for keeping track of sources at <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net|code.launchpad.net]]</nowiki>. Most, or all Ubuntu sources exist as bzr branches.

== bzr command cheat sheet ==

=== Get Ubuntu Source ===

There are some nice builtin functionalities in bzr. Getting Ubuntu source is one of them.

Get the source for a development release branch:
<pre>
$ bzr branch ubuntu:<package>
</pre>

For example:
<pre>
$ bzr branch ubuntu:jackd2
</pre>

Or, if you want the source for a specific release:
<pre>
$ bzr branch ubuntu:<release>/<package>
</pre>

For example (renaming the local branch to jackd2-precise):
<pre>
$ bzr branch ubuntu:precise/jackd2 jackd2-precise
</pre>

=== Get other misc source ===

Getting non Ubuntu branches will require you to get the adress to the source from launchpad, and branch it like:
<pre>
$ bzr branch lp:~ubuntustudio-dev/ubuntustudio-default-settings/UbuntuStudio ubuntustudio-default-settings
</pre>

=== Update branch ===

Before you start working, you might want to update your bzr branch. Do this only if it's a clean bzr branch with no uncommitted or unpushed changes. To pull latest changes from the default remote branch to this local branch, do:
<pre>
$ bzr pull
</pre>

You can additionally decide from where to pull with:
<pre>
$ bzr pull <remote_adress>
</pre>

=== bzr commits ===

/!\ '''Do not add several features and then commit them all at once. This makes it hard to oversee changes. However, making a feature change often means that you edit more than one file. So, it is the feature that should be commited, not each changed file by itself.'''

To make a commit, you would first make changes. To make new files commitable, you would first need to:
<pre>
$ bzr add <yournewfile>
</pre>

You'll seldom do it this way (since you're propably working on a debian package), but this is how to create a standard bzr commit:
<pre>
$ bzr commit -m "a description of your commit"
</pre>

If you're working on a Debian package, you'll first edit debian/changelog, and then use debcommit. debcommit reads debian/changelog and uses the descriptions of changes from there. ''Read more about <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-DocumentDebianChanges|documenting Debian changes]]</nowiki>''
<pre>
$ debcommit
</pre>

=== bzr push ===

To "upload" your changes, you'll need to push them. This is done with the ''bzr push'' command. Without rights, you can't push to a Ubuntu branch directly. You can only push to bzr branches you own or have rights to push to. And bzr branches can either belong to a project, or be temporary personal "junk" branches.

To push to your own junk branch, make up a name for the branch when you push:
<pre>
$ bzr push lp:~<your-lp-username>/+junk/<branchname>
</pre>

Or, upload to an existing project branch for which you have rights, for example:
<pre>
$ bzr push lp:~ubuntustudio-dev/ubuntustudio-default-settings/UbuntuStudio
</pre>

Usually, when you're fixing a bug to an existing Ubuntu project branch, you'll create a paralell branch for it with the command:
<pre>
$ bzr push lp:~<yourlpid>/ubuntu/<release>/<package>/<branchname>
</pre>

So, for example, if it's a development release of jackd2, it would be something like:
<pre>
$ bzr push lp:~zequence/ubuntu/jackd2/fix-for-956438
</pre>

Or, for a specific release:
<pre>
$ bzr push lp:~zequence/ubuntu/precise/jackd2/fix-for-956438
</pre>

=== Arggh, I want to undo changes ===

Removing just the last commit, but not changing any files is done with:
<pre>
$ bzr uncommit
</pre>

Removing all changes in files that happened since last commit, is done with:
<pre>
$ bzr revert
</pre>
