{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu Studio is a multimedia editing/creation flavor of Ubuntu, built for the GNU/Linux audio, video, and graphics enthusiast or professional.

The Ubuntu Studio team is very excited over its tenth release: Oneiric Ocelot 11.10, available as a 1.8GB (i386) or 1.9GB (amd64) DVD iso image from http://ubuntustudio.org/downloads/

Unfortunately, the Ubuntu Studio suffered an almost complete team fail during this cycle.  This can be general categorized into two main reasons:  normal, expected attrition experienced during most cycles and unforeseen circumstances that required team members to be absent.

Remember, none of the active Ubuntu Studio team members is a paid contributor or developer, we are all volunteer.

We apologize for any deficiencies in this release.  But, you can always help us make the next one better ;)

==== Kernel ====
Currently, Ubuntu Studio is shipping the -generic kernel.  Excitingly, this kernel should allow users to set irq priorities, which means a real time kernel is no longer required for this task!  Firewire users should be excited about this.

We are working with the Ubuntu Kernel Team to get a -lowlatency kernel into the archives which will then ship, in addition to the -generic kernel, in Ubuntu Studio.  An interim -lowlatency kernel is available in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~abogani/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=natty|Allesio Bogani's PPA]]</nowiki>.

If possible please report any testing results comparing the -generic kernel performance compared to the -lowlatency kernel performance at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RealTime#Natty%20Benchmarks.

==== XFCE Transition ====
Some progress has been made but remains incomplete and not fully tested.

==== Unity ====
Ubuntu Studio does not currently use Unity as it is transitioning to XFCE.
