{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== CDRomAuthentication ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JaneW
* Priority: LowPriority
* People: MichaelVogtLead, ColinWatsonSecond
* Contributors: JaneW
* Interested: MichaelVogt
* Status: EditedSpecification, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification, ColinWatsonQueue
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Discusses an update to apt authentication for CD-ROMs to enhance security on install and make it impossible to create "poisoned" fake Ubuntu CDs that hurt users.

=== Rationale ===

Currently, customizing an install CD requires recreating the signature for the Packages file and re-signing it. This further involves modifying the `ubuntu-keyring` package, which is awkward for people doing simple customizations. We should make this process less painful, probably by adjusting apt's rules for CD-ROM authentication.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

Because customization should be easy, the current authentication scheme should be re-examined. In many cases, it is safe to assume that we trust the CD-ROM, because the CD-ROM is the top of the trust-chain. If a system is installed by booting from the CD-ROM, we trust the CD (because we use it to install) long before the signature of the CD-ROM is checked by the installer.

The only cases where the security is weakened is when a system is upgraded using a CD-ROM. Signed md5sums of the Ubuntu CD images are provided at http://releases.ubuntu.com/hoary/MD5SUMS and MD5SUMS.gpg so the user can still verify that his system is ok.  

A possible attack scenario would be that the user gets a CD (by hand from someone evil or by downloading from a evil site) with rogue packages on it that looks like a Ubuntu CD. If the user does not check the md5sums himself rogue packages could be installed on his system without warnings (update-notifier will make this easy by prompting for upgrade when a new CD is inserted).

=== Implementation Plan ===

Apt needs to be modified so that it takes the location of the package into account and trusts CD-ROM packages automatically. 

==== Packages Affected ====

The `apt` package needs to be modified, in particular the `libapt` library. After that, all higher level package management tools will automatically work.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

No work in this area has been done yet.

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

==== UDU Pre-Work ====

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
