{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Reviews ==

'''Since reviews are a personal preference multiple reviews of hardware/app/game is entirely acceptable.'''

Please read through the review guidelines below, once your happy with your review, email it to : reviews@fullcirclemagazine.org

----

== GUIDELINES ==

=== Software ===

==== Games ====

When reviewing games please state clearly:
* title of the game
* who makes the game (one person? Big company?)
* free game? Or paid download?
* where to get it from (give url)
* if it is a Linux native game, or did you have to use a Linux client, or was it Wine/Cedega you used for installing it?
* what hardware were you using for this game (3D Graphics Card, Memory, etc)
* any glitches that you may have had while playing the game.
* marks out of five (stars) for :
   a. graphics (3d? 2d? glitches? nice fx?)
   a. sound (music? sound fx? surround sound? mono?)
   a. playability (easy controls? awkward keyboard layout?)
   a. installation (hard to install? Have to use WINE/Cedega? Windows game with Linux client?)
   a. compatibility (game see your 3d card? game not like your drivers?)
* taking into account your marks above, please consider a mark out of ten (stars) for the game overall
* a summary with positive and negative points about the game

----

==== Applications ====

When reviewing applications please state clearly:
* title of the application
* who makes the app (one person? Big company?)
* free app? Or paid download?
* where to get it from (give url)
* what category would you put this app into? (graphics? sound? utility?)
* what hardware were you using for this app? (only applies to apps which require particular hardware)
* any glitches that you may have had while using the app.
* marks out of five (stars) for :
   a. graphics (does the app look nice?)
   a. useability (easy to use? awkward interface?)
   a. installation (hard to install? Does it come as a .deb file? Have to compile source? Windows app with WinE/Cedega?)
   a. usefulness (useful app? always used? installed then only used once?)
* taking into account your marks above, please consider a mark out of ten (stars) for the app overall
* a summary with positive and negative points about the application

----

=== Hardware ===

When reviewing hardware please state clearly:
* make and model of the hardware
* where to get it from (get a good price from somewhere in particular? Give url for seller)
* what category would you put this hardware into? (graphics card? sound card? networking?)
* any glitches that you may have had while using the hardware?
* easy to get the hardware working in Linux? Does the documentation even mention Linux?
* did you have to use Windows drivers?
* marks out of five (stars) for :
   a. price (worth the money?)
   a. compatibility (hardware clash? good hardware but no apps/games use it?)
   a. installation (hard to install? Did it come with Linux help?)
* taking into account your marks above, please consider a mark out of ten (stars) for the hardware overall
* a summary with positive and negative points about the hardware

----
----
