{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foo
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===
A system to easy share music files, pictures and other media content to DLNA/Upnp devices.
It should be possible to detect and conect DLNA/upnp media devices that are attached to the local network from Ubuntu Control Centre. From the same GUI it should be possible to decide which media foldes that should be accessible for each DLNA/UPNP device. 

=== Release Note ===

Easy conect and share media to your new DLNA/upnp media player . etc Stream music form Ubuntu to your telvision.

=== Rationale ===
This is done in Microsoft media player 11, and why should this not be possible in Ubuntu?

=== Use Cases ===
TBA
=== Assumptions ===
TBA
=== Design ===

TBA

=== Implementation ===

Could use  http://sourceforge.net/projects/minidlna/ as basis for this ubuntu "service".

one click activation + selection of shared folders.

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
