{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting with Ubuntu desktop team for work on Unity 7.

== Agenda ==
** About wizard, Feedback on design
** work on unity bug : #1465512
** about Lockscreen and launcher-rotation

== Action Items from last meeting ==
** None
 
== Meeting Notes ==
** None

=== Meeting Log ===
<pre>
10:34:49 <Trevinho> Hi
10:34:50 <Trevinho> Sorry for being late
10:35:21 <zhangchao> hi,marco
10:36:18 <Trevinho> hi zhangchao 
10:36:32 <Trevinho> So, what's new in your lands?
10:37:22 → nudtrobert joined (~Thunderbi@220.202.153.26)
10:37:47 <zhangchao> I have updated the Agenda:
10:37:47 <zhangchao>     About wizard, Feedback on design
10:37:47 <zhangchao>     work on unity bug : #1465512
10:37:47 <zhangchao>     about Lockscreen and launcher-rotation
10:37:55 <Trevinho> Yep, seen that...
10:39:07 <zhangchao> so have any feedback about the design draft?
10:40:16 <Trevinho> So, Wizard. We've seen the designs, from our (engineers) and some quick unofficial design review, I think that's fine
10:40:31 <Trevinho> However, there will be a final word on next Tuesday
10:40:42 <Trevinho> but I think that's a good way to show things
10:41:39 <Trevinho> I believe that in multi-monitor we'll use the same thing we're doing with the lockscreen (showing the UI on the monitor with pointer, while the Circle of friends in the other)
10:41:43 <Trevinho> Or your logo
10:42:28 <Trevinho> As for the bug #1465512
10:42:29 <ubot5> bug 1465512 in Ubuntu Kylin "The CandidateView of Chinese input method obscured by the Dash page" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1465512
10:42:42 <Trevinho> I think you can use the same thing we're using for the ubuntu OSK
10:43:03 <handsome_feng> yes , i know that
10:43:41 <Trevinho> Although I thought that even ibus window was showing on top, so maybe it's just about to change some bit inside the CandidateView so that it shows on top (I guess some X atom is enough)
10:43:47 <Trevinho> have you control on that code?
10:44:50 <handsome_feng> so, i need to add a new name just like Atom INPUTMETHOD
10:45:56 <Trevinho> yeah, right
10:46:12 <handsome_feng> yes, we control the fcitx
10:46:23 <Trevinho> ok, so you can fix it in that side I think
10:46:31 <handsome_feng> OK
10:47:36 ⇐ liuxg quit (~liuxg@123.119.101.252) Ping timeout: 250 seconds
10:49:05 <Trevinho> Cool...
10:49:18 <Trevinho> Lockscreen, how things are going? I've been loking at the branch slightly
10:51:05 <handsome_feng> The functions and layout is ok
10:51:30 <handsome_feng> but lack of tests
10:51:32 <Trevinho> Cool
10:51:48 <Trevinho> Do you have a screenshot of that working?
10:52:37 <handsome_feng> er, i can do this later
10:53:27 <Trevinho> Ok, no problem... I was just curious :)
10:54:04 <Trevinho> But it's not a big deal, I'll test that soon, as code seems mostly done... 
10:55:15 <Trevinho> handsome_feng: do you have anything about the launcher as well?
10:55:25 <Trevinho> Or still in the backlog till the lockscreen is complete?
10:55:47 <handsome_feng> I will start that work maybe next week
10:57:04 <Trevinho> Cool
10:57:33 <handsome_feng> btw,  when can i merge  the code ?
10:58:05 <handsome_feng> to the trunk
10:59:02 <Trevinho> handsome_feng: well, just propose it when you think it's ready (use the launchpad merge proposal feature). Then we do a review and once approved we put it on the queue of merging. Right now we're in final freeze, so once the Ubuntu-X gates open, we can merge it
11:00:18 <Trevinho> But, if you think that it's already good for merging, it's better to propose it as soon as possible, so we can review it (ping me if I don't see the merge proposal)
11:00:42 <Trevinho> As for us...
11:01:01 <Trevinho> We did a Sprint in London with the desktop team. We discussed about most important stuff to work on during the next cycle.
11:01:13 <handsome_feng> 1604 merge dead time?
11:01:41 <handsome_feng> cool
11:02:46 <Trevinho> mh, I still don't know the release schedule for that, but in general I'd say about late januaryt
11:04:43 <Trevinho> We also spent some time in looking at the bugs we wanted to fix in this cycle
11:04:51 <Trevinho> and the list is now available at
11:04:54 <Trevinho> http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-incoming-bug-tasks.html
11:05:02 <Trevinho> Or https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bugs?field.tag=rls-w-incoming
11:05:19 <Trevinho> Basically, all the bugs tagged with rls-w-incoming are under our radar.
11:05:38 <Trevinho> So, you can do the same in order to get main bugs attentioned
11:05:46 <handsome_feng> yep, i notice that
11:07:08 <handsome_feng> OK
11:07:32 <Trevinho> So, well... If there are no other questions, doubts or anything, I think we can wrap this up?
11:08:22 <handsome_feng> yes, I have no other things
11:09:49 <handsome_feng> So,  bye bye, Marco
11:10:12 <zhangchao> ok ,thanks guys ,bye.
11:15:11 <Trevinho> bye
11:15:26 <Trevinho> ah handsome_feng why do you now use KYLIN_CURRENT_DESKTOP instead oF XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP ?
11:17:45 <handsome_feng> er, because we don't want to cover that..
11:19:13 <handsome_feng> maybe other things many depend on the XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP?
11:19:22 <handsome_feng> may
11:21:19 <Trevinho> Mh, yeah... actually it's true
11:21:38 <Trevinho> It might break other unity-only things we put around in different components
11:21:44 <Trevinho> so, I agree it's better to do this
</pre>

== Action Items ==

== Meeting Links ==
* Link to previous meeting
** <nowiki>[[Ubuntu Kylin-Meeting-2015-20150910|20150924]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[Ubuntu Kylin-Meeting-2015-20151105|20151105]]</nowiki>
