{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

우분투 위클리 뉴스레터에 오신 것을 환영합니다. 7월 27일부터 8월 둘째 주 동안을 위한 102호에서 다룬 내용은 다음과 같습니다: 런치패드 연락기구에 대한 QA, MOTU 뉴스, 새로운 우분투 멤버들, 우분투 스크린캐스트, 우분투 글로벌 버그 잼, 인트리피드 아이벡스의 새로운 점, 런치패드 2.0, 우분투-UK 팟캐스트 #11, 리눅스 예비설치 3%, 스티브 스탤쿱 인터뷰, 서버 팀 개요, 그리고 그 외 다채로운 것들!

=== UWN Translations ===

번역자들과 독자들은 주목해주십시오: 번역 페이지 링크에 대한 새로운 방법을 시도하고 있습니다. 더 많은 정보를 원하는 분들은 아래 링크를 따라와주십시오.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Translations

=== In This Issue ===

런치패드 연락기구에 대한 QA
MOTU 뉴스
새로운 우분투 멤버들
우분투 스크린캐스트
우분투 글로벌 버그 잼
인트리피드 아이벡스의 새로운 점
런치패드 뉴스
프레스 & 블로그권역에서는
우분투-UK 팟캐스트 #11
리눅스 예비설치 로켓 3%
스티브 스탤쿱 인터뷰
미팅 개요
예정된 미팅 & 이벤트
업데이트 & 보안

=== General Community News ===

런치패드 연락기구에 대한 QA

우분투 QA 팀은 런치패드 팀에 대한 연락기구를 확립하는 데 관심을 가지고 있습니다. 런치패드가 중요하게 이용되고 있고 우분투 QA 활동을 위해 결정적이기 때문에 우분투 QA가 런치패드 발전과 관리 팀을 잘 대표되도록 하는 것은 중요합니다.

연락기구의 임무는 다음을 포함하게 됩니다:

런치패드 개발자들에게 우분투 QA와 관련된 우선적인 버그/명세를 제공
우분투 QA에 런치패드의 변화와 진보에 관한 정보를 제공

=== Ubuntu Stats ===
==== Bug Stats ====

*** Open (#) +/- # over last week
*** Critical (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unconfirmed (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unassigned (#) +/- # over last week
*** All bugs ever reported (#)  +/- # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

==== Infamous Bugs ====

==== Translation Stats Hardy ====

 1. Language (#) +/- # over last week
 2. Language (#) +/- # over last week
 3. Language (#) +/- # over last week
 4. Language (#) +/- # over last week
 5. Language (#) +/- # over last week

Remaining strings to translate in Ubuntu 8.04 "Hardy Heron," see more at: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/

=== LoCo News ===

Ubuntu Global Bug Jam

Attention LoCo teams! Time is getting short and you need to get moving or run the risk of missing out on one of the best Ubuntu events of the year. Next weekend, August 8th-10th is set as the Ubuntu Global Bug Jam celebration. Lots of teams are already signed up, but your team can still make a difference to the success of the event. It's going to be a rockin' good time that no team should miss out on.

Global Bug Jam wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GlobalBugJam 
Running a Bug Jam wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RunningBugJam 
Helping with bugs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs 
The Bug Squad: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad 

After the jam, be sure to blog about it, showing all the great pictures of your event.

=== New in Intrepid Ibex ===

자바 오른jdk6가 메인으로 등장하다

최근에 오픈jdk6가 메인으로 등장하게되었다; 오늘 업로드된 java-common, OpenJDK6는 디폴트 자바 런타임/개발 킷의 메인으로 모든 아키택처에 채용된다.
 
On amd64, i386, lpia and sparc, the Hotspot VM, including the JIT compiler is used as the VM. 
On ia64, the Hotspot VM, using the byte code interpreter is used. 
On powerpc, the Cacao VM, including the Cacao JIT compiler is used as the VM. 

패키징에서는 어떤 변화가 일어날 것인가?

default-jre-headless, default-jre, default-jdk, default-jdk-builddep 패키지의 사용은 특정한 런타임/jdk의 호환성에 맞추어져있다. 이 패키지들은 우리가 선호하는 jvm/sdk의 선택에 맞춰 /usr/lib/jvm/default-java 심링크를 제공한다.
 
빌드 의존성: 소스 패키지가 "-gcj" 패키지를 빌드한다고 할 때 빌드를 멈추지말아야 한다. 이것은 gij 런타임을 느리게 할 수도 있다. 대신 디폴트 jdk와 java-gcj-compat-dev에 의존하는 "default-jdk-builddep"을 사용해야 한다. "-gcj" 패키지가 빌드되지 않을 때에는 디폴트 jdk를 빌드 의존성으로 사용하면 된다.

의존성: UI를 요구하지 않는 의존성을 위해 default-jre-headless | java2-runtime-headless를 사용하라, 새로운 언어 기능이 요구되지 않을 때에 한 해 default-jre | java2-runtime (Replace java2- with java5-)를 사용하라

For intrepid the team will strive to replace all direct references to java-gcj-compat-dev and java-gcj-compat with references to default-*. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ub...ly/000460.html

=== Launchpad News ===

Launchpad 2.0 Radically Improves Collaboration for Open Source Projects

런치패드2.0이 급진적으로 오픈소스 프로젝트를 위한 협력을 증진시키다

The formal notification of the roll-out of Launchpad 2.0 has arrived. Launchpad was conceived as a nexus of collaboration for Open Source projects to make them more efficient to build, easier to collaborate on, and more open to innovation from community participation, according to Mark Shuttleworth, CEO, Canonical. What it means to the individual is the ability to branch and merge code, mailing lists to keep track of changes and bugs, integration with Bugzilla and Track to work together with other communities, and a simpler, more intuitive web interface. View the tour at https://launchpad.net/+about

http://www.ubuntu.com/news/launchpad...-collaboration

런치패드2.0의 롤아웃에 대한 정식 공지가 도달하였다. 카노니컬 CEO 마크 셔틀워스에 의하면 런치패드는 보다 효율적으로 빌드하고 보다 쉽게 협동하고 보다 커뮤니티 참여에 있어 개방적으로 오픈소스 프로젝트를 만들기 위한 협동 넥서스로서 착안되었다. 

Launchpad 2.0: new beta API, new UI and more!

Launchpad 2.0 has arrived with a new logo, a new look and lots of new features. This release brings together new features from the past nine months of Launchpad’s development and introduces two exciting beta features.

Restful web services API and Python library - One of the main goals for Launchpad 2.0 has been to make it easier to manipulate data in Launchpad. With this release, Launchpad is introducing a beta test of two features that will enable you to develop external applications that can authenticate, query and modify data in Launchpad’s database. 
a restful web services API 
a Python library to access the new API 

Initially, the API will provide access to files, and search for bugs, people and teams systems. Full details of the API and Python library will be detailed later this week. In the mean time, apply to join the Launchpad Beta Testers team if you’d like to take part in the beta testing. https://launchpad.net/~launchpad-beta-testers

Closer integration with Bugzilla and Trac - Often, bugs in free software affect more than one project. Launchpad lets projects share the same bug report and comment history, however up until now, that has only been available where each project uses Launchpad as their bug tracker. With Launchpad 2.0 comes the introduction beta testing of two new GPL plugins — one for Bugzilla, one for Trac — that enable projects to share a comment history between the bug as it’s tracked in Launchpad and on external trackers. 
Simpler page layout and navigation - One of the most obvious changes in Launchpad 2.0 is the web interface’s new design. The aim has been to simplify the layout and navigation. There’s more information at the launchpad blog here: http://news.launchpad.net/cool-new-s...-web-interface 

See for yourself, or show someone else what Launchpad is all about by taking the tour! https://launchpad.net/+tour/

http://news.launchpad.net/releases/l...ew-ui-and-more

Mark Shuttleworth: Launchpad to be open source in 12 months

Mark Shuttleworth says that Launchpad will likely be open sourced within the year. During his keynote address at OSCON, Shuttleworth put to rest the criticism of some in the open source community that the project hosting platform was proprietary software. Specifically, Shuttleworth said, "We will release the source code within the next twelve months." Ryan Paul believes the Launchpad user interface is already a much better service than competing closed-source project hosting services, but opening it up to the community will allow it to accelerate development. http://arstechnica.com/journals/linu...e-in-12-months

=== Ubuntu Forums News ===

=== In The Press ===

=== In The Blogosphere ===

=== In Other News ===

Steve Stalcup Interview
스티브 스탈쿱 인터뷰
스티브 스탈쿱(aka Vorian)은 아내와 네 자녀와 함께 오하이오에 살고 있다. 우분투 5.04이후로 그는 쿠분부에 관심을 집중하여 오고 있다. 스티브는 많은 커뮤니티 프로젝트에 참여하고 있고 최근에 MOTU 지위를 얻게 되었다. 그는 작은 부분에서 시작하여 점차 넓고 복잡한 업무들로 영역을 확장하고 있다. 그와 같은 방법을 알기 이전에 그는 우분투와 데비안에 새로운 패키지들을 추가시키고 있었다. 그가 패키징에 관한 기초적인 사항들을 배운 많은 자원들이 있었다. 구버전의 우분투 패키징 가이드와 데비안 새 유지보수 가이드가 특별히 그것들인데, 지금은 MOTU 팀이 패키징에 관해 배우려고 하는 사람들에게 실질적인 도움을 제공하고 있다. 인트리피드 배포를 위하여 스티브는 쿠분투를 최고로 만들기 위하여 노력을 집중하고 있을 뿐만 아니라 그에게 도움을 주고 있는 모든 스폰서들에게 항상 감사를 표시하고 있다. 아래 링크를 통하여 인터뷰 전문을 볼 수 있다.
http://behindmotu.wordpress.com/2008...talcup-vorian/

=== Meeting Summaries ===

=== Upcoming Meetings and Events ===

=== Community Spotlight ===

=== Updates and Security for 6.06, 7.04, 7.10, and 8.04 ===

==== Security Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 6.06 Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 7.04 Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 7.10 Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 8.04 Updates ====

=== UWN #: A sneak peek ===

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Your Name Here
* And many others

=== Glossary of Terms ===

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Weekly News Team. If you have a story idea or suggestions for the Weekly Newsletter, join the Ubuntu News Team mailing list at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-news-team and submit it. Ideas can also be added to the wiki at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Ideas. If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page. If you have any technical support questions, please send them to ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com.
