{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== UDU Notes ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by DanielHolbach
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: DanielHolbachLead, NeedsSecond
* Contributors: DanielHolbach
* Interested:
* Status: BrainDump, BreezyGoal, UduBof, DistroSpecification, NewSpec
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

'''Informal BOF''' - Doesn't need to be scheduled!

Form MOTU teams (consisting of members and lead by a MOTU) which may act separately and have control over bigger pieces of software, therefore:
* on the community side:
** Create processes which let people grow into teams “on the fly”.
** Promote the team idea.
* on the infrastructure side:
** Provide them with tools,  to let them concentrate on their work.

=== Rationale ===

People all over the place want "to get involved", but have no idea where to start, whom to ask or what to do, even if they could just grab themselves and go for it.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

Brandon would really like to do something in the Perl environment, but has no clue where to start or what to do.

Sebastien has some fantastic ideas for the Window Maker packages, but doesn't really know if he "could make it".

=== Implementation Plan ===

 0. Encourage people with ongoing reports to the mailing lists, which clearly depict:
** ease of "getting into it"
** amazing changes with little effort.
 0. Start "dummy teams"
** encourage people to take a preliminary lead of a team
** announce possible ideas and plans in a cheery, happy way on the mailing lists
# Make it understood that "sky is the limit"
# encourage Debian/upstream interaction (UbuntuAndUpstreams)

----
<nowiki>[[CategorySpec]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[CategoryArchive]]</nowiki>
