{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

== Introduction ==
This Wiki Page has been created for:

# List all the tasks that we couldn't do/implement at the '''Trusty Tahr Cycle (14.04)''' for whatever reason.
# List all the to-do tasks that we wish to see with the '''Utopic Unicorn Cycle (14.10)'''.
# Highlight all the mistakes we have done during '''Trusty Tahr Cycle (14.04)''' to avoid that with '''Utopic Unicorn Cycle (14.10)'''.
# List all the suggestions and thoughts for anything and everything - whatever related to the team and/or the system.

== Note ==
Please make sure to add your name (Wiki Page or Launchpad) between '''[YOUR_NAME]''' with any suggestion or input you may wish to share on this page :)

== Tasks We Couldn't Do ==

 1. We could not revamp the Ubiquity Slides the way we would have wished; we just updated the screenshots and backgrounds.

== To-Do-Tasks (New) ==

 1. Do a re-assessment for <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/social-media-moderators | Social Media Moderator]]</nowiki> as the overall performance was low and not as expected or planned to.

 1. Ubuntu GNOME <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/DocumentationTeam | Wiki & Docs Team]]</nowiki> needs to maintain two areas one for Ubuntu GNOME 14.04 as an LTS release and one for Ubuntu GNOME 14.10 which is Non-LTS release.

 1. Make a brand-new Ubiquity Slideshow. We will do this from day zero, we don't want to run out of time.
 
 1. Improve the look and feel of Ubuntu GNOME Website. <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/improve-ubuntugnome-website | It wasn't a high priority on Trusty Tahr Cycle]]</nowiki>. However, on 14.10, we need to discuss about that in more depth.

 1. Finish and release Ubuntu GNOME branding guidelines (in advanced progress already).

== Mistakes We Have Done ==

 1. Artwork team internal communications were poor and we ended up running out of time in tons of aspects. We promise this won't happen again.

== Suggestions, Thoughts, Feedback, Notes ==
=== Ubuntu GNOME Team ===
==== Ubuntu GNOME Marketing and Communications Team ====
* Whether to use our Social Media Channels as support channels or not? we need to decide about that once and for all.
* Focus on Ubuntu GNOME website and improve the look and feel.

=== Ubuntu GNOME (System) ===

<nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>: I suggest to focus on making everything as beautiful and nice as possible for this cycle (UU - 14.10) and that includes: Artwork and everything related. In short, focus on the look and feel for this cycle.

=== Ubuntu GNOME PPAs ===

<nowiki>[[SonikkuAmerica]]</nowiki>: We all know that we have three PPAs set up for the latest release of GNOME 3.x (due to our feature freeze not being able to get the latest and greatest in on time). Three is at least one too many, so here's a proposed roadmap for consolidating all our hard GNOME Latest packaging work into a less-confusing PPA framework (for now):
# Start by packaging GNOME 3.12 for 14.10 (like we always do).
# After the feature freeze, place the remaining 3.12 packages (point-release updates) inside ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3.
# Fill the ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3-staging PPA with GNOME 3.13 packages in development (for the 3.14 release) during the development period. Have the GNOME 3 Team warn users of the PPA that this is the case.
# When GNOME 3.14 becomes stable, place the stable packages in ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3-next.
Of course, the ideal thing to do would be to package GNOME 3.13 directly and patch it to 3.14 ourselves, but that doesn't seem to be the thing to do once a release is stable.

<nowiki>[[darkxst]]</nowiki>: Current plans for the PPA's are something like this....
# Gnome3/Trusty PPA will get the missing 3.10 bits, this will be supported for the duration of the LTS
# gnome3-staging/Trusty PPA, mostly has 3.12 (with a few bits still missing), this will only be supported for the standard cycle i.e. 9 months.
# Gnome3/Utopic PPA will be staging area for the packages ready to go into utopic proper. 
# Gnome3-staging/Utopic PPA, is currently a copy of gnome3-staging/trusty we will use this to stabilase and prepare 3.12 for main archives.At some point we will start packaging 3.13 here, but that won't be for a while.

 1. gnome3-next is currently disabled and empty.

 1. I would like to setup packaging branches for the ppa packages somewhere (either bzr or git) this cycle, if someone wants to help with that please let me know!
