{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue 28 for the week January 8th - 14th, 2007. In this issue we cover the recent community council meeting, herd 2 release, the new screencast team, the new xubuntu-users mailing list, Ubuntu Forums weekly update, bug stats, upcoming meetings and events, Ubuntu-Women IRC Meeting, feisty changes, Main Inclusion Requests, weekly quiz update, and much more.

Translations: (<nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue28/PT|Portuguese]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue28/ES|Español]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fr.org/lettre/lhu28.html|Français]]</nowiki>)

=== In This Issue ===

* Herd 2 released
* New screencast team
* New xubuntu-users mailing list
* Mozilla Team meeting
* Ubuntu-Women IRC Meeting
* Community council meeting roundup
* Planet Ubuntu Users
* Ubuntu Forum Stats
* LoCo News
* Weekly Trivia Update
* Feisty Changes 
* Upcoming meetings and events
* MIR: What, Who, Why?
* Security notices and 6.06 & 6.10 updates
* Bug stats

=== General Community News ===

==== Herd 2 Released ====

The latest development milestone release (Herd 2) for the Ubuntu project’s next release, Feisty Fawn, has been released. This release will become Ubuntu 7.04 in April 2007.

There have been many improvements along the lines of bug fixes, feature implementations, and the latest versions of the most popular Open Source software currently available. We don’t recommend it for use as a stable environment, but it is great for testing Ubuntu and contributing to the next release by filing bugs!

You can also read the the complete release announcement at http://fridge.ubuntu.com/files/herd2release.txt

If you'd like to help out with testing, please see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing

==== New Team: Screencast Team ====

Matthew East has announced the creation of a Screencast Team, and they need your help!

Screencasts are videos which show users how to achieve a specific task in Ubuntu. They can be seriously useful when walking users through a new task and are intended to complement Ubuntu’s other support resources, such as documentation, forums, mailing lists and IRC.

The project is led by Alan Pope, who has already done some great work on screencasts. But now the project is expanding, and you can help out! Simply head over to the team wiki page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/) and soak up the material there. You’ll then be ready to contribute to the team by requesting or even making new videos!

Contact the Documentation Team with any questions at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/Contact/ or simply to get involved!

==== New Mailing List: xubuntu-users ====

Cody A.W. Somerville, a member of the Xubuntu Team, has announced the creation of the xubuntu-users mailing list.

 "As you may or may not know, we've recently been discussing setting up an xubuntu-users mailing list. As of today, this mailing list exists and is ready for consumption! This mailing list is for help and support with a bit of user discussion on the side."

If you're interested in Xubuntu, helping others, and building the Xubuntu community, please visit https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-users to subscribe today. Furthermore, feel free to join #xubuntu on irc.freenode.net

==== Ubuntu Mozilla Team ====

The first meeting of the Ubuntu Mozilla Team (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam) was held on January 11th at 17 UTC. The Mozilla Team was created in order to help raise the quality of Mozilla application on Ubuntu. The meeting covered the structure of the team and set guidelines on how the team would accomplish their goal. The Mozilla team is just being organized now and if you are interested, please see the link and join #ubuntu-mozillateam on irc.freenode.net. 

==== Ubuntu-Women IRC Meeting ====

First Ubuntu-Women meeting was held January 11-12th, 2007, on #ubuntu-women on irc.freenode.net. It was a quite exciting roundup and a meet-and-greet with other women using Ubuntu. You can read a summary on Ubuntu-Women Wiki (http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings/20070111) and download the full log of the day.

The next meeting will be held on January 25th at 13:00 and 1:00 UTC. Two different times are scheduled to accommodate different timezones. Please see the Ubuntu forums thread at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=337651.

==== Planet Ubuntu Users ====

A new aggregation of blogs from Ubuntu users was set up. This differs from Planet Ubuntu (found at http://planet.ubuntu.com), and you do not need to be an official Ubuntu member to join. Please see http://ubuntuweblogs.org/ to discover and http://ubuntuweblogs.org/submit.html to submit your Ubuntu-related weblogs.

==== Community Council Meeting ====

The Community Council met again on January 9th, and as usual covered a number of issues.    Membership approvals have been making meetings run really long, so are being delegated out.  That process is coming along smoothly, and more council members are expected to be set up soon.  With regard to translations, Carlos is setting up a team that will be the Rosetta point of contact for the many translation teams.  (Rosetta is a tool integrated with Launchpad for making translation easier.)  It was decided that the doc wiki would be licensed under CC-BY-SA, but discussion about the main help wiki was deferred for the time being.  Forums members Mike and Matthew were both approved for sitting on the Forums Council.  The German Kubuntu group (kubuntu-de.net) is well on its way to becoming an official Loco Team.  They plan to cooperate with ubuntuusers.de for a unified K/Ubuntu presence in Germany, and have just gotten their mailing list set up.  The CanadianTeam and IranianTeam were approved and welcomed as official locoteams now as well.

The following users were approved as Ubuntu Members:
** Mehdi Hassanpour (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MehdiHassanpour)
** Rodrigo Pereira (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/pereira)
** Dean Sas (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeanSas)
** Firdaus Aziz (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirdausAziz)
** Troy McFerron (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Zenwhen)
** Matti Lindell (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mlind)
** Adrien Cunin (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdrienCunin)
** Albin Tonnerre (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlbinTonnerre)

==== Ubuntu Forums Weekly Update ====

* Threads: 330,625
* Posts: 2,005,628
* Members: 222,388

Visit http://ubuntuforums.org/ for help, support, discussion and chit-chat about Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu, and Xubuntu.

==== mEDUXa Blog ====

Those interested in the progress of the Kubuntu rollout in the Canary Island schools can read the (mostly Spanish) mEDUXa blog to find out their successes and problems.

http://agustin.ejerciciosresueltos.com/

=== LoCo News ===

==== Philippines Loco Interview ====

If you've ever wanted to learn more about any of the members of the Philippines Loco, you can read about Jerome Gotangco. Jerome has been involved with Ubuntu for several years and has helped with many projects such as Edubuntu documentation, translations, and more. To read the full interview, please go <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ph.org/node/78|here]]</nowiki>.

=== This Week's Quiz ===

Unfortunately, there was no quiz this week. Be sure to get ready for next week though! We expect you in #ubuntu-trivia on Friday night (UTC). What you can expect in turn is:

Upcoming for next week:

Sponsor    : Jason Ribeiro (jrib)
Prize      : Ubuntu Poster

And the week after that:

Sponsor    : The German Ubuntu Association (thanks to Julius Bloch!)
Prize      : Ubuntu 6.10 (Edgy Eft) x86 Limited DVD Edition

To participate in the quiz, join #ubuntu-trivia on irc.freenode.net on Friday and/or Saturday UTC-nights - the topic will usually tell you when the next quiz is scheduled.

To give a quiz, contact Alexandre Vassalotti (theCore) - we will probably find you a spot.

To donate a prize, please contact Jenda Vancura (jenda) - your generosity is appreciated. The generic prize is an Ubuntu Poster ($5 value).

The quiz usually has a theme, and the quizmaster will sometimes tell you what the theme of the quiz will be. If not, you can always bribe him/her. By winning the quiz and foregoing the prize, you donate it for the next quiz. This is especially appreciated if you are a frequent winner.

=== Changes In Feisty ===

Scorched 3D is a game based loosely (or actually quite heavily now) on the classic DOS game Scorched Earth "The Mother Of All Games". Scorched 3D adds amongst other new features a 3D island environment and LAN and internet play. Scorched 3D is totally free and is available for both Microsoft Windows and Unix (Linux, FreeBSD, Mac OS X, Solaris etc.) operating systems. At its lowest level, Scorched 3D is just an artillery game with two+ tanks taking turns to destroy opponents in an arena. Choose the angle, direction and power of each shot, launch your weapon, and try to blow up other tanks. That's basically it. The new version, 40.1d, includes numerous bug fixes. Additions include: Progress bar for showing mod download progress, Skip now button to the skip all dialog, and Score and money given for lives left. You can get more information about Scorched3d at http://www.scorched3d.co.uk

Exaile is a media player aiming to be similar to KDE's AmaroK, but for GTK+. It incorporates many of the cool things from AmaroK (and other media players) like automatic fetching of album art, handling of large libraries, lyrics fetching, artist/album information via the wikipedia, last.fm support, optional iPod support (assuming you have python-gpod installed). In addition, Exaile also includes a built in shoutcast directory browser, tabbed playlists (so you can have more than one playlist open at a time), blacklisting of tracks (so they don't get scanned into your library), downloading of guitar tablature from fretplay.com, and submitting played tracks on your iPod to last.fm. Version 0.2.7 is a bugfix release from 0.2.7b2, which included: Smart Playlists; A Plugin system with the following plugins:  alarmclock, serp (for burning cds), minimode (smaller window), desktopcover (shows album art on your desktop), streamripper (Allows you to record music from internet streams); and lots of bugfixes from previous releases.

Evince is a document viewer for multiple document formats. It currently supports pdf, postscript, djvu, tiff and dvi. The goal of evince is to replace the multiple document viewers that exist on the GNOME Desktop with a single simple application. New feature in Evince 0.7.1 include popup window to jump to another page in presentation mode, and page transition support in presentation mode. 0.7.1 also includes several bug fixes including several crashers.

Gossip is an instant messaging client for GNOME. Layered on top of the open protocol Jabber is a clean and easy-to-use interface, providing users of the GNOME Desktop a friendly way to keep in touch with their friends. This release, 0.22, includes a couple of UI improvements and bug fixes.

Liferea is an aggregator for online news feeds. There are many other news readers available, but these others are not available for Linux or require many extra libraries to be installed. Liferea tries to fill this gap by creating a fast, easy to use, easy to install news aggregator for GTK/GNOME. 1.2.3 corrects several minor problems.

Nautilus CD Burn is a CD burning front-end for Nautilus. It allows for the easy drag and drop of files into Nautilus, and. The latest version closes a dependency issue.

Mail scanner is an email virus scanner and tags spam. It has fixes to some long outstanding issues with marking things as frauds. 

Mono Develop is a Development Environment for many languages: C#,Boo,Java, and ASP.net among others. The newest version has better stability, support for C# 2.0, and a new development infrastructure.  

Evolution is a full groupware suite including e-mail, calendar, address book, to-do list, newsgroup, and memo tools.  It can also integrate with LDAP, Exchange, and Groupwise, along with web calendars and Palm devices.  It is included by default in the Gnome environment, and distributed by Novell.  It also comes with a variety of plugins for additional features.  Changes in this version include updated translations, both to the software and its documentation and build patches.

Wesnoth is a fantasy turn-based strategy game. This release has an updated tutorial, three new campaigns and an overhaul of multiplayer mode. Sprites have also been heavy revised affecting most of the images in the game. 

GNOME System Tools is set of cross platform configuration utilities for the GNOME desktop. It aims to make the job of a system administrator simpler for Unix / Linux systems. 2.17.5 is a small release with a couple of bug fixes.

GNOME icon theme is a icon theme for the GNOME Desktop. The GNOME Icon Theme package contains an assortment of scalable and non-scalable icons of different sizes and themes. The latest changes add missing icons and configures a make file to check all icons to prevent missing icons.

Telepathy Gabble is a connection manager for Jabber/XMPP. 0.5.0 makes some changes to D-Bus and Telepathy. 

Vino is a VNC server for GNOME. VNC is a protocol that allows remote display of a user's desktop. This package provides a VNC server that integrates with GNOME, allowing you to export your running desktop to another computer for remote use or diagnosis. The latest version makes updates to icons, cleans up the code and changes a licensing string among other things. 

gnome-desktop 2.17.5 was uploaded by Daniel Holbach. This minor release fixes several minor bugs and cleans up several areas. See http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/desktop/2.17/2.17.5/NEWS for the full changelog for gnome-desktop (as well as the other components of the gnome desktop environment)

Xchat is a popular IRC client available under a variety of Operating Systems. This update includes translations, a system tray icon, and updates dependencies to require at least GTK+ 2.1.  

Tomboy is a note taking application for the GNOME desktop. It is very nifty as it uses wiki style links to tie notes together. The latest release addresses icon themes, bug fixes and improves ToC load times.

Straw 0.26 has been uploaded! This new version includes: Autoloading of feed content on feed selection, DBus support (Subscribe to feed), More usable find dialog,  Clipboard copy and text magnification content view, FeedParser 4.1, Feed sorting in the feed list view, Marking all feeds as read, and Bugfixes and cleanups. 

Subtitle Editor is a GTK+2 tool to edit subtitles for GNU/*. It can be used for new subtitles or as a tool to transform, edit, correct and refine existing subtitle. This program also shows sound waves, which makes it easier to synchronize subtitles to voices. 0.12.4 has the following fix: Subtitle ASS/SSA time saving (0:00:00.000 -> 0:00:00.00)

Jabber is an Open Source Instant Message system that uses the Jabber/XMPP protocol. The latest changes include multi-language support, protocol support, and name space changes.

gxine is a free multimedia player. It plays back CDs, DVDs, and VCDs. It also decodes multimedia files like AVI, MOV, WMV, and MP3 from local disk drives, and displays multimedia streamed over the Internet. It interprets many of the most common multimedia formats available - and some of the most uncommon formats, too. gxine 0.5.10 has been uploaded by Daniel Chen. This release fixes a security bug (possible local exploit). If you are using any older version, you are advised to upgrade to this version or a suitably-patched version supplied by your chosen distribution.Other than that, just a few miscellaneous fixes.

eGroupWare is a free enterprise ready groupware software for your network. It enables you to manage contacts, appointments, todos and many more for your whole business. It comes with a native web-interface which allows you to access your data from any platform all over the planet. Moreover you also have the choice to access the eGroupWare server with your favorite groupware client (Kontact, Evolution, Outlook) and also with your mobile or PDA via SyncML. 1.2.106.2, a bug fix release, includes PHP5.2 compatibility (eg. datetime class), various fixes in the calendar, PostgreSQL 8.1 compatibility, and setup/ldapimport is fixed.

rapidsvn is an graphical client for the subversion revision control system (svn). 0.9.4, which was recently uploaded by Emmet Hikory, includes numerous new features, enhancements and bug fixes. You can view the full changelog at http://rapidsvn.tigris.org/source/browse/rapidsvn/trunk/CHANGES?rev=7614&view=markup

listen 0.4.3 was recently uploaded by Soren Hansen. The changelog can be found at http://sourceforge.net/project/shownotes.php?release_id=415495&group_id=161415

File roller is an archive manager for the GNOME desktop. The latest version includes various translations for Italian, Arabic and other languages. 2.17.5 includes several small bug fixes.

Qalculate is a powerful desktop calculator and was uploaded to include the KDE version. Features include customizable functions, units, arbitrary precision, plotting, and a user-friendly interface. Latest changes from 0.9.4 include command line options, updates for better use with older KDE versions, and some French translations.

Dolphin is a file manager for the KDE focusing on usability. Some key features include quick navigation through file hierarchy and view properties for each folder. New feature include a sidebar and improvements that will allow for a quick migration to KDE 4.

Gedit is a text editor which supports most standard editor features, extending this basic functionality with other features not usually found in simple text editors.  Gedit is a graphical application which supports editing multiple text files in one window through a tabbed interface.  Gedit fully supports international text through its use of the Unicode UTF-8 encoding in edited files.  Its core feature set include syntax highlighting of source code, auto indentation and printing and print preview support.  Gedit is also extensible through its plugin system, which currently includes support for spell checking, comparing files, viewing CVS ChangeLogs and adjusting indentation levels.  Changes included in this release: rebuild for python2.5 as the default python version, detection of external file modifications, file browser plugin bug fixes, autodetect UTF-16, added retry button, drag 'n drop reordering and many more.

Encadre image is a program which will allow you to: add an unlimited number of frames on a jpeg picture, add a signature, automatically create a tree for PhpWebGallery and create a tree if your choice (with picture resize).  This is an initial release.

Extra package for extensions to GNOMEVFS.  Contains an OBEX module, VFS DBUS daemon and modified file module that notifies file modifications over DBUS.  This is an initial release.

xfce4-mpc-plugin is a simple client plugin for Music Player Daemon.  Features include: send Play/Stop/Next/Previous to MPD, uses gtk-theme media icons, decrease/increase volume using the mouse wheel, show the current volume, status and title as a tooltip when passing the mouse over the plugin, show a simple playlist window upon middle-click, permitting to select a track to play, configurable MPD host/port/password and other features.  Fixes in this release include: a simple interface with MPD when libmpd is not available, repeat/random toggle in right-click menu, using xfce_* functions for config dialog, replaced play call/button with pause -> better and don't connect at startup.

Mairix is a program for indexing and searching locally stored email messages.  Mairix supports Maildir, MH folders, and mbox formats.  Indexing is fast, running incrementally on new messages, the search mode is very fast, indexing and search works on the basis of words and the search mode populates a "virtual" maildir folder with symlinks which point to the real message.  Changes in this version include: added build-depends on zlib to gain gzip mbox support and an applied patch to fix typos in debian/mairix.doc-base.

GNOME desktop utilities.  This package contains many utilities for the GNOME desktop environment: gfloppy- a tool for formatting floppy disks, gonme-dictionary- a program which can look up the definition of words over the Internet, gnome-search-tool- with which one can find files by name or content, gnome-system-log- a log viewing application and gnome-screenshot- a tool to take desktop screenshots and save them into a file.  Fixs with this release: many dictionary, screenshot, search tool and system log viewer bug fixes, along with updated translations.

Pastebinit is a really small piece of Python that acts as a Pastebin client, you simply tell it a file or to read from the stdin, and it will paste the information on a Pastebin.  Changes in this release include: add a COPYING file, changed the default Pastebin, add two pastebins and added support for regular expressions.

EOG (eye of GNOME) is and image viewer for the GNOME desktop environment.  EOG supports a wide variety of image file formats from which you can view individually, or large image collections.  Features and bug fixes in this release include: several printing fixes, updated manual translations, new interactive image print preview on printing dialog, new theme icons and more.

Gnome-screensaver is the GNOME project's official screensaver program.  It is used in Ubuntu in place of XScreenSaver.  Gnome-screensaver has a simpler intreface that XScreenSaver but less customizability.  Changes in version 2.17.5 include a few bugs fixes and setting fullscreen before showing.

Lyricue is an application used to edit/display song lyrics and passages of text on a second screen/projector for use at live events such as church services, concerts and seminars.  Features in this release include: Choice of Fast server or server supporting transitions, runs in English, German, French, Dutch and Swedish, networkable, user access controls, multiple playlists, copyright info for songs, automatic page advance and many bugs fixed.

K-3D features a robust, object oriented plugin architecture, designed to scale to the needs of professional artists.  It is designed from the ground up to generate motion picture quality animation using RenderMan compliant render engines.  It is strongly recommended that the Aqsis render engine is used with K-3D.  It is platform-independent running in GNU / Linux, POSIX and Win32 operating systems.  Features include: interactive tutorials, unlimited hierarchical undo/redo, multiple viewing options, modeling, animation, materials and textures, rendering, scripting and supports multiple geometry and image formats.  http://www.k-3d.org

Stetic is the new GUI designer for creating Gtk# applications.  Stetic can be used standalone (using the "stetic" command) or using MonoDevelop which provides direct integration with your project.  It is recommended that users download and use MonoDevelop.  Features in this release include: Window and Dialogs design, custom widget creation, action editor (Menus, toolbars) and bug fixes.  Visit http://www.mono-project.com/Stetic for more info.

Wine is a translation layer (a program loader) capable of running Windows applications on Linux and other POSIX compatible operating systems.  Windows programs running in Wine act as native programs would, running without the performance or memory usage penalties of an emulator, with a similar look and feel to other applications on your desktop.  The new version includes: more work on the new Direct3D state management, debugger support for Mac OS, Many OLE fixes and improvements, audio input support on Mac OS and lots of bugs fixes.

=== In The Press ===

==== Ubuntu Lite Vs. Xubuntu ====

MadPenguin, a Linux news and reviews website has compared the Xubuntu and Ubuntu Lite (a Ubuntu derivative) distributions.

The verdict? Install Xubuntu.

 "And, as surprising as this may sound, I would suggest totally ignoring Ubuntu Lite, as I can’t see any advantage to it over Xubuntu whatsoever. Any speed advantages can be mirrored by simply installing the Ice windows manager after installing Xubuntu."

Read the full article at: http://madpenguin.org/cms/?m=show&id=7707

=== Meetings and Events ===

==== Tuesday, January 16, 2007 ====

===== Technical Board Meeting =====

Start: 20:00
End: 22:00

*** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
*** Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoardAgenda 

==== Wednesday, January 17, 2007 ====

===== Edubuntu Meeting =====

Start: 20:00
End: 22:00

*** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
*** Agenda: https://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuMeetingAgenda 

==== Thursday, January 18, 2007 ====

===== Ubuntu Development Team Meeting =====

Start: 08:00
End: 10:00

*** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting 

==== Saturday, January 20, 2007 ====

===== Xubuntu Meeting =====

Start: 15:00
End: 17:00

*** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
*** Topic: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings 

===== Ubuntu US LoCo Team Mentor Meeting =====

Start: 17:00

*** Info: US Teams Mentor Wiki
*** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-us 

==== Monday, January 22, 2007 ====

===== Fiesty Developer Sprint =====

Start: 2007-01-22 09:00
End: 2007-01-26 23:59

*** Location: Oslo, Norway 

=== Community Spotlight - Process of the Week ===

==== Main Inclusion Report ====

In order for a package to be included in the set of fully supported Ubuntu packages (the main section of the repositories), it must go through an approval process to show that it is fit to be covered by security-related and QA support.  This process consists basically of some pre-application discussion, filling out a form, and then having that form reviewed; it is pretty straightforward.  Talk about it with a few people on the ubuntu-devel IRC channel and mailing ahead of time to get an idea of any issues that may need to be addressed first. When the package feels ready, it will need to have what's called a Main Inclusion Request (or MIR) filled out and filed.

Want to fill out an MIR for your favourite universe package? Read on:

To get started, you will need to create a blank request to start filling out.  This is done on the Ubuntu wiki, and yours should be located at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionReportPackageName.  Simply replace PackageName with of course the name of the package in your browser's location bar, and if the page exists, you can stop here and contact the page author to collaborate, and if not create the page from the MainInclusionReportTemplate (list on the left).  Also check the list of existing ones on UbuntuMainInclusionQueue in case someone named it differently.  The template will list the sections you need to fill out, and make sure you do all of the sections.  Note that MIRs are written for source packages, not binary builds.

A MIR includes a number of pieces of information about a package to show it meets various requirements for consideration.  There should be a link to the source package within the universe section of the Ubuntu repositories, showing that it already exists in universe (which is another process to get into).  It must be available for all supported architectures (as applicable).  Next is the rationale, and it is important that there be a strong rationale for including the package.  This should include things like being useful for a broad portion of the user base, being a new dependency or build dependency of a package that is already supported, the source was in another package in main that has been split, or replaces a package currently being supported while having higher quality and/or better features.  Generally it should not duplicate the functionality of another package in main.  Make sure to make a solid case for inclusion in your rationale section.

Another major point that will be looked at very closely is the packages security record.  Its recent history and current state must be such that it can be confidently supported for 18 months (the normal life cycle of Ubuntu releases) without exposing users to an inappropriate level of risk.  This section should cite security tracking services to show the packages record, note that it does not open any ports, and it may be useful to mention any people who have already reviewed the source code, in addition to those that will after you submit the request.

Next should be some notes regarding quality assurance for the package.  You may wish to describe the installation and setup process for it, or otherwise show that it can be made to work properly with a reasonable amount of configuration and reading of documentation after installation.  Next note any debconf questions it asks and their priorities, none of which can be above "medium".  Link to bug listings in Launchpad, Debian, and upstream to show that the package is without critical or showstopper bugs and is reasonably maintained.  Also, note anything about hardware, as it shouldn't deal with exotic things that Ubuntu can't support.

Finally, on some technicalities, demonstrate that the package complies with the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard, Debian Policy, Debian library packaging guide standards, standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, and standard patch system conventions.  Also, all dependencies need to be in main as well (or requested along with your package).

Now!  Once that's all taken care of, you're ready to submit the request.  To do so, add a link to it on UbuntuMainInclusionQueue, and also send an e-mail to the ubuntu-devel mailing list with a link to the page you've just created.  If you don't get any bites right away, start looking around for a core dev who can look it over for you.  (You may want someone to check before you submit too, as a preliminary step.)  Now just sit back and wait, and answer any questions and make any corrections as you get feedback from the reviewing developer.  If all goes well, it will eventually be promoted to main.

References: UbuntuMainInclusionRequirements, UbuntuMainInclusionQueue, MainInclusionReportTemplate

=== Updates and security for 6.06 and 6.10 ===

==== Security Updates ====

* USN-403-1: X.org vulnerabilities - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-403-1
* USN-404-1: MadWifi vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-404-1
* USN-405-1: fetchmail vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-405-1
* USN-406-1: OpenOffice.org vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-406-1 

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

* langpack-locales 2.3.18.1~prop1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-January/012327.html

==== Ubuntu 6.10 Updates ====

* tzdata 2006p-0ubuntu6.10~prop1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-January/008128.html
* gnome-system-tools 2.15.5-0ubuntu5~prop2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-January/008129.html

=== Bug Stats ===

*** Open (20873) + 2 over last week
*** Critical (21) + 1 over last week
*** Unconfirmed (10706) + 75 over last week
*** Unassigned (15810) no change over last week
*** All bugs ever reported (71251) + 751 over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see [WWW] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs

Check out the bug statistics: [WWW] http://people.ubuntu-in.org/~carthik/bugstats/ 

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at:: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Isabelle Duchatelle
* Martin Albisetti
* Cody A.W. Somerville
* Tony Yarusso
* Freddy Martinez
* And many others

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page.
