{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>><<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/GettingInvolved/Roles/Slovak | Slovak]]</nowiki>
|}
<<BR>>

== Important Notes ==
* '''GOOD NEWS:''' You do '''not''' have to be a developer to join Ubuntu GNOME Community. There are so many things you could help, support and contribute with beside development. For more details, please see this UOS Session: <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ijUbXSxU2UQ | HOWTO join and contribute to Ubuntu Communities]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu GNOME has <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/SubTeams | Sub-Teams]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/GettingInvolved/WhoWeAre#UbuntuGNOME.2BAC8-GettingInvolved.2BAC8-TeamStructure.Ubuntu_GNOME_Team_Structure | Team Structure]]</nowiki>. You are advised to have a look before going further for better understanding.
* Kindly be informed that any position/role/task within Ubuntu GNOME project is a '''voluntary''' basis. You will '''NOT get paid''' for that. However, you can absolutely add that to your CV/Resume.

== Technical Roles ==
=== Introduction ===
Ubuntu GNOME has 3 main Technical areas:
* Developing & Coding.
* Packaging.
* QA (Quality Assurance) & Testing.

=== Requirements ===
* Developing & Coding experience and skills are required '''if''' you would like to contribute to that area.
* Packaging experience is required '''if''' you would like to join that area.
* '''If''' you would like to be Ubuntu GNOME Tester (QA and Reporting bugs), you are required to have basic understanding of how the system is working. You '''do not''' have to be an expert in this area to help.
* Free time. Because this is on voluntary basis, '''you''' are the only one who can decide how much time you can dedicate to Ubuntu GNOME.
* Team work. Ubuntu GNOME is a community project and we are one family.

=== Needed Roles ===
==== Developing & Coding ====
1. Developers.

==== Packaging ====
1. Packaging Contributors.

==== QA ====
# QA Acting Team Leader.
# Testers.
# Bug Triage.

== Non-Technical Roles ==
=== Introduction ===
Ubuntu GNOME has 6 main Non-Technical areas:
* Human Resources
* Marketing & Communications
* Artwork & Design
* Translations
* Brainstorming
* Wiki & Documentation

=== Requirements ===
* Areas where '''you are required''' to have some '''specific''' experience and skills are: Artwork (Graphcis Design & Web Design) and Marketing (Social Media & PR).
* Areas where '''basic understanding''' is required are: Human Resources, Wiki & Documentation and Brainstorming. If you know what each of these mean, then you are good to go.
* If you master more than '''one language''', then you could help with Translations.
* Free time. Because this is on voluntary basis, '''you''' are the only one who can decide how much time you can dedicate to Ubuntu GNOME.
* Team work. Ubuntu GNOME is a community project and we are one family.

=== Needed Roles ===
==== Human Resources ====
# Team Leader.
# Acting Team Leader.
# Recruiters.

==== Marketing & Communications ====
# Team Leader '''Found''' = https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KeithIMyers
# Acting Team Leader '''Found''' = https://wiki.ubuntu.com/eliasps
# Social Media Administrator (Google+, Twitter and Facebook).
# PR Contributors.
# Blogger.
# Marketing Contributors.

==== Artwork & Design ====
# Artwork Designers.
# Website Designers.

==== Translations ====
# Team Leader '''Found''' = https://wiki.ubuntu.com/iosifidis
# Acting Team Leader.
# Translators.

==== Brainstorming ====
# Acting Team Leader.
# Brainstormers.
# Project Management Contributors.
# Project Planning Contributors.

==== Wiki & Documentation ====
# Team Leader.
# Contributors.

== Tasks Suggestions ==

=== Wiki Pages ===
* how to package for Ubuntu GNOME

=== Videos ===
* installation video
* How to enable extensions
* How to use gnome tweak tool
* How to change to gnome-classic-session
* How to change from super-space to alt-shift the keyboard layout
* How to use gnome (go to activities etc)

=== Marketing and Communications ===
* articles for website (not only news. Idea is to tell us the progress of each sub-team)
* articles for magazines

=== Artwork & Design ===
* wiki page of the rules how the logo should be.
* Banners for websites-forums
* counters for every release (we can use Ubuntu's but it would be nice if we had ours)
* brochures of Ubuntu GNOME
* posters
* icons to use for our social media (google plus avatar+banner, facebook avatar+banner, twitter avatar+banner)
* icons to print t-shirts
* icons to print stickers
* screenshots of 15.04

=== Translations ===
Chose your language and add it at the end of each page. For example, for German https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/OneStopPage/German. Copy the code from English page and paste it to yours. Change the section "Read this site in your own language". The '''|| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/OneStopPage/| Back to English Version ||''' so if someone doesn't understand, he can go to the English page.
At the top of the code, you'll find the code "Include(UbuntuGNOME/Header)". Change it to your language, eg "Include(UbuntuGNOME/Header/German)"
When you have it ready, edit the English page and add next to Read this site in your own language, the following '''|| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/OneStopPage/German| German ||'''.
Also, during translation, check if the links are to be translated. Some links/pages, it's better to stay in English.
Regarding pictures, go to English wiki, right click on the picture and copy the image link, go to your page and paste the image link there. We don't want to upload the same picture again and again. 

When you translate a page, go to the English one and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/DocumentationTeam#Subscribe_to_a_Wiki_Page|subscribe]]</nowiki>, so you get every change.

If it's not easy for you to follow the above short rules, let us know to create the basic structure for you.

'''Basic wiki pages'''
* Header https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Header/ (find the words Home, Download, Join, Test, Plan, Contact)
* One stop page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/OneStopPage
* Get Ubuntu GNOME https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/GetUbuntuGNOME
* Get involved https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/GettingInvolved
* Testing https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Testing
* Plan https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Brainstorming
* Contact us https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/WikiMap
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Community

'''Sub pages'''
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/DocumentationTeam
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/SubTeams
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Installation
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Installation/AutoInstallation
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Installation/SideBySide
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Installation/ManualInstallation
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/HowTo
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/HowTo/AdvancedHowTo
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/FAQ
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Accessibility
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Developers
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Packaging
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Testing/Activities
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/CommunicationsTeam
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Artwork
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Artwork/Graphics
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings

Just before the release:
* Release notes 15.04

<<BR>>
<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 40%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #b9defa; font-size: 0.90em;" :> '''Continue to the Next Step - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/GettingInvolved#How_to_Join.3F | How To Join]]</nowiki> >'''
|}
