{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== LightweightDesktop ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by ColinApplegate
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: ColinApplegateLead, JeffElknerSecond
* Contributors: ColinMcDermott, MinhLy
* Interested: WillPearce
* Status: ApprovedSpecification, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

  Ubuntu Lite will be an Ubuntu version designed to run well on legacy hardware.  Its focus is on providing a user friendly
  platform that provides the tools needed by the vast majority of computer users.

=== Rationale ===

  In many places in the world, legacy computer systems in the Pentium II range are essentially free.  An up to date software
  distribution that would run on these systems would enable them to be put into the hands of people who need them, providing
  bridges across the digital divide.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

  The target platform for Ubuntu Lite is a 200 MHz Pentium with 64 megabytes of RAM and a 1.5 gigabyte hard drive.  It will
  come preconfigured with the tools most commonly needed by computer users:

*** network connectivity through dial-up or Ethernet

*** web browsing

*** word processing

*** instant messaging

*** games

  The central focus will be on usability of the system.  It will be intuitive to use and require a minimum of previous
  knowledge.

=== Implementation Plan ===

  We will begin to build prototypes over the next several weeks, starting with a server install and then adding just
  enough packages to build up a user friendly system.  We will be looking at the following tools as a first attempt
  at what might work:

*** `IceWM` for a window manager

*** `ROX-filer`, `XFE`, and `MToolsFM` as possible file managers

*** `Firefox` as the web browser

*** `kppp` or `gnome-ppp` as possible dial-up configuration tools

*** `GAIM` as the instant messaging application

*** Open``Office.org, koffice, and `abiword` as possible word processing / office suite solutions

==== Packages Affected ====

  Once a working prototype is created and a set of usable tools is selected, the packages involved will need to be modified
  and customized for Ubuntu Lite.

==== User Interface Requirements ====

  Light-weight, easy to use, aesthetically appealing.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

   Upon completion of the Ubuntu Lite prototype, we will need to work with the core Ubuntu developers on the generation
   of live and install C``Ds for the system.  Provided that all packages chosen meet the usual minimum security and
   supportability requirements, this can work along essentially the same lines as Kubuntu.

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
