{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This document describes the policy for updating ubuntu-dev-tools in a stable, supported release.

The ubuntu-dev-tools package is primarily of interest to Ubuntu developers, providing tools for interacting with the Ubuntu archive and Ubuntu developer-centric services. Developers should have consistent behavior from these tools, regardless of which Ubuntu release they are using as a client.

Therefore, the following types of changes are allowed as long as the conditions outlined below are met:

** Bug fixes
** New features

In the event of a change breaking backwards compatibility, then SRU team approval will need to be obtained. See below.

=== Requesting the SRU ===

The SRU should be done with a single process bug, instead of individual bug reports for individual bug fixes. Individual bug fixes may also be tracked/closed by the upload; however only the one process bug must have the following:

** The SRU should be requested per the StableReleaseUpdates documented process
** The template at the end of this document should be used and all ‘TODO’ filled out
** References to each bug fixed by the SRU should be included in the changelog and major changes called out in the SRU template, especially where changed behavior is not backwards compatible.
** For each release (e.g. trusty, xenial, etc.) that is proposed to be updated by the SRU a link to the results of integration testing, via autopkgtest, successfully completed using the proposed package with no unexplained errors or failures
** Any architecture specific fixes need to be noted and architecture specific test results included
** Any packaging changes (e.g. a dependency changes) need to be stated
** If any manual testing occurs it should also be documented. See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/snapd/+bug/1588052|LP #1588052]]</nowiki> as an example.

If backwards compatibility is to be broken, this should be clearly written at the top of the bug description for the SRU, as well as in the title with "[breaks-compat]". Furthermore, an email to ubuntu-release will be sent to point the release / SRU teams to the bug in order to get approval before uploading to the release's upload queue.

=== QA Process ===

==== Integration Tests ====

The package from focal has a test suite that is run as an autopkgtest which should be good enough to ensure the tools basically work.

=== SRU Template ===
<pre>
[Impact]
This release contains both bug-fixes and new features and we would like to make sure all of our developers have access to these improvements.
The notable ones are:

** <TODO: Create list with LP: # included>

See the changelog entry below for a full list of changes and bugs.

[Test Plan]

ubuntu-dev-tools contains a test suite that is ran using the SRU package for each releases. This test suite's results are available here:
http://autopkgtest.ubuntu.com/packages/ubuntu-dev-tools

A successful run is required before the proposed package can be let into -updates.

[Where problems could occur]
In order to mitigate the regression potential, the results of the
aforementioned integration tests are attached to this bug.

<TODO: attach test artifacts for every SRU release, not a link as links expire>

[Other Info]
<TODO: other background>

[Changelog]
<TODO: Paste in change log entry>
</pre>
