{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by tgm4883 at 18:05:06 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-01-25-18.05.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Community Questions
** according to the wiki, you still need unity 2d to get UbuntuTV to work, but it seems that Ubuntu is moving from that ... is there any plans to support it in unity3d any time soon?  (tgm4883, 18:08:06)
** does anyone know if the current build of UbuntuTV works at all on Raring?  (tgm4883, 18:11:05)

* Status Updates
''ACTION:'' tgm4883 to make video showing mythtv features  (tgm4883, 18:22:19)
''ACTION:'' tgm4883 mhall119 package mythtvservices library and both mythtv scopes  (tgm4883, 18:23:28)

* Community questions/comments/concerns
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~u2t/+archive/bleedingedge   (bobweaver, 18:37:32)

Meeting ended at 18:53:17 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* tgm4883 to make video showing mythtv features
* tgm4883 mhall119 package mythtvservices library and both mythtv scopes

=== Action items, by person ===

* mhall119
* * tgm4883 mhall119 package mythtvservices library and both mythtv scopes
* tgm4883
* * tgm4883 to make video showing mythtv features
* * tgm4883 mhall119 package mythtvservices library and both mythtv scopes

=== People present (lines said) ===

* tgm4883 (62)
* bobweaver (26)
* mhall119 (16)
* steve_fi (7)
* meetingology (6)
* zuric (2)
* Pajn (1)
* ubottu (1)

=== Full Log ===

 18:05:06 <tgm4883> #startmeeting Ubuntu-TV Community Meeting

 18:05:06 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Jan 25 18:05:06 2013 UTC.  The chair is tgm4883. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 18:05:06 <meetingology> 

 18:05:06 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:05:22 <tgm4883> #chair tgm4883 mhall119

 18:05:22 <meetingology> Current chairs: mhall119 tgm4883

 18:05:52 <tgm4883> So since this is our first community meeting, it's a bit unstructured

 18:06:09 <tgm4883> #topic Community Questions

 18:06:26 <tgm4883> Are there any questions from anyone in the community?

 18:06:49 <steve_fi> I have a few, can just fire them all out?

 18:06:56 <tgm4883> fire away

 18:07:20 <tgm4883> I'll make subtopics for them, so it's well organized

 18:07:49 <steve_fi> according to the wiki, you still need unity 2d to get UbuntuTV to work, but it seems that Ubuntu is moving from that ... is there any plans to support it in unity3d any time soon?

 18:08:06 <tgm4883> #subtopic according to the wiki, you still need unity 2d to get UbuntuTV to work, but it seems that Ubuntu is moving from that ... is there any plans to support it in unity3d any time soon?

 18:08:32 <tgm4883> hmm, I'm assuming that meetingology got that

 18:08:43 <tgm4883> I've got no input on that question. mhall119?

 18:08:45 <mhall119> steve_fi: yes, since last year the efforts have been focused on re-writing everything in Nux and Unity 3d, but it's not been a very easy process

 18:09:47 <tgm4883> AFAIK, bobweaver works on most of that. Unfortunately he isn't here

 18:10:00 <mhall119> yeah, he's been the only one working on it

 18:10:06 <tgm4883> jhop said he'd be a little late as well, although IDK if he knows any more

 18:10:26 <mhall119> various issues with the compexity of compix and the lack of good Nux documentation has been holding it back

 18:10:28 <tgm4883> lastly, I also pinged willcooke about the meeting, but didn't hear back

 18:10:46 <steve_fi> ah ok, next is just does anyone know if the current build of UbuntuTV works at all on Raring?

 18:11:05 <tgm4883> #subtopic does anyone know if the current build of UbuntuTV works at all on Raring?

 18:11:29 <tgm4883> I'd say it's doubtful. But again, a question for bobweaver

 18:11:32 <mhall119> I think bobweaver has the unity2d version working in Quantal now, and available in PPA that makes it easier to install and try

 18:11:37 <bobweaver> steve_fi,  no I or at least I dont.  also the phone uses qml so once the phone code is released then there is that

 18:11:50 <tgm4883> o/

 18:11:51 <bobweaver> everything that I have is 12.04

 18:11:53 <steve_fi> ah ok, thanks for the information!

 18:11:53 <bobweaver> yo

 18:12:11 <mhall119> hi bobweaver

 18:12:13 <bobweaver> hello

 18:12:52 <tgm4883> steve_fi, more questions?

 18:13:07 <steve_fi> Nope, that's all for now thanks

 18:13:13 <tgm4883> ok

 18:13:18 <tgm4883> anyone else have any questions?

 18:13:54 <tgm4883> Lets move on to status updates, and we'll ask for questions again at the end

 18:14:04 <tgm4883> #topic Status Updates

 18:14:36 <tgm4883> bobweaver, any updates?

 18:15:12 <bobweaver> as far as ?

 18:15:22 <tgm4883> bobweaver, anything you want to update

 18:16:43 <bobweaver> nope maybe that I will be just doing things(coding) for fun and the "heck" of it . until the phone goes public. maybe I have a lot of personal things going on

 18:17:22 <tgm4883> ok

 18:17:25 <tgm4883> mhall119, anything to update

 18:18:08 <mhall119> no, but hopefully we'll have more to report once the Phone code is public and we can start getting an idea of how it will integrate with desktop and TV

 18:18:24 <tgm4883> ok

 18:18:48 <tgm4883> DVR/Guide update

 18:19:17 <tgm4883> I made a large push this week with the guide scope. I'd say it is 95% done.

 18:19:44 <tgm4883> I still need to get a guide lens written, as I'm still using the videos lens for it

 18:19:54 <tgm4883> It also needs packaged

 18:20:37 <tgm4883> I'll need to figure out how to package a python library as well. The library for accessing the mythtv services is probably only 30% done, but it's the 30% we need :)

 18:21:10 <mhall119> tgm4883: I can try and help with that

 18:21:18 <tgm4883> 100% done would mean supporting everything the services API allows, but we won't use most of that for Ubuntu TV so we can consider that portion complete

 18:21:26 <tgm4883> mhall119, that would be very helpful :)

 18:21:45 <tgm4883> I was going to do a video this morning showing off the features, but that didn't happen

 18:21:55 <tgm4883> I will do one soon though

 18:22:07 <tgm4883> now that the guide scope is mostly finished

 18:22:19 <tgm4883> #action tgm4883 to make video showing mythtv features

 18:22:19 * meetingology tgm4883 to make video showing mythtv features

 18:22:51 <tgm4883> The DVR scope is as it was last week. 95% done

 18:23:07 <tgm4883> The last 5% on both scopes will come after packaging and user testing

 18:23:28 <tgm4883> #action tgm4883 mhall119 package mythtvservices library and both mythtv scopes

 18:23:28 * meetingology tgm4883 mhall119 package mythtvservices library and both mythtv scopes

 18:23:56 <bobweaver> tgm4883,  what are you targetin for that lens ?

 18:24:09 <tgm4883> bobweaver, what do you mean?

 18:24:13 <tgm4883> what version?

 18:24:15 <bobweaver> version of Ubuntu ?

 18:24:28 <tgm4883> well, we'll need an update from mhall119 on that

 18:24:33 <tgm4883> mhall119, did that bug get sorted?

 18:24:51 <mhall119> tgm4883: the gobject dee stuff?

 18:25:02 <tgm4883> yea

 18:25:03 <tgm4883> bug 1096708

 18:25:05 <ubottu> bug 1096708 in dee (Ubuntu) "'SharedModel' object has no attribute 'append' using Python 3 on 12.04" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1096708

 18:25:23 <mhall119> I pinged some folks about it, but I guess they haven't looked into it yet

 18:25:43 <tgm4883> bobweaver, to answer your questions, the scopes currently work on 12.10 and above. If that bug gets fixed, then it will work on 12.04 and above

 18:27:42 <tgm4883> For anyone unaware, Unity lens/scopes work across platforms. So these lens/scopes I'm writing can be used in a regular Ubuntu Unity Desktop

 18:28:16 <tgm4883> That's about all the update I have

 18:28:21 <tgm4883> Any other updates from anyone?

 18:29:12 <tgm4883> Guess not

 18:29:21 <tgm4883> In that case, I'm going to open it back up for questions

 18:29:32 <tgm4883> #topic Community questions/comments/concerns

 18:29:47 <mhall119> thanks tgm4883!

 18:29:57 <tgm4883> If anyone has any questions/comments/concerns/ideas/etc, now is the time to shout them out

 18:32:21 <zuric> Hi, what the status of Unity 3D portage ?

 18:33:10 <mhall119> zuric: stalled for now, we're waiting to see what is going ot happen with the QML Phone shell

 18:33:19 <tgm4883> zuric, that was answered earlier and will be available in the logs. But a short recap... what mhall119 said

 18:33:53 <zuric> ok thanks

 18:34:06 <Pajn> Is any community effort wanted at this time?

 18:34:25 <mhall119> Pajn: absolutely

 18:34:44 <steve_fi> is help wanted on a specific version of Ubuntu?

 18:35:10 <steve_fi> with regards to testing and submitting bugs?

 18:35:15 <tgm4883> Community help is always wanted. I'd say we're at a point where we can actually accept help now

 18:35:35 <tgm4883> previously, we weren't really in a position to accept community help, as there wasn't a whole lot to test

 18:36:04 <mhall119> steve_fi: there isn't a whole lot to test atm, you can try tgm4883's MythTV scopes if you have a MythTV backend

 18:36:09 <tgm4883> at least for me, I'll get the mythtv stuff packaged this week with mhall119's help

 18:37:02 <bobweaver> for every one that would like to try out the newest code that I have been making you can it is built almost daily

 18:37:10 <bobweaver> the ppa is u2t

 18:37:14 <bobweaver> I will get link

 18:37:32 <bobweaver> https://launchpad.net/~u2t/+archive/bleedingedge

 18:37:49 <mhall119> also anybody who wants to hack on that

 18:37:59 <mhall119> it's Qt/QML right?

 18:38:11 <bobweaver> that in no way is going to be the UBuntu TV but I am sure that there is going to be things that are intergrated

 18:38:27 <bobweaver> yeah that is unity 2d

 18:38:47 <bobweaver> there is all sorta beta code up in there

 18:38:54 <mhall119> so anybody who wants to experiment with some UI stuff, you can use that branch

 18:38:57 <bobweaver> but that is like a playground

 18:39:14 <bobweaver> yeah I have not pushed branch

 18:39:34 <bobweaver> latest things that I have done to that are as follows

 18:40:25 <bobweaver> made so one can switch launcher to rght or left, added previews , made new lens view and a full dbus settings changer

 18:40:53 <bobweaver> add welcome screen mock up (what I think is going to be phone )

 18:41:02 <bobweaver> that will be nice to look at

 18:41:46 <bobweaver> but if there is anyone that wants to write into 3d have at it But I want nothing to do with NUX or compiz besides in unity2d spread

 18:42:49 <bobweaver> there is alot things that need to be know about the phone only time will tell

 18:43:08 <bobweaver> but if qml will be real easy to tie in

 18:44:26 <bobweaver> but if anyone wants to hack at that with me have at it.

 18:45:08 <bobweaver> I gotta run thanks mhall119  and tgm4883  and everyone else.  sorry about early this week (I have a lot going on (personal))

 18:45:26 <tgm4883> If anyone has any questions/comments/concerns/ideas/etc, now is the time to shout them out

 18:51:06 <tgm4883> ok, since we're getting toward the end of our time and nobody has asked any more questions I'm going to wrap this up in about 2 minutes

 18:51:18 <tgm4883> so if anyone has any questions/comments/concerns/ideas/etc, now is the time to shout them out

 18:53:17 <tgm4883> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
