{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Select an image

选择一个镜像

Desktop image

桌面镜像

The desktop image allows you to try UbuntuKylin without changing your computer at all, and at your option to install it permanently later. This type of image is what most people will want to use. You will need at least 384MiB of RAM to install from this image.

桌面镜像允许您在完全不改变计算机设置的情况下试用UbuntuKylin，然后再选择是否永久地安装它。这类镜像是大多数用户都愿意使用的。您需要至少384Mb的内存来安装这个镜像。

There are two images available, each for a different type of computer:

对应于不同类型的计算机，下面有两个镜像可供选择：

PC (Intel x86) desktop image

PC(Intel x86)桌面镜像

For almost all PCs. This includes most machines with Intel/AMD/etc type processors and almost all computers that run Microsoft Windows, as well as newer Apple Macintosh systems based on Intel processors. Choose this if you are at all unsure.

满足几乎所有的PC。这包含使用Intel/AMD等类型处理器的大多数主机，以及基于Intel处理器的运行微软Windows和新版苹果Mac系统的计算机。如果您尚不确定，请选择这个镜像。

64-bit PC(AMD64)desktop image

64位PC(AMD64)桌面镜像

Choose this to take full advantage of computers based on the AMD64 or EM64T architecture (e.g., Athlon64, Opteron, EM64T Xeon, Core 2). If you have a non-64-bit processor made by AMD, or if you need full support for 32-bit code, use the Intel x86 images instead.

选择本镜像可以充分发挥基于AMD64和EM64T体系结构(例如Athlon64、Opteron、EM64T Xeon、Core 2等)的计算机的优势。如果您的计算机使用的是AMD生产的非64位处理器或者您需要对32位代码的完整支持，请使用Intel x86镜像。

A full list of available files, including BitTorrent files, can be found below.

下面是可用文件的完整列表(包括BitTorrent文件)。

If you need help burning these images to disk, see the Image Burning Guide.

如果您需要将镜像刻录到光盘，请参见Image Burning Guide。
