{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Full Team Meetings ==

All team meetings will be held in '''#ubuntu-meeting''' on '''chat.freenode.net'''

Meetings will be posted on the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar|Fridge]]</nowiki> and the Ubuntu Youth Mailing list. '''Click <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/render?cid=j5q85mmi6ujvjtii5s1n3li5io%40group.calendar.google.com|here]]</nowiki> to subscribe.'''
* Note that Google calendar will convert the time for you automatically if you subscribe, but the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar|Fridge]]</nowiki> website will always show events in GMT.

===== Absences =====
If you are sure that you will NOT be unable to attend the next meeting, please put your name and reason in the table below:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| Reason
|-
| 
| 
|}

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an either and issue or idea for the team, please add it to the agenda below.
# Besides voting on new members, there will usually be no voting held at these meetings. The Ubuntu Youth Council will review all discussions and ideas from the meeting and will vote on them once they have held such a discussion.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|}

=== Fixed Agenda Items === 
* '''Request A Status Update From Current Mentors.'''
* '''Review List Of Prospective Members In Need Of Mentor.'''
* '''Vote On Any People That Have Been Nominated For Membership'''

==== Post-Meeting Tasks ====
* '''Keep <nowiki>[[UbuntuYouth-TeamReports]]</nowiki> updated.'''
* '''Update Next meeting time on the wiki'''
* '''Send meeting minutes to <nowiki>[[mailto:ubuntu-youth@lists.launchpad.net|ubuntu-youth mailing list]]</nowiki>'''
==== Agenda discussion ====

== Previous Meetings, Logs, and Decisions ==
Below you will find the summaries of past meetings and to which decisions the team has come.

Archives (reverse chronological):

=== Current Meeting Log ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Link
|-
| March 12'th 2011
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuYouth-Meetings-20110312|March 12'th 2011 Meeting]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Past Meeting Logs ===
==== 2011 ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Link
|-
| January 29'th 2011
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuYouth-Meetings-20110129|January 29'th 2011 Meeting]]</nowiki>
|}

----
CategoryUbuntuYouth
