{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #94 for the week June 1st - June 7th, 2008. In this issue we cover: Ubuntu Global Bug Jam, New Members, Newly Approved Lo``Cos, Canonical Showcases Ubuntu Netbook Remix at Computex, Kubuntu Specs in Full, Ubuntu at OSCON, Ubuntu Server receives positive reviews, Mobile devices driving Ubuntu-Shuttleworth, Ubuntu UK podcast #7, Acer bets big on Linux, and much, much more!

=== UWN Translations ===

* Note to translators and our readers: We are trying a new way of linking to our translations pages. Please follow the link below for the information you need.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Translations

=== In This Issue ===

* Ubuntu Global Bug Jam!
* New Members
* Newly Approved Lo``Cos
* Canonical Showcases Ubuntu Netbook Remix at Computex
* Kubuntu Specs in Full
* Learn about Ubuntu at OSCON
* Ubuntu Stats
* Lo``Co News
* Technical Update
* Launchpad News
* Forums News
* In the Press & Blogosphere
* In Other News
* Meeting Summaries
* Upcoming Meetings & Events
* Updates & Security

=== General Community News ===

==== Ubuntu Global Bug Jam! ====

Friday August 8th to Sun August 10th 2008 has been designated as the very first Ubuntu Global Bug Jam. What is the Ubuntu Global Bug Jam? Put simply, it is a world-wide online and face-to-face event to get people together
to fix Ubuntu bugs. The idea is to get as many people online fixing bugs, having a great time, and making their contribution for free software. It's going to be a great opportunity to not only contribute to Ubuntu, but to also get together with other Ubuntu fans to make a difference, either via your Lo``Co team, your LUG, other free software group. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GlobalBugJam

If you are in a Lo``Co Team, the Ubuntu Global Bug Jam it a great opportunity to get together and have a physical bug-jam. To get started there is a Running a Bug Jam guide https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RunningBugJam, which offers some helpful advice for getting your jam organised. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2008-June/002253.html

==== New Members ====

===== The EMEA(Europe, Middle East, and Africa) Board =====

There was a small invasion from IRC land, three excellent IRC helpers
and operators applied for membership and now Matt Darcy, Miia Ranta and
Benjamin Rubin are now all Ubuntu members.
* Matt Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MattDarcy LP: https://launchpad.net/~matt-darcy
* Miia Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Myrtti LP: https://launchpad.net/~myrtti
* Benjamin Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BenjaminRubin LP: https://launchpad.net/~bnrubin

Continuing the stream of Italian members we saw in the last meeting,
Riccardo Coccioli has been approved as member, he has done good work on
the Italian forums. Fellow Italian Devid Filoni is active both in the
Italian locoteam and as a MOTU hopeful and now also Ubuntu member.
* Riccardo Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Volans LP: https://launchpad.net/~volans
* Devid Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevidFiloni LP: https://launchpad.net/~d.filoni

Jad Madi has been rocking hard in Jordan, promoting Ubuntu on the Jordan
University and many other places.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Syntux
LP: https://launchpad.net/~jad

Natacha Menjibar is one of the heroes of the Spanish Ubuntu community,
working hard in documentation, forums and more.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kelp
LP: https://launchpad.net/~kelp

﻿﻿Vojtěch Trefný is a core contributor of the Czech Lo``Co``Team and has
also managed to collect over 36000 karma points answering questions on
launchpad.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Vojt%C4%9BchTrefn%C3%BD
LP: https://launchpad.net/~vojtech.trefny

Sayak Banerjee is an active contributor to the forums who has impressed
the forum members and staff with his positive and welcoming attitude.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Dave701
LP: http://launchpad.net/~sayakb

Nicolas Barcet is Ubuntu Server Product Manager at Canonical and is
working hard to make Ubuntu the #1 choice for servers.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NicolasBarcet
LP: https://launchpad.net/~nijaba

The EMEA board is happy to welcome aboard these excellent members! Our
next meeting will be on June 10, 18:00 UTC. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/EMEA

===== The Americas (North & South America) Board =====

Laudeci Oliveira (Pretto) has been involved with Open Source and the Brazilian Ubuntu community
since May 2005 working on projects such as APTon``CD and translations.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Pretto
LP: https://launchpad.net/~laudeci

Chris Gregan (cgregan) is the Ubuntu Mobile QA Engineer at Canonical since March 2008. He has 10
years of software QA/Testing experience and now works full-time for Canonical's
Mobile Solutions Group.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/cgregan
LP: https://launchpad.net/~cgregan

Andrew Walton (awalton) is an Ubuntu and GNOME hacker from Kentucky (USA) who has worked on
documenting of GIO, implemented the gvfsd-network in GVFS, and is also an
active member of both the Ubuntu Kentucky Lo``Co and the GNOME Foundation.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Awalton
LP: https://launchpad.net/~awalton

Norman Garcia Aguilar (n0rman) is the team leader of the Ubuntu Nicaragua Lo``Co team spending a lot of time supporting and advocating Ubuntu at many of the local conferences as well
as having been involved with quite a few television, newspaper, and radio
interviews where he represented the Ubuntu community.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/norm
LP: https://launchpad.net/~naguilarg

Kurt von Finck (mneptok) is a Senior Ubuntu Systems Support Analyst for Canonical as well as a long standing member of the Ubuntu community. Kurt also spends some of his free
time not only working on Ubuntu, but also volunteering as a system
administrator for the GNOME Foundation, which he is also a member of.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KurtvonFinck
LP: https://launchpad.net/~mneptok

Nick Ellery (nickellery) is an Ubuntu contributor in many areas of the community. Currently you will
find Nick working with the Ubuntu Documentation Project, the Launchpad
Documentation Team, translations, answer tracking, bug triaging, and more.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Cloudfx
LP: https://launchpad.net/~nick.ellery

La``Roza is the Ubuntu Forums master! With more than 10,000 posts, all of which
are technical in nature, La``Roza is noted as one of the most outstanding forum
moderators in recent time. La``Roza spends time helping forum members with
anything from typing in Ubuntu all the way to hard-core hacking with various
programming languages, as well as helping to test Intrepid through its
development cycle.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaRoza
LP: https://launchpad.net/~laroza

Bodhi Zazen (bodhi) started out with Linux by learning from Ubuntu and started contributing
back to the community by helping in the forums, founding the Montana (USA) Lo``Co
team, creating excellent documentation, and more.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BodhiZazen
LP: https://launchpad.net/~bodhi.zazen

Michael Garrido (Xander21c) has been an Ubuntu user since the days of Dapper and now spends time
with the Ubuntu Peru Lo``Co team where he is the website co-admin, a mailing list
moderator, and the master of printing. Michael has worked on getting t-shirts
and other materials printed and provided to his local community.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/xander21c
LP: https://launchpad.net/~xander21c

Mike Rushton (leftyfb) is a member of the Massachusetts (USA) Lo``Co team where he helps run and
manage the team, it's events, and it's meetings. Mike has started many projects
within the Lo``Co arena as well as started and managed many events. And just when
you didn't think Mike was hardcore enough, he went out and got Tux tattooed
right on his arm. Don't believe us, look at his wiki page!
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/leftyfb
LP: https://launchpad.net/~leftyfb

Brandon Perry (brandonperry) has been working hard trying to get the Dallas-Fort Worth Lo``Co team up
and running as well as working with other members of the Lo``Co community in
Texas (USA). Brandon spends time working on projects such as OCAM and the
Clam``AV Live``CD.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BrandonPerry
LP: https://launchpad.net/~bperry-volatile

Martin Kossick (hacktick) is a worldwide contributor to Ubuntu having been productive working with
both the Ubuntu Brasil and the Ubuntu German Lo``Co teams. Soon he will be
heading back to Germany where he plans on increasing his activity with the
community and working hard to become a hard-core Ubuntu hacker.
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mkossick
LP: https://launchpad.net/~hacktick

The Americas board is happy to welcome aboard these excellent members! Please check our wiki page for the next meeting. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/Americas

==== Newly Approved LoCos ====

El Salvador - The Ubuntu El Salvador Lo``Co Team was founded in November 2006. The team is part of the Central American Ubuntu Lo``Co Team Project, and they are most active in local educational projects in collaboration with the Ministry of Education of El Salvador. The projects are intended to teach school children and teachers the use of FOSS, specifically Ubuntu.<nowiki>[[ElSalvadorTeam/ApprovalApplication]]</nowiki>

Perú - The Ubuntu Peru Lo``Co Team was founded in September 2006. The team has been most active in installfests, free software festivals, Ubuntu demos, local CD distribution, and Peruvian Lo``Co Council which is the governing body of their community. <nowiki>[[PeruvianTeam/ApprovalApplication]]</nowiki>

Arizona - The Arizona Lo``Co Team was founded in April 2007. They are most active organizing Ubuntu release and installfest parties, and collaborating with state LUGs to promote open source alternatives in Arizona. Future projects for 2008 include a open source conference in Phoenix <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplication]]</nowiki>

Ecuador - The Ecuador Lo``Co Team was founded in July 2007. They have been most active in national events held by local Open Source and Free Software movements in Ecuador, community awareness, and translations of the UWN into Spanish. They hope to further their advocacy by reaching out to local schools and education centers. <nowiki>[[EcuadorTeam/ApprovalApplication]]</nowiki>

==== Canonical Showcases Ubuntu Netbook Remix at Computex ====

Computex, Taiwan June 3, 2008: Canonical, the commercial sponsor of Ubuntu, today announced that it will be demonstrating a reworked desktop image of Ubuntu built specifically for a new category of portable Internet-centric devices – netbooks. These affordable, power-efficient, small screen devices, based on the ground breaking low-power micro-architecture of the Intel® Atom™ processor, and Remix will allow consumers to enjoy email, instant messaging, Internet surfing and on-line access to photos, videos or music with an affordable, reliable device. Ubuntu Netbook Remix is built to provide a superb user experience leveraging Ubuntu's reputation for delivering operating systems that 'just work' in the desktop environment. Remix is based on the standard Ubuntu Desktop Edition but with a launcher that allows users to get on-line more quickly and have faster access to their favourite applications. Canonical is already working with a number of Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) to deliver the software into the market on devices later in 2008. http://www.ubuntu.com/news/netbook-remix

==== Kubuntu Specs in Full ====

The Ubuntu Developers Summit finished a week ago in Prague. Unlike conferences, summits have written output in the form of specifications which form the basis for work on Kubuntu for the next six months. You can find the ones for Kubuntu's Intrepid at this wiki page: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuUDSPragueSpecs

* Individual workups can be found at the links below

** Kubuntu Release Schedule: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuReleaseSchedule
** Kubuntu Intrepid Version(KDE4 by default): https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidVersion
** Kubuntu Tools to Port: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidKDE4Porting
** Kubuntu Intrepid Council: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidCouncil
** Kubuntu File Sharing: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuFilesharing
** Kubuntu Intrepid Website: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidWebsite
** Kubuntu Intrepid Defaults: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidDefaults
http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/3494

==== Learn about Ubuntu at OSCON ====

OSCON is the Open Source Convention. Now in its tenth year, OSCON returns to the Oregon Convention Center in Portland, Oregon July 21-25, 2008, bringing together over 2500 experts, visionaries, and hackers in the trenches to explore all that open source has to offer. 2008 promises interesting developments in Linux, Java, Web, and open source infrastructure. OSCON will have tracks for Linux, PHP, Perl, Python, Ruby, Java, Mobile, Databases, Desktop Applications, Web Applications, Administration, Security, People, Business, and Emerging Topics. This year's OSCON has a wealth of Ubuntu information including how to improve your development practices, integrate Ubuntu with Active Directory, reap the benefits of virtualization and of course, the latest tips and tricks. Get information on registration, visit the OSCON website or see the long list of Ubuntu related presentations by visiting this link: http://www.ubuntu.com/news/spotlight/oscon2008

=== Ubuntu Stats ===

==== Bug Stats ====

* Open (46794) -235 # over last week
* Critical (32) +/-0 # over last week
* Unconfirmed (23257) -101 # over last week
* Unassigned (37400) -24 # over last week
* All bugs ever reported (188094) +1335 # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

==== Translation Stats Hardy ====

This is the top 5, not specific languages, so the languages might change week to week.

* Spanish (13692)
* French (39239)
* English (United Kingdom) (49693)
* Swedish (52914)
* Brazilian Portuguese (61000)

Remaining strings to translate in Ubuntu 8.04 "Hardy Heron," see more at: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/

=== LoCo News ===

==== Government Award for Ubuntu Indonesia ====

The Indonesian Government honored Ubuntu Indonesia with an award for spreading the open source movement in Indonesia. The award ceremony took place during IGOS(Indonesia Go Open Source) Summit 2. Presenting the award to Ubuntu Indonesia was Mr. Muhammad Nuh, The Minister of Communication and Information Technology of The Republic of Indonesia. Great work Ubuntu Indonesia! http://www.belutz.net/2008/06/01/government-award-for-ubuntu-indonesia/

==== Michigan LoCo Bug Jam - Summer 2008 ====

When and where is the Michigan Bug Jam? It is Monday June 9th at 6:30pm at the Main branch of the Clinton-Macomb Public Library. The team will be in a conference room with free wifi available to library card holders. People without local library cards can sign up for one in 5 minutes, but if you are planning on doing that, please try to show up a little bit early. Directions and links to how you should prepare can be found by following the link. Join the team and have a great time while doing you part for Ubuntu. http://konsilience.wordpress.com/2008/06/02/michigan-loco-bug-jam-summer-2008/

=== Technical Update ===

==== Developer Response to Idea 2978 - ATI (now AMD) video card drivers that actually work ====

Ubuntu X.org maintainer Bryce Harrington responds to Brainstorm Idea 2978: Brainstorm 2978 and its comments detail problems with the level of support and quality of available open and proprietary drivers for AMD/ATI hardware. The desire is to have Canonical work more closely with AMD/ATI engineers to change this situation. The short answer is this: AMD/ATI engineers have recently started working with Canonical on both -fglrx and -ati issues, and I anticipate seeing significant improvements in this driver for Intrepid. The full response is much more detailed and can be found here: http://blog.qa.ubuntu.com/node/10

==== Developer response to Idea 322 - Better monitor support and configuration tools ====

Ubuntu X.org maintainer Bryce Harrington responds to Brainstorm idea 322: Configuring X has been a long standing issue in Linux, and there's still room to improve. Brainstorm 322 and its comments touch on a bunch of (partly unrelated) problems: mis-detecting monitor resolution/refresh rates, supporting new hardware (and upcoming USB monitors), binary driver issues, Importing Windows .inf/.icc files, and multi-monitor configuration/detection; multi-card support. Xorg upstream's vision is that no configuration should be needed. In the vast bulk of cases, the hardware reports its capabilities and xserver can set things up properly. This is a very good vision, and in fact something like 90-95% of the time it holds true. Yet, there is still that last 5-10% or so that causes our problems. The full response is much more detailed and can be found here: http://blog.qa.ubuntu.com/node/9

=== Launchpad News ===

The Launchpad Podcast, which records on Wednesdays, is always looking for user questions.  If you have some, please submit them to feedback@launchpad.net.

Archived editions of launchpod can always be found here: http://news.launchpad.net/podcast

=== Ubuntu Forums News ===

==== Ubuntu Forums Interview ====

slavik is from Ukraine, and currently lives in New York City, where he is a graduate student and a junior system administrator in the college’s library. Interestingly, his journey outside the Windows world started with FreeBSD and Lindows, then Breezy. He never looked back and is now fully running Ubuntu (with other OSes in VMWare). http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2008/06/07/an-interview-with-slavik/

==== Tutorial of the Week ====

Laptop owners (and some desktop users, perhaps) might be interested in this week's tutorial standout: "How``To: Undervolt your notebook CPU for longer battery life," by Ares Drake.
The tutorial is geared toward newer machines, and walks you gently through the process of testing an undervolt and setting up your system properly. On top of that it's a clean and easy-to-follow thread, and one that's visually appealing as well. Nice work! http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=786402

See you in a week!

=== In The Press ===

* Mobile devices driving Ubuntu: Shuttleworth - Touch-oriented applications and faster boot times are among the features developers are working on for the next version of Ubuntu, says chief Mark Shuttleworth. Speaking on the ZA Tech Show podcast [1] about plans for Ubuntu 8.10, the Ubuntu CEO said that the “big driver", not just for Ubuntu, but generally, is the buzz around sub-notebooks. “Some of the things we’re doing is to make the interface more touch-oriented, and making applications fit better in smaller resolutions. Boot time is also a huge priority in the mobile space so a lot of work has gone into accelerating the boot process and cutting down on boot time.” http://www.tectonic.co.za/?p=2467 [1]Podcast: http://zatechshow.co.za/episode-14

* Desktop Linux face-off: Ubuntu 8.04 vs. Fedora 9 -  The latest version of Ubuntu, 8.04 (aka Hardy Heron, or just Hardy for short), builds strongly on the foundation laid by its predecessors. From the get-go, the Hardy Heron experience is smooth. Ubuntu has matured to the point where it can focus on refining its feature set rather than massively reworking its elements in each new version. Ubuntu 8.0.4 offers a level of functionality comparable to that of Mac OS and Windows, from delivery to installation to daily use. Unfortunately, the ties that bind all Linux distributions — primarily a lack of support for major Windows and Mac based business, design, and gaming applications — still hold Ubuntu back from mass popularity. For users with such moderate computing needs as Web browsing, e-mail, and basic document creation, however, Hardy is a compelling option. http://www.pcworld.idg.com.au/index.php/id;1631359451;pp;1;fp;16;fpid;1

* Goin' Mobile (With Ubuntu) - A new version of Ubuntu, "Netbook Remix", sports a feature set and a slimmed-down footprint specifically for the emerging micro-notebook market. Right now this version is little more than an announcement, a way to entice OEMs into getting onboard early. However, given the surge of attention devoted to Linux on portable devices of all kinds, they're likely to sit up and take notice. Ubuntu's one of the few Linux distributions that has anything remotely approaching household-name recognition, so an "Ubuntu Powered" sticker ought to turn the right heads. http://www.informationweek.com/blog/main/archives/2008/06/goin_mobile_wit.html

* Ubuntu offers Remix, a lighter Linux for mobile users - To keep up with the growing popularity of the recent wave of small, low-cost, flash-drive-equipped, wireless "netbook" computers, Ubuntu has announced  a specially modified version of the Linux operating designed to run on such machines. Called Ubuntu Linux Remix, the new operating system will be aimed at hardware manufacturers that are building netbooks for the consumer market. Ubuntu Linux Remix is built to be compatible with Intel Corp.'s new Atom processors, which are miniaturized, low-power CPUs that can be used in smaller netbook chassis. Netbooks equipped with Intel Atom CPUs and Ubuntu Linux Remix are expected to be on retailer's shelves within six months, at prices estimated at $300 to $500. A key difference with Remix from the standard desktop Ubuntu is the inclusion of a "launcher" that allows users to start the machines and get online quickly. http://www.computerworld.com/action/article.do?command=viewArticleBasic&articleId=9092899

* Hands on with the Ubuntu Netbook Remix(+screenshot) - Although Remix hasn't been released yet in its entirety, the source code is already available for several core components of the unique user interface. Ryan Paul managed to put the pieces together and get a working Netbook Remix desktop environment running on a regular Ubuntu 8.04 system. The implementation is quite ingenious in many ways, but there are still places where it feels a bit clunky. The project is clearly early in its development. Canonical is positioning itself to take the lead on software in the subnotebook market, but a big piece of the puzzle is still absent: customers. Although Canonical is working closely with Intel on reference designs, there is no word yet about potential commercial adopters. Regardless of whether it gets picked up by hardware makers like Asus, it is sure to be a big hit with Ubuntu's fans. http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20080604-hands-on-with-the-ubuntu-netbook-remix.html

* Pondering Ubuntu 8.04 - Make no mistake about it: Emmett Dulaney thinks Ubuntu is the best Linux distribution for the corporate/institutional desktop available. The Ubuntu 8.04 release is notable in that it's the first Long Term Support (LTS) release in a while (about two years). But aside from this distinction, there's nothing else that makes this release truly stand out -- leading Emmett to wonder whether it was released to meet an actual need or to simply prove that something new can come out every six months. In contrast, 8.10, which will be released at the end of October, actually looks like it will have some new and noteworthy components. While the code for 8.10 is a long way from freeze, expected in that release are two key items: A new desktop, and a focus on "pervasive internet access. If you have never used Ubuntu in your environment before, and are contemplating doing so, you'll find that 8.04 is as good an implementation as you can choose (as was 7.10). http://certcities.com/editorial/columns/story.asp?EditorialsID=304

=== In The Blogosphere ===

* Ubuntu Hardy Heron steps in to make Linux a proper desktop alternative to Windows - Making the jump from Windows to Ubuntu should not be a problem for the normal office bound PC user. In fact it may make your work easier. It is special in terms of the cost saving aspect and the fact that the reasons to pay for Windows are becoming less and less. It can do everything Windows can do. Ubuntu makes sense from a Linux desktop perspective. Mark and friends have made something truly useful for the ordinary desktop user. Should you give it a try? Yes, it is the best desktop Linux distribution so far. http://mybroadband.co.za/blogs/2008/06/02/506/

* What about Ubuntu? - The software runs great. Installs are as easy as a couple of clicks, and damn-near everything on it is customizable. The problem with it lies in the compatibility. Wine, a windows compatibility layer for running windows programs, is just shy of it’s first actual release candidate…RC-1. Most games run on it now, and even some of the intensive ones are in platinum status. The other problem with Ubuntu, is that it isn’t Microsoft or Apple, and thus there aren’t any Linux stores. How can a store cater to all the different distributions? It can’t. Yes, Linux is free software. Yes, it’s came a LONG way from a command-prompt interface for installing and running programs. But it’s just not mainstream enough. http://camarojones.wordpress.com/2008/06/06/what-about-ubuntu/

* Ubuntu Disappointment - One thing Christian Schaller has ranted about multiple times over the years is how Linux distributions have failed to provide their content in Ogg format. Especially when the content is targeted at Linux users. Jono Bacon's blog recently offered Ubuntu MOTU videos, but only available in the proprietary Flash format. For a distribution which likes to drape itself so loudly in the colors of community and freedom, this is a huge let down. After talking with Jono, it turns out they do plan on making Ogg’s available in the future. While kicking Ubuntu here, it wasn’t really about them specifically, but the fact that even though the tools have gotten quite good and widespread over the last few years in terms of creating Ogg’s, the open source or free software community is still rather lackluster in its willingness to try to help push the free formats. http://blogs.gnome.org/uraeus/2008/06/03/ubuntu-disapointment/

=== In Other News ===

==== Ubuntu Server receives positive reviews ====

Ubuntu isn’t just for desktops. Behind the scenes, corporate IT managers have put Ubuntu to work on servers. chunter set out to find some IT pros who could talk about Ubuntu Server. He asked, “Who’s using Ubuntu?” in a Search Enterprise Linux newsletter. He got both positive and not-so-positive responses to his inquiry. Follow the link for all the details on what IT managers had to say. http://enterpriselinuxlog.blogs.techtarget.com/2008/06/03/ubuntu-server-receives-positive-reviews/

==== Ubuntu UK podcast: Episode #7 - Do Not Disturb ====

Alan Pope, Dave Walker, Tony Whitmore and Ciemon Dunville present the seventh episode of the Ubuntu UK Podcast.

In this episode:

*** Discussion:
**** An interview with Ubuntu Community Manager Jono Bacon about FOSS Camp and UDS.
**** An interview with the Wubi guy, Agostino Russo..
**** Learning to program in Python.
**** An interview with Cory Kontros from Ubuntu Studio.
*** Competition results!
**** The winner of the trivia competition is announced. We’ll send them a coupon for the Canonical Store to spend on whatever they want! We’ll have another competition in Episode 8.

Get Ubuntu UK Podcast #7 at: http://podcast.ubuntu-uk.org/2008/06/03/s01e07-do-not-disturb/

==== Acer bets big on Linux ====

Acer has stated that it will be pushing Linux aggressively on its laptops and netbooks.. The company is already heavily promoting Linux for its low cost ultra-portable netbook range out later this year, but senior staff have said that Acer will also push Linux on its laptops. According to Gianpiero Morbello, vice president of marketing and brand at Acer: "We have shifted towards Linux because of Microsoft. They have a lot of power and it is going to be difficult, but we will be working hard to develop the Linux market." Acer sees two big advantages to using Linux on computers: operation and cost. http://www.itnews.com.au/News/77636,acer-bets-big-on-linux.aspx

=== Meeting Summaries ===

Ubuntu Technical Board meeting, 2008-06-03

==== Ubuntu Core Developer application from Till Kamppeter ====

The MOTU council recommended Till Kamppeter for membership in the core
development team:

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/motu-council/2008-May/001100.html

In the course of the interview, it was agreed that more limited access
privileges would be sufficient and appropriate for Till to continue his work
on printing in Ubuntu.

launchpad does not yet provide this type of fine-grained access control, but
it is expected in the near future.  As such, the board resolved to grant
Till membership in ubuntu-core-dev, to be transitioned to the new mechanism
once it becomes available.  In the meantime, Till agreed to voluntarily
limit his use of ubuntu-core-dev privileges to the relevant set of packages
(to be agreed with the board separately).

==== Ubuntu Core Developer application from Jamie Strandboge ====

The MOTU council recommended Jamie Strandboge for membership in the core
development team:

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/motu-council/2008-May/001101.html

The board approved Jamie's application and welcomed him to the core
development team.

=== Upcoming Meetings and Events ===

==== Monday, June 9, 2008 ====

===== Michigan LoCo Bug Jam =====

* Start: 10:30 UTC
* End: 23:59 UTC
* Location: Clinton-Macomb Public Library
* Agenda: http://konsilience.wordpress.com/2008/06/02/michigan-loco-bug-jam-summer-2008/

==== Tuesday, June 10-2008 ====

===== Asia and Oceania Ubuntu Membership Approval Board Meeting =====

* Start: 11:00 UTC
* End: 12:30 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/AsiaOceania.

===== Server Team Meeting =====

* Start: 15:00 UTC
* End: 16:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting

==== Wednesday, June 11, 2008 ====

===== Platform Team Meeting =====

* Start: 06:00 UTC
* End: 07:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: Not Listed as of Publication

===== QA Team Meeting =====

* Start: 17:00 UTC
* End: 18:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings/

===== Server Team Meeting =====

* Start: 21:00 UTC
* End: 22:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting

==== Thursday, June 12, 2008 ====

===== Desktop Team Meeting =====

* Start: 13:00 UTC
* End: 14:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting

==== Friday, June 13, 2008 ====

===== Ubuntu-ni Translation Sprint =====

* Start: 15:00 UTC
* End: 22:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-ni
* Agenda: Not Listed as of Publication

===== MOTU Meeting =====

* Start: 20:00 UTC
* End: 21:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings

=== Updates and Security for 6.06, 7.04, 7.10, and 8.04 ===

==== Security Updates ====

* [USN-614-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-June/000714.html
* [USN-615-1] Evolution vulnerabilities - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-June/000715.html

==== Ubuntu 6.06 Updates ====

* langpack-locales 2.3.18.11 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-June/012703.html
* clamav_0.92.1~dfsg2-1.1~dapper2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-June/012704.html
* linux-meta 2.6.15.52 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-June/012705.html
* evolution_2.6.1-0ubuntu7.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-June/012706.html

==== Ubuntu 7.04 Updates ====

* tzdata 2008c-0ubuntu0.7.04 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008934.html
* avscan 3.2.2-openssl-1build1~feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008937.html
* clamcour 0.2.2-1.2+feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008936.html
* clamtk_3.08-1ubuntu1~feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008935.html
* dansguardian 2.8.0.6-antivirus-6.4.4.1-4build1~feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008938.html
* gurlchecker_0.10.2-1~feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008939.html
* havp_0.86-1build1~feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008940.html
* klamav_0.42-0ubuntu5~feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008941.html
* php-clamavlib_0.13-1ubuntu1~feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008942.html
* python-clamav 0.4.0-1build1~feisty3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008943.html
* sylpheed-claws-gtk2_2.6.0-1.1ubuntu1.1+feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008944.html
* sylpheed-claws_1.0.5-5.1ubuntu0.1+feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008945.html
* pyclamd 0.1.1-0ubuntu1~feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008946.html
* clamav_0.92.1~dfsg2-1.1~feisty2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008947.html
* evolution_2.10.1-0ubuntu2.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-June/008948.html

==== Ubuntu 7.10 Updates ====

* tzdata 2008c-0ubuntu0.7.10 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010234.html
* gnome-schedule 1.0.0-2ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010235.html
* avscan 3.2.2-openssl-1build1~gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010239.html
* clamcour, clamcour 0.2.2-1.2+gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010238.html
* clamtk_3.08-1ubuntu1~gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010237.html
* claws-mail_2.10.0-3ubuntu3+gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010236.html
* dansguardian 2.8.0.6-antivirus-6.4.4.1-4build1~gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010240.html
* gurlchecker_0.10.2-1~gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010241.html
* havp_0.86-1build1~gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010242.html
* klamav_0.42-0ubuntu5~gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010243.html
* php-clamavlib_0.13-1ubuntu1~gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010244.html
* python-clamav 0.4.0-1build1~gutsy3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010245.html
* pyclamd 0.1.1-0ubuntu1~gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010246.html
* clamav_0.92.1~dfsg2-1.1~gutsy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010247.html
* evolution_2.12.1-0ubuntu1.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-June/010248.html

==== Ubuntu 8.04 Updates ====

* initramfs-tools 0.85eubuntu39.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011622.html
* xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.2.1-1ubuntu13.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011623.html
* oem-config 1.37.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011624.html
* gfxboot-theme-ubuntu 0.5.21 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011625.html
* linux-backports-modules-2.6.24 2.6.24-18.16 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011626.html
* linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24 2.6.24.13-18.41 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011627.html
* linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24 2.6.24-18.26 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011628.html
* xulrunner-1.9 1.9 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011629.html
* pm-utils 0.99.2-3ubuntu10 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011630.html
* gnome-desktop 1:2.22.2-0ubuntu3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011631.html
* mythplugins 0.21.0+fixes16838-0ubuntu2.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011632.html
* mythbuntu-control-centre 0.28-0ubuntu1~hardy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011633.html
* plucker 1.8-24ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011634.html
* opencryptoki 2.2.5+dfsg-1ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011635.html
* mythtv 0.21.0+fixes16838-0ubuntu3.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011636.html
* debian-installer 20070308ubuntu40.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011638.html
* debian-installer 20070308ubuntu40.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011637.html
* oem-config 1.37.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011639.html
* ubiquity 1.8.9 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011641.html
* ubiquity 1.8.8 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011640.html
* kopete-plugin-thinklight 0.3-0ubuntu3.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011642.html
* tzdata 2008c-1ubuntu0.8.04 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011643.html
* notification-daemon 0.3.7-1ubuntu11.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011644.html
* samba 3.0.28a-1ubuntu4.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011645.html
* xserver-xorg-video-cirrus 1:1.1.0-8ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011646.html
* parallels 2.2.2232-1hardy2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011647.html
* linux-meta 2.6.24.18.20 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011648.html
* parallels 2.2.2232-1hardy3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011649.html
* cairo 1.6.0-0ubuntu2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011650.html
* libgksu 2.0.5-1ubuntu5.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011651.html
* system-config-samba 1.2.50-0ubuntu2.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011652.html
* linux 2.6.24-19.33 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011653.html
* ubuntu-vm-builder 0.4-0ubuntu0.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011654.html
* mailscanner 4.58.9-2ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011655.html
* openoffice.org-l10n 1:2.4.1~rc2-1ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011656.html
* openoffice.org 1:2.4.1~rc2-1ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011657.html
* virtualbox-ose-modules 24.0.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011658.html
* kaffeine 0.8.6-0ubuntu8.1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011659.html
* mailscanner 4.58.9-2ubuntu1.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011660.html
* linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24 2.6.24.13-19.42 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011662.html
* linux-backports-modules-2.6.24 2.6.24-19.17 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011661.html
* linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24 2.6.24-19.27 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011663.html
* lirc 0.8.3~pre1-0ubuntu7.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011664.html
* python-launchpad-bugs 0.2.30.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011665.html
* epiphany-browser 2.22.2-0ubuntu0.8.04.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011666.html
* midbrowser 0.3.0rc1a-1~8.04.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011667.html
* ufw 0.16.2.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011668.html
* nvidia-settings 1.0+20080304-0ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011669.html
* gst-plugins-ugly0.10 0.10.7-3ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011670.html
* openjdk-6 6b10-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011671.html
* linux-meta 2.6.24.19.21 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011672.html
* pciutils 1:2.2.4-1.1ubuntu4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011673.html
* icedtea-gcjwebplugin 1.0-0ubuntu7 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011674.html
* kde-guidance 0.8.0svn20080103-0ubuntu16.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011675.html
* evolution_2.22.2-0ubuntu1.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011676.html

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Nick Ali
* John Crawford
* Craig A. Eddy
* Isabelle Duchatelle
* And many others

=== Glossary of Terms ===

 1. CPU - Central Processing Unit
 2. EMEA - Europe, Middle East and African regional approval board
 3. LUG - Linux User's Group
 4. MOTU - Master Of The Universe - those responsible for the repositories
 5. OEM - Original Equipment Manufacturer
 6. UDS - Ubuntu Developer's Summit

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Weekly News Team. Please feel free to contact us to submit an idea, or to voice any concerns or suggestions. Sending your email to ubuntu-news-team-bounces@lists.ubuntu.com. *Please note that you must subscribe to the list to be able to submit. If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page. If you have any technical support questions, please send then ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com.
