{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue 70 for the week December 9th - December 15th, 2007. In this issue we cover the countdown to Hardy Alpha 2, new MOTU & community members, Ubuntu Forums interview, Bazaar 1.0 release, and as always, much, much more. 

'''UWN Translations'''

* Deutsch - Start one! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/IssueXX/De
* Español - http://doc.ubuntu-es.org/index.php?title=Proyecto:NoticiasSemanalesDeUbuntu/Edicion70
* Français - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue70/Fr
* Italiano - http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/NewsletterItaliana
* Português - Start one! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/IssueXX/Pt

=== In This Issue ===

* Countdown To Hardy Alpha 2
* New MOTU & Community Members
* Ubuntu Forums Interview
* In The Press & Blogosphere
* Bazaar 1.0 Control Tool Released
* eeeXubuntu
* Meetings & Events
* Updates & Security
* Bug & Translation Stats

=== General Community News ===

==== Countdown To Hardy Alpha 2 ====

The second alpha for Hardy Heron is scheduled for Thursday, December 20. Given the success of the self-imposed freeze used for Alpha 1, Ubuntu will continue with this policy for Alpha 2. This milestone is intended to be used for tracking bugs that must be fixed in order for the alpha release to happen. As with previous Alpha version from Ubuntu, this release version is not intended for production machines. Developers are encouraged to visit the link to find out more about the schedule and bug assignments. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2007-December/000361.html

==== New MOTU Member ====

Till Kamppeter is Ubuntu's resident printing guru and newest MOTU member. He also participates on the following teams: Launchpad Beta Testers, Ubuntu Bug Control Team and the Ubuntu Printing Team. MOTU welcomes Till and looks forward to working with him. http://launchpad.net/~till-kamppeter

==== New Kubuntu Members ====

Ian Mac``Gregor volunteers his time in #ubuntu, #kubuntu, and other channels, on the Freenode irc network. He also provides support on the Ubuntu Forums, submit bugs to launchpad, and edit/proofread articles on the Ubuntu Wiki and Ubuntu Documentation websites. Spending a bit of time promoting Ubuntu/Kubuntu has helped over 200 people and businesses in his area switch to Linux from other operating systems since 2003. https://launchpad.net/~ardchoille42

Jussi Kekkonen, Tm_T, helps out in #kubuntu and is an IRC admin for Kubuntu channels. He is also part of the Finnish Team.
https://wiki.kubuntu.org/JussiKekkonen

==== Kubuntu Tutorials Day ====

Kubuntu Tutorials day included sessions on programming in Py``Qt, using Bazaar for revision control, Packaging and Getting Your Work into Kubuntu.  Over 100 people attended the tutorials.  Logs are available now.

https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuTutorialsDay

=== Ubuntu Forum News ===

==== Ubuntu Forums Interview ====
Mike Basinger is one of the forums admins and a Ubuntu Forums Council and Community Council member. He's worked on outlining the Forums Council, merging ubuntuforums into the official Ubuntu framework and is among some of the most influential people in the Ubuntu structure. Please read the complete interview here : http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2007/12/14/an-interview-with-mike/

=== In The Press ===

* Get started with Linux - In the past, if you didn’t want to buy a computer with Windows installed, your choices were rather limited. Specifically, there was a choice between buying an Apple Mac and installing Linux on a bare PC. If the idea of a Mac didn’t appeal, then a fair amount of technical knowledge and nerve was needed to install Linux. However, this has changed. Not only is Linux a lot more user-friendly, but some companies, including Dell, now sell PCs with Linux instead of Windows pre-installed. Switching on a Linux PC for the first time may be a little disorientating as many options are in different places. Follow this guide and find your feet quickly and easily with the Ubuntu version of Linux. http://www.itweek.co.uk/computeractive/features/2205367/box-linux-pc

* An Introduction to Ubuntu: Could this free, open-source operating system be in your nonprofit's future? - A free, stable, and secure operating system that you can try out risk-free? Open-source operating system Ubuntu comes at a tempting price and offers many of the advantages of popular commercial operating systems such as Windows and OS X. But do its potential drawbacks — manual installation and possible compatibility issues — outweigh its many benefits? Ubuntu is equally well-suited to the server as it is to the desktop or laptop. It can very capably perform a variety of functions, including: everyday office tasks, web development, and server tasks. How do you determine if Ubuntu is right for your organization? First, consider what you would like to improve about your current IT setup. If the answer is nothing, then there is no reason to switch. However, if cutting licensing cost or an interest in functionality, flexibility. or stability are important, you might consider trying Ubuntu. http://www.techsoup.org/learningcenter/software/page7858.cfm

* The World Series of Linux: Round 3, The Championship - CMP Channel Test Center conducted its first-ever World Series of Linux, looking at six desktop distributions of the Open Source OS. In the final smack down, it was Ubuntu vs. Fedora. The final round went through seven innings: installation, networking, creating and managing users, accessing networked Windows shares using Samba, installing third-party software, accessing a handheld device, and connecting to a wireless network. Both distro's passed every test but connecting to the network. But because Ubuntu was able to install the ndiswrapper and connect to the network in an easy fashion, it won the smack down. Please read the whole article to get a more in depth look at this battle of the Linux distro's. http://www.crn.com/software/204802209?pgno=1

* Review: Ubuntu Gutsy Gibbon takes on Mac OS X Leopard for the OS of the Year - The stereotype for each OS is well known: Mac OS X is elegant, easy-to-use, and intuitive, while Ubuntu is stable, secure, and getting better all the time. Both have come a long way in a short time, and both make excellent desktops. So we have two great desktop operating systems out at roughly the same time. So does Leopard eat up Ubuntu? Or does Ubuntu trounce Leopard? It depends on your needs. If you're a student with no money, go for a decent cheap PC and put Ubuntu on it. If you value freedom above all else, then it's obvious-- Linux is the only way to go. If you're heading into a future in multimedia, you will want a Mac. If your life revolves around your iPod and your iPhone, you need a Mac. If you have the money, buy a Mac with at least 2 GB of RAM and then immediately installing a virtualization solution that will let you run Ubuntu along with any other OS you might want. http://www.linux-mag.com/id/4641/

=== In The Blogosphere ===

* Hands-On With Everex's $200 gPC - Everex's stock in trade is delivering decent technology at rock-bottom prices. Its $200 gPC, available immediately, offers a no-gimmicks machine for a song. But is it any good? gOS is based on the most recent distribution of Ubuntu Linux, and runs well on the gPC, which has a 1.5GHz Via C7 CPU, an 80GB hard drive and 512MB of RAM. In a couple of hours of use, no stability problems presented themselves, and the Unix underbelly stayed more or less out of sight, save for the occasional information pop-up. First impressions are of a serviceable desktop PC with bulletproof security and a pleasant, simplified feel. For those wanting to do more with their computer than surf the web, check e-mail and basic productivity, however, it's obviously won't be of much interest. http://blog.wired.com/gadgets/2007/11/hands-on-with-e.html

* Top 10 New and Improved Apps of 2007 - There's no better time than now to switch to a free operating system with the latest release of "Linux for humans," Ubuntu 7.10. The best Ubuntu yet for average users, Ubuntu 7.10 includes built-in WPA detection, the ability to read/write Windows drives (hello dual boot), quick multimedia setup and built-in Compiz Fusion for customizing your desktop. Coming in at #4, Ubuntu 7.10 gets a "Most Improved Operating System" acknowledgement. http://lifehacker.com/software/lifehacker-top-10/top-10-new-and-improved-apps-of-2007-332617.php

* Five days of Ubuntu Linux - This author takes on the ins and outs of his Ubuntu experience. Covered are installation, boot up, hardware, software, the desktop, and emulation. Everything received high marks, except emulation which had mixed results. Daniel's verdict: "I'm definitely going to stick with it. The impression I definitely get is that although it may not be the best OS for gaming - or, the limited retro gaming I've tried so far - it certainly beats Windows in terms of speed, reliability and aesthetics. There seemed to be open source software for everything I needed to do, and I didn't have to compile or manually install once. If you've been avoiding Linux for the 'gurus-only' stereotype, now may be a good time to try a distribution like Ubuntu. It's not perfect quite yet - but it's a damned good alternative to Windows, at any rate." http://bluesuncorp.co.uk/2007/12/04/five-days-of-ubuntu-linux

* The Big Three of Linux: Looking ahead to 2008 - Ubuntu has become the desktop user’s Linux of choice in the past three years and shows no signs of slowing down. Canonical understands what Novell does not, and that is marketing. The marketing machine behind Ubuntu has been working non-stop. Additionally, it does not hurt that Mark Shuttleworth, Canonical’s founder and CEO, is as charismatic as Steve Jobs and is forming deals with independent hardware vendors that results in Ubuntu being offered by the likes of Dell on their laptops and desktops.  Canonical is correct in that their next move should be to penetrate the server market. The ultimate achievement would be when Canonical finally creates an Active Directory-like system to integrate its server OS and desktop OS into a single, manageable environment. http://enterpriselinuxlog.blogs.techtarget.com/2007/12/12/the-big-three-of-linux-a-52-week-view/

=== In Other News ===

==== Canonical Releases Version 1.0 of Bazaar Version Control Tool for Efficient Developer Collaboration ====

Canonical Ltd., the commercial sponsor of the Ubuntu and Bazaar projects, today announced the general availability of Bazaar 1.0, a version control system enabling multiple, distributed developers to contribute to software projects independently in a controlled, managed way. "Bazaar is designed for global teams of collaborating developers," said Mark Shuttleworth, founder of the Ubuntu project. "A large open source project like Ubuntu requires an extremely intuitive, robust and flexible version control system to accommodate hundreds of people working on shared code." "Bazaar is designed to support models of collaboration that have emerged since the Internet came to dominate software development practices,” said Martin Pool, project leader of Bazaar. “We set ourselves the challenge of creating a tool that open source developers will love to use, and have been delighted with the reception Bazaar is getting in both the commercial and free software communities.”

http://www.ubuntu.com/news/bazaar-v1-release

==== eeeXubuntu ====

eeePC is all the rage. The small, portable system that comes bundled with an Xandros Linux derivative has made the headlines. According to Assus, the producer of the eeePC, an eeePC is sold every six seconds and the eeePC is the most wanted gift for Christmas in America. For many people, the eeePC may be the their first exposure to the wonderful world of Linux.

Recently, Nick Hatch has developed a custom version of Xubuntu 7.10 to include fully-integrated hardware support and customization for the eeePC. Christening the remix as eeeXubuntu, Hatch has already made two releases and is working furiously to bring us the third. Cody Somerville of the Xubuntu Team reports that they've made contact with the eeeXubuntu developers and are looking forward to developing a healthy working relationship to bring the best of Xubuntu to eeePC users.

For more information, see http://wiki.eeeuser.com/ubuntu:eeexubuntu:home and http://wiki.eeeuser.com/ubuntu:eeexubuntu:development

See http://eeepc.asus.com/global/ for more information on the eeePC.

=== Meetings and Events ===

==== Tuesday, December 18, 2007 ====

===== Server Team meeting =====
* Start: 15:00 UTC
* End: Not Specified
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting

==== Thursday, December 20, 2007 ====

===== Desktop Team Development Meeting =====
* Start: 14:00 UTC
* End: 15:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting

==== Friday, December 21, 2007 ====

===== MOTU Q&A session =====
* Start: 13:00 UTC
* End: 14:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-classroom
* Agenda: No agenda listed as of the publication

=== Updates and security for 6.06, 6.10, 7.04, and 7.10 ===

==== Security Updates ====

* [USN-550-2] Cairo regression - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2007-December/000640.html
* [USN-550-3] Cairo regression - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2007-December/000641.html

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

* Accepted: smokeping 2.0.5-2ubuntu0.1 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-December/012578.html
* Accepted: flashplugin-nonfree 9.0.115.0ubuntu0.6.06 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-December/012579.html
* Accepted: libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo 1.0.4-0ubuntu1.2 (source, amd64, hppa, i386, ia64, powerpc, sparc) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-December/012580.html

==== Ubuntu 6.10 Updates ====

* Accepted: smokeping 2.0.8-3ubuntu0.1 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-December/008454.html
* Accepted: ldap2dns 0.3.1-3ubuntu0.6.10 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-December/008455.html
* Accepted: ivtools 1.1.3-5.3ubuntu1.1 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-December/008456.html
* Accepted: flashplugin-nonfree 9.0.115.0ubuntu0.6.10 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-December/008457.html
* Accepted: libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo 1.2.4-1ubuntu2.2 (source, amd64, i386, powerpc, sparc) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-December/008458.html

==== Ubuntu 7.04 Updates ====

* Accepted: libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo 1.4.2-0ubuntu1.2 (source, amd64, i386, ia64, powerpc, sparc) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2007-December/008794.html
* Accepted: ldap2dns 0.3.1-3ubuntu0.7.04 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2007-December/008795.html
* Accepted: savant 20060129-4ubuntu0.1 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2007-December/008796.html
* Accepted: flashplugin-nonfree 9.0.115.0ubuntu0.7.04 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2007-December/008797.html
* Accepted: libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo 1.4.2-0ubuntu1.3 (source, amd64, i386, ia64, powerpc, sparc) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2007-December/008798.html

==== Ubuntu 7.10 Updates ====

* Accepted: finish-install 2.11ubuntu1 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2007-December/010050.html
* Accepted: libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo 1.4.10-1ubuntu4.2 (source, amd64, hppa, i386, ia64, lpia, powerpc, sparc) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2007-December/010051.html
* Accepted: libcairo 1.4.10-1ubuntu4.3 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2007-December/010052.html
* Accepted: findutils 4.2.31-1ubuntu2.1 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2007-December/010053.html
* Accepted: ldap2dns 0.3.1-3ubuntu0.7.10 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2007-December/010054.html
* Accepted: deskbar-applet 2.20.1-0ubuntu1 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2007-December/010055.html
* Accepted: flashplugin-nonfree 9.0.115.0ubuntu0.7.10 (source) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2007-December/010056.html
* Accepted: libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo, libcairo 1.4.10-1ubuntu4.4 (source, amd64, hppa, i386, ia64, lpia, powerpc, sparc) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2007-December/010057.html

=== Bug Stats ===

* Open (38046) +50 # over last week
* Critical (20) +/-0 # over last week
* Unconfirmed (19393) -28 # over last week
* Unassigned (28433) -142 # over last week
* All bugs ever reported (140246) +1088 # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

=== Translation Stats ===

 1. Spanish (27845) -280 # over last week
 2. French (40844) +/-0 # over last week
 3. Swedish (55305) +/-0 # over last week
 4. English-UK (46909) -5 # over last week
 5. German (67398) +4 # over last week

Remaining string to translate in Ubuntu 7.10 "Gutsy Gibbon", see more at: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy/

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Nick Ali
* John Crawford
* Craig A. Eddy
* Isabelle Duchatelle
* Cody A.W. Somerville
* And many others

=== Glossary of Terms ===

* eee - The Eee PC is a line of inexpensive ultraportable notebook computers released by ASUS Computer Inc. in late 2007. Eee PCs follow a design philosophy that ASUS dubs “the three Es”: “Easy to learn, Easy to work, and Easy to play”.

=== Feedback ===

If you would like to submit an idea or story you think is worth appearing on the UWN, please send them to ubuntu-marketing-submissions@lists.ubuntu.com.
This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page. If you have any technical support questions, please send then ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com.
