{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu Hardened is a project dedicated to offering ProactiveSecurity features for Ubuntu users, ensuring its deployment and development within the Ubuntu Linux distribution.

As a result of a key decision within the HardenedDebian project, Ubuntu Hardened is the result of the will for collaborating between different developers from different fields and projects.

=== Mailing list ===
An official <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-hardened|Ubuntu Hardened mailing list]]</nowiki> is available.  If you'd like to collaborate on hardened security concepts in Ubuntu please join this list.

=== Launchpad ===
This project also has a group organized on the <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-hardened|Ubuntu Hardened]]</nowiki> Launchpad page.  If you'd like to work on this project please register there.

=== IRC Channel ===
It can be found at #ubuntu-hardened in FreeNode network.

=== Ubuntu 7.10 ===
The current goals of this newly resurrected project is SELinux deployment within Ubuntu.  The information below is outdated and will need updating.

=== Breezy Main goals ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Task
| Description
| Status
|-
| SSP
| Deployment of the IBM Stack Smashing Protector (aka ProPolice), using libssp
| 
|-
| SELinux kernel
| Provide SELinux capable kernel
| Done
|-
| SELinux userland
| modify relevant userland bits for SELinux
| 
|-
| ELF Markings for PaX control
| This requires a patch to binutils, and will be invisible to non-PaX users
| 
|}

=== Breezy Universe ===
Hardened Kernel supporting
** PaX
** grSecurity

=== Postponed ===

* Deployment of Position Independent Executables.

=== Areas of development ===

* UbuntuHardenedToolchain

* UbuntuHardenedKernel
** SELinux

=== See also ===
* SELinux

* ProactiveSecurity

* USNAnalysis

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian-hardened.org|Hardened Debian wiki]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.tuxedo-es.org|tuxedo-es.org wiki]]</nowiki>
