{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

One of the biggest stalling points that new Linux users have to get over
are where things are kept. The Linux directory structure may seem odd at
first, especially to Windows users.

Here's a brief list of the major directories and what they're for.

'''/ (forward slash)''' - This is the root directory. The mothership. The home field. The
one and only top directory for your whole computer. Everything, and I
mean EVERYTHING starts here. When you type '/home' what you're really
saying is "start at / and then go the the home directory."

'''/root''' - this is where the root user lives. The root user is the god of
your system. Root can do anything, up to and including removing your
entire filesystem. So be careful using root.

'''/bin''' - Here's where your standard linux utilities (read programs)
live -- things like "ls" and "vi" and "more". Generally this directory is
included in your path. What this means is that if you type 'ls',
/bin is one of the places your shell will look to see if 'ls' means
anything.

'''/etc''' - Here's where the administrative and system configuration stuff
lives. For instance, if you have samba installed, and you want to modify
the samba configuration files, you'd find them in /etc/samba.

'''/dev''' - here's where files that control peripherals live. Talking to a
printer? Your computer is doing it from here. Same goes for disk drives,
usb devices, and other such stuff.

'''/home''' - Here's where your data is stored. Config files specific to
users, your Desktop folder (which makes your desktop what it is), and
any data related to your user. Each user will have their own
/home/username folder, with the exception of the root user.

'''/tmp'''- This is the temporary folder. Think of it as a scratch
directory for your Linux system. Files that won't be needed by programs
once their used once or twice are put here. Many Linux systems are set
to automatically wipe the /tmp folder at certain intervals, so don't
put things you want to keep here.

'''/usr''' - Here's where you'll find extra utilities that don't fit under
/bin or /etc. Things like games, printer utilities, and whatnot. /usr is
divided into sections like /usr/bin for programs, /usr/share for shared
data like sound files or icons, /usr/lib for libraries which cannot be
directly run but are essential for running other programs. Your package
manager takes care of the things in /usr for you.

There are a few other directories you may find as well.

'''/opt''' - Here's where optional stuff is put. Trying out the latest
Firefox beta? Install it to /opt where you can delete it without affecting
other settings. Programs in here usually live inside a single folder which
contains all of their data, libraries, etc.

'''/usr/local''' - This is where most manually installed (ie. outside of
your package manager) software goes. It has the same structure as /usr.
It is a good idea to leave /usr to your package manager and put any custom
scripts and things into /usr/local, since nothing important normally lives
in /usr/local.

'''/media''' - Some distros use this folder to mount things like usb disks,
cd or dvd drives and other filesystems.

Now you can consider yourself one step closer to a master Linux user.
These directories, while at first a little confusing, will become second
nature to you after a bit of use.
