{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Esta sección contén información xeral sobre as cadeas que non deberían traducirse e como identificalas.

Also to help you with identifying string that should not be translated, software developers usually add comments describing the intend of the text and tips about translating it. Always check the comments attached to each string.

Data placeholders and variable names

In many development languages, a developer can insert data into a string by using a placeholder such as %s or %d. You may also see more complex variations, such as %(variablename)s, $name or ${name}. Copy these variables and placeholders exactly as you see, placing them in the exact order in whichever part of the string makes most sense in the target language.

If you're in doubt, ask another translator for advice.

Examples:

Original: I found $name ethernet device.
Wrong: S-a găsit $nume dispozitiv ethernet
Right: S-a găsit $name dispozitiv ethernet

Original: Delete %(name)s ?
Wrong: Ștergeți %(nume)le?
Wrong: Ștergeți %(nume)s?
Right: Ștergeți %(name)s?

==== Formatting/XML tags ====

You may see HTML/XML tags, such as <strong>, used to format text in a string. Copy these tags exactly as you find them and apply them to the relevant part of the text, remembering to close the tags as appropriate. You may also see other tags, such as XML, and should treat them the same way.

Examples:

Original: <strong>File name</strong>
Wrong: <puternic>Nume fișier</puternic>
Right: <strong>Nume fișier</strong>

Also you should not translate the xml tags attibutes and their values (if you translate their values, make sure you know what you are doing and check the developers comments). Examples:

Original: <link linkend="desktop-themes">
Right: <link linkend="desktop-themes">
Wrong: <link linkend="temi del desktop">

==== Program parameters ====

Command line parameters should not be translated.

Example

Original: "The command line options are:\n"
          "       --quick         speeds up the processing\n"
          "       --slow          slows everything down."
Wrong:    "Opțiunile comenzii sunt:\n"
          "       --repede         grăbește procesarea\n"
          "       --încet          încetinește totul."
Right:    "Opțiunile comenzii sunt:\n"
          "       --quick         grăbește procesarea\n"
          "       --slow          încetinește totul."

==== TRUE/FALSE, GTK constants ====

Strings like "TRUE" , "FALSE" or gtk constants like "gtk-ok", "gtk-cancel" or "toolbar-icon" should not be translated.

In many cases the presence of such string in a translations files is a bug and the software developers should be informed about it and asked to remove those strings.

==== GCONF configuration keys ====

Examples:

Original: The port which the server will listen to if the 'use_alternative_port' key is set to true.
         Valid values are in the range from 5000 to 50000.
Wrong:   Portul pe care să asculte serverul în cazul în care cheia „folosește_port_alternativ” este activată.
         Valorile valide sunt între 5000 și 50000.
Right:   Portul pe care să asculte serverul în cazul în care cheia „use_alternative_port” este activată.
         Valorile valide sunt între 5000 și 50000.

=== Context text === 

In some old GNOME translations you might encounter translations context encoded into the original string. For for information please see: http://leonardof.org/2007/12/01/context-in-gnome-translations/en/

Examples:

Original: "Orientation|Top"
Wrong: "Orientare|Sus"
Wrong: "Orientation|Sus"
Right: "Sus"

If you see such text please fill a bug and inform the software developers about the existence of context. 
