{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings|Ubuntu Studio Meetings Schedule]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings-Minutes|Old Meeting Logs]]</nowiki>
|}
<<BR>>

==== Agenda ====
* Begin Meeting
** Call to order in #ubuntustudio-devel at <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=6&day=13&year=2010&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|7pm (19:00) UTC June 13 2010]]</nowiki>
** Note attendees
* Agenda amendments

* LV2 Packaging:
** continue LV2 packaging plan - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TaskLV2Inclusion
** might focus on getting these into Debian first
** quadrispro has already commented he wanted to do the vocoder, perhaps he can help with others
** any others with packaging experience and want to help?
** can Debian Multimedia Team also help?

* JACK2 / Pulse Audio Integration:
** this is looking good already because JACK2 is in Debian already (per TheMuso on IRC)
** TheMuso is apparently tracking this
** crimsun, TheMuso, and persia have talked on IRC about how to proceed and might discuss this at UDS with Free

* Network Manager
** user's troubles was a bug in gnome-network-admin that left options not shown or changeable
** Ricardo (rlameiro) reported it:  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-system-tools/+bug/570828
** how soon can a fix be expected for users?
** Is it possible to do a ISO re-spin, if the bug is corrected?
*** however, we still might consider testing NetworkManager again
*** whatever the decision going forward, we should document it and post to the -user mailing list

* Ubuntu Studio Controls Update and Redesign
** update ubuntustudio-controls for rtpri and memlock settings
*** JACK now handles rtpri and memlock in /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf
*** see http://linuxaudio.org/mailarchive/lau/2010/3/5/166428 for background
** Ricardo (rlameiro) is proposing a redesign of ubuntustudio-controls
*** see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/ControlsRedesign
*** rtirq script for avoid irq conflicts (especially for firewire)
*** enable Ubuntu Studio PPA for -rt kernels and "backported" applications
*** install -lowlatency/-preempt/-rt kernel from PPA
*** install ubuntu-restricted-extras
*** user in audio group (perhaps check box to add and remove)
*** remove nice setting? see: http://www.pubbs.net/201003/linuxaudio/10007-re-lau-changing-for-editing-etcsecuritylimitsconf-in-debiantesting-ubuntu-lucid.html
*** is there anything else someone probably does routinely to a Ubuntu Studio install that we could incorporate?

* Ubuntu Studio Applications Backporting
** discussion between John Dong and myself after Jussi poked me:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-studio-devel/2010-May/002364.html
** John suggested using "official" Ubuntu Studio backporting PPA because:
*** it's like kubuntu
*** it allows us to maintain control
*** it doesn't overload the already overworked backports team
*** provides proving grounds that backported apps have quality
*** then can be included in official Ubuntu backports repository
** if we don't want to use Ubuntu Studio backports PPA then we need small group to test and provide vocal feedback in backport bugs

* Update Website
** good summary of previous discussion at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Sandbox#Notes%20from%20IRC%20Logs
** a good direction appears to be using Word Press
** detrate is really engaged with this task, we should focus on supporting him
** you can find the available information at UbuntuStudio/TaskWebRevamp

* Reduce Delta Between Ubuntu Studio and Debian
** information about this can be found at: http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/ubuntustudio.html
** push patches back to Debian Multimedia where applicable for the local changes
*** this would reduce work for Ubuntu Studio team because hopefully the packages will autosync in future releases
*** see:  http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/ubuntustudio.html#sameversionbutlocalinB
*** see:  http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/ubuntustudio.html#outdatedandlocalinB
** this will also hopefully increase and improve our relationship with the Debian Multimedia Team (note: quadrispro is a member)

* Testing Procedures
** in order to help (and encourage) our users to test we should develop testing procedures
** since stochastic is lead of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-testers|ubuntustudio-testers group]]</nowiki> can he help develop procedures
** ScottL offers to assist develop the procedures and document it on help.ubuntu.com

* Ubuntu Studio Documentation
** establish uses for help.ubuntu.com vs. wiki.ubuntu.com
** suggested direction:
*** help.ubuntu.com is community facing documentation
*** wiki.ubuntu.com is for developers and contributors to organize for release
** document this decision and email users

==== Minutes ====
* blah

==== Action Items ====
* blah
