{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Guidelines ==

Please submit your team logo ideas below.

* Format them like the example
* Keep them relevant
* Keep the size pretty small for the wiki (max width of 500 pixels)

'''REMINDER: Logo Submissions closes on 11 December, 2010.!'''

== Example ==

=== Your Name ===

A brief description of your logo.

{{http://ubuntuone.com/p/S49/}}

* A few reasons
* why we should use
* Your logo

Your@contact.info (how we can reach you)

----

== Submissions ==

=== Cassidy James ===

A professional logo that follows the Ubuntu brand extension guidelines

{{http://ubuntuone.com/p/S4F/}}

* Clean, crisp
* Recognizable
* Follows the <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/brand/9.%20Ubuntu%20brand%20extensions.pdf|official Ubuntu brand extension guidelines]]</nowiki>

email@cassidyjames.com

=== Danté Ashton ===

Another professional logo, which does NOT follow the guidelines, if only because I don't think the guidelines are really very helpful when it comes to a large amount of text.

{{http://ubuntuone.com/p/S7o/}}

* Compact
* Makes a good header

Almost like the one above, except the logo has been modified to represent our work (IE: 'Shining a light on Ubuntu')

{{http://ubuntuone.com/p/S7p/}}

* Unique look for us
* Compact

danteashton@gmail.com

=== Celso H. L. S. Junior ===

This logo was developed from the original logo of ubuntu, using the default colors provided by Cononical.

{{http://ubuntuone.com/p/S8C/}}

* Compact;
* Nice colors;
* Represents the Soul Project.

celsohlsj@gmail.com

Suggestion of logo for the team of translators.

{{http://ubuntuone.com/p/SGd/}}

* Compact;
* Nice colors;
* Represents the Soul Project.

=== Moises Mata ===

Two logos based on the official Ubuntu pictograms. They clearly represent the goal of this team. I used the text proposed by Dante.

I'm not very good at artwork so it is only a draft, sorry..

{{http://ubuntuone.com/p/SyX/}}

 
{{http://ubuntuone.com/p/SyW/}}

 
moisesmata@gmail.com

== Navigate ==

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts|Click here to go to the Main Wiki page]]</nowiki> 
>>> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Meetings|Click here to go to our  Meeting page ]]</nowiki> >>> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Scripts|Click here to go to our Scripts page ]]</nowiki> >>> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Taglines|Click here to go to our Tagline page ]]</nowiki> >>> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/People|Click here to go to our Volunteer page ]]</nowiki>     
