{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Overview ==
Basically the organisation of the event can be broken down into the following areas:

* 10 weeks ahead: start planning, find speakers
* 3 weeks ahead: prepare announce
* 2 weeks ahead: announce, spread the news
* the week itself: blog summary, inform people about sessions on IRC

== Timeline ==
=== 10 weeks ahead ===
# Copy old session data from <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-Timetable]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-Sessions]]</nowiki> to <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-Previous]]</nowiki>.
# Create empty timetable in <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-Prep]]</nowiki>
# Ask for session leaders and session suggestions on `derivatives@debian.org`, `ubuntu-motu@lists.u.c` and `ubuntu-devel@lists.u.c`.
# Review <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-Previous]]</nowiki> and mail previous session leaders if they're willing to give a session again or have suggestions for topics and speakers.
# Ask speakers to add their session to the timetable on <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-Prep]]</nowiki> and also add some session information.

=== 3 weeks ahead ===
# Draft announcement.
# Update UbuntuDeveloperWeek and <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-Sessions]]</nowiki> with data from <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-Prep]]</nowiki>, update dates, etc.
# Talk to people on `ubuntu-translators@lists.u.c` and `loco-contacts@lists.u.c` if they are willing to help out with translating questions and answers. Ask them to add themselves to the bottom of UbuntuDeveloperWeek.
# Add sessions to <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=canonical.com_qg6t4s8i7mg8d4lgfu9f93qid4%40group.calendar.google.com|Ubuntu Learning Calendar]]</nowiki> (NEVER USE RECURRING EVENTS FOR ANYTHING OR ALL DAY EVENTS!)
# Install <nowiki>[[Lernid]]</nowiki> and see if the sessions all turn up properly.

=== 2 weeks ahead ===

# Announce via blog, get it on Planet Ubuntu.
# Mail `ubuntu-devel-announce@lists.u.c` and `derivatives@debian.org`.
# Post on the forums, particularly <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=11|Community Cafe]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=44|Packaging and Compiling Programs]]</nowiki> and whatever the current development release forum is.
# Ask a Forums operator to sticky the threads.
# Send mail to all speakers about the event, how things work.
# Ask people to microblog using the hashtag `#udw`.

=== The week itself ===
# Blog summary of each day.
# Ask people to blog, pass on the news, and redent/retweet @ubuntuclassroom.
# Mention the start of each day a few minutes before session start in `#ubuntu-devel`, `#ubuntu-motu`, `#ubuntu-bugs`, `#ubuntu-packaging`, `#ubuntu-locoteams`, `#ubuntu-reviews`, `#ubuntu` and `#ubuntu+1`
# Explain the <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-Rules|rules]]</nowiki> at the start of the day.

=== Information For Session Leaders ===

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek/Organization/WhatSessionLeadersNeedToKnow | What Session Leaders Need to Know]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryUbuntuDevelopment
