{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Women Project ==

* Project Website: <nowiki>[[http://women.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=76|Forum]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-women|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-women|Mailing List]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu-women.org/|Planet]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ''' Please visit our wiki at <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org|wiki.ubuntu-women.org]]</nowiki>. All links below will send you to <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org|wiki.ubuntu-women.org]]</nowiki>'''
|}

=== Whois ===
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Profiles|Profiles]]</nowiki> - Meet the women who volunteer and help us here.
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Interviews|Interviews]]</nowiki> - Learn more about prominent women within the Ubuntu project.

=== Meetings & Events ===
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings|Meetings]]</nowiki> - Check out notes from past Ubuntu-Women meetings
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Events|Events]]</nowiki> - Upcoming and past events held by Ubuntu-Women

=== Projects ===
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/RoadMap|RoadMap]]</nowiki> - The overall vision for each of our projects
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/ToDo|ToDo]]</nowiki> - The Next Steps for each item on the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/RoadMap|RoadMap]]</nowiki>. If you are looking for a place to start contributing, please read this page. We are looking for volunteers of all time commitments and experience levels, both technical and non-technical
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Ideas|Ideas]]</nowiki> - Add your ideas on how the Ubuntu-Women group can increase the visibility and participation of women in the Ubuntu Community. These items may be incorporated into the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/RoadMap|RoadMap]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/ToDo|ToDo]]</nowiki> list
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/ProjectIntro|ProjectIntro]]</nowiki> - Details about starting a new project with us
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/ReportingPage|ReportingPage]]</nowiki> - Monthly reports of team status

==== Ubuntu & Community Outreach ====
In addition to the projects and goals described above, Ubuntu Women are involved in the following community projects:

 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/MentoringFAQ|MentoringFAQ]]</nowiki> - Information about the Ubuntu-Women Mentoring program.
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/FullCircleMagazine|FullCircleMagazine]]</nowiki> - UW publishes monthly articles in <nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/|Full Circle Magazine]]</nowiki>, find out more about this initiative and how you can contribute.
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Courses|Courses]]</nowiki> - More information about the Mentoring program and the Courses offered through the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom|Ubuntu Classroom]]</nowiki>.

=== Resources ===
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Links|Links]]</nowiki> - This page includes resources outside of our (UW and Ubuntu) community.
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/ChallengingSexism|ChallengingSexism]]</nowiki> : Improving FOSS & Ubuntu culture for all.
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/WomenAchievers|WomenAchievers]]</nowiki> - Read interviews, articles, etc.. about Women FOSS volunteers in the press/media.
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Resources|Resources]]</nowiki> - Misc other resources generated by the UW and Ubuntu Communities.  Includes resources to promote Ubuntu-Women at a local meeting.

=== Guidelines ===
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> - All involved with Ubuntu-Women are expected to respect the CoC
 . {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/IrcGuidelines|IrcGuidelines]]</nowiki> - Guidelines for the #Ubuntu-Women channel on Freenode

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
CategoryHomepage
