{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Project meeting 12/02/2011 ===

==== IRC Log ====

* The IRC log is available <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/02/12/%23ubuntu-manual.html|here]]</nowiki>

==== Agenda ====

* Find a new project leader (We have no leader! We need one to continue)?
* Get some developers to dust off quickshot (What is the status / How does it work)?
* Natty - What should we do (Write a full manual, a short new features guide, or not bother)?
* Maverick - Should we continue with this (It needs screenshots)? 
* Find people to edit the manual... (What it says!)
* Next Meeting

==== Attendees ====
* ChrisWoollard
* Godbyk
* Daker
* c7p
* sipherdee
* Propably Others too;)
* ChrisWoollard

==== Find a new project leader ====
* This was discussed and it was decided that we actually would like roles.
** Project Leader
** Editor-in-Chief
* Created a Role Requirements document for both roles (<nowiki>[[http://typewith.me/GY2L5yJCUF]]</nowiki>).
* When complete this will be sent to the mailing list (possibly other places too).

==== Get some developers to dust off quickshot ====
* Get some instructions on how to use Quickshot.
* Get some new developers to help with Quickshot.
* Action [Godbyk] - Contact Jenkins / flan for a status report.

==== Natty - What should we do ====
Vote Options 
 1a. Full (Unity and Gnome).
 1b.  Full (Unity Only ->  point to a supplemental fascicle for GNOME).
 2. New Feaures / Changes + Installation.
 3. Nothing.

Vote Decision :  The Natty manual will cover both Unity and GNOME environments (Option 1a). Gnome will be covered in an Appendix.

Changes in Natty <nowiki>[[http://typewith.me/1rgiBqwp8U]]</nowiki>

==== Maverick - Should we continue with this ====
* Needs Screenshots (Action [Godbyk]  to contact the quickshoters [Jenkins and Flan]).

==== Find people to edit the manual ====
* ACTION [Godbyk] - Branch Maverick to Natty First.
* Try to get a Leader / EiC (Post the requirements to the mailing list when complete).
* ACTION [ChrisWoollard] To post to lists etc when spec complete.

==== Next meeting ====
* ACTION [c7p] - Schedule next meeting for 2 weeks time. 
* Next Meeting to cover the new recruitment of a Project Leader and EiC.
