{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Trivia ==
The Ubuntu Trivia IRC channel is a place for testing your Ubuntu brain power and having fun! We'll schedule themed quizzes to test your knowledge of your favorite operating system (Ubuntu, of course!) and keep you exercising those cranial muscles.

Each week, one of the quizmasters write a quiz. The game happens in the '''#ubuntu-trivia''' channel, on FreeNode. There is a bot for compiling the result, but it's the quizmaster that decide if an answer is good or not.  The winner of the each quiz will be announced in the channel topic until a new winner is declared. 

=== Participate ===

To give a quiz, contact Alexandre Vassalotti (theCore) - we will probably find you a spot. A quiz usually has 25 questions and a common theme.

To donate a prize, please contact Jenda Vancura (jenda) - your generosity is appreciated. The generic prize are Ubuntu stickers at $3, or a poster at $5 - you can donate these by donating the cash.

By winning the quiz and foregoing the prize, you donate it for the next quiz. This is especially appreciated if you are a frequent winner.

=== Leaderboard ===
''Ten points are given for winning a quiz and five for giving or sponsoring a quiz.''

''Legend: wins are marked with a !, quizzes given with a ? and prizes with a $''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Rank'''
| '''Nickname'''
| '''Points'''
| !
| ?
| $
| '''Comments'''
|-
| #1
| kaot
| '''50'''
| 4
| 2
| -
| 
|-
| #2
| mc44
| '''30'''
| 2.5
| 1
| 1
| ''Current Champion''
|-
| #3
| jrib
| '''25'''
| 2
| -
| 1
| 
|-
| #3
| MenZa
| '''25'''
| 2
| -
| 1
| 
|-
| #3
| tsmithe
| '''25'''
| 2.5
| -
| 1
| ''Current Champion''
|-
| #4
| micahcowan
| '''20'''
| 2
| -
| -
| 
|-
| #4
| rob
| '''20'''
| 1
| -
| 2
| 
|-
| #5
| tonyyarusso
| '''15'''
| 1
| 1
| -
| 
|-
| #5
| dougsko
| '''15'''
| 1
| 1
| -
| 
|-
| #6
| coNP
| '''10'''
| 1.5
| -
| -
| ''Current Champion''
|-
| #6
| ryanakca
| '''10'''
| 1.5
| -
| -
| ''Current Champion''
|-
| #6
| astinus
| '''10'''
| 1
| -
| -
| 
|-
| #6
| dsas
| '''10'''
| 1
| -
| -
| 
|-
| #6
| topyli
| '''10'''
| 1
| -
| -
| 
|-
| #6
| narg
| '''10'''
| 1
| -
| -
| 
|-
| #6
| jldugger
| '''10'''
| 1
| -
| -
| 
|-
| #6
| neurinomass
| '''10'''
| 1
| -
| -
| 
|-
| #6
| Amaranth
| '''10'''
| 1
| -
| -
| 
|-
| #7
| GazzaK
| '''5'''
| -
| 1
| -
| 
|-
| #7
| PFA
| '''5'''
| -
| 1
| -
| 
|-
| #7
| JosefK
| '''5'''
| -
| 1
| -
| 
|-
| #7
| dataw0lf
| '''5'''
| -
| 1
| -
| 
|-
| #7
| juliux
| '''5'''
| -
| -
| 1
| 
|-
| #7
| Terminus
| '''5'''
| -
| 1
| -
| 
|}

=== Our sponsors ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| '''Name'''
| '''Prize Donated'''
| '''Winner'''
|-
| Dec 8
| Jenda Vančura
| Poster
| Robert Stoffers (rob)
|-
| Dec 15
| Robert Stoffers
| Poster
| Lasse Havelund (MenZa)
|-
| Dec 22
| Robert Stoffers
| Free as in Freedom, by RMS
| Lasse Havelund
|-
| Dec 29
| Lasse Havelund
| Poster
| Alex Howells (astinus)
|-
| Jan 5
| Jenda Vančura
| Poster
| Jason Ribeiro (jrib)
|-
| Jan 20
| Jason Ribeiro
| Poster
| Travis Watkins (Amaranth)
|-
| Jan 26
| Julius Bloch
| Ubuntu 6.10 DVD Edition
| Mark (mc44)
|-
| Feb 3
| Jenda Vančura
| Laptop Stickers
| Áron Sisak (coNP)
|-
| Feb 10
| Mark (mc44)
| Ubuntu 6.10 DVD Edition
| Toby Smithe (tsmithe)
|-
| Feb 17
| Toby Smithe
| Ubuntu 6.10 DVD Edition
| YOU!!
|}

To sponsor a quiz, please drop a mail to jenda@ubuntu.com . You can either send a prize of your own, or you can donate $5 for a poster, or $3 for some stickers (hey - the value the winner gets is actually higher :)).

=== News ===

We schedule a quizzes every week, on Fridays or Saturdays. If the quizzes become more popular, we may do them more often.

Thanks to everyone who participated in the quizzes. Currently, there is a prize for every quiz. Watch the UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter for current prizes. The generic prize are Ubuntu stickers or a poster.

=== Quiz Masters ===
The quiz masters are the people that keep the quizzes running and fun.

==== The Team ====

https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-trivia
Project founders:
* theCore
* anto9us
* jenda

==== The Guest Masters ====

Guest quiz masters are all welcome, has long you have FreeNode registered account and follow the Code Of Conduct. Bring your questions, and enjoy! If you tell us in advance, it will make scheduling easier. We will supply the prize.

* kaot
* PFA
* dougsko
* dataw0lf
* GazzaK

Many thanks!

=== Rules ===

# Be a good player
# The game master have all the rights over the quizzes.
# No cheating. Cheating will defeated by the extrasensory abilities of the quizmasters.
# Google is your best friend.
# Each of the quizzes has 25 questions.

=== Requests For Improvement ===
''Add suggestions here.''
* <dougsko> i like the programming algorithm questions, but i dont like it when theyre language specific
* <anto9us> more acronyms and points should be allocated for comedy answers
* <anto9us> programming should be classed as advanced category of question and should not dominate the quiz too much
* PeteRyland Can the questions from previous quizzes be made available please?  Or is the plan to re-use them?
      -- AlexandreVassalotti: I will make the quizzes' questions public, but right now I don't know how. You can browse http://peadrop.com/trivia for the first quizzes we had.
* <baconbacon> The bot needs an announce feature. We can't hang around #ubuntu-trivia all the time
      -- AlexandreVassalotti: This will be taken care as soon I find a place to host the bot.
* <sacater> I want the questions to be revelant to Ubuntu, and for them to be smaller.
* <kbrooks> I don't want too much jargony questions
=== Topic Suggestions ===
''Got a topic idea? Add it here, or vote for it.''
* [1] Ubuntu
* [1] Programming
* [2] Hacker Culture
* [2] Unix Administration
* [1] Computer Science
----
CategoryGames
