{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings|Ubuntu Studio Meetings Schedule]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings-Minutes|Old Meeting Logs]]</nowiki>
|}

==== Agenda ====

Please edit at will.

* Begin Meeting
** Call to order in #ubuntustudio-devel at <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=3&day=14&year=2010&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|7pm (19:00) UTC Feb 10 2010]]</nowiki>
** Note attendees
* Agenda amendments
* Review of accomplishments since last meeting
** Jack into Main
*** Promoted to main
*** xine-lib built against JACK - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xine-lib/+bug/152487
*** pulse audio built against JACK - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/109659
*** portaudio built against JACK - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/portaudio/+bug/360590
*** any others?
** libffado
*** Promoted to main
** REVU process
*** zyn - uploaded
*** zynjacku - deferred to next cycle
*** swh-lv2 - deferred to next cycle
*** lv2-c++-tools - deferred to next cycle
** Ubuntu Studio forum renamed - "Multimedia Production" -> "Ubuntu Studio"
** Ardour 2.8.6 synced from Debian
** hydrogen-0.9.4 synced from Debian
* RT or low-latency kernel plan
** testing progress?
*** how has -generic tested?
*** how has -lowlatency tested?
*** how has -rt (PREEMPT) tested?
** documenting testing
*** can we document procedure?
*** are the results being recorded?
*** how can we get more people testing?
* Website plan
** stochastic to set up a meeting for those interested
* Plymouth theme
** UI Freeze Exception Bug #538274 - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntustudio-look/+bug/538274
** ScottL to work on pulling branch and making changes to be ready for UI freeze exception approval
* Ubuntu Studio Team
** Welcome quadrispro
** Note Luke's current responsibilities that will require someone else to handle after Lucid
** Will Cory be involved?
** Is Luis still involved?
** Who will be project lead?
** Who can provide direction?
