{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

Ubuntu Swahili Translators is a group of people around the world who actively participate in translating Ubuntu to Swahili.

=== The Umoja Project ===
A group  working with the translation of Free Software such as Mozilla Firefox, OpenOffice.Org, Gnome, KDE to Swahili. We work closely with upstream to make our translation available to all users beyond their choice of platform. This will eventually make Ubuntu a better distribution as Ubuntu uses translations from upstream.

See <nowiki>[[UbuntuSwahiliTranslators-UmojaProject|our wiki page]]</nowiki> for more details.

== Goals ==

The current focus of our translation efforts is Ubuntu 7.04 Fiesty Fawn. The goal is to translate 100,000 strings before the end of 2008. Join the effort.

== How to get started ==

To make approved transalations on Launchpad, one has to first create a Launchpad account and join the Ubuntu Swahili Translators team https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-sw. 

== Resources ==

Here is a list of resources that may help you get started with translating.
* Kilinux IT Glossary - A glossary of common IT terms and their Kiswahili equivalents <nowiki>[[http://www.kilinux.udsm.ac.tz/kiblog/sw_TZ_glossary_klnX_1.html]]</nowiki>
* TO DO add more resources

== Team Details ==

* Team Contact : mianonjoka@gmail.com
* Launchpad : https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-sw
* Mailing List : https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-l10n-swa
