{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''NOTE''': This page is part of the Ubuntu Specification process.  Please check the status and details in Launchpad before editing.  If the spec is Approved then you should contact the Assignee, or another knowledgeable person, before making changes.

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntu-deltaiso/
* '''Packages affected''': none

=== Summary ===

With SUSE Linux, a program called applydeltaiso is available which can convert ISOs of development versions - i.e. alpha, beta and RC - into later versions of the same release. See http://en.opensuse.org/Download_Instructions#Applying_Delta_ISOs
For examples see for SUSE Linux 10.1 at http://download.opensuse.org/distribution/SL-10.1/delta-iso/ and openSUSE 10.2 alpha 3 at http://download.opensuse.org/distribution/openSUSE-10.2-Alpha4/delta-iso/

Such a method should be used for Ubuntu also.

=== Rationale ===

It is easy for who have downloaded ISOs of development versions to simply upgrade them using such a method, instead of downloading the whole new ISO. Especially when we use the DVD images.

=== Use cases ===

'''Negative''': Ram downloaded the CD or DVD of Kubuntu Edgy Knot 2. Now Knot 3 has come out and he is forced to redownload 700 MB for the CD or 3.5 GB for the DVD. He feels this is rather testing his interest in testing Kubuntu.

'''Positive''': Ram has downloaded the CD or DVD of Kubuntu Edgy Knot 2. Now Knot 3 has come out. He simply downloads perhaps 20% of the original file size (150 MB for CD, 750 MB for DVD) and then does applydeltaiso and presto - he has a Knot 3 CD or DVD image on hand. He is happy and continues testing Kubuntu.

=== Implementation ===

Frankly, I am an end user, and leave it to the development-savvy Ubuntu team to figure out the implementation from the openSUSE wiki page.

==== Code ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

----
CategorySpec
