{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the page for users to contribute ideas to Ubuntu distribution. The page will continually be updated. We will comment on things as much as possible. Give ideas a Yes/No vote. 

== Feature Wishlist ==
* Better support for PDF (something like CoreImage of Mac OS X is what I would love to see)
* Better Sticky notes (again, the post-it notes widget from Mac OS X is a great example)
* NVIDIA Optimus integration (though this may be up to NVIDIA, not Canonical)
* Restore Point - back the whole image of OS to one point (as it has windows XP and later, or Solaris has a Time Slider) 
* Better search function with searching by content inside PDF and text files (something like Mac OS X's Spotlight. Fast, effective, easy to use.)
(if integrated with GUI, this would be simple with use of command '''grep''' . For the user account or for super user)
* When using Landscape, the ability to detect hacks and rootkits
* Option to choose '''php 5.2''' instead of php 5.3 (info: php5.3 has major changes so most older applications dont work)
* Different wallpapers per each workspace. 

== Package Wishlist ==
* Message Faces (http://www.message-faces.com) - Extension for Mozilla Thunderbird, which display email sender's picture in the inbox.
* Cfengine3 (http://www.cfengine.org) - configuration management software. Would be especially good to include in Lucid, for LTS customers.
* evince or okular support for playing embedded videos on pdfs. Basic feature for presentations.
* eclipse ('''recent''' version, provided 3.2 is ridiculous...) - tars are no option, especially for non-intel platforms...
* sdlBasic (http://sdlbasic.sf.net) - ansi-basic interpreter using sdl libaries
* wxBasic (http://wxbasic.sf.net) - ansi-basic interpreter using wxwidgets libraries
* PuppyBasic (http://www.puppylinux.org/wikka/PuppyBasic) - ansi-basic interpreter based on wxBasic sources
* Password Gorilla (http://fpx.de/fp/Software/Gorilla/) - Password Safe supporting .psafe3 files, recursive grouping, much metadata and keygen. (tcl/tk-based)
* Screenlets (http://screenlets.org/index.php/Home) - Add mini-applications to the GNOME-Desktop
* GDC, GNU D Compiler (http://dgcc.sourceforge.net/) - compiler for the D Programming Language.
* DMD (http://www.digitalmars.com/d/) - Digital Mars official compiler for the D Programming Language.
* truecrypt (http://www.truecrypt.org) - Free open-source disk and container file encryption software
* zimbra (http://www.zimbra.com) - Zimbra Collaboration Suite (ZCS)is a modern, innovative messaging and collaboration application.
* cvsxxdiff (http://cvsxxdiff.googlecode.com) - Utilities to graphically review the status and changes on files managed by a CVS repository, providing overview of a project's evolution, changesets and changelogs.
* spicebird (http://spicebird.com) - A project to work in a collaborative way, it is a fork of Sunbird and Thunderbird with a clean interface
* Integration of all network configuration tools. Allowing the user to set the proxy according to the network his connected to, instead of doing this separetely everytime.
* sshdfilter (http://www.csc.liv.ac.uk/~greg/sshdfilter/) a great piece of software reducing ssh attacks to almost zero. With sshdfilter installed, taking each attack on a case by case basis:
** 347 attempts becomes 0 attempts - first attemped guess was for a non-existant user, so was instantly blocked.
** 306 attempts becomes 0 attempts - same reason, non-existant user.
** 115 attempts becomes 1 attempt - first guess was for root and is allowed a default of 3 chances, the second guess was for a non-existant user and so was blocked anyway.
** 115 attempts becomes 1 attempt - same as previous.
** 127 attempts becomes 3 attempts - many initial guesses for root account, so sshdfilter blocks after the first 3 failed attempts.
** 18 attempts becomes 0 attempts - first attempted guess was for a non-existant user, so was blocked instantly.
** 554 attempts becomes 3 attempts - many initial guesses for root accont, so sshdfilter blocks after the first 3 failed attempts.
** 107 attempts becomes 1 attempt - first guess was for a valid user (nobody), second guess was for a non-existant user so was blocked.
** 9 attempts becomes 0 attempts - first guess was for a non-existant user so was blocked instantly.
** 52 attempts becomes 3 attempts - many initial guesses for root accont, so sshdfilter blocks after the first 3 failed attempts.
* GNU-ARM toolchain (http://www.gnuarm.com/) - Compiler tool chain for developing on embedded arm boards (much like the avr-gcc tool chain).
* Cobol for Linux/Ubuntu - As far as I know there are no Cobol platforms or development tools for real Cobol application. Earlier I used Mainframe Express (Windows!) to develop and debug Cobol applications but I have not found anything that can be compared in portability and usefulness for Linux/Ubuntu. I am sure it can be developed but this far nothing. OpenCobol and its like is not an option, in the real (Cobol) world it would be a new barrier. Cobol with DB2 sql is rock solid and should *not* be ported to other unreliable platforms.  
* Raw Therapee (http://www.rawtherapee.com) - Since January 2010 it is GPL'ed at last. It should be available for Ubuntu, because it is the most usable free RAW converter.
* Foxit PDF Reader (http://www.foxitsoftware.com/pdf/desklinux/) - If Acrobat why not Foxit?
* Multiple file renaming integrated into Nautilus - Lots of end-users need to rename multiple photographs, music/video files and newbies quite often. It would be nice if multiple files could be selected, right-clicked and renamed without having install a nautilus script or a dedicated program.
* GeoGebra (http://www.geogebra.org/) - Interactive geometry software for education. It would be especially useful for Edubuntu users.
* Imapproxy Version 1.2.7 - Because this bug (http://lists.andrew.cmu.edu/pipermail/imapproxy-info/2009-October/000835.html) is now corrected. Up to version 1.2.6-5 I had to start imapproxy manually (after powerloss) because the proxy started faster than my destination imap-server.
* ipwatchd to detect ip conflict http://ipwatchd.sourceforge.net/(this will assist many network admin's)
* luckyGPS (http://code.google.com/p/luckygps/) - a Qt-based GPS tracking, routing and mapping application.
* Processing (http://processing.org/) - an open source programming language and environment for people who want to create images, animations, and interactions.
----
CategoryServerTeam
