{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Join the Ubuntu Studio Team! ==

=== We need people of all skill levels! ===

Want to contribute to Ubuntu Studio, the most used widely multimedia orientated linux distro in the world? We need people in all our areas and with all kinds of skills.

You don't need to have any particular skills to join us. All you need is a friendly attitude.

== Here's what you do.. ==

=== All contributors ===

* Subscribe to the  '''<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-Studio-devel|Ubuntu-Studio-devel]]</nowiki>''' mailing list.
* If you like, drop into '''#ubuntustudio-devel''' at '''irc.freenode.net''' and say hi. Read more about our IRC chat channels at '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/IRC|help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/IRC]]</nowiki>'''

=== Developing and testing Ubuntu Studio ===

'''To help out with testing you will need to:'''
* '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Create a launchpad account]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-InstallDevelopmentRelease|Install a development release of Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki>'''
''' To do packaging and application development, you will additionally need to:'''
* ''' <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-SetupDeveloperEnvironment|Set up your developer environment]]</nowiki>'''
'''And that's it! You're all ready to start working!'''

=== Non-code contributions ===

There are many ways you can contribute to Ubuntu Studio which don't require you to be a developer or get involved with testing releases.

Some examples include:

* Helping write and improve documentation
* Editing and developing the wiki
* Supporting people on the forums
* Creating artwork and visuals
* Writing articles for the blog
* Managing social media
* Writing our newsletter

To get started, please join the IRC channel above, and let us know how you'd like to contribute. We'll get you paired up with the right people and started on some tasks!

== Learn about the organization ==
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Organization]]</nowiki>''' - main page for organization
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Policy|Policy]]</nowiki>''' - the policies we adhere to as developers
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Blueprints|Blueprints]]</nowiki>''' - how we organize tasks
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-TeamStructure|Team structure]]</nowiki>''' - we use launchpad teams to manage privileges for members of the team

'''For reference on the field that may interest you, see (some of these pages are less than complete):'''
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Organization]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Development]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Testing]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Documentation]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Artwork]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-PublicRelations]]</nowiki>'''

Lastly, don't worry if it seems much. We'll help you get on track.

== FAQ ==

==== Do I need to be a coder? ====

No, not at all. Most of the tasks we do require no special knowledge. And, what you don't know today, we can help you learn. So, really, don't hesitate to get involved if you want to contribute. We want people of all skill levels!

==== Is Ubuntu Studio a volunteer project? ====

Yes. Ubuntu Studio developers are all volunteers, so none of us are getting paid for what we do. We do this on our free time.

==== Where can I find more about Ubuntu Studio? ====

For a detailed description of what Ubuntu Studio is, and how we work at developing it, read <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-WhatIsUbuntuStudio|What is Ubuntu Studio?]]</nowiki>
