{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Kubuntu Remote Desktop ==

=== Status ===

* Created: 2005-04-28 by JonathanRiddell
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: JonathanRiddellLead, AndreasMuellerSecond
* Contributors: JonathanRiddell
* Interested:
* Status: EditedSpecification, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification, MattZimmermanQueue
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Improve the user interface of `krdc` and include NX support.

=== Rationale ===

`krdc`'s user interface is not as intuitive to use as Gnome's remote desktop.  It does not have NX support.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

A user wants to connect to a remove desktop via NX.

=== Implementation Plan ===

Redesign the interface for `krdc` to not require direct URLs to be entered.  Take the best elements of the Gnome Remote Desktop client.  Add NX support based on the KNX client currently in kdenonbeta.

FasterNetworkedX has decided to put FreeNX server in universe.  It will not go in main until a more resiable (complete and secure) upstream is available.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

* `krdc`
* `krfb`

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

==== UDU Pre-Work ====
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreeNX|Curent state of FreeNX in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
