{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Meeting opened by akgraner at 23:01 ==
 <''''''> hi all  - just a quick meeting to go over a couple things that are coming up within the next few weeks

 <''''''> who is here for the meeting?

 <''''''> 0/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> awesome!

 <''''''> and me

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Meetings/20100506

 <''''''> is the short agenda - I'll make a better more formal one before the next meeting

 <''''''> so UDS is next week  - who from the News team will be there

 <''''''> 0/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> :(

 <''''''> :(

 <''''''> Fridge editors count too as part of news team

 <''''''> any fridge folks going pleia2 you are right?

 <''''''> she is

 <''''''> oops, the meeting is here

 <''''''> hey pleia2

 <''''''> yep

 <''''''> anyone else - I'm asking b/c there will be interviews from UDS and I was hoping to know who was available and stuff on site

 <''''''> I'll volunteer Hope

 <''''''> cjohnston, :-)   thanks

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> [topic] UDS  - Interviews

=== UDS  - Interviews ===
 <''''''> guess I should have done that a minute ago  - sigh

* '''''' won't be there

 <''''''> so Popey and I will be handling some streaming and video interviews on site at UDS

 <''''''> humphreybc will be videoing as well

 <''''''> we should link that in this wks issue if you know where your putting it

 <''''''> johnc4510, not a def on the location until we get to UDS

 <''''''> :-(

 <''''''> k

 <''''''> but it's a little bit closer to being locked it

 <''''''> so I wanted everyone to know about that

 <''''''> [Topic] - Fridge Blueprint

=== - Fridge Blueprint ===
 <''''''> Joey registered a Fridge Blueprint for UDS

 <''''''> [link] - https://blueprints.launchpad.net/fridge/+spec/community-m-fridge-and-news-team

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' - https://blueprints.launchpad.net/fridge/+spec/community-m-fridge-and-news-team''
|}

 <''''''> i might be streaming some

 <''''''> popey, can you email url to where they can go to see them

 <''''''> akgraner: yes, i will use an online service, which i need to test

 <''''''> if you know that in advance that way we can tell people in this weeks UWN where to check

 <''''''> will probably test on saturday

 <''''''> i dont want to pre-tell people the url because I might not be able to

 <''''''> if wifi reception is bad for example

 <''''''> great if you know before say Sunday 1900 UTC that would be great

 <''''''> or if lighting isnt good enough

 <''''''> we can also post it to the fridge closer to time if we don't know by sunday for the issue

 <''''''> *nods*

 <''''''> I'll post to planet and/or fridge if that helps

 <''''''> so popey just email us the link anytime to the -news-team list and we'll post it then

 <''''''> and I won't know url's to other stream until Sunday as well

 <''''''> popey: cool

 <''''''> but i dont want to pre-announce just in case

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> *nods*

 <''''''> wouldn't want peoples expectations set too high

 <''''''> popey, set them low then dazzle :-)

 <''''''> :D

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> so Fridge Blue Print - anyone not hear that the Fridge is moving to WP

 <''''''> getting a new theme and all that good stuff

 <''''''> Who is going to be driving this transition? joey ?

 <''''''> nhandler, yes - joey

 <''''''> i'm so happy, nick and i tried to get it changed for a long time

 <''''''> I think jono was pushing for this a while ago as well

 <''''''> woo hoo - nick said the same thing :-)

 <''''''> yeah, jono set up a demo site at the last uds

 <''''''> nhandler: that's probably what got it thru

 <''''''> so joey went over the information radiator concept with me and I think mentioned it in here a few times as well

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?InformationRadiator''
|}

 <''''''> http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?InformationRadiator

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://theagileexecutive.com/2010/03/15/how-to-construct-a-great-information-radiator/''
|}

 <''''''> http://theagileexecutive.com/2010/03/15/how-to-construct-a-great-information-radiator/

 <''''''> those are the links joey had sent me to read about  - as that is what he mentioned the original purpose vision of the fridge was based on

 <''''''> ? are those for statistics ?

 <''''''> since I can now access the blueprint

 <''''''> does anyone have ideas for it

 <''''''> so I can add them to the blueprint

 <''''''> well we could set up something like a roadmap for the news team for the coming releases ???

 <''''''> johnc4510, he meant it as we are the temperature gage so to speak of the community

 <''''''> yep :-)

 <''''''> Why restrict it to releases?  There are other things going on in the Ubuntu community.

 <''''''> to attach to the blueprint

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> well each cycle teams have roadmaps and goals for that cycle

 <''''''> What one might call "Ubuntu Community at a Glance"

 <''''''> tyche - yeah I think the Fridge Team is already doing a great job of that btw

 <''''''> but we needed to get some more imput for the blueprint and ideas to go over at UDS

 <''''''> I'm talking about white-boarding it, like your link showed.

 <''''''> akgraner: agreed, i was thinking more of setting it up in community form...what the dev teams are doing, loco teams...etc....toward the release

 <''''''> yes, but everything on the whiteboard is usually on a wiki as well

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> maybe i'm not thinking right here

 <''''''> i think i need a better explaination maybe

 <''''''> setting the Fridge up that way?

 <''''''> or blueprint

 <''''''> johnc4510, you have confused me now

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> What I'm talking about is a semi-graphic showing a title, a status indicator, and holding a link for more information.

 <''''''> ahh  - that was one example joey gave me

 <''''''> Great minds, etc.  :-)

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> so anyone have ideas for the blueprint?

 <''''''> I'll put up a wiki after the meeting - I am so new to the Fridge part - you all know better than me

 <''''''> so I am deferring to you all for all that in put

 <''''''> are you asking what the new fridge set up should and shouldn't provide to us?

 <''''''> yep :-)

 <''''''> what do you think it was missing

 <''''''> what worked

 <''''''> we need to be able to embed images and video

 <''''''> what hasn't

 <''''''> Mostly, organization.  Everything was on the front page.

 <''''''> The link to the forum is a pita

 <''''''> do you want peer reviewed material written as original content for the Fridge people can submit

 <''''''> we also need a way for non-team members to post to the quay for approval by us

 <''''''> then x number of news team members review and ack or nack it

 <''''''> yeah, that'd be great

 <''''''> johnc4510: I think joey said that non-team members will be able to save stories as a draft somehow but not publish (don't quote me on that)

 <''''''> akgraner: If x == 1, then yes

 <''''''> Should there be a separate Calendar added for LoCo teams

 <''''''> so those meetings can be seen by community

 <''''''> easily

 <''''''> akgraner: I think we can use the events feed from the LD for that

 <''''''> well, we can't really post all the loco team events to the fridge calendar

 <''''''> it would be a mess

 <''''''> right so should there be a LoCo Calendar

 <''''''> nods...at least i think so

 <''''''> people have complained  - that they can't access that stuff in one place easily

 <''''''> what if they don't want to sign into LP

 <''''''> etc

 <''''''> should there be the Calendar for the Classroom events as well

 <''''''> akgraner: The LD should handle the LoCo stuff. We can then pull from the LD if we want to display certain info

 <''''''> classroom event i think can still go on the fridge calendar

 <''''''> but

 <''''''> johnc4510: ClassRoom already has its own calendar

 <''''''> each event that is all day type should only be listed once

 <''''''> with a link to the agenda

 <''''''> k

 <''''''> nhandler, I just now learning what all LD is and is not for  - but was told by mhall that the events calendar was not for LoCo Team meetings so I guess I need to understand what is for

 <''''''> akgraner: I guess that depends on what "meeting" means

 <''''''> akgraner: For instance, I consider a release party a type of LoCo meeting

 <''''''> team meetings

 <''''''> like this

 <''''''> One thing you will HAVE to do (based on my own experience) is convince people that they NEED to include a location and agenda.

 <''''''> akgraner: You mean *IRC* team meetings

 <''''''> nhandler, yes

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> akgraner: I don't think we need to include that stuff. The IRC meetings will usually only matter to the people in that LoCo

 <''''''> hehe  - I gotta get y'all a crystalball to read my mind :-)

 <''''''> They usually have their own calendars for that

 <''''''> nhandler, with the move to cross-collaborate

 <''''''> I still want to make a LD that is only for IRC meetings.. in which you can rsvp

 <''''''> If you look through the last few UWN's, you'll see a lot of "not listed as of publication" in those slots.

 <''''''> and invite projects to talk to loco teams and stuff there is no easy way to see when teams are doing what

 <''''''> tyche: I know when I've helped people add events, I link them to the wiki page and make sure they include that info

 <''''''> I know.  But there's still a lot of them who just haven't bothered to read how to do it, and don't ask for help.

 <''''''> other loco teams are also curious as to how x team or another conducts their meetings

 <''''''> and with searching their wiki pages etc still no easy way to located that information  - but that amy be just me

 <''''''> I know that, at one time, it was all filtered through one poor person (me) to add the information, and I used to go crazy tracking down people to get information.

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> akgraner: I don't know, I still find that if I want to know when a certain team has there next meeting, it is easier to go to the wiki. I like a calendar to know what events are going on today

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> i just drop into their channel and ask when the next meeting is

 <''''''> one central calendar also paints a create picture in one stop to gage the activity of the LoCo Teams as a whole

 <''''''> I guess I am looking both locally and globally

 <''''''> I guess the question is, would the community want this?

 <''''''> Maybe send an email to loco-contacts to find out

 <''''''> we can do that

 <''''''> I was just asking the question

 <''''''> and I also see no harm in trying and if it's not received well then you take it down

 <''''''> no harm

 <''''''> fwiw, changing the "It is used for #ubuntu-meeting." on our /calendar page might help a bit if we want to keep it as a general meetings calendar (everyone is confused about whether it should really be -meeting only or not, since it SAYS its only for -meeting but people tell them otherwise, and some don't bother with location...)

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> akgraner: It would be a pain to setup, as you would need to hunt down each loco to add their meetings

 <''''''> why can't the contacts add themselves?

 <''''''> I think if we are going to do a LoCo meeting calendar, it needs to be seperate than the fridge calendar... otherwise its gonna be so overrun, you wont be able to read it

 <''''''> I'll send an email

 <''''''> well, it's not strickly -meeting...for instance if it an event, like bug day, it might not be in -meeting

 <''''''> akgraner: They can, but it will take time for them to do it

 <''''''> cjohnston, yes - no one is disagreeing

* '''''' agrees with cjohnston

 <''''''> johnc4510: right, but that's not what it says on the page, look at the text on fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar

 <''''''> johnc4510: that's my point :)

 <''''''> pleia2: oh, i agree

 <''''''> that was never an issue - the questions was can we have a separate link to a LoCo Calendar

 <''''''> akgraner: links are easy enough to add

 <''''''> that's all :-)

 <''''''> i say yes....then if they don't use it we can scrap it, or if they do...great

 <''''''> The flip side of that is what do you include in the UWN.

 <''''''> and how the Calendar is populated we can work out

 <''''''> tyche, we aren't there yet - still blueprint for UDS

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> yeah we can make that decission later...

 <''''''> Right now, Teams are adding their LoCo meetings to the calendar in order to have them published in the UWN.

 <''''''> *nods*

 <''''''> thus this discussion

 <''''''> That was another issue for another day

 <''''''> tyche: How many LoCos are doing that?

 <''''''> about UWN

 <''''''> brb

 <''''''> Sorry, I tend to take a holistic approach to things

 <''''''> tyche, if you don't know off the top of your head we can figure it out this weekend

 <''''''> There are at least 5 that I can think of, right off hand.

 <''''''> But I couldn't name them, easily.

 <''''''> so I think there are some great ideas here for the blueprint - I'll work on getting that written up and out to everyone

 <''''''> back

 <''''''> so you all can tweak before UDS

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> k

 <''''''> sound like a plan?

 <''''''> nods

 <''''''> Yep

 <''''''> I think the new fridge will develop more once we have a physical wp installation to play with

 <''''''> DC, cameroonian atleast

 <''''''> [action] akgraner to add ideas from meeting to blueprint then sent to mailing list

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' akgraner to add ideas from meeting to blueprint then sent to mailing list''
|}

 <''''''> May I suggest that instructions for adding events to the calendar(s) be put on the page(s)?

 <''''''> tyche, good idea!

 <''''''> +1 tyche

 <''''''> INCLUDING:  Times are listed in UTC

 <''''''> *nods*

 <''''''> tyche: Listed in UTC, but added in localtime

 <''''''> with link to agenda's if they have one

 <''''''> [topic] publishing UWN for May 9 (this Sunday) and May 16th (next Sunday)

=== publishing UWN for May 9 (this Sunday) and May 16th (next Sunday) ===
 <''''''> so UWN is normally published on Sunday's  - I'll be traveling both the 8th and the 15th - and Should providing there are no travel issues or wifi problems be able to publish from Brussels on Sunday

 <''''''> and the same goes for the return trip the following weekend as I get back home on the night of he 15th

 <''''''> have a sprout for me

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> I should have almost all the content ready (at least links) for this issue late tomorrow

 <''''''> >>BAD PUN<<

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> akgraner: np...we'll get it done

 <''''''> in the event I am unable to help get it out the door - who besides out regular crew can be on stand by to lend a hand should johnc4510 need it?

 <''''''> basically summarizing some articles

 <''''''> I will be here on the 9th

 <''''''> cjohnston, will pull the stats on Sunday before he leaves so that is covered

 <''''''> tyche, thanks

 <''''''> this wks. issue will be full again i think...the second one will taper off some

 <''''''> and on the google docs page incase someone messes with it

 <''''''> Pen said she would copy my google doc and do some stuff off line as well

 <''''''> johnc4510, tyche scott_ev will you be available as well this weekend?

 <''''''> akgraner: you need to give me the link to the google docs page just in case please

 <''''''> myrtlebeachbums, I need to give you the links as well

 <''''''> i will...as always

 <''''''> johnc4510, I think you have it

 <''''''> k

 <''''''> :-) but I'll send it again

 <''''''> kk

 <''''''> it anyone else wants to help out just let me know and I'll give ya a section of the newsletter to help with

 <''''''> i haven't bookmarked it so please resend it

 <''''''> I'd love to find the time to help out :(

 <''''''> We will also be adding content nightly at UDS - and by we I guess I mean me and whomever wants to help from there

 <''''''> MTecknology: just jump in HEE HEE

 <''''''> ok one last thing

* '''''' got the UTC time wrong :(

 <''''''> johnc4510: I've done that in too many places :(

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> [topic] - 200th ISSUE

=== - 200th ISSUE ===
 <''''''> woo hoo

 <''''''> party :)

 <''''''> w00t!!!

 <''''''> the 200th Issue will be publish July 4th Weekend

 <''''''> so it is approaching fast

 <''''''> some of the interviews we will conduct at UDS will be for this issue

 <''''''> and not that we want  hide or not be transparent - but some of that we want to be a surprise for readers on that weekend

 <''''''> akgraner: Do you have someone who can do transcription?

 <''''''> i hope you have mark, jane and jono at the top of the list

 <''''''> yes and couple people have said they would help

 <''''''> johnc4510, yep they are on the list

 <''''''> akgraner: so, these are video interviews??

 <''''''> yes about UDS

 <''''''> like last time

 <''''''> but the 200th issue one - will be print

 <''''''> email  - however you want to say it

 <''''''> but I can see if we can get short video clips from them about UWN as well

 <''''''> Here is the link to the 100th Issue

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue100

 <''''''> over the next week if you have suggestions for this issue  - I'll have a wiki page up for you to add to

 <''''''> good, we need to get the outline started

 <''''''> is there anyone who wants to suggested anything now?

 <''''''> time is running

 <''''''> that maybe wasn't included in the 100th that you were like - dang we should have done x

 <''''''> we have about a minute - I didn't intend to keep everyone this long sorry

 <''''''> the thing that is changing in some cases are the different people

 <''''''> anything else before I close the meeting

 <''''''> nope

 <''''''> just that we need to get started on this...outline especially

 <''''''> thank you every one !  Any objections to monthly news meetings?

 <''''''> no

 <''''''> Nope

 <''''''> Just get them on the fridge

 <''''''> nhandler, :-)

 <''''''> nope, great idea, i just need to pay better attention to the clock, and i think -meeting would be better

 <''''''> I liked the email announce too

* '''''' says...if that's it....later all

* '''''' can't remember the reasoning for using -news instead of -meeting

 <''''''> nhandler: there was another meeting in there at 2300

 <''''''> but not 22 or 24 ;)

 <''''''> -meeting is not always going to be available

 <''''''> as we get further along on the 200th issue planning we don't want everyone knowing what's going to be in it

 <''''''> and -meeting does not have Mootbot-UK

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> it is suppose to be news lol

 <''''''> so  - anyone want to chair the meeting next time

 <''''''> when is it

 <''''''> i can if you or someone else doesn't want to

 <''''''> I sent out a survey  - Thursday 2300 was the most popular time

 <''''''> which thursday

 <''''''> any thursday

 <''''''> first thursday's of the month seem good, since this is

 <''''''> I think everyone who wants to should have a turn at leading meetings

 <''''''> so since cjohnston volunteered -

 <''''''> so thursday the third?

 <''''''> i what?

 <''''''> i did, not cjohnston

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> cjohnston: lol

 <''''''> How does June 3rd, 2010 - 2300 sound

 <''''''> as long as its not a work day i can

 <''''''> im good with it

 <''''''> sounds good to me

 <''''''> k

 <''''''> [action] next news team meeting - June 3rd, 2010 - 2300 in ubuntu-news - cjohnston to chair

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' next news team meeting - June 3rd, 2010 - 2300 in ubuntu-news - cjohnston to chair''
|}

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 00:05 ==
=== People Present ===
* akgraner

* cjohnston

* tyche

* scott_ev

* myrtlebeachbums

* johnc4510

* pleia2

* nhandler

* popey

* MTecknology

* imbrandon

=== Actions Recorded ===
* akgraner to add ideas from meeting to blueprint then sent to mailing list (./)

* next news team meeting - June 3rd, 2010 - 2300 in ubuntu-news - cjohnston to chair - he agreed (./)

=== Agenda ===

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Meetings/20100506/Agenda | Agenda]]</nowiki> used during the meeting
