{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



<pre>
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

Wilkommen zur Ausgabe 33 des Ubuntu Weekly Newsletters, für die Woche vom MONTH DAY - DAY, YEAR. In dieser Ausgabe berichten wir...

=== In dieser Ausgabe ===

=== Allgemeine Community News ===

==== Neu aufgenommene Ubuntu Mitglieder ====

* Gabor Suveg
    Gabor ist der Leiter des Ungarischen Übersetzungsteams und hat sich an der Organisation von vielen OSS Konferenzen beteiligt wo er auch selber Vorträge gehalten hat. So zum Beispiel an der ungarischen Ubuntu Konferenz 2006. Er organisiert die Feisty Presseausgabe in Budapest. https://launchpad.net/~gsuveg   
* Eric Lake
    Eric ist der Mitbegründer und Leiter von Kentucky LoCo und ein aktives Forummitglied. Er beabsichtigt ein Wohltätigkeitsprojekt ins Leben zu rufen, mit dem Ziel finanziell  benachteiligten Menschen PC's zur Verfügung zu stellen. https://launchpad.net/~ericlake
* Tiago Faria
    Tiago ist der Gründer und Verfasser des UbuntuWeblogs. Tiago ist Mitglied des portugiesischen Übersetzungsteams, unterstützt die Ubuntu-PT mailing list und übersetzt Dapper Drake. Er hält ebenso die portugiesische Übersetzung des UWN aktuell. https://launchpad.net/~gouki
* Martin Albisetti
    Martin ist der Verfasser der UbuntuWeeklyNews sowie an weiteren Bemühungen des MarketingTeams beteiligt. Er gründete das Argentinische LoCo das er zur Zeit auch leitet und ist offizieller Spanischübersetzer. https://launchpad.net/~beuno
* David Farning
    David started the MozillaTeam and DerivativeTeam. https://launchpad.net/~dfarning
* Dave Murphy
    Dave is co-authoring the second edition of The Official Ubuntu Book. He has represented the UK Loco Team at the recent Linux World Expo in London. Dave is a member of Ubuntu English (United Kingdom) translation team and has contributed translations to Dapper and Feisty. https://launchpad.net/
* Morgan Collett
    Morgan was previously a launchpad developer and is currently working on making the SouthAfricanTeam more active. He is also hosting an Ubuntu Birds of a Feather discussion at the Digital Freedom Exposition in April. https://launchpad.net/~morgan
* Cory Kontros
    Corey manages the UbuntuStudio project and is an active member of the forums. https://launchpad.net/~coryisatm/

TODO: add launchpad profiles and maybe a short summary of what they've done.

==== 7.04 Beta Released ====

Betas for Edubuntu, Kubuntu and Ubuntu are out

https://wiki.kubuntu.org/FeistyFawn/Beta/Kubuntu
https://wiki.kubuntu.org/FeistyFawn/Beta

==== kubuntu-de.org KDE 4 Interview ====

<nowiki>[[http://kubuntu-de.org|kubuntu-de.org]]</nowiki> hat Jonathan Riddell über die Auswirkungen von KDE 4 auf Kubuntu befragt.

Zum Artikel:http://www.kubuntu-de.org/nachrichten/software/kde/kde4-und-kubuntu

Zur englischen Version:http://www.kubuntu-de.org/interview-mit-riddell-zu-kde4-englisch

=== Ubuntu specific Google SoC News ===

=== Student application deadline ===

The student application deadline is approaching; applications must be received by 5:00 PM Pacific time (12:00 AM UTC March 27, 2007). Further informations can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GoogleSoC2007/Students

=== LoCo News ===

=== Team News ===

==== Albin Tonnerre join MOTU ====

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-March/023438.html

=== Development News ===

==== Matt Zimmerman summarises two months after the split of the development mailing list ====

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-March/023335.html

==== New Bug tags, including Bite Size ====

Daniel Holbach has announced some new bug tags in Malone, including the "bitesize" one for very small tasks. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2007-March/000263.html

==== Feedback requested on nfs work ====

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-March/023433.html

==== Testing requested on the new desktop-effects and restricted-manager ====

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-March/023429.html

==== New Kernel Team bug trage policies ===

Ben Collins, lead of the Kernel Team, has announced new bug triage guidelines for the kernel

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2007-March/000265.html

==== Bug traceback for the masses ====

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-March/023440.html

=== New in Feisty Fawn ===

==== Developing using Bazaar (bzr) ====

Matt Zimmerman sought feedback on the use of Bazaar, the distributed revision control system, for packaging, specifically regarding specific tools such as bzr-builddeb. XXX

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-March/023399.html

==== Longstanding bug reporting bug fixed ====

A longstanding bug in Ubuntu, https://beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/7839, was fixed this week with the removal of reportbug, a tool inherited from Debian and the finishing of Apport, a new bug reporting tool in Ubuntu. XXX

=== Launchpad News ===

=== In The Press ===

OS News has a glowing review of Feisty. The article states Ubuntu has a found a good middle ground between hard core Linux users and new users coming from Windows and OS X. Read the full article: http://www.osnews.com/story.php/17505/Ubuntu-Feisty-Fawn-Desktop-Linux-Matured/

India PRWire has an article about how open-source software like Ubuntu and Open Office support many bigger Indian language groups like Assamese, Gujarati, Hindi, Malayalam, Marathi, Oriya, Punjabi, Tamil and Telugues. The article states that adding support for languages is not difficult and can be done with language packs. Read the full article: http://www.indiaprwire.com/businessnews/20070321/21597.htm

<nowiki>[[http://www.laverdad.com|La Verdad]]</nowiki>, the most popular newspaper in Maracaibo, talks twice in less than two weeks about the use of Ubuntu on the dekstop and went as far as showing how to install it. <nowiki>[[http://www.laverdad.com|La verdad]]</nowiki> sources this information from the Spanish newspaper "EL PAIS." During the FMp3 show, The Radio Station la megaestación, possibly the largest radio station in Venezuela, discusses how Ubuntu is a real alternative in the OS world.
<nowiki>[[http://flickr.com/photos/87048530@N00/430421616/|How to install linux]]</nowiki>(flickr) <nowiki>[[http://flickr.com/photos/87048530@N00/430421611/|How to install linux 2]]</nowiki>(flickr) <nowiki>[[http://flickr.com/photos/87048530@N00/430421607/|The Ubuntu Desktop]]</nowiki>(flickr) <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-ve.org/?q=system/files/lamega.mp3|Fmp3 AUDIO]]</nowiki> (all Spanish)

The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation covers Ubuntu and how "adopting Linux can be painless, free". The article talks about how the average user can do e-mail, web surfing, picture editing, listening to music, making spreadsheets and basic word processing easily with Ubuntu. Resurrecting old machines and the usage of Live CDs are discussed. Read the full article: http://www.cbc.ca/news/background/tech/linux.html

eWEEK ranks Mark Shuttleworth 33rd in its 2007 list of Top 100 Most Influential People in IT. The four pronged criteria consists of (1) the person's tangible track record of information technology success; (2) the scope of influence the person has beyond his or her own organization; (3) the ability of the individual to effect change; (4) the level of engagement the person has in developing today's emerging technologies. Read Mark's blurb:  http://www.eweek.com/slideshow_viewer/0,1205,l=&s=26744&a=203626&po=19,00.asp?p=y

=== In The Blogoshpere ===

PROPOSED LINKS:

http://weblogs.mozillazine.org/josh/archives/2007/03/my_ubuntu_feisty_fawn_herd_5_r.html

http://questionsplease.org/new/node/12 (interview with Mark)

http://blog.blanco.net.ve/2007/03/ubuntu-takes-advantage.html (deploying 850 Ubuntu/Kubuntu deskop machines for Venezuelan government)

http://niath.blogspot.com/2007/03/command-not-found.html (talks about the scanning the repositories for apps if a command is not found)

http://onlyubuntu.blogspot.com/2007/03/upgrade-ubuntu-610-edgy-eft-to-ubuntu.html (screenshots of upgrading from edgy to feisty)

http://openswitch.org/2007/03/20/a-feisty-fawn-indeed/ (review up feisty eye-candy)

http://blogbeebe.blogspot.com/2007/03/ubuntu-704-beta-out-and-about.html (review of Disk Usage Analyzer)

=== Meetings and Events ===

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-bugsquad/2007-March/000490.html

=== Community Spotlight ===

=== Updates and security for 6.06 and 6.10 ===

==== Security Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 6.10 Updates ====

=== Bug Stats ===

*** Open (#) +/- # over last week
*** Critical (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unconfirmed (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unassigned (#) +/- # over last week
*** All bugs ever reported (#)  +/- # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see [WWW] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs

Check out the bug statistics: [WWW] http://people.ubuntu-in.org/~carthik/bugstats/ 

==== Infamous Bugs ====

=== UWN #: A sneak peek ===

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Martin Albisetti
* Corey Burger
* BoredandBlogging
* And many others

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page.
