{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Get Ubuntu GNOME Remix 12.10 ==

=== Download ===
'''Since the original Ubuntu GNOME Remix 12.10 release didn't boot on EFI computers, we released a new image (12.10.1) on Tuesday, October 23 to fix this problem.'''

The Ubuntu Desktop images are now bigger than a standard CD, and you should use a USB or DVD for installation.

You can download a <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BitTorrent|torrent]]</nowiki> of the ISOs below:

* <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-gnome-12.10.1-desktop-amd64.iso.torrent]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-gnome-12.10-desktop-i386.iso.torrent]]</nowiki>

GNOME and the <nowiki>[[http://www.acc.umu.se/|Academic Computer Club Umeå University]]</nowiki> have graciously provided the following standard downloads temporarily. Please use the torrents if possible as they can provide faster download speeds and are less of a burden on the servers. There is also a mirror at <nowiki>[[http://phillw.net/isos/ | phillw.net]]</nowiki>. 

* <nowiki>[[http://ftp.acc.umu.se/mirror/gnome.org/misc/ubuntu-gnome-remix/ubuntu-gnome-12.10.1-desktop-amd64.iso|Desktop CD for 64-bit PC computers (standard download)]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://ftp.acc.umu.se/mirror/gnome.org/misc/ubuntu-gnome-remix/ubuntu-gnome-12.10-desktop-i386.iso|Desktop CD for PC (Intel x86 compatible) computers (standard download)]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''MD5 Verification Signature'''
| '''File'''
|-
| d5b700640caf6cc317989efc396db81b
| ubuntu-gnome-12.10.1-desktop-amd64.iso
|-
| 71b17fed2b0ac43b441d5656908d4e64
| ubuntu-gnome-12.10-desktop-i386.iso
|-
| 48c8582334eedd976e132693c9789735
| ubuntu-gnome-12.10-desktop-amd64.iso
|}

Images have been produced for 32-bit and 64-bit PCs. Neither ARM nor amd64+mac images will be available unless dedicated testers will volunteer to certify the official Ubuntu alpha/beta/release milestones.

== Upgrade ==
It is strongly recommended to do a fresh install however if you prefer to attempt an upgrade instead, first upgrade to Quantal Quetzal 12.10. Then run the following commands:

* '''sudo apt-get install ubuntu-gnome-desktop ubuntu-gnome-default-settings''' 
(make sure to select gdm as default display manager when prompted)

* '''sudo apt-get remove ubuntu-settings'''
* Note that this will remove 'ubuntu-desktop'

== What's Included ==

* Ubuntu GNOME ships with GNOME 3.6. Please see the <nowiki>[[http://library.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.6/|GNOME Release Notes]]</nowiki> to see what's new in 3.6.
* GNOME Shell 3.6.1 and GDM 3.6.1. Among other improvements, the login and lock screen have been redesigned.
* Web (epiphany-browser).
* Abiword for word processing and Gnumeric for spreadsheets.
* Evolution as email client.
* Software (gnome-package-kit), which also includes its own update manager. You can install updates by opening Software and clicking Check for Updates in the Software app menu.
* GNOME Classic (gnome-panel 3) is included but GNOME Shell is the default session if your hardware supports it.
* Tweak Tool and dconf Editor are provided for customizing advanced settings.
* Cheese is a fun webcam app.
* Gwibber allows you to easily connect via social media.
* The complete GNOME Games collection.
* Rhythmbox is the default music player.
* Shotwell is the default photo manager.
* Useful utilities like Simple Scan and Transmission.

== What's Not Included (Currently) ==
* Some GNOME apps for the 12.10 release were not upgraded to 3.6. If you want <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gnome3-team/+archive/gnome3/+packages?field.series_filter=quantal|these]]</nowiki>, try the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gnome3-team/+archive/gnome3|GNOME3 PPA]]</nowiki>. Affected apps include Aisleriot, Nautilus, System Settings, and Totem.

* Web does not support Flash in Ubuntu 12.10 (Bug:904505). If you need Flash, try <nowiki>[[apt:firefox|Firefox]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[apt:chromium-browser|Chromium]]</nowiki>.

* <nowiki>[[apt:gnome-boxes|Boxes]]</nowiki> is not included as it wasn't working earlier in the release cycle (Bug:1038763) . Also, qemu-linaro (qemu-kvm-spice) doesn't built on i386 in Ubuntu. qemu-kvm with spice support does build in Debian though on i386. (Bug:928432)

* <nowiki>[[apt:gnome-documents|Documents]]</nowiki> is not included as it currently depends on LibreOffice, at least as packaged in Debian & Ubuntu.

* <nowiki>[[apt:libreoffice|LibreOffice]]</nowiki> is a more powerful office suite.

* <nowiki>[[apt:ubuntuone-control-panel-qt|Ubuntu One]]</nowiki> is not included by default as it doesn't feel like a GNOME app.

* If you want the GNOME Classic with-effects session to work, install <nowiki>[[apt:compiz|compiz]]</nowiki>.

* If you want Ubuntu-style notifications in GNOME Classic, install <nowiki>[[apt:notify-osd|notify-osd]]</nowiki>.

== Known issues ==

As is to be expected, there are some significant known bugs that you may run into with this first release.  The ones we know about at this point (and some of the workarounds), are documented here so you don't need to spend time reporting these bugs again:

* Evolution doesn't add Gmail accounts. On the final page of the setup wizard, uncheck the boxes to add Contacts & Calendar sync to work around this issue. Fix is now available in quantal-updates. (Bug:1049028)

* Keyboard layout doesn't show in GNOME Shell top bar (Bug:1045914). You can use the GNOME3 PPA to get the updated System Settings which fixes this.

* There are two Online Accounts entries in System Settings. One is the GNOME tool which you can use for Contacts, Documents, and Evolution. The other is Ubuntu's tool for Empathy, Gwibber, Shotwell, and if you install it, Unity. Hopefully for 13.04, we'll be able to use just one tool. (Bug:1040193)

* The category headings in System Settings have ugly "missing icon" icons (Bug:934335) 

* The system status menu (the "cog" indicator at the far right in GNOME Clasic) doesn't show up in some cases or display correctly when using the default Adwaita theme or the accessibility themes (Bug:975563).

* Some of the Ubuntu patches to System Settings don't work well in GNOME. You can use the GNOME3 PPA to get the improved System Settings backported from raring.

* Virtualbox drm driver fails to auto-load ([[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=686994]|Debian:686994]]).

=== Issues shared with Ubuntu ===
As the Ubuntu GNOME Remix is based on Ubuntu 12.10, please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuDesktop#Known_Issues|Ubuntu known issues]]</nowiki>.

== Reporting bugs ==

It should come as no surprise that this release contains other bugs. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve the quality of future releases. Please <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|report bugs using the tools provided]]</nowiki>.

If you have any questions on how to start with helping out with bugs, please read <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/|the Bug Squad documentation]]</nowiki> to learn what constitutes a bug, how a bug is triaged, the life-cycle of a bug, and other information related to bugs.  If you decide to help out even more proactively with bugs, not just those in GNOME Remix, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for new members who are enthusiastic about fixing bugs.

== Participate in Ubuntu and GNOME ==

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

 http://www.ubuntu.com/community/get-involved

If you would like to help shape GNOME, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

 http://www.gnome.org/get-involved/

== More information ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>. You can find out more about GNOME on the <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/|GNOME website]]</nowiki>.

The GNOME logo and GNOME name are registered trademarks or trademarks of GNOME Foundation in the United States or other countries. Ubuntu GNOME is not directly produced, endorsed, or supported by the GNOME Foundation.

== Support ==

** Security and bugfix updates for Ubuntu GNOME are provided by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-gnome-dev|Ubuntu GNOME Developers]]</nowiki> and Community.
** Support via email can be found at the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-GNOME|Ubuntu GNOME Remix Mailing List]]</nowiki>.
** Support via IRC can be found in the #ubuntu-gnome channel on the freenode network.
