{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Overview ===
This is the home page for Ubuntu Malagasy Translators team.
Our project page is at https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-mg
=== About the Team ===
'''Ubuntu Malagasy Translators''' team is a group of translators that translates Ubuntu into Malagasy. If you are interested, follow on to see how you can help us.
* We are going to translate Ubuntu distributions.  You can find more info here: https://help.launchpad.net/Translations
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-mg|ubuntu-l10n-mg]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Mailing list''':
| <nowiki>[[http://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-l10n-mg|lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-l10n-mg]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| <nowiki>[[mailto:ubuntu-l10n-mg@lists.launchpad.net|ubuntu-l10n-mg@lists.launchpad.net]]</nowiki>
|}
=== How to Contact Us ===
* '''Mailing list:''' ubuntu-l10n-mg@lists.launchpad.net
=== How to Translate ===
* Create a Launchpad account at https://login.launchpad.net/+new_account
* Start the translations at https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu
=== How to Join ===
Joining the Ubuntu Malagasy Translators team allows you to commit and make Malagasy translations. If you are not a member, your contributions will need to be approved by a member. The procedure for joining is as follows.

# Sign up for a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net|Launchpad account]]</nowiki>.
# Make your e-mail address visible on your Launchpad homepage so that we can get in touch with you. If we cannot contact you, you cannot join.
# Apply to join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-mg|Ubuntu Malagasy Translators team]]</nowiki>
# Sign up to the mailing list.
# An Administrator would then add you.
# You should send a mail to the mailing-list introducing yourself to other group-members.

The team is moderated, meaning that you need to be approved by an Administrator before you are allowed to join. Membership is dependent upon:

* Adequate command of the Malagasy language to qualify as a translator.
* Ability to contribute constructively and work as a team under the leadership of the Administrators.
* Following the established guidelines and directions.
* Remaining contactable via the mailing list.

Don't let these requirements scare you off, though. Provided you have decent Malagasy language skills, you will likely be admitted.
=== Translation Guidelines ===
* Please follow the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> when translating.
* Pay attention to all section from the guidelines and always keep in touch with other translators.
* When you have translated a string, read it again and see if there are any error or the translations sound right in your language.
* If the translated string does not make sense for you (or your mother/father), definitely it is wrong and you should redo/rephrase it.
* If it feasible, always ask another team member to review your translations.
* Before allowing new members in your team make sure they have previously done good translations and are aware of the team translation guide.

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
