{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Registering a blueprint for a Ubuntu Studio project ==

* Register the blueprint within the project it is for. For example, blueprints for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/linux-lowlatency|linux-lowlatency]]</nowiki> go <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/linux-lowlatency|here]]</nowiki> 
* Use a name that makes sense. If the blueprint is targeted towards a specific release of Ubuntu Studio, one can simply name it something like "linux-lowlatency-t" to show that the blueprint is targeted towards the codename "T" release of Ubuntu Studio, but any name will do.
* Write shortly about your plans on the ''Whiteboard'', and add your workitems for the blueprint (see the <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-ManagingBlueprints#Workitems|Workitems section]]</nowiki> about how to create and manage workitems
* Set '''Approver''' to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-core|~ubuntustudio-core]]</nowiki>.
* '''Assignee''' and '''Drafter''' should be the LP team that drives the correspondig LP project. For example: ~ubuntustudio-kernel should be assignee and drafter for linux-lowlatency.
* Is the blueprint going to be targeted for a specific release of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio|Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki>? If yes, then add it as a dependency to the correct "topic" blueprint in the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntustudio|ubuntustudio launchpad project blueprints page]]</nowiki>. See the <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-ManagingBlueprints#Dependency_structure_for_the_Ubuntu_Studio_topic_blueprints|this section]]</nowiki> about the dependency structure for Ubuntu Studio topics.

== Workitems ==

A typical workitem for a blueprint may look something like this:
<pre>
[ubuntustudio-dev] Categorize all available audio applications in the Ubuntu repositories: TODO
</pre>

[ubuntustudio-dev] means that the LP group <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-dev|~ubuntustudio-dev]]</nowiki> is assigned to this particular workitem. One can assign either LP groups or LP users.

TODO is the current implementation.

When starting to work on a workitem, change the assignee to your own LP name, and change the implementation to INPROGRESS.

When the workitem is done, change the implementation to DONE.

Possible implementations are:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''state'''
| '''possible aliases'''
| ''' description* '''
|-
| `TODO`
| empty string, `INPROGRESS`
| Item is expected to be done by the end of the cycle
|-
| `INPROGRESS`
| 
| By default, this is an alias for TODO, but teams can choose to track it separately.
|-
| `BLOCKED`
| 
| Item is still expected to be done by end of cycle, but cannot move forward due to issues outside assignees control
|-
| `DONE`
| 
| 
|-
| `POSTPONED`
| `POSTPONE`
| item will not be done this cycle
|}

Read more about workitems <nowiki>[[WorkItemsHowto|here]]</nowiki>.

== Managing a blueprint from beginning to end (~ubuntustudio-core) ==

* First, register the blueprint: see above
* A member of the LP team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net~ubuntustudio-core|ubuntustudio-core]]</nowiki> reviews and approves the blueprint, then does the following:
** Set '''Direction''' to ''Approved''.
** Set '''Definition''' to ''Approved''.
** Set '''Implementation''' to ''Started''
* If the blueprint becomes obsolete:
** Set '''Definition''' to ''Obsolete'' (unlists the blueprint from project blueprint page)
* If another blueprint takes over the role the current one has:
** Set '''Definition''' to ''Superseded'' (unlists the blueprint from project blueprint page)
* Once all workitems in the blueprint are marked DONE:
** Set '''Implementation''' to ''Implemented'' (unlists the blueprint from project blueprint page)

== Dependency structure for the Ubuntu Studio topic blueprints ==

'''Example of a release targeted blueprints tree for Ubuntu Studio 14.04:''' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntustudio/+spec/ubuntustudio-t

Structure for the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntustudio|ubuntustudio project blueprint]]</nowiki>  topics

* '''ubuntustudio-?''' (main topic)
** '''core-?''' (subtopic)
** '''applications-?''' (subtopic)
** '''testing-?''' (subtopic)
** '''art-?''' (subtopic)
** '''documentation-?''' (subtopic)
** '''website-social-?''' (subtopic)

Each subtopic will have dependencies to blueprints from other Ubuntu Studio projects. Next is a table that shows the structure of those dependencies:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Subtopic name'''
| '''Dependecy LP Projects'''
|-
| core-?
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/linux-lowlatency|linux-lowlatency]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/linux-rt|linux-rt]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-meta|ubuntustudio-meta]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-default-settings|ubuntustudio-default-settings]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-live|ubuntustudio-live]]</nowiki>
|-
| applications-?
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-controls|ubuntustudio-controls]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-menu|ubuntustudio-menu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-installer|ubuntustudio-installer]]</nowiki>
|-
| testing-?
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-testing|ubuntustudio-testing]]</nowiki>
|-
| art-?
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-icon-theme|ubuntustudio-icon-theme]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-look|ubuntustudio-look]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-lightdm-theme|ubuntustudio-lightdm-theme]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/usplash-theme-ubuntustudio|usplash-theme-ubuntustudio]]</nowiki>
|-
| documentation-?
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-documentation|ubuntustudio-documentation]]</nowiki>
|-
| website-social-?
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntustudio-website|ubuntustudio-website]]</nowiki>
|}

----

CategoryUbuntuStudioPlanning CategoryUbuntuStudio
