{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

<pre>
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

Welcome to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue ## for the week MONTH DAY - DAY, YEAR. In this issue we cover ...

=== UWN Translations ===

* Note to translators and our readers: We are trying a new way of linking to our translations pages. Please follow the link below for the information you need.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Translations

=== In This Issue ===

=== General Community News ===

"Intrepid Ibex" Alpha-4 released

"인트리피드 아이벡스" 알파-4 배포

Alpha 4 is the fourth in a series of milestone CD images that will be released throughout the Intrepid development cycle. The Alpha images are known to be reasonably free of showstopper CD build or installer bugs, while representing a very recent snapshot of Intrepid.

알파 4는 인트리피드 개발 사이틀을 통해 배포되는 마일스톤 CD 이미지 씨리즈의 네번째판입니다. 알파 이미지는 가장최신의 인트리피드 스냅샷이 보여지는 동안 발생하는 쇼스탑퍼 CD 빌드 또는 인스톨러 버그로부터 안전한 것으로 알려졌습니다.

Pre-releases of Intrepid are *not* encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent breakage. They are, however, recommended for Ubuntu developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and fixing bugs. You can download it here:

인트리피드의 예비-배포는 안정된 시스템을 필요로하는 분들이나 구동 중 발생할 수도 있는 중단으로 인해 불편함을 겪지 않고 싶은 분들에게는 권장되지 않습니다. 하지만 우분투 개발자들과 테스팅, 보고, 버그 고침을 원하는 분들에게는 추천합니다. 여기서 다운로드 받으실 수 있습니다.

http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/intrepid/alpha-4/ (Ubuntu) 
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/r...repid/alpha-4/ (Ubuntu Education Edition) 
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/re...repid/alpha-4/ (Kubuntu) 
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/re...repid/alpha-4/ (Xubuntu) 

For other information on testing, bugs, and bug reporting, refer to the link below.

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ub...st/000470.html

New translation team for the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter

The translation work of the UWN (Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter) is hard and
sometimes frustrating work, it is never the less very important for the local communities who like to read the news in their own native language. From this necessity, emerged the UUTT (United UWN Translators Team).

It's goal is to unite the translation teams from around the world and help them with translating the weekly newsletter, adding their own content and news elements, and to help them aquire tools for better support and integration of their translations.

Experience has shown that 1 to 1 translations of the UWN are not very useful and it has been recommenced to pick out the interesting topics from the UWN, translate them and mix them with local news. Now we need the local users to found teams for their language! The new local translation teams will be organized as sub-teams of the UUTT.

If you are interested in helping you can contact us on Launchpad https://launchpad.net/~UUTT or use the mailing list: ubuntu-news-translations@lists.ubuntu.com

Global Bug Jam: Retrospective

Global Bug Jam had people from twelve nations and 20+ locations meeting for the event and a big hand to all who organized and participated last weekend. WOW! 846 bugs! That’s a lot of bugs, especially when you consider that lots of newcomers attended the bug jam events. Everybody thoroughly enjoyed fixing bugs and making new friends. To check out the Global Bug Jam Stories visit this link: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GlobalBugJam/Stories You should also visit http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/?p=167 to get Daniel's thoughts on why we need to have more of these events.

=== Ubuntu Stats ===
==== Bug Stats ====

*** Open (#) +/- # over last week
*** Critical (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unconfirmed (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unassigned (#) +/- # over last week
*** All bugs ever reported (#)  +/- # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

==== Infamous Bugs ====

==== Translation Stats Hardy ====

1. Language (#) +/- # over last week
2. Language (#) +/- # over last week
3. Language (#) +/- # over last week
4. Language (#) +/- # over last week
5. Language (#) +/- # over last week

Remaining strings to translate in Ubuntu 8.04 "Hardy Heron," see more at: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/

=== LoCo News ===

=== New in Hardy Heron ===

=== Launchpad News ===

=== Ubuntu Forums News ===

=== In The Press ===

=== In The Blogosphere ===

=== In Other News ===

=== Meeting Summaries ===

=== Upcoming Meetings and Events ===

=== Community Spotlight ===

=== Updates and Security for 6.06, 7.04, 7.10, and 8.04 ===

==== Security Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 6.06 Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 7.04 Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 7.10 Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 8.04 Updates ====

=== UWN #: A sneak peek ===

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Your Name Here
* And many others

=== Glossary of Terms ===

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Weekly News Team. If you have a story idea or suggestions for the Weekly Newsletter, join the Ubuntu News Team mailing list at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-news-team and submit it. Ideas can also be added to the wiki at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Ideas. If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page. If you have any technical support questions, please send them to ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com.
