{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-wanted/+spec/tasks
* '''Created''': 2009-01-06

=== Summary ===
Tasks are the core functionality of UbuntuWanted. These objects describe a task and its requirements within the Ubuntu Community.

=== Release Note ===

The current version  already has tasks, and this specification doesn't aim to replace that. The idea is to extend the current system.

=== Use Cases ===
# Fred is the leader of the Ubuntu Website team and has a problem. He desperately needs to find someone to design the default Firefox startpage and the new version of Ubuntu is already being released in 5 days! He hears about Ubuntu Wanted and goes to the website, logs in  and creates a new task. He gives a title, duration and description, selects the required <nowiki>[[UbuntuWanted-Skills|skills]]</nowiki> and inserts the due date. Ubuntu Wanted lists it in the 'urgent' box and marks the task accordingly. People can now search for the task.
# Laura is a skilled programmer and decided she wanted to help Ubuntu. She heard of Ubuntu Wanted and went to visit the website. She <nowiki>[[UbuntuWanted-Search|searches]]</nowiki> and eventually finds some tasks she likes. She <nowiki>[[UbuntuWanted-Applications|applies]]</nowiki> to those tasks.

=== Design ===
An overview of the design:

==== Included information ====
The following information can be included by the poster in a task:
* Title
* Description
* Estimated duration
* Number of people needed
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuWanted-Skills|Skills]]</nowiki> and experience levels
* Due date
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuWanted-Applications|Application]]</nowiki> method

The following information is added by the system:
* Team (based on <nowiki>[[UbuntuWanted-Permissions]]</nowiki>
* Poster
* Posted date

----
CategorySpec
