{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Studio Raring Planning ==

=== Discussed Topics ===

- XFCE ideas?
    - enhance cooperation with {Xubuntu|Xfce} devs
- Developer Docs, cross-flavor community team?  (~ubuntu-doc-contributors at launchpad?)
    - what sets {us|US} apart from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment?
- Are we lacking support for something?
    - publishing work flow?
- Ideas for expanding the team
    - promotion? We need to let people know this flavor/derivative, then we can get them on to contribute!
    - Just submitted an article to call for contributions to Full Circle magazine
- Automated testing (UTAH, checkbox, AutoPilot)?
   - zequence attended sessions in UDS
- Kernel maintenance (zequence)n

Blueprint link:
https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-r-ubuntustudio-planning

<pre>
Workitems:
[ubuntustudio-dev] Talk with lionel at Xubuntu about further cooperation on XFCE (get a picture of how XFCE is installed and set on Xubuntu/Ubuntu Studio).
[zequence] Talk with dholbach about developer docs (he might have been working for this)
[zequence] See about getting upload rights for zequence and len-ovenwerks (use LP names)
[ubuntustudio-dev] Use PR team to recruit users to help Ubuntu Studio define and finegrain Ubuntu Studio workflows (choice of applications, fixing bugs, etc)
[ubuntustudio-dev] Look at informing users about mixbus and linux-dsp plugins
* [cjcurran] investigate a good set of defaults for supercollider 
* [zequence] Add supercollider to seeds
* [zequence] Add faust to seeds
* [cjcurran] Define applications and settings to be installed for audio coding (subgroup of audio workflow)
</pre>

=== Other: ===
* Ubuntu Studio devs could hang out more on Xubuntu/Xfce IRC channels, to get more involved in XFCE development, and settings
* Especially Xfce channels, we do normally hangout on Xubuntu channels, but normally we won't step into the Xfce channels (smartboyhw)
* Kaj should talk with Christian Dywan (kalikiana) in UDS
