{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by brendand at 15:02:08 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-10-24-15.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

=== Scoring system ===

Jedimike explained changes that are to be made to the Ubuntu Friendly scoring system so that systems that would be awarded 1 star due to tests that weren't run will be rejected by the system. This will avoid the large number of systems currently on the site that were not tested properly (over 250).

Everyone agreed this was a good idea. Some issues were raised around how this change will be communicated to the user. Making tests which are essential unskippable in Checkbox would be the best solution but would be a large change to SRU into Oneiric. Guidance on the UF website seems to be the agreed way to do it at the moment, but brendand and akgraner concurred that some users don't necessarily make first contact with Ubuntu Friendly through the website so might miss this memo.

* AOB
''ACTION:'' cr3 to add gremlins/detect to checkbox  (brendand, 15:47:42)
''ACTION:'' jedimike to prepare a small usability survey about the site  (brendand, 16:01:24)

Meeting ended at 16:01:59 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* cr3 to add gremlins/detect to checkbox
* jedimike to prepare a small usability survey about the site

=== Action items, by person ===

* cr3
* * cr3 to add gremlins/detect to checkbox
* jedimike
* * jedimike to prepare a small usability survey about the site

=== People present (lines said) ===

* brendand (75)
* jedimike (32)
* cr3 (27)
* ara (22)
* roadmr (19)
* akgraner (15)
* meetingology (5)

=== Full Log ===

 15:02:08 <brendand> #startmeeting Ubuntu Friendly Squad

 15:02:08 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 24 15:02:08 2011 UTC.  The chair is brendand. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 15:02:08 <meetingology> 

 15:02:08 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 15:02:33 <ara> hello!

 15:02:36 <jedimike> hi

 15:02:36 <roadmr> hey :)

 15:02:45 <brendand> The agenda for today is:

 15:02:47 <brendand> Scoring system - jedimike

 15:02:47 <brendand> AOB

 15:02:58 <brendand> #topic Scoring system - jedimike

 15:03:10 <jedimike> o/

 15:03:11 <brendand> jedimike - proceed :)

 15:03:29 <jedimike> currently, the rules for rejection and failure of submissions are this:

 15:03:29 <jedimike> * If you skip all tests in a core category, we reject the submission

 15:03:30 <jedimike> * If you skip an individual test in a core category that required external hardware that not everyone might have (writable media, for example), we ignore that test and apply a penalty to the score, but still allow that category to pass if all other tests pass

 15:03:30 <jedimike> * If you skip an individual test in a core category that you should have ran, we fail the category and score the system 1 star

 15:03:30 <jedimike> That last rule seems far too harsh. I think that skipping an individual test in a core category that we don't allow you to skip should result in the submission being rejected, as we have a lot of 1 star systems that are only 1 star because someone skipped a test.

 15:03:43 <jedimike> 251 systems, to be precise

 15:04:03 <ara> o/

 15:04:06 <jedimike> ..

 15:04:13 <brendand> ara - go ahead

 15:04:48 <ara> I agree that we should change 3rd rule to reject the submission

 15:04:56 <ara> if a non-skippable test was skipped

 15:05:04 <jedimike> o/

 15:05:14 <ara> and I would put something in the particpate page to make things clearer

 15:05:27 <ara> ..

 15:05:41 <brendand> back to you jedimike

 15:06:34 <jedimike> I'd also put something in that intermediate "report a problem" page that says, "Can't find your results?" and explains why we reject submissions, and directs them towards either results tracker, or where we need them to look, to view their submission

 15:06:36 <jedimike> ..

 15:06:54 <ara> o/

 15:07:09 <brendand> ara - shoot

 15:07:41 <ara> yes, I agree. I think that we don't need to be really fancy on letting people know exactly why it was rejected

 15:07:53 <ara> a nice explanation of the basics should be fine

 15:08:07 <ara> and yes ,that explanation should be at Participate and Report a problem

 15:08:28 <brendand> o/

 15:08:29 <ara> not sure if pointing to the submissions is needed, though

 15:08:29 <ara> ..

 15:09:01 <roadmr> o/

 15:09:04 <brendand> just a quick piece, to say that in the long term if we could enforce running of the tests through the checkbox UI that would be nice

 15:09:05 <brendand> ..

 15:09:21 <brendand> roadmr - go ahead

 15:09:29 <roadmr> we should make sure that reasons for rejecting submissions are made abundantly clear

 15:09:31 <cr3> o/

 15:09:43 <roadmr> we already see people wondering why their submissions take so long to appear in UF

 15:09:54 <roadmr> so if we just start "eating" them there's bound to be some complaints

 15:10:00 <roadmr> it goes to being as transparent as possible

 15:10:16 <jedimike> o/

 15:10:29 <roadmr> ideally I'd like to see checkbox say "this submission is not UF-complete so it'll be rejected" or something to the point (i.e. instant feedback) but it may not be possible to do :(

 15:10:37 <roadmr> still this is something to be looked into, for transparency's sake.

 15:10:38 <roadmr> ..

 15:10:40 <ara> o/

 15:10:55 <brendand> cr3 - your turn

 15:10:57 <cr3> brendand: dude, I want to write a testing game! seriously though, it doesn't really need to contribute to UF though but might be nice :)

 15:11:00 <cr3> ..

 15:11:20 <brendand> ok, after that, back to ara

 15:11:34 <cr3> not jedimike?

 15:11:45 <ara> jedimike it is

 15:11:47 <brendand> cr3 - you're right

 15:11:57 <brendand> jedimike?

 15:12:02 <cr3> brendand: /unignore jedimike :)

 15:12:18 <jedimike> I agree with roadmr that we do need something to tell the users at least which of their submissions made it and which didn't

 15:12:25 <jedimike> we don't need to break down scores or anything

 15:12:36 <jedimike> but it might improve the quality of submissions

 15:12:54 <jedimike> if we were able to say "X submission didn't get accepted because you skipped audio/xyz"

 15:13:17 <jedimike> and it would cut out the "why didnt my results get listed" questions totally"

 15:13:18 <jedimike> ..

 15:13:40 <brendand> ara, your turn (and apologies to jedimike)

 15:14:19 <ara> so, I agree with roadmr, but those are ideas for 12.04 LTS, when we improve the UI

 15:14:32 <ara> but we need to take them into account, of course

 15:15:12 <ara> with the UI changes we can make a much better work in letting people know what they have to run for the submission to be accepted in UF

 15:15:33 <jedimike> o/

 15:15:44 <ara> for now, an explanation of what is a core category and how it works might help

 15:15:44 <ara> ..

 15:15:58 <brendand> jedimike, go ahead

 15:16:45 <jedimike> if we're not going to make the submissions available to the users through UF, can I put in a feature request for results tracker so that a user's test runs are linked to from their page on there?

 15:16:45 <jedimike> ..

 15:17:03 <brendand> o/

 15:18:17 <brendand> we need to remember that even though ubuntu-friendly is in beta, if we don't keep things transparent we risk creating frustration for users

 15:18:53 <jedimike> o/

 15:19:39 <brendand> one challenge i think we have is that we are able to update UF pretty much as we want, but not the source of the tests (i.e. checkbox)

 15:20:10 <brendand> so we need to avoid making changes in UF which really require support from checkbox

 15:20:26 <brendand> this is one of those i think

 15:20:27 <brendand> ...

 15:20:37 <brendand> jedimike - you can go now

 15:20:46 <akgraner> oops sorry I am late

 15:21:33 <brendand> akgraner - no problem. we're discussing a possible change to the scoring system.

 15:21:50 * akgraner catches up

 15:22:00 <brendand> akgraner - thanks

 15:22:03 <brendand> jedimike?

 15:22:05 <jedimike> just to say, transparency is good :) and at the moment it's not clear if your submission has made it or not, and I think if it's possible to make that change on results track to link the user's page to their test submissions it would help (even helps me respons to bug reports!)

 15:22:11 <jedimike> ..

 15:22:41 <brendand> o/

 15:22:45 <akgraner> o/

 15:23:02 <brendand> akgraner - you go first

 15:23:47 <akgraner> Is ther anyway to say  - not let the skipped question count against the over scoring and not somewhere that these scores don't include skipped questions

 15:24:06 <akgraner> overall scoring I meant

 15:24:11 <akgraner> ...

 15:25:35 <akgraner> I mean I might have skipped a test just b/c I didn't have a USB stick handy that doesn't mean it didn't pass

 15:25:43 <brendand> akgraner - the issue is that, at the moment tests like the audio ones are skippable. and it seems a lot of people are skipping them. but if we only have one submission for a system then we need to make a call about what that means.

 15:25:58 <ara> me needs to leave now

 15:26:02 <brendand> bye ara

 15:26:06 * ara will read the minutes tomorrow

 15:26:07 <ara> cheers

 15:26:19 * brendand continues

 15:26:21 <akgraner> brendand, I go back and re-do the test for the ones I skip once I find all my stuff :-)

 15:26:22 <jedimike> o/

 15:27:04 <brendand> we don't want to say that a skipped test means that the component must work, but neither can we say for sure that it means it doesn't

 15:27:20 <brendand> so the best thing to do is probably to not accept these submissions at all

 15:27:44 <akgraner> but some people don't have external monitors

 15:27:57 <akgraner> so you would disregard their test on that one point

 15:28:00 <brendand> akgraner - but for tests which need special equipment we already have a different rule, so your system can still get a good score if you didn't test external monitor or usb

 15:28:14 <cr3> o/

 15:28:21 <akgraner> ah ok :-)

 15:28:30 <jedimike> akgraner: if a test requires special equipment, like a USB stick or external monitor, we allow people to skip it without failing that component

 15:29:06 <brendand> ..

 15:29:19 <brendand> jedimike - you can go ahead now

 15:29:28 <akgraner> gotcha - sorry I didn't know that. /me is quiet now :-)

 15:29:46 <jedimike> was just going to say that :) and that we need to make that clear on the participate page

 15:30:21 <jedimike> and implement what ara said about making it clear that if you skip tests that don't require external equipment

 15:30:28 <jedimike> your submission may not be included in the site

 15:30:29 <jedimike> ..

 15:31:10 <brendand> akgraner - an example of a test you *can't* skip is audio/alsa_record_playback_internal, since it doesn't require extra equipment

 15:31:18 <brendand> cr3, your turn

 15:31:20 <cr3> if I understand correctly, skippable tests may affect scoring between 3-5, but non-skippable tests are those that may affect scoring between 1-3

 15:31:23 <cr3> I think someone made a point that non-skippable tests should be enforced in the checkbox UI so that people don't get surprised with a crappy score between 1-3

 15:31:26 <cr3> ..

 15:31:34 <brendand> cr3  - that was me :)

 15:31:49 <brendand> cr3 - but the problem is we'd need to SRU that change in

 15:32:22 <brendand> o/

 15:32:55 <cr3> brendand: oneiric is beta, it could be argued that we're really targeting precise with the ultimate ninja solution

 15:33:27 <brendand> actually, if i could expand on this. i'm not sure i feel too awesome about the 'skippable''ness of tests being encoded in the u-f site itself

 15:33:42 <brendand> it should really be encoded in checkbox

 15:34:25 <brendand> ..

 15:35:43 <brendand> it seems that most people agree we need to reject submissions that don't have all the tests run that must be run

 15:36:03 <brendand> the question is to what extent do we guide the users about this?

 15:36:36 <brendand> ideal would be to enforce it in checkbox, but in the short term it needs to be stated on the UF website

 15:36:40 <brendand> but...

 15:37:19 <brendand> it's important to remember that the assumption that everyone will engage with UF directly through the site is probably wrong

 15:37:46 <brendand> so some users may not even read the participate page

 15:37:47 <brendand> ...

 15:38:32 <akgraner> o/

 15:38:46 <brendand> akgraner - go ahead

 15:39:22 <akgraner> brendand, your assumption is right - many people find out about system testing on their computer, run the test, *then* find out about the site

 15:40:03 <akgraner> and I know a people who never read documentation (sadly) but it does happen...

 15:40:22 <cr3> o/

 15:40:32 * brendand points to self

 15:40:38 <brendand> cr3 - your turn

 15:41:13 <cr3> it would be nice to see the number of submissions to launchpad before and after ubuntu friendly was announced, there was already a large number of submissions coming in before probably from people just discovering checkbox and running it for the heck of it

 15:41:17 <cr3> ..

 15:42:39 <brendand> cr3 - indeed

 15:43:44 <cr3> brendand: modulo hardware certification submissions, of course :)

 15:45:14 <cr3> brendand: is it time for aob?

 15:45:32 <brendand> seems like everyone is done on this topic

 15:45:36 <brendand> #topic AOB

 15:46:17 <brendand> AOB?

 15:46:31 <cr3> o/

 15:47:12 <brendand> cr3 - yep

 15:47:13 <cr3> checkbox needs tests for gremlins because they've been misbehaving in my computer lately :)

 15:47:16 <cr3> ..

 15:47:42 <brendand> #action cr3 to add gremlins/detect to checkbox

 15:47:42 * meetingology cr3 to add gremlins/detect to checkbox

 15:48:10 <cr3> "Does your gremlin have a shiny coat, and I don't mean a pimp coat!"

 15:49:12 <roadmr> o/

 15:49:51 <brendand> roadmr - is this still about gremlins?

 15:49:58 <roadmr> nope

 15:50:07 <brendand> roadmr - then please, go ahead :)

 15:50:28 <roadmr> heheh, just wanted to get a feel for how useful people think the number of "raters" is in the UF front page

 15:50:58 <cr3> between 1 and 10, I'd say 11 :)

 15:51:11 <roadmr> ... basically just that, should that information be available at a glance, or is it ok to move it to the system's detail page for instance?

 15:51:14 <roadmr> ..

 15:52:31 <brendand> roadmr - i think it depends on whether people are using it the way we imagine they would (i.e. to get an idea of how 'reliable' the results are)

 15:53:54 <roadmr> hmm maybe at some point we could conduct a poll on how useful people visiting UF think each bit of information is

 15:54:06 <brendand> maybe at UDS?

 15:54:39 <roadmr> I was thinking something like those "would you like to answer a poll to help improve our site?" - to get a feel from normal, average users

 15:54:57 <roadmr> I think the UDS crowd may be too biased towards preferring a lot of information :)

 15:55:15 <cr3> roadmr: maybe it can be used as an excuse to make people aware of the site in the first place

 15:55:31 <brendand> roadmr - i hate those things :) but yeah, you're right it should be from normal site users

 15:55:34 <cr3> roadmr: although, since ara will be making a presentation, everyeone will innevitably know about it. maybe ask her to announce the poll?

 15:55:36 <roadmr> cr3: that too! and to encourage a bit more participation, which is always good

 15:56:28 <cr3> I think that deserves an action item for ara if we all agree a poll would be useful. I don't see how it could hurt

 15:57:08 <cr3> from the little usability testing I've done, it's been tremendously useful

 15:57:35 <cr3> if anyone intends to prepare some usability testing sessions, you might like to read: Rocket Surgery Made Easy

 15:58:21 <roadmr> we'd have to have the poll ready before UDS (i.e. in about 10 days)

 15:58:21 <cr3> ... and don't let jedimike run the session otherwise he'll jedi mind trick everyone to say what he wants to hear :)

 15:59:04 <brendand> who'd like to prepare some questions?

 16:00:07 <brendand> considering we're nearly out of time, i propose cr3

 16:00:29 <cr3> brendand: I thought jedimike would be better placed for writing the questions, no?

 16:00:43 <brendand> jedimike - do you want to do that?

 16:01:01 <jedimike> brendand: yeah

 16:01:24 <brendand> #action jedimike to prepare a small usability survey about the site

 16:01:24 * meetingology jedimike to prepare a small usability survey about the site

 16:01:37 <brendand> ok, i think our time here is up

 16:01:49 <brendand> thanks everyone for your participation

 16:01:59 <brendand> #endmeeting
