{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

A Project of the MarketingTeam
See Also: ActivismHowTo

Project Lead: ?

=== Project Members ===
If you are interested in joining this project, please add your name here. You can also add your Loco Team link to the Local Initiatives section (see below). Consider <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuInLibraries?action=subscribe|subcribing]]</nowiki> to this page so you are informed of changes and additions.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="background-color: #d9bb7a; color: #000000; text-align: center;"> '''Person'''
| <style="background-color: #d9bb7a; color: #000000; text-align: center;"> '''Lo''''''Co Team'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[KevinCole| Kevin Cole]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[DCTeam|Washington, DC]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[ArlenCuss| Arlen Cuss]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam|Australia]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[OndřejSurý| Ondřej Surý]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[CzechTeam|Czech Republic]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[ManuelGomez| Manuel Gomez]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ColombianTeam|Colombia]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[luisnewch| Luis Pérez]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ColombianTeam|Colombia]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[IrvinPiraman| Irvin Piraman]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[PhilippineTeam|Philippines]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[MauricioHernandez]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ChileanTeam|Santiago, Chile]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[GregRundlett| Greg Rundlett]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[MassachusettsTeam| Boston, MA]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[OttoKekäläinen| Otto Kekäläinen]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[FinnishTeam]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[RobertSwain| Robert Swain]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam|Lyon Township, MI]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[duanedesign| Duane Hinnen]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[OklahomaTeam|Oklahoma LoCo]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Motivation ===
Ubuntu in Libraries is a project to put together an online guide for effective placement of Ubuntu media (CDs, DVDs and books) in local libraries where Ubuntu members wish to further use of Ubuntu. Although the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/support/documentation/faq/shipit/|ShipIt]]</nowiki> initiative has been extraordinarily succesful in delivering thousands of CD-ROMs worldwide, we need a more effective way to make fewer CDs and media have a greater impact locally, by increasing their availability through library lending.

This idea originates and is inspired by various other initiatives, including the <nowiki>[[http://www.openoffice.org/nonav/issues/showattachment.cgi/11838/Open%20Source%20CD%20in%20libraries%20Howto.pdf|Open Source Lending CD's in Libraries: Howto]]</nowiki> as well as the ideas gathered during UbuntuBelowZero/LoveDay.

=== Objectives ===
* Produce a simple guide to approach local libraries to accept donations of professionally / home-produced CD-ROM images of Ubuntu's various distributions (initially, i386, PPC and AMD64)
* Provide guidelines and links to existing DIYMaterial or new specific material to produce the media that will be proposed to the libraries
* Report local success stories about libraries where Ubuntu becomes available for lending
* Establish a list of libraries and appropriate contacts

=== InitialResources ===
* OpenOffice.org's <nowiki>[[http://marketing.openoffice.org/pa/#40|Libraries and Public Administrations Project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.openoffice.org/nonav/issues/showattachment.cgi/11838/Open%20Source%20CD%20in%20libraries%20Howto.pdf|Open Source Lending CD's in Libraries: Howto]]</nowiki> (PDF link)
* <nowiki>[[http://slashdot.org/articles/03/12/15/193231.shtml?tid=146&tid=149&tid=99|Slashdot:  Open Source CD Lending For Public Libraries?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ask.slashdot.org/askslashdot/04/04/16/1923248.shtml?tid=137&tid=185&tid=215|Slashdot: Free Software at the Local Library?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://publicsoftwarefoundation.org/|Public Software Foundation]]</nowiki>

=== DVD Labels and Jacket Covers ===
* See <nowiki>[[http://www.pegasus.rutgers.edu/~pax/|covers]]</nowiki> 
* See also <nowiki>[[http://freephile.com/cms/node/7|Kubuntu Artwork - DVD label just in time for the Holidays]]</nowiki> (Label available in GIMP format, plus DVD Jacket in French and English available in SVG/Inkscape format)

=== LocalInitiatives ===
Add your local initiative for UbuntuInLibraries here
* UbuntuInCanadianLibraries
* <nowiki>[[DCTeam|Washington, DC]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam|Australia]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuInLibraries-Colombia|Colombia]]</nowiki>
* In Finland a localized versions of Ubuntu CD's have been made and they are available in most of the Finnish libraries along with a 24-page basic Ubuntu-guide. Both have ISBN numbers (published by Sange Coop).

=== Todo ===
* Get an ISSN number. This should be a separate ISSN for every initiative that produces localized content for the DVD-case insert.
* Announcement in forums and mailing lists

CategoryMarketing
