{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



==== Prerequisites for Compiling the Ubuntu Manual ====

The Ubuntu Manual requires TeX Live 2009.  The version of TeX Live in the Ubuntu 9.10 repositories is 2007.  In Lucid, there are packages for TeX Live 2009.

=== Installing TeX Live 2009 ===

# First, remove TeX Live 2008, if you have it installed.  `sudo apt-get remove texlive-*`
# Download the TeX Live 2009 install script: http://mirror.ctan.org/systems/texlive/tlnet/install-tl-unx.tar.gz
# Unpack the tarball: `tar xvf install-tl-unx.tar.gz`
# Change to the newly-unpacked directory: `cd install-tl-*`
# Run the script: `sudo ./install-tl`
# Select where you'd like to install everything, and any other options you prefer.
 If you choose not to install everything, the minimum that you'll need is the following collections:
  a. Essential programs and files (a)
  a. LaTeX recommended packages (s)
  a. XeTeX packages (C)
 Under the language collections, you can skip all the documentation, but be sure to install all the languages you wish to translate into.  (If the language you wish to translate into isn't listed in the menu, don't worry, there are just no specific packages required for that language.)
 Once those are installed, we can install the remainder of the packages with the `install-pkgs.sh` script.  (Note that this hasn't been tested yet and it's pure guesswork on Kevin's part!  Let us know if it does or doesn't work for you.)
 I highly recommend enabling the "create symlinks to standard directories" option.
# Run the `install-pkgs.sh` script that's in the `ubuntu-manual/pkgs/` directory to make sure you have all the required packages.
# If everything checks out okay, you should be able to run: `make ubuntu-manual-LANG.pdf` where `LANG` is the language code (see the `po/` directory for a list of supported languages).

=== Checking Prerequisites ===

To make sure you have all the prerequisites installed, run the `install-pkgs.sh` script (located in the `ubuntu-manual/pkgs/` directory).

The script will check for the required Ubuntu packages, TeX packages, and fonts.
