{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Our upcoming developer summit will be keenly focused on our plans for Ubuntu 6.04 (Dapper Drake), and mostly of interest to existing Ubuntu developers...

So we've dedicated an entire day to users and hopeful contributors with lots of great presentations from Ubuntu developers, and workshops to help you get involved! Whether you'd like to join the developer team or figure out how to contribute in another way, UBUNTU LOVE DAY is for you!

* '''What:''' Ubuntu Love Day!
* '''Where:''' Montreal, Canada (same location as UbuntuBelowZero)
* '''When:''' Sunday, October 30th
* '''Who:''' Ubuntu users, current and future contributors

If you have any questions about Ubuntu Love Day, please email JeffWaugh at jeff.waugh@ubuntu.com

=== AGENDA ===

Please note that the agenda may change, so check the wiki page (above) for the most up-to-date news closer to the event.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 09:00
| Welcome!
| MarkShuttleworth
|-
| 09:15
| That's the Badger - The Wonders of Ubuntu 5.10
| MattZimmerman & ColinWatson
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuBelowZero/WondersOfUbuntuTalk| Talk Notes]]</nowiki>
|-
| 10:00
| The Ubuntu Community - Working Together Around the World
| JeffWaugh
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuBelowZero/UbuntuCommunityTalk| Talk Notes]]</nowiki>
|-
| 10:45
| 
| Break (Morning Tea)
|-
| 11:00
| Mighty Edubuntu - Ubuntu for Kids and Schools
| OliverGrawert
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuBelowZero/EdubuntuTalk| Talk Notes]]</nowiki>
|-
| 11:30
| Kubuntu - Ubuntu with a KDE Twist
| JonathanRiddell
| <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/~jr/kubuntu-below-zero/|slides]]</nowiki>
|-
| 12:00
| Launchpad - Awesome Tools for Open Source Developers
| SteveAlexander & ChristianReis
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuBelowZero/LaunchpadTalk| Talk Notes]]</nowiki>
|-
| 12:30
| Bleeding Edge of GNOME
| JeffWaugh
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuBelowZero/GnomeTalk| Talk Notes]]</nowiki>
|-
| 13:00
| 
| Break (Lunch)
|-
| '''WORKSHOPS'''
|-
| <|2> 14:00
| Getting involved in Ubuntu development with the Masters of the Universe
| DanielHolbach & OliverGrawert
|-
| Ubuntu Marketing & Building a Local Community Team
| JeffWaugh & JaneSilber
|-
| 15:00
| LTSP Presentation and Demo
| JimMcQuillan
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuBelowZero/LTSPTalk| Talk Notes]]</nowiki>
|-
| 16:00
| Close & Presenter Panel
| Presenters
|}

So come along, find out everything you need to know about Ubuntu and how to get involved See you in Montreal!
