{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

== Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - Ausgabe #10 ==

Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - Ausgabe #10 für die Woche vom 06. - 12. August 2006

Dieser und andere Newsletter können jederzeit unter https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter gefunden werden.

=== In dieser Ausgabe ===

* Ubuntu gewinnt Goldenen Pinguin
* Ubuntu auf der LinuxWorld Expo in San Francisco
* Sicherheitsupdates
* Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates
* Neue und aktualisierte Programme für Edgy
* Neues von Summer of Code
* Meldungen vom wöchentliches Entwicklertreffen
* News und Aktualisierungen bei Launchpad
* Bug Statistiken
* In der Presse
* Feature der Woche - GNOME Deskbar Applet

=== Allgemeine Community News ===

==== Ubuntu gewinnt den Goldenen Pinguin ====

==== LinuxWorld Expo ein großer Erfolg ====

=== Sicherheitsupdates ===

=== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ===

=== Neue und aktualisierte Programme für Edgy ===

Don't forget quick installation notes, enable extra repository, package name, use g-a-i where possible, etc...

=== Neues von Ubuntu Summer of Code ===

=== Wöchentliches Entwicklertreffen ===

=== Launchpad News ===

=== Bug Statistiken ===

=== In der Presse ===

=== Feature der Woche - GNOME Deskbar Applet ===

=== Weitere News ===

Wie immer findet ihr auch weitere Infos und News auf:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

und

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Abschluss ===

Vielen Dank für das Lesen des Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter. Bis nächste Woche!

=== Credits ===

Dieser Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter wird dir präsentiert von:

* Matthew Revell
* John Little
* Christian Reis
* Henrik Omma
* Corey Burger
* Melissa Draper
* und vielen anderen

Übersetzung:

* Mark Vogt (<nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.de/forum/forum.php?req=cp&id=624|marky]]</nowiki>)

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam|Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page]]</nowiki>.
