{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
Ubuntu Quechua Translators will translate Ubuntu packages into Quechua.

== Contact ==
You can contact Rubén Romero at hubuntu@gmail.com

Mailing list is on the way.

== How to Contribute ==
Se the following pages, join the teaqm and get started translating:
* Team: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-que
* Language page: https://translations.launchpad.net/+languages/qu

== Projects ==
Working on collecting the necessary tools to start translating Ubuntu into Quechua.

* Project page: https://launchpad.net/l10n-que

Introduce this in the mainline Ubuntu distribution (send things upstream through Launchpad or in another way if necessary) and add this language to the Iberoamerican Add-On CD project

== Launchpad Membership Policy ==
Anyone interested in joining can do it.

== Meetings ==
None until now.

== Help Files and links ==
* https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/packagingguide/C/index.html
* <nowiki>[[http://www.sil.org/iso639-3/documentation.asp?id=que|Definition of Quehcua as a Macro and micro language]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-shs|Ubuntu Secwepemc]]</nowiki> as inspiration for our work.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.quechuanetwork.org/contact.cfm?lang=s|Quechua Network team]]</nowiki> for future contact
* <nowiki>[[http://somoslibres.org/mailman/listinfo/runasimi_somoslibres.org|Red de interés acerac de este idioma]]</nowiki>
* http://www.boliviaos.org/about/
* http://www.runasimipi.org

== Interesados ==

* <QN Chaski <echaski@quechuanetwork.org> 
* Angel Javier Chulve <javier chulve gmail com> (gnome)
* sl@softwarelibre.org.pe

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
