{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Community ==

The Ubuntu Community track will be focused on expanding and improving the Ubuntu community of users and activists.  It will be coordinated by JeffWaugh and BenjaminMakoHill.

== List of BOFs ==

== Notes / Proposed BOFs ==

* Software Freedom Day (SFD)
** Ubuntu community plans
** Event ideas
** LoCo Team development - Best Practices (must have case studies?)
* Community Development
** Processes and "process templates" for easy community/team building
** Outreach to existing communities
** Recruiting new members
** Motivation
** Developer/user relations
** Guiding new members and maintainers through the process
* Discussion forums and how to divide them - postpone until Ryan avaliable to participate
* Ubuntu Administrator/Engineer Certification 
** LPI coordination
** Test content and development
* Training CD?
* Wiki transition to moin
* LoCo team initiatives
** How to improve communication
** Enable/encourage sharing of best practices between teams
** Initiatives/challenges/requests to the LoCos (e.g., press contacts, etc)
* LTSP - overview, demo, how-to, etc.
* MOTU - recruitment, organisation, etc.
* Community tour
** in cyberspace, communities to target
** in the real world, map the route/conferences/etc
* Newsletter

=== Added by DanielHolbach ===
* Rosetta Community
** Requests by users, i18n teams
** Integrating translation teams 
** Describe processes transparently
* MOTU
** Infrastructure improvements
** Malone, QA
** process templates for inclusion of stuff in Debian
** '''MOTU team''' initiatives
** "making Universe more maintainable"
* LoCo
** plan/encourage meetings (real life, local meetings)
