{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== SynchronizingData ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JaneW
* Priority: LowPriority
* People: NeedsLead, NeedsSecond
* Contributors: <nowiki>[[JaneW]]</nowiki>, MartinPool
* Interested: JohnnyMast
* Status: BrainDump, UduBof, DistroSpecification, NewSpec
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Synchronizing Data  - between laptop and desktop.

One good option could be <nowiki>[[http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/unison/|Unison]]</nowiki>, which does an excellent job of smart synchronization.  (That page links to other projects and has a summary of differences.)  It has a GTK1 GUI which is a bit nerd-oriented, and it is written in OCaml.  I would love to see it somehow adapted to a more user-friendly interface. -- MartinPool

Another thing that might be a starting ground is <nowiki>[[http://0pointer.de/lennart/projects/syrep/|Syrep]]</nowiki> which allows synchronization by swapping binary diff-like files. -- DavidMandelberg

=== Rationale ===

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

* Alice has a laptop and a desktop. She wants to keep /home, various files in /etc, and /srv the same on both computers. -- DavidMandelberg

* Bob has a laptop, desktop, and gateway. He wants /home to be the same on the laptop and desktop, and /etc/hosts (and possibly other files) to be copied from the gateway to the laptop and desktop. -- DavidMandelberg

* Carol wants to keep /home synchronized among many computers. -- DavidMandelberg

=== Implementation Plan ===

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

==== UDU Pre-Work ====
