{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings|Ubuntu Studio Meetings Schedule]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings-Minutes|Old Meeting Logs]]</nowiki>
|}

'''What:'''  Ubuntu Studio Contributors Meeting

'''When:'''  Sunday, 2011 September 4th - 17:00 UTC <<BR>>
'''To view the meeting date/time in your time zone, '''<nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Ubuntu+Studio+Contributor+Meeting&iso=20110904T17 |click here]]</nowiki>.

'''Where:'''  irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-meeting

==== Agenda for Meeting ====

If you wish to discuss anything not in this agenda, please wait until Any Other Business is called for.

* Call Meeting to Order
* Old Business
** website udpate - new website is impractical right now, ScottL will see about updating current one
** thanks everyone involved in Beta1 testing, especially astraljava
* New Business
** XFCE migration - how is it going?
** lightdm - is it working now with background?
** new audience - musicians moving to and unfamiliar with Linux?
** Beta2 testing is coming
** new meeting schedule for twice a month (in contrast to once a month) for oneiric+1 ?
* Goals for Oneiric+1
** live dvd
** lowlatency kernel
** new UI or theme for xfce
** new documentation
** links/documentation on desktop/menu for new users?
** how can we make is more simple, clean, easy for users?

* Team structure / Strategy document
* Improving workflow
** Use a public specification tracker (LP blueprints?)
** Write/update workflow guidelines
** Communicating with community, attracting contributors
* Any Other Business (all/anyone)
* Next Meeting Time/Location
* Next Meeting Chair
