{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Installation media ===

==== CD/DVD Images (ISOs) ====

An automated system builds CD and DVD images based on the packages in the archive.  Its log files are available from <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/cd-build-logs/]]</nowiki>, and the set of packages included on them is driven by the <nowiki>[[SeedManagement|seeds]]</nowiki>.

New builds are usually produced on a daily basis and published at <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/|cdimage.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>.  Officially released images are published at <nowiki>[[http://releases.ubuntu.com/|releases.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>.  Both are available via HTTP, <nowiki>[[RsyncCdImage|rsync]]</nowiki> and BitTorrent.

If you test a CD image, be sure to <nowiki>[[Testing-ReportingResults|report your results]]</nowiki> to the development team.

There are two main varieties of images.  One type primarily contains packages, and uses the <nowiki>[[#DebianInstaller|"alternate" installer]]</nowiki> (e.g., the server ISO and the alternate ISO).  The other contains a casper filesystem and uses the <nowiki>[[#Ubiquity|Ubiquity installer]]</nowiki> (e.g., the desktop ISO)

==== Installers ====

Further details regarding installer development, including source code access, can be found on the InstallerDevelopment page.

===== Ubiquity =====

Ubiquity is a graphical installation program which, simply speaking, copies a pre-installed ("live") Ubuntu system and reconfigures it for the system's hardware.  It is designed to handle common installation scenarios quickly and easily.  Details can be found in the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-installer/ubiquity/trunk/annotate?file_id=README-20051205083553-550dab3cb68ad622|Ubiquity README]]</nowiki>.

===== Alternate (Debian) Installer =====

The Debian installer builds up the installed system from scratch using `.deb` packages.  It is designed for flexibility, and supports more complex installation scenarios.  A good overview can be found in the <nowiki>[[http://d-i.alioth.debian.org/doc/talks/debconf6/paper/|debian-installer paper from DebConf 6]]</nowiki>.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
CategoryUbuntuDevelopment
