{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


This page tracks back to UbuntuStudio/ReleasePlanning

=== Rationale ===
Why would the Ubuntu Studio team consider targeting a new audience?

There are several reasons
** new audiences provide:
*** more users (we want more users, right?)
*** more potential testers
*** more potential bug reporters
*** more potential users transitioning into -dev group

recognition, press, respect, advocacy, allows us to progress into other audiences (pro audience perhaps), support contracts

=== Potential Audiences ===
List of potential new audiences with description, scope of possible needs, pros, and cons.

==== DJ's ====
DJ's for playing music for a live crowd.

===== Scope of Needs =====
Perhaps only a few stable applications (perhaps TerminatorX or Mixxx) and a stable system.

===== Pros =====
Limited required applications and they are already in default installation.

===== Cons =====
Not a large audience.

==== Podcasters ====
Podcasters stream, record, edit and release their own podcasts.

===== Scope of Needs =====
Pervasive sound server (JACK with Pulse Audio), streamer (icecast), minimal editor (Audacity) and Skype.

===== Pros =====
Most of the required applications already in default installation and/or in Ubuntu repositories.  So setting up a turnkey podcast system may be fairly easy.

===== Cons =====
Not a large audience.  Skype not in repositories.

==== University Audio Lab ====
Audio lab in a university.

===== Scope of Needs =====
Who bloody knows?  But rlameiro, stochastic, and ScottL all probably have access to one (or several) and could ask.

===== Pros =====
* universities are probably easily assessable (i.e. have fixed address, fixed hours)
* universities can probably readily quantify their needs
* universities probably have motivation to minimize their costs/budgets
* universities might be motivated due to an open source program
* could be viewed as advocacy as students take this experience with them and influence others
* provide stress testing
* huge numbers of users
* users who probably have free time on their hands
* university students are inquisitive and might provide higher percentage of -dev candidates than nominal users group
* university students might want to install on their personal computers since Ubuntu Studio is free
* university use is good advertisement/endorsement for Ubuntu Studio
* university use could also translate into high school/junior high/elementary adoptions as well

===== Cons =====
Don't know yet what they want or need.

==== Musicians ====
Musicians.

===== Scope of Needs =====
Probably need to record either live instruments (ala band setting) or record synthesized instruments (ala MIDI).

===== Pros =====
motivated to save money

===== Cons =====
probably not inherently knowledgeable about Linux
