{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#feecd8"> This page in
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomenVi|Việt ngữ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomenPt|Português]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomenCa|Català]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen|English]]</nowiki>
|}

== Ubuntu-Women has moved to :- http://www.ubuntu-women.org . Please join us there ! ==
== 女子的 Ubuntu 搬遷了! 请来 http://ww.ubuntuwomen.org. ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| This page has moved. '''Please change your bookmarks to : <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-women.org/]]</nowiki>'''
|-
| 贴吧搬遷. '''请變更你的书签 http://www.ubuntuwomen.org'''
|}

== Welcome 欢迎 ==

Welcome to the Wiki of '''Ubuntu-Women'''! :-)

欢迎来到'''女子Ubuntu'''的 wiki! :-)

UbuntuWomen is a group functioning under Ubuntu to provide a platform and encouragement for women to contribute to Ubuntu-Linux, a free and open-source GNU/Linux software. Membership is open to '''all'''.

UbuntuWomen （女子Ubuntu）是Ubuntu下的一个小组，为女性提供一个积极参与Ubuntu-Linux的平台。

== Our Aims 我们的目标 ==

To create a space for women who want to be involved in the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Project]]</nowiki>. Your ideas, skills and experiences are very much welcome. We encourage you to contribute: 

为原意加入<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu项目]]</nowiki>的所有女性提供一个空间。欢迎分享您的任何想法、技巧或者经验。我们时刻鼓励您贡献进来：

* '''Technical skills''', for example by
** creating a pool of women developers who can code and help develop software for Ubuntu.
** packaging/ maintaining software to be included in the next release, 
** bug-triaging on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone|Malone/Launchpad]]</nowiki> and by using <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/|Bugzilla]]</nowiki>, 
** testing the current Ubuntu beta version and submitting bug reports, 

* '''专业技巧'''，例如：
** 联合开发Ubuntu软件。
** 为将要被新版本中收纳的软件进行打包和维护，
** 在<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone|Malone/Launchpad]]</nowiki>上对bug（软件臭虫）分类，或者使用<nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/|Bugzilla]]</nowiki>，
** 测试最新的Ubuntu beta版并提交bug报告。

* '''Documentation skills''', for example by joining the <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Documentation Team]]</nowiki> and
** reporting typos in current documentation (manuals, howtos, Help, release info.)
** proofreading current and new documentation
** reading and summarizing feedback on documentation
** advising on formatting and publication
** contributing specific sections to documents
** working with a team on specific documents
** overseeing the work on a specific document

* '''编写文档'''，比如加入<nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu文档小组]]</nowiki> 并
** 报告当前文档（手册、howto、帮助、发行概述）中的笔误/错别字
** 审阅当前的和新加入的文档
** 查看和归纳文档的反馈意见
** 对文档的排版和发布提供咨询建议
** 编写文档的某些章节
** 和一组人一起制作某类文档
** 检查某个文档的编写

* '''Internationalization skills''', for example by joining the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/RosettaReleaseAnnouncement|Ubuntu Translation Project]]</nowiki> and
** joining the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/rosetta/groups/ubuntu-translators/|team]]</nowiki> for your language, or starting one if it doesn't already exist
** testing translated applications and documentation for typos and quality assurance
** advising on locale for your language: language, encodings, fonts, formats, appropriate language and graphics
** translating application interfaces (using <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/RosettaReleaseAnnouncement|Rosetta]]</nowiki>)
** translating documentation
** The <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Translators|Ubuntu-Women Translators']]</nowiki> page has introductory information, links to key resources, howtos (including how to translate these wiki pages), information on the i18n-mentor group, and an Ubuntu-Women Translation Team list. Come and join us? '''Every sentence translated, helps.'''

* '''国际化技巧'''，比如参加
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/RosettaReleaseAnnouncement|Ubuntu翻译项目]]</nowiki>和
** 测试被翻译好的应用程序和文档，看看有没有笔误，提供质保。
** 为你使用的语言文字的提供意见：语言、编码、字体、格式、恰当的文字和图形
** 翻译软件界面（使用<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/RosettaReleaseAnnouncement|Rosetta]]</nowiki>）
** 翻译文档
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Translators|Ubuntu女子翻译人员]]</nowiki>上有介绍、重要资源的链接、howto文档（包括如何翻译这些wiki页）、国际化导师组（i18n-mentor）的信息和一个女子Ubuntu翻译小组的列表。

* '''Communication skills''', for example by
** joining <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/|Ubuntu forums]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/lists|Ubuntu mailing lists]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InternetRelayChat|Ubuntu IRC channels]]</nowiki>, to share ideas and experience, help users with questions, plan and implement improvements to Ubuntu, create a welcoming and effective environment
** maintaining a presence on mailing lists in key projects outside Ubuntu, gaining and sharing information to keep Ubuntu current and relevant
** writing a page like this :-) for the website or wiki
** running or helping to run specific tutorials or courses, to meet user needs (e.g. Basic Linux Commands), general courses, or for specific groups
** lobbying decision-making groups to achieve the best changes for Ubuntu
** liaising between different groups within Ubuntu, or between Ubuntu and outside groups
** generally building community: this is what Ubuntu is about. :-)

These are only examples. Whatever ideas, skills or experience you have, it can benefit Ubuntu, and reward you with achievement and interest. Take the first step, and you will be glad you did. :-)

Many of the above-mentioned tasks would be under the ægis of specialist groups in Ubuntu (Ubuntu-devel, Documentation or Translation teams) and your work will finally converge with the main Ubuntu-Linux team. We all work together, and that way we are more than the sum of our parts.

=== What will a separate Women's group accomplish? ===

* Most importantly, it encourages women to participate more in an area which is currently only 1.5% female (recent FLOSS survey). Compared with other activities, Open-Source Software is missing out! We need more women in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FLOSS|FLOSS]]</nowiki>, but it's not easy to be so incredibly and continually in the minority. Ubuntu-Women wants to work specifically at encouraging more female participation in Ubuntu. People are much more likely to try something new, or to do more of it, if they are welcomed, valued and supported in gaining essential information and skills.
* For example, in the technical area:
** Programming is highly development-oriented and the vagaries of each distro in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FLOSS|FLOSS]]</nowiki> makes it even more difficult in terms of identifying a problem in "X" application, and knowing how to 'fix' it. We hope to increase the diversity ratio by creating an atmosphere for women to communicate openly and ask technical questions without any fear of being flamed or ridiculed for asking so-called silly questions.
** Sometimes you may know or have a vague idea of the packages (the dependency hell, ...) but  are still unsure which source files can be modified or how it may affect other applications. The ubuntu-developer lists are limited to highly technical data exchange by developers, or package owners may not have time or inclination to mentor newbies. U-W members can provide information pertaining to application development, testing, and bug triaging and redirect people to the correct mailing lists, and/or to Mentors willing to share their knowledge.
* So, in general:
** Our main rôle will be along the lines of supplementing and being the stepping stone toward the larger Ubuntu-Linux world.
** We will encourage women to participate, for example, to learn to create new FLOSS software (or revamp existing software), not only to use GNU/Linux software, but to branch out and learn more about it.
** We will encourage and increase the number of women using Ubuntu-Linux in a country-specific manner, by sponsoring their talks at local universities, LUGs and schools, which will encourage others to join.
** We will mentor women in specific areas (such as technical, documentation, translation and communication) so they have the information and support necessary to take these new steps, to get through barriers or difficulties, and to keep learning and growing in the Ubuntu-Linux world.

=== What Ubuntu-Women is not ! ===

UbuntuWomen is '''not''' about segregation of women, rather its goal is to integrate '''women as equals''' within the mainstream development of Ubuntu-Linux. Remember, membership is open to '''all'''. If Ubuntu-Women is limiting your participation in the wider Ubuntu-Linux community, we're not doing our job. If we can help you to try new things in that community, expand your activities, do things you mightn't have done before, we'll be doing our job. :-)

=== Mentors Project ===

'''''Each-One-Teach-One''''' 

Potential mentors are the rôle-models who will share their professional knowledge and technical expertise while directly interacting with the new entrant/s. Your skills and experience can lie in any of the areas mentioned above. In fact, if you think there are areas we haven't covered, where you could encourage others positively in Ubuntu-Linux, tell us about them! As a mentor, you can have the lasting satisfaction of encouraging others to learn and grow in this wider community. Don't feel you have to be an expert: anything you can pass on, which will help others, is valuable.

To be a part of the Mentor team please list yourself at the <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Mentors|Mentors' Wiki-page]]</nowiki>. 

=== Contributing to Ubuntu ===

<nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-women.org|Our website]]</nowiki> (www.ubuntu-women.org) is currently being set-up by <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Volunteers|volunteers]]</nowiki>. So if you have any <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Ideas|ideas]]</nowiki>, please don't hesitate to share them with us on <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-women|our mailing list]]</nowiki>. Come and introduce yourself! We have a wonderful group already, from many different cultural groups and occupations: you'll be very welcome. :-)

'''''U-W Lists''''' : Subscribe to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-women|Ubuntu-Women mailing list]]</nowiki> and use it to discuss or post questions of all kinds relating to Ubuntu-Linux. You can share your ideas for new projects with the <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Mentors|Ubuntu-Women Mentors]]</nowiki>, and contribute to existing projects which interest you particularly. 

'''''Documentation, Translation and Communication''''' : You've had a look at the links we've mentioned, but you're not sure where to start. Ask on our mailing list. We're establishing <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Mentors|Mentors]]</nowiki> in these areas, and can point you in the right direction.

'''''MOTU''''' : If you are a programmer and want to start testing, coding or maintain packages, join the <nowiki>[[MOTU|Masters of the Universe]]</nowiki>, and subscribe to the relevant <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/|Mailing-Lists]]</nowiki> set up for those. An IRC channel, `#ubuntu-motu-school` is available for those interested in maintaining packages, testing, or any other software development task. You can also subscribe to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-motu|Ubuntu-MOTU mailing-list]]</nowiki>.

'''''IRC & Forums''''' : Join the Ubuntu-Women support and discussion IRC channel: `#ubuntu-women` on `chat.freenode.net` or talk to us in the  <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=76|Ubuntu Women forum]]</nowiki> at Ubuntu Forums.

Get familiar with our online tools like <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/RosettaReleaseAnnouncement|Rosetta]]</nowiki> (translation), <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/|Malone]]</nowiki> (bug tracking) and you have a good start. Ubuntu-Linux has a wide range of opportunities to choose from :

* <nowiki>[[RosettaFAQ|UbuntuRosetta]]</nowiki> (translation)
* <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/|UbuntuBugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com/|UbuntuPlanet]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu member blogs)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-doc|Documentation Teams]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/|Launchpad]]</nowiki> is central to our community. It makes it very easy for you to personalize your Ubuntu activities, and access any of them. A great deal of useful information is there at your fingertips (or whatever you are using to input information), and Launchpad keeps it all organized and unobtrusive. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/+login|Get]]</nowiki> your Launchpad account now! Your Launchpad login also gives you access to the bug-tracker (Malone), the translation interface (Rosetta) and this wiki. It's a sort of Swiss-Army-Knife login ;-)

'''''Edit / add content to this page''''' : First, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/+login|create a Launchpad account]]</nowiki> and add your name and contact details in your <nowiki>[[HelpOnPageCreation|HomeWikipage]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[HelpOnLinking|link]]</nowiki> it here. Then click on the '''login to edit''' link located at the top left-hand side of this page . More information on editing wiki pages is available <nowiki>[[HelpOnEditing|here]]</nowiki>. This is a MoinMoin wiki, so you may well have used its syntax before.

=== Related Pages ===

* <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Ideas|U-W Ideas]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Mentors|Mentors' Wiki page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Volunteers|Volunteers]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-women|U-W mailing list]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Translators|Ubuntu-Women Translators]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/HowToTranslateWiki|How to Translate Wiki pages]]</nowiki>

=== External Resources ===

* <nowiki>[[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/UbuntuWomenFAQs|UbuntuWomenFAQs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://women.alioth.debian.org|Debian-Women]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/GnomeWomen|Gnome-Women]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/www-women/|Apache-Women]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxchix.org|LinuxChix]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.faqs.org/docs/Linux-HOWTO/Encourage-Women-Linux-HOWTO.html|HowTo Encourage Women in Linux]]</nowiki>
* WomenInUbuntu BOF notes from Ubuntu Mataro [Conference]

==== How to translate this page ====

Please see <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/Translators|Ubuntu-Women Translators]]</nowiki>, especially <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen/HowToTranslateWiki|How to Translate Wiki pages]]</nowiki>. The process is simple. :-)

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
CategoryLoCoTeams
