{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Full Circle Podcast #4: It’s Everyone Else’s Fault'''

=== Download ===

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/639/0/fullcirclepodcast_ep4_160410.mp3|MP3]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/639/1/fullcirclepodcast_ep4_160410.ogg|OGG]]</nowiki>

Runtime: 56 minutes 12 seconds

=== Your Hosts ===

* Robin Catling 
* Ed Hewitt 
* Dave Wilkins

Additional audio by Victoria Pritchard

=== Show Notes ===

==== Welcome and Intro ====

01.22

==== Since Last Episode ====

01.56

==== News ====

11.22

1. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/04/ubuntu-1010-named-maverick-meerkat.html|Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat]]</nowiki>

2. <nowiki>[[http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-10-04-LTS-Beta-1-Out-for-Testing-137807.shtml|Ubuntu 10.04 Beta 1 is out – Get Testing!]]</nowiki>

3. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/03/ubuntuone-music-store-now-open.html|Ubuntu One Music Store opens!]]</nowiki>

4. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/light-themes/+bug/532633?comments=all|Mark Shuttleworth has the final word on the placement of the buttons in Lucid!]]</nowiki>

Staying to the left, but switching order. Close, Minimise, Maximise. Even more Mac Like!

Button Customisation for Beginners: OBconf for Lubuntu / LXDE / Openbox
<nowiki>[[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/Main_Page|http://wiki.lxde.org/en/Main_Page]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/Openbox|http://wiki.lxde.org/en/Openbox]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-tweak.com/|Ubuntu-Tweak for Karmic, Lucid]]</nowiki>

5. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/03/and-other-changes.html|Little nice changes in Lucid]]</nowiki>

6. Ubuntu 8.10 end of support on 30th April, 2010

==== Trailer ====

29.00

=== Opinion === 

30.10

Backup Solutions

* <nowiki>[[https://one.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu One]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.dropbox.com/|Dropbox]]</nowiki>
* Drobo courtesy of Data Robotics Inc.
* <nowiki>[[http://catlingmindswipe.blogspot.com/2010/02/linux-how-to-incremental-backups-using.html|How To Incremental Backups Using Linux]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-15/|Separate your Home Partition – Full Circle Magazine #15]]</nowiki>

==== Gaming ====

36.36

* <nowiki>[[http://www.heroesofnewerth.com/|Heroes of Newerth – open testing version.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.wesnoth.org|Battle for Wesnoth]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.wesnoth.org/WesnothBinariesLinux|Wesnoth Linux Binaries]]</nowiki>

==== Feedback ====

48.00

Comments on this page, using the comment form, OR;
Send us a comment to podcast@fullcirclemagazine.org.

You can also send us a comment by recording an audio clip of no more than 30 seconds and sending it to the same address.
Comments and audio may be edited for length. Please remember this is a family-friendly show.

==== Other Notes ====

Creative Commons Music Tracks

<nowiki>[[http://incompetech.com/m/c/royalty-free/index.html?keywords=Achilles|Opening: ‘Achilles’ by Kevin Macleod]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://ccmixter.org/files/hisboyelroy/430|Main Theme: ‘Revolve’ by His Boy Elroy]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://www.pacdv.com/sounds/free-music-2.html|Gaming, incidental: ‘Dance Zone’ by unknown]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://www.pacdv.com/sounds/free-music-22.html|Incidental: ‘On the Run’ by unknown]]</nowiki>
