{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by cr3 at 16:00:18 UTC.  The full logs are available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-30-16.00.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Linking to Ubuntu Friendly after running Checkbox
''ACTION:'' cr3 to explore message queues so that two consumers could commmunicate with each other, ie Ubuntu Friendly to dispatch a message to Checkbox so that it knows the submission is valid  (cr3, 16:11:17)
''LINK:'' http://people.canonical.com/~cr3/launchpad-results/   (cr3, 16:22:28)

* Any Other Business
''ACTION:'' jedimike to regenerate the stats we had before with the latest data  (cr3, 16:29:28)

Meeting ended at 16:31:42 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* Do you think we should email users instead of providing the feedback directly in Checkbox?
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* cr3 to explore message queues so that two consumers could commmunicate with each other, ie Ubuntu Friendly to dispatch a message to Checkbox so that it knows the submission is valid
* jedimike to regenerate the stats we had before with the latest data

=== Action items, by person ===

* cr3
* * cr3 to explore message queues so that two consumers could commmunicate with each other, ie Ubuntu Friendly to dispatch a message to Checkbox so that it knows the submission is valid
* jedimike
* * jedimike to regenerate the stats we had before with the latest data

=== People present (lines said) ===

* cr3 (52)
* jedimike (16)
* meetingology (14)
* roadmr (11)
* ara (9)
* balloons (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00:18 <cr3> #startmeeting Ubuntu Friendly

 16:00:18 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan 30 16:00:18 2012 UTC.  The chair is cr3. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00:18 <meetingology> 

 16:00:18 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:00:32 <cr3> Hi everyone, welcome to the weekly Ubuntu Friendly meeting

 16:00:50 <roadmr> hey!

 16:01:28 <cr3> hi ara and roadmr, anyone else around?

 16:01:48 <cr3> jedimike: hi there, I was just thinking of you, glad you could join us!

 16:01:56 <jedimike> hi!

 16:02:08 <cr3> telepathic ping

 16:03:25 <cr3> topics for today are:

 16:03:25 <cr3> * Linking to Ubuntu Friendly after running Checkbox: cr3

 16:03:25 <cr3> * AOB

 16:03:48 <cr3> Let's get started!

 16:03:54 <cr3> #topic Linking to Ubuntu Friendly after running Checkbox

 16:03:55 <jedimike> o/

 16:04:14 <cr3> jedimike: 'sup?

 16:04:55 <jedimike> i think we should link to UF after running checkbox, only if the UF requirements have been met (that is, no tests were manually deselected at the start of the test run) and if the requirements were not met, have a message saying how to participate in UF with future test runs

 16:05:13 <jedimike> otherwise we might get a lot of incomplete runs that don't make it, and have people wondering why

 16:05:13 <jedimike> ..

 16:05:55 <cr3> jedimike: would you mind if I postpone an answer to that until I give a little summary of the topic?

 16:06:05 <jedimike> cr3: not at all :)

 16:06:23 <jedimike> i may have jumped the gun a bit there I realise now ;)

 16:06:32 <cr3> This weekend, I sent a message to the ubuntu-friendly-squad mailing list about linking to the Ubuntu Friendly website on the last screen of running Checkbox.

 16:06:35 <cr3> In summary, the problem is that the current process is synchronous: http://people.canonical.com/~cr3/launchpad-results/before.png

 16:06:38 <cr3> The solution is that the process should be more asynchronous: http://people.canonical.com/~cr3/launchpad-results/after.png

 16:06:41 <cr3> First, this requires uploading submissions to the Results Tracker which would be a proxy to Launchpad for safe keeping.

 16:06:44 <cr3> Second, this also requires introducing the concept of a message queue to allow checkbox and Ubuntu Friendly to subscribe to message queues.

 16:06:50 <cr3> jedimike: I was prepared, so we should now address your concern.

 16:07:01 <cr3> jedimike: I agree with you but I have to admit that no solution comes to mind :(

 16:08:31 <cr3> jedimike: one solution that just came to mind might be if consumers of the message queue could someone inject their own queues to which other consumers like checkbox could subscribe

 16:09:07 <cr3> jedimike: I'm not partitularly familiar with message queues nor their best practices, so what would you say if I assign myself an action item to get back to you?

 16:09:27 <jedimike> cr3: sounds good, I only have minimal experience too

 16:09:43 <cr3> jedimike: if we solve the problem you raised, that would also solve the other problem I wanted to discuss today:

 16:09:55 <cr3> The only caveat is the slight delay between the time the user receives a message that the submission has been processed by the Results Tracker and the time Ubuntu Friendly has finished processing the results for that submission.

 16:10:32 <ara> o/

 16:11:00 <roadmr> o/

 16:11:17 <cr3> #action cr3 to explore message queues so that two consumers could commmunicate with each other, ie Ubuntu Friendly to dispatch a message to Checkbox so that it knows the submission is valid

 16:11:17 * meetingology cr3 to explore message queues so that two consumers could commmunicate with each other, ie Ubuntu Friendly to dispatch a message to Checkbox so that it knows the submission is valid

 16:11:27 <cr3> ara: the floor is yours

 16:11:54 <ara> for simplicity, maybe we should only provide the link back to UF to those that are not submitting anonymously, and, for those that provided their launchpad account,  just send them an email when the result made it to UF (with the link) or a message that it ddidn't make it to UF if it didn't contain enough results

 16:12:08 <ara> ..

 16:12:41 <cr3> ara: you mean a generic link to UF, not their submission, right?

 16:13:03 <ara> cr3, their submission

 16:13:14 <ara> (for those that provided their lp id)

 16:14:01 <cr3> ara: they just provide an email address so, whether it points to a valid launchpad account or not, you're saying we should email them as a best effort, right?

 16:14:42 <ara> cr3, from 12.04 they will provide their launchpad id or just submit anonymously

 16:16:14 <cr3> ara: I'm not sure I understand how we can provide a "link back to UF to those that are not submitting anonymously", are you saying using the message queue I proposed or something else?

 16:17:19 <ara> cr3, what I am trying to suggest is to avoid putting the information back into checkbox, just keep everything on the server side

 16:17:30 <cr3> ara: so just email, right?

 16:17:40 <ara> yes

 16:18:45 <cr3> ara: ok, that's clear. I'd like to see how others feel about this idea rather than a more elaborate message queue:

 16:19:13 <cr3> #vote Do you think we should email users instead of providing the feedback directly in Checkbox?

 16:19:13 <meetingology> Please vote on: Do you think we should email users instead of providing the feedback directly in Checkbox?

 16:19:13 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:19:47 <cr3> +1 (email seems like an easy first step, message queues can come later)

 16:19:47 <meetingology> +1 (email seems like an easy first step, message queues can come later) received from cr3

 16:19:54 <ara> +1

 16:19:54 <meetingology> +1 received from ara

 16:19:55 <roadmr> +1 and if the email bounces, we zap the submission :)

 16:19:55 <meetingology> +1 and if the email bounces, we zap the submission :) received from roadmr

 16:20:03 <jedimike> +! good solution while we don't have the queues

 16:20:17 <jedimike> +1 good solution while we don't have the queues

 16:20:17 <meetingology> +1 good solution while we don't have the queues received from jedimike

 16:20:40 <cr3> #endvote

 16:20:40 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Do you think we should email users instead of providing the feedback directly in Checkbox?

 16:20:40 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 16:20:40 <meetingology> Motion carried

 16:20:46 <cr3> awesome, thanks folks!

 16:20:52 <cr3> roadmr: finally, your turn (I didn't forget)

 16:21:04 <roadmr> cr3: I'll just post as I had it prepared, but I think the vote rendered it moot

 16:21:12 <roadmr> Awesome, Ara proposes simplicity, my idea just complicates things more :) maybe checkbox can show a "processing..." progress dialog while UF finishes, and once UF sends the message saying it did, then checkbox pops up the (now functional) link. A safety timeout should be in place to keep users from staring at a checkbox progress bar longer than necessary :)

 16:21:26 <roadmr> and one question, what tool did you use for the diagrams? :)

 16:21:26 <roadmr> ..

 16:22:06 <cr3> roadmr: plotutils package, pic2plot command

 16:22:22 <cr3> roadmr: if you want the source, replace .png with .pic... and there's also a Makefile in the same directory

 16:22:28 <cr3> http://people.canonical.com/~cr3/launchpad-results/

 16:23:03 <cr3> roadmr: your idea of "processing..." only works if the whole process becomes asynchronous, the current synchronous cron process would not lend itself well to interaction with the user

 16:23:36 <cr3> roadmr: however, the idea of introducing the message queue is exactly to provide the user experience you propose: 1. "processing..."; 2. url to *their* hardware in Ubuntu Friendly.

 16:23:53 <cr3> anything else on this topic?

 16:25:09 <cr3> #topic Any Other Business

 16:25:35 <cr3> anyone have any friendliness on their mind for today?

 16:26:04 <balloons> quickly in summary, you guys agreed to do away with the launchpad processing queues right?

 16:26:30 <cr3> balloons: for the time being, seems like everyone would like to see an email dispatched

 16:26:38 <roadmr> o/

 16:26:53 <cr3> roadmr: go ahead

 16:26:57 <roadmr> I'd be kinda curious to see updated UF statistics now that we're deeper into Oneiric's 6 months of fame, are these available anywhere?

 16:27:48 <roadmr> oops :) if not, can they be generated, would this be of interest?

 16:27:49 <roadmr> ..

 16:28:20 <jedimike> o/

 16:28:25 <cr3> jedimike: your turn

 16:28:46 <jedimike> we can regenerate the stats we had before with the latest data

 16:29:04 <jedimike> there was a request for more detailed stats, but we need to do a bit more development to get them

 16:29:11 <cr3> jedimike: should I add an action item for you?

 16:29:16 <jedimike> but the simple ones (submissions, etc.) we can get

 16:29:20 <jedimike> cr3: yep

 16:29:21 <jedimike> ..

 16:29:28 <cr3> #action jedimike to regenerate the stats we had before with the latest data

 16:29:28 * meetingology jedimike to regenerate the stats we had before with the latest data

 16:29:51 <cr3> anything else?

 16:31:18 <cr3> seems like we've covered everything...

 16:31:39 <cr3> Thanks all for attending and for your comments and feedback! Have a great day!

 16:31:42 <cr3> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
