{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== The Plan ==
The plan to merge Ubuntu TV code back into Unity-2D

In the following document "shell_branch" is lp:~unity-2d-team/unity-2d/unity-2d-shell and
"TV trunk" is lp:ubuntutv

 1. [DONE] Merge lp:unity-2d into shell_branch
** Pay special attention to the new dependency on UnityCore
** Merge commit by commit, trying to avoid skipping new features/bugfixes like we did in the past
# [DONE] Finish the missing shell features. The full list can be found below (removed now).
# [DONE] Merge shell_branch into lp:unity-2d
# [IN PROGRESS] Merge lp:unity-2d into TV trunk; branch is at lp:~s-team/ubuntutv/shell_merge
# Merge back selected features from TV trunk to lp:unity-2d (see below)
** [TODO] go through the diff to see if there is more than the list contains

== Backport from ubuntu-tv ==

The list below (not complete, I'm afraid) lists commits that make sense to be merged back upstream from ubuntu-tv.

* 795 [dash] only dismiss onFocusOut in Desktop mode
* 801 [lib] move AbstractButton into Unity2d + 813 [dash] add missing import Unity2d to MultiRangeButton.qml
* 808 [dash] ListViewWithHeaders: embed bodyLoader into a generic item that will allow for opening/closing  animations.
* 809 [dash] ListViewWithHeaders: do not navigate to the category headers if they are disabled.
* 915 [dash] abstract the CategoryHeader
* 812.3.1 [plugin] add unity2dConfiguration to root context
* 905 [shell] updateMask when dashMode changes. Needs to be upstreamed.
* 933 When setting up synchronisation with screen's VBlank, avoid conflicting with the nVidia driver specific way of doing it.
* 935 Rendering optimization flags. To be upstreamed.
