{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



==== Get Involved ====

If you want to help contribute to Ubuntu, then you’ve come to the right place. Keep reading to learn how.

You have just taken your first step toward getting involved. Before you get started, we ask that you please observe the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. It’s not very long and it will help you get started.

Once that’s done, check out our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community|community page]]</nowiki>.

==== Teams ====

The <nowiki>[[Teams]]</nowiki> page contains a listing of the various Community Teams, their responsibilities, links to their '''Wiki''' Home Pages and leaders, communication tools, and a quick reference to let you know whether and when they hold meetings.

Most Teams’ Wiki Home Pages provide information about who they are, what they do, when their meetings are, and how to contact them. Using these pages, teammates are able to communicate and coordinate projects.

==== LoCoTeams ====

For participating on the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams|Country]]</nowiki> area team contributing to a Local Development of Localization and Internationalization and promoting use of <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

==== Governance and Membership ====

Like most communities, we have our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|rules]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/project/about-ubuntu/governance|governing body]]</nowiki>.

Anyone can join and participate in most, if not all, of our Teams and Projects. But if you want an “@ubuntu.com” e-mail address, it has to be earned. Find out how in our <nowiki>[[Membership]]</nowiki> section.

==== Community Links ====

As an active member of our community, you probably should check out what else is going on in the world of Ubuntu:

* <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/|The Fridge]]</nowiki> posts all the latest News and Upcoming Events.

* <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com/|Planet Ubuntu]]</nowiki> is a collection of community blogs.

If you are interested in getting to know other Ubuntu users or seeing a list of Ubuntu teams outside the general Ubuntu world, check out our <nowiki>[[Social|social network page]]</nowiki>.

==== Releases ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Released (Current & Stable)'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Release Schedule'''
| '''Support Date'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes|Precise Pangolin]]</nowiki>
| 12.04 LTS
| April 26, 2012
| Supported until April 2017
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseNotes|Trusty Tahr]]</nowiki>
| 14.04 LTS
| April 17, 2014
| Supported until April 2019
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes|Vivid Vervet]]</nowiki>
| 15.04
| April 23, 2015
| Supported until February 4 2016
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseNotes|Wily Werewolf]]</nowiki>
| 15.10
| October 22, 2015
| Supported until July 2016
|}

For more Release information, go to the <nowiki>[[Releases]]</nowiki> page.
Get the latest Ubuntu Release, from the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download|Download Page]]</nowiki> or go to the <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com|Image Page]]</nowiki> for specific '''architectures''' and the '''daily-live''' development images for Wily Werewolf.
