{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Full Circle Podcast #7: Two Tin Cans and a Length of String'''

=== Download ===

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/695/0/fullcirclepodcast_ep7_220510.mp3|MP3]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/695/0/fullcirclepodcast_ep7_220510.mp3|OGG]]</nowiki>

=== Your Hosts ===

* Robin Catling 
* Ed Hewitt 
* Dave Wilkins
* with our special guest, Alan Pope

=== Show Notes ===

File Sizes: OGG 37.5Mb , MP3 37.2Mb

Runtime: 1 hour 30 minutes 41 seconds

==== Welcome and Intro ====

02.01

==== Since Last Time ====

03.05

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMagazine/FullCirclePodcast|Ed created a wiki page for the FCM Podcast!]]</nowiki>

Robin set up the Compaq as dual-boot with Linux Mint 9.

Wrote a critique of Ubuntu Getting Started Manual and had a detailed response from the team’s Kevin Godby.

==== News ====

08.32

Ubuntu UDS Kicks off! 

<nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/mark-shuttleworth-no-gnome-shell-in.html|No Gnome-Shell, No Blue-ray support, but Nautilus-Elementary maybe used in 10.10.]]</nowiki>

Shotwell to replace F-Spot

New and Improved Indicators; sound, network, keyboard and clock. <nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/333|Window Indicators]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/sound-menu-changes-coming-in-ubuntu.html|Changes to Sound Menu]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/me-menu-getting-improvements-for.html|Improved Me Menu]]</nowiki>

Unity is the all new UI in Ubuntu Netbook edition

<nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/383|(http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/383)]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/359|(http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/359)]]</nowiki>

* Mark wants to work on OEMs, first boot experience, media and codec handling
* Connected to the web in 7 seconds on SSD
* No traditional file management
* Small set of default apps: browser, media, mail
* Focus on touch
* For OEMs only, no public iso’s
* Unity will use Chromium by default.

<nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/omg-ubuntu-podcast-ubuntuesday-episode.html|OMG!Ubuntu Podcast: ‘Ubuntuesday’ is out!]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kddqINA1vOA&feature=related|Ubuntu on TV – CNBC’s ‘Big Bang Theory’]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickReleaseSchedule|Ubuntu release schedule updated by release manager Robbie Williamson]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://undacuvabrutha.wordpress.com/|Robbie’s blog]]</nowiki>

==== Interview ====

31.50

Benjamin Humphrey, Ubuntu Manual Project Part II: Quickshot and LaTex

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-manual.org|Ubuntu Manual Project home]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-manual.org/quickshot|Quickshot project home]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.latex-project.org/|LaTex project home]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://kevin.godby.org/ubuntu-manual/talks/latex-handout.pdf|Kevin Godby’s Beginners’ Guide for Authors and translators]]</nowiki>

==== Guest Spot ====

42.16 

We talk about bug reporting with Alan

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Apport|Apport tool: well described over in the Kubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>

Ubuntu bug reporting:

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|Process described]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs|Bug Reporting page]]</nowiki> 

Example under discussion: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/529387|Bug report #529387]]</nowiki>

==== Gaming ====

58.10

Alan, Dave and Ed agree on something!

<nowiki>[[http://www.wolfire.com/humble|The Humble Indie Bundle]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.bit-blot.com/aquaria/|Aquaria]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.crypticsea.com/gish/|Gish]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.wolfire.com/lugaru|Lugaru]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.penumbragame.com/|Penumbra]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ http:--2dboy.com-games.php|World of Goo]]</nowiki>

Profits in aid of:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.childsplaycharity.org/|Childs Play Charity]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.eff.org/|Electronic Frontiers Foundation]]</nowiki>

Game: <nowiki>[[http://www.hemispheregames.com/osmos/|Osmos]]</nowiki>

1:05.30 | Dave’s review piece – <nowiki>[[http://www.wormux.org/|Wormux]]</nowiki>

Transcript of Dave’s Wormux Game Review available as Open Office Document.

==== Contribute! ====

1:09.00

Because Victoria asks so nicely…

==== Guest Spot ====

109.33 

Mark Shuttleworth UDS Keynote Speech from Ubuntu Developer’s Summit, Brussels, May 2010 

Part One: Ubuntu Light and Unity

(Audio courtesy of Alan Pope)

<nowiki>[[http://blip.tv/file/3601671|Full speech (video)]]</nowiki>

All UDS session audio and video:

<nowiki>[[http://uds.ubuntu.com/audio/uds-m|Audio]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://videos.ubuntu.com/uds/maverick/|Video]]</nowiki>

==== Warp and Outro ====

1:25.39

Comments: on this page, using the comment form, OR;
Send us a comment to podcast@fullcirclemagazine.org.
You can also send us a comment by recording an audio clip of no more than 30 seconds and sending it to the same address. Comments and audio may be edited for length. Please remember this is a family-friendly show.

Please note: this podcast is provided with absolutely no warranty whatsoever; neither the producers nor Full Circle Magazine accept any responsibility or liability for content or interaction which readers and listeners may enter into using external links  gleaned from this forum or podcast series.
