{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Please check out the MarketingTeam and the MarketingPlan

== Breezy Marketing/promotional goals - Discussion ==

Discussion seemed to be homed at BreezyMarketing

== Hoary Marketing/promotional goals - Decision summary ==

'''5 marketing/promotional opportunities to be completed by Hoary (end April 2005)'''. Deadline for a proposal and budget estimate: To be submitted to Jane Silber by '''10th January 2005.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc">  '''Item'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Responsible'''
| '''Assisting'''
|-
| '''1'''
| Country Teams & Shippit ++
| Matthias Urlichs
| BenjaminMakoHill
|-
| '''2'''
| Formal community recognition
| BenjaminMakoHill
| 
|-
| '''3'''
| Help desk - ticket system & searchable database
| StuartBishop, JeffBailey
| 
|-
| '''4'''
| Ubuntu server edition
| JeffBailey
| 
|-
| '''5'''
| Conference Kit - Promotional materials/merchandise
| JaneSilber
| 
|}

* JeffBailey has been nominated for when he joins the team! He needs to be contacted.
* The Ubuntu in  a Nutshell (Pocketbook/starter guide)  is already being worked on by the "Doc team":http://www.ubuntulinux.org/community/teams/documentation. JeffWaugh to assist.

== Marketing BOF notes ==

The promotion of Ubuntu is the focus of this brainstorming session with some core areas:

* End users
* Developers
* Commercial
* Government
* Charities & NGOs

'''Part of the 'shock and awe campaign'!'''

* Universities & schools
* Internet cafe's, Linux user groups, computer shops

=== Ways to reach end users ===

* send a CD
* word of mouth
* pre-installs
* conferences

==== Tools the community can develop ====

Individuals in their work or hobbies have different needs when it comes to applications. Canonical won't be funding the development of these applications. But open source will win. The Ubuntu community is in a good position to capture ideas/identify probelms and let the open source community work on these ideas.

Some examples that came up were:

* Dentist software (Ordontolinux - http://sourceforge.net/projects/odontolinux/)
* Internet cafe management software
* Fundraising software
* Payroll software

These ideas can be captured on a wikipage or a topic in the forum.

==== Other ideas ====

* <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam/Ideas/UbuntuPresentation]]</nowiki> - A simple and clean introduction to Ubuntu in HTML/CSS with screenshots and brief decriptions
* Newsletter with testimonials  - decided that this is high maintenance and would be a once off.
* Forum for specialist interest groups such as internet cafe owners, dentists, etc.
* L-raising : when Linspire is installed, it logs and tracks it / Light-ups - decided that people are paranoid and we'd need to have a very good privacy policy. People decided that this was not a good option for the Ubuntu installation.
* Ubuntu start page - could have register me as a new user, but we would need to uniquely identify each user so this would enforce paranoia. It was decided that Ubuntu would not want to do this.
* Embedded devices to find users, was suggested
* Language-specific communities (websites,IRC, mailinglists, forums etc)
* Country teams are to be represented in the Comunity Council to promote Ubuntu in lugs, schools, universities etc and encourage the local comunities in all their efforts.
 

=== Brainstorming session ===

Requirement to have concrete actions at the end to put a budget to, and ensure happens by Hoary in April.

* Ubuntu in a Nutshell (pocketbook - Easy installation guides)
* Help Desk - Technical expert to respond to support tickets
* Country teams and Regional teams
** Follow up on CD deliveries to universities, schools, libraries, bookstores, lugs etc
** Offer support/organise support for Ubuntu users in their country
** Do interviews, show up for lug meetings, go to local conferences, be an advocate.
** Develop local presentations as a part of support materials
** Support the local communities, translators and documentation teams.
* Community diary/event calendar
* Beer fund - to be sponsored every week in a different country!
* A sponsored yacht in the Cape to Rio yacht race (Ubuntu sponsored and branded)
* SWAG - merchandise of all descriptions (clothing, cups etc etc - like the cafepress shop but more)
* Ubuntu rizzler papers - to roll cigarettes!
* USB port - Ubuntu branded, with some open source apps installed.

=== Ways to reach Upstream/developers ===

"The way to a developer's heart is through the code" - Matt Zimmerman

* Launchpad tools, especially Bazaar (Distributed revision control) with HCT working efficiently, will be good.
* The need to be able to get packages into Ubuntu quickly
* Crack of the day builds - take upstream & Bazaar branches, merge and publish.
* Get developers to:
** Develop on Ubuntu
** Use Ubuntu
** Develop using Ubuntu? Some said we should steer clear of developing in Ubuntu.

* Have a good, clear new developer and maintainer process
* Ubuntu certification - engineer/developer for companies (like the Linux professional institute)
* Treat Ubuntu as a shell to hold their work
* There needs to be a low barrier to entry - so on launchpad they simply create an account and login, and it works.

==== Other ideas ====

* Conference kit - Marketing materials that developers/advocates can use
* Ubuntu certification (commercial) - LSV certification and other certificates
* Live CD - to contain documents, images, file formats, video, photo management and a sample of the apps and what you can do
* Share Ubuntu (like the Firefox campaign) - WIP - Volvoguy is working on this atm with Lulu
* Highlight contributions from the community - success stories -  from documentation, advocacy, artwork to code. ROCKSTAR of the week. (We have http://www.ubuntulinux.org/communitywork/  as a beginning, but ROCKSTAR  of the week needs to be well managed by someone.

=== Marketing/Promotion goals for Hoary ===

* Ubuntu in  a Nutshell (Pocketbook/starter guide) - Installation docs, screenshots, top 10 apps etc in PDF format
* Help desk - ticket system and a searchable database. Integrated with the issue tracker in Launchpad, for all distros.
* Country teams and shipit ++ follow up
* Marketing materials/conference kit
* Community diary of events (country and in local chapters)
* Crack of the day builds (not sure is that would be ready by Hoary)
* Ubuntu marketplace (Partners) - WIP at http://www.ubuntulinux.org/support/marketplace
* Ubuntu server edition - We need to promote this. Give Oracle a Live CD to try it?
* Internet connection sharing - allows a user to click 'Share my Network Connection' and it automaticall configures NAT (masquarding, DHCP and the like) for other pople to use the connection through that machine. Users have asked for it. Need out-of-the-box autoconfig. Someone suggested Firestarter (ask PaulSladen for more detail)
* Formal community recognition

'''A vote was taken on the above and 5 items were identifed as goals for Hoary. See top of the page for the decisions taken.'''

Deadline for a proposal and budget estimate is to be submitted to Jane Silber by '''10th January 2005'''.

 

 

From KeithErskine Sat Jan 15 21:43:42 +0000 2005
From: Keith Erskine
Date: Sat, 15 Jan 2005 21:43:42 +0000
Subject: Goals
Message-ID: <20050115214342+0000@www.ubuntulinux.org>

You've got a lot of good ideas, but what's the goal of this release?  Increase awareness? Market penetration?  What is the one thing that you (community "you") want to see happen after Hoary Hedgehog is shipped?

From MattZimmerman Mon Jan 17 00:41:54 +0000 2005
From: Matt Zimmerman
Date: Mon, 17 Jan 2005 00:41:54 +0000
Subject: Re: Goals
Message-ID: <20050117004154+0000@www.ubuntulinux.org>

The overall goal is for the Ubuntu community to grow and flourish.  These are ideas for ways that we might work toward that goal.

From KeithErskine Fri Jan 21 00:48:59 +0000 2005
From: Keith Erskine
Date: Fri, 21 Jan 2005 00:48:59 +0000
Subject: Conference Kit
Message-ID: <20050121004859+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Any ideas what is needed for the conference kit?  I can help with creating a presentation or data sheet if its needed.

From PierreSlamich Sun Jun 5 13:33:08 +0100 2005
From: Pierre Slamich
Date: Sun, 05 Jun 2005 13:33:08 +0100
Subject: 
Message-ID: <20050605133308+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

-A good slogan for an  Ubuntu ad: In a Free world,who needs gates,windows and passport?
-Ads which would dispell Ubuntu/linux Myths>>One myth per ad,explain why ubuntu is better than Windows on that topic.
-A dvd you can play on a standalone player and that would explain ubuntu and its installation and another dvd  with both live and install version on it.The whole thing would be bundled in a nice flat paper box
----
CategoryMarketing
