{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Current Meeting Agenda ==

1. The formant for the doc pool (jenkins)
2. The use of multiple irc channels (jenkins)
3. Changes in Makerick (J''''''asonCook599)
4. Maverick/Lucid Branch merge/replace (J''''''asonCook599)
