{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contenuti'''<<BR>>
|}

<pre>

TRADUZIONE IN CORSO...
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

Benvenuti nella Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Numero 28 per la settimana che va dall'8 al 14 Gennaio 2007. In questo numero tratteremo la recente riunione del Consiglio della comunità, il rilascio di herd 2, il nuovo gruppo screencast, la nuova mailing list xubuntu-users, gli aggiornamenti settimanali dei forum di Ubuntu, le statistiche dei bachi, gli incontri ed eventi futuri, l'incontro su IRC delle donne-di-Ubuntu, i cambiamenti in feisty, le richieste principali di inserimento, l'aggiornamento del quiz settimanale e molto altro.

=== In questo numero ===

* Il rilascio di herd 2
* Il nuovo gruppo screencast
* La nuova mailing list xubuntu-users
* L'incontro del gruppo Mozilla
* L'incontro su IRC delle donne-di-Ubuntu
* Community council meeting roundup
* Planet Ubuntu Users
* Ubuntu Forum Stats
* LoCo News
* Weekly Trivia Update
* Feisty Changes 
* Upcoming meetings and events
* MIR: What, Who, Why?
* Security notices and 6.06 & 6.10 updates
* Bug stats

=== Notizie generali della comunità ===

==== Il rilascio di herd 2 ====

L'ultima versione di sviluppo (Herd 2) della prossima nuova versione di Ubuntu, Feisty Fawn, è stata rilasciata. Diverrà ufficialmente Ubuntu 7.04 in Aprile 2007.

Sono stati migliorati molti aspetti quali la risoluzione di bachi, l'aggiunta di funzionalità e delle versioni più aggiornate dei programmi Open Source più popolari sulla piazza. Raccomandiamo di non utilizzarla in ambienti di produzione, ma per testarla e segnalare i bachi per contribuire alla prossima versione!

Puoi leggere l'annuncio dettagliato della versione su http://fridge.ubuntu.com/files/herd2release.txt

Se ti va di dare una mano con il testing allora vai su: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing

==== Nuovo gruppo: il Gruppo Screencast ====

Matthew East ha annunciato la creazione di un gruppo di screencast, hanno bisogno anche del tuo aiuto!

Screencasts are videos which show users how to achieve a specific task in Ubuntu. They can be seriously useful when walking users through a new task and are intended to complement Ubuntu’s other support resources, such as documentation, forums, mailing lists and irc.

The project is led by Alan Pope, who has already done some great work on screencasts. But now the project is expanding, and you can help out! Simply head over to the team wiki page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/) and soak up the material there. You’ll then be ready to contribute to the team by requesting or even making new videos!

Contact the Documentation Team with any questions at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/Contact/ or simply to get involved!

==== New Mailing List: xubuntu-users ====

Cody A.W. Somerville, a member of the Xubuntu Team, has announced the creation of the xubuntu-users mailing list.

 "As you may or may not know, we've recently been discussing setting up an xubuntu-users mailing list. As of today, this mailing list exists and is ready for consumption! This mailing list is for help and support with a bit of user discussion on the side."

If you're interested in Xubuntu, helping others, and building the Xubuntu community, please visit https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-users to subscribe today.

==== Ubuntu Mozilla Team ====

The first meeting of the Ubuntu Mozilla Team (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam) was held on January 11th at 17 UTC. The Mozilla Team was created in order to help raise the quality of Mozilla application on Ubuntu. The meeting covered the structure of the team and set guidelines on how the team would accomplish their goal. The Mozilla team is just being organized now and if you are interested, please see the link and join #ubuntu-mozillateam on irc.freenode.net. 

==== Ubuntu-Women IRC Meeting ====

First Ubuntu-Women meeting was held January 11-12th, 2007, on #ubuntu-women on irc.freenode.net. It was a quite exciting roundup and a meet-and-greet with other women using Ubuntu. You can read a summary on Ubuntu-Women Wiki (http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings/20070111) and download the full log of the day.

The next meeting will be held on January 25th at 13:00 and 1:00 UTC. Two different times are scheduled to accommodate different timezones. Please see the Ubuntu forums thread at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=337651.

==== Planet Ubuntu Users ====

A new aggregation of blogs from Ubuntu users was set up. This differs from Planet Ubuntu (found at http://planet.ubuntu.com), and you do not need to be an official Ubuntu member to join. Please see http://ubuntuweblogs.org/ to discover and http://ubuntuweblogs.org/submit.html to submit your Ubuntu-related weblogs.

==== Community Council Meeting ====

The Community Council met again on January 9th, and as usual covered a number of issues.    Membership approvals have been making meetings run really long, so are being delegated out.  That process is coming along smoothly, and more council members are expected to be set up soon.  With regard to translations, Carlos is setting up a team that will be the Rosetta point of contact for the many translation teams.  (Rosetta is a tool integrated with Launchpad for making translation easier.)  It was decided that the doc wiki would be licensed under CC-BY-SA, but discussion about the main help wiki was deferred for the time being.  Forums members Mike and Matthew were both approved for sitting on the Forums Council.  The German Kubuntu group (kubuntu-de.net) is well on its way to becoming an official Loco Team.  They plan to cooperate with ubuntuusers.de for a unified K/Ubuntu presence in Germany, and have just gotten their mailing list set up.  The CanadianTeam and IranianTeam were approved and welcomed as official locoteams now as well.

The following users were approved as Ubuntu Members:
** Mehdi Hassanpour (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MehdiHassanpour)
** Rodrigo Pereira (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/pereira)
** Dean Sas (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeanSas)
** Firdaus Aziz (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirdausAziz)
** Troy McFerron (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Zenwhen)
** Matti Lindell (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mlind)
** Adrien Cunin (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdrienCunin)
** Albin Tonnerre (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlbinTonnerre)

==== Ubuntu Forums Weekly Update ====

* Threads: 330,625
* Posts: 2,005,628
* Members: 222,388

Visit http://ubuntuforums.org/ for help, support, discussion and chit-chat about Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu, and Xubuntu.

==== mEDUXa Blog ====

Those interested in the progress of the Kubuntu rollout in the Canary Island schools can read the (mostly Spanish) mEDUXa blog to find out their successes and problems.

http://agustin.ejerciciosresueltos.com/

=== LoCo News ===

==== Philippines Loco Interview ====

If you've ever wanted to learn more about any of the members of the Philippines Loco, you can read about Jerome Gotangco. Jerome has been involved with Ubuntu for several years and has helped with many projects such as Edubuntu documentation, translations, and more. To read the full interview, please go <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ph.org/node/78|here]]</nowiki>.

=== This Week's Quiz ===

Unfortunately, this week's Trivia contest was canceled. However, the Trivia Team reports that next week will occur as usual.

Upcoming for next week:

Sponsor    : 
Prize      : 

To participate in the quiz, join #ubuntu-trivia on irc.freenode.net on Friday and/or Saturday UTC-nights - the topic will usually tell you when the next quiz is scheduled.

To give a quiz, contact Alexandre Vassalotti (theCore) - we will probably find you a spot.

To donate a prize, please contact Jenda Vancura (jenda) - your generosity is appreciated. The generic prize is an Ubuntu Poster ($5 value).

The quiz usually has a theme, and the quizmaster will sometimes tell you what the theme of the quiz will be. If not, you can always bribe him/her. By winning the quiz and foregoing the prize, you donate it for the next quiz. This is especially appreciated if you are a frequent winner.

=== Changes In Feisty ===

<pre>

Scorched 3D is an open source version of 
scorched3d 40.1d.dfsg-1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: games on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 09:45:12 +0900 by Emmet Hikory <emmet.hikory@gmail.com> 
	scorched3d - 3D artillery game similar to Scorched Earth
	scorched3d-data - data files for Scorched3D game
	scorched3d-dbg - 3D artillery game similar to Scorched Earth, debug data
	scorched3d-doc - documentation for Scorched3D game
 LINKS:
	http://scorched3d.sourceforge.net/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

exaile 0.2.7+debian-1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: sound on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 19:06:21 +0200 by Matti Lindell <mlind@cs.joensuu.fi> 
	exaile     - flexible audio player, similar to Amarok, but written in GTK+
 LINKS:
	http://www.exaile.org/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

acroread 7.0.9-0.0.ubuntu1
 Component: multiverse Section: text on Thu, 11 Jan 2007 18:31:08 -0500 by Daniel T Chen <crimsun@ubuntu.com> 
	acroread   - Adobe Acrobat Reader: Portable Document Format file viewer
	acroread-escript - Adobe EScript Plug-In
	acroread-plugins - Plugins for Adobe Acrobat(R) Reader
	mozilla-acroread - Adobe Acrobat(R) Reader plugin for mozilla / konqueror
 LINKS:
	http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readermain.html
	http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readermain.html
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

evince 0.7.1-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Wed, 10 Jan 2007 19:35:11 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	evince     - Document (postscript, pdf) viewer
 LINKS:
	http://www.gnome.org/projects/evince/
	http://www.gnome.org/projects/evince/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gossip 0.22-0ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: gnome on Fri, 12 Jan 2007 10:31:12 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	gossip     - friendly Jabber client for GNOME
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gdm 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 11:02:16 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	gdm        - GNOME Display Manager
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

liferea 1.2.3-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Thu, 11 Jan 2007 18:15:04 +0100 by Sebastian Droege <slomo@ubuntu.com> 
	liferea    - feed aggregator for GNOME
	liferea-gtkhtml - gtkhtml-based rendering library for Liferea
	liferea-mozilla - mozilla-based rendering library for Liferea
 LINKS:
	http://liferea.sourceforge.net/
	http://liferea.sourceforge.net/
	http://liferea.sourceforge.net/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

nautilus-cd-burner 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 10:09:29 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	libnautilus-burn-dev - Nautilus Burn Library - development version
	libnautilus-burn4 - Nautilus Burn Library - runtime version
	nautilus-cd-burner - CD Burning front-end for Nautilus
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com
smart 0.50~rc1-1
 Component: universe Section: admin on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 11:00:00 +0000 by Michael Vogt <michael.vogt@ubuntu.com> 
smb4k 0.8.0-1
 Component: universe Section: kde on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 13:35:51 +0000 by Steve Kowalik <stevenk@debian.org> 
	smb4k      - A Samba (SMB) share advanced browser for KDE
 LINKS:
	http://smb4k.berlios.de/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

mailscanner 4.57.6-1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: mail on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 21:00:41 -0800 by Jeremie Corbier <jcorbier@ubuntu.com> 
	mailscanner - email virus scanner and spam tagger
 LINKS:
	http://mailscanner.info
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

monodevelop 0.12+dfsg-1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: devel on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 00:11:22 +0100 by Sebastian Droege <slomo@ubuntu.com> 
	monodevelop - C#/Boo/Java/Nemerle/ILasm/ASP.NET Development Environment
	monodevelop-boo - Boo plugin for MonoDevelop
	monodevelop-java - Java plugin for MonoDevelop
	monodevelop-nunit - NUnit plugin for MonoDevelop
	monodevelop-query - MonoQuery plugin for MonoDevelop
	monodevelop-versioncontrol - VersionControl plugin for MonoDevelop
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

evolution 2.9.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: mail on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 21:17:58 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	evolution  - groupware suite with mail client and organizer
	evolution-common - architecture independent files for Evolution
	evolution-dbg - debugging symbols for Evolution
	evolution-dev - development library files for Evolution
	evolution-plugins - standard plugins for Evolution
	evolution-plugins-experimental - experimental plugins for Evolution
 LINKS:
	http://www.novell.com/products/evolution/
	http://www.novell.com/products/evolution/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

wesnoth 1.2-1
 Component: universe Section: games on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 13:21:29 +0000 by Michael Bienia <michael@vorlon.ping.de> 
	wesnoth    - fantasy turn-based strategy game
 LINKS:
	http://www.wesnoth.org/
	http://www.wesnoth.org/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gnome-system-tools 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 14:16:55 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	gnome-system-tools - Cross-platform configuration utilities for GNOME
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

quintuple-agent 1.0.4-9ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: utils on Thu, 11 Jan 2007 12:09:23 -0500 by Daniel T Chen <crimsun@ubuntu.com> 
	quintuple-agent - secure store for secrets (passphrases, etc.)
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gnome-icon-theme 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 17:51:03 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	gnome-icon-theme - GNOME Desktop icon theme
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

pommed 1.1~dfsg-1
 Component: universe Section: utils on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 13:04:32 +0000 by Gauvain Pocentek <gauvainpocentek@gmail.com> 
	pommed     - Apple laptops hotkeys event handler
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

telepathy-gabble 0.5.0-1
 Component: universe Section: net on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 11:19:18 +0000 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	telepathy-gabble - Jabber/XMPP connection manager
 LINKS:
	http://telepathy.freedesktop.org/wiki/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

tcptrace 6.6.1-1.1
 Component: universe Section: net on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 10:57:27 +0000 by Daniel T Chen <crimsun@fungus.sh.nu> 
	tcptrace   - Tool for analyzing tcpdump output
 LINKS:
	http://www.tcptrace.org/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

vino 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 11:08:54 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	vino       - VNC server for GNOME
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

python-tz 2006p-0.1
 Component: main Section: python on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 12:56:04 +0000 by Martin Pitt <martin.pitt@ubuntu.com> 
	python-tz  - Python version of the Olson timezone database
 LINKS:
	http://pytz.sourceforge.net/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gnome-desktop 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: x11 on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 10:32:15 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	gnome-about - The GNOME about box
	gnome-desktop-data - Common files for GNOME 2 desktop apps
	libgnome-desktop-2 - Utility library for loading .desktop files - runtime files
	libgnome-desktop-dev - Utility library for loading .desktop files - development files
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

pyftpd 0.8.4.4
 Component: universe Section: net on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 11:13:54 +0000 by Barry deFreese <bddebian@comcast.net> 
	pyftpd     - ftp daemon with advanced features
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

evolution-webcal 2.9.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 17:43:35 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	evolution-webcal - webcal: URL handler for GNOME and Evolution
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

xchat-gnome 1:0.16-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Wed, 10 Jan 2007 15:47:42 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	xchat-gnome - a new frontend to the popular X-Chat IRC client
	xchat-gnome-common - a new frontend to the popular X-Chat IRC client
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

evolution-data-server 1.9.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 20:45:24 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	evolution-data-server - evolution database backend server
	evolution-data-server-common - architecture independent files for Evolution Data Server
	evolution-data-server-dbg - evolution database backend server with debugging symbols
	evolution-data-server-dev - Development files for evolution-data-server (meta package)
	libcamel1.2-10 - The Evolution MIME message handling library
	libcamel1.2-dev - Development files for libcamel
	libebook1.2-9 - Client library for evolution address books
	libebook1.2-dev - Client library for evolution address books (development files)
	libecal1.2-7 - Client library for evolution calendars
	libecal1.2-dev - Client library for evolution calendars (development files)
	libedata-book1.2-2 - Backend library for evolution address books
	libedata-book1.2-dev - Backend library for evolution address books (development files)
	libedata-cal1.2-6 - Backend library for evolution calendars
	libedata-cal1.2-dev - Backend library for evolution calendars (development files)
	libedataserver1.2-9 - Utility library for evolution data servers
	libedataserver1.2-dev - Utility library for evolution data servers (development files)
	libedataserverui1.2-8 - GUI utility library for evolution data servers
	libedataserverui1.2-dev - GUI utility library for evolution data servers (development files
	libegroupwise1.2-13 - Client library for accessing groupwise POA through SOAP interface
	libegroupwise1.2-dev - Development files for libegroupwise
	libexchange-storage1.2-3 - Backend library for evolution calendars
	libexchange-storage1.2-dev - Backend library for evolution calendars (development files)
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

libipoddevice 0.5.2-1
 Component: universe Section: libs on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 12:50:56 +0000 by Michael Bienia <michael@vorlon.ping.de> 
driconf 0.9.0-2build1
 Component: universe Section: x11 on Fri, 12 Jan 2007 13:19:40 +0000 by Matthias Klose <doko@ubuntu.com> 
	driconf    - DRI configuration applet
 LINKS:
	http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/DriConf
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

tomboy 0.5.3-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: x11 on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 21:12:13 +0100 by Sebastian Droege <slomo@ubuntu.com> 
	tomboy     - desktop note taking program using Wiki style links
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

zope-plonearticle 1:3.2.3-1
 Component: universe Section: web on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 13:14:53 +0000 by Michael Bienia <michael@vorlon.ping.de> 
	zope-plonearticle - plone document that can incorporate images and attachment
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

jack-audio-connection-kit 0.102.20-1
 Component: universe Section: sound on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 13:03:21 +0000 by Daniel T Chen <crimsun@fungus.sh.nu> 
duplicity 0.4.2-10.1build
 Component: universe Section: utils on Fri, 12 Jan 2007 13:19:41 +0000 by Matthias Klose <doko@ubuntu.com> 
	duplicity  - encrypted bandwidth-efficient backup
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

straw 0.26.dsfg.1-2.1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: gnome on Thu, 11 Jan 2007 12:05:31 +0900 by Emmet Hikory <emmet.hikory@gmail.com> 
	straw      - desktop news aggregator for GNOME
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

libgda2 1.2.4-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: libs on Wed, 10 Jan 2007 10:23:17 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	gda2-freetds - FreeTDS backend plugin for GNOME Data Access library for GNOME2
	gda2-mysql - MySQL backend plugin for GNOME Data Access library for GNOME2
	gda2-odbc  - ODBC backend plugin for GNOME Data Access library for GNOME2
	gda2-postgres - PostgreSQL backend plugin for GNOME Data Access library for GNOME
	gda2-sqlite - SQLite backend plugin for GNOME Data Access library for GNOME2
	libgda2-3  - GNOME Data Access library for GNOME2
	libgda2-3-dbg - GDA2 library and debugging symbols
	libgda2-bin - Binnary files for GNOME Data Access library for GNOME2
	libgda2-common - Common files for GNOME Data Access library for GNOME2
	libgda2-dev - Development files for GNOME Data Access library for GNOME2
	libgda2-doc - Documentation files for GNOME Data Access library for GNOME2
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

subtitleeditor 0.12.4-1
 Component: universe Section: x11 on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 11:12:29 +0000 by Michael Bienia <michael@vorlon.ping.de> 
	subtitleeditor - Graphical subtitle editor with sound waves representation
 LINKS:
	http://kitone.free.fr/subtitleeditor/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gcalctool 5.9.10-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: math on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 19:26:27 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	gcalctool  - A GTK2 desktop calculator
	gcalctool-gtk - A GTK2 desktop calculator
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

alacarte 0.11.1.1-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: utils on Thu, 11 Jan 2007 09:14:08 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	alacarte   - easy menu editing
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

jabber 1.4.3-3.1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: net on Wed, 10 Jan 2007 20:52:51 +0200 by ville palo <vi64pa@gmail.com> 
	jabber     - An instant messaging server using the Jabber/XMPP protocol
	jabber-dev - Daemon for the jabber.org Open Source Instant Messenger
 LINKS:
	http://www.jabberd.org/
	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Jabber_client_software
	http://www.jabberd.org/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

ltsp 0.131
 Component: main Section: misc on Thu, 11 Jan 2007 11:13:41 +0100 by Oliver Grawert <ogra@ubuntu.com> 
	ldm        - LTSP display manager
	ltsp-client - LTSP client environment
	ltsp-client-builder - Build an LTSP environment in the installer target
	ltsp-server - Basic LTSP server environment
	ltsp-server-standalone - Complete LTSP server environment
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

knoda 0.8.2-1
 Component: universe Section: kde on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 11:37:02 +0000 by Stephan Hermann <sh@sourcecode.de> 
devede 2.9-0ubuntu1
 Component: multiverse Section: utils on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 22:05:43 +0100 by DUNNEWIND Maxence <maxenced@gmail.com> 
	devede     - Video DVD creator
 LINKS:
	http://www.rastersoft.com
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

librapi2 0.9.3-3
 Component: universe Section: libs on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 11:06:50 +0000 by Barry deFreese <bddebian@comcast.net> 
	librapi2   - Make RAPI calls to a WinCE device, runtime libraries
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gxine 0.5.10-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: graphics on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 15:13:54 -0500 by Daniel T Chen <crimsun@ubuntu.com> 
	gxine      - the xine video player, GTK+/Gnome user interface
	gxineplugin - the xine video player, GTK+/Gnome; launcher plugin for Mozilla
 LINKS:
	http://xinehq.de/
	http://xinehq.de/
	http://xinehq.de/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

egroupware 1.2.106-2.dfsg-1
 Component: universe Section: web on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 10:56:54 +0000 by Daniel T Chen <crimsun@fungus.sh.nu> 
	egroupware - web-based groupware suite
 LINKS:
	http://www.egroupware.org/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gnumed-client 0.2.3-1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: misc on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 16:00:40 +0900 by Emmet Hikory <emmet.hikory@gmail.com> 
	gnumed-client - [Med] Medical practice management - Client
	gnumed-client-debug - [Med] Medical practice management - Client
	gnumed-common - [Med] Medical practice management - common files
	gnumed-doc - [Med] Medical practice management - Documentation
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

rapidsvn 0.9.4-1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: x11 on Thu, 11 Jan 2007 14:05:36 +0900 by Emmet Hikory <emmet.hikory@gmail.com> 
	libsvncpp-dev - Subversion C++ library (development files)
	libsvncpp0c2a - Subversion C++ shared library
	rapidsvn   - A GUI client for subversion
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

listen 0.4.3-1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: sound on Mon, 8 Jan 2007 22:11:06 +0100 by Soren Hansen <sh@linux2go.dk> 
	listen     - A nice music player and manager for GNOME
 LINKS:
	http://listengnome.free.fr/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

packagesearch 2.2.4
 Component: universe Section: admin on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 13:08:39 +0000 by Michael Bienia <michael@vorlon.ping.de> 
	packagesearch - GUI for searching packages and viewing package information
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

nautilus-open-terminal 0.7-1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: gnome on Wed, 10 Jan 2007 17:45:46 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	nautilus-open-terminal - nautilus plugin for opening terminals in arbitrary local paths
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

file-roller 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 09:06:21 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	file-roller - an archive manager for GNOME
 LINKS:
	http://fileroller.sourceforge.net
	http://fileroller.sourceforge.net
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

criawips 0.0.12-0ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: gnome on Wed, 10 Jan 2007 18:32:02 +0100 by Michael Bienia <geser@ubuntu.com> 
	criawips   - A Presentation application for GNOME
	criawips-data - A Presentation application for GNOME
	criawips-doc - Documentation for criawips
	libcriawips-dev - libraries necessary to run criawips, headers
	libcriawips0 - libraries necessary to run criawips
	libcriawips0-dbg - libraries necessary to run criawips, debug package
	libcriawipshelper-dev - helper libraries necessary to run criawips, headers
	libcriawipshelper0 - helper libraries necessary to run criawips
	libcriawipshelper0-dbg - helper libraries necessary to run criawips, debug package
 LINKS:
	http://www.criawips.org
	http://www.criawips.org
	http://www.criawips.org
	http://www.criawips.org
	http://www.criawips.org
	http://www.criawips.org
	http://www.criawips.org
	http://www.criawips.org
	http://www.criawips.org
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

epiphany-browser 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 10:25:45 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	epiphany-browser - Intuitive GNOME web browser
	epiphany-browser-dev - Development files for Epiphany web browser
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

qalculate-kde 0.9.4-2ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: math on Fri, 12 Jan 2007 09:17:05 +0900 by Emmet Hikory <emmet.hikory@gmail.com> 
	qalculate-kde - Powerful and easy to use desktop calculator - KDE version
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

mailody 0.3.0-1
 Component: universe Section: kde on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 13:15:35 +0000 by Jonathan Riddell <jriddell@ubuntu.com> 
	mailody    - fast IMAP mail user agent for KDE
 LINKS:
	http://www.mailody.net/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gossip-telepathy 0.23~svn20070112-0ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: gnome on Fri, 12 Jan 2007 11:00:09 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	gossip-telepathy - friendly Jabber client for GNOME (using Telepathy)
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gnome-menus 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 20:25:23 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	gnome-menus - an implementation of the freedesktop menu specification for GNOME
	libgnome-menu-dev - an implementation of the freedesktop menu specification for GNOME
	libgnome-menu2 - an implementation of the freedesktop menu specification for GNOME
	python-gmenu - an implementation of the freedesktop menu specification for GNOME
 LINKS:
	http://www.freedesktop.org/Standards/menu-spec
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

openais 0.80.2-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: admin on Wed, 10 Jan 2007 07:16:50 +0100 by Fabio M. Di Nitto <fabbione@ubuntu.com> 
	libopenais-dev - standards-based cluster framework (developer files)
	libopenais2 - standards-based cluster framework (libraries)
	openais    - standards-based cluster framework (daemon and modules)
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

ipac-ng 1.31-3ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: net on Wed, 20 Dec 2006 11:30:50 +0000 by Padmanabhan Palanivelu <padmanabhan.palanivelu@gmail.com> 
	ipac-ng    - IP Accounting for iptables (kernel >=2.4)
 LINKS:
	https://sf.net/projects/ipac-ng/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gnome-themes 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 19:30:17 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	gnome-accessibility-themes - accessibility themes for the GNOME 2 desktop
	gnome-themes - official themes for the GNOME 2 desktop
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

dolphin 0.8.1-0ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: kde on Thu, 11 Jan 2007 00:41:38 +1100 by Sarah Hobbs <hobbsee@ubuntu.com> 
	dolphin    - File manager for KDE focusing on usability
 LINKS:
	http://enzosworld.gmxhome.de
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gedit 2.17.3-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 17:55:38 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	gedit      - light-weight text editor
	gedit-common - light-weight text editor support files
	gedit-dev  - light-weight text editor
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

libphp-adodb 4.93a-1
 Component: universe Section: web on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 11:07:43 +0000 by Barry deFreese <bddebian@comcast.net> 
	libphp-adodb - The 'adodb' database abstraction layer for php
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

zenity 2.17.3-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 21:54:01 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	zenity     - Display graphical dialog boxes from shell scripts
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

celementtree 1.0.5-8ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: python on Fri, 12 Jan 2007 16:32:19 +0100 by Matthias Klose <doko@ubuntu.com> 
	python-celementtree - Light-weight toolkit for XML processing
 LINKS:
	http://effbot.org/zone/celementtree.htm
	http://effbot.org/zone/celementtree.htm
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

encadre-image 0.7-0ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: graphics on Sun, 17 Dec 2006 12:03:01 +0100 by Cyril LAVIER <cyril.lavier@gmail.com> 
	encadre-image - A simple program to customize and to manage pictures
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gnome-vfs-obexftp 0.2-0ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: gnome on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 10:49:51 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	gnome-vfs-obexftp - Obex FTP GnomeVFS module
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

xfce4-mpc-plugin 0.2.0-1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: x11 on Thu,  4 Jan 2007 13:28:57 +0100 by Gauvain Pocentek <gauvainpocentek@ubuntu.com> 
	xfce4-mpc-plugin - Xfce panel plugin which serves as client for MPD music player
 LINKS:
	http://goodies.xfce.org/projects/panel-plugins/xfce4-mpc-plugin/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

smpeg-xmms 0.3.5-5.1
 Component: universe Section: graphics on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 13:34:23 +0000 by William Grant <william.grant@ubuntu.org.au> 
	smpeg-xmms - SDL MPEG Player Library - XMMS plugin
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

mairix 0.17-2ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: mail on Wed, 10 Jan 2007 07:49:38 +0900 by Emmet Hikory <emmet.hikory@gmail.com> 
	mairix     - indexes and searches email in locally stored email
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

zope-formulator 1.11.2-1
 Component: universe Section: web on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 13:14:08 +0000 by Michael Bienia <michael@vorlon.ping.de> 
	zope-formulator - tool to create and validate web forms in zope
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gnome-utils 2.17.1-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 11:38:00 +0100 by Daniel Holbach <daniel.holbach@ubuntu.com> 
	gnome-utils - GNOME desktop utilities
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

pastebinit 0.6-0ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: misc on Thu, 07 Dec 2006 20:58:31 +0100 by Stephane Graber <stgraber@stgraber.org> 
	pastebinit - A command line pastebin client
 LINKS:
	http://paste.stgraber.org
	http://pastebin.com
	http://pastebin.ca
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

cowdancer 0.25
 Component: universe Section: utils on Fri,  12 Jan 2007 10:55:36 +0000 by Daniel T Chen <crimsun@fungus.sh.nu> 
	cowdancer  - Copy-on-write directory tree utility.
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

eog 2.17.4-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 21:41:20 +0100 by Sebastien Bacher <seb128@canonical.com> 
	eog        - Eye of Gnome graphics viewer program
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

gnome-screensaver 2.17.5-0ubuntu1
 Component: main Section: gnome on Tue,  9 Jan 2007 13:22:06 +0100 by Oliver Grawert <ogra@ubuntu.com> 
	gnome-screensaver - a screen saver and locker
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

lyricue 1.9.4-0ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: x11 on Thu, 23 Nov 2006 16:54:00 +1000 by Chris Debenham <chris@adebenham.com> 
	lyricue    - The GNU Lyric Display System
 LINKS:
	http://lds.sourceforge.net/
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

k3d 0.6.0.0.ds1-1ubuntu2
 Component: universe Section: graphics on Fri, 12 Jan 2007 13:20:17 +0000 by Matthias Klose <doko@ubuntu.com> 
	k3d        - 3D modeling and animation system
	k3d-dev    - 3D modeling and animation system - Development files
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

stetic 0.1.0~svn.64684-1ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: devel on Mon,  8 Jan 2007 23:59:24 +0100 by Sebastian Droege <slomo@ubuntu.com> 
	stetic     - GNOME and GTK+ GUI designer
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

wine 0.9.29-0ubuntu1
 Component: universe Section: otherosfs on Thu, 11 Jan 2007 13:30:36 +0100 by Stephan Hermann <sh@sourcecode.de> 
	libwine    - Microsoft Windows Compatibility Layer (Dummy Package)
	libwine-dev - Microsoft Windows Compatibility Layer (Dummy Package)
	wine       - Microsoft Windows Compatibility Layer (Binary Emulator and Librar
	wine-dev   - Microsoft Windows Compatibility Layer (Development files)
 LINKS:
	http://packages.ubuntu.com

</pre>

=== In The Press ===

==== Ubuntu Lite Vs. Xubuntu ====

MadPenguin, a Linux news and reviews website has compared the Xubuntu and Ubuntu Lite (a Ubuntu derivative) distributions.

The verdict? Install Xubuntu.

 "And, as surprising as this may sound, I would suggest totally ignoring Ubuntu Lite, as I can’t see any advantage to it over Xubuntu whatsoever. Any speed advantages can be mirrored by simply installing the Ice windows manager after installing Xubuntu."

Read the full article at: http://madpenguin.org/cms/?m=show&id=7707

=== Meetings and Events ===

==== Tuesday, January 16, 2007 ====

===== Technical Board Meeting =====

Start: 20:00
End: 22:00

*** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
*** Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoardAgenda 

==== Wednesday, January 17, 2007 ====

===== Edubuntu Meeting =====

Start: 20:00
End: 22:00

*** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
*** Agenda: https://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuMeetingAgenda 

==== Thursday, January 18, 2007 ====

===== Ubuntu Development Team Meeting =====

Start: 08:00
End: 10:00

*** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting 

==== Saturday, January 20, 2007 ====

===== Xubuntu Meeting =====

Start: 15:00
End: 17:00

*** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
*** Topic: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings 

===== Ubuntu US LoCo Team Mentor Meeting =====

Start: 17:00

*** Info: US Teams Mentor Wiki
*** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-us 

==== Monday, January 22, 2007 ====

===== Fiesty Developer Sprint =====

Start: 2007-01-22 09:00
End: 2007-01-26 23:59

*** Location: Oslo, Norway 

=== Community Spotlight - Process of the Week ===

==== Main Inclusion Report ====

In order for a package to be included in the set of fully supported Ubuntu packages (the main section of the repositories), it must go through an approval process to show that it is fit to be covered by security-related and QA support.  This process consists basically of some pre-application discussion, filling out a form, and then having that form reviewed; it is pretty straightforward.  Talk about it with a few people on the ubuntu-devel IRC channel and mailing ahead of time to get an idea of any issues that may need to be addressed first. When the package feels ready, it will need to have what's called a Main Inclusion Request (or MIR) filled out and filed.

Want to fill out an MIR for your favourite universe package? Read on:

To get started, you will need to create a blank request to start filling out.  This is done on the Ubuntu wiki, and yours should be located at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionReportPackageName.  Simply replace PackageName with of course the name of the package in your browser's location bar, and if the page exists, you can stop here and contact the page author to collaborate, and if not create the page from the MainInclusionReportTemplate (list on the left).  Also check the list of existing ones on UbuntuMainInclusionQueue in case someone named it differently.  The template will list the sections you need to fill out, and make sure you do all of the sections.  Note that MIRs are written for source packages, not binary builds.

A MIR includes a number of pieces of information about a package to show it meets various requirements for consideration.  There should be a link to the source package within the universe section of the Ubuntu repositories, showing that it already exists in universe (which is another process to get into).  It must be available for all supported architectures (as applicable).  Next is the rationale, and it is important that there be a strong rationale for including the package.  This should include things like being useful for a broad portion of the user base, being a new dependency or build dependency of a package that is already supported, the source was in another package in main that has been split, or replaces a package currently being supported while having higher quality and/or better features.  Generally it should not duplicate the functionality of another package in main.  Make sure to make a solid case for inclusion in your rationale section.

Another major point that will be looked at very closely is the packages security record.  Its recent history and current state must be such that it can be confidently supported for 18 months (the normal life cycle of Ubuntu releases) without exposing users to an inappropriate level of risk.  This section should cite security tracking services to show the packages record, note that it does not open any ports, and it may be useful to mention any people who have already reviewed the source code, in addition to those that will after you submit the request.

Next should be some notes regarding quality assurance for the package.  You may wish to describe the installation and setup process for it, or otherwise show that it can be made to work properly with a reasonable amount of configuration and reading of documentation after installation.  Next note any debconf questions it asks and their priorities, none of which can be above "medium".  Link to bug listings in Launchpad, Debian, and upstream to show that the package is without critical or showstopper bugs and is reasonably maintained.  Also, note anything about hardware, as it shouldn't deal with exotic things that Ubuntu can't support.

Finally, on some technicalities, demonstrate that the package complies with the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard, Debian Policy, Debian library packaging guide standards, standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, and standard patch system conventions.  Also, all dependencies need to be in main as well (or requested along with your package).

Now!  Once that's all taken care of, you're ready to submit the request.  To do so, add a link to it on UbuntuMainInclusionQueue, and also send an e-mail to the ubuntu-devel mailing list with a link to the page you've just created.  If you don't get any bites right away, start looking around for a core dev who can look it over for you.  (You may want someone to check before you submit too, as a preliminary step.)  Now just sit back and wait, and answer any questions and make any corrections as you get feedback from the reviewing developer.  If all goes well, it will eventually be added to the seed for main.

References: UbuntuMainInclusionRequirements, UbuntuMainInclusionQueue, MainInclusionReportTemplate

=== Updates and security for 6.06 and 6.10 ===

==== Security Updates ====

* USN-403-1: X.org vulnerabilities - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-403-1
* USN-404-1: MadWifi vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-404-1
* USN-405-1: fetchmail vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-405-1
* USN-406-1: OpenOffice.org vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-406-1 

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

* langpack-locales 2.3.18.1~prop1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-January/012327.html

==== Ubuntu 6.10 Updates ====

* tzdata 2006p-0ubuntu6.10~prop1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-January/008128.html
* gnome-system-tools 2.15.5-0ubuntu5~prop2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-January/008129.html

=== Bug Stats ===

*** Open (20873) + 2 over last week
*** Critical (21) + 1 over last week
*** Unconfirmed (10706) + 75 over last week
*** Unassigned (15810) no change over last week
*** All bugs ever reported (71251) + 751 over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see [WWW] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs

Check out the bug statistics: [WWW] http://people.ubuntu-in.org/~carthik/bugstats/ 

=== UWN #: A sneak peek ===

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at:: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Isabelle Duchatelle
* Martin Albisetti
* Cody A.W. Somerville
* Tony Yarusso
* anyone else that contributes
* And many others

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page.
