{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 40%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #b9defa; font-size: 0.90em;" :> '''Go back to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings | The Meetings Page]]</nowiki>'''
|}
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #EDE7EA ;"> Who
| Subject
| Details
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
| Say '''o/''' when asked
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
| Discussing Utopic Unicorn Blueprints
| https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming
|-
| <nowiki>[[jeanmarc-gailis|JƒÅnis-Marks Gailis]]</nowiki>
| Discussing Utopic Docs/Markting Stuff Translation
| https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/translations-utopic-unicorn-roadmap
|-
| <nowiki>[[aldomann]]</nowiki>
| Discussing Website design
| https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/ubuntu-gnome-website-look+feel
|-
| Anybody
| Any Other Business
| A final round up
|}

== Time ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 30%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #d5e5ff; font-size: 0.90em;" :> <<BR>> '''Plan A*: ''' <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20140622T21&ah=1 | Sun, 22- June, 2014, 21:00 GMT]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 30%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #d5e5ff; font-size: 0.90em;" :> <<BR>> '''Plan B*: ''' <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20140622T15&ah=1 | Sun, 22- June, 2014, 15:00 GMT]]</nowiki>
|}

<<BR>>
'''*''' Why there are two times? please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings#Day_and_Time | this link]]</nowiki>.

== Place of the meeting ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 30%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #d5d5ff; font-size: 0.90em;" :> <<BR>>IRC: irc.freenode.org <<BR>>Channel: #ubuntu-gnome <<BR>>'''Webchat link : <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-gnome | Click Here]]</nowiki>''' <<BR>>
|}

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-gnome: Utopic Unicorn Roadmap for Ubuntu GNOME, 22 Jun at 21:05 &mdash; 22:31 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-gnome/2014/ubuntu-gnome.2014-06-22-21.05.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Ubuntu GNOME meetings for UU-Cycle ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu GNOME meetings for UU-Cycle" started at 21:07.

==== Discussing Utopic Unicorn Blueprints ====
The discussion about "Discussing Utopic Unicorn Blueprints" started at 21:10.

** ''LINK:'' https://trello.com/ 
** ''ACCEPTED:'' Ubuntu GNOME Team Leaders Team/Council + Acting TL for each sub-team  (amjjawad, 21:39)
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad to do the paper work of "Ubuntu GNOME Team Leaders Team/Council + Acting TL for each sub-team"

==== Ubuntu GNOME HR Sub-Team ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu GNOME HR Sub-Team" started at 21:41.

** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/hr-sub-team 
** ''ACCEPTED:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/hr-sub-team  (amjjawad, 21:49)
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad to take care of the paperwork of: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/hr-sub-team

==== Discussing Website design ====
The discussion about "Discussing Website design" started at 21:49.

** ''LINK:'' http://cl.ly/image/031I1y2o1r0D 
** ''LINK:'' http://torios.org/ 
** ''LINK:'' http://torios.org/ and http://torios.org/news/ are twoo different areas ... one HTML and one is WordPress
** ''ACCEPTED:'' agreed to have separate blog on our website for news with the same theme as the main site  (amjjawad, 22:08)
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad todo the paperwork of the new suggestion for the website of Ubuntu GNOME to have a dedicated section for news with the same theme as the main site
** ''LINK:'' http://ubuntugnome.org/ 
** ''LINK:'' http://ubuntugnome.org/ 
** ''LINK:'' http://ubuntugnome.org/documentation/ 
** ''ACTION:'' to carry on with the website talk on the mailing list and at the next week meeting
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad satya164 and aldomann2 to discuss about the Artwork stuff on next week
** ''ACTION:'' next week meeting will be at 21:00 GMT on Sunday and darkxst will confirm whether he will attend or not
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad to set the agenda for next week meeting and ask the team to edit it
** ''LINK:'' http://ubuntugnome.org/contact-us/ 
** ''ACTION:'' we need to discuss in more details about website next week amjjawad aldomann2 and satya164
** ''ACTION:'' discuss on the next week meeting whether to create a project on Launchpad for the new website or not amjjawad
** ''ACTION:'' satya164 is having problems with Sunday Time meetings - amjjawad to check whether we could do something about it or not and check with darkxst

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* aldomann
** amjjawad satya164 and aldomann2 to discuss about the Artwork stuff on next week
** we need to discuss in more details about website next week amjjawad aldomann2 and satya164
* aldomann2
** amjjawad satya164 and aldomann2 to discuss about the Artwork stuff on next week
** we need to discuss in more details about website next week amjjawad aldomann2 and satya164
* amjjawad
** amjjawad to do the paper work of "Ubuntu GNOME Team Leaders Team/Council + Acting TL for each sub-team"
** amjjawad to take care of the paperwork of: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/hr-sub-team
** amjjawad todo the paperwork of the new suggestion for the website of Ubuntu GNOME to have a dedicated section for news with the same theme as the main site
** amjjawad satya164 and aldomann2 to discuss about the Artwork stuff on next week
** amjjawad to set the agenda for next week meeting and ask the team to edit it
** we need to discuss in more details about website next week amjjawad aldomann2 and satya164
** discuss on the next week meeting whether to create a project on Launchpad for the new website or not amjjawad
** satya164 is having problems with Sunday Time meetings - amjjawad to check whether we could do something about it or not and check with darkxst
* darkxst
** next week meeting will be at 21:00 GMT on Sunday and darkxst will confirm whether he will attend or not
** satya164 is having problems with Sunday Time meetings - amjjawad to check whether we could do something about it or not and check with darkxst
* satya164
** amjjawad satya164 and aldomann2 to discuss about the Artwork stuff on next week
** we need to discuss in more details about website next week amjjawad aldomann2 and satya164
** satya164 is having problems with Sunday Time meetings - amjjawad to check whether we could do something about it or not and check with darkxst

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* amjjawad (262)
* satya164 (84)
* aldomann2 (41)
* stratus_ss_ (27)
* darkxst (18)
* aldomann (16)
* meetingology (13)
* ahoneybun (9)
* Noskcaj (2)
* ubot5 (1)
* hiren90 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 21:05 <amjjawad> #startmeeting Utopic Unicorn Roadmap for Ubuntu GNOME

 21:05 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Jun 22 21:05:19 2014 UTC.  The chair is amjjawad. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 21:05 <meetingology> 

 21:05 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 21:05 <stratus_ss_> i'm sure he will wake up soon

 21:05 <amjjawad> so, who is available?

 21:06 <satya164> o/

 21:06 <stratus_ss_> wait... its like 12:00 hist local time i think on a monday

 21:06 <amjjawad> he replied my email to the list saying he will be here

 21:06 <amjjawad> so guess he will catch up soon hopefully :D

 21:06 <amjjawad> o/

 21:07 <amjjawad> #topic Ubuntu GNOME meetings for UU-Cycle

 21:08 <amjjawad> hello and welcome everyone and thanks for attending :) this is our first meeting for UU Cycle :)

 21:08 <ahoneybun> o/

 21:08 <amjjawad> Before we start, I just want to make sure everyone is aware of our new meeting plan: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings

 21:08 <amjjawad> we shall have weekly meetings as per the wiki page that I just sent :)

 21:09 <amjjawad> this is fixed so please everyone, show some commitment :D

 21:09 <amjjawad> any Q?

 21:09 <stratus_ss_> o/

 21:09 <amjjawad> sure

 21:10 <amjjawad> stratus_ss_, what is your Q?

 21:10 <satya164> I think he was just saying he's here ;)

 21:10 <amjjawad> ohhh ok ...

 21:10 <stratus_ss_> sorry that was delayed from the who was here

 21:10 <amjjawad> no problem :)

 21:10 <stratus_ss_> ya sorry commotion around me... wife fighting with her mother :P

 21:10 <stratus_ss_> very loud

 21:10 <amjjawad> #topic  Discussing Utopic Unicorn Blueprints

 21:11 <amjjawad> hey, look who is here :D

 21:11 <aldomann> Tim is here

 21:11 <amjjawad> the boss is here

 21:11 <amjjawad> welcome darkxst ;)

 21:11 <satya164> Welcome darkxst

 21:11 <amjjawad> some white tea darkxst ? :P

 21:11 <amjjawad> we have started but nothing serious yet ;)

 21:12 <amjjawad> so, let's start the serious part

 21:12 <amjjawad> did everyone have a look at: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/ubuntu-gnome-utopic-unicorn-roadmap

 21:12 <amjjawad> the general and main changes in this cycle will be, as always, on our system AND our community

 21:13 <Noskcaj> o/

 21:14 <amjjawad> on the community side, there are some changes that I'd like to do ... for example, some Sub-Teams are not working as such ... mostly, it is one-man job or task and this is not really good :( we need to get the best of the sub-teams. Each Sub-Teams must work as such :)

 21:14 <amjjawad> Don't you agree?

 21:14 <amjjawad> welcome Noskcaj ;)

 21:14 <satya164> For example amjjawad

 21:14 <satya164> ?

 21:14 <stratus_ss_> I think its a good idea Ali, but sometimes its easier to have the idea then implement

 21:15 <Noskcaj> i agree, but it's probably best we still have the teams. the issue is a lack of people

 21:15 <amjjawad> satya164, example Ubuntu GNOME communications team is ... sorry to say, not active at all.

 21:15 <amjjawad> Ubuntu GNOME brainstorming is even in worse condition

 21:15 <aldomann> For me, as a member and leader of the Artwork team, I think me and Satyajit will be able to work as a team now that we have time to properly plan stuff

 21:16 <amjjawad> the only active sub-teams are: Artwork, Packaging, Doc and Wiki and I usually do the rest myself

 21:16 <amjjawad> Noskcaj, we do have people, they just don't do anything

 21:16 <darkxst> hi all

 21:17 <amjjawad> that is why, we need to review all the sub-teams and give more freedom for each sub-team to do something but at the same time, everyone must go back to his/her TL

 21:17 <satya164> Hi Tim!

 21:17 <amjjawad> darkxst, hello :D

 21:17 <amjjawad> the main problem which is important ... I don't have the time nor the energy to carry on all by myself ...

 21:17 <satya164> So, some work with a deadline?

 21:18 <amjjawad> you may all have noticed that I'm not super active as I used to be. This is because I do a lot all by myself and this is not good at all.

 21:18 <amjjawad> satya164, no deadline, we just need to get the best out of our sub-teams, that is all.

 21:18 <satya164> Yeah true. I'll do whatever I can to help

 21:19 <amjjawad> Wiki and Doc are the best sub-team so far and so the Artwork and packaging

 21:19 <satya164> Yeah, the main question is how to get the best of or sub teams

 21:19 <amjjawad> satya164, good Q :)

 21:19 <amjjawad> We need to clean up.

 21:19 <amjjawad> it is all about quality not quantity

 21:19 <aldomann> Yep, I'm not even sure how many sub teams we have

 21:19 <amjjawad> heheh

 21:20 <satya164> The automatic expiry will take care of cleaning of inactive members. Isn't it?

 21:20 <amjjawad> aldomann, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/SubTeams

 21:20 <amjjawad> yep, that is for sure satya164

 21:20 <aldomann> yep, and time has proven that fact to be right

 21:21 <amjjawad> but what I really have in mind is ... for example ... the marketing team should do marketing. the brainstorming team should do the planning and thinking ... and so on

 21:21 <amjjawad> we don't need sub-teams names sitting on launchpad ;)

 21:21 <satya164> So, my suggestion would be to divide work into small chunks

 21:21 <amjjawad> we need something useful ...

 21:21 <satya164> And assign work with a deadline

 21:21 <amjjawad> actually, no re-structure is required

 21:21 <satya164> The deadline doesn't need to be hard

 21:22 <amjjawad> the deadline is the release day

 21:22 <aldomann> but we need to define the work each sub-team does

 21:22 <satya164> Just a deadline, so we can keep track of the performance

 21:22 <amjjawad> with each cycle, our main deadline is the release of the cycle we are in

 21:22 <amjjawad> aldomann, indeed brother

 21:22 <amjjawad> that is why I wrote everything here: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming

 21:22 <ahoneybun> amjjawad: maybe use trello?

 21:22 <stratus_ss_> i also like the idea of deadlines

 21:23 <stratus_ss_> it helps structure my weeks

 21:23 <amjjawad> this is the main blueprint that has each and every blueprint for all the sub-teams of Ubuntu GNOME

 21:23 <ahoneybun> https://trello.com/

 21:23 <satya164> That's the thing. I think since the deadline is release day, everyone thinks  we still have time. No rush

 21:23 <amjjawad> satya164, that is true and that is the problem :D

 21:23 <amjjawad> we have no time ...

 21:23 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, what is that?

 21:23 <darkxst> release day is not really the deadline, feature freeze is

 21:23 <satya164> So setting a deadline could help

 21:23 <amjjawad> darkxst, indeed but that is system wise

 21:24 <ahoneybun> amjjawad: website to keep track of projects

 21:24 <amjjawad> I'm referring to the community wise

 21:24 <satya164> Trello is a project management software

 21:24 <ahoneybun> Kubuntu uses it

 21:24 <amjjawad> Nuh, Launchpad is great tool

 21:24 <amjjawad> we don't need to use something else, really

 21:25 <satya164> The tools of the trade are only useful if someone is working

 21:25 <amjjawad> so, I don't think there is enough time to go through all the blueprints of all the sub-teams now. I expected that everyone of you have seen it already?

 21:25 <amjjawad> did you guys see it? https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming

 21:25 <aldomann> yep

 21:26 <amjjawad> by tomorrow, these blueprints must be approved :P

 21:26 <amjjawad> so, if you have any Q, please ask

 21:26 <satya164> I just had a look are the artworks part

 21:26 <amjjawad> I didn't add a lot

 21:26 <amjjawad> except one sub-team I added 5 items for it

 21:26 <amjjawad> but the rest, I usually set 3 tasks only for each sub-team

 21:27 <satya164> So, first thing, our website

 21:27 <amjjawad> for example: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/brainstorming-utopic-unicorn-roadmap

 21:27 <stratus_ss_> i read through the brainstorming when you first sent them out

 21:27 <amjjawad> stratus_ss_, that is good to know

 21:28 <stratus_ss_> but its been a little while, i swapped that info to disk, so its being slowly cached

 21:28 <amjjawad> as you all know, I take care of the community side of the project while darkxst takes care of the technical side. BUT we do need your help :)

 21:28 <aldomann> yes, the website should be (for the Artwork and Marketing teams) one of the first things to work on, so that Niels can start drafting the website

 21:28 <amjjawad> aldomann, I will get into this shortly

 21:28 <amjjawad> but before I do, I want to make sure everyone is aware of what I'm talking about and how important our roadmaps are

 21:29 <aldomann> ok, no problem

 21:29 <amjjawad> each sub-team has its own roadmap

 21:29 <amjjawad> I hope this is clear?

 21:29 <satya164> yeah

 21:29 <aldomann> aye

 21:29 <amjjawad> I have a suggestion that I didn't actually put that on a roadmap or anything

 21:29 <amjjawad> what about having a team of the TLs?

 21:29 <satya164> What is TL?

 21:29 <amjjawad> all the TLs in one place to vote for anything related to the system?

 21:30 <amjjawad> Team Leader

 21:30 <aldomann> That'd be great, actually

 21:30 <satya164> Yeah.

 21:30 <amjjawad> because we at least can make sure the TLs are active enough and available to vote

 21:31 <amjjawad> and I'm also thinking to give admin access on Launchpad for someone who could be acting TL

 21:31 <ahoneybun> amjjawad:  a council?

 21:31 <amjjawad> which means, if the TL is away, he/she will be the activing

 21:31 <amjjawad> acting *

 21:31 <amjjawad> indeed

 21:31 <amjjawad> kind of ahoneybun

 21:31 <satya164> Sounds good

 21:31 <amjjawad> the acting TL is very needed ... very

 21:32 <amjjawad> each TL of each Sub-Team should trust at least one of his members

 21:32 <aldomann> For instance I'm subscribed to all the mailing lists to be sure everything that can be related to the Artwork team gets to my eyes, having a "Council" would allow us TL to call for help when in need to any sub team

 21:32 <amjjawad> so he/she can assign the task of acting TL for him/her whenever he/she is away

 21:32 <amjjawad> aldomann, it will give more control for the TL to manage the team actually

 21:33 <amjjawad> no strict roles, let's do this as a voting council only for this cycle and let's see how it goes

 21:33 <amjjawad> what do you all asy?

 21:33 <amjjawad> say*

 21:33 <satya164> Age

 21:34 <ahoneybun> agree

 21:34 <satya164> Agree*

 21:34 <satya164> Stupid spellchecker

 21:34 <amjjawad> darkxst, and aldomann and stratus_ss_ ?

 21:34 <aldomann> A huge yes from my part. I have seen some teams (when I was very involved in elementary l10n teams) because of the inactivity of the TL

 21:35 <stratus_ss_> so to sum up you are saying

 21:35 <aldomann> some teams die*

 21:35 <stratus_ss_> you want to have regular meetings of the TL to make sure they are active

 21:35 <stratus_ss_> and then activities for the project as a whole are voted on

 21:35 <amjjawad> stratus_ss_, that was the first topic I started the meeting with :P

 21:35 <amjjawad> yep

 21:35 <amjjawad> these are the two main tasks for now for that council

 21:36 <amjjawad> weekly meetings + voting for anything

 21:36 <amjjawad> and also we assign the acting TL for each Sub-Team.

 21:36 <amjjawad> I already know some names ;)

 21:36 <stratus_ss_> it makes sense to me, (as a non TL)

 21:36 <amjjawad> okay then, all agree except darkxst didn't yet hear from him?

 21:38 <amjjawad> okay not sure where is darkxst but since everyone agreed, I guess it is accepted :D

 21:39 <stratus_ss_> when votes occur are they required to be unanimous?

 21:39 <stratus_ss_> or do we have kind of an accepted standard for vote splitting

 21:39 <stratus_ss_> i.e. requires 80% to be accepted?

 21:39 <amjjawad> #accepted Ubuntu GNOME Team Leaders Team/Council + Acting TL for each sub-team

 21:39 <amjjawad> majority

 21:39 <amjjawad> if say we're 7

 21:39 <stratus_ss_> majority being 50% + 1

 21:39 <amjjawad> 4 voted yes 3 voted no

 21:39 <amjjawad> it is yes

 21:40 <amjjawad> hmmm, yep

 21:40 <amjjawad> better 50%+1

 21:40 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad to do the paper work of "Ubuntu GNOME Team Leaders Team/Council + Acting TL for each sub-team"

 21:40 * meetingology amjjawad to do the paper work of "Ubuntu GNOME Team Leaders Team/Council + Acting TL for each sub-team"

 21:41 <amjjawad> #topic Ubuntu GNOME HR Sub-Team

 21:41 <amjjawad> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/hr-sub-team

 21:41 * darkxst is back now ;)

 21:41 <amjjawad> have you seen this guys?

 21:41 <amjjawad> I want a very quick yes or no to that idea ;)

 21:41 <stratus_ss_> so is this supposed to be a subset

 21:41 <amjjawad> so we move to the system part of our meeting

 21:41 <stratus_ss_> of marketing

 21:42 <amjjawad> better a new sub-team

 21:42 <amjjawad> I used to do all the recruiting but we need to find more than one person to do so ... or it could be part of the marketing

 21:42 <stratus_ss_> so then what is the purpose of marketing? just simply pimping the brand?

 21:42 <amjjawad> marketing now has translations within

 21:42 <darkxst> I think it is a good idea, but for it to work, I think the HR team needs to be active up to the contribution stage

 21:42 <stratus_ss_> i made the assumption it was part marketing

 21:43 <amjjawad> darkxst, sure thing

 21:43 <amjjawad> we need at least 2-3 people only

 21:43 <amjjawad> as a start ...

 21:43 <aldomann> How would the team work?

 21:44 <amjjawad> stratus_ss_, the marketing and communications team is the team that is in charge of marketing Ubuntu GNOME to the entire wold + communicate with people within the community and outside

 21:44 <amjjawad> aldomann, hunt people and bring them to our team :D

 21:44 <ahoneybun> stratus_ss_: as in social networks?

 21:44 <aldomann> yeah, but how? via social networks, forums, etc?

 21:44 <amjjawad> stratus_ss_, sadly, the marketing and comms team is not yet active ... on the social media channels, I do all the posting alone

 21:45 <aldomann> isn't that already the purpose of our social media pages?

 21:45 <satya164> Writing blog posts about what is going on could help, like weekly

 21:45 <amjjawad> aldomann, social media will be one side of the coin ... we need to start recruiting from real life as well

 21:45 <stratus_ss_> amjjawad, that is unforunate... if there is no marketing then i guess there would be no recruiting

 21:45 <amjjawad> satya164, this is INDEED what I want in this cycle ... I want the marketing team to write each and everything we do daily so that we keep our channels as busy as possible

 21:46 <darkxst> just finding the people is not enough, as we have seen in the past, lots of people offer to help then just disappear

 21:46 <satya164> Real life? Meaning people who we could meet?

 21:46 <amjjawad> darkxst, indeed :(

 21:46 <amjjawad> satya164, I mean by real life each one of us ask his real life friends, colleagues, etc to join

 21:47 <amjjawad> those of us who are still go to school, etc can help a lot

 21:47 <satya164> I've seen Mozilla guys. They are very much active. They meet, discuss things etc.

 21:47 <amjjawad> live contact is much better than writing

 21:47 <satya164> Keeps them motivated

 21:47 <amjjawad> we don't need a lot of people, we need the most active people

 21:47 <aldomann2> Sorry, Polari keeps disconnecting

 21:47 <satya164> Yeah. True.

 21:47 <amjjawad> aldomann2, no worries

 21:47 <aldomann2> I agree about someone writing the blog

 21:48 <amjjawad> so, if you guys think we should go ahead with HR, let me know ;)

 21:48 <amjjawad> agree all? or you think it is not good idea?

 21:48 <amjjawad> let's vote

 21:48 <amjjawad> +1

 21:48 <aldomann2> With the new website we could focus in that part

 21:48 <amjjawad> aldomann2, indeed ;)

 21:48 <darkxst> +1

 21:48 <aldomann2> +1

 21:48 <satya164> aldomann2 http://scrollback.io/ubuntu-gnome

 21:48 <stratus_ss_> +1

 21:49 <amjjawad> #accepted https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/hr-sub-team

 21:49 <satya164> +1

 21:49 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad to take care of the paperwork of: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/hr-sub-team

 21:49 * meetingology amjjawad to take care of the paperwork of: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/hr-sub-team

 21:49 <amjjawad> #topic  Discussing Website design

 21:49 <amjjawad> aldomann2, are you guys ready?

 21:50 <satya164> I have a mockup

 21:50 <amjjawad> satya164, interesting :D

 21:50 <satya164> aldomann2 can you show it?

 21:50 <amjjawad> could it be a link that you can add to the whitebaord of the blueprints?

 21:50 <aldomann2> It's on the mailing list

 21:50 <satya164> I'm on mobile

 21:51 <amjjawad> okay, no worries, we can see that later

 21:51 <aldomann2> http://cl.ly/image/031I1y2o1r0D

 21:51 <aldomann2> If satya164 hasn't made any modification, that's the mockup

 21:51 <amjjawad> wordpress, right?

 21:51 <satya164> I didn't

 21:52 <stratus_ss_> that looks nice, i like the default background in the header

 21:52 <amjjawad> it is simple and short

 21:52 <satya164> It's a mockup. We need to code it as a WordPress theme I guess

 21:52 <amjjawad> I don't mind that one but I'd suggest to look at as many suggestions as possible

 21:52 <amjjawad> let me share what I have in mind for our website

 21:53 <aldomann2> Niels Vermaut, who is not here as I can see, is gonna help with the coding

 21:53 <amjjawad> have a look at: http://torios.org/ - forget the design

 21:53 <amjjawad> and http://torios.org/news/

 21:53 <amjjawad> there is a dedicated area for 'news'.

 21:54 <amjjawad> this means, if you like the idea, we could do the same ... our website could have two areas one for daily or regular news

 21:54 <amjjawad> one area for information that stay there and updated only when needed

 21:54 <aldomann2> That'd be the purpose of the "Blog" section, right?

 21:54 <satya164> Isn't the dedicated news area will be the blog?

 21:54 <amjjawad> aldomann2, more or less yes

 21:55 <darkxst> we really should have a features/tour page for the latest release as well

 21:55 <amjjawad> but what I have in mind is actually take out the blog side of the current website to a dedicated area

 21:55 <amjjawad> darkxst, I highly agree

 21:55 <satya164> Yeah.

 21:55 <aldomann2> ok

 21:55 <amjjawad> you think the Wiki Team could help? darkxst

 21:55 <amjjawad> sort of a quick guide?

 21:55 <aldomann2> how about the main page: download button and feature tour?

 21:56 <darkxst> aldomann2, yep

 21:56 <ahoneybun> satya164: solid work

 21:56 <amjjawad> aldomann2, seems good to me

 21:56 <amjjawad> but who should do the tour?

 21:56 <amjjawad> is that going to be a graphical one? or text? or both?

 21:56 <satya164> The main page should have as few things as possible in my opinion. After all, it's our landing page

 21:57 <amjjawad> it seems that the website project will be big one ;)

 21:57 <satya164> We won't want it to have information overload

 21:57 <darkxst> screenshots and text'

 21:57 <aldomann2> nothing too complicated, something like this: http://www.gnome.org/gnome-3/

 21:57 <amjjawad> satya164, that is exactly why I'm suggesting to do it like ToriOS website

 21:57 <amjjawad> one section for news, other for the rest of the info

 21:57 <satya164> Thanks ahoneybon

 21:57 <amjjawad> http://torios.org/

 21:58 <darkxst> amjjawad, that has way too much stuff on the homepage!

 21:58 <satya164> Yeah. In the mockup you can see that the only the latest post from blog is there. The blog will be fully separate

 21:58 <amjjawad> I think we should great a project on launchpad for the website and see who is interested to join .. I don't have much of plans for my wiki team so I can send my knights to the website project :D

 21:59 <amjjawad> darkxst, you mean http://torios.org/ ? have a look at the news tab ... it is a wordpress while the rest of the wbesite is simple HTML

 21:59 <amjjawad> satya164, which mean a sub-domain ??

 21:59 <satya164> Yes. The ToriOS website has a lot of stuff on the homepage

 22:00 <amjjawad> http://torios.org/ and http://torios.org/news/ are twoo different areas ... one HTML and one is WordPress

 22:00 <satya164> Yes, subdomain will be the best

 22:00 <darkxst> amjjawad, that seems pretty irrellevant

 22:00 <amjjawad> forget the details :D I'm talking about the idea of having the new section on a different place

 22:01 <satya164> I guess we all agree with the blog being separate

 22:01 <amjjawad> darkxst, what is your plan then to make our website showing the latest post only? instead of everything as now :(

 22:01 <aldomann2> I agree. I mean, there's a huge BLOG link in the home page, there's no need to furthuer integration

 22:01 <amjjawad> satya164, not sure darkxst agrees?

 22:01 <satya164> Yes. Coz the user visits the page usually to download

 22:02 <amjjawad> satya164, or to find some kind of information ...

 22:02 <satya164> And having the latest post could help in showing latest announcements

 22:02 <amjjawad> so, what darkxst thinks about that?

 22:02 <amjjawad> waiting for his opinion ..

 22:03 <stratus_ss_> sorry all i have to idle i am being called for supper

 22:03 <darkxst> I kind of think the homepage should show case the release

 22:03 <amjjawad> stratus_ss_, no worries enjoy your meal

 22:03 <satya164> Yeah, for information we can have the links in the header and footer. Most important ones at header

 22:03 <darkxst> if you want a seperate blog, thats fine

 22:03 <amjjawad> darkxst, it is just a suggestion ... you guys can think about it and vote later if you wish I don't mind

 22:04 <satya164> I agree on separate blog

 22:04 <amjjawad> take Xubuntu website for example ... it is super neat and organized

 22:05 <amjjawad> okay then, guess we agreed to have a separate blog?

 22:05 <amjjawad> please confirm all :)

 22:05 <aldomann2> yeah, but I think we could get the same final result as Xubuntu

 22:05 <amjjawad> if you wish, we can finish that on the mailing list

 22:05 <aldomann2> even if it's a separate page, if has the same theming

 22:05 <amjjawad> sure

 22:06 <aldomann2> that's fine

 22:06 <amjjawad> aldomann2, I'd like to have the same theme for sure

 22:06 <satya164> Yeah. It needs to have same look as our homepage

 22:06 <amjjawad> the idea is to get a more organized website

 22:06 <amjjawad> and more user friendly one

 22:06 <aldomann2> that's our goal :)

 22:06 <satya164> Yeah.

 22:06 <amjjawad> we have beautiful system :D

 22:06 <amjjawad> let's have a beautiful website :D

 22:07 <amjjawad> okay then, seems you all agreed on the separate blog with both theme ...

 22:07 <amjjawad> same theme* - sorry

 22:07 <aldomann2> yep, now I have somethig to discuss about the sections of the website

 22:07 <darkxst> yep

 22:08 <aldomann2> let's compare the mockup and the current website

 22:08 <amjjawad> #accepted agreed to have separate blog on our website for news with the same theme as the main site

 22:08 <aldomann2> as you can see, FAQ and Wiki have gained a more important place in the header

 22:08 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad todo the paperwork of the new suggestion for the website of Ubuntu GNOME to have a dedicated section for news with the same theme as the main site

 22:08 * meetingology amjjawad todo the paperwork of the new suggestion for the website of Ubuntu GNOME to have a dedicated section for news with the same theme as the main site

 22:09 <aldomann2> do you agree in this?

 22:09 <amjjawad> http://ubuntugnome.org/

 22:09 <darkxst> maybe the FAQ could move onto the wiki

 22:10 <aldomann2> or maintain two versions

 22:10 <aldomann2> I think it's nice to new users to have all the main info in the website

 22:10 <satya164> I agree

 22:11 <amjjawad> the main and basic info

 22:11 <amjjawad> if he/she wants more, then the wiki area is waiting

 22:11 <aldomann2> amjjawad, that's exactly what I have in mind

 22:11 <amjjawad> putting everything on the website is an overkill

 22:11 <aldomann2> somehitng like a "Know Ubuntu GNOME 101"

 22:11 <ubot5> Error: Gnome bug 101 could not be found

 22:12 <satya164> lol ^

 22:12 <amjjawad> to update that, you need ages and for new users, they will see a lot of information which might push them away

 22:12 <aldomann2> update what?

 22:12 <amjjawad> aldomann2, this is what darkxst was talking about about the tour

 22:13 <amjjawad> aldomann2, I'm saying if we put everything on the website, it would be an overkill to maintain that

 22:13 <amjjawad> that is why we put everything on our Wiki arae

 22:13 <satya164> Feature tour?

 22:13 <amjjawad> area *

 22:13 <amjjawad> yeah, if we have the tour thing, we could take the rest of the info out

 22:13 <amjjawad> just keep FAQs

 22:13 <aldomann2> I think we only have two sections: Home (tour, very simple, I repreat) and FAQ

 22:13 <amjjawad> and add : for more info, click here

 22:13 <amjjawad> then by clicking on that link, you direct them to our wiki

 22:14 <aldomann2> the rest are links

 22:14 <satya164> We can highlight 3-4 features or homepage. Everything else can be in the wiki

 22:14 <aldomann2> Yes, as in the mockup. Some screenshots and some text

 22:14 <amjjawad> I'd suggest to keep FAQs, and ask them to visit the Wiki for more info

 22:14 <amjjawad> one Q here

 22:15 <amjjawad> are we going to ask for our users opinion?

 22:15 <satya164> Yeah. I agree on separate FAQ

 22:15 <amjjawad> about the website new design

 22:15 <satya164> or at least if FAQ is inside Wiki, a direct link

 22:15 <amjjawad> satya164, FAQs could be a tab

 22:16 <satya164> A separate page, you mean?

 22:16 <amjjawad> instead of Documentation, we mention FAQs as a tab

 22:16 <aldomann2> yes, inside the site

 22:16 <satya164> A link at the header?

 22:16 <amjjawad> and when he/she hits FAQs Tab, there will be a link to direct them to the Wiki

 22:16 <amjjawad> http://ubuntugnome.org/

 22:16 <satya164> Yeah

 22:16 <amjjawad> see the website now, it has Documentation (long word)

 22:17 <amjjawad> instead, we could replace that with FAQs and add all the needed link inside that FAQs tab

 22:17 <satya164> Yeah

 22:17 <amjjawad> darkxst, what do you think?

 22:17 <darkxst> that is fine

 22:17 <amjjawad> ahoneybun,

 22:18 <amjjawad> aldomann2,

 22:18 <aldomann2> So... FAQ would link to the wiki or it will have some useful links to the Wiki?

 22:19 <amjjawad> now, it links to the Wiki

 22:19 <amjjawad> http://ubuntugnome.org/documentation/

 22:19 <aldomann2> but... http://ubuntugnome.org/documentation/faq/

 22:20 <amjjawad> I guess that was the old one

 22:20 <aldomann2> okay, I wasn't aware of that

 22:20 <amjjawad> when we started to add more info

 22:20 <darkxst> anyway I am not too concerned about the finer details, I will leave that up to you guys

 22:20 <amjjawad> it was an overkill for me to keep updating that arae

 22:20 <amjjawad> darkxst, yeah, and I guess we could carry on with that on the mailing list

 22:21 <aldomann2> if it's easier to the Wiki team, I agree with FAQ being just a link

 22:21 <satya164> Ok

 22:21 <amjjawad> aldomann2, I think we need to talk about that later maybe next week

 22:21 <amjjawad> we passed the one hour already for the meeting ...

 22:22 <aldomann2> that's true

 22:22 <amjjawad> that is why we have weekly meeting starting this week ;)

 22:22 <satya164> How about having our IRC on the website?

 22:22 <amjjawad> so, anything else?

 22:22 <satya164> ^

 22:22 <amjjawad> #action to carry on with the website talk on the mailing list and at the next week meeting

 22:22 * meetingology to carry on with the website talk on the mailing list and at the next week meeting

 22:23 <amjjawad> darkxst, are you going to attend the next week meeting?

 22:23 <amjjawad> or shall we confirm that later?

 22:23 <darkxst> will confirm later in the week

 22:23 <amjjawad> it is same time as this one for the next week in case darkxst is coming. Otherwise, it is 15:00 GMT

 22:23 <amjjawad> sure, no problem

 22:23 <amjjawad> anything else guys?

 22:23 <satya164> Wallpaper contest?

 22:24 <amjjawad> haha

 22:24 <amjjawad> satya164, next week ;)

 22:24 <satya164> Okies

 22:24 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad satya164 and aldomann2 to discuss about the Artwork stuff on next week

 22:24 * meetingology amjjawad satya164 and aldomann2 to discuss about the Artwork stuff on next week

 22:24 <aldomann2> what amjjawad says

 22:25 <satya164> So meeting over?

 22:25 <amjjawad> #action next week meeting will be at 21:00 GMT on Sunday and darkxst will confirm whether he will attend or not

 22:25 * meetingology next week meeting will be at 21:00 GMT on Sunday and darkxst will confirm whether he will attend or not

 22:25 <amjjawad> not yet

 22:25 <amjjawad> satya164, if you wish to add anything now?

 22:25 <satya164> Okay

 22:25 <amjjawad> or shall I just end it and go to zzz :P

 22:25 <aldomann2> go to sleep, my friend

 22:25 <satya164> I wanted to suggest having our IRC link on the website

 22:26 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad to set the agenda for next week meeting and ask the team to edit it

 22:26 * meetingology amjjawad to set the agenda for next week meeting and ask the team to edit it

 22:26 <amjjawad> satya164, it should be on the contact page?!

 22:26 <amjjawad> http://ubuntugnome.org/contact-us/

 22:26 <aldomann2> sure

 22:26 <amjjawad> it is there

 22:26 <satya164> Sure

 22:26 <amjjawad> okay then

 22:26 <amjjawad> I shall end it

 22:26 <satya164> I meant a web interface. Like Scrollback

 22:26 <aldomann2> I'd actually want to mix contact us and getting involved under "COMMUNITY"

 22:26 <amjjawad> darkxst, anything else boss?

 22:27 <aldomann2> but let's discuss that the next week

 22:27 <amjjawad> satya164, ah, you mean they can just start chatting right away?

 22:27 <satya164> Yes. That

 22:27 <amjjawad> hmmmm, for next week I guess

 22:27 <satya164> Okay.

 22:27 <amjjawad> #action we need to discuss in more details about website next week amjjawad aldomann2 and satya164

 22:27 * meetingology we need to discuss in more details about website next week amjjawad aldomann2 and satya164

 22:28 <amjjawad> #action discuss on the next week meeting whether to create a project on Launchpad for the new website or not amjjawad

 22:28 * meetingology discuss on the next week meeting whether to create a project on Launchpad for the new website or not amjjawad

 22:28 <amjjawad> thank you everyone for attending

 22:28 <amjjawad> it was very very helpful meeting

 22:29 <satya164> Could the meeting be shifted to 24 hours before the current time ?

 22:29 <amjjawad> cya next week same time and day and I shall send the details later

 22:29 <amjjawad> you mean Sat?

 22:29 <satya164> Yes

 22:29 <amjjawad> only for next week meeting?

 22:29 <satya164> Coz for me it's Monday

 22:29 <satya164> No. All

 22:29 <amjjawad> Ahaaaa

 22:29 <aldomann2> I think Sat as a regular meeting day would be nice

 22:30 <amjjawad> darkxst,

 22:30 <amjjawad> Sunday is the only day that darkxst can attend :(

 22:30 <satya164> Yeah. I need to go to office in 4 hours ;)

 22:30 <amjjawad> OMG :/

 22:30 <satya164> Ohh :(

 22:30 <satya164> Actually 5-6 hours

 22:30 <amjjawad> #action satya164 is having problems with Sunday Time meetings - amjjawad to check whether we could do something about it or not and check with darkxst

 22:30 * meetingology satya164 is having problems with Sunday Time meetings - amjjawad to check whether we could do something about it or not and check with darkxst

 22:31 <amjjawad> we shall talk about it later ;)

 22:31 <hiren90> nice meeting

 22:31 <satya164> Okay. Thanks

 22:31 <amjjawad> I put a note for that

 22:31 <amjjawad> satya164, you're more than welcome

 22:31 <amjjawad> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

== Logs ==

The logs from previous meetings can be found at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings#Previous_Meetings | this link]]</nowiki>.
