{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Research ==
To be more effective with our communications, the <nowiki>[[..-|UbuntuAdverts Team]]</nowiki> should understand more about with whom we are trying to reach and how we are trying to reach/communicate with them.

=== Weighing your words ===

Weigh your verbs and nouns with care. Please add to these from your experience.

Change = - Alternatives: Transition, Upgrade. (note that when you 'change' from Windows XP to Windows 7 it is an 'upgrade'. The fact that some of your peripherals will no longer work, and that there are huge differences does not appear to be 'Change').

'Transition' is neutral

Upgrade++

Simple +

Freedom +

Computer -

PC +

'Operating system' may well be an unknown term and should be avoided.  "I don't have an operating system." might be a typical response.

Linux is double negative --

'Ubuntu' is often an unknown word and invites some curiosity.

=== Current ===
What are the current user research projects, what are their goals, how are they being executed and what are their outcomes?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Overview
| Start
| End
| Results
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-advertising/msg00325.html|Windows users switching to Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
| Research easy entry into Ubuntu from the mindset of the average Windows user. Aim is to pick a particular 'need' and to follow through whether this need can be met under Ubuntu, how easily and how successfully.
| December 2010
| ?
| ?
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?formkey=dHNjVVYtZHpaajE1Z0JqWlA4SUdVVFE6MQ|Your experience with Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
| Tell us about your experience using Ubuntu.
| December 2010
| ?
| ?
|}
 
The mailing list thread "Windows users switching to Ubuntu" is summarised in <nowiki>[[attachment:Research_summary.pdf]]</nowiki>

Here is an interesting report from Ed Bernard about teenagers taking to Ubuntu - food for thought: <nowiki>[[attachment:ed_bernard_rpt.pdf]]</nowiki>

Here is a report of talks given to UK further education students by Alan Cocks in February 2011: <nowiki>[[attachment:Talks-Ubuntu-for-students-report]]</nowiki>

Be encouraged: see <nowiki>[[http://www.comet.co.uk/p/Netbooks/buy-PACKARD-BELL-DOT-S-018-BLK-Netbook/652032#customerReviews]]</nowiki>

Quotable quote from the UbuntuMini support list on Google:

"I'm in the US but thanks for the offer.

It never fails to amaze me how incredibly helpful everyone in the
linux community is.  Last night the way I got the minimal installer to
begin with is I asked in the #ubuntu channel on freenode, and someone
made me a dd-able image that I was able to download."

=== Resources ===
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Research/unity%20hater
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-advertising/|Email discussions]]</nowiki> amongst the UbuntuAdverts team members
* <nowiki>[[attachment:alan_cocks.txt]]</nowiki> is a report from Alan Cocks about working at computer fairs.
* Some suggestions for policy for discussion and comment: <nowiki>[[attachment:policy_suggestions.pdf]]</nowiki>
* Cassidy's <nowiki>[[attachment:Using Ubuntu Version 2.odt|Using Ubuntu]]</nowiki> document (v2)
* Amended version of above for Natty <nowiki>[[attachment:simple_guide_natty_unity.pdf]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/229187/30_days_withubuntu_linux.html|PC World, June 2011]]</nowiki> - 30 Days with Ubuntu series of articles
