{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting notes:
http://openetherpad.org/XEWwmv7oy3

=== full log ===
<pre>
(12:01:13 PM) mattgriffin: hello all. shall we have a meeting now?
(12:01:19 PM) barrydrake: OK
(12:01:24 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: hi :)
(12:01:31 PM) barrydrake: Hi
(12:01:35 PM) mattgriffin: UndifineD: you available?
(12:03:20 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: i'd like to use this time to work with you on the 2 ideas for campaign 1. sound good?
(12:03:42 PM) barrydrake: Yes - OK with me.
(12:03:58 PM) mattgriffin: cool. so Agenda item 1 then...
(12:04:06 PM) barrydrake: right
(12:04:20 PM) mattgriffin: ideas 5 and 6 from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Campaigns/education/Team0
(12:04:41 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: did you see the announcement about the cloud-based trial that will be available for 11.04?
(12:05:14 PM) barrydrake: Yes - just read it. Looks exciting - especially coming from where it does
(12:05:20 PM) mattgriffin: so there will be multiple ways that people can try Ubuntu: burn a CD, make a USB stick, or try Ubuntu through a web browser
(12:05:49 PM) barrydrake: That's excellent!
(12:06:19 PM) mattgriffin: yeah. the web browser trial will be similar to the server trial that was offered at 10.10... just requires answering a few questions and you're off and running from any OS
(12:07:03 PM) barrydrake: Fantastic! It needs to be linked from the www.ubuntu web site as well
(12:07:55 PM) mattgriffin: it should be. sounds like it will be ready to go in a few weeks (just after the 11.04 release)
(12:08:01 PM) UndifineD: o/
(12:08:07 PM) mattgriffin: UndifineD: HEY! :)
(12:08:07 PM) UndifineD: done eating
(12:08:18 PM) barrydrake: Welcome
(12:09:03 PM) mattgriffin: so let's look at idea #5 at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Campaigns/education/Team0
(12:09:31 PM) mattgriffin: i'd like to discuss next steps and make a list of what needs to get done in order to implement
(12:10:13 PM) mattgriffin: so the question that jumps out at me is what is the implementation?
(12:10:38 PM) barrydrake: I like the ideas. Don't use social networking much, but I think YouTube (2 mins max) is the best way.
(12:13:07 PM) barrydrake: I think we can build on everyone knowing (and liking) OpenOffice and Firefox - keep pusing other FOSS apps
(12:13:09 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: the challenges i've had with relying on youtube for marketing purposes, for Ubuntu One specifically, is producing enough videos (after the first one) and getting people to watch the videos
(12:13:39 PM) barrydrake: I don't claim to have done any, so you're the expert there
(12:13:44 PM) mattgriffin: heh
(12:14:15 PM) UndifineD: hmmm
(12:14:37 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: i like the focus on FOSS apps b/c many people use them on multiple platforms - for example, lots of Mac and Windows users use Firefox
(12:14:51 PM) mattgriffin: UndifineD: what are your thoughts?
(12:14:56 PM) UndifineD: even getting ubuntu people to retweet your tweets is a challenge
(12:15:10 PM) mattgriffin: UndifineD: yeah
(12:17:49 PM) UndifineD: hakim tried the promotion with the radio station, got banned, and I asked them to unban, asked a couple of questions which were not even answered. merely that hakim is underage
(12:18:07 PM) mattgriffin: banned?
(12:18:12 PM) UndifineD: that station is not keen on adverts i think
(12:18:21 PM) mattgriffin: banned from calling the station?
(12:18:27 PM) UndifineD: yeah
(12:18:37 PM) mattgriffin: yikes. ok
(12:18:41 PM) UndifineD: I was amazed
(12:18:48 PM) mattgriffin: that's weird
(12:18:49 PM) UndifineD: and the answer was one line
(12:19:24 PM) UndifineD: only stating hakim is underage.. that was their full answer to all my questions
(12:19:56 PM) UndifineD: so I left it there, no use to talk to them
(12:20:06 PM) mattgriffin: i'm having trouble thinking of $0 ways to implement idea #5. want to move on to #6?
(12:20:19 PM) barrydrake: ok
(12:20:51 PM) mattgriffin: #6 is a little more straightforward. we pick a day, build a website, and promote the event on twitter
(12:20:52 PM) barrydrake: I like the 'faster PC' approach
(12:22:16 PM) mattgriffin: for World Backup Day, 31 March was a good choice b/c of how some people fear some viruses will attack them on 1 April (April Fools Day)
(12:23:15 PM) mattgriffin: looks like Reddit was an organizer of the event. we could contact them to see if they want to do something similar with us
(12:23:15 PM) UndifineD: oh we are so getting an ubuntu calendar
(12:23:37 PM) barrydrake: Good point! And virus security is a great selling point. Everyone I know has suffered virus threats at some time
(12:24:25 PM) mattgriffin: here's the team we contact - http://www.worldbackupday.net/about.html
(12:25:31 PM) UndifineD: :)
(12:28:01 PM) mattgriffin: i think the next step for idea #6 is to contact those guys ^ to see what we could learn from worldbackupday and see if they're interested in helping us.
(12:28:39 PM) barrydrake: mattgriffin: sounds good to me. Are you going to do it?
(12:28:47 PM) mattgriffin: maybe they could give us some tips on promotion, what worked well and what was a waste of time
(12:28:56 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: yeah. i'll send them a message and CC you guys
(12:29:04 PM) barrydrake: Good thinking#
(12:29:39 PM) mattgriffin: cool. their advice could help with moving idea #5 along so how about we not talk about #5 for now?
(12:30:16 PM) barrydrake: I agree. Lets move on
(12:30:51 PM) mattgriffin: cool. Agenda item #2 - Campaign 2 creative brief
(12:31:12 PM) mattgriffin: i've dropped the ball on this one... UndifineD: i'll will setup some time with you this week and we can work on the brief
(12:31:41 PM) mattgriffin: UndifineD: what time zone are you in?
(12:32:03 PM) mattgriffin: i can setup a meeting time now if you like?
(12:32:52 PM) UndifineD: cest
(12:32:59 PM) UndifineD: not now
(12:33:15 PM) mattgriffin: UndifineD: np. i'll send you an email and we'll setup a time for later next week
(12:33:15 PM) UndifineD: but any time this week is mostly fine
(12:33:19 PM) mattgriffin: cool
(12:34:03 PM) mattgriffin: than i think we can move on to agenda item #3
(12:34:10 PM) barrydrake: OK
(12:34:13 PM) mattgriffin: http://openetherpad.org/XEWwmv7oy3
(12:34:24 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake's notes http://openetherpad.org/cZDc393hcW
(12:34:58 PM) barrydrake: I have two friends trying 10.10 but will not have feedback until next week
(12:35:06 PM) mattgriffin: cool
(12:37:17 PM) ***mattgriffin reads UndifineD's notes
(12:37:43 PM) barrydrake: It's a pity the guy who saved the report doesn't give his details. My sister and I both use Skype with no probnlem
(12:37:48 PM) mattgriffin: skype does seem to be a frequent issue for me and many others
(12:38:02 PM) barrydrake: Why?
(12:38:24 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: i think you're lucky. many have audio issues getting the mic to work
(12:38:51 PM) barrydrake: Audio and camera woked for both of us 'out of the box'
(12:38:57 PM) mattgriffin: wow!
(12:39:17 PM) mattgriffin: :)
(12:39:27 PM) UndifineD: http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/04/14/%23ubuntu-beginners.html
(12:40:15 PM) mattgriffin: UndifineD: what's this?
(12:40:29 PM) UndifineD: i think that log should be one where i talked with a new user about natty
(12:40:58 PM) UndifineD: ah yes, with ray_
(12:43:24 PM) mattgriffin: cool
(12:43:56 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: so we'll see what you find out from the 2 research subjects at the next meeting :)
(12:44:07 PM) barrydrake: Hopefully
(12:45:51 PM) mattgriffin: cool. so let's move on to Agenda item #4 - next meeting agenda and date/time for next meeting
(12:47:02 PM) mattgriffin: Reseach update - barrydrake's 2 users
(12:47:14 PM) barrydrake: One of them loves FOSS - but complains that Ubuntu is 'not compatible'. I reminded him that he had to go out and buy a new scanner when he downgraded from XP to Vista! mattgriffin:
(12:47:31 PM) mattgriffin: haha
(12:48:20 PM) mattgriffin: canonical is trying to do something about that - http://www.canonical.com/engineering-services/certification/hardware-certification/works-with-ubuntu
(12:48:34 PM) UndifineD: great
(12:48:40 PM) barrydrake: That's what we need!
(12:49:01 PM) UndifineD: I want 'mmp-approved' stickers
(12:49:12 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: frequently it's just that there's a Mac and a Windows logo on the box.. then people incorrectly assume that the peripheral doesn't work with ubuntu
(12:49:13 PM) UndifineD: monday morning product
(12:49:48 PM) barrydrake: Campaign to get more manufacturers to show a penguin?
(12:51:12 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: it's being pursued through business relationships... it's good for the peripheral makers b/c it opens them up to a bigger market of users
(12:51:41 PM) barrydrake: Great! The time is ripe.
(12:51:56 PM) mattgriffin: i added a few other items to the agenda for the next meeting
(12:52:08 PM) mattgriffin: Creative briefing for Campaign 2
(12:52:23 PM) mattgriffin: and cover any feedback from Reddit guys on Campaign 1
(12:52:51 PM) barrydrake: All sounds good to me
(12:53:00 PM) mattgriffin: any other things to add?
(12:53:22 PM) UndifineD: ok
(12:56:28 PM) mattgriffin: cool. my Saturday thing ends today so we can go back to the regular meeting time. does that work for you?
(12:56:33 PM) UndifineD: btw my kids love to use ubuntu, they are quite proud to do so, and their classmates still think it is difficult, but they enjoy their (web) games very much even on an older pc
(12:56:43 PM) mattgriffin: :)
(12:57:12 PM) barrydrake: Can we make the meeting time as early as possible?
(12:57:14 PM) UndifineD: they are 10 and 11
(12:57:54 PM) UndifineD: I am pretty much ok with any time or day
(12:57:56 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: sure. was this a good time for both of you?
(12:58:10 PM) barrydrake: 700pm UTC would suit me - earlier would be fine
(12:58:55 PM) barrydrake: Today's time is just great
(12:59:51 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: cool. well let's keep it then. 1700 UTC
(01:00:09 PM) barrydrake: Great
(01:00:20 PM) mattgriffin: so next meeting on 7 May?
(01:00:21 PM) barrydrake: What date?
(01:00:24 PM) mattgriffin: :)
(01:00:33 PM) barrydrake: OK
(01:00:48 PM) mattgriffin: great!
(01:01:10 PM) barrydrake: Before we finish, did either of you look at the Simple Guide?
(01:01:20 PM) UndifineD: not recently
(01:01:21 PM) mattgriffin: haven't yet
(01:01:51 PM) barrydrake: I'm quite pleased with it. I've even put it on my Kindle!
(01:02:15 PM) UndifineD: :)
(01:02:19 PM) mattgriffin: sweet!
(01:02:43 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: is it a pdf on your kindle or the kindle format?
(01:03:28 PM) barrydrake: mobi format ... Calibre makes files and sends them straight to the Kindle
(01:05:12 PM) barrydrake: pdf's on a Kindle are not all that great
(01:05:12 PM) mattgriffin: barrydrake: nice :)
(01:05:13 PM) Takyoji left the room (quit: Remote host closed the connection).
(01:06:12 PM) barrydrake: Have we finished the meeting?
(01:06:22 PM) mattgriffin: i think that's it
(01:06:25 PM) UndifineD: I have nothing
(01:06:37 PM) mattgriffin: thank you! have a great weekend :)
(01:06:46 PM) barrydrake: OK. See you on the 7th. Bye.
(01:06:50 PM) mattgriffin: bye
</pre>
