{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Bug triaging best practices (crimsun) ====
* kernel
** symptoms such as "sound not working", "sound muted", and anything else falling under "not being able to hear sound under Ubuntu but being able to under $another_os" should be triaged against linux-source-2.6.x, where x is the kernel version for that Ubuntu release
*** i.e., use linux-source-2.6.x instead of alsa-driver, generally, because we don't actively patch the alsa-source binary package (against which alsa-driver, which is in universe, is responsible), whereas we do take care of the kernel
*** if alsa-source provides the driver, do not assign to linux-source-*.
***** in previous Ubuntu releases, this was constrained to drivers like the EchoAudio ones
***** if modinfo on the driver returns nothing, then instead of using linux-source-2.6.x as the triaged package, we can use alsa-driver
** u-audio subscribes to alsa-driver but not the former, because bugs against linux-source-2.6.x aren't necessarily audio bugs
*** perfectly acceptable to manually subscribe ubuntu-audio.
** also acceptable to assign bugs to alsa-driver, which will be reassigned.
** bugs that mention volume problems like "regression from Ubuntu X: volume too low" would be linux-source-2.6.x issues, not alsa-utils
*** there are two classes of drivers that will have these types of regressions, the first far more common than the second: HDA- and AC97-based ones, respectively
**** the HDA ones are easier to triage, because we can narrow them to a specific file: the file that is the culprit is based on the HDA codec used, which one can get on an Ubuntu install from ``tail -2 /proc/asound/oss/sndstat''
* userspace
** anything dealing with "volume not being restored properly on (reboot)" or the like falls under alsa-utils
** anything dealing with "resampling sounds very bad" falls under alsa-lib
* Spoke about DebuggingSoundProblems information - separate attachments are good
** http://bulletproof.servebeer.com/alsa/scripts/alsa-info.sh grabs similar info and will find its way into the upstream project <nowiki>[[#upstream/Freenode]]</nowiki>, which should help us

==== Items remaining for the Feisty release (crimsun) ====
* regressions
** AC97 and Intel diff only showed one regression against Edgy; tsmithe will merge kernel-team@ patches that were not applied.
** These tend to show up as headphone quirks, particularly with the multimedia hotkeys (eg, VolUp)
*** Often must bind Headphone and Master channels to fix, best documentation in the source: http://hg.alsa-project.org/alsa-kernel/file/f8284261b2be/Documentation/ALSA-Configuration.txt
*** Tag these bugs in Launchpad as "headphone quirk".
** Malone bug 88332 in linux-source-2.6.20 "low volume through headphones on HP Pavilion ZT3000 (ICH4) [edgy regression]" [Medium,Needs info] https://launchpad.net/bugs/88332
*** we've established that it's an actual kernel<->hardware issue, and since edgy works where feisty doesn't, we'll need to look specifically at sound/{core/,pci/ac97/,pci/intel8x0.c} differences in the git trees
*** in feisty, the header files were shuffled, so we can ignore those changes in sound/pci/ac97/
*** crimsun will manage this bug.
* Influx of bugs
** Monitor IRC
** Forum Ambassadors
** Launchpad<->Forums link
* FreeBob?
** ALSA support would involve recompiling alsa-plugins to enable the jack plugin. This isn't enabled currently as jack-audio-connection-kit is in universe whilst alsa-plugins is in main

==== Looking ahead to Feisty+1 (crimsun) ====
* the first issue here is integrating the DebuggingSoundProblems request info and the alsa-info.sh script into hwdb-client
** well, the first step is to write up a specification so it can be considered for the next development summit in Sevilla
*** one of audio team to be at UDS-Sevilla to champion the spec
** integrating a script into hwdb-client shouldn't be difficult. Keep in mind we need to deal with at least three classes of devices: ISA, PCI, USB
*** pci and usb are fairly straightforward (with the latter substituting lsusb -vv in place of lspci -vvn)
*** isa's a bit more hairy, so I'll need to ask Scott and others about that
*** so, start throwing around ideas for hwdb-client integration, and hopefully by our next meeting we have a better idea of how things should piece together
*** LP home: https://launchpad.net/products/hwdb-client
* Pro audio
** UbuntuStudio is going to drive a different set of requirements focused on much lower latency, jack integration, and so on; ALSA itself needs to be prepared for that
** the most invasive change would be a "realtime"ish kernel
*** it was discussed that the best approach to get any patches in would be a Launchpad spec and convincing of BenC.
*** it was decided that the patches are in fact too invasive, and that we should let them filter into the mainline kernel piecemeal so as to get proper support and testing.
** variable timer
*** more likely than not already merged and thus will be in Feisty+1
** PulseAudio
*** is seeded for Edubuntu, and we can install it, but whether it becomes the default is something that would be a good discussion topic at UDS/Sevilla
*** not yet GNOME default
**** Does GNOME want a sound server, rather than not just using GStreamer?
**** not yet ready for GNOME
* Work on collapsing deltas
** Merge changes with upstream; send patches to alsa@
* PortAudio v19 stability?
** Backend for both wired and audacity in Feisty

===== Next meeting is 27 March 2007, 1800 UTC. =====
