{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{{Draft}}
== Factoid Style Guide ==
This guide contains a few useful tips on how to format factoids for <nowiki>[[Ubottu]]</nowiki>

=== General Style ===
* Separate sections of a factoid with a '''-'''
* Don't put punctuation directly after links as some clients can interpret it as part of the URL
* Prefix references to other factoids with a '''!''' where relevant
* When referencing other channels think about prefixing ''/join'' to the channel, so new users know how to join a channel.<br />This is mostly for language/LoCo channel factoids
* The length of a factoid is limited (as are all messages in IRC), it is better to add a link to the Ubuntu Wiki or Help pages than to put too much in a factoid

=== Examples ===
!channels: ''<nowiki>A list of official Ubuntu IRC channels, as well as IRC clients for Ubuntu, can be found at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat - For a general list of !freenode channels, see http://freenode.net/faq.shtml#channellist - See also !Guidelines</nowiki>''

!de: ''<nowiki>In den meisten ubuntu-Kan&auml;len wird nur Englisch gesprochen. F&uuml;r deutschsprachige Hilfe besuchen Sie bitte #ubuntu-de, #kubuntu-de, #edubuntu-de oder #ubuntu-at. Geben Sie einfach /join #ubuntu-de ein! Danke f&uuml;r Ihr Verst&auml;ndnis.</nowiki>''
