{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Unofficial Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn) Starter Guide ==

'''Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn) was released on April 19th, 2007. This guide is a constantly evolving work-in-progress. Your help in testing and perfecting this guide is needed.'''

This guide was started by <nowiki>[[User:Jiyuu0|Chua Wen Kiat]]</nowiki> (Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia). 
It is now being maintained by the <nowiki>[[http://linux.edu.lv/index.php?newlang=english|Linux Center]]</nowiki> of <nowiki>[[http://www.lu.lv/eng/|University of Latvia]]</nowiki>, and everyone else who is willing to contribute.

This guide can be discussed at the official <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=78|UbuntuGuide.org Forum]]</nowiki> at ubuntuforums.org.  Stop by and join the discussion.  

'''To edit pages you need to <nowiki>[[Special:Userlogin|register ]]</nowiki>'''

If you have any suggestions for new tips discuss them at '''<nowiki>[[Ubuntu_talk:Feisty|Talk page]]</nowiki>'''

If you have any questions about the wiki, send us an e-mail to ''ubuntuguide -at- ubuntuguide.org''

{{Contributors|Contributors=Contributors: | and_other_friends_of_our_community=and other friends of our community. }}

{{FeistyFawnLanguageBar|languages=Languages:|InProgress=In progress:}}

==== Older versions ====

* <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:edgy | Ubuntu 6.10 (Edgy Eft)]]</nowiki>
{{EdgyLanguageBar|languages=Languages:|InProgress=In progress:}}

* <nowiki>[[Ubuntu_dapper | Ubuntu 6.06 (Dapper Drake)]]</nowiki>
{{UbuntuLanguageBar|languages=Languages:|InProgress=In progress:}}

If you use an outdated version of ubuntu (Edgy or Breezy), you should update it to Feisty. (In a production environment, you might want to consider the risks)
See this: <nowiki>[<nowiki>[[http://easylinux.info/wiki/Ubuntu:Edgy#How_to_upgrade_from_Hoary_Hedgehog_-.3E_Breezy_Badger_-.3E_Dapper_Drake||How to upgrade from Hoary Hedgehog -> Breezy Badger -> Dapper Drake]]</nowiki></nowiki>]
