{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Release Development ==
See the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/ReleasePlanning#Ubuntu%20Studio%2011.04%20Natty%20Narwhal|Natty release planning wiki page]]</nowiki> for details.
* TODO

== Website Update ==
* TODO - update this section with new URL
See the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TaskWebRevamp|Website Update wiki page]]</nowiki> for details.

* Brian David emailed the dev mailing list with the example website files for testing
** Testers will need a local instance of Drupal
** Testers will most likely also need a local instance of MySQL
** Testing will need to follow the included README.txt file
* ScottLavender agreed to prepare 2nd draft of site map focusing on primary features

== ubuntustudio-controls ==
See the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/ReleasePlanning#Ubuntu%20Studio%20Controls|-controls development wiki page]]</nowiki> for details.
* ailo and paultag have been hacking up code for the update
* ScottLavender is getting anxious to get it built, testing, and pushed to the repos :/

== Backports ==
See the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Backports|Ubuntu Studio Backports wiki page]]</nowiki> for details.

** ScottLavender firmed up details with ScottKitterman about backporting for Lucid
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Backports|The Ubuntu Studio Backports wiki page]]</nowiki> was updated...a LOT
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/681873|qjackctl backport bug #681873]]</nowiki> updated and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729430|qsynth backport bug #729430]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729450|yoshimi backport bug #729450]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729474|inkscape backport bug #729474]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729488|openshot backport bug #729488]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|rakarrack PPA package]]</nowiki> ready for testing
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729750|qtractor backport bug #729750]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729811|musescore backport bug #729811]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729898|xsane backport bug #729898]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729926|mcp-plugins backport bug #729926]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729955|jamin backport bug #729955]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729981|fluidsynth backport bug #729981]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/729998|gimp backport bug #729998]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/730130|fluid-sonfont backport bug #730130]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lucid-backports/+bug/730181|gimp-plugin-registry backport bug #730181]]</nowiki> filed and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender/+archive/backports-testing|PPA package ready for testing]]</nowiki>

== Bug Reports ==

=== Opened Bugs ===
* Several backport requests were filed.  See BACKPORTS section above for details.
* TODO

=== Updated Bugs ===
* TODO

=== Marked as Incomplete Bugs ===
* TODO

=== Closed Bugs ===
* TODO

== Kernel Development ==
* ScottLavender began building -lowlatency kernel with aboganni's assistance in hopes of getting it in Natty
* It is realised the window for getting the -lowlatency kernel in Natty is very slim
