{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Xen ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by MattZimmerman
* Priority: HighPriority
* People: FabioDiNittoLead, TollefFogHeenSecond
* Contributors: MattZimmerman
* Interested: TollefFogHeen, ColinCharles
* Status: ApprovedSpecification, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1 (0)

=== Introduction ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/Research/SRG/netos/xen/|Xen]]</nowiki> is a virtual machine monitor that supports running multiple Linux instances in parallel on either a single machine or multiple machines.  In order to make Xen more accessible to the Ubuntu community, we would like to provide a ready-to-run Xen environment within Ubuntu.

=== Rationale ===

Xen and similar virtualisation applications are frequently requested by users.  Xen is probably the solution with the minimum overhead of all the different techniques.  A number of both external and internal projects will be interested in virtual machines, both for separation of execution domains and migration as well as security.  Xen's security comes from a full separation of execution domains.  Examples for internal usage are [AutomatedTesting] and increased security for automated software builds.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

* James doesn't want different services to see each other and would like to migrate services from one host to another with a minimum of effort.

* Lamont wants to build random software off the Internet and publish it on a web page.  Since this is untrusted software, he prefers it to not be able to touch the base system.

* LinuxHosting wants to be able to offer virtual hosting without the complexity of blade servers and without paying the cost of additional rack space.  Qemu and UML have a fair amount of overhead.

=== Implementation Plan ===

* Create a new xen kernel source package to build the xen0 and xenU kernels.  The xen0 is the kernel used in execution domain 0 while xenU is the kernel used for each execution domain.  The package will stay in universe until it has received adequate testing to be merged with the linux-image-* proper.

* Sync xen-utils from Debian experimental (might need updating)

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

* N/A

==== Packages Affected ====

* `xen-utils`
* `linux-*` (if/when merged)

==== User Interface Requirements ====

The execution domain configuration file is a python program, so the user will at least initially have to have a fair knowledge of python.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* Xen is brittle and very sensitive to the applied patches and hardware

* Not fully portable yet; amd64 port is coming but not ready yet. Other architectures such as PowerPC and Sparc have no support for Xen.
 
* At the moment, creating a new non-trivial execution is very hard.

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

==== UDU Pre-Work ====
