{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
The '''Ubuntu GNOME Remix''' is a mostly pure GNOME desktop experience built from the Ubuntu repositories. The Quantal Quetzal Alpha Release of Ubuntu GNOME Remix 12.10 is a '''developer snapshot''' to give you a very early glance at the next version of Ubuntu GNOME Remix.

== Get Ubuntu GNOME Remix 12.10 ==

=== Download the Alpha ===

This release is for '''developers only'''. The Ubuntu Desktop images are now bigger than a standard CD, and you should use a USB or DVD for installation. 

You can download a <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BitTorrent|torrent]]</nowiki> of the Alpha ISOs below:

* <nowiki>[[attachment:quantal-ubuntu-gnome-i386-20120902.iso.torrent]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[attachment:quantal-ubuntu-gnome-amd64-20120902.iso.torrent]]</nowiki>

Images have been produced for 32-bit and 64-bit PCs. Neither ARM nor amd64+mac images will be available unless dedicated testers will volunteer to certify the official Ubuntu alpha/beta/release milestones.

The next planned milestone is Beta, scheduled for the same week as Ubuntu 12.10 Beta 2 (September 27).

=== Included software ===

* The Ubuntu GNOME Remix ships with the first GNOME 3.6 beta, GNOME 3.5.90. Some GNOME apps will not be upgraded to 3.6 for the 12.10 release. If you want <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gnome3-team/+archive/gnome3/+packages?field.series_filter=quantal|these]]</nowiki>, try the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gnome3-team/+archive/gnome3|GNOME3 PPA]]</nowiki>.

* Web (epiphany-browser) is the GNOME web browser. Web does not support Flash in Ubuntu 12.10 (Bug:1001229). If you need Flash, try <nowiki>[[apt:firefox|Firefox]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[apt:chromium-browser|Chromium]]</nowiki>.

* Abiword is the GNOME word processor and Gnumeric is the GNOME spreadsheet app. <nowiki>[[apt:libreoffice|LibreOffice]]</nowiki> is available for install if you want it.

* <nowiki>[[apt:gnome-boxes|Boxes]]</nowiki> is not included as it didn't seem to be working (Bug:1038763) . Also, qemu-linaro (qemu-kvm-spice) doesn't built on i386 in Ubuntu. qemu-kvm with spice support does build in Debian though on i386. (Bug:928432)

* <nowiki>[[apt:gnome-documents|Documents]]</nowiki> is not included as it currently depends on LibreOffice, at least as packaged in Debian & Ubuntu.

* Software (gnome-package-kit) is included in this alpha release. It also includes its own update manager. You can install updates by opening Software and clicking Check for Updates in the Software app menu.

* The Ubuntu One installer is included in this alpha release. Ubuntu One itself is not included by default as it doesn't feel like a GNOME app.

* GNOME Classic (gnome-panel 3) is included but GNOME Shell is the  default session if your hardware supports it. If you want the GNOME Classic with-effects session to work, install compiz.

* If you want Ubuntu-style notifications in GNOME Classic, install <nowiki>[[apt:notify-osd|notify-osd]]</nowiki>.

== Known issues ==

As is to be expected, at this early stage of the release process, there are some significant known bugs that developers may run into with the Quantal Alpha Release.  The ones we know about at this point (and some of the workarounds), are documented here so you don't need to spend time reporting these bugs again: 

* The installer is barely readable with the default Adwaita theme (Bug:1044788).

* The login screen persists after log in when GDM is run in fallback mode instead of the fancy GNOME Shell mode (<nowiki>[[https:-bugzilla.gnome.org-683068|BGO:683068]]</nowiki>).

* The system status menu (the "cog" indicator at the far right in GNOME Classic) doesn't show up in some cases or display correctly when using the default Adwaita theme or the accessibility themes (Bug:975563).

* We'd like to move Ubuntu gsettings overrides to ubuntu-default-settings (Bug:1039792).

* A separate ubuntu-control-center will probably not make it into Ubuntu 12.10 but is still a goal for 13.04.

* GNOME Shell is only at 3.5.4 because newer versions require GDM to be running. Most Ubuntu users currently running GNOME Shell use LightDM instead and it's not really feasible to make installing gnome-shell switch the default display manager. (<nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/683060|BGO:683060]]</nowiki>)

* We need a ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu-gnome.

* We need a plymouth-theme-ubuntu-gnome-logo and plymouth-theme-ubuntu-gnome-text.
  - Maybe a variant of the default wallpaper for the logo theme and an appropriate blue for the text theme

* We also want a blue version of the purple Ubuntu isolinux art. This is what you see when first booting a Ubuntu image.

=== Issues shared with Ubuntu ===
As the Ubuntu GNOME Remix is based on Ubuntu 12.10, please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/TechnicalOverview/Beta1#Known_issues|Ubuntu known issues]]</nowiki>.
 
== Reporting bugs ==

It should come as no surprise that this Alpha release of Quantal Quetzal contains other bugs. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve the quality of future releases. Please <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|report bugs using the tools provided]]</nowiki>.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== Participate in Ubuntu and GNOME ==

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

 http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

If you would like to help shape GNOME, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

 http://www.gnome.org/get-involved/

== More information ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>. You can find out more about GNOME on the <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/|GNOME website]]</nowiki>.

The GNOME logo and GNOME name are registered trademarks or trademarks of GNOME Foundation in the United States or other countries. The Ubuntu GNOME Remix is not directly produced, endorsed, or supported by the GNOME Foundation.
