{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Team Meetings ==

All meetings are held on Friday at 13:00 -500 UTC 
The last meeting of the month is dedicated for questions and concerns that the community may ask Ubuntu tv developers directly.

If you do not know how to use IRC you my click on the link below to be redirected to webchat's browser interface.
 '''<nowiki>[[ http:--webchat.freenode.net-?channels=#ubuntu-meeting |#ubuntu-meeting]]</nowiki>''' 

But if you do know how to use IRC we are on the network 
'''irc.freenode.net'''
on the channel
'''#ubuntu-meeting'''

Also meetings are posted on the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar|Fridge]]</nowiki>. '''Click <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/render?cid=j5q85mmi6ujvjtii5s1n3li5io%40group.calendar.google.com|here]]</nowiki> to subscribe.'''
* Google calendar will convert the time for you automatically if you subscribe, but the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar|Fridge]]</nowiki> website will always show events in GMT.

==== Absences ====

If you know that you will definitely be unable to attend the next meeting, please put your name and reason in the table below:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background:#592441; color:#F1F1DD"style="width:50%; border-radius: 15px 0 0 0; font-size: 1.40em; text-align: center;">Who
| <rowstyle="background:#592441; color:#F1F1DD"style="width:50%; border-radius: 0 15px 0 0; font-size: 1.40em; text-align: center;"> Reason
|}

=== Agenda Items and Proposals ===

If you do not know how to use the wiki or you dont have the time. You can always send sugestions to are mailing list. 

  But if you do then please. 
 {*}  Add agenda to the agenda list below.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background:#592441; color:#F1F1DD;"style="width:100%;text-align: center;"> Agenda Items
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc">  Who
| What
| Reason
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f7f6f5">
| 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f7f6f5">
| 
| 
|}

/* === Post-Meeting Tasks === */
/* '''Update Next meeting time on the wiki''' */
/* '''Send meeting minutes to ''' */
/* '''Clear the meeting agenda and topics in this page to use the page for the next meeting''' */

=== Logs of previous meetings ===

==== 2013 ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Link
|-
| March 8
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTV/Meetings/Mar8-2013
|-
| January 25
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTV/Meetings/Jan25-2013
|-
| January 4
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTV/Meetings/Jan4-2013
|}

==== 2012 ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Link
|-
| November 30
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTV/Meetings/Nov30-2012
|}

