{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/scripting-for-users-doc
* '''Created''':  by JordanMantha
* '''Contributors''': JordanMantha
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

The goal of this doc is to introduce the Ubuntu user into the practical usage of Python and shell scripting on an Ubuntu platform. Starting off with perhaps a brief tutorial on Python and then mostly using cookbook style scipts that people would find useful to illustrate various aspects of Python and shell usage. Not designed as a reference manual or programming doc so much as a introduction to what Python and shell can be utilized for in every day Ubuntu usage. Also could have some marketing impact as Python is a significant component of the Ubuntu desktop.

=== Rationale ===

Ubuntu includes lots of Python packages by default and Ubuntu is know as a Python-centric distro. However, the only attempt at Python documentation so far is installing the Dive Into Python package by default. Dive Into Python is a great tutorial for learning Python, but I think it is perhaps gear more for programmers wanting to learn Python and it isn't readily available in the help system. System -> Help -> System Documentation -> Applications -> Programming . We could either put Dive Into Python in a more prominent place or we could develop a more Ubuntu-specific scripting doc that perhaps used parts of Dive Into Python with more code snippets contributed by the Ubuntu community.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

3 good Python references would be :
* http://docs.python.org/tut/
* http://diveintopython.org/
* http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/pythoncook/

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
