{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Joining the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter Team ==

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is read widely by the Ubuntu community and many members of the media.

The team collaborates largely on IRC in #ubuntu-news on irc.libera.chat.

=== Workflow Overview ===

1. Contributors collaborate on <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/document/d/18ZbtFHQq6uMj7iuRLd11VH8V5Uc_FA0IfgiRUcbMbQk/edit|this Google Document]]</nowiki> to collect links from the week. Anyone may add links here, but please do not delete any.

1. On Friday and Saturday these links are reviewed and reorganized, some may be deleted if there are too many or there are content issues.

1. Over the weekend, summary writers are contacted. If you'd like to be a summary writer, subscribe to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-news-team|ubuntu-news-team mailing list]]</nowiki> and contact the editors at editor.ubuntu.news@ubuntu.com to get your name on a list of summary writers who are emailed weekly.

1. Sunday night and Monday morning editors are contacted to review the near-complete document. If you'd like to be an editor, subscribe to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-news-team|ubuntu-news-team mailing list]]</nowiki> and contact the editors at editor.ubuntu.news@ubuntu.com to get your name on a list of editors who are emailed weekly.

1. Monday morning Ubuntu Stats are added

1. Monday evening the newsletter is released.

The full process for publishing the Ubuntu Weekly News is defined here: <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-EditingPolicies-HowToEdit]]</nowiki>

=== Jobs ===

==== Link Collectors ====

Collect links (see <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-LinkSuggestions|Link Suggestions]]</nowiki>) and add to https://docs.google.com/document/d/18ZbtFHQq6uMj7iuRLd11VH8V5Uc_FA0IfgiRUcbMbQk/edit

These can be collected throughout the week.

Also see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/IssueTemplate?action=raw|raw text of IssueTemplate]]</nowiki> for section details.

==== Summary Writers ====

Write summaries for the links which were collected

==== Stats Collector ====

Runs a series of scripts and visits sites to collect statistics.

See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/IssueTemplate?action=raw|raw text of IssueTemplate]]</nowiki> for section details.

==== Editors ====

Go through newsletter to add finishing pieces and check for spelling and grammar errors

Details: <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-EditingPolicies-HowToEdit|Steps 7-9]]</nowiki>

==== Releaser ====

Actually releases the newsletter via wiki, email, IRC, etc

Details: <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-EditingPolicies-HowToEdit|Steps 11 - 20]]</nowiki>

Then rotates and preps the newsletter template on wiki between releases

Details: <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-EditingPolicies-HowToEdit|Steps 1-3 and 21-24]]</nowiki>
