{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Bugs targeted for Maverick release:''' ''(updated 2010-10-08)''
* N/A

'''<nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-MaverickWeeklyReleases]]</nowiki>'''

----

'''Ubuntu One Maverick Features:'''
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-ubuntu-one-contacts|Contacts]]</nowiki>
** '''Status:''' No new features for Maverick. Bug fixes only.

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-ubuntu-one-file-sync-desktop-login|Desktop Login]]</nowiki>
** '''Status:''' Desktop functionality complete after descoping. Server side issue being looked into that prevents valid tokens to be recognized.

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-ubuntu-one-file-sync-infrastructure-changes|File Sync Infrastructure]]</nowiki>
** '''Status:''' Syncdaemon "generations" and proxy support for Ubuntu One client components & Tomboy done. Bug fixes currently.

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-ubuntu-one-file-sink-ui-changes|File Sync UI]]</nowiki>
** '''Status:''' New functionality complete. Bug fixes currently.

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-ubuntuone-control-panel-ui|Preferences]]</nowiki>
** '''Status:''' Most functionality descoped for Maverick. Bug fixes only.

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-ubuntu-one-visibility-and-discovery-improvements|Visibility & Discovery Improvements]]</nowiki>
** '''Status:''' Done. Reached compromise on Evolution U1 intro email (LP:615874) - English only for Maverick, i18n for Natty.
