{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Glossary of Terms ===

The following Glossary of Terms is meant to be an information resource and reference of commonly and uncommonly used terms, formatted for use in the <nowiki>[[#uwn|UWN]]</nowiki>, and arranged alphabetically.  This is a work in progress.

==== General help ====

==== The List ====

<pre>
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

# ACK - Acknowledgment.
# acpid - Advanced Configuration and Power Interface Daemon.
# AGPLv3 - Affero General Public License, see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affero_General_Public_License.
# API - Application Programming Interface.
# ARM - Acorn RISC Machine
# BOF - Birds of a Feather - An informal discussion group, based on a shared interest, discussing without a pre-planned agenda
# BTRFS - B-Tree File System
# BTS - Debian Bug Tracking System - http://bugs.debian.org/
# CC - Community Council - http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/council
# CC - Creative Commons.
# CLI - Command Line Interface.
# CMS - Content Management System.
# CoC - Code of Conduct - http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct
# DD - Debian Developer
# DFSG - Debian Free Software Guidelines
# DHCP - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol.
# d-i - debian-installer
# DIF - Debian Import Freeze - After this point, packages aren't automatically imported from Debian when updated. Time to focus on bugfixing & integration
# DIT - Directory Information Tree, for implementations of LDAP.
# DIY - Do It Yourself
# DMB - Developer Membership Board.
# DNS - Domain Name System.
# DPMT - Debian Python Module Team - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributingToDebian/PythonModulesTeam
# DRBD - a block device which is designed to build high availability clusters.
# DRM - Direct Rendering Manager
# EOL - End Of Life
# EVDO - Evolution-Data Optimized wireless communication.
# FF - Feature Freeze.
# FFe - Feature Freeze exception.
# FLOSS - Free Libre Open Source Software.
# FOSS - Free Open Source Software.
# FOSDEM - Free and Open Source Software Developers' European Meeting.
# FTP - File Transfer Protocol.
# FTBFS - Fails To Build From Source. - For example when building a package with debuild (http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/ftbfs/)
# FUD - Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt.
# GDM - GNOME Display Manager.
# give-back - Give back to the builder - Retry a build.
# GPG - GNU Privacy Guard -  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GnuPrivacyGuardHowto http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gpg
# GPL - General Public License.
# GPU - Graphics Processing Unit.
# GSMA - Groupe Speciale Mobile Association.
# GUADEC - GNOME Users’ And Developers’ European Conference.
# GUI - Graphical User Interface.
# HA - High Availability.
# HAL - Hardware Abstraction Layer
# HDD - Hard Disk Drive
# ICT - Information and Communitcation Technology.
# IM - Instant Messaging.
# IMAP - Internet Message Access Protocol.
# IP - Intellectual Property.  A term used as a blanket to cover Copyrights, Trademarks and Patents.
# IPsec - Internet Protocol Security.
# IRC - Internet Relay Chat.
# ISO - International Organization for Standardization.  Also, the suffix given to disk images that comply with the conventional Standards format.
# ISV - Independent Software Vendors.
# ITA - Intent To Adopt - http://people.debian.org/~mpalmer/debian-mentors_FAQ.html
# ITP - Intent To Package - http://people.debian.org/~mpalmer/debian-mentors_FAQ.html
# JDK - (OpenJDK) Java Developer's Kit.
# KML - Keyhole Markup Language: an XML-based language schema for expressing geographic annotation and visualization.
# KVM - Kernel based Virtual Machine.
# LAMP - Linux, Apache, My``SQL, Perl (or some say PHP).
# LAPP - Linux, Apache, Postgre``SQL, Perl (or some say PHP).
# LCD - Liquid Crystal Display.
# LD - Local Directory.
# LDAP - Lightweight Directory Access Protocol.
# LGPL - Lesser General Public License.
# LP - Launch``Pad - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaunchPad https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/
# LKML - Linux Kernel Mailing List.
# Lo``Co - Local Community
# LPI - Launchpad Integration.
# lrm - linux-restricted-modules
# LTS - Long Term Support. - Said of a release that will receive support for 3-years/5-years rather than the typical 18 months
# LTSP - Linux Terminal Server Project.
# LUG - Linux User's Group.
# LVM - Logical Volume Manager.
# MC - MOTU Council - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Council
# MIA - Missing In Action.
# MID - Mobile Internet Device.
# MIR - Main Inclusion Report - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionProcess
# MoM - Merge-o-Matic - The official Ubuntu merge system, which lists outstanding packages where there has been a Debian upload since the last Ubuntu upload. http://merges.ubuntu.com/
# MOTU - Master Of The Universe - Developers responsible for the Universe and Multiverse repositories. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU
# MOTU SWAT - MOTU Special Weapons And Tactics - Handles Universe Security
# NAS - Network-attached storage.
# NBS - Not Built from Source - Packages no longer built from source, and therefore candidates for removal from the archives. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/NBS
# NGO - Non-governmental Organization.
# NMU - Non-maintainer upload - Term from the Debian world. When someone other than the formal maintainer uploads a package, f.ex. containing a bug fix
# NTFS - the standard file system of Windows NT.
# NTP - Network Time Protocol.
# NTR - Nonprofit Technology Resources.
# ODF - Open Document Format.
# OEM - Original Equipment Manufacturer.
# OP - Original Poster.
# OS - Operating System.
# OSCON - The O'Reilly Open Source Convention.
# OSD - On Screen Display.
# OSS - Open Source Software.
# OTFC - Open and Free Technology Community - #debian-python is on the OFTC IRC network (for example irc.debian.org to get a nearby server). #ubuntu-motu is on the freenode IRC network (for example irc.ubuntu.com to get a nearby server) http://www.oftc.net
# PAM - Pluggable Authentication Module.
# PAPT - Python Applications Packaging Team - Debian packaging team of python programs which don't provide public modules http://python-apps.alioth.debian.org/policy.html
# PDA - Personal Digital Assistant.
# POP3 - Post Office Protocol version 3.
# PPA - Personal Package Archive - http://help.launchpad.net/PPA
# PPA - Personal Project Archive.
# Q&A - Question And Answer.
# QA - Quality Assurance.
# RC - Release Candidate.
# RC - Release Critical
# REVU - ??? - A community developed package review site http://revu.ubuntuwire.com
# RFP - Request For Package - http://people.debian.org/~mpalmer/debian-mentors_FAQ.html
# RISC - Reduced Instruction Set Computer
# RMB - Regional Membership Board.
# RNG - Random Number Generator
# ROCK - Recognized Of Considerable Knowledge - Used as a compliment
# SaaS - Software as a Service.
# sabdfl - Self Appointed Benevolent Dictator For Life - Mark Shuttleworth.
# SASL - Simple Authentication and Security Layer:  a framework for authentication and data security in Internet protocols.
# SFD - Software Freedom Day.
# So``C - System on a Chip.
# So``Ho - Small Office, Home Office.
# SMB - Small, Medium sized Business
# SMTP - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol.
# SRU - Search/Retrieve via URL.
# SRU - Stable release updates. - http://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates
# SSD - Solid State Drive.
# SSH - Secure SHell - a network protocol that allows data to be exchanged using a secure channel between two networked devices.
# SSL - Secure Sockets Layer.
# svm - Support Vector Machine.
# SWAT - Samba Web Administration Tool.
# TB - Technical Board - http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/techboard
# TCK - Technology Compatibility Kit.
# TIL - Touched-It-Last - The last person who uploaded a package. He's responsible for syncing or merging it when a new development cycle starts.
# Tls - Transport Layer Security, successor to Secure Sockets Layer (SSL).
# UEC - Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud.
# UF - Ubuntu Forums.
# UDS - Ubuntu Developer Summit.
# UEC - Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud.
# UEHS - Ubuntu External Health Status - http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/uehs/
# UME - Ubuntu Mobile and Embedded.
# u-m-s - ubuntu-main-sponsors - Sponsor list for packages that are in main or restricted https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-main-sponsors
# unmetdeps - UNMET DEPendencieS - Packages that cannot be installed as the dependencies cannot be satisfied
# UNE - Ubuntu Netbook Edition.
# Unity - Ubuntu's New Desktop Shell
# UNR - Ubuntu Netbook Remix.
# USB - Universal Serial Bus.
# UTC - Coordinated Universal Time:  UTC replaced GMT as the basis for the main reference time scale or civil time in various regions on January 1, 1972.
# u-u-s - ubuntu-universe-sponsors - Sponsor list for packages that are in universe or multiverse https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-universe-sponsors
# VCS - Version Control Systems
# UVF - Upstream Version Freeze
# UWN - Ubuntu Weekly News
# VGA - Video Graphics Array.
# VM - Virtual Machine
# VNC - Virtual Network Computing.
# VPN - Virtual Private Network.
# WNPP - Work-Needing and Prospective Packages - List of packages in need of new maintainers and prospective packages in Debian http://www.debian.org/devel/wnpp/
# WPA - Wi-Fi Protected Access.
# WS-Security - Web Service Security.
----
CategoryDocumentation
