{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Freshers Day ==

Friday 1st December 2006 is Ubuntu Freshers Day. On this special day, the #ubuntu-freshers IRC channel will be open for anyone to come in and ask any questions they like about the community. This day will not have structured tutorial sessions like the rest of the Ubuntu Open Week, but instead be an open channel in which we encourage any level of question about being part of the community.

=== Joining the channel ===

Use your IRC client (such as xchat, irssi or mIRC) to connect to the Freenode IRC network at irc.freenode.net. You can do this manually by typing:

<code> /server irc.freenode.net </code>

Then join the #ubuntu-freshers channel. You can do this manually by typing:

<code> /join #ubuntu-freshers </code>

== Finding specific help ==

Here is a list of nicks of people in the channel who can help about specific subjects. Add yourself to this list if you can help!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''nick'''
| '''person'''
| '''subject(s)'''
|-
| cjwatson
| Colin Watson
| Installer, CDs, release process, archive maintenance
|-
| dholbach
| Daniel Holbach
| DesktopTeam, <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>, BugSquad, <nowiki>[[Accessibility]]</nowiki> team, other teams
|-
| elkbuntu
| Melissa Draper
| LoCo Teams, Marketing Team
|-
| fabbione
| Fabio Massimo Di Nitto
| HA clusters, sparc port, kernel, IRC, several other teams
|-
| jono
| Jono Bacon
| Ubuntu community, Canonical, LoCo teams, Ubuntu membership, Ubuntu Open Day etc
|-
| mnepto(k/n)
| Kurt von Finck
| support (community and commercial), IRC, LoCo teams, bugs and QA, being fabulous, etc
|-
| pitti
| Martin Pitt
| security, hotplug device handling, internationalization/language packs, postgresql, crash reporting
|-
| seb128
| Sebastien Bacher
| DesktopTeam, BugSquad
|-
| Seveas
| Dennis Kaarsemaker
| IRC, community, support, bugs, locoteam
|-
| PriceChild
| Joseph Price
| ubuntuforums.org
|-
| apokryphos
| Francis Giannaros
| Kubuntu, IRC, community
|}
