{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
This page contains meeting agenda information for the UbuntuInstantServer project meetings. Summaries of past meetings can be found at UbuntuInstantServerMeetingSummaries.

== Next Meeting Date, Time and Place ==
The Ubuntu Instant Server Project meetings are scheduled '''every 2 weeks'''. The next meeting will be on <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=11&day=8&year=2005&hour=21&min=0&sec=0|Tuesday, the 23th of November, 2005 at 21:00 UTC]]</nowiki> at <code>#ubuntu-instant</code>, '''irc.freenode.net'''.
Extra meeting has been set for 10th of November, 2005 at 21:00 UTC at <code>#ubuntu-instant</code>, '''irc.freenode.net''' to discuss packages that will go into instant-webserver (Easy Instant
and Advanced Instant).

As always, these meetings are open to everyone.

== Agenda for November 10, 2005 Meeting ==
* Introductions
* What packages to include for the UbuntuInstantWebServer (just how Ubuntu has chosen the best at each task we will do the same)
* We should have a formal spec in Launchpad
* Where to host the work we do, source repository, etc... as we ramp up we will need this stuff
* Conclusion - Any other business, the floor is open

== Agenda for November 8, 2005 Meeting ==
* Introduction (MG)
* Overall Mission Statement - so that people DO understand what we are doing and why (MG)
* Target Audience (MD)
* Benifits Overview (MG)
* What Instant Servers do we need? (MD)
* Instant Server specs /Server components, etc. (MD)
* How can we optimize each Instant Servers performance? (MG)
* How will we distribute? ISO? apt-get install instant* meta-packages, etc... (MG)
* Instant Media Center - MythTV, etc... (MD)
* Attracting additional contributors (MD)
* Conclusion - Any other business, the floor is open (MG)

'''NOTE:''' (MG) - indicates topic lead by MattGalvin, (MD) indicates topic lead by Mario Đanić
