{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border-style: solid; border-radius: 10px; border-width: 1px; float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED;">
|}

~+'''Introduction to Ubuntu Studio'''+~<<BR>>
Want to know what Ubuntu Studio is?  Don't know JACK?  Can't tell the -lowlatency kernel from a -generic kernel with <code>uname</code>?

Learn more about FOSS and Ubuntu Studio by clicking on our LearnUbuntustudio link.<<BR>><<BR>>

~+'''Hardware'''+~<<BR>>
Need to know about hardware?  Want to know what is recommended?  Or the minimum requirements?  Confused about the differences between USB, PCI, and firewire audio interfaces?

Then the HardwareLink is where you want to go.<<BR>><<BR>>

~+'''Installation'''+~<<BR>>
Want to install Ubuntu Studio?  We can help.

Learn to install Ubuntu Studio from DVD for a full install or "upgrade" from a vanilla Ubuntu install HereLink.<<BR>><<BR>>

~+'''Optimization'''+~<<BR>>
The default installation not enough for you?  Want to squeeze more out of your system?

Then check out our OptimizationLink page!<<BR>><<BR>>

~+'''Using Ubuntu Studio'''+~<<BR>>
Want to learn how to use the applications in Ubuntu Studio?  Then this is the link for you.

Follow our work flows or spend time with a detailed YouTube tutorial video on our UsingUbuntuStudio page.<<BR>><<BR>>

~+'''Support'''+~<<BR>>
Confused or need help?

Click HereLink to see information about our IRC, mailing list, and carrier pigeon support channels.<<BR>><<BR>>

~+'''Trouble Shooting'''+~<<BR>>
Like to figure stuff out yourself?  We do too!

See our TroubleShooting page to figure it out!
