{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:ubuntu-oobe
* '''Created''': Sept 9, 2008
* '''Contributors''': jbenjos
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu-docs

=== Summary ===
The blueprint calls for a document which greets new users to Ubuntu after installation. The document should be eye catching in some way (so that it won't be ignored). It should contain links to basic information about how to use Ubuntu, like software management, software included, as well as a link to the Ubuntu for Windows users guide currently included.

=== Release Note ===

After installing Ubuntu, you will be greeted with a Window describing basic functionality of the operating system.

=== Rationale ===

New users to Ubuntu tend to have a lot of misconceptions about how things are done on the operating system. They may be used to the way things are done on other operating systems, and don't realize that the experience for things like software management is different on Ubuntu. This will hopefully educate them before they get frustrated with Ubuntu.

=== Use Cases ===

To educate and welcome new users to the Ubuntu operating system.

=== Assumptions ===

That many people switching to Ubuntu are doing so as a first time experience with a different operating system.

=== Design & Implementation ===

Currently to be part of the Ubuntu Documentation Project. Written in DocBook. There is a branch already created where the changes will be going.

----
CategorySpec
