{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Intro ==

Ubuntu Tweak is an application which makes configuring Ubuntu easier for everyone. It allows tweaking of many useful desktop and system configuration options which are unavailable via native system tools.

== Get Started ==

=== Get the source code ===

If you want to contribute code to Ubuntu Tweak, you should start from <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-tweak ]]</nowiki>, the project uses Bzr as the SCM tool.

=== Play with source code ===

After checkout the latest source code, you may want to <nowiki>[[UbuntuTweak-HowToWritePlugins|Write Plugin for Ubuntu Tweak]]</nowiki>

How to see the changes? It's easy! Just run the "ubuntu-tweak" script in the top-level folder, you can always get the changes you've made.

=== Testing ===

If you are not a programmer, don't worry, you can help to test Ubuntu Tweak. You should know how to use PPA.

* Alpha version: https://launchpad.net/~tualatrix/+archive/next
* Beta version: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tweak-testing/+archive/ppa
* Stable version: https://launchpad.net/~tualatrix/+archive/ppa

=== Document ===

* Write wiki
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuTweak-Bugs|Common Bugs]]</nowiki>

== Roadmap ==

=== 0.6 (current focus of development) ===

This is the first version targeting to be the "Power Users Tool" and try to get into Ubuntu repository. The major changes will be:

* '''Safety feature (TODO)''': API set to backup/restore the settings,
* '''Pluggability (TODO, half-done)'''
** Support install and load plug-ins from $HOME/.local/ubuntu-tweak/plugins
** Separate "Application/Source Center" as a plug-in (Install from PPA, package name: ubuntu-tweak-community-plugins)
* '''Janitor (TODO)''': The previous "Package Cleaner" will be renamed to "Janitor", to instead the "Computer Janitor", it will support plug-in too.

==== Tech ====

* Based on PyGObject instead of PyGTK, so it will work under Ubuntu 11.10 Oneiric with GTK+3.0 smoothly
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuTweak-BackupRestoreAPI|BackupRestoreAPI]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuTweak-JanitorPlugin|JanitorPlugin]]</nowiki>
* More specific PolicyKit API (non-block)
* get_cruft should use call back make UI smooth
 
=== Future ===

* Cover all parts of Ubuntu which can be configured (keep the core simple, extend with plugins)
* Time line based view with all settings done by user, so that user can always know what he did before and easy to revert(try the Zeitgeist)

== References ==

* '''Project Homepage''': https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-tweak
* '''Source Code''': https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-tweak
* '''<nowiki>[[PowerUsers-PowerUserTool|PowerUserTool]]</nowiki>''':https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerUsers/PowerUserTool
