{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Choosing the correct CD image ==

=== Which one should I choose? ===

Ubuntu is distributed on two types of images described below:

Desktop CD

The desktop CD allows you to try Ubuntu without changing your computer at all, and at your option to install it permanently later. This type of CD is what most people will want to use. You will need at least 320MB of RAM to install from this CD.

PlayStation 3 desktop CD

For Sony PlayStation 3 systems. (This defaults to installing Ubuntu permanently, since there is usually not enough memory to try out the full desktop system and run the installer at the same time. An alternative boot option to try Ubuntu without changing your computer is available.)

Alternate install CD

The alternate install CD allows you to perform certain specialist installations of Ubuntu. It provides for the following situations:

=== Where should I get the iso? ===

Official Version:

Both the official Desktop and Alternate CD iso images are available at:

http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/7.10/release/

Development Releases:

20071115-gutsy-ps3:

 

This is a customised image with  a patch to add support to HAL for ps3_system_bus devices.

It also adds some modifications to the installer program.

  

Both the official Desktop and Alternate CD iso images are available at:

http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/custom/20071115-gutsy-ps3/

== Preparing the PS3 ==

We need to format the hard disk to make room for the Other OS on the PS3. Before formatting you might want to backup your saved data.

*** Go to [Settings] > [System Settings] > [Format Utility].

*** Choose [Custom] and [Allot 10GB to the Other OS].

*** Choose [Quick Format] and confirm.When the format is completed, press X to restart the system.

Now insert your USB stick or CD (the one with the otheros.bld file) into the PS3 and go to:

*** [Settings] > [System Settings] 

*** [Install Other OS]. 

    

When you see the screen with Title and Location of the otheros.bld file, press [Start] (X) to install the kboot loader. When the installation completes there will be an info screen telling you to go to:

*** [Settings] > 

*** [System Settings] > 

*** [Default System] and set it to [Other OS].

Insert the Ubuntu installation disc and boot it up by restarting the PS3 (by pressing [Yes] at the [Default System] > [Other OS] prompt).

You're now ready to start installing the OS. Please proceed to the next chapter.

== Installing Ubuntu ==

The PS3 doesn't support the Live CD mode for installation, as it would use RAM the console doesn't have available (only 256MB for system use). This way, the Alternate installation method is used (text-based). However, advanced users can create a USB stick with a swap partition premade. This will not only enable the LiveCD installation, but will even speed-up the Alternate installation method. If you want to test the Operating System before actually installing it, the 'live' option will be available in 8.04.

After reading the welcome note, we can begin the installation. Type 'install' at the prompt or just press ENTER to start the wizard.
