{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Details will be added here shortly on how people who can't make it to the summit in Paris can still participate via voice and via online collaborative editing tools.

=== Collaborative Editing using Gobby ===

Gobby is being used at UDS-Paris to collaborate on the specifications that are being written and to facilitate remote participation.

There are twenty Gobby sessions running on gobby.uds.ubuntu.com.  They're running on ports 9000 through to 9019.  See the schedule for which Gobby session relates to which BOF.

=== VOIP using TeamSpeak ===

For VOIP, we're going to be using TeamSpeak.  You can download this
from:

 http://www.goteamspeak.com/index.php?page=downloads&id=2a

NB: if you're using User-Agent masking, please turn it off, or you'll
be redirected to Windows downloads.

Unfortunately, TeamSpeak is not free software.  We couldn't find any
free software that met the requirements we had for this conference in
the timescales we had to work with.  We will however be putting a
bounty up for a free implementation that could meet our requirements.

===== How to install TeamSpeak =====

Untar the file 'ts2_client_rc2_2032.tar.bz2', and run the 'setup.sh'
script that's inside it.

This will create a TeamSpeak2RC2 directory in your home directory and
a 'TeamSpeak' binary in there.

Before starting TeamSpeak be sure to kill any applications that may
have grabbed the sound device (e.g. xmms, esd).

Also remember to check with alsamixer that your sound settings are
correct, your microphone line isn't muted etc.

===== TeamSpeak setup =====

  i. In the 'Settings' menu, select the 'Sound Input/Output Settings' option.

  i. Select 'Push to Talk'.

  i. Click on the 'Set' key on the same line and press a key that will be your 'Push to Talk' key.  I've chosen the Windows key, but any key you can easily reach but don't normally type will work.

  i. In the 'Connection' menu, select the 'Connect' option.

  i. Right click on 'Servers' and select 'Add Server'.

  i. For label enter 'UDS' or something similar.

  i. For the server address enter 'teamspeak.uds.canonical.com'.

  i. For Nickname, please use your real name.

===== TeamSpeak Compatibility =====

We've successfully tested teamspeak on a number of different i386 and
amd64 machines running both dapper and edgy.  amd64 requires installing ia32-libs.  powerpc is more
problematic and probably won't be work.
