{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

There has been lots of press coverage of the Ubuntu release. Maybe a breakdown of what the press is talking about? There will be something similar in UWN #37, but probably not anything that detailed.

Here is the press coverage from UWN #37:

As with all Ubuntu releases, the initial press coverage has been strong.

Zdnet reports the release of 7.04 with much fanfare.  It talks about features, the ensuing server slowdown due to heavy traffic, Ubuntu's foray into the server market share, and possible Dell consideration of Ubuntu. Read more at http://news.zdnet.com/2100-9593_22-6177641.html. You can read InformationWeek's take at http://www.informationweek.com/news/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=199102409.

Ubuntu 7.04's advanced server support did not go unnoticed at Linuxinsider, which discusses how the server and desktop editions are different. Read more at http://www.linuxinsider.com/rsstory/56993.html. 

The press has also been covering 7.04's inclusion of KVM and paravirt-ops, designed to help run VMware. You can read more at http://news.com.com/Ubuntus+feisty+spin+on+virtualization/2100-7344_3-6176175.html, http://www.cmswire.com/cms/open-source-cms/feisty-fawn-leaps-into-virtualized-reality-001206.php and http://www.computerworld.com.au/index.php/id;621564227;fp;4194304;fpid;1

One area of Ubuntu that has traditionally been seen as weak is the server support. With 7.04, major press coverage of the Ubuntu Server Edition has started, with Search Enterprise Linux interviewing Jane Silber, Canonical director of operation at http://searchenterpriselinux.techtarget.com/originalContent/0,289142,sid39_gci1251602,00.html and OpenSPF trumpted support for SPF in Postfix at http://www.openspf.org/News/2007-04-19.

Several news outlets noticed the amazing strain Ubuntu resources took as the release happened, with the replacement of the main Ubuntu website with a placeholder. Edward N. Albro of PCworld commented on it at http://blogs.pcworld.com/staffblog/archives/004166.html, as did The Register at http://www.theregister.co.uk/2007/04/19/ubuntu_website_down/

The press has also covered Sun's inclusion of a full Java stack and related tools 7.04. It is the first time so many of Sun's tools have been integrated into a distribution, making the Java technology extremely accessible to Linux developers. While the stack resides in multiverse for 7.04, they are expected to move to the main repository once Java becomes fully open source. You can read more about it at http://www.infoworld.com/article/07/04/19/HNsunubuntuties_1.html, http://www.linuxplanet.com/linuxplanet/newss/6380/1/, and http://www.internetnews.com/dev-news/article.php/3672751.
