{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== ZopePackaging ==

=== Status ===

* Created: 2005-04-26 by MatthiasKlose
* Priority: LowPriority
* People: MatthiasKloseLead, ColinApplegateSecond
* Contributors: CharlesMajola
* Interested: AndrewMitchell
* Status: DraftSpecification, BreezyGoal, DistroSpec, MatthiasKloseQueue, ColinApplegateQueue
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Current Zope Packages in hoary cover zope2.7 and zopex3, as well as Zope Products needed and related to Plone2.
Extend the packaging to cover zope3 products and provide a way to ease packaging of products.

=== Rationale ===

Keep up with upstream development, improve packaging support.
Transition, migration methods.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

=== Implementation Plan ===

* Enable the zope3 support in dzhandle
* Identify a set of zope3 products that are worth shipping for breezy
* Add support to run different zope instance with different users.
* Add test suite for dzhandle
* Write dzhandle documentation
* If zope 2.8 is released in time for breezy, possibly move stable zope into main, need a transition guide for 2.7->2.8 products & extensions. Zope instances will have to migrated to zope 2.8, which will be done automatically, but by running the migration scripts from the ZMI. We would check that products are the right version, and provide instructions for the instance owner to migrate.
* dzhandle must be checked to handle multiple zope versions, such as products that work only with 2.7, only with 2.8, or products that work with both.
* Move plone into main
* Scan the packaged zope products and decide which ones can go into the morgue.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

* A migration guide has to be provided for users to upgrade their zope versions & products. Currently it's assumed that we are able to move the Data files from a zope2.7 to a zope2.8 installation.

==== Packages Affected ====

* zope*-*

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* Decide, if it's worth shipping experimental zope3.1 for breezy. Currently the package/part of it is shipped inside of schooltool (talk with Brian Sutherland)

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

* State of the Zope Packaging in Hoary.
* Identify zope3 products, which should be part of breezy.
* How to handle packages depending on grumpy Zope versions (3.1) (i.e. schooltool).

==== UDU Pre-Work ====
