{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu Studio Testing Team Landing Page ==

== Become a member ==

Testing is the easiest way to contribute to the development of Ubuntu Studio. As a tester you perform smoke testing of installation ISOs and the default Ubuntu Studio applications. Report bugs to make developers aware of system and application failures.

If you want to become even deeper involved, you can assist in designing tests and writing documentation to ensure the quality of each Ubuntu Studio release.

The testing team is open, which means anyone is welcome to join.

'''To join the effort:'''
* Join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-testing|~ubuntustudio-testing]]</nowiki> team to become automatically subscribed to the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntustudio/+spec/ubuntustudio-testing|Testing Blueprint]]</nowiki>. 
* Subscribe to the two mail lists <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-Studio-devel|ubuntu-studio-devel]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntustudio-testing|ubuntustudio-testing]]</nowiki> to be up to date with discussion regarding testing and other things. It's also recommended to subscribe to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-Studio-users|ubuntu-studio-users]]</nowiki> mail list. 
* Developers hang out on '''#ubuntustudio-devel''' at '''irc.freenode.net'''. Check in and say hi! (If you're new to IRC, check out this <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/IRC|Page]]</nowiki>).
