{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Status ===

* Created:  by JaneW
* Priority: MediumPriority
* People: BrandonHaleLead, AndrewMitchellSecond
* Contributors: JaneW
* Interested: DanielStone
* Status: BreezyGoal, UduBof, DistroSpecification, ApprovedSpecification
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
  
  ^^Check if accurate 
* UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===
Mono is a platform for running and developing modern applications that target the running of applications written in .NET.

Mono official site: http://www.mono-project.com/ If you have questions, check out this <nowiki>[[http://www.nabble.com/Mono-f1367.html|Mono Forum]]</nowiki> hosted by <nowiki>[[http://www.nabble.com|Nabble]]</nowiki>. It currently archives all the Mono mailing lists into a forum for cross browsing and search.

=== Rationale ===
Some parts of the desktop now require Mono:
* Choosing the platform of applications
* Including popular productivity boosting applications like Tomboy, F-Spot

=== Scope and Use Cases ===
* Beagle is wanted in the desktop seed for searching documents.
* Tomboy & F-Spot are both popular desktop applications.
* Mono can be used for web services applications on servers.

=== Implementation Plan ===
* Build Mono 1.1, get it into `main` after a brief bootstrapping in universe
** Mono needs to be uploaded first without a Build-Depend on `cli-common`, then uploaded again with a fix to `debian/rules` in order to get correct dependencies & control files.
* Bindings will have to be moved to main also for applications.
* Mono & applications need to be migrated from using `/usr/share/dotnet` to the FHS-compliant `/usr/lib/mono`
* For beagle, `user_xattr` needs to be turned on for home directory by default, and inotify may need to be enabled. `user_xattr` will need to be turned on in existing installs also. This change is planned for the breezy installer and will be placed in the upgrade notes and NEWS.Debian for beagle.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====
* Packages are compatible with the old `/usr/share/dotnet` location, with a clean upgrade path.

==== Packages Affected ====
All packages listed will move into main.
Core:
* mono
 ----
* To fix for FHS-compliance
** Applications
** f-spot
** muine
** blam
** Bindings
** libdbus-cil (duplicate source needs removal to move to main)
 ----
* Already FHS-compliant
** Applications
** tomboy
** beagle
** monodoc
** Bindings
** gtk-sharp2
** gtk-sharp1
** gecko-sharp1 
** gecko-sharp2
** gtksourceview-sharp1
** gtksourceview-sharp2

==== User Interface Requirements ====
* Need to decide if beagled needs to run in the session, and if '''BEST''' will run all the time

=== Outstanding Issues ===

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
