{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== FontHandling ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JaneW
* Priority: MediumPriority
* People: BenjaminMakoHillLead, JeffWaughSecond
* Contributors: JaneW, MatthiasKlose
* Interested: JamesHenstridge
* Status: BrainDump, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

A review of font related problems in Ubuntu, and a roadmap for fixing them.

=== Rationale ===

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

=== Implementation Plan ===

==== Packages Affected ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== Notes ===

Font problems:

* Install correct fonts with language support packages
* Hide i18n fonts from selection lists that are irrelevant outside fontconfig substitution
** We have to find someone who knows how to fix the problem -> Keith and Owen
** Let language support packs make these fonts visible, otherwise they're not (but still available for substitution)
** Blacklist by default, enable them by language support packs
* Vera vs. DejaVu vs. Arev
** Choose or integrate one of the Vera derivatives
** Talk to Bitstream (upstream) about integrating new glyphs (JeffWaugh)
** Make "Sans", "Mono", etc. use one of the Vera derivatives instead of Vera
* Easier access to user font management / installation
** gotta expose fontilus!
** could move the fonts button from details to normal?
** could put 'fonts' icon in administration menu?
** in the font preferences panel, allow change of font family and size of all four fonts at the same time.
* Include recently released indian and asian fonts
** BenjaminMakoHill will put urls in here
* Test plan for i18n font display
* Special cases with OpenOffice.org
* Fix or change fonts with bad glyphs

Related Issues:

* Need to bring in local teams for feedback and fixes
* Split out LanguageSupportPackages for LoCoTeam / extra package feedback

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
