{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

/!\ Based on the thread in ubuntu-marketing list, majority decided this was more suitable less agressive name for the idea. Instead of forcing stores, let's show them the Ubuntu way!

== What is it? ==
As Mark stated in his bug #1, M$ has taken too much power on people's minds and market, so I propose we have this UbuntuRequestDay.

Basically, the idea is that:

* we set a date, we go individually to the IT sections of different Department Stores or any IT related store.
* we ask the sales person to show us the most expensive and powerful computer they have to sell.
* we see it, but immediatily notice it does not come with Ubuntu (any Ubuntu flavour could do. Maybe even Debian?).
* we request they sell it to us BUT without that OS.
* we demand they sell it with Ubuntu or we don't buy it.
* Maybe the sales person will call the Supervisor to see how he could satisfy our request.
* we have 2 options: dissapear or stay stand and continue the process until they either tell us they can't sell it under our demand or something else (?)

The point of doing this may seem nonsense but it is not. On the contrary, we might have the chance to:

* introduce the name of Ubuntu into this stores
* have the stores hire some guys who know what we want (maybe us?)
* open their minds to wake up and see there are other alternatives to the OS they were used to.

== What do you think? ==
Please, when adding your comments, try to end it using this 5 character syntax '''@SIG``@'''

* That way, you'll see a signature/timestamp with your user name automatically placed, like this -- MauricioHernandez 
* ''add your comments here and use @SIG``@''
* That does sound like a good idea, make sure not to force it upon them. But gradually introduce them, don't demand at first, but work toward it. Good idea. -- JohnLambrechts  * It seem's a little to agressive, we don't want bad publicity or to get a bad image.  There has to be a way to do this without offending/upsetting people. Good start though -- MikeSylvester  * Actions like this can easily backfire. I am not so shure if this type of acting out feigned interest just to educate the counter personnel creates any positive outcome. They _will_ be aware that something as Ubuntu exists, but most propably feel ''negative'' towards it, because this campaign is played on their backs by some (towards them) insincere jackass. Never forget, that it is ''real people'' you deal with. As an alternative, it would be propably much more constructive to (suggestion follows, cf. John's comment): have people drop by at some stores with increasing frequency (culminating at a date to be set) and ask the personnel, if they sell any hardware with Ubuntu on it. "No? Oh, what a pity, then i need to buy elsewhere." (leaving the store). Then, on said one special day (how about a release date?), have somebody come around with a pack of Ubuntu installer cds to place in the stores as a giveaway (maybe have a demo laptop ready to immediately be able to ''show'' something). And have that somebody be a skilled speaker ;-) - because, hopefully, she should have a longer talk with the people there. -- -- SaschaBrossmann 
* '''we request they sell it to us BUT without that OS.''' - this is probably the easiest way to start - just ask about the price w/o Windows, and when the salesperson (as will likely happen) says there isn't such a price, explain that you don't have any need for XP, and can't understand having to pay for something you don't want or need. Have a LiveCD with you, and ask to test your OS on their machine. (Be prepared to explain the whole concept of a LiveCD.) Using a ShipIt-provided pressed "real" LiveCD might give you a better chance of success. -- Madpilot 
CategoryMarketing
