{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kubuntu Help Centre ==

''Matt: can you clarify what needs done with this document?  --Riddell''

=== Status ===

* Created: 2005-04-28 by JonathanRiddell
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: JonathanRiddellLead, AndreasMuellerSecond
* Contributors: JonathanRiddell
* Interested:
* Status: DraftSpecification, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification, JonathanRiddellQueue, MattZimmermanQueue
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

KHelp``Centre is in need of an improved user interface and functionality.

=== Rationale ===

KHelp``Centre is too complex to navigate and has no search ability.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

A user wants to find out about use case diagrams in `Umbrello`.  He goes to `Umbrello` help and instead of having to read through the whole manual can search for use cases and read the articles returned by the search.

=== Implementation Plan ===

Clean up the user interface of KHelp``Centre, make it only display the current manual/article but include the ability to look at articles for other applications if needed.  Include a user friendly front page with links to the most important help items.

Search should be able to browse through pages and return single pages using keywords (and eventually KDE's context link library Tenor).

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

* `khelpcentre`

==== User Interface Requirements ====

Simplify KHelp``Centre, include an introduction page with links to the most popular places (similar to about:konqueror).  Remove the tree down the side to make it only contain information relevant to the current document.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
