{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by MichealH at 15:55:28 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/ubuntu-tour/2010/ubuntu-tour.2010-12-04-15.55.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* A New way to do the meeting?
''HELP:''   (Omega, 16:01:40)
''HELP:''   (MichealH, 16:01:46)
''ACTION:'' at the end of the meeting, agree on a meeting time and place.  (MichealH, 16:03:56)
''ACTION:'' at the end of the meeting, agree on a chair foir the next meeting  (MichealH, 16:04:13)

* Plan for translations

* Website design
''LINK:'' http://ubuntutour.org/beta/   (Muscovy, 16:06:49)
''LINK:'' http://ubuntutour.org/beta/   (MichealH, 16:07:02)
''ACTION:'' MichealH to make the pallete more Ubuntu-y and to fix bugs while adding a blog  (MichealH, 16:13:19)
''LINK:'' http://design.canonical.com/brand/D.%20Ubuntu%20Web%20Guidelines.pdf   (Omega, 16:13:57)

* Bug reporting frontend (like bugs.ubuntu-manual.org)
''LINK:'' bugs.ubuntu-manual.org   (MichealH, 16:15:09)
''ACTION:'' MichealH to work on ubuntutour.orf bug frontend  (Omega, 16:18:38)
''ACTION:'' MichealH to work on ubuntutour.org bug frontend  (Omega, 16:18:56)

* Publicity rollout
''ACTION:'' To release the beta we need to have Website and Bug Tracker  (MichealH, 16:25:43)

* Meeting Info and Agenda, on the Wiki?!?
''ACTION:'' MichealH to add logs to wiki and to organise the wiki acordingly  (MichealH, 16:29:32)

* Plan for translations
''ACTION:'' finish writing and get the Site/BugTracker and then build a beta to open the Translations for everyone  (MichealH, 16:34:35)

* Chair for next meeting

* Dtae and Time

* Chair for next meeting
''ACTION:'' MichealH to be the next chair  (MichealH, 16:45:11)

* Anything Else?

Meeting ended at 16:46:06 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* 18/19 December rough date for the next meeting?
   For: 4 Against: 1 Abstained: 0

* Meeting every two weeks?
   For: 3 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* MichealH for next chair?
   For: 0 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* Ready to release a Beta?
   For: 0 Against: 1 Abstained: 0

* Meeting Items on the wiki
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* Blog for members to post updates?
   For: 1 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* at the end of the meeting, agree on a meeting time and place.
* at the end of the meeting, agree on a chair foir the next meeting
* MichealH to make the pallete more Ubuntu-y and to fix bugs while adding a blog
* MichealH to work on ubuntutour.orf bug frontend
* MichealH to work on ubuntutour.org bug frontend
* To release the beta we need to have Website and Bug Tracker
* MichealH to add logs to wiki and to organise the wiki acordingly
* finish writing and get the Site/BugTracker and then build a beta to open the Translations for everyone
* MichealH to be the next chair

=== Action items, by person ===

* MichealH
* * MichealH to make the pallete more Ubuntu-y and to fix bugs while adding a blog
* * MichealH to work on ubuntutour.orf bug frontend
* * MichealH to work on ubuntutour.org bug frontend
* * MichealH to add logs to wiki and to organise the wiki acordingly
* * MichealH to be the next chair
* **UNASSIGNED**
* * at the end of the meeting, agree on a meeting time and place.
* * at the end of the meeting, agree on a chair foir the next meeting
* * To release the beta we need to have Website and Bug Tracker
* * finish writing and get the Site/BugTracker and then build a beta to open the Translations for everyone

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MichealH (126)
* Muscovy (75)
* meetingology (67)
* Omega (60)
* Moiso (20)
* MixCool (6)
* UndiFineD (2)
* moiso (1)

=== Full Log ===

 15:55:28 <MichealH> #startmeeting

 15:55:28 <meetingology> Meeting started Sat Dec  4 15:55:28 2010 UTC.  The chair is MichealH. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 15:55:28 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 15:55:40 <MichealH> Right all, Hi!

 15:55:53 <Muscovy> MichealH, perhaps let's wait just a few minutes in case anyone else is getting up early.

 15:55:53 <MichealH> This is the frist meeting with meetingology

 15:55:59 <MichealH> Yeah

 15:56:11 <MichealH> Im just gonna quickly do this

 15:56:20 <moiso> who's he

 15:56:37 <MichealH> When I cast a vote you can say +1 to agree and -1 to disagree

 15:57:00 <MichealH> Right, Its 16:00 GMT

 15:57:03 <MichealH> Lets go!

 15:57:15 <MichealH> #topic A New way to do the meeting?

 15:57:15 <meetingology> TOPIC: A New way to do the meeting?

 15:57:33 <MichealH> Okay, we have now got meetingology which gives us many features

 15:57:53 <MichealH> We can pick who should drive the bot on the next meeting maybe?

 15:58:09 <Muscovy> Probably whoever chairs the meetings.

 15:58:15 <MichealH> Like a vote

 15:58:30 <MichealH> Muscovy: Thats what Im saying

 15:58:35 <Omega> I agree with Muscovy.

 15:58:55 <MichealH> we should pick a time to next meeti up and who should chair it

 15:59:15 <MichealH> at the end of the meeting

 15:59:34 <Muscovy> Maybe it's a bit early to pick the time, unless we want to start meetings every two weeks or something.

 15:59:38 <Muscovy> We could vote on that.

 15:59:56 <MichealH> Yeah

 16:00:03 <MichealH> We should meet up often

 16:00:12 <MichealH> ~2 weeks

 16:00:34 <Omega> That seems like a good idea.

 16:00:34 <Muscovy> That way we also won't end up with really long meetings.

 16:00:40 <Omega> Who is currently present?

 16:00:41 <MichealH> Yeah

 16:00:49 * Muscovy is here.

 16:00:51 <MichealH> Omega: The bot works that out

 16:01:07 <Moiso> o/

 16:01:19 <Omega> I think jasono is coming back.

 16:01:19 <MichealH> If someone writes ANYTHING then it says he/she is here

 16:01:32 <Muscovy> What's the command to list those present, MichealH?

 16:01:32 <MichealH> Is it agreed?

 16:01:36 <Omega> And, I haven't seen MadnessRed in a while.

 16:01:40 <Omega> #help

 16:01:41 <MichealH> Muscovy: It outputs them

 16:01:46 <MichealH> #help

 16:01:49 <Omega> :/

 16:01:51 <MichealH> :L

 16:01:59 <MichealH> I will ping Alan after the meeting

 16:02:02 <Muscovy> #list

 16:02:08 <MichealH> Is it agreed on?

 16:02:22 <Muscovy> Is what agreed on?

 16:02:39 <MichealH> The doing the meeting up every 2 weeks and cast a vote on the chari

 16:02:54 <Omega> #vote Meeting every two weeks

 16:03:02 <Omega> :|

 16:03:03 <Muscovy> +1

 16:03:08 <Omega> +1

 16:03:09 <MichealH> #vote Meeting every two weeks?

 16:03:09 <meetingology> Please vote on: Meeting every two weeks?

 16:03:09 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:03:16 <Muscovy> +1

 16:03:16 <meetingology> +1 received from Muscovy

 16:03:18 <Omega> +1

 16:03:18 <meetingology> +1 received from Omega

 16:03:21 <MichealH> +1

 16:03:21 <meetingology> +1 received from MichealH

 16:03:32 <Omega> #endvote

 16:03:32 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Meeting every two weeks?

 16:03:32 <meetingology> Votes for:3 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 16:03:32 <meetingology> Motion carried

 16:03:52 <Omega> Mhm.

 16:03:56 <MichealH> #action at the end of the meeting, agree on a meeting time and place.

 16:03:56 * meetingology at the end of the meeting, agree on a meeting time and place.

 16:04:08 <Muscovy> Ok, so we'll try to have meetings every other week.

 16:04:13 <MichealH> #action at the end of the meeting, agree on a chair foir the next meeting

 16:04:13 * meetingology at the end of the meeting, agree on a chair foir the next meeting

 16:04:30 <MichealH> #topic Plan for translations

 16:04:30 <meetingology> TOPIC: Plan for translations

 16:04:43 <Muscovy> Who here is a translator?

 16:04:53 <MichealH> Moiso: I beleive this is your topic?

 16:04:53 <Omega> Moiso: ?

 16:05:14 <Muscovy> UndiFineD, you around?

 16:05:36 <MichealH> We can bring this up at the end maybe?

 16:05:43 <Muscovy> Sure.

 16:05:54 <Omega> #topic Website design

 16:05:58 <MichealH> #topic Website design

 16:05:58 <meetingology> TOPIC: Website design

 16:06:01 <Moiso> o/

 16:06:13 <MichealH> Moiso: You just missed it but we will come back to it

 16:06:22 <Moiso> Sorry, yep I'm translator

 16:06:32 <Moiso> Ok

 16:06:40 <MichealH> Right, im sure you have been following what has been brewing at ubuntutour.org/beta/

 16:06:49 <Muscovy> http://ubuntutour.org/beta/

 16:06:57 <MichealH> I was wondering what type of things you want to see

 16:07:02 <MichealH> #link http://ubuntutour.org/beta/

 16:07:38 <MichealH> I was thinking of a blog for the site

 16:07:51 <MichealH> Where mambers can post updates

 16:07:57 <MichealH> *members

 16:08:16 <Moiso> that's a good idea

 16:08:35 <MichealH> #vote Blog for members to post updates?

 16:08:35 <meetingology> Please vote on: Blog for members to post updates?

 16:08:35 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:08:40 <MichealH> +1

 16:08:40 <meetingology> +1 received from MichealH

 16:08:51 <Muscovy> +0

 16:08:51 <UndiFineD> hello

 16:08:52 <Omega> +0

 16:09:01 <Muscovy> Hello.

 16:09:07 <MichealH> #endvote

 16:09:07 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Blog for members to post updates?

 16:09:07 <meetingology> Votes for:1 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 16:09:07 <meetingology> Motion carried

 16:09:12 <Moiso> +1

 16:09:18 <Omega> MichealH: Don't end votes so fast

 16:09:22 <Omega> Not everyone has voted

 16:09:34 <UndiFineD> I have to go .. dinner

 16:09:43 <Omega> Smakelijk eten.

 16:09:45 <MichealH> Okay, so we have 2 +1's and 2 +'s

 16:09:51 <MichealH> *+0's

 16:10:12 <Muscovy> I'm just not sure how many things we'll have to put on there, though I have no problem with a blog.

 16:10:21 <Omega> But, will the blog be for 'members'

 16:10:25 <Omega> Or for the project?

 16:10:45 <MichealH> Its like I setup a twitter yesterday, The members can post updates about the project

 16:10:52 <MichealH> The same can happen on the blog

 16:11:24 <Omega> MichealH: Could the text in the top menu be centered vertically?

 16:11:32 <Omega> Hello MixCool.

 16:11:35 <MixCool> Hi

 16:11:42 <MixCool> sorry for beeing late :/

 16:11:44 <MichealH> Omega: What do you mean?

 16:11:45 <Omega> No prob

 16:11:48 <Moiso> Hi

 16:11:51 <MixCool> hi

 16:11:53 <Omega> Well, be in the middle of the rectangle

 16:12:18 <MichealH> Omega: Like the footer?

 16:12:33 <Omega> "Ubuntu Tour" and "Download" are not on the same level

 16:12:44 <Omega> No, not like the footer

 16:12:45 <Muscovy> It would be nice it it used the official colour palate a bit more.

 16:12:50 <Omega> That too

 16:12:50 <MichealH> Ahh I can fix that

 16:13:19 <MichealH> #action MichealH to make the pallete more Ubuntu-y and to fix bugs while adding a blog

 16:13:19 * meetingology MichealH to make the pallete more Ubuntu-y and to fix bugs while adding a blog

 16:13:33 <Muscovy> MichealH: http://design.canonical.com/brand/D.%20Ubuntu%20Web%20Guidelines.pdf is handy for web themeing stuff.

 16:13:57 <Omega> #link http://design.canonical.com/brand/D.%20Ubuntu%20Web%20Guidelines.pdf

 16:13:58 <MichealH> Muscovy: Link noted

 16:14:23 <MichealH> #topic Bug reporting frontend (like bugs.ubuntu-manual.org)

 16:14:23 <meetingology> TOPIC: Bug reporting frontend (like bugs.ubuntu-manual.org)

 16:14:30 <MichealH> Any takers?

 16:14:40 * MichealH points to himself

 16:14:51 <Muscovy> I thought it would be good for 2 reasons.

 16:15:06 <Muscovy> Firstly, it makes it easier to request specific info.

 16:15:09 <MichealH> #link bugs.ubuntu-manual.org

 16:15:28 <Muscovy> Secondly, it allows users without an LP account to report bugs.

 16:15:48 <Muscovy> Though we could have a "report as me" button that redirects to a filled-out LP form.

 16:16:08 <MichealH> I think it would be great because I can create a API for a IRCBot to hang in here?

 16:16:16 <Muscovy> Hmm?

 16:16:35 <MichealH> Then it would say New Bug received : 1 - blah blah

 16:16:50 <Muscovy> That would be handy.

 16:16:52 <Omega> Yes, that would be a good idea.

 16:17:10 <MichealH> I can write the system?

 16:17:11 <Omega> And when a bug number is pasted it could fetch the title

 16:17:20 <MichealH> Omega: yeah

 16:17:24 <Muscovy> We'd best ask for the manual one's code, since I have no idea how parts of the work.

 16:17:44 <MichealH> I can make one, me being a PHP guru

 16:17:48 <Muscovy> Specifically, I have no idea how to submit a web form without going "click".

 16:18:08 <MichealH> Muscovy: Dont make me go into MySQL statements ;)

 16:18:29 <Muscovy> If you think you can make one, go ahead.

 16:18:35 <MichealH> :)

 16:18:38 <Omega> #action MichealH to work on ubuntutour.orf bug frontend

 16:18:38 * meetingology MichealH to work on ubuntutour.orf bug frontend

 16:18:44 <Omega> Damn

 16:18:44 <Muscovy> We can link that to Help -> Report a bug.

 16:18:48 <MichealH> Yup

 16:18:50 <Omega> #removeaction MichealH to work on ubuntutour.orf bug frontend

 16:18:56 <Omega> #action MichealH to work on ubuntutour.org bug frontend

 16:18:56 * meetingology MichealH to work on ubuntutour.org bug frontend

 16:19:02 <Muscovy> +1

 16:19:20 <MichealH> #topic Publicity rollout

 16:19:20 <meetingology> TOPIC: Publicity rollout

 16:19:47 <Muscovy> Ok, the key thing. :D

 16:20:06 <Muscovy> We're basically "ready" to start rolling out the tour for mass testing.

 16:20:27 <MichealH> +1

 16:20:28 <Omega> Mhm.

 16:20:30 <Muscovy> Now that we have most of the writing, about half the screenshots, and a PPA going.

 16:21:05 <Muscovy> We can use this to help complete the missing things, and get advice/fixes on any issues. Things that are to simple, to complexe, and so on.

 16:21:32 <Muscovy> A little while ago we made a "release statement": http://openetherpad.org/7jAZk435OA

 16:22:02 <Muscovy> Basically, once we decide we're ready, we send that or links to posts _everywhere_.

 16:22:31 <Muscovy> Perhaps a vote on if we're ready to start that, or if we should wait?

 16:22:44 <Omega> I think we should wait for the bug frontend before we do it, maybe even a fast whipped-up version (or use the UMP's untill ours is done)

 16:22:51 <Omega> So it's easier to get feedback.

 16:23:04 <Muscovy> Hmm.

 16:23:23 <Muscovy> Though help -> report a bug does open the LP bug page and includes the version info.

 16:23:36 <MichealH> #vote Ready to release a Beta?

 16:23:36 <meetingology> Please vote on: Ready to release a Beta?

 16:23:36 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:23:49 <Muscovy> Hmm.

 16:23:51 <Muscovy> +0

 16:24:02 <Moiso> +0

 16:24:02 <MichealH> +0 (We need to wait)

 16:24:30 <MichealH> Everyone voted?

 16:24:32 <MixCool> +0

 16:24:44 <Omega> -1

 16:24:44 <meetingology> -1 received from Omega

 16:25:05 <MichealH> #endvote

 16:25:05 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Ready to release a Beta?

 16:25:05 <meetingology> Votes for:0 Votes against:1 Abstentions:0

 16:25:05 <meetingology> Motion denied

 16:25:23 <Muscovy> I'd also like to see the beta site finished by release time.

 16:25:27 <Omega> I explained above why I think we shoudl wait.

 16:25:41 <Omega> MichealH: You're going to have a lot of things on your plate :P

 16:25:43 <MichealH> #action To release the beta we need to have Website and Bug Tracker

 16:25:43 * meetingology To release the beta we need to have Website and Bug Tracker

 16:25:43 <Muscovy> Yeah, that too.

 16:25:57 <Muscovy> +1

 16:26:13 <Muscovy> I feel in terms of the tour itself we're ok to release.

 16:26:30 <Omega> Mhm.

 16:26:52 <MichealH> #topic Meeting Info and Agenda, on the Wiki?!?

 16:26:52 <meetingology> TOPIC: Meeting Info and Agenda, on the Wiki?!?

 16:26:54 <Omega> And the beta will hopefully get us some outside contribution to polish the tour.

 16:27:04 <Muscovy> Yep.

 16:27:09 <MichealH> I think we should have our Agenda on the wiki

 16:27:14 <MichealH> The logs can go on too

 16:27:22 <Muscovy> I'm picturing it being like the last time but moreso because the tour is way cooler now.

 16:27:23 <MichealH> meetingology generates Wiki output

 16:27:23 <meetingology> MichealH: Error: "generates" is not a valid command.

 16:27:59 <Moiso> That would be helpful

 16:28:06 <Muscovy> Yeah.

 16:28:18 <Muscovy> I can mail out the link and a brief list of what happened.

 16:28:18 <MichealH> #vote Meeting Items on the wiki

 16:28:18 <meetingology> Please vote on: Meeting Items on the wiki

 16:28:18 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:28:25 <Muscovy> +1

 16:28:25 <meetingology> +1 received from Muscovy

 16:28:28 <MichealH> +1

 16:28:28 <meetingology> +1 received from MichealH

 16:28:30 <MixCool> +1

 16:28:30 <meetingology> +1 received from MixCool

 16:28:31 <Omega> Maybe posting about it on the ubuntu-desktop mailing list would be helpful too.

 16:28:39 <Omega> +1

 16:28:39 <meetingology> +1 received from Omega

 16:28:41 <Muscovy> Yeah.

 16:28:53 <MichealH> #endvote

 16:28:53 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Meeting Items on the wiki

 16:28:53 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 16:28:53 <meetingology> Motion carried

 16:29:32 <MichealH> #action MichealH to add logs to wiki and to organise the wiki acordingly

 16:29:32 * meetingology MichealH to add logs to wiki and to organise the wiki acordingly

 16:29:37 <Muscovy> Ok, anything else that needs doing?

 16:29:47 <MichealH> #topic Plan for translations

 16:29:47 <meetingology> TOPIC: Plan for translations

 16:29:53 <Muscovy> Right.

 16:29:55 <MichealH> That was postponed

 16:30:00 <Moiso> Yes please

 16:30:21 <Muscovy> Who had something to say on the matter?

 16:30:33 <Moiso> I feel a little lost here

 16:30:36 <MichealH> Moiso: Break a leg! ;)

 16:30:57 <Moiso> It's the tour ready to translate?

 16:31:06 <Moiso> I mean totally?

 16:31:13 <Muscovy> Not totally.

 16:31:27 <MichealH> Moiso: You can start and there will be plenty to keep you going :)

 16:31:38 <Muscovy> We want to focus on doing the English stuff first so translators don't have to keep redoing things.

 16:31:51 <Muscovy> Some chapters are nearly done though

 16:31:54 <MichealH> Basically, It will never ever be fully traslated, ther

 16:31:56 <Moiso> yes I understand

 16:32:00 <Muscovy> and could be translated with few future edits.

 16:32:07 <MichealH> *there will be new items and we will need to keep up

 16:32:36 <Muscovy> I was thinking once we get feedback and finish writing, we'll open the translation floodgates.

 16:33:29 <Moiso> But if I translate now, is there a risk of getting some work lost because of edits?

 16:33:54 <Muscovy> Some, but you should be able to tell what looks finished.

 16:34:05 <Muscovy> The about-ubuntu chapter is more or less done, for example.

 16:34:24 <Muscovy> If you don't have time, I wouldn't worry about translating now though.

 16:34:35 <MichealH> #action finish writing and get the Site/BugTracker and then build a beta to open the Translations for everyone

 16:34:35 * meetingology finish writing and get the Site/BugTracker and then build a beta to open the Translations for everyone

 16:34:40 <Moiso> yeah I think so, that's what I have been doing

 16:35:21 <MichealH> #topic Chair for next meeting

 16:35:21 <meetingology> TOPIC: Chair for next meeting

 16:35:32 <MichealH> Anyone?

 16:35:54 <Moiso> .

 16:36:19 <MichealH> Muscovy: You wanna?

 16:36:23 <Omega> I could.

 16:36:26 <MichealH> Moiso: Is that a yes?

 16:36:32 <Omega> Mine's a yes.

 16:36:36 <Muscovy> I could also, as long as I can make it.

 16:36:41 <Omega> Wait, damn.

 16:36:49 <Omega> I don't think I can make it, I'm traveling.

 16:37:08 <Omega> I'll try to though, if I get a 'net connection.

 16:37:13 <MichealH> Lets postpone for now

 16:37:15 <Muscovy> Alright.

 16:37:20 <MichealH> #topic Dtae and Time

 16:37:20 <meetingology> TOPIC: Dtae and Time

 16:37:27 <MichealH> *Date and time

 16:37:31 <MichealH> Oh well

 16:37:37 <Muscovy> I think we should start the poll a week before.

 16:37:47 <Muscovy> SInce people's times are liable to change.

 16:38:12 <MichealH> But someone will be now able to commit to being there

 16:38:22 <MichealH> No matter what date and time

 16:38:31 <MichealH> Rough Date?

 16:38:39 <Omega> In two weeks?

 16:38:43 <Moiso> 15 days

 16:38:45 <MichealH> Sat/Sun in 2 weeks?

 16:38:45 <Muscovy> Dec 18/19.

 16:39:02 <Muscovy> Weekends seem best.

 16:39:11 <Moiso> Of course

 16:39:19 <MichealH> #vote 18/19 December rough date for the next meeting?

 16:39:19 <meetingology> Please vote on: 18/19 December rough date for the next meeting?

 16:39:19 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:39:23 <MichealH> +

 16:39:32 <MichealH> +1

 16:39:32 <meetingology> +1 received from MichealH

 16:39:34 <Moiso> +1

 16:39:34 <meetingology> +1 received from Moiso

 16:39:40 <MixCool> +1

 16:39:40 <meetingology> +1 received from MixCool

 16:39:47 <Omega> -1

 16:39:47 <meetingology> -1 received from Omega

 16:39:54 <Omega> (Because I can't make it)

 16:40:01 <Omega> But, go on :)

 16:40:08 * MichealH screams LOGS in Omega ear

 16:40:14 <Omega> Mhm.

 16:40:22 <Omega> I have logs of my own :>

 16:40:22 <MichealH> Muscovy: +1?

 16:40:32 <Muscovy> Hmm.

 16:40:34 <Muscovy> _1

 16:40:35 <Muscovy> +1

 16:40:35 <meetingology> +1 received from Muscovy

 16:40:40 <MichealH> #endvote

 16:40:40 <meetingology> Voting ended on: 18/19 December rough date for the next meeting?

 16:40:40 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:1 Abstentions:0

 16:40:40 <meetingology> Motion carried

 16:41:00 <MichealH> #agreed Next meeting ~ 18/19 Dec

 16:41:15 <MichealH> #topic Chair for next meeting

 16:41:15 <meetingology> TOPIC: Chair for next meeting

 16:42:01 <MichealH> I may do this

 16:42:47 <MichealH> #vote MichealH for next chair?

 16:42:47 <meetingology> Please vote on: MichealH for next chair?

 16:42:47 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:43:01 <Muscovy> +0

 16:43:03 <MichealH> I wont vote (It would be bias)

 16:43:17 <MichealH> Omega: ?

 16:43:28 <Omega> +0

 16:43:48 <Omega> Anyone is fine really :)

 16:43:55 <MichealH> Anyone else want to vote or volenteer?

 16:44:05 <MichealH> I can teach you how to use the bot.

 16:44:34 <MichealH> Going

 16:44:42 <MichealH> Going

 16:44:48 <MichealH> Gone

 16:44:51 <MichealH> #endvote

 16:44:51 <meetingology> Voting ended on: MichealH for next chair?

 16:44:51 <meetingology> Votes for:0 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 16:44:51 <meetingology> Deadlock

 16:44:57 <Omega> (:

 16:45:11 <MichealH> #action MichealH to be the next chair

 16:45:11 * meetingology MichealH to be the next chair

 16:45:22 <MichealH> Anything else?

 16:45:32 <MichealH> #topic Anything Else?

 16:45:32 <meetingology> TOPIC: Anything Else?

 16:45:39 <Muscovy> I think we're good.

 16:45:55 <MichealH> Going

 16:46:01 <MichealH> Going

 16:46:02 <MichealH> Gone

 16:46:03 <Omega> This has been a productive session.

 16:46:06 <MichealH> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
