{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Soyuz User Documentation ==

=== Upload System ===

* How to upload ?
** Packaging: introduce the ubuntu-packaging-guide
** How to build a package: address orig.tar.gz issues and pbuilder alternative
** How to upload: dput & dupload usage and config samples for ubuntu primary archive, PPA and PPA overriding the changesfile suite. Reading the dput log output and identifying problems.
* What to expect from a upload ?
** Brief overview:
*** FTPd-based synchronous queue
*** Isolated but unrecoverable sessions
*** Processed in periodic batches, every 5 minutes.
** Describe all possible email notification, include 'no notification yet' situation (maybe we could draw a flow-chart)
*** REJECTED
*** NEW
*** UNAPPROVED
*** ACCEPTED
*** 'I've been waiting for 10 minutes and soyuz didn't send me anything'
** What automatic notification should the user expect ?
*** Announcements to <distro>-changes@ lists ...

=== Publishing and Build System ===

* Source accepted, now what ?
** Incoming sources will show in <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com|ubuntu archive]]</nowiki> within one hour (tops) after they were ACCEPTED.
** Build request from incoming sources will be scheduled within one hour (tops).
** Build dispatching according the buildfarm load.
** ...
    
