{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Studio Intrepid Release Goals ==

** Art refresh
** Package updates where appropriate
** Multi-processer JACK (<nowiki>[[http://www.grame.fr/~letz/jackdmp.html|jackdmp]]</nowiki>)
** What needs to be done here to enable this? (rexbron)
*** New package process.
** Talk to Paul Davis to find out what differs between mainline. 
** PPC port
** Ensure amd64 packages are making use of particular CPU flags such as SSE, etc. 
** Wiki review and refresh
** Process documentation.
** Examine the possibility of using the GTk installer.

=== Decisions made in the meeting the 13th of June ===

** Make the #ubuntustudio-devel channel public.
** Complete 2 new packages. <nowiki>[[http://www.les-stooges.org/pascal/pencil/index.php?id=Home|"Pencil"]]</nowiki> (Janni will do this) and <nowiki>[[http://www.grame.fr/~letz/jackdmp.html|"jackdmp"]]</nowiki> (Luke will do this) Look at updating Superlooper.
** <nowiki>[[LuisdeBethencourt|Luis de Bethencourt]]</nowiki> will lead Ubuntu Studio for Intrepid +1
** Luke to look after -audio package list. Andrew for the -video package list. Cory takes -graphics and still creates the "look&feel" of Ubuntu Studio.
** we'll have regular meetings @21:00 in the 2nd week of every month. Alternating between Fridays and Sundays. (schedule to follow soon)
