{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


~-<nowiki>[[UbuntuTranslationsCoordinators]]</nowiki> > <nowiki>[[UbuntuTranslationsCoordinators-Actions|Actions]]</nowiki> > Ubuntu Translations announcements -~

== Mailing list ==

The main communication channel for Ubuntu translators is the mailing list, so any announcement should be posted there.

== Ubuntu Translations project RSS feed ==

The `ubuntu-translations` project has an RSS feed for announcements. The relevant announcements posted on the mailing list should be put in there as well.

All members of the Ubuntu Translations Coordinators team have write access to the news feed.

== Planet Ubuntu ==

We should blog more on translations! :)

Consider letting the Planet know about any translations developments, be it a general announcement, Jams or any info about your translation team.

== Fridge ==

Important announcements should be put in the Fridge as well. The procedure is simply a matter of e-mailing the Ubuntu News team with the announcement or pinging `dpm` to post it.

== Microblogging ==

Also consider spreading the word in the microblogging services, such as 

* TODO: we should probably create hashtags and such for !ubuntu-translators and #ubuntu-translations

== Facebook ==

We've got a big Facebook Ubuntu user group in Facebook. We should make sure that important announcements are also posted there. Let `dpm` know and he'll take care to get it published.

== Forums ==

Important announcements which are useful for the whole Ubuntu community should also be posted in the Forums.

----
CategoryTranslations
