{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Abstract ===
The purpose of this wiki page is document multi-head (multiple monitor) testing completed during the Precise development cycle.

This page will define the test use cases, the packages tested, 

=== dual head testing in XFCE ===

there were 2 test cases i used for dual monitors. these cases are described as follows...

==== mirroring ====
this would be for a presentation maybe. having the same image on both the main display, and a secondary display, such as a projector.

==== spanning ====
this would be where the desktop is actually extended onto both monitors making one big desktop.

==== mirroring tests ====
mirroring the display is quite simple with the included tool from XFCE/Xubuntu located in the menu under "settings" - "settings manger" - "display". also, the package LXrandr provides similar functionality. http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=lxrandr

==== spanning tests ====
to enable, and manage dual head spanning, the only tool that worked for me (with a GUI) was arandr. 
http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=arandr 
the different displays were easy to find, configure and rotate using the GUI arandr.

arandr and 'monitor settings' in the menu have the same icons. 

* between these 2 tools, we can cover whatever the end-user needs.

==== failed packages, and why ====

grandr failed. i couldnt enable spanning with it, and there were quite a few 'greyed-out' options.
