{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by ara at 16:01:21 UTC.  The full logs are available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-20-16.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Optical drive testing for Ubuntu Friendly (roadmr)
''ACTION:'' jedimike and roadmr to review the current default checkbox whitelist to ensure core-core/core-skippable/skippable-skippable mappings still make sense  (roadmr, 16:21:41)
''ACTION:'' bladernr, roadmr and spineau to decide whether it makes sense to put the optical/write test back without removing the read one, so that functionality gets at least tested (will penalize if the user decides to skip)  (roadmr, 16:22:48)

* "The Eagle has landed" - Checkbox-qt now available in Precise, call for testing (roadmr)

* AOB

Meeting ended at 16:30:42 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* jedimike and roadmr to review the current default checkbox whitelist to ensure core-core/core-skippable/skippable-skippable mappings still make sense
* bladernr, roadmr and spineau to decide whether it makes sense to put the optical/write test back without removing the read one, so that functionality gets at least tested (will penalize if the user decides to skip)

=== Action items, by person ===

* jedimike
* * jedimike and roadmr to review the current default checkbox whitelist to ensure core-core/core-skippable/skippable-skippable mappings still make sense
* roadmr
* * jedimike and roadmr to review the current default checkbox whitelist to ensure core-core/core-skippable/skippable-skippable mappings still make sense
* * bladernr, roadmr and spineau to decide whether it makes sense to put the optical/write test back without removing the read one, so that functionality gets at least tested (will penalize if the user decides to skip)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* roadmr (37)
* ara (30)
* brendand (11)
* meetingology (5)
* jedimike (4)
* cr3 (3)

=== Full Log ===

 16:01:21 <ara> #startmeeting

 16:01:21 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 20 16:01:21 2012 UTC.  The chair is ara. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:01:21 <meetingology> 

 16:01:21 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:01:33 <ara> welcome to the Ubuntu Friendly meeting #34

 16:01:54 <ara> #topic Optical drive testing for Ubuntu Friendly (roadmr)

 16:02:10 <roadmr> hi all!

 16:02:49 <roadmr> The situation is as follows. We now have a very nice automated CD writing test

 16:03:03 <roadmr> what it does is, it asks for blank media, writes some files to it, and then tries to read them

 16:03:31 <roadmr> this enables us to test reading and writing with just one test, thus being quicker for the user

 16:03:44 <roadmr> the problem is, the way the test was designed, it would be the *only* CD test run

 16:03:59 <roadmr> and the consequence for Ubuntu Friendly is that, if the drive supports writing, this test will ask the user for blank media

 16:04:09 <roadmr> if the user has no blank media, the test will either fail or be skipped

 16:04:21 <ara> o/

 16:04:33 <roadmr> and since CD functionality is considered core, we'll be giving the system one star (fail) if the user happened to not have (or not want to waste) a blank disk

 16:04:58 <roadmr> So for the time being we're still using only the read test for CD, and this awesome CD writing test is not used at all :)

 16:05:32 <roadmr> We'd like some feedback on how to handle this, one of the ideas being to change the "coreness" of the CD tests, making them optional/additional

 16:06:00 <roadmr> another possibility would be to rework this test so it behaves differently

 16:06:04 <brendand> o/

 16:06:43 <roadmr> and yet another would be the vaunted feature where checkbox supports various exit statuses so the test can say why it didn't run and not be considered an outright failure.

 16:06:55 <roadmr> So that's the situation. Ideas anyone?

 16:07:06 <roadmr> ara, you're first

 16:07:11 <ara> hey

 16:07:32 <ara> so, basically, we have three (and not two) types of tests: optional, core and skippable core

 16:07:45 <ara> I think we need to keep 2 tests

 16:07:56 <ara> the read one to be core, and the write one to be skippable

 16:08:15 <ara> to have only one for Ubuntu Friendly is not the answer

 16:08:22 <ara> as many people would skip the write one

 16:08:41 <ara> and in the end no one would be testing even the reading capabilities

 16:08:43 <ara> ..

 16:09:14 <roadmr> OK, yes, the original proposal was to skip the read-only test entirely if the write one was runnable

 16:09:17 <roadmr> brendand: your turn

 16:09:31 <brendand> similar to what ara said

 16:09:53 <brendand> it's fairly straightforward,

 16:10:11 <brendand> any test which has a valid reason why it could not be run should be skippable

 16:11:04 <brendand> i don't see how the read one should be core though. if the tester doesn't have a disc to test with we should really give the system one star?

 16:11:21 <ara> brendand, agree

 16:11:31 <ara> brendand, I stand corrected, both should be skippable

 16:12:08 <roadmr> jedimike, could you remind us how the optical tests are considered right now? are they core-core or core-skippable? :)

 16:12:21 <brendand> i guess in theory the wireless test for example could also not be testable, but in that case the hardware is so important it shouldn't be skippable

 16:12:40 <jedimike> roadmr: let me check...

 16:12:47 <brendand> for optical media i think a penalty is enough

 16:14:00 <brendand> a further conundrum is if the drive doesn't have a write capability then it will be penalised

 16:14:19 <brendand> even though it could never be expected to support that capability

 16:14:56 <brendand> how to deal with that?

 16:14:57 <brendand> ...

 16:15:21 <jedimike> optical is core, in the 11.10 tests dvd-write, cdrom-write, read_sr1 and read_sr0 are core-skippable. In 12.04 they're core-core. Do we want the mappings and skipping lists copied over to the 12.04 config now?

 16:16:22 <roadmr> jedimike: for 12.04 the whitelist shows only optical/detect and optical/read, there are no more write tests (at least not on the whitelist)

 16:16:48 <jedimike> roadmr: ok, the category mappings still need to be copied across though, I'll get on to that.

 16:17:07 <ara> roadmr, jedimike: I think we need an action item to coordinate and fix the mappings for 12.04

 16:17:52 <jedimike> ara: ok. I'll get the category mappings done now, it won't take me more than a few minutes. Then we can do the skippable stuff later. Once we go to production, there'll need to be an action item to get the mappings copied from staging.

 16:18:35 <roadmr> ara: also the whitelist could potentially still change, so I'd say not to set the mappings "in stone" until later

 16:19:09 <ara> agree, but we need to start selecting the skippable

 16:19:17 <ara> to start gathering data on staging

 16:19:22 <ara> and be able to fix stuff

 16:19:23 <ara> ..

 16:19:35 <roadmr> ara: we can put the write test back, but keep the read one, it's a bit of duplication but it's the best way to collect all that data

 16:20:00 <roadmr> ara: agreed, so the most pressing thing would be to look at the current whitelist and see how the tests are classified

 16:20:35 <roadmr> anyone want to work with jedimike on this? :)

 16:20:40 <roadmr> (I can do it)

 16:21:41 <roadmr> [ACTION] jedimike and roadmr to review the current default checkbox whitelist to ensure core-core/core-skippable/skippable-skippable mappings still make sense

 16:21:41 * meetingology jedimike and roadmr to review the current default checkbox whitelist to ensure core-core/core-skippable/skippable-skippable mappings still make sense

 16:22:48 <roadmr> [ACTION] bladernr, roadmr and spineau to decide whether it makes sense to put the optical/write test back without removing the read one, so that functionality gets at least tested (will penalize if the user decides to skip)

 16:22:48 * meetingology bladernr, roadmr and spineau to decide whether it makes sense to put the optical/write test back without removing the read one, so that functionality gets at least tested (will penalize if the user decides to skip)

 16:22:57 <roadmr> anything else needed on this topic?

 16:24:04 <ara> OK, let's move on!

 16:24:08 <ara> #topic "The Eagle has landed" - Checkbox-qt now available in Precise, call for testing (roadmr)

 16:24:15 <ara> roadmr, all yours (again)

 16:24:23 <roadmr> heheh :) I blame bladernr

 16:24:43 <roadmr> anyway - so yes, the new and shiny checkbox-qt interface for Checkbox has landed in Ubuntu.

 16:24:58 <cr3> o/

 16:25:15 <roadmr> As usual we'd appreciate help from everyone testing it and filing bugs so we can fix them and ensure the new UI is as usable as possible.

 16:25:23 <roadmr> To use it, just apt-get install checkbox-qt

 16:25:30 <roadmr> and run checkbox-qt instead of checkbox-gtk

 16:26:01 <roadmr> So please test and either send your comments to the mailing list or file Launchpad bugs for the stuff that bugs you!

 16:26:04 <roadmr> ..

 16:26:09 <roadmr> cr3: go ahead!

 16:26:14 <cr3> just to announce that we're still in the process of getting checkbox-qt on the desktop image but there's no significant blockers so far

 16:26:17 <cr3> ..

 16:26:37 <roadmr> cr3: awesome, thanks! yes, for now it requires manual installation but the package is tiny so the pain should be minimal

 16:28:36 <roadmr> that's all really on this topic :)

 16:28:50 <ara> OK, any other questions or comments on the topic?

 16:29:17 <ara> #topic AOB

 16:29:27 <ara> Anybody else has any other topics to talk about?

 16:29:40 <ara> without the else, of course

 16:29:50 <ara> if roadmr has other topics he's more than welcome to share them :)

 16:29:57 * roadmr has nothing else :(

 16:30:27 <ara> going once...

 16:30:37 <ara> going twice...

 16:30:42 <ara> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
