{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu%20Kylin/1410-alpha-2-ReleaseNoteChinese|中文版]]</nowiki>

== What is Ubuntu Kylin? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users. We are committed to provide you with a delicate, thoughtful and fully customized Chinese user experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing a desktop user interface localized in Chinese and installing common software that Chinese users commonly use by default. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since UbuntuKylin 13.04. Now, we are working on 14.10.

== Announcement ==

We are glad to announce the release of Ubuntu Kylin 14.10 Alpha 2. In this pre-release, the Linux Kernel is updated to 3.16. This Alpha 2 upgrades Ubuntu Kylin software center to 0.3.2, add Wiznote 2.1 and fix more than 30 bugs. Some interesting new features are still under development. 

'''Note That: '''This is an alpha pre-release, which is not suitable for normal users, but for Ubuntu Kylin developers and users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs.

== Support ==

* Mail List: ubuntukylin-members@lists.launchpad.net
* IRC Channel: #ubuntukylin-devel
* Chinese Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Chinese QQ Group: 262012757

== Download ==

The Release ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/utopic/alpha-2/ | here]]</nowiki>.
== Known Issues ==

== Thanks ==
Thanks to everyone involving in the development of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 14.10 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide
