{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Title ==

=== Status ===

** Created:  by MattZimmerman<<BR>>
** Priority: MediumPriority<<BR>>
** People: MattZimmermanLead, JuanjeOjedaSecond<<BR>>
** Contributors: MattZimmerman<<BR>>
** Interested: JuanjeOjeda, JeromeGotangco<<BR>>
** Status: BrainDump, BreezyGoal, UduBof, DistroSpecification<<BR>>
** Branch: <<BR>>
** Malone Bug: <<BR>>
** Packages: <<BR>>
** Depends: <<BR>>
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc <<BR>>

=== Introduction ===

Make the Breezy live CD competitive with, or superior to, any other modern live CD platform. 

=== Rationale ===

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

* Breezy's live CD must be feature-comparable to popular live CDs, including Knoppix and Morphix

=== Implementation Plan ===

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

==== Notes ====

* Infrastructure
** <nowiki>[[http://www.fsl.cs.sunysb.edu/project-unionfs.html|unionfs]]</nowiki> vs. device-mapper
*** done - 09/05/2005 with 2.6.11.91-1.1 kernel upload.
**** NOTE: PPC still does not have unionfs.
**** hch from #debian-kernel says that unionfs is generally oopsorama.
*** 2005/07/29 - ppc has unionfs too.
*** 2005-08-15 - unionfs udebs added, casper support added and uploaded.
** <nowiki>[[http://squashfs.sourceforge.net/|squashfs]]</nowiki> vs. cloop
*** done - 10/05/2005 with 2.6.11.92-1.1 kernel upload.
* Features
** Automatic mounting of hard disk partitions
** Read-only or read/write?
** What to do about unclean filesystems? (e.g., swsusp)
** Recovery tools
** Graphical partition table editor?
** Persistence
** Persistent home directory
** Persistent filesystem overlay
** "Share this CD": one-click bittorrent seed

==== UDU Pre-Work ====

* Create feature comparison matrix for Ubuntu live vs. Knoppix vs. Morphix vs. ???

== Thoughts/Suggestions ==

* Any thoughts on combining packet writing (http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Packet_Writing_on_CD-RW) with unionfs on cd-rw drives? -- MikkoVirkkilä
* more LiveCDs to compare to here: http://www.frozentech.com/content/livecd.php , possibly consider saving changes as new sessions like Puppy, also simple NTFS resizing for creating dual boot systems with a LiveCD is sorely needed  --NicholasBrand

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
