{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libssh2 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libs/libssh2]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of curl
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libssh|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libssh|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, no daemons (library package).
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package does work out of the box without configuration (library package).
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** No <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libssh2|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libssh2|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is active.
** <nowiki>[[http://libssh2.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is active.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=125852&atid=703942|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No major bug reports.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?
** Packaging system (debhelper)  Patch system (quilt)  No packaging oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All dependencies in main.

=== Reviewers ===

Initial report: MatthiasKlose
