{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



The right to have an Ubuntu email address alias (@ubuntu.com) is a privilege that all members (direct/indirect) of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers|Ubuntu members]]</nowiki> team on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki> possess. For information about Ubuntu membership, see <nowiki>[[Membership]]</nowiki>.

The address is taken from your Launchpad username so will be: launchpad_username@ubuntu.com , email sent to this address will be forwarded to your main email address set on Launchpad.

A similar service exists for Kubuntu members and Edubuntu members (@kubuntu.org and @edubuntu.org respectively).

This document explains some common questions about the service.

== Alias creation times ==

The script which creates the email aliases runs every 2 days. So please wait at least <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/launchpad/+faq/71|48 hours]]</nowiki> before checking if the email is working (or leave it a couple more days to be sure).

If you change your Launchpad ID or "Contact Address", there will also be up to 48 hour delay until this takes effect.

== Launchpad primary/contact address ==

As the alias forwards email to your contact address on LP - please do '''not''' set your contact address for Launchpad to your Ubuntu email address. If you do, this will either result in a loop or your email alias will simply not be created. This is a known problem, please see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/5292|bug #5292]]</nowiki> for more information.

== Changing your Launchpad name ==

If you would like to change your Launchpad nick (known on LP as your "name"), please note that when the alias script runs this will change your Ubuntu email from the old nick to the new one.

Any mail sent to the old address will be lost and a "Virtual address does not exist" mail will be sent to the sender. Be sure to update any mailing list subscriptions to point to a temporary address while the new address is being created. Otherwise, they will receive a load of bounces which may result in you being unsubscribed.

== Thunderbird ==

You probably want to configure Thunderbird by editing your existing account (where the mail forwards to) and adding an Identity using the Manage Identities button.  Enter your name and new Ubuntu email address there, then when sending mails use the new dropdown next to From to make it come from the desired address.

== Gmail-specific ==

=== Testing your mail with GMail ===

Please note that if your contact address in Launchpad is a GMail address, then you cannot use that specific GMail account to test that forwarding is working. The reason is this pattern looks like an endless loop of e-mails between gmail.com and ubuntu.com; and GMail does not accept these e-mails.

It is a better idea to ask a friend to send you an email to your new address to test it, or use a non-Gmail account to test.

=== Sending email from GMail with your Ubuntu address ===

'''''After''''' your new Ubuntu alias has been created, one may setup Gmail so that messages from the new address appear to come from an @ubuntu.com address.

Since your new Ubuntu alias is not a real email address, you cannot use SMTP from Ubuntu, despite what Google may suggest. Instead, use the Gmail SMTP, authenticating with your full Gmail address and password. 

This is, unfortunately, not trivial. When setting up the configuration, it will attempt to authenticate to SMTP through the Google servers, of course, which are not like your previous IP addresses. This will often trigger Google to reject your login as a suspicious sign in. You'll get a response like:
<pre>
  Authentication failed. Please check your username/password.
  [Server response: 534-5.7.14 <https://accounts.google.com/ContinueSignIn?sarp=1&scc=1&plt=AKgnsbt13 534-    5.7.14 kf4wMwID0e30uuFcOayONRTqKXSXt9Avu3YdYjpttZ8se8-ipU55DI-FepA9
  6ngZIdWlcs 534-5.7.14LsPSYGG5AmtBIR3uBSP1Zs6mZSNV4IAtStSSn4S
  9JBVGPoBLMfOGBhlD7m-MMmuaMdSqgZ 534-5.7.14 B_cMiHaTak7KSXjQTW
  GTnTCElhMMfnUTarJGRjh9tvWp_ScCxmJ7Hrbz6w-d0lsS6aYoo3 534-5.7.14
  q5SXtKg> Please log in via your web browser and then try again.
   534-5.7.14 Learn more at 534 5.7.14 https://support.google.com/mail/bin/answer.py?answer=78754 
  f6sm514881lae.7 - gsmtp code(534) ]
</pre>

To fix that, you need to follow these steps:
# From your Gmail inbox page, please click on '''Accounts''' on the top right of your inbox where your Gmail/Google+ Profile Picture is.
# From the drop down list, please choose: '''<nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/settings | Account]]</nowiki>'''.
# Go to '''<nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/settings/security | Security]]</nowiki>''' tab.
# From Account Permissions box, select '''Access for less secure apps''' - click <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/settings/security/lesssecureapps | Settings]]</nowiki>.
# '''IF and ONLY IF''' you agree on '''''Access for less secure apps''''' to be enabled, please check '''Enable'''.
# Now, from your Gmail inbox page, please go to '''Settings''' at the right top corner then '''Accounts and import''' tab > Add another email address you own.
# Enter your name and your launchpad email address: your_launchpad_id@ubuntu.com.
# Make sure the Checkbox "Treat as an alias" is enabled.
# '''SMTP Server:''' should read: smtp.gmail.com - port 587
# '''Username''' should read: your_gmail_username@gmail.com
# Enter the '''password''' of your_gmail_username@gmail.com - remember, your_launchpad_id@ubuntu.com is only an alias, not a real email address, thus it has no password on it's own. If you are using 2-factor, this should be an '''app-specific password'''. (See below)
# By default, it is on Secured connection using TLS (recommend) so please, leave that as it is.
# Hit '''Save Changes'''.
# If there are still problems, you can try to <nowiki>[[https://accounts.google.com/DisplayUnlockCaptcha|display the unlock captcha]]</nowiki>, re-enter the password, and try again.

You should get a confirmation to click on and the alias should be added. To make sure, send a test email to your Ubuntu Email.

Google has <nowiki>[[http://mail.google.com/support/bin/answer.py?answer=22370|some more information]]</nowiki> on the subject.

=== 2-step Authentication issues ===

After fulfilling the previous steps, you may not be able to send emails and you will receive a message saying, go to <nowiki>[[https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185834|this page]]</nowiki>. 

However, all you need to do is to go https://security.google.com/settings/security/apppasswords, and scroll to the bottom.

From "Select app" or "Select device", choose "Other (Custom name)" and type in an identifier for the app-specific password. 

It can be anything, or you can use one of the preset names if they are sufficient for you to tell them apart.

The app-specific password will display once, and only once. 

Copy the app-specific password they gave you to the SMTP password field in the alias configuration menu. 

In the end, you will instruct gmail to use this app-specific password when corresponding with the smtp.gmail.com server, which will then relay mails for you to allow you to send emails from the @ubuntu.com alias.

Using the app-specific password will bypass the 2-factor authentication system, and can only be disabled by revoking the app-specific password. 

If you feel your account has been compromised, revoke and reissue any app-specific passwords.

You may need to do the same steps, but adapted to your email client, if you use an external one. However, most of that has been covered above. But, in any case, Google's app-specific password generation covers the majority of clients that would need this.

== Expiration date ==

Your Ubuntu membership will expire in two years. You'll receive an automatic email to renew, then your Ubuntu membership (and email) will be extended.

== I still need help! ==

Should you require more assistance, please email rt@ubuntu.com with a link to your Launchpad profile and the details of your problem.
