{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Rocketfuel merges ==

=== Status ===

* Created: 24/04/05 by RobertCollins
* Priority: HighPriority
* People: SteveAlexanderLead, RobertCollinsSecond
* Contributors: MarkShuttleworth
* Interested: ScottJamesRemnant, DavidAllouche, RobertCollins
* Status: EditedSpecification, LaunchpadSpecification, MarkShuttleworthQueue
* Branch:
* Malone Bug:
* Packages:
* Depends: 
* UduSessions: 2

=== Introduction ===

This specification discusses the merge process for code that goes into the
rocketfuel repository. 

=== Rationale ===

Pre-merge reviews are working well for the core launchpad work, and should
be expanded out to all the code that ends up in rocketfuel.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

The scope is limited to code stored in the rocketfuel@canonical.com baz repository.
rocketfuel@canonical.com.

No specific use cases are present, rather we are evaluating the requirements of each projects in the repository and setting merge and review policy.

==== Review teams ====

The standard LP review team will do reviews.

==== Projects in Rocketfuel ====

Live branches.

* arch-pqm : PQM code base.
** tests: No automatic test suite
* banzai - sourcerer data store interface.
** tests: whole system test suite
* buildbot - importd upstream/infrastructure.
** tests: whole system test suite.
* cscvs - heavily modified cscvs branch drives SCM imports. 
** tests: whole system test. 
* dists - tree layouts for rocketfuel
** tests: isolated test suite.
* gnarly - cross twisted/normal python subprocess library.
** tests: whole system suite.
* hct - the open source component of HCT. 
** tests: whole system test suite. 
* launchpad - the web application.
** tests: system wide test
* psycopgda - zodb adapter to postgres
** tests: whole system test
* pyarch - old tla bindings
** tests: no need to run
** should be removable from dists, and become a dead branch
* pybaz - current baz bindings
** tests: system test
* pygettextpo - gettext cruft
** tests: whole system tests
* pyme - python gpgme bindings
** tests: system tests,
* sourcerer - package import guts.
** tests: whole system tests
* sqlobject - cheap object mapping
** tests: system test
* sqlos - glue from sqlobject to z3.
** tests: whole system test
* zope - big webapp framework.
** tests: don’t test until we have import based from a post 3.1 release.
** tests: whole system once we have import based post 3.1 tree.

Dead branches, listed here for completeness.

* arch - DEAD BRANCH
* bugs - DEAD BRANCH
* buttress - DEAD branch
* canonical - DEAD branch
* malone - DEAD BRANCH
* pytranslations - DEAD BRANCH
* raw - DEAD BRANCH
* rosetta - DEAD BRANCH
* soy - DEAD branch
* soyuz - DEAD branch

=== Implementation Plan ===

* Lifeless to audit that the configuration does do the tests listed above.

* Change PQM so that it requires a record of the reviewer in the merge summary for these branches.
   See PqmMergeSummaryChecks.
