{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #93 for the week May 25th - May 31st, 2008. In this issue we cover:  new Ubuntu Membership approval process, new Ubuntu Members, new Lo``Co approval process, Linux``Tag 2008, Launchpad 1.2.5, Launchpod episode #3, Forum Tutorial of the week, Ubuntu UK Podcast #6, Full Circle Magazine #13, Team Reports, and much, much more!

=== UWN Translations ===

* Note to translators and our readers: We are trying a new way of linking to our translations pages. Please follow the link below for the information you need.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Translations

=== In This Issue ===

* More efficient membership approval process
* New Ubuntu Members
* Lo``Co Council Open for Business
* Linux``Tag 2008
* Ubuntu Bugs & Stats
* Launchpad News
* Ubuntu Forums News
* In the Press & Blogosphere
* Ubuntu UK Podcast #6
* Full Circle Magazine #13
* Team Meeting Summaries
* Upcoming News & Events
* Updates & Securities

=== General Community News ===

==== More efficient membership approval process ====

The Community Council has recently implemented some changes to community governance processes which it believes reflect a significant improvement in one area of community governance: applications for Ubuntu membership.

As a result three regional membership boards have been created to consider applications from contributors to the project for Ubuntu membership. The boards are:

Americas <<BR>>
Europe, Middle East and Africa <<BR>>
Asia / Oceania

More information is in the article:  http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1461

==== New Ubuntu Members ====

Nicholas Deschildre is the main developer behind the tokamak spec, which
is better known as the very successful "Ubuntu Brainstorm" site. https://launchpad.net/~ndeschildre

Philip Newborough is an active Ubuntu advocate in the UK and the
developer of the crunchband Ubuntu derivative. https://launchpad.net/~corenominal

Timo Jyrniki is team contact, translation team leader and sysadmin for
the Finnish locoteam. https://launchpad.net/~timo-jyrinki

Iulian Andrea is an active BugSquad member and huge contributor to the
Ubuntu Brainstorms website. https://launchpad.net/people/iulian

Ricardo Peréz López is the team admin of the Spanish translators team
and one of its most active translators. https://launchpad.net/~ricardo

Tomas Žeimys is the founder of ubuntu.lt and one of the most active
people in the Lithuanian locoteam. https://launchpad.net/~zeimys

Leo Iannacone is a very active member of the Italian forums and the
Italian documentation team. https://launchpad.net/~l3on/

Agostino Russo is the main developer and maintainer of Umenu and Wubi,
the Ubuntu installer running in windows. https://launchpad.net/~ago

Alessio Treglia is a very active contributor of the Italian team, mainly
on the documentation side. https://launchpad.net/~quadrispro

Martin Pihl is the founder of http://ubuntudanmark.dk/ - the Danish
Ubuntu community site. https://launchpad.net/~martinpihl

Nathan Haines is a member of the California Lo``Co team, He is polite and
thoughtful advocate and his participation in Organizing events has been
notorious. He is also working hard on packaging PyRoom for intrepid. https://launchpad.net/~nhaines

Adam Sommer helps keep the Server Guide up to date for each release and
continue to helps test the Server Edition. He recently worked on Xubuntu
documentation as for the Hardy Heron release. https://launchpad.net/~asommer

Andres Rodriguez is a member of the Ubuntu Peru Lo``Co team, He has been a
contributor to spanish translators. He is an op in #ubuntu-es and is a
member of the Peruvian Ubuntu Council. he demonstrated significant signs
MOTU work. https://launchpad.net/~andreserl

Dante Díaz is a high spirited advocate in the Peruvian Lo``Co Team. he has
done advocacy work in Universities, he currently manages the services
for the Peruvian Team. he also participates actively in Spanish
translations. https://launchpad.net/~dante

Leann Ogasawara works for Canonical as a Quality Assurance Engineer and
She interested in kernel bugs. I'm also involved in other general QA
related areas. https://edge.launchpad.net/~leannogasawara

Jim Campbell works hard to keep Xubuntu documentation accurate and up to
date. He is also heavily involved in the promotion of Xubuntu in
events.He is te Lo``Co contact for Ubuntu Chicago. https://launchpad.net/~jwcampbell

Dustin Kirkland currently works at Canonical, He develops, extends,
packages, and support the software that comprises Ubuntu's Server,
making it easy to use and secure. He is well know for tools his
developed, like improvements in the search for Ubuntu docs. https://launchpad.net/~kirkland

Ricardo Cropalato has shown significant sustained translations. He is a
member of Ubuntu Brazil and he currently helps test in the LTSP team. he
also known for his network and security related work. https://launchpad.net/~ricardo-cropalato

Santiago Zarate, He is an active member of Ubuntu-ve, currently handling services.
He also participates giving talks across the country. He is also known
for his contributions to Kubuntu website and Kubuntu-es in Spanish
translations. https://launchpad.net/~469

==== LoCo Council Open for Business ====

The Community Council has delegated Lo``Co-related governance to the Lo``Co Council, similar to the recent creation of regional boards for Ubuntu membership. The Lo``Co Council is responsible for approving new Lo``Cos, re-approving Lo``Cos (more on that below), conflict resolution, resource allocation, mentoring, growth, and highlighting best practices.

The approval process for Lo``Cos has not changed. New teams should continue referring to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved as the reference guide for approval. In the near future, the Lo``Co Council will be documenting how to bring conflicts in front of the council and how to privately communicate on sensitive issues. The Lo``Co Council is also working on ways to make it easier for Lo``Cos to request resources, like mailing lists and Canonical-provided hosting.

Approved Lo``Cos will need to be re-approved every year. This is to make sure Lo``Cos have the resources and help needed to continue supporting their area. Re-approval is similar to the initial approval application, simply documenting what the Lo``Co has done in the previous year and laying out plans for the future. Lo``Cos needing to be re-approved will be contacted by the Lo``Co Council, and provided a timetable to submit their application. If a Lo``Co is not ready to be re-approved, the Lo``Co Council will work with the team to refocus and establish itself again.

Meetings will be held at least once a month. Lo``Cos wanting to be approved or wishing to discuss any issues are welcome to add themselves to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda.

The next Lo``Co Council meeting will be held 04-June-2008, 16:00 UTC.

==== LinuxTag 2008 ====

Linux``Tag is Europe's largest annual convention for Free Software focusing on GNU/Linux. This is where dot-com meets dot-org. Linux``Tag is aimed at everyone interested in Free Software: companies, public agencies, non-profits, and free projects. The conference offers an all-in-one platform to deliver information to everyone interested in open source and free software, and to create synergies between business and the free software community. http://www.linuxtag.org/2008/en/linuxtag/mission.html

* Ubuntu Booth: http://www.daniel-ritter.de/blog/artikel/67/img_0044

=== Ubuntu Stats ===

==== Bug Stats ====

* Open (47029) +122 # over last week
* Critical (32) +/-0 # over last week
* Unconfirmed (23358) +153 # over last week
* Unassigned (37424) +156 # over last week
* All bugs ever reported (186759) +1704 # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

==== Translation Stats Hardy ====

This is the top 5, not specific languages, so the languages might change week to week.

* Spanish (14163)
* French (39318)
* English (United Kingdom) (49700)
* Swedish (52980)
* Brazilian Portuguese (64652)

Remaining strings to translate in Ubuntu 8.04 "Hardy Heron," see more at: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/

=== Launchpad News ===

==== Launchpad 1.2.5: code branch reviews and translations search ====

The Launchpad team is proud to announce the release of Launchpad 1.2.5! New features in this release include:

* voting and commenting on code branch mergers
* new Launchpad-wide search
* and translations search!

Launchpad's merge proposals are a great way for project contributors to get their code considered for inclusion in the main line. Now, branch owners - and anyone else who's interested - can vote and comment on merge proposals.  These changes make it easy to discuss and tweak proposed changes to a branch. You can browse the branch which contains the changes then comment and vote directly on what you've seen.

* You can take a look at one of the first branch merger comments here:https://code.launchpad.net/~thumper/pqm/test-bzr-home/+merge/296/
https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/launchpad-users/2008-May/003780.html

==== Launchpod episode 3: New Launchpad Release and Terminator ====

Hosts: Matthew Revell, Joey Stanford and Elliot Murphy.

The latest news from the Launchpad developers, questions from Launchpad users, and stories from people who’ve found Launchpad useful. Feature in this episode:

* Interview with Aaron Bentley, of the Launchpad Bazaar integration team, talking about Launchpad’s new code merger proposal review system.
* Interview with Danilo Segan, of the the Launchpad Translations team, talking about the new translations search feature.
* Interview with Chris Jones, leader of the Terminator terminal project..
* Joey’s number of the week! How many projects are registered in Launchpad?
http://news.launchpad.net/podcast/launchpod-episode-3-new-launchpad-release-and-terminator

=== Ubuntu Forums News ===

==== Ubuntu Forums Interviews ====

You might take it for granted that young people comprise a part of the Ubuntu community. You might not be aware that some forum staff members are still in their teens. jacobmp92 is one of a few moderators yet to reach the age of majority, but is fulfilling a considerable responsibility as a forum volunteer. This Ohioan has made many contributions to the Ubuntu community and Lo``Co support, and continues to draw new users in tech classes and elsewhere. Please meet the illustrious jacobmp92 here: http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2008/06/01/an-interview-with-jacobmp92/

==== Tutorial of the Week ====

This week's tutorial is a nifty little trick for laptop owners: "HOWTO: LED notification for new mail/messages/calls," by Pedric.

With this tutorial, you might be able to flash your laptop LED when you get an incoming Skype call, or an e-mail arrives. http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=539425

=== In The Press ===

* VIA Unveils New Open``Book UMPC Reference Design - VIA is announces a new addition to their portfolio of UMPC reference designs, dubbed the Open``Book. The VIA Open``Book is a 240mm(W) x 175mm(D) x 36.2mm(H) mini-note style UMPC that weighs in at a svelte 2.2lbs (1kg).  The unit offers up to 3 hours of battery life through the use of a 4-cell 2600mA lithium-ion battery, and it sports an 8.9” (1024 x 600) LCD display, a full keyboard and touch pad, and a dual-head 2MP integrated webcam. The Open``Book will be made available with a wide array of operating systems options, both proprietary and open source, including Ubuntu. Detailed specs at the link.  http://www.hothardware.com/News/VIA_Unveils_New_OpenBook_UMPC_Reference_Design/

* Ubuntu 8.04 Is Ready to Take On Windows - Canonical has marshaled the best of what the open-source world has to offer in Ubuntu 8.04, a Linux-based operating system that's capable of mounting a serious challenge to Microsoft Windows on mainstream desktops and notebooks. As with any would-be Windows rival, Ubuntu 8.04 faces an uphill battle for hardware and software certifications. Regarding software, the continued improvement of open-source alternative applications such as the Open``Office.org productivity suite, Firefox Web browser and Evolution groupware client go a long way toward providing users with the tools they require to get their work done from a Linux-based desktop. http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Linux-and-Open-Source/Ubuntu-804-Is-Ready-to-Take-On-Windows/

* Can System Builders Turn to Ubuntu? - Late last month, Ubuntu 8.04 arrived on the scene, right on time, right on its six-month refresh cycle and readily available via a simple ISO image file download. While that may have been big news for the Linux community, the question remains, what if any impact will this latest release have on mainstream computer users? For the majority of PC users, the impact will probably be nil. That doesn’t mean there isn’t an opportunity here for solution providers and system builders however. But first they have to contemplate Ubuntu being a viable alternative to Microsoft’s family of Windows products.  http://www.channelinsider.com/c/a/Reviews/Can-System-Builders-Turn-to-Ubuntu/

* Forget the Heron; what's new in Ubuntu's Intrepid Ibex? - Ubuntu, arguably the most popular Linux distribution today, came out with its 8.04 release last month, dubbed Hardy Heron. Here’s the low down on what the future holds this October with Ubuntu 8.10, Intrepid Ibex. Two key design goals were announced from the beginning. First, the user interaction model will be re-engineered to ensure Ubuntu works as responsively as possible on hardware ranging from little subnotebooks up to and including high-end workstations. Second, is the goal of pervasive internet access. Ubuntu has explicitly stated they wish this next release of Ubuntu to tap into bandwidth wherever you may be to provide pervasive internet access. http://www.itwire.com/content/view/18482/1141/

* New Life for an Old PC  - There are several versions, or “distributions,” of the free operating system Linux, available online. Ubuntu is considered one of the more user-friendly versions of the operating system, and you can download a copy at www.ubuntu.com. Ubuntu Desktop even comes with Open``Office word-processing, spreadsheet and presentation software, Firefox Web browser, a calendar and an e-mail program — the free equivalents of Microsoft software like Office programs and Internet Explorer.  http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/29/technology/personaltech/29askk-002.html?_r=2&ref=personaltech&oref=slogin&oref=slogin

* Nonprofit chooses Ubuntu for servers, Open``Office for desktops - Oxford Archaeology is one of the largest independent excavation firms in Britain. Their mission is to discover and preserve historical artifacts, and then share its findings. Two years ago, when Puttick(CIO) arrived at the 35-year-old company, his goal was to convert the entire firm completely to open source -- not just the operating system but also the database, office desktops, customer relationship management and geographic mapping systems. Puttick started with the servers, most of which now run on Ubuntu (some 6.06 LTS and others on 8.04 LTS), then they tried the Open``Office desktop application. Canonical is responsive and quick to address user issues, both through regular channels and personal contacts, Puttick said. http://searchenterpriselinux.techtarget.com/news/article/0,289142,sid39_gci1315258,00.html

=== In The Blogosphere ===

* Adventures with open source apps on Linux - Part 1 - In this first post Adrian Kingsley-Hughes takes a closer look at some of the applications that ship with Ubuntu 8.04 and which are ready to use as soon as you’ve installed and booted into Linux! See, after you’ve install Windows, you’ve got the OS, Notepad, Calculator and a few other bits and pieces. After installing a distro like Ubuntu you’ve got a whole raft of applications at your disposal.  http://blogs.zdnet.com/hardware/?p=1906&page=1

* Ubuntu desktop (LTS) 8.04 - Why should anyone care about Ubuntu? Well there are many reasons that it’s good to have alternatives - and free ones at that - to the big operating systems. For one, these systems are free. For another, they are for the most part open source, which means that anybody can modify or add to them. One of the most impressive things about it is that it can coexist with Windows XP on the same computer. http://sky.dlfound.org/ubuntu-desktop-lts-804/

* Then they fight you - Jani Monoses asked the organizers if our Free Software Group could hold a short session about the benefits of FOSS in education, with references to Ubuntu, Edubuntu and Kiwilinux and we were given a slot after the ones which had already been planned a while ago - those of Microsoft, Cisco and a local company that sells education software for Romanian schools. Then the Free Software Group was notified that the Microsoft representative in charge with the education strategy had requested the organizers to pull the Ubuntu presentation because it is unfair competition to hold such a presentation at an event sponsored by them. http://janimo.blogspot.com/2008/05/then-they-fight-you.html

=== In Other News ===

==== Ubuntu UK Podcast:Episode #6 - Flaming Star ====

Alan Pope, Dave Walker and Tony Whitmore present the sixth episode of the Ubuntu UK Podcast.

Discussion:

*** A chat about the recent Ubuntu Developer Summit.
*** A lengthy interview with Mark Shuttleworth where we discuss a range of topics including:-
*** The release and death of Gobuntu
*** Dealing with reactions to Mark Shuttleworth’s blog
*** Mozilla Thunderbird
*** Python
*** Deciding what applications are shipped with Ubuntu
*** SSH/SSL vulnerability resolution
*** Updated shipit CDs
*** HBD
*** The future of Linux
*** The Ubuntu Community
*** Killer features in 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex)
*** Ubuntu Mobile
And much more.  See http://podcast.ubuntu-uk.org/2008/05/27/s01e06-flaming-star/

==== Full Circle Magazine Issue #13 ====

This month:

* Flavor of the Month - Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron.
* How-To : Organize an Ubuntu Demo Day/Party, TV Feast for Ubuntu, Using GIMP Part 2, Create Your Own Server Part 5 and Automatic Backup via Email.
* My Opinion - What is Web 2.0?
* MOTU Interview - Luca Falavigna
* Letters, Q&A, My``Desktop, Top5 and more!

Get is while its hot! http://fullcirclemagazine.org/

=== Meeting Summaries ===

==== LoCo Council ====

* Lo``Co Council will start doing approvals at the next meeting: 04-June-2008, 16:00 UTC
* Lo``Co Team approval guidelines were discussed, minor changes still required.
* Approved Lo``Cos will be re-approved on a yearly basis.
** This is to support Lo``Cos and see if they need any help.
** Lo``Cos should apply for re-approval close to their anniversary dates.
** Lo``Cos approved in the last year have approval anniversary dates on Lo``Co``Team``List.
** Lo``Cos without approval anniversary dates are over a year old and need to be re-approved.
* Resource allocation and conflict resolution procedures being worked on.

==== Server Team ====

* uvirtbot announces NEW bugs in #ubuntu-server
* kirkland wrote a simple frontend for generating the verbose arguments ubuntu-vm-builder accepts:http://people.ubuntu.com/~kirkland/ubuntu-vm-builder.html
* Darwin Calendar server is available in the Intrepid repository.

The full report here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReportingPage/2008-05#long

=== Upcoming Meetings and Events ===

==== Monday, June 2, 2008 ====

===== Bugs for Hugs Day =====
* Start: 12:00 UTC
* End: See Next Day
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-bugs
* Agenda: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20080603

===== EMEA membership meeting =====
* Start: 20:00 UTC
* End: 21:30 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/EMEA

==== Tuesday, June 3, 2008 ====

===== Bugs for Hugs Day =====
* Start: See Previous Day
* End: See Next Day
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-bugs
* Agenda: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20080603

==== Wednesday, June 4, 2008 ====

===== Bugs for Hugs Day =====
* Start: See Previous Day
* End: 13:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-bugs
* Agenda: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20080603

===== Platform Team Meeting =====
* Start: 06:00 UTC
* End: 07:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: Not Listed as of Publication

===== LoCo Council Meeting =====
* Start: 16:00 UTC
* End: 17:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda

===== Server Team Meeting =====
* Start: 21:00 UTC
* End: 22:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting

===== Kubuntu Team Meeting =====
* Start: 22:00 UTC
* End:
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Meetings

==== Thursday, June 5, 2008 ====

===== Americas Ubuntu Membership Approval Board Meeting =====
* Start: 01:00 UTC
* End: 02:30 UTC
* Location: #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/Americas

===== Desktop Team Meeting =====
* Start: 13:00 UTC
* End: 14:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting

===== Security Team Meeting =====
* Start: 20:00 UTC
* End: 21:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Meeting

=== Updates and Security for 6.06, 7.04, 7.10, and 8.04 ===

==== Security Updates ====

* None Reported

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

* xorg-server 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu10.12 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-May/012702.html

==== Ubuntu 7.04 Updates ====

* None Reported

==== Ubuntu 7.10 Updates ====

* None Reported

==== Ubuntu 8.04 Updates ====

* gdb 6.8-1ubuntu2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011549.html
* envyng-core 1.1.1ubuntu17 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011550.html
* gedit 2.22.3-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011551.html
* eog 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011552.html
* gvfs 0.2.4-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011553.html
* gnome-desktop 1:2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011554.html
* gnome-keyring 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011555.html
* evolution 2.22.1.1-0ubuntu3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011556.html
* seahorse 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011557.html
* gtkhtml3.14 3.18.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011558.html
* vino 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011559.html
* openldap2.3 2.4.7-6ubuntu4.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011560.html
* gecko-mediaplayer 0.6.0-0ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011561.html
* gnome-panel 1:2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011562.html
* evolution-exchange 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011563.html
* xserver-xorg-video-geode 2.9.0-1ubuntu2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011564.html
* openoffice.org 1:2.4.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011565.html
* bacula 2.2.8-5ubuntu7.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011566.html
* ubuntu-vm-builder 0.4-0ubuntu0.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011567.html
* gnome-menus 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011568.html
* pycaml 0.82-7ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011569.html
* file-roller 2.22.3-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011570.html
* deskbar-applet 2.22.2.1-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011571.html
* compiz 1:0.7.4-0ubuntu7 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011572.html
* plucker 1.8-24build0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011573.html
* oxine 0.6.4-4ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011574.html
* gnome-games 1:2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011575.html
* xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.2.1-1ubuntu13.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011576.html
* eel2 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011577.html
* nautilus 1:2.22.3-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011578.html
* gnome-applets 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011579.html
* evince 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011580.html
* libgnomeui 2.22.1.0-0ubuntu2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011581.html
* linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24.13-17.38 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011582.html
* apache2 2.2.8-1ubuntu0.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011583.html
* audacious-plugins 1.5.0-1ubuntu1.8.04.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011584.html
* yelp 2.22.1-0ubuntu2.8.04.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011587.html
* devhelp 0.19-1ubuntu1.8.04.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011590.html
* epiphany-browser 2.22.1.1-0ubuntu2~8.04.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011586.html
* xulrunner-1.9 1.9 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011585.html
* firefox-3.0 3.0~rc1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011591.html
* nss 3.12.0.2+1.9-0ubuntu0.8.04.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011589.html
* nspr 4.7.1+1.9-0ubuntu0.8.04.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011588.html
* desktop-file-utils 0.15-1ubuntu4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011592.html
* gcalctool 5.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011593.html
* gthumb 3:2.10.8-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011594.html
* apache2-mpm-itk 2.2.6-01-1build2.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011595.html
* xserver-xorg-video-geode 2.9.0-1ubuntu2.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011596.html
* initramfs-tools 0.85eubuntu39 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011597.html
* lupin 0.19 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011598.html
* migration-assistant 0.6.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011599.html
* evolution 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011600.html
* evolution-data-server 2.22.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011601.html
* gnome-desktop 1:2.22.2-0ubuntu2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011602.html
* gnome-games 1:2.22.2.1-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011603.html
* rhythmbox 0.11.5-0ubuntu7 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011604.html
* xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.2.1-1ubuntu13.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011605.html
* ltsp 5.0.40~bzr20080212-0ubuntu7 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011606.html
* net-retriever 1.18ubuntu5 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011607.html
* parted 1.7.1-5.1ubuntu9.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011608.html
* openoffice.org 1:2.4.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011609.html
* xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.2.1-1ubuntu13.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011610.html
* sdl-mixer1.2 1.2.8-1ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011611.html
* tomboy 0.10.2-0ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011612.html
* ntfs-3g 1:1.2216-1ubuntu2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011613.html
* dpkg 1.14.16.6ubuntu4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011614.html
* epiphany-browser 2.22.2-0ubuntu0.8.04.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011615.html
* epiphany-extensions 2.22.2-0ubuntu0.8.04.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011616.html
* casper 1.132ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011617.html
* nautilus 1:2.22.3-0ubuntu2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011618.html
* bzr 1.3.1-1ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011619.html
* policykit-gnome 0.7-2ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-May/011620.html
* openoffice.org-l10n 1:2.4.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-June/011621.html

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Nick Ali
* John Crawford
* Craig A. Eddy
* Isabelle Duchatelle
* And many others

=== Feedback ===

If you would like to submit an idea or story you think is worth appearing on the UWN, please send them to ubuntu-marketing-submissions@lists.ubuntu.com.
This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page. If you have any technical support questions, please send then ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com.
