{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== BBQ at the end of LinuxDay 2007 Berlin ===

The Linux user group ubuntu-berlin will be hosting a BBQ and everyone is invited!

As there is a substantial amount of people in Berlin we're expecting around 50 participants.

'''Please spread the news.'''

The food is donated by Canonical Ltd. (We will consider vegetarians to a certain degree, too.)

Drinks are offered at moderate prices. 

==== Schedule ====

02.06.2007, 19:00 hours

==== Location ====

Kulturfabrik Moabit

Lehrter Straße 35

10557 Berlin

(Just north of Berlin Main station. Reachable on foot or 3 stops bus 123 north.) 

* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.de/maps?hl=de&client=firefox-a&q=kulturfabrik&near=Berlin&cid=0,0,18292544978981015644&f=d&daddr=Lehrter+Str.+35,+10557+Berlin,+Germany&cd=1&ie=UTF8&ll=52.532723,13.323669&spn=0.085314,0.160675&z=13&om=1|google maps]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.berlin.de/stadtplan/map.asp?sid=fe72c08e14ceb95585a013e3042484aa&size=3x3|Stadtplan]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.kulturfabrik-moabit.de/index2.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=23&pop=1&page=0&Itemid=43|Anfahrtsbeschreibung der Kulturfabrik]]</nowiki>

There will be a guide available to guide you to the location.
Martin Kossick will wait for you at 18:15 hours in front of the East entrance of the fairground.

He will accompany you to the Kulturfabrik (BBQ site) using public Berlin transport.

----
CategoryUbuntuBerlin
