{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== notes ==
==== Attending ====
* Lorenzo Hernández García-Hierro
* Jeff Schroeder
* HermanBos 
* Andrew Mitchell

== topics ==

* push vSecurity
* IBM Stack Smashing Protector merged in 4.1 (upstream!). Deployment?
* SELinux status and work to get done
* misc, kernel patches
* documentation
* * ip randomization, etc
* File specs for UBZ by 27 oct.

=== Push vSecurity ===

Why?
** Usable
** Just Works (TM) and doesn't need to be configured
** VSecurity works using simple interfaces, there's no need for buggy and complicated device nodes handling. it works using sysctl and sysfs/procfs
** out of the box you get everything except the fine-grained capabilities granting

==== One problem left ====
Jeff: "The end user impact is this: when you rmmod capability, modprobe capability disable=1, modprobe vsecurity, and close that terminal, you get a kernel oops. complete system freeze and a hard reboot is required"

Lorenzo is working on this.

=== SELinux status and work to get done ===

remove suid binaries in dapper?

List of Jeff's suid files in Ubuntu
http://wiki.tuxedo-es.org/Suid_files 

=== Documentation ===
Jeff wrote some documentation: 
http://wiki.tuxedo-es.org/Lowering_privilege_with_capabilities_tutorial

=== File Spec(s) for UBZ ===

==== General ====
Mark noted in his "Road to Dapper" on the announce list. 
Specs should be filed in on launchpad. This all Before 27 oct!
http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2005-October/000045.html

Following these guidelines
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeatureSpecifications

==== Proactive Security Spec ====

This spec includes vSecurity. And Andrew already filed it on launchpad for UBZ.
https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/proactive-security

ProactiveSecurityBOF which the spec links is still empty. We need to fill this up before UBZ

Andrew will lead the BOF on UBZ regarding this spec.

==== Earlier work ====
From UDU: ProactiveSecurityRoadmap
