{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<<BR>>
<<BR>>
'''Go back to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings | The Meetings Page]]</nowiki>'''

'''Please note that the deadline for amending the agenda is 24 hours before the meeting.'''

== Meeting Schedule for 13.10 (at 20:00 UTC / GMT) ==
* Monday, 16th September, 2013

== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #EDE7EA ;"> Who
| Subject
| Details
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
| Say '''o/''' when asked
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad ]]</nowiki>
| (1) Ubuntu GNOME Team (2) Slide Show and Artwork (3) Web Site (4) <nowiki>[[StartUbuntu]]</nowiki>
| (1) discuss the need for more contributors and testers. Also, discuss the idea of sub-teams (2) Updates Regarding the Slide Show and Artwork (3) General Discussion about the Website of Ubuntu GNOME (4) Discuss about how Ubuntu GNOME can play a role in StartUbuntu Project
|-
| YOUR NAME
| SUBJECT
| DETAILS
|-
| Anybody
| Any Other Business
| A final round up
|}

== Time ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20130916T20&p1=1440&ah=1 | Monday, 16th September, 2013, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

== Place of the meeting ==

* IRC: irc.freenode.org

* Channel: #ubuntu-gnome

* Webchat link : <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-gnome | Click Here]]</nowiki>

== Meeting Summary ==

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-gnome: Ubuntu GNOME Team Meeting, 16 Sep at 20:22 &mdash; 21:33 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-gnome/2013/ubuntu-gnome.2013-09-16-20.22.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''ACTION:'' amjjawad to find more contributors to Ubuntu GNOME and more testers also people to help with other tasks
==== sub-teams ====
The discussion about "sub-teams" started at 20:44.

==== Slide Show Updates ====
The discussion about "Slide Show Updates" started at 20:50.

==== Ubuntu GNOME Web Site ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu GNOME Web Site" started at 20:56.

** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-gnome-website/+members#active 
** ''ACTION:'' darkxst to give amjjawad access of admin on the Lauchpad area
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad to email Canonical - rt@ubuntu.com in case of adding new theme to Ubuntu GNOME Website

==== StartUbuntu ====
The discussion about "StartUbuntu" started at 21:16.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StartUbuntu 
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad to send another email to Matthew regarding Ubuntu GNOME Twitter Account

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items ===

* amjjawad to find more contributors to Ubuntu GNOME and more testers also people to help with other tasks
* darkxst to give amjjawad access of admin on the Lauchpad area
* amjjawad to email Canonical - rt@ubuntu.com in case of adding new theme to Ubuntu GNOME Website
* amjjawad to send another email to Matthew regarding Ubuntu GNOME Twitter Account

=== Action items, by person ===

* amjjawad
** amjjawad to find more contributors to Ubuntu GNOME and more testers also people to help with other tasks
** darkxst to give amjjawad access of admin on the Lauchpad area
** amjjawad to email Canonical - rt@ubuntu.com in case of adding new theme to Ubuntu GNOME Website
** amjjawad to send another email to Matthew regarding Ubuntu GNOME Twitter Account
* darkxst
** darkxst to give amjjawad access of admin on the Lauchpad area

=== People present (lines said) ===

* amjjawad (69)
* darkxst (17)
* meetingology (7)
* jbicha (3)

=== Full Log ===

 20:22 <amjjawad> #startmeeting Ubuntu GNOME Team Meeting

 20:22 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep 16 20:22:54 2013 UTC.  The chair is amjjawad. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:22 <meetingology> 

 20:22 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:24 <amjjawad> Okay so it seems only few and Alfredo is not here :(

 20:24 <amjjawad> darkxst: I was about to discuss a bit of the structure of Ubuntu GNOME team but I guess I got the answer that I was in mind. jbicha has confirmed he is leaving and won't be available with 14.04.

 20:25 <amjjawad> So, my Q to you will be the same as I asked eariler ... will Ubuntu GNOME 14.04 be LTS?

 20:25 <amjjawad> because some users are asking me and I have no clear answer yet!

 20:27 <darkxst> we don't really have the man power to commit to full LTS support right now

 20:27 <darkxst> so it is unlikely that 14.04 will be an official LTS release

 20:28 <amjjawad> darkxst: I do know that which is sad but what if I can arrange that? can we go for it?

 20:28 <amjjawad> I mean, if I can recurit more people to join and help?

 20:28 <amjjawad> if yes, how much time do I have for that?

 20:30 <darkxst> even if you could recruit more dev's we would need time to see they are committed long term!

 20:30 <amjjawad> darkxst: okay, then chances are so slim

 20:31 <amjjawad> so, do you think it is pointless to invest time for that? or perhaps it worths a try?

 20:32 <darkxst> even if we don't do an official LTS release, we could still provide SRU's where possible

 20:33 <jbicha> right, the community can provide updates to 14.04 LTS for the entire 5-year lifecycle if they want to

 20:34 <amjjawad> what I wanted to discuss today in this meeting not only the LTS topic but a somehow related topics :)

 20:34 <darkxst> and obviously those running 14.04 will still benefit from the Ubuntu HWe updates etc

 20:35 <amjjawad> darkxst: yes, but then, the same issue with Lubuntu 12.04 which is based on a core system that is LTS but other LXDE packages are not supported for 3-5 years :(

 20:36 <amjjawad> anyway, the final answer for that is 14.04 is not going to be an official LTS.

 20:39 <amjjawad> what I wanted to highlight and it is no secert and very obvious but thought it is good to double highlight it :D

 20:39 <amjjawad> 1- We do need more testers

 20:39 <amjjawad> 2- we do need more contributor

 20:39 <amjjawad> contributors*

 20:39 <amjjawad> having that said, I will take care of these two tasks :)

 20:40 <amjjawad> darkxst: what do you think?

 20:41 <darkxst> it would be great to find a couple more devs

 20:42 <darkxst> It would also be good if we can find someone to take of triaging bugs from the ppa's

 20:43 <amjjawad> then, we agree to that :)

 20:43 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad to find more contributors to Ubuntu GNOME and more testers also people to help with other tasks

 20:43 * meetingology amjjawad to find more contributors to Ubuntu GNOME and more testers also people to help with other tasks

 20:44 <amjjawad> #topic sub-teams

 20:46 <amjjawad> I am waiting the right moment to communite on the mailing list my next project for Ubuntu GNOME. After I have put so much time and energy on the Wiki Area, I do think it is time to use the same plan for Lubuntu and have sub-teams (Document, Test, etc) BUT for this to happen, I do need first to find more people to join!

 20:46 <amjjawad> but, I thought it is good idea to bring this to your attention, darkxst :)

 20:47 <amjjawad> I have already created 3 teams on Launchpad but did not send anything about it as I am waiting the right moment :)

 20:48 <darkxst> we can always form more sub-teams as we grow

 20:48 <amjjawad> +1

 20:49 <amjjawad> glad you liked the idea :D

 20:49 <amjjawad> Lubuntu had a successful story with sub-teams and I'd love to do the same with Ubuntu GNOME but we need to grow a bit bigger first hehe

 20:50 <amjjawad> #topic Slide Show Updates

 20:50 <amjjawad> darkxst: to keep you in the loop, I have worked on the slide show and send my suggestions to Alfredo and he will work on that and hopefully we can finish that before the freeze :)

 20:51 <darkxst> ok, sounds good

 20:51 <amjjawad> :D

 20:51 <amjjawad> so, slide show is almost done

 20:52 <amjjawad> what about Wallpapers? I don't think there is enough time for that, right?

 20:52 <amjjawad> I mean, no time to include more for example?

 20:53 <amjjawad> as for 14.04, we will hopefully ask for the community input to submit some wallpapers as this will motivate them and attract them to join and help :)

 20:54 <darkxst> sure, we just didnt have time in the end to set that up this cycle'

 20:55 <amjjawad> yep

 20:55 <amjjawad> I am so excited to start planning for 14.04 from now heheh

 20:55 <amjjawad> but I will take it easy :P

 20:56 <amjjawad> #topic Ubuntu GNOME Web Site

 20:57 <amjjawad> darkxst: thanks for the access, it was good to add two posts and yet again (as always), I have some ideas and plans for the Web Site but I do need 2 things

 20:58 <amjjawad> 1- Are we counting more on our website? or our mailing list? or our social media? what is the channel that represent our main channel and front line?

 20:59 <amjjawad> 2- Whatever I have in mind for the website, I do need some help and that means, I need to team up yet again with Alferdo to work on that by adding some nice stuff to the website!

 21:01 <darkxst> re 1 I think they each serve a different purpose really

 21:03 <amjjawad> as we still in point 1, what do you expect from the website? or shall I just take care of that entirely and save you the trouble :P

 21:04 <darkxst> you can take care of that

 21:04 <amjjawad> darkxst: ok, then I guess I need to be admin on the Launchpad Tea for the website

 21:04 <amjjawad> so I can add Alfredo and whoever else interested to work on that website

 21:05 <darkxst> sure

 21:05 <amjjawad> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-gnome-website/+members#active

 21:07 <amjjawad> and I guess this one as well: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-gnome-release/+members#active that is why I had no control panel on the ISO Tracker the other day with Beta 1 release :(

 21:07 <amjjawad> #action darkxst to give amjjawad access of admin on the Lauchpad area

 21:07 * meetingology darkxst to give amjjawad access of admin on the Lauchpad area

 21:09 <jbicha> if you need to add a new WordPress theme to the website, you'll have to submit a ticket to Canonical by emailing rt@ubuntu.com

 21:09 <amjjawad> jbicha: oh, that news to me

 21:09 <amjjawad> I guess this step is a must, correct?

 21:12 <darkxst> amjjawad, Canonical host the website, we have no access beyond wordpress admin panel

 21:13 <amjjawad> I see :(

 21:14 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad to email Canonical - rt@ubuntu.com in case of adding new theme to Ubuntu GNOME Website

 21:14 * meetingology amjjawad to email Canonical - rt@ubuntu.com in case of adding new theme to Ubuntu GNOME Website

 21:16 <amjjawad> #topic StartUbuntu

 21:17 <amjjawad> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StartUbuntu

 21:17 <amjjawad> darkxst: jbicha not sure if you guys have seen my other project? which is not a personal project but rather a community project right now that some people are involved and helping

 21:18 <amjjawad> I'd like for Ubuntu GNOME to play a role on that project and I have asked Rafael, Lubuntu Artwork Team Leader who is so good friend of mine and teammate to work on some nice artwork that you can see on the Wiki Page :)

 21:18 <amjjawad> and, Ubuntu GNOME is there ;)

 21:20 <darkxst> nice!

 21:21 <amjjawad> :)

 21:22 <amjjawad> final note, Facebook and Google+ Pages are having more and more activities and subscribers :) I am not dreaming of Ubuntu GNOME every night :P

 21:23 <darkxst> amjjawad, great!

 21:23 <amjjawad> I am enjoying it but it sure adds so much tasks for me so once I will find more contributors, maybe they can also help with this area. Because I am also admin for Lubuntu Pages and Peppermint, I am having so much to handle

 21:24 <amjjawad> and, I have not heard from Matthew yet :( regarding our Twitter account

 21:25 <amjjawad> I am now dreaming*

 21:25 <jbicha> try not to burn yourself out

 21:25 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad to send another email to Matthew regarding Ubuntu GNOME Twitter Account

 21:25 * meetingology amjjawad to send another email to Matthew regarding Ubuntu GNOME Twitter Account

 21:26 <amjjawad> jbicha: phillw, my mentor, has always and still warning me about that :D hehe

 21:26 <amjjawad> but +1 I promise I will jbicha :) thanks a lot for the advice

 21:27 <amjjawad> so, anything else you would like to add guys before ending our first meeting?

 21:31 <amjjawad> darkxst: and jbicha anything else you guys would like to add before ending? :)

 21:31 <darkxst> nope, go ahead and end meeting

 21:33 <amjjawad> okay, thank you so much darkxst and jbicha :) that was fun and a good meeting

 21:33 <amjjawad> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
