{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


In the beginning of a development we do feature definition.

=== Tasks during feature definition ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="width: 15%"> week 1-8
| Discuss on mail list, irc and social channels about feature additions. Collect ideas on wiki pages, and then create blueprints.
|-
| week 8-9
| finalize <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Blueprints|blueprints]]</nowiki> at around week 8, and have them approved by ubuntustudio-core team before FeatureDefinitionFreeze
|}

=== Making Feature Specifications (blueprints) ===

Planning of feature changes is done primarily by the use of <nowiki>[[FeatureSpecifications|feature specifications]]</nowiki> in the form of blueprints at http://launchpad.net. See our <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Blueprints|Blueprints page]]</nowiki> for an oversight of our active blueprints.

==== Suggesting changes ====

Anyone can suggest a feature change/addition. But, to make it a reality, someone also needs to implement it. Safest bet is that whoever makes the suggestion also works on implementing it.

==== Creating Blueprints ====

Blueprints are created for projects, and the blueprint should be created by the driver of that project (typically ubuntustudio-dev), or the owner (ubuntustudio-core).

==== Approving Feature Specs ====

* If a feature spec is not objected, it will automatically be approved.
* If a feature is objected by anyone, it needs to be discussed within the community. If no resolution is found, ubuntustudio-core team, whose responsibility lies in upholding the quality and integrity of Ubuntu Studio, has last say .
* If a feature spec will break something in Ubuntu, or in other ways does not comply to Debian and/or Ubuntu policies, it may be automatically disapproved by the ubuntustudio-core team.
