{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Brochure Draft Copy ===

'''Linux for Human Beings'''

Ubuntu is a complete Linux-based operating system, freely available with both community and professional support.  "Ubuntu" is an ancient African word, meaning "humanity to others", and this Linux distribution brings the spirit of Ubuntu to the software world.
 
Ubuntu makes the following public commitment to its users:

* Ubuntu will always be free of charge, and there is no extra fee for the "enterprise edition". We make our very best work available to everyone on the same free terms. 

* Ubuntu is released regularly and predictably; a new release is made every six months. Each release is supported with free security updates for at least 18 months. 

* Ubuntu includes the very best in translations and accessibility infrastructure that the free software community has to offer, to make Ubuntu usable by as many people as possible. 

* Ubuntu is entirely committed to the principles of free and open source software development; we encourage people to use free and open source software, improve it and pass it on. 

'''Ubuntu Features'''

''Quality software for desktops and servers:''

Ubuntu includes a full range of desktop and server applications. Ubuntu consists of more than 16,000 pieces of software, but the core installation fits on a single CD. When you install Ubuntu you have software for most computing needs, from web surfing, email and business presentations to databases and complex programming.

For the desktop, Ubuntu starts with the latest Gnome desktop and covers every standard desktop application, and of course includes several games. Highlights include:
* OpenOffice.org productivity suite, including document processing, spreadsheet, presentation and drawing applications, compatible with other application formats such as Microsoft Office
* Evolution, the popular email and calendaring application, compatible with a variety of mail servers
* Firefox, a fast and secure web browser with many features to enhance the web surfing experience

For server installations, the CD includes specialised software for databases, web servers, Internet services and network file system services.

''Fast, easy installation:''

An Ubuntu installation asks a minimal number of questions, and the defaults will work for most people. On a typical computer, installation takes less than 25 minutes. Also, Ubuntu supports upgrades via the network, so you never need to reinstall the operating system - just upgrade from each released version to the next when you want to.

''Support for multiple architectures: ''

Ubuntu currently supports Intel x86 (IBM-compatible PC), AMD64/EM64T (Hammer) and PowerPC (Apple iBook and Powerbook, G4 and G5) architectures.

'''Obtaining Ubuntu and Ubuntu Support'''

There are a number of ways to obtain Ubuntu:
* Download it from an Ubuntu download site (see http://www.ubuntu.com/download) 
* Obtain a copy from a local distributor or local community team
* Have a pressed CD shipped to you free of charge from the Ubuntu CD distribution system at http://shipit.ubuntu.com.

Technical support for Ubuntu is available from a variety of sources: from Canonical Ltd and other organisations worldwide, and from the vast Ubuntu community through open web forums, mailing lists and IRC channels. 

For more information about Ubuntu, available software, support options and community teams, please visit http://www.ubuntu.com.

'''Partner Projects'''

''Kubuntu''

Kubuntu is community-driven project that builds on the solid base of Ubuntu, to provide a complete operating system based on the KDE desktop. For more information about Kubuntu, please visit  http://www.kubuntu.org.

''Edubuntu''

Edubuntu builds on the solid base of Ubuntu to create an operating system to support classroom and laboratory environments in schools and other educational institutions. Edubuntu focuses on providing content delivery functionality as well as administrative and management systems. For more information about Edubuntu, please visit http://www.edubuntu.org.

----

Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu and the associated logos are all registered trademarks of Canonical Ltd.
