{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
Ubuntu Dhivehi Translators is a group of Maldivians around the world who actively participate in translating Ubuntu to Dhivehi. The <nowiki>[[http://www.sil.org/ISO639-3/documentation.asp?id=div|Dhivehi]]</nowiki> translation project is initiated by <nowiki>[[http://www.mlug.mv|MOSS/MLUG]]</nowiki>.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-dv|Ubuntu Dhivehi Translators]]</nowiki>

=== Maldives Open Source Society (MOSS) aka Maldivian Linux User Group (MLUG) ===
MOSS is an initiative to provide a collaborative platform and forum to promote and facilitate Linux and Free Open Source Software. MOSS members are from the community, civil society, students abroad, professional bodies and companies who promote the Free/Open Source Software concepts. MOSS aims to help policy makers, commercial enterprises, and users to take advantage of the benefits of Free/Open Source Software. 
 
<nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/mlugmv/|MOSS/MLUG Google Group]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.mlug.mv/|MLUG]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mlug|MLUG OpenID]]</nowiki>

=== Dhivehi Translation/Localization Team ===

* Ubuntu Dhivehi Translators: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-dv
* Mailing List: http://groups.google.com/group/divtranslators

=== Ubuntu Translation Facebook Group ===
Created to boost the translation of Dhivehi in the Ubuntu translation launchpad.

<nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=74587649549|Ubuntu Dhivehi Translation Facebook Group]]</nowiki>

== Goals ==
The current focus of our translation is to translate 100,000 strings before the end of 2009. Join the effort and share the fun.

== How to Contribute ==
1. Create an account on <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+lang/dv/+login|launchpad]]</nowiki> (if u haven't done it already) as usual you will need an email account. After creating the account login using your account information.

2. Once logged in successfully, go to <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+lang/dv|Dhivehi translations page]]</nowiki>

Note, your translations will be reviewed and once accepted they will appear as translated.

<nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Translations/StartingToTranslate|For more info you may check the help!]]</nowiki>

Before you translate, your system must be able to read and write in Dhivehi, for a how-to visit the <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/topic.php?uid=74587649549&topic=9092|facebook discussion forum.]]</nowiki>

== ToDo List ==
1. Create a wiki for the project (DONE: April 30, 2009).

2. Make contact with all upstream translation leads:
* Mozilla Team
* OpenOffice
* Gnome (Done: 23 May, 2009) | Claude Paroz. <nowiki>[[http://l10n.gnome.org/teams/dv|Team]]</nowiki>
* KDE
* Ubuntu (DONE: April 30, 2009) | David Planella

3. Get technical support contacts with upstream people:
* Mozilla Team
* OpenOffice
* Gnome
* KDE
* Ubuntu (DONE: April 30, 2009) | Jeroen Vermeulen

4. Create a Mailing list for the Translation Team (DONE: May 2, 2009)
* http://groups.google.com/group/divtranslators
 
5. Create localization guidelines for Dhivehi. (DONE: June 1, 2009)

== Dhivehi Translation Guideline ==

- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDhivehiTranslators/TranslationGuideLine

== Reference ==
* <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/TranslationProject/LocalisationGuide|Gnome Localisation Guide]]</nowiki>

== Meetings ==

- Coming up...

----
'''Sub-pages :''' ----

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
