{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== WSJT Setup ==

The wsjt package is used for weak-signal amateur radio communications.

=== Configuring Audio Devices ===

Wsjt allows configuration to select your sound card device, but there is insufficient information presented in the GUI interface to troubleshoot problems.

Start wsjt from a command line, and during startup, a list of all available audio devices will be printed. You can then select a device number from the "Audio Device" column, and enter it in the setup dialog of wsjt.

After changing the configuration, you must restart wsjt for changes to take effect.

=== Known Issue with audio sample rate ===

Wsjt requires that the audio stream be opened at a single, fixed sample rate. If the Audio device does not support that sample rate, wsjt will fail with the following error:

  <pre>
Error opening input audio stream.
	Errortext: Invalid sample rate
	Number: -9997
Error opening output audio stream.
	Errortext: Invalid sample rate
	Number: -9997
Error  3 in JTaudio, you will only be able to work offline.
</pre>

In order to provide a resampled audio stream that can support the rate requested by wsjt, you can create a .asoundrc file in your home directory, and add the following to it:

  <pre>
pcm.SignalLink-USB {
        type hw
        card 1
        device 0
}
pcm_slave.SignalLinkIn {
        pcm SignalLink-USB
        rate 44100
}
pcm.SignalLinkOut {
        type rate
        slave SignalLinkIn
}
</pre>

Once you create this file, you'll have to restart the pulse audio system:

  <pre>
sudo service pulseaudio –restart
</pre>

Now, reconfigure wsjt to use the audio device named "SignalLinkOut", and it should work.
(Thanks to <nowiki>[[http://foxgulch.com/WordPress/?p=557|LarryJ2]]</nowiki> for documenting this workaround)
