{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Project meeting 13/03/2011 ==

=== IRC Log ===

* The IRC log is available <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/03/13/%23ubuntu-manual.html|here]]</nowiki>
* The mootbot log is available <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-manual.log.20110313_1512.html|here]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===

* Feedback on role advertisements
* Ubuntu Manual to Docbook - Update 
* Quickshot - Update
* Set a date for 11.04 manual writing.
* Any Other Business
* Next Meeting

=== Attendees ===
* ChrisWoollard (Chair)
* c7p (Minutes)
* Godbyk
* Jenkins
* daker
* Dutchie
* RawChid
* Fenre
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/JasonOdoom|JasonO]]</nowiki>

=== Minutes ===

==== Feedback on role advertisements ====
* The deadline for job applications has been extended two weeks. The new deadline is Friday, 25 March 2011.
* [ACTION] godbyk updated the website to reflect the new deadline and added a note at the top explaining that the job positions are volunteer and not paid positions.
* [ACTION] godbyk emailed Ben Humphrey to acquire the @TheUbuntuManual Twitter account information (password).
* [ACTION] Chris Woollard to mail Ben and Linux outlaws for marketing

==== Ubuntu Manual to Docbook - Update ====
* Godbyk will continue to explore this
** After this we will also explore the collaborating more with the Ubuntu Docs Team

==== Quickshot - Update ====
* [ACTION]  ChrisWoollard to send out to the mailing list screenshot requiremnts and ask for volunteers to review.
* [ACTION} Jenkins to write some notes on how to use Quickshot.

==== Set a date for 11.04 manual writing ====
* [ACTION] Defer 11.04 branch until next meeting. Pending screenshot work and docbook review.

==== Any Other Business ====
* Translations - c7p wanted to know about translations for maverick.
** This will not be set-up until the maverick writing freeze.
* Chris Wollard and c7p were added to the Ubuntu Manual Admins team.
* c7p requested that folks add items to the agenda for our next meeting.

=== Next meeting ===
* ACTION [c7p] - Schedule next meeting for 2 weeks time. 
