{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, <YOUR NAME>, apply for upload rights for packages flash-kernel, hart-software-services, opensbi, u-boot.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Heinrich Schuchardt
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~xypron
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HeinrichSchuchardt
|}

I am applying because:

''Remove any reasons that don't apply, add any extra reasons and edit as
needed. These examples are the common cases, but are not a hard requirement for applications.''

* I am contributing to these Ubuntu packages on a regular basis as an employee of Canonical.
* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==

I am software engineer living in Leverkusen, Germany. I have been passionate about software development since my days at university. I cherish the the open software scene allowing to contribute to each others work.

In the U-Boot project I am maintainer of the UEFI implementation.

Since July 2021 I am working as RISC-V lead engineer in Canonical's foundation team since July 2021.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I have been

* using Ubuntu since 2010 on workstations, SoCs, and in Docker
* contributed to Debian packages like flash-kernel, mini-dinstall via patches to Debian since 2016
* contributed to Ubuntu packaging since I was employed by Canonical 2021

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

''Include your existing sponsored uploads for the packages for which you are seeking upload rights. You can link directly to an upload by following <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hello/2.10-1build1|this pattern]]</nowiki>.''

=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
