{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings|Ubuntu Studio Meetings Schedule]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings-Minutes|Old Meeting Logs]]</nowiki>
|}

'''What:'''  Ubuntu Studio Contributors Meeting

'''When:'''  Sunday, 2011-06-08 - 17:00 UTC <<BR>>
'''To view the meeting date/time in your time zone, '''<nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Ubuntu+Studio+Contributor+Meeting&iso=20110605T17 |click here]]</nowiki>.

'''Where:'''  irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-meeting

==== Agenda for Meeting ====

If you wish to discuss anything not in this agenda, please wait until Any Other Business is called for.

* Call Meeting to Order
* Old Business
** none
* Oneiric Timeline (Scott)
** Rough timeline can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Oneiric/Timeline|here]]</nowiki>
** Please look over and make changes so we can firm it up
** Do people want it in chronological order?
* Website Update (Jorge/Scott)
** When will we have "final" form to look at?
** Where is it going to be hosted?
** Define what content will/will not go onto website
** Can we plan a date to go "live"?
* XFCE/UI Changes (Cory)
** Do we have a tentative date for new -settings/-look packages?
** Do you need help or testing?
** Is there a newer screenshot for the new UI prototype?
** Should we provide a option that looks like old UI?
* Menu changes (Scott)
** Should we additional sub-menus for Audio Production?  For example, for MIDI, synthesizers, or effects.
** Anyone interested in organizing and effecting this?  ScottL can provide technical assistance.
* Documentation Updates (Ailo/Scott)
** Clarification: generally help.ubuntu.com is for users and wiki.ubuntu.com is for developement
** The plan is to reorganize the help.ubuntu.com documentation
** We will be deprecating older pages, modifying current ones, and creating additional pages as needed
** Is anyone else interested in assisting?
** ScottL would also like to work on wiki.ubuntu.com
* New Applications (Scott)
** plugins - mda-lv2, eq10q, autotalent,invada-studio-plugins-lv2, vocproc, wah-plugins, foo-yc20, amb-plugins, dssi-vst, lv2vocoder, omins 
** ladish - ladish, gladish, ladi-tools
** mudita24 - envy24control update, trying to get into Debian in time for Oneiric
* Testing Procedures
** Still need testing procedures developed
** Is anyone interesting in organizing and effecting this?
* Libre Graphics Magazine Ad (Scott)
** We have an opportunity for a free, full page ad in Libre Graphics Magazine
** Should we time this with Oneiric's release?
** Should we form a small group to help with brainstorming ideas and creating the ad?
* Advocacy ideas (Mike)
* Team Reports (Scott)
** We have a monthly team report that Canonical uses at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TeamReports
** ScottL would really like it if someone else would volunteer to keep up with this
** It is not hard and is a very easy way for someone to get involved and contribute to the team
* Announcements (Scott)
** The calendar/schedule for Oneiric is at <nowiki>[[OneiricReleaseSchedule]]</nowiki>
** LightDM will replace GDM in Oneiric Ocelot
* Any Other Business (all/anyone)
* Next Meeting Time/Location
* Next Meeting Chair

==== Meeting Logs ====

<pre>
13:00 < holstein> #startmeeting
13:00 < MootBot> Meeting started at 12:02. The chair is holstein.
13:00 < MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
13:00 < holstein> WELCOME ubuntu studio contributors team :)
13:01 < holstein> [topic] agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Meetings/2011June5
13:01 < MootBot> New Topic:  agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Meetings/2011June5
13:01 < holstein> lets get started
13:01 < holstein> who is here?
13:01 < holstein> o/ of course..., and?
13:02 -!- scott-upstairs [~scott@conr-adsl-dhcp-64-92-4-194.consolidated.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:03 -!- falktx [~falktx@95.69.116.16] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:03 < scott-upstairs> i'm here for the meeting
13:03 < scott-upstairs> o/
13:03 < holstein> scott-upstairs: i just dropped the link to the agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Meetings/2011June5
13:03 < holstein> and started roll-call
13:04 -!- astraljava [astraljava@hilla.kapsi.fi] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:04 < holstein> astraljava: hey
13:05 < holstein> im sure folks will sneak in
13:05 < holstein> and ckontros is here
13:05 < scott-upstairs> oi, here
13:05 < holstein> anyways...
13:05 < astraljava> holstein: Sorry for being distracted.
13:05 < holstein> [topic] old buisness
13:05 < MootBot> New Topic:  old buisness
13:05 < holstein> i have "none"
13:05 < holstein> and i think that is accurate
13:06 < falktx> hey guys
13:06 < scott-upstairs> yes, i don't think we have anything carrying over this meeting
13:06 < holstein> just thought id pose that as we wait for folks to trickle in
13:06 < falktx> my first IRC meeting, please be gentle
13:06 < holstein> falktx: welcome :)
13:06 < scott-upstairs> lol
13:06 < holstein> astraljava: no worries
13:07 < holstein> [topic] Oneiric Timeline https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Oneiric/Timeline
13:07 < MootBot> New Topic:  Oneiric Timeline https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Oneiric/Timeline
13:07 < holstein> scott-upstairs: you added this
13:07 < holstein> i think its shaping up
13:07 < holstein> scott-upstairs: you want to discuss a bit?
13:07 < scott-upstairs> oi, yes...just a rough time line, please review it and the things your responsible for/helping with and adjust as needed
13:08 < scott-upstairs> at some point (very soon hopefully) this will be a little more fleshed out and we can start maintining a better schedule for this cycle
13:08 < scott-upstairs> we can use this to gauge our process and also as reminder of what we need to do and when we need to do it by
13:08 < holstein> [action] review the timeline at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Oneiric/Timeline and adjust/help as needed
13:08 < MootBot> ACTION received:  review the timeline at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Oneiric/Timeline and adjust/help as needed
13:08 < scott-upstairs> furthermore it shows how other things are depending on the current task (if applicable)
13:09 < holstein> scott-upstairs: you mention putting it in chronologic order
13:09 < holstein> i say, if someone wants to do that, let them
13:09 < holstein> otherwise, its working for me as-is
13:10 < scott-upstairs> yes, i thought that putting it in chronological order would help understand how things should move forward
13:10 < scott-upstairs> but the colors would help people associated related items
13:10 -!- furn [~furntree@cpe-67-244-74-145.nyc.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:10 < holstein> scott-upstairs: it wont hurt, i could look into doing that
13:10 -!- _guitarman_ [~guitarman@mail.wootangent.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:10 < scott-upstairs> for example, the website tasks which would span many months but are defintely related
13:11 < scott-upstairs> holstein, but i wanted to make sure people had made their edits first
13:11 < holstein> [action] holstein to re-order the timeline chronologically
13:11 < MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein to re-order the timeline chronologically
13:11 < scott-upstairs> i thought it would be easier to do that way...or at least less confusing
13:11 < holstein> eh, i dont mind looking at it later too
13:11 < holstein> if i need to re-do some things
13:11 < holstein> anyways, i'll either do that, or ask for help with it :)
13:12 < holstein> scott-upstairs: anymore on that?
13:12 < scott-upstairs> not at this time, holstein
13:12 < holstein> [topic] Website Update
13:12 < MootBot> New Topic:  Website Update
13:12 < holstein> i was hoping kokito would be here, but he said he couldnt be
13:12 < scott-upstairs> right, but i have some information...and not all is good
13:12 < holstein> anyways, scott-upstairs, do you have links handy you want to drop here?
13:12 < holstein> or news?
13:13 < scott-upstairs> jorge will cease working on the website effectively immediately because he is taking a new job that will move him to japan
13:13 < scott-upstairs> :(
13:13 < scott-upstairs> the relatively good news is that what he has done is fairly mature and can be used
13:13 < scott-upstairs> but we will still need to do a few things however
13:14 < scott-upstairs> we need to discuss where we are going to host it
13:14 < scott-upstairs> firstly
13:14 < scott-upstairs> does anyone have any opinions on this matter?  should we continue to squeek along with canonical hosting and limited access or should we push forward and host ourselves?
13:15  * scott-upstairs hears crickets chirping
13:15 < holstein> scott-upstairs: i think it depends
13:15 < furn> scott-upstairs: i think anything that helps the ease of use for the end user would be a good choice
13:15 < holstein> as of now,t he cannonical hosting is not working for us
13:16 < holstein> furn: hello
13:16 < scott-upstairs> right, i recently (two days ago) got access to our website sent to me so we are not relying on eric anymore for updates
13:16 < furn> holstein: afternoon kind sir
13:16 < holstein> scott-upstairs: im comfortable leaving that up to you
13:16 < scott-upstairs> however i would suspect getting other access would be as laborious and i can't do everything in this matter
13:16 < holstein> if you feel like thd current system can work now that you have access
13:16 < scott-upstairs> so i would push for hosting ourselves but i want to get input from others
13:16 < holstein> i mean, we can vote it out
13:17 < scott-upstairs> right, holstein, make an action item please about me researching what is available for hosting, i.e. price, bandwidth, storage, etc, etc
13:17 < holstein> [action] scott-upstairs to research alternative hosting plans
13:17 < MootBot> ACTION received:  scott-upstairs to research alternative hosting plans
13:17 < astraljava> scott-upstairs: Do we have any measurements, like how many are accessing our site daily?
13:18 < scott-upstairs> basically i feel that unless someone strenuously disagrees with us hosting our own i'll research it and put it to the group
13:18 < holstein> scott-upstairs: you want to leave it at that for now? and vote next time with mor information?
13:18 < astraljava> scott-upstairs: Might help in deciding about the hosting.
13:18 < scott-upstairs> we still have to evaluate what the costs are and if we can do that
13:18 < furn> scott-upstairs: i think hosting ourself at any capacity at this point is a good option
13:18 < scott-upstairs> aye, but would everyone agree with putting up five quid to help ;)
13:18 < holstein> scott-upstairs: thats the issue
13:19 < holstein> we need to have all the information, and go from there i say
13:19 < holstein> lets table it til we get some #'s
13:19 < holstein> let me/us know if we can help gather information
13:19 < scott-upstairs> i can ask jorge via email too about hosting, he seemed to indicate that it shouldn't be that big of a deal
13:19 < furn> could we setup a donation system on the site as a non profit?
13:20 < scott-upstairs> i think cory mentioned away to get some funds as well, perhaps from canonical?  i'll ask cory as well
13:20 < scott-upstairs> we could do that furn
13:20 < holstein> [action] vote next meeting about where the new site will be hosted
13:20 < MootBot> ACTION received:  vote next meeting about where the new site will be hosted
13:20 < holstein> im going to skip the XFCE topic in hopes that ckontros makes it back
13:21 -!- mammig [~mammig@ARennes-556-1-97-249.w109-211.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:21 < furn> i think at this point with so many indie devs having paypal donation buttons, the act of politely suggesting the point of donation isnt quite as audacious as it once was for free media
13:21 < holstein> [topic] Menu changes
13:21 < MootBot> New Topic:  Menu changes
13:21 < holstein> furn: not to cut you off
13:21 < scott-upstairs> holstein, i can answer some xfce changes but i agree let's wait and see if cory comes back, if not we can go with what i know
13:22  * scott-upstairs is looking for screen shots
13:22 < holstein> scott-upstairs: personally, i like the generic menu items
13:22 < holstein> for example, when i need to burn an iso in brasero, that has nothing to do with the menu its located in
13:22 < scott-upstairs> other distros (many ubuntu studio derivatives) use additioanl submenus for audio applications
13:23 < holstein> i think some of that might happen with putting apps like qtractor in a MIDI tab
13:23 < scott-upstairs> example screenshot:  http://tangostudio.tuxfamily.org/images/stories/tangostudio-karmasutra.png
13:23 < holstein> i mean, qtractor is *not* the go-to daw, but if you want to record audio with it
13:23 < holstein> and its in the MIDI menu...
13:23 < scott-upstairs> right, but synthesisers could safely be put into a synth submenu
13:23 < holstein> BUT, the scrolling for apps in the giant menu is a mess*
13:23 < scott-upstairs> the same for effects
13:24 < holstein> scott-upstairs: agreed
13:24 < scott-upstairs> the current menu IS better because we cut some
13:24 < scott-upstairs> my feeling is to leave it as is because it's a lot of manual coding to "fix" it
13:24 < holstein> well, thats my other argument too
13:24 < scott-upstairs> if other's feel that this is a benefit then i would be happy to make the changes
13:24 < holstein> its more work than i feel like we need to take on right now
13:24 < scott-upstairs> IF, and only IF...
13:24 < furn> holstein: i think everyone can nit pick about a menu item that isnt properly placed, but considering out somewhat savvy user base having something like qtractor under midi isnt too big
13:24 < scott-upstairs> someone can clearly identify what they want
13:25 < holstein> BUT, something we should keep on the table for the future for sure
13:25 < holstein> i propose we vote to put this off til the next cycle*
13:25 < scott-upstairs> i have it in the "release planning" wiki so it's not going away forever
13:25 < scott-upstairs> seconded
13:25 < holstein> cool
13:26 < scott-upstairs> obvisouly there isn't enough support for it :P
13:26  * ckontros is "here" but not here. Im just looking in when I break from cutting my grass. ;)
13:26 < scott-upstairs> ckontros, you want to talk about xfce?
13:26 < holstein> this is how you vote +1 / -1 / +0
13:26 < ckontros> Sure.
13:26 < holstein> ckontros: yeah, hang for a sec
13:26 < holstein> and you're next
13:26 < scott-upstairs> holstein, i'm not sure we need to vote
13:26 < holstein> [vote] hold menu re-vamp til next cycle
13:26 < MootBot> Please vote on:  hold menu re-vamp til next cycle.
13:26 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
13:26 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
13:26 < scott-upstairs> only two voiced opinions and we both said nay
13:26 < holstein> +1
13:26 < MootBot> +1 received from holstein. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
13:27 < scott-upstairs> +1
13:27 < MootBot> +1 received from scott-upstairs. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
13:27 < holstein> well, its official :)
13:27  * falktx people type too fast...
13:27 < furn> hehe
13:27 < astraljava> +1
13:27 < MootBot> +1 received from astraljava. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
13:27 < falktx> can I show a quick screen shot ?
13:27 < falktx> it's about this
13:27 < christof> +1
13:27 < MootBot> +1 received from christof. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
13:27 < holstein> falktx: sure
13:27 < holstein> christof: hello
13:27 < holstein> i think thats the majority
13:28 < holstein> [endvote]
13:28 < christof> hi all
13:28 < MootBot> Final result is 4 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 4
13:28 < scott-upstairs> can ckontros go?
13:28 < holstein> [action] postpone menu revamp til next cycle (12.04)
13:28 < ckontros> Sure
13:28 < MootBot> ACTION received:  postpone menu revamp til next cycle (12.04)
13:28  * scott-upstairs is anxious to get him while he's here
13:28 < ckontros> But wait.
13:28 < holstein> [topic] XFCE/UI Changes
13:28 < MootBot> New Topic:  XFCE/UI Changes
13:29 < falktx> basically I already have the code for this (more submenus)
13:29 < ckontros> IDK We have to become more familuar with how XFCE does menus.
13:29 < holstein> falktx: yeah, hold that til the end if you dont mind*
13:29 < ckontros> Im unsure if we can apply the same work we did in GNOME ot XFCE.
13:29 < falktx> http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr001.jpeg
13:29 < MootBot> LINK received: http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr001.jpeg
13:29 < falktx> holstein: k, sorry
13:29 < holstein> falktx: no worries :)
13:30 < ckontros> falktx: But your install is all or nothing correct?
13:30 < holstein> ckontros: i would imagine its quite different
13:30 < scott-upstairs> mmm, falktx that is a good looking screenshot
13:30 < ckontros> Sorry to back-track but I gotta chime in.
13:31 < falktx> ckontros: nope, let me get you a quick deb
13:31 < falktx> here:
13:31 < falktx> https://launchpad.net/~kxstudio-team/+archive/kxstudio/+files/kxstudio-menu_3.0%7Egit20110527-0%7Enatty1_all.deb
13:32 < falktx> the deb is the stuff for this menu
13:32 < ckontros> falktx: So your saying your work applies to any menuing system?
13:32 < falktx> ckontros: yes, I made it work under gnome, kde and xcfe at least
13:32 < scott-upstairs> i think that xfce follows the freesektop.org guidelines better than other DE's
13:32 < holstein> agreed*
13:32 < ckontros> Ok. We'll look into this. Move along. :)
13:32 < falktx> scott-upstairs: kde does so, it's just gnome that is the weird thing, like they were the bosses...
13:33 < holstein> yeahm, we can always put it back on the table*
13:33 < holstein> anytime really, if we find that its something easy that we can handle
13:33 < falktx> sure, I usually around if anyone wants to know more stuff about it
13:33 < scott-upstairs> i still say that just because we can do this (adjust menu structure) that we shouldn't unless there is a demand
13:33 < ckontros> We might be able to do it this cycle
13:33 < scott-upstairs> and i don't think that the demand is really there apparently
13:34 < scott-upstairs> let'
13:34 < holstein> well, its postponed as it stands
13:34 < falktx> scott-upstairs: the menu gets pretty big and it's a pain to use...
13:34 < ckontros> scott-upsrairs: I say that we at least copy our current functionality. Unless *-menu was removed last cycle.
13:34 < ckontros> ie: With the A/V submenus.
13:35 < scott-upstairs> defintely copy our current functionality for now
13:35 < scott-upstairs> let's get some of the larger issues under our belt and then see about the restructuring
13:35 -!- Epirotes [~Epirotes@unaffiliated/epirotes] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
13:35 < ckontros> +1
13:35 < scott-upstairs> we still ahve to migrate to xfce
13:35 < scott-upstairs> THAT will probably be a bigger challenge than any realizes still
13:35 < falktx> does the US theme works on xcfe?
13:36 < ckontros> falktx: Generally, yes. I have to make a XFWM theme. And thats in progress.
13:37 < ckontros> Feel free to move to next item.
13:37 < scott-upstairs> hmmm, no ailo
13:37 < scott-upstairs> holstein, can ckontros do his bit?
13:37 < holstein> yeah, thats up
13:37 < ckontros> Wait, wait. Im not presenting.
13:37 < ckontros> I had no plans to anyway.
13:38 -!- bartje_ [510bba89@gateway/web/freenode/ip.81.11.186.137] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:38 < holstein> ckontros: you want to just give an update?
13:38 < holstein> or drop some links?
13:38 < scott-upstairs> can you update about the xfce stuff and you mentioned banging heads together about a few things
13:38 < ckontros> Ill happily answer any questions. :)
13:38 < holstein> OK, that works
13:38 < holstein> any questions?
13:38 < holstein> Do we have a tentative date for new -settings/-look packages?
13:38 < ckontros> I mean things are gonna move better now that my uploading is sorted.
13:39 < scott-upstairs> yay :)
13:39 < ckontros> Im gonna shoot for 1 week for settings.
13:39 < holstein> Do you need help or testing?
13:39 < scott-upstairs> i guess we need to update the -desktop package first
13:39 < ckontros> -Look will be what it is untill I get some of the art folks settled.
13:39 < scott-upstairs> then -settings and -look ?
13:39 < ckontros> So -settings will have to hit then the seed changes.
13:40 < scott-upstairs> setting first?  i would have thought we needed to update -desktop first
13:40 < scott-upstairs> wans't that what we were looking at earlier on pastebin?
13:40 < ckontros> No. Because -desktop is made from the seeds but will dep on *-settings.
13:40 < ckontros> IIRC
13:41 < scott-upstairs> this "chicken and/or egg" thing gets confusing sometimes :/
13:41 < ckontros> ;)
13:41 < holstein> ckontros: you need help/testing ?
13:41 < scott-upstairs> so hopefully before Alpha2 we should have something to test?
13:41 < ckontros> So we can get things ready in the seeds and -settings but they should push to the srchine @ the same time.
13:42 < ckontros> *Hopefully* But Im thinking things will be rocky for a month or so.
13:42 < scott-upstairs> i imagine we will need to make adjustments (possibly many as bugs are found) to the seeds and -settings
13:42 < scott-upstairs> ckontros, so the plan is replicate our current functionality as far as UI right?
13:42 < ckontros> Side note to all this, we can test upgrade paths but my official stance is new installs.
13:42 < scott-upstairs> after we get things stable, then we shoot for a new UI?
13:43 < ckontros> Correct
13:43 < scott-upstairs> cool to both :)
13:43 < holstein> ckontros: Is there a newer screenshot for the new UI prototype?
13:43 < ckontros> holstein: No.
13:43 < holstein> the other question from the agenda is Should we provide a option that looks like old UI?
13:43 < holstein> i say, if its not dirt-simple, no
13:43 < ckontros> I'll upgrade the wiki with new info soon but its slow going at this point.
13:43 < holstein> i dont think its going to be a giant departure in look/feel
13:44 < ckontros> +1 (to no that is)
13:44 < scott-upstairs> maybe someone can hack something in a ppa to help users BUT
13:44 < scott-upstairs> if we move to a new UI it should be default and we should push that
13:44 < holstein> yeah, something unoffical is welcome for sure
13:44 < ckontros> Well, it kinda will. Just AWN at the bottom as opposed the the panel across the top. But all functionality is replicated.
13:44 < holstein> [action] Should we provide a option that looks like old UI? - not officially
13:44 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Should we provide a option that looks like old UI? - not officially
13:45 < falktx> I have to pop up again here, as I am developing a replacement for *-controls
13:45 < holstein> ckontros: cool, thanks :)
13:45 < ckontros> np
13:45 < falktx> it is meant for kxstudio mainly, but I'm working to get it nicely goind with others distros too
13:45 < holstein> [topic] Documentation Updates
13:45 < MootBot> New Topic:  Documentation Updates
13:45 < scott-upstairs> holstein, can we break and address falktx 's comment first?
13:45 < holstein> scott-upstairs: you want to comment? ask for help officially?
13:46 < holstein> scott-upstairs: sure
13:46 < falktx> can I continue?
13:46 < scott-upstairs> falktx, what does the -controls update do?  what functionality?
13:46 < scott-upstairs> sure falktx  :)  you da man!
13:46 < falktx> for now the controls don't do much, as everything is already working in kxstudio ;)
13:46  * scott-upstairs has a strat and isn't afraid to play it ;)
13:47 < falktx> but it checks for the kernel version and user/audio thing now
13:47 < scott-upstairs> faltx one thing we have tried to do with updating -controls is to author the app with the perspective of someone "updating" from vanilla ubuntu to ubuntu studio
13:47 < falktx> the more important thing about this app it's that it contain other cool sub-apps
13:47 < scott-upstairs> so this would include checking if user is in audio group currently
13:47 < falktx> a jack-patchbay, a-la patchage
13:47 < ckontros> falktx: How about we team up and refine -controls rather then have parallel efforts?
13:48 < falktx> ckontros: we have different targets
13:48 < ckontros> Like?
13:48 < falktx> ckontros: for example, It also works as a plugin host
13:48 < scott-upstairs> oi, it controls jackd, can start applciations
13:48 < falktx> it manages WineASIO too
13:48 < falktx> screenshots coming
13:48 < scott-upstairs> you can install plugins (or at least assign where to look for them)
13:48 < falktx> this is the main app:
13:49 < falktx> http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr002.jpeg
13:49 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr002.jpeg
13:49 < falktx> http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr003.jpeg
13:49 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr003.jpeg
13:49 < falktx> http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr004.jpeg
13:49 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr004.jpeg
13:49 < falktx> these are the 3 main tabs of it
13:49 < falktx> the first manages system stuff (jack, alsa bridge, a2j and pulse2jack too)
13:49 < ckontros> falktx: Well you mentioned "replacing" *-controls. SO if we have different targets, why replace?
13:50 < falktx> ckontros: cause I want to incorporate all *-controls functionality inside
13:50 < falktx> ckontros: once ready, I want to push it to debian too
13:50 < ckontros> Forgive me, Im just trying to understand how the targets are different.
13:50 < scott-upstairs> falktx, does it adjust jackd settings; rtprio, etc
13:50 -!- chilicuil [~chilicuil@unaffiliated/chilicuil] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:51 < falktx> scott-upstairs: it works with jackdbus right now. but I want to make it work with jackd too, soon
13:51 < falktx> ckontros: well, someone once told me that having WineASIO option in a US official tool was a bad tihng
13:52 < falktx> *thing
13:52 < scott-upstairs> ckontros, i think it is currently intended to target the kxstudio audience where many things we worry about are already configure by installation
13:52 < falktx> and that the "Audio Plugins PATH" management is also not very linux friendly
13:52 < scott-upstairs> and they target different applications, including vst, wineasio, and applications that falktx has  written
13:52 < ckontros> falktx: Having the option for us would be no different than Debian. We just cant include the other packages by default.
13:52 < scott-upstairs> good work by the way
13:53 < falktx> thanks
13:53 < falktx> ckontros: I know, any non-working option can be hidden if needed
13:53 < falktx> for example, WineASIO stuff is auto-hidden if WineASIO is not installed
13:53 < holstein> maybe falktx and ckontros can discuss and report next meeting?
13:54 < holstein> sounds like something we could potentially take advantage of*
13:54 < scott-upstairs> +1 or until after we get a working install with xfce ?
13:54 < falktx> ckontros: I also target jack2 and ladish in partical (more focus to it), which I don't think US is ready for now
13:54 < ckontros> Sure. So, is this a situation where you just wanna do what you do and not work directly with us on our -controls app? I can get that. I just wanna be clear.
13:54 < holstein> [action] falktx and ckontros to discuss *-controls functionality and report
13:54 < MootBot> ACTION received:  falktx and ckontros to discuss *-controls functionality and report
13:55 < falktx> ckontros: I can focus on the *-controls stuff if needed. but it's my own app, please understand
13:55 < falktx> I've been working on it since the last 4 months or more...
13:55 < holstein> as far as documentation updates, let me just action-item these entries
13:56 < holstein> [action] Documentation - Clarification: generally help.ubuntu.com is for users and wiki.ubuntu.com is for developement
13:56 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Documentation - Clarification: generally help.ubuntu.com is for users and wiki.ubuntu.com is for developement
13:56 -!- jjohansen [~jj@static-50-53-37-130.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net] has quit [Ping timeout: 276 seconds]
13:56 < scott-upstairs> i was hoping ailo would be here for the documentation part but i have a structure for the help.ubuntu.com section
13:56 < holstein> [action] Documentation - The plan is to reorganize the help.ubuntu.com documentation
13:56 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Documentation - The plan is to reorganize the help.ubuntu.com documentation
13:56 < ckontros> Ill let the meeting move on. And really, this isnt my call anyway as my involvement is for UI stuff and this cycle only. ;)
13:57 -!- apachelogger is now known as kernellogger
13:57 < holstein> [action] Documentation We will be deprecating older pages, modifying current ones, and creating additional pages as needed
13:57 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Documentation We will be deprecating older pages, modifying current ones, and creating additional pages as needed
13:57 < holstein> [action] Documentation - Is anyone else interested in assisting?
13:57 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Documentation - Is anyone else interested in assisting?
13:57 -!- sysdoc [~sysdoc@pool-71-105-36-163.lsanca.dsl-w.verizon.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:57 < scott-upstairs> here is the proposed structure, please ignore/forgive the link top: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/IntroTutVideos
13:57 < holstein> [action] Documentation - ScottL would also like to work on wiki.ubuntu.com
13:57 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Documentation - ScottL would also like to work on wiki.ubuntu.com
13:58 -!- steveire_ [~quassel@kde/skelly] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:58 < holstein> scott-upstairs: i say, shout out when you need help, and feel free to assign me to said tasks
13:58 -!- vanhoof [vanhoof@canonical/vanhoof] has quit [Read error: Operation timed out]
13:58 -!- steveire [~quassel@kde/skelly] has quit [Ping timeout: 260 seconds]
13:59 < scott-upstairs> right, i'll confer with ailo later about this, but unless someone strenuously objects AND wants to put forth an alternative, i'm going forward soon
13:59 < holstein> [topic] New Applications
13:59 < MootBot> New Topic:  New Applications
13:59 < scott-upstairs> the basic goal would to be to make this more untutivie and user friendly
13:59 < scott-upstairs> ^^^ documentation
13:59 < holstein> yeah, im plowing on
13:59 < holstein> :)
14:00 < holstein> [action] plugins - mda-lv2, eq10q, autotalent,invada-studio-plugins-lv2, vocproc, wah-plugins, foo-yc20, amb-plugins, dssi-vst, lv2vocoder, omins
14:00 < MootBot> ACTION received:  plugins - mda-lv2, eq10q, autotalent,invada-studio-plugins-lv2, vocproc, wah-plugins, foo-yc20, amb-plugins, dssi-vst, lv2vocoder, omins
14:00 < scott-upstairs> there are several new apps i would like to include and they support things
14:00 < scott-upstairs> oh, you posted it
14:00 < scott-upstairs> is that really an action?
14:00 < holstein> [action] ladish - ladish, gladish, ladi-tools
14:00 < MootBot> ACTION received:  ladish - ladish, gladish, ladi-tools
14:00 < falktx> is ladish on 11.10 now ?
14:00 < scott-upstairs> i would like for us to move to ladish as well unless someone objects
14:00 < holstein> depends on if they are being added i suppose
14:00 < scott-upstairs> yes falktx
14:00 < falktx> cool
14:00 < scott-upstairs> they are in debian and ubuntu now
14:00 < holstein> more of a highlight than an action
14:01 < falktx> I have one thing that might interest you all right now
14:01 < holstein> [action] mudita24 - envy24control update, trying to get into Debian in time for Oneiric
14:01 < MootBot> ACTION received:  mudita24 - envy24control update, trying to get into Debian in time for Oneiric
14:01 < scott-upstairs> functionality is still sketchy from my experience but i expect it to get better ;)
14:01 < scott-upstairs> what is that falktx ?
14:01 < falktx> take a look  please - http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr005.jpeg
14:01  * scott-upstairs will talk about mudita in a minute
14:01 < scott-upstairs> can you explain the functionality falktx ?
14:02 < falktx> sure
14:02 < falktx> it checks for the current installed packages (not binaries), and displays them
14:02 < falktx> the list is hardcoded
14:02 < scott-upstairs> it seems that it duplicates some of the functionality of ladish however
14:02 < falktx> ^ because of this, we can know where docs are installed
14:02 < falktx> this way we can select an app and click "documentation"
14:03 < falktx> we can always create like "US-docs" package and point to it too
14:03 < falktx> this app also helps ladish, by providing pre-setup templates for many apps
14:03 < falktx> (anyone here knows about ladish internals?)
14:03 < scott-upstairs> falktx, i know some, can we discuss this together after the meeting?
14:04 < falktx> scott-upstairs: sure
14:04 < falktx> this can help the menu situation of menus too
14:04 < scott-upstairs> thanks, i fear other's eyes will glaze over otherwise and we're behind on the meeting
14:04 < falktx> instead of putting into the menu, let the app look for it and display it
14:04 < falktx> oh, sorry
14:04 < holstein> ok, moving on
14:04 < holstein> ?
14:04 < scott-upstairs> mudita24 is the next version of envy24control which is for ice1712 chips (i.e. maudio delta series)
14:05 < scott-upstairs> i'm hoping it goes into debian soon and then i'll file to sync with ubuntu if it isn't in time for debianimport
14:05 < scott-upstairs> okay, done
14:05 < holstein> [topic] Testing Procedures
14:05 < MootBot> New Topic:  Testing Procedures
14:05 -!- acerimmer [4086883e@gateway/web/freenode/ip.64.134.136.62] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
14:05 < holstein> i dont think we have anything official to test
14:05 < holstein> so i say we hold that til next time
14:06  * falktx looks in debian git
14:06 < falktx> not there
14:06 < scott-upstairs> right but it would be nice to have someone who will oversee testing
14:06 < holstein> i was going to ask ailo :/
14:06 < scott-upstairs> falktx, http://packages.debian.org/unstable/main/ladish
14:06 < holstein> he's really methodical about the tests we have done so far
14:06 < scott-upstairs> but he's really only been testing the kernel
14:06 < scott-upstairs> i really wanted someone to oversee all of it
14:07 < holstein> right, i was going to ask though :)
14:07 < scott-upstairs> remind people to test when builds come out
14:07 < scott-upstairs> develop testing procedures
14:07 < scott-upstairs> etc
14:07 < holstein> yeah, we need that*
14:07 -!- leoquant [~leoquant@ubuntu/member/pdpc.supporter.active.leoquant] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
14:07 < holstein> hmmm...
14:07 < scott-upstairs> astraljava, you interested perhaps in helping with this?
14:07 < holstein> astraljava: ?
14:07 < holstein> hehe
14:07 -!- leoquant [~leoquant@ubuntu/member/pdpc.supporter.active.leoquant] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
14:07 < astraljava> scott-upstairs: Sure, why not. I'm not really a tester per se, but that's something I can do for contributing.
14:07 < scott-upstairs> *anything* is better than what we have currently
14:08 < scott-upstairs> astraljava, you can also look into the xubuntu testing process, they ahve some good stuff
14:08 < holstein> astraljava: cool
14:08 < scott-upstairs> i'll find the link for you later
14:08 < astraljava> Okay, that works for me.
14:08 < holstein> [action] astraljava to head up testing 
14:08 < MootBot> ACTION received:  astraljava to head up testing
14:08 < holstein> OK, moving on?
14:08 < scott-upstairs> sure
14:08 < holstein> [topic] Libre Graphics Magazine Ad
14:08 < MootBot> New Topic:  Libre Graphics Magazine Ad
14:09 < holstein> scott-upstairs: this sounds really cool
14:09 < scott-upstairs> we have graciously been afforded a free full page ad in libre graphics magazine
14:09 < scott-upstairs> i would like to captilize on this ad for the changes in oneiric
14:09 < scott-upstairs> we have several months till then
14:09 < holstein> is there a way to make it generic?
14:10 < scott-upstairs> is anyone interesting in hellping with brainstorming, developing idea, and effecting the ad
14:10 < holstein> o/
14:10 < scott-upstairs> holstein, do you think it should be more generic?
14:10  * holstein shrugs
14:10 < holstein> doesnt have to be
14:10 < scott-upstairs> my original thoughts were to celebrate our changes/improvements
14:10 < holstein> yeah, i can get on board with that
14:10 < scott-upstairs> to sell them as "better", which i think they are
14:10 -!- lostnbronx [~lostnbron@74-37-171-107.br1.sho.az.frontiernet.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
14:11 < holstein> [action] holstein to help scott-upstairs with brainstorming for the libre graphics ad
14:11 < MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein to help scott-upstairs with brainstorming for the libre graphics ad
14:11 < scott-upstairs> right, we can push this for further meetings and try to drum up support and develop things
14:11 < astraljava> I'm not into marketing and stuff, but I can help with technicals if needed.
14:11 < holstein> [action] holstein to get libre ad timetable information
14:11 < MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein to get libre ad timetable information
14:12 < holstein> [action] astraljava to help scott-upstairs with brainstorming for the libre graphics ad
14:12 < MootBot> ACTION received:  astraljava to help scott-upstairs with brainstorming for the libre graphics ad
14:12 < holstein> cool... moving on
14:12 < holstein> [topic] Advocacy ideas
14:12 < MootBot> New Topic:  Advocacy ideas
14:12 < holstein> [action] start or find the current ubuntustudio advocacy wiki and update
14:13 < MootBot> ACTION received:  start or find the current ubuntustudio advocacy wiki and update
14:13 < holstein> [action] holstein start or find the current ubuntustudio advocacy wiki and update
14:13 < MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein start or find the current ubuntustudio advocacy wiki and update
14:13 < scott-upstairs> holstein, did you get that fedora marketing link?
14:13 < holstein> i want to have something folks can easlily link to to show folks 'the buzz'
14:13 < holstein> scott-upstairs: im not sure... would you link it again?
14:14 < holstein> so it gets counted
14:14 < holstein> i want a place where folks can add their personal blogs such as http://dullass.blogspot.com/
14:14 < scott-upstairs> https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Marketing
14:14 < holstein> i think the xubuntu team has a lot going on in this department, and im looking forward to emulating
14:14 -!- Destine [~destine@ubuntu/member/Destine] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
14:15 < holstein> [action] for marketing ideas see https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Marketing
14:15 < MootBot> ACTION received:  for marketing ideas see https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Marketing
14:15 < holstein> not sure why that link didnt get counted*
14:15 < holstein> anyways.. moving on
14:16 < holstein> [topic] team reports https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TeamReports
14:16 < MootBot> New Topic:  team reports https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TeamReports
14:16 < scott-upstairs> here is the link for team reports:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TeamReports
14:16 < scott-upstairs> it's not hard to do and this would be a great way for some newer person to help the team
14:16 < holstein> scott-upstairs: i can help with this too i think
14:16 < scott-upstairs> is anyone interested?
14:16 < scott-upstairs> holstein, that would be outstanding my friend!
14:16 < holstein> i used to do it a bit for our loco
14:17 < holstein> [action] holstein to help with team reports
14:17 < scott-upstairs> cool :)
14:17 < MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein to help with team reports
14:17 < holstein> [topic] announcments - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricReleaseSchedule
14:17 < MootBot> New Topic:  announcments - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricReleaseSchedule
14:17 < holstein> * LightDM will replace GDM in Oneiric Ocelot
14:18 < scott-upstairs> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricReleaseSchedule is the new schedule for oneiric proper
14:18 < holstein> scott-upstairs: anything else in announcements?
14:18 < scott-upstairs> and as holstein mentioned lightDM will be replacing GDM
14:18 < scott-upstairs> this will mean some significant changes and will require hacking and testing
14:18 < scott-upstairs> that's it for me
14:18 < holstein> [topic] Any Other Business - OPEN
14:18 < MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business - OPEN
14:18 < astraljava> Which means we should have it in for alpha2, no?
14:19 < scott-upstairs> okay, gotta run, kids are getting nuts downstairs and i need to help :/
14:19 < holstein> astraljava: i would think
14:19 < scott-upstairs> astraljava, it will be ready to test after we update the seeds/-settings package
14:19 < holstein> we'll keep an eye on the updates as they come in though
14:19 < astraljava> scott-upstairs: Gotcha.
14:19 < holstein> anyone else??
14:19 < scott-upstairs> by the way, i'll post minutes on this later this week
14:19 < holstein> questions, comments?
14:19 < astraljava> On other business, I intend to look into tasks.
14:19 < astraljava> ubuntustudio-desktop doesn't work for natty, nor oneiric.
14:20 < astraljava> Not sure about earlier than that.
14:20 < holstein> astraljava: i didnt try them actually
14:20 < holstein> if you want, i'll help track that down sometime
14:20 < astraljava> holstein: I'm afraid no one did.
14:21 < holstein> if its an issue of testing, and looking at a log, i can do that
14:21 < holstein> last time i tried was 10.04
14:21 < holstein> anyways... onward and upward i say
14:21 < holstein> astraljava: lets try and make sure we look at that in 11.10 :) 
14:22 < holstein> anyways... if thats all..
14:23 < holstein> [topic] next meeting - July 3rd 17:00 UTC - in #ubuntu-meeting unless otherwise noted
14:23 < MootBot> New Topic:  next meeting - July 3rd 17:00 UTC - in #ubuntu-meeting unless otherwise noted
14:23 < holstein> [topic] next meeting chair
14:23 < MootBot> New Topic:  next meeting chair
14:23 < holstein> i dont mind to do it again, assuming im free*
14:23 < holstein> anyone else interested?
14:24 < holstein> [action] holstein to chair the next meeting - unless otherwise noted
14:24 < MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein to chair the next meeting - unless otherwise noted
14:24 < holstein> #endmeeting
14:24 < MootBot> Meeting finished at 13:26.
</pre>

==== Mootbot Output ====

http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.20110605_1202.html

<pre>
13:00 -!- Irssi: Starting query in freenode with MootBot
13:00 <MootBot> Meeting started at 12:02. The chair is holstein.
13:01 <MootBot> New Topic:  agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Meetings/2011June5
13:05 <MootBot> New Topic:  old buisness
13:07 <MootBot> New Topic:  Oneiric Timeline https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Oneiric/Timeline
13:08 <MootBot> ACTION received:  review the timeline at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Oneiric/Timeline and adjust/help as needed
13:11 <MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein to re-order the timeline chronologically
13:12 <MootBot> New Topic:  Website Update
13:17 <MootBot> ACTION received:  scott-upstairs to research alternative hosting plans
13:20 <MootBot> ACTION received:  vote next meeting about where the new site will be hosted
13:21 <MootBot> New Topic:  Menu changes
13:26 <MootBot> Please vote on:  hold menu re-vamp til next cycle.
13:28 <MootBot> Final result is 4 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 4
13:28 <MootBot> ACTION received:  postpone menu revamp til next cycle (12.04)
13:28 <MootBot> New Topic:  XFCE/UI Changes
13:29 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr001.jpeg
13:44 <MootBot> ACTION received:  Should we provide a option that looks like old UI? - not officially
13:45 <MootBot> New Topic:  Documentation Updates
13:49 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr002.jpeg
13:49 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr003.jpeg
13:49 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://kxstudio.sourceforge.net/tmp/scr004.jpeg
13:54 <MootBot> ACTION received:  falktx and ckontros to discuss *-controls functionality and report
13:56 <MootBot> ACTION received:  Documentation - Clarification: generally help.ubuntu.com is for users and wiki.ubuntu.com is for developement
13:56 <MootBot> ACTION received:  Documentation - The plan is to reorganize the help.ubuntu.com documentation
13:57 <MootBot> ACTION received:  Documentation We will be deprecating older pages, modifying current ones, and creating additional pages as needed
13:57 <MootBot> ACTION received:  Documentation - Is anyone else interested in assisting?
13:57 <MootBot> ACTION received:  Documentation - ScottL would also like to work on wiki.ubuntu.com
13:59 <MootBot> New Topic:  New Applications
14:00 <MootBot> ACTION received:  plugins - mda-lv2, eq10q, autotalent,invada-studio-plugins-lv2, vocproc, wah-plugins, foo-yc20, amb-plugins, dssi-vst, lv2vocoder, omins
14:00 <MootBot> ACTION received:  ladish - ladish, gladish, ladi-tools
14:01 <MootBot> ACTION received:  mudita24 - envy24control update, trying to get into Debian in time for Oneiric
14:05 <MootBot> New Topic:  Testing Procedures
14:08 <MootBot> ACTION received:  astraljava to head up testing
14:08 <MootBot> New Topic:  Libre Graphics Magazine Ad
14:11 <MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein to help scott-upstairs with brainstorming for the libre graphics ad
14:11 <MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein to get libre ad timetable information
14:12 <MootBot> ACTION received:  astraljava to help scott-upstairs with brainstorming for the libre graphics ad
14:12 <MootBot> New Topic:  Advocacy ideas
14:13 <MootBot> ACTION received:  start or find the current ubuntustudio advocacy wiki and update
14:13 <MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein start or find the current ubuntustudio advocacy wiki and update
14:15 <MootBot> ACTION received:  for marketing ideas see https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Marketing
14:16 <MootBot> New Topic:  team reports https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TeamReports
14:17 <MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein to help with team reports
14:17 <MootBot> New Topic:  announcments - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricReleaseSchedule
14:18 <MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business - OPEN
14:23 <MootBot> New Topic:  next meeting - July 3rd 17:00 UTC - in #ubuntu-meeting unless otherwise noted
14:23 <MootBot> New Topic:  next meeting chair
14:24 <MootBot> ACTION received:  holstein to chair the next meeting - unless otherwise noted
14:24 <MootBot> Meeting finished at 13:26.
14:24 <MootBot> Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/
</pre>
