{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Birmingham BugJam ====
/!\ '''This page is deprecated, please register <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/54/detail/|here]]</nowiki> instead, we'll keep this around for historical purposes (and for anyone with special requirements. If you're already on this page please add your entry to the directory and remove it from this page.''' /!\

26th - 28th March 2010 09:30 until 17:00

<pre>
The Linux Emporium,
Bridge House,
17a Maybrook Road,
Sutton Coldfield,
Birmingham.
B76 1AL
</pre>

This is near ASDA at Minworth, just off the A38 Kingsbury Road. It is on the left hand side near the end of Maybrook Road and opposite Unit 11. There is a white bridge from road level to the top floor of our offices.

Direct link to <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=b76+1al&sie=UTF8&ll=52.536534,-1.786823&spn=0.015767,0.036049&z=14&iwloc=addr|Google Maps]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.openstreetmap.org/?mlat=52.52825&mlon=-1.79335&zoom=15&layers=B000FTF|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki>. should anyone need help getting round Birmingham; see <nowiki>[[http://www.travelinemidlands.co.uk/JourneyPlanner.jsp?vm_Reset_str=true|this page]]</nowiki>.

==== Getting there by public transport ====

The easiest way is to take a train to Chester Road Station, and get picked up from there: give us a ring on 0121 313 3850 say 15 minutes before arriving at Chester Road and someone can pick you up. But ''please'' try and organise things so that a group arrives at the same time as we don't want to spend all morning going back and forth.

==== Facilities ====

* Free Wifi (Of Course!)
* Spare Machines to test installations on
* Wireless devices to test and spare access points
* Projector and web-cam
* Two rooms
* Space for up to 15 (maybe a few more at a push)
* There will be water to drink (fresh from the tap)

==== Details ====
 
Hi all, John Pinner from the Linux Emporium has kindly donated his conference room for the use during the bugjam. 

Times are flexible at the moment, and will depend on when people want to turn up/go home. We're not adverse to starting later, but it's best to stick to Office Hours. It'd also be nice to try and link up with the other UK bugjams. Please indicate below the times you'd prefer to attend.

All are welcome, whatever your level of experience.

Additionally we are looking for anyone who knows bug triaging fairly well and can handle questions and some of the unexpected issues that are likely to come up. Ideally they would have participated in past Bug Days and regularly visit #ubuntu-bugs or the mailing lists.
Hopefully these people would be able to lead some sessions.
If you can, please mark yourself as a possible leader.

"I suggest we start at 10 or 10.30 on Saturday or Sunday. John."

Could you please update the list if you are wanting to attend.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''IRC Nick'''
| '''Day/s Attending'''
| '''Preferred Time(s)'''
| '''Leader?'''
| '''Food Requirements, eg Veggie'''
| '''@ train station'''
|-
| Quentin Wright
| conch
| 26 - 28
| 9 - 5
| If needed
| 
| 
|-
| Martin Meredith
| Mez
| 26 - 28
| 9 - 5
| Probably, again
| 
| @ around 9
|-
| Antonio Roberts
| hellocatfood
| 26 - 28
| 9 - 5
| 
| Veggie
| Can make my own way there
|-
| Tom Lloyd
| notlistening
| 26 - 28
| 9 - 5
| 
| Lots...
| Can walk but will be comming by trains so a lift would be appreciated
|-
| Nick Booker
| nickbooker
| 26
| 9-5
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Mark Croft
| croftyboy
| 26 - 28
| 9 - 5
| 
| MEAT
| Car
|}
