{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an either and issue or idea for the team, please add it to the agenda below.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntu-youth. 90 % of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting, preferably on either the mailing list or in the team channel.
# Meetings are primarily for decision making/team votes. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10 % (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| zkriesse
| Start of meeting, and such
|-
| zkriesse
| Welcoming message
|-
| zkriesse
| Topic 1 - Getting the team together!
|-
| zkriesse
| Topic 2 - New Members
|-
| AndrewMC
| Topic 3 - His topic...
|-
| ThomasB2k
| Topic 4 - Website for the team
|-
| zkriesse
| Topic 5 - Any concerns, questions, or ideas? Please, bring them up!
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====

No agenda discussions except what was in the agenda itself...

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:56] <zkriesse_> #startmeeting
[19:56] <meetingology> Meeting started Sat Aug 21 [19:56:01 2010 UTC.  The chair is zkriesse_. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.
[19:56] <meetingology> updated
[19:56] <meetingology> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
[19:56] <meetingology> updated
[19:56] <shadeslayer> first plasma commit in the making
[19:56] <ThomasB2k> 50 seconds for me
[19:56] <Kaia> zkriesse_: you started it early
[19:56] <zkriesse_> Ok guys welcome to the Ubuntu Youth Meeting
[19:56] <zkriesse_> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuYouth/Meetings
[19:56] <lfaraone> this is getting a bit silly.
[19:56] <zkriesse_> The above link is for the meeting and it's topics (hopefully)
[19:57] <zkriesse_> Now as we didn't really get anywhere at the last meeting (for those who weren't there don't worry as we didn't get anywhere) this meeting will hopefully get us to our goal
[19:57] <ThomasB2k> hi
[19:57] <shadeslayer> hopefully :P
[19:57] * serfus is right on time?
[19:57] <shadeslayer> serfus: yep
[19:57] <bilalakhtar> serfus: late by half-a-minute
[19:58] <shadeslayer> come on.. 30 secs :P
[19:58] <zkriesse_> Now I'm hoping that we can get on an agreement for the team, it's goals, what it aims at, and what we are hoping to accomplish. You'll all be allowed to voice your ideas/concerns/issues but ONE AT A TIME...you're welcome to discuss someones idea after they list it but please, don't stampede eachother
[19:58] <serfus> next time i'll be sharp :)
[19:58] * smeag0l forget and stuff
[19:58] <MichealH> lol @ bilalakhtar
[19:58] <ThomasB2k> let's not interrupt and let's keep discussion on topic (not trying to backseat mod)
[19:59] <zkriesse_> So, first topic
[19:59] <zkriesse_> #topic Getting the team together
[19:59] <meetingology> TOPIC: Getting the team together
[19:59] <zkriesse_> Who'd like to start with their idea
[19:59] <ThomasB2k> Well
[20:00] <ThomasB2k> I think we should start with new members and stuff
[20:00] <shadeslayer> +1
[20:00] <meetingology> +1 received from shadeslayer
[20:00] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:00] <smeag0l> +1
[20:00] <meetingology> +1 received from smeag0l
[20:00] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:00] <bilalakhtar> +1
[20:00] <meetingology> +1 received from bilalakhtar
[20:00] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:00] <AndrewMC> +1
[20:00] <meetingology> +1 received from AndrewMC
[20:00] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:00] <MichealH> +1
[20:00] <meetingology> +1 received from MichealH
[20:00] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:00] <zkriesse_> ThomasB2k: Agreed...
[20:00] <shadeslayer> is it supposed to do that? ^
[20:00] <zkriesse_> Ok agreement on starting with the new members topic first instead of a team goal
[20:00] <zkriesse_> shadeslayer: yes...
[20:00] <shadeslayer> zkriesse_: the private vote thing
[20:01] <bilalakhtar> shadeslayer: ping AlanBell about it
[20:01] <zkriesse_> shadeslayer: If someone private msgs it yeah
[20:01] <zkriesse_> Anyhoo
[20:01] <zkriesse_> New members,
[20:01] * bilalakhtar is a new member of the team
[20:01] <shadeslayer> bilalakhtar: welcome!
[20:01] <zkriesse_> bilalakhtar: patience please
[20:01] <ThomasB2k> welcome!
[20:02] <smeag0l> welcome
[20:02] <zkriesse_> We've got AndrewMC, ascenseur is back, ThomasB2k, Kaia, noplamodo, lfaraone, and JoeMaverickSett
[20:02] <serfus> i think we are all kind of new... nobody has done much within the team
[20:02] <zkriesse_> Those whom i announce please tell a little about yourself
[20:02] <ThomasB2k> just pointing out, I still haven't been approved on the LP page
[20:02] <zkriesse_> ThomasB2k: Ah you have not?
[20:02] * zkriesse_ goes to remedy
[20:02] <ThomasB2k> no
[20:02] <noplamodo> *krhm* me neither
[20:03] <ThomasB2k> Well, while he's doing that. Hello, I'm Thomas Boxley. I'm a web programmer from Illinois in the USA. I'm 15. I love videogames and computers and I'm a huge geek.
[20:03] <bilalakhtar> zkriesse_: sorry
[20:04] <smeag0l> ty ThomasB2k
[20:04] <zkriesse_> bilalakhtar: no problem
[20:05] <JoeMaverickSett> I'm Ye Myat Kaung.(nvm if you can't read it properly) just call me joe. I'm from Myanmar, currently studying in Malaysia. I'm 17..well almost 18... I like computers and...computers.. :D
[20:06] <ThomasB2k> welcome!
[20:06] <zkriesse> Argh
[20:06] <MichealH> JoeMaverickSett: ... and computers... and comuters...
[20:06] <MichealH> ... and IRC
[20:06] <serfus> and sleeping!
[20:06] <MichealH> lol
[20:07] <JoeMaverickSett> MichealH: oh, yeah. thanks. you too, serfus. :)
[20:07] <AndrewMC> Im Andrew Constantine, im from Windham, ME... im 14 and have been using Linux Mint for about 3 years... and i love computers and Open Source things
[20:07] <ThomasB2k> welcome!
[20:07] <lfaraone> Hallo. I'm Luke Faraone. In addition to being part of the DC LoCo, I'm also an Ubuntu MOTU and Debian Developer. (NB: I'm on a drive, and have shoddy connectivity, so if I don't reply I'm not ignoring you. )
[20:08] <MichealH> lfaraone: No Probs :)
[20:08] <JoeMaverickSett> lfaraone: it's alright. ;)
[20:08] <MichealH> I always wanted to go MOTU and DD/UD path
[20:08] <lfaraone> (I'm 17)
[20:08] * AndrewMC will BRB
[20:08] <MichealH> heh... Im the youngest
[20:08] <lfaraone> MichealH: itls s loads of fun.
[20:08] <shadeslayer> MichealH: bilalakhtar is younger :P
[20:08] <zkriesse_> Ok cool
[20:09] <MichealH> shadeslayer: I am even younger
[20:09] <zkriesse_> #topic AndrewMC has something to say
[20:09] <meetingology> TOPIC: AndrewMC has something to say
[20:09] <noplamodo> I'm 16, from Belgium, even though i'm actually finnish. I've been using Ubuntu for about 3-4 years already, but never been active in the community. Should i still put that i like computers too?
[20:09] <zkriesse_> noplamodo: Of course! If you like them!
[20:09] <ThomasB2k> yay for finns!
[20:09] <bilalakhtar> I'm Bilal Akhtar, 14, still in school, likes computers and ubuntu specially. Involved very much in Ubuntu Development, have fixed 13 papercuts till now, hope to become Ubuntu MOTU soon. Recently blogged by jcastro at http://bit.ly/a3v24T . Don't hesitate to ping me up if you wanna ask about software development!
[20:09] <JoeMaverickSett> noplamodo: hehe, we got ya. :)
[20:09] <noplamodo> :)
[20:09] <MichealH> zkriesse_: Can I write a intro for the new memebrs?
[20:10] <noplamodo> Oh, and i usually spam much smilies on irc, or so they say...
[20:10] <ThomasB2k> I wish I was actually good at desktop app programming. I do have 5 years of PHP, but what good is that in the Ubuntu world?
[20:10] <Kaia> I'm Kaia, 19, at Aberystwyth University in Wales. I am part of the Ubuntu-mars and Ubuntu-cym teams
[20:10] <MichealH> noplamodo: Mee too :P :D :L :/ ;) |)
[20:10] <kvarley> ThomasB2k Php is a very valuable skill
[20:11] <ThomasB2k> thanks
[20:11] * bilalakhtar would like to add that he also knows PHP
[20:11] <AndrewMC> Well i had an idea that everyone in the channel should be voiced as it makes it easier for the ops to op the channel... by devoiceing that person cant speak in channel... stoping the offensive action and appropriate action can be taken
[20:11] <ThomasB2k> +1
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from ThomasB2k
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:11] <MichealH> AndrewMC: Good Idea
[20:11] <MichealH> +1
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from MichealH
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:11] <JoeMaverickSett> +1
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from JoeMaverickSett
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:11] <noplamodo> +1
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from noplamodo
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:11] <serfus> AndrewMC, i don't think that's the right way to go
[20:11] <smeag0l> +1
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from smeag0l
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:11] <bilalakhtar> +1
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from bilalakhtar
[20:11] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:12] <shadeslayer> +1
[20:12] <meetingology> +1 received from shadeslayer
[20:12] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:12] <serfus> in my channel, i just +q on whom i want to mute
[20:12] <kvarley> AndrewMC Everybody except non-members?
[20:12] <MichealH> kvarley: Everyone is voice
[20:12] <zkriesse_> kvarley: No everyone who joins the channel
[20:12] <kvarley> Oh ok
[20:12] <MichealH> *!*@* has +vV
[20:12] <kvarley> -1
[20:12] <meetingology> -1 received from kvarley
[20:12] <meetingology> -1 received from a private vote
[20:12] <smeag0l> -1
[20:12] <meetingology> -1 received from smeag0l
[20:12] <meetingology> -1 received from a private vote
[20:12] <zkriesse_> kvarley: You do not agree?
[20:13] <ThomasB2k> I stick with my +1
[20:13] <MichealH> Im slowly think ing of -1 in ghere
[20:13] <MichealH> Im like +0
[20:13] <MichealH> Undecided
[20:13] <Kaia> -1
[20:13] <meetingology> -1 received from Kaia
[20:13] <meetingology> -1 received from a private vote
[20:13] <zkriesse_> MichealH: Then answer honestly...don't say +1 and mean something else
[20:13] <MichealH> I need to know more :P
[20:13] <ThomasB2k> Lots of bandwagoning it seems like
[20:13] <shadeslayer> yeah
[20:13] <kvarley> I just think it'd be nice to have the approved members gettng voice when they are welcomed into the community. They would have the launchpad group though so either way is fine. I'm sitting on the fence so to speak (not sure either way)
[20:14] <MichealH> kvarley: Agreed
[20:14] <MichealH> -1
[20:14] <meetingology> -1 received from MichealH
[20:14] <meetingology> -1 received from a private vote
[20:14] <zkriesse_> kvarley: then put +o
[20:14] <ThomasB2k> I think it wouldn't hurt to voice everyone like first suggested
[20:14] <kvarley> +0
[20:14] <kvarley> +o
[20:14] <ThomasB2k> :p
[20:14] <smeag0l> hm
[20:14] <noplamodo> The Holy Hand Grenade! :O
[20:14] <zkriesse_> Just a note this will be a finalized decision by the Ubuntu Youth Council which consists of AndrewMC, kvarley, ascenseur, and myself
[20:14] <serfus> i'm still -1
[20:15] <zkriesse_> We were trying to gauge how ya'll would take such an action if we put it into affect
[20:15] <MichealH> serfus: Then put -1 on a line by itself :P
[20:15] <MichealH> zkriesse_: Not well
[20:15] <bilalakhtar> so we have 8 +1s and 3 -1s
[20:15] <kvarley> +
[20:15] <bilalakhtar> sorry 4 -1s
[20:15] <kvarley> *+
[20:15] <kvarley> **+'s win
[20:16] <zkriesse_> next topic
[20:16] <serfus> why don't you put meetingology to vote, so it will be organized?
[20:16] <zkriesse_> serfus: It doesn't yet have that command
[20:16] <zkriesse_> serfus: AlanBell has yet to build that package
[20:16] <zkriesse_> #topic Website for the team by ThomasB2k
[20:16] <meetingology> TOPIC: Website for the team by ThomasB2k
[20:16] <serfus> oh.. well, fine :)
[20:16] <ThomasB2k> oh yes
[20:17] <ThomasB2k> I could make a professional website for the team for free
[20:17] <ThomasB2k> you can view some of my work at my website, http://mpscripts.com
[20:17] * bilalakhtar would like to suggest something to ThomasB2k
[20:17] <ThomasB2k> yes?
[20:17] <bilalakhtar> ThomasB2k: You could use a CMS like drupal, that would save time AND would be convenient
[20:18] <MichealH> bilalakhtar: +1
[20:18] <ThomasB2k> how about wordpress? i'm much more familar with it
[20:18] <serfus> ThomasB2k, who would pay for the domain and host?
[20:18] <shadeslayer> wordpress would be better i think
[20:18] <ThomasB2k> i already have a server
[20:18] <ThomasB2k> and I can pay for the domain
[20:18] <zkriesse_> ThomasB2k: That's fine..but as serfus said...who'd pay for the domain..and host
[20:18] <bilalakhtar> ThomasB2k: Wordpress is for blogs, but for general-purpose websites its better to have Drupal
[20:18] <ThomasB2k> I honestly have no knowledge with Drupal
[20:19] * bilalakhtar has contributed a few patches to Drupal
[20:19] <shadeslayer> bilalakhtar: not really.. you can use wp for sites as well
[20:19] <bilalakhtar> ThomasB2k: your choice
[20:19] <ThomasB2k> I honestly say WP, and I can provide hosting on my server and the domain.
[20:19] <MichealH> +1 for Drupal
[20:19] <AndrewMC> +1 for Wordpress
[20:19] <shadeslayer> +1 for wp
[20:19] <bilalakhtar> MichealH: it appears ThomasB2k prefers WP, its his choice after all
[20:19] <MichealH> Yeah
[20:19] <zkriesse_> +1 for wordpress
[20:20] <bilalakhtar> ok, so I and MichealH lose
[20:20] <smeag0l> +1 wp
[20:20] <JoeMaverickSett> +1 wp.
[20:20] <zkriesse_> #idea ThomasB2k to make a Ubuntu Youth site via wordpress
[20:20] <MichealH> bilalakhtar: Aye ^_^
[20:20] <Kaia> tbh, i think this could be discussed as a separate issue. I think we should use what ThomasB2k is comfortable with
[20:20] <zkriesse_> So it's agreed? bilalakhtar should make us a site?
[20:20] <bilalakhtar> zkriesse_: no ThomasB2k
[20:20] <serfus> i think that if you want to do it, it will be great but it's not essential right now
[20:20] <zkriesse_> Duh
[20:21] <MichealH> zkriesse_: I can make one
[20:21] <bilalakhtar> zkriesse_: let ThomasB2k go ahead
[20:21] <zkriesse_> MichealH: Ah no...
[20:21] <ThomasB2k> I will provide hosting and the domain too, so vote me :D
[20:21] <MichealH> zkriesse_: One project at a time?
[20:21] <bilalakhtar> well I have my current website running Drupal expatsinksa.com
[20:21] <bilalakhtar> +1 for ThomasB2k
[20:21] <zkriesse_> MichealH: yes my young padawan
[20:21] <MichealH> zkriesse_: Im learning
[20:21] <smeag0l> +1 for ThomasB2k
[20:21] <zkriesse_> Ok so,
[20:22] <ThomasB2k> sorry, brb, scrounging for mouse batteries :/, I'll read back when I get back. Sorry
[20:22] <MichealH> ThomasB2k: np
[20:22] <zkriesse_> #action ThomasB2k and UY Council to discuss and put into affect a website for the team
[20:22] * meetingology ThomasB2k and UY Council to discuss and put into affect a website for the team
[20:22] <zkriesse_> Ok, back to our original topic
[20:22] <zkriesse_> #topic Getting the team together!
[20:22] <meetingology> TOPIC: Getting the team together!
[20:24] <MichealH> We can have like a Planet Youth?
[20:24] <zkriesse_> Ok, so as a team is it just me or do we all seem dead...
[20:24] <zkriesse_> MichealH: Hold on buddy
[20:24] <smeag0l> i'm partly dead to zkriesse
[20:24] <ThomasB2k> okay i'm back, putting in the batteries
[20:24] <zkriesse_> This team has failed in the past when it was attempted, as such there has been some doubt (actually a LOT of doubt) as to whether I and you guys can make this team a success
[20:25] <shadeslayer> im partly dead for the next 1.5 weeks starting Wednesday :P
[20:25] <MichealH> shadeslayer: Why? lol
[20:25] <zkriesse_> The ones who have doubted this team are very well established, and top contributors in the Ubuntu Community
[20:25] <smeag0l> correction totally dead
[20:25] <shadeslayer> MichealH: minors in 10 days ;)
[20:26] <serfus> i have to say, after been thinking about it, i see the team in the best place is under the UB teem
[20:26] <serfus> as a focus group
[20:26] <zkriesse_> So as they are usually quite right in their opinions and judgements, it's safe to say that so far we've not made much of an impact
[20:26] <zkriesse_> serfus: Meaning?
[20:26] <shadeslayer> MichealH: i might even keep this core offline :P
[20:26] <zkriesse_> serfus: The Ubuntu Beginners team has had such a focus group before..it also failed
[20:26] <MichealH> shadeslayer: minors?
[20:27] <MichealH> shadeslayer: Use irssi
[20:27] <shadeslayer> MichealH: minor exams :P....
[20:27] * MichealH hides
[20:27] <zkriesse_> So, here's the skinny. We need a common goal as a team and as a grou
[20:27] * smeag0l lacking the knowled
[20:27] <MichealH> shadeslayer: Ahh
[20:27] <smeag0l> *g
[20:27] <zkriesse_> We need to figure out what we wish to contribute most to and whom in the community we wish to reach
[20:28] <bilalakhtar> ^^ that WHAT is still not clear
[20:28] <MichealH> zkriesse_: We should guide youths to the ubuntu community, teaching them about irc ect.
[20:28] <serfus> we have similar goals as the Beginners team, combined we have better chances to succeed
[20:28] <zkriesse_> Now I know ya'll will be going back to school  soon so I don't expect any of us to have that much time to do so
[20:28] <shadeslayer> MichealH: and dude.. if you have a quassel core... thats the ultimate thing :P
[20:28] <MichealH> shadeslayer: Naw
[20:28] <MichealH> screen + irssi ftw
[20:29] <MichealH> Can you access Your Precious core via a ssh session?
[20:29] <zkriesse_> Heck, I'll be going to school in a matter of days (college but nevertheless it's school) :-D
[20:29] <ThomasB2k> Yes, we should focus on other people in our age group. Not really contributing directly to Ubuntu code and stuff, we should more or less just focus on spreading Ubuntu and how Linux is great to show people that there are other things in the world besides Windows.
[20:29] * MichealH goes to school Sept 7th
[20:29] <smeag0l> agreed ThomasB2k
[20:29] <bilalakhtar> zkriesse_: ok, could you please explain what is the ultimate goal of the Ubuntu Youth Project (Project, not Team)
[20:29] <ThomasB2k> 3/4s of the kids at my school didn't even know about Mac or Windows until I managed to persuade the administration to convert a computer lab to Ubuntu.
[20:29] <MichealH> agreed ThomasB2k
[20:30] <ThomasB2k> *Mac or Linux
[20:30] <bilalakhtar> well, I magaed to get 2 of my classmates to use Ubuntu and dump Windows
[20:30] <ThomasB2k> They always thought "Windows is the only thing in the world and I have to end the task of a frozen program every 5 minutes"
[20:31] <bilalakhtar> The biggest problem in getting youngsters to use Ubuntu is that they prefer Windows games
[20:31] * JoeMaverickSett have been unsuccessful at converting people! :(
[20:31] <bilalakhtar> thats something we could target in our campaign
[20:31] <smeag0l> indeed you're right ThomasB2k
[20:31] * MichealH has tried countless times to get Ubuntu spread, But I amwaiting for the ulyimate moment
[20:31] <MichealH> *ultimate
[20:31] <zkriesse_> bilalakhtar: Ok far as a Project is concerned, I feel that we should be reaching out, whether it's at school, friends house(s), parties what have you, and show that Ubuntu is out there, and while it's not perfect, neither is windows
[20:31] <bilalakhtar> So, we could showcase Ubuntu games like FlightGear and Tremulous
[20:31] <zkriesse_> But that's just my opinion...
[20:31] <ThomasB2k> Yes, we could focus on games. Honestly, a lot of children and teenagers just play browser games like Farmville. World of Warcraft would be the only thing we'd actually have to worry about :p
[20:31] <bilalakhtar> zkriesse_: yup I got it
[20:32] <kvarley> bilalakhtar Many youngsters have consoles now though. Also steam is coming to linux along with mavericks ubuntu store which will have paid games in there too
[20:32] <AndrewMC> and one thing i though is that us *as a group* can get together and maybe work on some bugs etc...
[20:32] <zkriesse_> bilalakhtar: Urban Terror is SOOO Much more kick ass than tremuouls
[20:32] <ThomasB2k> TF2 > All :p
[20:32] <ThomasB2k> But yes
[20:32] <MichealH> ThomasB2k: Farvill FTW!
[20:32] <ThomasB2k> World of Goo showed that great games can be made for Linux.
[20:32] <MichealH> *Farmvuille
[20:32] <shadeslayer> imo
[20:32] <zkriesse_> ThomasB2k: Not to mention Oblivion
[20:32] <kvarley> ThomasB2k agreed
[20:32] <shadeslayer> most companies are now shutting down PC versions of games
[20:32] <JoeMaverickSett> AndrewMC: agreed.
[20:32] <MichealH> Whole of Facebook = win
[20:33] <shadeslayer> switching to consoles they are
[20:33] <MichealH> shadeslayer: lol?
[20:33] <shadeslayer> and new HTML5 games are pretty awesome
[20:33] <ThomasB2k> Yes, and this could be a great opportunity for indie developers in Linux really
[20:33] <MichealH> shadeslayer: Agreed
[20:33] <shadeslayer> MichealH: look a the facts...
[20:33] <shadeslayer> piracy pwns everything else
[20:33] <MichealH> shadeslayer: I thought you meant TTy's, sorry
[20:33] <ThomasB2k> Games are going to the consoles or the browsers...
[20:33] <bilalakhtar> well, we could tell youngsters that Ubuntu has cool desktop effects, plays media very well, has cool games, has free software, doesn't crash that much, etc
[20:33] <shadeslayer> you cant pirate a XBox CD/DVD and play without a XBox
[20:34] <zkriesse_> Ok guys let's steer this back to the topic at hand....
[20:34] <ThomasB2k> Bilalakhtar, we can't lie. Ubuntu really doesn't play media too well. 99% of people own iPods and we're just now getting mediocre support for that. I can't play Bluray on my laptop in Ubuntu, I have to boot into windows for that
[20:34] <MichealH> shadeslayer: Take it to a PM?
[20:35] <JoeMaverickSett> i think that we should also be getting some eduction from the Ubuntu Mentors, like C/C++ sessions,[ which did not happen.]
[20:35] <bilalakhtar> ThomasB2k: ok, so that point of mine was incorrect
[20:35] <shadeslayer> i agree ^^
[20:35] <AndrewMC> +1 JoeMaverickSett
[20:35] <shadeslayer> +1 JoeMaverickSett
[20:35] <smeag0l> +1 JoeMaverickSett
[20:35] <ThomasB2k> -1
[20:35] <meetingology> -1 received from ThomasB2k
[20:35] <meetingology> -1 received from a private vote
[20:35] <ThomasB2k> Why, why focus on coding?
[20:36] <ThomasB2k> Isn't the goal to spread Ubuntu?
[20:36] <bilalakhtar> JoeMaverickSett: could you elaborate on your point? Why would we need those?
[20:36] <AndrewMC> perl and python are good to learn too
[20:36] <ThomasB2k> Do we need C/C++ coding knowledge to spread Ubuntu?
[20:36] <serfus> i think that we should focus on teaching how to use ubuntu,IRC,LP and how the community works rather then spread ubuntu as other teams already do
[20:36] <smeag0l> hm still kind of tired :P
[20:37] <zkriesse_> +1 serfus
[20:37] <AndrewMC> ThomasB2k~ No but we dont HAVE to spread ubuntu there are other places we are needed like bugs... irc... forums etc
[20:37] <MichealH> +1 JoeMaverickSett
[20:37] <JoeMaverickSett> well, getting some education is good. helpful. + you could code your own.
[20:37] <MichealH> +1010101010100101 serfus
[20:37] <AndrewMC> +1 serfus +1 JoeMaverickSett both very good idea
[20:37] <AndrewMC> s
[20:37] <JoeMaverickSett> i'm not saying C/C++ in particular, python would be more essential to Ubuntu.
[20:38] <ThomasB2k> +1 serfus now that I think about it
[20:38] <noplamodo> +1 serfus
[20:38] <bilalakhtar> in case there is need of development, I can be helpful, and I am sure lfaraone will also help
[20:38] <smeag0l> +1 serfus +1 JoeMaverickSett educating kids is very important teach em how think for them self
[20:39] <serfus> yup
[20:39] <zkriesse_> Ok so spreading Ubuntu and Teaching the basics
[20:39] <zkriesse_> Sounds like a plan
[20:39] <ThomasB2k> Wait, we're going to get the code training or the other people who we try to appeal to?
[20:39] <AndrewMC> i think JoeMaverickSett's idea is good if thats something you want to do as it may not be everyone's interest serfus's idea seems better for a whole group
[20:39] <ThomasB2k> I'm confused
[20:39] <bilalakhtar> Basics doesn't have to deal with python
[20:39] <ThomasB2k> Basics doesn't have to deal with any code language. The average person doesn't want to have to learn that stuff.
[20:39] <JoeMaverickSett> AndrewMC: i think so. i'll go with serfus as it's more group centered.
[20:40] * AndrewMC will BRB
[20:40] <JoeMaverickSett> than mine.
[20:40] <zkriesse_> Ok so,
[20:40] <ThomasB2k> The average person wants to read email, type up documents, and go on facebook to play farmville. No coding or anything. That will make people turn away from Ubuntu.
[20:40] <smeag0l> i'm agree with JoeMaverickSett
[20:40] <serfus> although, the group *can* be a place where you can find a mentor to help you with more then the basics such as python etc
[20:41] <zkriesse_> #idea Team/Team's Goal & Projects is to Spread Ubuntu and Teach the basics
[20:41] * AndrewMC is back
[20:41] <zkriesse_> #agreed
[20:41] <ThomasB2k> See, will we be learning python and stuff, or we be helping others to learn it?
[20:41] <ThomasB2k> I'm confused.
[20:41] <zkriesse_> ThomasB2k: Well when teaching I find that I learn myself
[20:41] <shadeslayer> well... those who want to learn to code should be provided with opportunities to do so
[20:41] <shadeslayer> and for that we need proper mentors
[20:41] <ThomasB2k> ahh
[20:42] <ThomasB2k> +1
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from ThomasB2k
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:42] <smeag0l> +1
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from smeag0l
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:42] <serfus> shadeslayer, +1
[20:42] <noplamodo> +1
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from noplamodo
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:42] <AndrewMC> +1
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from AndrewMC
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:42] * zkriesse_ smacks meetingology for being a silly bot
[20:42] <zkriesse_> +1
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from zkriesse_
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:42] <JoeMaverickSett> +1
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from JoeMaverickSett
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:42] <shadeslayer> so i guess we could take this up in #ubuntu-devel or such and start a small mentor program ?
[20:42] <bilalakhtar> +1
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from bilalakhtar
[20:42] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:43] <zkriesse_> shadeslayer: That will have to be ironed out
[20:43] <shadeslayer> zkriesse_: just a suggestion ;)
[20:43] <MichealH> +1
[20:43] <meetingology> +1 received from MichealH
[20:43] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:43] <ThomasB2k> I think we should keep everything in this channel. While it won't be as organized, it will be more controlled.
[20:43] <shadeslayer> because we do not have a mentoring program for ubuntu as such
[20:43] <MichealH> ThomasB2k: +1
[20:43] <bilalakhtar> Why not have an #ubuntu-youth-mentors ?
[20:43] <MichealH> It keeps it cleaner
[20:44] <zkriesse_> bilalakhtar: Because this is what this channel is mainly for..a mentorship unto the broader scope of the community
[20:44] <zkriesse_> #topic Topic 5 - Any concerns, questions, or ideas? Please, bring them up!
[20:44] <meetingology> TOPIC: Topic 5 - Any concerns, questions, or ideas? Please, bring them up!
[20:44] * MichealH seconds zkriesse_
[20:44] <ThomasB2k> micheal, are you just agreeing to everything? :p
[20:45] <zkriesse_> Ok enough MichealH
[20:45] <bilalakhtar> https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-youth-project What is this for ?
[20:45] <zkriesse_> bilalakhtar: Ah thank you
[20:45] <serfus> shadeslayer, take a look at this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuYouth/Structure there is a place for mentoring
[20:45] <shadeslayer> serfus: ok lemme see
[20:45] <zkriesse_> #link https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-youth-project
[20:45] <shadeslayer> serfus: not really.. see what i mean is directed at coding
[20:46] <zkriesse_> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuYouth/Structure
[20:46] <shadeslayer> the page you mention is for #ubuntu-youth only
[20:46] <shadeslayer> for beginners...
[20:46] <serfus> oh shadeslayer  got you
[20:46] <zkriesse_> shadeslayer: It will eventually entail our entire spectrum of mentorship
[20:47] <shadeslayer> zkriesse_: good to know :D
[20:47] <zkriesse_> But as the team is a work in progress it stands to reason that the wiki for the team is also a work in progress
[20:47] * shadeslayer can help with packaging bits
[20:47] * bilalakhtar can also help with packaging
[20:48] <zkriesse_> #action shadeslayer and bilalakhtar to help with packaging/packaging training if needed
[20:48] * meetingology shadeslayer and bilalakhtar to help with packaging/packaging training if needed
[20:48] <zkriesse_> Ok who here likes wiki?
[20:48] <shadeslayer> zkriesse_: as in look?
[20:48] * serfus does!!
[20:48] <zkriesse_> shadeslayer: As in editing it
[20:48] <zkriesse_> serfus: You like to edit wiki work?
[20:48] <shadeslayer> oh that
[20:48] <serfus> but i'm not a master *yet*
[20:48] <zkriesse_> serfus: How good are you at it...
[20:49] <shadeslayer> i just copy paste from other people :P
[20:49] <zkriesse_> serfus: Ok I'll help you learn the wiki if you wish
[20:49] <serfus> i started with this
[20:49] <shadeslayer> bilalakhtar: heh.. daily builds are scored above regular builds now i think
[20:49] <serfus> zkriesse, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuYouth/Howto/JoinTheChannel
[20:49] <zkriesse_> Just so ya'll know, I'm a HUGE wiki advert
[20:49] <shadeslayer> zkriesse_: i know :P
[20:49] <zkriesse_> so much so that I applied to be a wiki admin just so i could do more!
[20:49] <zkriesse_> wb JoeMaverickSett
[20:50] <bilalakhtar> shadeslayer: I don't think so. My daily build yesterday got built today
[20:50] <smeag0l> zkriesse, i would also like to learn the wiki but my life seams to be a lot of ups and downs
[20:50] <shadeslayer> bilalakhtar: that would be the queue... im talking about build scores, dailly builds are now scored at 2405, normal builds are scored at 2205 i think
[20:50] <bilalakhtar> ah ok shadeslayer
[20:50] <zkriesse_> #action zkriesse to team and explain the ways of the wiki to those who wish to take on that challengeful road
[20:50] * meetingology zkriesse to team and explain the ways of the wiki to those who wish to take on that challengeful road
[20:51] <shadeslayer> currently we have what... 300 packages for 32 bit waiting to be built :P
[20:51] <zkriesse_> Ok!
[20:51] <AlanBell> ah, voting is still very broken in meetingology!
[20:51] <zkriesse_> I think we had a good meeting...any other things ya'll might wanna bring up?
[20:51] <shadeslayer> zkriesse_: can you add quassel to the JoinTheChannel ?
[20:51] <zkriesse_> AlanBell: And you now show up?
[20:51] <shadeslayer> hehe
[20:51] <AndrewMC> what does the team think of about getting together and assigning packages to bugs as a collaborative effort... i think it could be a project we could start with
[20:51] <zkriesse_> shadeslayer: ask serfus..it's his page
[20:52] <shadeslayer> serfus: ^^
[20:52] <serfus> AndrewMC, i have been thinking of something like this as well, great idea imho
[20:52] <shadeslayer> AndrewMC: or we could just all go to ubuntu-bugs on their bug hug days
[20:52] <zkriesse_> shadeslayer: Agreed
[20:53] <shadeslayer> they announce bug hug days on ubuntu-devel
[20:53] <shadeslayer> every monday/thursday i think
[20:53] <zkriesse_> shadeslayer: We shall have to announce that here as well
[20:53] <shadeslayer> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20100819
[20:53] <shadeslayer> thats the latest one
[20:53] <shadeslayer> ah gone by
[20:53] <zkriesse_> lol
[20:53] <AndrewMC> shadeslayer~ well yes you could do that but it would be helpful to be able to talk amung us all if we are unsure what package goes to this particuar bug.... a team effort
[20:54] <JoeMaverickSett> i would like to learn about wiki, zkriesse_. :)
[20:54] <zkriesse_> Ok so...any ideas left?
[20:54] * AndrewMC would like to learn wiki too
[20:54] <zkriesse_> JoeMaverickSett and AndrewMC Ok I'll help ya'll out too
[20:55] <shadeslayer> AndrewMC: um.. #ubuntu-bugs has more experienced people who can guide us properly imo
[20:55] <shadeslayer> also.. its on ubuntu-bugsquad mailing list : https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugsquad : not ubuntu-devel
[20:55] <zkriesse> #action zkriesse to speak to #ubuntu-bugs about possible collaberation between the two teams
[20:55] * meetingology zkriesse to speak to #ubuntu-bugs about possible collaberation between the two teams
[20:56] <shadeslayer> my tags say ubuntu-devel :P
[20:56] <AndrewMC> +1
[20:56] <meetingology> +1 received from AndrewMC
[20:56] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:56] <zkriesse> Ok so anyone else have anything to add?
[20:56] <bilalakhtar> shadeslayer: are you member of Ubuntu BugControl?
[20:56] <shadeslayer> bilalakhtar: planning to apply after minors
[20:56] <bilalakhtar> shadeslayer: well, I am one
[20:56] <shadeslayer> oh :D
[20:56] <smeag0l> +1
[20:56] <meetingology> +1 received from smeag0l
[20:56] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[20:57] <bilalakhtar> zkriesse: I am a BugControl member and so is lfaraone . We can help in such a case
[20:57] <zkriesse> bilalakhtar: ty
[20:57] <shadeslayer> i havent done alot of triaging, but the ones ive touched, i fix them up pretty good
[20:58] <ThomasB2k> I am very sorry
[20:58] <MichealH> I have a idea
[20:58] <ThomasB2k> Unfortunately I must go
[20:58] <zkriesse> ThomasB2k: It's ok my friend...there will be logs
[20:58] <ThomasB2k> okay
[20:58] <zkriesse> MichealH: Speak now..
[20:58] <serfus> bye ThomasB2k , thanks
[20:58] <ThomasB2k> i will read them
[20:58] <ThomasB2k> bye
[20:58] <MichealH> We could have like a Ubuntu Youth Planet
[20:58] <zkriesse> ThomasB2k: Thanks for participating
[20:59] <JoeMaverickSett> see ya, ThomasB2k.
[20:59] <MichealH> Where we... The community of youths can add our streams to
[20:59] <MichealH> Good Idea?
[20:59] <bilalakhtar> MichealH: It won't help that much
[20:59] <zkriesse> MichealH: No...I'll probably make an Ubuntu Youth Blog and a twitter for ubuntu-youth but a planet? we can add the streams to the ubuntu planet
[21:00] <serfus> zkriesse, only members can
[21:00] <bilalakhtar> -1 for MichealH, sorry
[21:00] <MichealH> Yup
[21:00] <MichealH> np bilalakhtar
[21:00] <zkriesse> serfus: I know...i'm a member.. :)
[21:00] <bilalakhtar> zkriesse: BTW, how many Ubuntu Members are there in the team?
[21:00] <MichealH> bilalakhtar: Well...
[21:00] <zkriesse> bilalakhtar: Ah you me and a couple others... AlanBell and somebody else for now
[21:00] <zkriesse> Puck`: ping
[21:00] <MichealH> Theres you and zkriesse
[21:00] <MichealH> Then lfaraone
[21:01] <serfus> shadeslayer
[21:01] <serfus> jpds
[21:01] <MichealH> lhavelund
[21:01] * shadeslayer is already member ;)
[21:01] <smeag0l> afk food
[21:01] <zkriesse> If ya'll are ok with it I'll work on making us a Wordpress blog and a Twitter account for the Ubuntu Youth Team
[21:01] <serfus> shadeslayer, ya, he asked how many ubuntu members are here
[21:01] <shadeslayer> +!
[21:01] <bilalakhtar> +1
[21:01] <meetingology> +1 received from bilalakhtar
[21:01] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[21:01] <smeag0l> +1
[21:01] <meetingology> +1 received from smeag0l
[21:01] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[21:01] <shadeslayer> +1
[21:01] <meetingology> +1 received from shadeslayer
[21:01] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[21:01] <MichealH> (sorry for highlights)
[21:01] <shadeslayer> serfus: oh..i thought ubuntu-youth member :P
[21:02] <AlanBell> I would suggest a wordpress blog with multiple contributors rather than a planet
[21:02] <MichealH> See yous
[21:02] <zkriesse> shadeslayer: No...we were discussing the planet
[21:02] <zkriesse> AlanBell: As I said, wordpress blog
[21:02] <bilalakhtar> If its for a planet then -1, otherwise for a blog and twitter, its +1 from me
[21:02] <shadeslayer> wp blog + contributors seems good
[21:03] <AndrewMC> +1
[21:03] <meetingology> +1 received from AndrewMC
[21:03] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[21:03] <shadeslayer> planet would take too much time to setup imo
[21:03] <bilalakhtar> It would be a team blog, established members could blog
[21:03] <zkriesse> shadeslayer: Hence a wordpress blog
[21:03] <zkriesse> bilalakhtar: Yes!
[21:03] <shadeslayer> AlanBell: your bot seems broken ;)
[21:03] <bilalakhtar> shadeslayer: the idea of a planet has been dropped
[21:03] <zkriesse> shadeslayer: It's not broken, a work in progress it is
[21:03] <AlanBell> shadeslayer: one sec . . .
[21:03] <shadeslayer> ah :P
[21:03] <shadeslayer> AlanBell: is it a ruby bot?
[21:03] <zkriesse> Ok so,
[21:03] <AlanBell> python
[21:03] <shadeslayer> oic
[21:03] <AlanBell> supybot plugin
[21:03] <shadeslayer> right...
[21:04] <AlanBell> +1
[21:04] <meetingology> +1 received from AlanBell
[21:04] <meetingology> +1 received from a private vote
[21:04] <zkriesse> #action zkriesse to establish a Ubuntu Youth Wordpress blog and Twitter account
[21:04] * meetingology zkriesse to establish a Ubuntu Youth Wordpress blog and Twitter account
[21:04] * bilalakhtar is now off
[21:04] <AlanBell> hmm, will fix that in a sec
[21:04] <bilalakhtar> sorry
[21:04] <shadeslayer> bilalakhtar: bye :)
[21:04] <zkriesse> goodbye bilalakhtar ~
[21:04] <bilalakhtar> bye everyone! I will read the logs later
[21:04] <zkriesse> bilalakhtar: Thanks for showing
[21:04] <zkriesse> Argh, he's gone
[21:05] <zkriesse> Ok that's pretty much a wrap!
[21:05] <zkriesse> Thanks everybody for showing and giving your awesome ideas!
[21:05] <serfus> i have to say it was a much better meeting then the last one :)
[21:05] <zkriesse> serfus: Definitely agreed my man
[21:06] <zkriesse> Anyone have anything to add before I end the meeting?
[21:06] * Kaia can't judge on previous meeting, she wasn't there
[21:06] <serfus> naughty Kaia
[21:06] <zkriesse> Kaia: You were...you just didn't "attend" perce
[21:06] <shadeslayer> hehe
[21:06] <zkriesse> Ok!
[21:06] <zkriesse> #endmeeting
</pre>
----
CategoryUbuntuYouth
