{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Studio Maverick Meerkat 10.10 ===

Ubuntu Studio is a multimedia editing/creation flavor of Ubuntu, built for the
GNU/Linux audio, video, and graphics enthusiast or professional.

The Ubuntu Studio team is very excited over its eighth release: Maverick Meerkat 10.10,
available as a 1.7GB DVD iso image from http://ubuntustudio.org/downloads/
Numerous improvements have been implemented for this release, but here are some
of the more notable.

Upgraded Applications:

__Audio__
* Aeolus 0.8.4 from 0.8.2
* Ardour 2.8.11 from 2.8.6(also note that the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntustudio/+bug/581786|Ardour mute bug was also addressed]]</nowiki>
* Audacity 1.3.12 from 1.3.11
* Echomixer (alsa-tools-gui) 1.0.23 from 1.0.22
* envy24controls (alsa-tools-gui) 1.0.23 from 1.0.22
* HDSPConf (alsa-tools-gui) 1.0.23 from 1.0.22
* HDSPMixer (alsa-tools-gui) 1.0.23 from 1.0.22
* Hexter 0.6.2 from 0.6.1
* JACK 1.9.5 from 0.118 (hopefully giving good integration with Pulse Audio via dbus)
* JACK control (qjackctl) 0.3.6 from 0.3.4
* JAMin 0.97.14 from 0.95.0
* Mixxx 1.8.0.1 from 1.7.2
* MuseScore 0.9.6.3 from 0.9.6
* Patchage 0.4.4 from 0.2.3
* Puredata 0.42.6 from 0.42.5
* Qsynth 0.3.5 from 0.3.4
* Rakarrak 0.5.8 from 0.3.0
* RMEdigicontrol (alsa-tools-gui) 1.0.23 from 1.0.22
* Sound Recorder (gnome-media) 2.31.6 from 2.29.91

__Graphics__
* F-Spot 0.8.0 from 0.6.1.5
* GIMP 2.6.10 from 2.6.8
* Hugin 2010.0.0 from 2009.2.0
* Inkscape 0.48.0 from 0.47.0
* XSane Image 0.997 from 0.996

__Video__
* xjadeo 0.4.13 from 0.4.7

__/etc/security/limits.conf  (cont.)__

Beginning with the Ubuntu package jack-audio-connection-kit-0.118+svn3796-1ubuntu2 editing of /etc/security/limits.conf should not be required.  JACK will write the following during post-installation to /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf

@audio - rtprio 99 <<BR>>
@audio - memlock unlimited <<BR>>

Please note that creating or modifying /etc/security/limits.conf may cause conflicts with the JACK written /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf settings.

Email from Linux Audio Users mailing list:  http://linuxaudio.org/mailarchive/lau/2010/3/5/166428
Debian Bug #507248:  http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=507248

'''Also note that the user __SHOULD__ be in the @audio group for "real-time" permission'''

__LV2 Support and Plugins__
* zynjacku
* lv2rack
* zyn

__Kernels__
* Amd64
** -generic kernel
* I386
** -generic kernel
   
Further general Ubuntu Maverick release notes can be read here: 
http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1010

Hopefully you find this release to be our best yet, and we encourage any 
feedback you might have.  We also encourage users of all expertise levels to
join the Ubuntu Studio community in both documenting this release, and working
towards our next release.

We hope you enjoy it!
