{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an either and issue or idea for the team, please add it to the agenda below.
# Besides voting on new members, there will usually be no voting held at these meetings. The Ubuntu Youth Council will review all discussions and ideas from the meeting and will vote on them once they have held such a discussion.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki>
| Start of meeting, and such
|-
| <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki>
| Welcoming message
|-
| Who
| Topic 1 - New Members
|-
| Who
| Topic 2 - Mentor-ship for new members?
|-
| Who
| Topic 3 - Progress of assigned/to be assigned projects
|-
| Who
| Topic 4 - WE HAVE A FORUM!!!!
|-
| <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki>
| Topic 5 - Any concerns, questions, or ideas? Please, bring them up!
|}

=== Fixed Agenda Items ===
* '''Request A Status Update From Current Mentors.'''
* '''Review List Of Prospective Members In Need Of Mentor.'''
* '''Vote On Any People That Have Been Nominated For Membership'''

==== Post-Meeting Tasks ====
* '''Keep <nowiki>[[UbuntuYouth-TeamReports]]</nowiki> updated.'''
* '''Update Next meeting time on the wiki'''
* '''Send meeting minutes to <nowiki>[[mailto:ubuntu-youth@lists.launchpad.net|ubuntu-youth mailing list]]</nowiki>'''

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:59:16 <zkriesse> #startmeeting

16:59:16 <meetingology> Meeting started Sat Sep 11 16:59:16 2010 UTC.  The chair is zkriesse. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

16:59:16 <meetingology> updated

16:59:16 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.

16:59:16 <meetingology> updated
 
16:59:17 <AndrewMC> 1

16:59:39 <BasicXP> almost :)

16:59:43 <BasicXP> :59:16  :)

17:00:00 <AndrewMC> BasicXP: you couldve had lag on your end

17:00:07 <zkriesse> #voters AndrewMC ascenseur bachstudies czajkowski Ddorda highvoltage jpds lfaraone lhavelund nisshh noplamodo popey Puck` ryanakca shadeslayer JoeMaverickSett pedro3005 Kaia

17:00:07 <meetingology> Current voters: AndrewMC Ddorda JoeMaverickSett Kaia Puck` ascenseur bachstudies czajkowski highvoltage jpds lfaraone lhavelund nisshh noplamodo pedro3005 popey ryanakca shadeslayer

17:00:18 <zkriesse> Ok so, welcome to the meeting

17:00:21 <popey> O RLY?

17:00:22 <zkriesse> Thanks all for coming

17:00:22 <BasicXP> AndrewMC: nope

17:00:27 <BasicXP> zkriesse: Thank you!

17:00:28 <shadeslayer> ssup :D

17:00:34 <noplamodo> \o

17:00:38 <zkriesse> Can I uh get a sound off so I know who's here?

17:00:39 <nisshh> :)

17:00:45 * lfaraone is semi-here.

17:00:49 <AndrewMC> me

17:00:52 <skfin> Geez

17:00:54 * noplamodo is lurking at the meeting

17:00:54 <nisshh> here

17:00:58 <zkriesse> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuYouth/Meetings

17:01:00 * BasicXP is here, but may suddenly disappear for no reason

17:01:04 * JoeMaverickSett is here.

17:01:09 <shadeslayer> if you hadnt highlighted me there ^ i would have forgotten :P

17:01:09 <zkriesse> Our agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuYouth/Meetings

17:01:14 <shadeslayer> was watching House MD

17:01:39 <zkriesse> Ok so, first topic

17:01:46 <zkriesse> #topic New Members!!!

17:01:46 <meetingology> TOPIC: New Members!!!

17:02:18 <zkriesse> Since our last meeting we've gained a few members, I believe you know who you are.... nisshh JoeMaverickSett and popey I believe

17:02:18 <shadeslayer> none i guess :D

17:02:22 <shadeslayer> oh

17:02:35 <nisshh> lol, FAIL shadeslayer :)

17:02:38 <AndrewMC> and BasicXP has started coming into the channel :)

17:02:48 <BasicXP> AndrewMC: yup :)

17:02:50 * shadeslayer hasnt had a proper look at the channel then

17:02:55 <zkriesse> Why don't those who've just joined us give a little intro about yourself

17:03:02 <shadeslayer> ^ low caffeine causes that

17:03:06 <zkriesse> starting with you BasicXP

17:03:19 <skfin> zkriesse: Have I joined officially?

17:03:37 <BasicXP> okay. My name is Roman, on the net i'm known as BasicXP. Currently an Ubuntu Member, main contribution - translations.

17:03:42 <zkriesse> skfin: Ah yes I'm sorry I forgot you did...yes you have

17:03:49 <skfin> Yeah, no problem

17:03:59 <BasicXP> In summer started an "Ubuntu Videoguide" project in Russian

17:04:05 <zkriesse> BasicXP: Very cool!

17:04:08 <BasicXP> And yes, I'm from Russia (Moscow)

17:04:10 <nisshh> nice

17:04:13 <zkriesse> BasicXP: wiki page?

17:04:15 <BasicXP> zkriesse: thanks! :)

17:04:22 <BasicXP> zkriesse: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicXP

17:04:23 <JoeMaverickSett> BasicXP: nice.

17:04:36 <zkriesse> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicXP

17:04:36 <BasicXP> JoeMaverickSett: thx

17:04:49 <zkriesse> skfin: why don't you go next

17:05:23 <shadeslayer> BasicXP: awesome site ( ubuntu.ru )

17:05:32 <skfin> My name is Sasu Karttunen, I'm known as skfin(wiki page is named as skfin as well). I support people when I can, I code my own stuff with python and pyqt, I do some translation fixes too

17:05:39 <BasicXP> shadeslayer: yes it is (i didn't make it though :) )

17:06:03 <zkriesse> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/skfin

17:06:03 <shadeslayer> skfin: we do need more coders to teach :D

17:06:30 <JoeMaverickSett> yup, the more the merrier! :)

17:06:30 <zkriesse> skfin: Thank you Sasu

17:06:35 <skfin> I also can do a bit with C++ and Qt...

17:06:40 <zkriesse> skfin: very nice

17:06:44 <skfin> Thanks

17:06:50 <shadeslayer> ^ im starting out with Qt myself :)

17:06:59 <zkriesse> nisshh: ? Anything to say?

17:07:00 <BasicXP> i sadly only know how to make software on vb.net :)

17:07:04 <nisshh> sure

17:07:30 <shadeslayer> BasicXP: shouldnt be a problem, we shall convert you to qtcreator and other IDE's :D

17:07:54 <nisshh> my name is Ryan Macnish, i am an Ubuntu Member (recently) and have contributed to many, many projects, including the Ubuntu Manual and Quickly.

17:07:55 <BasicXP> shadeslayer: i thought of learning mono and glade actually

17:07:59 <BasicXP> but have no time really

17:08:03 <shadeslayer> :D

17:08:05 <skfin> zkriesse: Just for note, you didn't add me to voters...but no problem if we don't vote about anything

17:08:05 <BasicXP> only summer is free

17:08:17 <nisshh> im also a bug triager, a python and C programmer, and a geek

17:08:37 <shadeslayer> nisshh: where are you from?

17:08:47 <nisshh> shadeslayer: oh yea, Australia

17:08:48 <shadeslayer> and Wiki page

17:09:33 <nisshh> zkriesse: next person :)

17:10:27 <nisshh> my wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RyanMacnish

17:10:31 <zkriesse> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RyanMacnish

17:10:38 <zkriesse> Ok welcome new members!

17:10:45 <popey> o/

17:10:57 <nisshh> lol, forgot popey :)

17:11:03 <shadeslayer> :P

17:11:07 <zkriesse> Oh doth thou wish to "introduce" yourself?

17:11:12 <popey> Hello, I'm Alan Pope (popey) I have been using Ubuntu since 4.10, and quite like it. You can find out all about me on my wiki and launchpad pages http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanPope http://launchpad.net/~popey

17:11:28 <zkriesse> popey: You need no introduction...you're too awesome for that

17:11:31 <zkriesse> :)

17:11:34 <shadeslayer> wow.. someone who is using ubuntu from warthog :D

17:11:34 <popey> hah, thanks

17:11:39 <shadeslayer> yeah ^

17:11:41 <nisshh> im popey's #1 fan!

17:11:48 * popey hugs nisshh

17:11:56 * nisshh hugs back

17:12:00 <popey> cheque is in the post

17:12:10 <nisshh> hehe

17:12:13 <shadeslayer> hehe

17:12:19 <zkriesse> lol

17:12:30 <zkriesse> Ok our next order of business

17:12:59 <zkriesse> #topic Mentorship for new members???

17:12:59 <meetingology> TOPIC: Mentorship for new members???

17:13:33 <zkriesse> I've decided to bring this up because we've not implemented a mentorship "program" as of yet due to a low influx of new members

17:13:53 <zkriesse> And those that are coming in are already experienced in one if not several areas

17:14:07 <zkriesse> So kinda wanna here your guys'es thoughs on this

17:14:19 <shadeslayer> im all up for it

17:14:30 <zkriesse> shadeslayer: In what way? How should we implement it?

17:14:35 <shadeslayer> also.. i might be able to grab people from #kubuntu-devel

17:14:50 <shadeslayer> zkriesse: ok so basically there are 3 aspects

17:14:53 <shadeslayer> 1) Coding

17:14:57 <nisshh> zkriesse: what about something similar to the bugsquad program?

17:14:58 <shadeslayer> 2) Packaging

17:15:05 <shadeslayer> 3) Bug triaging

17:15:12 <zkriesse> shadeslayer: That's all about bugs though

17:15:33 <shadeslayer> zkriesse: what else are we looking at?

17:15:50 <shadeslayer> like .. are we looking at app development? ( then the above 3 work )

17:15:55 <zkriesse> I'm refering to one in a much broader aspect..one that (hopefully) will include not only those but wiki tutorials, IRC basics, and maybe even launchpad

17:16:27 <shadeslayer> oh.. hmm

17:16:43 <shadeslayer> zkriesse: your the champ in the wiki area

17:16:50 <zkriesse> Hence that's where I wish to here your thoughts....what should we implement and why

17:16:58 <zkriesse> I know that most people get really into bugs...

17:17:09 <zkriesse> I'm a rare exception in that I actually like wiki

17:17:15 <zkriesse> Most dont in my experience

17:17:23 <shadeslayer> :D

17:17:38 <nisshh> iv done a bit of everything

17:17:51 <AndrewMC> i know alot about IRC

17:17:59 <skfin> Me too :)

17:18:01 <zkriesse> AndrewMC: Yeah....you do.....lol

17:18:10 <skfin> IRC is my thing I think

17:18:11 <AndrewMC> lol

17:19:00 <zkriesse> Ok so skfin and AndrewMC, would you guys be willing to maybe come up with an IRC Basics doc/presentation and then email it to me? Something that I could say, put up on the wiki?

17:19:10 <zkriesse> Or even you guys could plan a session on it

17:19:29 <skfin> zkriesse: Sure

17:19:36 <AndrewMC> ya i think i can do that

17:19:45 <JoeMaverickSett> hear hear! that would be good.

17:19:48 <skfin> I think that tutorials to different clients would be ok too

17:19:53 <zkriesse> I know AndrewMC is quite busy with school so don't worry about getting it done like tomorrow

17:19:57 <zkriesse> skfin: Very good idea!

17:20:09 * AndrewMC sighs in relief

17:20:09 <skfin> xchat, and quassel at least

17:20:14 <nisshh> skfin: we need one for irssi :)

17:20:16 <zkriesse> #action AndrewMC and skfin to start working on an IRC Basics Tutorial

17:20:16 * meetingology AndrewMC and skfin to start working on an IRC Basics Tutorial

17:20:39 <skfin> nisshh: I think if someone wants to use irssi, he will read the manpages :P

17:20:47 <shadeslayer> skfin: true :P

17:20:49 <zkriesse> AndrewMC: and skfin thanks for that...as I said if you get it done whenever that's ok...There's no required time for it....

17:20:53 <nisshh> yea

17:21:11 <skfin> zkriesse: Yeah, I have lots of free time so time is not problem for me

17:21:40 <AndrewMC> skfin: ya i will help when i can i just have alot going on with school

17:21:49 <zkriesse> skfin: and AndrewMC many thanks guys!

17:22:14 <zkriesse> Ok so packaging and a bugs basic tutorial...i know bilal wanted to do something but Ive not heard from him

17:22:19 <zkriesse> Who'd like to take over that project?

17:22:35 <skfin> AndrewMC: Sure, school is the main priority for all, at least it should be

17:22:59 <nisshh> zkriesse: i could but bilal know a lot more than me about busg and packaging :)

17:23:08 <AndrewMC> skfin: ya i am doing Omnibus (means: big study ) so....ya

17:23:21 <skfin> Yeah.

17:23:32 <shadeslayer> i can help with any kde* packages/ packaging bugs

17:23:39 <nisshh> zkriesse: i have far more experience with Python and documentation

17:23:56 <shadeslayer> so where ever you think i fit, put my name there:D

17:24:01 <zkriesse> nisshh: Ok do you want to help me with wiki then?

17:24:14 <nisshh> zkriesse: yea, sounds good

17:24:22 <zkriesse> I've the need of a VERY proficient wiki editor...someone who could make a page in like, an hour

17:24:44 <nisshh> im not that good, but yea, i can do wiki stuff

17:24:49 <zkriesse> nisshh: Cool

17:25:03 <zkriesse> #action zkriesse and nisshh to collaborate on a wiki "something"

17:25:03 * meetingology zkriesse and nisshh to collaborate on a wiki "something"

17:25:31 <zkriesse> shadeslayer: Think you could maybe start a packaging tutorial doc? Something really basic?

17:25:56 <shadeslayer> thats already on the wiki, but sure ill need help in improving the docs

17:26:08 <zkriesse> shadeslayer: ok thanks@

17:26:26 <shadeslayer> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide <<

17:26:35 <zkriesse> #action shadeslayer to improve a packaging doc

17:26:35 * meetingology shadeslayer to improve a packaging doc

17:26:41 <zkriesse> shadeslayer: thanks!

17:26:51 <zkriesse> Anyone else wish to volunteer some time?

17:27:07 <nisshh> popey: ^^^

17:27:12 <BasicXP> zkriesse: maybe me, but I have no idea what to do :)

17:27:22 <zkriesse> BasicXP: What are you proficient in?

17:27:28 <zkriesse> BasicXP: Translations?

17:27:35 <BasicXP> i guess so

17:27:49 <zkriesse> BasicXP: Ok we'll talk after the meeting if that's cool

17:27:51 <BasicXP> although i still didn't figure out how to work with gnome/kde upstream

17:27:55 <BasicXP> zkriesse: okay

17:28:18 <zkriesse> Ok so that pretty much covers the projects and mentorship topics

17:28:24 <zkriesse> Unless anyone has anything else to add?

17:28:28 <zkriesse> I'm all ears!

17:28:51 <nisshh> tried to get popey's attention but he is off in lala land :)\

17:28:55 <zkriesse> lol

17:28:56 <skfin> zkriesse: I think that some video tutorials on irc would be cool. I mean, if we have time to do them after real irc basics doc...

17:28:58 <popey> hah

17:29:06 <popey> nah, just didn't know what you specifically were asking me nisshh

17:29:06 <nisshh> oh, there he is! :)

17:29:10 <BasicXP> i can do some screencasts too

17:29:11 <popey> (didnt want to interrupt)

17:29:18 <nisshh> ah ok

17:29:20 <popey> \o/ screencasts

17:29:28 <zkriesse> popey: Please, if you've anything to say say!

17:29:46 <popey> on the subject of a packaging guide?

17:29:54 <zkriesse> popey: Anything man!

17:29:56 <popey> hah

17:30:04 <skfin> Yeah, people likes more to watch screecasts than reading documentation

17:30:05 <popey> well, there's a lot of stuff on the wiki about packaging

17:30:14 <popey> and its quite hard to digest for many people

17:30:19 <popey> so simpler guides might be nice..

17:30:20 <popey> ..but..

17:30:33 <popey> there are some fairly strict rules about packaging, which needs to be conveyed

17:30:40 <popey> which makes it had to make it an easy guide

17:30:59 <popey> if it's broken down into a billion steps and made easy to follow, it could well be a very useful tutorial / guide

17:31:13 <popey> <EOF>

17:31:19 <zkriesse> popey: Do you wish to help with that then?

17:31:35 <popey> i dont have the time to contribute but could certainly review / test

17:31:42 <zkriesse> popey: Ok thanks

17:32:16 <zkriesse> Now that we've come up with some ideas shall we vote on them?

17:32:26 <zkriesse> #voters AndrewMC ascenseur bachstudies czajkowski Ddorda highvoltage jpds lfaraone lhavelund nisshh noplamodo popey Puck` ryanakca shadeslayer JoeMaverickSett pedro3005 Kaia skfin

17:32:26 <meetingology> Current voters: AndrewMC Ddorda JoeMaverickSett Kaia Puck` ascenseur bachstudies czajkowski highvoltage jpds lfaraone lhavelund nisshh noplamodo pedro3005 popey ryanakca shadeslayer skfin

17:32:33 <zkriesse> #vote Shall we vote?

17:32:33 <meetingology> Please vote on: Shall we vote?

17:32:33 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

17:32:39 <noplamodo> +1

17:32:39 <meetingology> +1 received from noplamodo

17:32:43 <zkriesse> +1

17:32:43 <BasicXP> +1

17:32:46 <AndrewMC> +1

17:32:46 <meetingology> +1 received from AndrewMC

17:32:47 <nisshh> +1

17:32:47 <meetingology> +1 received from nisshh

17:32:51 <BasicXP> d'oh!

17:32:51 <JoeMaverickSett> +1

17:32:51 <meetingology> +1 received from JoeMaverickSett

17:32:55 <shadeslayer> +1

17:32:55 <meetingology> +1 received from shadeslayer

17:32:55 <popey> +0 :) If people want to, go ahead :)

17:33:01 <skfin> +1

17:33:01 <meetingology> +1 received from skfin

17:33:33 <zkriesse> #endvote

17:33:33 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Shall we vote?

17:33:33 <meetingology> Votes for:6 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

17:33:33 <meetingology> Motion carried

17:34:00 <shadeslayer> popey: your vote wasnt added :(

17:34:07 <zkriesse> #voters AndrewMC ascenseur bachstudies czajkowski Ddorda highvoltage jpds lfaraone lhavelund nisshh noplamodo popey Puck` ryanakca shadeslayer JoeMaverickSett pedro3005 Kaia skfin BasicXP

17:34:07 <meetingology> Current voters: AndrewMC BasicXP Ddorda JoeMaverickSett Kaia Puck` ascenseur bachstudies czajkowski highvoltage jpds lfaraone lhavelund nisshh noplamodo pedro3005 popey ryanakca shadeslayer skfin

17:34:17 <zkriesse> shadeslayer: popey did +0

17:34:18 <popey> file a bug in meetingology :)

17:34:32 <shadeslayer> zkriesse: hehe.. but it shows Abstentions : 0

17:34:38 <popey> zkriesse: yeah, it wasn't counted as an abstent... what shadeslayer said

17:34:43 <popey> bug AlanBell :)

17:34:46 <zkriesse> #vote Mentorship process, shall we implement!?

17:34:46 <meetingology> Please vote on: Mentorship process, shall we implement!?

17:34:46 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

17:34:55 <zkriesse> OH I'll bug him

17:34:59 <zkriesse> +1

17:35:01 <nisshh> +1

17:35:01 <meetingology> +1 received from nisshh

17:35:08 <BasicXP> +0

17:35:11 <skfin> +0

17:35:15 <BasicXP> didn't work for me either

17:35:17 <BasicXP> -0

17:35:18 <shadeslayer> +1 from me too...

17:35:19 <zkriesse> #voters zkriesse

17:35:19 <meetingology> Current voters: AndrewMC BasicXP Ddorda JoeMaverickSett Kaia Puck` ascenseur bachstudies czajkowski highvoltage jpds lfaraone lhavelund nisshh noplamodo pedro3005 popey ryanakca shadeslayer skfin zkriesse

17:35:25 <BasicXP> and that either

17:35:25 <zkriesse> +1

17:35:25 <meetingology> +1 received from zkriesse

17:35:27 <noplamodo> +1

17:35:27 <meetingology> +1 received from noplamodo

17:35:30 <nisshh> hehe

17:35:32 <AndrewMC> +1

17:35:32 <meetingology> +1 received from AndrewMC

17:35:34 <BasicXP> 0

17:35:34 <meetingology> 0 received from BasicXP

17:35:36 <shadeslayer> +1

17:35:36 <meetingology> +1 received from shadeslayer

17:35:37 <BasicXP> oh there

17:35:40 <BasicXP> hehe

17:35:40 <zkriesse> #voters BasicXP

17:35:40 <meetingology> Current voters: AndrewMC BasicXP Ddorda JoeMaverickSett Kaia Puck` ascenseur bachstudies czajkowski highvoltage jpds lfaraone lhavelund nisshh noplamodo pedro3005 popey ryanakca shadeslayer skfin zkriesse

17:35:45 <czajkowski> -1

17:35:45 <meetingology> -1 received from czajkowski

17:35:58 <JoeMaverickSett> +1

17:35:58 <meetingology> +1 received from JoeMaverickSett

17:36:04 <BasicXP> i just don't get what mentorship is, that's why zero

17:36:04 <shadeslayer> +1

17:36:04 <meetingology> +1 received from shadeslayer

17:36:49 <zkriesse> anyone else wish to vote?

17:37:05 <zkriesse> #endvote

17:37:05 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Mentorship process, shall we implement!?

17:37:05 <meetingology> Votes for:6 Votes against:1 Abstentions:1

17:37:05 <meetingology> Motion carried

17:37:19 <skfin> It seems that the bot counted two votes form shadeslayer

17:37:30 <zkriesse> Ok our next order of business

17:37:38 <zkriesse> #Topic WE HAVE A FORUM!!!!!!!!

17:37:38 <meetingology> TOPIC: WE HAVE A FORUM!!!!!!!!

17:37:43 <shadeslayer> :D

17:37:46 <BasicXP> :)

17:37:50 <AndrewMC> uy-forums.net

17:37:51 <zkriesse> We have a forum now....!

17:37:57 <shadeslayer> aye :D

17:37:58 <AndrewMC> head on over and sign up

17:38:01 <zkriesse> #link http://www.uy-forums.net

17:38:15 <JoeMaverickSett> signed up already... :D

17:38:25 <AndrewMC> then get a postin!

17:38:30 <nisshh> same, already signed up

17:38:36 <nisshh> heh

17:38:38 <BasicXP> better add some languages to the forum

17:38:44 <BasicXP> like russian for example

17:38:50 <zkriesse> If and when ya'll sign up please start posting that way the mods can move you from the moderation que

17:39:17 <shadeslayer> yeah :D

17:39:18 <BasicXP> although i have no problems of understanding english, others might

17:39:25 <zkriesse> BasicXP: agreed

17:39:28 <zkriesse> welcome kvarley

17:39:33 <AndrewMC> BasicXP: we will work on that

17:39:57 <BasicXP> AndrewMC: if there is any need to help translating - contact me

17:40:07 <zkriesse> BasicXP: We will indeed

17:40:07 <AndrewMC> BasicXP: ok thanks

17:40:11 <zkriesse> BasicXP: You can count on it

17:40:15 <shadeslayer> zkriesse: will i get a mail saying that a new post was created?

17:40:16 <BasicXP> okay

17:40:30 <zkriesse> shadeslayer: IF you subscribe to the thread yes

17:40:36 <shadeslayer> oh

17:40:37 <BasicXP> and the design... i saw the ubuntu one only after registering

17:40:49 <zkriesse> shadeslayer: But it's not an automatic function

17:40:54 <BasicXP> i see that's phpbb and default theme can be easily changed

17:40:56 <zkriesse> BasicXP: Yes we're working on that as well

17:41:12 <BasicXP> that's just a parameter somewhere around in the admin panel

17:41:21 <zkriesse> BasicXP: I've got to go in the ACP and fix it

17:41:27 <BasicXP> umhum

17:41:54 <zkriesse> Ok our last topic, by AndrewMC

17:41:58 <zkriesse> #Chair AndrewMC

17:41:58 <meetingology> Current chairs: AndrewMC zkriesse

17:42:03 <BasicXP> and i think the style should be upgraded a bit

17:42:09 <BasicXP> i can try to do that as well

17:42:11 <AndrewMC> ok

17:42:12 <AndrewMC> Hey everyone. As we all know freenode has quite a bit of clone and bot attacks. To help and prevent this from ever happening in UY's channel i highly suggest that all of you set enforce on with NickServ as it will set a 30 second time limit on identifying and if the time limit has been exceeded with no identifying your nick is changed it is done via /ns set enforce on

17:42:23 <zkriesse> AndrewMC: add your topic dude!

17:42:36 <zkriesse> #topic Freenode/Nickserv registration

17:42:36 <meetingology> TOPIC: Freenode/Nickserv registration

17:42:41 <shadeslayer> AndrewMC: already have that :)

17:43:01 <AndrewMC> zkriesse: not registraition.... enforce

17:43:26 <AndrewMC> if your client can auto idenitfy you will see no change

17:43:34 <BasicXP> zkriesse: contact me please after the meeting, wanna talk bout the forum

17:43:47 <AndrewMC> only if someone tries to imperonate you they will not be able too

17:44:53 <nisshh> i thought it was impossible if your nick was registered?

17:45:15 <zkriesse> nisshh: if you don't have enforce set on then it's possible

17:45:18 <shadeslayer> nisshh: no..

17:45:23 <nisshh> ah ok

17:45:23 <skfin> nisshh: You should enforce auth for your nick too

17:45:24 <shadeslayer> you can still /nick foo

17:45:29 <nisshh> right

17:45:32 <shadeslayer> when foo is registered

17:45:50 <skfin> And its done by /msg NickServ set enforce on

17:45:52 <shadeslayer> ns will ask for the password, but wont change your nick

17:45:55 <nisshh> so if i set enforce, i can still auto identify with freenode?

17:46:00 <shadeslayer> nisshh: yes

17:46:04 <nisshh> ok

17:46:31 <skfin> nisshh: It just makes your nick impossible to use withouth authenticating.

17:46:37 <skfin> In 30s

17:46:59 <nisshh> yep

17:48:12 <skfin> We should implement this to irc basics doc too :P

17:48:27 <nisshh> yea

17:48:52 <zkriesse> OK so final topic of

17:48:56 <nisshh> ok, i put enforce on

17:49:17 <zkriesse> #Topic Any concerns, questions, or ideas? Please, share with the rest of the class!

17:49:17 <meetingology> TOPIC: Any concerns, questions, or ideas? Please, share with the rest of the class!

17:49:54 <BasicXP> forum improvement

17:50:09 <BasicXP> i would like to do that

17:50:11 <AndrewMC> BasicXP: what do you mean

17:50:20 <BasicXP> wait a sec please

17:50:28 <skfin> What kind of IRC doc we should actually write? Ubuntu wiki has some already and we shouldn't just rewrite them

17:50:41 <AndrewMC> i aggree skfin

17:50:54 <zkriesse> skfin: One that includes like, proper etiquette

17:51:04 <skfin> And freenode stuff, ok

17:51:11 <zkriesse> Unless you wish to improve what is already there

17:51:16 <skfin> Screencasts would be cool as I said

17:51:19 <nisshh> and specific irc client stuff

17:51:40 * BasicXP is back

17:51:42 <zkriesse> yes

17:51:46 <popey> the screencasts team could do with help!

17:52:03 <BasicXP> AndrewMC: forum design (has to be upgraded), languages (have to be installed) etc.

17:52:13 <nisshh> popey: i might be able to make some once i get my new computer next month

17:52:14 <AndrewMC> BasicXP: why design upgrade?

17:52:22 <skfin> nisshh: There are already: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat#IRC%20Clients'

17:52:25 <BasicXP> cuz that's the old font, old logo

17:52:31 <skfin> Remove ' from end

17:52:36 <AndrewMC> BasicXP: we are only about 3 weeks old

17:52:39 <AndrewMC> we are working on it

17:52:42 <nisshh> skfin: i mean docs that cover MORE clients

17:52:44 <BasicXP> oh okay

17:52:54 <skfin> nisshh: Ok...

17:52:55 <zkriesse> BasicXP: Yeah we're still working/improving it

17:52:56 <AndrewMC> no the team but forums

17:53:18 <nisshh> skfin: there are newer ones like weechat and stuff that arent covered

17:53:31 <zkriesse> OK!

17:53:38 <zkriesse> I think that about covers our meeting....

17:53:45 <nisshh> hehe

17:54:16 <zkriesse> Thanks all for the volunteering for projects, ideas, showing up, and just being awesome!

17:54:31 * zkriesse starts a team highfive

17:54:42 <nisshh> *highfive*

17:54:46 * JoeMaverickSett high5

17:54:49 <skfin> *highfive*

17:54:51 * AndrewMC high5

17:55:10 <nisshh> zkriesse: this could become a tradition for this channel

17:55:10 <zkriesse> Thanks all!

17:55:15 <nisshh> :)

17:55:15 <zkriesse> nisshh: it could indeed

17:55:18 * BasicXP highfives

17:55:20 <zkriesse> #endmeeting
</pre>
----
CategoryUbuntuYouth
