{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== GetOffFreenodeSpec ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by MartinPool
* Priority: MediumPriority
* People: MartinPoolLead, DanielStoneSecond
* Contributors: MartinPool, JamesTroup
* Interested:
* Status: DraftSpec, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification, MartinPoolQueue, DanielStoneQueue
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Canonical/Ubuntu IRC should be hosted elsewhere than on Freenode.

=== Rationale ===

Freenode is technically and politically erratic.  Canonical IRC contains privileged information which should not be going across cleartext to a public network we do not control.k

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

Two use cases:

* Private conversations between Canonical employees/contractors/partners.

* Public support for Ubuntu and other open projects.

=== Implementation Plan ===

Two possibilities:

 1. Establish and maintain irc.canonical.com.

 1. Switch to some other network for public channels..

We should have irc.canonical.com for private channels such as #canonical, #canonical-meeting, #launchpad-dev, #launchpad-meeting, et al.  This server (running hybrid or bahamut) should only accept SSL or SSH connections.

We should move #ubuntu, #ubuntu-devel, #bazaar, #launchpad and other public channels to OFTC, which is far less erratic than Freenode.  Their infrastructure (both human and not) is rather reliable.

The only downside to moving is that most everyone's on Freenode, and getting them to move can be a pain.  C'est la vie.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

Loud, obnoxious messages in channel topics telling everyone to move, although Freenode don't put up with that for too long before they get all annoyed and reclaim the channel.

==== Packages Affected ====

* ircd-hybrid

==== User Interface Requirements ====

Preferably 100% less Freenode staff interfacing with the staff channel.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

We're on Freenode.

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
