{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== BazaarLaunchpadClient ==

=== Status ===

* Created: 2005-04-27 by MatthewPaulThomas
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: AndrewBennettsLead, RobWeirSecond
* Contributors: none yet
* Interested:
* Status: BrainDump, UduBof, LaunchpadSpecification, NewSpec
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: none yet

=== Introduction ===

Because Launchpad will contain a large database of branches (''see'' MaloneBazaarIntegration), Bazaar can interrogate it to get information that helps with development.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use cases ===

Bazaar needs to be able to tell Launchpad:
* this branch fixes bug ''x'' in site ''y''
* give me a branch that fixes bug ''p'' in site ''q''
* ...

Also:
* show me branches launchpad knows about GnomeBaker.
* show unmerged bug fixes branches for GnomeBaker.
* show me new translation branches
* Alice has made a branch with new translations for GnomeBaker.  She wants to tell Launchpad to merge these into Ubuntu's package without using the web site.
* this branch is for the GnomeBaker product
* this branch is owned by me
* show me new branches owned by Andrew 

=== Interface design ===

Rough sketch of UI:

 file in arch branch 'branch.rdf' for example.

 arch to not merge changes to this file.

 baz search-branches
  --project
  --product
  --bugfix 

 baz describe
** push or pull RDF to or from LP.  RDF would describe Product.
** some information that could be in the RDF: fixes bug: http://...
** RDF describes owners.  XXX: see BranchOwnership
<pre>
 baz describe --description "my ..." 
   --server url
   --title text
   --description text
   --bugfix url
   --homepage url
   --my-email email
   --project-email email
   --translation XXX (XXX: remove this, merge everything?)
   ...

 baz description [branch]  # dump info from rdf
   --xml to get raw data
   --server url

 baz push-description
   --server url

 baz pull-description
   --server url

</pre>

lp url to be a configurable item (overrideable by server-url)

This should round-trip when editting/exporting/importing the RDF.  So every part of the description that isn't exported/imported should be left alone.

=== Implementation ===

=== Outstanding issues ===

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
