{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Full Circle Podcast #5: Manual Dexterity'''

=== Download ===

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/650/0/fullcirclepodcast_ep5_210410.mp3|MP3]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/650/1/fullcirclepodcast_ep5_210410.ogg|OGG]]</nowiki>

Runtime: 41 minutes 43 seconds

=== Your Hosts ===

* Robin Catling 
* Ed Hewitt 

Additional audio by Victoria Pritchard and Philippa Hammond

=== Show Notes ===

==== Welcome and Intro ====

01.15

==== News ====

02.36

1. <nowiki>[[http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-10-04-LTS-Beta-2-Has-GNOME-2-30-and-Revamped-Installer-139372.shtml|Ubuntu 10.04 Beta 2 is out!]]</nowiki> 

2. <nowiki>[[http://www.theregister.co.uk/2010/04/08/ubuntu_yahoo_google_lucid_lynx/|Ubuntu gone back to Google!]]</nowiki>

3. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/04/omg-ubuntu-podcast-launching-next-week.html|OMG! Ubuntu Podcast starts on Tuesday 20 April]]</nowiki>

4. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/04/lubuntu-not-joining-ubuntu-family-until.html|Lubuntu not joining the ubuntu family until 10.10]]</nowiki>

5. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickReleaseSchedule|10.10 Maverick Release Schedule]]</nowiki>
* June 3rd: Alpha 1
* July 1st: Alpha 2
* August 15th: Alpha 3
* September 2nd: Alpha 4
* September 23rd: Beta
* October 21st: Release Candidate
* October 28th: Ubuntu 10.10 released

6. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/04/ubuntuone-music-store-comes-to-banshee.html|UbuntuOne music store comes to banshee]]</nowiki>

=== Interview === 

5.36

Simon Wears (aka ‘Munky-Junky’) on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/ManchesterJam10-04|MadJam Manchester Bug-Jam MadJam]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.munkyjunky.com/2010/03/manchester-lucid-jam/|Simon’s blog]]</nowiki> 

==== Review ====

12.52

<nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org/|KDE SC 4.4]]</nowiki>

==== Trailer ====

18.07 

<nowiki>[[http://oggcamp.org/|OggCamp]]</nowiki> is a free software / free culture unconference organised by the presenters of the Ubuntu UK Podcast and Linux Outlaws. This year’s OggCamp will take place at The Black-E in Liverpool on the 1st and 2nd of May. The event will run approximately 10am – 5pm each day.

The Black-E Entrance to OggCamp10 is free and no tickets are required.

==== Interview ====

Benjamin Humphrey, Ubuntu Manual Project
Site: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-manual.org|http://ubuntu-manual.org]]</nowiki>
Launchpad Project home: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-manual|https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-manual]]</nowiki>
Benjamin’s blog: <nowiki>[[http://humphreybc.wordpress.com/|http://humphreybc.wordpress.com/]]</nowiki>

==== Outro and Next Episode ====

41.10

Comments on this page, using the comment form, OR;
Send us a comment to podcast@fullcirclemagazine.org.
You can also send us a comment by recording an audio clip of no more than 30 seconds and sending it to the same address.
Comments and audio may be edited for length.
Please remember this is a family-friendly show.

==== Other Notes ====

Creative Commons Music Tracks

Opening: <nowiki>[[http://incompetech.com/m/c/royalty-free/index.html?keywords=Achilles|‘Achilles’ by Kevin Macleod]]</nowiki> 

Main Theme: <nowiki>[[http://ccmixter.org/files/hisboyelroy/430|‘Revolve’ by His Boy Elroy]]</nowiki>

Incidental: <nowiki>[[http://www.pacdv.com/sounds/free-music-2.html|‘Dance Zone’ by Unknown]]</nowiki>

Incidental: <nowiki>[[http://www.pacdv.com/sounds/free-music-22.html|‘On the Run’ by Unknown]]</nowiki>

Incidental: <nowiki>[[http://www.soundjay.com|'Iron Man’ by Unknown]]</nowiki>

Trailer: <nowiki>[[http://www.sonnyboo.com/music/music.htm|'The Wild Life’ by Peter John Ross]]</nowiki>

File Sizes:

OGG 29.5Mb

mp3 21.5Mb
