{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The <nowiki>[[..-|UbuntuAdverts Team]]</nowiki> follows branding guidelines defined by the <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/|Canonical Design Team]]</nowiki>.

== Brand ==
The definition of the <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/the-toolkit/ubuntu-brand-guidelines/|brand guidelines]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu is an evolving process and encompasses a wide variety of audiences - from consumers to the enterprise.

The following is a summary of the Canonical branding materials that are focused on '''consumers'''.

=== Product ===

The Ubuntu Desktop OS

=== Brand values ===

Embodies freedom and is collaborative, precise, reliable

=== Brand theme ===

Light

=== Targeting the communication ===

'''Voice - Community'''
* The Ubuntu community is made up of thousands of individuals and teams.
* They participate in every aspect of the Ubuntu project: from writing the software to providing advice, support and helping to promote Ubuntu to the widest possible audience.
* This end of the scale indicates that the materials primarily represent the work of the community.

'''Audience - Consumer'''
* An individual or small business group making a decision about an OS or computer.
* They cares about cost and function, and want the product to be easy to use and maintain.
* The user interface and user experience are key to their choice
* Other attributes that target consumers...

'''Developer - End-user''' - These are not just “materials for advanced users”, they are speciﬁcally materials for Developers, that will be used to support Software Development.
* These people are “satisﬁcers”: they have criteria and standards and will search until they ﬁnd the software solution that meets those standards.
* Uses the product as an ‘out of the box’ solution. They expect to be sold on the beneﬁts and ease of use.
* End Users do not care about the back end technology needed to deliver them those beneﬁts.

=== Supplemental creative guidance and assets ===

Refer to the <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/the-toolkit/brand-communication-guide/|Brand Communications Guide]]</nowiki> for the appropriate design elements, design guidance, download components, and design inspiration for the specified Target.

=== Things that need a bit more clarification ===
* Brand mission - what is our highest calling? ... though could be the '''brand values''' from above - "Embodies freedom and is collaborative, precise, reliable"
* Brand strategies - positioning, personality, and affiliation
* Currently available communication strategies/touch-points with the target
