{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== When is the vote? ==

Vote is every two years in January before the release of the next LTS. So, votes will be January 2016, January 2018, and so on.

This means, the new project lead is responsible for the development of the following LTS, which should be the focus point.

== How do we vote? ==

Undecided.

== Who is allowed to vote? ==

Undecided.

Current suggestion is any member of the launchpad team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-contributors|~ubuntustudio-contributors]]</nowiki>.

Any moderated team and restricted team needs to be a member of ~ubuntustudio-contributors. This way, anyone who is hand on involved in Ubuntu Studio in some way, are allowed to vote. 

== Candidate requirements ==

* Candidate needs to be active and available for communication with the Ubuntu Studio community
* Candidate needs some form of experience in software development in the Linux world, preferably in Debian or Ubuntu.
* If Candidate is lacking skills in Debian packaging or lacking knowledge of the Debian Policy, at least one other person with those skills needs to commit for the whole 2 year period. Otherwise, the project lead will require outside help for maintaining Ubuntu Studio, which is not optimal.

== Announcing your candidacy ==

First, make sure you have an account at https://login.ubuntu.com/, and login to this wiki so you can create and edit pages.

To announce your candidacy, you need to:
* Create a candidate wiki page at this wiki
* Announce on our ubuntu-studio-devel mail list that you are candidating.

=== Creating the wiki page ===

To create the page you can start by adding the link <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-ProjectLeadVote<year>-<yournickname>]]</nowiki> to the main wiki page for candidates (2016 vote uses <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-ProjectLeadVote2016]]</nowiki>).
Once the link is added, save the page and click on the link. Since the page does not exist, you will be asked to create one. Use the template <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-ProjectLeadCandidateTemplate]]</nowiki>.
