{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="background:#592441;color:#FFFFFF;-border: 1px solid #D3D1C7;font-size: 0.90em;">'''About Us'''
|}
The Ubuntu Youth team has quite a few goals and purposes. The guidlines are not only for the group as a whole, but for individuals within the group itself. More details may be added from time to time, but the general aims of the group will remain the same.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="background:#592441;color:#FFFFFF;-border: 1px solid #D3D1C7;font-size: 0.90em;">'''Aims & Goals'''
|}
» To provide a safe, friendly and informative environment for young people. They may already use Ubuntu or wish to learn how to use Ubuntu. (No previous experience is required!)

» To teach all members how to use IRC, Launchpad and the Ubuntu Forums to obtain the help and information they need.

» To help new and existing members find answers to their questions and solve their problems, whenever possible.

» To get members involved in other communities if they feel comfortable in doing so.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="background:#592441;color:#FFFFFF;-border: 1px solid #D3D1C7;font-size: 0.90em;">'''Members' Promise'''
|}
» To follow the Ubuntu CoC (Code of Conduct).

» Be polite at all times and provide help whenever you feel comfortable in doing so.

» Attend the team meetings when possible.
----
CategoryUbuntuYouth
