{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/foo
* '''Created''': 6 of december by ZygmuntKrynicki
* '''Contributors''': ZygmuntKrynicki
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Provide a set of high-quality wallpapers for ubuntu.

=== Offsite ===

This spec is being prepared at: http://ubuntu.suxx.pl/ubuntu-photo-project/
It shall be moved over to wiki in the near future.

=== Rationale ===

Each Ubuntu release shipped with a new background. Users expect that and enjoy new (even though not necessarily nude) image. Those are the basic images that provide easy identification of an Ubuntu desktop. However as users are keen on customizing their background they quickly discover that there are no more backgrounds installed by default. By providing a set of high-quality images with Ubuntu branding and spirit we not only satisfy the basic need of customization but we maintain the recognition of Ubuntu desktop.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
----
CategorySpec
