{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Resetting your CouchDB ===

If you are sure something is really wrong with your notes or contacts you may want to reset your CouchDB so that it will be as good as new. Keep in mind that at any time there are 2 CouchDB running, local (desktopcouch) and remote (couchdb.one.ubuntu.com). In order to remove the database and prevent it from reappearing the removal should be done on both servers.

==== What are the standard databases ====
* '''contacts''' - stores your addressbook (Evolution-CouchDB plugin)
* '''bookmarks''' - stores your bookmarks (Firefox Bindwood extension)
* '''notes''' - stores your local copy of tomboy notes (no client is using it locally at the moment)

==== Removing local database ====
1. Open ~/.local/share/desktop-couch/couchdb.html in your browser
2. Open the database you want to remove.
3. Click Delete Database...
4. Confirm the removal

==== Removing remote database ====
1. Download the script from http://people.canonical.com/~roman.yepishev/ubuntuone-scripts/ubuntuone-couchdb-query
2. Backup the contents of the server-side database. Please note that this can take a while depending on the database size <pre>
DB=notes # see the list above
python ubuntuone-couchdb-query $DB/_all_docs?include_docs=True > $DB-backup.json
</pre>
3. Delete the server-side database: <pre>
python ubuntuone-couchdb-query --http-method=DELETE $DB
</pre>
