{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kubuntu Shared Folders ==

=== Status ===

* Created: 2005-04-28 by JonathanRiddell
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: JonathanRiddellLead, AndreasMuellerSecond
* Contributors: JonathanRiddell
* Interested:
* Status: EditedSpecification, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification, JonathanRiddellQueue, AndreasMuellerQueue
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Make sharing folders easy to do in Kubuntu.

=== Rationale ===

Currently sharing folders in KDE is poorly supported.  There are two methods, KPF Kicker applet HTTP server and Samba (smb) shared folders.  The user interface to KPF is in the wrong place entirely, Kicker rather than Konqueror and the KControl module for Samba shares is unreliable.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

A user wishes to share files over http or smb.

=== Implementation Plan ===

Fix the Share Folder ability in Konqueror, currently it is greyed out unless run by root and offers no option for an administrator mode.  Integrate KPF with this and move KPF out from being a Kicker applet into Konqueror.

Include a KNotify popup event for when a new user connects to a shared folder.  Modify the remote:/ ioslave to show which folders are currently being shared.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

N/A

==== Packages Affected ====

* `kpf`
* `konqueror`
* `kcm_fileshare`

==== User Interface Requirements ====

Fix shared folders dialogue so it is editable and simplify as much as possible.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
