{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{{#!irc
<Syntux> lovely, can we discuss the agenda now ? :D
<effie_jayx> boredandblogging, shall we?
<boredandblogging> sure, I have about 15 minutes
<effie_jayx> ok
<effie_jayx> Syntux, let's do it
<JanC> Syntux: about the Arabic thing, did you also contact the other Arabic speaking LoCoTeams yet?
<Syntux> JanC, yes and as documented in the /talk https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda/talk
<Syntux> through their forums and mailing lists
<JanC> that's not all of them, right?
<Syntux> JanC, that's all of them or at least those with forums and/or mailing list
<JanC> well, at least tehre are other countries where people speak Arabic?
<Syntux> JanC, yeah we are talking about 23 country with around 250million human being
<udienz-> wew
<Syntux> yes
<JanC> like Morocco, Algeria, Tunesia, ... don't they have LoCoTeams ?
<Syntux> Tunesia do have one but not Algeria and Morocco
<Syntux> nizarus, is the team leader of Tunisia and he's here now
<Syntux> alsadi, is one of the most active translators, developers in the region and he's here now too
<alsadi> Hi
<effie_jayx> Syntux, I think the idea makes sense
<Syntux> effie_jayx, I guess so, having one interface for Arabic users is good.
<boredandblogging> yeah, I agree
<Syntux> LoCo teams cannot solve the problem because not all arab locos prefer to use arabic, like Jordan team prefer English and the Lebanese prefer French
<alsadi> yes, we (Arabic speaking people) have same interests, and having a common group will make things easier
<Syntux> on the other side there are plenty of LoCo members interested in supporting people in Arabic
<Syntux> so having arabic team would solve the problem.
<alsadi> I agree
<JanC> FWIW: as all languages spoken in Belgium (Dutch, French & German) are also spoken in other countries, we already point users to those respective forums
<JanC> so this is quite similar
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  do you have an estimate of users you'll be helping?
<effie_jayx> just vague numbers
<Syntux> true but since the Ubuntu Arabic community is small having one interface would be for its own good
<Syntux> and it will help in increasing the number of people in the community
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  right, true... That would realy help boost adoption
<Syntux> for example, if someone asked in Arabic in Jordan or lebanese or loco mailing list, we might not answer to be honest
<Syntux> but having one place for people interested in helping in that language would make it easier to Arabic community and hopefully increase it
<JanC> Syntux: like, I'm a member of both the Belgian (country) & Dutch (language) team -- you would be members of both Jordanian (country) & Arabic (language) team
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  I like the idea, however it would be god to have commitment from all teams involved so that it is not your team and alsadi 's and other listed. since it has to be a structure that can be sustainable long after you and him are gone
<alsadi> ubuntu says Linux for humans not for hackers (who know three of more human languages), we need to speak  to people in their native language
<Syntux> JanC, yeah and this is why I'm proposing for this team, the other arabic teams that exists in the community focus on translation not support.
<effie_jayx> alsadi,  it is one of the ubuntu promises yes...
<Syntux> effie_jayx, of course, we have received some good feedback from all arabic LoCo members else we wouldn't bothering you guys in this proposal
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  but they will offer a heloping hand in your initiative riught?
<effie_jayx> Syntux, perfect
<Syntux> effie_jayx, yes.
<boredandblogging> Syntux: whats the next step to take?
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  I say the proposal needs a bit of shaping up. but the idea makes perfect sense. and it is clear that your intentions is to integrate support work
<Syntux> boredandblogging, establishing forum, mailing list and ubuntu-arabic.org and spread the word about it
<Syntux> boredandblogging, and we already talked with some of the large arabic linux communities to work with them
<boredandblogging> Syntux: maybe also contact some other similar teams and see what they would recommend?
<Syntux> boredandblogging, that would be an idea
<udienz-> Syntux: what's difference between Ubuntume community and ubuntu-arabic
<JanC> I guess a forum would be good to start with giving support?
<persia> udienz-: language and religion tend not to map well
<Syntux> udienz-, UbuntuME is the Muslims Edition of Ubuntu and it has nothing to do with the language
<Syntux> udienz-, they do have packages for religious human beings ;)
<JanC> not all muslims speak Arabic, e.g. some speak Persian  ;)
<persia> Some speak Flemish
<Syntux> true, and UbuntuME main focus is on packing religious apps not support or anything
<Syntux> our main focus is support not apps nor translation
<boredandblogging> Syntux: so maybe come up with a formal document stating purpose, and what needs to be done?
<JanC> persia: yes, I know several who do (although they also speak Arabic mostly)
<udienz-> hmm... ic... many member at ubuntume speak using arabic but not all member using arabic (me too)
<alsadi> as a member of UbuntuME, it's multi lingual which ranges from English (main), German (DE), ..., and even ordo
<Syntux> boredandblogging, I don't mind working more on the proposal if we have definition of "formal document" :D
<udienz-> sorry anot all using arabic
<Syntux> actually I'm not that good at paper work hehe
<JanC> and some people speaking arabic might not be muslims either
<Syntux> right
<udienz-> JanC: perfect
<boredandblogging> Syntux: yes, whatever you want to call it, to make sure everyone is discussing the same thing
<alsadi> let the numbers speacks, 20% of Muslism speacks Arabic, 96%  of arabs are Muslims
<effie_jayx> ok
<Syntux> there is already some ubuntu arabic sites http://www.arubuntu.org/ http://ubuntu.byethost13.com/ http://ubuntustory.com/ar and we just want to make it one work under Ubuntu Community umbrella  for better reach
<udienz-> yup. indonesian have 200Million pepple and 80% Muslim but 10 % speak arabic
<Syntux> boredandblogging, yeah sure, I was able to get alsadi and nizarus but nizarus (Tunisian LoCo leader) seems to be sleeping now hehe
<Syntux> so basically we just need the permission to use ubuntu-arabic.org, a mailing list and a forum.
<alsadi> yes ﻿indonesia is not an arabic country,
<Syntux> and then we can start reporting our activities on monthly basis
<udienz-> right
<alsadi> I must leave, excuse me
<Syntux> alsadi, thanks for coming.
<Syntux> ex-squeezed :D
<Syntux> so that's it guys
<Syntux> if forumMathew was here he would be able to verify the links of discussion about it, provided in the /talk
<effie_jayx> ok
<effie_jayx> ok
<Syntux> ok
<Syntux> hehe
<effie_jayx> I say we have the document down and teams participating? we can have a final quick look
<boredandblogging> agreed
<effie_jayx> and then we cwill have the final say about the team
<effie_jayx> It all looks resonable
<Syntux> wait wait
<Syntux> Teams will NOT participate
<Syntux> but individual members of the teams
<JanC> Syntux: I think teams should participate
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  so do i
<Syntux> but not all teams interested in supporting people in aRabic
<Syntux> Arabic*
<JanC> as in providing links to the site etc.
<boredandblogging> this is why we should have a doc ;-)
<Syntux> well, that's easy but first they have to have a website for themselves :D
<effie_jayx> Syntux, right, but  think teams should be able to be a apart of it
<Syntux> effie_jayx, of course, they are able but it's up to them
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  exactly
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  i would expect a bit more depth on the kind of support and the resources needed
<Syntux> yet we don't have any approved LoCo team btw
<JanC> Syntux: participate also means that teams won't duplicate efforts, etc.
<Syntux> of course\
<Syntux> Ok, can we have a mailing list so we can start discussing the project instead of using google groups.
<effie_jayx> Syntux, i think all you need is to ptresent this document and then we can approve resources ;)
<Syntux> effie_jayx, I agree but presenting an official document would require interacting with all those interested to work on it
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  you are free to contact Loco contact in the loco-contact maling list to gather more work
<Syntux> and having an ubuntu mailing list would encourage many people to join us
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  right but it wouldrequiere usto have you already considered a team :S
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  to give you a cliue the conucil did not havea mailing list long after it had it's first meeting
<Syntux> yeah but that means having to send the email to like 6 mailing lists and then come up with an artificial way to sync the discussion.
<JanC> effie_jayx: teams don't have to be approved to get a list
<JanC> Syntux: you have Google Groups set up already though?
<effie_jayx> JanC, true, but it does help if we put in a word for the list to happen
<JanC> with 8 members?
<Syntux> JanC, yup created it two days ago.  http://groups.google.com/group/ubuntu-arabic
<Syntux> yes
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  do you think itwould help having a new list (considering you have to settle and all ) and then presenting this dc?
<Syntux> definitely  it will help
<Syntux> and anyway, we are not asking to get approved now or in the coming six months
<effie_jayx> ok
<boredandblogging> we have not finished figuring out the process of getting resources yet
<Syntux> all we are asking for is to get a mailing list and permission to use ubuntu domain as in wiki, irc channel and stuff like that
<effie_jayx> boredandblogging,  thatis also true
<boredandblogging> so the mailing list may take some time
<effie_jayx> popey was in charge of that
<effie_jayx> boredandblogging, we can find outad get in touch then with Syntux
<boredandblogging> yeah
<Syntux> sorry, didn't get it ?
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  do you agree with this?
<JanC> Syntux: using the domain is okay as long as you follow this policy: http://www.ubuntu.com/aboutus/trademarkpolicy
<Syntux> JanC, great.
<Syntux> effie_jayx, I didn't get it
<Syntux> <effie_jayx> boredandblogging, we can find outad get in touch then with Syntux
<Syntux> find out about what ?
<boredandblogging> Syntux: we'll try to figure out how to get the mailing list, but it may take some time
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  we will get in touch twith the man that helps us with the mailing lists and we wil find out the resource request and we shall get in touch with you through email
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  about setting up the mailing list
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  does that make sense?
<Syntux> lovely
<juliux> hi
<effie_jayx> my keyboard abilities suck today
<Syntux> hi juliux
<juliux> topic atm?
<effie_jayx> well
<effie_jayx> gotta get going
<Syntux> juliux, Ubuntu-Arabic team proposal.
<effie_jayx> boredandblogging,  you do the minute
<effie_jayx> or i do?
<boredandblogging> umm, don't remember
<Syntux> and btw I have already contact Jorge for the mailing list, not sure if that would cause any of diplomatic conflict :D
<boredandblogging> effie_jayx: I can do this one
<boredandblogging> Syntux: we'll figure it out
<Syntux> splendid :-)
<JanC> juliux: you don't?
<boredandblogging> ok, so we are done with ubuntu-arabic for now?
<juliux> JanC: i am still waiting for one
<JanC> juliux: I got one recently
<Syntux> I guess so.
}}}
