{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Benvenuto alla Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Numero 35 della settimana dall'1 all'8 Aprile 2007. In questo numero si parlerà dell'imminente rilascio di Feisty Fawn e della cancellazione della Herd 6.

'''UWN Translations'''

* Deutsch - Start one! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue35/De

* Español - Start one! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue35/Es
* Français - Start one! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue35/Fr

* Português - Start one! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue35/Pt

* Português do Brasil - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue35/PtBr

=== In Questo Numero ===

* Feisty Herd 6 è stata cancellata
* Lo sviluppo di Feisty è stato congelato in vista della Release Candidate
* Discussione circa la modalità di licenza della documentazione Wiki
* Launchpad apre per il Beta Testing
* Migrare da windows è sempre più facile

=== Notizie dalla Comunità ===

==== Cancellata Feisty Herd 6 ====

Tollef Fog Heen, Ubuntu Release Manager, ha annunciato che non ci sarà una Herd 6 dal momento che il kernel sarà congelato a breve e che la RC di Feisty sarà disponibile il 12 Aprile. Maggiori info alla pagina https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2007-April/000272.html.

==== Discussione sulla Modalità di Licenza della Documentazione Wiki ====

Matthew East del Documentation Team ha annunciato che dopo un lungo dibattito con il Community Council, la licenza dell'Ubuntu Help Wiki sarà la Creative Commons By Attribution Share Alike 2.5. Non è incluso il wiki http://wiki.ubuntu.com, ma solo la parte help http://help.ubuntu.com/community. Per qualsiasi questione riguardante la nuova licenza contattare il community council community-council@lists.ubuntu.com. Maggiori info alla pagina https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2007-April/008367.html or https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WikiLicensing.

==== Problemi di Archiviazione delle Liste Ubuntu ====

A causa dell'elevato traffico sulle mailing list ubuntu-bugs e desktop-bugs, il software di archiviazione ha problemi nel fare backup delle altre mailing list. Per ora, ubuntu-bugs e desktop-bugs non saranno archiviate, in questo modo delle altre mailing list su lists.ubuntu.com verrà fatto il backup. Canonical vorrebbe sapere se i sottoscrittori delle liste ubuntu-bugs e desktop-bugs sono  interessati ai rispettivi archivi e per quale motivo dal momento che tutti i bug sono già disponibili su Launchpad. Maggiori info alla pagina https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-April/023542.html

=== Novità in Feisty Fawn ===

==== Feisty Congelata per la Preparazione della Release Candidate ====

Colin Watson, release manager, ha annunciato il congelamento del codice base di Feisty in preparazione della RC del 12 Aprile e della final release del 19 Aprile. Mentre il repository universe è ancora aperto, solo i bug critici verranno accettati nel repository principali. Questioni importanti per Feisty possono essere segnalati alla pagina https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-7.04. Maggiori info alla pagina https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2007-April/000274.html.

==== Tolto il Supporto a Ext4 in Feisty ====

Il file system ext4 non sarà incluso in Feisty. Anche se non ci sono probabilità di danneggiare file non appare ancora stabile. L'annuncio alla pagina: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2007-March/000672.html

==== Discussione sulle Note di Rilascio di NetworkManager ====

C'è stata una discussione circa i problemi riscontrati dagli utenti di Edgy e di reti configurate manualmente al passaggio a Feisty. Il network manager è installato di default in Feisty e dovrebbe ignorare le configurazioni manuali, le interfacce dovrebbero essere settate "automatic". Nelle note di rilascio questo fatto verrà documentato. Maggiori info alla pagina https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-April/023537.html.

=== Notizie sullo Sviluppo ===

==== C'è Bisogno di Aiuto per OpenOffice.org ====

C'è bisogno di un membro 'upstream' dell'Open``Office upstream bug team che si unisca al nuovo progetto Open``Office project su
Launchpad. Il membro dovrebbe avere un login per il segnalatore di bug di Open``Office.org, in modo che i bug in Ubuntu segnalati come 'upstream OOo' possano essere riportati. Maggiori info alla pagina https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-April/023534.html.

==== Pacchetti Sperimentali per la Toolchain di Feisty+1 ====

I pacchetti toolchain sono stati aggiornati per Feisty+1 e dovrebbe essere possibile installarli su una Feisty con chroot. Gli aggiornamenti riguardano gcc, glibc, and gcj. C'è un calo di prestazioni passando alle nuove librerie di gcc che è noto e accettato dagli sviluppatori di gcc. Attenzione: i pacchetti sono 'molto' sperimentali e l'installazione farà diventare instabili molti sistemi. Maggiori info alla pagina https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-April/023529.html

==== BugHelper Reports ====

BugHelper reports contain bug information and bugs that you can help fix. They are updated every two hours and available at http://daniel.holba.ch/bugs/. Clue files are used to search for bugs fitting pre-defined patterns. Documentation for writing and adding clue files are available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugHelper. Read more at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-April/023523.html

=== Launchpad News ===

Canonical has started public beta testing of Launchpad 1.0. Launchpad is a web application that helps track communications between many free software communities. With the tool, its possible to coordinate and collaborate work among projects that have shared code. Launchpad features an interface that allows branding and emphasizes current activity of projects. Launchpad allows for team management, tracking bugs, hosting code, translations, feature and ideas tracking, and community support. Besides Ubuntu, well known projects like Zope, SilverCMS, and Jokosher use Launchpad. Read more: http://www.ubuntu.com/news/LaunchpadRelease (official press release), http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/103 (Mark Shuttleworth's blog)

=== In The Press ===

Bill Bennett, in The Sydney Morning Herald, talks about the result of running Ubuntu alongside Windows XP for months. He explains how Linux can revive an old computer and that Ubuntu runs faster and smoother on his two-year-old PC compared to Windows XP and Vista. Read the full article: http://www.smh.com.au/news/home-office/linux-reloaded/2007/03/31/1174761806748.html

Marius Nestor, at Softpedia News, writes about the beta version of Feisty. He includes many screenshots along with discussions of the migration assistant, restricted drivers manager, network manager tool, Beagle, the redesigned help center, codec installation, and plug and play network sharing with Avahi. A quick overview on the new features introduced in Feisty. Read the full article: http://news.softpedia.com/news/What-Should-You-Expect-from-Ubuntu-7-04-50206.shtml

Michael Stutz, in CIO, talks about what enterprises need to look for when selecting a Linux distribution. Stutz says that Ubuntu has been a success on the desktop and the partnership with Sun will win over a few clients. The full article at: http://www.cio.com/article/100652/Choosing_a_Linux_Distribution_for_Enterprise_Work

Marius Nestor, at Softpedia News, comments on what he loves and hates about Ubuntu. Marius suggests creating an Ubuntu+Kubuntu LiveCD and making the GNOME desktop more Windows-user friendly. Read the full article: http://news.softpedia.com/news/What-Do-You-Love-and-Hate-About-Ubuntu-51188.shtml

William West, at mercator.net, discusses how Ubuntu derivatives can help parents protect their children from offensive content on the Internet while providing all the tools to do their homework. West covers web filters and Open Office, along with how to customize Ubuntu. While West talks about specific Ubuntu derivatives, all the filtering tools can be installed on any standard Ubuntu installation. Read the full article: http://www.mercatornet.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=518

=== In The Blogosphere ===

John M. Reese, from Leet``Code.net, has a detailed overview with screenshots of the Gnome enhancements in Feisty. He covers network settings, restricted drivers, desktop effects, HPLIP toolbox, sessions, and themes. It's been dugg over 1000 times. http://www.leetcode.net/2007/04/11-things-you-havent-seen-yet-in-ubuntu-feisty-fawn

Sarah, at 3till7.net, talks about the ease of using Ubuntu. She mentions the simplicity of installing by using the LiveCD and how Synaptic makes installing applications very easy. Sarah says that average people like her mom and dormmates have used Ubuntu successfully and can find help quickly on the Ubuntu Forums and wiki. Read more: http://www.3till7.net/2007/04/05/the-ease-of-linux-with-a-focus-on-ubuntu/

Clivecooper.co.uk talks about transitioning from Windows to Ubuntu. The site discusses why a user would want to move to Linux, why Ubuntu, how to install Ubuntu, and Linux equivalents of common Windows applications. Read more: http://www.clivecooper.co.uk/

=== LoCo News ===

==== Ubuntu Chicago LoCo at Flourish Conference ====

The Ubuntu Chicago Local Community recently represented at the Flourish Conference held at the University of Illinois - Chicago campus. With a strong showing at the conference, the team passed out over two hundred Ubuntu CDs. The team also participated in a "Battle of the Distros," an event where guests talked about the various distributions and what set them apart. Richard Johnson has an extensive write up on his weblog: http://blog.nixternal.com/2007.04.08/flourish-a-success/

=== Incontri ed Eventi ===

==== Martedì, 10 Aprile 2007 ====

===== Technical Board Meeting =====

* Inizio: 20:00
* Fine: 22:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoardAgenda

==== Mercoledì 11 Aprile 2007 ====

===== Edubuntu Meeting =====

* Inizio: 20:00
* Fine: 22:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuMeetingAgenda

===== Launchpad Users Meeting =====

* Inizio: 20:00
* Fine: 21:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaunchpadUserMeeting/2007-04-11

==== Giovedì 12 Aprile 2007 ====

===== MOTU Meeting =====

* Inizio: 20:00
* Fine: 21:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings

===== Development Team Meeting =====

* Inizio: 20:00
* Fine: 22:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/DevelTeamMeeting20070412

===== Ubuntu Development Team Meeting =====

* Inizio: 21:00
* Fine: 23:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting

==== Venerdì 13 Aprile 2007 ====

===== Forum Council Meeting =====

* Inizio: 20:00
* Fine: 22:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda

=== Community Spotlight ===

==== Ubuntu Case Studies ====

A great way to promote anything is by showing people it actually works in the real world. Ubuntu has grown a lot in a very short time, and it is being given many different uses we probably can't even imagine. This is why we are trying to collect success stories around the world, and present them as "Use Cases". Any way you use Ubuntu in your school or workplace might be interesting and useful to someone else. The main Ubuntu website has a special place for these at: http://www.ubuntu.com/products/casestudies. We would like to encourage you to participate sending your story to mystory@ubuntu.com, using http://www.ubuntu.com/products/mystory as a starting point.

==== Easier Migration from Windows to Ubuntu ====

The Windows Migration Wizard is a new migration tool which imports all your Internet Explorer favorites, Firefox bookmarks, desktop wallpaper, AOL IM contacts and Yahoo IM contacts. This offers easier and faster migration for new users of Ubuntu and individuals wanting to run a dual partition. In addition to single accounts, you can migrate several users' settings in Ubuntu. This has been added in Ubiquity, Ubuntu's installer, and it shows the commitment to making Linux as easy to use as possible. You can read the specification at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MigrationAssistance

==== Ubuntu Marketing Team - Spread the Word ====

The Marketing Team is responsible for promoting Ubuntu and every single way possible. Ubuntu Bug #1 is their inspiration and its final bugfix is their final goal. Spreading all Free Software is within the interest of the Team, and Ubuntu among that is its main focus. All Ubuntu users are/can be a part of its marketing effort. The Marketing Team is behind projects like "The Fridge", "Ubuntu Weekly News", "Case Studies", "Ubuntu Counter", "Ubuntu Video" and many more. You can join them in IRC in #ubuntu-marketing, in our mailing list ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com, or read more about what they do at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/

=== Updates and security for 6.06 and 6.10 ===

==== Security Updates ====

* USN-449-1: krb5 vulnerabilities - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-449-1
* USN-448-1: X.org vulnerabilities - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-448-1

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

* glibc 2.3.6-0ubuntu20.5 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-April/012396.html
* freetype 2.1.10-1ubuntu2.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-April/012397.html
* libxfont 1:1.0.0-0ubuntu3.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-April/012398.html
* xorg-server 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu10.6 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-April/012399.html
* krb5 1.4.3-5ubuntu0.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-April/012400.html

==== Ubuntu 6.10 Updates ====

* freetype 2.2.1-5ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008288.html
* libxfont 1:1.2.0-0ubuntu3.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008289.html
* xorg-server 1:1.1.1-0ubuntu12.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008290.html
* krb5 1.4.3-9ubuntu1.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008291.html
* mysql-dfsg-5.0 5.0.24a-9ubuntu2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008292.html
* eclipse 3.2.1-0ubuntu3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008293.html
* mpd 0.12.1-1ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008295.html
* python-kde3 3.15.2+20060422-2ubuntu4.3 -https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008296.html
* kdelibs 4:3.5.5-0ubuntu3.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008297.html
* kdebase 4:3.5.5-0ubuntu3.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008298.html
* adept 2.1.1ubuntu3.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008299.html
* squid 2.6.1-3ubuntu1.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-April/008300.html

=== Bug Stats ===

*** Open (26920) +1137 # over last week
*** Critical (24) +5 # over last week
*** Unconfirmed (12966) +800 # over last week
*** Unassigned (19533) +1042 # over last week
*** All bugs ever reported (91582) +3021 # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs

Check out the bug statistics: http://people.ubuntu-in.org/~carthik/bugstats/ 

=== Archivi e Feed RSS ===

I numeri precedenti sono disponibili alla pagina: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

Ti puoi iscrivere alla Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS alla pagina:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== News Aggiuntive Ubuntu ===

Come sempre altre novità ed annunci sono disponibili alle pagine:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

e

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusioni ===

Grazie per aver letto la Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

Alla prossima settimana!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Martin Albisetti
* Nick Ali
* Corey Burger
* Audrey Deutschmann
* And many others

Tradotta in italiano da Gabriele Monti

=== Feedback ===

Questo documento è mantenuto dal Team Marketing di Ubuntu Marketing. Sentiti libero di contattarci per qualsiasi argomento o suggerimento mandando un'e-mail a ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com o usando uno degli altri metodi indicati alla pagina contenente le informazioni per contattare il Marketing Team Ubuntu (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). Se desideri dare un contributo alla realizzazione dei numeri futuri della newsletter non esitare ad editare la pagina wiki apposita.
