{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== quality ==
Make the difference in quality between 12.10 and 12.04 at least as great as the difference between 12.04 and 11.10.

=== Testing ===
===== automatated =====
* continued boot time metrics (pgraner)
* can we add power draw tests? (pgraner)
* deeper, broader smoke tests (pgraner)
* extend per commit testing to at least one more upstream (LibreOffice)? (pgraner, jasoncwarner)

===== manual =====
* more rigorous community driven test cases and bug reporting (jono)
* more rigorous "calls for testing" (jono)
* proper attribution of bugs found via proper testing so that they are easier to find and fix (jono)

==== maintenance ====
===== 12.10 archive =====
* more rigorously scheduled +1 maintenance (all)
* having the right packages in the right parts of the archive in a way that allows Canonical to focus properly (slangasek)

===== 12.04 =====
* rigorous kernel and other SRUs (pgraner, slangasek)

=== release ===
* reduced image set (skaet)
* tighter change control in images, especially around releases (skaet)

=== Development ===
* bug agents so teams don't have to monitor bug lists (rickspencer3)
* bug work flow (again) (slangasek)
* easier autobuild, etc... (???)
* using proposed for building and testing (skaet, slangasek)
* trying -updates to permit continued development during release weeks (skaet, slangasek)
* better use of blueprints to capture intent and test plans (skaet)
* revisit how we support flavors and other community projects, can we have more impact with our current investment? (skaet)
* tweeks or revisits to acceptance criteria? (jasoncwarner)
