{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Title ==

=== Status ===

** Created:  by MattZimmerman<<BR>>
** Priority: HighPriority<<BR>>
** People: MattZimmermanLead, JaneWSecond<<BR>>
** Contributors: MattZimmerman<<BR>>
** Interested: JeffWaugh; SebastienBacher<<BR>>
** Status: BrainDump, UduBof, DistroSpecification<<BR>>
** Branch: <<BR>>
** Malone Bug: <<BR>>
** Packages: <<BR>>
** Depends: <<BR>>
** UduSessions: 1-2

=== Introduction ===

Brainstorm ideas for user-oriented feature development in Breezy and
prioritize them based on maximum benefit to the user.

=== Rationale ===

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

Produce a list of the top 5 possible enhancements to lower the
barrier to entry for new users, and eliminate the most common
stumbling blocks for existing users.

=== Implementation Plan ===

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

* Identify most common roadblocks for new users
* Compare feature sets with other popular general-purpose distributions
* Compare feature sets with special-purpose distributions
* Prioritize enhancements by value to new and existing users
* Schedule new BOFs to specify the most valuable suggestions

==== UDU Pre-Work ====

Objective 1: Understand the strengths of the competition
* Data Points: Collect feature highlights and release notes from the following distributions. What do people love about them?

** Fedora
** Mandrake
** MEPIS
** SUSE
** Knoppix
** Gentoo
** Slackware
** Linspire

* Methodology: Whiteboard/poll participants in BrainStorm; participants to bring lists of ideas
* Responsibility: SebastienBacher, DanielHolbach, All participants

Objective 2: Identify common problems

* Data Point 1: Analyse the following discussion groups and identify the most common questions and problems:

** ubuntu-users
** #ubuntu
** ubuntuforums.org
** linuxquestions.org (Ubuntu section)
** Bugzilla (most-duplicated bugs, ...?)

* Data Point 2: Review the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org/|Unofficial Ubuntu 5.04 Starter Guide]]</nowiki> and see if we can make those processes simpler, or automate them

* Data Point 3: Collect feature suggestions from Bugzilla (Severity: enhancement)

* Data Point 4: Collect feature suggestions from the wiki
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/wiki/BreezyBadger|BreezyBadger]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/wiki/IdeaPool|IdeaPool]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/wiki/WinningTheDesktop|WinningTheDesktop]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/wiki/WhatWindowsUsersWant|WhatWindowsUsersWant]]</nowiki>

* Data Point 5: Most popular downloads from ubuntu repositories. This would be excellent. Is it measured? How easy it it to get? I know websites measure this, do repositories?

* Responsibility: 

** Data Point 1: TimMorris, Ryan (Ubuntu Geek on forums) crunching data and polling moderators, others? (we need someone on #ubuntu)
** Data Point 2: TimMorris (no clear way to rank though; list; whiteboard + vote in sessions)
** Data Point 3: ?
** Data Point 4: TimMorris  (no clear way to rank though; list; whiteboard + vote in sessions)
** Data Point 5: ?

* Methodology: Count instances of categories or classes of problems; rank

Objective 3: Standardise the process / Involve the community

* survey of Ubuntu users using some existing polling system?
* here is the model: http://www.codeweavers.com/compatibility/toplists/
* breezy +1?

== Completed Pre-Work ==

* Two sayings from research: "Opinions are like a--holes, everyone has one" and "Everyone generalises from a sample size of one, well at least I know I do."
* Lets make this data driven, for example on ubuntuforum 16,181 people viewed the topic "Multimedia in Hoary" while only 14 viewed the topic "HOWTO: Get your ps/2 mouse work on a kvm switch"

* Completed work to: <nowiki>[[http://udu.wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDownUnder/BOFs/UbuntuDevelopment/BrainStorm/CollectedIdeas|CollectedIdeas]]</nowiki>
 