{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Summary ==

=== Testing Checkbox 0.12.8 and cleaning up results ===

* The last checkbox upload to Oneiric needs a lot of testing. 
* Everybody is encouraged to submit their systems using the last version of checkbox for Oneiric
* jedimike will remove old results, so we only have results for Oneiric made with this version of checkbox

== Logs ==

Meeting started by ara at 15:01:24 UTC.  The full logs are available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-10-03-15.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuFriendly/Meetings   (ara, 15:02:16)
* Testing Checkbox 0.12.8 and cleaning up results -- ara
''ACTION:'' cr3, jedimike: to remove results, as they are not useful and it is making it impossible to see what's still failing  (ara, 15:18:13)
''ACTION:'' All to submit at least 1 system using checkbox 0.12.8 by next meeting  (ara, 15:18:38)

* Any Other Business?

Meeting ended at 15:40:52 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* cr3, jedimike: to remove results, as they are not useful and it is making it impossible to see what's still failing
* All to submit at least 1 system using checkbox 0.12.8 by next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* cr3
* * cr3, jedimike: to remove results, as they are not useful and it is making it impossible to see what's still failing
* jedimike
* * cr3, jedimike: to remove results, as they are not useful and it is making it impossible to see what's still failing

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ara (74)
* cr3 (34)
* jedimike (30)
* bladernr (13)
* brendand (10)
* Amoz (8)
* meetingology` (5)
* roadmr (4)

=== Full Log ===

 15:01:24 <ara> #startmeeting

 15:01:24 <meetingology`> Meeting started Mon Oct  3 15:01:24 2011 UTC.  The chair is ara. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 15:01:24 <meetingology`> 

 15:01:24 <meetingology`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 15:01:46 <ara> The agenda today looks like this:

 15:01:47 <ara> * Testing Checkbox 0.12.8 and cleaning up results -- ara

 15:01:47 <ara> * AOB

 15:02:04 <ara> As usual, I would encourage anyone to add topics to the main meeting wiki page:

 15:02:16 <ara> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuFriendly/Meetings

 15:02:29 <ara> #topic  Testing Checkbox 0.12.8 and cleaning up results -- ara

 15:02:43 <ara> Most of what we were able to do for the client for Ubuntu Friendly is now done and uploaded to Ubuntu as Checkbox 0.12.8. Now is time to test it as much as possible and start tweaking the server based on the results that we get.

 15:03:00 <cr3> o/

 15:03:03 <ara> What I think that we need to do:

 15:03:03 <ara> * Clean up UF old results (they were made with versions of Checkbox that had too many bugs)

 15:03:03 <ara> * Everybody with an Oneiric system, please, use Checkbox 0.12.8 (not the PPA), and run the tests required for Ubuntu Friendly

 15:03:03 <ara> The idea is to see what numbers are we getting and to see if we need to make changes to the server side.

 15:03:03 <jedimike> o/

 15:03:14 <ara> Any comments?

 15:03:16 <ara> ..

 15:03:22 <ara> cr3, go ahead, please

 15:03:34 <cr3> Should we have an objective to get X number of systems with more than one star for the next meeting, where we could agree on X during this meeting?

 15:03:38 <cr3> ..

 15:03:51 <ara> jedimike, your turn

 15:03:53 <ara> o/

 15:03:56 <cr3> o/

 15:04:20 <jedimike> I was just going to ask how to make sure I'm running the latest checkbox, as I've been using the ppa in the past

 15:04:21 <jedimike> ..

 15:05:19 <ara> OK, to cr3 question, I think we should try to get X number of submissions made with 0.12.8, we cannot guarantee the stars they will get :)

 15:05:45 <ara> jedimike, if you are running Oneiric, apt-get install checkbox version=0.12.8 should do the trick

 15:05:46 <ara> ..

 15:05:53 <ara> cr3, go ahead

 15:05:57 <cr3> We should probably not be considering any Oneiric results before at least RC, I don't think a development release should be considered friendly.. because they're mostly unfriendly anyways :)

 15:06:01 <cr3> ..

 15:06:08 <ara> o/

 15:06:12 <roadmr> o/

 15:06:15 <cr3> ara, go ahead :)

 15:06:47 <jedimike> o/

 15:06:50 <ara> agree, but I think that we need newer data (and cleaning up old one) so we make sure that 0.12.8 will give good results once 11.10 gets released

 15:06:51 <ara> ..

 15:07:00 <ara> roadmr, sir

 15:07:06 <cr3> o/

 15:07:27 <roadmr> um, at the *very* least everyone here should be able to submit a more-than-one-star result, all our laptops should work fine by now

 15:07:37 <roadmr> if not, we'd have to look at why :)

 15:07:38 <roadmr> ..

 15:07:54 <ara> jedimike, your turn

 15:08:08 <brendand> o/

 15:08:27 <bladernr> o/

 15:08:28 <jedimike> the reason I'm asking during this meeting is to that it's on record and everyone can be sure they're running the right version of checkbox

 15:08:43 <jedimike> so, I'm *not* using the ppa, just the default oneiric sources

 15:08:52 <jedimike> and I've done a full apt-get update and upgrade

 15:09:11 <jedimike> and apt-get install checkbox version=0.12.8 complains that it can't find that version

 15:09:45 <jedimike> so I want to make sure the instructions we give here work for people following along :)

 15:09:46 <jedimike> ...

 15:10:04 <ara> cr3, I think it is your turn

 15:10:06 <cr3> ara, I don't understand the purpose of cleaning up the old data, is it to verify that the star systems works? that could be useful for testing purposes, but I think data prior to RC should be removed.

 15:10:10 <cr3> .

 15:10:13 <cr3> .

 15:10:44 <ara> cr3, cleaning up = remove

 15:10:54 <cr3> ara: ah! thanks for the clarification :)

 15:11:05 <ara> sorry for the confusion :)

 15:11:09 <ara> brendand, your turn

 15:11:53 <brendand> for jedimike, and others listening - one thing you can do is 'dpkg -l | grep checkbox'. The PPA version will have 'bzr' in its version number

 15:13:07 <brendand> i guess if you've been using the PPA you might need to 'apt-get remove checkbox', then 'apt-get install' again

 15:13:09 <brendand> ..

 15:13:20 <ara> bladernr, all yours

 15:13:24 <bladernr> So assuming that I'm running 0.12.8 (apt-cache on my x201 says I am) and I run the tests and submit, is there anyting I need to do to get my results to appear in UF (and I'm assuming that is the bit.ly link) I've run checkbox and submitted several times but I've never seen my system appear in the UF listings.

 15:13:29 <bladernr> ..

 15:14:11 <ara> bladernr, when was the last time you run it?

 15:14:13 <cr3> bladernr: results tracker updates from launchpad every hour, ubuntu friendly updates from results tracker every hour too, so it should appear within two hours

 15:14:29 <bladernr> or wherever the site is currently sitting... since the bit.ly link is dead ;-)

 15:14:45 <bladernr> ara:  it's been a week or two by now... got busy with other things

 15:14:59 <cr3> crap, I wish the results tracker would show the systems per user: http://107.20.153.224/~bladernr

 15:15:11 <bladernr> cr3:  that's what I thought, but i never saw it show up in either place...  Oh well, I'll try again today and see what happens.

 15:15:14 <cr3> who the heck wrote that piece of crap :(

 15:15:23 <ara> bladernr, is not here: http://107.20.216.30/?desktops=on&laptops=on&stars=1&release=4&popularity=any&term=lenovo ?

 15:15:57 <jedimike> o/

 15:16:03 <ara> jedimike, go ahead

 15:16:05 <bladernr> ara:  oh what do you know... it DID show up

 15:16:07 <cr3> ara: action item? jedimike, bladernr and I to look into his system?

 15:16:50 <bladernr> ok... forget what I said, it DID end up in there.  It just wasn't there previously... I swear! :-)

 15:17:00 <jedimike> I now have checkbox 0.12.8, hurrah! For people who've been using the PPA - you must move it from your sources, apt-get remove checkbox; (this will also uninstall ubuntu-desktop, so don't be surprized by that) and then apt-get install checkbox

 15:17:02 <jedimike> ..

 15:17:10 <ara> o/

 15:17:36 <ara> OK, so couple of action items if you guys agree

 15:18:13 <ara> #action cr3, jedimike: to remove results, as they are not useful and it is making it impossible to see what's still failing

 15:18:13 * meetingology` cr3, jedimike: to remove results, as they are not useful and it is making it impossible to see what's still failing

 15:18:38 <ara> #action All to submit at least 1 system using checkbox 0.12.8 by next meeting

 15:18:38 * meetingology` All to submit at least 1 system using checkbox 0.12.8 by next meeting

 15:18:44 <ara> ..

 15:18:51 <cr3> o/

 15:18:55 <ara> cr3, go ahead

 15:19:14 <cr3> just to be clear, results will not be removed from the results tracker :)

 15:19:39 <cr3> ..

 15:19:50 <ara> cr3, cool, thanks for the clarification

 15:20:02 <jedimike> o/

 15:20:02 <ara> everybody agrees on the action items, otherwise?

 15:20:04 <bladernr> 0/

 15:20:07 <ara> jedimike, go ahead

 15:20:45 <jedimike> so, the action is for me to remove the current 1-star results from the results tracker, and only import results submitted from current time onwards?

 15:21:20 <jedimike> ..

 15:21:22 <ara> jedimike, also the 4.5 one ;-) as brendand cheated a bit on that one :P

 15:21:28 <jedimike> heh ok

 15:21:40 <ara> bladernr, your turn

 15:21:42 <bladernr> could cr3 or jedimike send an e-mail out to the UF list when the purge is complete so we'll know when to start sending (hopefully) legitimate test results in?

 15:21:44 <bladernr> ..

 15:22:01 <ara> bladernr, good idea, I guess they could :)

 15:22:02 <cr3> bladernr: I think legitimate results should happen when we consider oneiric to be legitimate

 15:22:13 <bladernr> cr3:  semi-legitimate then

 15:22:17 <ara> cr3, legitimate results as in legitimate for the action item :)

 15:22:17 <bladernr> or... faux-legitimate

 15:22:40 <cr3> ok, my brain just leaked

 15:22:53 <ara> o/

 15:22:58 <cr3> ara: go ahead

 15:23:02 <brendand> o/

 15:23:05 <jedimike> o/

 15:23:18 <ara> cr3, is it possible to discard submissions that are being done by checkbox < 0.12.8 ?

 15:23:22 <ara> ..

 15:23:49 <cr3> ara: nope, client information is not recorded

 15:23:51 <cr3> ..

 15:23:53 <ara> cr3, thanks

 15:23:55 <ara> brendand, your turn

 15:24:54 <brendand> i'll answer 'no' to bluetooth/file-transfer next time (if it hasn't been removed?)

 15:24:56 <brendand> ..

 15:25:06 <jedimike> o/

 15:25:12 <ara> brendand, it was removed

 15:25:15 <ara> jedimike, your turn

 15:25:27 <Amoz> o/

 15:25:30 <jedimike> there's still a problem with the bluetooth/detect test

 15:25:40 <jedimike> it fails, and checkbox asks you to submit a bug

 15:25:52 <brendand> o/

 15:25:58 <jedimike> looks like the reason it fails is that the bluez-hcidump package isn't installed

 15:26:25 <jedimike> that shouldn't not be installed if we're running checkbox, surely?

 15:26:33 <jedimike> I'm submitting a bug report

 15:26:34 <jedimike> ..

 15:26:46 <ara> Amoz, your turn

 15:27:14 <Amoz> shouldn't it save the client and ubuntu versions (beta, RC etc.) so we can look at the actual progress for a new release in terms of UF:ness?

 15:27:19 <Amoz> ..

 15:27:45 <ara> brendand, your turn

 15:28:00 <cr3> o/

 15:28:50 <brendand> the bluetooth/detect test is just the output of 'hcitool dev'. it doesn't depend on bluez-hcidump. it fails if there is no bluetooth device on the system, which makes sense

 15:28:54 <brendand> ...

 15:29:19 <ara> o/

 15:29:38 <jedimike> o/

 15:29:40 <ara> cr3, go ahead

 15:30:12 <cr3> Amoz: UF'ness is a good point but rather complicated to scale for the ubuntu community because it would require recording all the packages installed in order to detect things like packages installed from PPA, etc.

 15:30:16 <cr3> ..

 15:30:51 <ara> my turn, I guess

 15:31:30 <ara> so, to Amoz, that'd be useful but as cr3, it is very difficult to implement. But we might consider it for future versions

 15:31:39 <cr3> ara: blueprint?

 15:31:40 <ara> to brendand, jedimike on the detect one

 15:31:58 <Amoz> o/

 15:32:39 <jedimike> brendand: I appreciate the test doesn't need hcidump, and when the test fails and it asks me if I want to submit a bug, it asks me to run that command, which isn't installed. It's just confusing that the test is meant to fail if I have no bluetooth hardware, and yet it asks me if I want to submit a bug...

 15:32:55 <jedimike> Being a fan of ubuntu and wanting to improve it, of course I want to submit a bug

 15:33:09 <ara> brendand, the test is not meant to be run if the system does not have bluetooth

 15:33:26 <jedimike> Ah, then that might be the problem, I have no bluetooth hardware and yet the test is running

 15:33:28 <jedimike> ..

 15:33:34 <ara> brendand, or if it is meant to be run, then it shouldn't count as failure in UF

 15:33:43 <ara> brendand, jedimike: let's take this offline

 15:33:53 <ara> Amoz, your turn, agian

 15:34:07 <Amoz> to clarify, if checkbox is able to send the info about whether it's beta1/rc/alpha the UF site could just ignore all the versions except the stable ones.

 15:34:38 <cr3> o/

 15:34:39 <Amoz> this way everyone can see the big picture, but not cluttering the UF site with development releases

 15:34:47 <Amoz> ..

 15:34:53 <ara> cr3, yes, sir

 15:35:45 <cr3> Amoz: accurately detecting beta1, etc. is very complicated. it can only be determined reliably by comparing the set of packages and their versions to the state of the archive within the delta of the release you're interested in... pain! :)

 15:36:18 <Amoz> ah, of course. thanks for clarifying that

 15:36:47 <ara> OK

 15:36:52 <ara> anything else on this topic?

 15:36:57 <cr3> Amoz: the best that can accomplished, with meh accuracy, is checking the output of lsb-release for development vs stable or the kernel version... but, as I said, that's "meh" at best

 15:37:01 <cr3> ..

 15:37:42 <cr3> Amoz: fyi, that was considered pretty important at some point, so likely to be worked on eventually

 15:38:30 <ara> cr3, Amoz: the blueprint that might cover those topics is: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/certify-planning/+spec/hardware-p-cert-selftest

 15:38:56 <cr3> ara: thanks!

 15:39:14 <ara> anything else on this topic, or shall we move on?

 15:39:51 <ara> #topic Any Other Business?

 15:40:02 <ara> Any last minute topic?

 15:40:50 <ara> OK, let's wrap up then

 15:40:52 <ara> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
