{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Created''':  by Tikal26
* '''Contributors''': Tikal26
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
We need two Table of Content for our magazine. One is a global and another specific to our 1st issue
=== Rationale ===
This is the skeleton of our magazine, a well though out TOC is the foundation for a successful magazine
=== Use cases ===
Anna is exited about the first issue of the Ubuntu Magazine and take a look at the table of contents. She finds it incoherent and unattractive she looses desire to look at contents and stops reading.
=== Scope ===
This should include a mockup of the table of content plus a brief definition of what each element is. This projec tneesd help from many people that will decide the content plus the look of it
=== Design ===
A mockup for review on graphical manner
=== Implementation ===
First draft
 
Editors note
 Intro to our magazine , Who we are(an extesion of the marketing team, members 
of the community),What are our expectation of the magazine,Why we are doing what we are doing.

Team of the Month
 Intro to the marketing team. I feel that this would be a good place to introduce the marketing team its purpose and different teams and invite other to participate.

Letter to the magazine
 perhaps we wont have any

Screenshots of the Month

Go around and show what we feel are the best screenshots of the month They should show the different flavors and flexibility of ubuntu. The screenshots should have icons set, theme, software running etc. A step by step on how to set it up.

Meet the Daper Drake

Quick intro to Linux->Debia->Ubuntu-> 
Daper Drake features
Mention of the flavors of Ubuntu

How 2.0 

How to install Ubuntu (Show off the new installer) 

How to install software
Brief intro into package management, advantages (security), disvantages, 
Synaptic and Adept example

How to contribute
A section on how to contribute to Ubuntu, We can start on how to report a bug. I think that would be nice since most error messages ask for bug reports, but I still don't know to report a bug.

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
