{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu needs to be translated into Inuktitut (the language of the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inuit|Inuit]]</nowiki>). For this to happen, we need some pieces.

=== Font ===
* Pigiarniq font is what the Government of Nunavut uses. <nowiki>[[http://www.tiro.com/syllabics/resources/index.html]]</nowiki>
* Emailed inquiring under which license it is released. 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gov.nu.ca/font.htm]]</nowiki> - Here is a font, but unknown licence
* Emailed Nortext about the Nunacom font, said it was pretty much obsolete now. 
* "The font is pretty much public domain - never had anybody ask us about the license before. 
 
If we had to choose one, I would say CCO - <nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/legalcode]]</nowiki>"
 - Fred Jansen, Nortext. Regarding the Nunacom font
* ACTION ITEM - contact the Nunavut goverment as ask to relicence under a DFSG-free licence, for inclusion in main. The best licence would probably be the GPL
* This may also work - <nowiki>[[http://rpmfind.net/linux/RPM/mandrake/10.1/i586/media/main/locales-iu-2.3.3-8mdk.i586.html]]</nowiki>
* The <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/unstable/main/ttf-lg-aboriginal|ttf-lg-aboriginal]]</nowiki> font package in Debian would work since it has Syllabics coverage.  The fonts are originally from <nowiki>[[http://languagegeek.com|Languagegeek.com]]</nowiki>.  It is currently in Debian unstable and will be synced with Intrepid.

=== Collect existing translations ===
* There are a number of exisiting translations out there. Find them and get them into Rosetta
* ACTION ITEM - search and contact existing translators

=== Contact new translators ===
* There are a fair number of Inuktitut speakers/profs out there. Find them.
* ACTION ITEM - visit your local University's language faculty and ask around

=== Find out where Microsoft is at ===
* They started last May
* <nowiki>[[http://canadaonline.about.com/b/a/075557.htm]]</nowiki> - News story
* <nowiki>[[http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/press/2004/mar04/0317LLPQS.asp]]</nowiki> - The MS propaganda
* <nowiki>[[http://www.pirurvik.ca/]]</nowiki> - They are working with these people, we should contact them
* ACTION ITEM - contact MS and ask them about buying a copy of windows in Inuktitut

=== Randomly useful links ===
* <nowiki>[[http://attavik.ca/en_index.html]]</nowiki> - These people may also be able to help us
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+lang/iu|Rosetta translations in IU]]</nowiki>
