{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

== Heartbeat ==

Heartbeat is a project from Linux-HA. The goal is to provide a High Availability clustering solution for Linux. Heartbeat is the daemon which provides the cluster infrastructure. In order to be useful, Heartbeat needs to be combined with a Cluster Resource Manager (CRM), which is the one in charge of starting and stopping the services (Web, DNS, Database, File servers and/or IP Addresses) to make them Highly Available.

Through the years, Heartbeat has evolved and has different types of configurations:

* Heartbeat V1: This type of configuration uses the Version 1 Cluster Resource Manager. This is also known as the legacy Heartbeat. It allows us to configure two cluster node in active / passive or active / active configurations.
* Heartbeat V2: This type of configuration is related to the use of the version 2 Cluster Resource Manager. It allows us to configure two or more nodes in active / passive or active / active configurations.
* Heartbeat 2.99.x + Pacemaker: Since Heartbeat 2.99.x, the version 2 Cluster Resource Manager has been removed from the code, and a new project was started. This project is called Pacemaker.

=== Install ===

To get started with Heartbeat, please install the following package. From a terminal enter:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install heartbeat-2
</pre>

=== Configuration ===

<nowiki>[[UbuntuHighAvailabilityTeam-Heartbeat-V1|Heartbeat V1]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[UbuntuHighAvailabilityTeam-Heartbeat-V2|Heartbeat V2]]</nowiki>

=== References ===
