{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Joining In ==

<<BR>>

If you don't have an IRC client installed, or don't even know what an IRC client is then you might want to try connecting to the channels using a web browser.

 ~+ Click <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom%2Cubuntu-classroom-chat|here]]</nowiki> to join in the discussion directly in your browser+~

Use your IRC client (such as xchat, irssi or mIRC) to connect to the Freenode IRC network at irc.freenode.net. You can do this manually by typing:

 <code>/server irc.freenode.net</code>

Then join #ubuntu-classroom for the time and date of the session you want to attend. You can manually join the channel by typing:

 <code>/join #ubuntu-classroom</code>

To quiet various noise that happens in the IRC channels during the talk use this command (in supported clients only):

 <pre>
/ignore #ubuntu-classroom CRAP NOTICES SNOTES CTCPS JOINS PARTS QUITS KICKS MODES WALLOPS NICKS DCC DCCMSGS CLIENTNOTICES CLIENTCRAP CLIENTERRORS HILIGHTS
 </pre>

You should also join #ubuntu-classroom-chat which is the general discussion channel for the session. Questions should be posted there. You should prefix your questions with "QUESTION:" to make them easier to spot.

Most sessions last for around an hour. Contact the #ubuntu-classroom-backstage channel on IRC if you have any problems.

For instructions on how to use the various IRC clients, see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|XChatHowto]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Pidgin|Pidgin]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Irssi|Irssi]]</nowiki>, respectively. General information about IRC is locate at InternetRelayChat. For Windows users just getting started finding out about Ubuntu, you can use XChat for Windows from http://silverex.info/download/ or Pidgin from http://www.pidgin.im/ (both free).  For Ubuntu users of course these come from the repositories.
