{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== UbuntuAppsSymlinkedToXubuntuEquivs ====

=== Rationale ===

Most instructions that new users receive are in the form of "type this into the terminal". On a number of occasions, I have observed new Xubuntu users failing at these instructions because the instuctions assume that the Gnome environment is being used.

For instance, "sudo gedit /etc/fstab" gives a "command not found" error message on Xubuntu. Somebody new to Linux may not realise that Gedit is only available on Gnome, and to substitute it for "mousepad" in the command.

Therefore, when Xubuntu is installed from scratch, appropriate symbolic links should be created.

=== Scope ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Gnome program'''
| '''Xubuntu program to link to'''
|-
| Gedit
| Mousepad
|-
| GThumb
| GQView
|-
| Serpentine
| Xfburn
|-
| Rhythmbox
| Xfmedia
|-
| Nautilus
| Thunar
|}

Symlinks should NOT be forcibly created (i.e. if the user is switching from Ubuntu to Xubuntu but wants to keep a particular Gnome program, the symlink should not replace the Gnome program)

=== Comments ===

Perhaps using the alternatives system would be a step in the right direction? (AldousPenaranda)
