{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Sign Up! ==
This is the UbuntuTour Project Volunteers list.  This is where you can sign up for tasks you're willing to be on the team for.

=== We need Authors, Editors, Programmers, Designers, and Translators. ===

If you'd like to be on the list, sign in with your launchpad ID and add your name and email address to the category you'd like to volunteer to help with.

'''Please add a note under each section about what skills you can help with specifically'''

''ie: (Under Translation) "Bob Cratchit - bob.cratchit@dickens.com - I can help with translation into Cockney British."

and, (under "Programming") - "Bob Cratchit - bob.cratchit@dickens.com - I can help some with programming Python, a little HTML, I'm also good with working with only small lumps of coal.''

== Project Leaders ==
"Timothy Kross - ubuntu@omega.otherinbox.com - I'm the Organizational Leader. :)"

"Alexander Lancey - alex@alexandos.org - I'm the design leader (I think)."

"April Gonzales - loonycookie@gmail.com - I'm with the writing team."

"Anthony Stewart - madnessred@gmail.com - I'm the programming leader."

"Micheal Harker - micheal.harker@gmail.com - I am the Website Leader and Designer."

== Authors ==
"Greg Ryman - ryman.greg+ubuntutour@gmail.com - I can write and edit in English."

"Rohit - rohitsilentkiller@gmail.com - I too can write and edit in English. I have been using ubuntu for over two years now. So I hope I can help in writing material for Ubuntu-Tour "

"Miguel A. Rozsas - marozsas@gmail.com - I can write in English but my text need to be revised by a native speaker. I saw on the UbuntuTour/Todo list that OpenOffice need work. I can help as I use Write/Impress/Scalc at work, daily."

"Matt Fields - fields.emmett@gmail.com - English. I would be happy to do a writeup on one of the apps, and I can help with the wiki."

"Isaac Trumbo - itbcn8@live.com - I can write in English."

"Tyler James - tylerbrainerd@gmail.com - Been writing in English, and I can help edit as well."

"David Ashford - ashford.david@gmail.com - I can write in English."

"Giulio Collura - random.cpp@gmail.com - Already writing material in English. I can halp in editing too. "

"Mahesh Mohan M.U - maheshmohan.mu@gmail.com - I can give serious input as English content to the project. "

"Nekhelesh Ramananthan - krnekhelesh@hotmail.com - I can add material in english and edit as well."

"Federico Leite - frederic.176@gmail.com - I can write in English."

"Alexander Lancey - alex@alexandos.org - I can write in English."

"April Gonzales - loonycookie@gmail.com - I write in English."

"Senthil Kumar - webrsk.ideas@gmail.com - I can write in English."

"David Tigue - dtigue@gmail.com - I can write in English. I have used Linux for over 10 yrs."

"Maitraya K. Bhattacharyya - maitraya.linux@gmail.com - I can write in English. Been using Ubuntu for a long time."

"Samuel Chase - sc7898@gmail.com - I can write in good English and have a good knowledge of Ubuntu. As a recent convert to it (about 3-4 months), who rejected it a few years ago on usability grounds, I still have a good memory of the experience and the questions/problems of a first-time user. I have also written formal PR articles for projects in the past."

== Editors ==
"Greg Ryman - ryman.greg+ubuntutour@gmail.com - I can write and edit in English."

"Rohit - rohitsilentkiller@gmail.com - I can help in editing too."

"Isaac Trumbo - itbcn8@live.com - I can edit in English."

"David Ashford - ashford.david@gmail.com - I can help edit in English too."

"Ivo Reumkens - ivoreum@gmail.com - I can help edit in English aswell."

"Trevor Wermund - twermund@gmail.com - I can write and edit in English."

"Alexander Lancey - alex@alexandos.org - I can edit in English."

"April Gonzales - loonycookie@gmail.com - I can edit and proofread for English content."

"Wilson - brexdon@gmail.com - I can edit in English."

"Senthil Kumar - webrsk.ideas@gmail.com - I can write and edit in English for the tour and periodically spell check in wiki."

"David Tigue - dtigue@gmail.com - I can write and edit in English. Have proofread for well known authors."

"Maitraya K. Bhattacharyya - maitraya.linux@gmail.com - Can edit and proofread. Been doing this for my school magazine."

== Programmers ==
"Anthony Stewart - madnessred@gmail.com - Python, GTK, HTML/CSS/Javascript"

"Akshar Patel - akshar.patel.47@gmail.com - Know Python, HTML, CSS, Learning GTK"

"Alex Marcotte - alexclamation@gmail.com - Python, GTK"

"Silas Lenz - silas.lenz@gmail.com - Python, HTML, Some PyGTK, CSS"

"Pontjho Mokhonoana - pontjho@gmail.com - C#, and a bit of GTK#"

"Mahesh Mohan M.U - maheshmohan.mu@gmail.com - Python, Learning GTK, PHP"

"David Ashford - ashford.david@gmail.com - HTML, CSS (if those are needed)"

"Trevor Wermund - twermund@gmail.com - HTML, CSS and a bit of JavaScript"

"Keimpe de Jong - undifined@gmail.com - PHP, HTML, love to learn Python/GTK"

"Alexander Lancey alex@alexandos.org - I can work in HTML/PHP (I made the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntutour.org | website]]</nowiki>), and although I don't know PyGTK, I know some Python."

"Fabian Trafoier ftrafoier@gmail.com - HTML, PyGtk"

"Senthil Kumar - webrsk.ideas@gmail.com - I can work in PHP,HTML,Python,PyGTK also concentrate on performance. "

"Alexander Ayasca Esquives - alexander.uni.fiis@gmail.com - HTML, Python/GTK"

== Designers ==
"Celso H. L. S. Junior - celsohlsj@gmail.com - GIMP/Inkscape."

"Matt Fields - fields.emmett@gmail.com - GIMP/Inkscape - I can do graphics layout / vector graphics / design mockups. I would prefer to be directed to what small graphical tasks need doing."

"Ivo Reumkens - ivoreum@gmail.com - I use GIMP or Photoshop. I can do mockups / layout / tutorial images (maybe more?)."

"Tomáš Stanislavský - admin@stormchasers.sk - I can do icons, tutorials images & layouts. I use Photoshop, Paint.NET and sometimes GIMP."

"Maitraya K. Bhattacharyya - maitraya.linux@gmail.com -I can work pretty well with Inkscape and Scribus. Love to create vectors. Work on GIMP too."

== Translators ==

"Celso H. L. S. Junior - celsohlsj@gmail.com - Translation into Brazilian Portuguese."

"Joselito F. do N. Júnior - joselitojunior+ubuntu@gmail.com - Translation into Brazilian Portuguese."

"Miguel A. Rozsas - marozsas@gmail.com - Translation into Braziliam Portuguese, too."

"Raphael Ramos - raphael436@yahoo.com.br - Translation into Brazilian Portuguese."

"Rohit - rohitsilentkiller@gmail.com - Translation"

"Ivo Reumkens - ivoreum@gmail.com - Translation into Dutch"

"Alexander Ayasca Esquives - alexander.uni.fiis@gmail.com - Translation into Spanish"

"MixCool - lars.thoms@mixcool.de - Translation into German"

"Nicola Moretto - nicolamoretto88@yahoo.it - Translation into Italian"

"Sakti Dwi Cahyono - 54krpl@gmail.com - Translation into Indonesian."

"Ivo Lavor - ivo.lavor@gmail.com - Translation into Brazilian Portuguese."

"Tomáš Stanislavský - admin@stormchasers.sk - Translation into Slovak."

"Moises Mata Astorga - moisesmata@gmail.com - Translation into Spanish"

"Papp Bence - ubilulu@gmail.com - Translation into Hungarian."

"Aurélien Bertron - aure_bertron@hotmail.com - Translation into French."

"Jan Schuermann - ubuntu@visionfactory.net - Translation into German"

"José Luis Ricón Fernández de la Puente" - artirj@gmail.com - Translations into Spanish "

"Cesar Marcos Silva Vanegas" - silva.cesar@gmail.com - Translations into Spanish "
