{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Puppet Configuration Management -- Daviey ===
{{{#!irc
[18:02] <Daviey> My name is Dave Walker (Daviey), and I am a member of the Ubuntu Server Team.
[18:02] <Daviey> Welcome to the puppet classroom session.  This session is mainly targeted at those that have had minimal or no exposure to the puppet.
[18:03] <Daviey> It allows reproducible, consistent deployments, which is good for horizontal scaling and replacing machines which have malfunctioned.
[18:03] <Daviey> A good reference for more details about the project is at:
[18:03] <Daviey> http://projects.puppetlabs.com/projects/puppet/wiki/About_Puppet
[18:03] <Daviey> Please take a few moment to grok the content of that page, there is little point in my reproducing the content here.
[18:03]  * Daviey waits a few minutes.
[18:04] <Daviey> Now, some of that might sound little complicated but it really is simple when you get started.
[18:05]  * Daviey continues.
[18:05] <Daviey> Puppet focuses on the 'configuration' management.  The initial operating system deployment is usually done with either, preseeding the installer, cobbler, FAI or simply spawning a cloud machine, such as EC2.
[18:05] <Daviey> In regards to EC2.. people tend to use user-scripts or increasingly cloud-init.
[18:06] <Daviey> Once the base operating is installed, there is always some changes that need to be made to make the server usable for production.  This varies from performance tweaks, application configuration and even custom versions of packages.  This could all be handled with scripts and such, but this is less than clean and near impossible to maintain.  This is where puppet provides a clean solution.
[18:06] <Daviey> Once the base operating is installed, there is always some changes that need to be made to make the server usable for production.  This varies from performance tweaks, application configuration and even custom versions of packages.  This could all be handled with scripts and such, but this is less than clean and near impossible to maintain.  This is where puppet provides a clean solution.
[18:06] <Daviey> Puppet generally acts on a client/server method, to manage multiple nodes.  However, it is also possible to use puppet on a single host.  For simplicity, this session will demonstrate a single host deployment example and some of the features of puppet via their configuration format - called a manifest.
[18:07] <Daviey> In this session, we will do the following:
[18:07] <Daviey> • Connect to an instance in the cloud
[18:07] <Daviey> • Install puppet
[18:07] <Daviey> • Initial configuration
[18:07] <Daviey> • Configure the same node to install and create a basic apache virtual host
[18:07] <Daviey> Firstly, i hope everyone will be able to look at a console window, and this IRC session concurrently.
[18:08] <Daviey> I'm going to invite everyone to connect via ssh to a cloud instance:
[18:08] <Daviey> $ ssh demo@demo.daviey.com
[18:08] <Daviey> You'll need to accept the host key
[18:08] <Daviey> I don't think it really requires verification in this instance.
[18:08] <Daviey> (Although, it's generally good pratice to compare the fingerprint)
[18:09] <Daviey> The password is 'demo'
[18:09] <Daviey> (Secure huh?)
[18:10]  * Daviey waits for a confirmation.
=== pvo_ is now known as pvo
[18:10] <Daviey> I will type in the IRC channel comments, so please multi-task by looking at both.. Thanks :)
[18:11] <Daviey> So, i just checked to see if we have apache2 installed... we do not!
[18:11] <Daviey> (You can check there is nothing running as a httpd on port 80, by visiting http://demo.daviey.com
[18:12] <Daviey> (You should get a failure)
[18:12] <Daviey> I'm running sudo apt-get update, to make sure our indexes are updated
[18:12] <Daviey> The observant amongst you, will notice i'm running Natty
[18:12] <Daviey> The current development version
[18:12] <Daviey> (I must be crazy doing a demo on this! :)
[18:13] <Daviey> So, i just, sudo apt-get install puppet
[18:13] <Daviey> This installs the puppet application and it's dependencies.
[18:14] <Daviey> This stage, would normally be done automatically during installation
[18:14] <Daviey> (if you preseed it such)
[18:14] <Daviey> You'll notice the output here:
[18:14] <Daviey> puppet not configured to start, please edit /etc/default/puppet to enable
[18:14] <Daviey> Did you all see the START=no, option
[18:15] <Daviey> This means that the puppet client agent will not run automatically
[18:15] <Daviey> My intention is to invoke puppet manually.. so i do not need the client to be running
[18:16] <Daviey> (one moment please)
[18:17] <Daviey> (slight technical issue, please hold)
[18:21] <Daviey> Okay!
[18:21] <Daviey> we are back
[18:21] <Daviey> okay, this is the directory structure we should see
[18:21] <Daviey> on a fresh installation
[18:22] <Daviey> Okay, i have just copied a manifest to /etc/puppet/manifest
[18:22] <Daviey> I hope everyone can see this
[18:22] <Daviey> It's quite a quick one i have thrown together
[18:22] <Daviey> It should:
[18:22] <Daviey> Install apache2
[18:22] <Daviey> add a virtual host, called demo.daviey.com
[18:23] <Daviey> and enable it
[18:23] <Daviey> (I'll make it avaliable afterwards via a pastebin)
[18:23] <Daviey> The stanza towards the bottom mentions, ip-10-117-82-138
[18:23] <Daviey> (for the observant, you'll notice this is the hostname of the machine)
[18:24] <Daviey> I could equally, have put 'default' here... which would mean that it would do it for every machine connected
[18:24] <Daviey> (in this instance, i am only using one machine)
[18:24] <Daviey> Now, the actual virtual host needs a template...
[18:24] <Daviey> lets create it.
=== daker is now known as daker_
[18:25] <Daviey> puppet uses Ruby's ERB template system:
[18:25] <Daviey> You'll notice that there are parts which can be expanded.
[18:25] <Daviey> So, this is a generic apache virtual host template, that could be used for other virtualhosts
[18:25] <Daviey> other than demo.daviey.com
[18:26] <Daviey> Now... lets make puppet do it's thing!
[18:27] <Daviey> I love it when a plan comes together.
[18:28] <Daviey> Essentially, i did a dry run with this configs before the session.. and didn't clean up properly!
[18:28] <Daviey> This is why i should have used puppet to clean up, as it would have done it better than me!
[18:29] <Daviey> So, puppet install apache2 and enabled the virtual host
[18:29] <Daviey> puppet knows which package hander to use
[18:29] <Daviey> ie, apt, yum etc
[18:30] <Daviey> Now... if we check to see if apache started.. we'll see it failed... one moment
[18:31] <Daviey> So...
[18:31] <Daviey> (2)No such file or directory: apache2: could not open error log file /var/log/apache/demo.daviey.com-error.log.
[18:31] <Daviey> Unable to open logs
[18:31] <Daviey> This means i made a typo in my template... suggestions on how i should fix this?
[18:31] <Daviey> kim0, Is quite correct with:
[18:31] <Daviey> <kim0> Daviey: should be "apache2" there
[18:31] <Daviey> But... How should i *fix* it?
[18:32] <Daviey> We edit the template of course!
[18:33] <Daviey> Now, we should be able to go to http://demo.daviey.com/
[18:33] <Daviey> (My simple Task didn't try to start apache if it wasn't already running!)
[18:33] <Daviey> notice: /Stage[main]//Node[ip-10-117-82-138]/Apache2::Simple-vhost[demo.daviey.com]/File[/etc/apache2/sites-available/demo.daviey.com]/content: content changed '{md5}5047b9f9a688c04e2697d9fd961960ed' to '{md5}2c32102fd06543c85967276eeee797e2'
[18:34] <Daviey> ^^ Puppet knew it should create a new virtual host, based on the template changing!
[18:34] <Daviey> How neat is that?!
[18:35] <Daviey> Now, in a real life example - puppet would also manage pulling in the website..
[18:35] <Daviey> puppet provides a FileBucket interface..
[18:35] <Daviey> This is similar to rsync, and allows files to be retrieved from there.
[18:35] <Daviey> However, for large files - people often use an external application which is configured via puppet.
[18:36] <Daviey> This could be anything from rsyncd, nfs or event torrent!
[18:36] <Daviey> facter is a really useful tool.  This is where the variables used in the templates are expanded from...  I think of it as lsb_release supercharged.
[18:37] <Daviey> Here is an example of the output, just generated:
[18:37] <Daviey> http://paste.ubuntu.com/584952/
[18:37] <Daviey> This is a list of 'facts' about the system
[18:38] <Daviey> One of the really nice things about the manifests... is that they can be conditional
=== Mike is now known as Guest49828
[18:38] <Daviey> So, i could do a different task based on they virtual type (or lack of) for example.
[18:39] <Daviey> There is no point trying to use this machine as a virtual machine server, if it doesn't fit the requirements
[18:39] <Daviey> Usually bare metal - and amount of memory free
[18:39] <Daviey> The configuration files are largely inheritance based, which fully supports overriding of configurations from the base class.
[18:40] <Daviey> When puppet is installed on a client / server basis... it uses SSL for secure communciation between the elements
[18:41] <Daviey> The server runs on port 8140. so make sure firewall is opened (or ec2 security group allows communication!)
[18:41] <Daviey> Client (Agent) - puppetd
[18:41] <Daviey> Server - puppetmasterd
[18:41] <Daviey> ^^ This is the name of the applications
[18:41] <Daviey> The puppetd runs on all the clients, and polls the Server with the default value of every 30 minutes looking for changes
[18:42] <Daviey> It defaults to looking for the dns hostname of 'puppet'
[18:42] <Daviey> So, it's a good idea for the puppet master to have that dns entry set for a local network
[18:42] <Daviey> Equally, i could have set puppet.mydomain.com
[18:43] <Daviey> This is probably a good place to stop the demo.  I will make my puppet configuration avaiable for others to experiment with.
[18:43] <Daviey> It really is not as complicated as it seems to get started.
[18:43] <Daviey> When i first tried puppet, i found the 'getting started' docs to be somewhat complicated.
[18:44] <Daviey> I would recommend people start with a minimal example like this.. and then build from there.
[18:44] <Daviey> The puppet website has some excellent recipies to use as an example... but probably a good idea to start simple.
[18:44] <Daviey> I will now take questions, and answer them as best as i can
=== drc is now known as Guest51125
[18:45] <Daviey> Annnnd. classbot, i hate you
[18:45] <Daviey> classbot isn't +v
[18:45] <Daviey> <ClassBot> sveiss asked: how large is 'large'? is there a rule of thumb as to how much data a FileBucket can cope with? -- There is 1 additional question in the queue.
[18:46] <Daviey> sveiss, that is a good question.. I seem to remember reading that since 2.6... massive improvements have gone into increasing it's efficiency
[18:46] <Daviey> However, it is still believed to be the likely bottlekneck
[18:47] <Daviey> I haven't found the later versions to suffer to badly from this bottlekneck
[18:47] <Daviey> but others have commented.
[18:47] <Daviey> I think it depends on load..
[18:48] <Daviey> I would ask that if you do try the filebucket that you report back to the ubuntu server team with your success.
[18:48] <Daviey> (We often don't get enough feedback)
[18:48] <ClassBot> sveiss asked: how large is 'large'? is there a rule of thumb as to how much data a FileBucket can cope with?
[18:49] <Daviey> kim0 asked: Wouldn't clients looking for dns name "puppet" and blindly following it .. be a secruity risk
[18:49] <Daviey> Well yes.. this is true.. This is one of the reasons SSL is used.
[18:49] <Daviey> Essentially, the pupper master (usually has a self signed key)
[18:49] <Daviey> but the client needs to accept it.
[18:49] <Daviey> This would normally happen as part of the installation, or bootstrapping
[18:50] <Daviey> Which is an area before puppet works.
[18:50] <ClassBot> kim0 asked: Wouldn't clients looking for dns name "puppet" and blindly following it .. be a secruity risk
[18:51] <Daviey> Wow.. i now understand ClassBot
[18:51] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[18:51] <ClassBot> kim0 asked: Do you reuse ready made recipies
[18:52] <Daviey> You would be foolish not to!
[18:52] <Daviey> There is a true gem of samples on the puppet wiki, and other locations.
[18:52] <Daviey> Additionally, there are additional modules
[18:52] <Daviey> Which allow you to reduce the burden of what you need to do
[18:53] <Daviey> shttp://forge.puppetlabs.com/
[18:53] <Daviey> http://forge.puppetlabs.com/ , rather
[18:53] <Daviey> If there are no more questions, i will end my session.
[18:54] <Daviey> I would like to thank everyone for coming
[18:54] <Daviey> Please do experiment with puppet, and report back to us.
[18:54] <Daviey> We are a friendly team, which hang around in #ubuntu-server
[18:54] <Daviey> Thank you for your time.
[18:55]  * kim0 claps
[18:55] <kim0> Thanks Daviey for the awesome session
}}}
