{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Project meeting 26/02/2011 ==

=== IRC Log ===

* The IRC log is available <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/02/26/%23ubuntu-manual.html|here]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===

* Ideas for improving ubuntu-manual.org.
* Ideas for improving the manual.
* Feedback on Project Leader and Editor-in-Chief Roles.
* Quickshot team feedback.
* Discussion into providing the manual in other formats (e.g. ePub).
* Translations?
* Manual Project promotion.
* Any Other Business.

=== Attendees ===
* Godbyk (Chair)
* ChrisWoollard (Minutes)
* c7p
* semioticrobotic
* patrickdickey
* daker
* popey (When his name was mentioned)

=== Minutes ===

==== Ideas for improving ubuntu-manual.org ====
* Test Site - Getting involved / designer / programmer pages need updating
* Test Site - Be more speific on what volunteers are needed for
* Site should be contain info detailing what people are needed for
* We need: Volunteers for the above

==== Ideas for improving the manual ====
* We should have a chapter detailing Alternate applications.
** [ACTION] c7p will research the most frequently used applications in Windows and Mac OS X and will suggest suitable replacements under Ubuntu. Maybe in the Learning more chapter

==== Feedback on Project Leader and Editor-in-Chief Roles ====
* <nowiki>[[http://typewith.me/GY2L5yJCUF|Job descriptions]]</nowiki> look okay. We will now prepare them for advertisement.
** [ACTION] ChrisWoollard will mark up the job descriptions and application process
** [ACTION] godbyk will post it to the ubuntu-manual.org site.
** [ACTION] godbyk will create a jobs@ubuntu-manual.org email address to receive job applications.
** [ACTION] ChrisWoollard will send the application details to popey for inclusion in the podcast.

==== Quickshot team feedback ====
* Write a job description for Quickshot developers. Available <nowiki>[[http://typewith.me/GY2L5yJCUF|here]]</nowiki>.
* Godbyk have a brief chat with Jenkins, but still doesn't know what needs to be done.
* Documentation is still outstanding.
** [ACTION] Chase the quickshot developers for a todo list of skills to continue quickshot developement.

==== Discussion into providing the manual in other formats (e.g. ePub) ====
* [ACTION] Godbyk to look into using Docbook as the source format.
* [ACTION] ChrisWoollard to ask Dinda about the toolchain for the conversion of the developer manual to Docbook.

==== Translations ====
* (c7p)There shouldn't be the option of translating an edition of the manual if this edition isn't complete, cause there is dissatisfaction and confusion among translators.

==== Manual Project promotion ====
* Write a job description for promotions manager. Available <nowiki>[[http://typewith.me/GY2L5yJCUF|here]]</nowiki>.

==== Any Other Business ====
* Info Only - The style guide is now here https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-manual-of-style so can be used with other projects (e.g. The Ubuntu Developer Manual).

=== Next meeting ===
* ACTION [ChrisWoollard] - Schedule next meeting for 2 weeks time. 
