{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Not so sure about the Gnome roadmap but there's something at the ubuntuforums called SMEG (Simple Menu Editor for Gnome) by Amaranth.

http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=67

Maybe this thing can be considered? - JeromeGotangco

Smeg is good, but still buggy.

Why did Ubuntu do away with applications:/// in nautilus? This provides a fairly easy way to edit menus and it is integrated into nautilus by default. Also, it is included in the gnome desktop documentation anyway.

When people read the doco, and they try to use applications:/// as stated in doc it does not work. Why don't we re-introduce this functionality as well as including Smeg in one of the Breezy packages? - PeterEnseleit

== MenuEditor ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JaneW
* Priority: LowPriority
* People: NeedsLead, NeedsSecond
* Contributors: JaneW
* Interested:
* Status: BrainDump, UduBof, DistroSpecification, NewSpec
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Menu Editor – users to be able to customise their own menus.

Developers: How to add items to the desktop menu - Teach people how to create good `.desktop` files, especially since Universe has so many packages that don't have a menu entry.

=== Rationale ===

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

=== Implementation Plan ===

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

==== UDU Pre-Work ====
