{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== NewsLetter ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by MattZimmerman
* Priority: MediumPriority
* People: BenjaminMakoHillLead, JorgeCastroSecond
* Contributors: MattZimmerman
* Interested: AndrewFitzsimon, ColinCharles
* Status: EditedSpec, UduBof
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Discussion of a newsletter for the Ubuntu community.

=== Rationale ===

The Ubuntu Traffic newsletter handles information for developers covering activity on
the development email lists. Many other aspects of the Ubuntu
community including news from subprojects, forums, IRC, Ubuntu
mentions in the press, coordination of conferences, events and talks
on Ubuntu and good write-ups and documentation are dropped. This BOF
discussed a newsletter as a way to bring this information to less
actively involved Ubuntites.

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

We'll cover these issues:

* What information it should include?

* Who the target audience is?

* What is the ideal format and size?

* What should the frequency of publication be?

* Who/how should it be written?

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

The newsletter will cover and describe things things that Traffic does not. It will be designed for a wider audience and will be designed as a tool to plug Ubuntites and potential Ubuntites together. It will aim to cover or include:

* Interviews with people in the community or important upstreams or advocates.

* LoCoTeam news and important events.

* Summaries and announcements from Launchpad projects, subprojects and teams (e.g., MOTU, Rosetta, the Laptop Team, etc)

* Important or significant pieces of documentation (e.g., wiki pages, HOWTOs, forum write-ups, etc)

* Ubuntu in the press items.

* Love letters and such sent by people thanking Ubuntu and the team for all of their hard work. 

* Notable personal blog entries that mention or discuss Ubuntu.

* Upcoming conferences and events.

=== Implementation Plan ===

There were two ideas for the way to link together the Ubuntu
community: blog based solutions and more a formal periodic
newsletter. There are significant numbers of people who prefer and will
only read one form so we should tie the Ubuntu Blog (i.e., "Fridge")
idea to the newsletter and produce the same content in two different
formats with a unified workflow.

The implementation will be as followed:

* We'll create an Ubuntu blog (to be discussed in a different BoF) that will allow the community to submit articles, write-ups and links and any existing content elsewhere.

* We'll ensure that there is a way for an editor or group of editors to view a month worth of articles and to select a group of articles for the newsletter.

The newsletter should:

* Be produced regularly each month on a date to be decided.

* Include 12-15 articles of which 5 of which should be more formal articles and write-ups and the others can be links, videos, etc.

* Should be available online in HTML (also potentially in plaintext with something like W3M).

* Should include a regular summary of major news articles and press written on Ubuntu in the last months and links to traffics that have been made available.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* Who will edit/write the newsletter?

* Will Canonical sponsor this and make this someone's responsibility?

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
