{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== CertificationAndTraining ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JeffWaugh
* Priority: HighPriority
* People: JeffWaughLead, JeffBaileySecond
* Contributors: JeffWaugh
* Interested: Sean Wheller "froud" (represented by Mako)
* Status: BrainDump, UduBof, UbuntuCommunity
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1(0) 

=== Introduction ===

This bof was originally took the view that certification and training could be a single entity, but 

This specification proposes the development of a training and certification programme for Ubuntu. A programme catering to three groups of people: 
General Users - people who use Ubuntu at work and play.
IT Professionals – people who implement and support IT systems used by general users.
Developers – people who develop applications and build the systems that are implemented by IT Professionals and used by General Users.

In developing such as program I feel it is strategically important to align the outcome with internationally recognized and independent certification authorities that support Linux. 
The leader in the area of certification for General Users is the International Computer Drivers License.
The leader in the area of certification for IT Professionals is, without question, the Linux Professional Institute (LPI).

It seems that LPI is also aiming to be the leader in certification of developers.

Students looking to attain internationally recognized credentials look to training centers that have the approval of credible and recognized certification authorities. This is an important point since, in order to attract students, training centers must be able to show that their training programs lead to international recognition and adhere to standards of quality deemed acceptable by industry.

Alignment with ICDL or LPI has therefore a great strategic importance, but also serves to focus any attempt to develop a certification and training program for Ubuntu. It also serves to shorten the effort needed in order to develop such a program. By leveraging on the existing frameworks of these organizations, we can focus on developing the training materials (courseware) in accordance with internationally recognized and accepted specifications.

Having said this, it is also important to recognize these organization position themselves with neutrality in mind. We should not forget that we are interested in developing for Ubuntu, a point which may result in a conflict of interests. However, I have good reason to believe that this will not be the case.

So, with the certification part of this specification out of the way, let's focus on the only work at hand, developing Ubuntu Courseware that will enable students to attain LPI or ICDL certifications with Ubuntu Certifications.

=== Rationale ===

Ubuntu Linux has enjoyed an unprecedented rate of adoption in a short period of time. In building my rational I ask, “Is this sustainable?”

No matter which way I look at it, the answer to this is, “No, not without strategic intervention on our behalf.”

What can we do? We must develop a go-to-market strategy and a large part of doing this is to develop a whole product. Confusing, I know, but bare with me as I explain.

Software alone is not a whole product. To be a whole product it must be encircled with an array of service and support structures. These elements are required in order to reassure pragmatists of the fact that they are making the right decision. To avoid digressing from the focus of this specification, I want to focus on certification and training.

Documentation, certification and training are all integral parts of a whole product. They are the next layer above the product and play a key role in the go-to-market strategy of a company, its product or services. In the Linux world many distributions have been developed, only a handful remain well supported or have large user bases. We don't have to look far back in Linux history to see examples of distributions that have risen from nowhere, gained popularity and then faded away just as fast as they appeared. Relinquished back to the status of a hobbyists play toy. 

What went wrong was that these distributions were never developed for mass market adoption. The developers did it because they could. While thoughts of world domination may have been in their minds, they never truly understood what that would take. Of all the distributions available only a handful grew up to become whole products and their ongoing success in maintaining their market position is a testament to the fact that at some point they became whole products. The recent acquisition of SuSE by Novell, the change in strategy by RedHat, the name change from Mandrake to Mandriva are all the result of Linux distributions and their respective companies positioning and changing their business models so that their product can grow up and become a whole product.

The time will come when Ubuntu too will need grow up. By developing a certification and training program we are ensuring that Ubuntu can do so. We are ensuring that supporters of Ubuntu around the world can take their place alongside the RHCEs, MCSEs and CCNAs. Customers can rest assured in the knowledge that their choice to run Ubuntu is a good one. That there are enough skilled and qualified Ubuntu Systems Engineers (USE) to support their computing systems. That there are enough people who know how to use Ubuntu in the workplace.

An investment in certification and training is an investment in the future of Ubuntu Linux and one step closer to a world of freedom and choice.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

In the introduction to this specification we listed three groups of people for which Ubuntu can cater in a certification and training program. The curriculum required for each group is different, assuming different level of entry expertise, motives and environments in which they will use Ubuntu.

* General Users – scope to develop Ubuntu centric courseware targeted at ICDL certification.

* IT Professionals -  scope to develop Ubuntu centric courseware targeted at LPIC 1 and 2 certification.

* Developers -  scope to develop Ubuntu centric courseware targeted at LPIC 3 certification.

=== Implementation Plan ===

InWords a leading provider of technical documentation and training materials, headed by Sean Wheller one of the most active contributors to the Ubuntu and Kubuntu Documentation Projects, has the skills and expertise to plan and execute the development of such as project in conjunction with Canonical and the Ubuntu Developer, Documentation, Translation and User communities.

The time period for any implementation plan would be affected by the points raised as “Outstanding Issues” below.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

None

==== Packages Affected ====

None

==== User Interface Requirements ====

None

=== Outstanding Issues ===
Does Canonical have an agenda to develop revenue streams from training?
Will Canonical want to release these materials as open source?

If the courseware is to be released under an open license then we can integrate from and customize for Ubuntu from numerous documents released under open license. If not, then license prohibits us from releasing such materials, in whole or in part, under another license. Courseware would therefore need to be developed from scratch.

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

==== UDU Pre-Work ====

==== Notes ====

Two things investigating:

ICDL course / license - user centric so far it's been very microsoft oriented, but is stuff happening in south africa?   Campaign being given 300,000 RAND - will have a certification for open source.

In the process of getting the deal signs, developing all of the training materials.

Plan to be a global cert?  

One thing that LPI has discovered that ICDL has varying coverage. Europe is very popular, US less so.

ICDL is an application certification.  Basic applications - MS Office ish.    Some basic file management.

European CDL is slightly different - came first.  ICDL is the extension to the rest of the world.

Training material creating is distro-neutral.

Elise will check with Thomas to see if there's browser.

Talked in the brainstorm about wanting to have something - cover the waterfront from newbie to new to Ubuntu.  Should we target stack of expertise levels.

Have to decide target audience is.  Are we rack space?  Desktop?

LPI aims to sysadmins and engineers.  In S.A. there was a strong need for people to focus on day to day users.

ICDL training from the shuttleworth foundations are distributed in a free format.  

LPI tiers break out as:

0) Awareness certifications - do you 'get' open source.

0) (doesn't exist) Desktop certification - Similar to the ICDL without requirement to buy our training.

1) Junior System admin

2) Senior System admin

3) (doesn't exist) Security specialist / LAMP programs / development certifications etc.

Levels aren't cumulative.

Biggest push for certification is government training.

Proposal for a help desk certfication (LPI) - also deosn't exist.

One program called 'Ingots' aimed at young children - lower school children.  Includes things like 'wash your hands before using your keyboard'.

Desktop certification - Focus on Ubuntu (not kUbuntu)

Server certification
====================  ==

Original proposed idea:

Basic Linux skills.

Add synaptic skills.

"reliabile version of debian", hire people who can work with it and certify, image thing.
Way to guage partners in order to partner with us for ubuntu support - have a number of ubuntu certified people.

Use case of small office consultant.  (CNA model)

Nice thing about RH certification, it's got a lock in.  Also a benefit from a general certification because they don't feel like they're locked in.

Like LPI Cert1, on top an Ubuntu cert.

Techincal requirements for an administrator exam (what an ubuntu admin needs to know):

How to install custom themes.
How to use Synaptic
Where config file are

(Integration into Launchpad?)

(Deferred to another BOF)

What does that third test cover?

LPI also looking at model where tracks live on top of Lvl 2 certification

Have to keep in mind model to actually deliver tests worldwide.

Do we want to do something to develop a level, need to discuss training, delivery.  Derivative distros core Ubuntu + track.

=== Additional Comments ===

* Please see my comments at the bottom of TrainingLiveCd. -- MauricioHernandez ----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
