{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Forums ==

There was a major dispute going on between various participants of the Forums. The details have now been removed from this page:

The issues were ported to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=123|the new Forum dispute resolution area]]</nowiki> and resolved .

Much progress has been made on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=100069|this thread]]</nowiki> to discuss, address and resolve the broader issues raised by the recent problems. The discussion was very productive and has resulted in the following policy changes:
** Read-only access to the Jail so that users can see all threads which have been moved (see <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=555933&postcount=176|here]]</nowiki>).
** Revision of staff guidelines for deleting posts (which will be discouraged), and implementation of a new secure and trackable methods of editing and moving posts (same link as above).
** Implementation of a Forum Resolution Team for handling disputes (see <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=556112&postcount=180|here]]</nowiki> for the proposal, and <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=123|here]]</nowiki> for the implementation). This has already had excellent results
** Consideration will also be given to other proposals made: such as the signing of the code of conduct by staff.

In sum: there has been a very happy and constructive result.
