{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Training - How to Run a Jam, jcastro 2010-02-17 ==

<pre>
<jcastro> ok, anyone around for How to Run a Jam?
<mhall119|work> czajkowski: did you try using html tags?
<czajkowski> mhall119|work: no.....
<mhall119|work> I know, it's not a fix
<czajkowski> I hit enter assuming it'd listen to ENTER/RETURN
<mhall119|work> but it might make it look better until I make a fix
<czajkowski> mhall119|work: I know it's too late now, but a preview page would be ideal!
<czajkowski> as in enter data, preview it, then publish.
<mhall119|work> blueprints
<mhall119|work> cjohnston is already make some
<czajkowski> okie
<mhall119|work> thanks
<mhall119|work> but make a bug report for the formatting, that's not a feature request
<mhall119|work> and I'll work on that as soon as i can
<cjohnston> hmm?
<jcastro> hmmm, I don't think anyone is coming to my session
<cjohnston> o/
<jcastro> do you think it's because everyone is already signed up? ;)
<cjohnston> we could only hope
<dscassel> jcastro, I'm here, but I've got a bunch of stuff I have to do, so I was just going to listen.
<dscassel> I was hoping I could prod with questions at a later session...
<jcastro> sure!
<jcastro> you can cal always ask questions even if there isn't a session
<jcastro> I am always idling!
<dscassel> Awesome, thanks.
<jcastro> ok so I'll grab something to eat, see if anyone else shows up
<jcastro> if not just fire off questions
<mhall119|work> czajkowski: how does this look: http://growingupfree.org:8001/events/global/1/detail/
<jcg> Is the global jam training taking place today?
<czajkowski> jcg: yup
<cjohnston> jcg: there doesnt seem to be anyone here for it... but jcastro is here if you have questions
<czajkowski> mhall119|work: perfect
<jcg> I was a bit late in arriving but I need to sit thru the training at some point
<jcg> Will it be offered at a later time?
<dscassel> jcg: There are a bunch more sessions planned https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam#Training%20Sessions
<dscassel> If you have any questions, ask away. jcastro should be back shortly.
<jcg> I think I'm so ignorant rt
<jcg> oops re: global jam that I don't know what questions to ask
<dscassel> Yeah, I can realate. :)
<dscassel> We've got an Ubuntu member locally who's going to give us a tutorial on bug triage.
<dscassel> After that, we're just going to go at it.
<mhall119|work> jcastro: the room isn't blocked to registered nicks only is it?
<jcastro> I have no idea
<jcastro> jcg, really the most important thing right now is to figure out where you're going to have it
<jcg> dscassel, I'm not sure we have anyone in our emerging loco that can deal with bugs on any level
<jcastro> because you can always cram the other stuff, but finding a place takes time
<jcg> jcastro, we are working on locating a place right now
<dscassel> jcg, our LoCo is pretty moribund, but he just happened to move to the area. If there's nobody around, maybe you could watch a screencast together or something.
<jcastro> indeed, don't feel the need to try to go all advanced
<jcastro> our very first loco meetings were pretty social events
<jcastro> then we started doing more organized events
<dscassel> Yeah, start small.
<mhall119|work> my current loco meetings still are social events
<jcastro> that's not necessarily a bad thing
<mhall119|work> no, it's a great thing
<mhall119|work> they're not _just_ social events though
<jcg> we have some advanced Linux users but few who are programmer types .. and out big need is more participants, whatever the level
<jcg> Hail to our leader
</pre>

----
CategoryJam
