{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Attendees ===

* Erich Eickmeyer (Ubuntu Studio)
* Dan Simmons (Lubuntu)
* Dustin (Ubuntu Budgie)
* Monica Madon (Ubuntu MATE)
* Bill (Ubuntu MATE)
* Chris Guiver

=== Minutes ===

==== 20.10 Post-Mortem ====

* Bill states this was his 4th or 5th release, felt it was the best communication-wise in the flavors IRC channel from the release team
** Notes how many updates they did, including the final respin, and this was very positive. Hopes this sort of interaction with Canonical continues
** Notes that Youssef led and organized testing efforts for 20.04, and we didn't have that this time. May need to consider having someone take that role for 21.04
** Dan: Notes coordinating/organizing for testing is easier with LTS releases, but more testers are always better

* Dustin notes tester drop off happens with interim releases, and that small teams especially struggle
** Dan: Thinks we can coordinate testing for 21.04 and possibly recruit testers from larger flavors to help smaller teams

* Bill notes how #ubuntu-testing on Telegram became pretty toxic after the 20.04 release
** Dustin notes there's been an uptick of bad behavior across the board
** Dan suggests moderating the channel and keeping people focused on testing by offering them more early things to test even before more formal testing begins. Thinks we could use a Telegram bot like Rose, but not sure of how to handle the bridged IRC channel
** Erich: Puts on his Community Council hat and suggest we bring the matter to them, since this isn't just a Flavors issue, it's a community-wide issue. Notes it could involve other councils, like QA and IRC. He also gives us the friendly reminder to raise concerns and suggest things to the Community Council.

* Erich discusses the significant delays in package review by archive admin this cycle that were sometimes so severe he had to go to Mark Shuttleworth
** Notes the issue seemed to be consistency and a lack of people power
** Also notes the release team assumed ill intentions, which he did not think was appropriate for working with volunteers
** He is working on asking Mark and the Tech Board for more archive admin, though he admits Ubuntu Studio does have the most packages

==== Websites/Documentation/Artwork ====

* Dan notes Lubuntu is looking to update their web presence in the future
* Erich discusses how Ubuntu Studio's Wordpress theme happened because they got approached by an Indonesian husband-wife team who offered their services for free, in exchange for using the site in their portfolio
 
* Erich notes with the switch to the Plasma desktop, their documentation, for the most part, is good thanks to their upstream
* Dan mentions how Lubuntu has a great documentor, Lynn, and they may have better documentation than upstream, though she could always use more hands and more help
* Monica discusses how Ubuntu MATE had an impromptu Hacktoberfest mentorship that has brought people interested in tech writing and documentation into the community.

* Dan and Monica note Lubuntu and Ubuntu MATE's lack of an artwork team, respectively
* Erich will talk to the person who makes Ubuntu Studio's artwork about potentially helping Lubuntu and Ubuntu MATE with new artwork that is an enhanced take on current artwork

==== Linked In ====

* Monica discusses how Wimpy has made her manager of the Ubuntu MATE Linked In group, which has been inactive the past several years. The Hacktoberfest volunteers found the group, which would be a good way to share accomplishments/reach new community members, especially those in school/early career/job hunting. She plans to also engage with posts from the general Ubuntu account on Linked In.
* Erich says he had considered similarly to the above, but he will need to take control of the group from a previous project lead, which may cause difficulty

==== Closing ====

* All members present state the quarterly cadence is good for these meetings
* Overall positive reception to the new Ubuntu Wiki page for the group
* General consensus is that more coordination has been a positive so far
* Next meeting will be in early February
