{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started by akgraner at 18:03:25 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-10-24-18.03.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* leadership wiki

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuLeadership   (akgraner, 18:06:33)

* projects page

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuLeadership/Projects   (akgraner, 18:08:01)

''LINK:'' roadmap - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuLeadership/Roadmap-P  (akgraner, 18:09:13)

''LINK:'' blueprint - https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-p-leadership-team  (akgraner, 18:09:45)

''ACTION:'' akgraner to add valorie 's suggestions of using flossmanuals for our publications to BP and Roadmap  (akgraner, 18:14:24)

''ACTION:'' work on weekly leadership videocasts  (akgraner, 18:20:52)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity   (jono, 18:23:32)

''LINK:'' http://flossmanuals.net/   (akgraner, 18:23:34)

''ACTION:'' leadership team to help with BuildingCommunity Knowledgebase and FAQ pages  (akgraner, 18:25:02)

''ACTION:'' add BuildingCommunity pages to blueprint and Roadmap  (akgraner, 18:26:10)

''ACTION:'' akgraner to check original bp for merging AoC to BuildingCommunity and will not gaps and get back to jono and the leadership team  (akgraner, 18:31:18)

''ACTION:'' valorie to write up pros/cons to use floss manuals for or publications etc...  (akgraner, 18:38:18)

* annoucements

Meeting ended at 18:45:37 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* akgraner to add valorie 's suggestions of using flossmanuals for our publications to BP and Roadmap
* work on weekly leadership videocasts
* leadership team to help with BuildingCommunity Knowledgebase and FAQ pages
* add BuildingCommunity pages to blueprint and Roadmap
* akgraner to check original bp for merging AoC to BuildingCommunity and will not gaps and get back to jono and the leadership team
* valorie to write up pros/cons to use floss manuals for or publications etc...

=== Action items, by person ===

* akgraner
* * akgraner to add valorie 's suggestions of using flossmanuals for our publications to BP and Roadmap
* * akgraner to check original bp for merging AoC to BuildingCommunity and will not gaps and get back to jono and the leadership team
* jono
* * akgraner to check original bp for merging AoC to BuildingCommunity and will not gaps and get back to jono and the leadership team
* valorie
* * akgraner to add valorie 's suggestions of using flossmanuals for our publications to BP and Roadmap
* * valorie to write up pros/cons to use floss manuals for or publications etc...
* **UNASSIGNED**
* * work on weekly leadership videocasts
* * leadership team to help with BuildingCommunity Knowledgebase and FAQ pages
* * add BuildingCommunity pages to blueprint and Roadmap

=== People present (lines said) ===

* akgraner (102)
* jono (56)
* valorie (52)
* bkerensa (19)
* SilverLion (14)
* ashams (11)
* meetingology (10)
* Darkwing (6)
* YoBoY (4)
* jrgifford (1)

=== Full Log ===

 18:03:25 <akgraner> #startmeeting

 18:03:25 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 24 18:03:25 2011 UTC.  The chair is akgraner. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 18:03:25 <meetingology>

 18:03:25 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:03:38 <akgraner> ok not who's here for the leadership meeting

 18:03:46 <akgraner> s/not/now even

 18:03:53 * valorie is sorry I was late

 18:03:58 <akgraner> so this is going to be one of those quick meetings

 18:04:01 <valorie> connection problems

 18:04:05 <akgraner> valorie, no worries so was I :-(

 18:04:09 <valorie> heh

 18:04:21 * SilverLion reports active for leadership meeting

 18:04:53 <meetingology> valorie: Error: Can't start another meeting, one is in progress.

 18:05:00 <valorie> ooo, sorry

 18:05:01 <akgraner> great - so let me grab the wiki - fail on my part for lack of an agenda but we do have the road map and blueprint to take a look at for the 12.04 cycle

 18:05:15 <akgraner> valorie, I already started it

 18:05:16 <valorie> also, I want to share a new resource

 18:05:19 <bkerensa> hi

 18:05:21 <valorie> and I think you do too

 18:05:27 <valorie> o/

 18:05:32 <ashams> hi

 18:05:38 <valorie> yay!

 18:05:43 <valorie> peeps for the meet!

 18:05:52 <akgraner> so so let's look at the wiki

 18:06:27 <jono> :-)

 18:06:31 <akgraner> #topic leadership wiki

 18:06:33 <akgraner> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuLeadership

 18:06:49 <akgraner> so here is our wiki page that outlines some but not all of our goals

 18:06:58 <jono> is this page just for team goals?

 18:07:12 <akgraner> jono, nope I'll get to that

 18:07:15 <jono> ok

 18:07:29 <akgraner> I should say mission etc

 18:07:46 * jrgifford reads wikipage again

 18:07:52 <valorie> heh, Darkwing - fix your link

 18:08:00 <akgraner> #topic projects page

 18:08:01 <akgraner> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuLeadership/Projects

 18:08:18 <akgraner> this page has the projects we are working and goals per cycle on ut

 18:08:19 <akgraner> it

 18:08:34 <valorie> here is the place I jump in with my new resource idea

 18:08:35 <akgraner> here's the links for the -P blueprints and roadmaps

 18:08:39 <akgraner> valorie, one sec

 18:08:41 <valorie> ok

 18:09:08 <jono> cool

 18:09:13 <akgraner> #link roadmap - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuLeadership/Roadmap-P

 18:09:45 <akgraner> #link blueprint - https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-p-leadership-team

 18:10:06 <akgraner> so take a look at those and while you are looking over those  - valorie please tell us about your resource

 18:10:24 <valorie> last week I wrote a book

 18:10:35 <akgraner> sweet :-)

 18:10:39 <akgraner> link

 18:10:47 <valorie> I mean, I seriously *wrote a book* -- have a stack of copies next to me

 18:10:53 <bkerensa> =o

 18:11:01 <bkerensa> wow :D congrats valorie

 18:11:04 <valorie> using the http://flossmanuals.org

 18:11:04 <akgraner> valorie, go on

 18:11:14 <valorie> with 3 Indian students

 18:11:20 <akgraner> you mean http://flossmanuals.net/

 18:11:30 <valorie> oops, yes

 18:11:47 <valorie> their resources might not fit our needs, but they are amazing

 18:11:53 <SilverLion> akgraner: fyI: the articles of mine regarding this leadership thing are online now

 18:11:54 <valorie> free, opensource

 18:12:04 <akgraner> totally - I'm familiar with those resources

 18:12:11 <valorie> and amazingly flexible

 18:12:15 <valorie> ok

 18:12:52 <akgraner> nods- so your idea in regards for the team is to use this resource for our books/publications?

 18:13:11 <valorie> I want to throw it into the idea pool

 18:13:38 <akgraner> cool  - I'll add it to the roadmap and blueprint it's a great tool/resource :-)  Thank you!

 18:13:52 <valorie> if we ever will have a need for a printed book, I would totally plump for this

 18:13:55 <valorie> or ePub

 18:14:01 <valorie> PDF

 18:14:06 <valorie> etc.

 18:14:24 <akgraner> #action akgraner to add valorie 's suggestions of using flossmanuals for our publications to BP and Roadmap

 18:14:24 * meetingology akgraner to add valorie 's suggestions of using flossmanuals for our publications to BP and Roadmap

 18:14:29 <valorie> if not, then bzr is available too

 18:14:42 <akgraner> yep already looking at that one :-)

 18:15:09 <akgraner> ok anything else in regards to the blueprints/roadmap/ or current projects list?

 18:15:11 <valorie> the other advantage of it, beyond the easy collaboration, is that it is listed on their page

 18:15:19 * bkerensa has something

 18:15:28 * ashams too

 18:15:31 <akgraner> valorie, anything else

 18:15:46 <akgraner> bkerensa, floor is yours

 18:15:50 <valorie> no, I've done burbling for now

 18:15:57 * bkerensa thinks it would be interesting to develop Webinars or possibly standalone videos on Leadership

 18:16:12 <akgraner> bkerensa, you read my mind

 18:16:41 * ashams has nothing now, thanks to bkerensa

 18:16:41 <akgraner> I was going to talk to jono about mentoring us on how he does some of his UStream stuff

 18:16:44 <bkerensa> Kaltura has an Open Source platform for videos and I think there might be a Open Source webinar platform out there

 18:17:05 <bkerensa> UStream is decent but lots of ads :)

 18:17:08 <akgraner> jono thoughts on that...

 18:17:13 <jono> I would like to discuss new mediums of open weeks anyway

 18:17:21 <jono> jcastro and I discussed this a little

 18:17:28 <akgraner> yep but it's free and people can interact with each other and the speaker easily

 18:17:33 <jono> how to create a more media rich environment for tuition content

 18:17:43 <jono> unfortunately there are limited solutions out there

 18:17:48 <jono> right now I find ustream.tv is best

 18:17:54 <akgraner> jono,  great - so how can we as the leadership team help you with that?

 18:18:15 <akgraner> should we add that to the leaderhip summit topic ideas?

 18:18:22 <akgraner> and maybe do a couple of those at UDS

 18:18:22 <SilverLion> jono hey there

 18:18:23 <jono> akgraner, right now, I think we don't need much help - I reached out to Google to see if they will give me a public hangout account

 18:18:26 <jono> hey SilverLion

 18:18:30 <bkerensa> I know Finn who used to be apart of our LoCo had this resource that was open source where you could stream video and then just embed it on your site with a IRC widget

 18:18:33 * SilverLion is NRWlion

 18:18:33 <SilverLion> :D

 18:18:39 <jono> :-)

 18:19:09 <valorie> that sounds totally cool, bkerensa

 18:19:17 <bkerensa> jono: Bradley Horowitz for the win... He responds to e-mail quickly ;) and is VP of Product (Google+)

 18:19:25 <akgraner> bkerensa, it's more that just recording a session is the interaction of the community as well which is why I think jono's community QA format works so well - btu always open to suggestions

 18:19:30 <valorie> I heard a lot of discussion around this topic at the GSoC Mentor Summit

 18:19:37 <jono> yup

 18:19:42 <jono> I think the live chat thing is key

 18:19:47 <valorie> I think some great stuff might be happening soon

 18:19:49 <bkerensa> akgraner: Yeah no doubt... A public hangout idea is cool though :D

 18:20:00 <valorie> the right people were all in the room together

 18:20:11 <valorie> VLC, FFmpeg, etc.

 18:20:21 <akgraner> jono, do you think at UDS we can do one Leadership Ustream cast -providing bandwidth will hold up?

 18:20:29 <valorie> could have used a jono too!

 18:20:52 <akgraner> #action work on weekly leadership videocasts

 18:20:52 * meetingology work on weekly leadership videocasts

 18:20:55 <jono> akgraner, you would need to talk to IS

 18:21:00 <jono> if they can do it, then sure!

 18:21:00 <Darkwing> Sorry I'm late.

 18:21:11 <jono> I suspect bandwidth will be your enemy - ustream needs a lot of upload

 18:21:13 <jono> valorie, :-)

 18:21:20 <akgraner> :-(

 18:21:39 <akgraner> ok anything else from anyone regarding blueprints and goals for next cycle

 18:21:44 <YoBoY> sorry 'im late ^

 18:21:47 <jono> akgraner, feel free to ask IS, they may be able to hook you up

 18:21:51 <bkerensa> UStream Backpack http://www.ustream.tv/production-services/mobile-package

 18:21:52 <bkerensa> ;)

 18:21:55 <jono> can I ask a quick favor?

 18:21:59 <akgraner> jono I'm meeting with them on SUnday

 18:22:02 <jono> for help from the leadership team?

 18:22:04 <akgraner> jono, sure

 18:22:07 <akgraner> ask away

 18:22:13 <jono> I would loved to see the team help focus folks on the BuildingCommunity pages

 18:22:19 <jono> as a central knowledge base for leadership

 18:22:24 <jono> is this something you folks could help with?

 18:22:32 <bkerensa> +1

 18:22:34 <SilverLion> link?

 18:22:41 <akgraner> yes - let me grap the link so everyone knows what you are talking about

 18:22:45 <ashams> +1

 18:23:32 <jono> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity

 18:23:34 <akgraner> http://flossmanuals.net/

 18:23:37 <akgraner> crap

 18:23:41 <akgraner> cut and paste fail

 18:23:44 <akgraner> thanks jono

 18:23:50 <akgraner> Yep I think we can do that

 18:23:52 <jono> the main areas I think we need to focus is:

 18:23:54 <jono> * https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/KnowledgeBase

 18:23:59 <jono> * https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/FAQ

 18:24:14 <SilverLion> jono i am blogging about this topic exactly *happy

 18:24:17 <jono> my dream is that this becomes a comprehensive and central set of documentation for the project

 18:24:22 <jono> SilverLion, awesome!

 18:24:52 <valorie> jono, who built this resource?

 18:25:02 <akgraner> #action leadership team to help with BuildingCommunity Knowledgebase and FAQ pages

 18:25:02 * meetingology leadership team to help with BuildingCommunity Knowledgebase and FAQ pages

 18:25:04 <jono> valorie, I started it off a few years back

 18:25:13 <akgraner> in Brussels right jono?

 18:25:19 <SilverLion> you got the link i sent you via PM ... there is a second article as follow up coming online in the next 10 mins

 18:25:20 <akgraner> or Dallas?

 18:25:24 <jono> and then Chris C and Penelope S helped add a bunch of content

 18:25:30 <jono> yeah I revived it back in Dallas

 18:25:57 <jono> given that the Art of Community is CC licensed I suggested we merge some of the content in there so others can consume it in bitesize pieces

 18:26:10 <akgraner> #action add BuildingCommunity pages to blueprint and Roadmap

 18:26:10 * meetingology add BuildingCommunity pages to blueprint and Roadmap

 18:26:59 <valorie> looks like an amazing resource

 18:27:01 <akgraner> jono do you want one person as the go to from the team to work on merging Art of Community in there

 18:27:19 <akgraner> I thought we did that already?

 18:27:23 <akgraner> but guess not

 18:27:46 <akgraner> we need 2 or 3 people to help with this merging - jono thoughts

 18:27:53 <jono> well much of the AoC content has been merged in

 18:27:58 <akgraner> how do you want this broken down?

 18:27:59 <jono> but I think more could be merged in

 18:28:02 <Darkwing> I'll volunteer to do what needs to be done. :)

 18:28:15 <jono> I think it could be cool if a few leadership team folks merged in some of the content

 18:28:30 <jono> I just think it will just make BuildingCommunity a more interesting resource with more content in there

 18:28:34 <jono> Darkwing, sweet!

 18:28:35 <akgraner> ok can you get us a list of what content you want merged in so we don't duplicate the work

 18:28:57 * bkerensa can assist Darkwing  as needed

 18:29:07 <jono> akgraner, basically anything else that isnt in there right now I think

 18:29:16 <jono> I don't have a list of things that are in and are not

 18:29:28 <jono> although I think some blueprints might list them from a while back

 18:29:33 <akgraner> ok - I have the book - I'll go through it and figure it out an get back with you and the team

 18:29:48 <jono> also tbh, it doesnt have to be the AoC content, I just thought it would be low hanging fruit

 18:29:50 * bkerensa also has a print copy of the book

 18:29:51 <bkerensa> :D

 18:29:55 <jono> if others can write new content, that would be awesome

 18:30:02 * SilverLion reports in if his time table allows

 18:30:05 <jono> fortunately, merging in the book is just cut and pasting and formatting

 18:30:15 <jono> the only requirement is an attribution notice at the top of each wiki page

 18:30:19 <SilverLion> jono check my link pls. maybe this will be interesting for you ;)

 18:30:23 <jono> (the CC license requires that)

 18:30:27 <akgraner> totally - I'll find the originally breakdown and see what still needs to be done from there

 18:30:30 <jono> SilverLion, I will do later

 18:30:41 <jono> thanks akgraner!

 18:30:56 <jono> I think if BuildingCommunity is the central knowledge base that your team feeds into, that will be awesome

 18:31:18 <akgraner> #action akgraner to check original bp for merging AoC to BuildingCommunity and will not gaps and get back to jono and the leadership team

 18:31:18 * meetingology akgraner to check original bp for merging AoC to BuildingCommunity and will not gaps and get back to jono and the leadership team

 18:31:28 <jono> thanks!

 18:31:30 <akgraner> anything else?

 18:31:33 <akgraner> from anyone

 18:31:36 <jono> alright going to finish off my blog post and then hit up lunch

 18:31:38 <jono> thanks, folks!

 18:31:42 <akgraner> jono thanks!

 18:31:45 <bkerensa> thanks jono

 18:31:47 <jono> also folks, remember the mini summit at UDS!

 18:31:49 <Darkwing> Thanks Jono

 18:31:50 <jono> going to be fun :-)

 18:31:51 <YoBoY> thanks jono

 18:31:52 <SilverLion> jono have a good one!

 18:32:03 <jono> take care, folks, thanks for the great work!

 18:32:05 * SilverLion is not going to be there :(

 18:32:07 <akgraner> yeah that was going to be in the announcements

 18:32:57 * akgraner apologizes for lack of agenda  - that WILL be fixed for the next meeting!

 18:33:24 <akgraner> ok so any other thoughts on things we are working on, things you want to see happen for the next cycle etc

 18:33:50 <akgraner> suggestions or comments - the floor is open just o/ so we aren't talking all over one another

 18:34:14 <ashams> does it needs a team to copy-n-pate?

 18:34:41 * ashams finished :)

 18:34:46 <akgraner> ashams, what do you mean?

 18:35:01 <bkerensa> Leadership Podcast for the win

 18:35:02 <ashams> it's not a much of work to do

 18:35:02 <bkerensa> ;)

 18:35:12 <Darkwing> I wanted to say something :)

 18:35:29 * SilverLion will continue his series of blog posts

 18:35:29 <ashams> I beleive the /BuildingCommunity needs a complete make over

 18:35:32 <akgraner> ashams, yep it's more than you think - I'll pull the stuff we already did so you can see how many people it took

 18:35:36 <valorie> akgraner: is that something I should have done, since I volunteered to chair?

 18:35:44 <valorie> the agenda

 18:35:46 <Darkwing> I know since I drove into everyones mind that this can be done I have not been around and I wanted to apoligize for that. :)

 18:35:50 <valorie> if so, FAIL

 18:36:02 <akgraner> valorie, oh crap - I just started the meeting since we were running late

 18:36:06 <valorie> I know

 18:36:12 <akgraner> we;ll get this worked out  :-)

 18:36:18 <valorie> it's fine -- my connection was screwed up

 18:36:29 <valorie> yes

 18:36:40 <valorie> Darkwing: <code><code><pre><pre><pre><pre>hugs</code></code></pre></pre></pre>}}

 18:36:45 <Darkwing> :D

 18:36:55 <akgraner> valorie, if you can check on the differences between flossmanuals and bzr in terms of ease of use that would be a big help

 18:37:13 <valorie> ease of use: flossmanuals hands down

 18:37:21 <akgraner> since we are getting ready to dump chapters 1 and 2 somewhere

 18:37:30 <valorie> also better than googledocs

 18:37:30 <akgraner> can you write up the why etc?

 18:37:40 <valorie> sure, I'll send an email

 18:37:44 <akgraner> so everyone understands etc

 18:38:18 <akgraner> #action valorie to write up pros/cons to use floss manuals for or publications etc...

 18:38:18 * meetingology valorie to write up pros/cons to use floss manuals for or publications etc...

 18:38:24 <ashams> I'll work till Chapter 2 get completed

 18:38:41 <valorie> :-)

 18:38:42 <akgraner> ashams, chapter 2 is almost finished it's Chapter 1 that needs the most help

 18:38:54 <YoBoY> (don't forget l10n possibilities eventualy)

 18:39:08 <ashams> Chapter 1 is filled just needs some revision, but 2 has 2 modules to fill

 18:39:09 <akgraner> YoBoY, yep - you want to lead that effort

 18:39:28 <akgraner> ashams, Chapter 2 is overview with supporting doc in the following chapters

 18:39:50 <akgraner> just add what you think needs to be there

 18:40:01 <YoBoY> I need to donwload it to read it in the plane :)

 18:40:11 <SilverLion> akgraner: just point me where you need me ;) i ll go and publish my next article ;)

 18:40:28 <akgraner> SilverLion, thank you and will do  - thanks

 18:40:37 <akgraner> YoBoY great!

 18:40:41 <akgraner> anything else

 18:40:51 <valorie> wow, you folks were rocking while I was gone

 18:40:59 <valorie> as expected.....

 18:41:02 <valorie> :-)

 18:41:31 <akgraner> if not I'll get the blueprints and roadmaps updated and get an email to the list about today's meeting

 18:41:46 <akgraner> #topic annoucements

 18:42:20 <akgraner> UDS-P - next week in Orlando - if you can't go there is always remote participation which is great - I'll post something about that this week

 18:43:20 <akgraner> Mini Leadership Summit at UDS - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-P/LeadershipSummit

 18:43:38 <akgraner> also remote participation will be available for this as well

 18:43:47 <akgraner> any other announcements

 18:44:10 <ashams> akgraner: Thank you

 18:44:25 <akgraner> ashams, you're welcome

 18:44:37 <akgraner> anything else from anyone?

 18:45:00 <valorie> great meeting; thank you amber for chairing

 18:45:29 <akgraner> If not thanks everyone - I think are in the beginnings of a great resource for the community - thank you all for you hard work so far and I can't wait to see what all we can accomplish as a team this next cycle!

 18:45:31 <akgraner> THANK YOU!

 18:45:37 <akgraner> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
