{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Dear UMC Team members,

as usual, you will find below some updated status information about our project.

=== Artwork ===

Jason has made a really good work with his  UMC logo proposition #8.
Though, as I've stated before, it still needs some completion, it's
now our official logo, used on the Launchpad Team page:
https://launchpad.net/~umc-team

The sizing I've done is not the best, and the icon (14x14) looks
horrible, but IANAGD.
@Jason: can you check for completing this logo and generating a 14x14,
64x64 and 192x192 set of logos?
@Tartopom and Samheg: can you also update the website?

=== Base software choice ===

Though I've not yet had time to complete the MediaCenter/StateOfTheArtSpecs, the
choice seems more clearly (as if it wasn't ;-) to be Elisa.

Another reason, is that I've just been contacted, with Seb. Gripon, by
Florian Boucault (of the Elisa Team) to work together on the new Elisa
architecture, and meet our needs.
Florian has joined the Team and will soon post more detailed
information about that.

So, welcome Florian and the Elisa Team. I'm sure our collaboration
will show great results.

I will however contact soon Paul Webber, from the LinuxMCE Team to
discuss a bit.

=== Remote support ===

We have made a tiny bit of progress with Loic on the new /
standardized LIRC namespace and the remotes compatibility list.
The LIRC integration into the mainline Linux kernel is also under
discussion, but in need of some kernel hackers (if you would like to
help there, contact me).

=== Community council, and UMC project officialization ===

Now that Feisty and Etch are out, some forces are back.
I will soon post to the Community Council to expose our project
status, and ask for the official mailing list. We just need to
complete and polish a bit our various specs. If you want to help
there, post back for synchronizing forces.
I will also check for some advertisement, ie on the fridge or on
planet.ubuntu.com

=== General project status information ===

We are now 18 members (+2 inactive).

I've created a table on the Team wiki page to sum up our various sub
projects status.
As you will see, the project has made good progress...

I would like to give special thanks to Jason, Loic, Sebastien and
Wattazoum for their work.

Now come on fellows, the Fame is waiting for you ;-)
There is enough work for any kind of interested contributor.
SO contact me back if you want to help, and don't yet see how to.

Arnaud 
