{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> Table Of Contents<<BR>>
|}

== What is this page? ==

This page is a reply to the CommunityCouncil to hopefully address some of their concerns with regard to the DanishTeam forming an association (legal entity) in Denmark.

'''mako'''	''i'd like to see a more threshed out justification and proposal from you guys''

(from http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/05/20/%23ubuntu-meeting.html)

Also do note that the DanishTeam is currently going through a (long) process to find a solution that fits us well - details my change, but hopefully the over all info on this page should be correct. For the latest info of the progress see <nowiki>[[DanishTeam-Møder-UbuntuDKsomForening|this page]]</nowiki> (in Danish).

== Background info about associations in Denmark ==

In Denmark (and most of Scandinavia?) associations (Foreninger) are formed by all sorts of communities, ranging from sports clubs, environmental activists, political parties, stamp collectors, grassroots movements, hobbyists and everything in between. It is a well knows way to organise a group, and 'outsiders' will recognise the structure easily. 

Because it is so widely used there are lot of general guides to setting up a associations, where all you have to do is 'fill the blanks' of some generalised by-laws. The administrative tasks associated with running a association are limited (but not non-existing).

It is a tried and tested way to handle finances. 

== Rules and by-laws ==

An Ubuntu association in Denmark would have a general structure much like any other association in Denmark. It might look something like this. All details are not final though:

=== Members ===
Everyone is free to join and become a member (as long as they pay the yearly fee (the fee could be zero DKK) and support the ideas of the association - this could be handled by requiring members to have signed the Ubuntu Code of Conduct, or a danish translation). (If there is fear of a 'hostile takeover' there will be a section of the by-laws dedicated to excluding members if they somehow are seen as working against the association.)

=== Annual General Meeting ===
Once a year an annual general meeting will be held where every member of the association will be invited and have one vote on all matters raised.

Among other items on the agenda of the annual general meeting will be presenting the accounts from the last year, deciding on a budget for the coming year and election of a board (and a chairman of this board) who will be running the association in between the annual general meetings.

=== Board ===
The jobs of the board would include applying (on behalf of the association) for spaces to have Release Parties, install parties and other activities, applying for grants, keeping the books and general leadership.

== Day to day management ==
Although this might not be reflected in the by-laws, we would attempt to keep much of the structure that we have now and we know works.

Among other things we would properly keep our monthly irc meetings, and make it clear that ''membership would not be a requirement'' for showing up or getting your voice heard. Also, ''membership would in no way be required'' to do work within the group.

So far each time we have had a '' bigger project '' within the team (organising release parties etc.) we have created ad-hoc teams of who ever was interested. There should be no problem in ''non members joining these teams'' after the forming of an official association. In other words, the LoCo team would continue to exist, but there would be an association behind it to secure a democratic structure (election of team contact etc.) and to handle finance. However the average new member of the loco team would not need to worry about all this. New members are free to show up, join in and have their voice (and vote) heard on daily matters (as the organising of the next release party, translation work etc.). 

== Structure / Hierarchy ==

The structure / hierarchy would look like this:

# '''Annual general meeting''' Elects the board and sets the by-laws.
# '''Board''' Is responsible for the associations finances and taking care of running the association by the by-laws.
# '''Team Contact''' Would be elected by the board or the annual general meeting.
# '''Coordination group''' Coordinates and plans activities and IRC meetings
# ('''VIP members''' Members of the LoCo Team who have been recognised for their work. Similar to Ubuntu memebership. - Not really important for the structure of the association.)
# '''Common members''' Members of the association. Membership grants right to vote at the annual general meeting.
# '''Non members''' Everyone else. Can participate in IRC meetings and all activities. Don't have the right to vote at the annual general meeting.

== What is this page not? ==

This page is not a general guide or application for recognition from the CommunityCouncil for forming local legal entities. This page is written specifically for the DanishTeam. However, if the CC accepts our 'application' we hope to be able to help others use what applies generally in this document to their own local situation.

== Who do I contact? / Can I edit this document? ==

Anyone is free to edit this wiki page (under the assumption that the contribution is a positive one) - do keep in mind that this page relates to the DanishTeam. If you want to write a general page, feel free to do so elsewhere. When / if this page is done we will be happy to help generate a general guide.

Questions / comments should be directed to loco_forening@freelists.org.
