{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Running a HugDay is a great way to get acquainted with the community and learn some new skills. It's all very informal so don't be shy. :)

=== Identify a Target ===

Organizing a HugDay starts with choosing a list of bugs to hug. You can choose whatever packages matter most to you but check out <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay-Planning]]</nowiki> for previous and planned HugDay and add your ideas!

=== Initial E-mail ===

To make sure everyone is on the same track, and that there are no other plans for the week, send a simple e-mail to BugSquad after adding your idea to the <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay-Planning]]</nowiki> page. The cookie cutter e-mail is just an example, you should put your own twist in.
<pre>
ubuntu-bugsquad at lists.ubuntu.com
</pre>
<pre>
HugDay Target
</pre>
<pre>
Hi, I am ... from ... I enjoy ... and ...

I would like to organize a HugDay for <package> on <date>. Are there any other plans for this day?

Your Name Here.

In accordance with https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/Organizing
</pre>

If you have a target in mind but not sure whether to add it to the Planning page just ask us at #ubuntu-bugs on FreeNode or contact PedroVillavicencio.

=== Wiki Planning ===

After identifying a target you need to add it to the Ideas section on the Planning page as described:

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/Planning?action=edit
** Add your idea
** Add your name to the organizers section

=== Wiki Stuff ===

After you're ready to run, add your HugDay to the wiki!

==== Date Changes ====

After choosing a date you need to change three pages, those are:

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Header/Hugday?action=edit
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay?action=edit
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Events?action=edit
** Move past HugDays down and put yours on the list

Please also ask on the #ubuntu-bugs channel for someone to update the topic to include the Bug Day page.

==== Hug day page creation ====

'''Note''': Please only create the wiki page in the week you're having the bug day, since it might create problems with the hug-day tool.

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/<Your Date Here>?action=edit
** The date should be a combination of <year><month><day> 20100318 = March 18, 2010
** Select the UbuntuBugDay/TaskTemplate on the left side list when creating the new page.
** <<<TARGET>>> should be replaced with your HugDay target
** <<<DATE>>>> should be replaced with the date of the hug day for the 5-a-day statistics.
** Save and keep reading on how to make the list of bugs semi-automatically

* You could use editmoin with the template page like so:
<pre>
    editmoin -t UbuntuBugDay/TaskTemplate https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/<Your Date Here>
</pre>

=== Generate the bug list ===

In attempt to make sure the most recent bugs also are hugged but all timezones are considered, I would generate the list of bugs two days ahead of the big day.

==== Ubuntu BugDay script ====

The Ubuntu Bug Day script from <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-qa-tools|ubuntu-qa-tools]]</nowiki> will help create lists of bugs to target for the day. First grab the code with:

<pre>
git clone lp:ubuntu-qa-tools
</pre>

and for use it just pass the name of the target as:

<pre> 
cd ubuntu-qa-tools/launchpadlib-scripts
./ubuntu-bugday.py --package alacarte 
</pre>

First you need to authorize the script and if you did it correctly, the script will create a target.txt (ie: alacarte.txt) file with all the bug lists that you can copy & paste into the bug day page.

If you discover any bugs about the tools please <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-qa-tools/+filebug | report them]]</nowiki>.

==== Open Office ====
Sometimes Bughelper cannot query what you want exactly, so to turn a search results from LaunchPad into the proper format for the wiki here you are.

Copy the table of bugs into Open Office, then delete all the columns except the # and Description. 

Copy the following to cell A1: <pre>
||<rowstyle="background-color: ;"> <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/ </pre>

Make sure the ';' after background-color does not become a ','. If it does, change it back to ';'.

Now copy the list of bug numbers to column B and the list of descriptions to column C. Now fill column D with the following: <pre>
=CONCATENATE($A$1,B1,"|",B1,"]]</nowiki> || ",C1," ||   ||") </pre>

Now you can copy and paste column D to the wiki.

=== Announcement E-mail ===

Since the bug day page is now ready, now we just need people to know where to show up!, The Announcements needs to be sent at least two days before the bug day.  Change your name, the dates, the target, and add any other information that might help that to triage those bugs, please notice that if you're not subscribed to those lists you need to ping a moderator to allow the message to go trough, just ask on #ubuntu-bugs for someone to moderate that message.

<pre>
ubuntu-bugsquad at lists.ubuntu.com, ubuntu-devel-announce at lists.ubuntu.com, ubuntu-bugcontrol at lists.launchpad.net, brian at ubuntu.com, bugsquad-mentorship-group-alpha at lists.launchpad.net
</pre>
<pre>
Announcing the Next Ubuntu Bug Day! - <<<DATE>>>
</pre>
<pre>
Fellow Ubuntu Triagers!

This week's Bug Day target is *drum roll please* <<<TARGET>>>!
* #<<<Number of New Bugs>>> New bugs need a hug
* #<<<Number of Incomplete Bugs>>> Incomplete bugs need a status check
* #<<<Number of Confirmed Bugs>>> Confirmed bugs need a review

<<<What is the package being triaged and how is it important>>>

Bookmark it, add it to your calendars, turn over those egg-timers!
* <<<DATE>>>
* http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/<<<DATE>>>

Are you looking for a way to start giving some love back to your 
adorable Ubuntu Project?
Did you ever wonder what Triage is? Want to learn about that?
This is a perfect time!, Everybody can help in a Bug Day!
open your IRC Client and go to #ubuntu-bugs (FreeNode) 
the BugSquad will be happy to help you to start contributing!

We are always looking for new tasks or ideas for the Bug Days, if you have one
add it to the Planning page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/Planning

If you're new to all this, head to
 http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs

Have a nice day,
   YOUR NAME HERE
[From the BugSquad]
</pre>

Inform the Ubuntu-News-Team about the next BugDay and its target '''until Saturday evening (The week before the BugDay)''' so they are able to add information about the BugDay to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter]]</nowiki>. You will have to subscribe to the list before sending the mail. 

<pre>
ubuntu-news-team at lists.ubuntu.com
</pre>

<pre>
Announcing the Next Ubuntu Hug Day! - <<<DATE>>>
</pre>

<pre>
Hey folks,

Here are the information for the next BugDay:

Date:    <<<DATE>>>
Target:  <<<TARGET>>>
Page:    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/<<<DATE>>>
IRC:     #ubuntu-bugs
Infos:   http://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs/

Have a nice day,
   YOUR NAME HERE
[From the BugSquad]
</pre>

=== Fridge Calendar ===

After announce the event please add it to the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com|Fridge]]</nowiki> Calendar, instructions on how to do it are available <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fridge/Calendar|here]]</nowiki>

=== What Now? ===

Enjoy! and Thank you! That's a message from all the Ubuntu Bugsquad to you ;-).

----
CategoryBugSquad
