{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== What Session Leaders Need To Know ===

1. Thank you so much! Ubuntu Weeks are successful because of you!

2. Please review the schedule for UBUNTU OPEN WEEK [1] and
make sure you are familiar with what session and times you have signed
up for.

3. Please take a moment prior to your session to make sure that your
IRC NICK is correct and listed on the Classroom Calendar [2].  If it
isn't please let me know what session (Date and time) and what IRC
Nick should be listed for INSTRUCTOR.  If you have a co-leader or
helper that will be assisting you please let me know their IRC nick as
well. Click on the Calendar event to see what is listed

4. If you are not familiar with classbot please take time to read the
wiki [3] about it's use. If you have any questions please feel free to
email me or join #ubuntu-classroom-backstage and someone in there can
help you as well.

5. Since your session is today, please join the following IRC Channels:

This way if you need help or something
goes wrong (hopefully it won't) or if you need help on something
during your session the folks in the #ubuntu-classroom-backstage
channel will be able to assist
you.

Again thank you!  Good Luck with your sessions!
Amber

[1] - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
[2] - http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/2038
[3] - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/ClassBot
