{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Getting Involved ==

Getting involved in easy:

1. Join the Launchpad team https://launchpad.net/~uer-developers.

1. Join the mailing list https://launchpad.net/~uer-uers.

1. Join the identi.ca group http://identi.ca/group/uer (optional).

1. Find something to do or asks about new tasks.

1. Do it.

=== Current Status ===

Ubuntu Electronics Remix is current released as in Beta using Ubuntu Karmic as a i386 iso. A 64 bit image will be released with the first stable release.

=== Tasks ===

Currently the following tasks need completing. If you want to help assign yourself a task and email the list to introduce yourself.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Task'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Assignee'''
|-
| VHDL guide using ghdl
| Done
| Kelvin Gardiner
|-
| Verilog using Icarus
| Done
| Kelvin Gardiner
|-
| AVR Development
| In Progress
| Kelvin Gardiner
|-
| Package Alliance
| In Progress
| Kelvin Gardiner
|-
| PIC development using Piklab
| To do
| 
|-
| Spice Simulation using gEDA
| To do
| 
|-
| PCB Design with gEDA and PCB
| To do
| 
|-
| Code management with Bazaar
| Maybe
| 
|}

/* Copy and uncomment this line for a new entry */
/* || || || || */

=== Development ===

The current development branch is https://code.launchpad.net/~uer-developers/ubuntuelectronicsremix/Karmic

==== Package Numbering ====

The Karmic release is being used as a preparation for Lucid. UER packages are currently meta packages or docs, there is no untested code. Therefore Karmic packages will have numbering 0.x.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Release
| Version Number
|-
| Karmic
| 0.x
|-
| Lucid
| 1.x
|-
| Maverick
| 2.x
|-
| Natty
| 3.x
|}

=== Launchpad ===

UER code branches can be found here: https://code.launchpad.net/~uer-developers

The development PPA containing the latest packages can be found here: https://launchpad.net/~uer-developers/+archive/uertestppa

A Stable PPA will be added at a later date.

UER Blueprints can be found here: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntuelectronicsremix
