{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting notes ==
Agenda: http://openetherpad.org/wIgsWqA2jD

=== full log ===
<pre>
(12:00:21 PM) mattgriffin: let's have a meeting :)
(12:00:25 PM) mattgriffin: here's the agenda - http://openetherpad.org/wIgsWqA2jD
(12:00:34 PM) mattgriffin: 3 items
(12:01:03 PM) mattgriffin: first an update on campaign 1
(12:01:19 PM) mattgriffin: second an update on the creative brief for campaign 2 - i have a draft ready!
(12:01:37 PM) mattgriffin: and finally an idea for a third campaign
(12:01:51 PM) mattgriffin: so let's begin with an update on the campaign 1. pinwale: what's up?
(12:02:19 PM) mattgriffin: i think last time we chatted you were working through the ending and finding something that you were happy with
(12:02:43 PM) pinwale: Yeah, we are a bit closer for the ending.
(12:02:46 PM) mattgriffin: cool
(12:02:53 PM) pinwale: We even are expanding it a bit.
(12:03:45 PM) mattgriffin: wow. cool
(12:04:07 PM) pinwale: yeah!
(12:04:49 PM) pinwale: I decided to include some real world interaction and looking at the possibility of a video component.
(12:05:17 PM) pinwale: i.e. leave a clue in a real world place so the players and find it.
(12:05:43 PM) mattgriffin: pinwale: ok. interesting. maybe even if it's discoverable on google maps so lots of people can find it
(12:06:19 PM) pinwale: yeah, the idea is that the game players will form there own community will share the clues.
(12:06:28 PM) mattgriffin: cool
(12:07:22 PM) pinwale: The clue will be intentionally difficult so the finder has to share with other to solve it.
(12:08:02 PM) mattgriffin: pinwale: gotcha. when do you think you'll complete it?
(12:08:25 PM) pinwale: After this meeting, I'll be having a conference call with the other writer. I'll have better idea by tomorrow.
(12:08:33 PM) pinwale: I'll email you.
(12:08:41 PM) mattgriffin: pinwale: excellent!
(12:08:52 PM) pinwale: We also have to wait for the dev as well.
(12:09:05 PM) mattgriffin: pinwale: cool :)
(12:09:09 PM) pinwale: I found him just last week. :)
(12:09:52 PM) mattgriffin: how did you find him? just part of your circle of friends?
(12:10:08 PM) pinwale: random emailing. :)
(12:10:11 PM) mattgriffin: hehe
(12:11:19 PM) mattgriffin: pinwale: excellent. so the next step is you'll work more with the writers and shoot me an update sometime next week, yeah?
(12:11:29 PM) pinwale: yep.
(12:12:09 PM) mattgriffin: coolio
(12:12:52 PM) mattgriffin: pinwale: okay to move to agenda item 2?
(12:13:03 PM) pinwale: yeah.
(12:13:14 PM) mattgriffin: ok. i've got a draft brief at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Campaigns/UbuntuIsEasy
(12:13:31 PM) mattgriffin: yuck. the formatting sucks. i'll fix that. give me a moment.
(12:15:05 PM) mattgriffin: ok. much better now. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Campaigns/UbuntuIsEasy
(12:15:05 PM) ***pinwale is reading brief
(12:16:42 PM) pinwale: pretty good idea
(12:17:16 PM) mattgriffin: it focuses more on using Ubuntu - things like the applications
(12:17:30 PM) pinwale: That is a good support campaign.
(12:17:33 PM) mattgriffin: i'll keep polishing it
(12:17:50 PM) pinwale: It is similar to the 1984 Apple campaign.
(12:18:40 PM) mattgriffin: it's definitely inspired a bit by my Mac use - e.g., joy of using a computer
(12:18:55 PM) pinwale: The super bowl had the provacative ad and the magazine carried the "Hello" apple ads that were full of explainations of Apple.
(12:19:20 PM) pinwale: ugh, my spelling is atrocious.
(12:19:41 PM) mattgriffin: huh. either the next meeting or the following meeting we'll have a creative briefing where people will dive into creative teams and come up with ideas... like we did for campaign 1
(12:20:03 PM) pinwale: That would be a good idea.
(12:20:09 PM) mattgriffin: my goal is to reach out to some advertising portfolio schools to see if any students want to participate
(12:20:47 PM) pinwale: That would be a great help.
(12:21:25 PM) mattgriffin: yeah. so that's it on the campaign 2 update. if you have any comments or ideas just send them over anytime
(12:21:37 PM) pinwale: I will!
(12:21:49 PM) mattgriffin: cool. finally the 3rd agenda item
(12:22:01 PM) mattgriffin: an idea for Campaign 3...
(12:22:17 PM) mattgriffin: Ubuntu has a feature called the Ubuntu Software Center
(12:22:33 PM) pinwale: It's like an App Store, right?
(12:22:35 PM) mattgriffin: It's like the Mac App Store or the iTunes App Store where you can download software
(12:22:37 PM) mattgriffin: right ;)
(12:22:54 PM) pinwale: cool
(12:23:16 PM) mattgriffin: it's been around in Ubuntu for a long time. previously it was called Synaptic and it was just a very text-focused way to browse and get free software...
(12:23:46 PM) mattgriffin: it was somewhat renamed to the Ubuntu Software Center last year and become a lot more visually engaging and usable
(12:24:03 PM) mattgriffin: it also started to feature applications to buy - mostly things like games
(12:24:18 PM) pinwale: Oh, that's good!
(12:24:55 PM) mattgriffin: the additions of new games is accelerating. it's not hundreds of new applications each month yet but it could by the end of the year
(12:25:32 PM) pinwale: I'll have to check it out. Does it have a web front-end?
(12:25:51 PM) mattgriffin: this campaign would emphasize the Ubuntu Software Center and make Ubuntu users aware that the software collection is growing in order to get them to check it out more frequently and see what's new
(12:26:06 PM) mattgriffin: pinwale: no web front end yet but it's on the wishlist
(12:26:26 PM) mattgriffin: pinwale: what's your primary OS? win or mac?
(12:26:34 PM) pinwale: Mac OS.
(12:27:19 PM) mattgriffin: cool. if you haven't already you can download virtual box (for free) and install Ubuntu to try it out
(12:28:19 PM) pinwale: Yeah, I'm waiting to get a new computer with more hard drive space. :D
(12:28:39 PM) pinwale: Hopefully, I'll get one in next couple of months.
(12:28:42 PM) mattgriffin: nice! what are you getting ... or thinking about getting?
(12:29:13 PM) pinwale: I lived with apple since the 90's. :)
(12:29:35 PM) pinwale: so probably one of the MacBooks
(12:30:31 PM) mattgriffin: yeah. i've been using mac hardware for about 10 years now and don't think i'd choose anything else. here's some basic info on the Ubuntu Software Center. http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/features/ubuntu-software-centre
(12:30:56 PM) mattgriffin: so just wanted to update you on a 3rd campaign idea and that i'm going to start adding some research info to the wiki at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Campaigns/
(12:31:58 PM) pinwale: That's pretty awesome. The USC should make adopting Ubuntu a lot easier!
(12:32:25 PM) mattgriffin: yeah
(12:32:46 PM) mattgriffin: well that's it for me. do you have anything else to discuss for the meeting?
(12:33:38 PM) pinwale: Not at the moment. I'll send you any comment and update you next week.
(12:34:20 PM) mattgriffin: cool. have a great weekend!
(12:34:36 PM) pinwale: you, too!
</pre>
