{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== ProprietaryDrivers ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JaneW
* Priority: MediumPriority
* People: JeffWaughLead, DanielStoneSecond
* Contributors: JaneW
* Interested: DanielStone, TollefFogHeen
* Status: EditedSpecification, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification, JeffWaughQueue, DanielStoneQueue
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1

=== Introduction ===

How can we improve support for hardware that requires (or provides additional features with) proprietary drivers? Can we ensure that we have distribution rights for all firmware/drivers that we ship? How can we improve our current process?

=== Current Driver Support Improvements ===

We need a better mechanism for dealing with driver bugs.  Few upstreams have bug tracking systems, so we need to track our contact with them.

There are some scalability issues with the current maintenance of kernel drivers in a single package.  Should we package these separately, and perhaps provide a metapackage to depend on them?  Will this complicate the kernel package release process?

We need to clarify the level of support we provide for proprietary drivers, and develop relationships with upstreams who are interested to help support their hardware in Ubuntu.

=== What are we missing? ===

* Could we convince upstreams to support their drivers on all Ubuntu supported architectures?
* Can we support broadcom wireless and Ethernet NIC drivers? Particularly important for Apple laptops.

=== Implementation Plan ===

JeffWaugh to contact upstreams regarding distribution rights, availability of drivers, and any kind of support relationship we can develop.

DanielStone to file bugs and maintain list of driver support requests.

=== Comments ===

* I think this problem should be solved by putting pressure on hardware firms, and informing them they should open their drivers, or use open standards. By cooperating with them, proprietary drivers will stay, which is bad. -- <nowiki>[[Jeroen]]</nowiki>
