{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''Full Circle Podcast #6: Mark’s Space Brain from the Future'''

=== Download ===

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/675/0/fullcirclepodcast_ep6_060510.mp3|MP3]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/675/1/fullcirclepodcast_ep6_060510.ogg|OGG]]</nowiki>

=== Your Hosts ===

*** Robin Catling 
*** Ed Hewitt 
*** Dave Wilkins …is notoriously shy.

Additional audio by Victoria Pritchard

=== Show Notes ===

File Sizes:
OGG 32.2Mb
mp3 36.5Mb

Runtime: 1 hour 3 minutes 52 seconds

==== Welcome and Intro ====

01.15

==== News ====

06.08

1. <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download|Ubuntu 10.04 Released!]]</nowiki> 

2. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-manual.org/|Ubuntu Manual Released]]</nowiki>

3. Ubuntu’s Indicator Menus

<nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/347|http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/347]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/2010/04/notification-area/|http://design.canonical.com/2010/04/notification-area/]]</nowiki>

4. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/04/ubuntu-shipit-now-taking-orders-for.html|Preorder Ubuntu 10.04 ShipIt CDs]]</nowiki>

5. Ubuntu 10.10 – Windicators!

<nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/windicators-ubuntu-meerkat-innovation.html|http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/windicators-ubuntu-meerkat-innovation.html]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/333|http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/333]]</nowiki>

6. Facebook Docs powered by M$ Fuse Labs.

    “Docs are similar to Microsoft’s Online Office Live product, with the ability to build Powerpoint, Excel and Word documents online” – not yet Google Docs but with M$ backing…?

7. IBM ‘reneagues’ on FOSS Patent Pledge - story not discussed in podcast – <nowiki>[[http://catlingmindswipe.blogspot.com/2010/04/get-real-read-patent-pledge-small-print.html|further links and rant by Catling in blog post]]</nowiki>

==== Review of Full Circle Magazine Issue 36 ====

19.15

==== Contribute ====

22.32

…because Victoria asks so nicely!

==== Opinion ====

23.05

Review of Ubuntu 10.04:
* Favourite Features?
* Hated Features?
* Problems?
* How did you upgrade?
* Buttons, Left or Right?
* Using Ubuntu One Music Store?
* Using Pitivi?
* GIMP or F-Spot?
* Will you recommend Ubuntu to more people, because of this new release?
* Is this the Best Release So Far?
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements|Side Note – System Requirements increased]]</nowiki> 

==== Gaming ====

38.45

Steam coming to Linux!!! [Ed]
* Value hired a Linux Software Engineer
* Source engine coming to Linux
* Linux libs in Left 4 Dead
* <nowiki>[[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=steam_linux_script&num=1|Steam Mac Beta Installer has instructions for Linux OS]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.hemispheregames.com/osmos/|Osmo]]</nowiki> – Reviewing in FCM 37

45.10 | RPGs (Dave)
<nowiki>[[http://gwos.org/doku.php/games:rpg|LxGC]]</nowiki> — Linux Gamers Codex

==== Feedback ====

53.50

Listener link provided to: UFO: Alien Invasion

<nowiki>[[http://ufoai.sourceforge.net/|UFO:AI]]</nowiki> is a 3d turn based strategy game inspired by the X-Com series by Microprose. (C) 

[Windows, Mac OS, Linux] [GPL2]

Dave and Ed’s extra link – <nowiki>[[http://www.wormux.org/phpboost/download/download.php|Wormux for Linux]]</nowiki>

==== Outro ====

1:03.07

Comments: on this page, using the comment form, OR;
Send us a comment to podcast@fullcirclemagazine.org.
You can also send us a comment by recording an audio clip of no more than 30 seconds and sending it to the same address. Comments and audio may be edited for length. Please remember this is a family-friendly show.

Please note: this podcast is provided with absolutely no warranty whatsoever; neither the producers nor Full Circle Magazine accept any responsibility or liability for content or interaction which readers and listeners may enter into using external links  gleaned from this forum or podcast series.

Creative Commons Music Tracks

Opening: <nowiki>[[http://incompetech.com/m/c/royalty-free/index.html?keywords=Achilles|‘Achilles’ by Kevin Macleod]]</nowiki>

Main Theme: <nowiki>[[http://ccmixter.org/files/hisboyelroy/430|‘Revolve’ by His Boy Elroy]]</nowiki>
 
Incidental: <nowiki>[[http://www.pacdv.com/sounds/free-music-2.html|‘Dance Zone’ by Unknown]]</nowiki>

Incidental: <nowiki>[[http://www.pacdv.com/sounds/free-music-22.html|‘On the Run’ by Unknown]]</nowiki> 

Incidental: <nowiki>[[http://www.soundjay.com|‘Iron Man’ by Unknown]]</nowiki> 
