{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Network Magic ==

=== Status ===

** Created:  by MattZimmerman<<BR>>
** Priority: HighPriority<<BR>>
** People: AdamConradLead, CharlesMajolaSecond<<BR>>
** Contributors: MattZimmerman<<BR>>
** Interested: ScottJamesRemnant, AndresSalomon, AdamConrad, JimMcQuillan, MatthewPaulThomas, EricHarrison <<BR>>
** Status: BreezyGoal, UduBof, DistroSpecification, EditedSpec, MattZimmermanQueue<<BR>>
** Branch: <<BR>>
** Malone Bug: <<BR>>
** Packages: <<BR>>
** Depends: <<BR>>
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc <<BR>>

=== Introduction ===

Network Magic (NM) aims to manage network interfaces and connectivity more intelligently.

=== Rationale ===

Users are increasingly using multiple networks. Being able to seamlessly move between networks whilst remembering the correct settings for each network would greatly enhance Ubuntu's usability for mobile professionals. <<BR>> 
Many network dependent services should only be run when the system is positive that it has a network. This would greatly enhance the system's flexibility and responsiveness.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

* Suppress boot-time attempts to activate network interfaces which can be determined to be down at the link layer
* Suppress boot-time attempts to start services or perform actions that depend on a working network connection, delay until we have one or when we switch them
* Provide a simple desktop interface for selecting the desired network interface and wireless network
* Automatic selection of interface based on known information (cable connected, wifi kill switch, preference)
* WirelessNetworkManagement
* Provide a network interface for configuring all available networks and network devices.

=== Implementation Plan ===

* NetworkManager is the correct approach
* Look into adding <nowiki>[[http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3927.txt|RFC3927]]</nowiki> (zeroconf) support for ad-hoc/link local networks
* Look at Microsoft/ISC spec for network detection, ensure we're able to play well with this. http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-dhc-dna-ipv4-11.txt
* Daemon to allow us to restart services on a D-BUS message
* Patch applications to use NM's online/offline API.
* Get correct type from NM to allow us to set up PPP/Bluetooth, etc...
* Patch PPPd to get connection details in a better way than parsing logs.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

* `NetworkManager`
* `pppd`
* Epiphany/Firefox
* `gaim`
* `ssh-server`
* `apache2`
* `dovecot`
* `postfix`
* `samba`
* `exim4`

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* What about wifi-radar ? Compatible or not ? Recommended or not ?

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

* NetworkManager
** Integration of online status with applications
* netapplet
* resolvconf
* dnsmasq
* ZeroConf/HOWL?
* wifid, ifd
* Dialup configuration (Modem, PPPoe ...)

==== UDU Pre-Work ====

== Suggestions ==

* When switching networks some configs change too:
** Unified proxy management
** Investigate whether to try Netscape/IE PAC (Proxy Auto Configuration) ...this unfortately relies on running all URLs through the supplied Java''''''Script/ECMA''''''Script code.  MS calls this `wpad.dat`.  Others call it `proxy.pac`.
** Unified SMTP management (Evolution, MTA's, SSMTP, etc...)
* Patching PPP has needed to happen for a long time;  it needs to be able to be possible to 'pause' the connection (`+++`), issue a command such as checking the GSM signal strength or currently negoiated v.92 connection speed.

* see also:  WirelessNetworkManagement

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
