{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Ubuntu and other derivatives provide minimal install from the iso. This is an attempt to install minimal-unity from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/ | netboot]]</nowiki> cd. 

=== Partitioning & Installation ===

After booting netboot iso from usb, choose manual partitioning and then choose one '''root''' (/) and one '''swap''' partition. Then follow the on-screen guide. When you reach this screen do not select anything and complete the installation. After reboot you will boot into tty.

{OK} We are not going to cover step by step of entire installation here. For that look elsewhere.

=== Disable Recommends ===

Login in tty.

From the console run:
<pre> bash

    cd /etc/apt/apt.conf.d
    sudo touch 99local
    sudo nano 99local
</pre>

Type in the following:
<pre> ini

    APT::Install-Recommends "0";
    APT::Install-Suggests "0";
</pre>

Save and quit nano – '''CTRL+O''', '''CTRL+X'''

=== Graphic Stack, Fonts & Inputs ===

Xorg:
<pre> bash
  sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-core xfonts-base xinit x11-xserver-utils  x11-utils
  sudo apt-get install x11-session-utils xauth
</pre>

Video Driver:

<pre> bash
  sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel
</pre>

{i} Choose your own driver here (ex. ati, nouveau, radeon, vesa, amdgpu), if unsure type xserver-xorg-video-all

DRI/Mesa:

<pre> bash
  sudo apt-get install libgl1-mesa-dri mesa-utils
</pre>

Fonts:
<pre> bash
  apt-get install xfonts-100dpi xfonts-75dpi xfonts-base xfonts-scalable xfonts-utils
</pre>

Input Driver:
<pre> bash
  sudo apt-get install xinput xkb-data xserver-xorg-input-libinput
</pre>

{i} If unsure, use xserver-xorg-input-all

=== Dbus ===
<pre> bash
  sudo apt-get install dbus dbus-x11
</pre>

=== Unity, Unity Session ===
<pre> bash
  sudo apt-get install unity unity-session notify-osd libnotify-bin

  sudo apt-get install ubuntu-settings gsettings-ubuntu-schemas

  sudo apt-get install unity-lens-applications unity-lens-files zeitgeist-datahub

## This will pull evolution-data-server, pulseaudio, upower and all
  sudo apt-get install indicator-session indicator-power indicator-sound indicator-datetime

## App-indicators and global menu
  sudo apt-get install indicator-application indicator-appmenu 

## This will pull lots of other packages like gnome-bluetooth, cheese and all
  sudo apt-get install unity-control-center hud
</pre>

=== Display Manager ===
<pre> bash
  sudo apt-get install lightdm unity-greeter
</pre>

=== Artwork ===
<pre> bash
  sudo apt-get install ubuntu-artwork fonts-ubuntu
  sudo apt-get install plymouth-theme-ubuntu-logo plymouth-theme-ubuntu-text
</pre>

=== Gvfs, Policykit & Keyrings ===
<pre> bash
## For automatic mount of usb disks
  sudo apt-get install gvfs gvfs-backends gvfs-bin policykit-1 udisks2

## No password when mounting internal disks/partition:
  sudo apt-get install policykit-1-gnome policykit-desktop-privileges

## Gnome-keyrings (optional ?)
  sudo apt-get install gnome-keyring libpam-gnome-keyring
</pre>

=== File manager, Terminal, Text editor ===
<pre> bash
  sudo apt-get install nautilus gnome-terminal gedit nautilus-extension-gnome-terminal
</pre>

=== Network Manager ===
<pre> bash
## Network-manager, nm-applet
  sudo apt-get install network-manager-gnome network-manager

## Note: If you use wifi during installation, it will create a nplan@wpasupplicant.service 
## and will take control of wifi interface during boot. Hence it is best to disable or
## completely remove the service and let network-manager handle it.
</pre>

=== Package Manager ===
<pre> bash
  sudo apt-get install gdebi synaptic apt-xapian-index software-properties-gtk
</pre>

=== Misc Utilities ===
<pre> bash
## Gnupg, dirmngr
  sudo apt-get install gnupg dirmngr

## xdg-user-dirs
  sudo apt-get install xdg-user-dirs-gtk

## Gnome system tools
  sudo apt-get install gnome-system-log gnome-system-monitor gnome-disk-utility

## Start up application Manager
  sudo apt-get install gnome-startup-applications

## Image thumbnails in nautilus
  sudo apt-get install libgdk-pixbuf2.0-bin
</pre>

=== Multimedia ===
<pre> bash
## To play mp3 in rhythmbox with libav
  sudo apt-get install gstreamer1.0-libav gstreamer1.0-pulseaudio
</pre>
