{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Deprecated, please see <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay-Organizing]]</nowiki>

----

We'll have a Bug day on ... The announce will 
* definitely go out to
** ubuntu-bugsquad@lists.ubuntu.com
** ubuntu-devel-announce@lists.ubuntu.com
** ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com
** ubuntu-news-team@lists.ubuntu.com

For easy copy-pasting:
<pre>
To: ubuntu-bugsquad@lists.ubuntu.com, ubuntu-devel-announce@lists.ubuntu.com, ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com, ubuntu-news-team@lists.ubuntu.com
</pre>

<pre>
Hello Ubuntu Lovers!

Feisty Fawn Herd 5 is now released and everyone has done a great job. Lots of people work within the Ubuntu BugSquad [1], some of Ubuntu's teams have set up weekly bug goals [2] and everybody is trying to get as many bugs fixed as possible for Feisty. If you ever wanted to get involved, this is the perfect time to get started. We're having a HUG DAY!

[1] http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad
[2] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Bugs/Status

There is one Dapper task left before handling Edgy issues: our focus this time's HUG DAY will be to go through the old bugs list and check whether they are fixed in Dapper or not. A lot of Unconfirmed [3] or Untriaged [4] bugs need love too. It is the perfect time to get things sorted and prepare Edgy work.

[3] http://tinyurl.com/hdhaw
[4] http://tinyurl.com/nzlrx

Planning is one thing, but we'll surely stick to our concept of success: the Hug Day. This is a very special Bug Day: on Hug Day, when someone closes a bug, then someone else should hug him/her. Why? This is a very special way for us to tell everyone that we love contributions! And triaging bugs is a really big contribution.

In addition to that we added [4] - a page where you can list your most annoying bugs. Fixing these bugs will give extra points and extra hugs of course.

[5] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/BugsForExtraPoints

Who can join the Hug Day? Everyone. You don't need to be a developer. You don't need to know to code. Everyone is welcome. If you don't know how to help, then just come and we'll explain you everything.

In a Bug Day, you can 
* work in a nice team,
* make sure the bug reporters' concerns are heard,
* gather all the information needed so developers can fix bugs,
* close useless bugs,
* find out where the bugs come from,

and eventually

* work together with upstream to make changes happen,
* get experience in hacking and fixing bugs.

We will try to triage as many bugs as possible, but specifically look into the targets outlined at
     http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay

Where to join the Hug Day? #ubuntu-bugs on freenode IRC. And you can go there every other day too!

When to join the Hug Day? Next hug day is on July Wednesday 19th, 2006 In all timezones. But again, you can go there every day and help with triaging the bug tracking systems.

We can't stress it enough: everyone can help. So join us for the Hug Day!

Make a difference: join the Bug Day on Wednesday, July 19th. We will be in #ubuntu-bugs (Freenode) all day and night, and will be ready to answer your questions about how to help.

If you're new to all this, head to 
     http://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs

Have a nice day,
 Jérémie (for the BugSquad)
</pre>

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryBugSquad]]</nowiki>
