{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Training - How to run a Jam, jcastro 2010-03-10 ==

<pre>
<jcastro> 3 minutes!
<JManGt> 3 minutes!!!
<jcastro> ok just one more minute in case we have stragglers!
<ajenbo> o/
<jcastro> in the meantime please introduce yourself and what loco you are from!
<jcastro> I am jorge and I am from ubuntu-us-michigan!
<ajenbo> Anders Jenbo, Translator, part of Danish loco
<ajenbo> *LoCo
<YoBoY> I'm Philippe, I am from Ubuntu-fr and i'm the french documentation administrator
<sound-top> im michael from the danish loco
<sound-top> og hej anders ;o)
<pep> I am Pierre, from Ubuntu-be, planning for a Jam at my school (computer science)
<ajenbo> nice pep
<ajenbo> and hi sound-top :)
<jcastro> awesome
<jcastro> welcome everyone
<jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
<jcastro> this is where we have all the docs for the jam
<jcastro> so you can refer to those in case you need tips and help!
<jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam/Events
<jcastro> if you are running an event and haven't listed your LoCo on this list then please add it!
<jcastro> Ok so who here is from a LoCo that has never run a Jam before?
<jcastro> and who is here from LoCos that have run jams before?
<ajenbo> have (i wasn't there)
<jcastro> ok
<YoBoY> have (i was there)
<pep> Ubuntu-be has run Jams before I think... I haven't, but my planned Jam won't be a very big one.
<jcastro> so, let's start off with what a Jam is.
<Espen-_-> No official loco in my area, but maybe after the jam ;)
<jcastro> "Jam" is really just a slick term for "let's get together and do something"
<jcastro> you can run jams on a variety of subjects
<jcastro> and whenever you want
<jcastro> for example my LoCo is great at Beer Jams! :)
<jcastro> once per cycle though, we try to have one big series of Jams all around the world during the same weekend
<ajenbo> Espen-_-, I'm x'ing my fingers for you.
<JManGt> Javier Alvarez - emergin Guatemala Loco
<jcastro> we do this right as Beta is coming around since it's an opportune time to get some testing on Ubuntu
<jcastro> so, in the past we did the "Ubuntu Global Bug Jam"
<jcastro> but after a while we just decided to add a bunch of other ones, and now we just call it the Global Jam
<jcastro> and we've written little instructions on the different kind of jams you can do
<jcastro> so that if your LoCo wants to concentrate on a certain area of Ubuntu then you have the tools you need to get things done!
<jcastro> Currently we have 6 kinds of jams
<pep> (the doc is well made!)
<jcastro> The first is a bug jam - this is where you all huddle around and triage bugs
<jcastro> this is the oldest jam and probably has the most documentation
<jcastro> and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs is always a good resource for that
<jcastro> We also have packaging jams, which is where you all decide how to learn Debian/Ubuntu packaging
<jcastro> I won't talk about that too much, since usually for the global jam we're concentrating on fixing what we have, not adding new things
<jcastro> however a packaging jam is great early in the next ubuntu cycle when people want to learn that kind of thing
<jcastro> next up we have translation jams
<ajenbo> \o/
<jcastro> dpm will have a session on that tomorrow at 0900 UTC
<jcastro> but basically you just pick a package/area of interest and go translate it
<jcastro> we also have documentation jams, in which you update documentation
<jcastro> (these are all pretty self explanatory)
<jcastro> I want to talk about upgrade and testing jams though
<ajenbo> what kind of documentation?
<jcastro> there are two kinds
<jcastro> online docs, which is the wiki
<jcastro> and then system docs, which are the actual help files in Ubuntu
<pep> Do we need to get in touch with translation or doc teams before these jams?
<jcastro> if it's your first jam then something like a wiki jam might make sense, since it's pretty low barrier to entry
<ajenbo> so this would mainly be in US english?
<ajenbo> except maybe for the online docs
<jcastro> nope, any language!
<jcastro> if you're translating docs into another language then it's probably a blend of translation and doc jams
<jcastro> pep: you don't have to, but it's probably good to touch base with a team
<ajenbo> arh ok
<pep> Ok.
<jcastro> so that they can best support you
<jcastro> "oh hey, a bunch of people are coming to my place tomorrow and we want to fix docs on DNS" or whatever
<jcastro> sometimes people on other teams can even be available to you to help
<jcastro> during the global jam since everyone is doing it most teams will be ready to help all weekend
<jcastro> however if you want to run an independent jam at some point you should ask for help so that other teams can support your work!
<jcastro> it would be a shame if you planned a Doc Jam and 50 people showed up and no one knew what to do!
<jcastro> of course that's why you have people like me to poke for things like that
<pep> Okay ;)
<jcastro> ok, so I wanted to talk a bit about two kinds of jams that are easy to do
<ajenbo> Is there some way of cordinating witch teams work on what doc?
<jcastro> and you can do them even if you decide to have some other kind of jam
<jcastro> ajenbo: yep, we'll have this channel and the typical ubuntu channels available on IRC
<jcastro> you'll see some people saying things like "hello from Detroit, we're going to work on this doc, if someone wants to work on this other one that would be great!"
<jcastro> and that kind of thing
<jcastro> also remember too that these are really guides
<jcastro> if half your loco wants to translate something and the other half wants to do bug work, then that's totally fine!
<jcastro> remember that your LoCo determines what is best for your LoCo, this is just a set of guides
<jcastro> there are 2 kind of jams that will be critical this cycle
<jcastro> the first is upgrades
<jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams/Upgrade
<jcastro> this might be hard for some locos, since upgrading can be very network intensive.
<jcastro> however if people show up and want to test lucid, then those docs there will be useful
<jcastro> those people can go through the checklists for example: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/UpgradeChecklist
<jcastro> and of course we'll have plenty of people in #ubuntu-testing
<pep> Great.
<jcastro> people can also do ISO testing
<jcastro> so it might be useful for people to burn the daily ISOs from the night before
<jcastro> and test on as many laptops as you can!
<jcastro> that brings me to the testing jam: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams/Testing
<jcastro> this one is fun because anyone can do it!
<jcastro> if someone brings a laptop you can just run through the hardware database bits
<jcastro> I like this one because all you need is one CD
<jcastro> and you can just run it on everyone's laptop
<jcastro> this is also good for beginners
<pep> (and usb sound gear, etc... if you want to do it extensively, no?)
<jcastro> they might show up and be scared by all the kinds of jams and things to do!
<jcastro> pep: sure, if you have more hardware, the better!
<jcastro> but at a mininum if someone brings their laptop and submitted something for the hardware database they've already helped!
<jcastro> so I encourage you, regardless of which jam you want to do, to get these tests done on hardware!
<jcastro> ok, so those are the kinds of jams
<jcastro> any questions on those?
<Espen-_-> Does it make any difference on the submission if we do the tests in VM or on Hardware?
<jcastro> Espen-_-: real hardware is always the best.
<jcastro> we get plenty of tests on VMs, but having people from around the world gathering together with laptops is rare, so we try to take advantage of that!
<jcastro> ok so it's also important to remember
<Espen-_-> For me it looks like the docs encourage using VM
<ajenbo> Sugestion: if there where some thing a bit more static then IRC, for telling if you are working on a specific doc. I think it would help on prevent multiple teams working on the same docs
<pep> the wiki is good for that I think...
<jcastro> Espen-_-: a bunch of ISO testing can be done in VMs
<jcastro> but for the hardware submission bits the real hardware is best.
<Espen-_-> found http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/
<Espen-_-> awesome resource
<jcastro> Espen-_-: however, leading up to the jam if you want to test all the ISOs in VMs then that's always useful
<jcastro> yeah
<jcastro> ok so now that you know what kind of jam to have there's the bit about actually running it
<jcastro> for that we have this doc: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams
<jcastro> hopefully by now your loco has a venue
<jcastro> some locos have a static venue where they always hold events
<jcastro> some like to change it every time
<jcastro> really whatever works best for your LoCo
<jcastro> most LoCos just need power and internet. :D
<pep> and drink (coke of course)
<jcastro> We have found that having a projector has been invaluable
<pep> oh, that's a good tip.
<Espen-_-> pep: Ubuntu Coke? :P
<jcastro> so that when someone who doesn't know anything asks a question someone can just plug in and walk everyone through it
<jcastro> "I need help learning how to burn an ISO"
<jcastro> "ok here let me show you" then you plug in
<jcastro> or whatever
<jcastro> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-event-planners
<jcastro> this mailing list has tips and is available to you if you want to get advice on how to plan stuff
<jcastro> you'll also want to make sure your venue is accessible
<jcastro> so like, if you have it at a pub and it's 21 and older and 4 16 year olds show up and get turned away that would be :(
<jcastro> our first jam we did it in a bar and it was too smokey for people
<jcastro> so remember to consider other people when picking a place!
<jcastro> any questions on venues?
<jcastro> remember to be prepared, some venues aren't geek friendly.
<jcastro> they have like one wireless router and if it doesn't handle the workload then you'll have to think of something to talk about for the people that show up!
<ajenbo> would it be a good idea to start it of with an introduction on the projector
<jcastro> so it's always handy to have fresh CDs with the builds from the day before, etc.
<jcastro> sure
<jcastro> it can be odd because if it's your first jam then no one really knows what to do
<Espen-_-> Maybe set up a local repo ?
<jcastro> which is totally ok
<jcastro> Espen-_-: yep!
<jcastro> in fact our first few jams weren't really productive, we were just really kind of figuring out what to do
<jcastro> which is fine, remember the goal of the jam is for your LoCo to get together and have a good time
<jcastro> so don't get frustrated if you don't feel like you're getting anything done
<jcastro> in fact, you want to be flexible
<jcastro> if you planned to have a jam and instead you get a bunch of new people who have never heard of ubuntu you might want to focus on user-level things
<jcastro> like how to use openoffice or firefox or something
<jcastro> you'll find that the more you advertise your jam the more people you don't expect will show up!
<jcastro> that leads up to the next step
<jcastro> promoting your jam
<jcastro> usually we have mailing lists, lugs, etc.
<jcastro> you can put up signs at your local computer shop (with their permission of course), etc.
<jcastro> and of course you want to blog about it, add it to the Fridge calendar, etc.
<jcastro> any questions on promoting your jam?
<Espen-_-> wasnt there a site for ubuntu posters?
<jcastro> that's pretty straightforward, we're all pretty good about being loud. :D
<jcastro> actually there's a bunch of reusable art all over the wiki
<pep> Espen-_-: spreadubuntu is in the works...
<pep> I am working on it as we speak
<jcastro> this cycle is kind of odd since we're redoing all the artwork
<Espen-_-> pep: cool
<jcastro> but as long as you get the word out
<ajenbo> Is there any advice on having a jam in you flat or in a public place?
<pep> http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org
<jcastro> I've had jams at my house!
<jcastro> ajenbo: that depends on how comfortable people are going to someone's living place
<Espen-_-> Considering hosting a jam at home
<pep> Yeah, I'm planning to have the jam at my house too... we've got this nice big room with space for many tables and laptops and everything...
<Espen-_-> Since only 8 people showed up at the last release party :P
<jonnor> jcastro: is there a list of Ubuntu Global Jams somewhere?
<jcastro> yep
<pep> jonnor: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam/Events
<jcastro> ok so now that you've told the world there's actually running the jam
<ajenbo> is the source avalible for theas? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=ugj09_banner_195x500_red_EN.png
<jcastro> I recommend that someone always goes to the venue early
<jcastro> that person should check things, like the network
<jcastro> projector if you have it, power, etc.
<jcastro> ajenbo: there's a link right there to the source files
<jcastro> on the top page
<jcastro> when running the jam while someone is checking the gear you should probably have a person being the "greeter"
<jcastro> this is usually the nice person in the group
<jcastro> that can greet people who might be there for the first time or whatever
<pep> hehe :) the lesser geek...
<jcastro> right
<Espen-_-> The one with most connections on LinkedIn ;)
<jcastro> you should always remember to be welcoming
<jcastro> sometimes people see a room full of people with computers and laptops and freak out!
<jcastro> some people might not even be there to jam
<jcastro> they might have seen a post or something about "this ubuntu thing" or something
<jcastro> and might just be dropping by
<jcastro> in which case you're already ready with their free CD to take home and try! :)
<pep> We thought setting up a relaxed corner, with couches, snacks and tux racer... and the rest of the room tables for the laptops
<jcastro> yeah
<jcastro> some LoCos just do social activities all year around
<jcastro> which is encouraged!
<jcastro> oh, one thing I forgot to mention
<jcastro> during the prep phase
<jcastro> is to encourage people who want to work on Ubuntu to have launchpad accounts before they show up
<jcastro> our first jam spent like an hour getting people signed up to launchpad
<jcastro> this is a waste of good Jam time that you can be collaborating!
<pep> noted.
<ajenbo> Snack and some thing to drink is also a good thing for making people feel welcom
<ajenbo> or a ball of fruit if you want to be healty :)
<jcastro> yeah
<jcastro> we order pizza
<jcastro> also, the length of the jam
<Espen-_-> What about sponsorship from local companies?
<jcastro> if you schedule a 12 hour long marathon then that likely won't be popular
<Espen-_-> sponsor food and drinks ?
<Espen-_-> and venue?
<jcastro> Espen-_-: sure!
<jcastro> in fact last time we had it at some place that donated space
<jcastro> Espen-_-: you'll want to just make sure you mention them in blog posts, your loco page, etc!
<Espen-_-> of course
<jcastro> so the length of the time will be up to you
<jcastro> some people will wrap up and then go home and participate all weekend
<jcastro> since there will be people in IRC, etc.
<Espen-_-> good point
<jcastro> I recommend that you have at least one person on IRC duty
<jcastro> this person can be useful
<Espen-_-> So hosting the live jam on the first day might be best
<jcastro> so if someone gets stuck and no one can help them you can ask on IRC
<jcastro> Espen-_-: yeah but you can also have it later and people can watch on IRC how other teams do it
<jcastro> whichever works for you
<Espen-_-> valid point
<jcastro> so, the IRC thing can be important
<jcastro> for example in a bug jam a few years ago we had this bug
<Espen-_-> Does alot of teams have live cam streams and such?
<jcastro> and we put it up on the projector and we didn't know what to do with it
<jcastro> so on IRC we asked the Chicago team what they would do with the bug.
<jcastro> and they helped us get through that and we moved on
<jcastro> Espen-_-: lots of teams take pictures and there's a bunch of activity on planet with pics
<jcastro> I am not aware of someone doing a live stream though
<jcastro> (that would be cool though)
<paultag> hey jcastro
<paultag> jcastro, why are you on IRC?
<jcastro> paultag: I live here!
<paultag> jcastro, Happy Birthday!!!!!
<YoBoY> :O
<paultag> jcastro, It's your birthday :P
<Espen-_-> :O
<jcastro> paultag: I am giving a session on my birthday, that's how dedicated I am. :D
<Espen-_-> grats man
<YoBoY> Happy Birthday jcastro :D
<jcastro> also, you should ensure that you're using IRC to connect with teams around you
* YoBoY hugs jcastro
<jcastro> let me give you an example
<jcastro> paultag: Your ubuntu jam will pale in comparison this year to the one in Michigan
<ajenbo> Where where planning to experiment with having live streams on the projector as some are spread preaty fare appart and might not be able to be there physicaly
<jcastro> (See what I did there?)
<paultag> jcastro, It's on :)
<jcastro> ajenbo: that would be interesting!
<jcastro> ok so I have 10 minutes left, let's just open it up to questions
<ajenbo> jcastro, happy birthday
<jcastro> oh, and after the jam
<jcastro> don't forget to blog about it
<jcastro> and take pictures!
<jcastro> at the end we like to put up every picture from around the world!
<jcastro> ajenbo: thanks!
<Espen-_-> ajenbo: I was thinking of a status board on a projector. inspired by http://www.panic.com/blog/2010/03/the-panic-status-board/
<jcastro> Espen-_-: I so want an ubuntu one of those
<jcastro> also remember that between now and then you can always ask questions in here about running a jam!
<jcastro> any other questions?
<jcastro> ok so smoke if you got em! Thanks for coming and feel free to hang out!
<ajenbo> thanks
<pep> Thanks for the information
<Espen-_-> Thanks
<YoBoY> thanks
</pre>

----
CategoryJam
