{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ubuntu-devel moderation procedures ==

The <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2006-December/000227.html|charter]]</nowiki> of ubuntu-devel is as follows:

* Discussions among Ubuntu developers about their projects
* Developer questions about Ubuntu policies and procedures
* Discussions seeking consensus among Ubuntu developers
* Point of contact for upstream developers to reach Ubuntu developers
* Open to all to subscribe, posting moderated for non-developers

Compare this with the charter of ubuntu-devel-discuss:

* Sharing of experiences with the current development branch of Ubuntu
* Technical questions about new features in the development branch
* Ideas and suggestions about future development of Ubuntu
* Point of contact for Ubuntu users to reach Ubuntu developers
* Open to all to subscribe, posting moderated for non-subscribers

Since many people can moderate ubuntu-devel, this page attempts to serve as a central repository of ubuntu-devel moderation practices in order to ensure that moderation is reasonably consistent.

The <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/listadmin|listadmin]]</nowiki> package is useful for dealing with large moderation queues without having to go through the mailman web interface.

People who consistently post sensible, on-topic material should be added to the whitelist. To edit the whitelist, use the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/admin/ubuntu-devel|administrative interface]]</nowiki> (with the moderator password) and navigate to Privacy options... -> Sender filters -> accept_these_nonmembers. Please be careful when editing this field to avoid accidents of the select-all type that might lose the previous list contents; if you suffer such an accident, don't save your changes!

=== Inappropriate support request ===

This should be used when end users mail ubuntu-devel with problems which would be better handled as support requests or as bugs.

<pre>
Thank you for your comments on Ubuntu. However, ubuntu-devel is meant to be for discussions among developers. I suggest asking ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com, https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu or http://ubuntuforums.org for help, or https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu if you wish to file a bug.
</pre>

For less obvious matters regarding the development branch:

<pre>
Thank you for your comments on the development branch of Ubuntu. However, ubuntu-devel is meant to be for discussions among developers. I suggest bringing this up on ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com, or https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu if you wish to file a bug.
</pre>

For general commentary that would be better directed to the -discuss list:
<pre>
Thank you for your comments on the development branch of Ubuntu. However, ubuntu-devel is meant to be for development discussion.  For general discussion about Ubuntu please send to ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com.
</pre>

=== Bug report ===

Sometimes people recognize that a problem is a bug, but don't know where to send it and so mail ubuntu-devel.

<pre>
Thank you for your bug report. However, we cannot effectively track bug reports sent to mailing lists. Please file this on the appropriate package at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu instead.
</pre>

Similarly:

Feature requests
<pre>
Thank you for your feature request. However, we cannot effectively track feature requests sent to the ubuntu-devel mailing list. Please file this on the appropriate package at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu instead, or use the ubuntu-devel-discuss mailing list if you would like to discuss it first.
</pre>

Patches
<pre>
Thank you for your patches. However, we cannot effectively track these when sent to mailing lists. Please file them on the appropriate packages at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu instead; if you would like to discuss them first, then the ubuntu-devel-discuss mailing list would be appropriate, but they should end up in the bug tracking system eventually.
</pre>

'Is y a bug?'
<pre>
Thank you for your comments on Ubuntu. However, ubuntu-devel is not really a good place to ask about whether something is a bug. I suggest bringing this up on ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com, which is unmoderated.
</pre>

Package Requests
<pre>
Thank you for your package request. However, we cannot effectively track package requests sent to the ubuntu-devel mailing list. Please review the documentation at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU, or use the ubuntu-motu mailing list if you would like to discuss it first.
</pre>

=== Non-Ubuntu development help request ===

People sometimes mail ubuntu-devel for help with development '''on''' Ubuntu rather than development '''of''' Ubuntu: for example, help with shell scripting or C programming.

<pre>
ubuntu-devel is not a general forum for discussion of developing programs on Ubuntu; it is only for developing Ubuntu itself. You will probably have better luck searching for documentation on the tool you're using, or for a forum devoted to it.
</pre>

=== Getting started ===

Sometimes people mail ubuntu-devel to ask how to get started with developing Ubuntu. This is off-topic for ubuntu-devel, but we should nevertheless be welcoming and point them to useful resources.

<pre>
The ubuntu-devel mailing list is really more for discussions of developing Ubuntu than helping new developers get started, although we do very much welcome new developers as a project. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu for all sorts of ways to contribute to Ubuntu, and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment for specific information on development.
</pre>

=== Screenshots ===

Sometimes people post screenshots to ubuntu-devel in reply to a now-ancient email from Mark requesting them.  A Launchpad project has been created to contain new screenshots, and users should be directed there.

<pre>
Thank you for your screenshots.  However, as ubuntu-devel has already been flooded with posts of screenshots, and because such posts are very large, a Launchpad project has been set up to contain screenshot submissions.  Please see http://launchpad.net/desktop-screenshots for more information.
</pre>

=== Cross-posting ===

It is generally not a good idea for threads to be cross-posted between ubuntu-devel and ubuntu-devel-discuss. Sometimes it makes sense for the first post in a thread to be cross-posted, but replies should generally be directed to just one place; this avoids confusion due to moderation delays being applied to only part of the thread.

<pre>
This post was sent to both ubuntu-devel and ubuntu-devel-discuss. This is generally not a good idea since moderation delays are applied to only one of those lists. Since the discussion is already active on ubuntu-devel-discuss, it would be best for it to remain there rather than being cross-posted.
</pre>

=== Moderation Confusion ===

<pre>
This is a moderated list, therefore posts are held for moderation and will not appear immediately.  See https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2006-December/000227.html for a more detailed explanation.
</pre>

=== Packaging Request ===
<pre>
Thank you for your packaging request.  However, the mailing list for packaging for the universe component is a more suitable location for such discussions, provided the changes needed do not touch so many parts of the distribution as to warrant a discussion that involves the entire development team.  I suggest reposting this email to that list, ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com.
</pre>

== Current moderation team ==

* Bryce Harrington
* Colin Watson
* Dave Walker
* Evan Dandrea
* Iain Lane
* Sarah Kowalik
* Soren Hansen
