{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''~+Brainstorming page for upcoming Ubuntu Studio releases+~'''

== Upcoming Releases ==

=== PRECISE (12.04) ===
Let's make this one to be proud of!

==== integrate with release team ====
The release team has tools that can track progress of a team throughout the cycle.  We should better integrate with the release team's processes.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/IntegrateWithReleaseTeam

==== lowlatency kernel ====
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-lowlatency|blueprint]]</nowiki>
* responsible: [slavender, abogani]
* test performance
* document performance
* in repo
* default kernel on image

==== update theme/UI ====
* theme
* panels
* icons
* wallpaper
* lightdm theme

==== update website ====
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-ubuntustudio-update-website|blueprint]]</nowiki>
* responsible: [knome, holstein, slavender, stochastic]
* develop website design and structure
* add content
* review design and content

==== live dvd ====
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-ubuntustudio-livedvd|blueprint]]</nowiki>
* responible: [slavender, shnatsel?]
* add 'live dvd' seed (or whatever is needed)
* include ubiquity patch in seedsn
* rework work flows
** light-install (non-jack applications)
** audio-generation [audio-common]
** audio-recording [audio-common]
** video
** graphics
** photography
** podcasting (?)
** filmmaking (?)
* rework seeds based on workflows
* provide cjwatson a block chart of seed changes ASAP

==== misc ====
* sane jack settings as default [hosltein, slavender]
* test multiple monitor setups in XFCE [holstein, slavender, astraljava]
* re-evaluate xfce application transition [every-bloody-one, but definetely slavender]

==== documentation ====
* develop QA ISO test/documentation [slavender, ???]
* update "contribute to ubuntu studio" wiki page [slavender, ???] - DONE

==== continuing projects ====
* scott work with mica to get upload permissions (ongoing)

==== -audio transition package ====

responsible: [slavender]
Can drop the ubuntustudio-audio transition package in this LTS release from the ubuntustudio-meta package.  This transitional package was added to the ubuntustudio-meta package during Natty because the 'audio' seed/task was removed and supplanted by the 'generation' and 'recording' seeds/tasks (at least, we might actually release more, e.g. 'live' or 'performance' or 'academia' or 'programming').  Dividing the packages into more seeds/tasks allow the user greater control and choice when installing applications, the net yield is that a user does not have to install applications they neither desire nor use.

The ubuntustudio-audio transition package was created inside the control file of the ubuntustudio-meta package, which will depend on the generation and recording tasks, so that users updating will get the correct file.  This is required because the audio task will no longer be extant as of Natty.

=== PRECISE+1 (12.10) ===

==== live dvd ====
consider making a livedvd, if it didn't happen for 12.04 we should probably be able to make it for 12.10

==== misc ====
* maybe use droid or ubuntu
* monospace as new font
* controls for adding/removing workflows
* explore chain loading work flows (i.e. automation, might be script or dock)
* update CoF (i have an idea for this)
* ubuntu store with merchandise (talk to jono about this)
* scott work with mica to get upload permissions (ongoing)

==== documentation ====
* update "contribute to ubuntu studio" wiki page (ongoing)
* update user documentation on help.u.c

==== dock ====
* some dock looking thing on bottom of screen
* example - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Artwork/OfficialOneiric
* talk with dock dev about supporting work flows

==== community ====
* develop user community 
* develop new user base
* forge contact with DSLR group

==== new user support ====
* introductionary pop up message for new users
** mention support submenu
** mention bookmarks in firefox
** mention xchat support channels
** mention tutorial videos in youtube
** mention tutorial videos on computer
* install xchat and set support channel defaults (#ubuntustudio, #ubuntustudio-devel, #ubuntu-help)
* add bookmarks to firefox (forums, h.u.c/ubunstudio, youtube studio channel, ubuntustudio.org)
* add "contribute to studio" link (w.u.c./ubuntustudio/contributetostudio)
* tutorials on youtube
* include minimal videos on computer
* add support/help submenu
** release notes
** ubuntu forums (firefox)
** #ubuntustudio/#ubuntu-help (xchat)

<<BR>><<BR>>
=== Proposed Improvements ===
List of proposed improvements.  They might be incorporated, they may not, but at least they are accreted into a single, useful location for discussion.

==== Ubuntu Studio Controls ====
Some uses of the ubuntustudio-controls are no longer needed and others may be added.
* memlock
** located in /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf now instead of /etc/security/limits.conf
** probably still should allow users to adjust this value for users with limited memory
** i think default is set for unlimited for @audio
* rtprio
** located in /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf now instead of /etc/security/limits.conf
** should be set to 99 for @audio
* nice
** __if__ set, it should be located in /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf now instead of /etc/security/limits.conf
** it has been argued that nice settings will not effect audio performance:  see http://www.pubbs.net/201003/linuxaudio/10007-re-lau-changing-for-editing-etcsecuritylimitsconf-in-debiantesting-ubuntu-lucid.html
* raw1394
** might not be required anymore due to permissions either in -realtime or because of new audio stack
** suggest not incorporating this until proved it is necessary
* user in audio group
** users who migrate from vanilla ubuntu will need to add their user to the audio group
** this can be handled elsewhere but this would be a good, centralized place to do it
* ubuntu studio PPA
** enable ubuntustudio-dev PPA for -rt kernel (possibly -lowlatency kernel as well if not in repos yet)
** install -rt kernel (possibly -lowlatency kernel as well if not in repos yet)
** enable ubuntustudio-dev PPA for backports testing
* select and install "restricted-extras"/third party applications
** flash player
** mp3 codec
** gstreamer/gstreamer-ugly/gstream-bad
** libavcodec
** ?
* rtirq script
** use this to avoid irq conflicts
* anything else a user does routinely to setup their audio box

==== User Help ====
* xchat
** make sure xchat is installed
** make sure #ubuntustudio (and possibly #ubuntustudio-dev) channel(s) are set for ubuntu server
* add firefox shortcuts/bookmarks to desktop/firefox
** ubuntu forums
** help.ubuntu.com
** wiki.ubuntu.com
** youtube/vimeo channel for tutorial videos
* tutorial videos
** youtube/vimeo channel
** include basic tutorial videos on ISO and link on desktop

==== Release Notes ====
* add release notes as package and include on iso
* add menu item for release notes

==== ubuntustudio-menu ====
The goal would be to make the menu better parsed by adding additional submenus so that no particular menu has too many items.  Below are suggestions for updates:

'''Option #1'''
This is based on what tango studios (ubuntu studio derivative) has done.

* add submenus under the ''Audio & Video'' menu
** Effects (for calf-plugins, rakarrack, jackrack, lv2rack, etc)
** MIDI/Synthesizer (for qtractor, seq24, Mixxx, Muse, etc)
** see image: http://tangostudio.tuxfamily.org/images/stories/tangostudio-karmasutra.png

'''Option #2'''
This is based on rosea.grammostola's email http://www.mail-archive.com/pkg-multimedia-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org/msg07029.html.

* add ''Multimedia'' as a main menu item
** this is for media players such as vlc, totem, rhythmbox, audacious, et al
** see image: http://img11.imageshack.us/i/desk1009.png/
* remove ''Audio Production'' submenu
* remove ''Video Production'' submenu
* add additional submenus under ''Sound & Video'' menu
** Audio Editing submenu (Editing, Mixing, Mastering: Audacity, jack-rack, lv2rack, guitarix etc)
** JACK (Jack and Alsa tools like qjackctl, japa, jack_mixer and software mixers for alsa audio cards for example)
** MIDI (Midi tools like Vkeybd, qsynth)
** Musician (Musescore notation editor, solfege, Chordata, gtklick etc)
** Recording (DAW: ardour, qtractor)
** Synth (phasex, yoshimi, puredata, Qutecsound etc.)
** Video Editing (blender, openshot, xjadeo, kino etc)
** see image: http://img141.imageshack.us/i/desk1008.png/

==== GTK Theme ====
* fix low contrast buttons
** some buttons consist of medium/dark grey text on black buttons, which is almost illegible
** example: http://secure.fsckvps.com/cart.php?gid=200015&currency=2
* maybe use ambience dark theme
** from deviantart : http://ubuntu-art.org/content/show.php/Ambiance+dark?content=132875
** uses equinox engine
* maybe use Faenza icons
** see this for screen shot: http://www.techdrivein.com/2010/08/equinox-gtk-theme-faenza-icon-theme.html
** from deviantart : http://tiheum.deviantart.com/art/Faenza-Icons-173323228

==== music me menu ====
Think of this like the current ubuntu "me menu" where it helps you post to various social media, like twitter or facebook.  But this menu is focused on publishing music.

It could help you upload to Bandcamp, Alonetone, or Soundcloud (are maybe all of them at once) and even post an identica dent or twitter post about new music pushed.

The though behind this would be to try to help users distribute web media.

==== Backports ====
Work on developing procedure and getting people involved in backporting key applications for at least the LTS versions.

Care should be observed when backporting libraries as well as the requirements for LTS+2 and LTS+3 releases.

==== Documentation ====
Documentation is a mess.  It needs to be better organized, updated, and appended.

General note:  wiki.ubuntu.com should be reserved for development notes while help.ubuntu.com should be reserved for using ubuntu studio.

==== Testing Procedures ====
Need to develop codified testing procedures for varying tiers of checking.

Below is just a suggestion on framing the testing paradigm.

'''Primary Testing'''
ISO testing (http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/) should happen within days of notice (sign up for emails at http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntustudio/all, choose appropriate architecture).  The purpose is to validate the ISO images, not the applications, operating system, or settings.

'''Secondary Testing'''
This might be considered as making sure the operating system and/or settings work properly.  Making sure that JACK can be started, connections can be made, and will devices (e.g. firewire) work might be considered in this level.

'''Tertiary Testing'''
Lastly, does a particular application or new feature work might be considered tertiary testing.

The general framework as described would be that each level depends on the level before it working, obviously excepting the first level.

The first two levels, for the most part< can also be codified fairly easily and with broad sweeps (e.g. does JACK start or does firewire interface work) based on project goals rather than on particular applications.

    

<<BR>><<BR>><<BR>><<BR>>
== Completed Releases ==

=== Oneiric Ocelot (11.10) ===

==== Desktop ====
===== Desktop Environment =====
With Ubuntu moving to Unity and GNOME3 replacing GNOME2 (aka gnome-panels) we should reconsider our desktop environment.

* See if Unity or GNOME3 provide a good environment for studio work flow
* XFCE could be considered as a replacement

===== Updated UI =====
Replacing the desktop environment will be a good time to update the UI.

Cory has suggested a no-panel with dock at bottom approach.

We are hoping the Libre Graphics people (Ricardo and Ana?) might help with some design concepts for this and the website.

===== Dock =====
If we do consider using a dock we need to determine which to use.  Choices include docky, AWN, wbar.

Scott would like to consider trying to work with the dock developers to incorporate selectable "context" work flows into the bar.

==== kernel ====

dtchen says "Congrats! I may see you there if I can take off work. As far as getting -lowlatency (back) into Ubuntu, I recommend writing a blueprint for it. You'll definitely want to cover:
1) who or which team will maintain it in git for Ubuntu;
2) who or which team will be syncing with upstream (cross-distro coop really helps here, so try and get that squared away ASAP);"

===== -lowlatency kernel in repos =====
We have the opportunity to develop and place a -lowlatency kernel into the repository if it provides better performance than -generic.

We need to adequately test and contrast the performance between the -lowlatency and the -generic kernels.

If we determine that -lowlatency is preferred then the general plan is for Abogani will prepare it in his git repo, ScottL will package and maintain it, and persia will push it into the repository.

===== -irq threading =====
It seems like the 2.6.39 kernel will see the inclusion of -irq threading allowing firewire device users to adjust the priority on their devices to avoid -irq conflicts.

==== Website Update ====
Kokito (Jorge Mare) has offered to help with the website update and has already provided several "work in progress" screenshots.

He expects to have the basic website ready within a couple of months.

Cory would like to see it going "live" to coincide with the 11.10 release.

We are also considering hosting it on our own servers (to be rented) rather than continue to use Canonical's servers due to the difficulty in access and using their servers.

We are hoping the Libre Graphics people (Ricardo and Ana?) might help with some design concepts for this and the new UI.

==== Documentation Update ====
Ailo and Scott want to update the documentation for users.

Generally, it will feature a new organization and will include supporting documentation for the work flows.

==== Revised Package Selection ====
Scott hopes to have external help in developing a better package selection for graphical and/or video applications.

The loose plan is to identify graphical/video tasks users would want, develop work flows for those tasks, and establish tool chains that support those work flows.  The package selection would be based on these tasks/work flows/tool chains.

It is possible that the Libre Graphics people can help in this.

==== ubuntustudio-controls update ====
Ailo and paultag continue to work on ubuntustudio-controls. 

Giving user realtime privilege will be handled by this app, but ailo.at will look into other ways of doing that as well. ubuntustudio-settings could include a new set of default groups for new users. Also, installing ubuntustudio-settings could perhaps add current user to audio group. The best option would be if Vanilla Ubuntu would let all Desktop users to be members of audio group by default.

==== update seeds ====
===== audio plugins =====
See about adding the following also try to replace ladspa with lv2 versions of the same package.
* mda-lv2
* eq10q
* autotalent
* invada-studio-plugins-lv2 (use this rather than invada-studio-plugins-ladpsa)
* vocproc
* wah-plugins
* foo-yc20
* amb-plugins
* fil-plugins (NO: lv2fil already in seeds)
* dssi-vst
* lv2vocoder
* omins
* abgate

===== ladish =====
ladish is now in Deiban and should be imported during Oneiric Debian import.

We should need:
* ladish
* gladish
* laditools

===== "unknown ship package" =====
clean up the language packs in the seeds that keep showing "unknown ship package" 

* New Audiences
** continue research on new audiences
** discuss new audience needs and how we can fulfill them
** develop plan addressing a new audience's needs and method for gauging success
** implement plan
** measure goal accomplishment or success in fulfilling new audience needs
** adjust and re-implement plan

==== revised menu structure ====
** make separate sub-menus for effects, midi, etc
** example screen shot: http://tangostudio.tuxfamily.org/images/stories/tangostudio-karmasutra.png
** mail discussion in debian:  http://www.mail-archive.com/pkg-multimedia-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org/msg07029.html

=== Ubuntu Studio 11.04 Natty Narwhal ===
Development for Upcoming release.

==== Revised Package Selection ====
Changing the current package selection set, including adding packages, removing packages, and replacing packages.

The packages shipped in the pre-Natty releases seem to be rather disparate and not focusing on supporting a larger task and have the begginings of an application warehouse or library feel to them.  The desire is to make sure that each application is required to support a desirable task.

To achieve this we are focusing guarenteeing a solid and complete toolchain to help users accomplish desirable tasks.

By focusing on identifying desirable tasks user want to accomplish, developing a workflows to accomplish those tasks, and then designate preferred applications to support the workflow we can provide a stronger, more effective package selection.

Applications that do not support a complete and desirable toolchain will be removed from the selection.  This may yield a secondary effect of reducing the image size.

Additionally, some packages will be replaced by others.  Reasons may include additional functionality, stagnated development, and new implementation/specifications.

Additional benefits: the workflows also generate a framework for develop documentation and a path for testing.

See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Workflows and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/PackageSelectionDevelopment for more information.

==== Revised Package Installation ====
too many audio applications installed by default

subdividing the 'audio' tasksel into other choices: generation, recording, and possibly live

this provides better granularity for control over audio applications control to users to isntall only the applications they desire

second benefit includes a smaller audio menu

==== Art ====
* Cory has been working on a new plymouth theme, which appears to be complete except for some aesthetic tweaks

==== Website Update ====
Website update is still in process.  For details see: <<BR>>
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TaskWebRevamp

<<BR>><<BR>>== Ubuntu Studio 10.10 Maverick Meerkat ==
* LV2 Packaging:
** continue LV2 packaging plan - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TaskLV2Inclusion
** might focus on getting these into Debian first via Debian Multimedia Team
** quadrispro has already commented he wanted to do the vocoder, perhaps he can help with others
** astraljava might also be able to help

* JACK2 / Pulse Audio Integration:
** this is looking good already because JACK2 is in Debian already (per TheMuso on IRC)
** TheMuso is apparently spearheading this
** crimsun, TheMuso, and persia have talked on IRC about how to proceed and might discuss this at UDS with Free

* Fill Team Positions
** the team has been eviscerated and therefore nothing is getting done
** need to redefine the core group at least
** begin filling team positions

* Update Website
** good summary of previous discussion at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Sandbox#Notes%20from%20IRC%20Logs
** a good direction appears to be using Word Press
** detrate is really engaged with this task, we should focus on supporting him
** you can find the available information at UbuntuStudio/TaskWebRevamp
** developing the website appears to be an iterative process, i.e. something is suggested, detrate does something/responds, something else is suggested, etc

* Reduce Delta Between Ubuntu Studio and Debian
** information about this can be found at: http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/ubuntustudio.html
** push patches back to Debian Multimedia where applicable for the local changes
*** this would reduce work for Ubuntu Studio team because hopefully the package will autosync in future releases
*** see:  http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/ubuntustudio.html#sameversionbutlocalinB
*** see:  http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/ubuntustudio.html#outdatedandlocalinB
** this will also increase and hopefully improve our relationship with the Debian Multimedia Team (note: quadrispro is a member)

* Ubuntu Studio's Audience and Scope
** Ubuntu Studio's audience is not clearly defined and therefore neither is our scope
** as such, we have taken a shotgun approach which really isn't effecient or effective
** defining our audience, their needs, and how we will fulfill them allows us to measure our effectiveness or success
** this also provides a baseline if we wish to possibly engage new audiences
** also provides a more clearly defined mission statement and goals for Ubuntu Studio
** good summary of previous discussion at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Sandbox#Notes%20from%20IRC%20Logs
** Defining Current Audience
*** a user's survey could be useful to identify our current audience
**** this will help determine user's hardware, work flows, applications used, architecure, etc
**** questions and their purposes has been started here UbuntuStudio/UserSurvey
*** general concensus was to not target "Pro" audience
** Ubuntu Studio Scope
*** understanding our audience's needs may prompt reductions to default installation
**** we probably shouldn't include something just because we can
**** if it isn't fulfilling an audience's needs we shouldn't include it
**** this will allow us to focus on other tasks and minimize our responsibilities/work load due to bugs
*** understanding our audience's may prompt additions to default installation

* Ubuntu Studio Controls Update and Redesign
** update ubuntustudio-controls for rtpri and memlock settings
*** JACK now handles rtpri and memlock in /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf
*** see http://linuxaudio.org/mailarchive/lau/2010/3/5/166428 for background
** Ricardo (rlameiro) is considering a redesign of ubuntustudio-controls
*** see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/ControlsRedesign
*** rtirq script for avoid irq conflicts (especially for firewire)
*** enable Ubuntu Studio PPA for -rt kernels and "backported" applications (see below)
*** install -rt kernel from PPA
*** install ubuntu-restricted-extras
*** user in audio group (perhaps check box to add and remove)
*** remove nice setting? see: http://www.pubbs.net/201003/linuxaudio/10007-re-lau-changing-for-editing-etcsecuritylimitsconf-in-debiantesting-ubuntu-lucid.html

* Ubuntu Studio Applications Backporting
** discussion between John Dong and myself after Jussi poked me:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-studio-devel/2010-May/002364.html
** John suggested using "official" Ubuntu Studio backporting PPA because:
*** it's like kubuntu
*** it allows us to maintain control
*** it doesn't overload the already overworked backports team
*** provides proving grounds that backported apps have quality
*** then can be included in official Ubuntu backports repository
** if we don't want to use Ubuntu Studio backports PPA then we need small group to test and provide vocal feedback in backport bugs

* Addressing User's Most Common Complaints
** JACK/Pulse Audio integration - already being addressed by Luke, et al for JACK2
** network manager
*** turns out it was a bug in gnome-network-admin that left options not shown or changeable
*** Ricardo (rlameiro) reported it:  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-system-tools/+bug/570828
** Ubuntu Studio still might consider testing NetworkManager again
** Document network manager decision

* New (Additional) Audiences
** not to replace our current audience
** why consider new audiences
*** could provide more users (we want more users, right?)
*** could provide more potential testers
*** could provide more potential bug reporters
*** could provide more potential users transitioning into -dev group
** see UbuntuStudio/NewAudiences for a possible list plus descriptions and pros/cons
** might only decide which new audiences to consider and begin research during Maverick

* Ubuntu Studio Documentation
** establish uses for help.ubuntu.com vs. wiki.ubuntu.com
** suggested direction:
*** help.ubuntu.com is community facing documentation
*** wiki.ubuntu.com is for developers and contributors to organize for release
** document this decision and email users

* Ubuntu Studio Decision Documentation
** this is not documentation for users, rather it documents rationalizations for decisions that have been made
** examples:
*** network manager (low overhead, doesn't disrupt recording audio)
*** audacious as media player (can open single file)

* Testing Procedures
** in order to help (and encourage) our users to test we should develop testing procedures
** since stochastic is lead of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-testers|ubuntustudio-testers group]]</nowiki> can he help develop procedures
** ScottL offers to assist develop the procedures and document it on help.ubuntu.com

=== Ubuntu Studio 10.04 Lucid Lynx ===
So what do we wanna tackle?

*** JACK in main.
*** New art (James (dashua) and I will tackle this)
*** LOTS of bug fixin'. *-controls and *-settings bugs are drivin' me nuts. Looks like *-controls needs love as well.
*** Point site to wiki?
*** LV2 in Lucid - what needs to be done? 
