{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

<pre>
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter #105 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #105 for the week August 17th - August 23rd, 2008. In this issue we coverXubuntu Developer, MOTU news(Nicolas Valcarcel interview), IRC Council Nominations, Ubuntu-MD SFD, Ubuntu-NJ Barbecue/LAN party, Atlanta Linux Fest 2008, Ubuntu Bloggers wanted, Happy Birthday Linux, Meeting Summaries, and much, much more!

=== UWN Translations ===

* Note to translators and our readers: We are trying a new way of linking to our translations pages. Please follow the link below for the information you need.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Translations

=== In This Issue ===

Major update of Ubuntu Brainstorm: Call for testing 
Ubuntu Arabic Team 
New Xubuntu Developer: Michael Casadevall 
MOTU News 
Ubuntu Stats 
Software Freedom Day:Ubuntu Maryland 
Ubuntu New Jersey 2008 BBQ/LAN party 
Atlanta Linux Fest 2008 
Launchpad 2.1.8 
In the Press & Blogosphere 
Ubuntu Blogger Wanted 
Happy Birthday Linux 
Meeting Summaries 
Upcoming Meetings & Events 
Updates & Security 
And much, much more! 

=== General Community News ===

Major update of Ubuntu Brainstorm: Call for testing
우분투 브레인스톰 메이저 업데이트: 테스팅 요청

A major evolution of Ubuntu Brainstorm is on the way, it includes:
우분투 브레인스톰의 메이저 진화가 진행 중입니다, 다음을 포함합니다:

An UI redesign, for better navigation through projects and categories. 
Idea rationale & solution separation, with the ability to add your solution to an existing idea rationale. This will help visibility by gathering ideas together that are working on the same problem. 
Approval required for newly submitted ideas. This will help make Ubuntu Brainstorm content consistent by filtering the non-ideas, duplicates and poorly described ideas. 
Custom permissions for project administrators. Upstream and Ubuntu developers could, if they want, ask to add their project and manage ideas related to their project. 
And much more... 
프로젝트와 카테고리 항목에 대한 더 나은 네비게이션을 지원하는 UI 리디자인.
아이디어 레이셔날레 & 솔루션 분리
아이디어를 한데 모음으로써 가독성에 도움을 줄 것입니다

A lot of changes have occurred, and Brainstorm would like to test these changes thoroughly before going live, which we don't expect to do for at least a month. You are welcome to post test content, vote, and report any error you find on https://bugs.launchpad.net/ideatorrent/+filebug. Discussions and suggestions about the new UI can take place at ubuntuforums.org thread. (Note: This is a test setup, meaning that all your interactions will be removed at next code update)

많은 변화가 이루어졌습니다. 브레인스톰은 이러한 변화들이 테스트되기를 원합니다.

http://blog.qa.ubuntu.com/node/24

=== Ubuntu Stats ===
==== Bug Stats ====

*** Open (#) +/- # over last week
*** Critical (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unconfirmed (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unassigned (#) +/- # over last week
*** All bugs ever reported (#)  +/- # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

==== Infamous Bugs ====

==== Translation Stats Hardy ====

1. Language (#) +/- # over last week
2. Language (#) +/- # over last week
3. Language (#) +/- # over last week
4. Language (#) +/- # over last week
5. Language (#) +/- # over last week

Remaining strings to translate in Ubuntu 8.04 "Hardy Heron," see more at: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/

=== LoCo News ===

=== New in Hardy Heron ===

=== Launchpad News ===

=== Ubuntu Forums News ===

=== In The Press ===

=== In The Blogosphere ===

=== In Other News ===

=== Meeting Summaries ===

=== Upcoming Meetings and Events ===

=== Community Spotlight ===

=== Updates and Security for 6.06, 7.04, 7.10, and 8.04 ===

==== Security Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 6.06 Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 7.04 Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 7.10 Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 8.04 Updates ====

=== UWN #: A sneak peek ===

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Your Name Here
* And many others

=== Glossary of Terms ===

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Weekly News Team. If you have a story idea or suggestions for the Weekly Newsletter, join the Ubuntu News Team mailing list at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-news-team and submit it. Ideas can also be added to the wiki at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Ideas. If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page. If you have any technical support questions, please send them to ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com.
