{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Useful Links ==

This is a page that is dedicated to creating a central location to store links to resources that assist leaders of varied Ubuntu teams provide quality leadership.

Please feel free to add links to the appropriate sections, if you are unsure if they're relevant or how to add them just drop us a line on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-leadership|team mailing list]]</nowiki> so we can help you out.

=== General Links ===
This list is for links that provide general assistance to leaders from all the different types of teams.

A list of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuLeadership/Guides|guides]]</nowiki>.

=== Real World Teams ===
This list is dedicated to those teams who focus on real world activities. For example how to run conferences, loco events, jams, etc.

=== Web Based Teams ===
The following is a list of sites with useful information on how to run teams effectively when your main point of contact is via IRC, mailing lists, forums, etc.

=== Blog Posts about Leadership and the team ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.wonderly.com/2011/09/ubuntu-leadership-team/ | Ubuntu Leadership Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://akgraner.com/?p=1028 | You’re Invited to Join the Ubuntu Leadership Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://akgraner.com/?p=1037 | What is Leader? What Motivates People?]]</nowiki>
