{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Ubuntu Scientists Group ===

We are a group made up of scientists, people who work in science related jobs and people with interest in science who share a common bond as Ubuntu users.    

This is our team home page where you can find information on us, how to join, and more.  All of our pages are listed on this <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuScientists/SiteMap|Site Map]]</nowiki> of this team wiki page.

We also have a <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuscientists.wordpress.com/| team blog]]</nowiki>!

=== Our Goals ===

Our team has goals to help other scientists:

# Help scientists find FLOSS alternatives
# Get universities to teach FLOSS instead of proprietary software. (or at least mention/show it...)
# Get scientists to be more involved in Ubuntu
# Try to convince scientist to make a career in FLOSS development
# Develop FOSS Based Work-flows for Scientists.
# Specify/Develop Custom FOSS Packages
# Address Challenges in Emerging Fields

=== Contact ===

There are three (3) ways to contact us:

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-scientists|#ubuntu-scientists on irc.freenode.com]]</nowiki>, a great place to ask questions/comments and/or to just say, "Hi"!

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-scientists| LaunchPad]]</nowiki>: holds contact information for the team admin and you can join the team this way

 {*} Mailing-list:  E-mail your comments and questions to: ubuntu-scientists@lists.launchpad.net

=== How to Join Us ===

It is very easy to join us, you only need a LaunchPad/Ubuntu SSO account (you need both if you want to edit the Ubuntu wikis) and just <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-scientists| join the team on LaunchPad]]</nowiki> (there should be a botton that says "Join this team:, on the right hand side).

== Sub-pages ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:90%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''This Team page contains the following sub-pages:'''
|-
| 
|}
