{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Youth Meeting Log from March 12'th, 2011 ==

=== Topics of Discussion ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki>
| Start of meeting, and such
|-
| <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki>
| Welcoming message
|-
| <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki>
| Topic 1 - Project(s) Status & Completion Dates
|-
| <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki>
| Topic 2 - New Members of the Council
|-
| <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki>
| Topic 3 - New Membership Process Discussion
|-
| <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki>
| Topic 4 - Slightly New Team Process/Ideas
|-
| All Participants
| Topic 5 - Any concerns, questions, or ideas? Please, bring them up!
|}

=== Action Items ===

* nisshh To set up a wik page on Ubuntu Youth wikk detailing the aspects of the Mentoring project
* serfus to help nisshh when he can
* zkriesse To interview potention mentors and discuss with them their wishes/interests/requirements needed
* nisshh and zkriesse to collaborate on a Wiki page for potential mentors/mentee's

==== Meeting Log ====
<pre>
[17:04:50] <zkriesse> #startmeeting

[17:04:50] <meetingology> Meeting started Sat Mar[12[17:04:50 2011 UTC.  The chair is zkriesse. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

[17:04:50] <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

[17:05:02] <zkriesse> #topic Ubuntu Youth Meeting

[17:05:02] <meetingology> TOPIC: Ubuntu Youth Meeting

[17:05:08] <nisshh> roll call?

[17:05:16] <Mkaysi> o/

[17:05:25] <serfus> o/ again :)

[17:05:29] <JoeMaverickSett> o/

[17:05:38] <kvarley> 0/

[17:05:47] <nisshh> zkriesse, thats everyone

[17:06:00] <hakimsheriff> sorry im late

[17:06:05] <hakimsheriff> im finnally here

[17:06:11] <zkriesse> hakimsheriff: It's ok, take a seat

[17:06:37] <CensoredBiscuit> here

[17:06:37] <zkriesse> MichealH: ? pedro3005 ? Timo__ ?

[17:06:46] <nisshh> CensoredBiscuit, ?

[17:06:52] <zkriesse> Gah, well they can read the scrollback if anything

[17:06:58] <nisshh> heh

[17:07:13] <zkriesse> Ok, so....you'll notice I've not tossed a link for a meeting "schedule" because there isn't one

[17:07:49] <zkriesse> Since NOBODY has been discussing possible ideas or anything AT ALL I've seen no reason to make a meeting agenda as there is really nothing to agenda-ize

[17:08:20] <zkriesse> But since I'm here I'm going to do some actual leading...which is the nice way to say I'm going to be yelling at some of you for a few minutes

[17:08:46] <Mkaysi> zkriesse: IDEA: Put piespy drawings of this channel to youth.ubuntu.com when it comes.

[17:08:47] <nisshh> ...in a nice way

[17:08:52] <zkriesse> nisshh: Yeah

[17:08:53 * JoeMaverickSett listens.

[17:09:01] <nisshh> :)

[17:09:04] <zkriesse> Now, first things first

[17:09:38] <zkriesse> Why the heck isn't the very nice forum which phillw so graciously is hosting for us being used?

[17:09:57] <CensoredBiscuit> we have a forum?

[17:10:07] <zkriesse> You all know it's there, it's linked to in the topic, our wiki, I've talked about it all the time, posted links etc

[17:10:13] <hakimsheriff> We have a forum?

[17:10:16] <serfus> CensoredBiscuit, yup...

[17:10:20] <nisshh> you guys didnt know?

[17:10:25] <hakimsheriff> nope

[17:10:25] <Mkaysi> CensoredBiscuit: http://phillw.net/uy-forums.net/phpBB3/

[17:10:33] <zkriesse> http://phillw.net/uy-forums.net/phpBB3/index.php

[17:10:40] <JoeMaverickSett> didn't you guys read the Ubuntu Youth wiki? :\

[17:10:55 * Mkaysi knew it because skfin said that it's requirment for joining Ubuntu Youth.

[17:10:56] <zkriesse> JoeMaverickSett: Thank you for that

[17:10:58] <hakimsheriff> I did when I joined the team

[17:11:05] <zkriesse> Mkaysi: Well skfin lied lol

[17:11:15] <CensoredBiscuit> I'd spam that, Id spam the heck outta that.

[17:11:15] <JoeMaverickSett> hakimsheriff: well then you should read it thoroughly.

[17:11:16] <zkriesse> Mkaysi: It's not a requirement but I ask that you do

[17:11:27] <hakimsheriff> okay, sorry

[17:11:33] <Mkaysi> I have account there.

[17:11:52] <hakimsheriff> we could get a domain name to link directly to the forums

[17:12:05] <zkriesse> hakimsheriff: No we're fine

[17:12:13] <Mkaysi> hakimsheriff: uy-forums.net if I remember correctly.

[17:12:17 * JoeMaverickSett also has _an_ account on the forum as well, that doesn't mean he's an active user of the forum. :|

[17:12:18] <Timo__> hi zkriesse

[17:12:20] <zkriesse> Ok, so...now that you know it's there WHY ISN"T IT BEING USED

[17:12:20] <Timo__> wassup?

[17:12:24] <zkriesse> Timo__: MEETING

[17:12:27] <hakimsheriff> Oh wait, I knew about this

[17:12:30] <zkriesse> Timo__: Take a seat youngin

[17:12:33] <hakimsheriff> think I just forgot

[17:12:42] <Timo__> now?

[17:12:52] <JoeMaverickSett> Timo__: /topic for more info.

[17:12:55] <zkriesse> Timo__: No in the future :D

[17:13:04] <JoeMaverickSett> lol

[17:13:06] <Mkaysi> Yes. uy-forums.net works.

[17:13:09] <Timo__> mm

[17:13:16] <Timo__> so this is a meeting channel now?:P

[17:13:28] <hakimsheriff> yup

[17:13:30] <zkriesse> No I'm holding it here

[17:13:34] <Mkaysi> Timo__: Because almost anyone didn't appear to #ubuntu-meeting

[17:13:49] <zkriesse> We're getting off track

[17:14:04] <zkriesse> Ok, so...

[17:14:14] <Timo__> I think Ubuntu Youth needs to have a clear point

[17:14:17] <zkriesse> I've got a bit of a beef with some of you, the rest not so much

[17:14:19] <Timo__> of in which it helps in ways

[17:14:30] <Timo__> because now it's just a bunch of people idling around

[17:14:34] <zkriesse> Timo__: This isn't really discussion time, I'm trying to talk about my concerns here

[17:14:41 * Mkaysi wonders if he gots raport about this meeting from Ubuntu-For-All mailing list. He lets hakimsheriff to do it like last time.

[17:14:41] <Timo__> oh

[17:14:46] <Timo__> ok I shut my mouth :P

[17:15:20] <nisshh> zkriesse, continue

[17:15:36] <zkriesse> so...why isn't there any topics of discussion being started during the non-meeting days here

[17:15:55] <nisshh> do you mean here or the forums?

[17:16:06] <Mkaysi> Or both?

[17:16:12] <hakimsheriff> Mkaysi: last time it was just becouse the meeting was cnacelled

[17:16:22] <zkriesse> You guys all sit and talk about "We need a project!" Or the usual, "We need a goal/direction etc' but you NEVER EVER start any discussions

[17:16:46] <zkriesse> I mean seriously, do I have to be here 24/7 to hold your collective hands and start topics of discussion?

[17:16:56] <hakimsheriff> Because we have no specific idea

[17:17:08] <cprofitt> 0/

[17:17:14] <nisshh> hakimsheriff, have you read the 3 points on the main wiki page?

[17:17:17] <Mkaysi> Actually discussions happen when you aren't here ,but not very ofren.

[17:17:23] <nisshh> cprofitt, hello

[17:17:56] <hakimsheriff> Giving other young Ubuntu users support in a friendly peer environment. Helping in Mainstream Ubuntu teams and Contributing to the Ubuntu Community! Helping young people who wish to be devs through their "baby"-steps.

[17:18:02] <JoeMaverickSett> hello cprofitt :)

[17:18:19] <nisshh> hakimsheriff, thats what this team is for

[17:18:55] <nisshh> zkriesse, anything else to say on that topic?

[17:19:12] <zkriesse> I'm trying to word my sentences carefully here

[17:19:42] <nisshh> ok

[17:20:33] <zkriesse> Ok, so....why is it nothing get's started here

[17:20:53] <zkriesse> I don't see any project ideas being suggested either here or that forum thingy off in lala land

[17:22:13] <AlanBell> zkriesse: I have to go cook dinner now, I will read the minutes and see if I can make some suggestions for the team

[17:22:34] <zkriesse> AlanBell: Ok

[17:22:41] <zkriesse> #chair cprofitt

[17:22:41] <meetingology> Current chairs: cprofitt zkriesse

[17:22:51] <cprofitt> hello all

[17:22:58] <zkriesse> Guys Im also letting cprofitt help me out here

[17:22:59] <serfus> hey cprofitt

[17:23:05] <JoeMaverickSett> hello!

[17:23:07] <zkriesse> Listen to his words, he is wise

[17:23:10] <nisshh> 0/

[17:23:10] <Mkaysi> Hi

[17:23:12] <cprofitt> I came to observe and saw a bit of this issue...

[17:23:45] <cprofitt> It is not always easy to find a project... but, to me, the first step in truly becoming part of the larger Ubuntu community is being willing to 'engage'

[17:24:07] <cprofitt> that does not mean run around and just do things, but 'engage' with existing teams... learn what they do...

[17:24:07] <nisshh> define engage?

[17:24:10] <cprofitt> and then help them

[17:24:23] <cprofitt> engage -- to start down a path

[17:24:33] <cprofitt> you need to learn the 'culture' of the team you want to work with

[17:24:36] <nisshh> ah, gotcha

[17:24:36] <cprofitt> then start to help them

[17:24:49] <cprofitt> it is always daunting to 'start'

[17:24:58] <cprofitt> but once you get rolling it is actually pretty easy

[17:25:10] <cprofitt> my assumption is that you all have varied interests

[17:25:14] <cprofitt> some may want to be developers

[17:25:27] <cprofitt> others may want to be documentation gurus (like zkriesse)

[17:25:55] <cprofitt> and others may feel that they lack skills (like me) but really want to contribute to such a great community

[17:26:23] <cprofitt> you all, as youth, have a unique perspective that 'elders' like me lack

[17:26:32] <cprofitt> I lost that 30 or so years ago

[17:26:50] <cprofitt> so your contribution is critical to helping Ubuntu reach other young folks

[17:27:33] <cprofitt> so the key is to gather some ideas and then 'engage'

[17:27:51] <cprofitt> and start to move forward - even if the first steps are small and slow

[17:28:14] <cprofitt> as a question -- what is the age range for UY?

[17:28:25] <zkriesse>[14 to[19/20

[17:28:37] <zkriesse> We say[14 as that is the COPPA age limit

[17:28:43] <zkriesse> Rather, requirment

[17:28:44] <serfus> we many times discussed this, i think some of us are even more then that

[17:28:47] <cprofitt> ok

[17:28:48] <cprofitt> COPPA?

[17:28:49] <Mkaysi> Last time when I checked it was[13-21.

[17:28:59] <zkriesse> Or something similiar to that cprofitt

[17:29:10] <cprofitt> alright... so[13/14 - 21

[17:29:15] <zkriesse> cprofitt: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Child_Online_Protection_Act

[17:29:16] <serfus> let's say, we are what you would call teenagers

[17:29:18] <cprofitt> basically HS to University age

[17:29:41] <cprofitt> well I am 44

[17:29:54] <cprofitt> I have three children... all of whom are younger than that

[17:29:55] <zkriesse> cprofitt: Ah but you qualify for the UY council

[17:30:02] <cprofitt> and they all use Ubuntu

[17:30:05] <Mkaysi> That what serfus said means that it's[13-19 thir*teen* - nine*teen

[17:30:06] <Mkaysi> *

[17:30:12] <zkriesse> But that his neither here nor there

[17:30:17] <cprofitt> so I hope to see this group flourish so that when they are old enough they can join

[17:30:37] <zkriesse> That's the idea

[17:30:48] <cprofitt> the first glaring thing I have seen... as a lead loco contact

[17:31:12] <cprofitt> is that the[13 to[16 crowd usually is not allowed to participate in local events

[17:31:27] <cprofitt> parents are nervous about letting their children consort with Linux users

[17:31:31] <serfus> (i am a[16 years old loco contact)

[17:31:34] <cprofitt> well... and we meet in some odd places

[17:31:39] <zkriesse> Yeah us evil loco people

[17:31:51] <cprofitt> so one project you guys could take on that would involve

[17:32:30] <cprofitt> producing special events that were on-line for UY that line up with the global jam, launch party, etc

[17:32:38] <cprofitt> not sure what you all think...

[17:33:06] <cprofitt> but putting together something like that could help build membership for you

[17:33:11] <Mkaysi> That would be very hard in Finland.

[17:33:16] <cprofitt> and give you something to work on

[17:33:22] <cprofitt> Mkaysi: why?

[17:33:33] <cprofitt> It would not be local, but on-line

[17:33:43] <Mkaysi> cprofitt: If I have understood correctly, Ubuntu Yout... Ah, ok

[17:33:55] <cprofitt> have UY hold an on-line event

[17:34:07] <cprofitt> with people willing to celebrate the launch together

[17:34:16] <nisshh> cprofitt, i have some experience running online events through my loco (australia) i think we could (as a team) do that sort of thing

[17:34:19] <cprofitt> share screenshots of their[11.04 setups, issues with upgrading etc

[17:34:48] <cprofitt> for the global jam -- arrange to have some sessions by bug-control gurus that would be specifically for UY

[17:35:00] <cprofitt> to go over how to participate in bug-control

[17:35:16] <cprofitt> build a team for tracking the bugs you guys triage

[17:35:53] <nisshh> cprofitt, what do you think about the team having a mentoring program (similar to the bugsquads old one)

[17:36:08] <cprofitt> you could form a testing sub team and work with qa

[17:36:31] <cprofitt> nisshh: I think it would be a good idea -- the first step is getting some UY folks as members of bug-control that are really familiar with the process

[17:36:40] <cprofitt> then mentor other UY members on the process

[17:36:46] <cprofitt> and work to getting them bug-control

[17:36:47] <zkriesse> Guys do keep in mind...I'm just the lead...think of me like a shephard...

[17:37:11] <zkriesse> YOu guys want to go a certain direction? Ok that's great...I'll just walk along side to make sure you're safe

[17:37:33] <cprofitt> zkriesse: +1

[17:37:40] <cprofitt> I am willing to get pinged for guidance too

[17:37:42] <nisshh> cprofitt, im thinking broader than that, im thinking we mentor any youth who wants to participate in any aspect on Ubuntu development

[17:37:56] <cprofitt> nisshh: I agree... make all the mentor teams you want

[17:38:16] <cprofitt> I would suggest building one at a time so you guys do not get overwhelmed

[17:38:19] <zkriesse> It's just I'm not a "youth" anymore...I'm an adult....it's up to you guys to make the "Youth" part of this team come to life

[17:38:36] <zkriesse> cprofitt: Agreed

[17:38:41] <nisshh> im in a similar boat to zkriesse, im also an adult

[17:38:55] <cprofitt> and I think you guys would get a lot of 'free' pub by participating in the global jam

[17:39:06] <zkriesse> Guys, I will be afk for just a few

[17:39:09] <cprofitt> please -- all of you feel free to ping me at any time

[17:39:26] <zkriesse> I have to use the restroom and head upstairs to watch my bro....give me a few minutes and I'll be on the netbook

[17:39:26] <cprofitt> my wife just came home with lunch and the kids are hungry as heck

[17:39:46] <zkriesse> cprofitt: Ok thanks cprofitt ... I'd like to have a pm with you later too

[17:39:58] <cprofitt> you all have a great idea -- and just need to get the ball rolling!!

[17:39:59] <nisshh> cprofitt, thanks for the words of wisdom

[17:40:04] <cprofitt> thanks nisshh

[17:40:06] <zkriesse> Ok, back sooon guys

[17:40:09] <cprofitt> zkriesse: sounds good...

[17:40:16] <cprofitt> I will be back shortly after lunch

[17:40:27] <nisshh> ok

[17:40:36] <JoeMaverickSett> cprofitt: have a great lunch and thanks for the words of wisdom. :)

[17:40:39] <zkriesse> Just give me a few to get set up upstairs guys then I'll be back

[17:40:59] <JoeMaverickSett> zkriesse: time your time.

[17:41:11] <nisshh> ok, guys, shall we brainstorm some idea's while zkriesse is afk?

[17:41:17] <JoeMaverickSett> sure.

[17:41:39] <nisshh> i for one, really want to get this mentoring program up and running

[17:41:44] <nisshh> but we need mentor's

[17:41:56] <zkriesse> NO making any hard core plans though!

[17:41:59] <JoeMaverickSett> so..this talk had me motivated to do some bug triaging :)

[17:42:01] <zkriesse> I'd like to be here for that

[17:42:04] <zkriesse> :D

[17:42:05] <zkriesse> back soon

[17:42:12] <nisshh> zkriesse, hey, your just the shepherd :)

[17:42:20 * JoeMaverickSett is a sheep. :D

[17:42:28] <serfus> thanks cprofitt

[17:42:45 * Mkaysi thought that JoeMaverickSett is a penguin :P

[17:42:48] <nisshh> JoeMaverickSett, we could run a weekend of talks and such on IRC for that maybe?

[17:43:05] <JoeMaverickSett> nisshh: yeah. sure.

[17:43:16] <nisshh> serfus, do you have any ideas?

[17:43:25] <JoeMaverickSett> i'm trying to find more time to have my schedule packed. :D

[17:43:27] <nisshh> CensoredBiscuit, Mkaysi, anyone else?

[17:43:32] <JoeMaverickSett> s/time/work

[17:43:41] <nisshh> heh

[17:43:51] <serfus> i have always thought that it's bad to separate ourself from the community

[17:43:51] <Mkaysi> But are those channels being logged?

[17:43:57] <nisshh> i also want to get the word out there to the community about our team

[17:43:59] <CensoredBiscuit> I'm sorry I got sidetracked, broke my  machine

[17:44:19] <nisshh> Mkaysi, what are you on about?

[17:44:42] <serfus> what i mean is, why to have a great session only for this team, when you can have it for the whole community at -classroom

[17:44:48] <Mkaysi> Aren't we talking about weekend talks?

[17:45:02] <nisshh> serfus, i never said we couldnt, i just said it should be run by the team

[17:45:21] <serfus> or to have a only youth bugsquad.. it's a waste of resources

[17:45:36] <nisshh> serfus, you misunderstand me

[17:45:40] <serfus> okay, but we need to keep that in mind

[17:45:52] <hakimsheriff> sorry, I;m back, I got distracted

[17:45:54] <nisshh> what i meant by that was when i was referring to the mentor program

[17:46:33] <serfus> i think that a mentor program would be more then great

[17:46:36] <serfus> i am all for that

[17:46:57] <serfus> in my opinion, it's one of the best things we can do as a team

[17:47:02] <nisshh> serfus, the general idea is, youths join the youth team, they get mentored if they wish, they learn about any team they wish, etc

[17:47:12] <serfus> yup

[17:47:37] <nisshh> so i was never talking about sub teams of other teams

[17:47:47] <nisshh> cprofitt just worded it that way

[17:48:30] <serfus> that what i meant earlier

[17:48:35] <nisshh> ah ok

[17:48:41] <serfus> when i said it's a stop

[17:49:09] <serfus> not a pit stop as zach understood

[17:49:25] <JackyAlcine> o.O

[17:49:26] <serfus> heck, i would like to be mentored myself

[17:49:33] <serfus> JackyAlcine, we are in a meeting

[17:49:42] <serfus> JackyAlcine, join when you can

[17:49:50] <nisshh> serfus, oh ok

[17:50:07] <JackyAlcine> in ubuntu meeting, no?

[17:50:24] <serfus> JackyAlcine, here, because there was no show up

[17:50:27] <nisshh> well, we will be talking about the mentoring program when zkriesse gets back in a minute, but im setting up some pages on the wiki for it now

[17:50:27] <JackyAlcine> =/

[17:50:47] <nisshh> JackyAlcine, your about the 8th person to show up

[17:51:11] <serfus> JackyAlcine, we were only 4 people, so it was a bit shame to take -meeting

[17:51:22] <hakimsheriff> only 4!

[17:51:29] <hakimsheriff> it felt like more people

[17:51:38] <serfus> hakimsheriff, now we are more

[17:51:53] <JackyAlcine> Well, what's the current topic?

[17:52:17] <serfus> nisshh, i myself would have liked to mentor, but i don't have any sector

[17:52:19] <nisshh> JackyAlcine, we are brainstorming idea's while waiting for zkriesse to come back

[17:52:28] <JackyAlcine> Okay

[17:52:36] <JackyAlcine> Ah, game night >:)

[17:52:38] <serfus> maybe except for the community

[17:52:45] <nisshh> serfus, yeah, i want to mentor as well, but dont have the same sort of experience as zkriesse

[17:53:08] <nisshh> but im still going to try it

[17:53:14] <Mkaysi> JackyAlcine: We were talking about weekend chats or something, but that is also good idea. (+1)

[17:53:24] <JackyAlcine> What kind of mentoring were you looking at, nisshh ?

[17:53:35] <serfus> JackyAlcine, i think any kind we can offer

[17:53:38] <nisshh> JackyAlcine, good idea, zkriesse was organising an Urban Terror server

[17:53:40] <hakimsheriff> I want to mentor, but nobody want a[13 year old mentor

[17:53:50] <serfus> all we need is good mentors

[17:53:54] <nisshh> JackyAlcine, the mentoring program we are setting up for you guys :)

[17:54:00] <cprofitt> hakimsheriff: why tell anyone you are[13?

[17:54:11] <serfus> hakimsheriff, it's not about age, it's about knowledge

[17:54:13 * JackyAlcine didn't notice cprofitt, lol

[17:54:17] <nisshh> hakimsheriff, unless zkriesse thinks only council members can mentor, im sure you can

[17:54:22] <JackyAlcine> serfus, +1

[17:54:26] <zkriesse> ok bakc

[17:54:30] <nisshh> JackyAlcine, he gave us a wisdom chat

[17:54:31] <zkriesse> Just reading the scroolback

[17:54:38] <JackyAlcine> and I missed it! >_<

[17:54:50] <zkriesse> nisshh: NO urban terror server btw

[17:54:51] <nisshh> JackyAlcine, its ok, itll be in the meeting logs

[17:54:57] <serfus> hakimsheriff, if you are a great dev you can certainly mentor, with no regard to age

[17:54:58] <nisshh> zkriesse, awwww :(

[17:55:13] <hakimsheriff> well... I am not really a dev

[17:55:17] <zkriesse> nisshh: Yeahsorry

[17:55:26] <serfus> it was just an example

[17:55:30] <nisshh> zkriesse, its ok, it was a bit of a longshot i suppose

[17:55:31] <Mkaysi> nisshh: That was said at (unused) forums.

[17:55:39] <hakimsheriff> ahh... okay

[17:55:39] <nisshh> Mkaysi, i knpw

[17:55:40] <nisshh> know

[17:55:56] <JackyAlcine> =/

[17:56:53] <nisshh> zkriesse, anyway, what do you wish to talk about next?

[17:56:57] <nisshh> more yelling?

[17:57:01] <nisshh> :)

[17:57:08] <zkriesse> nisshh: No I'm calm now

[17:57:13] <serfus> i think we had enough :P

[17:57:15] <zkriesse> I would love to have more mentors

[17:57:42] <hakimsheriff> What are the fields to mentor in√â

[17:57:54] <hakimsheriff> sorry my keyboard is messed up

[17:58:04] <zkriesse> Side note: If you wish to mentor in a particulre area please pm me after the meeting or jon #ubuntu-youth-council and talk to me

[17:58:15] <cprofitt> serfus: one reason to have UY focused sessions is because UY members may have unique restrictions that adults do not

[17:58:20] <cprofitt> but sharing a session is ok as well

[17:58:31] <nisshh> zkriesse, i am happy to give it a shot, and so is hakimsheriff from what he said

[17:58:52] <serfus> how about [action] serfus to look for good mentors ?

[17:59:02] <cprofitt> and you would not have a sep. bug squad... just a group that contributes to bug-control they way loco teams do

[17:59:11] <zkriesse> serfus: I'd rather I talk to them dude, but thanks

[17:59:14] <hakimsheriff> I want to mentor, if possible<

[17:59:46] <Mkaysi> hakimsheriff: Why it wouldn't be possible? I think that there are shortage of mentors :)

[17:59:46] <serfus> zkriesse, i meant to bring them to you (at -youth-council0

[18:00:03] <zkriesse> serfus: Lol ok

[18:00:11] <serfus> ;p

[18:00:12] <nisshh> cprofitt, well, i was thinking more along the lines of: person joins the youth team, person asks for a mentor, mentor helps that person get aquainted with the area/team they want

[18:00:22] <cprofitt> nisshh: +1

[18:00:29] <cprofitt> for mentoring that is how it should work

[18:00:36] <nisshh> agreed

[18:00:38] <zkriesse> nisshh: Which has been my hope since I took over UY

[18:00:42] <patrickmw> hello, I think I can help

[18:00:43] <serfus> cprofitt, that good, i just wanted to highlight that we need to keep in mind

[18:00:50] <nisshh> zkriesse, lets get it started then! :)

[18:00:54] <zkriesse> patrickmw: Ah, ntroduce yourself then

[18:01:03] <patrickmw> I am an Ubuntu Member and Canonical employee

[18:01:11] <nisshh> o.0

[18:01:22] <patrickmw> I've been watching ;)

[18:01:30] <serfus> patrickmw, guess you are not a youth, right? :)

[18:01:36] <JoeMaverickSett> zkriesse: I think mentors should be selected by the -youth-council?

[18:01:37] <zkriesse> patrickmw: Oh? Well your hostname doesn't show said status

[18:01:40] <patrickmw> No, I am not hehe

[18:01:40] <zkriesse> hoeYes

[18:01:49] <zkriesse> JoeMaverickSett: yes

[18:01:54] <zkriesse> argh, dang netbook

[18:02:09] <patrickmw> The UY wiki page is great!

[18:02:44] <patrickmw> I will send messages to the internal mailing lists and Ubuntu mailing lists about your search for mentors

[18:02:49] <zkriesse> patrickmw: Just because of "security" can you prove your listed qualifications? Of being an Ubuntu Member and Canonical emplyee

[18:03:01] <zkriesse> patrickmw: Please don't just yet

[18:03:24] <zkriesse> patrickmw: We are going internal with our search atm if I'm not mistaken nisshh ?

[18:03:40] <nisshh> zkriesse, thats what i thought, yes

[18:05:01] <JoeMaverickSett> from what I see people love to contribute in mentoring, but their mentoring skills should be recognised by the -council or the Ubuntu community (such as Ubuntu Beginners for example).

[18:05:16] <nisshh> JoeMaverickSett, agreed

[18:05:34] <nisshh> JoeMaverickSett, we should ensure good quality mentoring

[18:05:55] <JoeMaverickSett> nisshh: yes.

[18:06:06] <serfus> with no doubt

[18:06:10] <cprofitt> serfus: this is what I was talking about in working at UY

[18:06:12] <cprofitt> http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/five-a-day/#Bug-Jam-statistics

[18:06:24] <cprofitt> the stats track 'team' and 'individual' contributions

[18:06:25] <zkriesse> nisshh: Agreed

[18:06:32] <cprofitt> no real need for a sep. team

[18:06:32] <zkriesse> cprofitt: Do you not agree with that?

[18:06:43] <cprofitt> about mentors being approved?

[18:06:50] <zkriesse> Ja

[18:06:55] <cprofitt> yes... it was an issue for the UBT

[18:06:58] <serfus> cprofitt, understood

[18:07:10] <cprofitt> we had other teams questioning the 'expertise' of our mentors

[18:07:17] <cprofitt> the very teams we were mentoring for in some cases

[18:07:22] <cprofitt> and that caused a disconnect

[18:07:40] <cprofitt> so I would ensure your mentors are approved -- with bug-control that is easy

[18:07:44] <zkriesse> Ok

[18:07:51] <cprofitt> if they are a bug-control team member the team feels they are able to mentor

[18:07:58] <cprofitt> with other teams that may or may not be so easy

[18:08:02] <nisshh> +1

[18:08:04] <JoeMaverickSett> +1

[18:08:12] <serfus> good point indeed

[18:08:18] <zkriesse> That's a great point

[18:08:26] <zkriesse> Which is why it shall be implemented

[18:08:39] <zkriesse> nisshh: Mark that down on your mentoring wiki page plz

[18:08:54] <serfus> the mentor should first be recognized by the team that is responsible for his area

[18:09:00] <nisshh> zkriesse, yep, ill get to it right after the meeting

[18:09:23] <zkriesse> So, if you wish to mentor I'm going to ask that you be a member of the team that works in the area you wish to mentor here in, and also a testimonia would be good

[18:09:38] <skfin> Oh, sorry that I'm late, I'm so sorry

[18:09:46] <nisshh> skfin, its cool

[18:09:52] <nisshh> the meeting is still on

[18:09:54] <zkriesse> The Doc/Wiki team should be easy as I'm part of the wiki/doc admin team :D

[18:10:02] <skfin> I havent slept for 38 hours so i kinda fell asleep

[18:10:11] <kvarley> zkriesse is the wikigod :)

[18:10:19] <zkriesse> kvarley: Heh

[18:10:23] <zkriesse> Not by far

[18:10:26 * JoeMaverickSett worships zkriesse for wiki(s) ;)

[18:10:32] <nisshh> zkriesse, it could be difficult for me, im only really on the bugsquad (not bug-control) as far as the official ubuntu teams go

[18:10:36] <zkriesse> hahaha

[18:10:38 * jasono Wondering if he's late?

[18:10:50] <zkriesse> jasono: a bit :D

[18:10:58] <zkriesse> jasono: No worries though

[18:11:02] <serfus> jasono, by an hour.. :P

[18:11:04] <nisshh> zkriesse, i contribute to mostly non-ubuntu teams/projects see

[18:11:12] <jasono> :( Okey, thanks. Forgive me.

[18:11:38] <zkriesse> jasono: It's ok lol

[18:11:39] <nisshh> zkriesse, well, bugsquad and this one ;)

[18:11:55] <zkriesse> You guys realize that this is the longest AND producitve meeting we've had?

[18:12:03] <nisshh> yes, hehe

[18:12:12] <nisshh> which is a disturbing fact

[18:12:16] <serfus> sure is

[18:12:17] <zkriesse> nisshh: Then get on it dude

[18:12:20] <skfin> Im glad that this is long meeting, otherwise I would have missed it

[18:12:27] <zkriesse> skfin: :D

[18:12:40] <zkriesse> Ok, so, lemme makre this down here

[18:12:44] <nisshh> zkriesse, yeah, ill work on it, i said difficult, not impossible

[18:13:23] <zkriesse> #action nisshh To set up a wik page on Ubuntu Youth wikk detailing the aspects of the Mentoring project

[18:13:23 * meetingology nisshh To set up a wik page on Ubuntu Youth wikk detailing the aspects of the Mentoring project

[18:13:40] <serfus> i think we should focus now on the mentoring project , to get it to kick ass and just then to move on

[18:14:00] <nisshh> serfus, i agree somewhat

[18:14:04] <zkriesse> #agreed

[18:14:09] <nisshh> heh

[18:14:10] <JoeMaverickSett> :o

[18:14:15] <JoeMaverickSett> :D

[18:14:16] <serfus> i will stay in contact with nisshh and help where i can

[18:14:27] <nisshh> serfus, ok, sounds good

[18:14:43] <zkriesse> #action serfus to help nisshh when he can

[18:14:43 * meetingology serfus to help nisshh when he can

[18:14:52] <JoeMaverickSett> nisshh: it seems you & me are on the same side of the world, so just HIT ME!! :D

[18:15:02] <nisshh> JoeMaverickSett, hehe

[18:15:12] <JoeMaverickSett> :D

[18:15:22] <nisshh> zkriesse, anything else to add?

[18:15:23] <serfus> nisshh, BTW, you are an ubuntu member, which is the main way to get recognized by the community

[18:15:30] <JoeMaverickSett> yup.

[18:15:52] <nisshh> serfus, thats true, but when i became an Ubuntu member, it wasnt for contributing directly to Ubuntu

[18:16:00] <serfus> (regarding when you said you are not an approved member of any teams)

[18:16:01] <zkriesse> #action zkriesse To interview potention mentors and discuss with them their wishes/interests/requirements needed

[18:16:01 * meetingology zkriesse To interview potention mentors and discuss with them their wishes/interests/requirements needed

[18:16:37] <serfus> nisshh, ya, i read you blog post today :P

[18:16:47] <nisshh> zkriesse, ill set up a wiki page where people who wish to be mentee's can add their names so you know who to talk to

[18:16:59] <zkriesse> nisshh: Thanks

[18:17:06] <nisshh> np

[18:17:17] <zkriesse> #action nisshh and zkriesse to collaborate on a Wiki page for potential mentors/mentee's

[18:17:17 * meetingology nisshh and zkriesse to collaborate on a Wiki page for potential mentors/mentee's

[18:17:28] <zkriesse> nisshh: We can work on that together ina  bit

[18:17:31] <nisshh> ok

[18:17:48] <nisshh> luckily its only 2am and im not tired :)

[18:17:55] <JoeMaverickSett> :D

[18:18:20] <zkriesse> Ok so is that it for ow?

[18:18:24] <zkriesse> "now"

[18:18:27] <serfus> unluckily i have to study for exam :(

[18:18:34] <JoeMaverickSett> :(

[18:18:34] <skfin> nisshh: Luckily I'm not tired either

[18:18:35] <serfus> zkriesse, i think so

[18:18:36] <zkriesse> Just bust out a mentor program and get it kicing ass?

[18:19:09] <zkriesse> OK then

[18:19:22] <zkriesse> Thanks all for attending and let's actually get going on this aye?

[18:19:29] <zkriesse> #endmeeting
</pre>
