{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Live! 2007 Hacker Meetup ==

'''Official Conference BoF Page:''' http://www.ubuntulive.com/cs/ubuntu/view/e_sess/14875

'''Launchpad Entry:'''
https://launchpad.net/sprints/ubuntu-live-07

Do hackers of a feather flock together? Let's find out at Ubuntu Live!

Anyone interested in hands on experience improving Ubuntu is invited to come by to share ideas, bugs, code, or whatever else is on your mind.

Agenda may include (and is certainly not limited to):
* Overview of technologies that make up the modern GNOME/Ubuntu desktop
* Problem solving/debugging tips
* Brief introduction to launchpad.net (reporting bugs, suggesting features, etc.)
* Going through the Ubuntu Desktop team TODO list and working on small tasks.

I'd also like to throw everyone in the room at a specific project, such as fixing out-of-the-box touchpad support for laptop users, and see what we can accomplish in a night. This will be a great opportunity for both experienced and brand-new developers to make something cool that will (hopefully) see it's way into a future release.

See you there!

P.S. If you're from the area and have a projector and/or whiteboard to bring, that would be great!

=== Meeting Time & Information ===

'''Date:''' Sunday, July 22

'''Time:''' 8:00pm - 9:00pm

'''Location:''' 
<pre>
Ubuntu Live! 
Oregon Convention Center 
777 NE Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd. 
Portland, Oregon 97232 
Room c124 
</pre>

This event is being organized by Eric Butler, please contact me if you have any quetions. My jabberid/email address is <code>eric@extremeboredom.net</code>.

=== Who's going to be there? ===

* <nowiki>[[http://eric.extremeboredom.net|Eric Butler]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.vwdude.com|Christian Hergert]]</nowiki>

(Add your name here!)
