{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''Full Circle Podcast 3: Hail The Mental Mongoose!'''

=== Download ===

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/617/0/fullcirclepodcast_ep3_180310.mp3|MP3]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/617/1/fullcirclepodcast_ep3_180310.ogg|OGG]]</nowiki>

Runtime: 58 minutes 52 seconds

=== Your Hosts ===

* Robin Catling 
* Ed Hewitt 
* Dave Wilkins

Additional audio by Victoria Pritchard and Philippa Hammond

=== Show Notes ===

==== Welcome and Intro ====

02.02

==== Since last Episode ====

09.28

==== MadJam Promotional Trailer ====

The Ubuntu Global Jam is an incredible opportunity for the Ubuntu community to unite around the weekend of the 26th to the 28th of March 2010, to work together to improve Ubuntu.
This year, for Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx, Manchester is throwing its own Ubuntu Jam in Manchester city centre, at Manchester Digital Laboratory, better known as MadLab! This event will be taking place both Saturday the 27th March, and Sunday the 28th March between 10am and 4pm.
For bugs, testing, upgrading, documentation, packaing and translations,
go see the event listing at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/ManchesterJam10-04|https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/ManchesterJam10-04]]</nowiki>

==== Preview of Full Circle Issue #35 ====

10.36

From about 26th March

==== News ====

12.35

1. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/03/ubuntu-1004-live-cd-installer-gets.html|New Live CD Startup]]</nowiki> 

2. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/03/preview-new-installation-slides-for.html|Software Center has a new UI and Support for Paid Software]]</nowiki> 

3. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/03/preview-new-installation-slides-for.html|New Install slides]]</nowiki> 

4. Light Themes, <nowiki>[[http://www.webupd8.org/2010/03/ubuntu-lucid-light-themes-radiance-and.html|Radiance and Ambient available for Lucid and Karmic]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Lucid+Lynx+Wallpaper?content=121138|Wallpaper from Gnome-look]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://chrome.google.com/extensions/detail/elnmibmpefhmfgphdphdncoogpbfmlbp|Ambience theme for Google Chrome]]</nowiki>

5. Quick web-find (after OMGUbuntu): <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuhq.com/|UbuntuHQ]]</nowiki>

==== Trailer ====

21.22

==== Opinion: The Linux Tech Survey ====

23.08

a Linux Survey, which quite a few of “youtubers” are answering. <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gqoEHgITqQw|Posted by Waqar M, alias “knowmorecomp”]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1435128|Questions are in the Ubuntu Forums, Full Circle thread]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-manual|Also considering the Ubuntu Manual]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-manual.org/builds/ubuntu-manual.pdf|Draft copy (PDF format)]]</nowiki>

==== Gaming ====

40.00 

Dave: Dragon Age: Origins

<nowiki>[[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&iId=10457|WineHQ – AppDB]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://wiki.winehq.org/winetricks|Wine Tricks]]</nowiki>

Ed: <nowiki>[[http://zerowing.idsoftware.com/linux/etqw/|Enemy Territory Quake Wars]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://zerowing.idsoftware.com/linux/doom3/|Doom 3]]</nowiki>

==== Feedback ====

49.41 

Comments on this page, using the comment form, OR;
Send us a comment to podcast@fullcirclemagazine.org.
You can also send us a comment by recording an audio clip of no more than 30 seconds and sending it to the same address.
Comments and audio may be edited for length.
Please remember this is a family-friendly show.

==== Other Notes ====

Creative Commons Music Tracks

Opening: ‘Achilles’ by Kevin Macleod

<nowiki>[[http://ccmixter.org/files/hisboyelroy/430|Main Theme: ‘Revolve’ by His Boy Elroy]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://www.pacdv.com/sounds/free-music-22.html|News Theme: ‘On the Run’ by unknown]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.pacdv.com/sounds/free-music-2.html|Gaming, incidental: ‘Dance Zone’ by unknown]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/user/hostroute|Trailer: Star Trek theme by Jerry Goldsmith, performed by Gordon Hudson]]</nowiki>
