{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== AudioCDBurning ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JaneW
* Priority: HighPriority
* People: SebastienBacherLead, OliverGrawertSecond
* Contributors: JaneW
* Interested: MatthewPaulThomas, AndrewFitzsimon
* Status: JaneWQueue, EditedSpecification, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
 
=== Introduction ===

Explains the decision to adopt serpentine as the audio CD burning tool for breezy.

=== Rationale ===

At the moment nautilus-cd-burner makes it easy for the user to record data CD but the GNOME desktop has no graphical application to record audio CDs. Serpentine permits to do that by using the current components of the GNOME desktop. GnomeBaker for this part is a full CD recording software using a GNOME UI and the command line tools.

Each also has the following qualities:
* GnomeBaker
** uses the GNOME libraries and command line tools (cdrecord, mkisofs, ...)
** seems to be appreciated by users according to the forums and mailing-lists.
** does audio and data CD/DVD recording.

* Serpentine
** is based on GStreamer, nautilus-cd-burner, and PyGTK.
** does only audio recording

The preferred choice would be to use Serpentine for the standard desktop and to have GnomeBaker available for the people looking for a complete CD recording software.

Serpentine is the preferred option because it has a simpler UI and uses the same tools as the rest of the desktop (rhythmbox, sound-juicer, totem use GStreamer too).

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

* Daniel has copied his favorite songs on his computer, using sound-juicer, and now wants to make a CD with them.

* Caroline wants to duplicate her CD so she can keep a copy in her car.

=== Implementation Plan ===

* package Serpentine (GnomeBaker is already a universe package)
* mail upstreams to evaluate if they are responsive 
* mail the users forums and lists to get feedback on both options
* pick the best option for breezy

==== Packages Affected ====

* `GnomeBaker` is a universe package at the moment
* `Serpentine` needs to be packaged
* `GnomeBaker` wants to install "cdda2wav liboggflac1 mpg321 sox vorbis-tools"

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* `GnomeBaker` wants cdda2wav, mpg321, sox for main, are they needed? Do we want them for main?
* how responsive are the upstreams ?

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
