{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
[13:01:05] <AlanBell> hi everyone
[13:01:16] <AlanBell> who is here for the Ubuntu For All kickoff meeting?
[13:01:21] <michaelwigle> Me.
[13:01:22] <Pendulum> o/
[13:01:25] <Mkaysi> o/
[13:01:38] <michaelwigle> o/
[13:02:16] <leoquant> o/
[13:02:18] <michaelwigle> Although, sadly, I had a meeting conflict and will have to bail in about 10-15 minutes
[13:02:25] <AlanBell> ok
[13:03:13] <AlanBell> I was expecting a few more folk to join, but that is OK
[13:03:25] <AlanBell> we will probably pick up a few as we go along
[13:03:26] <michaelwigle> Yeah, 5 seems a little low...
[13:04:06] <Pendulum> I know there's someone who would have wanted to be here who's sick
[13:04:47] <AlanBell> ok, well I want to go through the agenda anyway, we can always get further discussion going on the mailing list afterwards
[13:05:14] <AlanBell> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuForAll/Meeting
[13:05:31] <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Purpose and scope of the team
[13:05:48] <AlanBell> ok, so this team is an idea that has been kicking about for a number of years
[13:06:06] <AlanBell> elky put together an area on the ubuntu wiki at
[13:06:12] <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuForAll
[13:06:24] <AlanBell> and started to define the project, and I picked that up some months ago
[13:06:36] <hakimsheriff> Im here
[13:06:43] <hakimsheriff> sorry I was busy
[13:06:44] <AlanBell> the way I would like to see it, is as a kind of support team
[13:06:57] <AlanBell> the way I wouldn't like to see it is as a governance council
[13:07:03] <AlanBell> we have enough of them alreadh
[13:07:06] <AlanBell> already
[13:07:58] <AlanBell> the idea is to gather together all of the existing Ubuntu teams that address issues of diversity, equality and outreach
[13:08:16] <AlanBell> each in different ways to a different target group of Ubuntu users
[13:08:34] <AlanBell> the somewhat tentative list of supported projects is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuForAll/ProjectList
[13:09:06] <AlanBell> different projects are at different levels ranging from very active to dormant, or not started
[13:09:30] <AlanBell> I would like to see this team helping each of the projects in the list to maintain their desired level of activity
[13:09:42] <AlanBell> (which could well be dormant)
[13:10:23] <AlanBell> so we would provide some level of ensuring continuity, helping make sure meeting schedules were working
[13:10:38] <AlanBell> team reports done each month if the team wants to do such things
[13:10:51] <AlanBell> and generally being an available resource for support tasks
[13:11:08] <AlanBell> does this make sense so far?
[13:11:30] <hakimsheriff> Yes, Of Course!
[13:11:34] <Pendulum> yes
[13:11:36] <Mkaysi> Yes
[13:11:56] <AlanBell> what do you think of the project list?
[13:12:05] <AlanBell> any more to add to it?
[13:12:10] <AlanBell> any that shouldn't be there?
[13:13:03] <michaelwigle> Not that I can think. Miind you, my focus is more toward the accessibility aspects.
[13:13:20] <Pendulum> michaelwigle: oh good! come join us in #ubuntu-accessibility :)
[13:13:30] <hakimsheriff> I would think the list is small but since the team is just starting out it think it is good
[13:13:30] <AlanBell> yes, I would expect many people to have a particular focus
[13:14:10] <AlanBell> however it is also a way to get people who don't fit into any of the target demographics to feel that they can contribute to those teams
[13:14:35] <Pendulum> :)
[13:14:37] <michaelwigle> I intend on doing that as well. Just not today.
[13:15:17] <michaelwigle> Sorry, have to run but will try to keep up through the mailing list. I couldn't move this other appointment.
[13:15:37] <AlanBell> ok, thanks for your time michaelwigle
[13:16:53] <AlanBell> ok, so I think if we are in rough agreement on the purpose of the team (helping the teams) and the scope (the list of teams) then we could move on to the next topic
[13:16:55] <hakimsheriff> I sugest you read the meeting logs
[13:17:27] <AlanBell> I will put the logs on the wiki and mail the list
[13:17:32] <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Activities we can do
[13:17:55] <AlanBell> so I have a little list of things, quite willing to have stuff added to it
[13:18:26] <AlanBell> ensuring meeting schedules of the teams that have meetings don't drift
[13:18:55] <hakimsheriff> btw... hakimsheriff = hakimsheriff2 same person different devices
[13:19:27] <AlanBell> meetings do get missed from time to time, but if multiple scheduled meetings in a row don't happen then we should help get that back on track
[13:19:47] <hakimsheriff> yes that is important
[13:19:58] <AlanBell> monthly team reports, reminding the teams to do them, and helping fill them out as required
[13:20:33] <AlanBell> one thing I already do is maintain some monthly statistics for the Ubuntu Women team, that is the kind of activity I can see this team doing
[13:20:51] <AlanBell> open to other ideas at this point
[13:21:09] <Pendulum> I know as a team leader for one of the teams involved, I'd love it if U4A could help with raising profiles of teams
[13:21:29] <hakimsheriff> Pendulum, You said it as I was typing!!!
[13:21:33] <AlanBell> yes indeed
[13:21:44] <Pendulum> there's only so many times AlanBell or I can blog about a11y without people just ignoring it, for example ;)
[13:22:02] <hakimsheriff> Help raising profiles of new teams too
[13:22:18] <AlanBell> and possibly helping to form new teams
[13:22:55] <AlanBell> I did have an idea of an Ubuntu Younglings project, for children of known community members
[13:23:21] <hakimsheriff> Do teens count as well?
[13:23:32] <hakimsheriff> or just children
[13:23:33] <AlanBell> there is the ubuntu youth team for that
[13:24:16] <hakimsheriff> I would really like to help out with the Younglings Project
[13:24:30] <AlanBell> the -youth project is one where continuity issues are inherent
[13:25:25] <AlanBell> so easy for a bunch of enthusiastic members to leave as a school year starts or ends
[13:26:24] <AlanBell> but other teams can also go quiet for long periods, a11y did for a time
[13:26:56] <AlanBell> any more activities?
[13:27:14] <AlanBell> oh, I will chuck one in to discuss
[13:27:18] <hakimsheriff> I am a bit lost what is a11y?
[13:27:26] <AlanBell> accessibility
[13:27:30] <maco> hakimsheriff: abreviation for accessibility
[13:27:35] <AlanBell> there are 11 letters between a and y
[13:27:47] <hakimsheriff> creative, i like it!
[13:28:11] <AlanBell> internationalisation also gets abbreviated to 118n
[13:28:17] <maco> i18n you mean
[13:28:19] <maco> and localisation is l10n
[13:28:25] <AlanBell> yup
[13:28:31] <AlanBell> hi maco
[13:28:52] <maco> hello. i'm at work. don't mind me
[13:29:12] <AlanBell> there has been a bunch of recent discussions about UDS and the diversity and harassment policies
[13:29:43] <AlanBell> I can see that as something that this team might end up getting involved in for the next UDS, but not this one coming
[13:29:48] <AlanBell> too soon, too new
[13:30:13] <AlanBell> although I know some individuals have be involved in it already
[13:31:21] <AlanBell> any other activities to discuss?
[13:31:27] <AlanBell> anything you think we shouldn't do?
[13:31:59] <leoquant> noisy hakimsheriff
[13:32:04] <leoquant> Ã„
[13:32:50] <hakimsheriff> sorry, I am trying to connect my phone to the IRC channel so I can use the text-to-speech on my phone So I don't have to constatnly be on this channel.
[13:33:09] <AlanBell> ok, lets move on to the last topic
[13:33:16] <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Resources for the team Wiki/IRC/Mailing list
[13:33:38] <AlanBell> so this one is just a list really
[13:33:48] <AlanBell> we have the IRC channel #ubuntu-for-all
[13:34:00] <AlanBell> we have a mailing list
[13:34:41] <AlanBell> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-for-all
[13:35:14] <AlanBell> a chunk of the slowest wiki in the worldhttps://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuForAll
[13:35:30] <Mkaysi> * https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuForAll
[13:36:03] <AlanBell> thanks Mkaysi, and the launchpad team at https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-for-all
[13:36:11] <AlanBell> is there anything else you would see as useful?
[13:37:18] <hakimsheriff> nothing that I know of
[13:37:39] <AlanBell> ok, does anyone have any other topics they would like to raise for discussion?
[13:38:10] <hakimsheriff> We should raise the profile of this team
[13:38:25] <hakimsheriff> Not many members yet
[13:38:42] <AlanBell> I will blog about it, there are more members than are here at the moment
[13:38:56] <hakimsheriff> What's your blog?
[13:38:59] <AlanBell> 15 in the IRC channel and more on the mailing list
[13:39:06] <AlanBell> it will be on planet.ubuntu.com
[13:39:31] <AlanBell> http://www.theopensourcerer.com/author/alanbell/
[13:39:40] <AlanBell> my main personal blog
[13:40:28] <AlanBell> I don't imagine this will become a high profile team in itself really, but yes some more members would be good
[13:41:11] <AlanBell> any more to cover?
[13:41:52] <AlanBell> in which case, thanks for your time everyone, I will mail the list with minutes later for wider discussion
[13:42:14] <AlanBell> #endmeeting
</pre>
