{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

== Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - Issue 5 ==

Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - Issue 5 for the week of June 25, 2006 - July 1, 2006

You can always find this and other Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter Issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

=== In This Issue ===

* Edgy Release Schedule
* Bug fixes and security updates
* Dapper Backports Open
* and much more

=== General Community News ===

==== Edgy Release Schedule ====

Wondering when The Edgy Eft will be released? No need to keep scratching your head. As expected The Edgy Eft will be released to the world in October of 2006 making it Ubuntu 6.10. The Edgy Eft development cycle is going to be a fast one with only around four months until it's release. Check out the Edgy release schedule at:

 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyReleaseSchedule

==== Dapper Backports Open ====

The Ubuntu Backports Team is now accepting and processing requests for the dapper-backports repository. This allows for one to request that a package from Edgy (which is probably newer) be recompiled for Dapper usage. In practice, this allows Dapper to remain reasonably up-to-date while being stable, until the next version of Ubuntu comes out. Backports is geared towards personal desktop users who would like the latest and greatest software (instead of the versions shipped and no longer updated for 6 months) while not wanting the instability associated with development releases.

Backports is managed through Launchpad in the dapper-backports product, which allows us closer integration with the rest of Ubuntu. To file a backport, simply open up a bug ticket in http://launchpad.net/products/dapper-backports/+bugs describing what version and what package you want backported.

When newly backported packages are built and available in the repositories, the Backports team will announce them in the UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter, just like how security updates are announced now.

=== Security Updates ===

Security vulnerabilities found in the following packages have been fixed in all affected Ubuntu releases:

* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2006-June/000345.html|USN-304-1: gnupg vulnerability]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu ===

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

==== New Apps In Edgy ====

Don't forget quick installation notes, enable extra repository, package name, use g-a-i where possible, etc...

=== Kubuntu ===

==== KDE 3.5.3 Enters Edgy ====

KDE 3.5.3 has started to enter Edgy.  Initial versions of the Qt package were binary incompatible so make sure you've upgraded to the fixed Qt 3 3.3.6-2ubuntu2 and associated KDE versions.

Qt 4 was also updated to include all the safe patches from KDE's qt-copy.

There are still many KDE packages yet to be updated or merged, if you want to help sign yourself up to packages on

https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuEdgyPackageUpdates

and ping Riddell on IRC to coordinate.

==== Kubuntu Developer Interviewed on Podcast ====

UbuntuOS launched their new extended Podcast with an interview with Kubuntu developer Jonathan Riddell talking about the plans for Kubuntu Edgy.  The interview starts 1 hour 10 minutes in.

http://ubuntuos.com/2006/06/podcast-6

==== Artist in Chief ====

At the Ubuntu Community Council Mark Shuttleworth announced two Artists in Chief, the Kubuntu a-i-c for Edgy will be Ken Wimer who has been the lead KDE artist for KDE 3 and is doing the new Oxygen icon theme.

==== Paris Summit ====

Several Kubuntu and KDE developers were at the Ubuntu Developers Summit in Paris.  A number of specification were approved and more are being reviewed for approval.  If you are interested in helping with more than packaging and bugfixing in Kubuntu take a look at some of the specs and see which you can help with.

https://launchpad.net/people/jr/+specs

Some of the KDE developers blogged about their experiences

Ellen: http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/2147
Ken: http://kwwii.blogspot.com/2006/06/kde-loveits-better-than-ki_115106623359611933.html
Aaron: http://aseigo.blogspot.com/2006/06/paris.html
Kevin: http://ervin.ipsquad.net/index.php/2006/06/20/47-kubuntu-developers-summit-paris-day-0-2  http://ervin.ipsquad.net/index.php/2006/06/23/48-kubuntu-developers-summit-paris-day-3-5
Jonathan: http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/2113
Sebas: http://vizzzion.org/?blogentry=624

Finally here's the group photo and key:

http://kubuntu.org/~jriddell/ubuntu-distro-summit-paris-group.jpg-deletethissuffix
http://kubuntu.org/~jriddell/group-photo.txt

=== Edubuntu ===

==== Edubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

==== New Apps In Edgy ====

Don't forget quick installation notes, enable extra repository, package name, use g-a-i where possible, etc...

=== Xubuntu ===

==== Xubuntu 6.06 Updates ====

==== New Apps In Edgy ====

Don't forget quick installation notes, enable extra repository, package name, use g-a-i where possible, etc...

=== Bug Stats ===

New Bugs: # <<BR>>
Closed Bugs: #

==== Infamous Bugs ====

=== In The Press ===

=== Feature Of The Week - ??? ===

=== Additional News Resources ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter. See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Matt Galvin
* Jerome Gotangco
* Jonathan Riddell
* anyone else that contributes
* And many others

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Documentation Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-doc@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/Contact|Ubuntu Documentation Team Contact Information Page]]</nowiki>.
