{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/1310-beta-2-ReleaseNote|Eglish]]</nowiki>

== UbuntuKylin 介绍 ==
UbuntuKylin是Ubuntu官方衍生版本，目标是创建更适合中文用户的Linux操作系统。我们致力于为用户提供一个细腻、体贴、更有中国味的开箱即用操作系统。例如，提供一个中国本土桌面用户界面默认情况下供中国用户用于安装常用软件。从UbuntuKylin 13.04开始，已成为Ubuntu官方认可的正式成员。目前，我们正在开发13.10版本。

== UbuntuKylin 13.10 Beta 2 版本新特性 ==

在这个Beta版本中，Linux内核更新到3.11.1。同时，许多其他应用程序也有更新。

注意：Beta版本系统不稳定，它是针对UbuntuKylin开发者和想要帮忙测试的用户的发行版。

=== 新增功能 ===

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+spec/clent-1308-ubuntukylin-system-customization|系统定制]]</nowiki>, 针对13.10的Grub启动界面和开机动画定制。
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/youker-assistant | youker-assistant 优客助手]]</nowiki>，提供了一个简洁而强大的方式让用户管理他们的系统。它将会受到大多数非专业Linux用户欢迎。
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/unity-china-video-scope | unity-china-video-scope 中文视频搜索]]</nowiki>，在Dash中显示来自优酷网(一个中国流行的视频搜索引擎)的视频搜索结果。
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/unity-china-photo-scope | unity-china-photo-scope 中文图片搜索]]</nowiki>，在Dash中显示来自搜狗网(一个中国流行的图片搜索引擎)的图片搜索结果。
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntukylin.com/downloads/show.php?lang=en&id=146 |WPS for UbuntuKylin 13.10]]</nowiki>, 面向UbuntuKylin 13.10的定制版本，主要改进：稳定性的提升、BUG的修复、同时增加了数据透视表等功能。
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntukylin.com/applications/showimg.php?lang=cn&id=21 |金山快盘 for UbuntuKylin 13.10]]</nowiki>, UbuntuKylin团队与金山云公司合作，共同开发金山快盘for UbuntuKylin版，为用户的个人文件提供安全可控、跨平台的一站式管理体验。
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntukylin.com/applications/showimg.php?lang=cn&id=20 |"Fcitx"输入法面板 for UbuntuKylin 13.10]]</nowiki>, qim-panel前端：独立的qim-panel前端面板，自带四套简约风格的UbuntuKylin特色皮肤。

=== 系统安装要求 ===

最低配置：
    奔腾II/赛扬 处理器
    512 MB     内存
    在最低配置下你可以正常使用一个标准的UbuntuKylin系统，但是可能会比较慢。

    UbuntuKylin 13.10 32位系统要求你的CPU有物理地址扩展或PAE。PAE是英特尔Pentium Pro以上的处理器才提供的。如果你有一个非pae的CPU想安装UbuntuKylin，你可以查看<nowiki>[[http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-install-ubuntu-1210-on-non-pae.html | 这个链接]]</nowiki>或者使用Ubuntu 12.04代替。由于Mac基于Intel，UbuntuKylin 13.10 应该可以运行在所有机器上。

== 支持 ==
* 邮件列表: ubuntukylin-members@lists.launchpad.net
* IRC频道: #ubuntukylin-devel
* 官方网站: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* QQ群: 306929327

== 下载 ==
你可以在<nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/13.10/beta-2/ | 这里]]</nowiki>下载到发布版的ISO。

=== 从UbuntuKylin 13.04桌面系统升级： ===

* 打开软件源。
* 使用 Alt+F2 并输入"update-manager -d"(输入引号里面的内容即可)到命令框.
* 更新管理器将被打开并告知您：新发布版本'13.10'可用。
* 点击“更新”后根据屏幕提示进行操作。

== 已知的问题 ==
* 在选择ubiquity进行安装时背景壁纸没有生效，只是显示蓝色背景.  (Bug:1218193)
* indicator-keyboard中文化不完全. (Bug:1231276)
* dash中文化不完全. (Bug:1222621)
* 快捷关机界面汉化不全，当按电源键时弹出的关机界面中Suspend和Hibernate没有汉化. (Bug:1231437)

 '''其他Ubuntu已知的问题'''

* In some cases, when installing to a disk that was previously partitioned, the installer (both text and GUI versions) will give an error about being unable to inform the kernel about partition changes.  The workaround for this is to remove the partition table entirely and then reboot back into the installer.  (Bug:1229432)

* The desktop image installer cannot unlock existing encrypted (LUKS) volumes.  If you need to make use of existing encrypted volumes during partitioning, then use the "Try Ubuntu without installing" boot option to start a live session, open the encrypted volumes (for example, by clicking on their icons in the Unity launcher), enter your password when prompted to unlock them, close them again, and run `ubiquity` to start the installer.  (Bug:1066480)

* When using installer to upgrade or reinstall an existing installation with encrypted swap, the installer may fail to reuse the partition. A warning will be shown, however the installation can be completed. The installed system will not have swap activated and users are advised to recreate swap on their systems. Please see advice about adding and activating swap at: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1172002 | LP: #1172002]]</nowiki>)

* Installs on very small memory systems may fail to start or exit without completing with no error. It is recommended that swap be created before install for such systems. Please see advice about adding and activating swap at: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-release-notes/+bug/1172161 | LP: #1172161]]</nowiki>)

* In rare circumstances the 'Next' button on the installer 'Install Type' screen is non-functional.  This is intermittent and may be resolved by hitting 'Back' and retrying.  (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bug/1172572 | LP: #1172572]]</nowiki>)

* In order to improve compatibility with other local nameserver packages, Network``Manager now assigns IP address 127.0.1.1 to the local nameserver process that it controls instead of 127.0.0.1. If the system's `/etc/resolv.conf` is absent or is a static file instead of the symbolic link to `../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf` installed by default then this static file will have to be updated by the administrator in order to continue using the Network``Manager-controlled nameserver.

== 感谢 ==
感谢大家参与到UbuntuKylin的发展中，UbuntuKylin 13.10发布版的成功将是大家团队协作的结果！
如果您想要成为UbuntuKylin贡献者，请查看：https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide
