{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Migration Notes ===
<nowiki>[[Stormyfacts-encyclopedia|Encyclopedia vs Stormyfacts]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[Stormyfacts-ubottu_migration|Ubottu migration]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[Stormyfacts-ubottu_clones_migration|Ubottu clones migration]]</nowiki>

=== Plan ===
<nowiki>[[Stormyfacts-roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki><br>
<s>I'm pretty behind with documenting the plugin, once I finish with the readme up to current features (v0.1), I intend to approach -irc maillist and point the main differences between Encyclopedia and Stormyfacts, as well a the features. Get some earlier feedback, then continue with 0.2 features.</s>

Other things to do
* write howto for migrate plugins
* document sql schemas
* <s>improve the importing script, currently works fine, but it could be improved:</s>
* * <s>replace $curStable and friends with %curFactoid, etc.</s>
* * <s>list better factoids with problem names.</s>

==== whiteboards ====
<nowiki>[[FactoidPluginRewrite|The Initial Draft]]</nowiki><br>
<nowiki>[[Stormyfacts-request_queue|request queue]]</nowiki><br>
<nowiki>[[Stormyfacts-aproximate_matching|approximate matching]]</nowiki><br>

==== not so important stuff ====
* <s>rewrite inFilter, is a really too big function that could do some splitting, is complicated though.</s>
* <s>rewrite the factoid flag/tag stuff.</s>
* figure out how to translate regex in po files (really!)
