{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== SIP Guidelines ===

All you should need to configure your SIP client to log in to our VOIP server is the following information:

* Realm/Domain: canonical.com
* SIP server/Registrar: voip.canonical.com (you probably won't need to enter this as many SIP clients work it out automatically from the Realm/Domain)
* Username: as given to you by <code>#canonical-sysadmin</code>
* Password: as given to you by <code>#canonical-sysadmin</code>

==== Echo test ====

We offer a simple echo test service, which allows you to make a SIP call and be connected to yourself via a short delay - i.e. everything you say is played back to you. This is very useful for testing that your SIP client is working correctly and that you can reach our servers.
The number for this is: <code>6701@canonical.com</code>

==== Test conference call ====

For UDS, we are also running a test conference call. This will connect you to a conference that is identical to the summit conference calls, but is purely used for testing your microphone level and quality. Dial <code>5000@canonical.com</code> and we will confirm your settings are fine.

==== After testing ====

Once you have performed the above tests you are ready to join one of the summit calls. Please see the main schedule for individual SIP numbers for the calls.
