{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The DanishTeam is recognised as a legal entity in Denmark, whose main goal is to spread the word about Ubuntu and free software to the Danish people.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''11/9 2013'')
* '''Team Contact''' - Daniel Ejsing-Duun <daniel@ zilvador.dk>
* '''Membership''' - Forum: 5808 registered users, IRC channel: ~40 users (give or take)
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-dk on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-dk on freenode
* '''Forum''' - http://www.ubuntudanmark.dk/forum/

=== Roadmap ===

Here you should provide a list of things you plan on doing. Include links to where these are discussed online and on mailing lists.

* ''Activation of members'' - we want to increase our member count and motivate members to both participate in, but also set up informal events themselves in larger cities of Denmark.
* Promotion on forum and Facebook. We have many forum users (5809) and a solid amount of likes on Facebook (1250). We can use these platforms to promote ourselves at activate new members by joining events as well as make physical meetings as well as meetings on IRC.
* Some regular meetings have been put temporarily on hold because of lack of participation. We hope to reinitiate these by allowing an inviting, informal and relaxed atmosphere while discussing the benefits of Ubuntu.
* We have organised many events, release parties and conference booths before. We will continue to do this in the future.

=== Experience ===

List here activities that the group has already done. Again provide links to online discussions, reviews, blog entries etc:

''Note:'' Ubuntu Live! is the name we use for our release parties.

* We received major public attention by managing to be the main focus of <nowiki>[[http://www.dr.dk/Nyheder/Viden/Miljoe/2013/08/27221827.htm|an article]]</nowiki> published by the <nowiki>[[www.dr.dk|number one Danish public media station]]</nowiki>.
* We have attracted a great amount of new users on our forum, especially around the release of Ubuntu 12.04 LTS. (forum statistics?)
* The Ubuntu forum has moved to a VPS platform for increased stability and speed. 
* Success by supporting smaller local communities having their own install parties, mainly focused on Ubuntu (e.g. Als www.alslug.dk, Randers https://sites.google.com/site/linuxranders/ (example of <nowiki>[[http://bit.ly/1aupHxn|pictures]]</nowiki>))
* Promotion of Ubuntu at public places (<nowiki>[[http://bit.ly/186IxpS|Example]]</nowiki>)
* We have organised a series of release and conference before (Note especially <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-dk/ReApprovalApplication|previous reapproval application]]</nowiki>)

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
