{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 40%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #b9defa; font-size: 0.90em;" :> '''Go back to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings | The Meetings Page]]</nowiki>'''
|}
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #EDE7EA ;"> Who
| Subject
| Details
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
| Say '''o/''' when asked
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
| 1. Discuss and decide who will be Acting TL. <<BR>> 2. Continue with the website talk from last week. <<BR>> 3. HR Sub-Team.
| https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader <<BR>> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/hr-sub-team
|-
| YOUR_NAME
| --
| --
|-
| Anybody
| Any Other Business
| A final round up
|}

== Time ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 30%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #d5e5ff; font-size: 0.90em;" :> <<BR>> '''Plan A*: ''' <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20140629T21&p1=1440&ah=1 | Sun, 29- June, 2014, 21:00 GMT]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 30%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #d5e5ff; font-size: 0.90em;" :> <<BR>> '''Plan B*: ''' <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20140629T15&p1=1440&ah=1 | Sun, 29- June, 2014, 15:00 GMT]]</nowiki>
|}

<<BR>>
'''*''' Why there are two times? please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings#Day_and_Time | this link]]</nowiki>.

== Place of the meeting ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 30%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #d5d5ff; font-size: 0.90em;" :> <<BR>>IRC: irc.freenode.org <<BR>>Channel: #ubuntu-gnome <<BR>>'''Webchat link : <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-gnome | Click Here]]</nowiki>''' <<BR>>
|}

== Meeting information ==
* #ubuntu-gnome: [UU-Cycle] Ubuntu GNOME Weekly Meeting #2, 29 Jun at 21:16 &mdash; 23:05 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-gnome/2014/ubuntu-gnome.2014-06-29-21.16.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== 1. Discuss and decide who will be Acting TL ====
The discussion about "1. Discuss and decide who will be Acting TL" started at 21:17.

** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader 
** ''LINK:'' http://ubuntugnome.org/ubuntu-gnome-leaders-board/ 
** ''ACTION:'' satya164 will check https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader and confirm back to aldomann and amjjawad whether he is okay to be Acting TL for UG Artwork or not
** ''ACTION:'' Ivan and James are both nominated for Acting TL for UG Wiki and Doc Team and amjjawad needs to talk with them about that
** ''ACTION:'' Noskcaj will read the Acting TL blueprint and get back to amjjawad and darkxst whether he is okay with being Acting for the Packaging Team or not
** ''ACTION:'' ahoneybun will work with amjjawad on the release notes for UG milestones and will handle that in case amjjawad will be away or busy
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad to discuss the activities of UG QA + UG Marketing + UG Brainstorming at next week meeting.
** ''ACTION:'' satya164 will handle the NEWS Section of UG Artwork ONLY - he will share reports and news from UG Artwork and these to be published on our channels

==== HR Sub-Team ====
The discussion about "HR Sub-Team" started at 22:07.

** ''ACTION:'' UG Leaders Board lead UG HR Sub-Team

==== Website Talk ====
The discussion about "Website Talk" started at 22:11.

** ''LINK:'' http://cl.ly/image/0i2u2A051m1b 
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad to review the current website - http://ubuntugnome.org/ - and check the needed tabs for the new design
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad to review the FAQ and Wiki tabs and discuss with UG Wiki Team
** ''ACTION:'' Artwork Team to add 'Feature Tour' as a button on the Home Page of UG new website design
** ''ACTION:'' check with Alex Reissig if he could help us with UG Review to be added to the feature tour or UG home page for the new site - amjjawad aldomann satya164

==== Packaging/Dev News ====
The discussion about "Packaging/Dev News" started at 22:38.

** ''ACTION:'' UG Team needs someone who has a bit of Dev Skills + Doc/Writing Skills to communicate to the outside world about what is going on with UG when it comes to codes and dev work. This should attract more people to join us, specially devs

==== other talk ====
The discussion about "other talk" started at 22:48.

** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad and satya164 and aldomann and anyone who is interested to have a brainstorming session for UG Artwork for UU Cycle
** ''ACTION:'' aldomann and satya164 to prepare the Wallpaper Contest for UG UU Cycle

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* ahoneybun
** ahoneybun will work with amjjawad on the release notes for UG milestones and will handle that in case amjjawad will be away or busy
* aldomann
** satya164 will check https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader and confirm back to aldomann and amjjawad whether he is okay to be Acting TL for UG Artwork or not
** check with Alex Reissig if he could help us with UG Review to be added to the feature tour or UG home page for the new site - amjjawad aldomann satya164
** amjjawad and satya164 and aldomann and anyone who is interested to have a brainstorming session for UG Artwork for UU Cycle
** aldomann and satya164 to prepare the Wallpaper Contest for UG UU Cycle
* amjjawad
** satya164 will check https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader and confirm back to aldomann and amjjawad whether he is okay to be Acting TL for UG Artwork or not
** Ivan and James are both nominated for Acting TL for UG Wiki and Doc Team and amjjawad needs to talk with them about that
** Noskcaj will read the Acting TL blueprint and get back to amjjawad and darkxst whether he is okay with being Acting for the Packaging Team or not
** ahoneybun will work with amjjawad on the release notes for UG milestones and will handle that in case amjjawad will be away or busy
** amjjawad to discuss the activities of UG QA + UG Marketing + UG Brainstorming at next week meeting.
** amjjawad to review the current website - http://ubuntugnome.org/ - and check the needed tabs for the new design
** amjjawad to review the FAQ and Wiki tabs and discuss with UG Wiki Team
** check with Alex Reissig if he could help us with UG Review to be added to the feature tour or UG home page for the new site - amjjawad aldomann satya164
** amjjawad and satya164 and aldomann and anyone who is interested to have a brainstorming session for UG Artwork for UU Cycle
* darkxst
** Noskcaj will read the Acting TL blueprint and get back to amjjawad and darkxst whether he is okay with being Acting for the Packaging Team or not
* Noskcaj
** Noskcaj will read the Acting TL blueprint and get back to amjjawad and darkxst whether he is okay with being Acting for the Packaging Team or not
* satya
** satya164 will check https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader and confirm back to aldomann and amjjawad whether he is okay to be Acting TL for UG Artwork or not
** satya164 will handle the NEWS Section of UG Artwork ONLY - he will share reports and news from UG Artwork and these to be published on our channels
** check with Alex Reissig if he could help us with UG Review to be added to the feature tour or UG home page for the new site - amjjawad aldomann satya164
** amjjawad and satya164 and aldomann and anyone who is interested to have a brainstorming session for UG Artwork for UU Cycle
** aldomann and satya164 to prepare the Wallpaper Contest for UG UU Cycle
* satya164
** satya164 will check https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader and confirm back to aldomann and amjjawad whether he is okay to be Acting TL for UG Artwork or not
** satya164 will handle the NEWS Section of UG Artwork ONLY - he will share reports and news from UG Artwork and these to be published on our channels
** check with Alex Reissig if he could help us with UG Review to be added to the feature tour or UG home page for the new site - amjjawad aldomann satya164
** amjjawad and satya164 and aldomann and anyone who is interested to have a brainstorming session for UG Artwork for UU Cycle
** aldomann and satya164 to prepare the Wallpaper Contest for UG UU Cycle
* **UNASSIGNED**
** UG Leaders Board lead UG HR Sub-Team
** Artwork Team to add 'Feature Tour' as a button on the Home Page of UG new website design
** UG Team needs someone who has a bit of Dev Skills + Doc/Writing Skills to communicate to the outside world about what is going on with UG when it comes to codes and dev work. This should attract more people to join us, specially devs

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* amjjawad (262)
* satya164 (98)
* aldomann (83)
* ahoneybun (22)
* darkxst (18)
* meetingology (17)
* Noskcaj (9)
* satya (4)

=== Full Log ===

 21:16 <amjjawad> #startmeeting [UU-Cycle] Ubuntu GNOME Weekly Meeting #2

 21:16 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Jun 29 21:16:58 2014 UTC.  The chair is amjjawad. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 21:16 <meetingology> 

 21:16 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 21:17 <amjjawad> #topic 1. Discuss and decide who will be Acting TL

 21:17 <amjjawad> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader

 21:18 <aldomann> hey, satyajit

 21:18 <amjjawad> Hello satya164 :)

 21:18 <satya164> hello

 21:18 <amjjawad> It is just the 3 of us and the meeting has just started :)

 21:19 <amjjawad> did you guys read about the link I just posted? the Acting TL blueprint? we discussed about that on last week meeting :)

 21:19 <satya164> good

 21:19 <satya164> yeah, I had a look

 21:20 <aldomann> yep

 21:20 <amjjawad> okay, since UG Artwork people are here :D have you decided who is going to be Mr. Acting? :P

 21:20 <aldomann> satya164 of course

 21:21 <satya164> nope :p

 21:21 <amjjawad> hahah why I'm not surprised :P

 21:21 <amjjawad> Okay, kidding a side, are you okay with that, satya164 ?

 21:22 <satya164> yeah, but I need to know my responsibilities first

 21:22 <amjjawad> satya164, sigh :( I thought you had a look at: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader

 21:23 <amjjawad> you just need to have a quick look + being an Acting will qualify you to be part of UG Shinobi Team

 21:23 <amjjawad> which is the UG Leaders Board :)

 21:24 <satya164> had a look, but I forget a lot, and sleepy :)

 21:24 <amjjawad> http://ubuntugnome.org/ubuntu-gnome-leaders-board/

 21:24 <amjjawad> Okay, satya164 please check it out when you're not sleepy and let me know ;)

 21:24 <amjjawad> or just communicate with aldomann and you guys let me know so we do the needful :)

 21:25 <amjjawad> for me, I already know who is going to be for UG Wiki and Doc Team

 21:25 <amjjawad> Ivan and James = both are amazing and great

 21:25 <satya164> yeah. I'll. right now I cannot and my internet kinda sucks

 21:25 <aldomann> my guess, those guys are amazing

 21:25 <amjjawad> Sadly, I don't have any other names for the rest of the sub-teams that I lead :(

 21:26 <amjjawad> aldomann, indeed they are

 21:26 <amjjawad> satya164, no worries

 21:26 <amjjawad> I feel really sad that other sub-teams are not working the way they should :(

 21:26 <aldomann> the Acting TL should have admin powers in the launchpad teams, right?

 21:26 <amjjawad> from a previous experience with other project, it is really BAD if you're part of a team and you don't talk ...

 21:27 <amjjawad> team = team work = people talk to each other

 21:27 <amjjawad> aldomann, more or less yes but it is not a must but a plus

 21:27 <amjjawad> I mean it is recommended but not really a must

 21:27 <aldomann> yes, exactly, I also had (and still have) with elementary localisation teams

 21:27 <satya164> I wish every one of us could have lots of time :(

 21:27 <amjjawad> James and Ivan have that for Wiki Team

 21:28 <aldomann> it really doesn't work if everyone is doing stuff without consulting eachother

 21:28 <satya164> yeah. true.

 21:28 <amjjawad> satya164, tell me about it but look at me? I have tons of stuff but yet, I do attend this meeting and push so hard on myself to do many things at once

 21:28 <amjjawad> it is all about commitment ...

 21:28 <satya164> yeah. that's true.

 21:28 <aldomann> yes, that's why we are a community :)

 21:28 <amjjawad> AMEN to that. I totally agree

 21:28 <satya164> I always wonder, how do you manage

 21:29 <aldomann> he has clones :p

 21:29 <amjjawad> That is why, for this cycle, I won't focus on the system side ... I will focus on the community side

 21:29 <satya164> I'm mostly tired after the day long work

 21:29 <satya164> lol

 21:29 <darkxst> morning

 21:29 <amjjawad> I put so much effort myself on the system side the last cycle even though I'm not a developer but myself and Tim were doing our best for the LTS and we all got it

 21:30 <amjjawad> oh, speaking of the Boss, he just came :D hehe

 21:30 <amjjawad> how are you, darkxst :D

 21:30 <amjjawad> why you appear offline?!

 21:30 <aldomann> morning darkxst

 21:30 <satya164> morning darkxst

 21:31 <amjjawad> so, satya164 should I confirm now about you being ATL for Artwork? or not yet?!

 21:32 <darkxst> amjjawad, I'm good

 21:32 <satya164> yeah. I'm fine with it. just need to have a thorough look at the page

 21:32 <amjjawad> darkxst, good to know that :D

 21:32 <amjjawad> satya164, okay then

 21:33 <amjjawad> anyone have anything against satya164 being ATL for Artwork?

 21:33 <aldomann> nop

 21:34 <amjjawad> +1 here I don't mind

 21:34 <amjjawad> darkxst, ?

 21:35 <darkxst> +1

 21:35 <amjjawad> good

 21:35 <amjjawad> #action satya164 will check https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader and confirm back to aldomann and amjjawad whether he is okay to be Acting TL for UG Artwork or not

 21:35 * meetingology satya164 will check https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader and confirm back to aldomann and amjjawad whether he is okay to be Acting TL for UG Artwork or not

 21:36 <amjjawad> #agreed UG Leaders board agreed that satya164 is nominated for Acting TL for Artwrok

 21:36 <amjjawad> okay, about UG Wiki ... anyone have anything against Ivan and James being Acting TL for Wiki? though they're not here and I need to speak with them about it

 21:36 <satya164> nope

 21:37 <aldomann> I'm cool with them being ATL

 21:37 <amjjawad> same here, I don't mind

 21:38 <darkxst> ok

 21:38 <amjjawad> #action Ivan and James are both nominated for Acting TL for UG Wiki and Doc Team and amjjawad needs to talk with them about that

 21:38 * meetingology Ivan and James are both nominated for Acting TL for UG Wiki and Doc Team and amjjawad needs to talk with them about that

 21:38 <amjjawad> #agreed UG Leaders Board agreed that both Ivan and James are good to go for Acting TL for UG Wiki and Doc Team

 21:39 <amjjawad> darkxst, any one you have in mind for the packaging team?

 21:39 <amjjawad> I'd assume Steve?

 21:39 <amjjawad> aldomann, how many people are you at Artwork now?!

 21:39 <darkxst> Steve hasnt been around much lately

 21:39 <darkxst> maybe Noskcaj

 21:39 <amjjawad> darkxst, oh :( :(

 21:40 <Noskcaj> o/

 21:40 <amjjawad> hahah you're here? why are you silent? Noskcaj

 21:40 <Noskcaj> amjjawad, Because i'm watching dota and working on xfce4-power-manager too

 21:40 <ahoneybun> o/

 21:40 <amjjawad> Noskcaj, are you following with what we are talking about?!

 21:40 <amjjawad> hello ahoneybun :)

 21:41 <Noskcaj> amjjawad, Just that i got a ping about the packaging team

 21:41 <ahoneybun> hey amjjawad

 21:41 * ahoneybun is trying to get alpha 1 on a usb to install

 21:41 <amjjawad> Noskcaj, okay, whenever you're free, please read: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/acting-team-leader

 21:42 <amjjawad> #action Noskcaj will read the Acting TL blueprint and get back to amjjawad and darkxst whether he is okay with being Acting for the Packaging Team or not

 21:42 * meetingology Noskcaj will read the Acting TL blueprint and get back to amjjawad and darkxst whether he is okay with being Acting for the Packaging Team or not

 21:42 <amjjawad> Noskcaj, I put it as an action point so none of us will forget that ;)

 21:42 <Noskcaj> ty

 21:43 <amjjawad> and, since we're here, anyone has anything against Noskcaj being ATL?

 21:43 <amjjawad> Noskcaj, you welcome ;)

 21:44 <satya164> nope

 21:44 <amjjawad> I don't mind too

 21:44 <amjjawad> I know him even before I join UG Team

 21:44 <Noskcaj> I'm ok with being the ATL

 21:44 <amjjawad> hahah did you read it? :P

 21:44 <Noskcaj> I should probably use gnome some time though

 21:45 <amjjawad> Noskcaj, shhh, don't tell that on a public area :P

 21:45 <Noskcaj> :)

 21:45 <Noskcaj> i'll make a VM today

 21:45 <amjjawad> Noskcaj, good :)

 21:45 <aldomann> hehehe

 21:45 <amjjawad> so darkxst and aldomann ?

 21:45 <amjjawad> are you both okay with Noskcaj being ATL?

 21:46 <darkxst> yes

 21:46 <aldomann> yes

 21:46 * ahoneybun is cheating as well

 21:47 <amjjawad> Noskcaj, a side from the blueprint, which should have all what you need to know, not sure if I have put that over there or not ... but if you be an ATL, you also be part of UG shinobi board

 21:47 <amjjawad> which means, you can vote ;)

 21:47 <amjjawad> so, just another task :D

 21:47 <Noskcaj> :)

 21:47 <amjjawad> #agreed UG Leaders Board agreed Noskcaj be ATL for UG Packaging Team

 21:48 <amjjawad> since ahoneybun is here, do you have any skills when it comes to other Sub-Teams a side from the Wiki?

 21:48 <amjjawad> like Social Media maybe?

 21:48 <amjjawad> or any other area?!

 21:49 <ahoneybun> amjjawad, I have helped darkxst with packaging but tbh he pretty much held my hand though it

 21:49 <amjjawad> as for me, I have serious problem when it comes to UG QA, Brainstorming and Marketing :(

 21:50 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, I'm not going to assign anything extra for you now because (ask me about it) if you burnout, you will never be helpful to yourself and so to anyone else

 21:50 <amjjawad> that said, I won't add anything over your shoulder yet

 21:50 <ahoneybun> amjjawad, relating to brainstorming I always loved the start screen they have in Linux Mint

 21:51 <amjjawad> but maybe with the next cycle if you stick around, you might get some tasks

 21:51 <ahoneybun> amjjawad, tbh I feel like there is more I could do, or should do

 21:51 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, the brainstorming area is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/SubTeams#Brainstorming

 21:52 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, we need active people :)

 21:52 <amjjawad> leave the leading part to us :D and you guys could handle the rest ;)

 21:52 <amjjawad> we really need active people more than we do need leaders

 21:52 <ahoneybun> amjjawad, not really leading type

 21:52 <amjjawad> no problem

 21:52 <ahoneybun> darkxst, would I install the alpha 1 to package with?

 21:53 <amjjawad> before we go to the next topic, I want you all to tell me what should I do for the other Sub-Team?

 21:53 <amjjawad> a re-stricture?

 21:53 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, let's talk about that Q after the meeting, please :)

 21:53 <darkxst> ahoneybun, yes

 21:53 <ahoneybun> ok sorry

 21:53 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, no problem :)

 21:54 <amjjawad> so, any idea guys?!

 21:54 <ahoneybun> what teams are left amjjawad ?

 21:54 <amjjawad> UG Brainstorming = 100% idle

 21:54 <amjjawad> UG Marketing = 98% idle

 21:54 <satya> How many active members are in those teams?

 21:54 <ahoneybun> amjjawad, tbh I forum is always good for Brainstorming

 21:55 <amjjawad> UG QA = 50% and they just don't communicate

 21:55 <amjjawad> Brain and Marketing = me :(

 21:55 <satya> ;(

 21:55 <amjjawad> and there is 1-2 people helping every now and then with social media stuff but not really what I need

 21:56 <ahoneybun> amjjawad, I could help with SM

 21:56 <satya> I could help with sm

 21:56 <ahoneybun> *SM

 21:56 <amjjawad> Brainstorming could be of a great help but looking at the current status of our community, I'd say it is helpless for this cycle but could be helpful the next one

 21:57 <amjjawad> as for QA and Marketing, we DO NEED these to be super active

 21:57 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, and satya what you guys could really do is ... writing news of what our team is doing

 21:58 <amjjawad> for the social media, I'm 90% fine to handle that alone

 21:58 <amjjawad> but when it comes to writing news of what we're doing, I'm very very very short in time and efforts

 21:58 <satya> Good. I can do that too.

 21:58 <ahoneybun> amjjawad, so reports of meetings and so on

 21:58 <aldomann> Nice :)

 21:59 <amjjawad> okay, so to make life easier for both of us ... satya can write about news from Artwork team ONLY for now

 21:59 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, no, not reports of the meeting, this is what I usually take care of. I do need news about our team and what we usually do and such news go to the public around the world

 22:00 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, have you seen the 3 posts I have published on our website 2 days ago?

 22:01 <darkxst> ahoneybun, want to take care of release notes for future milestone releases? alpha-1 went out without any!

 22:01 <amjjawad> that would be super great darkxst

 22:01 <ahoneybun> darkxst, sure

 22:01 <amjjawad> specially when I'm not around

 22:01 <amjjawad> myself and ahoneybun could work on that

 22:01 <aldomann> so, you take care of the news and release notes, ahoneybun?

 22:02 <amjjawad> I'd suggest to go for the release notes

 22:02 <amjjawad> that would make the burden much less on me

 22:02 * ahoneybun feels silly for not getting the concept of the "news"

 22:02 <ahoneybun> but release notes sure

 22:02 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, forget the news part

 22:03 <ahoneybun> ok amjjawad

 22:03 <amjjawad> so, everyone ... are you okay with this? please vote quickly :)

 22:03 <satya164> +1

 22:03 <darkxst> +1

 22:03 <amjjawad> +1

 22:03 <aldomann> absolutely

 22:03 <amjjawad> perfect

 22:04 <amjjawad> #action ahoneybun will work with amjjawad on the release notes for UG milestones and will handle that in case amjjawad will be away or busy

 22:04 * meetingology ahoneybun will work with amjjawad on the release notes for UG milestones and will handle that in case amjjawad will be away or busy

 22:04 <amjjawad> #agreed UG Leaders Board agreed that ahoneybun to help amjjawad and handle the Release Notes for UG milestones

 22:05 <amjjawad> okay, phew :D thanks!

 22:05 * ahoneybun looks at ReleaseSchedule

 22:05 <amjjawad> For the other team, let's worry about that later ... I guess 10 apples at one hand is just too much at the moment

 22:05 <amjjawad> let's talk about that later

 22:06 <satya164> So, wallpaper contest?

 22:06 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad to discuss the activities of UG QA + UG Marketing + UG Brainstorming at next week meeting.

 22:06 * meetingology amjjawad to discuss the activities of UG QA + UG Marketing + UG Brainstorming at next week meeting.

 22:06 <amjjawad> satya164, not yet ;)

 22:06 <satya164> ;(

 22:07 <amjjawad> #action satya164 will handle the NEWS Section of UG Artwork ONLY - he will share reports and news from UG Artwork and these to be published on our channels

 22:07 * meetingology satya164 will handle the NEWS Section of UG Artwork ONLY - he will share reports and news from UG Artwork and these to be published on our channels

 22:07 <satya164> Okay

 22:07 <amjjawad> #topic HR Sub-Team

 22:07 <amjjawad> this is a very quick review and nothing more is required for now

 22:08 <amjjawad> just to let you know, the Wiki Page for HR Sub-Team will be: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/GettingInvolved

 22:08 <amjjawad> As for who is going to lead that team, it is the UG Leaders Board for now

 22:08 <amjjawad> please vote if you guys are okay with this?!

 22:08 <aldomann> +1

 22:08 <satya164> +1

 22:08 <amjjawad> +1

 22:10 <darkxst> +1

 22:10 <amjjawad> #agreed UG Leaders Board agreed to lead UG HR Sub-Team

 22:10 <amjjawad> #action UG Leaders Board lead UG HR Sub-Team

 22:10 * meetingology UG Leaders Board lead UG HR Sub-Team

 22:11 <amjjawad> this means, we are all going to help each other to manage and do the task of UG HR ;)

 22:11 <amjjawad> HR Team: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntugnome-brainstorming/+spec/hr-sub-team

 22:11 <amjjawad> #topic Website Talk

 22:11 <amjjawad> any progress in this regard?

 22:11 <satya164> Yay!

 22:11 <amjjawad> hahah

 22:12 <aldomann> yes!

 22:12 <aldomann> http://cl.ly/image/0i2u2A051m1b

 22:12 <amjjawad> okay, are you guys (artwork team) working on that alone?!

 22:12 <aldomann> this is a quick mockup of the getting involved tab

 22:12 <aldomann> community* tab

 22:13 <aldomann> we are working alone on the design, Niels should do the programming (though satya can help, I think)

 22:13 <satya164> Yes. I can help with code

 22:13 <amjjawad> okay, is Niels still around?!

 22:13 <satya164> I've never worked with WordPress though

 22:13 <amjjawad> I haven't seen anything from him lately

 22:14 <satya164> But I'm a quick learner :)

 22:14 <amjjawad> satya164, it is super easy but don't ask me about codes :P

 22:14 <satya164> Cool then :)

 22:14 <aldomann> he's waiting to the final draft so that he can start coding

 22:15 <amjjawad> aldomann, I thought he will do/help with the draft?

 22:15 <satya164> I was also suggesting to have a Scrollback widget in the page

 22:15 <aldomann> Satyajit came with the idea of implementing a Scrollback IRC widget in the Comunity tab

 22:16 <amjjawad> okay, here is two things I do need in this regard if I may to ask :P

 22:16 <satya164> Yup?

 22:16 <amjjawad> (1) I/We don't need a heavy website - let's have some mercy with people of slow connections

 22:16 <aldomann> ammjawad, he can help once we have the "final" desgin; i.e., what we shall include in the page

 22:16 <amjjawad> (2) I'd suggest to have at least 3 suggestions/designs so we could choose from

 22:17 <aldomann> it can be minimized, so not big deal I suppose

 22:17 <satya164> amjjawad we could make the widget load on demand. and the widget uses appcache, so will load very quick after first load

 22:17 <amjjawad> and, I do have a Q .. should we ask the users for their opinions? or only us the Shinobi board? or should we simply just ask over the mailing list and whoever is active will share his/her opinion?

 22:17 <aldomann> the structure and design is not a priority right now, what is important is the content: http://cl.ly/image/123o3D2D2A40

 22:18 <satya164> Yeah, design will get better as we start working on it

 22:18 <aldomann> in this quick overview we can see that the website in going to consist basically in the main site (the mockup we showed last week), the blog, the community and download pages and links to FAQ and Wiki

 22:18 <satya164> But we first need the content to start working

 22:19 <aldomann> do you agree with that? It's super simple and we can maintain that amount of work easily

 22:19 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad to review the current website - http://ubuntugnome.org/ - and check the needed tabs for the new design

 22:19 * meetingology amjjawad to review the current website - http://ubuntugnome.org/ - and check the needed tabs for the new design

 22:20 <satya164> Also, consistency in important

 22:20 <amjjawad> aldomann, I'll get back to you guys very soon about it

 22:20 <satya164> is *

 22:20 <amjjawad> because some tabs are missing

 22:20 <amjjawad> for example: are we going to add 'Screenshots' tab?

 22:20 <amjjawad> and where is the contact us tab?

 22:20 <aldomann> I think we should have a few in the homepage

 22:21 <darkxst> amjjawad, that would be the "feature tour"?

 22:21 <aldomann> tomorrow I'll work on that

 22:21 <amjjawad> Wiki and FAQ shouldn't be two tabs IMHO, I'd highly suggest merging these two

 22:21 <satya164> I think instead of a screenshots tab, having the screenshots in the features section of the wiki will be better

 22:21 <amjjawad> darkxst, right ... so instead of 'Screenshot' tab, we need one called 'Feature Tour'

 22:21 <aldomann> darkxst, yeah, I think we can do a simple feature tour in the homepage

 22:21 <satya164> Screenshots don't mean much without any description

 22:22 <aldomann> ammjawad, either that or implement it in the home page

 22:22 <amjjawad> wait, are we going to do the feature tour as a tab? or as a button on the home page?

 22:22 <satya164> As a button will be better I guess

 22:22 <aldomann> I'd prefer that to be in the home page. The first impression is very important to gain people's attention

 22:23 <ahoneybun> I agree with aldomann on that

 22:23 <satya164> BTW amjjawad are you sure you want to merge wiki and FAQ links? Coz looking for FAQ will be difficult then

 22:24 <satya164> Yeah. We should have few screenshots on the home page

 22:24 <aldomann> satya164 it wouln't hurt to have both as links in the navigation header

 22:25 <amjjawad> satya164, that would be called Documentation

 22:25 <amjjawad> FAQ is part of the Doc

 22:25 <amjjawad> same goes for Wiki

 22:25 <amjjawad> so the general name is Doc

 22:25 <satya164> Yeah. I agree @aldoman

 22:25 <amjjawad> do we all agree for that so we move forward?

 22:26 <amjjawad> let's vote please - Wiki and FAQ to be under a tab called Documentation and instead that tag, we list the FAQs and Links to our Wiki

 22:26 <satya164> amjjawad yeah, but for a new user, it'll be difficult to get to the FAQ if there is no direct link

 22:26 <aldomann> yeah, so amjjawad please review the current website so we can plan the navigation for the new one

 22:26 <aldomann> let's not forget the footer

 22:27 <aldomann> we can have more specific stuff there

 22:27 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad to review the FAQ and Wiki tabs and discuss with UG Wiki Team

 22:27 * meetingology amjjawad to review the FAQ and Wiki tabs and discuss with UG Wiki Team

 22:27 <amjjawad> okay, I added that to the actions point

 22:27 <amjjawad> now, let's vote for the feature tour

 22:27 <aldomann> nice

 22:27 <satya164> Yes.

 22:27 <amjjawad> do we all agree that it is better to add the feature tour as a button on the home page?!

 22:27 <amjjawad> +1 from me

 22:27 <satya164> +1

 22:28 <aldomann> I vote yes. One of the fisrt things I look for in a software project website is visual stuff

 22:28 <aldomann> I want to know how it looks

 22:28 <darkxst> +1

 22:28 <aldomann> +1

 22:28 <satya164> We could have a nice video too, if someone is great at it

 22:29 <amjjawad> #agreed it is better to add the feature tour as a button on the home page if UG website

 22:29 <amjjawad> #action Artwork Team to add 'Feature Tour' as a button on the Home Page of UG new website design

 22:29 * meetingology Artwork Team to add 'Feature Tour' as a button on the Home Page of UG new website design

 22:29 <amjjawad> satya164, what kind of video?

 22:30 <satya164> Showcasing cool features of GNOME

 22:30 <amjjawad> so something to show-off from inside the system, right?

 22:30 <satya164> Yup

 22:30 <aldomann> that'd be nice if it's possible

 22:31 <amjjawad> just like the reviews many guys are doing on YouTube?

 22:31 <amjjawad> does it require someone to 'talk' or just the mouse moving around?

 22:31 <satya164> Yup, mostly, minus that bad things ;)

 22:32 <satya164> I would prefer no talk

 22:32 <aldomann> yeah, some nice music would do the work

 22:33 <amjjawad> I think we need to ask on the mailing list + social media if someone could do this for us

 22:33 <satya164> Yup

 22:33 <amjjawad> I'd do it myself but no time

 22:33 <satya164> Yeah. I'll ask Alex Diavatis

 22:33 <aldomann> the guy I had in mind :D

 22:33 <amjjawad> I have someone on G+ who is good with reviews

 22:33 <satya164> ;)

 22:34 <satya164> Great ;)

 22:34 <ahoneybun> this is a nice design http://antergos.com/

 22:34 <aldomann> ahoneybun, indeed

 22:34 <aldomann> that footer is very nice

 22:35 <amjjawad> are we talking about: https://plus.google.com/u/0/b/108356762331170101188/109985938918914471787/posts

 22:35 <satya164> It is

 22:35 <amjjawad> Hehehe

 22:35 <amjjawad> I know him, I mean we had a quick chat and he is more than happy to help us as he said

 22:35 <amjjawad> I even asked him to join us

 22:36 <amjjawad> he said I'll check the link of getting involved and get back to you IIRC

 22:36 <aldomann> cool

 22:36 <satya164> Cool

 22:37 <amjjawad> #action check with Alex Reissig if he could help us with UG Review to be added to the feature tour or UG home page for the new site - amjjawad aldomann satya164

 22:37 * meetingology check with Alex Reissig if he could help us with UG Review to be added to the feature tour or UG home page for the new site - amjjawad aldomann satya164

 22:37 <amjjawad> okay, anything else regarding the website?!

 22:38 <aldomann> nope, I think that's it

 22:38 <amjjawad> okay :)

 22:38 <amjjawad> #topic Packaging/Dev News

 22:38 <amjjawad> darkxst, can you please suggest someone who could help?

 22:38 <amjjawad> I've been asking for this since last cycle but I know we got too busy to think of someone ...

 22:39 <amjjawad> I/We need someone who could talk to the outside world.

 22:39 <amjjawad> I'm way too far to know anything about coding and despite that, I have to deal with tons of people asking about these stuff

 22:40 <darkxst> amjjawad, not too sure who could help with that

 22:40 <amjjawad> If we could have someone who could tell the world what UG is doing when it comes to codes, that would be super great and might attract more people to join :)

 22:40 <amjjawad> darkxst, I don't know either :(

 22:40 <aldomann> I think we could ask for people for the news in Google+

 22:40 <amjjawad> aldomann, how?

 22:40 <satya164> Yes.

 22:40 <amjjawad> I'm talking about UG Packaging and Development

 22:40 <aldomann> "Do you wanna write stuff? Apply here" or something

 22:41 <amjjawad> if it is not for someone who is directly involved, not even myself know what is going on

 22:41 <satya164> Yeah, we can ask developers to join us

 22:41 <amjjawad> aldomann, I'm talking now about news from development team only ;)

 22:41 <aldomann> maybe there's someone who hasn't got involved in packaging but might want to help just observing what the guys do and report in for the blog

 22:41 <amjjawad> okay, how could we do that and we don't even know what is going on? :(

 22:42 <satya164> From changelogs?

 22:42 <amjjawad> aldomann, I had that in mind but if that someone will start asking Qs instead of just 'watch' and 'write', he/she will slow things down and add a burden on the shoulders of our devs

 22:42 <amjjawad> our devs should have peace of mind to work better :D

 22:42 <darkxst> amjjawad, if its for users, then it doesn't need to go to deep

 22:43 <amjjawad> that is why we're taking care of them :D treat them as kings :P

 22:43 <darkxst> for example things like gnome-shell 3.12 landed

 22:43 <aldomann> yeah, you are right, that might work for other subteams... but for the dev team it shall be someone from the team itself

 22:43 <amjjawad> darkxst, okay, if you think anyone could do that, then it is okay but that someone has to know what is really going on

 22:43 <amjjawad> aldomann, +1

 22:43 <amjjawad> this is what I'm trying to say

 22:44 <amjjawad> so he will write correct info

 22:44 <satya164> Yeah. True.

 22:44 <amjjawad> as for 3.12 is landing, I think everyone knows that

 22:44 <amjjawad> we need really more details

 22:44 <amjjawad> whatever else is involved

 22:44 <satya164> We could get some developers join the team though

 22:44 <amjjawad> what we need here is: someone with Doc + a bit of Dev Skills

 22:44 <satya164> Who could both involve in the process and communicate

 22:45 <amjjawad> satya164, to attract devs to join, you need to show-off your work ;)

 22:45 <amjjawad> I have no idea who could help with this

 22:45 <aldomann> I hadn't thought it in that way... it's a good idea amjjawad

 22:45 <amjjawad> but we really need to do that IMHO

 22:45 <satya164> The never ending chicken egg cycle

 22:46 <amjjawad> satya164, it is a loop indeed but I will never give up :P this is my Ninja way as Naruto says :P

 22:46 <amjjawad> I hope we could find that guy

 22:46 <amjjawad> I think we are all agreeing on that?

 22:46 <aldomann> _!

 22:46 <satya164> We will ;)

 22:46 <aldomann> +1

 22:46 <amjjawad> if yes, I will add that to the action points

 22:46 <satya164> +1

 22:47 <amjjawad> #action UG Team needs someone who has a bit of Dev Skills + Doc/Writing Skills to communicate to the outside world about what is going on with UG when it comes to codes and dev work. This should attract more people to join us, specially devs

 22:47 * meetingology UG Team needs someone who has a bit of Dev Skills + Doc/Writing Skills to communicate to the outside world about what is going on with UG when it comes to codes and dev work. This should attract more people to join us, specially devs

 22:48 <amjjawad> #topic other talk

 22:48 <amjjawad> anything else you guys wish to add?!

 22:48 <satya164> Do we want more GTK themes in the default install?

 22:49 <amjjawad> satya164, I'd really wish that

 22:49 <amjjawad> I wish we focus on the look and feel for this cycle

 22:49 <amjjawad> but that's me

 22:49 <satya164> We could add Numix

 22:49 <satya164> Since the Xubuntu guys already package it

 22:49 <aldomann> and moka

 22:49 <satya164> We won't have to worry about packaging

 22:49 <amjjawad> the more beautiful themes, the better

 22:49 <aldomann> those two projects are probably the most active and used right now

 22:50 <amjjawad> not sure if we could add Box from Lubuntu?!

 22:50 <amjjawad> not that Lubuntu is heading to Qt more than GTK AFAIK

 22:50 <satya164> I don't like box much

 22:50 <amjjawad> now*

 22:50 <amjjawad> it is just another theme

 22:50 <aldomann> the question, is how? do we need to package them or we could have links to their official PPAs?

 22:51 <amjjawad> I'd be very interested if we could have more than one option by default

 22:51 <satya164> Talking about icon themes, elementary Xfce will be a nice one

 22:51 <satya164> It already had great GNOME support

 22:51 <satya164> has*

 22:51 <darkxst> any themes we include on the ISO must be packaged in the main archives

 22:51 <aldomann> that's very important, full GNOME apps support

 22:51 <darkxst> we can't include PPA's on the ISO

 22:51 <amjjawad> and http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Faenza?content=128143

 22:52 <aldomann> Moka and Numix (and elementary Xfce) have ful support

 22:52 <aldomann> faenza is dead

 22:52 <satya164> Faenza is unmaintained since long

 22:52 <aldomann> Mathhieu is working for offical Ubuntu stuff for Canonical

 22:52 <amjjawad> oh really?

 22:52 <aldomann> sadly

 22:52 <amjjawad> :(

 22:52 <satya164> You rely didn't know?

 22:52 <satya164> Really *

 22:53 <amjjawad> You'll laugh satya164 but I'm the type of guy who barely change this wallpaper :P

 22:53 <amjjawad> I have no time to play with themes, etc

 22:53 <satya164> :)

 22:53 <amjjawad> I wish I have time

 22:53 <aldomann> neither do I :p, I rarely change that stuff

 22:53 <amjjawad> yeah

 22:53 <aldomann> I had Faenza for a couple of years

 22:53 <amjjawad> I'm old school I guess hehe

 22:54 <aldomann> and now I'm sticking with Numix/Moka

 22:54 <satya164> Yeah, I know a lot of who don't change anything beyond wallpapers

 22:54 <amjjawad> okay, if we could add some nice stuff to the default build, that would be super great and this is what I added to the roadmap of artwork team anyway :P hehe

 22:54 <satya164> And including a few by default can change that

 22:55 <satya164> If we add Numix GTK, I'll talk to Xubuntu guys to split their palace

 22:55 <satya164> Package*

 22:55 <amjjawad> satya164, indeed

 22:55 <aldomann> that's a brilliant plan, we still keep a pure GNOME feel but give the users more options

 22:55 <amjjawad> I'd change my theme if I have some by default that would save my time

 22:56 <amjjawad> satya164, and aldomann I actually need a brainstorming session with both of ya :D

 22:56 <aldomann> no problem, brother

 22:56 <amjjawad> I need to brainwash you first and then discuss some stuff 100% related to Artwork

 22:56 <satya164> ;)

 22:56 <amjjawad> hahah

 22:56 <amjjawad> so, let me know when please

 22:56 <aldomann> any day this week

 22:56 <amjjawad> the sooner the batter so that darkxst won't mind and we can do the packaging stuff quickly

 22:57 <satya164> I'm OK with any day

 22:57 <amjjawad> I'm not sure, I think we need to carry on with on the mailing list of artwork

 22:57 <satya164> Will be available after 8 pm GMT + 5.30

 22:57 <satya164> Mailing list might be better

 22:57 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad and satya164 and aldomann and anyone who is interested to have a brainstorming session for UG Artwork for UU Cycle

 22:57 * meetingology amjjawad and satya164 and aldomann and anyone who is interested to have a brainstorming session for UG Artwork for UU Cycle

 22:58 <aldomann> we can discuss that on the mailing list if you wish, amjjawad

 22:58 <amjjawad> satya164, indeed

 22:58 <amjjawad> aldomann, on the mailing list, we can fix the time and date for the meeting

 22:58 <amjjawad> but here is faster

 22:58 <satya164> So, we need to start the wallpaper contest

 22:58 <amjjawad> if we couldn't do it this week, then we can do it next Sun

 22:59 <amjjawad> okay, as for the wallpaper contest, do we need to find someone else who could take care of it? or you guys are fine?

 22:59 <aldomann> oh about that, I'm making a looong trip next weekend

 22:59 <satya164> I'm fine with it

 22:59 <aldomann> so i'll be gone sat, sun and probably monday

 22:59 <amjjawad> I'm asking for two reasons: you're working on the website + we might do some nice stuff for UG artwork so that will take more of your time already

 23:00 <satya164> Wouldn't need much work after setting up the flickr page

 23:00 <amjjawad> aldomann, no problem, thanks for telling us and that is why we have ATL now :P

 23:00 <aldomann> heh

 23:00 <amjjawad> satya164, okay then

 23:00 <amjjawad> let's start with it then

 23:00 <satya164> Some help will be nice

 23:00 <amjjawad> all agree?!

 23:00 <aldomann> this week we could have all prepared for the wallpaper contest

 23:00 <satya164> But even if we don't get any, it's ok

 23:00 <amjjawad> yep

 23:01 <amjjawad> and let's learn from last cycle mistakes :D

 23:01 <amjjawad> we accepted so many and you guys had hard time to select

 23:01 <aldomann> I beleive rhoconlinux offered his help a few months ago

 23:01 <satya164> So, here is the thing, only 1 wallpaper per use

 23:01 <aldomann> I can ask him to join us and help us

 23:01 <satya164> user*

 23:01 <amjjawad> aldomann, if he is around, why not?

 23:01 <amjjawad> aldomann, please do

 23:01 <satya164> Nice

 23:01 <amjjawad> satya164, yep 1 per user

 23:02 <amjjawad> or maybe 2 per user

 23:02 <aldomann> yeah, and we should simplify the rules

 23:02 <amjjawad> but not 20 :P

 23:02 <satya164> Yup

 23:02 <satya164> Also using only flickr

 23:02 <amjjawad> ok, so the last action item will be

 23:02 <aldomann> make clear the licensing, sizes, amount of walls per user, etc

 23:02 <aldomann> all in a very simple way

 23:02 <satya164> Two different places are difficult to manage

 23:02 <amjjawad> #action aldomann and satya164 to prepare the Wallpaper Contest for UG UU Cycle

 23:02 * meetingology aldomann and satya164 to prepare the Wallpaper Contest for UG UU Cycle

 23:03 <amjjawad> anything else guys before I end the meeting? it is almost 2 hours :P

 23:03 <satya164> Yeah, we could write, by submitting the wallpaper to the pool, you are releasing it under creative Commons

 23:03 <satya164> Or something like that

 23:04 <aldomann> hell yes, we had a hard time contacting the guys to ask their permission to release the walls

 23:04 <amjjawad> okay, I guess that is all for this week meeting

 23:04 <satya164> Yeah. It's already late

 23:04 <amjjawad> thank you everyone

 23:04 <amjjawad> was yet another nice meeting :D

 23:04 <aldomann> all right then

 23:04 <amjjawad> glad to do that weekly YAY

 23:04 <amjjawad> thanks for coming

 23:05 <satya164> Thanks. Bye all.

 23:05 <amjjawad> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

== Logs ==

The logs from previous meetings can be found at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings#Previous_Meetings | this link]]</nowiki>.
