{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kubuntu System Notifications ==

=== Status ===

* Created: 2005-04-28 by JonathanRiddell
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: JonathanRiddellLead, AndreasMuellerSecond
* Contributors:
* Interested:
* Status: EditedSpecification, BreezyGoal, DistroSpecification, JonathanRiddellQueue, AndreasMuellerQueue
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Create a KDE system for displaying system events such as detecting a USB key, joining a network etc.

=== Rationale ===

There is little graphical user feedback for important system events. More feedback makes for a better user experience.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

* Jeff inserts a USB key into his PC, a popup appears with a link to open Konqueror.

* Jane attaches a network device (Ethernet, PCMCIA, etc), if it gets a DHCP connection a popup is shown to notify, else a popup with a link to knetworkconf is shown.

=== Implementation Plan ===

A kded module with plugins for the needed events.  kded is the KDE daemon, it doesn't do anything itself but has plugins to do any background tasks needed by KDE.  Plugins would preferably listen on dbus for events, otherwise they may have to poll for them.

==== Packages Affected ====

* `ifplugd` in main. It is a daemon which listens for Ethernet being plugged in.

==== User Interface Requirements ====

* A graphically beautiful KNotify popup.  KNotify is an API for notifications, when an event happens it can play a sound, pop up a message, log to a file or other.  It's pop up message box's are intrusive and aren't very good looking.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
