{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
Welcome! The '''Ubuntu Flavors Team''', as you might guess, is to help coordinate work between the official <nowiki>[[UbuntuFlavors|Ubuntu Flavors]]</nowiki>. While we do a lot of work around release time, we also talk regularly on IRC and in quarterly meetings to see how we can help each other. If you're a regular contributor to an official flavor and want to work across the flavors, read more and get in touch!

== Contact ==
You can find the Ubuntu Flavors team in the following places:
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-flavors|Our Ubuntu mailing list]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://web.libera.chat/?nick=webchat?#ubuntu-flavors|Our chat on Libera.chat]]</nowiki>

== How to Contribute ==
While this section will be updated and revised, here's how people are helping out:
* Cross-flavor bug reports and testing
* Discussing and addressing upstream issues affecting more than one flavor
* Identifying areas for future collaboration, such as documentation and accessibility

== Projects ==
This space will be updated with information on current projects, along with relevant contact information.

== Meetings ==
Check out current meeting agendas and past meeting notes.

<nowiki>[[UbuntuFlavorsTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki>

----
'''Sub-pages :''' ----

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
