{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== ReApproval Application for Ubuntu-US-DC ==

=== Key Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''Date'''
| (''January 28 2010'')
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''Team Contact'''
| Kevin Cole <dc.loco@gmail.com>
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''Membership'''
| 105 (Mailing List) 85 (Launchpad) as of 2010.01.26
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''Mailing List'''
| ubuntu-us-dc on lists.ubuntu.com
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''IRC'''
| #ubuntu-us-dc on Freenode
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-dc
|}

=== Roadmap ===

Here you should provide a list of things you plan on doing. Include links to where these are discussed online and on mailing lists.

* Continue and expand introductory computer classes (in Spanish) at the Edubuntu lab at Tenants and Workers United.
* Build Edubuntu lab at the People's Media Center / Al Fishaway Cafe.
* Offer summer introductory computer classes at the People's Media Center Edubuntu lab once it is completed.
* ''<nowiki>[[http://fossed.net/|FOSSED]]</nowiki>'' - organizing the Free/Open Source Software in EDucation conference, August 2007, Washington, DC.
* Develop high school computer science curriculum materials using Python on Ubuntu.
* Contribute to <nowiki>[[http://schooltool.org/|SchoolTool]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://cando.schooltool.org/|CanDo]]</nowiki> development.
* Expand the Edubuntu mini lab at the Mount Rainier Public Library, and work with the Howard County Library folks to promote adoption of Ubuntu in the Prince George's County Public Library system.
* Expand the use of Ubuntu in the computer science programs in Arlington Public Schools.
* Hold regular monthly meetings to better plan and coordinate the work of the LoCo team.
* Return to the <nowiki>[[http://tpff.org/|Takoma Park Folk Festival]]</nowiki> for another year of CD distribution, advocacy, and question answering.

* Developing <nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/projects/gasp.php|GASP]]</nowiki>(Graphics Api for Students of Python) for use on the the <nowiki>[[http://www.laptop.org/|XO]]</nowiki> laptop(OLPC).

=== Experience ===

List here acivities that the group has already done. Again provide links to online discussions, reviews, blog entries etc:

==== 2009 ====
* Continued Cleveland Park Library computer clinic
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2009/|TPFF 2009]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at the Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF), September 2009, Takoma Park, MD
* ''Federal Office Systems Expo (FOSE)'' 2009

==== 2008 ====
* Cleveland Park Library computer clinic (three Saturdays per month)
* Became a regular host and organizer for the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) Learning Club DC
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2008/|TPFF 2008]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at the Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF), September 2008, Takoma Park, MD
* ''Federal Office Systems Expo (FOSE)'' 2008

==== 2007 ====
* ''<nowiki>[[http://www.cyberigor.com/fose/|FOSE 2007 ]]</nowiki>'' - distributed CD's at the largest U.S. federal government technology convention, March 2005, Washington DC
* InstallFest on April 24th 2007
* InstallFest Fall 2007
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2007/|TPFF 2007]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at the Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF), September 2007, Takoma Park, MD
* ''Federal Office Systems Expo (FOSE)'' 2007

==== 2006 ====
* Many InstallFests
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2006/|FOSE 2006]]</nowiki>'' - distributed CD's at the largest U.S. federal government technology convention, March 2006, Washington DC
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2006/|NECC 2006]]</nowiki>'' - demonstrated Ubuntu and distributed CD's at the National Educational Computing Conference (NECC), July 2006, San Diego
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2006/|TPFF 2006]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at the Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF), September 2006, Takoma Park, MD
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2006/|SFD 2006]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at Mount Rainer Library for Software Freedom Day, September 2006, Mt. Rainier, MD
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/sites/|Support]]</nowiki>'' - set up and provide on-going support for several Edubuntu labs
==== 2005 ====
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2005/sfd2005.php|SFD 2005]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at Mount Rainer Library for Software Freedom Day, September 2005, Mt. Rainier, MD
* ''<nowiki>[[http://www.cyberigor.com/fose/|FOSE 2005 ]]</nowiki>'' - distributed CD's at the largest U.S. federal government technology convention, March 2005, Washington DC
