{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Training - How to run a Packaging Jam, dholbach 2010-03-04 ==

<pre>
<dholbach> hello, bonjour and buenos dias!
<dholbach> who's here for some jamming action?
<malev> hola dholbach !!!
<dholbach> hey malev
<dholbach> malev: which loco are you from?
<malev> dholbach: me! here is the jam talk?
<dholbach> yep
<ecanto> dholbach, buenos dias!
<malev> cool!
<malev> mucho español por aquí?
<dholbach> hola ecanto - which loco are you from?
<dholbach> no no, no Español :)
<dholbach> dpm tried to teach me but I'm useless at spanish
<dholbach> (or catalan)
<dholbach> who else is here to talk a bit about jams and packaging jams?
<ecanto> dholbach, brazilian
<dholbach> nice ecanto!
<ecanto> (:
<mhall119|work> dholbach: is the jam session going to be here or in -meeting?
<dholbach> here
<mhall119|work> cool
<dholbach> are you and your locos going to participate in the ubuntu global jam in a few weeks?
<dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
<dholbach> it'll be 26th - 28th March 2010 this time
<malev> I'm here for that! I wish here in Ar we could preparate a jam!
<mhall119|work> dholbach: Florida has 3 jams planned
<dholbach> nice
<dholbach> I'm part of the Berlin team and we'll participate too
<dholbach> does anybody have any general questions about setting up a jam?
<dholbach> or concerns or ideas or anything?
<dholbach> we can keep this very informal and just chat a bit
<malev> dholbach: how to convince people to participate?? :D I think this is the hardest part
<dholbach> malev: I personally think it's important to set the right expectations when you announce it or when you talk to people
<mhall119|work> malev: promise them a good time
<dholbach> if you tell them "hey, we all do development there", you might lose a lot of people who are interested but unsure about how they participate or those who want to come there to learn
<mhall119|work> if it sounds too much like work, not as many people will attend
<dholbach> yes, mhall119|work's absolutely right - it's totally about the fun of coming together, learning from each other and doing something cool
<malev> nice
<dholbach> we came together the last time and nearly spent the entire day there, got some lunch, some snacks and had fun
<mhall119|work> free food helps too
<dholbach> some were triaging bugs
<dholbach> some were trying to package something
<dholbach> others did some translations
<dholbach> and others were just chatting
<dholbach> which is totally fine :)
<dholbach> and if you're just a few people in the beginning, you can always grow :)
<dholbach> anybody else here participating?
<jamalta> me!
<dholbach> hey jamalta! which loco are you from?
<jamalta> well, that depends on what you mean by participating :)
<jamalta> dholbach: Florida
<dholbach> ah nice!
<jamalta> mhall119|work: pointed out that a class on packaging jams was going on, and i'm trying to host one during the global jam in orlando
<mhall119|work> jamalta: you need to go register yourself as coming: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/15/detail/
<jamalta> mhall119|work: oh cool, i didn't know this existed
<dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam/Events has a few already too
<dholbach> ok, let's move on to packaging jams particularly
<mhall119|work> jamalta: what? I've been spamming the channel about it for weeks
<dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams has a list of different types of jams you can have at your event
<jamalta> mhall119|work: i've also been very inactive in the channel for weeks :(
<dholbach> it all depends on what kind of interest people in your loco have
<dholbach> if they want to do something with translations and testing, you should have a look at that - or find somebody who's responsible for organising that part
<dholbach> what we want in any case is update testing
<dholbach> ara will talk about that separately in the next days I think
<dholbach> so if you want to do something with packaging at the jam, it's very important you find out how experience the attendants are
<dholbach> if you want to jump right in and most of your fellow loco members have never used a terminal before it might be a bit tricky :)
<dholbach> right expectations... again :)
<dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams/Packaging has a bunch of important links and suggestions
<malev> dholbach: is there a list of motu's per country? I wanna find some from Argentine to invite to the jam and maybe to give a talk
<dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/HandsOn for example is quite good if you want to demonstrate what packaging is about
<dholbach> it's not necessarily "giving talks" (althought it's part of it), but more: trying together to make Ubuntu better
<dholbach> malev: https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-dev/+map is all Ubuntu developers
<dholbach> not many from south america
<dholbach> which we need to fix! :)
<dholbach> so, what can you do?
<dholbach> - demonstrate the material on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/HandsOn
<malev> dholbach: I can't believe there is not a single motu in Argentine
<dholbach> a packaging jam might be a good start towards getting more! :)
<dholbach> once you've covered a bit of ground and people played around with a few tools, you might want to take a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/TODO to find a few small bugs you might want to fix as a team
<dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/GettingStarted is a place you might want to advertise too :)
<dholbach> in terms of preparation it might make sense to have a local mirror (also if you do upgrade testing)
<dholbach> so people can get the source code easily
<dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams has some information about that
<dholbach> are there any more questions already?
<malev> dholbach: why a mirror? for what? - I don't understand
<dholbach> a mirror with the newest packages and sources from lucid
<dholbach> sometimes you maybe are at a venue where you don't have fast internet
<dholbach> particularly if you have alot of people there
<jamalta> dholbach: so an apt mirror? is there a guide to setting one up?
<dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams should have a link
<dholbach> hang on
<jamalta> dholbach: oh ok sorry!
<dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams/Upgrade definitely does
<jamalta> dholbach: also, wouldn't we want a mirror for karmic and lucid? we may have people using both
<dholbach> jamalta: sure that might make sense, for development it usually is better if you work in the development environment you're working on
<dholbach> so if you fix lucid bugs you want to test them in lucid
<jamalta> dholbach: ah, makes sense, but are we supposed to make sure everyine is running lucid for the packaging jam? that might be a lot to ask for
<dholbach> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/UsingDevelopmentReleases explains how to use a VM for example to run lucid in
<jamalta> dholbach: oh fantastic!
<dholbach> jamalta: one idea was to start the jams with an upgrade jam - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams/Upgrade
<jamalta> would it be a good idea to have a Lucid VM ready for everyone that we could just copy? it would be faster that way i think
<jamalta> dholbach: ah i see
<jamalta> dholbach: that makes more sense
<dholbach> jamalta: particularly because we want the lts upgrades to be well tested
<jamalta> of course
<dholbach> and the time of the ubuntu global jam should be after beta 1
<dholbach> ...if I remember correctly
<jamalta> right
<dholbach> so you'd hope the upgrade would just work :-)
<dholbach> having the packaging jam clearly depends on the interest of your group
<jamalta> dholbach: do you think it would be a good idea to do an upgrade jam followed by a packaging jam in the same day? or would that be too much?
<dholbach> but it you have one, it's a lot of fun to find out about the tools that are used, to mess around a bit and if you manage to, maybe even fix a small bug
<dholbach> I think that should be fine
<dholbach> with a local mirror it should be really fast
<dholbach> plus ara put up some great documentation about it at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams/Upgrade
<jamalta> dholbach: cool, thanks for the tips
<dholbach> it should be a lot of fun :)
<dholbach> do you guys have any questions?
<dholbach> or anything you're wondering about?
<malev> is there is place to submit the loco for a jam?
<dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam/Events
<dholbach> we will have some more sessions about translations, testing/upgrade and packaging jams and more generally about organising jams
<dholbach> it might be worth joining them
<dholbach> or just hang out here generally
<mhall119|work> also, your loco admins can add the event to loco.ubuntu.com
<dholbach> there's so many great loco people here who know how to organise a great event
<mhall119|work> there is a global event for "Global Jam", so we can track all participating events
<mhall119|work> so far only Florida, Chicago and Quebec have added their events
<mhall119|work> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/3/detail/
* dholbach need to get back to the Berlin team about the jam :)
<dholbach> any more questions?
<dholbach> if not now, just ask them later - there's always somebody around who can answer them :-)
* dholbach hugs you all!
<malev> mhall119|work: I'm trying to convince the people of the Argentine - team to joint the Jam, but I haven't got to much quorum so far :(
<jamalta> dholbach: thanks!
<malev> thanks dholbach
<mhall119|work> thanks dholbach
<mhall119|work> malev: trying to get them to hold a jam, or list it on loco.ubuntu.com?
<malev> still trying :D
<dholbach> malev: if you have people meeting in a city, that's a good start already - if you notice there's interest about bug work or packaging or anything else, try to find somebody who can be responsible for organising that part of the event :)
<dholbach> malev: it'll be loads of fun
<dholbach> I can guarantee you that :)
<mhall119|work> you don't need many people for a jam, more than one will do
<dholbach> :-)
<dholbach> mhall119|work's right
<dholbach> brb
</pre>

----
CategoryJam
