{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by MrChrisDruif at 17:03:18 UTC. The full logs are available <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-tv/2011/ubuntu-tv.2011-11-23-17.03.log.html | here]]</nowiki>
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/UbuntuTV   (MrChrisDruif, 17:05:11)<<BR>>
''LINK:'' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/11/22/%23ubuntu-tv.html   (MrChrisDruif, 17:05:44)
* Prioritizing the list

Meeting ended at 18:08:46 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Mr``Chris``Druif (91)
* dmj726 (28)
* Alan``Bell (28)
* popey (23)
* callumsaunders1 (18)
* IAmNotThatGuy (14)
* Wellark (13)
* tgm4883 (6)
* imnichol (6)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

<pre>
 17:03:18 <MrChrisDruif> #startmeeting

 17:03:18 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Nov 23 17:03:18 2011 UTC.  The chair is MrChrisDruif. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 17:03:18 <meetingology> 

 17:03:18 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 17:03:42 <MrChrisDruif> Welcome everyone, now we get "official"

 17:03:54 <IAmNotThatGuy> Raise your hands for attendance

 17:03:57 <IAmNotThatGuy> o/

 17:04:01 <MrChrisDruif> Indeed

 17:04:01 <dmj726> o/

 17:04:03 <AlanBell> o/

 17:04:05 <MrChrisDruif> o/

 17:04:27 <popey> o/

 17:04:40 <MrChrisDruif> tgm4883 is unfortunately missing because of two interview back-to-back

 17:04:53 <popey> oh, is the meeting actually now?

 17:04:58 <MrChrisDruif> Yup

 17:05:00 <popey> you're not just testing the bot?

 17:05:01 <IAmNotThatGuy> popey, lol yep

 17:05:02 <popey> oh, sorry

 17:05:03 <popey> â˜º

 17:05:11 <MrChrisDruif> #link http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/UbuntuTV

 17:05:26 <MrChrisDruif> (Quiet link acceptance?)

 17:05:34 <MrChrisDruif> And another one

 17:05:44 <MrChrisDruif> #link http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/11/22/%23ubuntu-tv.html

 17:06:22 <MrChrisDruif> The first link is to the document we are about the further discuss. To know what has been discussed already, please look in the second link

 17:06:23 <IAmNotThatGuy> Okay. Carryon

 17:06:56 <MrChrisDruif> #topic Prioritizing the list

 17:07:26 <AlanBell> MrChrisDruif: yeah, #link doesn't do a massive amount right now, there is a bug about that

 17:07:37 <MrChrisDruif> <_<"

 17:07:49 <MrChrisDruif> It's still useful to mention the links =)

 17:08:00 <AlanBell> yes

 17:08:51 <MrChrisDruif> We were going down the list from top to bottom and we got to Collaboration with Ubuntu devices

 17:09:47 <MrChrisDruif> Does everybody understand the different sections? (They are pretty explanatory if you ask me)

 17:09:52 <Wellark> hi! sorry for being late!

 17:10:08 <MrChrisDruif> Welcome Wellark

 17:10:13 <dmj726> Personally I think collaboration is high importance

 17:10:31 <dmj726> It could be a pretty key differentiator for Ubuntu devices

 17:10:44 <IAmNotThatGuy> +1

 17:11:21 <MrChrisDruif> I'm not sure to put it in the high section.

 17:11:47 <dmj726> Mark seems fairly keen on the idea too

 17:11:54 <Wellark> yes, +1

 17:11:59 <callumsaunders1> i agree with with dmj726

 17:12:10 <callumsaunders1> high

 17:12:15 <Wellark> as I've understood the "Unity Experience" is also largely about collaboration

 17:12:19 <IAmNotThatGuy> MrChrisDruif, Any reasons for that thought?

 17:13:14 <MrChrisDruif> Well, I think it might be a very good feature to have, I do think we shouldn't put it in the high because I don't know how many devs we will have and we can't have it all in high

 17:13:55 <dmj726> Well, I think it's important to design with it in mind than to tack it on after all other things are implemented

 17:14:14 <Wellark> well, I think the rest can be other than "high" :)

 17:14:40 <Wellark> but collaboration between devices as high

 17:14:41 <MrChrisDruif> Wellark; How do you mean? The things that are now in high you mean?

 17:14:54 <Wellark> I mean the uncategorized ones

 17:15:00 <MrChrisDruif> Okay, noted

 17:15:09 <Wellark> there are only two left after this one

 17:15:43 <Wellark> the high priority list seems to be pretty good package

 17:15:56 <dmj726> So collaboration in High?

 17:16:07 <callumsaunders1> high

 17:16:31 <Wellark> +1

 17:16:55 <MrChrisDruif> Btw I had a note added after the meeting about the previous item

 17:17:06 <IAmNotThatGuy> But you should consider what MrChrisDruif is talking about. Starting it with less number of developers will also lead to some wrong tracks and delay in work

 17:18:17 <dmj726> We should try to figure out how many developers the project really has.

 17:18:19 <MrChrisDruif> That is certainly something to keep in mind, but it's prospected to not have anything very functional until 13.04 or something

 17:18:50 <dmj726> It's probably more important to get it right than get it done quick and have to backtrack

 17:19:23 <callumsaunders1> +1

 17:19:25 <MrChrisDruif> Indeed

 17:19:50 <Wellark> I don't feel the HIGH section is too cumbersome

 17:19:51 <IAmNotThatGuy> dmj726, True. But if you ask me, then I will say "What about finding the right developers be the high priority job? =]"

 17:20:12 <AlanBell> is there a hardware reference specification?

 17:20:14 <Wellark> anyway the items in high section have to be prioritized

 17:20:26 <dmj726> So we should decide what the core functionality needs to be for a compelling offering, and then work toward that.

 17:20:43 <AlanBell> is it ARM or Atom for example?

 17:20:46 <callumsaunders1> all of it. except home automation

 17:20:56 <MrChrisDruif> dmj726; that was the main reasoning in the different sections

 17:20:56 <AlanBell> what screen resolution? full HD?

 17:21:00 <callumsaunders1> that list should be ubuntu tv 1.0

 17:21:31 <popey> 0.00001

 17:21:38 <MrChrisDruif> Haha, popey

 17:21:51 <IAmNotThatGuy> popey +1000 ;D

 17:22:02 <dmj726> also some things are easier to bolt on after the fact and others are much harder to change once you've gone far

 17:22:13 <MrChrisDruif> What is absolutely required, is essential

 17:22:33 <MrChrisDruif> That's why the plugin system is in high

 17:22:53 <MrChrisDruif> It's not necessary, but it's a very useful way to add functionality later on

 17:23:02 <dmj726> So essential is "what do we need for a working TV"

 17:23:06 <MrChrisDruif> Yup

 17:23:19 <MrChrisDruif> High is the "cool" system

 17:23:31 <IAmNotThatGuy> We can even plan how it should be and can keep it for the next version (If needed)

 17:23:31 <MrChrisDruif> Medium is the "awesome" system

 17:23:32 <dmj726> high is "what do we need for a device that people will want beyond an ordinary tv"

 17:23:33 <dmj726> yeah

 17:23:57 <MrChrisDruif> And low is the "ICan'tDescribeThisInWords" system

 17:24:50 <dmj726> for reference I suspect that control from portable devices will be very easy once we have Collaborate with other Ubuntu devices, just a little work on top of that framework

 17:25:26 <MrChrisDruif> Yeah, that's why we initially put it in medium

 17:25:39 <dmj726> and Push media to/from other Ubuntu devices / Media syncing capabilities would also fit within the framework

 17:26:08 <dmj726> so implement collaboration framework and the other two are specific applications thereof

 17:26:48 <MrChrisDruif> I tend to agree on that (I'm not a dev)

 17:27:19 <dmj726> yeah, that sounds good

 17:27:43 <dmj726> so we need the collaboration framework because that lets other devs make the TV very cool

 17:28:17 <callumsaunders1> this needs to be in tablet & phone & pc aswell

 17:28:30 <dmj726> yes, it should be everywhere

 17:28:40 <MrChrisDruif> So either all those should be in high OR in medium, and if we'd have to call it now I'd say high (seeing the functionality of collaboration with tablet/phones)

 17:29:01 <dmj726> okay

 17:29:10 <MrChrisDruif> Everyone agrees on that?

 17:29:14 <callumsaunders1> sure

 17:29:18 <Wellark> sure

 17:29:51 <MrChrisDruif> Alright, I'll move it up (and rephrase it after the meeting)

 17:30:18 <IAmNotThatGuy> okies

 17:30:48 <MrChrisDruif> I've put a note in the last one from the high (now at least) about collaboration with Ubuntu Phone & Tablet

 17:31:21 <MrChrisDruif> I think we should also let them in on the "action" and pitch in where it's logical

 17:31:42 <dmj726> yeah

 17:31:50 <MrChrisDruif> (Luckily I've noticed that a lot from #ubuntu-phone & #ubuntu-tablet are already here)

 17:32:13 <MrChrisDruif> But we still should give a shout-out to them on their mailing-lists

 17:32:19 <dmj726> Also, input from other devices greatly enhances our 10' UX capabilities

 17:32:44 <dmj726> (think typing on tablet vs typical TV keyboards for search)

 17:33:01 <callumsaunders1> its just gravy

 17:33:03 <MrChrisDruif> True that (or even a laptop =) )

 17:33:20 <MrChrisDruif> Anyhow, shall we continue down the line?

 17:33:33 <dmj726> maybe gravy, but definitely a pain point on traditional ui

 17:33:34 <dmj726> yep

 17:33:36 <IAmNotThatGuy> k

 17:33:38 <dmj726> moving on

 17:34:04 <MrChrisDruif> Alright, next one is: Sharing media with friends

 17:34:17 <callumsaunders1> it's a good way to get word out

 17:34:48 <MrChrisDruif> With social media, think of youtube like/dislike, facebook, twitter, diaspora, what-have-you?

 17:34:48 <dmj726> I think this sounds like a great plugin if done right

 17:35:30 <callumsaunders1> i would say low

 17:35:32 <MrChrisDruif> Indeed, but now it's about prioritizing =)

 17:36:03 <Wellark> low +1

 17:36:17 <MrChrisDruif> I would say medium as low is really "awful" things like home automation, which might even be more for server than tv

 17:36:38 <dmj726> yeah, higher than home automation, but not high

 17:36:44 <MrChrisDruif> But home automation should have a friendly shell for which a TV might be a good medium

 17:36:56 <MrChrisDruif> So medium is good I think

 17:37:03 <callumsaunders1> Home automation would be a good app for a tv

 17:37:12 <MrChrisDruif> +1 on that callumsaunders1

 17:37:46 <MrChrisDruif> Alright, next is Purchasing media

 17:38:10 <callumsaunders1> this would mostly be web interfaces for stores?

 17:39:34 <MrChrisDruif> Yes, I would think so. Use case: search for a movie > if it is available for purchase it gets highlighted in the search results

 17:39:57 <MrChrisDruif> I think of VOD (in high quality of course)

 17:40:00 <callumsaunders1> youtube do movies now, is that part of their api?

 17:40:23 * MrChrisDruif doesn't know, nor care at this moment

 17:40:32 <callumsaunders1> lol ok

 17:40:38 <MrChrisDruif> Is it in the right location in medium?

 17:40:41 <callumsaunders1> i would say medium

 17:41:03 <MrChrisDruif> +1 on that

 17:42:12 <MrChrisDruif> First a good basis/rich system, then we can think about financial stuff like buying content

 17:42:30 <MrChrisDruif> So medium it is?

 17:43:10 <MrChrisDruif> Silence says it all I think, moving on =)

 17:43:33 <MrChrisDruif> Next has already been done I think: Home automation

 17:43:51 <MrChrisDruif> Anyone disagreeing with the Low priority?

 17:43:59 <callumsaunders1> not even sure it should be there at all

 17:44:54 <MrChrisDruif> That's the advantage of low priority, we can always decide to drop it all together in a later stage, but for now I'd say keep it in =)

 17:45:51 <MrChrisDruif> If Ubuntu want a complete system, then home automation should get a place in there. For the front-end I think it's a good idea to have it on TV

 17:46:07 <MrChrisDruif> Any other comments?

 17:46:31 <callumsaunders1> im happy

 17:46:38 <MrChrisDruif> Good to hear =)

 17:46:44 <MrChrisDruif> Alright, moving on

 17:47:06 <MrChrisDruif> There has been an addition since yesterday: TV Guide

 17:47:50 <MrChrisDruif> I think this one falls under Watching Media in Essential

 17:48:59 <MrChrisDruif> Otherwise it could be easily implemented with the plugin system; devs what do you think?

 17:50:11 <MrChrisDruif> dmj726? popey? IAmNotThatGuy? Others?

 17:50:17 * AlanBell thinks mythbuntu does all of this already

 17:50:25 <AlanBell> it needs a unity theme

 17:50:37 <AlanBell> with lancher and lens type gui

 17:50:55 <AlanBell> then everything is either already done, or a mythtv plugin

 17:51:08 <AlanBell> already has the 10' /3m user interface

 17:51:27 <IAmNotThatGuy> If we need some changes, then we can work on that plugin

 17:51:30 <AlanBell> TV guide is there, weather, home automation stuff like that

 17:52:01 <MrChrisDruif> AlanBell; I think it was tgm4883 that already commented that we should try to use current software solutions

 17:52:32 <AlanBell> so a chunky launcher bar on the left selecting live tv, recorded stuff, playback of DVDs (which would already pop up in the launcher)

 17:52:43 <AlanBell> lens for current live channels

 17:52:49 <MrChrisDruif> So if Mythbuntu already fits the bill, that would save a lot of effort

 17:53:06 <AlanBell> however, what are we targetting?

 17:53:24 <MrChrisDruif> Hardware-wise you mean?

 17:53:28 <AlanBell> what is the hardware platform? does the OEM team have a customer hardware specification in mind?

 17:53:58 <AlanBell> hardware, broadband connectivity, screen resolution, screen size etc

 17:54:15 <AlanBell> is this for a settop box or something integrated in TVs?

 17:54:16 <MrChrisDruif> Do we even have a OEM team? =/

 17:55:01 <AlanBell> yes, canonical has an OEM team

 17:55:17 <MrChrisDruif> Alright, then we haven't spoken to them about that

 17:56:06 <tgm4883> Back for 2 minutes before the next interview

 17:56:25 <AlanBell> were there concept drawings done for unity on tv when unity was being designed?

 17:56:28 <MrChrisDruif> tgm4883; I wanted to close up, but if you have anything to say, do so =)

 17:57:43 <tgm4883> looks good, the TV guide data is necessary for any DVR type functionality

 17:58:10 <tgm4883> AlanBell, Mythbuntu does fit the bill for a lot of this, but I think we need to change the frontend

 17:58:10 <MrChrisDruif> AlanBell; any suggestions for what we should do next? Speak to which teams, to get an idea of what kind of concept canonical already has envisioned for Ubuntu TV?

 17:58:24 <tgm4883> I don't think the MythTV frontend is capable/flashy enough for what we want

 17:58:28 <tgm4883> I suggested XBMC

 17:58:54 <AlanBell> fine, whichever

 17:59:03 <tgm4883> and time for interview #2

 17:59:47 <AlanBell> we could contribute improvements upstream for one or the other

 17:59:57 <MrChrisDruif> Indeed

 18:00:08 <imnichol> Hey everyone, that meeting still happening?

 18:00:27 <AlanBell> is it for ARM or x86?

 18:01:33 <MrChrisDruif> Does anybody feel for inquiring for this information?

 18:01:46 * popey returns

 18:02:06 <MrChrisDruif> And besides ARM or x86; settop-box or integrated

 18:02:15 <popey> both and both

 18:02:17 <popey> :D

 18:02:21 <popey> there, that was easy

 18:02:23 <MrChrisDruif> Probably

 18:02:40 <popey> I dont think we're far enough down the line to make decisions about hardware platforms

 18:02:45 <AlanBell> full HD?

 18:02:49 <popey> yes

 18:03:02 <popey> where full = 1080p

 18:03:07 <AlanBell> yup

 18:03:36 <AlanBell> that makes a huge difference in gui design

 18:03:50 <popey> yeah, needs a massive interface

 18:04:00 <popey> big fonts, big icons/pictures

 18:04:08 <popey> cover art etc

 18:04:10 <AlanBell> and crisp, svg all the way

 18:04:20 <MrChrisDruif> That's the idea of 10' interface, right?

 18:05:45 <popey> 17:58:10 < MrChrisDruif> AlanBell; any suggestions for what we should do next? Speak to which teams, to get an idea of what kind of concept canonical already has envisioned for Ubuntu TV?

 18:05:53 <MrChrisDruif> Anyhow, I'm wasted. Shall we call it a day?

 18:05:55 <popey> Design Team and Product Strategy

 18:06:05 <MrChrisDruif> Thanks popey =)

 18:06:06 <popey> (are who you might want to speak to)

 18:06:07 <imnichol> Are we going to return to the idea of home automation at all?

 18:06:11 <imnichol> Or did I miss that?

 18:06:13 <popey> willcooke and myself both work in product strategy

 18:06:25 <MrChrisDruif> imnichol; we will keep it low for now =)

 18:06:26 <popey> and the design team live in #ubuntu-design

 18:06:47 <imnichol> Ok cool.  I've got some concerns about the right place for it, but I'll register them later

 18:06:53 <popey> I think for a first run the main focus should be "choosing video to play" and "playing video" â˜º

 18:07:04 <MrChrisDruif> imnichol; read the logs afterwards

 18:07:11 <popey> where that content comes from who knows, how we play it, who knows..

 18:07:32 <imnichol> MrChrisDruif: reading them now.

 18:07:57 <MrChrisDruif> popey; AlanBell; others; shall I #endmeeting ?

 18:08:10 <AlanBell> fine by me

 18:08:21 <IAmNotThatGuy> yea

 18:08:25 <imnichol> yup

 18:08:26 <MrChrisDruif> Alright

 18:08:43 <MrChrisDruif> Thanks everyone for showing up and raising your voice =)

 18:08:46 <MrChrisDruif> #endmeeting
</pre>

Generated by Meet``Bot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
