{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Die Ankündigung zur Hardy Release-Party in englisch, welche man an Mailinglisten, Ubuntu Fridge etc. schicken und auch auf unsere Homepage legen könnte. Rechtschreib-/Grammatikfehler bitte direkt korrigieren und Vorschläge in die Liste unten schreiben.

'''Vorschläge:'''

* ...

----

'''Der Text:'''

Ubuntu "Hardy Heron" release party on April 26th at 4:00 pm at the c-base in Berlin

Ubuntu 8.04 "Hardy Heron" is arriving. To celebrate the new release of the popular 
free GNU/Linux distribution Ubuntu the local user group Ubuntu-Berlin will organize 
a party. The event will take place on the 26th of April in the rooms of the culture 
project c-base and starts at 4:00 pm. Admission is free.

There will a programme of short talks (about 20 minutes each) in relaxed atmosphere.

Several features and applications which are integrated into the new Ubuntu version 
are presented by users, for example the optional 3D-Desktop. Furthermore there will be 
contributions of associated organisations like the "Free Software Foundation Europe" 
(FSFE) and the "Förderverein für eine Freie Informationelle Infrastruktur" (FFII). A 
"burning station" provides visitors with Hardy CDs at cost price of one Euro. For anyone 
who wants to try out Hardy straight away there will be the possibility to do so on one 
of the computers there. There will be many experienced users around, who will answer 
questions.

Apart from the official program the event offers the possibility to get started with the 
world of free software and to get in touch with like-minded users. Musical entertainment 
comes from a variety of Bands and DJs who will also play free music. Beverages and snacks 
are available at the bar at moderate prices. Laptops can be connected to a free Wifi net 
(visitors could bring a power strip, switch and cable).

Who is "Ubuntu Berlin"?

"Ubuntu Berlin" is a free group of interested Ubuntu-Linux users. The group sees itself 
as a local communication platform und organises regular user meetings and release parties. 
The group has no own legal form but it keeps loose contact with the registered association 
"Ubuntu Deutschland e.V." which supports selected activities.

Place, time and access route:

Date: 	26th of April 2008<<BR>>
Time: 	doors open 4:00 pm, open end<<BR>>
Place: 	c-base, Rungestraße 20 in Berlin Mitte, S+U Jannowitzbrücke<<BR>>
Route: 	https://wiki.c-base.org/coredump/AnfahrtsSkizze

Contact and links:

Ubuntu Berlin: <<BR>>
E-Mail: kontakt@ubuntu-berlin.de <<BR>>
WWW:    http://www.ubuntu-berlin.de

c-base:<<BR>>
http://www.c-base.org

Association Ubuntu Deutschland e.V.:<<BR>>
http://verein.ubuntu-de.org

----
CategoryUbuntuBerlin
