{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/modem-gprs-umts-connections
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
My idea is to improve the Network Manager to make easier configuring a GPRS/UMTS modem (mobile phone)to be used to connect Ubuntu to internet. I think the whole process should be done through a UI. Specifically, we should manage different mobile devices and different provider. openSUSE does something similar with YaST. May be 

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

A lot of people, at least here, in Italy, use GPRS/UMTS mobile phones to connect to internet. Ubuntu, and almost every linux distribution, can be considered fully operative only in the "on line mode": this is the reason why, in my opinion, make connection procedures as easy as possible, with every modality, is a strategic issue for Ubuntu, Recently I suggested Ubuntu to 2 end users, having problems with Windows Vista. Their experience with the umts connection was very bad and the first impression of the whole system was affected from this experience. 

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
