{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu One Natty Release Status ==

=== Natty Bugs ===

Releases the week of 2011-04-18 fixed the most important bugs. Less important bugs have been updated and tagged to be reviewed for an SRU.

=== Releases ===
<nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-NattyWeeklyReleases|Ubuntu One releases]]</nowiki>

=== Burndown ===
<nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntuone-team.html]]</nowiki>

=== Natty Features ===

==== APIs ====
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appdevs-ubuntuone-n-apis|Blueprint]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Status:''' Determined we needed a new package in universe to make accessing CouchDB data on Ubuntu One servers easier for developers. Feature freeze exception filed 2011-03-04: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/729117|bug 729117]]</nowiki>

==== Desktopcouch speed and performance improvements ====
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/performance-ubuntuone-n-desktopcouch-speed-perf|Blueprint]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Status:''' New features are complete. Currently reviewing and prioritizing bugs to fix.

==== Shares, sync status and UDF selection ====
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-ubuntuone-n-shares-status-udfs|Blueprint]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Status:''' UI review week of 2011-02-28 has found a number of UI bugs that are being filed and worked on.

==== Shotwell integration ====
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/multimedia-ubuntuone-n-shotwell-integration|Blueprint]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Status:''' Canceled due to a lack of development time.

==== Syncdaemon improvments ====
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-ubuntuone-n-syncdaemon-improvements|Blueprint]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Status:''' All improvements are completed. Bug fixes are prioritized and being worked on.

==== Unity integration and visibility ====
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-ubuntuone-n-unity-integration|Blueprint]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Status:''' New features are completed in latest package. Bug fixes are now being prioritized and worked on.

==== Zeitgeist integration ====
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-ubuntuone-n-zeitgeist-integration|Blueprint]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Status:''' Feature implemented and in ubuntuone-client 1.5.1 and UI being worked on to build on top of Zeitgeist to make it user friendly. Bug fixes are now being prioritized and worked on.
