{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



The purpose of this wiki page is to define the public relations strategy for the Ubuntu Studio Public Relations team. This will include defining the team, the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/PublicRelationsDocumentation#List_of_Communication_Channels|communications channels]]</nowiki> used, list of events to publicize, etc.

=== PR Strategy ===
The primary goals of Ubuntu Studio Public Relations are to:
* spread the word of Ubuntu Studio to attract and grow the user base, community and development team. 
* communicate more often to users
* encourage contributors and developers to join the Ubuntu Studio Development Team
* calls for volunteers for testing

=== Public Relations Team ===
The Ubuntu Studio Public Relations Team will be primarily repsonsible for all public relations and external (i.e. not inter-team or to Ubuntu) communications for Ubuntu Studio.

(__italics = to be discussed__)

''To become a member of the PR team, first one must volunteer either in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntustudio-devel|#ubuntustudio-devel on Freenode IRC]]</nowiki> or on the <nowiki>[[ubuntu-studio-devel@lists.ubuntu.com|ubuntustudio-devel mailing list]]</nowiki> and then be approved by one of the PR team's admins.''

''The team should have at least two admins to ensure responsiveness to volunteers and other matters for the team.''

The <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-public-relations|Ubuntu Studio Public Relations Team]]</nowiki> will act as the Launchpad team for the PR team, providing a mechanism for controlling access to the website (i.e. authentication for website login has been assigned to the website team).

''The PR team should remain small, perhaps no more than five active members. This should hopefully prevent major overlap of news coverage and hopefully such a small group can find an easy (and informal) consensus about what topic each member should cover.''

Furthermore, it might be wise to assign one PR team member for some large, specific events (e.g. release) with a secondary as fail over.

=== Writing Posts ===

(__update or remove? __)
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 #cccccc :> '''Event Posting'''
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #eeeeee;":> '''Event'''
| <:>'''Description'''
| <:>'''Channels'''
| <:>'''Assignee'''
|-
| <#FFCC99> Release News
| Make an official post on a new release every 6 months
| website & social channels, G+, mail lists, forums,
| 
|-
| <#CCFFCC> Milestone Testing
| Announce testing, and ask for participants for Beta2 and R.C
| website & social channels, G+, mail lists, forums
| 
|-
| <#ADD8E6> Request Help From Community
| Hunt for developers and contributors at least once after each new release is out
| website & social channels, G+, mail lists, forums
| <nowiki>[[zequence]]</nowiki>, PR team?
|-
| <#FFFFCC> Non Formal Posting
| Any news about Ubuntu Studio, reviews, interviews, UDS, meetings, release planning, etc
| website & social Channels, G+
| <nowiki>[[Ttoine]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[holstein]]</nowiki>, PR team?
|}

==== How to Post ====

''Use only text, when writing posts. Save the article as a textfile. Then post the same text to each channel, one at a time. Use the #ubuntustudio hashtag in footer.''

* '''Website & Social Sites:''' 
** Post an article on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org/wp-admin|Ubuntu Studio Website]]</nowiki>. This post is published on facebook, twitter, identi.ca and the website at once.
* '''G+:'''
** Have Post published on the <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/b/102125777892703446963/|Ubuntu Studio G+ Page]]</nowiki>
* '''mail lists:''' 
** Post to all mail lists at once: ubuntu-studio-users@lists.ubuntu.com,  linux-audio-user@lists.linuxaudio.org, community-announce@lists.ubuntu.com
* '''forums:''' 
** Visit the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=335|Ubuntu Studio Section]]</nowiki> at ubuntuforums.org and create a new post.
** Visit the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxmusicians.com/viewforum.php?f=24&sid=70c46b62dce56baa85c57b8f14d82134|Linux Music News]]</nowiki> section at linuxmusicians.com and create a new post.

==== What to Post ====

* Any significant news on Linux Multimedia that somehow may be interesting for Ubuntu Studio users (new software, changes in technology)
* Interviews.. 
** ..of Linux multimedia developers (we may conduct our own)
** ..of multimedia producers (audio, video, graphics, etc)
* Significant news on Ubuntu Studio development
** Call for testing
** New features or applications added

..add more here

=== Making Videos and Podcasts ===
At this time, there is no plan on how to do this.

=== List of Communication Channels ===

===== Ubuntu Studio Web Site =====
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org|ubuntustudio.org]]</nowiki>

===== Mail Lists =====
* linux-audio-user@lists.linuxaudio.org (reaches most users. Do not cross post to LAD and Announce lists)
* ubuntu-studio-users@lists.ubuntu.com (reaches most users. Do not cross post to ubuntustudio-devel)
* community-announce@lists.ubuntu.com - Ubuntu Community Announce

===== Forums =====
''May be used for any announcements:''
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=335|UbuntuStudio at ubuntuforums.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxmusicians.com/viewforum.php?f=24&sid=70c46b62dce56baa85c57b8f14d82134|Linux Musicians Music News]]</nowiki>
''Use these?''
* <nowiki>[[http://blenderartists.org/forum/forumdisplay.php?20-Off-topic-Chat]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://gimpforums.com/forum-general]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.org/forums/general-linux.8/]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.inkscapeforum.com/viewforum.php?f=30&sid=fec71fc6d606c5f551dce0aeadde9e55]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://forums.scribus.net/index.php/board,2.0.html?PHPSESSID=87scsa1fd3mg584e5ejnq0s1u6]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://forum.kodi.tv/forumdisplay.php?fid=113]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.lwks.com/index.php?option=com_kunena&func=showcat&catid=20&Itemid=81]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://forum.videolan.org/viewforum.php?f=5&sid=5874014bc15dd5453c944c3da149609c]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://openshotusers.com/forum/viewforum.php?f=16&sid=007116aed8e085e69d44ce94264103ff]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/coffee-lounge/]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://forum.kde.org/viewforum.php?f=73]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.fullcirclemagazine.org]]</nowiki>

===== Social Channels (linked to from the website) =====
* Facebook 
* G+ (separate Ubuntu Studio account)
* Twitter

===== Other Social Channels =====
* Youtube (separate Ubuntu Studio account)
* reddit

===== Podcasts =====
* Bad Voltage? 

===== News Sites =====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxforums.org/articles/]]</nowiki> - write your own articles and publish here

== Sharing Passwords Between Team Members ==

In order to keep passwords secure, the best way to share them between team members is to use encryption. There are easy ways, like using <nowiki>[[https://protonmail.org|protonmail]]</nowiki>. One can set up gpg encryption manually using an email client that supports it - like evolution.

Here is described how to encrypt a file using gpg so that only the recipient may open it. The file may be sent by email, or any other means. Only the recipient will be able to decrypt it.

=== Make sure the recipient has a published gpg key at launchpad ===

The file needs to be encrypted so only the recipient can decrypt it. This means the recipient needs to have a published gpg key. So, the recipient needs to go through <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/SetupDeveloperEnvironment#Create_a_GPG_Key|this part]]</nowiki>, which describes how to create a gpg key and publish it.

=== Import the published gpg key ===

In order for you to encrypt a file using the recipients public key, you will need to import it first. First, to see which keys you already have locally:

<pre>
gpg --list-keys
</pre>

The result may look something like this for each key you have imported:

<pre>
pub   2048R/D96A398A 2012-11-14
uid                  Kaj Ailomaa <zequence@mousike.me>
uid                  [jpeg image of size 3737]
sub   2048R/8EEEA58B 2012-11-14
</pre>

The command to import a new key from the Ubuntu key server, is:

<pre>
gpg --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv <publickeyID>
</pre>

Obviously, you will need to replace <publickeyID> with the actual "ID". You can find one listed on the team members frontpage at launchpad, under "OpenPGP keys". It consists of eight characters.

Once you imported the key, make sure you got it by again doing:

<pre>
gpg --list-keys
</pre>

=== Encrypt the File ===

When encrypting the file, you will be using the recipients email address. You can find the correct email address when listing keys, so do that again, if you don't see the list of keys:

<pre>
gpg --list-keys
</pre>

In the case when the result looks like this:

<pre>
pub   2048R/D96A398A 2012-11-14
uid                  Kaj Ailomaa <zequence@mousike.me>
uid                  [jpeg image of size 3737]
sub   2048R/8EEEA58B 2012-11-14
</pre>

The email adress in this case is zequence@mousike.me. So, let's use that in this example. To encrypt the file, do (replace <filename> with the path to the text file you want to encrypt):

<pre>
gpg --encrypt --recipient zequence@mousike.me <filename>
</pre>

You will get a warning that there is no way to determine if the key actually belongs to the right person. This is because you have not signed the key. Debian and Ubuntu developers do not sign each others keys, unless meeting in person and exchanging keys physically. No need to sign the key, just ignore the warning.

The produced result will be a file name ending with ".gpg". That is the file you send to the recipient, and you can do this by email. No one but the recipient will be able to decrypt the file.

=== Decrypting the file ===

Once the recipient gets the file, it can be decrypted with the below command (replace <filename.gpg> with the path to the actual file):

<pre>
gpg --decrypt <filename.gpg>
</pre>

===== Old PR page archived =====

UbuntuStudio/PublicRelationsDocumentationArchive

----
CategoryUbuntuStudioPublicRelations
