{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Becoming a Programmer ===

At the moment, we need programmers experienced in:

* Python - for <nowiki>[[ubuntu-manual-quickshot|Quickshot]]</nowiki>
* Tex/LaTeX - for "Getting Started with Ubuntu 10.04"

If you want to help with TeX, contact Kevin Godby: kevin@ubuntu-manual.org

To help with Quickshot in python, you'll have to create a Launchpad account, join the Quickshot team and download the source files in our branch. We'll walk you through the process here.

==== Creating a Launchpad Account ====

1. Go to https://launchpad.net and click "Register" in the top-right corner of the page

2. Fill in your details

Now you need to create an SSH key. Instructions taken from <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/YourAccount/CreatingAnSSHKeyPair|here.]]</nowiki>

1. Install OpenSSH. On Ubuntu, you can install OpenSSH by opening your terminal and typing:

<code>sudo apt-get install openssh-client</code>

2. Once OpenSSH is installed, stay in the terminal and type:

<code>ssh-keygen -t rsa</code>

3. When prompted, press Enter to accept the default file name for your key.

4. Next, enter then confirm a password to protect your SSH key. Your key pair is stored in ~/.ssh/ as id_rsa.pub (public key) and id_rsa (private key)

Now you need to upload the public portion of your SSH key to Launchpad:

Open your public key in a text editor and copy its contents to your clipboard. The public key file has the extension .pub. For example: id_rsa.pub

1. Visit your <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/+me/+editsshkeys|SSH keys]]</nowiki> page.

2. Paste your public key into the text box and then click the Import public key button to continue.

==== Joining our team ====

1. Go <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~quickshotdevs|here.]]</nowiki>

2. Click on "Join this team." 

Note: Quickshot developers is a restricted team which means you'll need to be approved by an administrator. Join us in #ubuntu-manual on irc.freenode.net and introduce yourself and say you want to be accepted into the Quickshot developer team.

3. You should subscribe to the mailing list as well.

==== Downloading the bzr branch ====

You will need to install bzr. Run these commands in a terminal to install bzr and configure it.

1. Install bzr:

<code>sudo apt-get install bzr</code>

2. Configure bzr with your name and email:

<code>bzr whoami "Your name <email@domain.com>"</code>

To check that bzr knows who you are, run:

<code>bzr whoami</code>

If it has worked, it should return your name and email address.

Now we need to download the Quickshot branch.

1. Create a new directory in your home folder called "Projects."

2. Change into that directory in a terminal window:

<code>cd ~/Projects</code>

3. Once you are in your Projects directory, run this command to download our branch:

<code>bzr branch lp:quickshot</code>

Bzr will now download the project files. This may take a few minutes depending on your connection speed.
