{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': https://launchpad.net/products/ubuntu-magazine/+spec/ubuntumag-wiki
* '''Created''': @13/07/2006@ by @Tikal26@
* '''Contributors''': @Tikal26@ | RichJohnson ~-aka nixternal-~
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Polish the Ubuntu Magazine Wiki to better serve the team 

=== Rationale ===
Our current wiki has bits and pieces of information in an incoherent manner. We need a wiki that would serve the team better and would help anyone understand what the Ubuntu magazine is about.
=== Use cases ===
Rich read about the Ubuntu Magazine on the Ubutnu forums and want to find our more about it, but he can't find concise information on the wiki.
John want to join the Ubuntu Magazine team, but the wiki give him no indication of what he can do.
=== Scope ===
Our wiki needs to get redone
=== Design ===
The main page should clearly explain the purpose of the Ubuntu Magazine and a scope of our work and current state and a way to contact us. We should have subpages for each issue and art work.
All should be beneath MarketingTeam/*
=== Implementation ===
To be discussed

=== Unresolved issues ===
Who wants to do this?

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
