{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Not really a traditional BugDay, but similar. 
The Ubuntu Community is coming together to help out our friend 
Debian get their release out the digital door.

=== Announcement ===

Hi all,

On Sunday the 9 Nov we propose to stop merging for one day and
focus on helping out or friends in Debian more directly.

As you know Debian is currently trying to release Lenny, and the
main thing holding them up is the number of release critical bugs
unfixed. We figure that if we use our skills to solve a few of
those bugs it may help speed the release of Lenny.

We propose to meet up on #ubuntu-motu and work on some bugs
together. We will either have a couple of DDs with us to sponsor
the fixes, or those who know about Debian will help to link you
up with someone to get that done.

The best resource for finding these bugs is

 http://bts.turmzimmer.net/

You obviously don't have to wait until Sunday to get started, so
why not open that page now and go fix some bugs?

There will be a real-life portion of this event too, so if you
are in the Boston, US area on the day then get in touch with
one of us and you can join us (and perhaps suggest somewhere good
to go).

Most of you won't be in the Boston area, but if you are local
to any other Debian or Ubuntu developers then you may like to
meet up to join in, it can be a fun time.

James Westby and Nikolas Valcarcel
