{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu science meta-packages ==

{i} For Ubuntu Science and Packages see: <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuScience]]</nowiki>

Ubuntu science meta-packages would install sets of programs useful for particular researchers.

Existing meta-packages along this line are the <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/devel/debian-med/|Debian-Med]]</nowiki> packages for medical practitioners and medical researchers which are already in Ubuntu. 

Rather than installing a meta-package one could just type <code>sudo apt-get install</code>  and paste the packages you want from the lists below. For example to install the packages  of ubuntu-scientist-base type

{{{ 
sudo apt-get install tetex-base tex-bin tetex-extras build-essential plotutils xfig latex-xft-fonts 
}}}
 
At the moment this is  just a vague idea. It requires the input of many people.

If you know packages that are in the official ubuntu repositories that would be useful for your speciality please add them below.

=== Package Lists ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Meta Package'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Packages'''
|-
| ubuntu-scientist-base
| basic stuff for everyone
| tetex-base tex-bin tetex-extras build-essential plotutils xfig latex-xft-fonts
|-
| ubuntu-scientist-extras
| extra stuff
| gnuplot grace lyx lyx-common lyx-qt preview-latex auctex pybibliographic hevea dia python-scipy gsl-bin djview texmacs maxima maxima-emacs xmaxima
|-
| ubuntu-scientist-biology
| stuff for biologists
| rasmol
|-
| ubuntu-scientist-chemistry
| stuff for chemists
| gchemutils gdis ghemical  openbabel chemtool mpqc
|-
| ubuntu-scientist-physics
| stuff for physics
| cernlib
|-
| ubuntu-scientist-engineering
| stuff for engineers
| octave scilab
|-
| ubuntu-scientist-geoscience
| stuff for geography, geophysics, geology, etc.
| grass, qgis, postgres, gmt - see also: <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuGIS#head-ad28bc722c73a599e5307bb8efda392a506488c5|UbuntuGIS]]</nowiki>
|-
| ubuntu-scientist-your speciality
| stuff for you
| 
|}

This page was create in respose to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=329324#post329324]]</nowiki>

 

==== Related Wiki Pages ====

UbuntuScientists  a useful resource for scientist and science students using Ubuntu (or any other) Linux

UbuntuSciencePackages is a list of packages that are in the  official Ubuntu Repositories  that scientist use  

----
CategoryScience CategoryLookMergeDelete
