{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

UbuntuTV Meetings Nov 30 2012.

Meeting started by bobweaver at 18:03:22 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-11-30-18.03.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/b/104659991254860976283/+UbuntuTV/posts   (tgm4883, 18:13:24)
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/+UbuntuTV   (tgm4883, 18:14:31)
''LINK:'' http://imagebin.org/237706   (bobweaver, 18:19:11)

Meeting ended at 19:05:06 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bobweaver (157)
* tgm4883 (70)
* CrestedNewt (31)
* jhodapp (27)
* bootidsa (21)
* meetingology (6)
* cm-t (1)

=== Full Log ===

 18:03:22 <bobweaver> #startmeeting

 18:03:22 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Nov 30 18:03:22 2012 UTC.  The chair is bobweaver. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 18:03:22 <meetingology> 

 18:03:22 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:03:44 <bootidsa> Bettr give website for reference .. https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntutv , i'll shutup now...

 18:03:46 <bobweaver> IdleOne,  plz help me with bot ! lol

 18:04:05 <bobweaver> Agenda Documentation: The wiki is kinda old and refers to unity 2d a whole lot

 18:04:24 <bobweaver> so I got a email asking me "how to help with docs "

 18:04:29 <jhodapp> hello all :)

 18:04:32 <bobweaver> I noticed alot of things

 18:04:42 <bobweaver> all the Unity 2d stuff needs to come down

 18:04:46 <bobweaver> agree ?

 18:04:53 <tgm4883> yea

 18:04:58 <tgm4883> I see no point in having it up there

 18:05:04 <bobweaver> like the getting involed pages

 18:05:18 <bobweaver> any nahs on this ?

 18:05:26 <tgm4883> the getting involved pages should point out how to contact us to help

 18:05:29 <bobweaver> hello jhodapp

 18:05:32 <tgm4883> and also link to the demo stuff

 18:05:44 <tgm4883> but definitely remove the "building ubuntu tv 2d stuff"

 18:05:54 <bobweaver> so like add a link to the old stuff in the new page tgm4883  ?

 18:06:12 <tgm4883> eh, no

 18:06:19 <bobweaver> explain plz

 18:06:26 <bootidsa> i vote to change the wiki to 3d as described .

 18:06:27 <tgm4883> write a quick summary of how to demo the stuff via the PPA you made

 18:06:41 <bobweaver> ok

 18:06:42 <tgm4883> remove the "this is how you build it", until you can build it on unity 3d

 18:06:55 <bobweaver> tgm4883,  there is good news on that btw

 18:07:12 <tgm4883> you can build it and all our work is finished? :)

 18:07:25 <bobweaver> anyone else got anything to says about doc's ?

 18:07:35 <CrestedNewt> I am happy to help out here

 18:07:40 <bobweaver> lol tgm4883  never

 18:07:57 <bobweaver> CrestedNewt,  that would be great would you see me after the meeting ?

 18:07:57 <tgm4883> I need to write some docs on the mythtv integration

 18:08:05 <CrestedNewt> will do

 18:08:08 <tgm4883> but I need to finish converting everything first

 18:08:10 <bobweaver> thanks CrestedNewt

 18:08:25 <bobweaver> anyone else got anything to says about doc's ?

 18:08:33 <bootidsa> no

 18:08:49 <bobweaver> cool

 18:09:02 <bobweaver> Agenda for docs is now done ! yeah

 18:09:13 <bobweaver> Agenda:  New Members Updates and Keeping people busy+happy

 18:09:24 <bootidsa> I noted that Acer was mentioned on Target Platforms

 18:09:28 <bobweaver> docs kinda help with this

 18:09:53 <bobweaver> we *NEED* more Unity people esp nux people to help me

 18:09:54 <bootidsa> Ican only help with Artwork, sorry.

 18:09:55 <tgm4883> IIRC, there is no target platform other than x86/x86_64/ARM

 18:10:24 <bobweaver> anyone know Unity 3d devs ?

 18:10:38 <bootidsa> not well enough.

 18:10:44 <jhodapp> bobweaver, yes :)

 18:10:47 <bobweaver> can talk with them to put up with my bs ? get them to become new members ?

 18:11:07 <bobweaver> cool jhodapp

 18:11:21 <bobweaver> anyone else got ideas to bring in new members ?

 18:11:31 <bobweaver> fbook g+ ect ?

 18:11:37 <bootidsa> magazine ?

 18:11:39 <bobweaver> spam the forums ?

 18:11:46 <jhodapp> bobweaver, I think those are good methods, but having some cool defined tasks to do would help

 18:11:52 <tgm4883> well besides social networking, I think we need to have a community type meeting

 18:11:55 <CrestedNewt> don't spam - gets people backs up

 18:12:02 <tgm4883> but I was going to bring that up during the meeting agenda item

 18:12:22 <bobweaver> cool maybe we should come back to that ?

 18:12:35 <tgm4883> sure

 18:12:36 <bootidsa> Yes the google plus side of things is vacant .. and this where we could shine ..be happy to contribute .. whio does the group on G+ ?

 18:12:48 <tgm4883> the ubuntu tv team ;)

 18:13:10 <bootidsa> What is 'there' profile link on G+ ?

 18:13:24 <tgm4883> https://plus.google.com/b/104659991254860976283/+UbuntuTV/posts

 18:13:26 <bobweaver> I have admin rights to g+ most the team does if they do not then contact mhall

 18:13:34 <bootidsa> I>@E> who do I send links to to celebrate Ubuntu TV ?

 18:13:34 <bobweaver> or mailing list

 18:13:41 <tgm4883> bootidsa, I think there is a better link, I just don't recall it right now :)

 18:13:47 <tgm4883> mhall119 knows

 18:14:03 <bobweaver> bootidsa,  yeah contact mhall119

 18:14:14 <bobweaver> he is are community manager

 18:14:18 <bootidsa> tgm4883, OK can you send it to porridge@trisquel.im when you have a moment ?

 18:14:31 <tgm4883> https://plus.google.com/+UbuntuTV

 18:14:45 <tgm4883> that is the better link :)

 18:15:10 <bobweaver> cool well lets think about new member's and come back to that unless you have something that you are dieing to say

 18:15:32 <bootidsa> Ok I'l just +Ubuntu TV in myb posts .. but an email would be sufficient really.

 18:15:53 <bootidsa> not at mo.

 18:16:03 <bobweaver> Agenda: new members done ?

 18:16:29 <bobweaver> Agenda: Unity 3d :: Advancements and hold backs

 18:16:48 <bootidsa> pass. brb.

 18:16:56 <bobweaver> ok so I have made a new standalone mode that one can now use and frame is def comming togeather

 18:17:21 <CrestedNewt> good job!

 18:17:23 <bobweaver> people can test and also give me feed back though it is no where near done

 18:17:46 <CrestedNewt> I can test as an EU if that helps

 18:17:47 <bobweaver> CrestedNewt,  if you like after the meeting we can talk and this is something thta I would like to see in docs

 18:18:01 <CrestedNewt> sure

 18:18:04 <bobweaver> let me take a pic real quick

 18:18:26 <jhodapp> nice bobweaver

 18:19:11 <bobweaver> http://imagebin.org/237706

 18:19:33 <bobweaver> as you can see there is now a binary that builds when unity 3d builds and one can launch that

 18:20:21 <bobweaver> some of the hold backs that I am having is that I am just learning nux and having some of the layering is hard for me but I am learning

 18:20:28 <bobweaver> stupid widgets

 18:20:31 <bobweaver> :)

 18:20:46 <bobweaver> but it is now in are trunk and one can use this

 18:21:07 <bobweaver> I have not finshed by any means but there is least a start

 18:21:34 <bobweaver> if anyone has questions about it feel free to email me or ping me on are channel

 18:22:15 <bobweaver> I have not finshed channel view nor coverflow yet but got the binary there and it is now something that one can test

 18:22:29 <jhodapp> bobweaver, have you ever chatted with any of the Nux developers in #ubuntu-unity before?

 18:22:43 <bobweaver> but if you know Unity 3d devs esp NUX peps please send my way

 18:22:48 <bobweaver> jhodapp,  I try

 18:23:03 <bobweaver> gotten some help but not that many people know about NUX

 18:23:29 <jhodapp> bobweaver, no, but certainly the people who know the most about it (because they created Nux) are in that room

 18:24:04 <bobweaver> jhodapp,  I want to see if I can get jason to help me but cn never find him I should send him a email

 18:24:22 <jhodapp> bobweaver, yeah, that's a good idea

 18:24:38 <bobweaver> I asked the whole channel yesterday and today if they would show up for this

 18:24:46 <jhodapp> bobweaver, it sounds like that's one of the best things to spend your time on for right now is getting a solid communication line open with the people who can help you with Nux

 18:24:49 <bobweaver> but IDK if anyof them did

 18:25:12 <bobweaver> jhodapp,  you should help me with that as you are can emply

 18:25:28 <bobweaver> pretty plz that is :)

 18:25:34 <jhodapp> bobweaver, I can certainly ping people for you when you can't get their attention

 18:26:02 <bobweaver> thanks jhodapp  not sure if they take me for real yet + I ask dumg questions sometimes

 18:26:15 <bobweaver> at any rate I will  put that UP on my list

 18:26:39 <bobweaver> any one else got anything to say about Unity 3d or questions ?

 18:26:49 <CrestedNewt> the only way of learning is by showing ones ignorance

 18:26:50 <bobweaver> integration that is ^^

 18:26:56 <jhodapp> bobweaver, no such thing as a dumb question (the only dumb one is the one not asked)

 18:27:17 <CrestedNewt> jhodapp - well said

 18:27:22 <bobweaver> I would also like to say that it is on raring :)

 18:27:36 <tgm4883> no questions from me, I'll probably have some for you once I get the backend stuff to converted so we can test it

 18:27:50 <CrestedNewt> nothing from me

 18:27:53 <bobweaver> I am on raring so we are moving in the right direction which brings up new topic

 18:28:14 <bobweaver> Agenda: Time-Line Due to the limited time that some of us have

 18:28:43 <bobweaver> you all I am srry grinding the midnight oil on this project and I love it but not sure that this is going to be done in 5 months

 18:29:06 <tgm4883> I think feature wise, timeline is up to the people doing the Unity 3D work (bobweaver)

 18:29:22 <bobweaver> we might have to push things back a little but IDWT

 18:29:34 <tgm4883> bobweaver, and feature wise, you only have until March 7th

 18:29:35 <bobweaver> good point tgm4883  that is why I need some help

 18:29:50 <bobweaver> I mean unity 3d has like 20 peps always working on it

 18:30:01 <bobweaver> I have to keep up with that and I also have to add thing's

 18:30:34 <bobweaver> like I spend more time (in the start) fixing unity and not even working on code

 18:31:02 <CrestedNewt> bobweaver - what if you just sat on a LTS release as the basic libs, that do not change?

 18:31:25 <CrestedNewt> then you are not always chasing your tail

 18:31:28 <bobweaver> took me a day of re-writing cmakelist files to get to config but I have gotten some help with that and am past that hurdle

 18:31:40 <bobweaver> CrestedNewt,  that is a real real real real real good point

 18:31:44 <bobweaver> and idea

 18:32:05 <bobweaver> I for one love that idea that we will try to release a full version on next lts

 18:32:08 <tgm4883> I still think something is wrong with how this this happening if Unity builds keep breaking

 18:32:15 <tgm4883> but maybe it's just me being a Python dev

 18:32:19 <tgm4883> jhodapp, ^

 18:32:31 <bobweaver> everything up to that will be Mockup stuff

 18:32:51 <bobweaver> tgm4883,  it is because *other*  libs are always changing

 18:32:51 <CrestedNewt> tgm4883 - but if Unity is always changing, there is no solid foundation

 18:33:14 <jhodapp> tgm4883, what's the issue exactly, I don't quite follow

 18:33:20 <CrestedNewt> without a solid foundation, bobweaver can't move forwards

 18:33:39 <tgm4883> jhodapp, bascially, things in Unity keep changing and causing bobweaver to have to redo work

 18:33:48 <bobweaver> kinda ^^

 18:34:09 <bobweaver> it was more that Unity would not build due to changes in libs

 18:34:15 <bobweaver> but this has been fixed

 18:34:29 <bobweaver> you know nux3 to nux 4

 18:34:38 <bobweaver> libunity changing

 18:34:39 <jhodapp> yes, that's a major change

 18:35:12 <tgm4883> CrestedNewt, meh, not necessarily true. Sure things in Unity are changing. But lets take it from my perspective (admittedly a Python one). I import another library in python and use one of it's functions. That library might change over time, but as long as it still returns values that I would expect (not changing from a list to a dict) then my code is fine

 18:35:19 <jhodapp> there's 2 options there though...you can keep tracking the latest of all of these libs (which might be a good idea), or you can say we're targeting version x or each lib like unity and nux

 18:35:21 <bobweaver> I mean every one of unityshell/plugins/*  needed new cmakelist file because it would not work

 18:35:33 <bobweaver> not work = not installing and linking libs

 18:36:10 <CrestedNewt> tgm4883 - I'm not a coder but was a problem and change manager for alarge international oild company looking after systems for europe

 18:36:37 <CrestedNewt> tgm4883 - but i also understand where you are coming from

 18:37:08 <bobweaver> jhodapp,  both good ideas and I am tracking all bugs and changes to both tunk and stagging but then I see that staging is now going to chang to something else and who knows whta changes are going to come with that or if them libs are eeven goinng to make it into main

 18:37:52 <bobweaver> that is my concerns as I could only find libs in stagging to make this work due to nux 4

 18:37:57 <bobweaver> and other libs

 18:38:28 <bobweaver> and if stagging is changing to something else and what if compiz from stagging is not included into main then kahput

 18:38:32 <jhodapp> bobweaver, you're talking about package staging, right?

 18:38:40 <bobweaver> yeah the ppa

 18:39:00 <bobweaver> sorry about that Unity stagging ppa is what I am talking about

 18:39:13 <jhodapp> bobweaver, ok, popey might be able to give you insights into your uncertainty there

 18:39:16 <tgm4883> jhodapp, bobweaver one of our previous discussions was a point in time when Unity wouldn't even build by itself (without bobweaver's additions)

 18:39:27 <tgm4883> which seems bad IMO

 18:39:40 <bobweaver> and was bad

 18:39:41 <jhodapp> tgm4883, unity trunk wouldn't build?

 18:39:43 <bobweaver> belive me

 18:39:46 <tgm4883> jhodapp, yea

 18:39:56 <tgm4883> so bobweaver says, I didn't try it ;)

 18:40:20 <bobweaver> would not build because main(ubuntu ppa) unity  for raring is calling stuff from stagging . and it was a mess

 18:40:32 <jhodapp> tgm4883, seems weird, a change usually won't get merged into trunk unless it passes the tests and the continuous integration build by QA

 18:40:37 <bobweaver> like libs in main had not yet landed from stagging

 18:40:46 <bobweaver> nux 4 compiz ect

 18:41:25 <bobweaver> sence then I have changed the way that I am building this but once again I am not sure as to which one of the libs that Unity team is going to pick for there main

 18:41:39 <bobweaver> but what hurt more was not just the libs

 18:41:54 <tgm4883> I still think something is wrong here. From my point of view, the same issues would plague any Unity developer

 18:42:05 <jhodapp> tgm4883, precisely

 18:42:27 <bobweaver> it was the fact that cmakelist(s) needed to be re-wrote because they where erroroing out on config (cmake ../ -DCMAKE_INSTALL_.......)

 18:43:14 <bobweaver> mainly plugins and makeing room for new binary for tv

 18:43:20 <jhodapp> bobweaver, did you have anyone else try the same thing when it was failing just to confirm?

 18:43:52 <bobweaver> you can look at change logs of branch to see what I had to do it is documented there

 18:44:04 <bobweaver> jhodapp,  yeah

 18:44:06 <tgm4883> to continue progress in this meeting, I move to put this item on hold and continue. Either coming back to this at the end of the meeting (time permitted) or continue this discussion in the #ubuntu-tv channel

 18:44:20 <bobweaver> unity team said "that si what where are fixing right now "

 18:44:33 <bobweaver> good idea tgm4883

 18:44:33 <jhodapp> bobweaver, ok

 18:45:03 <bobweaver> New Agenda : Meetings Pick a day and time for recurring weekly meetings

 18:45:26 <tgm4883> #subtopic  Meetings Pick a day and time for recurring weekly meetings

 18:45:29 <bobweaver> I like this time what do you all think about that ? is it good for you would sat be better ect

 18:45:41 <tgm4883> I like this time

 18:45:47 <bobweaver> jhodapp,  ?

 18:45:56 <bobweaver> CrestedNewt,  ?

 18:46:00 <CrestedNewt> I am flexible - some friday nights I'm out, some saturdays I'm out :D

 18:46:05 <tgm4883> I don't like anything that gets into people's weekends

 18:46:17 <bobweaver> that is a good point

 18:46:19 <CrestedNewt> keep it to friday nights then?

 18:46:31 <tgm4883> so mon - thurs might work better, but i'm in the US so it's friday morning for me :)

 18:46:44 <CrestedNewt> I'm in the UK

 18:46:51 <jhodapp> bobweaver, works for me

 18:46:57 <bobweaver> lets wait for jhodapp  and his input. I wish that we could also get will to show up he is AWESOME

 18:47:01 <CrestedNewt> so I'm on GMT anyway

 18:47:11 <bobweaver> well then settled ever fri at this time

 18:47:17 <CrestedNewt> kk

 18:47:20 <bobweaver> if alright with you all

 18:47:28 <bobweaver> #vote

 18:47:28 <meetingology> Please vote on:

 18:47:28 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 18:47:33 <bobweaver> +1

 18:47:34 <CrestedNewt> +1

 18:47:46 <bootidsa> +1

 18:47:55 <tgm4883> +1

 18:48:09 <tgm4883> bobweaver, I think you need votesrequired as well

 18:48:23 <bobweaver> er I dont know how to use this bot lol

 18:48:29 <bobweaver> #endvote

 18:48:29 <meetingology> No vote in progress

 18:48:32 <bobweaver> lol

 18:48:39 <tgm4883> next topic

 18:48:50 <bobweaver> form-factor

 18:48:50 <bobweaver> josephjamesmills would like to work on using different form factors but can not figure out on his own, maybe if Unity people show up

 18:48:54 <tgm4883> or I forgot the thing I was going to bring up ;)

 18:49:11 <tgm4883> I'll come back to it

 18:49:31 <tgm4883> This seems similar to the other Unity 3D items

 18:49:42 <bobweaver> well that is pretty much covered in getting me some friends that will put up with my bs and teach me about form-factor

 18:49:54 <bobweaver> unity 3d team ^^

 18:50:25 <bobweaver> I just need like 4 hours with a unity 3d dev to do a goolge hangout

 18:50:52 <bobweaver> to teach me the stuff that I do not understand though I am RE unity 3d ok for the time being

 18:51:26 <bobweaver> Next adgenda : from the wiki they are all covered . so if you got anything to add now would be the time

 18:51:35 <tgm4883> community meetings

 18:51:56 <tgm4883> I think the last meeting of the month should be a community meeting, where people could show up and ask any questions they have

 18:51:57 <bobweaver> tgm4883,  what do you mean ?

 18:52:06 <tgm4883> hopefully this would get more people involved

 18:52:12 <bobweaver> that is a great great great IDEA !!!!

 18:52:26 <tgm4883> also, we wouldn't have to advertise every meeting every week every where, just the last meeting

 18:52:30 <CrestedNewt> tgm4883 - that sounds like a great idea - but it needs to be focused

 18:52:38 <tgm4883> CrestedNewt, focused on what?

 18:53:09 <bobweaver> tgm4883,  on are channel or should we make a channel ?  #ubuntu-tc-community-meetup or whatever

 18:53:12 <CrestedNewt> tgm4883 - sometimes at these types of meetings some ppl try and take over for their point only

 18:53:27 <bobweaver> we can regulate that CrestedNewt

 18:53:29 <tgm4883> bobweaver, on this channel

 18:53:35 <CrestedNewt> ok

 18:53:35 <bobweaver> lol tgm4883

 18:53:41 <tgm4883> bobweaver, it would just take the place of our normal meeting

 18:53:50 <bobweaver> on this channel ?

 18:54:02 <tgm4883> bobweaver, isn't that where our normal weekly meeting will be?

 18:54:15 <bootidsa> you advertis it on Google Plus too !

 18:54:29 <bobweaver> I will make youtube video

 18:54:39 <bobweaver> and put on g+ about this ?

 18:54:48 <bootidsa> yep.

 18:54:48 <tgm4883> yea the idea would be for us to advertise it on all social media, website, etc

 18:54:59 <bobweaver> tgm4883,  that is a great idea

 18:55:02 <tgm4883> and since it's once a month, we wouldn't be spamming everyone all the time

 18:55:04 <bobweaver> so plush

 18:56:34 <bootidsa> netsplit !

 18:57:00 <bobweaver> I would like to set up a community found that is for getting us "team members" hardware

 18:57:06 <bobweaver> how can we do that ?

 18:57:28 <bobweaver> jhodapp,  that is more question for you ^^

 18:57:32 <bobweaver> I think

 18:57:32 <tgm4883> bobweaver, do we need that?

 18:57:38 <bobweaver> I do

 18:57:40 <tgm4883> what kinda hardware?

 18:57:45 <tgm4883> kind of*

 18:57:47 <bobweaver> armel boards

 18:57:53 <tgm4883> ah

 18:57:55 <bootidsa> I have a spare Revo .. ?

 18:58:13 <jhodapp> bobweaver, it's a good question, but I'm with tgm4883...what's wrong with using your PC?

 18:58:15 <bobweaver> even if was remote at canonical office

 18:58:28 <tgm4883> jhodapp I think it's for ARM stuff

 18:58:37 <tgm4883> which I don't think he can test on a normal PC

 18:58:43 <bobweaver> jhodapp,  I was thinking that this most likly would be on arm and I can not afford anything

 18:58:48 <jhodapp> tgm4883, yes, but why do you need to run on ARM today?

 18:58:49 <bobweaver> I am super super super poor

 18:58:52 <tgm4883> specifically with how usable it is on ARM

 18:58:54 <CrestedNewt> I can try and talk to ARM as their head office is only about 45 mins away from me

 18:59:09 <tgm4883> CrestedNewt, I don't think ARM makes any hardware?

 18:59:19 <bobweaver> not today but raising money for devs can take time

 18:59:21 <jhodapp> tgm4883, they make reference boards

 18:59:39 <CrestedNewt> tgm4883 - no they don't but they have influence as the manufacturers basically build under license

 18:59:53 <tgm4883> IMO, it needs to be off the shelf hardware

 18:59:55 <CrestedNewt> of their tech

 19:00:09 <bobweaver> listen I do not even want a board shiped to house I am just going to need stuff to test code on and run valgrind

 19:00:30 <CrestedNewt> I'm with tgm4883 - lets get it out as a STB first - make other big brands sit up and take notice

 19:00:30 <bobweaver> I can chroot and make virtual but that is not a real test

 19:00:33 <tgm4883> bobweaver, jhodapp perhaps it's something that the canoncal testing lab can do

 19:00:46 <bobweaver> I want to make sure that my code runs on arm and is not leaky

 19:00:48 <tgm4883> CrestedNewt, I completely disagree with that, and that isn't our target anyway

 19:01:01 <CrestedNewt> tgm4883 - ok

 19:01:17 <jhodapp> but to bobweaver's point, considering how to get hardware today isn't a bad idea

 19:01:22 <tgm4883> CrestedNewt, it's much easier to work with something open, rather than hack a tivo to run it on

 19:01:28 <jhodapp> maybe we can ask for some community donations

 19:01:42 <bobweaver> Like at next UDS if we could have boards to test valfrind reports

 19:01:45 <bootidsa> kickstarter !

 19:02:06 <CrestedNewt> tgm4883 - agreed - I'm looking at mounting on the back of a screen with HW readily available

 19:02:11 <bobweaver> IDK all I know is that I can not afford to by any because I have to feed my dog

 19:02:12 <bobweaver> that is how poor I am

 19:02:40 <jhodapp> bobweaver, nobody is asking you to buy one, use your PC for now

 19:02:50 <bobweaver> bottom line is this. there is no why what so ever that I can afford anything like this and if it is going to go to skunkworks then what ?

 19:03:08 <bobweaver> It was just a idea

 19:03:48 <bootidsa> here's my G+ if anyone wants to hangout or follow me https://plus.google.com/103093000923989045518

 19:03:55 <bobweaver> ok any dire things to cover ?

 19:04:03 <tgm4883> nope

 19:04:04 <cm-t> thanks bootidsa && hi *

 19:04:24 <CrestedNewt> bobweaver - I'm with tgm4883 that it should only be off the shelf stuff. At the end of the day, if Ubuntu will run on it, Ubuntu-TV should also run on it

 19:04:42 <bobweaver> +1

 19:04:46 <tgm4883> +1

 19:04:58 <bobweaver> lets take this to are channel

 19:05:03 <bobweaver> #end meeting

 19:05:05 <tgm4883> our*

 19:05:06 <bobweaver> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
