{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Proposed Ubuntu-au Council structure ==

=== 3. Australian Community Council (ACC) Model (Ideally 7 +- 2 people) :Democratic ===

=== What is the Purpose of an ACC ? ===
* It is made up from a group leaders from the various 'Local' Ubuntu groups around Australia.
* It gives 'Local' Members of these groups a representation in the administration of Ubuntu-au.
* Members on the ACC are there to provide 'Support & Consultation' to the Ubuntu-au community.
* Members on the ACC will help in decisions affecting Ubuntu-au. 
* It will provide a means of 'communicating' decisions/information to members of Ubuntu-au.
* It will give members in the general community a 'Direct-Contact', if they require more information about Ubuntu-au. 
* To Share Leadership Responsibilities.
* To Follow-up on Issues & Problems.
* 'Event' co-ordination at a National level.
* Foster the creation of 'Local' ubuntu groups.
* Uphold the spirit of <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu_(philosophy)|'ubuntu']]</nowiki> in the community.

=== What an ACC IS NOT ! ===
* It is not three levels of 'Bureaucracy'.
* It will not 'Control' the activities of Groups or Individuals.
** Groups & individuals are autonomous 
** Individuals have the freedom to make a contribution to 'Ubuntu' in anyway they please.
** Individuals do not need to have permission from the ACC to make these contributions.

=== Positions ===
==== Team Contact ====
* Calls Ubuntu-Au elections
* Liaises with Ubuntu-CC
* Allocates people access to resources (In consultation with the ACC members)
   eg. Website Admin, List moderators, IRC Ops.
'''Election:''' Is reviewed yearly and appointed by Ubuntu-CC (with recommendation from outgoing Team Contact) 

==== Chair Person ====
* Chairs ACC meetings (Driving discussion and decisions)
* Chairs General meetings (Driving discussion and decisions)
* Ensures that rules and processes put in place are adhered to
'''Election:''' A rotational position, decided by the members of the ACC.

==== Web Master ====
* Responsible for setting up and maintaining the website(s)
* Website contact 
* Reports to ACC 
* Seeks approval to change website(s) structure (conducts reviews)
* Seeks approval to grant members restricted access to website(s)
'''Elections:''' Elected (Annually) by ACC Members, Nominations from Members.

==== Representative ====
* State/City/Region contact person (see model '3A' or Model '3B')
* Liaises with LUGS & other organisations
* Drives goals of Ubuntu-au at a local level
* Provides Advice & Support. 
* Raises issues (sets agenda items) with the ACC at Council meetings.
* Reports back to ACC Council on progress of said goals/functions etc.
* Drives Important Events/Functions i.e. Release parties etc.
* Helps with website 'News/Announcement' items
* Chairs General Ubuntu-au Meetings (when needed)
* Chairs State Ubuntu-au Meetings (when needed)
* Helps with Elections
* Has official status within ubuntu-au and as such represents Ubuntu-au LOCO 
'''Elections:''' Each representative elected/appointed by Ubuntu members in each corresponding State/City/Region. (Seats are to remain open if no-nominations have been received. Team Contact to assume responsibility) 

==== Other positions ====
* Marketing - Media - Publicity
* Junior contact (Under the age of 18) 
'''Elections:''' Elected or appointed by ACC 
 
===== PROs =====
* Gives each State/Region/City a voice in the direction of the community
* Delegates responsibility
* A local contact person
* Open & Transparent process
* Decision making process easier ie. 8 instead of 40 in an IRC meeting
* Group leadership Team
* Country wide co-ordination

===== CONs =====
* Election process & politicisation 
* A structure

=== 3A. Local City/Region Representative ===
* Each City/Region LoCo elects/appoints a representative to the ACC
* Its members would represent a City or Region.
    e.g.  Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Toowomba, Mt Isa, Western QLD, Sydney, Newcastle, Northern Rivers, Dubbo etc.
* Role: As per description in Model 3.
===== PROs =====
* City/Regions have a direct representation on the ACC
* Each member in the City/Region has a say in appointing/electing representative.
===== CONs =====
* Election/Appointment Process 

=== 3B. State Council Representative ===
* A 'State Council' would be created when there are 5 or more city/Regional representatives (in One state) on the ACC. 
* Cities/Regions would then elect/appoint representatives to the 'State Council' rather than the ACC.
* A State Representative, would then be appointed/elected to represent their respective state on the ACC.
* Roles: As per Description on Model 3.
===== PROs =====
* Each state is responsible for appointment/election of the ACC representative for the ACC
* Reduces the size of the ACC (Making decisions easier).
===== CONS =====
* Another structural layer

=== Meetings ===
* '''Ubuntu-au ACC'''- At least every 3 months, more if urgent issues arise. Quorum: 50% of Council members + 1
* '''Ubuntu-au General'''- Once a Month, if agenda items are posted. Quorum: # of Council members + 1
* '''Ubuntu-au State Council'''- Once a Month, if agenda items are posted. (Only required if "State Councils" are created) 
Notices are to be posted to email lists, Wiki and ubuntu.com.au and Facebook. 

=== Election Process ===
==== ACC Non-Representatives ====
* Notice to members, Email Lists, Wiki, ubuntu.org.au, Facebook.
* To be Eligible for a seat on the ACC, each candidate needs to be nominated by two(2) other members.
* Candidates are displayed on ubuntu.org.au, All positions.
* Web Master appointed by council members, in consultation with Ubuntu-au Team Contact. 
==== City/Region Representative ====
* Each City/Region appoints/elects a representative (if more than one nomination).  
* Each Candidate needs to be nominated by at least two(2) other members from their respective City/Region. 
* The election can be done using an online poll or a local meeting.  
* Only City/Regional members eligible to vote.  
* Each City/Region will keep their own 'official' membership list. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Brisbane||See example]]</nowiki>   
==== State Representative (if required) ====
* Each State appoints/elects a representative to the ACC (if more than one nomination). 
 
Note:  This document is a Template subject to modification
       The post to the ubuntu-au mail list on the 16th of April is here <nowiki>[[attachment:Ubuntu Post 16-04-10]]</nowiki>
