{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page records the agenda for the Ubuntu Flavors meeting. The goal of these meetings are to discuss common goals, difficulties, and areas for improvement, and generally foster a more active dialog between flavors, so we can work together on common goals and keep each other in the loop.

This meeting is meant to '''supplement''' existing team meetings, and thus, participation is limited to people who represent an Ubuntu Flavor or a distribution engineering team at Canonical.

'''Next meeting:''' TBD

==== Agenda ====

* Roll call / who's who?
* What are the plans for this upcoming cycle?
* Are there any major roadblocks preventing work from occurring?
* Next meeting?
* Any other business
