{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>

Read this Site in your language:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/FAQ/Greek| Ελληνικά]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/FAQ/Korean| 한국어]]</nowiki>
|}
<<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 25%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #d5e5ff; font-size: 0.90em;" :> '''Quick Links''' <<BR>> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/FAQ | FAQs]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/HowTo | Basic HOWTOs]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/HowTo/AdvancedHowTo | Advanced HOWTOs]]</nowiki>
|}

== FAQs ==
=== What is Ubuntu GNOME? ===

Ubuntu GNOME is a modern, elegant operating system showcasing the GNOME desktop environment built on top of an Ubuntu base. It is a free, open-source and feature complete alternative to Windows and Mac OS X.
​

It has been designed to be easy to use and provide the best possible computing experience on desktops and laptops. There are many applications for all your daily needs, including the web, email, games, office, productivity, software development and more.

We believe the combination of Ubuntu and GNOME is the best choice for those looking for a beautiful, simple, and usable operating system.

=== What is Ubuntu? ===

Ubuntu is the most popular Linux distribution for desktop and laptop personal computers and is widely used on servers as well. A new version of Ubuntu has been released almost every April and October since 2004. Ubuntu releases will always be free. The Ubuntu project is funded by Canonical, which offers commercial support and related services for Ubuntu.

=== What is GNOME? ===

The GNOME Project began in 1997 with the goal of creating a free complete desktop environment. Used by millions of people around the world, it is the most popular desktop environment for Linux and Unix-type operating systems. Ubuntu used the GNOME desktop by default from the start of the Ubuntu project until 2011.

=== Why aren’t you named Gubuntu? ===

Gubuntu would sound too much like Goobuntu, Google’s internal distribution of Ubuntu. The GNOME Foundation Board did not want us to use a derivative of GNOME like GNOMEbuntu as our name. Anyway, we think the name Ubuntu GNOME is a good example of the simple usability we offer.

=== Why don’t you include GNOME Web (Epiphany) by default? ===

The GNOME developers currently aren’t able to provide updates for their web browser for the entire support lifetime of an Ubuntu GNOME release. We also can’t include new versions of the browser in our stable releases since the new versions depend on the latest system libraries like GTK+ and WebKit which can’t be easily backported. Ubuntu GNOME users benefit from Firefox’s prompt and reliable updates.

=== Why do you include Ubuntu Software Center instead of GNOME Software for installing software? ===

Ubuntu Software Center offers user ratings and reviews, screenshots, and better search. GNOME developers currently do not intend to support easy install of proprietary software like Steam or the Humble Indie Bundles.

'''Update:''' Ubuntu GNOME 16.04 will come with GNOME Software

=== Why don’t you customize GNOME more? ===

Customizing GNOME would take away from our goal of providing GNOME the way GNOME developers intended. Other developers are free to remix Ubuntu GNOME to offer a more custom experience. Check out the GNOME extensions site to easily add new features or tweak existing functionality to GNOME Shell for yourself.

=== Why Ubuntu GNOME is not shipped with the latest version of GNOME? ===

Please keep in mind that we can only ship in the standard installation, packages which are in the main Ubuntu repositories. Due to the closeness of release schedules between Ubuntu and GNOME, the latest versions of GNOME do NOT get fully tested 'before' each release cycle of Ubuntu. As such it appears Ubuntu is a cycle behind. However we also provide the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gnome3-team/+archive/gnome3 | Gnome 3 PPA]]</nowiki> which brings most components up to the latest versions for each cycle. '''More details can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Developers | Here]]</nowiki>'''.﻿

=== How do I report a bug? ===

Run ubuntu-bug. For more information, see the official Ubuntu documentation.

=== Can I report bugs about the GNOME3 PPAs? ===

Yes, we have enabled <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-gnome|bug reports]]</nowiki> for all gnome3-team packages. Use the following command:

<code>ubuntu-bug <package></code>

=== X vs Wayland vs MIR ===

'''Wayland''' support has been available since 15.04, however its not enabled by default just yet since it still needs some work. If you want to try it out install the gnome-session-wayland package.

'''Xorg''' support wont go away, even once we switch to wayland by default (perhaps around 16.10), you will still be able to use Xorg as a fallback.

'''Mir''' - We will not support this.

== HOWTO ==
For more information, please check our '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/HowTo | HOWTO]]</nowiki>''' Page.

== Feedback ==
If you couldn't find what you were looking for on this section or you have a suggestion or a question and/or you would like to help our team, please '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Contact Us]]</nowiki>''' and we will be very glad to listen to/read your feedback :)
