{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

/!\ NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINS OUT OF DATE INFORMATION AND IS IN THE PROCESS OF BEING REWORKED. 

This page is for planning how to give Ubuntu a strong, effective presence at conferences, tradeshows and linux user group gatherings.

* '''If you plan to attend a conference and have an Ubuntu booth or give a talk about Ubuntu, please add that info at ConferenceAppearances.'''

/!\ NOTE: Due to merchandise availability, some items may be replaced with alternatives when shipping.

==== Materials ====

* See <nowiki>[[DIYMarketing]]</nowiki> for the pieces you need to create your own materials to have an effective conference presence.

* We will supply Conference Packs to LoCoTeams that are manning an Ubuntu booth. 
* We have 2 conference packs that we can send out, one is for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~locoteams-verified | Verified Loco teams]]</nowiki> and the other is for Lo``Co teams. They include the following:

'''Pack A for Verified Lo``Co Teams contain:'''
*** x55 Lanyards
*** x2  caps
*** x25 mixed sticker sheets
*** x25 pin-badges
*** x4  t-shirts (release t-shirt) for give-away/booth staff
*** x25 Bootable USB sticks
*** Name badges (Lo``Co to produce their own)
*** Ubuntu leaflets (Lo``Co to create a project to produce their own ideas)

'''Pack B for Lo``Co Teams contain'''
*** x25 mixed sticker sheets
*** x55 Lanyards
*** x12 Bootable USB sticks
*** Name badges (Lo``Co to produce their own)
*** Ubuntu leaflets (Lo``Co to create a project to produce their own ideas)

Conference Pack approval is at Canonical's discretion, and any left over materials should be shared with Lo``Co team members for other events.  To request a pack, please complete the <nowiki>[[https://forms.canonical.com/locopack/ | conference pack application form]]</nowiki>  at least '''4 weeks prior''' to the event:
 
You should also add yourself to ConferenceAppearances.

If you are an unofficial Lo``Co please detail some of your past events you've organised and how many people attended.  Please also tell us about your Lo``Co, how many members are in it and how active you are. 

==== Info on LoCo Furnished Resources ====

*** Ubuntu leaflets - not relevant in most countries due to various languages. Lo``Co council will introduce a community driven project for Lo``Co teams to design their own Ubuntu leaflets based on brand guidelines and access to assets. 

*** Name-badge designs - this is mainly when hosting your own events. Locos to create their own designs using assets and making use of the brand guidelines.

Assets and Ubuntu brand guidelines can be found at: <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/the-toolkit/]]</nowiki>

==== Important Links ====

* Please share your tips and suggestions for a successful conference presence at ConferenceTopTips. For event specific tips and suggestions go to the respective wiki page of this event. A list of event pages already holding such information can be found at ConferenceTopTips.

* General information on collaborating with other projects can be found on ConferenceTopTips as well. If you have a master plan of collaboration with a specific project/local community of a project, consider creating an extra page.
