{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



==== Project meeting 09/08/2010 ====

==== Agenda ====

* Whether to continue with Lucid edition 2 or move straight on to Maverick
* Whether it is practical to continue to wait for the collaboration meeting with the Docs/Learning team before writing more content
* Documenting the release process more publicly and in more depth
* Detailing the process for translations
* Website
** Website Content
** Bug Form
** Forum or not ?
* Practicality of Scheduled Meetings

===== Present =====
* brandonj
* dutchie
* jenkins
* thishumphreybc
* Muscovy
* c7p
* ChrisWoollard
* semioticrobotic
* JasonCook599
* godbyk
* flan
* vdquynh

===== Lucid-e2 or Maverick =====
It was decided to get the Lucid-e2 release out of the way as soon as possible to allow work to begin in earnest on the Maverick edition. A date of Monday the 16th of August was decided and <nowiki>[[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1887929/dev-infographic.png|this schedule]]</nowiki> was agreed on.

===== Clarification of the release process =====
After some initial confusion as to what was meant, it was decided that a checklist of things to do when releasing the manual would be useful to make sure everything is done. <nowiki>[[dutchie]]</nowiki> is to write up an example wiki page <nowiki>[[ubuntu-manual-ReleaseProcess|here]]</nowiki> for feedback in the next meeting.

===== Website discussion =====
Some new mockups by <nowiki>[[humphreybc]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/humphreybc/sets/72157624139515783/|link]]</nowiki> to flickr set) were shown and generally ooh'ed and ahh'ed at. The lack of web developers to assist our currently very busy one was noted.

The bug form <nowiki>[[http://bugs.ubuntu-manual.org/|here]]</nowiki> was also brought up. It's currently quite slow, and could do with a performance enhancement. There is a document accessible via docs.ubuntu-manual.org for feedback.

Whether the project needed a dedicated forum was briefly discussed, and unanimously decided not to be needed.

===== Regular meetings =====
It was decided that we should have a meeting every 2 weeks to keep project momentum up.

===== Next meeting =====
The next meeting was scheduled for Sunday the 22nd of August at 2000 UTC.
