{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

_MMA_: ************************ START MEETING ﻿************************<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. Here we go.<<BR>>
_MMA_: We have a good bit of things to get to.<<BR>>
_MMA_: * Openness of our systems/resources     * Moving the channels to Ubuntu IRC counsel control     * Package status     * Recruitment Campaign     * Support on #ubuntustudio     * Status of various new packages and artwork<<BR>>
_MMA_: But 1st, Jussi needs the floor.<<BR>>
jussi01: heh<<BR>>
jussi01: OK, So here goes<<BR>>
jussi01: I have some Family issues going on in this cycle - we are moving and other stuff is going on. SO... my involvement will fall from here on in.<<BR>>
jussi01: I wont be doing any packaging work, however, I will still have time to be on IRC and things, just not heavy dev stuff<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: this cycle. ok. and next?<<BR>>
jussi01: luisbg: we will see<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I hope it is a yes<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: my opinion is straightfoward<<BR>>
jussi01: What I will be doing is still looking after IRC and ML stuff<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: do what you can<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: if it is small oh well<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: we all have lives<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: :)<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: but stay around and help unless a little<<BR>>
jussi01: luisbg: yes, that was my intention<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: awesome<<BR>>
jussi01: So, this means someone will have to look after sooper loopers update. <<BR>>
jussi01: Other than that, any questions?<<BR>>
_MMA_: Not from me.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: is that update needed to be done now<<BR>>
AstralJava: I'm cool.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: or is this when a new version of the software comes?<<BR>>
jussi01: luisbg: its on its way - just needs to be made sure that it happens<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: jussi01: ok, cool<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I'm cool too<<BR>>
jussi01: ok great. Im done. _MMA_ whats next?<<BR>>
_MMA_: Sad to see Jussi but Im sure we all understand.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Moving on.<<BR>>
_MMA_:     * Openness of our systems/resources (and what that means)<<BR>>
_MMA_: Recently there was a small issue with with getting to some scripts we rely on for different notifications.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Now personal issues aside this got me thinking.<<BR>>
_MMA_: What if something happened to any of us that control a particular service for the team/project.<<BR>>
_MMA_: ?<<BR>>
_MMA_: So this lead me to deciding that *anything* created for the management of the project be open and accessible.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: as an open project we need to be decentralized, "institutions" need to be avoided by being open<<BR>>
_MMA_: ie: If someone has a bot we rely on. The latest version should always be out there so if something were to happen another could grab the code and get things running again.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: so we are the more plane as possible<<BR>>
* **jussi01 concurs with this<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I include to Cory's example if we need a slight change in that bot<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and the person with the code doesnt have time to do so<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: we have to work as a newtwork of responsabilities :)<<BR>>
_MMA_: Any questions/thoughts?<<BR>>
AstralJava: Easy, upload everything under our team in lp.net<<BR>>
jussi01: the IRC channels?<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: jussi01: this channel is open<<BR>>
jussi01: no, I meant ownership<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: is ubottu accesible?<<BR>>
_MMA_: We'll get to IRC.<<BR>>
jussi01: luisbg: its on lp<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: jussi01: an other topic in the agenda<<BR>>
_MMA_: AstralJava: Im more looking for input on the idea.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ill talk about implementation in a sec.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: when we finish with this topic I want to say something<<BR>>
_MMA_: Anyone have issues with this?<<BR>>
jussi01: there still needs to be cntrol on who can do stuff with some things...<<BR>>
AstralJava: No issues whatsoever, our _current_ services must be open.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: jussi01: what do you mean?<<BR>>
_MMA_: AstralJava: Current and future.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: AstralJava: that means closing the ones that arent, correct?<<BR>>
AstralJava: _MMA_: Yes, current and future.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: _MMA_: yes, not using anything unless it follows the policy<<BR>>
_MMA_: Say if a bot or scripts are made for the project. A copy needs to be sitting somewhere other than someone's hard drive.<<BR>>
_MMA_: *In case* something happens. We've seen this before with imbrandon.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: _MMA_: that was dangerous<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and backups saved us<<BR>>
_MMA_: Yes.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: if he was the only one with a copy<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: only one master copy we depended one<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: the website would've needed to be redone, loose time to publish, etc<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. So where this stuff will be is simple. We'll make a bzr branch with our crap in it. Ok?<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: +1<<BR>>
_MMA_: We'll hammer out the details on the ML.<<BR>>
jussi01: +1<<BR>>
_MMA_: Anyone else?<<BR>>
jussi01: AstralJava: ?<<BR>>
AstralJava: Yeah I'm fine.<<BR>>
AstralJava: Already told it. :)<<BR>>
_MMA_: Related topic:<<BR>>
_MMA_: ﻿    * Moving the channels to Ubuntu IRC counsel control<<BR>>
joejaxx: hi ?<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I just wanted to say that Launchpad is going to be the exception for some time<<BR>>
jussi01: joejaxx: !!<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: since it is going to be open soon<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: joejaxx: hey!<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. Lets freeze.<<BR>>
joejaxx: not really feeling well<<BR>>
_MMA_: 1 sec guys.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: ok<<BR>>
joejaxx: luisbg: please do the following<<BR>>
joejaxx: luisbg: /msg ChanServ SET #ubuntustudio FOUNDER luisbg<<BR>>
_MMA_: jowjaxx: Shall I go?<<BR>>
joejaxx:  /msg ChanServ SET #ubuntustudio-devel FOUNDER luisbg<<BR>>
joejaxx: sure<<BR>>
_MMA_: Damn typo.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: [20:59:34] <joejaxx>  /msg ChanServ SET #ubuntustudio-devel FOUNDER luisbg<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: oops<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: sorry<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: we still have to talk about the irc channel ownership<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: it was the next topic in the agenda<<BR>>
joejaxx: i know but you still need to do that<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: just did<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: joejaxx: lets PM that and keep the meeting going<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. There was a little issue the other day that prompted the "open systems" thing.<<BR>>
_MMA_: It revolved around a philosophical difference but got personal.<<BR>>
_MMA_: And it should not have.<<BR>>
_MMA_: I wanna say this:<<BR>>
_MMA_: Anyone can contribute to this project no matter their free-software religious beliefs.<<BR>>
_MMA_: :P<<BR>>
_MMA_: But...<<BR>>
_MMA_: The resulting work needs to be available to all. :)<<BR>>
_MMA_: Sorry. Im slow to type.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: May I have to floor?<<BR>>
_MMA_: Sure<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I guess by now most of the people know about the incident so no need to go on about it<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and should be in the past<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: but<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I want to publicly apologize to joejaxx for taking a management conversation to a personal level<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and falling into words that can be taken offensively through irc<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I shouldve kept cold minded<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and I promise it wont happen again<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: so I want to ask joejaxx for his forgiveness as I do respect him<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and would like to still work with him together in this project<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: if he grants me that favor and pleasure<<BR>>
_MMA_: joejaxx: You wanna say anything?<<BR>>
joejaxx: yeah<<BR>>
_MMA_: Shoot<<BR>>
joejaxx: i am taking a indefinite break from the project<<BR>>
joejaxx: i already transferred most stuff over already<<BR>>
joejaxx: the domains will still have to wait though<<BR>>
joejaxx: 1and1 are being ignorant about giving me with transfer codes<<BR>>
joejaxx: but as soon as i get them i will be giving them to lans (i think that was his irc nick ) through email<<BR>>
joejaxx: and they will be canonical property<<BR>>
_MMA_: joejaxx: I'd rather you not beat around the bush. Why an "﻿indefinite break".<<BR>>
_MMA_: ?<<BR>>
joejaxx: ?<<BR>>
_MMA_: joejaxx: Are things square with you and Luis or is there something else?<<BR>>
joejaxx: i do not let things happen a third time<<BR>>
joejaxx: so i will have to resign<<BR>>
joejaxx: unfortunately<<BR>>
_MMA_: I can't remember *any* other issues before this.<<BR>>
joejaxx: that has always been my rule of thumb in life<<BR>>
joejaxx: this is the second time this has happened<<BR>>
joejaxx: or that was<<BR>>
joejaxx: rather<<BR>>
_MMA_: SO this also means you're not willing to take the olive branch, swallow pride and take Luis at his word?<<BR>>
joejaxx: _MMA_: i apply the two strike rule to everything<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I beg to differ, this is the first time it happens (I remember it with shock :P) but I will extend the olive branch of peace and getting square<<BR>>
_MMA_: Still not a direct answer.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: indefinitely<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: so you are always welcomed to accept my apologies<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and if your relation with the project cant be helped now or in the future<<BR>>
joejaxx: i accept your apology but i also have to adhere to my own rules<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I dont want you to leave with hard feelings<<BR>>
joejaxx: no hard feelings<<BR>>
joejaxx: i just have always had a two strike rules<<BR>>
joejaxx: in any situation<<BR>>
_MMA_: joejaxx: I honestly think it's a smack in the face to me and the project to not patch things up.<<BR>>
_MMA_: I can understand if there's more but just over this? No.<<BR>>
joejaxx: _MMA_: i accepted his apology<<BR>>
_MMA_: joejaxx fails. :(<<BR>>
joejaxx: and there are not hard feelings<<BR>>
joejaxx: s/not/no/g<<BR>>
* **Luis de Bethencourt is sadend by this<<BR>>
_MMA_: joejaxx: Then there is no other apparent reason to leave.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: joejaxx: since the two strikes rule is with the future lead of the project and not the current<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: can you at least stay involved until the end of this release?<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: meanwhile Cory is the leader<<BR>>
joejaxx: i do not know<<BR>>
joejaxx: i have to think about it<<BR>>
jussi01: Ok, luisbg has limited time - should we not get on with the other stuff?<<BR>>
_MMA_: joejaxx: I know you well enough. Are you really gonna think about it or are you just staling?<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: jussi01: thanks :)<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: jussi01: but this is important<<BR>>
joejaxx: _MMA_: i would not say it unless i meant it<<BR>>
joejaxx: and i really do not feel well<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: jussi01: I am already late but I guess I'll miss part of the other topics<<BR>>
joejaxx: i have not even said 'lol' during this entire thing<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: please do<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: once<<BR>>
AstralJava: You have now. :D<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: AstralJava: bastard<<BR>>
_MMA_: joejaxx: SO when will we expect an answer?<<BR>>
joejaxx: when i "lol" i actually laugh in real life, i do not feel like laughing at the moment<<BR>>
joejaxx: _MMA_: Wednesday<<BR>>
_MMA_: ok.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Moving on.<<BR>>
_MMA_: ﻿ ﻿    * Moving the channels to Ubuntu IRC counsel control<<BR>>
_MMA_: jussi01: What is involved with this?<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: its the policy of the official ubuntu projects<<BR>>
jussi01: 1 sec<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and it is part of the horizontal decentralized responsabilities and ownerships<<BR>>
jussi01: addong this for starters: [22:47:41] [freenode:ChanServ:ChanServ] 3     UbuntuIrcCouncil       +votsriRfA [modified 4 weeks, 1 day, 09:58:28 ago]<<BR>>
_MMA_: jussi01: Where?<<BR>>
jussi01: But its best that we get price child involved with this - as he is actually on the council<<BR>>
jussi01: _MMA_: access list<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: jussi01: very true<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and he has helped us before<<BR>>
jussi01: I will have time to take care of that and ping people where necessary, iof you like<<BR>>
_MMA_: Sure. Ok. Well lets put implementation aside.<<BR>>
_MMA_: ANyone have an issue with this?<<BR>>
jussi01: not I<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: +1<<BR>>
AstralJava: I'm cool.<<BR>>
_MMA_: rexbron, TheMuso?<<BR>>
jussi01: pricey is around now, shall I ask him in?<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: jussi01: nice, please do<<BR>>
_MMA_: Sure. Have him pop in.<<BR>>
joejaxx:  /win 21<<BR>>
PriceChild [i=pricechi@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.pricechild] entered the room.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: hello PriceChild<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. Settled. We'll put the channels in-line with other Ubuntu projects under the care of the IRC Council.<<BR>>
jussi01: Hello PriceChild<<BR>>
PriceChild: Allo there.<<BR>>
_MMA_: \m/<<BR>>
PriceChild: :/<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: \o/<<BR>>
_MMA_: jussi01: If you like, and Joseph can, please work in PM to get this done.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: PriceChild: can we have this channel owned by the ubuntu irc council?<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: we should move the meeting on<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I have to go 5 minutes left <<BR>>
_MMA_: Moving on.<<BR>>
PriceChild: If you want.. but I'm not sure why?<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: before I get spanked because Im too late for the family thing<<BR>>
_MMA_: PriceChild: We'll talk later about it.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: :P<<BR>>
PriceChild: Sure.<<BR>>
_MMA_:     * Recruitment Campaign<<BR>>
_MMA_: I have basic non-groundbreaking ideas for getting new members.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I have very few<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: so I wanted this meeting to ask people to think about it<<BR>>
persia [n=persia@207.96.102.100] entered the room.<<BR>>
_MMA_: I'll put up a post to the list soon I expect ideas from the team on.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and try to create a multi attack plan for this topic<<BR>>
_MMA_: Hi Emmet.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: Hey persia :)<<BR>>
persia: Sorry I'm late <<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: no problem<<BR>>
joejaxx:  /win 81<<BR>>
_MMA_: I just have the normal, "Post here and there." type of ideas.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: my ideas are blogging about stuff we need and asking for help<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: see who replies to that<<BR>>
_MMA_: "We need you!" and all.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: talk about recruiting support in the forums<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: mailing list<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: etc<<BR>>
_MMA_: Yes.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Various ML actually.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: but we need to recruit two types of contributors<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: developers and supporters<<BR>>
_MMA_: Anyone have any quick ideas now for the record?<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: so we need to write those uncle sam propaganda<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: and move it around in the correct mediums<<BR>>
_MMA_: Anyone other than Luis?<<BR>>
* **AstralJava ain't so good with marketing, so I'll leave it to you lads. I'll just stick to my pbuilder and all that. :D<<BR>>
_MMA_: :P<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: AstralJava: lol<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: any native english speaker wants to help me with the writing of this?<<BR>>
_MMA_: I will. We'll do it together.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: my spanglish is funny but not much else<<BR>>
* **_MMA_ grabs Luis's hand lovingly.<<BR>>
* **Luis de Bethencourt holds _MMA_'s hand<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: so gay<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. Moving on.<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: this is my time guys<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: sorry I cant stay for the rest<<BR>>
_MMA_: Later Luis.<<BR>>
jussi01: ok luisbg have a good one<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: I have told Cory my opinions about the rest of the topics and I'll scroll back in a few hours<<BR>>
Luis de Bethencourt: bye everybody<<BR>>
_MMA_:     * Our Package status's's'sss'ss'ssss (statusi)<<BR>>
jussi01: lol<<BR>>
_MMA_: :P<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. I think we know where Pencil is. Or do we?<<BR>>
AstralJava: In REVU.<<BR>>
AstralJava: Also built on my PPA.<<BR>>
_MMA_: ﻿AstralJava: What about those others you quickly took up?<<BR>>
AstralJava: Rakarrack in REVU too, but strangely didn't build in PPA.<<BR>>
AstralJava: Built fine on Intrepid pbuilder though.<<BR>>
AstralJava: minicomputer I haven't had time for, yet.<<BR>>
jussi01: AstralJava: nice work!<<BR>>
AstralJava: Cheers.<<BR>>
AstralJava: Pencil sources under team's bzr branches also.<<BR>>
AstralJava: Rakarrack getting there once I figure out what the problem is.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. So was that all? I knew it was only a couple. What about superlooper? What is needed on it again. A merge/sync?<<BR>>
cody-somerville left the room (quit: Remote closed the connection).<<BR>>
_MMA_: jussi01 ^^^<<BR>>
AstralJava: No other from me, but I can look on something else if need be. Took a quick look on what the status is with intrepid/sid relation, but nothing there that required imminent action.<<BR>>
jussi01: _MMA_: yeah, when its done  in debian - also some prodding the maintainer when the required lib hits debian (rubberband)<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. DO what you can and *please* poke someone for help.<<BR>>
AstralJava: Prodding the maintainer?! Please elaborate.<<BR>>
jussi01: AstralJava: the debian maintainer said he will update it when rubberband hits debian, as soon as that happens, he should be prodded to do it...<<BR>>
AstralJava: Right'o.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Moving on.<<BR>>
_MMA_:     * Support on #ubuntustudio<<BR>>
_MMA_: I have no clue about this one. Maybe Jussi does?<<BR>>
jussi01: yes<<BR>>
jussi01: Its mostly been addressed, but we need to be in the channel giving help where we can. Ive noticed in the last few day a fantastic jump in questions actually getting answered in channel - just cause a few more people are around. <<BR>>
jussi01: So please, try to be in channel over there if you can. <<BR>>
AstralJava: Gotcha.<<BR>>
jussi01: Its been good also the fact that things have bneen happening have encouraged others to speak up, as they see other people talking<<BR>>
_MMA_: But it's still You and I Jussi. Who else has chimed in?<<BR>>
jussi01: AstralJava: <<BR>>
jussi01: and luisbg also<<BR>>
jussi01: but we need to see more - even if its only giving 5mins here and there<<BR>>
_MMA_: DO you have any other ideas as to how to address this?<<BR>>
jussi01: _MMA_: I feel it will grow as people see that there is viable help in there, then when there are people asking, people learn and tell others etc<<BR>>
jussi01: But maybe a ML post would also be in order<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. Cool.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Moving on.<<BR>>
_MMA_:    * Artwork status.<<BR>>
_MMA_: I ain't got shit.<<BR>>
_MMA_: :P<<BR>>
AstralJava: How's your help raid coming up?<<BR>>
_MMA_: But I will say, I have many ideas floating around just have to pick a direction.<<BR>>
_MMA_: ?<<BR>>
AstralJava: I thought you were gonna recruit people for that.<<BR>>
jussi01: _MMA_: do you think you might put a couple of "directions" together and we can say "yeah! lets do that one" ??<<BR>>
_MMA_: As far as art goes, we'll see. I has 3 on the hook but as always no talk from them in weeks.<<BR>>
_MMA_: jussi01: It's honestly easier not to. But sure. I'll try. :)<<BR>>
jussi01: :D<<BR>>
_MMA_: s/has.had<<BR>>
_MMA_: gah. whatever<<BR>>
_MMA_: I was wondering something.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Well wait.<<BR>>
_MMA_: That's the end of "official" topics.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Anyone got anything else?<<BR>>
AstralJava: Well I was gonna ask about documentation.<<BR>>
AstralJava: What's the status on that?<<BR>>
AstralJava: What plans? Schedules? Roadmaps?<<BR>>
_MMA_: AstralJava: Well murat might be fucked.<<BR>>
AstralJava: Ouch.<<BR>>
_MMA_: It *looks* like he's gonna get pulled into military service.<<BR>>
AstralJava: By a baseball bat rolled in glass shards?<<BR>>
AstralJava: Yep, that's it then.<<BR>>
AstralJava: :D<<BR>>
AstralJava: Seriously, sorry to hear that.<<BR>>
_MMA_: So, we're in a holding pattern for now.<<BR>>
AstralJava: Ok.<<BR>>
_MMA_: But not long. I'll try to move it along soon.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Ok. I have one last idea/thought.<<BR>>
_MMA_: I was watching the # of Ubuntu-related questions on the linux-audio-users ML. They are quite large.<<BR>>
_MMA_: I was thinking about a possible merge. I kinda think it would be neat for people to go for help on our apps and not a seperate list just for us.<<BR>>
jussi01: _MMA_: I like that idea<<BR>>
_MMA_: *LOTS* of questions have the same answers.<<BR>>
_MMA_: I jusr saw a Debian user asking about the whole limits.conf settings thing.<<BR>>
_MMA_: *just<<BR>>
_MMA_: Any more?<<BR>>
AstralJava: Hmm... what you reckon we should do then? We all join that list and take our business over there?<<BR>>
_MMA_: Just the support channel. I'd still have to talk with those guys. Its all just an idea.<<BR>>
_MMA_: Anything else?<<BR>>
_MMA_: ﻿﻿************************ END MEETING ﻿************************<<BR>>
