{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Authors and Editors Meeting #1 - 29/06/2013 ==

=== Agenda ===
* Review of current authors and openings for 13.10 
* Recruitment 
* Installation of software
* Communication/cooperation between authors and editors
* Open Q/A

=== Attendees ===
* JimConnett
* hannie
* PatrickDickey
* jmarsden
* godbyk 
* CarstenG 
* meetingology 
* jpickett

=== Minutes ===
==== Review of current authors and openings for 13.10 ====
** ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApS28NMLnYJXdEdGQjRtUWtaOUZxREVzUldSOU5kc2c#gid=0 
** ''ACTION:'' Hannie and JimConnett will coordinate with authors early on with regards to the major differences we're seeing between 13.04 and 13.10 alpha1
==== Recruitment ====
** ''ACTION:'' JimConnett to contact FCM to get an article published about the manual project.
** ''ACTION:'' PatrickDickey will contact utottu for an update to refence the manual project.
==== Installation of software ====
** ''No action items''
==== Communication/cooperation between authors and editors ====
** ''ACTION:'' Hannie will send an email to the mailing list about author-editor contacts
** ''ACTION:'' JimConnett to keep in contact with authors through the month of August to ensure authoring is on track and completed before the deadline.
==== Open Q/A ====
** ''ACTION:'' godbyk will contact Paddy to ascertain his ongoing interest in updating the website
** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-manual 

=== Next meeting ===
** To be determined. Sometime in July. Will use doodle to vote and communicate next meeting date and time.
