{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== History ===

On summer 2005, the Ubuntu-fr and Ubuntu-de LoCoTeams were approaching the limits of their respective hosting; Ubuntu-fr was being hosted for over 8 months on a shared hosting at APINC.org, and Ubuntu-de was hosted on Matthias Urlichs' personal server at netz.smurf.noris.de. 

On both sides, the situation needed to change. After APINC offered to host a server for Ubuntu-fr, it was decided with Ubuntu-de to share the costs and to buy a new server together. As we needed money, we launched a fundraising campaign, which was quite successful; thanks again to everybody who contributed! We collected over 3000€ in less than one week. 

Last but not least, some companies heard about that fundraising, and were willing to give us servers they did not need anymore; we were given two DELL servers by a french bank, and one HP server by another company. Unfortunately, the HP server developed hardware problems short after its installation; so Ubuntu-fr and Ubuntu-de were hosted on these two Dell servers for some months.

After Dapper have been released, the amount of visitors continued to increase; we had to buy a new server with the money we collected before. Asa, a 1U server with 2x 3Ghz and 4 GB RAM, was bought on ebay. As time passed the locos kept growing, we bought some more servers and got some other sponsored. 

We have a quite good platform now, and we would be happy to provide hosting to locos that need it. 

=== Detail of our structure ===

The servers are named after the names of <nowiki>[[http://www.mythome.org/africang.html|african gods]]</nowiki>.

Asa, Tilo, Lisa, Dongo, Mawu, Faro, Yurugu, Jok, and Nun are generously hosted by <nowiki>[[http://www.noris.net|noris network]]</nowiki> in Nürnberg, on a 100 Mbit/s wire. 
Eshu is lended by <nowiki>[[http://www.dedibox.fr|Dedibox.fr]]</nowiki>, and has 100 Mbit/s of bandwidth. 
Jok is a donation of <nowiki>[[http://www.transtec.de/|Transtec]]</nowiki>, upgraded to 8 GB RAM and a second processor through our community.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''Date'''
| Size/Location
| '''Tasks'''
| '''OS'''
| '''Hardware'''
|-
| Asa
| 2006-07
| 1U/Nuremberg
| Apache
| Ubuntu Dapper
| Bi-Xeon 3GHz, 4GB ECC RAM, 3*70GB SCSI
|-
| Buk
| 2008-04
| ?/France
| FTP server (no root access)
| Gentoo 1.12
| Dual core 2Ghz, 2GB RAM, 500GB disk (raid?) 100mbits
|-
| Dongo
| 2007-11
| 1U/Nuremberg
| Apache
| Ubuntu Dapper
| Dual Xeon quad-core 1.6 Ghz, 8 GB RAM, 2x 80 GB SATA
|-
| Eshu
| 2006-12
| Not our/Bezons
| Administration server: DNS, email, trac
| Ubuntu Dapper
| Via 2Ghz, 1GB RAM, 2*160GB, soft raid
|-
| Faro
| 2007-06
| 2U/Nuremberg
| SQL replication/backup
| Ubuntu Dapper
| Bi-PIII 1.4 GHz, 2 GB ECC RAM, 4x 18 GB SCSI 10k raid5
|-
| Gu
| 2008-02
| VM/Paris
| Misc tools/services
| Ubuntu Dapper
| processor approx. equivalent to 1Ghz, 512MB RAM, 10GB disk
|-
| Jok
| 2007-11
| 1U/Nuremberg
| Apache
| Ubuntu Dapper
| Dual opteron dual core 2.2Ghz, 4GB RAM, 2 scsi disks
|-
| Lisa
| 2005-11
| 1U/Nuremberg
| http load balancer/NIS
| Ubuntu Dapper
| Bi-P3 1GHz, 1GB ECC RAM, 1*18GB SCSI
|-
| Mawu
| 2005-11
| 1U/Nuremberg
| Performance testing server
| Ubuntu Dapper
| Bi-P3 1 GHz, 1 GB ECC RAM, 1x 18 GB SCSI
|-
| NFS
| 2007-10
| Nuremberg
| NAS NFS share
| ?
| 20GB
|-
| Nun
| 2008-04
| 2U/Nuremberg
| NFS server
| Ubuntu Hardy
| Dual xeon 2.4Ghz, 4GB RAM
|-
| Tilo
| 2007-04
| 1U/Nuremberg
| MySQL Server
| Ubuntu Dapper
| Bi-Xeon 2.8Ghz, 4GB RAM, 3*36GB SCSI 15k, hard raid
|-
| Yurugu
| 2007-10
| 0U/Nuremberg
| Dev server
| Ubuntu Dapper
| VM 512 MB ram, 40 GB disk
|}

=== What we can offer ===

We can provide hosting for Locoteams, using PHP or Python. A mysql account is also provided.
Uploads are done via Subversion, from the dev server. Some ssh accounts on the dev server can be given for each LoCoTeam.

We can also provide mailing lists, torrents, anonymous FTP (we can also provide mirroring)... 

=== Who is currently hosted ===

Teams that are currently hosted:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuusers.de/|Ubuntu-de]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fr.org/|Ubuntu-fr]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.no/|Ubuntu-no]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-ir.org/|Ubuntu-ir]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-pt.org/|Ubuntu-pt]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-ru.org/|Ubuntu-ru]]</nowiki>

=== Admin Team ===

The servers crashed, who should you contact?

On launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-eu|ubuntu-eu]]</nowiki>

On freenode: hubby (Ubuntu-de), Ju. (Ubuntu-fr),  mitsuhiko (ubuntu-de), netzmeister (Ubuntu-de), smurf (Ubuntu-de), Yann2 (Ubuntu-fr), zed (Ubuntu-fr), ys76 (Ubuntu-de)
