{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

The idea of Ubuntu Lite is to bring the power of Ubuntu across to the users of Legacy systems. So not just to make a small linux as this has been done before (Puppy Linux, Damn Small linux, the Rule Project). Nor to make a useable linux based desktop Operating system (that has been done with Ubuntu Linux, Beatrix) The idea is to bring the power of Ubuntu to the typical users of Legacy hardware (ie the grandma who gets an old P2 set up for her but does not know how to use it).

So to this end the Operating system needs to be:

*** Easily used by people with minimal computer skills
*** Useable on a resurrected system (see system specifications below)
*** and is able to satisfy a typical users requirement of Applications and functionality.

These are the three core aims of the Ubuntu Lite Project

We will also provide development guides to anyone who wants to trim down their versions or help others use linux on reconditioned hardware. I hope that you enjoy Ubuntu Lite and that you find it useful.

=== Installing ===

Until UbuntuLite is available as a complete CD, you can install it by doing
a <code>server</code> install of Ubuntu and then fetching and installing the ubuntu-lite-desktop package.  The complete process is described at InstallingUbuntuLite (english)
