{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<<BR>>

Welcome to the Ubuntu Open Week!

 ~+ Click <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom%2Cubuntu-classroom-chat|here]]</nowiki> to join in the discussion from your browser, and check <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-JoiningIn|this page]]</nowiki> for instructions on how to participate! +~

'''Takes place from Tuesday 22 April - Thursday 24 April 2014 on IRC in #ubuntu-classroom and #ubuntu-classroom-chat.'''

=== About Open Week ===

Ubuntu Open Week is a week of IRC sessions and Q+A sessions all about getting involved in the rock-and-roll world that is the Ubuntu community. Want to find more about it? Check <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-WhatIsIt | this page]]</nowiki>.

'''Find out more about the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop|Desktop]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/server|Server]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/WhatIsUbuntu/kubuntu|Kubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.edubuntu.org/|Edubuntu]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.xubuntu.org/|Xubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org/|Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.mythbuntu.org/|Mythbuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://lubuntu.net/|Lubuntu]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download|download]]</nowiki> them.'''

=== The Timetable ===

We organised a week long menu of events that touch many different areas of the Ubuntu community. If you are interested in being a part of the project, there is sure to be a session for you.

The previous Ubuntu Open Week session Schedule and Logs can be found <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek-Previous|here]]</nowiki>.

<<BR>>

You can subscribe to <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/ubuntuclassroom|@ubuntuclassroom]]</nowiki> on <nowiki>[[https://identi.ca|identi.ca]]</nowiki> or follow <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/ubuntuclassroom|@ubuntuclassroom]]</nowiki> on <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com|Twitter]]</nowiki> to be informed whenever a new Open Week is about to begin.

** Hashtag for Ubuntu Open Week:  '''#uow'''

* Note: For help on time equivalents around the world, visit <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/|Time and Date World Clock]]</nowiki>, or click the time on the schedule.

=== Developer Week ===

Ubuntu Developer Week is a similar workshop, but targeted more to developers. You can find out more information <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek|here]]</nowiki>.
