{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Languages'''<<BR>>
|}

== Campaign: Support Abdullah Demirbas! ==
The <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/ubuntustory/philosophy|Ubuntu Philosophy]]</nowiki> says:
 1. Every computer user should have the freedom to download, run, copy, distribute, study, share, change and improve their software for any purpose, without paying licensing fees.
 2. '''Every computer user should be able to use their software in the language of their choice.'''
 3. Every computer user should be given every opportunity to use software, even if they work under a disability.

Mayor Abdullah Demirbas of Diyarbakir/Sur (Old Town) took this seriously. He and his city council wanted to provide municipal services in several languages like Kurdish, Syriac, Armenian and Arabic, which according to a study are spoken by three quarters of the population. They printed books and brochures in these languages encouraged the translation and use of Ubuntu into Kurdish. This practice of multilingual municipal service was the reason he was dismissed by the Minster of Interior and the municipal council dissolved.

The <nowiki>[[http://support-demirbas.com|"Support Demirbas"]]</nowiki> Campaign wants to be multilingual itself. We ask YOU to translate the following '''statement by MarkShuttleworth''' into YOUR language and send it together with the Turkish version to the Turkish Interior Minister. Please also write your translations to the Ubuntu Wiki.

 '''We are writing to ask the Turkish Interior Minister to withdraw the decision to dismiss Abdullah Demirbas and dissolve the municipal council of Diyarbakir/Sur (Old Town).'''

 '''In the Ubuntu project, we are working to build a world where everyone, from Turkey to South Africa, from China to Latin America, from Tokyo to New York, can participate equally in the global digital economy of the 21st century. For this reason, we contribute to the free software movement with the goal to ensure that high quality software tools are available in every language in the world. This project benefits everyone in Turkey, and we are saddened that Mayor Demirbas' support for our work has been the basis of charges against him.'''

 '''The provision of municipal services, including software, in the language of all residents is an important way to bring a community together in shared pursuit of economic and social development. We hope the Turkish Interior Minister will join us in support of that goal.'''

Email adress of the Interior Minister (Beşir Atalay): batalay@icisleri.gov.tr ; postal adress: Beşir Atalay, İçişleri Bakanlığı, Ankara, Turkey

'''More information: <nowiki>[[http://supportdemirbas.ubuntu-ku.org/|Homepage of the Campaign]]</nowiki>'''
== Translations ==
=== Turkish/Turkce ===

==== Kampanya: Abdullah Demirbaş'a Destek! ====
Ubuntu Felsefesi derki:
 1. Bütün bilgisayar kullanıcıları yazılımlarını her hangi bir amaç için indirmede, çalıştırmada, kopyalamada, dağıtmada, çalışmada, paylaşmada, değiştirmede ve geliştirmede her hangi bir lisans ücreti ödemeksizin özgür olabilmelidir.
 2. Bütün bilgisayar kullanıcıları yazılımlarını kendi seçimleri olan bir dilde kullanabilme özgürlüğüne sahip olmalıdır.
 3. Kullanici özürlü olsa dahi, her bilgisayar kullanicisina bilgisayar yazilimi kullanma imkani verilmesi gerekir.

Diyarbakır Surbelediyesi Belediye Başkanı Abdullah Demirbaş bunu ciddiye aldı. O ve Belediye Meclisi üyeleri belediye hizmetlerini belediye sınırları içinde konuşulma oranları ¾ olan Kürtçe, Süryanice, Ermenice ve Arapça gibi değişik dillerde sunmak istediler. Bu dillerde kitap ve broşürler hazırladılar ve Ubuntu'nun Kürtçe çevirisi ve kullanımı için moral oldular. Bu çokdilli belediyecilik hizmeti pratiği İçişleri Bakanlığı tarıfından Belediye Başkanının Başkanlık görevinden alınmasına ve Belediye Meclisinin feshine sebep oldu.

<nowiki>[[http://support-demirbas.com|"Demirbaş'a Destek"]]</nowiki> Kampanyası çokdilli olmak istiyor. Biz senden aşağıdaki cümleleri KENDİ diline çevirmeni ve Türkçe metin ile birlikte İçişleri Başkanlığına göndermeni istiyoruz. Lütfen çevirdiğin cümleleri Ubuntu Wiki'sine de ekle.

 '''Biz Türkiye İçişleri Bakanlığından Diyarbakır Sur Belediyesi Belediye Başkanı Abdullah Demirbaş'ın görevden alınması ve Belediye Meclisinin feshi kararını geri almasını istiyoruz.'''

 '''Biz Ubuntu projesinde dünyanın heryerinden, Türkiye'den Güney Afrika'ya, Çin'den Latin Amerika'ya, Tokyo'dan Newyork'a kadar herkes eşit şekilde 21'inci yüzyılın global dijital ekonomisine katılabilir. Bu sebeple, özgür yazlım hareketine dünyadaki bütün dillerde yüksek kalitede yazılım araçları sunmasına katkıda bulunuyoruz. Bu proje Türkiye'deki herkese yarar sağlar ve bizim işimize yaptığı destek yüzünden Belediye Başkanı Abdullah Demirbaş'ın haksızlıklara maruz kalmasından üzüntü duyuyoruz.'''

 '''Yazılım dahil, belediye hizmetlerinin bütün ahalinin dilinde olması toplumun birlikteliği, ekonomik ve sosyal gelişme açısından önemlidir. Umarızki Türkiye İçişleri Bakanlığı bu konuda bize katılır.'''

İçişleri Bakanılığı e-posta adresi (Beşir Atalay): batalay@icisleri.gov.tr ; Adres: Beşir Atalay, İçişleri Bakanlığı, Ankara, Turkey

=== Kurdish/Kurdî ===
 Şaredariya Pirzimanî li her derên dinyayê civakan pêşde dibe. Ez mat mam ku Şaredarek û Meclîseke Şaredariyê ku hatine hilbijartin ji kar hatin girtin û hatin feshkirin. Ji ber vê sedemê ji Wezareta Karên Hundirîn a Tirkiyeyê daxwaz dikim ku vê biryara jikargirtin û feshkirina Şaredarê Sûrê Birêz Abdullah Demirbaş û Meclîsa Şaredariyê şûnde bikişîne.

=== German/Deutsch ===
 Mehrsprachiger Service in Stadtverwaltungen wird weltweit praktiziert und ist fuer viele Gemeinschaften hilfreich. Ich bin entsetzt, dass wegen einer solchen Praxis ein gewählter Bürgermeister abgesetzt und ein Stadtrat aufgelöst wurde. Daher fordere ich den türkischen Innenminister auf, den Beschluss, Abdullah Demirbas abzusetzen und den Stadtrat aufzulösen, aufzuheben.

=== Vietnamese/Việt ===
 Dịch vụ thành phố đa ngôn ngữ có giúp đỡ cộng đồng trên khắp thế giới. Tôi bị sốc vì thị trưởng do cuộc tuyển cử chọn đã bị sa thải và hội đồng thành phố bị giải tán đều do cung cấp dịch vụ hữu ích như vậy. Vì thế, tôi xin Bộ Trưởng Nội Vụ Thổ Nhĩ Kỳ hủy bỏ lời quyết định sao thải Abdullah Demirbas và giải tán hội đồng thành phố Diyarbakir/Surici (TP Cũ).
