{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu Leadership Goals for the Ubuntu 12.04 (LTS) Release cycle

* Finalize Chapters 1 and 2 Loco Leadership Handbook
** Get each chapter pushed to bzr
** Promote these chapters to `LoCo` teams and ask for feedback

* Kick off Leadership Tutorials
** Venues: Blog / Video / IRC / Other?
** Establish how many per cycle
** Establish Process for planning, promoting, and providing tutorials

* IRC Leadership Tutorial Session Planning at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuLeadership/Projects#Online_Leadership_Tutorial_Sessions
** Current Status: 32 possible skills identified (https://docs.google.com/document/d/13VOmTgEqCzIW8oITV2d5fIRD3xsiKRVMd39OUlpx6xQ), 7 skills selected for the initial sessions, 4 trainers committed. Pending a few tweaks (below) and some promotion, the first sessions are nearly ready to roll.
*** Are the 7 selected skills the right ones? Any favorites for the next 7 in Feb/Mar/Apr?
*** Need to recruit a couple more trainers/assistants (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuLeadership/Projects#Skill_and_Trainer_List). 
** Tentative Schedule: Every two weeks
*** What's the best time-of-week / time-of-day?
** Different name? "Online Leader Growth Workshop"? "IRC Leader Toolbox Discussion"?

* Open Communication with Formal Leadership Councils, Boards, Canonical Community Team to establish more leadership mentoring opportunities throughout the Ubuntu Community.
