{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 40%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #b9defa; font-size: 0.90em;" :> '''Go back to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings | The Meetings Page]]</nowiki>'''
|}
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #EDE7EA ;"> Who
| Subject
| Details
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
| Say '''o/''' when asked
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
| Follow up with the previous meeting
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings/29062014
|-
| YOUR_NAME
| --
| --
|-
| Anybody
| Any Other Business
| A final round up
|}

== Time ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 30%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #d5e5ff; font-size: 0.90em;" :> <<BR>> '''Plan A*: ''' <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20140706T21&ah=1 | Sun, 06- July, 2014, 21:00 GMT]]</nowiki>
|}

<<BR>>

== Place of the meeting ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 30%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #d5d5ff; font-size: 0.90em;" :> <<BR>>IRC: irc.freenode.org <<BR>>Channel: #ubuntu-gnome <<BR>>'''Webchat link : <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-gnome | Click Here]]</nowiki>''' <<BR>>
|}

== Meeting information ==
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-gnome: [UU-Cycle] Ubuntu GNOME Weekly Meeting #3, 06 Jul at 21:08 &mdash; 22:30 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-gnome/2014/ubuntu-gnome.2014-07-06-21.08.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Artwork ====
The discussion about "Artwork" started at 21:26.

** ''ACTION:'' decide on the mailing list whether to use a wallpaper that refer to Ubuntu GNOME and change that every 6 months OR have one that remains without the need to change it every cycle
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad satya to check with darkxst about the time we have for Ubuntu GNOME website
** ''LINK:'' http://ubuntugnome.org/ 
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad satya and the rest of the team to decide about merging Wiki and FAQs under one tab called Docs with the new design
** ''ACTION:'' we should have 3 different designs for the new website not only one
** ''ACTION:'' no slidesshow nor heavy stuff on the new website design
** ''ACTION:'' satya to send an email to the general mailing list about the mockups UG Artwork Team has done
** ''LINK:'' http://satya164.deviantart.com/art/Gnome-Shell-Elegance-Colors-305966388 
** ''ACTION:'' satya to check with darkxst about GNOME Shell Themes and Icons
** ''ACTION:'' have 5 different genres, and choose 2 wallpapers from each genre for the wallpaper contest satya
** ''LINK:'' http://mozillaindia.org 
** ''ACTION:'' satya to check with the rest of UG team about having: https://scrollback.io/ubuntu-gnome on our website (new) or not
** ''ACTION:'' amjjawad to check with darkxst about doing the weekly meetings on Sat instead of Sun

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* amjjawad
** amjjawad satya to check with darkxst about the time we have for Ubuntu GNOME website
** amjjawad satya and the rest of the team to decide about merging Wiki and FAQs under one tab called Docs with the new design
** amjjawad to check with darkxst about doing the weekly meetings on Sat instead of Sun
* satya
** amjjawad satya to check with darkxst about the time we have for Ubuntu GNOME website
** amjjawad satya and the rest of the team to decide about merging Wiki and FAQs under one tab called Docs with the new design
** satya to send an email to the general mailing list about the mockups UG Artwork Team has done
** satya to check with darkxst about GNOME Shell Themes and Icons
** have 5 different genres, and choose 2 wallpapers from each genre for the wallpaper contest satya
** satya to check with the rest of UG team about having: https://scrollback.io/ubuntu-gnome on our website (new) or not
* **UNASSIGNED**
** decide on the mailing list whether to use a wallpaper that refer to Ubuntu GNOME and change that every 6 months OR have one that remains without the need to change it every cycle
** we should have 3 different designs for the new website not only one
** no slidesshow nor heavy stuff on the new website design

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* amjjawad (198)
* satya (139)
* meetingology (13)
* cla_ (10)
* ahoneybun (2)

=== Full Log ===

 21:08 <amjjawad> #startmeeting [UU-Cycle] Ubuntu GNOME Weekly Meeting #3

 21:08 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Jul  6 21:08:56 2014 UTC.  The chair is amjjawad. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 21:08 <meetingology> 

 21:08 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 21:10 <amjjawad> okay, so it seems I'm the only one here?!

 21:15 <cla_> hello

 21:16 <amjjawad> cla_, hi :)

 21:17 <amjjawad> Noskcaj, darkxst are you there?!

 21:17 <cla_> i am from argetina using ubuntu 14!

 21:17 <amjjawad> cla_, welcome and good to know that :)

 21:18 <amjjawad> Good luck with your match with Netherlands :D

 21:19 <amjjawad> Hmm, can't find anyone ... we have our weekly meeting for Ubuntu GNOME but guess no one is here :( too bad, too sad.

 21:19 <cla_> you are kind

 21:19 <amjjawad> cla_, , thank you :) are you using Ubuntu GNOME?!

 21:19 <cla_> I used it it looks very good

 21:20 <amjjawad> cla_, I'm glad to know that :)

 21:20 <cla_> i ve got several pc using it

 21:20 <amjjawad> amazing

 21:20 <cla_> mine is using pardus

 21:20 <amjjawad> cla_, see this http://ubuntugnome.org/learn-about-ubuntu-gnome-community/

 21:21 <cla_> ok

 21:22 <cla_> i haven't got any mistake

 21:23 <amjjawad> that is great to know

 21:23 <amjjawad> the link I sent you is useful, I'd suggest to add that to your bookmarks :)

 21:23 <cla_> i wanted to say hello, i gat to leave!

 21:23 <amjjawad> cla_, that is so kind and nice of you :) feel free to join our mailing list or IRC channel :)

 21:24 <cla_> bye bye

 21:24 <satya> hola

 21:25 <amjjawad> satya, finally!!

 21:25 <satya> :)

 21:25 <amjjawad> I was about to KILL YOU ALL :P

 21:25 <satya> why?

 21:25 <amjjawad> I'm here for 20 mins :(

 21:25 <satya> who else is?

 21:25 <amjjawad> why? hmmm, maybe because we have a meeting? :D

 21:25 <amjjawad> we're alone ...

 21:26 <satya> really???

 21:26 <amjjawad> I sent an email ... it seems everyone is ZzZz

 21:26 <satya> hmm...

 21:26 <amjjawad> okay, let's start

 21:26 <satya> yup

 21:26 <amjjawad> I will end it on time which is after 35mins

 21:26 <satya> sure

 21:26 <amjjawad> #topic Artwork

 21:27 <amjjawad> so, Mr. Acting :P

 21:27 <amjjawad> any update?

 21:27 <amjjawad> hope you didn't forget that you're acting TL now :D

 21:27 <satya> nothing. but alfredo had sent you an email

 21:27 <satya> nope. I remember

 21:27 <amjjawad> right, which I had no time to read :( I just saw the subject :(

 21:28 <satya> oh, they were the website mockups

 21:28 <satya> so if you approve, we can proceed to the work

 21:28 <amjjawad> I'm reading now

 21:28 <satya> nicey

 21:28 <amjjawad> I'm done with reading but didn't open the mockups yet

 21:28 <amjjawad> we can't vote now :( it is just me and you

 21:28 <amjjawad> hmmm, it is good idea to play the bad guy here heheheh

 21:29 <satya> yeah. no issues :D

 21:29 <amjjawad> they didn't attend so I will vote :P

 21:29 <amjjawad> just kidding

 21:29 <satya> lol

 21:29 <amjjawad> hehehe

 21:29 <satya> could we also get votes through the ML?

 21:30 <amjjawad> satya, interesting = http://cl.ly/image/0Y2S3F0B0O3B/o

 21:31 <satya> loading

 21:31 <amjjawad> satya, yeah, why not but here is faster and easier

 21:31 <satya> where?

 21:31 <amjjawad> here

 21:31 <amjjawad> here is better

 21:31 <amjjawad> the idea is nice

 21:32 <amjjawad> but I guess we can do better?

 21:32 <amjjawad> I have few points to share if I may :)

 21:32 <satya> yeah, sure. would be nice

 21:32 <amjjawad> (1) the current theme/color we're using ... this is the default for 14.04 ... what if we change that for 14.10 and 15.04 and so on?

 21:33 <amjjawad> my point is, why not have something that can be used always without the need to change it every cycle?

 21:33 <satya> we need a consistent brand color and theme

 21:33 <amjjawad> why?

 21:33 <satya> alfredo had a document with the color guidelines

 21:33 <amjjawad> satya, I shall not approve the use of the same wallpaper for 14.10 :P :P

 21:33 <satya> because we need to be consistent to be recognizable

 21:34 <amjjawad> satya, okay, but I hope you see my point

 21:34 <amjjawad> kidding aside, the current wallpaper is for UG 14.04

 21:34 <amjjawad> am I right?

 21:34 <satya> it's not about the wallpaper, but the color palette. if you are talking about the strip there, I guess we can update it every release or so

 21:35 <amjjawad> I'm talking about the wallpaper of the website

 21:35 <satya> or have an image which is not the wallpaper

 21:35 <satya> yeah, I get it, the strip below the header

 21:35 <amjjawad> yep

 21:35 <amjjawad> satya, that is the one, phew :D

 21:36 <amjjawad> are we going to change that every 6 months? here is the Q

 21:36 <satya> so, here is the idea, either use a completely separate image, or change it every 6 months

 21:36 <amjjawad> hmm

 21:36 <satya> using a different image is a good idea

 21:36 <amjjawad> I can't even use my full authority now :D

 21:36 <satya> but that must represent Ubuntu GNOME somehow

 21:36 <amjjawad> I can't vote for that alone

 21:37 <ahoneybun> o/

 21:37 <satya> hello ahoneybun

 21:37 <amjjawad> ahoneybun, hey :)

 21:37 <ahoneybun> hey satya amjjawad

 21:37 <amjjawad> :)

 21:37 <amjjawad> satya, okay, I won't be the stubborn leader :D I'll be easy going

 21:38 <satya> so, amjjwad, we can perhaps take the votes through mailing list, since more people can vote there?

 21:38 <amjjawad> #action decide on the mailing list whether to use a wallpaper that refer to Ubuntu GNOME and change that every 6 months OR have one that remains without the need to change it every cycle

 21:38 * meetingology decide on the mailing list whether to use a wallpaper that refer to Ubuntu GNOME and change that every 6 months OR have one that remains without the need to change it every cycle

 21:38 <amjjawad> satya, done ;)

 21:39 <satya> great :)

 21:39 <satya> also, about the mockups, I would love if there were 2-3 different types, but you know, designing is not an easy task

 21:39 <satya> it requires time, and we have very little

 21:39 <amjjawad> satya, you guys are 'not' supposed to do it alone :(

 21:39 <amjjawad> here is an issue that we had last cycle

 21:39 <amjjawad> I have asked your team to communicate :(

 21:39 <satya> yes?

 21:40 <amjjawad> yet, it i snot happening :(

 21:40 <satya> communicate about what?

 21:40 <amjjawad> you're acting now. If you need anything, you can ask me or Alfredo or Tim

 21:40 <satya> or to whom?

 21:40 <amjjawad> Communicate with those who are supposed to work on the new website design :(

 21:40 <satya> yup. sure.

 21:40 <amjjawad> and the rest of the team.

 21:41 <amjjawad> I don't want to but the burden on your shoulders alone, this is not fair.

 21:41 <amjjawad> and you just stated that you guys have little time :(

 21:41 <satya> yeah, but again, we sent it to the ML too.

 21:41 <amjjawad> hmmm

 21:41 <amjjawad> that is the problem

 21:41 <satya> that we need a design

 21:41 <amjjawad> you sent it to Artwork ML

 21:42 <amjjawad> not the 'main' one

 21:42 <satya> I sent the mockup to Artwork ML to get the internal feedback first

 21:42 <amjjawad> anyway, I'd love the idea of having 3 different designs to choose from

 21:42 <amjjawad> I know

 21:42 <amjjawad> you need the feedback for your design

 21:42 <amjjawad> we need 2 more :)

 21:43 <amjjawad> okay, how long time do we have for this?

 21:43 <satya> now that alfredo and me have the designs, we can send it to the main ML, and get feedback

 21:43 <amjjawad> I don't think the website has anything to do with feature freeze or whatever?

 21:43 <amjjawad> I must check that with darkxst

 21:43 <satya> I'm not sure, but I think Neil had said he will be busier in coming days

 21:43 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad satya to check with darkxst about the time we have for Ubuntu GNOME website

 21:43 * meetingology amjjawad satya to check with darkxst about the time we have for Ubuntu GNOME website

 21:43 <satya> he can do the work, but it'll be little slower

 21:44 <amjjawad> action point logged

 21:44 <amjjawad> if we have time until the end of this cycle, that would be great, I guess

 21:44 <amjjawad> what do you think?

 21:45 <satya> yeah, I would prefer the redesign to happen before the release

 21:45 <satya> I have to ask Neil how fast he can finish it

 21:45 <satya> but first, I've to get feedback

 21:45 <amjjawad> Neil will do one design, I guess?

 21:45 <amjjawad> Okay, back to our team design (yours)

 21:46 <satya> Neil will code the website

 21:46 <amjjawad> I like the idea ... simple and short ... but can we do better? I rate it 7/10 maybe

 21:46 <amjjawad> I'm still not happy with two tabs for docs

 21:46 <satya> so, what's your idea?

 21:47 <amjjawad> one tab, just like the community tab

 21:47 <satya> the two tabs for FAQ and Documentation serve a simple purpose, to make the FAQ more accessible

 21:47 <amjjawad> wait please

 21:47 <amjjawad> the current website has:

 21:47 <amjjawad> 6 tabs

 21:48 <amjjawad> Home - Screenshots - Docs - Download - Getting Involved - Contact Us

 21:48 * satya is checking the current one

 21:48 <amjjawad> http://ubuntugnome.org/

 21:49 <satya> yeh, when you hover over "Documentation", 2 links appear

 21:49 <satya> "FAQ" and "Wiki"

 21:49 <amjjawad> indeed :)

 21:49 <satya> hover is not something that is available in phones and tablets

 21:49 <amjjawad> that is why I'm asking to merge (on the new design) both FAQs and Wiki

 21:50 <satya> yeah, but hover is not available on all devices, so it hurts accessibility

 21:50 <amjjawad> those who click Docs should find 'FAQs' and 'Wiki' - just like what you guys did with Community

 21:50 <amjjawad> No hover

 21:50 <amjjawad> just like what you did with Community on the new design :)

 21:51 <satya> that will mean a complex navigation with menu and submenu

 21:51 <amjjawad> satya, :(

 21:51 <satya> in the mobile view, we would already have the navigation menu collapsed into one icon

 21:51 <amjjawad> you're not seeing my point

 21:52 <amjjawad> satya, see this please http://cl.ly/image/0Y2S3F0B0O3B

 21:52 <amjjawad> why you merged the two tabs here?

 21:52 <amjjawad> while you don't want to do the same with FAQs and Wiki ?

 21:52 * satya is checking

 21:54 <satya> FAQ and Wiki are totally different. They have lots of content. Getting involved and contact us are short. I don't mind if they are separate though

 21:54 <satya> but merging them doesn't do any harm

 21:54 <satya> FAQ will be like one page long

 21:55 <amjjawad> satya, Wiki will have nothing but links :) in fact, one link to our Wiki Area so it is FAQ that will have some teext

 21:55 <amjjawad> yes and that is all what we need :)

 21:55 <satya> yeah, that "Documentation" is meant to just link to the "Wiki" page, AFAIK

 21:56 <satya> isn't it?

 21:56 <amjjawad> satya, :D

 21:56 <amjjawad> you're too sleepy :P

 21:56 <satya> :)

 21:56 <amjjawad> I wish I could draw that and show you

 21:56 <amjjawad> that is why I love google hangout

 21:57 <satya> yeah, that would help me understand

 21:57 <amjjawad> if we were using it, that would be easier for me to explain

 21:57 <amjjawad> okay, let's decide that later

 21:57 <satya> yup. please draw one, so I can better understand

 21:57 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad satya and the rest of the team to decide about merging Wiki and FAQs under one tab called Docs with the new design

 21:57 * meetingology amjjawad satya and the rest of the team to decide about merging Wiki and FAQs under one tab called Docs with the new design

 21:57 <satya> right now, seems I'm confused

 21:58 <amjjawad> I know

 21:58 <amjjawad> so let's leave it for now

 21:58 <amjjawad> anything else before we end the meeting?

 21:58 <amjjawad> what I do love about the new design is the bottom :D

 21:58 <amjjawad> footer

 21:58 <amjjawad> it is WOW

 21:59 <satya> yeah, alfredo wanted to have a beautiful footer :

 21:59 <satya> :

 21:59 <satya> :D

 21:59 <amjjawad> yeah, it is so nice

 21:59 <satya> so, apart from the navigation bar, what else?

 22:00 <amjjawad> the bar + the wallpapers

 22:00 <amjjawad> that is all for now

 22:00 <amjjawad> it is nice and simple

 22:00 <satya> ok. about a slideshow, we don't want a slideshow as it will not work properly on a mobile device

 22:00 <amjjawad> #action we should have 3 different designs for the new website not only one

 22:00 * meetingology we should have 3 different designs for the new website not only one

 22:00 <amjjawad> satya, -1 for slideshow

 22:01 <amjjawad> #action no slidesshow nor heavy stuff on the new website design

 22:01 * meetingology no slidesshow nor heavy stuff on the new website design

 22:01 <satya> so, I'll send a mail to the main ML tomorrow with the current mockups, and our requirements if someone wants to submit new mockups

 22:01 <amjjawad> what else?

 22:01 <amjjawad> good call :D

 22:02 <satya> about including themes

 22:02 <amjjawad> #action satya to send an email to the general mailing list about the mockups UG Artwork Team has done

 22:02 * meetingology satya to send an email to the general mailing list about the mockups UG Artwork Team has done

 22:02 <amjjawad> okay, what else?

 22:02 <satya> including themes :)

 22:02 <amjjawad> a side from the notes I have discussed, I don't have any other problem with the design :D

 22:02 <amjjawad> themes?

 22:02 <amjjawad> what themes? website themes?

 22:03 <satya> no, GTK themes

 22:03 <satya> to include in the default installation

 22:03 <satya> last time we talked about having moka and numix

 22:04 <amjjawad> right

 22:05 <amjjawad> I don't mind anything nice

 22:05 <amjjawad> but I do want UG to have some themes by default

 22:05 <satya> so, should I proceed to talk with Sam Hewitt about having Moka?

 22:05 <amjjawad> we already agreed about that last meeting

 22:05 <amjjawad> Ohh, Sam

 22:05 <amjjawad> hehe

 22:05 <satya> :)

 22:05 <amjjawad> he had once negative feedback about UG

 22:06 <amjjawad> but I guess nothing personal

 22:06 <amjjawad> we had a quick chat on UG G+ Page

 22:06 <satya> lol :D

 22:06 <satya> what did he say?

 22:06 <amjjawad> I forgot

 22:06 <amjjawad> he wasn't happy with something ... can't remember

 22:06 <satya> may be due to old Gnome version

 22:07 <amjjawad> anyway, how many themes can add by default?

 22:07 <amjjawad> we have only one which is the default, right? I mean for 14.04

 22:07 <amjjawad> if we could add 2-3, that would be super great

 22:07 <satya> there aren't many good themes AFAIK

 22:08 <satya> elementary, Moka, Numix, Iris are all I know

 22:08 <satya> elementary is not suitable for GNOME

 22:08 <satya> we can have Moka, Numix and Iris

 22:08 <amjjawad> at least, we give some options to our users

 22:08 <satya> yeah :D

 22:08 <amjjawad> from what I have seen so far, the only negative feedback we do have is the look and feel

 22:08 <amjjawad> most of the feedback stating that our system is rock solid

 22:09 <amjjawad> and I can confirm that

 22:09 <amjjawad> but it is the look and feel

 22:09 <amjjawad> that even myself not happy with

 22:09 <amjjawad> shh, don't tell anyone :P

 22:09 <satya> yeah, but that's the default GNOME look. what we can do :(

 22:09 <satya> :)

 22:09 <amjjawad> so, I guess this is all about this week meeting ... anything else before I go?

 22:09 <satya> do we want to include any GNOME shell theme?

 22:09 <amjjawad> satya, we must find a way to include more themes and nice wallappers

 22:10 <satya> wait, I have few things to say

 22:10 <amjjawad> satya, ok :)

 22:10 <satya> I don't worry about wallpapers, I'm sure, they'll be plenty

 22:10 <amjjawad> +1

 22:11 <satya> so, do we want to also include Gnome Shell themes and icon themes?

 22:11 <satya> for icon themes, we could include Moka, elementary Xfce, Numix Circle etc.

 22:11 <amjjawad> more icons themes = yes

 22:11 <amjjawad> GNOME Shell Themes?

 22:12 <satya> yeah?

 22:12 <satya> about shell themes,  guess lots of themes aren't properly maintained

 22:12 <amjjawad> I'm too tired to figure out what we are talking about

 22:13 <amjjawad> the one that if we change, the look of the system will change?

 22:13 <satya> one moment

 22:13 <satya> http://satya164.deviantart.com/art/Gnome-Shell-Elegance-Colors-305966388

 22:14 <satya> it's the Gnome Shell theme I actively maintain

 22:14 <amjjawad> so I was right

 22:14 <amjjawad> the one that if we change it, the whole thing will be changed

 22:14 <amjjawad> sure, that would be lovely

 22:15 <satya> good. so my point, we don't have many GNOME shell themes which are actively maintained

 22:15 <satya> if we include the one I linked above, I know that it'll be actively maintained

 22:15 <satya> also, it's an app, not a theme

 22:16 <amjjawad> I don't mind

 22:16 <amjjawad> we need to talk with darkxst about that

 22:16 <amjjawad> #action satya to check with darkxst about GNOME Shell Themes and Icons

 22:16 * meetingology satya to check with darkxst about GNOME Shell Themes and Icons

 22:16 <amjjawad> what else? :)

 22:16 <satya> so, about the wallpaper contest

 22:16 <satya> there is no progress yet.

 22:16 <amjjawad> yeah, we agreed to start that

 22:16 <satya> but I think I should start this week

 22:16 <amjjawad> it is okay, no rush

 22:16 <amjjawad> that is good

 22:17 <satya> so, we decided to use flickr, and 2 submissions per user, right?

 22:18 <satya> how about we make it like that, have 5 different genres, and choose 2 wallpapers from each genre?

 22:18 <satya> like nature, city, abstract etc.?

 22:18 <satya> to have some variety in the wallpapers

 22:18 <amjjawad> hmm

 22:18 <amjjawad> that is good idea

 22:18 <amjjawad> and 1 to 2 submit per user

 22:19 <satya> yup :)

 22:19 <amjjawad> the total is 10, right?

 22:19 <satya> yeah, I think so

 22:19 <satya> so, I shall talk to alfredo and proceed with the idea then?

 22:19 <amjjawad> #action have 5 different genres, and choose 2 wallpapers from each genre for the wallpaper contest satya

 22:19 * meetingology have 5 different genres, and choose 2 wallpapers from each genre for the wallpaper contest satya

 22:19 <amjjawad> yep ;)

 22:20 <satya> great.

 22:20 <amjjawad> :D

 22:20 <satya> nothing else, right?

 22:20 <amjjawad> hahaha

 22:20 <amjjawad> I'm done :D

 22:20 <satya> okay

 22:20 <satya> do you want ownership of this http://scrollback.io/ubuntu-gnome ?

 22:21 <amjjawad> what is this

 22:22 <satya> scrollback room for ubuntu gnome

 22:22 <satya> it is integrated with our irc

 22:22 <amjjawad> no idea what is it

 22:22 <satya> currently I own that room

 22:22 <satya> it's a chat client :D

 22:22 <amjjawad> but I have enough stuff to be the owner of hehe

 22:22 <amjjawad> ohhh

 22:22 <amjjawad> I see the stuff I'm sending here

 22:22 <satya> remeber, I was talking about having it on our site?

 22:23 <amjjawad> are you trying to say ... we add that to our website?

 22:23 <satya> yeah, as a chat widget

 22:23 <satya> which will load on demand

 22:23 <satya> so as not to slow the page

 22:23 <satya> but it uses appcache anyways, so it won't be slow from the 2nd time

 22:24 <satya> note that that is an open source project

 22:24 <satya> and I work for them :D

 22:24 <amjjawad> if this is fast and does not require lots of stuff, why not

 22:24 <amjjawad> ohh

 22:24 <amjjawad> nice

 22:24 <satya> :D

 22:25 <satya> okay, so that's it then :)

 22:25 <satya> we can have the widget on the community page

 22:27 <satya> http://mozillaindia.org

 22:27 <satya> they are using it

 22:27 <amjjawad> #action satya to check with the rest of UG team about having: https://scrollback.io/ubuntu-gnome on our website (new) or not

 22:27 * meetingology satya to check with the rest of UG team about having: https://scrollback.io/ubuntu-gnome on our website (new) or not

 22:27 <satya> so, I don't have anything else to say

 22:28 <amjjawad> okay then :)

 22:28 <amjjawad> thanks a lot

 22:29 <amjjawad> that was 1-2-1 meeting hehe

 22:29 <satya> :)

 22:29 <satya> hey, one thing

 22:29 <satya> about rescheduling

 22:29 <satya> I asked if we could have it on saturday

 22:29 <amjjawad> right

 22:30 <amjjawad> #action amjjawad to check with darkxst about doing the weekly meetings on Sat instead of Sun

 22:30 * meetingology amjjawad to check with darkxst about doing the weekly meetings on Sat instead of Sun

 22:30 <satya> so...

 22:30 <satya> nice

 22:30 <amjjawad> ;)

 22:30 <amjjawad> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

== Logs ==

The logs from previous meetings can be found at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Meetings#Previous_Meetings | this link]]</nowiki>.
