{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This page currently refers to the Beta PPA for the Ubuntu One client. You can get more information at http://launchpad.net/~ubuntuone/+archive/beta on adding the PPA to your system, if you wish to use the beta builds of our unstable tree. Thanks!

=== 2010-04-12 Release ===
ubuntuone-client revno 487:

** Unified server error handling for check_version, set_capabilities, and authenticate.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/476635, https://launchpad.net/bugs/522604)
** States now handles a new event called SYS_SERVER_ERROR.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/476635, https://launchpad.net/bugs/522604)
** Call the new get_public_files dbus method at initial status change. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/556529)
** Make !ActionQueueCommand to handle errors by their type, not message.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/476635)
** Change the UI immediately, and revert on error, when managing UDFs. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/547087)
** Bring back the changed (not new) strings that were reverted for beta freeze. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/539676)
** Add a new !ActionQueueCommand: !GetPublicFiles to get the list of public files using the http api and also expose it via DBus..
** Revert ubuntuone.syncdaemon.logger api changes. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/554454)
** Include what the Queue is doing in the information published through DBus.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/557670)
** Fix a discrepancy between the client and protocol where share_deletion notifications are handled.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/553547)
** Make sure we have an email address for contacts we show. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/554269)
** Fix the syncdaemon tool to call set_files_sync_enabled with correct arguments. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/555747)
** Move ubuntuone.syncdaemon.logger helpers to ubuntuone.logger.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/554454)
** Swapped !UbuntuOneSyncdaemonConfig and !UbuntuOneUserSyncdaemonConfig. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/553905)
** Call main_quit in a timeout, so the handle_bw_controls_changed timeout doesn't
     get ignored when closing the dialog. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/553232, https://launchpad.net/bugs/553318)
** Fix the typo in ubuntuone-preferences devices tab which broke translations. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/553324)
** Avoid creating UDF pointing to (or inside) a symlink.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/552818)
** Call the correct method to get the bw values and save them. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/509740)
** Add autostart wrapper for Ubuntu One start-up on log-in. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/534707)
** Set keys for attached files in the apport hook. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/552511)
** Fix the HTTP REST calls to load from threads, instead of GIOChannels
     - This avoids blocking the main loop for network activity
   Fix the callback handlers for the REST calls to use obj.get method
     - Avoids potential KeyError conditions
   Fix oauthdesktop to call ensure_access_token in a timeout instead of thread
     - Avoids threadlock due to changes in libgnome-keyring. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/530605, https://launchpad.net/bugs/540304, https://launchpad.net/bugs/542282)
** ubuntuone.syncdaemon.tools.show_path_info now supports writing to a pipe. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/551720)
** Rename "News" to "Broadcast Messages Archive," and place before "Contacts".
** add instructional text to devices and services tabs. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/539676)
** Added a scrolled window and viewport to the devices tab. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/537237)
** This adds the overquota notices and warnings, as well as a couple of ui elements that we missed. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/540360)
** Mark the Share button text for translation in the Nautilus extension. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/550584)
** Fix the code to create and show the dialog sooner
   Delete the token from the keyring if we're deleting the local computer
   Start a new login request when the local computer is deleted
   Always make sure prefs are available in Devices tab for editing
   Don't exit preferences when auth is denied or there is an oauth error. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/538278, https://launchpad.net/bugs/540304, https://launchpad.net/bugs/545506)
** Some cleanup in LR..
** Ignore all the events from disk when file/dir name is not valid.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/368626)
** Add special case code to check for bindwood and provide a method to install it.
** Backup volume manager metadata before doing the migration to v6 and restore it in case of error.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/430964, https://launchpad.net/bugs/529666)
** Only declare variables we use.
** Speeding up the local rescan by retrieving metadata per directory. As per latest profile info, we'd be gaining 24% of speed!. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/476711)
** Remove the username field from the Account tab. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/544573)
** Add status info to the preferences dialog. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/526084)
** Use normal GTK selection mode in contacts picker, not double clicking.
** Hook up the files/music sync toggle buttons to work
   Add the "News" checkbox for toggling sync of gwibber messages
   Store the file sync enabled config in the config file
   Add dbus methods and !SyncDaemonTool methods to query/set the files sync config
   Add the necessary code to toggle syncing of dbs in desktopcouch. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/525803)
** Unsubscribe an UDF when it's not found just before adding inotify watches.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/544499)
** Stop checking the ctime information from stat.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/544633)
** Fix metadata migration in the case of a failed/aborted volume manager migration from metadata v.5.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/529666)
** Use double-quotes for translated strings in ubuntuone-preferences, to work around intltool bug. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/543658)
** Fix create_share using http api from syncdaemon, see Bug #495983. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/495983)
** Ignore some configured files.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/515554)
** Tweak a bit debug messages for Local/Server Rescan..
** Fix the logging in ubuntuone-preferences to work correctly. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/540466)
** Rotates how Sync.merge_directory generates the events.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/539218)
** Fix the indentation in ubuntuone-preferences for PEP8.
** Avoiding locale issues when asserting over OSError description.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/494469)
** Test case for removing useless metadata..
** Add ubuntuone-preferences to oauthdesktop preregistration
   Look in the right path for config when using srcdir data. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/536900)
** Fix for Bug #462003: when there is a server-side tree deletion and the user already have conflicts in the removed directory, the directory itself is moved to conflict.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/462003, 494469)
** Remove the added mute in case of filesystem error.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/539104)
** Mark the Comment in the desktop entry for translation. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/538217)
** Some more fixes to the contacts picker based on last review from John Lea:
** Added signals to catch the selection being changed and enable/disable Share button on
     dialog depending on # of selected contacts
** Use a better message when showing number of contacts found when searching
** Clear search entry after adding a contact.
** Grab the bin scripts in the lint wrapper
   Fix the pyflakes complaints in the bin scripts.
** Unify the 2 rest request methods to do async requests
   Drops the httplib2 dependency
   Also updated the tests to fix #537443. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/535207, 537443)
** Changed a raise for a warning when HQ was used after shutdown.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/445319)
** Use simplejson instead of json.
** If we receive SYS_ROOT_MISMATCH, stuck in an error.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/490988)
** Added live queries to the contacts picker and ability to add new contacts.
** Public files UI in Nautilus extension
   Allow deleting shares from Nautilus extension.
** Fixed a silly typo in the code..
** Make the dialog a bit bigger so that the contacts picker looks ok.
** Add --waiting-metadata to u1sdtool.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/535369)
** Expose waiting metadata commands via DBus and add waiting_metadata method to SyncDaemonTool.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/535369)
** Adding tests for Upload command to ensure temp files are removed on errors.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/375207)
** Fix root node marker used in server rescan get_root call to use root mdid..
** Support sharing with more than one user at the same time from the Nautilus extension.
** Removing AQ.disconnect() from AQ.cleanup()..
** Removed cast to boolean for description string. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/530591)
** Removing AQ client's disconnect, since it's no needed..
** Update the devices tab UI to show the list of devices and allow removing them..
** Made some refactor on !ActionQueue tests to be able to build a suite that fakes (messy) events from the NetworkManager..

ubuntuone-storage-protocol revno 93
** Separate the delete_share from change_share notification handling to it is handled separately.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/553547)
** Added an internal mapping to correctly raise specific exceptions when an ERROR was received in a Request.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/476632)
** Abstract pem file location for supporting Windows.
** Restoring hash module to avoid API changes..
** Avoiding shadowing builtin hash.. (fixes: https://launchpad.net/bugs/384153)

=== 2010-01-21 Release ===
Client Revno 321 (was 313)
** Use the existing bus if available
** !LocalRescan.{start, scan_dir} now uses the list of volumes returned from !VolumeManager, instead of just the Share list
** Add !FileShelf._[un]pickle methods in order to allow subclasses to customize pickling and unpickling
** Removed the override to twisted.internet.reactor.callLater in tests for action queue. Added dummy objects to avoid "!AttributeError" from twisted internals
** Local and server rescan on UDF  subscribe and creation
** Add tests for the ubuntuone-login script
** Filtering SV_HASH_NEW event for un-subscribed udf's
** volumes API for !LocalRescan and FSM api to get node info for server rescan by path

=== 2010-01-19 Release ===
Client revno 313(was 306)
** !ActionQueue now requires a main.Main instance as creation parameter..
** rename delete_udf to delete_volume, added delete_share DBus method and fix the masking of builitin id in !VolumeManager.
** Integrate !VolumeManager with !ActionQueue volume API and events.
** Add !VolumeManager specific events to !EventQueue and handle them in !DBusInterface.
** Skipping (sometimes) failing test tests.oauthdesktop.test_auth.!AuthorisationClientTests.test_ensure_access_token_no_token.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/488933)
** Implemented Volume management functionality on !ActionQueue..
** add User Defined Folders !DBus API.

Protocol revno 81 (was 80)
** [release] ubuntuone-storage-protocol 1.1.1 

=== 2010-01-08 Release ===
ubuntuone-client Revno 306 (was 300)
** Move all metadata upgrade logic out of !VolumeManager into a new class !MetadataUpgrader..
** !DBusGConnection should be unreferenced via dbus_g_connection_unref. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/501705)
** Set the log level to DEBUG during development and INFO for stable releases
   Split the test running into its own rule, and have check depend on it.
** Split out !OAuth login handling into a separate libexec script. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/485824)
** set syncdaemon log level to DEBUG and logfile size to 10MB.
** Add the marshaller list file to EXTRA_DIST. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/499850)
** Set default emblem to unsynchronized. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/498131)
** Removed emblem updating by utime, keeping references to !NautilusFileInfo and invalidating the file info. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/491777)

ubuntuone-storage-protocol revno 80 (was 78):
** Making handle_VOLUME_{CREATED, DELETED} not leaking protocol details to clients..
** Added UDF and Volumes messages to protocol.. 

=== 2009-12-23 Release ===
Client Revno 300 (was 289)

** add the --start option to u1sdtool, also start syncdaemon before executing a command if it's not running..
** export method and signal docstrings via DBus Introspect, add script to generate a simple text file with SyncDaemon DBus API.
** Check that the hashes aren't empty strings before comparing. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/496702)
** add --waiting-content and --schedule_next options to u1sdtool and fix --offer-share args parsing.
** fix u1sdtool --quit so it don't start syncdaemon if isn't running, and add --connect, --disconnect and --status options.
** Add the marshaller list file to EXTRA_DIST
** set syncdaemon log level to DEBUG and logfile size to 10MB

Syncdaemon remains unchanged.

=== 2009-12-18 Release ===
Client Revno 294 (was 289)

** add the --start option to u1sdtool, also start syncdaemon before executing a command if it's not running..
** export method and signal docstrings via DBus Introspect, add script to generate a simple text file with SyncDaemon DBus API.
** Check that the hashes aren't empty strings before comparing. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/496702)
** add --waiting-content and --schedule_next options to u1sdtool and fix --offer-share args parsing.
** fix u1sdtool --quit so it don't start syncdaemon if isn't running, and add --connect, --disconnect and --status options.

=== 2009-12-17 Release ===
Client Revno 289 (was 288)
** Fixing epydoc for `changed'.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/496812) 

=== 2009-12-10 Release ===
Client revno 288 (was 283)
** Use oauthdesktop in syncdaemon to request a token if we haven't already got one.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/488413)
** Logs enhancements (marker and INFO).
** Fixing bug introduced on revno 220: callback() takes exactly 2 arguments (1 given).. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/492100)
** Fix the applet to avoid starting syncdaemon before getting the token. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/491573)
** When a second connection comes but we already have a connected protocol, discard it.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/457147)
** Fixing (and clarifying) implementation for get_paths_starting_with.
** Adding missing docstrings.

Protocol revno 78 (was 75)
** Ignore contrib/mocker.py during lint check.
** Now the !BytesMessageProducer never starts again after finished and !ThrottlingStorageClientFactory doesn't call twice to throttle.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/479204)
** The !ThrottlingStorageClient protocol class now does not alter its factory unless it actually is the factory's client.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/457147) 

=== 2009-12-02 Release ===
client revno 283 (was 278)
** When a second connection comes but we already have a connected protocol, discard it.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/457147)
** Fixing (and clarifying) implementation for get_paths_starting_with.
   Adding missing docstrings..
** Fixing tests for changed() feature so they properly test it..
** Replacing <code>'''</code> by """ according to what PEP-8 and PEP-257 state..
** Dir tree removal on server side deletes the whole dir in the client if no local changes (#462003).. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/462003)

protocol revno 75 (was 73)
** The ThrottlingStorageClient protocol class now does not alter its factory unless it actually is the factory's client.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/457147) 

=== 2009-11-09 Release ===
Client revno 276 (was 273)
** fix throttling_limit_parser and add tests for all all configglue parsers. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/455544)
** Fix syncdaemon Config class to read parsed values, and write plain strings. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/455544, https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/476777)
** Update bandwidth controls on init with values from dbus. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/465030)

=== 2009-10-29 Release ===
Client revno 273 (was 269)
** Support a non-content file in LR. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/462230)
** Raise an error on invalid data in oauth token request response.
** Pass os.environ to all the subprocesses and throw them in separate threads. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/457564)
** Fix a syntax error in the file update message creation.
** Spelling fix. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/453449)
** Check if the file ever existed, fix partial parent path comparsion and remove extra check_stat. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/462828)

=== 2009-10-23 Release ===
Client revno 269 (was 261)
** Fix a syntax error in the file update message creation
** Spelling fix. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/453449)
** Magic to make the httplib monkeypatch work under python2.5 for tests
** Don't redefine ngettext as P_ but use ngettext instead
** Reword one string to be a bit more clear and remain singular (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/456578)
** Wrap the clientdefs import in oauthdesktop with an except to fix an issue in testing
** Now we send to re hash a node if we receive the data but the path in disk is gone (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/452140)
** Remove un-disted file from POTFILES.in. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/455527)
** Add back missing timestamps to oauth-login.log
** Use a try/except to handle Jaunty which lacks _tunnel_host in httplib (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/451670)
** Distinguish between Auth failure and other errors. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/450633) 

=== 2009-10-19 Release ===
Client revno 261 (was 257)
** Use a try/except to handle Jaunty which lacks _tunnel_host in httplib. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/451670)
** Distinguish between Auth failure and other errors. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/450633)
** Now we avoid the filesystem event bouncing. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/449605)
** Wait to connect before trying to get a new token on startup if necessary. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/451154)

Protocol 73 (was 72)
** In case of receiving an ERROR, we raise !StorageRequestError with what we received. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/450633)

=== 2009-10-16 Release ===
CLIENT revno 257 (was 255)
** Wait to connect before trying to get a new token on startup if necessary. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/451154)
** Fix the incorrect usage of %{} instead of %(). (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/450140)
** Use -idle icon where appropriate
   Override set_icon_from_name so we can fallback from -idle properly. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/438641)
** handle broken shares in filesystem manager index load/creation. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/440908)
** Only set emblems on files *in* the Ubuntu One managed folder. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/450112) 

=== 2009-10-14 Release ===
CLIENT revno 255 (was 231)
** Fix the incorrect usage of %{} instead of %(). (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/450140)
** Use -idle icon where appropriate
   Override set_icon_from_name so we can fallback from -idle properly. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/438641)
** handle broken shares in filesystem manager index load/creation. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/440908)
** Only set emblems on files *in* the Ubuntu One managed folder. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/450112)
** [trivial] For some reason Python didn't like the newline here.
** Add some missing __future__ imports for using with statement.
** Use ngettext for the files updated notification. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/449269)
** Get the shares list when we load up the location bar
   Get the metadata for files and add them to a list of updated/needs updating
   Add emblems for updated and needs updating (default to updated). (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/440839)
** added syncdaemon config module, support for saving the throttling settings, also fixes some bugs in the config file loading code.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/418882)
** Change dbus get_object calls to all set follow_name_owner_changes to True.
** Don't install the preferences desktop item. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/443342)
** Add custom user agent to OAuth requests, including ubuntuone-client version.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/316760)
** limit syncdaemon log file size to 1MB (and rotate it). (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/435137)
** Get rid of !NotOnlineError. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/404550)
** Rotate the oauth log and cap at 1MB
   Change a few logger.debug messages to logger.error
   Clean up the usage of callback_error in the oauth process. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/445514)
** fixes #420354 (!BadTransitions happening due to there being multiple active connections on the client). (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/420354)
** set the default log level to ERROR. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/435137)
** Remove pycurl from oauthdesktop/auth.py when fetching an oauth token.
   Make urllib fail on an invalid SSL certificate.
   Do not trap errors; instead, let them propagate up to the top level so we can see them.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/376087)
** Fix Bug #440133 and add tests for !EnableShareWrite context manager. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/378336, https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/440133)
** Create the config directory if it doesn't exist yet, in prefs dialog. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/441039)
** Cleans up some logic and style and adds the config for the client to the report.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/440913)
** Remove the remove_from_places code
   Add a config option to only create the bookmark on first authorization
   Only set the bookmark on first authorization. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/397749, https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/401211)
** This allows fix the .conflict file moving it over the old one (or rename it to no conflict).. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/373770)

PROTOCOL: revno 72 (was 71)
** Release 1.0

=== 2009-10-01 Release ===
Client Revno 231 (was 225)
* fix bug in the syncdaemon startup script, that tries to chmod a directory without checking if it exists first. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/437471)
** Set the share name by default to the folder's name. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/369488)
** Get rid of the Ubuntu logo usage in the icons
    Combine the uploading/downloading emblems into one updating emblem
    Make a new icon for updating for the panel applet
    Use updating emblem in nautilus extension instead of upload/download emblems
    Update the applet to use the updating icon. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/434886)
** Create management database if it does not exist. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/438411)
** Fix a !KeyError in logging. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/427248)
** Locally there're no more zero size files when waiting for be filled with a download.. (fixes: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/418232) 

=== 2009-09-29 Release ===
'''Client Revno 225 (was 222)'''
** Split the preferences dialog to a separate app
** Add a launcher to System->Preferences for preferences app
** Add man page for preferences app
** Add DBus object class and methods to applet for getting preferences changes
** Quit the syncdaemon on AUTH_FAILED
** release 0.96.0 

=== 2009-09-25 Release ===
'''Client Revno 222 (was 213)'''
** move the metadata from xdg_cache_home to xdg_data_home
** Change the notification icon size to 48 instead of 24
** Release client 0.95.1
** Handle !ShareCreateError in the nautilus extension, and show an error dialog
** Fix the _create_share_http code to call the errback/callback properly
** Add the path to the share_info dict on errors
** Fix volume_manager and tests to get mdid properly
** This fixes a timing issue in a HQ test (also rearranges some code in HQ itself to be more robust).
** Introduces LR_SCAN_ERROR for !LocalRescan to signal an error when the directory does not exists.
** Get rid of the partial handling bit, as they aren't here any more
** Now we have a trash where nodes are stored between their deletion and the server response.
** Add pairing record for Ubuntu One to desktopcouch, if desktopcouch is available, when user first sets up Ubuntu One filesharing. 

=== 2009-09-16 Release ===
'''Client Revno 213 (was 203)'''
** Send callback with request instead of authorization, for 1.0a
** Use system python-oauth
** Some basic tests for u1sync's merging code.
** Get the verifier from the callback and pass it to the retrieve_token function
** Add the verifier parameter to the oauth request for the access token
** Fix commit_partial to not change the permissions of the partial parent folder.
** Use the button's memory address as a unique identifier
** Fix a couple of small compiler warnings
** Release ubuntuone-client 0.95.0
** Fix a missing closing paren from my previous branch
** Request the root (only if it's needed), account info and free space on connection.
** Handle keyring.!DeniedError when trying to store the token
** Show Disconnected status when disconnected, and Ubuntu One by default otherwise

'''Protocol Revno 71 (was 69)'''
** switch to python-oauth
** release 0.95.0 

=== 2009-09-09 Release ===
'''Client Revno 203 (was 198)'''
** Update from ubuntuone.com to one.ubuntu.com
** Add redirect support to oauthdesktop
** Canceled uploads and downloads are now, you know, canceled.
** Store the partial files in ~/.cache/ubuntuone/partials
** Desensitize the button while connecting/disconnecting
** Set a label of "Connecting" while connecting
** Only update the connected internal state when is_connected is True 

=== 2009-09-03 Release ===
'''Client Revno 198 (was 194)'''
** Don't try to start the syncdaemon to get better information about failures
** Quit the applet after the user reports the fatal error with apport
** Release 0.94.0
** detect and avoid multiple connections that break the single-minded state machine
** Nanny for AQ_DOWNLOAD_FINISHED in files, to be released only when the file is not open or being hashed. 

=== 2009-09-01 Release ===
'''Client Revno 194 (was 191)'''
** only rotate the logs when syncdaemon is about to create it's Main instance
** Stop attaching the u1 client log and the u1sync log to apport bug reports because they have filenames in them and users are reporting this as a privacy concern because the apport retracer makes bugs public once they are marked as a duplicate of a public bug.
** Fix the applet to only try to start syncdaemon once when we get an error

'''Protocol Revno 69 (No Change)'''
    No protocol revision was uploaded, as nothing in ubuntuone-protocol trunk had changed as of 10:00 AM Florida time. 

=== 2009-08-28 Release ===
'''Client Revno 191 (was 163)'''
** Release 0.93.1
** update FSM metadata for the new layout.
** fixes #405688
** Handle CAPABILITIES_MISMATCH separately and pop up a notification
** Fix the broken Shared With Me symlink that points to itself.
** Fix a typo in __hide_icon that caused a major ruckus
** Fix the type signature of the !AccountChanged signal.
** Release 0.93.0
** Hook up the throttling config UI to call the dbus methods
** Wire a subclass of !ThrottlingStorageClientFactory (that supports configure it at runtime) with !ActionQueue, expose throttling config methods via dbus.
** Insistent HASH, fix a index corruption bug, and some tests.
** Handle the new !ContentQueue signal
** Maintain state for transfer status information
** Change the left click behavior to open a menu by default
** Update a menu item in the left click menu with transfer status
** Pop up notifications to signal start and end of transfers
** new almost flat layout, remove My Files and use Ubuntu One directory as the root, symlink the Shared with Me folder
** remove .u1partial files on AQ DOWNLOAD_ERROR and DOWNLOAD_CANCELLED also added AQ_DOWNLOAD_CANCELLED
** Get rid of a feature not available in python 2.5
** add a signal that gets self-contained status information out, for the applet
** Content queue ensures the content queue is unique by share/node. Sync should be avoiding it already, but this is just a safety net to ensure we have a truly commutative content queue.
** downloads are now resumable
** Don't send dirs in Started/Finished signals

'''Protocol Revno 69 (was 63)'''
** Fix !AccountInquiry constructor.
** Release 0.93.0
** fix attributes names in Throttling factory, and refactor !DelayedCall cancel call to allow reuse in subclasses, also remove some debug logs
** make !BytesMessageProducer not call seek on the fh if offset is false
** the storage protocol now knows how to resume an upload
** !ThrottlingStorageClient and !ThrottlingStorageClientFactory to throttle bandwidth (bytes/second)

=== 2009-08-20 Release ===
'''Client Revno 163 (was 146)'''
** The root changed to be My Files, so don't append it
** make u1sync interruptible
** Send dbus up/DownloadFinished signals for up/download errors
** Don't show the icon when doing rescans
** Add logic to handle cases where we want to persist showing the icon
** Don't DESPAIR on CLOSE_WRITE for files with no metadata; it turns out to be perfectly legal (and the correct action is to ignore it)
** log the nodes queried during server rescan
** cleanup INFO logging and add DEBUG logs to DBusInterface
** Fix symlink creation, when My Files don't exists
** Disable sdreactor and use the glib/gtk2reactor
** Make it so that AUTH_FAILED results in clearing the token and fetching anew.
** make the default links to the Ubuntu One folder go to ~/Ubuntu One/My Files and add a symlink to the "Shared with Me" folder in ~/Ubuntu One/My Files
** New AQ method to support Sync behaviour about ignoring server too-old info.
** reset FSKey mdid after delete_metadata/file and add tests for FSKey
** fixes for the tests in test_main
** Use a subclass of Gtk2Reactor that uses low-res timers, for lower power consumption
** remove all traces of fsync and use a 3 step rename dance to dump the mdobj contents to disk (write new; rename current old; rename new current).

'''Protocol Revno 63 (was 61)'''
** Add INVALID_FILENAME error to protocol
** Make downloads resumable 

=== 2009-08-13 Release ===
'''Client Revno 146 (was 134)'''
** fix !VolumeManager to correctly handle UUID's as share id
** Fixes for states with bad transitions.
** the handshake now times out, tries again, and ultimately gives up
** Import with_statement in order to be Python 2.5 friendly
** !FileShelf.__setitem__ now do the rename dance
** discard broken metadata at startup
** add !DebugCapture to ubuntuone.syncdaemon.logger, and make use of it in sync in order to dump all debug logs if the loglevel > DEBUG and log with ERROR level is logged or in the case of an unhandled error.
** Get rid of the animation for activity
** Only show the icon when using network/resources
** Wait for 30 seconds after the last status change to hide the icon
** improve worst-case memory use, mostly via __slots__
** Fix braindead zip queue blockage (it's call*In*Thread, not call*From*Thread)
** Release 0.92.0
** Fix !VolumeManager.handle_SV_SHARE_CHANGED argument names in ...

'''Protocol Revno 61 (was 60)'''
** Release 0.92.0 

=== 2009-08-11 Release ===
'''Client Revno 134 (was 113)'''
** Client side modifications for the not-content-not-empty concept change.
** Add an ellipse to the end of the menu item's name
** Adds timing instrumentation to u1sync.
** Fixes missing import issue for RotatingFileHandler
** Protect the g_object_unref calls in finalize with checks for NULL
** Protect the callbacks for dbus method calls with g_return_if_fails
** Add u1sync.log to apport file attachments
** Change the comment to be an imperitive verb in the launcher desktop file
** Remove the comment from the generated autostart desktop file
** Add a crashdb.conf to specify our upstream bug database
** Fix apport hook to report upstream if not official Ubuntu packages
** has the empty() method of the hash queue check whether the hasher is working, in which case the hash queue is not empty (even though the queue itself is). This impacts wait_for_nirvana
added two new options to cmdline/config: lsprof_file and heapy_monitor
** Move the dbus_error handling to be redirectoed to the icon's handler
** Change the applet behavior on dbus errors to run apport
** Pop up a notification that a fatal error has occurred
** Desensitize the connect and disconnect menu items
** Change the tooltip to say Fatal Error and use an error icon
** Add an ubuntuone-client-error icon for errors
** Sometimes the HQ_HASH_NEW event is obsolete, discard it!
** Changed FSM to allow the uuid to set several times, as long the uuid itself is the same.
** Use ubuntu-bug for Report a Problem, instead of opening the filebug web page
** Remove a couple extraneous debug log messages
** Only pop the fatal error notification once, as we may get multiple errors
** Retry "Connection to the other side was lost in a non-clean fashion." also
** Adds the ability to reschedule (via dbus) which content operation will happen next.
** When moving a file/dir to conflict, now avoids breaking similar paths.
** This makes syncdaemon restart on UNKNOWN_ERROR. It also makes the syncdaemon go to UNKNOWN_ERROR on SYS_UNKNOWN_ERROR.
** Add 'transactions' to Sync (FSKey) regarding !FileSystemManager changes

'''Protocol Revno 60 (was 58)'''
** Adds validation for fields that are supposed to be uuids and hashes.
** Protocol messages for account and quota (free space) information.

=== 2009-07-30 Release ===
'''New Client Revno: 113 (was 109)'''
** Improve local rescan performance and memory consumption
** Added a running flag to !AQCommands so that retries that aren't originated in the command itself
** Move reactor thread management out of client
** fix u1sdtool to correctly show non-ascii paths

'''New Protocol Revno: 58 (was 55)'''
** Update the oauth.py to the version from upstream trunk
** Separate normalization and validation functions
** Remove the unknown field tag @attr from the !DirEntry docstring

=== 2009-07-28 Release ===
'''New Client Revno: 109 (was 100)'''
** Add some error checking to avoid crashing Nautilus on shutdown
** Adds default capabilities set and the caps "negotiation" with the server
** Only read stderr if xdg-open returns non-zero, and wait for the process before trying to read stderr
** Fix a bug in LRUCache.__delitem__ method
** fixes for a couple of bugs in the metadata upgrade code
** Import !DBusGMainLoop from dbus.mainloop.glib and add basic tests for ubuntuone.syncdaemon.main.Main
** add capabilities support to u1sync
** fix VM metadata upgrade whand en verison is None/"" and update upgrade from 0 and 1 to upgrade to the latest version (3)
** Release 0.91.1 to get several fixes into Karmic

'''New Protocol Revno: 55 (was 54)'''
** Add routine to validate and normalize filenames 

=== 2009-07-23 Release ===
'''New Client Revno: 94 (was 88)'''
** Disable calling !DBus methods at start-up for !SyncDaemon
** Switch to using pyflakes by default
** conflicts are now foo.u1conflict; partials are now .u1partial.foo.
** Release 0.91.0
** Fix the python module installation to be correct and add --enable-pycentral for supporting installation to the pycentral locations
** Set the max width, line wrap, and ellipsize mode on the error label for the browser launching error dialog

'''New Protocol Revno: 53 (was 52)'''
** Release 0.91.0 

=== 2009-07-21 Release ===
'''New Client Revno: 94 (was 88)'''
* replace calls to os.path.is[dir|link] and os.path.exists with raw os.stat and stat.S_IS[REG|LNK|DIR] wihtin the same scope
* main.wait_for_nirvana now also explicitly checks the request queues
* minimize the times fileshelf touch the disk to do a key lookup. Also adds a new !LRUCache for the Fileshelf
* Include gtk.h explicitly for building on GNOME 2.24.x systems
* changed !DBus current_[up|down]loads to don't include deflated_size if isn't available and check if the metadata is still available, also updates u1sdtool to handle this new behaviour
* Update apport hook to reflect new binary package naming

'''New Protocol Revno: 53 (was 52)'''
* New messages and client code to be able to dialog to the server and discuss which capabilities are wanted from it. 

=== 2009-07-02 Release ===
'''New Client Revno: 63 (was 55)'''
* upgrade the shares/d metadata
* Bring back the sharing feature in Nautilus
* Release 0.90.3
* Python module layout simplification for packaging
* Fix the signature of sync.py file_conflict method
* Use GHashTable instead of GSList for a slight performance win
* Fix the protocol "build" bits to work better
* includes the stat of the file before start calculating the hash in the HQ_HASH_NEW event arguments

'''New Protocol Revno: 47 (was 45)'''
* Release 0.90.3
* Python module layout simplification for packaging

'''Important notes:'''
* Python package layout and module layout has changed
* Client packages have been broken up so that individual components are more modular, to facilitate non-gnome clients, etc.
* Due to the change of name for the installed protocol package, users updating from previous beta versions may need to uninstall/reinstall to perform an upgrade. This was not consistent across tested installations in QA, and the variance may have been due to environmental issues on the machine on which this was observed.
