{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>

This umbrella team PPA is for projects wishing to provide developmental, use-at-your-own-risk snapshots of packages for upstream testing on a stable release.

The aim is to get users of arguably the most popular desktop distro to test applications *before* the stable release hits the official repos.

The team will be closed but will be comprised of package maintainers for a particular app.

All packages must comply to Ubuntu package rules and specifications.

Packages under this umbrella team must link to upstream bug-trackers and make upstream aware of their efforts.
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
== Using the Bleeding Edge PPA Repo ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%; text-align:center"> /!\ This repo is completely '''USE AT YOUR OWN RISK'''. Every attempt will be taken to ensure that packages don't break a stable system but no guarantee is given. /!\
|}
=== Adding the repo ===
* Repo is not open yet.
{{{
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-bleedingedge/ubuntu hardy main
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-bleedingedge/ubuntu hardy main}}}

=== Reverting back to the official Ubuntu distro version of a package ===

== Adding a new project ==

TBD

=== Requirements ===
New packages must go through review process to make sure they conform completely to Ubuntu/Debian packaging rules.
* Apps must not require any major changes to system libs.
* Apps must not break a stable system.

=== Uploading a new package ===

TBD

== Frequently Asked Questions ==

* Q:  How do you decide what applications to include?

** A:  Our project is driven by involvement, so an application can be included when a member of that project joins the team and takes the role of maintaining it.  

* Q:  I've found a bug in a package I got through UbuntuBleedingEdge.  How do I report it?

** A:  Please report the issue directly to upstream.  UbuntuBleedingEdge does not provide troubleshooting assistance or bug management.

* Q:  How do I request to have an application I use be added?

** A:  It is important to contact the upstream project that maintains the application, and to find someone to take on the duty of setting up and keeping an eye on things.  Maybe YOU could become that someone!  But for success it's critical that the upstream project feel they "own" this process, since users of it will be reporting bugs about it to them, and we want to ensure they feel they have the control to be able to update packages in the BleedingEdge when they feel it's needed.

* Q:  What happens if a maintainer of a package becomes inactive or too busy with other matters? ===

** A:  If a given package has not been updated in a long while, or if its VCS snapshot has broken, or if there are other such issues that go unsolved for more than a few months, we will drop the package for inclusion in UbuntuBleedingEdge.  Of course, it can be re-enabled whenever someone picks up the reins on it again.

== TODO ==

* Flesh out this page
* Flesh out the FAQ to about a dozen questions or so, as appropriate
* Announce to ubuntu development discussion list
** Once the idea is rather solid here and a LP team has been made. Nothing like announcing something and some kid grab the project page to be cute.
* Advertise/blog/etc. to recruit involvement of upstreams that might be interested
** This is something jcastro should be involved in as he was hired for just such a purpose.
