{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Building From a debdiff ===

If you want to build a new .deb package from a proposed "debdiff" that has been posted to a bug report, you can follow these steps and easily produce your new packages:

* Install the tools needed to perform builds (this is only needed the first time you build packages).
  <pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential fakeroot devscripts
</pre>
* (Optionally) create a directory to hold all the source and packaging files.
  <pre>
mkdir PACKAGE && cd PACKAGE
</pre>
* Download the debdiff.
  <pre>
wget http://URL...
</pre>
* Get the package source tree.  Sometimes the "source" package and the "binary" package will have different names, so watch the "apt-get" output closely.
  <pre>
apt-get source PACKAGE
</pre>
* Install libraries needed to build the source package.
  <pre>
sudo apt-get build-dep PACKAGE
</pre>
* Apply the debdiff changes.
  <pre>
cd PACKAGE-* && patch -p1 < ../DEBDIFF
</pre>
* Build the new source package.
  <pre>
debuild -uc -us
</pre>
* Install the resulting binary package(s).
  <pre>
sudo dpkg -i ../PACKAGE*.deb
</pre>

=== Example ===
If you were interested in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/65795|bug 65795]]</nowiki>, and wanted to test the proposed debdiff, you could build a new vino package this way:
 <pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential fakeroot devscripts
cd /tmp
wget http://librarian.launchpad.net/4941195/vino_2.16.0-0ubuntu2.1.dsc.debdiff
apt-get source vino
sudo apt-get build-dep vino
cd vino-*
patch -p1 < ../vino_2.16.0-0ubuntu2.1.dsc.debdiff
debuild -uc -us
sudo dpkg -i ../vino*.deb
</pre>
