{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== LaunchpadAndUbuntuCommunity ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JeffWaugh
* Priority: HighPriority
* People: BenjaminMakoHillLead, JordiMallachSecond
* Contributors: 
* Interested: CarlosPerelloMarin, MatthiasUrlichs, MauricioHernandez
* Status: NewSpec, UbuntuCommunity
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

This BOF discusses the relationship between the Ubuntu and Launchpad
communities and how we can make that relationship more harmonious.

=== Rationale ===

The Ubuntu community is becoming increasingly reliant on Ubuntu and
this will only accelerate. However, the LP development community
remains largely disconnected most Ubuntu hackers and the ideal modes
for communication and collaboration are unclear. This BOF seeks to
describe the most critical problem areas and brainstorm some ideas for
how they can be addressed.

==== Current Situation ====

Currently, we have the MOTUs using Malone and anyone doing application
translation using Rosetta.

Because LP is closed and people can't get involved in development
without going through Mark or others and/or signing a non-disclosure
agreement, we need to be more careful about the way we separate
certain types of conversation than we are on the Ubuntu related lists.

=== Problem Breakdown and Solutions ===

We've broken down the modes of communication in terms of Launchpad
into a few separate areas and given ideas for how we can handle each
of these.

==== Webpage ====

There is a problem with perception in that people have a hard time
grokking how the different components of Launchpad are a single
application or even how they are related as a set of applications. The
new URL scheme that Carlos described could be used as an opportunity
to solve this problem. The new homepage should do a better job of
describing what Launchpad is and how it is developed.

==== IRC ====

Currently, there is a #launchpad channel that is open and should be
could be for support. We recommend that it is. #launchpad-devel is
used for development and it is closed. The #launchpad channels gets
very little traffic.

We should make the #launchpad channel more visible and we should
document this channel prominently within the system and in the help
and support pages and elsewhere where appropriate. We should require
launchpad developers to idle in the #launchpad channel. If possible,
we should ask the Freenode administrators to alias #rosetta and
there automatically.

==== Mailing Lists ====

There is a launchpad@lists.ubuntu.com email list which is a closed and
private development mailing list. There is also a rosetta-users
mailing list at lists.ubuntu.com and it gets a modest amount of
traffic. There has been a malone-users mailing list created, for which
an announcement will be made in the near future. BradBollenbach will help
organize this. There are unused and deprecated lists for rosetta, malone,
and Soyuz.

It may be useful to eventually create a launchpad-users mailing list,
to provide help to users with more general Launchpad issues, or in case
they're not exactly sure where their question belongs (as may particularly
be the case with newer users.)

We seem to have committed to the idea that keeping the app-specific lists
separate concerns is a Good Idea. In the common case, for example, most people
that take an active interest in Malone, discussions with MOTU and Malone
developers, etc. probably won't care to have the mailing list flooded with
Rosetta-specific questions as well.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

We should think about some sort of integration between launchpad and
mailing lists as people within certain subprojects within launchpad
may very well want to communicate with each other on a list. In
particular, we are concerned about connecting groups of translators
working on similar sets of translations.

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
