{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by roadmr at 16:00:48 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-13-16.00.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Checkbox 0.13.1 - call for testing (roadmr)

* Submitting test results anonymously (cr3)
''ACTION:'' cr3: Propose a way to handle the four use cases (see above) - preferrably with a mockup, maybe send to UF mailing list  (roadmr, 16:29:37)
''ACTION:'' The team: Decision made based on clearness and ease of implementation (due to time constraints)  (roadmr, 16:29:57)

* Any Other Business

Meeting ended at 16:38:55 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* remove the "submit anonymously" button from Checkbox? (+1 means "yes, remove it")
   For: 5 Against: 1 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* Propose a way to handle the four use cases (see above) - preferrably with a mockup, maybe send to UF mailing list
* Decision made based on clearness and ease of implementation (due to time constraints)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* roadmr (54)
* cr3 (30)
* ara (21)
* meetingology (16)
* mlegris (2)
* bladernr_ (1)
* jedimike (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00:48 <roadmr> #startmeeting Ubuntu Friendly meeting

 16:00:48 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 13 16:00:48 2012 UTC.  The chair is roadmr. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00:48 <meetingology> 

 16:00:48 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:01:02 <roadmr> Hi everyone, welcome to the Ubuntu Friendly meeting!

 16:01:12 <roadmr> Today we have the following topics to talk about:

 16:01:20 <roadmr> * Checkbox 0.13.1 - call for testing (roadmr)

 16:01:20 <roadmr> * Submitting test results anonymously (cr3)

 16:01:21 <roadmr> * Any Other Business

 16:01:42 <roadmr> As usual, you're welcome to participate, to do so, indicate you want to speak by raising your hand (o/). Don't forget to also signal when you're done using ..

 16:01:53 <cr3> o/

 16:02:03 <roadmr> hey cr3!

 16:02:04 <cr3> hello everyone!

 16:02:05 <cr3> ..

 16:02:13 <roadmr> Let's get started with the agenda!

 16:02:21 <roadmr> [TOPIC] Checkbox 0.13.1 - call for testing (roadmr)

 16:02:35 <roadmr> Checkbox version 0.13.1 was just accepted in Ubuntu, with lots of fixes and new goodies.

 16:02:57 <roadmr> We'd like to ask for everyone's help in running it and reporting any bugs you may find (by running ubuntu-bug checkbox, for instance).

 16:03:09 <roadmr> This will allow us to start focusing on fixing those bugs in time for the 12.04 release.

 16:03:32 <roadmr> Installing it should be as simple as applying available updates in your Ubuntu Precise installation.

 16:04:03 <roadmr> That's all on this topic, as it was basically just an announcement :) Any questions or comments?

 16:05:05 <roadmr> nothing? :) Let's move on then...

 16:05:21 <roadmr> * [TOPIC] Submitting test results anonymously (cr3)

 16:05:25 <roadmr> [TOPIC] Submitting test results anonymously (cr3)

 16:05:40 <roadmr> cr3, go ahead!

 16:05:45 <cr3> The new checkbox-qt interface provides a button to submit test results and hardware information anonymously.

 16:05:48 <cr3> The problem is that Launchpad does not like anonymous information on the basis that information not linked to anyone is useless.

 16:05:51 <cr3> We could workaround this problem by providing a dummy email address when users click on the button to submit anonymously.

 16:05:54 <cr3> Or, we can remove the button to submit anonymously. Note that the interface prompts for an email address which doesn't need to exist in Launchpad.

 16:05:57 <cr3> If a user eventually creates an account in Launchpad with the same address, the submissions will be linked to the new user retroactively.

 16:06:00 <cr3> So, should we vote on removing the button to submit anonymously?

 16:07:05 <mlegris> +1 -> yes

 16:07:17 <roadmr> sounds OK to me, anyone want to comment anything before we vote?

 16:08:10 <roadmr> let's go then

 16:08:12 <roadmr> #vote remove the "submit anonymously" button from Checkbox? (+1 means "yes, remove it")

 16:08:12 <meetingology> Please vote on: remove the "submit anonymously" button from Checkbox? (+1 means "yes, remove it")

 16:08:12 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:08:19 <cr3> +1

 16:08:19 <meetingology> +1 received from cr3

 16:08:21 <jedimike> +1

 16:08:21 <meetingology> +1 received from jedimike

 16:08:21 <bladernr_> +1

 16:08:21 <meetingology> +1 received from bladernr_

 16:08:40 <mlegris> +1

 16:08:40 <meetingology> +1 received from mlegris

 16:08:51 <roadmr> +1 but we need to let the user know that any email address can be specified, to avoid "oh, do I have to create a launchpad account?" questions

 16:08:51 <meetingology> +1 but we need to let the user know that any email address can be specified, to avoid "oh, do I have to create a launchpad account?" questions received from roadmr

 16:09:08 <cr3> roadmr: +1, but I don't think we need to vote on that :)

 16:09:14 <ara> -1

 16:09:14 <meetingology> -1 received from ara

 16:09:24 <ara> I think it is better to use a dummy email

 16:10:26 <cr3> ara: people could provide a dummy address themselves if they really want, but at least it wouldn't make bad behavior as common

 16:10:44 <ara> but it would make the UI messy

 16:10:58 <cr3> ara: we're removing a button, how's that messy?

 16:11:26 <ara> what will be the label for the email text box

 16:11:35 <ara> currently is Launchpad ID email

 16:11:40 <ara> (or something along the lines)

 16:11:43 <roadmr> cr3: but will the text that explains that even a non-launchpad email address be briefer than the button?

 16:12:15 <roadmr> cr3: people aren't too good at those "implicit" behaviors, so we *need* to spell it out

 16:12:22 <cr3> ara: whether we have the anonymous button or not, I think the email input field will need the same text

 16:13:01 <roadmr> that's a good point

 16:13:03 <ara> I don't think so

 16:13:24 <cr3> ara: please explain, I'm not sure I follow

 16:13:33 <ara> Right now you can:

 16:13:44 <ara> * Submit anonymously

 16:13:49 <ara> * Submit with your Launchpad email

 16:14:11 <ara> that implies that you need a Luanchpad account to submit with the email text box

 16:14:18 <ara> if we remove the submit anonymously

 16:14:44 <ara> we will need to remove the Launchpad all together, to avoid confusion

 16:14:50 <ara> Launchpad label, I mean

 16:15:17 <ara> or add a too lengthy explanation about the eamil

 16:15:42 <cr3> * Submit with your email, optional

 16:15:51 <cr3> so, if you click on submit without anything, it submits anyways?

 16:16:15 <cr3> in other words, remove the big red button to encourage bad behavior and still support your use case?

 16:16:58 <ara> I will need to see a mock up to get the idea

 16:17:21 <cr3> ara: I'm thinking the same as it was which we now works with Launchpad requirements

 16:17:31 <cr3> s/now/know/

 16:18:31 <ara> I don't see why submitting anonymously should be consider "bad behaviour"

 16:19:02 <ara> but I will be happy to see other mock ups

 16:19:27 <cr3> ara: if it weren't bad behavior, why should we prompt for an email address at all?

 16:22:04 <roadmr> so maybe this feature needs a bit more thinking?

 16:22:43 <roadmr> let me close the vote, I think despite the clear majority this still merits some discussing

 16:22:46 <roadmr> #endvote

 16:22:46 <meetingology> Voting ended on: remove the "submit anonymously" button from Checkbox? (+1 means "yes, remove it")

 16:22:46 <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:1 Abstentions:0

 16:22:46 <meetingology> Motion carried

 16:22:53 <roadmr> ignore meetingology :)

 16:23:32 <cr3> roadmr: agreed, but we might not have that luxury. I'd say try to propose a way to submit both anonymously and with an email address with as little confusion as possible, or fallback to the previous behavior in time for FF

 16:23:57 <cr3> ara: ^^^ how does that sound to you?

 16:24:47 <roadmr> checkbox-deluxe

 16:25:20 <cr3> roadmr: if we name it checkbox-++, does one minus cancel one plus?

 16:25:26 <roadmr> cr3: yes I guess

 16:25:44 <cr3> checkbox+, just like google+, we'd be trendy!

 16:26:06 <roadmr> ok so 1- user has a launchpad account and wants to submit with his email address

 16:26:16 <roadmr> 2- user has NO launchpad account and wants to submit with his email address

 16:26:22 <cr3> roadmr: it seems that we dispensed with the whole raising hand practice

 16:26:53 <roadmr> 3- user wants to submit but not give his email address

 16:26:58 <roadmr> 4- user doesn't want to submit at all

 16:27:05 <cr3> roadmr: +1

 16:27:52 <roadmr> so coming up with a UI that makes all those cases easy, with as little implicit behavior as possible (i.e. no "if you leave the email address blank and click "submit" we will make up an address and submit anonymously")

 16:28:12 <roadmr> ..

 16:28:30 <cr3> roadmr: should that be an action item?

 16:29:05 <roadmr> cr3: ideally, but it has to be a quick action as FF is in a couple of days

 16:29:37 <roadmr> [ACTION] Propose a way to handle the four use cases (see above) - preferrably with a mockup, maybe send to UF mailing list

 16:29:37 * meetingology Propose a way to handle the four use cases (see above) - preferrably with a mockup, maybe send to UF mailing list

 16:29:57 <roadmr> [ACTION] Decision made based on clearness and ease of implementation (due to time constraints)

 16:29:57 * meetingology Decision made based on clearness and ease of implementation (due to time constraints)

 16:30:24 <roadmr> sounds about right? I didn't put anyone in particular since at this point we'd be looking at any proposals that come in

 16:31:48 <roadmr> OK anything else on this topic? ara, are you OK with this course of action?

 16:32:20 <cr3> roadmr: sounds right to me

 16:33:01 <ara> roadmr, yes

 16:33:07 <ara> (I am OK)

 16:33:22 <ara> roadmr, who are the owners of the action items?

 16:33:47 <roadmr> ara: since it's about making proposals, I guess anyone who has an idea :)

 16:34:02 <cr3> roadmr: I should take it since I opened the can

 16:34:28 <roadmr> ok thanks!

 16:34:57 <roadmr> ok then let's continue with this

 16:35:10 <roadmr> Next on the agenda... the beloved...

 16:35:11 <roadmr> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

 16:35:28 <roadmr> Got anything Ubuntu Friendly-related you'd like to discuss or bring to the team's attention? now's your chance!

 16:36:26 <roadmr> any takers? :)

 16:38:12 <roadmr> ok then...

 16:38:23 <roadmr> Well I guess this wraps things up for today. Thanks for attending! Remember the mailing list is open to all your UF-related comments and inquiries.

 16:38:38 <roadmr> Thanks! have a good day!

 16:38:55 <roadmr> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
