{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Welcome to '''Ubuntu Global Jam Bootcamp'''! Welcome to the very first dedicated Ubuntu Global Jam classroom event on March 28^th^!

The Ubuntu Global Jam is an incredible opportunity for the Ubuntu community to unite together around the weekend of 1st - 3rd April 2011 to work together to improve Ubuntu. Everyone is able to contribute to the Jam, and everyone is welcome and encouraged to get involved. This series of classroom sessions were created with the specific intent of helping organize Lo``Co teams organize Global Jams in their cities.

The sessions will happen in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom%2Cubuntu-classroom-chat|#ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net]]</nowiki>.

=== The timetable ===

If you're unsure about UTC times: just run `date -u` in a terminal to find out what the current UTC time is.

== Joining The Sessions ==

=== You use an IRC client already ===
Use your IRC client (such as xchat, irssi or mIRC) to connect to the freenode IRC network at irc.freenode.net. You can do this manually by typing: <pre>
/server irc.freenode.net
</pre>

Then join #ubuntu-classroom for the time and date of the session you want to attend. You can manually join the channel by typing: {{{
/join #ubuntu-classroom}}}

You should also join `#ubuntu-classroom-chat` which is the general discussion channel for the session. Questions should be posted there. You should prefix your questions with '''QUESTION:''' to make them easier to spot.

Most sessions last for around an hour. Contact `kim0` on IRC if you have any problems.

For instructions on how to use the various IRC clients, see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|XChatHowto]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Irssi|Irssi]]</nowiki>, respectively. General information about IRC is located at <nowiki>[[InternetRelayChat]]</nowiki>. For Windows users just getting started finding out about Ubuntu, you can use XChat for Windows from http://silverex.info/download/ or Pidgin from http://www.pidgin.im/download/ For Ubuntu users pidgin is installed from the repositories.

=== Simple Web IRC ===
For users who cannot or will not use IRC software (corporate policy, blocked IRC ports, etc.) you can click '''<nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom%2Cubuntu-classroom-chat|here]]</nowiki>''' to join in the discussion, just give yourself a nickname and press connect, you can switch between the classroom and the chat room using the buttons at the top of the page.
