{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Announcing the Hug-for-a-bug Day ===
A Hug Day is a special day where the Ubuntu Community comes together with a shared goal of triaging bugs for a specific package or set of packages. Working together allows us to share knowledge and give some much needed assistance to the Ubuntu Developers. The term Hug Day is a spin on Bug Day; every time someone triages a bug, then someone else should hug him/her. Why? This is a very special way for us to tell everyone that we love contributions! And triaging bugs is a really big contribution.

In addition to that we added <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay-BugsForExtraPoints]]</nowiki> - a page where you can list your most annoying bugs. Fixing these bugs will give extra points (and extra hugs of course).

=== Join the Hug Day ===
Who can join a Hug Day? Everyone. You don't need to be a developer and you don't need to know how to write code. Everyone is welcome. If you don't know how to help, then just stop on by and we'll explain everything to you.

Where to go for a Hug Day? Come to '''#ubuntu-bugs''' on <nowiki>[[IRC]]</nowiki> (irc.freenode.net).
Normal bug squashing activity takes place in '''#ubuntu-bugs''' at other times as well.

=== When ===

Thursdays! The next Hug Day is scheduled for <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20140710| Thursday 10 July, 2014]]</nowiki>.

We can't stress it enough: everyone can help. So join us for the next Hug Day!

=== Resources ===
* '''<nowiki>[[HelpingWithBugs]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[DebuggingProcedures]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay-Organizing]]</nowiki>''' ''How to Organize a HugDay!''
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay-Planning]]</nowiki>''' '' Do you have any idea on which could be the next target?! ''

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryBugSquad]]</nowiki>
