{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



The purpose of this wiki page is to define the public relations strategy for the Ubuntu Studio Public Relations team. This will include defining the team, the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/PublicRelations#Definitions|communications channels]]</nowiki> used, list of events to publicize, etc.

=== PR Strategy ===
The primary goals of Ubuntu Studio Public Relations is to:
* communicate more often to users
* encourage developers to join the Ubuntu Studio Development Team
* calls for volunteers for testing

And the following means will be used to accomplish these goals:
* establish a PR team
* assign some specific responsibilites to specific members
* create an "event vs channel" matrix to show when and where to post
* provide "standard announcement verbiage" templates for various events
* use ubuntustudio.org as the nexus or focal point of our PR communications

=== Public Relations Team ===
The Ubuntu Studio Public Relations Team will be primarily repsonsible for all public relations and external (i.e. not inter-team or to Ubuntu) communications for Ubuntu Studio.

To become a member of the PR team, first one must volunteer either in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntustudio-devel|#ubuntustudio-devel on Freenode IRC]]</nowiki> or on the <nowiki>[[ubuntu-studio-devel@lists.ubuntu.com|ubuntustudio-devel mailing list]]</nowiki> and then be approved by one of the PR team's admins.

The team should have at least two admins to ensure responsiveness to volunteers and other matters for the team.

The <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-public-relations|Ubuntu Studio Public Relations Team]]</nowiki> will act as the Launchpad team for the PR team, providing a mechanism for controlling access to the website (i.e. authentication for website login has been assigned to the website team).

The PR team should remain small, perhaps no more than five active members. This should hopefully prevent major overlap of news coverage and hopefully such a small group can find an easy (and informal) consensus about what topic each member should cover.

Furthermore, it might be wise to assign one PR team member for some large, specific events (e.g. release) with a secondary as fail over.

=== Writing Posts ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 #cccccc :> '''Event Posting'''
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #eeeeee;":> '''Event'''
| <:>'''Description'''
| <:>'''Channels'''
| <:>'''Assignee'''
|-
| <#FFCC99> Release News
| Make an official post on a new release every 6 months
| website & social channels, G+, mail lists, forums,
| <nowiki>[[slavender]]</nowiki>
|-
| <#CCFFCC> Milestone Testing
| Announce testing, and ask for participants for Beta2 and R.C
| website & social channels, G+, mail lists, forums
| <nowiki>[[smartboyhw]]</nowiki>
|-
| <#ADD8E6> Request Help From Community
| Hunt for developers and contributors at least once after each new release is out
| website & social channels, G+, mail lists, forums
| <nowiki>[[zequence]]</nowiki>
|-
| <#FFFFCC> Non Formal Posting
| Any news about Ubuntu Studio, reviews, interviews, UDS, meetings, release planning, etc
| website & social Channels, G+
| <nowiki>[[Ttoine]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[holstein]]</nowiki>
|}

==== How to Post ====

Use only text, when writing posts. Save the article as a textfile. Then post the same text to each channel, one at a time. Use the #ubuntustudio hashtag in footer. (!ubuntustudio on identi.ca).

* '''Website & Social Sites:''' 
** Post an article on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org/wp-admin|Ubuntu Studio Website]]</nowiki>. This post is published on facebook, twitter, identi.ca and the website at once.
* '''G+:'''
** Have Post published on the <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/b/102125777892703446963/|Ubuntu Studio G+ Page]]</nowiki>
* '''mail lists:''' 
** Post to all mail lists at once: ubuntu-studio-users@lists.ubuntu.com,  linux-audio-user@lists.linuxaudio.org, community-announce@lists.ubuntu.com
* '''forums:''' 
** Visit the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=335|Ubuntu Studio Section]]</nowiki> at ubuntuforums.org and create a new post.
** Visit the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxmusicians.com/viewforum.php?f=24&sid=70c46b62dce56baa85c57b8f14d82134|Linux Music News]]</nowiki> section at linuxmusicians.com and create a new post.

==== What to Post ====

* Any significant news on Linux Multimedia that somehow may be interesting for Ubuntu Studio users (new software, changes in technology)
* Interviews.. 
** ..of Linux multimedia developers (we may conduct our own)
** ..of multimedia producers (audio, video, graphics, etc)
* Significant news on Ubuntu Studio development
** Call for testing
** New features or applications added

..add more here

=== Making Videos and Podcasts ===
At this time, there is no plan on how to do this.

=== List of Communication Channels ===

===== Ubuntu Studio Web Site =====
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org|ubuntustudio.org]]</nowiki>

===== Mail Lists =====
* linux-audio-user@lists.linuxaudio.org (reaches most users. Do not cross post to LAD and Announce lists)
* ubuntu-studio-users@lists.ubuntu.com (reaches most users. Do not cross post to ubuntustudio-devel)
* community-announce@lists.ubuntu.com - Ubuntu Community Announce

===== Forums =====
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=335|UbuntuStudio at ubuntuforums.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxmusicians.com/viewforum.php?f=24&sid=70c46b62dce56baa85c57b8f14d82134|Linux Musicians Music News]]</nowiki>

===== Social Channels (linked to from the website) =====
* Facebook
* Identica
* Twitter

===== Other Social Channels =====
* G+ (separate Ubuntu Studio account)
* Youtube (separate Ubuntu Studio account)

===== Podcasts =====
* <nowiki>[[http://sixgun.org/linuxoutlaws|Linuxoutlaws]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://tllts.org/|the linuxlink tech show podcast]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryUbuntuStudioPublicRelations
