{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== KubuntuGetHotNewStuff ==

=== Status ===

* Created: 2005-04-28 by JonathanRiddell
* Priority: LowPriority
* People: JonathanRiddellLead, AndreasMuellerSecond
* Contributors: JonathanRiddell
* Interested:
* Status: ApprovedSpecification, BreezyGoal, UduBof, DistroSpecification, JonathanRiddellQueue, AndreasMuellerQueue
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Hot New Stuff is a KDE library for downloading content files such as wallpapers or templates from a server.  http://kde-look.org and now http://kde-docs.org provide Hot New Stuff feeds to download their latest content.  We should make full use of these in Kubuntu.

=== Rationale ===

KDE includes support for downloading wallpapers through the kde-look feeds.  This is a popular feature but needs to be improved and should be expanded to all the other feeds available.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

A user wants a new KDM theme, he clicks the Get New Theme button and chooses from the latest and greatest on kde-look.org to download.

=== Implementation Plan ===

The wallpaper KControl module includes support for this.  It should be improved to use the new KHot``New``Stuff button in kdelibs and to automatically change to the wallpaper once it's downloaded.  

We should add hot new stuff capability to colour schemes, fonts, icons, mouse themes, kdm themes, ksplash and sound themes.

Hot new stuff downloads can also be added to appropriate programmes for templates and files from the new site kde-docs.org once it has content.

The KNew``Stuff library could be modified to separate newest, highest rated and most downloaded, currently they are mixed together in one stream.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

* `kcontrol`.

==== User Interface Requirements ====

An improved hot new stuff dialogue would be preferable.  The template is at: http://aseigo.blogspot.com/2005/03/hotnewstuff-user-interface.html

=== Outstanding Issues ===

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
