{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu News Team Meetings Page ==

Welcome to the Ubuntu News Team Meeting page. The Ubuntu News Team IRC meetings are held the 1st Thursday of each month at 2300 UTC in #ubuntu-news on freenode.

The '''next''' News Team Meeting is scheduled for '''January 6th, 2010'''.  Meeting Chair '''TBD'''

=== Agenda for Upcoming Meeting ===

Please add any items you would like to have discussed at the Upcoming meeting here. Please add items no later than one hour before the start of the monthly team meeting. Since the team consists of both the Fridge and UWN we will discuss items in that order. We also use mootbot-UK for logging the meetings. For more information on Mootbot-UK click <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings/Mootbot-UKHowTo|here]]</nowiki>.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Topic for Discussion
| Date Added
| Who added it
| Addition information - notes
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

=== Previous Reports ===

==== 2010 ====

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Meetings/20101202/Log | December 2, 2010 2300 UTC Meeting Log]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Meetings/20101202/Agenda | Agenda Used for meeting]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Meetings/20100506/Log | May 6, 2010 2300 UTC Meeting Log]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Meetings/20100506/Agenda | Agenda Used for meeting]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Meetings/20100708/Log | July 8th, 2010 2300 UTC Meeting Log]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Meetings/20100708/Agenda | Agenda Used for Meeting]]</nowiki>
