{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== DehumanisingTheArchivePublisher ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by DanielSilverstone
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: DanielSilverstoneLead, NeedsSecond
* Contributors: DanielSilverstone
* Interested:
* Status: BrainDump, EditedSpecification, MarkShuttleworthQueue
* Branch: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1

=== Introduction ===

Launchpad is a large and growing application with many complex parts. One of those parts is currently called both "Lucille" and "The Archive Publisher". This specification details what work is needed to rename the code portion from canonical.lucille.* to canonical.archivepublisher.*

=== Rationale ===

We hope that the launchpad codebase will eventually be open-sourced. When it is, people will be trying to understand it. Since the codebase is large we should make it as easy as possible to find specific portions of the code. People will look for the "archive publisher" and as such it would make more sense for the portion of the codebase to be called 'canonical.archivepublisher' rather than 'canonical.lucille'.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

Currently the amount of code using the portions of the codebase known as 'canonical.lucille' is very small outside of the 'canonical.lucille' code itself. As such the scope of the problem is fairly narrow and well defined.

=== Implementation Plan ===

* Rename the python package
* Find all references to 'canonical.lucille' and change them to the new name
* Rename the tests so that they run
* Ensure no code has subsequently broken
* Over time go over documentation and wikis and correct all references to Lucille for consistency.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* "canonical.lucille" is not the only poorly named portion of the codebase. There is also "canonical.poppy" and we should consider renaming that to something along the lines of "canonical.ftpuploadserver" or similar.

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
