{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== AutomatedInstallations ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JaneW
* Priority: LowPriority
* People: AndreasMuellerLead, ColinWatsonSecond
* Contributors: JaneW
* Interested:
* Status: EditedSpecification, DistroSpecification, AndreasMuellerQueue
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1

=== Introduction ===

This spec discusses implementing fully automated installations (FAIs) so that large deployments can quickly and easily install Ubuntu onto many machines, whose end-users will find all they need to be productive out-of-the-box.

This includes package installation, planning and creating of configurations, and how to deal with errors.

=== Rationale ===

Many system administrators would prefer to use an automated installation method to install Ubuntu on their machines. The `preseed` feature of `debian-installer` answers this need, as does Kickstart, and both are available in Hoary. However, some people want to deploy networks including other GNU/Linux distributions. <nowiki>[[http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai/|FAI]]</nowiki> (Fully Automated Installation, an automated system for installing Debian on clusters) is another popular system here, but so far requires third-party patches to support Ubuntu.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

An automated installation includes:

* Language and country selection
* Mouse configuration
* Keymap selection
* Boot loader installation
* Disk partitioning
* Network configuration
* Selection of authentication methods
* Firewall configuration
* Custom package selection
* X Window System configuration

Use cases include:

* Jeff wants to install Ubuntu onto fifty computers all at once and have them all networked out of the box

* Jane also has fifty computers but wants subtly different Ubuntu implementations on twenty of them due to different hardware configurations. But she only wants to set up one mass-install

=== Implementation Plan ===

Community members have already sent patches for FAI to make it work with Ubuntu. We will integrate those patches, and work with the upstream author.

FAI currently requires special kernels with NFS-root support. We hope that <nowiki>[[NFSRoot]]</nowiki> work in Breezy will make this obsolete, and will work on confirming this and fixing any other issues that arise so that FAI can use stock kernels.

We will add the following features to our Kickstart implementation:

* Add support for more authentication methods, e.g. LDAP.
* Enhance partitioning of multiple drives.
* Consider adding firewalling support; only `firewall --disabled` works so far.
* NFS installation. At the moment you can retrieve the Kickstart file over NFS using 'ks=nfs:<server>:/<path>', but booting with plain 'ks' doesn't work, nor does retrieving the base system over NFS.
* Add RAID/LVM partitioning support. There are some bugs and unimplemented bits in partition handling.
** LVM will probably happen mostly for free as a result of InstallerVolumeManagement.
** RAID needs design work.
* Support for bootloader passwords.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

N/A.

==== Packages Affected ====

* `fai`
* `fai-kernels`
* `kickseed`
* `partman-auto`
* `partman-auto-lvm`
* `system-config-kickstart`

==== User Interface Requirements ====

`system-config-kickstart` already exists to create Kickstart files, but will need to be maintained and extended.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

We need a proper administration interface to manage the installations, e.g. backup, mail settings, network settings, pushing security updates to the clients (http://udu.wiki.ubuntu.com/NetworkWideUpdates), handling images, and so on.

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

==== UDU Pre-Work ====

=== Implementation Status ===

2005-06-06 ColinWatson: Bootloader passwords implemented in `kickseed`, thanks to a `grub-installer` patch from Timo Aaltonen.

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
