{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by mhall119 at 18:01:55 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-03-08-18.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* History

* Future

* more history
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19knOlqz8cV5_8VQ1tCvEd8tjEk6U50KsSOJCROR60o4/edit?usp=sharing   (mhall119, 18:36:24)

* Future
** ''ACTION:'' We need the converged Unity foundation to support multiple formfactors (Canonical resources are workign on this, it doesn't exist yet)  (mhall119, 18:52:02)
** ''ACTION:'' We need a stable set of APIs for building the interface (libunity, indicator services, hud services, etc) Canonical resources are already allocated to this  (mhall119, 18:52:23)
** ''ACTION:'' we need to re-create the TV shell layout and components on top of Unity Next  (mhall119, 18:53:11)
** ''ACTION:'' We need Remote control/navigation in the TV shell  (mhall119, 18:54:08)
** ''ACTION:'' We need to make sure that all of the libs necessary to write apps and the shell are available and open source  (mhall119, 18:55:30)
** ''ACTION:'' we need to specify a data model for passing TV data between Scopes and the Shell  (mhall119, 18:55:35)
** ''ACTION:'' we need scopes that pull TV content from various backends and services that use the datamodel and new API  (mhall119, 18:56:02)

Meeting ended at 19:02:21 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* We need the converged Unity foundation to support multiple formfactors (Canonical resources are workign on this, it doesn't exist yet)
* We need a stable set of APIs for building the interface (libunity, indicator services, hud services, etc) Canonical resources are already allocated to this
* we need to re-create the TV shell layout and components on top of Unity Next
* We need Remote control/navigation in the TV shell
* We need to make sure that all of the libs necessary to write apps and the shell are available and open source
* we need to specify a data model for passing TV data between Scopes and the Shell
* we need scopes that pull TV content from various backends and services that use the datamodel and new API

=== People present (lines said) ===

* mhall119 (104)
* bobweaver (66)
* tgm4883 (42)
* jhodapp (12)
* pinguy (11)
* meetingology (10)
* mr_man (9)
* ogra_ (1)
* _danialjose (1)
* YoBoY (1)

=== Full Log ===

 18:01:55 <mhall119> #startmeeting Ubuntu TV discussion

 18:01:55 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Mar  8 18:01:55 2013 UTC.  The chair is mhall119. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 18:01:55 <meetingology> 

 18:01:55 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:02:29 <mhall119> hi everybody, who is here for the Ubuntu TV meeting?

 18:02:44 <jhodapp> mhall119, let's try now :)

 18:03:02 <YoBoY> hi mhall119, here but just to follow (not participating :p)

 18:03:37 <pinguy> YoBoY, same here. Would like to see how this is handled

 18:04:09 <_danialjose> just to watch

 18:04:11 <mhall119> I'm going to give a few more minutes, I hope some of the TV community guys can make it

 18:04:45 <jhodapp> hey tgm4883

 18:04:53 <tgm4883> o/

 18:05:22 <pinguy> Doesn't seem like much work has been done to Ubuntu TV for awhile now: http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntutv-dev-team/ubuntutv/trunk/files

 18:05:33 <pinguy> Would be nice to see how far it has come

 18:06:05 <mhall119> ok, I'm going to get started with some of the back story

 18:06:10 <mhall119> #topic History

 18:06:20 <tgm4883> do we have more people here than normal?

 18:06:35 <mhall119> tgm4883: yeah, I put out a call for more discussion

 18:07:00 <mhall119> so, around this time last year Canonical debuted the Ubuntu TV at CES, and it was a pretty big hit

 18:07:25 <mhall119> at the time, the TV UI was based on the Unity 2D code

 18:07:32 <mhall119> which in early 2012 was still actively developed

 18:08:03 <tgm4883> quick correction, it was uds-P

 18:08:04 <mhall119> we opened up all of the source code that had been worked on, and recruited interested developers from the community to participate in it's development

 18:08:21 <mhall119> tgm4883: what was?

 18:08:28 <tgm4883> mhall119, oh wait, nm, I misread what you said

 18:08:29 <tgm4883> carry on

 18:08:32 <mhall119> ok

 18:09:18 <mhall119> so by this time last year the TV was open and we were getting great contributors like tgm4883 and bobweaver on board

 18:10:12 <mhall119> then, at UDS-Q, there was a decision made by the Unity team that actively developing 2 separate Unity codebases (2D and 3D) was too much

 18:10:39 <mhall119> and a big dicussion followed which ultimately resulted in Unity 3D being chosen

 18:11:01 <mhall119> I wasnt a part of those conversations, so I can't tell you what the arguments were either way

 18:11:49 <mhall119> so, with Unity 2D no longer being actively developed, we had to shift Ubuntu TV on to Nux and the Compiz plugin that powers Unity 3D

 18:13:03 <mhall119> and it wasn't long after that when the Canonical engineers who had been working on the multi-media functionality for the TV were also tasked with getting that same multi-media functionality working on the new Phone/Tablet codebase

 18:13:31 <mhall119> so for several months after we had started the transition to Unity 3D, we didn't have Canonical resources to help

 18:14:00 <mhall119> and despite a large amount of effort from bobweaver, porting it from Qt (which he was familiar with) to Nux (which he wasn't) was no simple task

 18:14:46 <mhall119> after months of this, those of us inside Canonical were frustrated that we couldn't contribute, and concerned that our absence was holding back to the community developers

 18:15:24 <mhall119> so jhodapp and I spent some time gathering up all the internal documentation about design and implementation details that we could, and worked to get approval to open them up to the community

 18:16:03 <mhall119> at this point, we were pretty much "throwing it over the wall", not because we wanted to, but because if we didn't it wouldn't get over the wall at all

 18:16:39 <mr_man> what does throwing it over the wall mean ?

 18:17:00 <mhall119> mr_man: it's a common term for making something open source but not supporting the community around it

 18:17:22 <mhall119> like Google does with Android, or Sun/Oracle was known to do with their open source projects

 18:17:27 <mr_man> sounds like the last year

 18:17:46 <mr_man> cool so Ubuntu is droping the tv ?

 18:17:48 <pinguy> mr_man, in-house code getting out to the public

 18:17:55 <mhall119> Now, even though the phone shell was being written in Qt/QML at this time, as far as everybody inside Canonical knew the future was still Unity 3D, and the expectation was that the phone shell would eventually be integrated into Unity 3D as well

 18:18:03 <mhall119> mr_man: no, this is the back story

 18:18:34 <mhall119> so for a long time we kept encouraging the community TV hackers to port to Unity 3D, because as far as *we* knew, that was the right direction to take it

 18:18:55 <mr_man> so you all got community members to do it ?

 18:19:05 <mhall119> mr_man: yes

 18:19:18 <mr_man> port to 3d ? that is or are you going to tell the to do that then change your mind 5 times

 18:19:29 <mr_man> will is on board with this ?

 18:19:33 <mhall119> and while tgm4883 made good progress on a MythTV lens/scope that didn't depend on the UI toolkit, bobweaver was still struggling to make heads or tails of Nux and Compiz

 18:19:36 * tgm4883 encourages mr_man to hold his questions until the end of the history section

 18:19:51 <mhall119> mr_man: I'm explaining what happened, not what is going to happen

 18:19:56 <mr_man> sorry

 18:20:40 <mr_man> I thought that bobweaver quit because of many many reasons

 18:20:49 <tgm4883> perhaps we should open the second channel for questions?

 18:20:59 <mhall119> mr_man: I'll get to some of that in a bit

 18:21:14 <mhall119> finally, as the phone's releasing was approaching, the conversation inside Canonical went back to the Unity 2D vs. Unity 3D debate, and after proving how quickly and efficiently the Unity shell could be done in Qt/QML, the decision was reversed

 18:21:56 <pinguy> a lack of communication seems to be the problem. You thought Unity 2d was dead so strating working on gettting Ubuntu TV working on Compiz, only to find out that up-stream was now using qt/Unity-2D.

 18:22:08 <mhall119> which put us in a difficult position, we weren't allowed to talk about the phone before it was announced, but we didn't want to waste developer's time either

 18:22:32 <mr_man> pinguy:  that is not true pm me if yyou want the truth

 18:23:06 <mhall119> but we did discretely let bobweaver know that the debate had restarted, and there was a distinct possibility that Unity 2D, or at least a Qt/QML version of Unity, would become the new target

 18:23:35 <bobweaver> really you did

 18:24:50 <mhall119> Which brings us to where we are now, we have an old Unity 2D codebase, some regretably wasted time and effort on Unity 3D porting, and a new Qt/QML foundating that we want to converge all of our devices around

 18:25:13 <mhall119> so, that's the history

 18:25:21 <mhall119> #topic Future

 18:25:51 <bobweaver> maybe I should say my side of the history as it was me that wasted 3 months or more of programming

 18:26:09 <pinguy> bobweaver, I think thats only fair

 18:26:19 <mhall119> so we wasted a lot of development time, and burned through a non-significant amount of developer good will, but we still want to see an Ubuntu TV, and we still want it to be a community project

 18:26:46 <mhall119> bobweaver: go ahead

 18:26:47 <tgm4883> #topic alternate history, community edition

 18:26:55 <mhall119> #topic more history

 18:27:07 <mhall119> tgm4883: feel free to add your input as well

 18:27:19 <bobweaver> what really happened . after the last non virtual uds I was told o make nux I was also told that 3 times before then I was told back to 2d then back to this then back to that. It seems like there needs to be better leadership

 18:27:43 <bobweaver> so it was a flip flop falure

 18:27:57 <jhodapp> bobweaver, nobody will argue with that point I think

 18:28:04 <bobweaver> meaning that I was lead along a fake road

 18:28:46 <bobweaver> this is no one fault but mine

 18:29:19 <bobweaver> but for the people in the future I do not want to see them have the same thing happen to them. so in other words you all need better leadership

 18:29:38 <pinguy> bobweaver, was it ever at the back of your mind this may happen? Qt is really the only way to make apps fully cross platform. Compiz isn't really that great for this. From an outsider looking in. Ubuntu TV always seemed it was being made to work on many devices.

 18:30:01 <bobweaver> I knew that it was always going to be qt

 18:30:02 <mhall119> pinguy: sure, he was pushing us to just stick with Qt/QML the whole time

 18:30:12 <mhall119> he was a constant advocate for it

 18:30:30 <bobweaver> I fought that for months pinguy  the point is I do not want to see you all have something like this happen to the next bobweaver

 18:30:46 <mhall119> tgm4883: do you have anything you want to add?

 18:31:12 <tgm4883> just that I'm available for questions

 18:31:17 <tgm4883> oh

 18:31:26 <bobweaver> btw I have ubunntu tv running on my nexus 7

 18:31:34 <mhall119> really? that's awesome

 18:31:40 <tgm4883> and that for all the help i've asked for (testing wise), nobody has actually come though

 18:32:18 <mhall119> are we ready to talk about the future now?

 18:33:11 <ogra_> bobweaver, how is the signal reception ? :P

 18:33:18 <bobweaver> listen you all are never going to get any where fighting about the code base. in this world it seems like it is about hardware and that is it. until the right people get the right tools it is not going to work

 18:33:25 <pinguy> tgm4883, its a shame you didn't have that many testers. You probably could of done with the project being more open

 18:33:34 <bobweaver> why build something that is for the desktop when it is going on a tv

 18:33:46 <bobweaver> people have said that on the channel before

 18:33:48 <tgm4883> pinguy, the stuff I need testing doesn't have anything to do with the ubuntu tv code

 18:33:50 <mhall119> pinguy: the project was open, tgm4883 and bobweaver are both community contributors

 18:34:04 <mhall119> alright

 18:34:06 <tgm4883> so let me add a little here, what I actually am doing

 18:34:29 <tgm4883> I'm a Mythbuntu developer. What I bring to the table is the Ubuntu TV integration with a MythTV backend

 18:34:45 <tgm4883> This is done via Unity scopes, so it works on any platform that runs Unity

 18:34:53 <bobweaver> ogra_:  I am using brodcom java drivers

 18:35:03 <tgm4883> The requests I've had for testing are 2 things

 18:35:26 <tgm4883> 1) Testing the scopes. This admittedly is a little more difficult, as it requires you to have a MythTV backend in your environment

 18:35:54 <tgm4883> 2) Testing of the MythTV backend quick start guide I wrote. This is far easier for people to test, as you can do it in a VM

 18:36:24 <mhall119> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19knOlqz8cV5_8VQ1tCvEd8tjEk6U50KsSOJCROR60o4/edit?usp=sharing

 18:36:31 <tgm4883> Ironically, the few people that have tested the scope have given me feedback. The people that said they would test the QSG haven't given me any feedback yet

 18:36:57 <tgm4883> Comments are open on the QSG, which is where I'm looking for them

 18:37:00 <mhall119> I'm guilty of that, it's still on my task list, but I've been quite behind lately

 18:37:06 <bobweaver> tgm4883:  what is QSG?

 18:37:12 <mhall119> Quick Start Guide

 18:37:13 <tgm4883> Quick Start Guide

 18:37:15 <mhall119> the link I pasted above

 18:37:30 <tgm4883> The link above is the long version, that includes every screen in the backend setup

 18:37:50 <tgm4883> I would prefer to ship the smaller version, but it skips parts that aren't changed and may be more confusing

 18:38:26 <tgm4883> Short version https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eGJ8gGtRqFxQ8xVWlR6XgP6FAFJEVZ-Ntq_TT8XhWEs/edit?usp=sharing

 18:38:28 <bobweaver> tgm4883:  I will read the guide and get back to you

 18:38:48 <mhall119> tgm4883: bobweaver: I'd like to start talking about where we go from here, since we only have 20 minutes left

 18:38:48 <tgm4883> ok

 18:38:56 <tgm4883> mhall119, sounds good

 18:39:02 <mhall119> #topic Future

 18:39:23 <mhall119> alright, so now that everybody has the brief history of the TV project, I want to know how we progress from here

 18:39:55 <mhall119> we still want a TV formfactor of Unity, and we still (miraculously) have community interest in it

 18:40:49 <bobweaver> if it is going to be part of the phablet then you all should just tell them to do it they wrote the stuff to start with

 18:41:07 <mhall119> the goal is to have it all in one codebase

 18:41:17 <mhall119> which we're evidently calling "Unity Next"

 18:41:24 <bobweaver> I think that they are re-writing libunity no one can do anything till then

 18:41:32 <mhall119> which will start with the phablet code, and add in desktop and TV formfactors

 18:41:35 <tgm4883> I think "Unity Next" developers need to develop the interface

 18:41:47 <bobweaver> that is a HUGE trouble that there not communicating between teams that is why I am out

 18:41:52 <pinguy> I hate to be the bad guy here, but Ubuntu TV is really only going to work with Ubuntu Touch. In the last 4 months XBMC has really come into its own.

 18:41:55 <bobweaver> well that and many many other reasons

 18:42:33 <tgm4883> pinguy, Unity brings more to the table than XBMC

 18:42:41 <bobweaver> pinguy:  you wath live tv with xbmc ?

 18:42:55 <mhall119> tgm4883: the "Unity Next" developers in Canonical have a short window to both polish the phablet UI for potential OEM partners, *and* port the desktop by 13.10 time-frame

 18:42:55 <pinguy> bobweaver, yes. It was part of the last release

 18:42:57 <bobweaver> also manage all your apps

 18:43:14 <pinguy> bobweaver, the android version also manages all of your apps

 18:43:28 <tgm4883> mhall119, it makes more sense for the Unity developers to develop the new layouts

 18:43:29 <mhall119> if we wait for Canonical developers to port the TV UI, it's going to take a while

 18:43:39 <jhodapp> bobweaver, that's not true, it's just Qt5 and QML so what exactly do you think you need to wait on from the unity devs?

 18:44:03 <bobweaver> pinguy:  so then you should use it and stop telling people what they should or should not do. you know that I could have xbmc in the dash right

 18:44:12 <bobweaver> because there is qtmediahub

 18:44:24 <mhall119> tgm4883: they will be writing the code to support adding and switching to different formfacts, but I doubt they'll be able to port the TV UI unless we wait unti the end of this year

 18:44:30 <bobweaver> jhodapp:  they are re-writing unity

 18:44:35 <bobweaver> libunity I should say

 18:44:36 <mhall119> and I really don't want to wait another year on this

 18:44:42 <tgm4883> This is OT, but XBMC doesn't have TV capabilities built in. They farm it out and use PVR backends (such as MythTV)

 18:45:06 <mhall119> bobweaver: yes, the libunity APIs are going to be changing, but the TV layout and what data it will need shouldn't be

 18:45:26 <jhodapp> bobweaver, sure, but we have a phablet UI today right? what's the difference between having the TV UI today and getting it working, vs the phablet one that already works?

 18:45:44 <bobweaver> Umm... that is not possible it listens to libunity it uses nux all of that

 18:46:01 <tgm4883> Can't we just blow up the tablet interface and use that for TV?

 18:46:03 <mhall119> bobweaver: the converged codebase will all be on the same libunity API

 18:46:14 <mhall119> tgm4883: that would be a good place ot start I think

 18:46:27 <bobweaver> the phablet is not using all the parts of unity also the main thing would be dconf-qt that right there is huge

 18:46:28 <mhall119> but the tablet is still geared to touch input

 18:46:32 <jhodapp> tgm4883, yes, I think that's a good place to start too

 18:46:49 <tgm4883> mhall119, IMHO, the work that we need to do is ensure that you can control the interface via remote control

 18:46:55 <bobweaver> also qx11info  as you all are making new server one can not do anything that is why I made into standalone app that runs on android

 18:47:08 <mhall119> ok, things are starting to fall apart into technical implementation here, I'd like to keep this more high-level

 18:47:23 <tgm4883> well, that and ensure you can use it from 10' away, but I think that is going to deal more with font sizes

 18:47:32 <bobweaver> mhall119:  you ant tell people to waste there time that is not fair to them

 18:47:34 <tgm4883> mhall119, +1

 18:47:36 <bobweaver> bottom line ^^

 18:47:37 <mhall119> so let's re-cap what we have and what we don't

 18:48:13 <bobweaver> spinning wheels in the mud just gets you more stuck

 18:48:16 <mhall119> we have the phablet codebase, we have a design spec for the TV interface, we have some existing Qt4/QML1 code that may or may not be reusable

 18:48:48 <mhall119> we don't have: Canonical resources devoted exclusively to porting TV to the new codebase

 18:48:59 <bobweaver> mhall119:  have you looked at the code you can not use it

 18:49:14 <mhall119> bobweaver: I haven't but I'm not as technically proficient as you when it comes to code

 18:49:17 <tgm4883> mhall119, perhaps a better angle would be to list all the needs (even stuff currently done), then list what is done

 18:49:32 <mhall119> tgm4883: ok

 18:49:32 <bobweaver> esp because of the things that are happening with the server and libunity you are telling people to waste there time

 18:49:37 <tgm4883> eg. what is needed to ship something the community would deem "Ubuntu TV"

 18:50:00 <mhall119> * We need the converged Unity foundation to support multiple formfactors (Canonical resources are workign on this, it doesn't exist yet)

 18:50:25 <bobweaver> libhbris ??

 18:50:34 <mhall119> * We need a stable set of APIs for building the interface (libunity, indicator services, hud services, etc)

 18:50:35 <bobweaver> er wrong place so sorry

 18:50:47 <mhall119> some of that exists, some doesn't

 18:50:52 <bobweaver> phablet has almost all that ^^

 18:50:57 <mhall119> Canonical resources have already been allocated to it

 18:51:17 <mhall119> bobweaver: on the surface yes, I don't know how much is mocked and how much is subject to change

 18:51:31 <mhall119> at the very least, the phablet's use of libunity is going to change when libunity changes

 18:51:38 <tgm4883> for lack of a better way to mark those, I'm going to put those as actions

 18:51:44 <bobweaver> but you all are digging your selfs deeper until the things that I have stated change then nothing can be done. OH HOW I whis that I could have talked about this at UDS

 18:51:48 <mhall119> tgm4883: good idea

 18:52:02 <mhall119> #action * We need the converged Unity foundation to support multiple formfactors (Canonical resources are workign on this, it doesn't exist yet)

 18:52:02 * meetingology * We need the converged Unity foundation to support multiple formfactors (Canonical resources are workign on this, it doesn't exist yet)

 18:52:23 <mhall119> #action * We need a stable set of APIs for building the interface (libunity, indicator services, hud services, etc) Canonical resources are already allocated to this

 18:52:23 * meetingology * We need a stable set of APIs for building the interface (libunity, indicator services, hud services, etc) Canonical resources are already allocated to this

 18:52:46 <bobweaver> you all need to know how this is going to work on mer

 18:52:52 <bobweaver> Woops I mean mir

 18:53:06 <tgm4883> IMO, it's way to early to think about mir

 18:53:11 <mhall119> #action we need to re-create the TV shell layout and components on top of Unity Next

 18:53:11 * meetingology we need to re-create the TV shell layout and components on top of Unity Next

 18:53:32 <tgm4883> mhall119, we need remote control functionality of Unity Next

 18:53:43 <mhall119> bobweaver: that's something that should be done in the common Unity Next code, there shouldn't be anything TV specific about it

 18:53:45 <jhodapp> tgm4883, agreed

 18:53:52 <bobweaver> if that is action then you are going to need all the libs that are used some are not open as of yet

 18:54:07 <tgm4883> mhall119, I'm leaving you to add the actions so we don't duplicate them

 18:54:08 <mhall119> #action We need Remote control/navigation in the TV shell

 18:54:08 * meetingology We need Remote control/navigation in the TV shell

 18:54:18 <bobweaver> mhall119:  what the heck are you talking about

 18:54:19 <tgm4883> mhall119, we need a TV backend

 18:54:23 <bobweaver> that is bull

 18:54:44 <mhall119> *action We need to make sure that all of the libs necessary to write apps and the shell are available and open source

 18:54:46 <bobweaver> how are you going to handle windowing how are you going to handle spread ect ect

 18:54:54 <bobweaver> alt+tab so many things

 18:55:15 <jhodapp> bobweaver, don't get buried in the details for now

 18:55:18 <mhall119> *action we need to specify a data model for passing TV data between Scopes and the Shell

 18:55:20 <bobweaver> this was all done on X before

 18:55:24 <bobweaver> with qx11info

 18:55:30 <mhall119> #action We need to make sure that all of the libs necessary to write apps and the shell are available and open source

 18:55:30 * meetingology We need to make sure that all of the libs necessary to write apps and the shell are available and open source

 18:55:35 <mhall119> #action we need to specify a data model for passing TV data between Scopes and the Shell

 18:55:35 * meetingology we need to specify a data model for passing TV data between Scopes and the Shell

 18:55:55 <bobweaver> so if you are going to have all the things that the TV had then you are going to have to implant all that

 18:56:02 <mhall119> #action we need scopes that pull TV content from various backends and services that use the datamodel and new API

 18:56:02 * meetingology we need scopes that pull TV content from various backends and services that use the datamodel and new API

 18:56:08 <bobweaver> which I hear hush hush words that canonical is doing that

 18:56:26 <mhall119> bobweaver: doing what?

 18:56:38 <bobweaver> there is no work for the community because canonical can change anything at any second giving the community the eff bomb

 18:57:03 <mhall119> bobweaver: that's what I'm actively working to change

 18:57:14 <mhall119> and jhodapp has been pushing for that to change too

 18:57:21 * jhodapp will back mhall119 on that

 18:57:35 <bobweaver> mhall119:  good for you I am glade to see that

 18:57:39 <mhall119> so we're almost out of time, tgm4883 any more actions you want me to record?

 18:58:03 <tgm4883> nope

 18:58:05 <bobweaver> Listen the only reason that I am hear is because I have to tell you all what happend to me and how you can NOT make it happen to the next me

 18:58:14 <mhall119> I'd like to end this by asking how you guys, on the community, want us in Canonical to work with you

 18:58:34 <bobweaver> you know what you all can do stop laughing at people

 18:58:39 <bobweaver> take them for real

 18:59:01 <mhall119> bobweaver: none of us has been laughing at all about this

 18:59:03 <jhodapp> bobweaver, come on man, that's not fair

 18:59:06 <bobweaver> listen to them and dont clang them up to be just people make them part of the team

 18:59:26 <bobweaver> mhall119:  should I take out the video of uds and saviq laughing ?

 18:59:42 <bobweaver> life is not fair

 19:00:24 <bobweaver> listen if you seee some like me again just tell them that they need to contact saviq and the other people that are too cool to show up to these meeting

 19:00:27 <mhall119> I certainly hope that didn't happen, but if it did I apologize on their behalf

 19:00:32 <bobweaver> even though they said that they would make it

 19:00:42 <bobweaver> member at the last real UDS

 19:00:44 <mhall119> bobweaver: Saviq doesn't work on TV anymore, he hasn't for some time

 19:01:00 <mhall119> neither does jhodapp really, he's here on his own volition

 19:01:15 <bobweaver> that is not the point the point is these are the people that CONTROL things

 19:01:25 <bobweaver> you must make them work with people

 19:01:26 <mhall119> bobweaver: no, they don't

 19:01:32 <jhodapp> bobweaver, no that's not right

 19:01:35 <bobweaver> if they dont want to then this is doomed

 19:01:41 <mhall119> they've been yanked around and re-directed as much as you have (more probably)

 19:01:50 * jhodapp can attest to that

 19:01:54 <bobweaver> if you can not work together then what do you have

 19:01:55 <bobweaver> ?>

 19:02:00 <bobweaver> people wasting there time

 19:02:10 <mhall119> alright, our time is up, if anybody has any other questions, concerns or comments, you can find us in #ubuntu-tv

 19:02:21 <mhall119> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
