{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for vala ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/v/vala/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Vala is a new build-dependency of tracker 0.7.0 (still in development but will see a release during the Karmic cycle).
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=PRODUCT_NAME|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid. No daemons.
** Doesn't open any port. Doesn't handle incoming network data.
** Converts vala source files in to C source and header files.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does not ask any debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:vala|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no showstoppers.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/v/vala.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/Vala|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/browse.cgi?product=vala|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: 1 confirmed critical bug - <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=570091|#570091]]</nowiki>
** This package does not deal with hardware.
** The upstream source package contains a test suite, which is configured to run by default.
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings in the valac compiler are not internationalized.
** Package does not have translatable strings and does not build a PO template file.
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? N/A here.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Compliant with <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Packaging system: cdbs. Patch system: simple-patchsys. No packaging oddities found.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** glib2.0, debhelper, cdbs, gnome-pkg-tools, bison, flex, autotools-dev, libxslt, dbus, dbus-glib
** All dependencies are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Package maintenance requirements will be minimal - the package is small, the packaging is simple and the Debian/Ubuntu patchset is minimal. The package is currently automatically sync-able with Debian.
** Debian have a dedicated team for maintaining vala: <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=pkg-vala-maintainers%40lists.alioth.debian.org|pkg-vala-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org]]</nowiki>
0. ''Background information:''
** The purpose of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.
** What do upstream call this software? Vala

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/374151]]</nowiki>

Author: <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~chrisccoulson|Chris Coulson]]</nowiki>
