{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is a place to start writing content for the Welcome Centre:

'''NOTE:''' - this page is now using the new model for the Welcome Centre, please see the note at the top of UbuntuWelcomeCentre Contents section for more information.

* '''Introduction''' - This is what Ubuntu is, welcome
* '''About GNU/Linux/Ubuntu''' - GNU, history, philosophy, F/OSS etc
* '''Installing Ubuntu (live CD version only)''' - How to use the live installer
* '''Help with Ubuntu''' - Where's the system help, how to use it?  Links and a little info on forums, IRC, wiki and other online help.  Paid support.

== Content ==

=== Introduction - Also Front Page ===

''NOTE: - We may decide to make the introduction longer in which case this will become the front page and the introduction will be separate.''

'''Welcome to Ubuntu 6.10 - The Edgy Eft'''

Ubuntu is the ancient African concept of 'humanity towards others'; the Ubuntu operating system brings the spirit of Ubuntu to the software world.

The Ubuntu operating system is very closely tied to its community; a community of people from all walks of life who have come together to use software - and help one another to do so - in the spirit of Ubuntu.

This Welcome Centre is designed to help you begin using Ubuntu and the included software.  It will also introduce you to the Ubuntu community and show you how to get involved, or simply ask for help should you need it.  Please click on one of the links on the right in order to jump to that section and get started.

We wish you all the very best and hope you enjoy using Ubuntu!

''The Welcome Centre Team''

=== About GNU/Linux/Ubuntu ===

Ubuntu is a complete operating system consisting entirely of open source software released under free licenses.  The Ubuntu system is cutting edge and allows you to do almost anything you could possibly want to.  

=== Installing (live CD version only) ===

''NOTE: - This is the only section that should be in any way long''

=== Getting Help with Ubuntu ===

Maybe the most important section.

== Discussion / Comments ==

* ''What might prove to be immensely useful here would be screencasts. Low res screencasts of the most default install possible of users doing simple tasks that might not at first be obvious. Setting up Evolution and Gaim, using nautilus etc.''
** '''I don't think this is the way we should go.'''  ''As was discussed in the forums, I think it's a really bad idea to start covering things which are already covered in the documentation.  I think all we need to do here is point the users to the documentation and other help, not rewrite it.  If screenshots would be useful then the documentation should have them.
** Perhaps a longer/more in-depth version should be available for download for people building preinstalled Ubuntu systems (space is no longer a restiction) This could use GPLFlash/Gnash (I know GPLFlash has GTK integration, not sure about Gnash), sound (seperate so we don't end up using MP3) and maybe enhance the base documentation somewhat to make them more multimedia. I agree that screencasts or other such things should be in the documentation. I think any screencasts should be mocked up out of seperate window screenshots and created as SWFs, as this would create small files without resorting to low resolutions.
*** A multimedia 'getting starting' shwoing basic tasks in GPLFlash etc, sounds like a good idea, but it's rather different from what's going on here, I suggest you start a wiki page for it, something like MultimediaGuide (just a suggestion).
** Instead of the use of Flash couldn't we create OGG movies (maybe with gvidcap/xvidcap?) (embedded with a totem plugin for firefox?) which demonstrated certain aspect of Ubuntu use (like ripping a AudioCD (a free one to avoid lawsuits) with Sound Juicer for an example). There is some tool for recording desktop activities (program interaction, mouse/keyboard interaction) right? - ''TomasGustavsson''

* Something very important that many people allready have stated is the need for a "migration guide" which helps the new users to familiarize themself with Edgy with their old system in mind. Linux is a little scary, specially for those who wasnt borned into the computer generation so I think it's a top priority to make that the first thing the new user will see is a migration page that will ask them which system they used before (or let you  skipping a couple of pages if you have used Ubuntu before). - ''TomasGustavsson''
