{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu-dev-tools is a collection of useful tools that Ubuntu developers use to make their packaging work a lot easier. Such tools can include bug filing, packaging preparation, package analysis, etc. 

Launchpad bzr branches may be found at: https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-dev-tools

To grab the lastest source, do: <code>bzr branch lp:ubuntu-dev-tools</code>

=== Included Scripts ===

* `404main` - used to check what components a package's deps are in, i.e. for doing a MIR
* `buildd` - give commands to the Launchpad build daemons from the command line.
* `check-symbols` - will compare and give you a diff of the exported symbols of all .so files in a binary package
* `dch-repeat` - used to repeat a change log into an older release
* `dgetlp` - download a source package from the Launchpad library.
* `get-branches` - used to branch/checkout all the bzr branches in a Launchpad team.
* `get-build-deps` - install the build dependencies needed for a package reading debian/control.
* `grab-attachments` - download all bug attachments from a Launchpad bug report.
* `grab-merge` - grabs a merge from https://merges.ubuntu.com/
* `hugdaylist` - compile <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay-20070912|HugDay lists]]</nowiki> from bug list urls.
* `lp-set-dup` - sets the "duplicate of" bug of a bug and its dups.
* `manage-credentials` - manage Launchpad token credentials.
* `massfile` - fill multiple bugs using a template.
* `mk-sbuild-lv` - script to create LVM snapshot chroots via schroot and sbuild
* `pbuilder-dist` - pbuilder wrapper script
* `pull-debian-debdiff` - attempts to find and download a specific version of a Debian package and its immediate parent to generate a debdiff
* `pull-debian-source` - downloads the lastest source package available in Debian of a package.
* `pull-lp-source` - downloads lastest source package from Launchpad.
* `requestsync` - files a sync request with Debian changelog and ratione.
* `reverse-build-depends` - find the reverse build dependencies that a package has.
* `submittodebian` - automatically send your changes to Debian as a bug report
* `suspicious-source` - outputs a list of files which are not common source files
* `ubuntu-iso` - output information of an Ubuntu ISO image.
* `update-maintainer` - script to update maintainer field in ubuntu packages
* `what-patch` - determines what patch system, if any, a source package is using

=== Needed Scripts ===

=== TODO ===

* Please see the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-dev/ubuntu-dev-tools/trunk/annotate/head:/TODO|TODO]]</nowiki> file in the source.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
