{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Development Knowledge Base ==

This page lists the documentation and help that is part of Ubuntu Development. This should provide a fairly complete list of the documentation we have available.

=== General ===
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-GettingSetUp|Getting Set Up]]</nowiki> - getting set up for Ubuntu Development
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-glossary|Glossary]]</nowiki> - Somebody is using an acronym you never heard of? Check out this page.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-Internationalisation|Internationalisation]]</nowiki> - Making sure that packages are correctly translatable.
* <nowiki>[[CompilerFlags]]</nowiki> - Information about Ubuntu's default compiler flags and how to fix problems if any should come up.
* <nowiki>[[DeveloperCommunication]]</nowiki> - make sure you stay ... and keep other developers on the same page

=== Ubuntu Development Processes ===

Information regarding how the Ubuntu project makes releases, the schedule and more.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers]]</nowiki> - What is an Ubuntu developer, how do I apply for membership?
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-ReleaseProcess|Release Process]]</nowiki> - how the Ubuntu release process works
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-NewPackages|New Packages]]</nowiki> - how to produce new packages for new applications
* <nowiki>[[UsingDevelopmentReleases|Using the development release]]</nowiki> - how to safely make use of the latest development release to verify packages, builds and fixes.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-Merging|Merging Packages]]</nowiki> - Performing a merge of packaging changes between Ubuntu and Debian
* <nowiki>[[SyncRequestProcess]]</nowiki> - Requesting the sync of a package from Debian
* <nowiki>[[StableReleaseUpdates]]</nowiki> - Fix bugs in stable releases.
* <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam-UpdateProcedures]]</nowiki> - Prepare updates for security fixes.
* <nowiki>[[DeveloperResponsibilities]]</nowiki> - Find out who does what
* <nowiki>[[MainInclusionProcess]]</nowiki> - Ask for inclusion in main of a given package
* <nowiki>[[ReleaseSchedule]]</nowiki> - Current release schedule.
* <nowiki>[[FreezeExceptionProcess]]</nowiki> - What to do after Feature Freeze.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-Uploading]]</nowiki> - How to get your packages uploaded into the archive

=== Packaging ===

Information and guides for technical packaging related work.

* <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide|Packaging Guide]]</nowiki> - learn what packaging is all about and how it works
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-PackageArchive|Package Archive]]</nowiki> - working with the package archive (building, uploading, notifications, removal of packages, freezes, etc.)
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-InstallationMedia|Installation Media]]</nowiki> - working with different types of installation media
* <nowiki>[[PbuilderHowto]]</nowiki> - how to set up a `pbuilder` (personal package builder) environment
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-Merging]]</nowiki> - merging Ubuntu changes with new Debian package revisions
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuPackagingChanges]]</nowiki> - packaging changes that are deliberately different from Debian
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Videos|Ubuntu Development Videos]]</nowiki> - Learn more about Ubuntu development by watching a few videos
* <nowiki>[[BzrMaintainerHowto|Maintain packages in Bazaar]]</nowiki> - Maintaining packages in Bazaar - Howto
* <nowiki>[[DailyBuilds|How to set up daily Builds]]</nowiki>

=== Patches ===
* <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-PatchSystems|Patch systems]]</nowiki> - Learn about many patch systems used in Ubuntu packages.
* <nowiki>[[SponsorshipProcess|Sponsorship Process]]</nowiki> - Get patches (and packages) uploaded into Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-CodeReviews|Code review tips]]</nowiki> - Tips and guidelines for Patch review.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-Patches|Patches]]</nowiki> - Best Practices and tips for preparing patches.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-PatchTaggingGuidelines|Patch Tagging Guidelines]]</nowiki> - Tags you should use in distribution patches.
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Upstream|Forwarding Bugs Upstream]]</nowiki> - how to forward patches and bugs upstream.

=== Help ===
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-GettingStarted]]</nowiki>
* UbuntuDeveloperWeek
* <nowiki>[[Packaging-Training]]</nowiki>

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment]]</nowiki>'''.
