{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== XConfigurationModification ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JaneW
* Priority: LowPriority
* People: NeedsLead, NeedsSecond
* Contributors: JaneW
* Interested: DanielStone
* Status: BrainDump, UduBof, DistroSpecification, NewSpec
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

Allow users to be able to modify their X configuration without having to hack xorg.conf.

=== Rationale ===

There are two use cases here.
* First: Something goes wrong with our autodetection, and X either fails to start, or starts and fails to usefully display anything.  Arguably, nothing can be done here, since if our autodetection has gone wrong, the odds of the user knowing how to fix it are low.  However, if it's an easily-Googleable solution, this is possible.  It's also arguable that 'edit xorg.conf' is an equally bad solution to this -- if they have to Google for something, we've already lost.
* Second: The user wants to modify their X configuration to include dual head, TV-out, whatever or wants to change their default color depth (for example, to run at a higher resolution); something that isn't covered in the scope of the installer's configuration system.  Red Hat/Fedora have a tool for this (system-config-xorg?), and it seems to work quite well.  This is the more obvious component.

=== Implementation Plan ===

This would probably be a lot easier to implement in tandem with XorgAutoconfiguration, so we can have a proper interface for this sort of thing, including an interface to what got detected.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

==== UDU Pre-Work ====
