{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Welcome to the Open Week Prep page.
** add topics that you would like to see discussed
** sign up to run a session

If you want to '''run a session''', add your name and topic. Make sure your topic is:
** Ubuntu-related
** "IRC able" - something that can be explained to someone in an hour or less on IRC.

/!\ keep in mind that this is a brainstorming space and we have limited slots on the schedule, so we're looking for a good mix of topics but can't guarantee that everyone will have a slot - remember you can always run a session outside of Open Week in #ubuntu-classroom.

Once the schedule is finalised we will start filling it up on the UbuntuOpenWeek page.

=== Call for Sessions ===

We'll need some info for our program book so if you want to do a session please send along your info to <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~akgraner|Amber]]</nowiki>.

* Name: (person giving session)
* Topic: (Title of session or what area of Ubuntu it is on - ie desktop, community, kernel, server etc)
* Summary of Session : (please give a short (300 words or less)- summary of what you plan or would like a session to be on)
* Bio: (short couple sentences about the you and if you have one a link to your wiki, blog, etc about you) to be used in the program schedule
* Photo: (please include a photo or yourself or an image to represent you if you don't want you picture in the program schedule)

=== Proposed Sessions ===

After you've sent us your info add it here so we have a list:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Topic
| Person
| Description
|-
| Bug Triaging
| <nowiki>[[Hggdh|hggdh]]</nowiki>
| Bug triaging -- concepts and process
|-
| Holding in-person Loco events
| cprofitt
| Q&A session to help those interested in holding local events
|-
| 5 easy ways to give back
| cprofitt
| Askubuntu, Forums - Tutorials and Support areas, IRC, Wiki
|}
