{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Bite-sized tasks anyone can do for the UWN:

=== General Community News ===

=== LoCo News ===

=== New in Gutsy Gibbon ===

=== Launchpad News ===

=== In The Press ===
Things Ubuntu-specific are great, but general Linux goings-on are good to, to an extent.  
We don't need to replicate Digg & Slashdot, but certain things are of special interest.  
Just pulling one example from my memory, the story about Indiana schools piloting 
a classroom Linux deployment, a portion of which was Ubuntu, are good.  Ubuntu 
release reviews are also common items in this section.

=== In The Blogosphere ===
In this section we want to highlight the blogs that are exceptionally well-written and in-depth.
Blogs tend to make it easy for low-quality content, so be extra careful on what goes here.
We should encourage bloggers to spread the word, so this section might be a good way to do so.

=== Meetings and Events ===
Data pulled from mailing lists and http://fridge.ubuntu.com

=== Community Spotlight ===

Specification Spotlight

This section highlights an approved specification that is going to be implemented 
in Feisty. See the list at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/feisty
In general, choose user visible features, as the audience are mostly end users. 
Also try and group specs together that belong together, such as network or X.

Feature of the week

Pick a feature, piece of software, or package that you'd like to feature.
Give a brief description, whats so special about it, who works on it,
where to find it/install it, etc.

Team of the week

Pick a team (a ubuntu team) that you'd like to feature.
Give a brief description of the team, what they work on, what they've
accomplished, who is involved, how to get involved/join, etc. 

==== Security Updates ====

=== Bug Stats ===

==== Infamous Bugs ====

=== Translation Stats ===
