{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Discussion about the ubuntu-arabic Identity
  Arab LoCoTeams still consider our project as foreign while it should be not only their own project but also their identity. We need to define Ubuntu-Arabic as the union of all arabic teams. We may make a kind of agreement about this.
* Should the other Arabic Teams on Launchpad join Ubuntu-Arabic team as sub-teams?
* Agreement with the arabic locos to redirect all Arabic support and documentation to ubuntu-arabic.org
  One of the goals of forming Ubuntu Arabic was to provide a single interface for the Arab end user and now the team is capable of providing it therefore Arab LoCo teams should adhere to this and redirect all support to Ubuntu-Arabic.org and they should also work with the team in any Arabic related project instead of working on it as a LoCal team unless they have some good reasons.

* Finishing the translator's guide.
* The use of the arabic Bot on locos channels
* a small team that can interact with other Arab Linux related websites and forums.
* Creating and hosting web pages for each arabic team with no website yet (getting the ubuntu-XX.org domain 
   redirected to our server + a simple temporary html page describing the team)
* The Use of the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/loco-drupal|Loco Drupal]]</nowiki> theme on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-arabic.org|ubuntu-arabic.og]]</nowiki> and adopt the same organization as Ubuntu.com
 The Goal here is to make a translation of the official portal.

==== Proposed Meeting Date ====
 First Friday after Al Eid.  <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/city.html?n=151 | 10th of October 8PM mecca time]]</nowiki>
'''NOTE''' I'm trying to get a time map of Arab world so we can decide when to hold the meeting

                                                         نقاش حول هوية أوبونتو العربية

لا يزال LoCoTeams كثيرا من الناس ينظرون الي مشروعنا كما هو أجنبي في حين أنه يجب أن تكون النظره انه برنامج متاح الي خدمة الجميع بقض النظر محتكر الي جنسية معينه او هوية محدد بل هو متاح الي الجميع وانه ليس فقط مشروع خاصة للقومية معينه ولكن أيضا يشكل جميع الهويات وديننا يحض على العلم بقض النظر عن المنبع مادام يخدم  العلم والمجتمع واﻹنسانية . ونحن بحاجة إلى فرض هوية أوبونتو العربية و الاتحاد من جميع الفرق العربية . ونحن قد نجعل نوعا من الاتفاق حول هذا الموضوع
ينبغي الفرق العربية الأخرى على انطلاق والانضمام والمشاركة في تفعيل فريق أوبونتو العربي  ؟
اتفاق في توجيه للخدمة المجتمع العربي وإعادة توجيه كل الدعم العربي و ثائق  أوبونتو arabic.org
كان واحدا من الاعضاء لتشكيل أوبونتو العربي لتساعد على توفير واجهة واحدة للمستخدم  العربي والآن الفريق قادر ومصمم  على توفير ذلك فإنه يجب على الفرق وكونه نشاءه في بيئة عربية التقيد بهذا وإعادة توجيه كل الدعم ل أوبونتو Arabic.org و ينبغي لهم أيضا  العمل مع الفريق في أي مشروع عربي ذات الصلة بدلا من العمل على ذلك كفريق واحد المحلي إلا إذا كان لديهم بعض أسباب وجيهة  
الانتهاء من دليل الترجمه  
استخدام بوت عربي على القنوات وكوس
 فريقنا الصغير سوف يتمكن أن يتفاعل مع المواقع ذات الصلة لينكس العربية الأخرى والمنتديات  
إنشاء و استضافة صفحات الويب لكل فريق عربي مع أي موقع حتى الآن ( الحصول على نظام  أوبونتو XX.org
إعادة توجيه إلى خادمتنا + والصفحات HTML بسيطة مؤقتة واصفا فريق )
استخدام دروبال موضوعن و على أوبونتو - arabic.og واعتماد نفس المنظمة كما Ubuntu.com والهدف هنا هو جعل الترجمة من المواضيع بوابتها الرسمية 
الاجتماع المقترح وللتسجيل في 

أول جمعة بعد العيد . 10 من أكتوبر 20:00 بتوقيت مكة المكرمة
ملاحظة أنا أحاول الحصول على خريطة باللغة العربيه  حتى نتمكن من تحديد موعد لعقد الاجتماع
