{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Budgie 20.04 LTS Proposal ==

The Ubuntu Budgie team is proposing that the Ubuntu Budgie 20.04 (Focal Fossa) will be supported for three years as our second LTS release (18.04 was our first as an official flavour).

==== CONSIDERATIONS ====

* Ubuntu Budgie 20.04 will be our 7th release as an official flavour.
* Ubuntu Budgie also had 2 releases (16.04/16.10) in a non-official (Ubuntu) capacity.
* Many consumers of Ubuntu expect and run the x.04 version to be an LTS release with a longer lifespan.
* We have a core developer very familiar with the code-base and can resolve issues in consultation with the upstream Budgie Desktop maintainers. We already take on responsibilities for upstream maintainer-ship of arc-theme.
* We've taken a leading role since 18.04 in uplifting the Budgie Desktop to meeting the changes in GNOME mutter and other GNOME components. I.E. we don't depend on upstream to do the work - we are the primary movers in maintaining compatibility.
* Many of the packages shipped in Ubuntu Budgie are covered by Ubuntu developers (i.e., gnome-control-center, mutter, xorg, etc.)

==== SUPPORT PLAN ====

* the primary focus of our support will be the budgie-desktop and associated applications that the Ubuntu Budgie org develops or maintains. 
* SRU - Ubuntu Budgie has a key developer with full packageset upload rights.
* We have a bug test team of approximately 70 members with two official team leads from the Ubuntu Budgie team itself. To handle testing, with release management to be done by the team leads.
** https://launchpad.net/~budgie-remix-bug-busters
** https://launchpad.net/~ubuntubudgie-dev
* Ubuntu Budgie security updates will be managed by the Ubuntu Budgie Team in consultation with the upstream budgie-desktop team.
** https://launchpad.net/~ubuntubudgie-dev
* Future uploads (to Debian/Ubuntu) will be handled by initially by David Mohammed, with Dustin Krysak being brought up to speed as an additional resource. We will be working to expand who can upload in the team through mentoring programs and eventually application through the DMB.
** https://launchpad.net/~fossfreedom
** https://launchpad.net/~bashfulrobot
* Regarding "level of support", the team will perform bug fixes on launchpad bug reports via the bug-busters team. https://launchpad.net/~budgie-remix-bug-busters/+members
* We have launched a Discourse forum in an attempt to organize our community, as well as make support more accessible for people outside the Ubuntu ecosystem (End Users). This resides at https://discourse.ubuntubudgie.org

==== POINT RELEASES ====

The Ubuntu Budgie team will be following the point release cycles of Ubuntu itself.

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FocalFossa/ReleaseSchedule
* Ubuntu Budgie 20.04.1
* Ubuntu Budgie 20.04.2
* Ubuntu Budgie 20.04.3
* Ubuntu Budgie 20.04.4

==== LIST OF PROPOSED LONG-TERM SUPPORT PACKAGES/APPLICATIONS ====

'''NOTE''' - currently all Budgie packages are presently accepted into both Debian and Ubuntu and do not require sponsorship for the 20.04 release. Our team member David Mohammed has packageset upload rights as well.

* budgie-desktop (Debian + Ubuntu),
* budgie-desktop-environment (Ubuntu Only)
* budgie-artwork (Ubuntu Only)
* budgie-wallpapers (Ubuntu Only)
* budgie-extras (Debian + Ubuntu)
* arc-theme (Debian + Ubuntu)
* moka-icon-theme (Debian + Ubuntu)
* faba-icon-theme (Debian + Ubuntu)
* rhythmbox-plugin-alternative-toolbar (Debian + Ubuntu)
* budgie-indicator-applet (Debian + Ubuntu)
* slick-greeter (Debian + Ubuntu)
* ubuntu-budgie-meta (Ubuntu Only)
* lightdm-settings (Debian + Ubuntu)
* desktopfolder (Debian + Ubuntu)
