{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the UbuntuKylin Team's Quality Assurance Wiki Page. The UbuntuKylin Quality team is focused on writing and executing testcases and improving test tools for QA tasks. 

==== Contact ====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntukylin-members|UbuntuKylin Team Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntukylin-quality|UbuntuKylin Quality Team Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>
* '''#ubuntukylin-meeting''' on irc.freenode.net

==== Contribute your new test! ====

Once your test is ready, commit your changes and push them to a branch in launchpad. Replace the YOURUSERID field below with your launchpad id. Replace the YOURBRANCHNAME with a unique name for your branch -- it can be anythng you wish. Replace PROJECT-NAME with the project you are contributing too.

'''bzr push lp:~maclin.jun/ubuntu-manual-tests/ubuntukylin-manual-tests'''

You can confirm your branch is uploaded and view the code on launchpad <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~/ubuntu-manual-tests/|here]]</nowiki>. 

Now you simply need to submit a merge proposal to ensure your new branch gets reviewed and imported to the main trunk branch.

Click your branch shown on <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~maclin.jun/ubuntu-manual-tests/ubuntukylin-manual-tests|this page]]</nowiki> and then select the "Propose for merging" link to start the merge request. <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Code/Review/#Proposing_a_merge|Submit a merge request]]</nowiki> that includes your new testcase to the project. It will be reviewed and merged accordingly. Thanks for contributing!
