{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Install the development release of Ubuntu Studio ==

There are a couple of ways to install the development release of Ubuntu Studio. The easiest, and best way is to catch a daily build, but you can also upgrade your existing installation, or even use a netinstall to make a custom install.

==== Daily Build ====

If you're intending to do any kind of testing, a daily build is recommended. You can find the dailys at http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/dvd/current/

==== Upgrade From Latest Stable ====

If you're on the last stable release, you can upgrade it to the development release from the command line. Usually, this is not a recommended way to do it, but if you're not worried about having a clean system, just do:

<code>sudo do-release-upgrade -d</code>

==== Install Using Netinstall ====

Netinstall is a smaller image, which is not flavor specific. You can install any of the Ubuntu flavors with this image. However, Ubuntu Studio, with all its settings and packages, can not be installed using this medium, so don't use this if you're going to do any kind of testing. 

To install the development release, find it at http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/<release>/main/installer-i386/current/images/netboot/mini.iso (replace <release> with whatever is the current development release, such as "raring".
