{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



The Ubuntu Bug Control team (ubuntu-bugcontrol in Launchpad) is a subset of the <nowiki>[[BugSquad|Ubuntu Bug Squad]]</nowiki> who can change the <nowiki>[[Bugs-Importance|importance]]</nowiki> of Ubuntu bug tasks, set the <nowiki>[[Bugs-Status|status]]</nowiki> of an Ubuntu bug task to "Triaged" or "Won't Fix" and target a bug for a release of Ubuntu.  You do this when you are <nowiki>[[Bugs-Triage|triaging]]</nowiki> bug reports.

=== Requirements for joining ===

Both individuals and teams can join Ubuntu Bug Control. There are generic requirements and specific requirements.

==== Generic Requirements ====

* Understand <nowiki>[[Bugs-Importance]]</nowiki>.
* Understand  <nowiki>[[Bugs-Status]]</nowiki>.
* Understand  <nowiki>[[Bugs-Assignment]]</nowiki>.
* Read <nowiki>[[DebuggingProcedures]]</nowiki>.
* Read the <nowiki>[[Debugging]]</nowiki> sections relative to your interest.

==== Requirements for Individuals ====

To join Ubuntu Bug Control as an individual, you must:

# Be and promise to be polite to bug reporters, even if they are not polite, by signing the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.
# Understand <nowiki>[[Bugs-Triage]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Bugs-Assignment|assigning bugs]]</nowiki>, choosing a bug task <nowiki>[[Bugs-Status|status]]</nowiki> and setting a bug task's <nowiki>[[Bugs-Importance|importance]]</nowiki>.  There is a particular procedure for triaging and each possible importance has a specific meaning, so we want to make sure you understand the conventions.
# Know the requirements for making an Apport crash report publicly visible. (By default these are private.)  Documentation regarding this can be found at <nowiki>[[ Bugs-Triage#Apport_crash_reports | Triaging Apport crash reports ]]</nowiki>.
# Have a list of bug reports that you have worked on that demonstrate your understanding of the triage process.

/!\ Requirement 4 can be waived if you are an upstream developer or bug triager or if a Ubuntu developer vouches for you (your triaging ability).

In order to join:

* Complete the <nowiki>[[#Generic-reqs| generic requirements]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct|sign]]</nowiki> the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.
* Improve some bug reports and keep a short list (at least 5) of your best ones.

===== Application =====

Ways to join:
* Direct Application: e-mail your application to ubuntu-bugcontrol AT lists.launchpad.net; please copy & answer the questions below
## Do you promise to be polite to bug reporters even if they are rude to you or Ubuntu? Have you signed the Ubuntu Code of Conduct?
## Have you read <nowiki>[[Bugs-Triage]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Bugs-Assignment]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Bugs-Status]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Bugs-Importance]]</nowiki>?  Do you have any questions about that documentation?
## What sensitive data should you look for in a private Apport crash report bug before making it public?  See <nowiki>[[Bugs-Triage]]</nowiki> for more information.
## Is there a particular package or group of packages that you are interested in helping out with?
## Please list five or more bug reports which you have triaged and include an explanation of your decisions. Please note that these bugs should be representative of your very best work and they should demonstrate your understanding of the triage process and how to properly handle bugs.  For '''all''' the bugs in the list, please indicate what importance you would give it '''and''' explain the reasoning. ''Please use urls in your list of bugs.''
 
Notes:
* If you are an upstream developer or bug triager for an upstream project contact <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brian-murray|Brian Murray]]</nowiki>
* Membership in some teams also grants membership to Ubuntu Bug Control, for example: LaunchpadHome:ubuntu-core-dev, LaunchpadHome:ubuntu-core-doc, and LaunchpadHome:ubuntu-dev. You can find if your team is a member by visiting the team's homepage and looking at the "Subteam of" section.
 
===== Evaluation Criteria and Process =====

The application review is a subjective process; however a list of what we usually look for follows:

## Has the applicant provided the importance they would give a bug report?
## Does the reasoning for the bug Importance make sense?
## Has the applicant provided an explanation for every bug provided, is it logical?
## Is the applicant respectful and tactful in their communications?
## Are the applicant's comments detailed and do they explain their actions?
## Is the applicant following the DebuggingProcedures for the package the bug report is about?
## Has the applicant made bug titles or descriptions more descriptive?
## Has the applicant added any bug watches to bug reports? (Linked bugs upstream)
## Has the applicant forwarded any bugs upstream? (Registered in upstream bug tracking system and reported a bug)

The review process will take at least 7 days, to ensure that every Ubuntu Bug Control member has had an opportunity to review and comment on the application.

====== Example Application ======

The following are examples of a high quality Bug Control application which contained lots of different types of triaging work.

* <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-bugcontrol/msg00715.html | Application from Yofel]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-bugcontrol/msg01024.html | Application from Kamal Mostafa]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-bugcontrol/msg01083.html | Application from kermiac]]</nowiki>

==== Requirements for Teams ====

## The team '''must''' be a closed or moderated one.
## The team '''must''' require its members to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct|sign]]</nowiki> the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.
## The team '''must''' have at least one representative tasked with educating new members on Ubuntu Bug Control policies.
## The representative above '''must''' be a current member, directly or indirectly, of Ubuntu Bug Control.
## The team '''must''' limit their use of Ubuntu Bug Control permissions to a specific set of packages.  (They should not be setting the importance of bugs about every package in Ubuntu.)

===== Application =====

One of the team's administrators should e-mail the team's application to ubuntu-bugcontrol AT lists.launchpad.net. Please give us:

** a brief reasoning of why it is important for the team to be a member.
** a list of Ubuntu source packages which the team plans to work on.
** identify who is/are the representative(s) -- give us the link to the Launchpad page of each one.

===== Evaluation Criteria =====

One of the team's administrators will review the application and act on it. This may require e-mail/IRC exchange. Evaluation is subjective.

===== Length of Membership =====

Initial membership will be set for three months from the date of approval; after this initial period, membership will be valid for one year. Approximately one week before the expiry date an email will be sent warning of the expiration, and requesting action. You are expected to renew when needed, following the email's directions.

=== Links ===

* BugSquad
* HelpingWithBugs
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Triage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Importance]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Status]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Assignment]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-bugcontrol|Ubuntu Bug Control in Launchpad]]</nowiki>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryBugSquad]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUbuntuTeams]]</nowiki>
