{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== The Ubuntu Magazine Project ==
'''Welcome to the UbuntuMag page!'''

We are planning to get our first magazine available on this coming July/Aug. Please show us your support by contributing to/partnering with us.

=== Announcements/Events ===

<pre>
Next meeting July 17th 2006

irc.freenode.net  #ubuntu-marketing
</pre>

<<BR>>
July 17th agenda here: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMagazineAgenda07176]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

Please add your information to the following list if, and only if, you plan to attend The Ubuntu Magazine meeting. Enter '''1''' for a time that's good for you, '''0''' for a time that's okay but not great, '''-1''' for a time that's awful. The time with the greatest total wins. Keep your preferences up to date, otherwise the meeting time is less likely to suit you. If you wish to leave the MT, please don't forget to remove yourself from this list. If you are uncomfortable with editing this table, please feel free to message or email RichJohnson ~-aka nixternal-~.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align: right;">'''UTC hour'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=0&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|00]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=1&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|01]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=2&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|02]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=3&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|03]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=4&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|04]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=5&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|05]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=6&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|06]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=7&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|07]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=8&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|08]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=9&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|09]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=10&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|10]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=11&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|11]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|12]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=13&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|13]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|14]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=15&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|15]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|16]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|17]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|18]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|19]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=20&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|20]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=21&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|21]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=22&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|22]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|23]]</nowiki>'''
| '''Person's flexibility'''
|-
| Sara Vasquez
| 0
| 0
| 0
| 0
| 0
| 0
| 0
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 
| 0
| 0
| 0
| '''13'''
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Totals'''
| '''13'''
|}
Last calculated . Totals are up to date if this time matches the page's "last edited" time.

Many thanks to MatthewPaulThomas for the original concept of this timetable.

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
Please add your information to the following list if, and only if, you plan to attend The Ubuntu Magazine meeting. Enter '''1''' for a time that's good for you, '''0''' for a time that's okay but not great, '''-1''' for a time that's awful. The time with the greatest total wins. Keep your preferences up to date, otherwise the meeting time is less likely to suit you. If you wish to leave the MT, please don't forget to remove yourself from this list. If you are uncomfortable with editing this table, please feel free to message or email RichJohnson ~-aka nixternal-~.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align: right;">'''UTC hour'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=0&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|00]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=1&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|01]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=2&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|02]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=3&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|03]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=4&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|04]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=5&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|05]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=6&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|06]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=7&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|07]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=8&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|08]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=9&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|09]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=10&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|10]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=11&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|11]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|12]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=13&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|13]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|14]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=15&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|15]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|16]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|17]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|18]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|19]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=20&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|20]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=21&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|21]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=22&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|22]]</nowiki>'''
| '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|23]]</nowiki>'''
| '''Person's flexibility'''
|-
| Sara Vasquez
| 0
| 0
| 0
| 0
| 0
| 0
| 0
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 1
| 
| 0
| 0
| 0
| '''13'''
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Totals'''
| '''4'''
| '''5'''
| '''4'''
| '''2'''
| '''-2'''
| '''-3'''
| '''-9'''
| '''-8'''
| '''-7'''
| '''-5'''
| '''-5'''
| '''-4'''
| '''-1'''
| '''-1'''
| '''-1'''
| '''3'''
| '''4'''
| '''5'''
| '''8'''
| '''9'''
| '''7'''
| '''7'''
| '''8'''
| '''4'''
|}
Last calculated . Totals are up to date if this time matches the page's "last edited" time.

Many thanks to MatthewPaulThomas for the original concept of this timetable.

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
=== The Magazine ===

* <nowiki>[[UbuntuMagazine/TableOfContents|Master Table of Contents]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/Issue1]]</nowiki> - In Design
* <nowiki>[[/Issue2]]</nowiki> - Proposed
* <nowiki>[[/Issue3]]</nowiki> - Proposed
* <nowiki>[[/Issue4]]</nowiki> - Proposed
* <nowiki>[[/Issue5]]</nowiki> - Proposed
* <nowiki>[[/Issue6]]</nowiki> - Proposed
* ... more to come ...

=== News ===

==== 06/18/2006- Meeting update ====

Main concerns were about the diff between us and the newsletter. We defined out core audience as people that might be
* interested in Linux (but not using it yet)
* switching distros
* beginners
* normal everyday users

''(Jenda: very vague definitions... this entours just about anyone who has ever used Ubuntu or even just heard of it. I think the main target audience should be the people who use Ubuntu, but don't directly participate in community business)''

''(KenSentMe: @Jenda: Why should users contribute to the community. Maybe a lot of potentional users don't even want to participate in the community.)''

We talked about the method of delivery and most of us agree that we want a html website with a .pdf and .txt version available as well.

''(not sure why .txt format is needed.  more often than not, readers will either have access to the net or take advantage of out-of-box ubuntu's PDF-support.  text-only format would only be useful to those who only have console access, which would be a *very* minor percentage of the reader-base.  plus, you can't use graphics/pictures to illustrate articles.  references to screen-shots or websites would be meaningless. --digitalmouse)''

''(NealMcBurnett: The way this is phrased and discussed, it isn't clear that you intend to have an html version, but that is very important, I think.  PDF is often miserable to read online, or cut-and-paste from.  See http://bcn.boulder.co.us/~neal/pdf-vs-html.html)''

We then had a collaborative draft using Gobby and realized a theme oriented magazine would be best.

Please see our [/TableOfContents] page for our working model.

==== Older News ====

19/10/2005 - We have decided to start with the E-zine while waiting for the reply from the   publisher. Ubuntu Magazine is now a project under Ubuntu Marketing.

14/8/2005 - We are still waiting for Linux Magazine Publisher to email us. We are still designing our website.

7/8/2005 - UbuntuMagazine.com is now online! Thanks to Daejuan Jacobs for hosting the website. The site is now under construction!

=== Our Team ===

* Sara Vasquez - Current Team Lead
* <nowiki>[[JoeyStanford|Joey Stanford]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MartinPihl|Martin Pihl]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[nixternal|Rich Johnson]]</nowiki>
* KenSentMe
* Your name goes here! See below on how to join!

=== How to get involved ===
Please email to: sara@tikal26.net for more info or you can join us at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntupeople.com/file/forums/viewforum.php?f=10|our forum]]</nowiki>.

=== Brainstorm for a Marketing Campaign ===

This is XVampireX, I have decided to take steps towards marketing linux/ubuntu as I see not too many are too enthusiastic about it. As I'm a designer, I designed a little idea around the old fashioned magazine marketing idea and improved it by giving it the spirit of linux/ubuntu. I emailed it to Canonical Ltd, so they should know about it, I post this here for other people to know:

[quote]Dear Canonical Ltd,

I have a proposition to make for the Marketing Team.

As linux is a community based kernel, and ubuntu is the linux-made-easy Operating System, which is also community based, we must take the next step step towards Humanity.

I suggest, that as a marketing technique, a body of people will be responsible for creating a monthly magazine which is open, meaning, people will submit articles they find interesting, and the body responsible for the monthly magazine will have a review system to follow on each submission as well as a guideline, such as how many articles in every magazine, or the general theme for the issue.

Now, after the body of people reviews and edits the magazine into one piece, they submit it to the web as a PDF format or any format the follows the open standards.

As the campaign is to reach to people that do not know what linux is exactly, nor ubuntu, we should not concentrate on the internet public but rather, we should reach to people that live their normal lives, that means, do it in their local areas.
 Okey, so now to make it easier: Instead of printing it in one place, those who care about spreading ubuntu should take the magazine published to the internet, and let them print the magazine on their own, creating personalized magazines, even in translated forms which allows people in non-english speaking countries to be able to read and understand the content.

Another thing would be to bundle the Ubuntu/Kubuntu CDs together with the magazine, allowing people to read the magazine, and as the first issue comes, introduce them to the most user friendly Linux Distribution so far. The first distribution will also be mainly about ubuntu and somewhat as a guidebook which contains some of the material from the wiki (Such as the Restricted Formats page).

This is basically the idea, and if you think that might work or even encourage to do whatever it takes, then I should start working on such a Campaign, hopefully, supported by you. As far as the Ubuntu/Kubuntu CDs, getting them shipped takes time, is there anyway to do it other than letting people burn the CD Copies?

Another thing I would like to do is design the perfect SpreadUbuntu campaign and submit it to you so you could review it and either act on it, or let the community act on it.

Thank you for listening and have a good day. [/quote]

----

=== ART WORK ===

Please place a link and explanation to artwork that you submitt here

CategoryMarketing
