{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Workflows ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: yellow"> '''OBSOLETE - workflows are being redesigned
|}

The Ubuntu Studio workflows, audio, graphics, video, publishing and photography all need to be researched, updated, documented, etc. This page is for all of that.

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-PackageListSaucy|List of Applications and their categorizaties under Saucy]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-WorkflowCategories|Ubuntu Studio Workflow Categories]]</nowiki> - These categories are used as motivation for what applications to include, and how to organize our menu, among other things

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-FreedesktopCategories|Freedesktop Categories]]</nowiki> - These are the Freedesktop categories, which we should use for our Ubuntu Studio workflow categories as much as possible. These will categories hopefully be used to auto-populate the menu system in the future.

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Debtags|Debtags]]</nowiki> - These are the Debtags we should use for tagging Debian packages so that Ubuntu Studio users can search for, and find, other applications that will assist them in their workflows.

<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-WorkflowsBrainstorming|Workflows Brainstorming]]</nowiki> - older page, written by Scott on the subject
