{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== LanguageSupportPackages ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by JeffWaugh
* Priority: MediumPriority
* People: BenjaminMakoHillLead, MartinPittSecond
* Contributors: JeffWaugh
* Interested:
* Status: EditedSpecification, DistroSpecification, MattZimmermanQueue
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 2(0) 

=== Introduction ===

Determining additional packages that should be installed as dependencies of language-support-* packages.

=== Rationale ===

We want to provide a fantastic Ubuntu experience in every language, and with many languages we need to install additional packages such as input method software, fonts, etc. Tying these to language-support-* packages ensures that everything a user needs for their language is ready to rock.

=== Current situation ===

The support packages currently are metapackages that include Mozilla, Open``Office.org, myspell and other available dictionaries and
thesauruses, and in the case of Hebrew -- and Hebrew only -- it also includes fonts and potentially input methods.

So far, MartinPitt has built the support package by basically going through and grepping through the packages cache to look for dictionaries, Mozilla and Open``Office packages, and other issues.

Many of these packages that are depended on by the support packs were not originally in main but we are using the dependencies in the support packages to pull packages from universe into main.

=== Implementation Plan ===

Building good language support packages is going to require input from speakers of languages. We should keep:

* Mozilla and Open Office packages,
* Spell checking dictionaries,
* Thesauri,
* Help files and documentation for packages in main.

Additionally, We should add:

* Input methods,
* Fonts for languages with non-latin scripts,
* Extract GNOME help translations and add them as dependencies.

A person who installs desktop translations will usually want to create content in that language as well. For this reason, `language-pack-`''lang'' should recommend `language-support-`''lang''. We cannot make it a dependency; the dependencies of support packages are so big that it is impossible to put them onto the CD. However, we want language packs on the CD. But modern apt frontends will still handle recommended packages.

==== Selection of Packages ====

At the moment, MartinPitt created the initial choice of support dependencies mostly by looking at the package list and some minor community feedback, so the current dependencies are almost certainly incomplete for many languages. We want to improve this by:

* According to DaffydHarris there are some tools for installing a handful of different languages and support related packages in Debian. We should look into finding these and pulling from there where we can.

* We should approach local community teams and have them compile lists of packages that they use. As new communities go online, we should maintain a relationship to them and pull from these.

* We should make a list of the most important language packs and then we should go out of our way and look for documentation and other information about getting those languages working

* We can also plug into the Rosetta community to help people.

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
