{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue 74 for the weeks January 13th - January 19th, 2008. In this issue: layout contest for Kubuntu.org, Ubuntu case studies, mugs from Germany for your Loco Team, FOSS in Egypt, and much, much more!!

'''UWN Translations'''
* Русский- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue74/Ru
* Deutsch - Start one! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/IssueXX/De
* Español - Start one! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/IssueXX/Es
* Français - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue74/Fr
* Italiano - http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/NewsletterItaliana
* Português - Start one! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/IssueXX/Pt

=== In This Issue ===

* Mockup Contest for kubuntu.org
* Ubuntu Case Studies
* Mugs from Germany for Lo``Co Teams
* Ubuntu Forums News
* In The Press & Blogosphere
* In Other News
* Meeting Summaries
* Upcoming Meetings & Events
* Updates & Security
* Bugs & Translation Stats

=== General Community News ===

==== Mockup Contest for kubuntu.org ====

Ryan Kavanagh[1] announced a mockup contest for kubuntu.org on his blog[2]. The aim is to find a new layout for the official Kubuntu website: http://www.kubuntu.org.

Knowledge in web design is not required. Simply submit a mockup (the way you think the website should look), which can then be used as a template. Anybody interested in participating should know how to use a vector graphics application, such as Inkscape, since SVG is the preferred format. All entries must be submitted by 24:00 UTC, February 2nd 2008, about two weeks from now.

The prize for this contest is the usage of the winning mockup on the Kubuntu website.

More information for the contest can be found on https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/WebsiteMockups.

[1] https://launchpad.net/~ryanakca

[2] http://blog.ryanak.ca/archives/44

==== Ubuntu Case Studies ====

Case studies are now available to demonstrate fields and organizations where Ubuntu is getting involved:

* '''Oakland University Replaces UNIX with Ubuntu''' - The School of Engineering and Computer Science (SECS) now uses Linux for CAD/CAM/CAE applications.  http://www.ubuntu.com/products/casestudies/oakland-university

* '''Ubuntu supports technology-enabled teaching at The Johns Hopkins University''' - John Hopkins uses Ubuntu as the OS platform for its Big``Board support system.  http://www.ubuntu.com/products/casestudies/johns-hopkins

* '''Locatrix Deploys Mobile Applications on Ubuntu''' - Locatrix uses Ubuntu Linux to enable a social networking community across an extensive subscriber base. http://www.ubuntu.com/products/casestudies/locatrix-mobile-applications

See all the examples at http://www.ubuntu.com/products/casestudies

==== Mugs from Germany for your LoCo team! ====

The German Lo``Co (http://ubuntuusers.de/) is organizing a mass mug purchase and has invited any you or your Lo``Cos to join in. The mugs are made in a contemporary straight-sided style with an elegant white finish and your favourite part, an Ubuntu logo. For those with a dishwasher, your new mug can happily make a trip through that as well.

Time is limited. Julius Boch needs to know by Wednesday, January 23rd at the latest. Mug ordered will cost between € 3.81 to € 3.13 depending on the total number ordered and will need to be shipped from Germany before you can enjoy a fine beverage of your choice in them. You can read the full announcement in a loco-contacts list[1] post by Julius or  contact Julius directly via email: juliux@ubuntu-de.org.

The minimum order per person or Lo``Co team is 5 mugs, so bang on those doors and get more of your friends/coworkers/worst enemies involved.  http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1297

[1] https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2008-January/001927.html

=== Ubuntu Forums News ===

==== Ubuntu Forums Interview ====

Partisan``Entity is one of the Forums moderators, active in Ubuntu Muslim Edition wiki translations and in the <nowiki>[[http://photobatch.stani.be|Phatch]]</nowiki> project. He works for the City of Vienna Administration on an EU project and will study Multimedia Arts soon. Please read the full interview here: http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2008/01/19/an-interview-with-partisanentity/

==== Tutorial of the Week ====

The tutorial of this week is "HOWTO: RT2500, etc. wireless cards [Gutsy Gibbon]," by wieman01. While the thread is specific to a particular range of hardware, it stands out as a tutorial that's well written, concise, clearly documented and constantly maintained. If you have a Ralink-based wireless adapter, you'll want to look it over; if you don't, it's still worth reading as an excellent example of a how-to. http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=563547

=== In The Press ===

* Everex to make Cloud``Book UMPC with 9-in. LCD - Everex may not be releasing its first $399 ultraportable Cloud``Book until the end of January, but the Taiwanese PC maker is already talking about a supersize successor due later this year that will sport a bigger screen but stay under $500.  The first $399 Cloud``Book is expected to be available Jan. 25 in Wal-Mart stores and from e-tailers such as Wal``Mart.com, New``Egg.com and Tiger``Direct. It will have a 7-in. LCD, 1.2-GHz ultralow-voltage Via processor, 512MB RAM, 30GB hard drive and will run the gOS operating system, which is based on Ubuntu.  One thing that won't change is Everex's commitment to using Linux and other open-source applications. A $199 desktop PC from Everex called the gPC also runs gOS. http://www.computerworld.com/action/article.do?command=viewArticleBasic&articleId=9057441

* The 'Other' Open Source Virtualization Option - The Xen hypervisor may be the poster child for open source virtualization, but it's not the only option. Since its launch in late 2005, the SWsoft-backed OpenVZ project has been gradually growing its presence. This week, OpenVZ set out to expand its reach by adding support for Ubuntu 7.10. The same technology that powers SWsoft's flagship offering, Virtuozzo, also powers OpenVZ. OpenVZ provides users with access to the code, and in turn anticipates an open source community will grow around the product and contribute to the testing, support and development of the Linux-based virtualization effort. OpenVZ software includes user tools to help automation of virtual server management. http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/entdev/article.php/3721931

* Linux PC Models Multiply As Vista Struggles - Until recently, Linux PCs were about as easy to find in stores as a vinyl record. Now, personal computers with the Linux operating system pre-installed are becoming more readily available, thanks to new models from upstarts and established PC makers -- and disappointment with Microsoft's new Windows Vista OS. Last month, Dell shipped a pair of systems loaded with the latest version of Linux available from Ubuntu. The Inspiron 530 N desktop and the 1420 N notebook feature Ubuntu 7.10 and a built-in software DVD player. In spurning Vista, some PC buyers have cited concerns about its cost, resource requirements, and incompatibility with their existing applications. Indeed, the Home Premium version of Vista, not including a computer, costs more than an Everex's gPC. It also requires 15 Gbytes of disk space and a hefty processor.  http://www.informationweek.com/news/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=205604334

* Acer Offers Ubuntu pre-loaded for kiwis - Acer is offering Ubuntu 7.10 as a pre-load on their 14.1-inch Aspire 4315-100508C model with 1,280 x 800 resolution, 1.86GHz Celeron M 540, 512MB memory, 80GB disk, and DVD optical drive. Better yet, the price is just NZ$699 -- that's $553 in US greenbacks. The offer appears to be good in New Zealand only for the moment. http://www.engadget.com/2008/01/15/acer-offers-ubuntu-pre-load-for-kiwis/

=== In The Blogosphere ===

* An Open letter to Mark Shuttleworth - Rick, at Device``Guru, thinks that all forms of Ubuntu (i.e. Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, Edubuntu, etc.) should be branded as various “Editions” of Ubuntu. The editions would then be Ubuntu GNOME Edition (aka “Ubuntu”), Ubuntu KDE Edition, Ubuntu Xfce Edition, Ubuntu Educational Edition, and Ubuntu Server Edition (as is). Such branding will "maximize [Ubuntu's] adoption and success. Given the already fragmented nature of Linux, why fragment a specific distribution unnecessarily?" Read more at http://www.deviceguru.com/2008/01/17/an-open-letter-to-mark-shuttleworth/.

=== In Other News ===

==== Ubuntu and FOSS Make Strides in Egypt: By Fouad Bajwa ====

After a month in Cairo, Fouad reports that FOSS and Ubuntu are making strides. He anticipates establishing a Linux Professional Institute. The community is strong, there are many people and organizations gearing up for adopting FOSS and pushing the agenda of open innovation to the next level, breaking the barriers towards accessing knowledge. Last week, Orbit TV Egypt aired a 20 minute documentary and talk show on the benefits of FOSS, Linux with a focus on Ubuntu, its Arabic language capabilities and the opportunities it holds for Egypt and the Arab world. The most tangible result evolved from a caller from a Christian Youth initiative that has agreed to train all its members on Ubuntu as well as provide the first LPI paper based tests in the region. Read more details by visiting the link. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2008-January/001943.html

=== Meeting Summaries ===

==== Technical Board ====

A proposal was heard regarding the requirement for Xubuntu packages to be in main, and an extended discussion followed regarding the definition of main with respect to support and maintenance commitments made by Canonical and others on behalf of the Ubuntu project. The technical board, in consensus with Xubuntu community developers, resolved that:
* packages seeded for Xubuntu are not required to be in main.
* Xubuntu will continue to be built as usual but including packages from universe.
* in the Ubuntu 8.10 planning cycle (including UDS), the technical board discuss in depth how the repositories are organized with respect to project commitments and make plans to improve this.

Log available at: http://kryten.incognitus.net/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-meeting.20080115_2006.html

==== IRC Team ====

* After confusion around the creation of #kubuntu-kde4, a new  document was discussed as a good reference when creating new channels to help avoid some of the problems experienced. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrcTeam/CreatingChannels
* jussi0 and pleia2 were approved to the ubuntu-irc team.

=== Upcoming Meetings and Events ===

==== Wednesday, January 23, 2008 ====

===== Edubuntu meeting =====
** Start: 20:00 UTC
** End: 22:00 UTC
** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
** Agenda: No agenda listed as of the publication

===== Forum Council Meeting =====
** Start: 22:30 UTC
** End: 23:30 UTC
** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
** Agenda: No agenda listed as of the publication

===== Kubuntu Developers Meeting =====
** Start: 23:00 UTC
** End: 01:00 UTC
** Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
** Agenda: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Meetings

=== Updates and security for 6.06, 6.10, 7.04, and 7.10 ===

==== Security Updates ====

* [USN-568-1] PostgreSQL vulnerabilities - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-January/000654.html
* [USN-569-1] libxml2 vulnerability - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-January/000655.html
* [USN-570-1] boost vulnerabilities - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-January/000656.html
* [USN-571-1] X.org vulnerabilities - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-January/000657.html
* [USN-572-1] apt-listchanges vulnerability - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-January/000658.html
* [USN-571-2] X.org regression - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-January/000659.html

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

* postgresql-8.1_8.1.11-0ubuntu0.6.06.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-January/012602.html
* libxml2 2.6.24.dfsg-1ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-January/012603.html
* boost_1.33.1-2ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-January/012604.html
* libxfont 1:1.0.0-0ubuntu3.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-January/012605.html
* xorg-server 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu10.8 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-January/012606.html
* xorg-server 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu10.9 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-January/012607.html
* xorg-server 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu10.10 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-January/012608.html

==== Ubuntu 6.10 Updates ====

* postgresql-8.1_8.1.11-0ubuntu0.6.10.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-January/008478.html
* libxml2 2.6.26.dfsg-2ubuntu4.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-January/008479.html
* boost_1.33.1-7ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-January/008479.html
* libxfont 1:1.2.0-0ubuntu3.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-January/008481.html
* xorg-server 1:1.1.1-0ubuntu12.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-January/008482.html
* xorg-server 1:1.1.1-0ubuntu12.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-January/008483.html
* syslog-ng 1.9.11-1.1ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-January/008484.html
* xorg-server 1:1.1.1-0ubuntu12.5 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-January/008485.html

==== Ubuntu 7.04 Updates ====

* postgresql-8.2_8.2.6-0ubuntu0.7.04.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-January/008821.html
* libxml2 2.6.27.dfsg-1ubuntu3.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-January/008822.html
* boost_1.33.1-9ubuntu3.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-January/008823.html
* libxfont 1:1.2.7-1ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-January/008824.html
* xorg-server 2:1.2.0-3ubuntu8.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-January/008825.html
* libmail-box-perl 2.068-1build1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-January/008826.html
* xorg-server 2:1.2.0-3ubuntu8.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-January/008827.html
* apt-listchanges_2.72ubuntu6.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-January/008828.html
* syslog-ng 2.0.0-1ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-January/008829.html
* xorg-server 2:1.2.0-3ubuntu8.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-January/008830.html

==== Ubuntu 7.10 Updates ====

* postgresql-8.2_8.2.6-0ubuntu0.7.10.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010090.html
* libxml2 2.6.30.dfsg-2ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010091.html
* network-manager-applet 0.6.5-0ubuntu11 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010092.html
* boost_1.34.1-2ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010093.html
* avahi 0.6.20-2ubuntu3.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010094.html
* libxfont 1:1.3.0-0ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010095.html
* xorg-server_1.3.0.0.dfsg-12ubuntu8.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010096.html
* esound 0.2.38-0ubuntu4.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010098.html
* libmail-box-perl 2.070-1build1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010097.html
* update-manager 1:0.81.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010099.html
* xorg-server_1.3.0.0.dfsg-12ubuntu8.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010100.html
* apt-listchanges_2.74ubuntu3.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010101.html
* syslog-ng 2.0.0-1ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010102.html
* xorg-server_1.3.0.0.dfsg-12ubuntu8.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-January/010103.html

=== Bug Stats ===

* Open (39414) +448 # over last week
* Critical (18) +/-0 # over last week
* Unconfirmed (20229) +327 # over last week
* Unassigned (29875) +489 # over last week
* All bugs ever reported (146420) +1561 # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

=== Translation Stats ===

 1. Spanish (12417) -59 # over last week
 2. French (37728) +/-0 # over last week
 3. Swedish (49176) -8 # over last week
 4. English-UK (25172) -1592 # over last week
 5. German (66433) -223 # over last week

Remaining string to translate in Ubuntu 7.10 "Gutsy Gibbon", see more at: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy/

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Nick Ali
* John Crawford
* Craig A. Eddy
* Isabelle Duchatelle
* And many others

=== Glossary of Terms ===

* CAD - Computer Assisted Drafting
* CAM - Computer Assisted Manufacturing
* CAE - Computer Assisted Engineering
* UDS - Ubuntu Developer Summit

=== Feedback ===

If you would like to submit an idea or story you think is worth appearing on the UWN, please send them to ubuntu-marketing-submissions@lists.ubuntu.com.
This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page. If you have any technical support questions, please send then ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com.
