{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Preliminary format ==

Tutorials should not contain too many details, and reasonably long in time.

Examples: 

* "Mixing kick drum track with Ardour" - 5 min, the use of plug-ins (EQ, Compressor).
* "Create a folder icon with Inkscape" - 5 min.
* "Edit videos in Blender" - 15 min. Part 1: Preparing interface, preparing video-files with ffmpeg. Understanding Frame rates. Part 2. Cuts, Transitions, effects, compositing. Part 3. Render settings
* "Organize and develop a photo-library in Darktable" - 5 min.
* "Create a PDF in Scribus fit for professional printing" - 5 min.
* "Edit videos in KDEnlive" - 15 min.

The recordings should be made in 1280x720 resolution to give good quality when transferred to Archive.org as 720p quality video.

=== Artwork ===
Templates are to be created to make a unified look of the tutorials.

* Intro frame (2-4 sec): with the Ubuntu Studio brand and the word "Tutorials" over Ubuntu Studio signature audio-jingle (to be created, zequence?)
* Subject frame (2-4 sec) : Description of the tutorial 
* Outro frame (length TBD): Credits to the people involved creating the tutorial, Contact information for Ubuntu Studio and video links to other tutorials.

=== Editing ===

* Audio: only the sound from applications used in the tutorial
* Subs: Simple explanations to what is happening
* Zooms: Zoom into details for visibility, then zoom out
* Misc: Added arrows/circles for making sure important details are easy to observe
