{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Locales ==
=== About Locales ===

The "locale" is where you are (where your system is).

Specific "locales" (for example, French/Canada, Chinese/China and English/Great Britain) are ''first'' defined on a system and ''then'' used at runtime to display things in the way the local user expects. 

Technically, a locale is identified by:
* Language ('ll')
* Country ('CC')
* Encoding (always 'UTF-8' for Ubuntu)

Language and country values are defined in ISO standards. Files exist on your Ubuntu system containing this information: 
* Language codes:
** /usr/share/xml/iso-codes/iso_639.xml
** /usr/share/xml/iso-codes/iso_639_3.xml
* Country codes:
** /usr/share/xml/iso-codes/iso_3166.xml
** /usr/share/xml/iso-codes/iso_3166_2.xml
 

'''Note''': Typical users do not need to know any of this information or use any of these commands. This information is provided for those interested in a more system-oriented understanding.

=== Getting Started with Locales ===
Here are a few things you can do to get started understanding locales.

* Display information about the current locale
* Display all locales defined on your system
* Generate new locales on your system
* Change the command shell to a different locale

==== Showing the Current Locale ====
Use the <code>locale</code> command:

<pre> 
$ locale
LANG=en_US.utf8
LC_CTYPE="en_US.utf8"
LC_NUMERIC="en_US.utf8"
LC_TIME="en_US.utf8"
LC_COLLATE="en_US.utf8"
LC_MONETARY="en_US.utf8"
LC_MESSAGES="en_US.utf8"
LC_PAPER="en_US.utf8"
LC_NAME="en_US.utf8"
LC_ADDRESS="en_US.utf8"
LC_TELEPHONE="en_US.utf8"
LC_MEASUREMENT="en_US.utf8"
LC_IDENTIFICATION="en_US.utf8"
LC_ALL=
</pre>

All of these values indicate English ("en") US ("US"). 

Are mixed locales possible? That is, can one set some aspects of a local to one value and some to another? Yes, theoretically, but not yet through the standard Ubuntu UI (the '''Language Support''' application).

==== Showing all Locales on the System ====

Use the <code>locale -a</code> command to show locales that are available for immediate use on

<pre>
$ locale -a
C
de_AT.utf8
de_BE.utf8
de_CH.utf8
de_DE.utf8
de_LI.utf8
de_LU.utf8
en_AG
en_AU.utf8
en_BW.utf8
...
</pre>

===== What is the "C" Locale? =====

It means "no locale" and is the default locale used when a more specific one is not available.

==== Generating a New Locale ====

Generate new locales on your system with <code>sudo locale-gen ll_CC.UTF-8</code>.

Generate the Spanish/Spain locale:
<pre>
$ sudo locale-gen es_ES.UTF-8
Generating locales...
  es_ES.UTF-8... up-to-date
Generation complete.
</pre>

==== Changing Command Shell Locale ====
Change your command shell to a new (already created) locale with <code>LANGUAGE=<ll_CC></code> and <code>LANG=<ll_CC>-UTF-8</code>. After doing this, any processes you launch that check the locale will use the new one for translations. Thus, you can launch applications and view them in different locales.

'''Note''' To view correct translations for Ubuntu applications in Main and restricted, you must  install the appropriate language packages. This is done automatically from the '''Language Support''' application.

<pre>
$ LANGUAGE=es_ES
$ LANG=es_ES.UTF-8
$ locale
LANG=es_ES.UTF-8
LC_CTYPE="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_NUMERIC="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_TIME="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_COLLATE="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_MONETARY="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_MESSAGES="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_PAPER="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_NAME="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_ADDRESS="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_TELEPHONE="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_MEASUREMENT="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_IDENTIFICATION="es_ES.UTF-8"
LC_ALL=
 </pre>

=== Next ===
<nowiki>[[..-Domains|Domains]]</nowiki>
