{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Authors and Editors Meeting #2 - 29/06/2013 ==

=== IRC Logs ===
The full transcript of the meeting is available <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-manual/2013/ubuntu-manual.2013-08-24-19.07.moin.txt|here]]</nowiki> 

=== Agenda ===
* Upcoming Schedule/Due Dates
* Communication with authors
* Open Q & A

=== Attendees ===
* schlopo
* hannie
* godbyk
* CarstenG
* cqfd93

=== Minutes ===
==== Upcoming Schedule/Due Dates ====
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApS28NMLnYJXdEdGQjRtUWtaOUZxREVzUldSOU5kc2c#gid=0
* ''ACTION:'' schlopo to verify contents of Wine section with the departure of Thomas

==== Communication with authors ====
* ''ACTION:'' godbyk to prove results of section statuses to Ubuntu Manual coordinators
* ''ACTION:'' schlopo to communicate deadline through mailing list to all authors, and target those who've shown no activity in their sections.

==== Open Q & A ====
* ''ACTION:'' hannie to remove author/editor email addresses from the shared spreadsheet and replace with LaunchPad usernames/nicks
* ''ACTION:'' hannie to send an email to the mailing list about reducing the number of margin notes and avoiding screenshots (except icons where necessary). 

Meeting ended at 20:06:47 UTC 

=== Next Meeting ===
* TBD - will be scheduled, coordinated, and conducted by the editors group if a meeting is deemed necessary
