{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:center; font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[ UbuntuDrupal | Ubuntu Local Community Development Project ]]</nowiki>
|}

== Setup Guides ==

<nowiki>[[ UbuntuDrupal-Setup-Drupal | Drupal 6 ]]</nowiki> This page explains how to setup and obtain the basic modules. If you know how to setup Drupal and install basic modules, you don't need this page at all.

<nowiki>[[ attachment:Setup_UDPlanet.pdf | UD Planet ]]</nowiki> This is the most complex module. It has the most parts to it which can make it a beast to setup and configure. We have done our best to make it very easy but improvements can always be made.

<nowiki>[[ attachment:Setup_UDTheme.pdf | UD Theme ]]</nowiki> This is theme that is used all over.

<nowiki>[[ attachment:Setup_UDCountdown.pdf | UD Countdown ]]</nowiki> This is a VERY simple module and should be easily deployed by anyone.

<nowiki>[[ attachment:Setup_UDHeader.pdf | UD Header ]]</nowiki> This module is configurable for each node type so it can be a little confusing.

<nowiki>[[ attachment:Setup_UDSidebar.pdf | UD Sidebar ]]</nowiki> This module shouldn't be hard to setup but it is possible to make it more user friendly.
