{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Open-Stack Introduction -- soren ===
{{{#!IRC
[19:59] <kim0> Next Up is OpenStack Intro session
[19:59] <soren> o/
[20:00] <soren> kim0: How does it work? Do you copy questions from somewhere else or do I need to do that myself?
[20:00] <soren> Or do people just ask here?
[20:00] <kim0> soren: you "/msg ClassBot !q" then !y on every question
[20:01] <kim0> soren: please join #ubuntu-classroom-chat as well
[20:01] <soren> This is complicated :)
=== ChanServ changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Welcome to the Ubuntu Classroom - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom || Support in #ubuntu || Upcoming Schedule: http://is.gd/8rtIi || Questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Event: Ubuntu Cloud  Days - Current Session: Open-Stack Introduction - Instructors: soren
[20:01] <soren> Hello, everyone!
[20:01] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/03/23/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[20:02] <soren> I'm Soren, I'm one of the core openstack developers.
[20:02] <soren> OpenStack consists of two major components and a couple of smaller ones.
[20:02] <soren> The major ones are OpenStack Compute, codenanmed nova.
[20:02] <soren> ...and OpenStack Storage, codenamed Swift.
[20:03] <soren> Swift is what drives Rackspace Cloud Files, which is a service very much like Amazon S3.
[20:03] <soren> It's *massively* scalable, and is used to store petabytes of data today.
[20:03] <soren> I work on Nova, though, so that's what I'll spend most time talking about today.
[20:03] <soren> Nova is a project that started at NASA.
[20:04] <soren> Apart froms ending stuff into space, NASA also does a bunch of other research things for the US government.
[20:04] <soren> AMong them: "Look into this cloud computing thing"
[20:04] <soren> This is what turned into the NASA Nebula project.
[20:05] <soren> If you google it (I forgot to do so in advance), you'll find images of big containers that say Nebula on the side.
[20:05] <soren> They're building blocks for NASA's cloud.
[20:05] <soren> Anyways, they started our running this on Eucalyptus.
[20:05] <soren> The same stuff that drives UEC.
[20:06] <soren> This got.. uh... "old" eventually, and they decided to throw it out and write their own thing.
[20:06] <soren> ..so they did, and they open sourced it.
[20:07] <soren> RAckspace had plans for open sourcing their cloud platform, too, so they called NASA and said "wanna play?" (paraphrasing a little bit), and they were up for it.
[20:07] <soren> So Rackspace had Swift, NASA had Nova. We put it together and called it OpenStakc.
[20:07] <soren> OpenStack, even.
[20:08] <soren> If you go to look at them, and they don't look like two pieces of the same puzzle, this is why. They share no ancestry, really.
[20:08] <soren> They now work happily together, though.
[20:08]  * soren attempts to work that qeustions thing
[20:09] <ClassBot> EvilPhoenix asked: What exactly IS Open-Stack?
[20:09] <soren> I guess that one is answered..
[20:09] <ClassBot> medberry asked: Can you briefly differentiate openstack from eucalyptus
[20:09] <soren> Yes. Yes, I can.
[20:10] <soren> So, Eucalyptus corresponds to Nova.
[20:10] <soren> They both focus on the compute side of things, while providing a *very* simple object store. Neither try to do any sort of large scale stuff.
[20:10] <soren> Err..
[20:10] <soren> For storage, I mean.
[20:11] <soren> For the compute part, the architectures are *very* dissimilar.
[20:11] <soren> So, last I looked (admittedly 1½ year ago, but I'm told this is still true), Eucalyptus is strictly hierarchical.
[20:12] <soren> There's one "cloud controller" at the top.
[20:12] <soren> There's a number of cluster controllers beneath this one cloud controller.
[20:12] <soren> ...and there's a number of "node controllers" beneath the cluster controllers.
[20:13] <soren> Eucalyptus is written in Java, and uses XML and web services for all its communication.
[20:13] <soren> It polls from the top down.
[20:13] <soren> Never the other way around.
[20:14] <soren> Nova uses message queues.
[20:14] <soren> Nova is written in Python.
[20:14] <soren> We have no specific structure that must be followed.
[20:14] <soren> There are a number of components: compute, network, scheduler, objectstore, api, and volume.
[20:14] <soren> There can be any number of each of them.
[20:15] <soren> So Nova itself has no single points of failure.
[20:15] <soren> Oh, Eucalyptus's cluster and node controllers are written in C, by the way. I forgot.
[20:16] <soren> All of Nova is Python.
[20:16] <soren> AFAIK, Eucalyptus supports KVM and Xen.
[20:16] <soren> We support KVM, Xen, Hyper-V, user-mode-linux, LXC (if not now, then *very* soon), VMWare vsphere..
[20:17] <soren> Eerr..
[20:17] <soren> Yeah, I think that's all.
[20:17] <soren> WE also support a number of different storage backends (for EBS-like stuff): iSCSI, sheepdog, Ceph, AoE..
[20:17] <soren> And one more, which I forget what is.
[20:17] <soren> We're very, very modular in this way.
[20:18] <soren> Last I checked, Eucalyptus supported AoE. They may or may not support more now. I'm not sure.
[20:18] <ClassBot> kim0 asked: I understand openstack focuses on large scale deployments .. How suitable is it for openstack to be deployed in a small setting (5 servers?)
[20:18] <soren> I'm glad you asked.
[20:19] <soren> The Ubuntu packages I made of Nova work out-of-the-box on a single machine.
[20:20] <soren> Scaling it out to 5 servers shouldn't be much work. There's some networking things that need to be set up, you need to point it at a shared database (so far, we're working towards a completely distributed data store) and a rabbitmq server.
[20:20] <soren> We're suffreing a bit from our flexibility, really.
[20:21] <soren> We can make very few assumptions about people's set up, so there might be a number of things that need to be set up correctly (e.g. which ip to use to reach an api server (or a load balancer in front of them)), which server to use for this, whcih server to use for that).
[20:22] <soren> It's pretty obvious pretty quickly, though, if something isn't pointed the right way.
[20:22] <soren> We're "blessed" with a team of people in Europe and in most US timezones, so if you run into trouble #openstack (irc channel) is open almost 24/7 :)
[20:23] <ClassBot> kim0 asked: Is nova deployed at rackspace in production yet ? did you guys go with xen or kvm, and why ?
[20:23] <soren> Nova is not in production at Rackspace yet, no.
[20:23] <soren> Rackspace has an existing platform with which we've not completely hit feature parity.
[20:23] <soren> ...and apparently, it's not ok to make Rackspace's customers suffer because we want to run a different platform :)
[20:23] <soren> Rackspace will be using Xen Server.
[20:24] <soren> Oh, I forgot to list that as a supported hypervisor. It is.
[20:24] <soren> That's what they're used to, and that's what they can get support for for running Windows and stuff.
[20:24] <ClassBot> markoma asked: Gluster was mentioned in a previous discussion. Is swift the right way to go, or Gluster?
[20:25] <soren> They do very different things.
[20:25] <soren> Gluster aims to provide a POSIX compliant filesystem.
[20:25] <soren> Swift is an object store.
[20:25] <soren> You address full objects. You cannot seek back and forth, replace parts of objects, etc.
[20:26] <soren> Very much like Amazon S3.
[20:26] <soren> Gluster recently announced they want to contribute to Swift. I don't know exactly how, but something's afoot :)
[20:26] <ClassBot> jrisch asked: I think it's still unclear from the documentation, but it mentions something about a cloudpipe vm, but doesn't clarify it's role nor it's usage. Can you elaborate on that?
[20:26] <soren> Ah, yes.
[20:27] <soren> Cloudpipe is something NASA uses.
[20:27] <soren> I don't think anyone else does, and perhaps will.
[20:27] <soren> Each project has its own private subnet assigned.
[20:27] <soren> Typically in the 10.0.0.0/8 range.
[20:27] <soren> It's not reachable from the internet.
[20:27] <soren> Cloudpipe images are images with an openvpn server in them.
[20:28] <soren> Each project has such an instance running. They can connect to it using openvpn, and they can then reach their instances.
[20:28] <soren> It's not required at all.
[20:28] <soren> I've never used it.
[20:28] <ClassBot> topper1 asked: is rabbitmq a SPOF since its clustering doesn't replicate queues?
[20:29] <soren> In a sense.
[20:29] <soren> From Nova's point of view, it's a bit of a black box.
[20:30] <soren> We speak to something that speaks AMQP. We expect it to behave.
[20:30] <soren> Just like we use an SQL database of some sort and expect it to behave.
[20:31] <soren> RabbitMQ is way more stable than what we could have hacked up in the time it took to run "apt-get isntall rabbitmq-server".
[20:31] <soren> *way* more stable.
[20:32] <soren> There's work in progress to build a queueing service for OpenStack, but in general, we try to use existing components.
[20:32] <ClassBot> n1md4 asked: There seems to be install guides for CentOS, RHEL, and Ubuntu, is there nothing specifically for Debian?
[20:32] <soren> Not right now, I don't think.
[20:33] <soren> I'd be *thrilled* if a DD stepped up and put OpenStack into Debian.
[20:33] <soren> ...and sorted out all the dependencies.
[20:33] <soren> It's silly not to, really.
[20:33] <soren> It's just that noone has done it yet.
[20:33] <ClassBot> markoma asked: do you, would you, use Ensemble to manage services for OpenStack?
[20:34] <soren> I've no clue about what Ensemble does at the moment, so I can't really answer that.
[20:34] <ClassBot> jrisch asked: If cloudpipe isn't required, how do you set up access to the VM's, IP mappings and stuff. Do the physical node act as a pipe/NAT device?
[20:34] <soren> I tend to use floating ip's.
[20:34] <soren> They're public IP's that you can dynamically assign to instances.
[20:35] <soren> Alterntively, you can just use one of the other netowrk managers and use a subnet that's routable.
[20:35] <ClassBot> jrisch asked: So if you speak AMQP to the message queue, could one use ActiveMQ instead? (it supports clustering as far as I know).
[20:35] <soren> AFAIK, we don't do anything that requires RabbitMq.
[20:36] <soren> So I guess ActiveMQ would work, if it speaks AMQP.
[20:36] <ClassBot> topper1 asked: Is there work afoot to create API documentation (rest api) for swift... right now it requires 'you read the python')
[20:36] <soren> Uh, there's plenty of docs.
[20:36] <soren> HAng on.
[20:37] <soren> http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/files/api/
[20:37] <soren> Same thing.
[20:37] <soren> I don't know where the ones labeled "openstack" are, but it's the same thing.
[20:38] <soren> Ah, question queue is empty..
[20:38] <soren> Where was I? :)
[20:38]  * soren scrolls up
[20:38] <soren> Nowhere, apparantly.
[20:38] <soren> Ok, process..
[20:38] <soren> We do time based releases.
[20:39] <soren> Just like Ubuntu.
[20:39] <soren> Except we have 3 months cycles, rather than 6 months.
[20:39] <soren> We align with Ubuntu so that every other OpenStack release should almost coincide with an Ubuntu release.
[20:40] <soren> We have feature freezes, beta freezes, RC freezes and final freezes just like Ubuntu.
[20:40] <soren> This is no coincidence :)
[20:40] <soren> Ubuntu is our reference platform.
[20:41] <soren> I'm a core dev of Ubuntu, too, so if we have an problem with a component outside Nova, we can fix it and get it into our reference platform quite easily.
[20:41] <soren> This holistic view of the distribution has served us very well, I think.
[20:42] <soren> Nova can be way cool, but if there are bugs in libvirt, we're going to suffer, too, for instance.
[20:42] <soren> Ok, so say you wanted to work on something in Nova (or other parts of Openstack).
[20:43] <soren> You can branch the code from launchpad (which we use for everything: blueprints, bugs, code, answers) using "bzr branch lp:nova"
[20:43] <soren> Hack on it, upload a branch to launchpad, and click the "propose for merge" button.
[20:43] <soren> Within a couple of days someone should have looked at it and reviewed id.
[20:44] <soren> it.
[20:44] <soren> If it's good, it gets approved. If it's less good, we (try to) give constructive feedback so that you can fix ti.
[20:44] <soren> Once it's good, it's approved.
[20:44] <soren> Once approved, a component called Tarmac takes over.
[20:44] <soren> Tarmac is run from our Jenkins instance: http://jenkins.openstack.org/
[20:45] <soren> It looks for approved branches on Launchpad, merges them, and runs our test suite.
[20:45] <soren> We have around 75% code coverage, I think.
[20:45] <soren> Far from ideal, but it cathces quite a few things.
[20:45] <soren> If the tests pass, your branch is merged.
[20:45] <soren> And that's it.
[20:46] <soren> If the tests fail, your branch gets set back to "needs review" and you can go and fix it again.
[20:46] <soren> This is fine. It happens all the time. Don't sweat it.
[20:46] <soren> WE're also doing some integration tests.
[20:46] <soren> Oh, one other thing:
[20:47] <soren> When a patch gets merged, it triggers a package build.
[20:48] <soren> This means that if Launchpad doesn't have a huge backlog, less than 20 minutes after your branch has been reviewed, you can "apt-get upgrade" and get a fresh version of Nova with your patch in it.
[20:48] <soren> So we continuously test that our packages build.
[20:48] <soren> I have a Jenkins instance that checks the PPA for updates.
[20:48] <soren> If there are updates, it installs the updates and runs a bunch of integration tests.
[20:49] <soren> So within... I dunno, 35 minutes or so, probably, your patch has gone through unit tests, packages builds, and integration tests.
[20:49] <soren> I think that's pretty cool.
[20:50] <soren> We're working on expanding these tests.
[20:50] <soren> So that we test more combinations of stuff.
[20:51] <soren> I currently test KVM with the EC2 API using iSCSI volumes on Lucid, Maverick, and Natty.
[20:51] <soren> We provide backported versions of stuff that is needed to run Openstack on Lucid, which we do support.
[20:51] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[20:51] <soren> ...as well as Maverick and NAtty.
[20:51] <soren> Well, there's nothing backported for Natty, because we put that directly into UBuntu.
[20:52] <ClassBot> kim0 asked: Can you talk a bit about nova's roadmap
[20:52] <soren> Sort of.
[20:52] <soren> There are some things on the road map already.
[20:53] <soren> ...but we have a design summit coming up, where we'll be talking much more about the roadmap.
[20:53] <soren> It's an open event in Santa Clara in about a month, if anyone wants to come.
[20:53] <soren> Should be fun.
[20:53] <soren> Things that I do know on the road map already:
[20:54]  * soren looks desperately for the list.
[20:55] <soren> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/nova
[20:55] <soren> Well, this is the list of everything.
[20:55] <soren> Cactus is the release we're working on now.
[20:55] <soren> Bexar is the previous one.
[20:55] <soren> Diablo the next one.
[20:56] <soren> Lots of different companies work on OpenStack. They have their own priorities.
[20:56] <soren> Whatever they want to work on, they can.
[20:56] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[20:56] <soren> So in that respect, it's hard to say what's going to land at any given time. It depends on what people feel like working on.
[20:57] <soren> We're going to split out some stuff from nova (volume and network services), though.
[20:57] <soren> That seems pretty certain right now.
[20:57] <soren> And add support for the EC2 SOAP API.
[20:57] <soren> People keep telling me no-one uses it, but... meh. I want to add it.
[20:58] <soren> MAn, I can't really remember more stuff right now :(
[20:58] <ClassBot> jrisch asked: I know that Swift is in production several places (other than Rackspace) - do you know of any companies that are using NOVA (besides NASA)...?
[20:58] <soren> Not at the moment, no.
[20:58] <soren> This current dev cycle has been one focused on stability and deployability.
[20:59] <soren> The goal has been to get Nova to a point where people could actually use it in production.
[20:59] <soren> I've blogged a bit about some the stuff I've done on that.
[20:59] <soren> ..but lots of others have worked on it, too.
[20:59] <soren> I guess that's it?
[21:00] <soren> I hope it's been useful.
[21:00] <kim0> Thanks soren
[21:00] <kim0> This has been great
[21:00] <kim0> Thanks everyone ..
[21:00] <kim0> Hope you enjoyed the sessions
[21:01] <kim0> See you tomorrow for the second day
[21:01] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/03/23/%23ubuntu-classroom.html
}}}
