{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


In a traditional menu, an application is put under a category which defines the application. i.e., Ardour is an application which can record and process audio, so it would be put under the '''audio''' category (if such exists).

In a workflow based menu, one application can be put under many categories, where the category defines its' workflow specific task.
So, '''''Audacity''''', which by definition belongs to the '''audio''' category, could be put under sub-categories such as '''audio/editing''', '''video/audio-editing'''.

=== Audio ===

(reference <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Workflows/Audio]]</nowiki>)

This is the main category for the '''audio''' workflow. 
The first application starter here should probably be a link to audio workflow documentation.

* Audio Workflow Help

==== /Jack (Pro Audio Control) ====

Example of a category for jack control.

* qjackctl
* gladish (session manager)
* patchage

==== /Midi Utilities ====

* 

==== /DAW (recording/mixing/mastering/sequencing) ====

Digital audio workstations. Multipurpose.
Such applications as:
* Ardour
* Qtractor
* Rosegarden
* MusE

==== /Midi Sequencers/Trackers ====

* Hydrogen
* seq24
* milkytracker
* schism

==== /Editing ====

Audio editors. Can also be used for recording audio, but are mainly used for editing audio.
Such applications as:
* Audacity
* Rezound
* Sweep
* mhwaveedit

==== /Mastering ====

* Ardour
* Jamin

==== /Mixers ====

Audio device mixers.
* ffado-mixer
* mudita24
* etc..

==== /Plugin Hosts ====

* jack rack (ladspa)
* zynjacku (lv2 instruments)
* lv2rack (lv2 plugins)
* Calf Plugin Pack (lv2)

==== /Instruments ====

* Hydrogen (drum machine)
* Hexter
* etc..

==== /Convert ====

Good label? Own category needed? Convert between multiple formates.

* soundconverter (perhaps the only one needed)

=== Graphics ===

(reference <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Workflows/Graphics]]</nowiki>)

This is the main category for the '''Graphics''' workflow. 
The first application starter here should probably be a link to graphics workflow documentation.

* Graphics Workflow Help

=== Video ===

(reference <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Workflows/Video]]</nowiki>)

This is the main category for the '''Video''' workflow. 
The first application starter here should probably be a link to video workflow documentation.

* Video Workflow Help

=== Photography ===

(reference <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Workflows/Photography]]</nowiki>)

This is the main category for the '''Photography''' workflow. 
The first application starter here should probably be a link to photography workflow documentation.

* Photography Workflow Help

=== Publishing ===

This is the main category for the '''Publishing''' workflow. 
The first application starter here should probably be a link to publishing workflow documentation.

* Publishing Workflow Help
