{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

    Welcome to the Ubuntu Students Wiki page. Are you a student or are you someone who is advocating Ubuntu and other Free Software who supports the use of Ubuntu by students? If so, the Ubuntu Students group is for you. Join us at our launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu.students/

 {*} First steps for all Ubuntu Student members:
<pre>
Find and join your local Linux groups...
 1. Figure out about your Ubuntu Local Community Team at [ http://ubuntu-us.org/ ].
 2. For finding teams outside the USA, see [ https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamList ].
 3. Figure out about your local Linux User Groups at [ http://www.linux.org/groups/ ].
 4. Search on Google for other groups, Google: <your city> linux user group, for example.
 5. Join your Ubuntu Local Community Team and Linux User Group mailing lists.
 6. Record what other high schools are in your local area.  Use Google for big cities.
 7. You are now ready to encourage fellow students to also join!!
</pre>

 {*} Check out our <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudents/Whiteboard]]</nowiki> to add your ideas and to support other people's ideas.

 {*} Sign up for a <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudents/Project|project]]</nowiki> !!  Click on Mentoring Available on our Launchpad webpage, and get started with whichever project you like.  All members are expected to participate with at least one project.

 {*} Join us in on <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat|IRC]]</nowiki> in #ubuntu-students on freenode. If you need a good client try <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|XChat]]</nowiki>

-----
CategoryUbuntuStudents
