{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Developer Week Sessions ==

=== Our Sessions ===

We have a number of sessions next week for all tastes and interests. Feel free to come to as few or as many sessions as you like. All of them are free and open to anyone.

==== 29th January 2013 ====
* '''15:00 UTC:''' Introduction to Ubuntu development -- `dholbach`
** Description: If you are completely new to Ubuntu Development, this is a session you will want to attend. It will give you a good overview how things work and you will have heard about all the essential bits.
* '''16:00 UTC:''' Getting set up for Ubuntu development -- `dholbach`
** Description: In this session you will learn which tools you need and how to configure them best. Afterwards you will be ready to go to start working on Ubuntu packages.
* '''17:00 UTC:''' Introduction to patch systems -- `coolbhavi`
** Description: Many a time we wonder how to integrate a particular fix a particular part of the code in a program and upload into repositories without having to change code each time by hand and making it clumsy. In this session I’m going to show how to use different patch management systems that are in practice now.
* '''18:00 UTC:''' Working with upstreams -- `tumbleweed`
** Description: So, working effectively in Ubuntu means also working with the teams and people upstream who wrote the software we distribute. I’ll talk about why this is important, when it’s necessary, and how to go about it. In particular, our most important upstream is Debian. Debian has a rather unusual (though powerful) bug-tracker. We’ll cover finding, submitting, and modifying bugs on it.
* '''18:30 UTC:''' Introduction to One Hundred Paper Cuts -- `notgary` (Hangout!)
** Description: “Unity may be the shiny new thing that everyone loves, but style without substance is only so much fluff, and the substance of Ubuntu is still its GTK-based apps. Once Hundred Paper Cuts focuses it’s attention on that substance, rubbing out the little annoyances that get under our skin every day we’re using Ubuntu. This session will introduce you to the project, how it works, and how to get involved. If you want to contribute to Ubuntu in a way that has the biggest impact on the quality of experience for the end user, then don’t miss this.”
* '''19:00 UTC:''' Ubuntu App Developer tools -- `mhall119`
** Description: Ubuntu provides a variety of tools to help you write and manage your applications. This session will cover everything from bootstrapping a new project, to making the final packages installable through the Software Center and everything in between.

==== 30th January 2013 ====
* '''15:00 UTC:''' How to write apps for Ubuntu -- `dpm`
** Description: Learn how to use the best open source tools and technologies to write your apps on Ubuntu, both on the desktop and on the phone. You’ll be able to get your first app running in a matter of minutes!
* '''16:00 UTC:''' Ubuntu App review process explained -- `coolbhavi`
** Description: In this session I’m going to explain the present workflow of reviewing apps and give an introduction into the new app dev upload process to automate reviews
* '''17:00 UTC:''' Finding memory leaks -- `achiang` (Hangout!)
** Description: As we polish and prep Ubuntu for mobile devices, a key activity will be hunting down and squashing memory leaks. This session will discuss the basic theory of leaks, introduce valgrind and our brand new apport-valgrind wrapper, and how to analyze a valgrind log file. A C/C++ background will be helpful to get the most out of this session, but is not strictly required.
* '''18:00 UTC:''' Testing with autopilot -- `balloons`
** Description: Learn about how autopilot is utilized by the unity team and quality team to test the ubuntu desktop. We’ll also provide an overview of what autopilot can do, show and run some example testcases, and give you the knowledge needed to get started writing your own autopilot testcases.
* '''19:00 UTC:''' Unity integration -- `mhall119`
** Description: The Unity desktop provides many opportunities for your application to integrate with the full user experience. Learn how to add your Application to the Unity messaging or sound indicators, add your own indicator, extend the Unity Launcher and much more.

==== 31st January 2013 ====
* '''15:00 UTC:''' Automated Testing in Ubuntu -- `pitti`
** Description: We have been, and are changing the Ubuntu devlopment process to employ automated testing and avoid introducing regressions, to improve confidence, focus, and development speed. In the first talk Martin gives an overview about the various kinds of tests that we do, so that you know where to watch out for failures and get debugging information. The second half focuses on how to write tests, i. e. which technologies are available for e. g. hardware and GUI related behaviour or system-wide integration checks.
* '''16:00 UTC:''' Syncing your app's data with u1db -- `sil`
** Description: 
* '''17:00 UTC:''' Interacting with Debian's Bug Tracking System -- `tumbleweed`
** Description: So, working effectively in Ubuntu means also working with the teams and people upstream who wrote the software we distribute. I’ll talk about why this is important, when it’s necessary, and how to go about it. In particular, our most important upstream is Debian. Debian has a rather unusual (though powerful) bug-tracker. We’ll cover finding, submitting, and modifying bugs on it.
* '''17:30 UTC:''' Building Ubuntu images -- `ogra`
** Description: He will talk about “[t]he Ubuntu image build infrastructure at a glance, what tools do we use, how do they interact and how is the hardware set up for building the official Ubuntu images”.
* '''18:00 UTC:''' The Ubuntu Nexus 7 images -- `ogra`
** Description: Oliver Grawert will talk about “[h]ow are the nexus7 images different from “normal” Ubuntu images, what can be hacked to make small modifications, how can they be re-packed or supplied with a different root file system“.
* '''18:30 UTC:''' Fixing packages to cross-build -- `xnox`
** Description:
* '''19:00 UTC:''' Developers Roundtable -- `bdrung` & `geser`
** Description: Do you have questions about Ubuntu development? Here you have the best opportunity to ask everything you want to know, because we will have a number of developers there who can answer your questions for you. 
