{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is meant for bringing new ideas to the table and discuss them with others. If you have an idea, post it below (in a subsection, <nowiki>== idea ==</nowiki>).

=== LP Integration: Let ubottu Interact Directly with LP for Access ===

Added by: <nowiki>[[User:Lhavelund|Lhavelund]]</nowiki> 10:12, 9 December 2009 (EET)

'' Apologies for the raw IRC text; I'm in a hurry. ''

''[2009-12-09 08:01:33 UTC] < MenZa> Alternatively, make a low-level bot access level for ops, which would add them to the group on Launchpad (@groupadd user lp:group), and fetch the new list of people.''

=== Auto-generated !ops factoids ===
The bot could generate the !ops call for a channel from the gathered data in the LP team and access list for that channel mixed with the ''core'' ops. This would be done by checking the access list and retrieving LP accounts for them, then adding all the IRC nicks associated with the accounts to the factoid. This should be a periodic update of the factoid from the parsed access list and LP team, perhaps once a week. There should also be a way of manually initiating the update for bot administrators.<br />
<nowiki>[[User:Tsimpson|tsimpson]]</nowiki> 10:32, 9 December 2009 (EET)

=== Integrate bot users and LP teams ===
The bot should, where possible, use LP teams to generate its user list and capability sets. Currently this is messily hacked into the bot but has issues, like recently wiping all users from the database. It could also use Bantrackertwo to associate meta-data with LP accounts to generate lists of factoid moderators and editors.<br /> - Factoid Moderators should be the Core-ops team, IMHO  <nowiki>[[User:Jussi01|Jussi01]]</nowiki> 13:15, 21 December 2009 (EET) <br />
<nowiki>[[User:Tsimpson|tsimpson]]</nowiki> 10:34, 9 December 2009 (EET)

=== Status messages for ops going away for extended periods ===

[18:30:32] <jussi01> Also, I had an idea for and issue tracker feature, have it have a list of the ops, where you can put a status thing for the other ops to see, so if people are going to florida or somethign they can put "away in florida til 1st jan, contactable by email"  and if someone needs them they can see that. 
[18:40:00] <jussi01> it probably should be available as a bot command, like @away "whatever you need to put"

<nowiki>[[User:Jussi01|Jussi01]]</nowiki> 21:04, 23 December 2009 (EET)

=== Remember discussions from irc in a quick browsable way ===
[10:01:39] <jussi01> Hrm, had another idea. how about a mootbot like boot that can record items from the channel that its told. aimed at development channels, when an important discussion comes up, to save people reading craploads of scrollback, you give the @remember <discussion name> and it notes that discussion andkeeps a log of it untill someone does @end or 1 hour comes, whichever is first. this makes it easy to find discussions and keep up with channels backlog. 
[10:02:06] <jussi01> the discussions could be published on a web page somewhere

<nowiki>[[User:Jussi01|Jussi01]]</nowiki> 09:33, 20 January 2010 (EET)

=== Grab logs from official sources for reference ===

[12:20:50] <jussi01> tsimpson: I was thinking of a cool little project if you are interested. basically it would be a little applet to pull log snippets from irclogs.ubuntu.com. you would select a date, time from, time to, timzone, and  channel and it would display it in an "official manner". then we could advise people to go there to provide logs, so they would easily be able to present "full unedited logs" without too much hassle. 
[12:20:54] <jussi01> and for bonus points, a bot command that could create a url for said logs, ie. @logpull #ubuntu 18.01.2010 1000 > 18.01.2010 1200 - that spits out a url with appropriate logs. could have also appriate shortcuts for the cannel its called in and today etc (leave that out and it pulls current day/ channel)

<nowiki>[[User:Jussi01|Jussi01]]</nowiki> 09:33, 20 January 2010 (EET)

== Groups for specific plugin settings == 
[12:26:14] <jussi> oh tsimpson, came a cross an idea. perhaps we could have channel specific plugins for a group of channels? ie. "@group core supybot.plugin.Bugtracker on" where core is a predifined set of channels?
[12:26:58] <jussi> as opposed to @channel #channel supybot.plugi....

<nowiki>[[User:Jussi01|Jussi01]]</nowiki> 09:26, 22 May 2010 (UTC)
