{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>

Read this Site in your language:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/HowTo/Greek| Ελληνικά]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/HowTo/Korean| 한국어]]</nowiki>
|}
<<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 25%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #d5e5ff; font-size: 0.90em;" :> '''Quick Links''' <<BR>> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/FAQ | FAQs]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/HowTo | Basic HOWTOs]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/HowTo/AdvancedHowTo | Advanced HOWTOs]]</nowiki>
|}

== Ubuntu GNOME Basic HOWTO ==
=== Wiki Specific ===
# <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kG2Vum24iQc | Howto Get Involved with the Ubuntu GNOME Team]]</nowiki>.
# <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UG_EjscshFo | Howto Get the Best out of the Ubuntu GNOME Wiki Area]]</nowiki>.
# <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Vfgk86MYv0 | Howto Create a Wiki Page]]</nowiki>.

=== Desktop Management ===

==== Bring up the GNOME Shell ====
It is intuitive, but this is the most important task for the novice users. Click on '''Activities''' in the top left corner of the screen or press the '''Super''' key (previously known as '''Windows''' key) to bring up the '''GNOME Shell'''. This is the place where you can see your open windows, change workspaces and, of course, search for and run your favourite applications.
==== Change your desktop background (wallpaper) ====
# Right-click on the desktop and select '''Change Background...'''. You can also bring up the '''GNOME Shell''' and search for '''Background''' to open the '''Background''' system settings' window.
# Choose a wallpaper included in '''Ubuntu GNOME''', select your own wallpaper from the `Pictures` folder or pick a solid color for your background or lock screen.
==== Change the theme and fonts to customize the look of Ubuntu GNOME ====
A lot of the appeal of '''Ubuntu''' in general is its flexibility.  One of the most obvious ways to customize a operating system is through its look.  You can do this by changing the theme and fonts.
===== Theme =====
To change the theme, it is best to use '''GNOME Tweak Tool''' – an application which is included by default in the '''Ubuntu GNOME''' installation. If not, you can install it from the '''Software Center''' or throughout the command-line (by running `sudo apt-get install gnome-tweak-tool` in '''Terminal''').

Once you have '''GNOME Tweak Tool''' installed, bring up the '''GNOME Shell''' and search for '''Tweak Tool'''. Then run the application and select the '''Theme''' tab. All the theme settings can be changed here (desktop theme, cursor theme, icon theme, etc.). Many more themes than the ones on the list are available for download. <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome-look.org|GNOME-Look.org]]</nowiki> is a great place to look for more themes.
===== Fonts =====
All font settings are available in the '''Fonts''' tab – here you can not only change system fonts, but hinting and antialiasing, too.
==== Change your system settings ====
# Bring up the '''GNOME Shell''' and search for '''System Settings'''.
# Here you can change your personal, hardware or system settings. Click on an item to open its settings.

=== User Account Management ===

If you are planning on having multiple users to use the operating system, it's a good idea to have several accounts. This can be accomplished by using the GUI or '''Terminal''' with equal effectiveness.

==== Create or remove a user account via the GUI ====
'''To add''' a user accout:
* Open '''System Settings''' from the shell, and click '''User Accounts'''.
* Then, click '''Unlock''' in the upper right-hand corner, and enter your `root` password.
* User accounts can be added using the '''+''' button in the lower left-hand corner.
'''To remove''' a user account:
* Select the user account you want to remove and click on the '''-''' (minus) button in the lower left-hand corner.
==== Create or remove a user account via Terminal ====
'''To add''' a user account, run the following commands with appropriate information:
* <code>sudo adduser -d /home/newuser/ -m newuser</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man8/adduser.8.html | adduser man-pages]]</nowiki>
* <code>sudo passwd newuser</code>
** Enter the password you want the user to have.
** Enter the same password again.
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man1/passwd.1ssl.html | passwd man-pages]]</nowiki>

This would create a new account with the name `newuser`, and a home directory at `/home/newuser`.

You can also create a user account by running the following command:

* <code>sudo useradd -c "newuser" -m -s "/bin/bash" newuser</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man8/useradd.8.html | useradd man-pages]]</nowiki>

'''To remove''' a user account, run the following command:
* <code>sudo userdel newuser</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man8/userdel.8.html | userdel man-pages]]</nowiki>

This will remove the user account `newuser` from your operating system, but will not delete its `home` directory. If you want to keep the files of `newuser`, that’s good, but if you want to delete both the user account and the `home` directory, run the following command:
* <code>sudo userdel -r newuser</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man8/userdel.8.html | userdel man-pages]]</nowiki>

=== Software Management ===

==== Install software ====
Adding software in '''Ubuntu''' is really simple, easy and fast, which is one of the advantages the operating system has over other distributions. To add software in '''Ubuntu GNOME''':

# Bring up the '''GNOME Shell''' and search for '''Ubuntu Software Center'''.
# Select from hundreds of free or paid applications.
# Click '''Install''' to install an application on your hard disk drive.

If you want to install a more obscure package, you will need to do some simple work in '''Terminal'''.  A good place to start learning about this is on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptGet/Howto?action=show&redirect=AptGetHowto | AptGet Howto page.]]</nowiki>

==== Install software from a .deb file ====
Installing software from a `.deb` file is not normally necessary, but it can make life easier at times. For example, a newer version of your favourite application is available on the developer's official site in a .deb package, but not in the repositories of '''Ubuntu'''.  Installing from a `.deb` file can be accomplished several ways in '''Ubuntu GNOME'''.

===== Via GUI =====
* Double click on the `.deb` file. '''Ubuntu Software Center''' will handle the installation for you.

===== Via Terminal =====
To install a single `.deb` package, run the following command:

* <code>sudo dpkg -i package-name-here.deb</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man1/dpkg.1.html | dpkg man-pages]]</nowiki>
OR

* <code>sudo dpkg --install package-name-here.deb</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man1/dpkg.1.html | dpkg man-pages]]</nowiki>
----
To install several `.deb` packages from the same directory run the following command:

* <code>sudo dpkg -i -R /path/to/dir/name/with/lots/of/dot-deb-files/</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man1/dpkg.1.html | dpkg man-pages]]</nowiki>

OR

* <code>sudo dpkg -i --recursive /path/to/dir/name/with/lots/of/dot-deb-files/</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man1/dpkg.1.html | dpkg man-pages]]</nowiki>

==== Install Java ====
Installing Java (JRE and JDK) is one of the first things that many developers will want to do.  While OpenJDK works 99% of the time, some may want true Oracle Java.
===== Install Oracle Java =====
The easiest way to install the latest version of Oracle Java on your machine is by using the '''Web Upd8''' personal package archive (PPA).

Open '''Terminal''' and run the following commands:

* <code>sudo add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man1/add-apt-repository.1.html | add-apt-repository man-pages]]</nowiki>

* <code>sudo apt-get update</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man8/apt-get.8.html | apt-get man-pages]]</nowiki>

* <code>sudo apt-get install oracle-java7-installer</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man8/apt-get.8.html | apt-get man-pages]]</nowiki>

===== Install OpenJRE and OpenJDK =====
'''OpenJRE''' or '''OpenJDK''' can be installed via '''Ubuntu Software Center''' or '''Terminal'''.

Open '''Terminal''' and run the following command to install OpenJRE:

* <code>sudo apt-get install openjdk-7-jre</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man8/apt-get.8.html | apt-get man-pages]]</nowiki>

Open '''Terminal''' and run the following command to install OpenJDK:

* <code>sudo apt-get install openjdk-7-jdk</code>
** <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/saucy/en/man8/apt-get.8.html | apt-get man-pages]]</nowiki>

== Ubuntu GNOME Advanced HOWTO ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 95%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #b9defa; font-size: 0.90em;" :> <<BR>> For more Ubuntu GNOME Advanced HOWTOs, please check '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/HowTo/AdvancedHowTo | Advanced HOWTO]]</nowiki>''' Page.
|}
<<BR>>

== Feedback ==
If you couldn't find what you were looking for on this section and/or you would like to help our team and/or add your own HOWTO, please '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Contact Us]]</nowiki>''' and we will be very glad to listen to/read your feedback :)
