{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

mattgriffin:
* think about the goal of the campaign at  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Campaigns/5StepPrograms#Goal]]</nowiki>
* then document how you would answer the questions at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/Design#Briefs]]</nowiki>
* this will give a great foundation to come up with advertisement ideas
* if it's okay with you, let's chat about this sometime later :) so we can get through ideas for campaign 1 and now have a crazy long meeting
* I can help you move through the questions to write the brief

=== Step 1. Find programs to your liking ===

The default web browser in Ubuntu is Mozilla Firefox.
The current latest version is 4.0
While on other platforms you have to wait for the stable release,
Ubuntu Linux often offers alpha and beta versions available.

If you would like to have another browser than the default, it has to be installed.
For example Chromium is available
* Open Ubuntu Software Center
* Search for '''browser'''

You will find a list of browser related applications and/or plugins.

=== Step 2. Installation ===

To Install Chromium, do the following:

* Select '''Chromium Web Browser'''
* Select '''more info'''
* Toggle plugins to your liking
* Press '''Install'''

Now it will ask for your administration password,
This often is the same as your current users password.
If this is not the case, ask the person who installed Ubuntu for you.

=== Step 3. Configuration ===

The default installation of Chromium
may not totally be to your liking.
Chromium offers
* the possibility of plugins
* synchronization with Google 
* and speeding up browsing by pre-fetching pages related to the one you already opened.

To install plugins, browse to: https://chrome.google.com/webstore
Here you will find '''Chrome Extensions''' 
that are often just as well suitable for Chromium.

To synchronize your data with Google as a form of web-backup;
Open the chromium tool, select preferences, and select the tab '''personal stuff'''.
Here you can select to start syncing with Google.

To speed up browsing, you also open the chromium tool,
Open the basics tab and toggle '''Enable Instant for faster searching and browsing'''

=== Step 4. Converting Firefox to Chromium ===

To convert Firefox data to Chromium, 
Open the Chromium tool, select preferences, and select the tab '''personal stuff'''.
Press the button '''Import data from another browser'''.

=== Step 5. Working with Chromium ===

Working with a browser is essential today.
The address bar in Chromium is also used for searching.
just type what you are looking for and it is opened with your favorite search engine.
To browse for extensions is recommended, as they can improve your online experience.
