{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - Collecting Ubuntu News from around the community and around the world to bring readers a weekly dose of Ubuntu articles.

=== Contribute ===

'''We're looking for new contributors, more details <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/call-for-contributors-to-the-ubuntu-weekly-newsletter/1539|here]]</nowiki>.'''

<nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-Join|Join]]</nowiki> the Ubuntu Weekly News Team today!

=== Current Issue ===

You can find recent issues of Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/uwn/124  but please note the newest issue on that page is likely the unpublished 'Work in Progress' issue, which can be see there too.

=== Subscribe ===

Get your copy of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter delivered each week to you via email at: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-news

Or follow us via our various social media presences:

* https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter
* https://twitter.com/Ubuntu_News
 
=== Archive ===

For recent issues of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter (Issue 786 & later) please visit: https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/uwn/124 and older issues (809 and earlier) available at: <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-Archive]]</nowiki>

=== Next Issue (work in progress) ===

Working documents used for the next issue are:

* Discourse doc for adding links (see <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-LinkSuggestions|Link Suggestions]]</nowiki>) and summaries (please follow the <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-StyleGuidelines|Style Guidelines]]</nowiki>)
https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/uwn/124

Please add new articles to the Discourse Doc, we will review them all and sort them before publishing. Please let us know if you have any questions about the in-progress issue of UWN.

=== Translations ===

Rather than translating summaries for English articles, we now suggest you work with a team in your local language to find articles and release your own newsletter.
