{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu Youth Council - Introduction ==

=== About Us ===
We are the group of people that maintain the Ubuntu Youth Team. We are a small group currently only consisting of about six members. The council also has the job of maintaining any other outreaches we may have (Forums, Launchpad, Facebook, Twitter, Identi.ca etc.).

==== Council Objectives ====
The main objectives of the Ubuntu Youth Council are:

* To maintain order within the Ubuntu Youth Team (This includes; forums, IRC channel(s), LaunchPad etc.)
* Guide new members into the team
* Monitor progress reports coming in from team project leaders

==== Contacting the council ====
In the event you need to get in contact with the council please feel free to join #ubuntu-youth-council (on freenode). Please /part the channel after your issue is dealt with, we do not allow idlers as the channel is for mediation purposes only. 

=== Current Council Members ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:90%;background:#F4F3F1" style="background:#592441;color:#FFFFFF;"30%>'''Council Members'''
| <style="background:#592441;color:#FFFFFF;">'''Mentees'''
|-
| <-2:> GMT -2 to GMT +2
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> (Phill)
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors | Mentees]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
|-
| <-2:> GMT -3 to GMT -7
|-
| {*} <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki> (Zach Kriesse)
| 
|-
| {*} <nowiki>[[AndrewMC]]</nowiki> (Andrew Constantine)
| 
|-
| <-2:> GMT -8 to GMT -12
|-
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
|-
| <-2:> GMT +3 to GMT +7
|-
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
|-
| <-2:> GMT +8 to GMT +12
|-
| {*} <nowiki>[[RyanMacnish]]</nowiki> (Ryan Macnish)
| 
|-
| 
| 
|-
| <-2:> Unspecified
|-
| 
| 
|-
| {*} <nowiki>[[serfus]]</nowiki> (Aviv Sapire)
| 
|-
| <-2:> GMT +1 to GMT +8
|}

==== Joining the Council ====
Generally if we are in need of more council members we will actively recruit for the role. You must demonstrate interest in the team and in helping others, be a good problem solver, and have signed the Ubuntu Code of Conduct in order to be considered.

=== Channel Ops ===
This Table lists all the team members who have operator rights in #ubuntu-youth.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:90%;background:#F4F3F1" style="background:#592441;color:#FFFFFF;"30%>'''Channel Ops'''
| <style="background:#592441;color:#FFFFFF;">'''Mentors'''
|-
| <-2:> GMT -2 to GMT +2
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> (Phill)
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors | Mentees]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
|-
| <-2:> GMT -3 to GMT -7
|-
| {*} <nowiki>[[zkriesse]]</nowiki> (Zach Kriesse)
| 
|-
| {*} <nowiki>[[AndrewMC]]</nowiki> (Andrew Constantine)
| 
|-
| {*} <nowiki>[[serfus]]</nowiki> (Aviv Sapire)
| 
|-
| <-2:> GMT -8 to GMT -12
|-
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
|-
| <-2:> GMT +3 to GMT +7
|-
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
|-
| <-2:> GMT +8 to GMT +12
|-
| {*} <nowiki>[[RyanMacnish]]</nowiki> (Ryan Macnish)
| 
|-
| <-2:> Unspecified
|-
| 
| 
|-
| <-2:> GMT +1 to GMT +8
|}
