{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings|Ubuntu Studio Meetings Schedule]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings-Minutes|Old Meeting Logs]]</nowiki>
|}

'''What:'''  Ubuntu Studio Contributors Meeting

'''When:'''  Sunday, 2011 November 6th - 17:00 UTC <<BR>>
'''To view the meeting date/time in your time zone, '''<nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Ubuntu+Studio+Contributor+Meeting&iso=20111106T17|click here]]</nowiki>.

'''Where:'''  irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-meeting

== Agenda for Meeting ==

If you wish to discuss anything not in this agenda, please wait until Any Other Business is called for.

* Call Meeting to Order
* Old Business
** Oneiric released
** current website updated and noted that oneiric isn't recommended
** email went to mailing list saying same thing
** new website is being developed
** scott went to UDS and learned lots of good stuff
* new process for ubuntu studio development this cycle
** working with release team properly this cycle
** scott will explain more
* release planning for Precise
** please look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/ReleasePlanning
** as a group we need to evaluate what is currently shown for precise and agree which tasks should (and CAN) be done
** is this too much to do this cycle?  not enough?  should something change?
** one a lists of tasks for precise is set scott will register them with release team
* updating seeds based on work flow
** we need to make decision now on which work flows we will support during installation
** scott needs to get this information in a block-chart to cjwatson ASAP
** do we have a use case for 'light-install' ?
* meeting schedule
** how often?
** on alternate meetings should we adjust time?
** can we use "informal" meetings too?
** alternate "informal" and "formal" meetings?
* Any Other Business (all/anyone)
* Next Meeting Time/Location
* Next Meeting Chair - ScottL will be chair

== action items and logs ==
* Scott document devel process in the wiki
* Scott email list regarding work flows
* Jon email list for separate meeting for work flows discussion
* Move to bi-weekly formal and informal meetings alternating
* Decide alternating meeting times on channel/mailing list later
* stochastic to email list about how much social interaction in new website
* ScottL to be next meeting chair

http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-11-06-17.00.moin.txt
