{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== gHCT ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by MarkShuttleworth
* Priority: MediumPriority
* People: JamesHenstridgeLead, ScottJamesRemnantSecond
* Contributors: MarkShuttleworth
* Interested:
* Status: BrainDump, UduBof, NewSpec
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

This specification captures ideas around having a GUI interface to HCT. An ideal development environment for that would likely be Python-GTK given the Python heritage of HCT.

=== Rationale ===

Many of the "meta-versioning" aspects of HCT could be represented best visually.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

=== Implementation Plan ===

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

* Package creation/maintenance is primarily command line driven.  What tasks could benefit from a GUI interface?  Possibilities include:
*** rebasing a package on a new upstream version -- fixing merge conflicts, throwing out patches.
*** pulling patches from another distro
*** visualising the branch structure for a package
*** setting up HCT for work on a new package?
* What model would be most convenient for invoking such a graphical tool?
*** normal application model: start from applications menu.  Perform multiple tasks.
*** bitkeeper model: invoke gui from command line. "Just another HCT command".  GUI is used to perform single task, then exit.
* Is there any areas where Nautilus integration would make sense?  The extension API currently supports:
*** file/directory property pages
*** context menu items
*** adding emblems to files
*** provide new columns in the list view

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
