{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}
<<BR>>

== Ubuntu Translation ==
General information about Translation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations

== Ubuntu GNOME Translation ==
Starting from Vivid Vervet (15.04), and as a response to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-gnome/2014-October/002345.html | this call for help]]</nowiki> to translate Ubuntu GNOME Utopic Unicorn (14.10) <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME | Release Notes]]</nowiki>, Ubuntu GNOME Translations Team has officially started its activities and that is clearly visible on, not just the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME | Release Notes of 14.10]]</nowiki> but also on Ubuntu GNOME <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/OneStopPage | Wiki Area]]</nowiki>. These highly appreciated contributions were promising enough for Ubuntu GNOME Team to decide moving forward and finish the full setup of Ubuntu GNOME Translations as another <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/SubTeams | Sub-Team]]</nowiki>. 

== Translations Activities ==
# Ubuntu GNOME Release Notes - very important.
# Ubuntu GNOME Wiki Pages - nice to have.
# Marketing Stuff - very important and needed.

== HOWTO Join ==
If wish to help Ubuntu GNOME in this area (Translation), please add your name on this table:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''Language(s)'''
| '''About you'''
|-
| Jānis-Marks Gailis
| Latvian and French
| N/A
|-
| Alfredo Hernández
| Spanish, Catalan and English (UK)
| Experienced in software localisation
|-
| João Santana
| Brazilian Portuguese and English (US)
| Translations contributor
|-
| Juliano Fischer Naves
| Brazilian Portuguese and English (US)
| Translations/docs contributor
|-
| Phillip Sz
| German
| ubuntu german translations team leader
|-
| ST Alfas
| Malayalam
| Translations contributor
|-
| Efstathios Iosifidis
| Greek
| GNOME/openSUSE Greek coordinator, translator for other projects
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/eliasps|Elias Psallidas]]</nowiki>
| Greek (native), English
| Ubuntu Greek Translator
|-
| Alexander V. Strand
| Norwegian bokmål
| Translations contributor
|-
| Linuxsusefan
| German (nativ), English
| Translations contributor
|-
| Son Truong
| Vietnamese
| Translations contributor
|}

=== We Need ===
* Contributors.

=== Launchpad ===
There is no Launchpad Team for Ubuntu GNOME Translation. However, interested contributors need to join <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntugnome-comms | Ubuntu GNOME Marketing & Communications]]</nowiki> Team.

== Extra Help ==
Please see '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/DocumentationTeam#How_to_help | this page]]</nowiki>'''.

== Feedback or Questions ==
Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Contact Us]]</nowiki> page for more information. 
