{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu Tour Project aims to provide an interactive tour for users who are new to Ubuntu.

== Planned Topics ==

This is the current list of topics to be included in the tour:

* An Introduction to Ubuntu and the desktop environment
* Connecting to a network
* Launching a browser and visiting a webpage
* Opening a media player, importing media and playing a song, using the media player for music organization
* Setting the user up with Ubuntu One
* Letting the user add an account through Gwibber/Empathy
* Setting up an e-mail account using the default e-mail client (Evolution)
* Installing and updating software (via ubuntu software center, adding a ppa and deb package)
* Letting the user make their first document in OpenOffice
* Customizing the desktop (themes, fonts, wallpapers,etc)
* Showing the user how to get help (Launchpad, Wiki, ubuntuforums, UMP, etc.)
* Addressing driver issues
* Using the file manager
* Managing settings (appearance, keyboard,login screen and etc.)
* Testing Ubuntu (Run system testing application to check if everything runs ok)

== How to Volunteer and Contribute ==
The group currently needs volunteers who can help out with content, code, quality assurance, and translations.

* Authors - Authors determine and write the content for the guide.
* Designers - First impressions can be everything. The designers ensure the tour is appealing.
* Editors - Editors double-check the work of the authors for mistakes or unclear material. This is a good position for casual contributors.
* Programmers - The programmers write the code behind the tour. We do not yet have code in place, but Python and GTK will likely be good skills to have.
* Translators - As soon as we can get a working tour, we'll need translators to bring our project to as many languages as possible.

'''How to start contributing:'''
1. '''Join the team at launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tour and sign up for the mailing list. 
2. '''Take a look at the list of tasks that need doing:''' Take a look at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTour/Todo|the To-Do list on the wiki]]</nowiki> and see what you're interested in doing.
3. '''Sign up for the Volunteers List:''' Sign up on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTour/Volunteers|Volunteers List]]</nowiki> and let us know what you're interested in helping with, and what you can do.
4. '''Start contributing!'''  The project <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-tour|repository]]</nowiki> is hosted at Launchpad. To contribute, you will need to clone the project's development branch and make your edits locally. Once done, you can then push your contributions back to that branch, '''lp:ubuntu-tour'''. For more details, please see http://ubuntutour.org/contribute/branch/

== Contact ==
* View the team's <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tour|Launchpad page]]</nowiki>
* Join us on '''#ubuntu-tour''' on irc.freenode.net
* Sign up to the team's mailing list for announcements: ubuntu-tour@lists.launchpad.net  
For more information on the project, please visit the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntutour.org|Ubuntu Tour website]]</nowiki>.
