{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Get information from the product management about the new appliance:
** How the new appliance image should be called (usually in the format `<snap-name>-core18-<platform>`)
** What arches should it be provided for (currently we support amd64, pi arm64, pi armhf)
** What snaps are required for it to run - usually it's just the appliance snap, but sometimes there are additional ones needed
** Are there any other specifics to this appliance? Custom channel, track to be used?
* Create the new appliance model assertion JSON files, one per each supported arch/platform. Please consult existing model JSON files for reference on how the fields should look like. There is an <nowiki>[[https://github.com/snapcore/models/tree/appliances|appliances]]</nowiki> branch on the snapcore/models git repository with all the appliance models so far.
** When creating an appliance JSON file remember to bump the timestamp at the bottom to the current date
* Do a test build of the appliances to make sure no error sneaked in. This can be done by substituting the brand-id and authority-id's from `ubuntu` to your private ones and signing the assertions locally, then using `ubuntu-image snap` as usual.
* Commit the new JSON file to the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/snapcore/models/tree/appliances|appliances]]</nowiki> branch on the snapcore/models github repository.
* Create an RT for IS to sign the model assertion with the ubuntu key, attaching the relevant .json files to the RT.
** Example request - RT: 127600.
* Once the model assertion is signed, send it the signed model files to snap-store-admins@lists.canonical.com for upload to the Snap Store.
* Build the new images by logging into ancientminister, switching to the cdimage user and starting the build of the required appliance image as usual.
** The `ARCHES` combination is `<BUILD_ARCH>+appliance-<MODEL_NAME>`. Basically livecd-rootfs then just builds an ubuntu-core image using the `<MODEL_NAME>` appliance from the store (under the ubuntu brand). No tinkering needed.
** Example: `DIST=bionic CHANNEL=stable PROPOSED=0 ARCHES="amd64+appliance-rocketchat-core18-amd64 arm64+appliance-rocketchat-core18-pi" for-project ubuntu-appliance cron.daily-live --live`
* For future rebuilds, add the new appliances to `etc/default-arches` in lp:ubuntu-cdimage (under the `ubuntu-appliance` project)
* Once the image build finishes, give the link to the new builds to the CertificationTeam (contact: Chris or Paul)
