{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Below are notes by Troy about the setup of the svn server being used (temporarily) to host the UbuntuInstantServer development Source.

Recommended changes for Instant Server:
* Update package to:
** create user automatically (svn-data)?
** create a repository directory automatically (/var/svn-repositories)?
** include /etc/rc?.d scripts for start/stop, etc.

* Configuration System:
** allow user to select a path to use as initial import - this path could include arbitrary locations from a network, disk, other repos, etc.
** allow a user to select access and auth permissions, and manage svn usernames/passwords
----
To install svn as a server, I had to do the following:
<pre>
$sudo apt-get install subversion
$sudo adduser
</pre>
add a user specifically for svn serving, serving from root is bad, and the deb package did not 
install a user -- called the user 'ubuntu-server', then changed to this user

This created a directory /home/ubuntu-server/
I created a dedicated folder for the svn repository
<pre>
$mkdir /home/ubuntu-server/svn-repo/
</pre>
In retrospect, this would be better served from a folder such as /var/svn-repositories/ or somesuch
and the user created to host should not get a /home/ folder.  The above is a shortcoming of the existing subversion packages that should be dealt with automatically.

I had to issue to following commands to set up the repository:
<pre>
$ svnadmin create /home/ubuntu-server/svn-repo

$ mkdir /tmp/svn/
$ touch /tmp/svn/dummy_file

$ svn import /tmp/svn file:////home/ubuntu-server/svn-repo -m "initial import"
</pre>
I then had to edit /home/ubuntu-server/svn-repo/passwd to reflect as follows:
<pre>
[users]
ubuntu-server = [password removed]
</pre>
and had to edit /home/ubuntu-server/svn-repo/svnserve.conf as follows:
<pre>
[general]
anon-access = read
auth-access = write
password-db = passwd
realm = Ubuntu-server
</pre>
And lastly, 
<pre>
$ svnserve -d -r /home/ubuntu-server/svn-repo/ 
</pre>
starts the server and sends it into the background
