{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Seeds and Automated Package sets ==

This wiki page describes how to get exceptions added to current automated Seed <-> Package Sets creation for the current development Ubuntu release. This process should usually be done by an Ubuntu Core Developer and part of the Developer Membership Board.

First you should clone:

https://git.launchpad.net/~developer-membership-board/+git/packageset

And then you can add exceptions to the "exceptions" file and commit (or provide a merge request to be approved and merged).

If you would like, you can also run the changes manually to check if they will work. The process is described in the "README" file:

<pre>

 make [all|fetch|germinate|report|changes|push|clean|lightclean|cleanlogs]

 $ make all: will germinate and generate report and changes file, needs fetch.

 $ make fetch: will fetch Ubuntu mirrors.

 $ make changes (runs at the end of all also): shows changes about to be pushed.

 $ make push: commit changes to pkgsets.

 $ make clean: cleans =).

 $ make lightclean:
  - keeps fetch and germinate files so report + changes + push can run again.<<BR>>
  - why ? you may add exceptions and re-run those if you need.

 $ make cleanlogs: it's always good to keep them for debugging. 

</pre>

and Makefile based. Idea is that you can generate a changes file and you can check if the exception added worked. If you have proper rights, you can commit changes by yourself OR, if you prefer, you can commit changes and wait for the weekly cron job to commit the seed <-> pkgset changes automatically.
