{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings|Ubuntu Studio Meetings Schedule]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Meetings-Minutes|Old Meeting Logs]]</nowiki>
|}
<<BR>><<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #ffffcc; font-weight: bold;"> The meeting has already occurred.  Please do *NOT* edit agenda.  You can find the 2010May16th Meeting logs at <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/05/16/%23ubuntustudio-devel.txt|the Ubuntu IRC Logs.]]</nowiki>
|}

==== Agenda ====

* Begin Meeting
** Call to order in #ubuntustudio-devel at <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=5&day=16&year=2010&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|7pm (19:00) UTC May 16 2010]]</nowiki>
** Note attendees
* Agenda amendments

* LV2 Packaging:
** continue LV2 packaging plan - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TaskLV2Inclusion
** might focus on getting these into Debian first
** quadrispro has already commented he wanted to do the vocoder, perhaps he can help with others
** any others with packaging experience and want to help?
** can Debian Multimedia Team also help?

* JACK2 / Pulse Audio Integration:
** this is looking good already because JACK2 is in Debian already (per TheMuso on IRC)
** TheMuso is apparently tracking this
** crimsun, TheMuso, and persia have talked on IRC about how to proceed and might discuss this at UDS with Free

* Network Manager
** user's troubles was a bug in gnome-network-admin that left options not shown or changeable
** Ricardo (rlameiro) reported it:  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-system-tools/+bug/570828
** how soon can a fix be expected for users?
** Is it possible to do a ISO re-spin, if the bug is corrected?
*** however, we still might consider testing NetworkManager again
*** whatever the decision going forward, we should document it and post to the -user mailing list

* Ubuntu Studio Controls Update and Redesign
** update ubuntustudio-controls for rtpri and memlock settings
*** JACK now handles rtpri and memlock in /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf
*** see http://linuxaudio.org/mailarchive/lau/2010/3/5/166428 for background
** Ricardo (rlameiro) is proposing a redesign of ubuntustudio-controls
*** see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/ControlsRedesign
*** rtirq script for avoid irq conflicts (especially for firewire)
*** enable Ubuntu Studio PPA for -rt kernels and "backported" applications
*** install -lowlatency/-preempt/-rt kernel from PPA
*** install ubuntu-restricted-extras
*** user in audio group (perhaps check box to add and remove)
*** remove nice setting? see: http://www.pubbs.net/201003/linuxaudio/10007-re-lau-changing-for-editing-etcsecuritylimitsconf-in-debiantesting-ubuntu-lucid.html
*** is there anything else someone probably does routinely to a Ubuntu Studio install that we could incorporate?

* Ubuntu Studio Applications Backporting
** discussion between John Dong and myself after Jussi poked me:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-studio-devel/2010-May/002364.html
** John suggested using "official" Ubuntu Studio backporting PPA because:
*** it's like kubuntu
*** it allows us to maintain control
*** it doesn't overload the already overworked backports team
*** provides proving grounds that backported apps have quality
*** then can be included in official Ubuntu backports repository
** if we don't want to use Ubuntu Studio backports PPA then we need small group to test and provide vocal feedback in backport bugs

* Update Website
** good summary of previous discussion at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Sandbox#Notes%20from%20IRC%20Logs
** a good direction appears to be using Word Press
** detrate is really engaged with this task, we should focus on supporting him
** you can find the available information at UbuntuStudio/TaskWebRevamp

* Reduce Delta Between Ubuntu Studio and Debian
** information about this can be found at: http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/ubuntustudio.html
** push patches back to Debian Multimedia where applicable for the local changes
*** this would reduce work for Ubuntu Studio team because hopefully the packages will autosync in future releases
*** see:  http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/ubuntustudio.html#sameversionbutlocalinB
*** see:  http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/ubuntustudio.html#outdatedandlocalinB
** this will also hopefully increase and improve our relationship with the Debian Multimedia Team (note: quadrispro is a member)

* Testing Procedures
** in order to help (and encourage) our users to test we should develop testing procedures
** since stochastic is lead of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-testers|ubuntustudio-testers group]]</nowiki> can he help develop procedures
** ScottL offers to assist develop the procedures and document it on help.ubuntu.com

* Ubuntu Studio Documentation
** establish uses for help.ubuntu.com vs. wiki.ubuntu.com
** suggested direction:
*** help.ubuntu.com is community facing documentation
*** wiki.ubuntu.com is for developers and contributors to organize for release
** document this decision and email users

==== Minutes ====
* Begin Meeting - Attendance:  ScottL, rlameiro, astraljava, crimsun, andyzweb, guitarman

* Agenda Amendments: none

* LV2 Packaging
** quadrispro is heading up the lv2 packaging but wasn't at the meeting
** but had previously mentioned that he had at least one other person helping
** zynjacku/lv2rack is already in debian new

* JACK2/Pulse Audio Integration
** before the meeting, TheMuso had mentioned that JACK2 is already in Debian and hopes to have it working for Maverick
** crimsun said in Lucid Pulse Audio relies on udev for @audio permissions, therefore users should *NOT* be added to the @audio if Pulse is used
** cirumsun also mentions that Connor Curran may have resources this cycle to investigate one-click enablement of JACK from indicator-sound
** according to crimsun, the user doesn't need to be in @audio because the active user has the "active seat" and therefore access to @audio
** also, plug-in devices like USB and firewire should have transparent usage if correct permissions are assigned in the udev rule

* Network Manager Bug
** gnome-network-admin had a patch applied to it that disables the interface since network-manager is being used on vanilla Ubuntu desktop
** it was noted that there was a bug report filed for gnome-network-admin to remove the patch
** crimsun discussed that we definitely want to get the fixed package into lucid-proposed
** rlameiro and ScottL talked about testing network-manager, but nothing definitive was concluded

* Ubuntu Studio Controls Update and Redesign
** ubuntu-studio-controls needs an update to moderate /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf instead of /etc/security/limits.conf
** rlameiro has some redesign ideas but wants to wait until other items are decided
** ScottL says that we should still update ubuntustudio-controls for the audio.conf vs limits.conf
** the "nice" setting was questions and crimsun thinks that renicing will not provide benefit
** ScottL questioned if there is any other setting or application installation that is routinely done by users that could be included, but no significant suggestions were made
** astraljava suggested including only things that did not have a relatively easy GUI
** rlameiro asked about including a Perl script found on http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Pro_Audio that helps tune audio systems

* Ubuntu Studio Applications Backporting
** ScottL asked for thoughts on including an "official" Ubuntu Studio backports PPA which would include backports for users before (and if) they go into the official Ubuntu -backports repository
** astraljava showed interest in working with backports, and even integrating into the Ubuntu -backports team
** ScottL also demonstrated interest in working with backports
** crimsun adviced partitioning the backports into at least "stable" and "development", noting anything in "stable" should be in Debian as well

* Website Update
** detrate is working on it, but was unavailable for the meeting
** however, detrate has someone working with him to help development
** it appears that at this time the website update is progressing in WordPress
** guitarman mentioned he believes that most new people coming to Ubuntu Studio are doing so through the website
** as such, guitarman suggested that a 'Help' tab and 'Developer' tab on the new website to clearly direct new persons appropriately

* Reduce Delta Between Ubuntu Studio and Debian
** ScottL noted that it is to the Ubuntu Studio developers benefit to reduce the delta between Debian and Ubuntu Studio applications
** this benefit mainly includes less manual maintenance for Ubuntu Studio developers
** existing local (Ubuntu) changes should be reviewed and if found still necessary then try to push those back "upstream" to Debian if applicable (some will not be applicable)
** astraljava offered to start tracking this, mentioning that he has talked to quadrispro about working closer with Debian Multimedia

* Testing Procedures
** stochastic is team leader for the ubuntustudio-testers team but was unavailable for the meeting
** ScottL suggested a small team of those interested get together and develop guidelines for testing and noted that we have nothing right now therefore anything would be better
** rlameiro and astraljava showed interest in developing procedures
** rlameiro also committed to getting in touch with stochastic
** ScottL has numerous wiki pages bookmarked and will send them to rlameiro and astraljava

* Ubuntu Studio Documentation
** the general consensus was that help.ubuntu.com should be to document how to *use* Ubuntu Studio
** and wiki.ubuntu.com should be to document how Ubuntu Studio is *created*
** guitarman suggested that help.ubuntu.com could be funneled into the ubuntustudio.org website
