{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu%20Kylin/1410-alpha-1-ReleaseNote| English]]</nowiki>

== Ubuntu Kylin 介绍 ==
Ubuntu Kylin是Ubuntu官方衍生版本，目标是创建更适合中文用户的Linux发行系统。我们努力为用户提供高品质的用户体验。从Ubunt uKylin 13.04开始，已成为Ubuntu官方认可的正式成员。目前，我们正在开发14.10版本。

== 发布通告 ==

Ubuntu Kylin开发团队很高兴宣布我们即将发布14.10 Alpha 1版本。在此次版本中，Linux内核升级到3.15，我们升级了搜狗输入法、金山快盘、软件中心等特色应用并累计修复了50多个Bug。目前，我们还有部分有趣的新特性正在紧张开发中。
* 搜狗输入法：发布了V1.0.0.0033版本，修复多个系统崩溃问题，并优化部分功能。
* 金山快盘：发布了V2.0版本，增加对Ubuntu One用户的快速迁移支持。
* 软件中心：发布了V0.3tia本，增加了后台服务器，并优化了UI操作体验。
* 中国天气：发布了V2.1版本，增加了天气服务器，修复了预报不准、PM2.5异常等重要Bug。

'''注意：'''此次为Alpha预览版，并不适合普通用户，而是欢迎Ubuntu Kylin开发者和乐意参与测试的用户进行试用。

== 支持 ==
* 邮件列表: ubuntukylin-members@lists.launchpad.net
* IRC频道: #ubuntukylin-devel
* 官方网站: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* QQ群: 306929327

== 下载 ==
你可以在<nowiki>[[ http:--cdimage.ubuntu.com-ubuntukylin-releases-utopic-alpha-1-| 这里]]</nowiki>下载到发布版的ISO。

== 已知的问题 ==
* In System Setting, the 'Appearance' do not show the picture of the photo directory(bug #1330398);
* Failed to boot from USB disk with error: gfxboot.c32: not a COM32R Image boot:(bug #1325801);
* In live session, ubuntu help is display correctly, after installed ubuntu help wasn't installed(bug #1308889);
* In About this computer, the version number still show Ubuntu Kylin 14.04(bug #1323211);
* In virtual machine, using youker assistant do not check part of hardware message(bug #1330389);
* In youker assistant, the system message show the computer version is 00, it is wrong(bug #1334253);
* The first time to start the Ubuntu Kylin software center that need to update software source, if do not input password, display the animation always, and only quit on launcher (bug #1330859).

== 感谢 ==
感谢所有参与14.10 Alpha 1 版开发的：UbuntuKylin开发者，测试人员，美工和用户体验设计者，社区工作者，QQ群和IRC参与者，论坛参与者…
Ubuntu Kylin 14.10 发布版的成功将是大家团队协作的结果！

欢迎大家参与贡献Ubuntu Kylin，如何参与请看<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide| 这里]]</nowiki>。
