{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== GrumpyMergingBugfixes ==

=== Status ===

* Created:  by MartinPool
* Priority: LowPriority
* People: MartinPoolLead, NeedsSecond
* Contributors: MartinPool
* Interested:
* Status: BrainDump, UduBof, LaunchpadSpecification, NewSpec
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

It might be fun to try to automatically merge bugfixes into grumpy, even considering merges from different distributions.

There are O(bignum(factorial or combinatorial)) ways to combine the patches, many of which are not useful.

This seems to depend on having some way to identify which patches actually fix bugs.  This feature is probably crazy.

This might be compared to the WorkingOverloadedLinuxKernel, which tries to merge the maximum number of patches resulting in a kernel that still compiles and boots (?).  

Perhaps rather than trying to do this entirely automatically it would be good to put a human in the loop?

--RobertCollins - if we know (for instance) that patch 'fix-bugfoo' in the RedHat kernel has been updated, we could merge that update - the latest along the branch. I agree that there is a large Crack-Value in this though.

=== Rationale ===

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

=== Implementation Plan ===

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

==== UDU Pre-Work ====
