{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

NOT PROOFREAD IN ANY WAY

Talk at [UbuntuBelowZero/LoveDay Ubuntu Love Day]

Matt and Colin, Breezy

Who's running Breezy?  Everyone puts up their hand except Jeff Waugh who says "I'm running dapper".

Gnome 2.12.1.  Menu's are editable.  Round of applause.

Graphical boot splash thanks to Matt Garrett.

Slick integration with launchpad through the Help menus to report bugs.  Improved language packs that are actually updated from Rosetta.

On the server playform we updated to the latest stable releases of some popular programs such as LVM and PHP.  LVM support in the installer, thanks to fabio. Support for thin clients with the LTSP.  Linux 2.6.12 (not 2.12.6 as the slides say).  Suspend to ram and resume is enabled out of the box on many more laptops, and the ones where it isn't enabled out the box it won't crash your laptop.

Colin has led the improvement of the installer modes.  OEM mode lets you clone the install so you can set it up on 1000 PCs.  One button resizing for dual boot, nicer for moving from Windows.  Progress bar on second stage, much less scary scrolling text.

X.org has been broken up into smaller chunks to make it easier to load new revisions of that without having to do the whole thing. Means security updates won't be the same big download.  Newest Python.  And the badger dance.  Mushroom mushroom mushroom, badger!

Happy birthday Jeff Bailey.  Round of applause.  He's done the glibc and init improvement for breezy.

Russ Nelson: has any thought been given to putting an HTML face on the documentation.  One of the tricks with HTML is that it's difficult to translate on the local filesystem, docbook has a lot of those abilities so that's why we had a conversion to HTML then mass conversion back when we realised we had shot ourselves in the foot for the translations.  

Russ Nelson: so, what's the relationship between debian and ubuntu.  Some nerviousness.  Mark gets up, he knew ubuntu would be controvertial because it's hard to do anything in Debian and not be controvertial.  The interesting thing we do is narrow the focus.  So Debian has 14 architectures, which is why Debian has taken off in all these architectures.  From a packaging point of view we don't have the ability to package as much as Debian, so one question he gets a lot of what if Ubuntu was so successful there's no need for Debian the answer is it wouldn't work since Debian is the packaging source.  We've tried very hard to make it easy for Debian to take back our changes.  Hopefully with HCT, points to Scott, it'll be easier to see the changes

Does Debian as a whole appreciate ubuntu or dislike it?  That's still split but it's less of an issue than it used to be.

Matt says that so much of what makes Ubuntu a success comes from Debian.  And goes back says Mark.  It makes a lot more sense to see them as collaborative than in competition.  Changes from one will in many cases make it into the other.  Mark is really pleased with the utnubu project since that helps to get things back.  
