{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Full Circle Podcast #8: More Opinion Than You Can Handle'''

=== Download ===

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/745/0/fullcirclepodcast_ep8_090610.mp3|MP3]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/745/1/fullcirclepodcast_ep8_090610.ogg|OGG]]</nowiki>

=== Your Hosts ===

* Robin Catling
* Ed Hewitt
* Dave Wilkins 

=== Show Notes ===

File Sizes:
OGG 34.4Mb
mp3 34.5Mb

Runtime: 1hr 22mins 10seconds

==== Welcome & Intro ====

01.46

==== Since Last Time ====

02.22

Ed: Got distracted by Red Dead Redemption by Rockstar Games on Xbox 360 for the Side-Pod Review.

Dave: Played with the Nexus One smart-phone for this episode’s review.

Robin: We recorded and released a ‘Side-Pod’; sorry to the early birds who found the feed botched – my goof, now corrected. [RC]

Revamped the blog using some newer features.

Picked over the whole Google-TV hype

Failed to install FreeBSD

==== Review of Issue 37 ====

04.10

* Opinion – Helping NEw Users by Gord Campbell.
* Review – Lubuntu 10.04 by Dan and Robin.
* How-to – Media streaming by Phil Kramer.

==== News ====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/ubuntu-1010-application-menu-available.html|Application Menu now in testing]]</nowiki>    
* <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/help-test-ubuntu-1010s-proposed-network.html|New Network Applet in testing]]</nowiki>    
* <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/history-comes-to-maverick-software.html|History added to Software Centre]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/history-comes-to-maverick-software.html|Faster and colourful Calculator!]]</nowiki>
* Plans for Maverick, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue195|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter]]</nowiki>
* BTRFS is candidate file-system for Maverick
* Breaking news: Maverick Alpha 1 Released

==== Opinion ====

18.19

Lubuntu

Do we need another ‘Buntu distribution?

Harking back to the “How Many Distro’s is Too Many” question <nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-18/|(published in FCM Issue #18!)]]</nowiki>

==== Contribute ====

24.56

Because Victoria asks so nicely…

==== Interview ====

25.30

Lubuntu Team interview

In Part One, Mario Behling and Hong Phuc Dong introduce the Lubuntu Project

==== Opinion ====

38.00

Ubuntu One

What new services would you like to see next in Ubuntu One?

==== Gaming ====

46.34

Thanks to Hemisphere for <nowiki>[[http://www.hemispheregames.com/osmos/|Osmos]]</nowiki> review copy [Ed]

==== Review ====

47.18

Review of the Nexus One [Dave]

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/ep8_090610_Dave_Wilkins_review_NexusOne.odt|A transcript of Dave’s review piece is attached as an Open Office Document for the sake of your sanity.]]</nowiki>

==== Guest Spot ====

53.15

Keynote – Mark Shuttleworth at UDS

Part 2: Indicators, Windicators, RGB client-side decorations (alpha-channel support), sound controls, multi-nationl support, Intel connection manager – Ethernet, Wifi, Wi-max,  bluetooth. Fonts.  Release of 10.10 is the answer – the meaning of life the universe and everything.

(Audio courtesy of Alan Pope)

==== Feedback ====

1:09.12

==== Wrap and Outro ====

1:25.39 

Comments: on this page, using the comment form, OR; Send us a comment to podcast@fullcirclemagazine.org. You can also send us a comment by recording an audio clip of no more than 30 seconds and sending it to the same address. Comments and audio may be edited for length. Please remember this is a family-friendly show.

Please note: this podcast is provided with absolutely no warranty whatsoever; neither the producers nor Full Circle Magazine accept any responsibility or liability for content or interaction which readers and listeners may enter into using external links  gleaned from this forum or podcast series.

