{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:UbuntuServerHA
* '''Created''': 08-05-2009
* '''Contributors''': darren
* '''Packages affected''': pacemaker, openais, heartbeat, ldirectord

=== Summary ===

Ubuntu Server should provide an easy-to-set-up High Availability (HA) platform. Server Administrators should be able to use a simple GUI to set up and configure simple clusters based on the OpenAIS+Pacemaker (default) or Heartbeat cluster frameworks.

'''''Will continue editing later, not an important page yet'''''

=== Release Note ===

It is hoped that UbuntuServerHA will provide an easier way for network administrators to set up their highly-available clusters. It should provide a GUI, either using the latest hb_gui from Pacemaker or a subset of it.

=== Rationale ===

Currently to use a highly available Linux cluster, the usual choices are Debian/Ubuntu with old versions of Heartbeat, OpenAIS and Pacemaker, Red Hat Enterprise with the cluster suite or Suse Enterprise High-Availability Extension with the latest and greatest versions of those packages. Lots of development is currently taking place making the newer packages much better than the old ones currently shipped in Ubuntu. HA should be focused on in Ubuntu server to be able to compete with products such as Red Hat Advanced Platform and Suse Enterprise.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
