{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu One file synchronization service has a configuration file called syncdaemon.conf

This page details all configuration directives that are available in ubuntuone-client version 3.0.0 as shipped in Ubuntu 12.04 (Precise Pangolin).

syncdaemon.conf is an INI-style file with sections and keys. The system default files are /etc/xdg/ubuntuone/syncdaemon.conf and /etc/xdg/ubuntuone/logging.conf. You should never modify the defaults and all customizations should be in your local ~/.config/ubuntuone/syncdaemon.conf file.

Thanks to the magic of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/configglue|configglue]]</nowiki> all the options listed in the configuration file can be used when starting ubuntuone-syncdaemon directly:
<pre>
/usr/lib/ubuntuone-client/ubuntuone-syncdaemon --autoconnect=off --oauth a:b:c:d
</pre>

== Changing values ==
You will never need to change the system-wide files, creating ~/.local/config/syncdaemon.conf is enough.
For example, to change the log level to DEBUG and prevent syncdaemon from connecting automatically, the following is needed:
<pre>
[DEFAULT]
autoconnect = off

[logging]
level=DEBUG
</pre>

For boolean settings the following values are valid: 1/0, on/off, true/false, and yes/no.

=== [__main__] ===

* '''host''': The hostname of the filesync server in case DNS SRV does not work.
* '''dns_srv''': The DNS SRV record used to find out about the currently running servers. You can see the currently running servers using dig: <pre>
$ dig -t SRV _https._tcp.fs.ubuntuone.com
...
;; ANSWER SECTION:
_https._tcp.fs.ubuntuone.com. 329 IN	SRV	0 0 443 fs-2.ubuntuone.com.
_https._tcp.fs.ubuntuone.com. 329 IN	SRV	0 0 443 fs-1.ubuntuone.com.
</pre>
* '''disable_ssl_verify''': Disables SSL verification. This should be never used in production environment.
* '''port''': Port at which server is listening.
* '''files_sync_enabled''': Whether file synchronization is enabled. In case file synchronization is disabled, syncdaemon will not start properly, the following will appear in the logs: <pre>
WARNING - Files synchronization is disabled.
</pre>
* '''root_dir''': Use the specified directory for root volume. '''WARNING''' - while it is tempting to change this other Ubuntu One components may rely on root_dir to be ''~/Ubuntu One'' and changing this may break the control panel, rhythmbox music store and nautilus plugin.
* '''shares_dir''': Directory to place the folders shared with you within XDG_DATA_DIR. Do not modify this.
* '''data_dir''': Directory to store syncdaemon metadata within XDG_DATA_DIR. Do not modify this.
* '''oauth''': Use a specified OAuth token instead of querying the credentials service. The token has a form of consumer-key:consumer-token:token:token-secret.
* '''debug''': Print the log to stdout. Useful only when syncdaemon is run directly.
* '''mark_interval''': Interval in seconds at which -- MARK -- marker appears in the log file.
* '''im_ok_with_being_root_pretty_please_let_me_be_root''': Running syncdaemon under root is not permitted by default. Setting this to True asks syncdaemon to start when running as root. Do not modify this.
* '''send_events_over_dbus''': Enable sending an Event dbus sygnal for every operations syncdaemon adds to its internal queue. Useful only for debugging.
* '''handshake_timeout''': Timeout in seconds for connection and related states.
* '''udf_autosubscribe''': Whether to subscribe automatically to new User Defined Folders created on other devices.
* '''share_autosubscribe''': Whether to subscribe automatically to new Shares accepted.
* '''autoconnect''': Whether to connect automatically on startup.
* '''ignore''': The list of Python regular expressions that are not uploaded to Ubuntu One.
* '''use_trash''': Whether the deleted files should be moved to trash instead of being deleted.
* '''simult_transfers''': The number of simultaneous Uploads and Downloads.
* '''max_payload_size''': Data is being trunsfered in chunks. This settings sets the number of bytes transferred simultaneously in one chunk.
* '''memory_pool_limit''': In order to conserve the memory if there are more than e.g. 200 queue items all extra tasks are stored in a file. This setting sets the number of items that are kept in memory.

=== [notifications] ===
* '''show_all_notifications''': Allow displaying notification messages

=== [bandwidth_throttling] ===
* '''on''': Whether the bandwidth throttling in enabled.
* '''read_limit''': Download limit in bytes/sec
* '''write_limit''': Upload limit in bytes/sec

Please see <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/720707|LP:720707]]</nowiki> for the issues related to the way bandwidth throttling is currently implemented.

=== [debug] ===
* '''lsprof_file''', '''manhole''', '''heapy_monitor''' - these options are only useful for protocol debugging and does not provide any value to the end user.

=== [logging] ===
This section may be in main syncdaemon.conf file but it is shipped in a separate logging.conf file to enable building with different log levels for different types of ubuntuone-client packages.

* '''level''': Log level - TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL
* '''file_size''': Size in bytes for the log file. Upon reaching this threshold the file gets rotated.
* '''backup_count''': Number of rotated log files to keep.

== See also ==
* <nowiki>[[..-Headless|Headless Ubuntu One]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[..-u1sdtool|u1sdtool]]</nowiki>
