{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu Studio is a multimedia editing/creation flavor of Ubuntu, built
for the GNU/Linux audio, video, and graphics enthusiast or
professional.  http://www.ubuntustudio.org

The Ubuntu Studio team is proud to announce its sixth release: Ubuntu
Studio 9.10 "Karmic Koala". With this release, which you can download 
in a 1.4GB DVD, Ubuntu Studio offers a pre-made selection of packages, 
targeted at audio producers, video producers and graphic designers. 
Ubuntu Studio greatly simplifies the Linux-based multimedia workstation.

Downloads of the install DVD are available here:
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/9.10/release

For Ubuntu Studio 9.10 we have continued to grow our feature set, 
update packages, and fix critical bugs to better the Ubuntu Studio 
user experience.

We are happy to announce that the real time kernel will be an official
upstream release patch.  It will be installed by default if the audio 
task is selected. We have tested it heavily and are very happy with it's
performance in audio environments.

Features/Improvements:

** Official upstream RT kernel release (i.e. it's very stable)
** Font meta package added to the graphics meta, which installs literally hundreds of free fonts
** Xwax (http://xwax.co.uk) and a2jmidid (http://home.gna.org/a2jmidid/) packaged and added to the audio meta-package
** Xjadeo (http://xjadeo.sourceforge.net/) added to the video meta
** Network tools like NetworkManager and Pidgin will be available on the DVD disc repository but not installed by default
** Firewire libraries are now upgraded to 2.0 
** MANY newer versions of applications (Ardour, Gimp, Blender, Inkscape, Audacity, Kino, Scribus, Denemo, Hugin, etc...) for exact versions please see: http://packages.ubuntu.com

See the Ubuntu release notes for other non Ubuntu Studio specific changes.

As our wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio states, "our
aim is to make it more accessible for new users to get into the tools
that GNU/Linux has to offer for multimedia creation and production. We
also want to spotlight what's out there, and show users tools they
might not know to exist."

Thanks to all who helped in Ubuntu Studio 9.10's creation! 
