{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

A Project of the MarketingTeam : Project Lead: LloydHardy : Project Members: 

=== Objectives ===

* To provde a first contact-point for conference delegates
* To provide a valid resource of speakers
* To provide a valid resource of installers
* To provide a valid resource of technical support
* To escalate with the customers to the next level of migration

=== Motivation ===

The time when a New User returns from a conference is a time when what they have heard needs re-inforcing. It is a time when confidence begins to fade and the longer detatched from easily-accessible information, the further the New User steps from making thier migration. Involvement of the LiveCD, catering for users who have seen and read NewUserLiterature and extending the hand of the community are all paramount here. Also is re-inforcing that promise of avialability of sustainability.

=== Services ===

* Organised by country:
* Speakers
* Installers
* Technical Support

=== Operations ===

As the research operation commences, findings will be posted here. Please add any services above. Your help is appreciated and welcomed.

=== Join Us ===

Please join our team here: MarketingTeam and add your name to the list at the top of this page. We are an open team, inviting all members of the community - new and old to join.
----
CategoryMarketing
