{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu%20Kylin/1410-alpha-1-ReleaseNoteChinese|中文版]]</nowiki>

== What is Ubuntu Kylin? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users. We are committed to provide you with a delicate, thoughtful and fully customized Chinese user experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing a desktop user interface localized in Chinese and installing common software that Chinese users commonly use by default. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since UbuntuKylin 13.04. Now, we are working on 14.10.

== Announcement ==

We are glad to announce the release of Ubuntu Kylin 14.10 Alpha 1. In this pre-release, the Linux Kernel is updated to 3.15. This Alpha 1 upgrades several features (such as Sogou input method, Kuaipan client, UKSC) and fix more than 50 bugs. Some interesting new features are still under development.
* Sogou input method: V1.0.0.0033 released, fix several crash bugs and optimize some functions.
* Kingsoft kuaipan client: V2.0 released, add migration supporting from Ubuntu One users.
* Ubuntu Kylin software center, V0.3.1 released, add backend server and optimize UI operation.
* China weather, V2.1 released, add backend server and fix 8 bugs.

'''Note That: '''This is an alpha pre-release, which is not suitable for normal users, but for Ubuntu Kylin developers and users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs.

== Support ==

* Mail List: ubuntukylin-members@lists.launchpad.net
* IRC Channel: #ubuntukylin-devel
* Chinese Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Chinese QQ Group: 262012757

== Download ==

The Release ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/utopic/alpha-1/ | here]]</nowiki>.
== Known Issues ==
* In System Setting, the 'Appearance' do not show the picture of the photo directory(bug #1330398);
* Failed to boot from USB disk with error: gfxboot.c32: not a COM32R Image boot:(bug #1325801);
* In live session, ubuntu help is display correctly, after installed ubuntu help wasn't installed(bug #1308889);
* In About this computer, the version number still show Ubuntu Kylin 14.04(bug #1323211);
* In virtual machine, using youker assistant do not check part of hardware message(bug #1330389);
* In youker assistant, the system message show the computer version is 00, it is wrong(bug #1334253);
* The first time to start the Ubuntu Kylin software center that need to update software source, if do not input password, display the animation always, and only quit on launcher (bug #1330859).

== Thanks ==
Thanks to everyone involving in the development of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 14.10 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide
