{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This week's Hug Day will focus on '''ISO TESTING'''!!! 

In celebration of the release happening ''''soon'''', today's hugday will be testing the cd images and upgrades!

=== Ubuntu QA ===

<nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki>

This is the Quality Assurance tracker where you can grab the latest ISO image and then help by following the steps listed for each iso and verify things are in working order.

Next on the list after you've finished 

=== Release Manager Upgrade ===

Now, I know you are already running Intrepid right? RIGHT? If not, and you have the ability, upgrade a system or two, or 384 if you should have so many. Then report bugs to update-manager or the appropriate package. If you find something seriously wrong, contact #ubuntu-bugs and/or #ubuntu-devel/-motu respectively.

=== More Bugs ===
Of course after you've smoke tested the cd's as best you can for install issues, upgrade issues, package installation issues, etc.... There is always plenty to do on Launchpad. There are <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_cve.used=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.has_no_package.used=&field.has_no_package=on&search=Search |2000 bugs without a package]]</nowiki> that need to be taken care of in quick fashion before they spiral out of control; get a jump on next week's hugday :) .

=== ENJOY THE RELEASE! ===

Today is the scheduled release for IntrepidIbex, so please do have a bit of extra fun today. :) ~Dereck

----
CategoryBugSquad
