{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Full Circle Podcast #2: The Full Circle of Light (Brown)'''

=== Download ===

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/607/0/fullcirclepodcast_ep2_0403010.mp3|MP3]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/podpress_trac/web/607/1/fullcirclepodcast_ep2_0403010.ogg|OGG]]</nowiki>

Runtime: 48 minutes 29 seconds

=== Your Hosts ===

* Robin Catlin 
* Ed Hewitt 
* Dave Wilkins

Additional audio by Victoria Pritchard

=== Show Notes ===

==== Welcome and Intro ====

2.04

<nowiki>[[http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/|Ubuntu 64-bit Edition on trial]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-3/|Ubuntu Lucid Lynx Alpha-3 on trial]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/gnome-do|Gnome-DO]]</nowiki>

==== Review of Full Circle Issue #34 ====

6.34

Game reviews:

* Uplink 
* Singularity

Revisit of Exaile Media Player from Issue #33

==== News ====

11.06

1. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Brand|All new Ubuntu Branding!]]</nowiki>

2. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/02/ubuntu-1004-alpha-3-released-later.html|Ubuntu 10.04 Alpha 3 is out!]]</nowiki>

3. <nowiki>[[http://popey.com/blog/2010/02/19/ubuntu-one-music-store-sneak-peek/|Ubuntu One Music Store Sneak Peek]]</nowiki>

4. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/02/new-theme-for-ubuntu-1004-human-is-no.html|New Theme For Ubuntu 10.04 – Human Theme Dropped]]</nowiki>

5. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/02/lucid-software-centre-adds-featured.html|Updates to the Lucid Software Store]]</nowiki>

6. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/02/missing-menu-icons-what-are-gnome.htm|Missing icons in Lucid Menu]]</nowiki>

7. <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/03/next-ubuntu-developer-summit-to-be-held.html|UDS for Ubuntu 10.10 to be held in Belgium]]</nowiki>

8. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-user.com/Online/News/Chuck-Norris-Botnet-Affects-Linux-Ruters|Chuck Norris Botnet Affects Linux Routers – malware story]]</nowiki>

9. Virtual Revolution TV show released as podcast on BBC World Service

<nowiki>[[http://www.bbc.co.uk/worldservice/documentaries/2010/02/100128_the_virtual_revolution_part_one.shtml|Site]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[ http:--downloads.bbc.co.uk-podcasts-worldservice-docarchive-docarchive_20100222-1006a.mp3|Episode #1]]</nowiki>

10. <nowiki>[[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/life_and_style/health/expert_advice/article7034283.ece|Xbox syndrome – concerning black eyes – the “and finally” story]]</nowiki>

==== Trailer ====

26.30

==== Opinion ====

27.32

default applications in Lucid Lynx

==== Gaming ====

32.38

<nowiki>[[http://sauerbraten.org/|Sauerbraten on the Cube-2 engine]]</nowiki>
 
<nowiki>[[http://quakewars.filefront.com/|Heads-up on review of Enemy Territory: Quake Wars in Issue #35]]</nowiki>

==== Feedback ====

42.45

Comments on this page, using the comment form, OR;
Send us a comment to podcast@fullcirclemagazine.org.
You can also send us a comment by recording an audio clip of no more than 30 seconds and sending it to the same address.
Comments and audio may be edited for length.
Please remember this is a family-friendly show.

==== Other Notes ====

Creative Commons Music Tracks

<nowiki>[[http://music.incompetech.com/royalty-free/Achilles.mp3|Opening: ‘Achilles’ by Kevin Macleod]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://ccmixter.org/files/hisboyelroy/430|Main Theme: ‘Revolve’ by His Boy Elroy]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.pacdv.com/sounds/free-music-22.html|News Theme: ‘On the Run’ by unknown]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.pacdv.com/sounds/free-music-2.html|Gaming, incidental: ‘Dance Zone’ by unknown]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://music.incompetech.com/royalty-free/Dangerous.mp3|Trailer: ‘News Theme’ by Kevin Macleod from the Album ‘Utility’]]</nowiki>
