{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ISOBuildScript ==

=== How to operate the Ubuntu GNOME Remix build script ===

This tutorial teaches you how to use the Ubuntu GNOME Remix ISO build script so that you can build Ubuntu GNOME Remix.

Prerequisties:
* An internet connection
* A Ubuntu system
* bzr installed. To install bzr type <code> sudo apt-get install bzr </code> in a terminal.

Instructions:

1. Open a terminal or a terminal emulator.

2. Type 
<pre>
cd Downloads
</pre>

3. We will then download the latest daily ISO and put it into the Downloads folder (for the tutorial's sake).

To download the 32-bit one type
<pre>
zsync http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/quantal-desktop-i386.iso.zsync
</pre>

for 64-bit versions type
<pre>
zsync http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/quantal-desktop-amd64.iso.zsync
</pre>

4. Type 
<pre>
cd ~
</pre>
to go back to your home folder.

5. Type
<pre>
bzr branch lp:~ubuntu-gnome-dev/+junk/iso-build-script
</pre>
to branch the iso build script.

6. Change directory to iso-build-script by typing
<pre>
cd iso-build-script
</pre>

7. To update the script use
<pre>
bzr pull
</pre>

8. Clean the working directory by typing
<pre>
./livecd-script.sh clean amd64
</pre>

Please note that if you want to use i386 version type
<pre>
./livecd-script.sh clean i386
</pre>

This only applies if you have compiled a build before.
9. To start building using the 64-bit iso use
<pre>
./livecd-script.sh customize amd64 ../Downloads/quantal-desktop-amd64.iso
</pre>

32-bit:
<pre>
./livecd-script.sh customize i386 ../Downloads/quantal-desktop-i386.iso
</pre>

It takes at least an hour to compile the script (with a fast internet connection). It may take more time with a slow internet connection. Please do clean the working directory using step 8 before building the ISO.

The ISO will be placed in <code> iso-build-script </code> with a file name like
<pre>
quantal-ubuntu-gnome-"architecture (amd64/i386)"-YYYYMMDD.iso
</pre>

You can use Virtualbox to test the ISO afterwards.

Hope you have an enjoyable time using Ubuntu GNOME remix!
