{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Releases'''

The links provided below will link to the download areas.  You should ensure that you select the correct version for PS3.  These are usually appended with '''-powerpc+ps3.iso'''.

You should also note that there are often '''desktop''' and '''alternate''' versions available.  The only difference being that the alternate iso's have a text console based installer rather than the graphical one (No, it's not scary).  This can be a little faster during install but should not effect the final performance of Linux on your PS3.

'''Official Release'''

The latest official release was:

  <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/7.10/release/|Official Gutsy 7.10]]</nowiki>

'''Latest Development Release'''

The latest current development release is:

  <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/custom/20071115-gutsy-ps3|20071115-gutsy-ps3]]</nowiki>

'''Development Releases'''

  <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/custom/20071115-gutsy-ps3|20071115-gutsy-ps3]]</nowiki>

  <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/custom/20071025-gutsy-ps3/|20071025-gutsy-ps3]]</nowiki>

  <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/custom/20070805-bug62986|20070805-bug62986]]</nowiki>

'''Experimental Releases'''

  <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/daily-live/current/|Hardy Heron Alpha6 - LiveCD]]</nowiki>

  <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/daily/current/|Hardy Heron Alpha6 - Alternate]]</nowiki>

'''Past Releases'''

  <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/custom/20070614-xubuntu-feisty-ps3|20070614-xubuntu-feisty-ps3]]</nowiki>

  <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/custom/20070608-feisty-ps3|20070608-feisty-ps3]]</nowiki>

  <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/custom/20070420-feisty-ps3|20070420-feisty-ps3]]</nowiki>
