{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Specifications ===

'''Host bridge:''' Intel Corp. 82852/855GM Host Bridge (rev 02)

'''System peripheral:''' Intel Corp. 855GM/GME GMCH Memory I/O Control Registers (rev 02)

'''System peripheral:''' Intel Corp. 855GM/GME GMCH Configuration Process Registers (rev 02)

'''VGA compatible controller:''' Intel Corp. 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device (rev 02)

'''Display controller:''' Intel Corp. 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device (rev 02)

'''USB Controller:''' Intel Corp. 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)

'''USB Controller:''' Intel Corp. 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)

'''USB Controller:''' Intel Corp. 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)

'''USB Controller:''' Intel Corp. 82801DB/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-M) USB 2.0 EHCI Controller (rev 03)

'''PCI bridge:''' Intel Corp. 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 83)

'''ISA bridge:''' Intel Corp. 82801DBM LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)

'''IDE interface:''' Intel Corp. 82801DBM (ICH4) Ultra ATA Storage Controller (rev 03)

'''SMBus:''' Intel Corp. 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) SMBus Controller (rev 03)

'''Multimedia audio controller:''' Intel Corp. 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 03)

'''Modem:''' Intel Corp. 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 03)

'''FireWire (IEEE 1394):''' VIA Technologies, Inc. IEEE 1394 Host Controller (rev 80)

'''Ethernet controller:''' Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)

'''Ethernet controller:''' Atheros Communications, Inc. AR5212 802.11abg NIC (rev 01)

'''CardBus bridge:''' ENE Technology Inc CB1410 Cardbus Controller (rev 01)

=== Configuring ===

Well, when you install the Ubuntu "Hoary Hedgedog" (5.04) almost everithing is automatically configured, except :

==== Atheros ====
To be honest, my atheros device only works with 2.6.12-8-386 kernel. For this, i do: 
{{{ 
}}}

then, try to:
{{{ 
}}}
if you get a message of "invalid module format" don't be panic, just:
<pre>
}}}
so, repeat the modprobe steb, and be hapy =)
==== Suspend to RAM ====

This is the hardest configuration of the notebook :)
Just uncomment the line (its the second one) above on file /etc/default/acpi-support
{{{
ACPI_SLEEP=true
</pre>

==== TouchPad ScrollBar ====

Touchpad scrollbar, is a "virtual" scrollbar on the touchpad. With this feature enabled, when you move up or down at right side of the touchpad, the mouse scrolls like a wheel.
Just add this lines to your `/etc/X11/xorg.conf` on the '''InputDevice''' section
<pre>
...
        Option      "Emulate3Buttons" "yes"
        Option      "LeftEdge" "120"
        Option      "RightEdge" "830"
        Option      "TopEdge" "120"
        Option      "BottomEdge" "650"
        Option      "FingerLow" "14"
        Option      "FingerHigh" "15"
        Option      "MaxTapMove" "110"
        Option      "VertScrollDelta" "20"
        Option      "HorizScrollDelta" "20"
        Option      "MinSpeed" "0.3"
        Option      "MaxSpeed" "0.75"

...
</pre>

==== Backlight ScreenSaver ====

This is the most '''hacked''' feature of the howto. Unless Satellite be a Toshiba laptop, the kernel doesn't recognize it as a Toshiba laptop. Funny ham? :) So, we use the module of '''HP Omnibook''' (http://sourceforge.net/projects/omke) that works almost perfectly.
I have developed a script that runs at top of xscreensaver. This script can turn off the backlight as soon as the screen goes blank.
It still in developing, so, bugs will appear.
This is the script:
<pre>
use strict;

open PORTS, "+</dev/port" or die("can't open /dev/port");

open(XS,"/usr/bin/xscreensaver-command -watch|") or die;

while(<XS>) {
    if(/^BLANK/i) {
        kbd_param(0xE2) if (kbd_command(0x59));
    }
    if(/^UNBLANK/i) {
        kbd_param(0xE1) if (kbd_command(0x59)); # liga
    }
}
close XS;
close PORTS;

sub inb {
        my ($port, $data) = (shift, undef);
        sysseek PORTS, $port, 0;
        sysread PORTS, $data, 1;
        return ord($data);
}

sub outb {
        my ($data, $port) = (shift, shift);
        sysseek PORTS, $port, 0;
        syswrite PORTS, chr($data);
}
sub wait_kbd_empty {
        my $i = 5000;
        while((inb(0x64) & 2) and $i) {
                $i--;
                if ($i == 0) {
                        print "timeout waiting for the buffer to empty\n";
                        return 0;
                }
        }
        return 1;
}

sub kbd_command {
        my $command = shift;
        if (wait_kbd_empty()) {
                outb($command, 0x64);
                return 1;
        }
        return 0;
}
sub kbd_param {
        my $param = shift;
        if (wait_kbd_empty()) {
                outb($param, 0x60);
                return 1;
        }
        return 0;
}

</pre>
To use this, run AS ROOT as daemon, like this:
<pre>
 $ sudo perl backoff.pl &
</pre>
then, just wait until the screensaver goes blank, and the backlight should off.

'''Tip :''' I just have put the backoff.pl at '/usr/bin' and declared on the '/etc/sudoers' with NOPASSWD attribute. Then, I start the script on the gnome startup, and work perfectly.

==== Special Keys ====
These are the keys on left side of keyboard. To make them works, just make sure you have '''HP Omnibook''' (http://sourceforge.net/projects/omke) module loaded on ur kernel and just :

<pre>
  apt-get install hotkeys
</pre>

edit the file <code> /usr/share/hotkeys/toshiba.def </code> and put this piece of code on that:
<pre>
<?xml version="1.0"?>

<definition>

  <config model="Toshiba M35x-S311 Laptop">
 
    <PrevTrack    keycode="144"/>
    <Play         keycode="162"/>
    <Stop         keycode="164"/>
    <NextTrack    keycode="153"/>
   
    <userdef keycode="237" command="beep-media-player"> Beep Media Player </userdef>

  </config>
 
  <contributor>
    <name>Kyle Dickerson</name>
    <email>kyle (dot) dickerson (a!!t) gmail (dot) com</email>
  </contributor>

</definition>
</pre>

thanks for Kyle Dickerson ;)

Then to make it work, you can edit the file <code> /etc/hotkeys.conf </code> and setup it properly. The file is well commented, but here's mine as well:
<pre>
Kbd=toshiba
PrevTrack=beep-media-player --rew
Play=beep-media-player --play-pause
Stop=beep-media-player --stop
NextTrack=beep-media-player --fwd
</pre>

ok, no mistakes, juts run: <code> hotkeys </code> at GNOME (or other WM/DE) startup! 

Have fun! ;_)
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
