{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the page for users to contribute feature request ideas to Ubuntu Studio. The page will continually be updated. We will comment on things as much as possible. Give ideas a Yes/No vote. 

=== Ideas ===
* Please check at https://launchpad.net/projects/ and register projects/packages there as well.
* Jigdo download so users don't have to get the whole image, just the bits missing from a "regular" feisty image.
* This will happen for Hardy. -C.Kontros
* A Specific "team" for each part of ubuntu-studio  i.e. Audio team, Video Team, and Graphics team.  This way, users with the same interests can get together and work to develop specific parts of ubuntu-studio
* I'm not sure what benefit this would provide. Please take this idea to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-studio-devel|ML]]</nowiki>. -C.Kontros
* Wiki pages for getting started, tutorials, best practices, walk-throughs, troubleshooting, etc. I think the biggest stumbling block is how to get started for new users. There should be detailed info about jack, how jack connects to ardour, how to use ladspa plugins, how to use soft instruments with ardour, etc....
* There is already a place for this. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio|HERE]]</nowiki> It's up to everyone to develop the documentation. -C.Kontros
* Simplicity, but with options: The default-out-of-the-box install should not have too much duplication in packages for a given function. Clearly some packages will offer features that others do not, and so would be complimentary, but too many options on the screen & menus can be a little paralyzing, distracting at least, even for experienced users. Make it easy to acquire the "secondary" set of packages but be choosy about the default set. As a cut-off criteria, packages that are still in beta, or are not feature-complete (by their own description), or do not have a "stable" rating (on a site such as freshmeat.net) should be omitted from the default install. -JW
* Please keep the package names below alphabetically sorted. This would allow an easier reading and editing, except those findable now in the repository, which should be listed apart. As well it will help packagers to find out what were not yet packaged.
* Extending the notion of "Studio" in Ubuntu Studio, to fit the needs of Web Designers (WYSIWYG editors for webpages, text editors etc.) and Web Developers (IDEs, text editors, apache, mysql/postgresql, php/perl/ruby/python, ftp-server).

== Package Wishlist ==
====== Audio: (not yet in the repository) ======
* Aldrin (http://trac.zeitherrschaft.org/zzub/wiki/Aldrin) - open source modular music sequencer/tracker
* AlsaModularSynth aka ams (http://alsamodular.sourceforge.net/) - realtime modular synthesizer and effect processor
* Arcangel (http://www.dis-dot-dat.net/index.cgi?item=/code/arcangel/) - guitar effect dsp processor
* Beatforce ( http://www.beatforce.org/ ) - DJ system tool
* Campcaster (http://www.campware.org) - takes a regular PC and turns it into a tool for managing a radio station broadcast
* Chibitracker (http://chibitracker.berlios.de/) - The most fully-featured FOSS music tracker program available
* Clavier (http://helgo.net/simon/clavier/) - clavier is a GTK based virtual MIDI keyboard, offering more octaves and more contemporary interface than vkeybd
* Ecamegapedal (http://www.wakkanet.fi/~kaiv/ecamegapedal/) - guitar effect dsp processor
* Ele (http://www-personal.umich.edu/~mslutsky/elepage/index.html) - guitar effect dsp processor
* ExEf (http://exef.xko.cz/) - guitar effect dsp processor
* FST (http://www.joebutton.co.uk/fst/) -> please notice that for license purpose, it will be hard to get it in Ubuntu. ttoine.
* Gnuitar (http://www.gnuitar.com/) - guitar effect dsp processor
* GTKgep (http://gtkgep.prv.pl/) - guitar effect dsp processor
* Icecast (http://www.icecast.org) - A GPL streaming media server project
* jackdmp (http://www.grame.fr/~letz/jackdmp.html) - a multiprocessor jack version (we're planning on this for Hardy)
* jack-keyboard (http://pin.if.uz.zgora.pl/~trasz/jack-keyboard/) jack-keyboard is a  GTK based virtual MIDI keyboard with a really contemporary interface
* Jackmix (http://www.arnoldarts.de/drupal/?q=JackMix%3Aintro) - a mixer app for jack that looks exactly like the mixer you would use if you had to connect your analog equipment
* Jesusonic (http://www.jesusonic.com/soft.php) - guitar effect dsp processor
* Lack of Invention (http://ava.wz.cz/loi.html) - guitar effect dsp processor. NOTE: not in development anymore, developer uses Rakarrack
* Netjack (http://netjack.sourceforge.net/) - allows jack connections through ethernet. Also has tools to allow extra cards to be connected to jackd. Slated to be included in jack 1.0 but perhaps should be packaged until then...
* Rakarrack (http://rakarrack.sourceforge.net/) - guitar effects dsp processor
* Rivendell (http://www.rivendellaudio.org/) -  Radio broadcast automation solution
* RTSynth (http://linux-sound.org/rtsynth/) - Realtime physical modeling synthesis of 'real' instruments
* Sonic Visualiser (http://sonicvisualiser.org) - application for viewing and analysing the contents of music audio files
* Splitter (for zynaddsubfx) (http://www.google.com/search?q=splitter) - ?????
* Stompboxes (http://mrbook.org/stompboxes/) - guitar effect dsp processor
* Tclabc (http://moinejf.free.fr/) - the most stable and complete graphical environment for the typesetting of music currently available under Linux
* XWAX (http://www.xwax.co.uk) - software that lets you control playback of digital files via multiple record players.

====== Audio: (not yet in the repository, but available in launchpad PPA's) ======

* VMPK - Virtual MIDI Piano Keyboard - a virtual MIDI keyboard that has a sweet modern interface. Available in Motin's PPA: https://launchpad.net/~motin/+archive/ppa

====== Audio: (now in the repository) ======
* alsamixergui (http://www.iua.upf.es/~mdeboer/projects/alsamixergui/) - The original ALSA mixer GUI
* amSynth (http://amsynthe.sourceforge.net/amSynth/) - Minimoog/Roland Juno style analogue synth
* darkIce (http://darkice.tyrell.hu) - a live audio streamer (now in the repository)
* darkSnow (http://darksnow.radiolivre.org/) - a simple graphic interface for darkIce (now in the repository)
* FLAC (http://flac.sourceforge.net/) - Free Lossless Audio Codec - needed by Rosegarden amongst others - very popular format (now in the repository)
* Fmit (http://home.gna.org/fmit/) - Free Musical Instrument Tuner (now in the repository)
* Freecycle (http://freecycle.redsteamrecords.com) - beat slicer running on GNU/Linux platform using the QT toolkit
* gCDMaster (http://cdrdao.sourceforge.net/gcdmaster/index.html) - Easy and Powerful CD Mastering. (now in the repository)
* Gigedit (http://www.linuxsampler.org/downloads.html) - An instrument editor for .gig sampler files (now in the repository)
* Glame (http://glame.sourceforge.net/) - Non-linear audio editor (now in the repository)
* Goattracker (http://packages.debian.org/goattracker) - sid tracker (now in the repository)
* GWC - Gnome Wave Cleaner (http://gwc.sourceforge.net/) - Dehiss and declick vinyl/LP/78/45 captures to digital. (now in the repository)
* K3B (http://www.k3b.org/) - Most powerful CD and DVD mastering program for Linux
* LMMS (http://lmms.sourceforge.net/) - open-source FruityLoops-like music production tool (now in the repository)
* Milkytracker (http://www.milkytracker.net) - Tracking software
* MMA ("Musical MIDI Accompaniment") (http://www.mellowood.ca/mma/) - Accompaniment generator: creates midi tracks for a soloist to perform over from a user supplied file containing chords and MMA directives. (now in the repository)
* nautilus-script-audio-convert (http://www.arakhne.org/nautilus-audio-convert/) - Easy audio conversion under Nautilus
* Qtractor (http://qtractor.sourceforge.net/qtractor-index.html) - An Audio/MIDI multi-track sequencer (now in the repository)
* schism (http://eval.sovietrussia.org/wiki/Schism_Tracker) - Schism tracker
* SND ( htt ) (http://www.google.com/search?q=snd) - Sound file editor (now in the repository)
* Specimen (http://zhevny.com/specimen/) - MIDI controllable audio sampler (now in the repository)
* Traverso (http://traverso-daw.org/) - A lightweight multitrack audio recording and editing tool, with a very powerfull yet easy and clear to use Interface (now in the repository)
* Tuxguitar (http://www.tuxguitar.com.ar/) - open-source tablature editor (now in the repository)
* Wavbreaker (http://wavbreaker.sourceforge.net/) - a wave file splitter with burn capabilities. It makes a clean break at the correct position to burn the files to an audio cd without any dead air between the tracks. (now in the repository)

====== Video: (not yet in the repository) ======
* cinelerra (http://www.cinelerra.org/) - Cinelerra is a video capture, non-linear video editor and compositor.
* delvj (http://delcorp.org/delvj/index.php/Portada) - realtime vj composition tool
* dvdstyler (http://www.dvdstyler.de/) - cross-platform DVD authoring application that makes possible for video enthusiasts to create professional-looking DVDs.
* gephex (http://www.gephex.org/) - modular video jockey software
* gSubEdit (http://gsubedit.sourceforge.net/) - GNOME Subtitle Editor
* gv4l (http://gv4l.sourceforge.net/) - GUI frontend for the V4L (Video For Linux) functions of transcode
* Kmediagrab (http://freshmeat.net/projects/kmediagrab/) - media grabber and encoder built on top of mplayer/mencoder
* Matroska gui (http://www.google.com/search?q=matroska+gui) - ?????
* myrtille animation (http://lamenagerie.com/boite/soft/myrtille/) - (French language site)
* pd-Gem (http://gem.iem.at)
* pd-pidip (http://www.google.com/search?q=pd-pidip) - ?????
* spumux (http://dvdauthor.sourceforge.net/doc/spumux.html) - mpeg2 subtitle multiplexer and generator
* theorur (http://theorur.tvlivre.org/) - GUI for Ogg/Theora streaming (icecast2 system), written using gtk2, under GLPv2 (site appears down as of March 12, 2007) (site up at 19:45 GMT, April 19, 2007)
* Veejay (http://veejay.dyne.org/) a visual instrument and real-time video sampler
* video-studio (linux video studio) (http://ronald.bitfreak.net/lvs/) - video editor that captures from analog devices
* Vivia (http://vivia-video.org/) - A video editing program for Linux.
* WebcamStudio (http://www.ws4gl.org/) creates a virtual webcam that can mix several video sources together. See https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/524190
* xdtv (http://xawdecode.sourceforge.net/) - XdTV aka xawdecode is the best analogue (and DVB) video capture tool for Linux and the only one I'm aware of capable of capturing at DVD resolution w/ rt preview that actually works (hint- use mjpeg avi to capture)
* XMRM (http://www.cg.tuwien.ac.at/~xmrm/) - multi-resolution image morphing

====== Video: (now in the repository) ======
* coriander - (http://damien.douxchamps.net/ieee1394/coriander/index.php) - Linux graphical user interface (GUI) for controlling a Digital Camera through the IEEE1394 bus (now in the repository)
* dvr (http://www.pierrox.net/dvr/) - Digital Video Recorder for Linux (now in the repository)
* freej (http://freej.dyne.org/) - vision mixer: an instrument for realtime video manipulation used in the fields of dance teather, veejaying, medical visualisation and TV (now in the repository)
* gscanbus (http://gscanbus.berlios.de/) - little bus scanning, testing and topology visualizing tool for the Linux IEEE1394 subsystem
* gtk-recordmydesktop (http://recordmydesktop.iovar.org/) - gtk frontend for the recordmydesktop video capturing tool (now in the repository)
* gTranscode (http://fuzzymonkey.net/software/gtranscode/) - Transcode GTK frontend
* Kdenlive (http://kdenlive.sourceforge.net) - Kdenlive is a (very promising!) non linear video editor for the KDE environment running on Linux. It is based on the <nowiki>[[http://www.mltframework.org/twiki/bin/view/MLT/|MLT]]</nowiki> video framework which relies on the <nowiki>[[http://ffmpeg.mplayerhq.hu/|FFMPEG]]</nowiki> project.
* Lives (http://lives.sourceforge.net) - linux video editor
* istanbul (http://live.gnome.org/Istanbul) - Desktop session recorder (now in the repository)
* open movie editor (http://openmovieeditor.sourceforge.net) An easy to use non-linear video editor
* pd-pdp (http://packages.debian.org/unstable/graphics/pd-pdp) - ?????
* 'Q' DVD-Author (http://qdvdauthor.sourceforge.net/) - GUI frontend for dvdauthor and other related tools.
* subtitleeditor (http://kitone.free.fr/subtitleeditor/) - GTK+2 tool to edit subtitles
* Videotrans (http://videotrans.sourceforge.net/) - set of scripts that allow its user to reformat existing movies into the VOB format that is used on DVDs (now in the repository)
* vlc (http://www.videolan.org/) - VideoLAN is a very popular media player/streamer which also features a very handy GUI video transcoding wizard.
* Xaos (http://wmi.math.u-szeged.hu/xaos/doku.php) - Realtime fractal zoomer (ambiguous?) (now in the repository)

====== Graphics: (not yet in the repository) ======
* anim2000 (http://anim2000.sourceforge.net/) - professional pre-production stages (story-board, layout & posing) software for 2D animation production 
* Art of Illusion (http://artofillusion.org/) 3D modelling and rendering studio
* Denim (http://dub.washington.edu/projects/denim/) - simple html sketch editor for helping a webpage map development, which can generate working results
* dbp (http://members.ozemail.com.au/~hodsond/dbp.html) - Dave's batch processing plug-in for The GIMP
* GIMPShop (http://www.google.com/search?q=gimpshop) - Gimp re-arranged to resemble layout of Photoshop.
* GREYCstoration (http://www.greyc.ensicaen.fr/~dtschump/greycstoration/) - image restoration
* JPatch (http://www.jpatch.com/) - 3d mesh editor (very useful for working with Blender and alike)
* LightZone (http://www-old.lightcrafts.com/linux/) - RAW converter
* Offical "Made in UbuntuStudio" or similar logos for promoting Ubuntu and UbuntuStudio distributions in print and electronic mediums.  (See "Made on a Mac" images.)
* PSPI (http://www.gimp.org/~tml/gimp/win32/pspi.html) - GIMP plugin to run photoshop plugins
* sk1 (http://sk1project.org/) - vectorial drawing editor with CMYK support
* UIRA (http://uira.sourceforge.net/) vector animation Authoring Environment (SWF/SVG)
* XMP Manager (http://grigio.org/xmp_manager) - XMP support for Nautilus
* VARKON (http://varkon.sourceforge.net/) - A Parametric CAD-tool. All architects and architecture students like me would highly appreciate not needing to boot into windows for CAD purposes.

====== Graphics: (now in the repository) ======
* GIMP-Resynthesizer (http://www.logarithmic.net/pfh/resynthesizer) - texture synthesis (now in the repository)
* Grafx2 (http://code.google.com/p/grafx2/) - pixeling tool
* mm3d (http://www.misfitcode.com/misfitmodel3d/) - Misfit Model 3d
* Krita (http://www.koffice.org/krita/) - Best FOSS bitmap editor with CMYK support, dev versions of this do some great natural-media simulation (it is available in the normal repositories so wish should be more like "install it per default please".. +1 from me, CMYK support is viable for the print sector, GIMP is only usable for nonprint image editing) (now in the repository)
* Qtpfsgui (http://qtpfsgui.sourceforge.net/) - tone mapping (now in the repository)
* Wings3D (http://www.wings3d.com/) subdivision 3D modeler (now in the repository)
* xaralx (http://www.xaraxtreme.org/) supports both CMYK(!) and pdf export (as bitmap) (now in the repository)
* xcalib (http://www.etg.e-technik.uni-erlangen.de/web/doe/xcalib/) - Program to load ICC profiles for X-Window which is a requirement for color management. It can load ICC profiles from calibraten hardware like ColorSpyder 2 (now in the repository)

====== Multimedia Programming: (not yet in the repository) ======
* Arduino (http://www.arduino.cc/) - open-source electronics prototyping platform, based on Proce55ing
* Fluxus (http://www.pawfal.org/fluxus/) - a rapid prototyping, livecoding and playing/learning environment for 3D graphics and games.
* Proce55ing (http://processing.org/) - java applet generative graphics programming
* Shoebot (http://tinkerhouse.net/shoebot/) - a Python graphics robot, which takes a Python script as input, describes a drawing process, and outputs a graphic in a common open standard format (SVG, PDF, PostScript, or PNG).

====== Multimedia Programming:  (now in the repository) ======

* sdlBasic (http://sdlbasic.sf.net/) - multimedia sdl ansi-basic programming (still only at Jackalope repository)

====== DTP (Desktop Publishing): (not yet in the repository) ======

(surelly there are some interesting unpacked projects somewhere! please help us finding them! =) )

====== DTP (Desktop Publishing): (now in the repository) ======
(this should be a own section, don't delete it please.. all software related to press, prepress, layout and other stuff around the printing and designing area could be placed here...)

* Scribus (the open-source reference in DTP - with PDF X/3 support, color management etc.)
* LyX (the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYM|WYSIWYM]]</nowiki> for the LaTeX environment - for high quality <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typesetting#Digital_era|typesetting]]</nowiki> - which OpenOffice or other text processing software you don't get the quality of typesetting you have in a book for example.

====== Appearance: ======
* Aurora gtk2 engine <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Aurora+Gtk+Engine?content=56438]]</nowiki>
* Compiz Config Settings Manager

====== Other: (not yet in the repository) ======

* Celtx (http://celtx.com/) - Media pre-production software. Caters to stage, screen, radio drama and comics. A great tool for writers, directors, producers and array of other production staff. It has proven to be the corner stone of many independent productions. 
