{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''What:''' Ubuntu Below Zero
* '''Where:''' Montreal, Canada
* '''When:''' Sunday 30 October - Thursday 10 November 2005 (see below for details)
* '''Who:''' Open to the Public

=== Pictures and Videos ===
Some of us are posting to Flickr.com using the " ubz"  and " ubuntu" tags:
* http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/ubz/

Other albums:
* http://photos.shermann.blogweb.de/main.php/v/ubz/
* From <nowiki>[[Hub]]</nowiki> (to be updated):
** http://photo.figuiere.net/photodb/rolls/20051101-ubz-day3/
** http://photo.figuiere.net/photodb/rolls/20051101-ubz-day3-d100/
* http://fotos.amedias.org/Conferencias%20y%20charlas/UbuntuBelowZero/
* http://foodfight.org/fotos/2005/11-05%20Ubuntu%20Below%20Zero/
* http://eharrison.mesd.k12.or.us/gallery/ubz
* http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/UbzGallery/
* http://tellus.err.no/gallery/ubz
* http://jriddell.org/photos/?pindex=18 and following pages
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/71405082@N00/|Marilize's Photos]]</nowiki>
* http://gallery.linuxguru.net/ubz

Some videos:
* http://video.ubuntu.com/ubz/

=== Lightning Talks ===

* UbuntuBelowZero/LightningTalks

=== Keysigning ===

* UbuntuBelowZero/KeySigning

=== How to Attend ===

All core Ubuntu developers will be in attendance and anyone else who is interested or involved in Ubuntu is welcome to attend as well.

While the developer summit is open, we do need to have an idea of who is going to be coming so we can plan the space requirements. Please fill in your information at <nowiki>[[/Attendees]]</nowiki>. Please also note that this is a developer summit, not a typical "presentations and speeches" conference. It's hard work with an intense schedule, mapping out the road to Breezy+1. You'll be collaborating with the lead developers and helping to define the concrete deliverables that make up the next six months work.

* '''Join #ubz on irc.freenode.net for random developer summit discussion!'''

=== Goals and Agenda ===

We will have a community focused Ubuntu Love Day on Sunday 30 October.  The rest of the conference will be focused on technical specifications and development for Ubuntu Version 6.04 (in the first week) and Launchpad (in the second week). All are welcome, but please expect to contribute in a hands on manner to the technical direction of Ubuntu and Launchpad.

You can learn about the UBZ process in this <nowiki>[[attachment:ubz_process.odp|presentation]]</nowiki>.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Activity
| Agenda
|-
| Sat, Oct 29
| Arrival
| 
|-
| Sun, Oct 30
| Ubuntu Love Day
| /LoveDay
|-
| Mon, Oct 31
| Ubuntu
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jamesh/ubz/week1/monday-schedule.html|Agenda]]</nowiki>
|-
| Tue, Nov 1
| Ubuntu
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jamesh/ubz/week1/tuesday-schedule.html|Agenda]]</nowiki>
|-
| Wed, Nov 2
| Ubuntu, Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jamesh/ubz/week1/wednesday-schedule.html|Agenda]]</nowiki>
|-
| Thu, Nov 3
| Ubuntu, Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jamesh/ubz/week1/thursday-schedule.html|Agenda]]</nowiki>
|-
| Fri, Nov 4
| Ubuntu, Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jamesh/ubz/week1/friday-schedule.html|Agenda]]</nowiki>
|-
| Sat, Nov 5
| Ubuntu, Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jamesh/ubz/week1/saturday-schedule.html|Agenda]]</nowiki>
|-
| Sun, Nov 6
| Day off
| 
|-
| Mon, Nov 7
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jamesh/ubz/week2/monday-schedule.html|Agenda]]</nowiki>
|-
| Tue, Nov 8
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jamesh/ubz/week2/tuesday-schedule.html|Agenda]]</nowiki>
|-
| Wed, Nov 9
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jamesh/ubz/week2/wednesday-schedule.html|Agenda]]</nowiki>
|-
| Thu, Nov 10
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jamesh/ubz/week2/thursday-schedule.html|Agenda]]</nowiki>
|-
| Fri, Nov 11
| Departure
|}

The list of <nowiki>[[/BOFs]]</nowiki> has been started, please add your suggestions.

=== Conference Venue ===

The conference will be held at the <nowiki>[[http://www.ichotelsgroup.com/h/d/6c/1/en/hd/yulca|Holiday Inn '''Select''']]</nowiki> in downtown Montreal.  ('''NOT''' the Holiday Inn Downtown.)  For the geographically challenged, please see <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?ll=45.506000,-73.560000&spn=0.004086,0.009030&t=h&hl=en|This Google map]]</nowiki> or point your GPS at N 45d 30.399' , W 73d 33.598'.

=== Accommodations ===

Accommodations will be available at the <nowiki>[[http://www.ichotelsgroup.com/h/d/6c/1/en/hd/yulca|Holiday Inn]]</nowiki> at a preferred rate.  There will be other places to stay as well in the area, and we'll add some recommendations soon.

David Goodger notes: My wife runs a <nowiki>[[http://pages.infinit.net/mayumi/|Bed&Breakfast]]</nowiki> out of our home, about an hour by train & foot from the site.  We have one (and possibly two) rooms available during the conference, which we'd like to offer (free) to any non-smokers attending.  High-speed wireless included!  Contact me if you're interested: goodger@python.org.

=== Travel ===

More detailed directions will be uploaded as things move forward. If you figure
something out, please don't hesitate to add that information here.

Montreal on Wikitravel: http://wikitravel.org/en/Montreal

International exchange rate calculator: http://www.xe.com/ucc/

Montreal public transit system: http://www.stm.info

If you're taking your (GSM) mobile phone, make sure that it supports the frequencies used in the US/Canada (850/1900MHz, "triband" and "quadband" phones should work for Europeans). Most international carriers have roaming contracts with Rogers and/or Microcell/Fido; See http://www.gsmworld.com/roaming/gsminfo/cou_ca.shtml for details.

Daylight savings time: DST ends on Sunday, October 30, 2005 at 2:00 AM local daylight time ('''Before''' Ubuntu Love Day).    <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/city.html?n=165|Montreal time]]</nowiki>
=== What to Bring ===

* a visa for Canada, if you need it http://www.cic.gc.ca/english/visit/visas.html
* your laptop with wireless capability
* North American power adapter (2 or 3 prong, 110v, 60hz <nowiki>[[http://kropla.com/!ab.htm|Type A or B]]</nowiki>

=== Montreal Help ===

* I am a Montreal resident and can answer your questions or offer help.  Contact me at arzajac@yahoo.ca for anything.

* Or go to http://wikitravel.org/en/Montreal.
----
CategoryUbuntuConferences
