{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue 87 for the weeks April 13th - April 19th, 2008. In this issue we cover: Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Release Candidate, Release Candidate Testing, Ubuntu Open Week, Abiword 2.6 needs testers, reviewers, and sponsors, Ship``It 8.04 CD orders, Hardy Heron release parties, FISL (5th International Free Software Forum) in Brazil, Ubuntu Desktop training, Ubuntu ported to ARM, and much, much more!

'''UWN Translations'''

* Note to translators and our readers: We are trying a new way of linking to our translations pages. Please follow the link below for the information you need.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Translations

=== In This Issue ===

* Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Release Candidate
* Release Candidate: call for testing
* Ubuntu Open Week
* Needed: Testers, Reviewers, and Sponsors for Abiword 2.6
* Ship``It Accepting 8.04 CD orders
* Ubuntu Stats
* Lo``Co News
* In the Press & Blogosphere
* In Other News
* Upcoming Meetings & Events
* Updates & Security

=== General Community News ===

==== Announcing Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Release Candidate ====

The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce the Release Candidate for Ubuntu 8.04 LTS (Long-Term Support) on desktop and server.  Codenamed "Hardy Heron," 8.04 LTS continues Ubuntu's proud tradition of integrating the latest and greatest open source technologies into a high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution. The release candidate is considered to be complete, stable, and suitable for testing by any user. Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Desktop Edition features incremental improvements to familiar applications, with an emphasis on stability for this second Ubuntu long-term support release. The Ubuntu 8.04 LTS family of variants, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, Ubuntu``Studio, and Mythbuntu, have also reached RC status. The final release of Ubuntu 8.04 LTS is scheduled for 24 April 2008. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2008-April/000110.html

==== Release Candidate: call for testing ====

With the release candidate out, and in order to give users the best tested and stable release of Ubuntu ever, the Testing Team is currently looking for testers. If you want to help, please join #ubuntu-testing on irc.freenode.net where the team will be hanging out the whole week, coordinating testing. Here are some other links of importance:

* Testing procedures: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Procedures
* Test cases: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases
* Results reporting: http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com
* Bugs: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs
* Additional info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing

Get involved and help make the Hardy release the best yet. http://blog.qa.ubuntu.com/node/4

==== Ubuntu Open Week ====

* When: Monday 28 April 2008 - Saturday 3 May 2008
* Where: #ubuntu-classroom on Freenode
* Schedule: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek/

The aim of "Open Week" is to help the Ubuntu community grow, and they have an awesome set of topics ready for you. If you’ve considered getting involved in Ubuntu and don’t know where to start, then this is a great opportunity to jump in. There will be sessions on all kinds of subjects including an "Ask Mark" session. Remember, being part of Ubuntu does not have to be a technical, hardcore programming or packaging jobs. You can be involved with artwork, marketing, advocacy, local community teams, documentation, translations and more. If you are interested in being a part of the Ubuntu project, there is sure to be a session for you, take this time to join the Ubuntu Community and become part of the world-class team that puts Ubuntu together. We are keen to show that everyone can be a part of our growing community. http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1402.

==== Needed: Testers, Reviewers, and Sponsors for Abiword 2.6 ====

There has been discussion in the last few weeks regarding the possibility of including Abiword 2.6 in Hardy. The general consensus of the release team seems to be that is would be desirable. Obviously, the risks of making such a change at this point in the release cycle was a part of the discussion held with the release team. However, the release team would be willing to approve an FFe if the packaging was of required caliber and appropriate testing occurred (and both cases appear to be true). Please visit the link to find out how and where to help make this package a part of the Hardy final release. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2008-April/003868.html

==== ShipIt Accepting 8.04 CD Orders ====

Ubuntu Ship``It is now taking pre-orders for 8.04. Ship``It will send you a CD of the latest version at no cost, but the delivery may take up to ten weeks, so you should consider downloading the CD image if you have a fast Internet connection. You can also check the status of existing orders at this site. https://shipit.ubuntu.com/

=== Ubuntu Stats ===

==== Bug Stats ====

* Open (43210) +768 # over last week
* Critical (31) +2 # over last week
* Unconfirmed (20997) +655 # over last week
* Unassigned (33730) +831 # over last week
* All bugs ever reported (173748) +2324 # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

==== Translation Stats Hardy ====

This is the top 5, not specific languages, so the languages might change week to week.

* Spanish (15494 )
* French (39226 )
* English-UK (45823)
* Swedish (55712 )
* Brazilian Portuguese (63759)

Remaining strings to translate in Ubuntu 8.04 "Hardy Heron," see more at: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/

=== LoCo News ===

==== Hardy Heron Release Parties ====

The Hardy release is just around the corner, and it looks like the Lo``Cos are in full swing planning their parties. Help promote the release and have a great time doing it.

Come join the fun! Information on Hardy Heron release parties:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseParties

==== FISL - 5th International Free Software Forum Brazil ====

Brazil is one of the countries whose government has come out firmly in favor of free software. The initiative includes plans to export around 2 billion USD worth of software per year; to replace Microsoft Windows with Linux in 300,000 federal government computers; to transfer 1 billion USD in resources from the Telecommunications Fund (Fust) to the free software-based Digital Communications System (SCD); and to integrate the country's 200,000 public schools via open-source technology.

* Day One: (Porto Alegre, Brazil) FISL (International Free Software Forum), is the biggest free software event in Brazil. In addition to the GNOME booth that was set up, there were many discussions centering around development for GNOME apps, translations of GNOME, and generally GNOME itself. Many great folks were present who were known formerly only from emails or their nicks. http://www.bani.com.br/2008/04/17/fisl-first-day/

* Day Two: Day two was a GNOME day, with many people showing their support by wearing GNOME t-shirts and expressing an interest in contributing to the project. Additionally, Planet GNOME Brazil, was published. It will be an aggregate of Brazilian contributors. FISL is a huge event here, with more than 7000 attendees.http://www.bani.com.br/2008/04/18/fisl-second-day/

Be sure to check out all the pictures here: http://www.flickr.com/photos/74401586@N00/tags/fisl/

=== In The Press ===

* A Year Later, Sales of Linux on Dell Computers Continue to Grow - About a year ago, Dell made an important move. Pushed by thousands of comments on its Idea``Storm website, the company started offering Ubuntu preloaded on a small selection of its machines. In an interview with Computer``World a few days ago, Dell said that "sales of the Linux-loaded machines are encouraging." However, they refuse to give out any specific sales figures. "A [sales] number is not going to validate it as much as our actions to date,", they said. http://www.osnews.com/story/19646/A_Year_Later_Sales_of_Linux_on_Dell_Computers_Continue_to_Grow

* Linux examined: Ubuntu Hardy Heron -   If there is a single complaint that is laid at the feet of Linux time and time again, it's that the operating system is too complicated and arcane for casual computer users to tolerate. You can't ask newbies to install device drivers or recompile the kernel, naysayers argue. One of the killer features of Ubuntu is that the installation media is also a "live CD." This means that you can boot it off the CD and try it out first before installing it. And when you do install it, you'll be asked a minimum of questions, and none of them are in the least challenging to anyone who has ever installed Windows. If there's a distribution ready for your neighborhood newbie, this is it. http://www.computerworld.com/action/article.do?command=viewArticleBasic&articleId=9076879&intsrc=hm_list

* Ampro Offers Ubuntu-Based Embedded Linux - Ampro Computers has debuted new Linux support for its line of board-level embedded computers. "Ampro selected Ubuntu Linux as the basis of our new embedded Linux offering for three key reasons," Lehrbaum added. "First, Ubuntu has rapidly emerged as one of the most popular Linux distributions in both desktop and server applications, and the project recently has become a key partner in Intel's Mobile and Internet Linux (Moblin) initiative. Second, Ubuntu is a completely free and open-source OS, availing developers of easy access to source code and minimizing device costs. Third, Ubuntu features a simple yet powerful package management infrastructure, APT, that enables quick and easy software installation, updates, and security patches."   http://www.tradingmarkets.com/.site/news/Stock%20News/1356685/

=== In The Blogosphere ===

* Linux is Good for the Elderly - Why should older users change to Linux? Primarily because of cost. Obtaining and loading Linux is without cost. Similarly when updates are issued there is no additional cost to install the updates. Is it difficult to use Linux? If you are familiar with using windows you may be surprised at how similar Linux is to windows. What if you have a problem and cannot solve it? Since Linux is open source there are millions of users who are extremely well versed in the use of Linux and you will find that there is always someone who has the answer to your problem and provides a solution to your difficulty. http://ubuntulinuxhelp.com/linux-is-good-for-the-elderly/

* Shuttleworth starts countdown to Ubuntu 8.04 release - The next red-letter day for Ubuntu fans will be April 24, when Ubuntu 8.04 LTS (Long Term Support) arrives. In an interview, Mark Shuttleworth made the point that, while many executives have yet to realize it, "Open source software projects and Linux distros are actually better than proprietary companies at hitting deadlines." In particular, Shuttleworth says, "Companies are now comparing Linux with Vista, and it's clear that's Linux does a better job of meeting people's expectations. Taken all-in-all, Shuttleworth feels that Ubuntu users will find Ubuntu 8.04 to be a great distribution, whether they intend to use it in their businesses, on their desktops, or to introduce new users to Linux. http://www.linux.com/feature/132575

* Ubuntu 8.04 Beta - Now that the beta release of Hardy is out, it is time to give it a try. Installing fresh is the best way to see how it will look to someone who is new to Linux. After installation, the first reboot into Ubuntu was a seamless experience, and even though there were many updates to download and install, the package manager took care of everything. Once you get it all set up and configured, Ubuntu is a very well behaved OS. http://comphobby.org/archives/163-Ubuntu-8.04-Beta.html

* Ubuntu takes early lead in Open Source Census - They announced it in December, but Open``Logic's census of open source software is now actually open for business. Ninety percent of participants have Ubuntu, and about half are in the US (with an impressive and results-bending 33 percent from Finland). Two thirds of them are small businesses (ten to 49 people). The data set is still too small to be valid. http://community.zdnet.co.uk/blog/0,1000000567,10007846o-2000469549b,00.htm

=== In Other News ===

==== Canonical Announces Ubuntu Desktop Training ====

Canonical announced training for corporate and home desktop users to get started with Ubuntu. "This desktop training is designed with new users in mind, so they can experience first hand how easily Ubuntu, and free software, can fit into their work and personal lives," said Billy Cina, training manager, Canonical. The retail price for this course is $100 and can be purchased through shop.canonical.com. Bulk discounts for corporations are available upon request. http://www.ubuntu.com/news/online-desktop-training

==== Curl debuts its RIA features for Ubuntu Linux ====

Curl Inc. today announced support for Ubuntu Linux, which will allow desktop Ubuntu users to easily see Curl-enhanced Web content on their computers without having to manually configure a player. According to Bert Halstead, chief architect at the Cambridge, MA. based company: "It gives Ubuntu users the ability to see Curl content in the way it is meant to be seen," with enhanced features.  http://www.computerworld.com/action/article.do?command=printArticleBasic&articleId=9078299

==== Ubuntu ported to ARM ====

A Nokia-sponsored project is porting Ubuntu Linux to the ARM architecture. The "Handheld Mojo" team has completed ARM builds of Feisty Fawn (dubbed "Frisky Firedrake"), and Gutsy Gibbon ("Grumpy Griffin"), with Hardy Heron compilation starting soon. Meanwhile, Ubuntu is gaining better support for devices with small screens and limited input devices thanks to work by the Ubuntu Mobile and Embedded team, and its forebear, Embedded``Ubuntu, as well as Intel's Moblin project.  http://www.linuxdevices.com/news/NS2097004728.html

==== CNR.com Releases Beta CNR Client for Ubuntu 8.04 ====

Linspire, Inc., developer of CNR, a one-click digital software delivery service for desktop Linux and web-based software, today announced the immediate availability of a beta CNR Client for Ubuntu 8.04 LTS. Available for free at CNR.com, the beta CNR Client for Ubuntu 7.04, 7.10 and now for 8.04 Hardy Heron, provides users with free access to an online marketplace where they can find, learn about and with one-click download and install the latest desktop Linux software applications of their choice, both free and commercial.  http://www.earthtimes.org/articles/show/cnrcom-releases-beta-cnr-client-for-ubuntu-804,354504.shtml

=== Upcoming Meetings and Events ===

==== Wednesday, April 23, 2008 ====

===== LoCo Council Meeting =====
* Start: 20:00 UTC
* End: 21:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: Setting up basic structure, set up meeting times, wiki pages, etc.

===== Server Team Meeting =====
* Start: 21:00 UTC
* End: 22:00 UTC
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting

=== Updates and Security for 6.06, 6.10, 7.04, and 7.10 ===

==== Security Updates ====

* [USN-601-1] Squid vulnerability - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-April/000691.html
* [USN-603-1] poppler vulnerability - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-April/000692.html
* [USN-603-2] KOffice vulnerability - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/2008-April/000693.html

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

* squid_2.5.12-4ubuntu2.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-April/012675.html
* mysql-dfsg-5.0 5.0.22-0ubuntu6.06.10 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-April/012676.html
* poppler 0.5.1-0ubuntu7.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-April/012677.html
* koffice 1:1.5.0-0ubuntu9.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2008-April/012678.html

==== Ubuntu 6.10 Updates ====

* squid_2.6.1-3ubuntu1.7 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-April/008543.html
* lighttpd 1.4.13~r1370-1ubuntu1.7 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-April/008544.html
* poppler 0.5.4-0ubuntu4.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-April/008545.html
* koffice 1:1.5.2-0ubuntu2.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2008-April/008546.html

==== Ubuntu 7.04 Updates ====

* squid_2.6.5-4ubuntu2.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-April/008901.html
* libapache2-mod-python 3.2.10-3ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-April/008902.html
* lighttpd 1.4.13-9ubuntu4.6 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-April/008903.html
* poppler 0.5.4-0ubuntu8.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-April/008904.html
* koffice_1.6.2-0ubuntu1.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/feisty-changes/2008-April/008905.html

==== Ubuntu 7.10 Updates ====

* squid_2.6.14-1ubuntu2.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-April/010197.html
* update-manager 1:0.81.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-April/010198.html
* lighttpd 1.4.18-1ubuntu1.4 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-April/010199.html
* poppler 0.6-0ubuntu2.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-April/010200.html
* koffice_1.6.3-0ubuntu5.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/gutsy-changes/2008-April/010201.html

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Nick Ali
* John Crawford
* Craig A. Eddy
* And many others

=== Glossary of Terms ===

* FFe - Feature Freeze exception

=== Feedback ===

If you would like to submit an idea or story you think is worth appearing on the UWN, please send them to ubuntu-marketing-submissions@lists.ubuntu.com.
This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page. If you have any technical support questions, please send then ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com.
