{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Developer News ==
=== General ===
==== Concept ====

We aim to get weekly news out about Ubuntu Development. With such a huge variety of teams and efforts going on, it's important that we do our best to
* keep everybody up to date
* celebrate excellent work that is going on
* provide insight into Ubuntu development
* invite new developers in

==== Examples ====

* http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2011/09/08/ubuntu-11-10-development-update-10/
* http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2011/09/15/ubuntu-11-10-development-update-11/
* http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2011/09/25/ubuntu-11-10-development-update-12/
* http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2011/09/30/ubuntu-11-10-development-update-13/

=== Outreach ===

Currently the weekly development update is posted on:

* http://fridge.ubuntu.com
* http://omgubuntu.co.uk

Also is it mentioned by the @ubuntudev account on social networks:
* http://twitter.com/ubuntudev
* http://facebook.com/ubuntudev
* http://identi.ca/ubuntudev
* http://gplus.to/ubuntudev

=== Help out ===
We need help to write these updates and collect great information. If you are interested in joining a young team interest in Ubuntu development, please join the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-news-team|ubuntu-news-team mailing list]]</nowiki> and introduce yourself. We're happy to have you on board!

==== Writing ====
Up until now the guides had this or a similar structure:

# Dev update
## News from Ubuntu development
## Quick look at the ReleaseSchedule
## Upcoming Events
## Call for help
## Welcoming new contributors / new uploaders
# Interview with contributors / Spotlight on a team or initiative
# Closing with instructions to get involved / get in touch

=== Submit news ===
If you have development news you want us to include, get them to ubuntu-news-team@lists.ubuntu.com (and prefix the subject with "[dev]") until Thursday. We are interested in almost every story. If you want to 
* highlight some great work done by somebody else
* explain some changes that are upcoming
* ask for help on a project
* give a bit of background about something your team is working on
* an interview you did
* ...

Thanks a lot in advance!
