{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting with Ubuntu desktop team for work on Unity 7.

== Agenda ==
** About wizard, a plan for design
** We have created a initial branch about new lockscreen theme: <nowiki>[[ https:--code.launchpad.net-~feng-kylin-unity-ExtendLockscreenTheme|lp:~feng-kylin-unity-ExtendLockscreenTheme]]</nowiki>,
  and what is the appropriate way to extend  lockscreen with those changes?
** next meeting time.

== Action Items from last meeting ==
** None
 
== Meeting Notes ==
** Wizard
** Trevinho suggests to do two designs.
*** First one is a simpler one, to show users the elements on the desktop, with no actual verification of what the user requests, by grabbing the whole screen and taking the user into a tour... like "This is the BFB, if you click here the dash opens.... then this is the Launcher... "
*** And the second one is a full wizard, which users can manipulate.
** Trevinho will have sprint during Oct 12-16. If we have design done by then, he can ask designers' ACK when he meets them.
** zhangchao proposed
### open dash
### open app on launcher
### open indicator
### show setting from indicator

** Lockscreen
** Trevinho suggests to implement their own shield by inheriting from LockscreenAbstractShield, some more refactoring may be needed.
** Will work on launcher rotation next month, occupied by the lockscreen now.
** Next meeting: Oct 22

== Action Items ==

== Meeting Links ==
* Link to previous meeting
** <nowiki>[[Ubuntu Kylin-Meeting-2015-20150910|20150910]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[Ubuntu Kylin-Meeting-2015-20151008|20151008]]</nowiki>
