{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Ubuntu-Tweakers'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
Ubuntu-Tweakers is community team that supports those who like to take a stock Ubuntu system and tweak it in ever possible way. We try to produce central hub of documentation for how to tweak, extend and customize your Ubuntu system. We also provide communication channel and support resources. We try to build tools and facilities to provide post-installation facilities for configuring different elements of Ubuntu. 

The idea for the team came from Jono Bacon. After he wrote about it to his blog, few guys like Brandon Tomsilon, Matt Gaunt and Toni Korpela went ahead and started it, because Bacon did not have time to do it.

At the moment we are trying to get wiki and forum.

== Contact ==
* IRC: <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-tweakers|#ubuntu-tweakers @ irc.freenode.net]]</nowiki> 
* Mailing List: We have mailing list at <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tweakers|launchpad]]</nowiki>. 

== How to Contribute ==

* Write articles how to configure and modify Ubuntu
* Create tools for configuring Ubuntu
* Help others to configure their Ubuntu system

== Projects ==

* <nowiki>[[http://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0Abeqw3xBUqsUZGY2YnM5Z2tfMjVnOWJqZjlkNQ&hl=en|Guide to bash scripting]]</nowiki> - TMKCodes

== Launchpad Membership Policy ==

== Meetings ==

----
'''Sub-pages :''' ----

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
