{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background:#ffd;color:#000;margin:1em 0;">This page is about contributing to the development of Ubuntu itself. If you are interested in developing applications for Ubuntu, see the <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Developer]]</nowiki> site.
|}

=== Overview of Development ===

Ubuntu is developed by a team of UbuntuDevelopers.

This process is transparent to the public, and open to any contributor who demonstrates the necessary skills and commitment to the project.

Ubuntu is based on <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/|Debian]]</nowiki>, sharing many of its packages, tools and techniques with that project.  Differences between Ubuntu and Debian are described in UbuntuForDebianDevelopers.

Ubuntu is <nowiki>[[ReleaseProcess|periodically released]]</nowiki> according to a set schedule.

Like most operating systems, Ubuntu is complex, and it can help to get a broad overview of its architecture first. For that, see UbuntuArchitecture.

If you have been directed to this page for advice on contributing to Ubuntu as a developer, you may also be interested in ContributeToUbuntu.

=== Working with Other Developers ===

You are not alone!  Ubuntu is the work of many developers, and we devote some effort to enabling efficient collaboration with tools, infrastructure, government and a cooperative spirit.

==== Starting points ====

UbuntuDevelopers explains the roles of developers in the Ubuntu project and how to join the teams.

If you are brand new to Ubuntu Development and need to install the development tool set, or need step by step reminder on how to, check out the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/Devbeginnings|Ubuntu Beginner Developers' Tools Installation Quick Start]]</nowiki>

If you're looking for tasks which need doing, many of those are tracked in the bug tracking system.  The BugSquad maintains several lists of them at <nowiki>[[Bugs-Tags]]</nowiki>.

If you already have experience working with Debian packages, most of your knowledge applies equally well to Ubuntu packaging.  If you are a Debian developer, UbuntuForDebianDevelopers summarizes some of the differences between the projects, and later sections in this document provide details of our infrastructure.

To submit patches for review or to help reviewing patches, please refer to <nowiki>[[CodeReviews|the Code Review process]]</nowiki>.

To find the developer responsible for the component you're working on, see DeveloperResponsibilities.

==== Communication ====

Email discussion among Ubuntu developers takes place on the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel|ubuntu-devel mailing list]]</nowiki>, which is moderated (excepting registered Ubuntu developers).  The <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-discuss|ubuntu-devel-discuss mailing list]]</nowiki> is available for open discussion about Ubuntu development (not for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Reporting_non-crash_hardware_and_desktop_application_bugs|reporting bugs]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support|user support]]</nowiki>).  All UbuntuDevelopers should subscribe to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce|ubuntu-devel-announce mailing list]]</nowiki>, where important development events are announced.  <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/|Various other mailing lists]]</nowiki> are available, some of which focus on specific areas of development.

The `#ubuntu-devel` channel on the Libera.Chat IRC network is home to many Ubuntu developers for real-time communication.

<nowiki>[[PackageArchive#Notification|Automated notifications of development activity]]</nowiki> are also useful for keeping up with what other developers are working on.

A comprehensive matrix of communication channels can be found on DeveloperCommunication.

==== Bugs and the BugSquad ====

<nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu|Ubuntu bug reports]]</nowiki> are tracked in Launchpad.  HelpingWithBugs contains information about how they are handled.
The BugSquad documentation describes how to cooperate with other developers and volunteers working on bug triage; it is required reading for new developers, as developers will typically need to spend a significant amount of time working with the bug tracking system.

The BugSquad (and the Ubuntu Bug Control team, which is comprised of more experienced triagers who can prioritize bugs) are here to help you as a developer. If you are responsible for a non-trivial number of bugs, it is a good idea to spend some time on helping them help you. A useful starting point is to add specific information about your packages to DebuggingProcedures: this may include both special tricks for debugging them effectively and any particular policy you have on how you want your bugs to be handled (e.g. assignment, tags, etc.). When adding significant chunks of new information to DebuggingProcedures, please send a note to ubuntu-bugsquad@lists.ubuntu.com about it.

Members of the Bug Squad can be found on the `#ubuntu-bugs` channel on the FreeNode IRC network.  There is also the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugsquad|ubuntu-bugsquad mailing list]]</nowiki> for general discussion regarding bugs and bug triaging.

==== Papercuts ====

<nowiki>[[One Hundred Papercuts|Papercuts]]</nowiki> are trivial to fix, but annoying bugs. Ideal for getting started helping with bugs.

==== Release Critical bugs ====

<nowiki>[[RCBugTargetting]]</nowiki> documents the intended use of the various facilities of the bug tracking system to track release-critical bugs.

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&field.importance%3Alist=Critical&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_contact=&field.milestone%3Alist=50164&field.component=1&field.component=2&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.status_upstream=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.tag=&field.has_cve.used=&field.has_no_package.used=|Showstopper bugs]]</nowiki>  Critical and milestoned to the relevant release.  Those bugs will hold up the release if not fixed.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.importance%3Alist=CRITICAL&field.importance%3Alist=HIGH&field.milestone%3Alist=50160&field.milestone%3Alist=50161&field.milestone%3Alist=50162&field.milestone%3Alist=50163&field.milestone%3Alist=50164|Release-critical bugs]]</nowiki> Critical and high importance bugs milestoned to the relevant release.  Those bugs need to be fixed or worked around/documented before the release.

In particular, if you make a temporary change to a package for whatever reason which should be reverted before release, please file a release-critical bug about it so that this can be tracked by the release team.

=== The Release Process ===

Ubuntu does time-based releases. The <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-ReleaseProcess|Release Process]]</nowiki> section covers all the release management steps such as beginning a new release, planning it, merging with upstream, feature development, stabilization and freezes, milestone, finalization and stable releases.

=== Packaging ===

If you're interested in packaging work, but don't have much experience yet, you should read <nowiki>[[MOTU-GettingStarted|this]]</nowiki> to get involved in the <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> team.

==== Working with Debian-format Packages ====

Ubuntu uses the Debian packaging format.  The following resources explain how to create and modify Debian-format packages.

* If you are already familiar with Debian development, UbuntuForDebianDevelopers explains some of the differences between the projects.
* All Ubuntu developers should be familiar with the <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/ubuntu-policy/policy.html/|Ubuntu Policy Manual]]</nowiki> (derived from the <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy Manual]]</nowiki>).
* All Ubuntu developers should be familiar with the <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/maint-guide/|Debian New Maintainer Guide]]</nowiki>; though be aware that there are many differences (technical, social and procedural) between Ubuntu and Debian of which they must also be aware.
* <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/|The Ubuntu Packaging Guide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/PackagingTutorial|A packaging tutorial]]</nowiki> is available from the Debian Wiki, as is <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/MaintainerScripts|an explanation of maintainer scripts]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/AdvancedBuildingTips|further help with building packages]]</nowiki>.
* Many packages use tools to help manage multiple patches. <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/patches-to-packages.html|Patching Ubuntu packages]]</nowiki> explains how to work with them.
** The <nowiki>[[https://perso.duckcorp.org/duck/cdbs-doc/cdbs-doc.xhtml|CDBS Manual]]</nowiki> explains how to work with packages using the CDBS packaging scripts, one example of a patch system (and more)
* Packaging shared libraries is a delicate task, and getting it wrong can cause upgrade headaches for users. The <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian Library Packaging Guide]]</nowiki> can be useful in avoiding some of the common traps.
* For a deeper understanding of the packaging process, you might want to have a look at this one: http://wiki.debian.org/Courses2005/BuildingWithoutHelper
* http://people.debian.org/~calvin/unofficial/ contains information on maintaining your own archive of unofficial packages.
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-motu/2006-February/000443.html|how to write watch files]]</nowiki> for sourceforge.net hosted projects

==== Working with Ubuntu Packages ====

* Set the target suite in debian/changelog to be the code name of the current development branch, e.g. "``dch -D zesty``"
* When working with a package which originated in Debian, use a version number derived from the Debian version number with `ubuntu<revision>` appended. e.g. Debian 1.0-2 becomes 1.0-2ubuntu1, followed by 1.0-2ubuntu2, etc.
* When fixing a bug tracked in Launchpad, be sure to insert ''LP: #xxxxxx'' notation in your changelog entry, for example: <pre>
mypackage (2.2-2) zesty; urgency=low

** hello(1) now prints "Hello, world!" instead of "Hello yourself." (LP: #500000)

 -- A. Developer <adeveloper@ubuntu.com> Mon, 17 Dec 2007 18:27:50 +0000
</pre>  Note: The regex in Launchpad looks for LP: #xxxxxx at a minimum.  The preferred form is (LP: #xxxxxx).
* When creating a new package which may later be added to Debian, use a revision of the form -0ubuntu1
* Remember to include the <code>orig.tar.gz</code> if this is a new upstream version of a non-native package but you have already patched it before upload. A missing original tarball may cause the upload to be rejected or silently dropped. Use <code>dpkg-buildpackage -S -sa</code> to generate such an upload. If the `orig.tar.gz` is already in the distribution then you don't need to upload it again.
* Always be aware of the release schedule and any applicable <nowiki>[[ReleaseProcess#Freezes|freezes]]</nowiki>.  The cooperation of all developers is needed in order to ensure a successful release!
* If your changes may affect the work of other developers, it is a good idea to discuss them on a mailing list first
* For merging a Ubuntu package with a newer Debian version, see <nowiki>[[Merging]]</nowiki>

==== Revision control (Bazaar) ====

Bazaar, an open source revision control system and Canonical sponsored project, is the preferred revision control system in Ubuntu.  Many Ubuntu packages are <nowiki>[[BzrMaintainerHowto|maintained in Bazaar]]</nowiki>, which makes it easy for other developers to <nowiki>[[BzrContributorHowto|contribute changes to them]]</nowiki>, which can be easily merged by the maintainer.

Note that, as a practical matter, many packages are not yet maintained in Bazaar, but in other revision control systems or none on a case-by-case basis. (<nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment|Work is underway]]</nowiki> to rectify this.) Where no revision control system is used, the history of uploads recorded in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+search|Launchpad]]</nowiki> may be useful.

==== Ubuntu Flavors and Derivative Distributions ====

The Ubuntu project produces several distributions each release cycle.  These are sometimes called "flavours". Kubuntu, Edubuntu, and Xubuntu are all maintained directly in the Ubuntu archive.  There are also a large number of derivative distributions that are based on the Ubuntu archive, but separately developed.

* <nowiki>[[KubuntuPackagingGuide]]</nowiki>

==== Upstream ====

"Upstream" is the term used to describe all the places where Ubuntu pulls its software from. The developers of this
software write it and then it flows downstream in to Ubuntu and then in to its derivatives. 

See http://distributions.freedesktop.org/wiki/Packaging/WhyUpstream for why upstream is so important, and some tips on working with upstream to improve the software, and hence Ubuntu.

There is one upstream that is critical to Ubuntu, <nowiki>[[Debian]]</nowiki>. This is where most of the packages in Ubuntu come from,
and so working with them is important.

==== Building ====

You should always build and test packages locally before submitting them to Ubuntu.  Failure to do so will waste the time of other members of the community, so please be considerate.

* You may want to build them in a <nowiki>[[DebootstrapChroot]]</nowiki> or in <nowiki>[[PbuilderHowto|pbuilder]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[UsingDevelopmentReleases]]</nowiki> explains how to safely work and test on the current development release.
* Backports are explained at <nowiki>[[UbuntuBackports]]</nowiki>

==== Tools ====

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/Devbeginnings|Ubuntu Developers' Tools Installation Quick Start]]</nowiki>

You will find some tools explained in the <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/fixing-a-bug-example.html|Packaging Guide]]</nowiki>, also from `gutsy` on, you will find `ubuntu-dev-tools` in the archive, which contains <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevTools|tools for developing Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

==== New Packages ====

The process for either requesting a new package or getting your own new package included in Ubuntu is described at <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-NewPackages]]</nowiki>.

=== The Package Archive ===

All current official Ubuntu packages are stored in the master archive, which is widely mirrored. It is administered by the archive administration team. The <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-PackageArchive|Packaging Archive section]]</nowiki> covers details such as the processes of interaction with the build daemons and the archive. It also explains how different architectures and package components are handled and how the autobuilders work.

=== Installation media ===

The <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-InstallationMedia|Installation media]]</nowiki> section discusses the different supported installation media types, how to obtain them and contains pointers to Installer development.

=== Language packs - Internationalisation / Localisation ===

Unlike other distributions we do not ship upstream translations from
source packages directly in binary application packages in main and
restricted, since this does not allow us any flexibility in editing
them on a central place (Launchpad), update them independently from
the applications, and update them post release. That is why we
separate packages and their translations in Ubuntu and
maintain/package them independently.

The complete lifecycle of translations (import, maintenance, export,
and language pack structure) is described on TranslationLifecycle.

The main article is at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Internationalisation| Internationalisation Guide for Developers]]</nowiki>

=== Other Resources ===

These resources should be incorporated into new or existing sections elsewhere in this document, but are temporarily recorded here so that we remember to come back to them later:

* Debian Python Policy: http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/

----
CategoryProcess<<BR>>CategoryUbuntuDevelopment
