{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Branch deletion ==

=== Status ===

* Created: 2005-04-27 by MatthewPaulThomas
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: NeedsLead, NeedsSecond
* Contributors: MartinPool
* Interested:
* Status: UduBof, LaunchpadSpecification, NewSpec
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: none yet 

=== Introduction ===

=== Rationale ===

Sometimes people want to delete a branch from a product, so that the branch no longer appears on Launchpad.

=== Use cases ===

* Branch actually contains proprietary data that shouldn't have been published.

* Branch was created and then abandoned (c.f. 90% of sourceforge)

* Branch was created in error (e.g. used the wrong name or other commands when creating it; c.f. accumulation of arch branches or usenet groups with misspelled names.)

It would seem there are several levels of deletion: in a very few cases, we really do want to completely forget about the branch.  More usually we want to just mark the branch as "very uninteresting". (Right?)

=== Interface design ===

=== Implementation ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* What do we do with children of the branch? (Probably retain them. "Child" is a vague term for branches that might regularly merge from two or more parents.)
----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
