{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #31 for the week March 1st - March 10, 2007. In this issue we cover some of the buzz that is starting to build up around the Feisty Fawn release. We've also got our hands on some very juicy forum statistics, we get to welcome the US Ohio LoCo team after being officially approved, and we're back to our regular release schedule. Enjoy!

Translations: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue31/ES|Español]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fr.org/lettre/lhu31.html|Français]]</nowiki>

=== In This Issue ===

* Linspire now based on Ubuntu
* Statistics of Ubuntuforums
* Ohio US Team approved and official
* Weekly Quiz Update
* Upcoming meetings and events
* 6.06 & 6.10 updates and security notices
* Bug Stats
* Highlighting the Xubuntu Testers

=== General Community News ===

==== Linspire to be Based on Kubuntu, first Ubuntu-based distro to have Click and Run ====

Linspire announced that they will be switching to base their distribution off Ubuntu.  With their polished KDE desktop this makes Linspire the latest in the impressive list of operating systems based off Kubuntu.

It was also announced that Linspire's Click and Run install programme would be added to the Ubuntu archive, giving users of all Ubuntu distributions easy access to a large range of free and proprietry software.

https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuDerivedDistros
http://www.linspire.com/lindows_news_pressreleases_archives.php?id=213
http://www.linspire.com/linspire_letter_archives.php?id=40

==== Kubuntu and Ubuntu at Chemnitzer-LinuxTage ====

March 3 and 4, Kubuntu and Ubuntu had their booths on a major FOSS event in Germany, the Chemnitzer-LinuxTage. Both projects had their booths side by side and therefore the collaboration was fine.
A lot of visitors came to ask about the differences between the different desktops and projects, about the changes in feisty and to see and experience them. We gave away about 300 Kubuntu CDs (Dapper and Edgy) and we could have given more but were sold out the second day, while about 500 Ubuntu CDs were provided.

Pictures of the event:
http://ubuntu.juliux.de/bilder 
http://www.kubuntu-de.org/bilder/events/chemnitzer-linux-tage-2007

Both projects will also have booths at LinuxTag in Berlin (May 28 - June 2). If you're interested in helping out, you can send us a mail to kontakt@kubuntu-de.org or meet us in IRC #kubuntu-de.org on irc.freenode.net for Kubuntu, if you want to get involved for Ubuntu at LinuxTag subscribe to https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-de-events. 

==== Ubuntuforums.org Statistics ====

The forums administrator, ubuntu-geek, has released impressive numbers related to the official Ubuntu forums:

* over 14,000 new accounts each month
* average ~22,000 new threads a month
* average ~136,000 new posts each month
* average ~3.7 million visits each month
* average ~12.6 million page views per month
* ~74% of visitors use Firefox
* ~12% of visitors use IE
* ~61% of visitors use Linux
* ~35% of visitors use Windows
* ~57% of traffic is recurring visitors
* ~42% of traffic is new traffic visitors
* ~69% of traffic comes from google
* ~5% of traffic comes from *.ubuntu.com
* ~3% of traffic comes from digg.com

These forums rock, many thanks to the whole community!
You can read the ubuntuforums statistics thread at: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2276320

=== LoCo News ===

==== Ohio US Team approved ====
The <nowiki>[[OhioTeam|Ohio US LoCo Team]]</nowiki> was granted "official" status at the February 26th Community Council Meeting.  The Ohio Team, while among the youngest LoCo Teams, has benefited from a steady stream of new Team Members who collectively represent nearly every user demographic in the Ubuntu universe.  Current Ohio Team Members include Ubuntu Forum staff, Marketing Team members, business owners seeking Ubuntu partnership, and even some fledgeling developers.  The Ohio Team's active projects include partnering with Ohio Libraries to distribute and circulate Ubuntu-related media, writing and publishing educational curricula for Ubuntu and FOSS, and representing the Ubuntu Community at the 2007 <nowiki>[[http://www.ohiolinux.org/|Ohio Linux Fest]]</nowiki>.  If you're an Ohio resident, be sure to check out this LoCo Team and consider joining the ranks: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-ohio|(launchpad page)]]</nowiki>

=== This Week's Quiz ===

Thanks to the UbuntuTrivia Team, we had another exciting quiz this week. 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Quizmaster'''
| theCore
|-
| '''Champion'''
| tonyyarusso
|-
| '''Sponsor'''
| mc44
|-
| '''Prize'''
| Ubuntu 6.10 DVD edition
|}

Upcoming for next week: Special quiz about Python, on March 17th at 18:00 UTC, hosted by your usual quizmaster.

Quick note, everybody has now access to Ubuntu Trivia 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, thanks to Quizbuntu -- our trivia bot. The official matches, with prizes organized by the Ubuntu Trivia team, will continue as usual, but now you can enjoy the quizzes anytime.
Instructions how to use the bot, are at: http://blog.ryanak.ca/archives/7

More info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTrivia

To participate in the quiz, join #ubuntu-trivia on irc.freenode.net on Friday and/or Saturday UTC-nights - the topic will usually tell you when the next quiz is scheduled.

For more info on prizes, donating, quizzes and giving quizzes see the above link.

=== In The Press ===

"Heise open", the open source portal of Germany's leading computer magazine, writes about Ubuntu and the latest steps Canonical has taken in building new business models. The article mentions the co-operation with SpikeSource and Linspire as signs of continuous growth within the Open Source market. 
Read the full story in (it's in german): http://www.heise.de/open/artikel/85411

Jeremiah Foster writes an open letter to Mark Shuttleworth on O'Reilly Network, he suggests to focus on hardware as next step for Canonical and Ubuntu to gain success on the Desktop. 
Read the full letter: http://www.oreillynet.com/linux/blog/2007/03/open_letter_to_mark_shuttlewor.html

We're happy to see a young startup company is offering notebooks and desktop computers with pre-installed Ubuntu, as reported in macnn, a news-portal for mac users.
Read the full article: http://www.macnn.com/articles/07/02/20/shafetech.ubuntu.pcs/

Feisty's current development status has bien reported on ZD Australia by Renai LeMay, highlighting what as been happening with the "Compiz by default" specification.
Read the full Article: http://www.zdnet.com.au/news/software/soa/Ubuntu_Feisty_Fawn_a_step_closer/0,130061733,339273880,00.htm

Melissa Draper has published an interesting article about Edubuntu about it's history, why it's being successful and where Edubuntu is heading.
Read the full story: http://www.linux.com/article.pl?sid=07/02/20/197251

The French parliament has chosen Ubuntu for all the Members of Parliament computer (and assistants). Linagora and Unilog will provide support for those 577 'political' computers.
Read the full story (in French): http://www.latribune.fr/info/L-Assemblee-nationale-choisit-le-logiciel-libre-~-ID51B2E5C49A8FCE51C1257299003C40B2-$Db=Tribune/Articles.nsf

=== Meetings and Events ===

==== Sunday, March 11, 2007 ====

===== LoCo Team Meeting =====
* Start: 10:00
* End: 11:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamMeeting 

===== Ubuntu-Women Meeting =====
* Start: 15:00
* End: 16:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-women

==== Monday, March 12, 2007 ====

===== Derivative Team Meeting =====
* Start: 18:00
* End: 20:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DerivativeTeam 

==== Tuesday, March 13, 2007 ====

===== Forum Council Meeting =====
* Start: 16:00
* End: 18:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda

===== Technical Board Meeting =====
* Start: 20:00
* End: 22:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoardAgenda 

==== Wednesday, March 14, 2007 ====

===== Edubuntu Meeting =====
* Start: 20:00
* End: 22:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuMeetingAgenda 

==== Thursday, March 15, 2007 ====

===== Ubuntu Development Team Meeting =====
* Start: 21:00
* End: 23:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting 

==== Friday, March 16, 2007 ====

===== MOTU Council Meeting =====
* Start: 10:00
* End: 12:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Council/Meetings 

==== Saturday, March 17, 2007 ====

===== Xubuntu Meeting =====
* Start: 15:00
* End: 17:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Topic: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings 

==== Monday, March 19, 2007 ====

===== Kernel Team Meeting =====
* Start: 15:00
* End: 16:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting 

==== Wednesday, March 21, 2007 ====

===== Edubuntu Meeting =====
* Start: 12:00
* End: 14:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuMeetingAgenda 

==== Thursday, March 22, 2007 ====

===== Ubuntu Development Team Meeting =====
* Start: 16:00
* End: 18:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting 

==== Tuesday, March 27, 2007 ====

===== MOTU Meeting =====
* Start: 08:00
* End: 10:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings 

===== Technical Board Meeting =====
* Start: 20:00
* End: 22:00
* Location: IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting
* Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoardAgenda 

=== Community Spotlight ===

==== Highlighting the Xubuntu Testers ====

In a recent meeting for Xubuntu, the Xubuntu Testers team was decided upon and announced by Cody Somerville. The Xubuntu testers team, which will be headed by Jim Campbell is dedicated to testing the latest and greatest in Xubuntu, including nightly disk images. They can be found on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-testers|Launchpad]]</nowiki> and have a <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Testing|Wiki]]</nowiki> page as well.  Getting involved in this team is designed to be easy so please feel free to try to help. The full email announcement can be found <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2007-February/003142.html|here]]</nowiki>. They hope to help push Xubuntu Feisty along side all the other teams.

=== Updates and security for 6.06 and 6.10 ===

==== Security Updates ====

* USN-434-1: Ekiga vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-434-1
* USN-433-1: Xine vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-433-1
* USN-432-1: GnuPG vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-432-1
* USN-424-2: PHP regression - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-424-2
* USN-431-1: Thunderbird vulnerabilities - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-431-1
* USN-430-1: mod_python vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-430-1
* USN-429-1: tcpdump vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-429-1

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

* firefox 1.5.dfsg+1.5.0.10-0ubuntu0.6.06.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012363.html
* firefox 1.5.dfsg+1.5.0.10-0ubuntu0.6.06.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012364.html
* asterisk 1:1.2.7.1.dfsg-2ubuntu3.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012365.html
* tcpdump 3.9.4-2ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012366.html
* libapache2-mod-python 3.1.4-0ubuntu1.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012367.html
* ejabberd 1.0.0-1ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012368.html
* mozilla-thunderbird 1.5.0.10-0ubuntu0.6.06 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012369.html
* langpack-locales 2.3.18.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012370.html
* php5 5.1.2-1ubuntu3.6 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012371.html
* gnupg 1.4.2.2-1ubuntu2.5 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012372.html
* xine-lib 1.1.1+ubuntu2-7.6 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012373.html
* ekiga 2.0.1-0ubuntu6.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012374.html
* speex 1.1.11.1-1ubuntu0.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2007-March/012375.html

==== Ubuntu 6.10 Updates ====

* slocate 3.1-1ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008217.html
* tar 1.15.91-2ubuntu0.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008218.html
* linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17 2.6.17.7-11.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008219.html
* cyrus-imapd-2.2 2.2.13-4ubuntu1.1~proposed1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008224.html
* ubuntu-docs 6.10.4.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008225.html
* zope3 3.2.2-0ubuntu1.1~proposed1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008226.html
* asterisk 1:1.2.12.1.dfsg-1ubuntu1.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008227.html
* tcpdump 3.9.4-4ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008228.html
* ejabberd 1.1.1-8ubuntu0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008229.html
* mozilla-thunderbird 1.5.0.10-0ubuntu0.6.10 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008230.html
* tzdata 2007b-0ubuntu0.6.10 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008231.html
* php5 5.1.6-1ubuntu2.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008232.html
* gnupg 1.4.3-2ubuntu3.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008233.html
* python-kde3 3.15.2+20060422-2ubuntu4.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008234.html
* kdelibs 4:3.5.5-0ubuntu3.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008235.html
* kdebase 4:3.5.5-0ubuntu3.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008236.html
* xine-lib 1.1.2+repacked1-0ubuntu3.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008239.html
* ekiga 2.0.3-0ubuntu3.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008240.html
* python-kde3 3.15.2+20060422-2ubuntu4.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008241.html
* adept 2.1.1ubuntu3.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008242.html
* xmms-sid 0.7.4+0.8.0beta15-2build0.1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008243.html
* azureus 2.5.0.0repack1-0ubuntu0.6.10 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008244.html
* pouetchess 0.2.0-0ubuntu1.2 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008245.html
* rpy 0.99.2-4ubuntu1 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008246.html
* xdg-utils 1.0-0ubuntu2.3 - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edgy-changes/2007-March/008247.html

=== Bug Stats ===

*** Open (23848) +711 over last week
*** Critical (17) -1 over last week
*** Unconfirmed (11690) +229 over last week
*** Unassigned (17530) +469 over last week
*** All bugs ever reported (81604)  +2445 over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs

Check out the bug statistics: http://people.ubuntu-in.org/~carthik/bugstats/ 

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Cody A.W. Somerville
* Martin Albisetti
* Markus Wimmer
* Isabelle Duchatelle
* Dan Buch
* And many others

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page.
