{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Joining In ==

== You use an IRC client already ==
Use your IRC client (such as xchat, irssi or mIRC) to connect to the freenode IRC network at irc.freenode.net. You can do this manually by typing: <pre>
/server irc.freenode.net
</pre>

Then join #ubuntu-classroom for the time and date of the session you want to attend. You can manually join the channel by typing: <pre>
/join #ubuntu-classroom</pre>

You should also join `#ubuntu-classroom-chat` which is the general discussion channel for the session. Questions should be posted there. You should prefix your questions with '''QUESTION:''' to make them easier to spot.

To quiet various noise that happens in the IRC channels during the talk use this command (in supported clients only):

 <pre>
/ignore #ubuntu-classroom CRAP NOTICES SNOTES CTCPS JOINS PARTS QUITS KICKS MODES WALLOPS NICKS DCC DCCMSGS CLIENTNOTICES CLIENTCRAP CLIENTERRORS HILIGHTS
 </pre>

Most sessions last for around an hour. Contact `dholbach` on IRC if you have any problems.

For instructions on how to use the various IRC clients, see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|XChatHowto]]</nowiki>, GaimHowto, and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Irssi|Irssi]]</nowiki>, respectively. General information about IRC is located at <nowiki>[[InternetRelayChat]]</nowiki>. For Windows users just getting started finding out about Ubuntu, you can use XChat for Windows from http://silverex.info/download/ or Gaim/Pidgin from http://gaim.sourceforge.net/ (both free).  For Ubuntu users of course these come from the repositories.

== Simple Web IRC ==
For users who cannot or will not use IRC software (corporate policy, blocked IRC ports, etc.) you can click '''<nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom%2Cubuntu-classroom-chat|here]]</nowiki>''' to join in the discussion, just give yourself a nickname and press connect, you can switch between the classroom and the chat room using the buttons at the top of the page.
