{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%; margin: 1em 1em 0 0;" style="padding:0.5em; background:#fff000;">OUTDATED
|}

This page is a basic overview of what makes up Ubuntu Studio.

This is just a brief catalog; <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/Applications|UbuntuStudio/Applications]]</nowiki> in the community documentation has some more information about many of these packages.

=== ubuntustudio-desktop ===

DEPENDS:
acpi acpi-support acpid alacarte alsa-base alsa-utils anacron apmd powersaved avahi-autoipd avahi-daemon bc ca-certificates cupsys cupsys-bsd cupsys-client cupsys-driver-gutenprint dc desktop-file-utils doc-base eog file-roller foomatic-db foomatic-db-engine foomatic-filters gcalctool gconf-editor gdebi gdm gedit genisoimage ghostscript-x gnome-about gnome-app-install gnome-applets gnome-control-center gnome-icon-theme gnome-media gnome-menus gnome-netstatus-applet gnome-nettool gnome-panel gnome-pilot-conduits gnome-power-manager gnome-session gnome-spell gnome-system-monitor gnome-system-tools gnome-terminal gnome-themes gnome-utils gnome-volume-manager gstreamer0.10-alsa gstreamer0.10-plugins-base-apps gstreamer0.10-pulseaudio gtk2-engines gtk2-engines-murrine gucharmap hal hotkey-setup hwtest-gtk language-selector lftp libgl1-mesa-glx libglut3 freeglut3 libgnome2-perl libgnomevfs2-bin libgnomevfs2-extra libpt-1.10.10-plugins-v4l libpt-1.10.10-plugins-v4l2 libsasl2-modules libxp6 metacity nautilus nautilus-cd-burner nautilus-sendto notification-daemon openprinting-ppds pnm2ppa powermanagement-interface pulseaudio pulseaudio-esound-compat readahead rss-glx screen scrollkeeper rarian-compat seahorse smbclient software-properties-gtk ssh-askpass-gnome synaptic system-config-printer-gnome tango-icon-theme tango-icon-theme-common ttf-bitstream-vera ttf-dejavu-core ttf-freefont ubuntustudio-default-settings ubuntustudio-look ubuntustudio-menu ubuntustudio-screensaver unzip update-notifier usplash usplash-theme-ubuntustudio x-ttcidfont-conf xkb-data xorg xscreensaver-data xscreensaver-gl xterm yelp zenity zip

RECOMMENDS:
apport-gtk bluez-cups bluez-utils bogofilter brasero bug-buddy cdparanoia compiz cups-pdf displayconfig-gtk dvd+rw-tools evince firefox firefox-gnome-support foo2zjs foomatic-db-hpijs fortune-mod gcc gnome-user-guide hplip im-switch jockey-gtk landscape-client laptop-detect libgl1-mesa-dri libnss-mdns linux-headers-rt make min12xxw nautilus-share onboard padevchooser paman paprefs pavucontrol pavumeter pidgin pidgin-otr powernowd powersaved pulseaudio-module-gconf pulseaudio module-hal pulseaudio-module-x11 pxljr scim scim-bridge-agent scim-bridge-client-gtk scim-gtk2-immodule scim-tables-additional splix totem totem-mozilla ttf-arabeyes ttf-arphic-uming ttf-indic-fonts-core ttf-kochi-gothic ttf-kochi-gothic-naga10 ttf-kochi-mincho ttf-kochi-mincho-naga10 ttf-lao ttf-malayalam-fonts ttf-thai-tlwg ttf-unfonts-core ubuntu-docs vino wodim wvdial xcursor-themes xdg-utils

=== ubuntustudio-audio ===
All applications deemed necessary to provide a working PC studio environment. This is the package most users of other derivatives will be interested in, so they don't get forced into a different desktop environment with a new theme and such.

====== Package list: ======
aconnectgui alsa-tools alsa-tools-gui audacity audacious audacious-plugins-extra ardour beast bitscope creox denemo timemachine gtick hydrogen jackbeat jackd jackeq jack-rack jack-tools jamin jdelay lilypond lilypond-data meterbridge muse patchage qamix vkeybd qjackctl puredata rosegarden timidity seq24 shaketracker sooperlooper swami csound tapiir freqtweak mixxx terminatorx zynaddsubfx fluidsynth bristol freebirth qsynth tk707

RECOMMENDS:
linux-rt ubuntustudio-controls

====== Description: ======

Basic infrastructure

* alsa-tools - Console based ALSA utilities for specific hardware
* alsa-tools-gui - GUI based ALSA utilities for specific hardware
* qamix - Configurable mixer for ALSA

JACK and JACK Utilities

* jackd - JACK Audio Connection Kit (server and example clients)
* qjackctl - User interface for controlling the JACK sound server
* bitscope - diagnosis tool for JACK audio software
* jdelay - A small command line JACK app you can use to measure the latency of your sound card.
* meterbridge - A collection of Audio meters for the JACK audio server
* patchage - modular patch bay for Jack audio and Alsa Midi
* jack-tools - various JACK tools: plumbing, play, udp, ctl, scope, clock

Sound editing and recording

* audacity - Swiss army audio editor
* timemachine - JACK audio recorder for spontaneous and conservatory use

Audio playback

* audacious - Versatile lightweight audio player.
* audacious-plugins-extra - Plugin pack for Audacious.

Digital Audio Workstation software

* ardour - Digital audio workstation (graphical gtk interface)
* beast - music synthesis and composition framework

Synthesizers

* fluidsynth - Real-time MIDI software synthesizer
* bristol - vintage synthesizer emulator
* freebirth - Bass synthesizer/sample player/sequencer similar to Rebirth
* qsynth - fluidsynth MIDI sound synthesiser front-end
* zynaddsubfx - Realtime software synthesizer for Linux
* csound - powerful and versatile sound synthesis software
* swami - SoundFont editor

Sampling

* sooperlooper - Looping Sampler LADSPA plugin

Sequencing

* aconnectgui - graphical ALSA sequencer connection manager
* rosegarden - music editor and MIDI/audio sequencer
* hydrogen - Simple drum machine/step sequencer
* seq24 - Real time MIDI sequencer
* jackbeat - audio sequencer
* muse - Qt-based midi/audio sequencer
* tk707 - drum sequencer for a sound card or MIDI device
* shaketracker - MIDI sequencer with tracker GUI

Effects and signal processing

* jack-rack - LADSPA effects "rack" for JACK
* tapiir - A tool for real time audio delay and feedback effects
* freqtweak - Realtime audio frequency spectral manipulation
* jamin - Audio mastering from a mixed down multitrack source with JACK
* creox - real-time guitar effects
* jackeq - routes and manipulates audio from/to multiple sources

DJ tools

* terminatorx - A realtime audio synthesizer
* mixxx - A digital DJ interface (for beat-mixing)

MIDI Utilities

* timidity - Software sound renderer (MIDI sequencer, MOD player)
* vkeybd - Virtual Keyboard program

Musical typesetting

* denemo - A gtk+ frontend to GNU Lilypond
* lilypond-data - LilyPond music typesetter (data files)
* lilypond - A program for typesetting sheet music

Miscellaneous / uncategorized

* gtick - Metronome application
* puredata - realtime computer music and graphics system
* fluid-soundfont-gm - This is a GM SoundFont, for use with any modern MIDI synthesiser: hardware (like the emu10k1 sound card), or software (like FluidSynth).

The categories here were more or less copied from JacobCreedon's division at http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/Audio

=== ubuntustudio-audio-plugins ===
An audio plug-ins package.

====== Package list: ======
aeolus blop caps cmt hexter fil-plugins ladspa-sdk mcp-plugins omins swh-plugins tap-plugins vcf dssi-example-plugins dssi-host-jack fluidsynth-dssi xsynth-dssi dssi-utils
====== Description: ======
* aeolus - Aeolus is a synthesized (i.e. not sampled) pipe organ emulator
* blop - Bandlimited wavetable-based oscillator plugins for LADSPA hosts.
* caps - A collection of refined LADSPA plugins.
* cmt - (Computer Music Toolkit) A collection of LADSPA compatible plugins.
* fil-plugins - Parametric equalizer LADSPA plugin.
* hexter - Yamaha DX7 modeling DSSI plugin
* ladspa-sdk - Sample tools for linux-audio-dev plugin architecture.
* mcp-plugins - LADSPA plugins designed for Alsa Modular Synth.
* omins - Collection of LADSPA plugins geared at modular synthesizers.
* swh-plugins - Steve Harris's LADSPA plugins.
* tap-plugins - Tom's Audio Processing LADSPA plugins.
* vcf - Audio EQ biquad filter LADSPA plugins.
* dssi-example-plugins - Example DSSI plugins.
* dssi-host-jack - An example DSSI host.
* fluidsynth-dssi - Soundfont player/synth for DSSI.
* xsynth-dssi - A classic-analog style softsynth DSSI plugin.
* dssi-utils - Command-line utilities for sending commands to DSSI plugins.

=== ubuntustudio-video ===
Video editing apps.
====== Package list: ======
openmovieeditor ffmpeg ffmpeg2theora kino stopmotion dvgrab
====== Description: ======
* openmovieeditor - Video editor
* ffmpeg - Multimedia player, server and encoder
* ffmpeg2theora - Theora video encoder using ffmpeg
* kino - A non-linear editor for Digital Video data
* stopmotion - A program for creating stop motion animation.
* dvgrab - Grab digital video data via IEEE1394 links

=== ubuntustudio-graphics ===
A current, complete set of 2D/3D manipulation applications. ie: Inkscape, GIMP, Blender, and so on.

====== Package list: ======
inkscape blender gimp gimp-data-extras gimp-gap gimp-ufraw gimp-plugin-registry f-spot scribus fontforge gnome-raw-thumbnailer xsane wacom-tools hugin agave yafray synfigstudio

====== Description: ======
* inkscape - A vector-based drawing program.
* blender - A very fast and versatile 3D suite for modeling, animation, rendering, post-production, interactive creation and playback.
* gimp - A raster-based drawing program. 
* gimp-data-extras - This package contains extra brushes, palettes, and gradients for extra GIMPy artistic enjoyment.
* gimp-gap - GAP is a collection of plug-ins to extend the GIMP with capabilities to edit and create animations and movies as sequences of single frames.
* gimp-gnomevfs - This package includes a plugin for GIMP which will open URIs (e.g. ftp:, http:, smb:, and sftp:) using protocol handlers from GNOME-VFS.
* gimp-ufraw - A plug-in to import RAW images.
* gimp-plugin-registry - A collection of GIMP plugins.
* f-spot - A personal photo management application.
* scribus - A open source desktop page layout program.
* fontforge - Font Editor for PS, TrueType and OpenType fonts.
* gnome-raw-thumbnailer - a thumbnailer for GNOME that will make thumbnails for camera RAW files.
* xsane - GTK+-based X11 frontend for SANE. (Scanner Access Now Easy)
* wacom-tools - Software for you Wacom drawing pad.
* hugin - An easy to use cross-platform GUI for Panorama Tools.
* synfigstudio - A vector 2D based animation package (GUI)
* agave - Colorscheme generator.
* enblend - A tool for compositing images.
* yafray - A modern, xml-speaking raytracing-based rendering system
* nautilus-image-converter - nautilus extension to mass resize images
