{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/1310-beta-1-ReleaseNoteChinese|中文]]</nowiki>

== What is UbuntuKylin ? ==

The objective of the UbuntuKylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users. We are committed to provide you with a delicate, thoughtful and fully customized Chinese user experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing a desktop user interface localized in Chinese and installing common software that Chinese users commonly use by default. UbuntuKylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since UbuntuKylin 13.04. Now, we are working on 13.10.

== New Features in UbuntuKylin 13.10 Beta 1 Release ==

In this Beta Release, the Linux Kernel was updated to 3.11-rc7. Also, many other applications were also updated.

Notice: Beta release is not a stable system, it's only for UbuntuKylin developers and users who want to help us testing.

=== New Features ===

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+spec/clent-1308-ubuntukylin-system-customization|System Customization]]</nowiki>, provides new grub selection and slideshow for 13.10.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/youker-assistant | youker-assistant]]</nowiki>, provides an simple but powerful way for users to use and manage their systems. It should be welcome by most common or nonprofessional Linux users.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/unity-china-video-scope | unity-china-video-scope]]</nowiki>, shows Chinese video results searched from youku service (a popular video search engine in China) on Dash.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/unity-china-photo-scope | unity-china-photo-scope]]</nowiki>, shows Chinese photo results searched from Sogou service (a popular photo search engine in China) on Dash.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntukylin.com/downloads/show.php?lang=en&id=146 |WPS for UbuntuKylin 13.10]]</nowiki>, a new WPS version for 13.10 Users.

=== System Requirements ===

A Pentium II or Celeron system with 512 MB of RAM is probably a bottom-line configuration that may yield slow yet usable system with a standard UbuntuKylin desktop.

13.10 32 bit ISO require your CPU to have Physical Address Extensions, or PAE. "PAE is provided by Intel Pentium Pro and above CPUs, including all later Pentium-series processors (except most 400 MHz-bus versions of the Pentium M)." - If you have a NON-PAE CPU and would like to install Ubuntu 12.10, please see <nowiki>[[http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-install-ubuntu-1210-on-non-pae.html | this link]]</nowiki> or you can use Ubuntu 12.04 instead.
For Intel based Macs, UbuntuKylin 13.10 should run on all models.

== Support ==

* Mail List: ubuntukylin-members@lists.launchpad.net
* IRC Channel: #ubuntukylin-devel
* Chinese Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Chinese QQ Group: 306929327

== Download ==
* The Release ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/13.10/beta-1/ | here]]</nowiki>.

=== To upgrade from UbuntuKylin 13.04 on a desktop system: ===

* Open Software Sources.
* Press Alt+F2 and type in "update-manager -d" (without the quotes) into the command box.
* Update Manager should open up and tell you: New distribution release '13.10' is available.
* Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions.

== Known Issues ==

=== UbuntuKylin Desktop ===

* Fcitx can't input Chinese words in Dash unless the length is more than 6 words(Bug:1219432)
* Upgrade to chinese-calendar 0.8.0 in Saucy(Bug:1217780)

== Thanks ==
Thanks to everyone involving in the development of UbuntuKylin, the success of UbuntuKylin 13.10 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of UbuntuKylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide
