{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== In-progress ===
<nowiki>[[education|Campaign 1]]</nowiki> - Educating Windows users in understanding what Ubuntu could mean for them

<nowiki>[[UbuntuIsEasy|Campaign 2]]</nowiki> - ''Ubuntu Is Easy'' - Help Windows users get started with the main applications they'll probably use on the Ubuntu desktop

=== Ideas ===
These are ideas for campaigns that the Ubuntu Adverts team may choose to work on. The purpose is to:
* Educating Windows users in their transition period after upgrading to Ubuntu - I (barrydrake) have made a start on a wiki for this purpose: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/training  One problem here is that the existing documentation and forums are inaccessible to Windows users.  One such person told me that she was looking at a foreign language.
* Educating manufacturers and suppliers - This is likely to be the most difficult aspect of the operation.  I have been pursuing this in the UK with very limited success so far.  One major problem is the continual changing of chipsets in Laptops - often within the same model.  One manufacture I spoke with has reluctantly withdrawn the Laptop range they used to supply because of this.
* Ubuntu community members attend exhibitions, computer fairs, etc and want to promote Ubuntu. This is an excellent opportunity to reach new users. Low-cost materials need to be created that will attract passers by and help to either start a conversation about Ubuntu or motivate them to go to www.ubuntu.com and try the OS themselves after the event. This was discussed at the 19 February 2011 team meeting.
* Grow the number of Ubuntu users in a specific geography
* Get existing Ubuntu users involved with writing bugs
* Promote the benefits of Unity
* Get people interested in the Ubuntu font and to install and use it on their machine running any OS
* Promote the benefits of managing and experiencing your media using Ubuntu
* Get people to write apps for Ubuntu Software Center
* Discover the wonderful apps in Ubuntu Software Center
* Get more designers to participate in the backgrounds contest for each release
* Promote Ask Ubuntu and get more people to think of it as one of the first places they go for support (and to help others)
* 11.04 launch
* Increase trial usage (USB stick boot) of Ubuntu
* Improve consumer confidence that their printer/scanner/music player will work with Ubuntu without problems
* Promote Software Center and new features for 11.04 - ratings, reviews, OneConf
* Increase awareness of the positive advantages of Ubuntu to cause more Windows users to switch
* Request free tables at exhibitions, computer fairs and other appropriate venues to demonstrate Ubuntu using trained volunteers from the locos.
* Arrange local computer clinics in low-cost or free venues to which people could bring their problems and incidentally be given a demo of Ubuntu and a disk.

=== The education process ===
Education needs to be a threefold process.  1) Educating Windows users about what Ubuntu can offer them.  2) Educating Windows users after their upgrade to Ubuntu.  3) Educating manufacturers and equipment suppliers.  See: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts/education
