{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kubuntu iPod Support ==

=== Status ===

* Created: 2004-05-28 by JonathanRiddell
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: JonathanRiddellLead, AndreasMuellerSecond
* Contributors: JonathanRiddell
* Interested:
* Status: EditedSpecification, BreezyGoal, UduBof, DistroSpecification, JonathanRiddellQueue
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
** UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

We should make iPods easy to use with Kubuntu.

=== Rationale ===

iPods are popular, currently they can act as USB devices out of the box but little more.  There is no easy way to edit the iPod database.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

A user plugs in an iPod.  It should appear in media:/ and can be clicked on to open so music can be dragged on and off.

=== Implementation Plan ===

Use the iPod ioslave http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=11962.  Modify media:/ HAL plugin to recognize iPods and open using the iPod ioslave.  Include the synchronize command in the media:/ right click menu instead of unmount.

iPods only take MP3s (or AAC, but not Ogg).  This is not a problem if the music is already in MP3 format but for those who use Ogg it needs to be converted using lame from multiverse.  This affects a large number of users so there is little point in supporting these in main since it would only be useful to people who use MP3s which arn't supported in main.  Therefore put in universe only.

==== Packages Affected ====

* Need to include the latest version of `gnupod-tools` to support iPod shuffle.  
* Package the iPod ioslave.  
* HFS+ tools will be needed for Mac formatted iPods.

==== User Interface Requirements ====

An iPod icon is needed in KDE.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

----
CategoryUdu
CategorySpec 
