{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:center; font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[ UbuntuDrupal | Ubuntu Local Community Development Project ]]</nowiki>
|}

== Welcome ==

Welcome to the Ubuntu Drupal Development wiki.

Our projects can be viewed at https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-drupal.

== Goals ==

The Ubuntu Drupal Development project has two primary goals.
1. To provide a set of tools that any Ubuntu team can use for their own Drupal website which includes:
    a. a default theme that is legally acceptable as well as extremely appealing
      - Examples at <nowiki>[[http://sd.ubuntu-us.org/]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-il.org/]]</nowiki>
      - Including both LTR and RTL languages
    a. a default set of modules that can be quickly deployed
    a. anything else that will be beneficial to any Ubuntu team
1. To support users:
    a. create a solid technological infrastructure
    a. allowing them to focus on the team/project itself

== Support ==

Setup Guide: <nowiki>[[ UbuntuDrupal-Setup ]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>FAQ: <nowiki>[[ UbuntuDrupal-FAQ ]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>Email / Team: <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~ubuntu-drupal ]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>LP Answers: <nowiki>[[ https:--answers.launchpad.net-ubuntu-drupal- ]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>IRC: <nowiki>[[ http:--webchat.freenode.net-?channels=#ubuntu-drupal | #ubuntu-drupal ]]</nowiki>

== People ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> Nick
| Name
| Team
| Status
|-
| <nowiki>[[ diddledan ]]</nowiki>
| Daniel Llewellyn
| <nowiki>[[ UKTeam | Ubuntu UK ]]</nowiki>
| Project Lead
|-
| <nowiki>[[ MTecknology ]]</nowiki>
| Michael Lustfield
| <nowiki>[[ SouthDakotaTeam | South Dakota ]]</nowiki>
| Previous Lead
|-
| <nowiki>[[ swe3tdave ]]</nowiki>
| David Giard
| <nowiki>[[ QuebecTeam | Quebec ]]</nowiki>
| Previous Lead
|-
| <nowiki>[[ ilo ]]</nowiki>
| Iñaki López
| <nowiki>[[ http:--drupal.org-user-118449 | Drupal Profile ]]</nowiki>
| Research
|-
| <nowiki>[[ Mongolito404 ]]</nowiki>
| Pierre Buyle
| <nowiki>[[ BelgianTeam | Belgium ]]</nowiki>
| Research
|-
| <nowiki>[[ Ddorda ]]</nowiki>
| Dor Danker
| <nowiki>[[ http:--ubuntu-il.com | Israel ]]</nowiki>
| Developer
|-
| <nowiki>[[ lajjr ]]</nowiki>
| Leo Jackson Jr.
| <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~lajjr | LP Profile ]]</nowiki>
| Developer
|-
| <nowiki>[[ MartinOwens | doctormo ]]</nowiki>
| Martin Owens
| <nowiki>[[ MassachusettsTeam | Massachusetts ]]</nowiki>
| Developer
|-
| <nowiki>[[ MichealH | MichealH ]]</nowiki>
| Micheal Harker
| <nowiki>[[UKTeam| UK Team ]]</nowiki>
| Developer
|}

If you would like to contribute to this project, we are always looking for new developers. Feel free to join the channel and ask.

== About the project ==

The current Ubuntu Drupal Development project is a set of modules and a theme that are aimed at helping Ubuntu teams quickly setup and deploy a website.

== Themes and Modules ==

=== UD Managed ===

<nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-drupal-theme | Ubuntu Drupal Theme ]]</nowiki>: The Ubuntu Drupal Theme is a project to centralize and develop themes for Ubuntu websites. We also aim to keep it extremely well coded to ensure it runs perfect.

<nowiki>[[ https:--www.drupal.org-project-udheader | Theme Header ]]</nowiki>: This module will function as a block that can be displayed in place of the currently available header. It is able to display a specific banner for specific content types.

<nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-drupal-sidebar | Sidebar ]]</nowiki>: This is a block that is meant to mimic that pretty sidebar on the Ubuntu website. It is entirely flexible.

<nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-drupal-countdown | Release Countdown ]]</nowiki>: This is a module that will allow Drupal administrators to add a code block that displays the countdown until the next version of Ubuntu. It is capable of pulling the latest available options.

<nowiki>[[ https:--www.drupal.org-project-udplanet | Planet ]]</nowiki>: This is an aggregator that is meant to mimic <nowiki>[[ http:--www.planetplanet.org- | PlanetPlanet ]]</nowiki>. It uses a different mindset due to feed management but it is only dependent on a single built-in module.

=== Canonical Managed ===

<nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-drupal-openid | Launchpad OpenID ]]</nowiki>: This is a modified version of the Drupal maintained version.

<nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-drupal-launchpad | OpenID Launchpad ]]</nowiki>: This module extends OpenID to use Launchpad as a single sign-on provider. This creates a Launchpad Login button block.

<nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-drupal-teams | OpenID Teams ]]</nowiki>: This implementation of the OpenID teams extension allows you to request team membership data from a participating OpenID server and assign drupal roles based on the response.
