{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

	''This page describes the logo font used by Ubuntu from 2004‒2010.  For 2010 onwards, see the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu Font Family]]</nowiki>.''
== Ubuntu-Title ==
Download the font:
<nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-title.otf]]</nowiki>
or and follow the FontInstallHowto.

Andy Fitzsimon of the ArtTeam has created the official Ubuntu Title Typeface.

Ubuntu-Title is licensed under LGPL.

It is packaged and available in Ubuntu 5.04 (Hoary Hedgehog) as the <code>ttf-ubuntu-title</code> package in the <code>universe</code> component.

You may also <nowiki>[[http://brisgeek.com/fonts/ubuntu-title.otf|download the font]]</nowiki> directly from the designer's website.

=== Where it should be used ===
==== Related Logos ====
with a derived logo such as edubuntu or kubuntu it is recommended that this font be used.  Changes to kerning are permitted however kerning reductions are advised against.

==== Printed Documents ====
This is a title font and therefore not to be used in body text.
Use it for topic headings in ubuntu-related printed documents or in digital documents where fonts can be embedded or subset such as PDFs.

=== Extending This Font ===
Ubuntu-Title was made using <nowiki>[[http://www.inkscape.org|Inkscape]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/|FontForge]]</nowiki>.

http://nitrofurano.linuxkafe.com/linux/UbuntuTitle_0706252006.zip (1021kb) - 7 different weights for UbuntuTitle (from skinny to bold), in ttf, otf and svg font formats - some fixes and intensive testing are needed, but very probably useful for Ubuntu related graphisms

''more to be added soon''
