{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is for detailed descriptions of experiences with Apple Macintosh computers and install [K][X][Ed]Ubuntu

A summary of compatability and experiences in a table form may be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOnMac
Please add your own experiences to either page, or both - but keep the main page clean and concise =)

==== Apple iBook/Powerbook ====

* Known to work: graphics, disk, CPU scaling, USB, sound, wired network, CD burning, firewire, modem, sleep/suspend
* Known to NOT work: builtin wireless on newer models (i.e. Airport Extreme)
* external display: does not work in Warty, works with new X.org server (now in Hoary)
* irda not tested, probably doesn't work

sleep/suspend works in Hoary with the 2.6.10-5-powerpc kernel on at least the Al [PowerBook G4 1.5 MHz 17''] G4

Unknown date - Subject: works ibook G3 700
installer works and boots up. But only to 640x480 resolution will not allow you to change until I added syncs to monitor settings in /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Section "Monitor"
Identifier      "Color LCD"
added HorizSync       31-101
added VertRefresh     60-160
Option          "DPMS"

==== Powerbook G4 1.5 GHz 17" & 12" (post Feb 2005 (modified April 2010)) ====

These newer models are quite poorly supported. Kernel 2.6.12 might bring massive improvements.

* Known to work: graphics, disk, USB, wired network, CD burning, firewire, modem, sleep/suspend, builtin wireless, touch pad, sound
* Known to NOT work: FN-Keys
* CPU scaling, external display, Bluetooth not tested, probably doesn't work

From StéphaneGourichon Fri Jun 3 17:16:14 +0100 2005
From: Stéphane Gourichon
Date: Fri, 03 Jun 2005 17:16:14 +0100
Subject: Powerbook G4 15" garbled display using Hoary liveCD
Message-ID: <20050603171614+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Dear all,

I tried the Hoary liveCD yesterday on a Powerbook G4 15" bought in may 2005. A lot of things went ok (network, etc...) but the display was garbled. Instead of a steady image, two ghost images on left and right are superimposed with the normal image. Every part of the screen is cut into horizontal stripes which are constantly moving down, with some more random stuff on the right. The result is hardly readable during the text part. The graphic part (X11) had the same problem, but it becomes frankly unreadable because of lower contrast. The mouse cursor was also affected by the symptoms.

I then tried to boot using video=ofonly as suggested. The text part went ok this time, but the X11 part was worse. No more stripes but a cubist mess formed a repetitive pattern on the screen. I recognized the colors of the ubuntu background picture but no more. Only the mouse cursor was displayed ok and could move at will on all screen. When trying to switch back to text mode I noticed that text mode (framebuffer actually) could not be restored properly. Going back to X11 came back but didn't fix anything.

Log message on the console said that video board was radeon.

I can't proceed to deep analysis (it's not mine, the hardware will run MacOS X anyway) but I though you'd appreciate at least such a report.
I can probably give more info (hardware ids, etc...) if you ask.

Thank you for this great project !

From ChristofferOlsen Mon Jun 6 01:12:40 +0100 2005
From: Christoffer Olsen
Date: Mon, 06 Jun 2005 01:12:40 +0100
Subject: Newer Powerbooks
Message-ID: <20050606011240+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Johannes Jensen has a little page on making newer Powerbooks work with Ubuntu.
http://joh.deworks.net/powerbook/

== PowerBook G4 1.5 MHz 17'' ==

17'' 1.5 MHz G4 (mid 2004 model) with built in Airport and Bluetooth

Booting from LiveCD

What works: Bluetooth mouse works with no configuration or preferences tweaked
Screen resolution looks good can be adjusted with control panel
an external Apple keyboard
Printing to an Epson 740 works too
Open Office able to save docs as SWF and PDF
  

What does not work:
Have had no luck with dialup modem yet; tried via network connection and termimal, I'll try more
External FireWire drives so far are not accessible (FW 400 or 800), but the busses appear in the Configuration Editor

----
No Date available

Hmm.  Just tried "live" on the 15'' 1.67Ghz (2005 model), and got no response from built-in keyboard or trackpad.  Had to power-off reboot to get back to OSX.

-- RandalLSchwartz

--

from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apple_Mac_iBook_G4 (deletion candidate, not updated, editing only for formatting/deleting missing content areas)

Contact: Alfred J. Tims <nowiki>[[t1nt1n@linuxmail.org]]</nowiki>
Make: Apple
Model: iBook G4
Website: http://www.apple.com/ibook/
S/N: Only needed if you have a Canonical supplied laptop

  Machine Model:	iBook G4; CPU Type:	PowerPC G4  (1.2); Number Of CPUs:	1; CPU Speed:	1.2 GHz; L2 Cache (per CPU):	512 KB; Memory:	256 MB; Bus Speed:	133 MHz; Boot ROM Version:	4.8.7f1; Serial Number:	4H50305VRCQ

in Hoary
Screen  Yes 
Correct resolution? 1024x768
Battery detected? Yes
Hibernates? Yes
Blank monitor on inactivity Yes
Sound works? Yes
Correct volume? Too low
Wired NIC Yes
Wireless NIC No
Modem Yes
USB Yes
Serial Yes
CD/DVD drive Yes

--

Whats up with PowerBook G3's? I have one and want Ubuntu installed on it - but it freezes every time I start the installer (alternate text-installer because not having much ROM) mostly when loading components, at "choose-mirror" or some of the first packages.. Somebody knows about problems with PowerBook G3? Please help.
