{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}
== Ubuntu GNOME Communications Team December 2014 Report ==
=== Current Social Media Statistics ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background:#0087ED; color:#FFFFFF; text-align: center; font-weight: bold"> '''Social Media'''
| '''Type'''
| '''Subscribers/Viewers'''
| '''Growth'''
|-
| Google+
| <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/108356762331170101188/ | Page]]</nowiki>
| 2,995 / 1,505,213
| --
|-
| Google+
| <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/communities/100673791047097085645 | Community]]</nowiki>
| 2,065
| --
|-
| Facebook
| <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuGNOME | Page]]</nowiki>
| 5,432
| --
|-
| Twitter
| <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/ubuntu_gnome | Page]]</nowiki>
| 1,121
| --
|}
This chart shows the influence of the various Ubuntu GNOME Social Media Channels. 

=== Contributing Factors ===
* There are no growth statistics to report as there have not been any monthly reports completed since March of 2014 (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/CommunicationsTeam/March2014 | View Report]]</nowiki>). The growth statistics will reflect the changes in the January 2015 monthly report. <<BR>>
* Ubuntu GNOME 15.04 Alpha 1 Released <<BR>>
* Several posts on Facebook and Google Plus have aimed at <<BR>>
** Recruiting new team members
** Requesting help with testing the first Alpha of 15.04
** Requesting help with translations
* Ubuntu GNOME has had portions of the wiki translated into at least 3 new languages. A huge shout out goes to the translations team members for their hard work. 
* Ubuntu GNOME has been featured on several websites over the past few weeks in reference to Gnome 3.14
* There has been a large amount of growth across all social media platforms
** Google Plus followers have increased by over 500 users since the March 2014 Report
** Activity in the Ubuntu GNOME Google Plus community has doubled since the March 2014 Report
** Facebook saw an impressive amount of growth with the addition of almost 2,500 new followers
** Twitter added over 300 new followers.
* Activity on Google Plus and Facebook has increased, encouraging more community involvement. 
* Ubuntu GNOMEs Twitter Account needs attention as the last post was done in October of 2014.

=== Facebook Demographics ===
==== Country Breakdown ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background:#0087ED; color:#FFFFFF; text-align: center; font-weight: bold"> '''Country'''
| ''' Number of Fans'''
| '''Growth'''
|-
| Brazil
| 636
| --
|-
| India
| 529
| --
|-
| United States of America
| 518
| --
|-
| Mexico
| 227
| --
|-
| Germany
| 202
| --
|-
| Indonesia
| 192
| --
|-
| Italy
| 173
| --
|-
| Egypt
| 157
| --
|-
| United Kingdom
| 135
| --
|-
| Turkey
| 114
| --
|-
| France
| 111
| --
|-
| Spain
| 104
| --
|-
| Argentina
| 89
| --
|-
| Bangladesh
| 82
| --
|-
| Poland
| 80
| --
|-
| Romania
| 80
| --
|-
| Canada
| 77
| --
|-
| Colombia
| 77
| --
|-
| Philippines
| 72
| --
|-
| Iran
| 72
| --
|-
| Tunisia
| 70
| --
|-
| Portugal
| 68
| --
|-
| Chile
| 64
| --
|-
| Morocco
| 63
| --
|-
| Vietnam
| 61
| --
|-
| Pakistan
| 61
| --
|-
| Netherlands
| 57
| --
|-
| Algeria
| 53
| --
|-
| Greece
| 49
| --
|-
| Malaysia
| 49
| --
|-
| Australia
| 47
| --
|-
| Sri Lanka
| 42
| --
|-
| Venezuela
| 40
| --
|-
| Taiwan
| 39
| --
|-
| Hungary
| 37
| --
|-
| Sweden
| 36
| --
|-
| Serbia
| 31
| --
|-
| Belgium
| 28
| --
|-
| Czech Republic
| 27
| --
|-
| Japan
| 27
| --
|-
| Austria
| 24
| --
|-
| Bulgaria
| 23
| --
|-
| Nepal
| 23
| --
|-
| Isreal
| 27
| --
|}
