{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Do you have an idea for a project, improvement, or feature request? Please add your ideas to the table below. To do this, add an entry to the "New Ideas" list below. As your idea is acted upon, it will move through the subsequent stages of "Under Consideration" and then "Approved" or "Deferred". Discussion about proposed ideas will take place on mailing list or forums. 

=== New Ideas ===

New ideas are those that have not yet been discussed.

* '''Idea''': Give your idea a short but descriptive name
* '''Description''': A single sentence that describes your idea or feature. More discussion will be available in the forums and mailing list.
* '''Originator''': Sign this with your WikiName.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:95%;" rowstyle="background-color: #F8F8F8;"> '''Idea'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Originator'''
|-
| Example
| Describe example here
| stlsaint
|-
| More Unity Lens
| We should include more third party unity lens.
| stlsaint
|}

=== Ideas Under Consideration ===

The following idea(s) are currently being discussed, but no decision has yet been made.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:95%;" rowstyle="background-color: #F8F8F8;"> '''Idea'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Originator'''
| '''Discussion'''
|-
| Example
| Describe example here
| stlsaint
| irc/mailing list
|}

=== Approved Ideas ===

When an idea or feature has been approved, it will be become implemented within the next UCE release

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:95%;" rowstyle="background-color: #F8F8F8;"> '''Idea'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Originator'''
| '''Link'''
|-
| ''No ideas currently approved''
|}

=== Deferred Ideas ===

When an idea has been deferred, it means that it may or may not be acted upon. These ideas were likely to be determined unsuitable or unfeasible. This list is kept so that members can develop an understanding of what types of ideas are deferred. If any relevant forum discussions exist on these topics, a link can be found in the "Discussion" field.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:95%;" rowstyle="background-color: #F8F8F8;"> '''Idea'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Originator'''
| '''Discussion'''
|-
| ''No ideas currently deferred''
|}
