{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Local Information ==

=== Map of Local Area ===

Hotel is located immediately north of downtown Dallas:
<nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=2222+N+Stemmons+Fwy,Dallas,Texas,75207]]</nowiki>

=== Eating Lunch ===

Breakfast and Lunch is in the Ellipse Ballroom, it's on <nowiki>[[UDS-L-Map-|this map]]</nowiki>.

==== Bars, Restaurants and Cafeterias Nearby ====

Matt Griffin's <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&hl=en&msa=0&msid=109490771470061479151.0004360a2fc9885fe9150&z=12|restaurant guide]]</nowiki>.

For vegetarians: [[http://www.happycow.net/disp_results_address.php?distance=5&maptype=l&list[]=vegan&list[]=vegetarian&list[]=friendly&list[]=store&address=2222+Stemmons+Freeway+++Dallas%2C+++Texas+++75207&x=14&y=15|HappyCow listings, sorted by distance from hotel (within 5 miles)]] 
Nearest all-veg place on the list is Cosmic Cafe, but reviews say it is unsuitable for vegans as owner doesn't know what does  or doesn't have dairy.  Spiral Diner & Bakery is actually vegan, so probably a better plan if you are.

=== Places of Interest ===

TBC

=== Tourist Information ===

TBC

=== Social Whiteboard ===

(!) Use this for gatherings, planning events, etc.

* Ubuntu Women team dinner Tuesday night, meet in hotel lobby at 7 and we're getting the bus into town we've a table booked at  Monica's Aca Y Alla Restaurant, ( www.monicas.com, 2914 Main St Dallas, TX 75226, USA +1 214-748-7140 From the hotel is only 10 minutes http://tinyurl.com/hotel-to-monicas ) for 20 people so do contact us if you've not given us your name already contact czajkowski/akgraner on irc

* Any folks up to take part in going to a firing range on the Monday evening, http://www.dfwgun.com/about/rentals.html We have a limit of 25 people so do sign up <nowiki>[[UDS-L-FiringRangeNight]]</nowiki>

* The translations folks are meeting up for dinner Tuesday at 8:00 at the lobby. We'll go somewhere in town.

* SOCCER! We meet at 7 in the morning in the lobby. There's a <nowiki>[[http://tr.im/FaoR|grass area like 100-200m from the hotel]]</nowiki> where we'll play for 30-45 minutes. ''We take it easy.'' :-)

* UDS - Ice Skating - Meet in the lobby Wednesday 6:30pm <nowiki>[[http://www.lczajkowski.com/2009/11/18/uds-on-ice/ | see you there]]</nowiki>

* Community Server Team dinner Wednesday, meet in the lobby a 7:15PM and we'll figure where to go. Everyone is welcome.

* As Monday was so much successful and fun, we're doing it again. Any folks up to take part in going to a firing range on the THURSDAY evening, http://www.dfwgun.com/about/rentals.html We have a limit of 25 people so do sign up <nowiki>[[UDS-L-FiringRangeNight]]</nowiki>

* Anyone interested in the Dallas Stars (NHL) game tonight (Thursday 19) at 7:30PM ? Please comment.
=== Local Team ===

The following people live in the area if you want more information.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Contact Info
| Comment
|-
| C de-Avillez
| <nowiki>[[Hggdh]]</nowiki>
| generic data, local research
|-
| Ralph Green
| <nowiki>[[RalphGreen]]</nowiki>
| local info
|-
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
|}

local Linux & PC User Groups

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[TexasTeam]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.dfwuug.org/wiki/Main/UserGroups|Dallas Unix UG]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ntpcug.org/|North Texas PC UG]]</nowiki>
|}
