{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Volunteer instructions ==

Thank you for volunteering to assist at a Canonical event! Each event has different requirements so it's difficult to document every step. Here are some basic notes to help things go smoothly.

=== Reporting for duty ===

Please report to the Tech Room to find out where your assistance is most needed. Someone from the Admin or IS team will then be able to direct you. The Tech Room usually opens at 9:00 AM but walk-ins are appreciated throughout the day.

* '''Current event:''' <nowiki>[[UDS-Q-Logistics|UDS-Q, Oakland, CA]]</nowiki>
* '''Tech room:''' TBD
* '''Primary contact:''' Sean Sosik-Hamor <sean.sosik-hamor@canonical.com> +1 781 392 6985
* '''Notes:''' TBD

=== Room layout ===

Tables and chairs are usually placed by the venue banquet staff however per-room fine tuning is almost always required. Since the room layout influences how infrastructure is deployed it's important to finalize the room layout as soon as possible.

* '''Boardroom (meetings and hacking sessions):''' A single large table is placed in the center of the room
* '''Cabaret (hacking sessions and presentation):''' Multiple smaller tables are placed throughout the room
* '''Theatre (plenaries and presentations):''' All chairs facing a stage or projector screen
* '''Fishbowl (summit tracks):''' Theatre style seating with 6-8 seats in front for session leaders

All trip hazards (Ethernet, power, etc.) absolutely must be taped with high-quality gaffer tape.

=== Power ===

All rooms have differing power needs. Boardroom and Cabaret attempt to provide one power outlet per person for longer meetings and hacking sessions. Fishbowl and Theatre seating provide just enough power for attendees to keep their notebooks topped up.

Each room should have at least two separate extension cords or power strips with long cords from opposite walls providing power to the center. Power strips with shorter cords can then be daisy-chained.

Equipment list:

* Two or more extension cords or power strips with long cords
* Five or more power strips with short or medium cords
* Pink gaffer tape

=== PCs and Projectors ===

Most rooms require two projectors. One projector displays the remote participation IRC channel and schedule while the second projector is available for the session leaders to plug into. The projector screens and stands are provided by a third-party AV company.

Equipment list:

* One system76 Meerkat PC and power lead
* One Ethernet cord
* Two projectors and power leads
* One long VGA or HDMI cable depending on Meerkat generation and output
* One short VGA cable
* Pink gaffer tape

=== Care and feeding of gaffer tape ===

Unlike duck/duct tape, gaffer tape does not leave a residue and usually peels off walls/carpets without causing any damage. Someone from the IS team can demonstrate the most efficient way to lay tape.
