{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


UDS-N is Held in Orlando, Florida, timezone of which will be UTC-5).

=== Internet Relay Chat ===

* All channels are hosted on irc.ubuntu.com
* Overall discussion, including plenary: <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds|#ubuntu-uds]]</nowiki> on <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net|freenode]]</nowiki>.
* Discussion Channels - The tracks are shuffled around different rooms, so the IRC channels are ''per room'', not per track. Here are the channels, which corresponds to the room of the session in <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-n/|the schedule]]</nowiki>. 

** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Grand-Sierra|#ubuntu-uds-Grand-Sierra]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Antigua1|#ubuntu-uds-Antigua1]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Antigua2|#ubuntu-uds-Antigua2]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Antigua3|#ubuntu-uds-Antigua3]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Antigua4|#ubuntu-uds-Antigua4]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Bonaire1|#ubuntu-uds-Bonaire1]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Bonaire2|#ubuntu-uds-Bonaire2]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Bonaire4|#ubuntu-uds-Bonaire4]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Bonaire5|#ubuntu-uds-Bonaire5]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Bonaire6|#ubuntu-uds-Bonaire6]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Bonaire7|#ubuntu-uds-Bonaire7]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Bonaire8|#ubuntu-uds-Bonaire8]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Curacao1+2|#ubuntu-uds-Curacao1+2]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-uds-Curacao3+4|#ubuntu-uds-Curacao3+4]]</nowiki>

You can find logs from Monday afternoon onwards at: http://ubottu.com/uds-logs/

=== Icecast ===

http://icecast.ubuntu.com:8000/

==== Recording a Live Stream ====

Use mplayer to capture the livestream (e.g for room3):
<pre>
mplayer -playlist http://icecast.ubuntu.com:8000/room3.ogg.m3u -ao pcm:file=/tmp/mystream.wav -vc dummy -vo null
</pre>
and use lame for encoding as .mp3:
<pre>
lame -m s /tmp/mystream.wav -o "/tmp/uds_room3.mp3"
</pre>
for scheduling you can use cron to start mplayer and pkill to stop the recording.

If you'd rather capture the underlying ogg file, make sure you have icecream installed:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install icecream
</pre>
Then, curl the m3u link to get the underlying ogg file.
<pre>
curl http://icecast.ubuntu.com:8000/room3.ogg.m3u
</pre>
This will return the ogg URL, for example http://icecast.ubuntu.com:8000/room3.ogg
Then, use icecream to launch the recording
<pre>
icecream http://icecast.ubuntu.com:8000/room3.ogg
</pre>
You can use --stop=60min to stop recording after, say, 60 minutes, or --name=SOMENAME to rename the output file. Note that recording will stop when the stream is restarted after every session.

=== Gobby ===

* gobby.ubuntu.com (port 6522)
* <nowiki>[[apt:--gobby|Gobby]]</nowiki> is being used at UDS to collaborate on the specifications that are being written and to facilitate remote participation.

To take part, please install <nowiki>[[apt:--gobby|Gobby]]</nowiki> (available in universe) and tell it to connect to gobby.ubuntu.com. You will be presented with a list of documents being edited. During any session or meeting, and particularly at the end of one, please do make a local backup of your documents.

'''WARNING:''' There is a new gobby in karmic, gobby-infinote, we will be using this at UDS. Ensure you are using the "gobby-infinote" package.

==== Lifestream ====
A stream of all Ubuntu and UDS posts made to Identi.ca, Twitter, and Flickr can be found at <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/media/lifestream.html]]</nowiki>

=== Videos ===

We will be recording certain sessions and all the <nowiki>[[UDS-M-Plenaries|plenary sessions]]</nowiki> at UDS. You can follow along with the videos as we post them on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.mirocommunity.com/|Ubuntu community]]</nowiki> on Miro. If you want to automatically receive updates when videos are available we recommend that you install <nowiki>[[apt:--miro|Miro]]</nowiki> and click on the miro links at the site to subscribe to the video feeds. These videos will be in Ogg Theora format and is the recommended method for watching UDS videos.

=== Micro-blogging ===

Micro-blogging is a form of blogging that allows users to send brief text updates of 140 characters or less. It is a great way to inform the Ubuntu community of discussions and news that happen during UDS. Many Ubuntu users get there news from UDS from microblogging sources. During UDS-Mountainview, Identi.ca saw more traffic during UDS than during the night of the U.S. Presidential elections.

Microblogging is not a replacement for gobby or IRC, which have important uses during an UDS event. It should be used as a tool to communicate with other people at UDS and the wider Ubuntu user community. 

Suggested ways to use microblogging at UDS:
* Announce session topics at the beginning of the session.
* Ask for feedback from the community during the session discussion.
* Dent/tweet important discussion points during the sessions.
* Dent/tweet any news worthy items during UDS (Kernel version, encrypted swap by default, etc...).
* To plan social events and gatherings during UDS.

==== Identi.ca ====
We encourage people at UDS to create an account on <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca|Identi.ca]]</nowiki>, an open source micro-blogging platform if they don't already have an account. If you have a <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com|Twitter]]</nowiki> account you can link it your Identi.ca account and posts you make to Identi.ca will automatically forwarded to Twitter. 

In identi.ca, please use the <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/group/ubuntu|!ubuntu]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/group/uds|!UDS]]</nowiki> groups in your message, which already have many followers.  These automatically post to the hashtags #ubuntu and #uds, if you want to follow and are not interested in sending.
 
==== Gwibber ====
<nowiki>[[apt:--gwibber|Gwibber]]</nowiki> is an open source microblogging client for GNOME developed with Python and GTK. It supports Twitter, Jaiku, Identi.ca, Facebook, Flickr, Digg, and RSS. Gwibber is available in universe in Ubuntu 9.04+. 
* https://launchpad.net/gwibber
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gwibber

==== Choqok ====
<nowiki>[[apt:--choqok|Choqok]]</nowiki> is an open source microblogging client for KDE written in C++. It supports Twitter and Identi.ca. Choqok is available in Ubuntu 9.04+. 
* http://choqok.gnufolks.org/
* http://userbase.kde.org/ChoqoK/Using_ChoqoK
