{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Pete Graner (pgraner), Daniel Holbach (dholbach) are organizing the event.

The event will be structured however it is desired to keep a '''jam''' feel and will let the participants have control over the music they will perform. 

== Goals ==

* Community focused
* Have fun
* Rock the joint!

== Format ==

* Email all UDS participants with a "Call to Jam", asking them to sign up to the ubuntu-allstars LP team & the this wiki page.
* Discuss on the mailing list potential set lists/songs.
* Encourage selection of popular songs ( think ''cover band'' ), especially those that encourage audience participation.
* Hold a kickoff meeting at UDS on Monday to get the ball rolling wrt to rehearsals, encourage more participation, etc...
* Rehearse during the week in the evening. Workout songs and who is playing what on what song. 
** We will meet nightly for a jam starting at 7:30PM in the '''Cocobolo I''' Room.

== General ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#CCFFCC"> Implemented / Done
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFFFCC"> WIP
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCCCC"> Blocked / Behind
|-
| Unknown.
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''What'''
| '''Who'''
| '''Status'''
|-
| Venue Space at hotel
| Marianna
| OAK Bar outdoor space
|-
| Content Wiki Page
| pgraner
| done
|-
| Email the Call to Jam to the UDS Participants
| 
| 
|-
| Add to UbuntuWiki:UDS-M/Handout
| jcastro
| 
|-
| Practice Space
| Marianna
| Done
|-
| Find a company that rents instruments
| randa
| Done
|-
| Organise food
| Marianna
| checking with hotel different options
|}

== Band ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''What'''
| '''Who'''
| '''Status'''
|-
| Organise list of tracks that people want to play (ask for broad input on this, ask them to add links to sheet music, lyrics, sound clips, etc. so people can rehearse)
| 
| 
|-
| Get list of necessary instruments together
| pgraner
| 
|-
| Get quote
| randa
| done
|-
| Organise crew that can set things up (and get replacement/stuff in emergency cases :-))
| 
| 
|-
| Organise rehearsals
| pgraner
| 
|-
| Print out enough lyrics/tabs/chords/stuff
| pgraner
| 
|-
| Make sure the instrument rental company picks things up again
| 
| 
|}

=== Instruments ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Description'''
| '''Qty'''
|-
| Fender Stratocaster Guitar
| 1
|-
| Tanglewood TomKat Guitar
| 1
|-
| Fender twin combo amplifier 2 x 12
| 1
|-
| Marshall JCM2000 TSL602 Combo amplifier 2 x 12"
| 1
|-
| AER Compact 60 Guitar Combo
| 1
|-
| Ashdown MAG410T Bass speaker cab 4 x 10"
| 1
|-
| Ashdown ABM300 EVOII Bass amplifier head
| 1
|-
| Tama Starclassic drumkit 22" 10" 12" 14"
| 1
|-
| Zildjian A Hi hats 14"
| 1
|-
| Zildjian K Medium Thin 16"
| 1
|-
| Zildjian K Dark Thin Crash 17"
| 1
|-
| Zildjian A Custom Ride 20"
| 1
|-
| Roland FP1 88 note weighted stage piano
| 1
|-
| Pro Core double braced keyboard stand
| 1
|-
| Yamaha MG32/14FX analogue mixing desk
| 1
|-
| JBL VRX928LA line array element loudspeaker
| 4
|-
| Proel loudspeaker stand (pair)
| 1
|-
| ASW 2110 Two way full range stage monitor
| 2
|-
| Crown XTI4000 amplifier
| 2
|-
| LDI02 active Di Box
| 2
|-
| Shure SM58
| 4
|-
| Shure SM57
| 2
|-
| Tall boom microphone stand
| 4
|-
| Short boom microphone stand
| 2
|-
| Cables
| 
|}

=== People Bringing Instruments ===

* PeteGraner: 
** 1x Crate Amp
** 1x 4 channel mixer
** 1x Sure SM-58 Mic
** Hand percussion & drumsticks
** 1x Gibson Les Paul Standard Guitar
** 1x Ventrua Acoustic/Electric Guitar

* Luis Arias
** Bongos
** Alto sax (maybe, I'm a bit rusty)

* Joey Stanford
** two different (types of) electrified Kazoos (don't laugh until you've played them)

== Call for Jam Email Text ==

Greetings UDS Attendees,

This Ubuntu Developer Summit is going to be in Brussels, Belgium and we will have 
five action-packed days in which we set the goals for Ubuntu 10.10, code-named
the '''Maverick Meercat'''. The end of UDS is going to be very special, we'll have an Ubuntu
Allstars Jam again.

This is how it's going to work: if you play an instrument, sing or can 
contribute to a jam in any way, we need you. We will kick off the planning for
the event now and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-M/Allstars-Planning and the mailing list 
of the Ubuntu Allstars team you can suggest songs and find people to play your 
songs with. During the week we will have a room in the evenings in which you can rehearse.

    https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-allstars

This is going to be fantastic. Make sure you join the team today, help out with
the planning please!

Have a great day,
 the UDS organisers

== People ==

* PeteGraner: Can play guitar/drums and background vocals.

* <nowiki>[[Diwic|David Henningsson]]</nowiki>: Can play the piano. (will show up on Tuesday due to the hotel being over-booked)
