{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the UDS Wiki Page. This page is a workspace for UDS, use it to coordinate stuff. The main UDS page is at: '''http://uds.ubuntu.com'''

=== Registration ===

Please register your attendance <nowiki>[[https://forms.canonical.com/udsreg/|here]]</nowiki>

=== Venue ===

Corinthia Hotel <<BR>>
Erzsébet körút 43-49 <<BR>>
Budapest H-1073 <<BR>>
Hungary <<BR>>
Tel: +36 1 479 4000 <<BR>>
Fax: +36 1 479 4333 <<BR>>

- Check-in time: 15:00 <<BR>>
- Check-out time: 11:00 

''Internet in the Bedroom''

An account number and instructions will be provided when you check in. 

Hotel form:

Please fill in the <nowiki>[[attachment: corinthia-form.pdf|attached form]]</nowiki>

=== How to get there ===

Airport: Budapest International airport (http://www.bud.hu/english/)
To get to the Hotel from the Airport people can take a shuttle bus that will drop them off right at the Corinthia (http://www.airportshuttle.hu/). The ticket costs 12Euros one way and 19Euros return and can be purchased at the airport directly. Journey time is approx. 45/50 min. Alternatively, if you are travelling with other 4-5 colleagues, you may be able to share a taxi van, which should costs approximately 40Euros. 

=== Meals ===

Breakfast: Brasserie <<BR>>
Coffee breaks: Foyer <<BR>>
Lunch: Brasserie, Atrium I & II

=== Meeting and Meal Schedule ===

Breakfast: 6.30-8.45am <<BR>>
Meeting starts: 9am <<BR>>
Lunch: 1-2pm <<BR>>
Coffee breaks: 10.45-11am & 4.00-4.15pm <<BR>>
Meeting ends: 6pm 

=== Meeting rooms ===

UDS will take place in the Hotel Conference Centre on the first floor

=== Plenary Submissions ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Topic
| Speaker
| Special Requirements
|-
| Ubuntu, Debian, and DEX
| Either Jorge or whoever Jorge cons
| 
|-
| Intro to Openstack, LXC openstack demo
| Thierry Carrez/Chuck Short
| Not on Monday and Not on Friday
|-
| !WebLive and the magic behind it
| Stéphane Graber
| Just a projector and internet
|-
| Wine as a performance metric
| Scott Ritchie
| The usual
|-
| Building apps with Ubuntu One
| Stuart Langridge
| A very tiny model of Stonehenge lowered down from the ceiling
|-
| Delicious recipes
| Martin Pool, Jelmer Vernooij, or Barry Warsaw
| 
|-
| The future of the universe, continued
| MatthewPaulThomas
| last slot on Monday, if possible
|-
| What’s wrong with UDS and how we can fix it
| EvanDandrea
| last slot on Friday, if possible
|-
| Common Printing Dialog - How to get it reality?
| Till Kamppeter
| Projector, not Monday
|-
| Printer driver auto-download
| Till Kamppeter
| Projector and Internet access, not Monday
|-
| Review of the Linaro Showcase
| Michael Opdenacker
| Thursday
|}

=== Evening programme ===

Monday, 9 May: <<BR>>
‘Meet & Greet’ Social Event, sponsored by Openstack and Freescale. Food will be provided during the event  <<BR>>
Venue: Grand Ballroom  <<BR>>
Time: 19:00

Tuesday 10 May:  <<BR>>
The Linaro Technical Showcase - sponsored by IBM  <<BR>>
Venue: Grand Ballroom  <<BR>>
Time: 18:30

Friday, 13th May:  <<BR>>
UDS party  <<BR>>
Venue: Orfeum Club, Erzsébet körút 43-49 (same block as the hotel). Food will be provided during the event  <<BR>>
Time: 19:00 

=== Hotel facilities ===

''Laundry'' 
Paid for. Please contact the hotel reception to arrange that.

''Spa and gym''
Complimentary

''What to do in Budapest''

For some ideas of some cool things to do in Budapest, take a look at: http://tenthingstodo.topbudapest.org/
Some great sightseeing ideas can be found at: http://www.budapestinfo.hu/en/sightseeing_programmes/special_tours

=== Expenses ===

Expenses should be claimed by Friday 15th June for people who have been sponsored by Canonical. Please ensure you keep all receipts for all transfers and anything else you are claiming for. There is no need to keep receipts for your per diem. 

=== Per Diem ===

The per diem for dinner is 5,200 Forint and for lunch is 2,500 Forint. Both are claimable only when food is not provided by Canonical. 

=== What to do in Budapest ===

* For some ideas of some cool things to do in Budapest, take a look at: http://tenthingstodo.topbudapest.org/
* Some great sightseeing ideas can be found at: http://www.budapestinfo.hu/en/sightseeing_programmes/special_tours
* <nowiki>[[http://www.bockbisztro.hu/|Bock Bisztro]]</nowiki>, which is <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps/place?cid=9770808338511048593|right next door to the Corinthia]]</nowiki>, was featured on <nowiki>[[http://www.travelchannel.com/TV_Shows/Bizarre_Foods/Episodes_Travel_Guides/ci.Hungary.map|Bizarre Foods: Hungary]]</nowiki> with Andrew Zimmern
