{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the UDS Wiki Page. This page is a workspace for UDS, use it to coordinate stuff. The main UDS page is at: '''http://uds.ubuntu.com'''

==== Your feedback on UDS Natty Orlando ====
Please take a moment to fill out the survey, so that we can improve future UDS events. Please visit http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/MCPD5YN

==== Venue Info ====

'''How to get there'''

From the Airport to the Hotel, there is a regular shuttle service from Orlando Airport to the Caribe Royale provided by Mears Transportation (http://www.mearstransportation.com/). One way ticket costs 20USD (round trip is 33USD). They run 24 hours a day.
Alternatively, if you are traveling with other 4-5 colleagues, you may be able to share a taxi van, which should costs approximately 45USD.

'''Venue Map'''

Please download it <nowiki>[[attachment:Caribe Property Map.pdf|here]]</nowiki>

'''Meeting and Meal Schedule'''

Breakfast: 6.30-8.45am <<BR>>
Meeting starts: 9am <<BR>>
Lunch: 1-2pm <<BR>>
Coffee breaks: 10.45-11am & 3-3.15pm <<BR>>
Meeting ends: 6pm 

''Meals''

Breakfast: The Tropical Restaurant (Lobby Level) - The Reception desk will be distributing the breakfast vouchers for each day when you check-in. <<BR>>
Coffee breaks: Foyer (Convention Centre) <<BR>>
Lunch: Grand Sierra E (Convention Centre) <<BR>>
Dinner: Apart from Sunday 24th and Friday 29th, you are free to make your own plans.

''Per Diem''

The per diem for dinner is 27USD and for lunch is 16USD. Both are claimable only when food is not provided by Canonical.

'''Expenses'''

Expenses should be claimed by Friday 26th November. Please ensure you keep all receipts for all transfers and anything else you are claiming for. There is no need to keep receipts for your per diem.

Please download the expense form <nowiki>[[attachment:ExpenseForm.xls|here]]</nowiki> and email it to Marianna Raffaele.

'''Internet'''

Internet in the bedroom is both wired and wireless. The reception desk will provide you with the confirmation number which you need to use in order to set up your own account. For the full instructions please click here.

'''Hotel facilities'''

''Restaurants''

There are 4 restaurants in the Caribe Royale:

- The Tropicale <<BR>>
- Café Largo <<BR>>
- Venetian Room <<BR>>
- Vista Bistro

''Coffee shops''

- Java's Coffee Cafe 

''Bars''

- Parrot-isle <<BR>>
- Calypsos <<BR>>
- Bambooz 

''Laundry''

There is a coin-operated machines on floors 3, 6 and 9 of the towers that house the sleeping rooms. It costs $1.25 per load. A more expensive option is the dry cleaning/laundry service available at the Hotel. Price list is available at the reception desk.

''Fitness Centre, Spa and Pool''

The fitness center and the pool are complimentary

''Parking''

Parking is complimentary.

''ATM Machine''

There are 2 ATM Machines on property. Upstairs by the Hertz desk in the main reception building and in the Convention Center across from Caribbean Ballroom

==== Evening Programme ====

Use this to plan group dinners and excursions.  If you are organising an event, please add it here. Please list the activity and any other information regarding it such as contact person and time of event. 

Monday Night:
'''UDS Host's Party''' - The Ubuntu Florida Team is sponsoring a welcoming party for all attendees.  Details <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/242/detail/ |here]]</nowiki>, please register if you plan on attending.
Venue: Grand Sierra D, from 7pm onwards

Wednesday Night:
'''Ubuntu Women Team dinner''' - 7:00PM in Lakeland (~45 min. drive).  Contact <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:MichelleQ]]</nowiki> for details about the dinner.

Friday Night:
'''UDS Party'''
Venue: Caribbean Ballroom V, VI and VII, from 7pm onwards
'''Dress as your favourite film star/icon''' and bring the fun and excitement of the cinema to UDS. Orlando is the home of Universal studios and the movies and what better way to celebrate the end of UDS than a night feeling like a star. You can dress up or down as much as you feel comfortable with. And as it's a party, there will be food, drink, music and enough fun for you to let your hair down.  You might find some ideas here http://www.totalfilm.com/features/100-greatest-movies-of-all-time or at http://www.partycity.com. 

SEE THE OFFICIAL PICS  <nowiki>[[http://www.pixoulphotography.com/2010/11/01/official-uds-n-group-photo-and-personal-photo-set/| HERE]]</nowiki>

==== Evening buses ====

'''Sunday only'''

Departure Times: 17.30, 18.00, 18.30, 19.00 <<BR>>
Return Times: 19.30, 20.00, 20.30, 21.00 <<BR>>
Destination: Downtown Disney

'''Monday to Thursday'''

Departure times: 18.30, 19.00, 19.30, 20.00, 20.30 <<BR>>
Return times: 20.30, 21.00, 21.30, 22.00, 22.30, 23.00 <<BR>>
Destinations: Pointe Orlando, Universal City Walk and Downtown Disney <<BR>>

Pick up point from the hotel: The Convention Center Porte Cochere  

==== Local Information ====

'''Local services'''

CVS PHARMACY (just across the road from the Caribe Royale)<<BR>>
CELEBRATION HOSPITAL Tel. +1 407-303-4000 <<BR>>
EMERGENCY NUMBERS: 911 <<BR>>
ORLANDO POLICE DEPARTMENT Tel. +1 407-246-2470 <<BR>>
Orange County Sheriff's Office Tel. +1 407-254-7000

==== Restaurants ====

For a list of recommended restaurants, please click <nowiki>[[attachment:List of Restaurants.doc|here]]</nowiki>

Discount vouchers for some restaurants are available on http://www.orlandocoupons.com/

==== Tracks ====

See the following page: http://uds.ubuntu.com/tracks/
