{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Developer Summit : UDS 2007 Sevilla - Classmate PC on Ubuntu ===

* '''What'''
** Summary of the Intel Classmate PC Forum Discussion

* '''Where'''
** UDS Sevilla

* '''When'''
** 7 May 2007

=== Background ===

The Intel classmate PC is a small, mobile learning-assistant educational solution that Intel has developed specifically for younger students in emerging markets.

* http://www.classmatepc.com

=== Topic ===

Intel are interested in running a version of Ubuntu on the device, and would like to include selected education applications from Edubuntu.

=== @ UES ===

Intel presentation.

=== @ UDS ===

Lightning Talk
* Intel: Willy Agatstein
* Edubuntu: Oliver Grawert

Discusion Forum
* Intel demonstration of the device.
* Current status of Ubuntu install.
* Discussion of usage in education and other contexts.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/search/?q=uds%20classmate|Pictures]]</nowiki> tagged 'UDS'  and 'Classmate' on Flickr.

=== Minutes ===

==== Technical Issues ====

* Bugs needing resolution
** WLAN
** Suspend / Resume
** power button powers off, would be good to have a suspend
** screen resolution
** 915 resolution
** gnome bug with 800 x 480

* Improvements required
** Size of install
** Install uses effectively all of the 2GB of Flash 
** Boot speed
** Reduce driver set
** Custom initramfs
** squashfs
** IDE instead of USB
** App installer very slow to start up
** Driver for Sonic Notepad

* Other work
** Classmate applications need packaging
** Bulk install process / config / recommendations
** Languages
** Assistance with translation process
** Assistance with translation resource recruitment

* Update tools / config / processes
** Updates
** Single machine
** Volume (school)
** Volume (OEM)
** Version changes
** Single machine
** Volume (school)
** Volume (OEM)
** '''Data preservation '''

* To consider
** Screen config
** 2 panel layout uses a lot of screen estate
** Should all status bars load by default ?
* More optimised file system for Flash
** JFS etc.
* Mobile distro the same or different
** If different ... to what degree

* Software Availabiity 
** Will the image be available from ubuntu web site for download by existing owners of Classmate PC
** If so, what is the process for them to move from their existing OS
** '''Data preservation '''
** What hardware checks need to be done
** What level of support is implied if the download does not run

* Support
** Community support ?
** Commercial support ?

==== Usage ====

* Teacher Requests for a Central Management Tool
** Lock all activity
** Take over a session
** Load a URL etc
** Show a common image / presentation

* Student Control Panel
** Does some of this
** Can it be extended ?

* Accessability
** Accessability for physically disadvantaged
** When a device accelerates normal kids, then it disadvantages the others
** Deaf kids, do not learn spoken langauge as easily, and then are slower in written exercises
** Hence will be slower on this device, as well as IRC and IM, causing some exclusion 

* Suggestion: social financial responsibility
** Invest a portion into disadvantaged kids
** Intel themselves
** Suggest to government / funders of school projects

* Ensure that the install set does not remove or reduce the acessability features
* Accessability feature demo
** Voice books
** Existing tools
** Can Heno help to suggest a few slides to go into Willy's presentations

* Suggested contept
** Idea mooted of using this as a book / reader for visually impaired kids
** Not seeing it as a computer, but as a cheaper reading assistance tool than specialist devices

=== Add your name and details here if you are interested in any feedback or progression ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 85%; width: 85%;" rowstyle="text-align: left; font-weight: bold; background: #ffcc99"> '''Interested in any Technical Information'''
|-
| <rowstyle="font-weight: bold; background: #ffff99;" style="width: 40%;">Name
| Email
|-
| Richard Weideman
| richard_(at)_ubuntu_(dot)_com
|-
| Oliver Grawert
| ogra_(at)_ubuntu_(dot)_com
|-
| Fabian Rodriguez
| fabian_(at)_ubuj_(dot)_com
|-
| Willy Agatstein
| willy_(dot)_agatstein_(at)_intel_(dot)_com
|-
| Justin Lipman
| justin_(dot)_lipman_(at)_intel_(dot)_com
|-
| Steven Li
| steven_(dot)_z(dot)_li_(at)_intel_(dot)_com
|-
| Vagrant Cascadian
| vagrant_(at)_freegeek_(dot)_com
|-
| Travis Watkins
| amaranth_(at)_ubuntu_(dot)_com
|-
| Matt Oquist
| moquist.(at)_majen_(dot)_net
|-
| Jordan Mantha
| mantha_(at)_ubuntu_(dot)_com
|-
| Rob Savoye
| rob_(at)_lulu_(dot)_com
|-
| Petr Skoda
| skodak_(at)_moodle_(dot)_org
|-
| Jonathan Carter
| jonathan_(at)_ubuntu_(dot)_com
|-
| Chris Coldwell
| chris_(at)_learningelectric_(dot)_com
|-
| Philipp Schroeder
| philipp_(at)_din15_(dot)_org
|-
| Gavin McCullagh
| gmccullagh {at} gmail {dot} com
|-
| Will van der Leij
| will {at} ubuntu {dot} com
|-
| Rolando F. Blanco C:.
| rolando {at} ubuntu {dot} com
|-
| Prihantoosa
| pht854 {at} gmail {dot} com
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 85%; width: 85%;" rowstyle="text-align: left; font-weight: bold; background: #ffcc99"> '''Interested in any Usage Information'''
|-
| <rowstyle="font-weight: bold; background: #ffff99;" style="width: 40%;">Name
| Email
|-
| Richard Weideman
| richard_(at)_ubuntu_(dot)_com
|-
| Oliver Grawert
| ogra_(at)_ubuntu_(dot)_com
|-
| Fabian Rodriguez
| fabian_(at)_canonical_(dot)_com
|-
| Henrik Omma
| henrik_(at)_ubuntu_(dot)_com
|-
| Willy Agatstein
| willy_(dot)_agatstein_(at)_intel_(dot)_com
|-
| Justin Lipman
| justin_(dot)_lipman_(at)_intel_(dot)_com
|-
| Hemanth Kumar
| hemanth_(dot)_k_(dot)_kumar_(at)_intel_(dot)_com
|-
| Matt Oquist
| moquist.(at)_majen_(dot)_net
|-
| Melissa Draper
| melissa_(at)_meldraweb_(dot)_com
|-
| Jordan Mantha
| mantha_(at)_ubuntu_(dot)_com
|-
| Rob Savoye
| rob_(at)_lulu_(dot)_com
|-
| Petr Skoda
| skodak_(at)_moodle_(dot)_org
|-
| Jonathan Carter
| jonathan_(at)_ubuntu_(dot)_com
|-
| Chris Coldwell
| chris_(at)_learningelectric_(dot)_com
|-
| Philipp Schroeder
| philipp_(at)_din15_(dot)_org
|-
| Gavin McCullagh
| gmccullagh {at} gmail {dot} com
|-
| Will van der Leij
| will {at} ubuntu {dot} com
|-
| Rolando F. Blanco C:.
| rolando {at} ubuntu {dot} com
|-
| Prihantoosa
| pht854 {at} gmail {dot} com
|}

=== Feedback and Suggestions ===

Feedback and suggestions are welcomed, both from within the Ubuntu community, as well as from other interested parties.

=== Contact ===

Richard Weideman
* Ubuntu Education Programme Manager
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.edubuntu.org|Edubuntu]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHardware
