{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Local Information ==

=== Map of Local Area ===

* Hotel is located 20 minutes South of Brussels Airport: <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/places/be/la-hulpe/chauss%C3%A9e-de-bruxelles/135/-dolce-la-hulpe-brussels-resorts-hotels-conference-centers|Chaussée de Bruxelles 135, 1310 La Hulpe, Belgium]]</nowiki>
* Taxi from Brussels Airport to the hotel should cost approximately €50
* If you want to go by train you need to go to the station 'Hoeilaart'. The hotel is then just a few minutes walking. Use <nowiki>[[http://www.b-rail.be/main/E/|the website of the SNCB/NMBS]]</nowiki> for planning your trip. Brussels Central - Hoeilaart is 33 minutes and costs €2.50, Brussels Airport - Hoeilaart is 53 minutes and costs €6.35. The website sometimes refers to the airport as "BRUSSEL-NATIONAAL-LUCHTHAVEN".
* <nowiki>[[http://osm.org/go/0EoMz03P|Hotel Dolce La Hulpe]]</nowiki> in OSM
* <nowiki>[[http://osm.org/go/0EoM9Eix--|Hotel and train station Hoeilaart]]</nowiki> in OSM

'''Travel arrangements offered by Canonical'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Sat 8
| Between 09:00 and 17:00
| Brussels Airport
| Dolce
| There will be a mini bus available at the airport straight to Dolce. Pick up point JAVA Coffee Bar
|-
| Sat 8
| Before 09:00 or after 17:00
| Brussels Airport
| Dolce
| Take a taxi directly to Dolce from the airport
|-
| Sat 8
| Between 09:00 to 17:30
| Eurostar (Gare du Midi)
| Dolce
| At Gare du Midi change for train to La Hulpe Train station (Louvain La Neuve-Ottignies bound NOT Louvain only. The latter is a different town).  There will be a mini bus available at La Hulpe to go to Dolce
|-
| Sun 9
| Between 09:00 to 20:30
| Brussels Airport
| Dolce
| There will be a mini bus available to go to Dolce.Pick up point JAVA Coffee Bar
|-
| Sun 9
| Before 09:00 or after 20:30
| Brussels Airport
| Dolce
| Take a taxi directly to Dolce
|-
| Sun 9
| Between 09:00 to 20:30
| Eurostar (Gare du Midi)
| Dolce
| At Gare du Midi change for train to La Hulpe Train station (Louvain La Neuve-Ottignies bound NOT Louvain only. The latter is a different town).  There will be a mini bus available at La Hulpe to go to Dolce
|-
| Fri 14
| Departures: 18:15
| Dolce
| Brussels Airport
| If you need to depart earlier, please book a taxi directly with Dolce Reception Desk
|-
| Fri 14
| Departures: 18:10, 18:35, 19:10, 19:35
| Dolce
| La Hulpe Train Station
| From La Hulpe Train Station, trains to Brussels Midi depart at every '03 and '37 past the hour. If you need to depart earlier, please book a taxi directly with Dolce Reception Desk
|-
| Sat 15
| Departures: 05:20, 06:30, 08:00, 08:30 and then every 30min. Last pick-up at 18:00
| Dolce
| Brussels Airport
| If you need to depart before 05:20, please book a taxi directly with Dolce Reception Desk
|-
| Sat 15
| Departures: from 09:20 to 16:20, every hour at '20 past
| Dolce
| La Hulpe Train Station
| From La Hulpe Train Station, trains to Brussels Midi depart every hour, at '40 past the hour.
|}

'''IMPORTANT''': For sponsored people only: please note that taxis can be expensed only when bus transportation is not provided.

Please download <nowiki>[[attachment:BruxellesMidi-LaHulpe.pdf|here]]</nowiki> the train timetable Brussels Midi - La Hulpe Station.<<BR>>
For more information on train times from the Airport to Gare du Midi (Zuid), please visit http://www.brusselsairport.be/en/parking_transport/to-and-from/train

=== Expenses ===

<nowiki>[[attachment:ExpenseForm.xls |Expense Form]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting Schedule ===

Start: 09:00 <<BR>>

Lunch: 13:00-14:00 <<BR>>

End: 18:00

=== Internet ===

Wireless (Dolce) - note that ports not explicitly opened are blocked, e.g.: 465

=== Meals ===

* Breakfast and Lunch is in the Argan restaurant downstairs past the main lobby
* Dinner: apart from Monday and Friday, please make your own plan for dinner. The perdiem is 30Euros. Each night there will be coaches from Dolce to Brussels, Waterloo and Louvain La Neuve. Timetable will be confirmed during the event. Please note that you can expense the perdiem only when dinner has not been pre-arranged.

'''Timing''' <<BR>>
Breakfast= 6.30-8.45am <<BR>>
Lunch= 13.00-14.00 <<BR>>
Coffee breaks=10.45-11.00 & 16.00-16.15 (E-coffee bars on Ground floor and first floor;  coffee station on the 2nd floor)

==== Bars, Restaurants and Cafeterias Nearby ====

* Argan Restaurant, Tree O Restaurant, Lobby Bar, and Oak Bar inside the <nowiki>[[http://www.dolce-la-hulpe-brussels-hotel.com/features-activities/dining.asp|hotel]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/places/be/terhulpen/rue-de-genval/51/-quick-restaurants|Quick Restaurants]]</nowiki> - Cheap burgers similar to Wendy's or !McDonald's; some English spoken
* <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/places/be/waterloo/chauss%C3%A9e-de-bruxelles/196/-boston-steak-house|Boston Steak House]]</nowiki> - Simple menu and tasty steaks; some English spoken, call ahead for larger groups (sat 14 of us easily with reservation)
* <nowiki>[[attachment:restaurants.pdf|List of Restaurants]]</nowiki>

=== Places of Interest ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.comicscenter.net|The BELGIAN COMIC STRIP CENTER]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.mim.be |Musical Instrument Museum]]</nowiki>

=== Tourist Information ===

Please download <nowiki>[[attachment:Brochure Brussels,Waterloo, others.pdf|here]]</nowiki> a booklet with local attractions.

=== Useful Info on the local area ===

'''Pharmacy''':
Multipharma - multipharma.yours.be
Rue des Combattants 58, La Hulpe -
Tel: 0032 2 653 63 46

'''Grocery shop''':
La Hulpe Supermarket (address tbc)

'''Laundrette''': (very close to the GB Super Market)
Rue Colonel Montigny
1332 Genval

'''Closest ATM machine''' (There is no ATM Machine in the hotel)
Fortis Banque:
square Trois Colonnes 1 1310 La Hulpe
Téléphone: 0032 2-6340440

* Actually, there are at least 5 ATMs in Hoeilaart that are closer to the hotel than this one... -- JanC

'''Hospital/Emergency''':
Clinique St Pierre
Reine Fabiola 9 Avenue
1340 Ottignies
Tel: 0032 10 43 72 11

'''Post Office''':
Bureau de poste
Rue DES COMBATTANTS 135
1310 LA HULPE

'''Police Station''':
Zone de police La Mazerine (La Hulpe/Lasne/Rixensart)
Avenue du Gris Moulin 14, 1310 La Hulpe
Téléphone: 00322 6551672

'''Courier Company''':
CIT Express
Avenue de la Verrerie, 156
1190 Bruxelles
Tél: 0032 2 533 21 41

'''<nowiki>[[http://www.weather.com/weather/tenday/BEXX0005 | Weather]]</nowiki>''': 12°C-17°C or 54°F-63°F Daily Maximum with some rainy days.

=== Evening Programme ===

Monday 10th: “Let's get together for a BBQ” - Outdoor space in front of the main entrance, 7pm onwards <<BR>>

Thursday 13th: DJ night at the OAK Bar, Dolce (not organized by Canonical) <<BR>> 

Friday 14th : ALL STARS PARTY = Redwood Hall, Dolce, 7.30pm

=== Venue Facilities (all complimentary!) ===

-2x tennis courts <<BR>>

-1 x volleyball field <<BR>>

-Walking trails and jogging paths in the forest. Maps available at the reception desk <<BR>>

-Fitness centre: located -1 floor next to the indoor swimming pool, steam room and sauna. Open 24h/24 and 7/7. <<BR>>

-Swimming Pool (indoor): open from 6.00 a.m. to 10.00 p.m. daily <<BR>>

''Paid for'' <<BR>>
- Mountain bikes hire for half a day 15€ or 25€ Full day <<BR>>
- SPA <<BR>>

=== Things to bring ===

European adapter and a power strip

=== Expenses ===

Expenses should be claimed by * 28 May*. Please ensure you keep all receipts for all transfers and anything else you are claiming for. There is no need to keep receipts for your per diem.

=== Social Whiteboard ===

* Ubuntu Women dinner Wednesday 12th May, We are going to go to the <nowiki>[[http://drugopera.customer.ipower.be/drugopera.aspx| Drug Opera Restaurant]]</nowiki>
If Anyone is interested in coming along, everyone is welcome, please be in the reception at 6:50pm for the bus.  Please add your name to the list. 

** Laura Czajkowski
** Elizabeth Krumbach
** Penelope Stowe
** Jan Claeys
** Paolo Sammicheli
** Sergio Zanchetta
** Alan Bell
** Chris Crisafulli
** Adam Sommer
** Elaine Logan
** Margaret Logan
** Sylvia McGilivray
** Dea Million
** Benjamin Humphrey
** Martin Owens
** Christelle Thomas (kinouchou)
** Martin Bogomolni
** Scott Ritchie

Tuesday 11th : "Delirium Café" | Everyone is welcome !

** (no coordinated dinner)
** http://www.deliriumcafe.be/ around 21:00
** 2004 different beers available !
** http://maps.google.com/maps?q=impasse%20de%20la%20fidelit%C3%A9%2C%20brussels&hl=en&um=1&ie=UTF-8&sa=N&tab=wl
----
* Anyone interested in hitting a vegetarian/vegan restaurant in Brussels on Thursday? -- jtatum@gmail.com

----
Calling all Yogi's | Wake-up Ashtanga Yoga |
* Friday, May 14th
* 7-8 am
* Basement of Conference Center (all the way to the left and back hallway)
* There are no mats available, however, a large bath towel will do.

-----
ARRGGH! Treasure Hunt
* Ground Rules
* 1) Is NOT a team building exercise, however, feel free to watch each other's backs.
* 2) Is contained WITHIN the walls of the hotel.
* 3) Starts directly after the WRAP UP.
* The FIRST CLUE will be announced by Jono during the WRAP UP.

* HINT to those who have found the 2nd clue:  You will not find the answers by using your computers.  "Time to EXERCISE THE RIGHT brain."
-----
(!) Use this for gatherings, planning events, etc.

=== Local Team ===

The following people live in the area if you want more information.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Contact Info
| Comment
|}

local Linux & PC User Groups
