{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== General Info ===

* 72 sessions
* 4,078 page views on summit.ubuntu.com
* 339 people registered as attending on summit.ubuntu.com
* Highest attendee count in the past 2 years
* Visitors from 121 countries to summit.ubuntu.com

=== App & Scope Development ===

Presenter: Alan Pope
* Tuesday
* How do I write an Ubuntu app with QML?
* Music App Planning
* Discussed plans for short term and the results of the recent G+ user poll
* Weather App Planning
* Discussed plans for notifications system and natural language weather reports, along with potential map / radar display
* Developer Documentation healthcheck
* Investigation of new strategies to improve our documentation, such as improving the discoverability of existing content and community made resources, refining our user journeys and video tutorials.
* Wednesday
* Scopes roundtable
* Presentation of new dynamic previews
* Refreshing scopes is going to feel seamless by applying a diff on the model and not reloading it
* We are working on a refined filters API with many filter widgets
* We&#8217;ll work on aggressive results caching to always show content
* Scopes contest, coming soon!
* Community Core Apps QA
* Covered the new core apps jenkins and discussed resources available to app developers for testing their applications
* Dekko (Mail) Planning
* Detailed the current outstanding tasks for landing Dekko as a default email client on the phone
* Discussed how we will deliver converged version of Dekko to beta users (as &#8220;Dekko beta&#8221; app) and stable Mail client to conservative users via &#8220;Mail&#8221; app
* Taking advantage of Ubuntu Online Accounts [ ] - Presentation of the simplified, Online Accounts API (v2)
* Feature request: support for C++ account plugins (not just QML)
* In-App-Purchases API for Ubuntu
* Allows developers of phone apps to get paid when users decide to purchase items inside their apps. We are starting a pilot with a few developers before we open this to a wider developer audience.
* Thursday
* App Design Roundtable
* James gave a brief talk about what the design team are doing for a couple of core apps - Dekko & Music
* Kevin Feyder demonstrated his Ubuntu UI Toolkit Inkscape and printable tools
* Introduction to Scopes
* Pawel explained what scopes are and how they work, and did a quick walk thru the architecture, and how you can make your own scopes using C++, Go or JavaScript.
* Writing HTML5 Apps - recurring session to introduce developers to the set of Web technologies available on Ubuntu to develop applications
* Update on new webapp-container features, the Online Webapp Generator, the alternative navigation UX from ogra, and some thoughts about ReactJS and ReactNative prototypes 

=== Cloud ===

Presenter: Jorge Castro

* Nothing but workshops! See them all here:  [https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSsoSZBAZ3Ivlbt_fxyjIkw]
* Write a charm on us! See  [http://developer.juju.solutions]
* Check out our new website:  [http://jujucharms.com]
* Juju Charmer Summit:  [http://summit.juju.solutions]

* Tuesday
* apt install openstack
* Explained openstack installer: Terminal UI installer tool for those who want to skip to a working cloud then explore juju and openstack after.
* Demoed single (using nested containers) and multi (using MAAS) install paths, showed Horizon on a working single install cloud
* Showed UI for machine placement and service selection (hides details of juju and charms until you want to learn about them)
* See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OpenStack/Installer
* Demo MAAS 1.9
* Overview: New features in MAAS 1.9 and the differences between 1.8.
* Walk through on how to create subnets and vlans using the CLI.
* Walk through on how to configure the node interfaces from the WebUI.
* Walk through on how to configure storage from the WebUI.
* Wednesday
* Getting Stated with Juju
* Writing your own Juju charms
* Benchmarking Clouds
* Using container technologies with Juju
* Deploying your own Big Data Stack
* MySQL & Variants in 16.04
* Coordinating work/plans with Percona, MySQL, MariaDB 
* Update to MySQL 5.7? Still TBD depending on packaging completion.
* Percona & MariaDB in good shape for 16.04
* Agreement that flags system needs reworked, Robie Basak (rbasak) to lead proposal on mailing list.  Flag system handles the state of the MySQL data directory so users can switch versions and variants. 
* Thursday
* An Introduction to LXD: The Container Hypervisor
* Gave an introduction to LXD
* Introduced the LXD web demo service
* https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/try-it/
* Showed what can be done with demo today
* Talked about what39s coming up for 16.04
* Juju Office Hours

=== Community ===

Presenter: David Planella

==== Summary ====

* Preparations continue for the UbuCon Summit in the US in January, schedule mostly ready
* There will be an UbuCon Summit in Europe next September
* The Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase will be run again next cycle, with more time for preparation
* The Community team will be looking at ways to increase visibility and the amount of donations to support community projects
* Meetup.com: we will go ahead and start a pilot together with the LoCo Council with interested teams
* Future plans for UOS: we will stress planning less, will put together a proposal for enhancements to make ubuntuonair.com more accessible to teams and schedule ad-hoc public hangouts for teams
* In the upcoming days we&#8217;ll be doing the ground work to participate in the Google Code-In initiative as an organization
* Kubuntu Podcast happened this week as part of the Online Summit
* The French team summarizes UOS for French speakers!
* In this session, &#8220;Le Ubuntu Podcast&#8221; has been announced, a monthly podcast in french

[Full summary/list of sessions for reference only]
* Tuesday
* Community Roundtable 
* what works at a Ubucon - how to demo phones successfully! 
* Ubucons!  [http://ubucon.eu/]   [http://ubucon.de/2015/] should they be trademarked?
* dpm : Mail canonical re trademark of Ubucon 
* Revisiting the Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase
* Community Team Q and A
* Wednesday
* Community Roundtable II
* Ubucon Europe Planning
* Ubucon Summit Organization
* Kubuntu Podcast
* Thursday
* Community Roundtable III
* Future Plans for UOS
* Meetup.com for LoCo teams
* Le french UOS Summary

=== Convergence ===

Presenter: Michael Hall
* Tuesday
* 16.04 Desktop QA Plan
* Discussed plans to enhance image testing, and reduce manual testing load
* targeted getting ubiquity tests going
* additional gating for images based on tests
* live session testcases
* Kubuntu Xenial Planning
* Identifying resources for hosting CI infrastructure
* Lots of discussion on moving documentation back under the kubuntu.org site
* Unifying and improving developer documentation for new contributors
* Will be working on an additional ISO containing more localizations/translations
* Looking into KDE Plasma 5.5 integration for Kubuntu 16.04
* Planning to do more on-air planning and presentations, including bringing more information to Kubuntu Podcast
* Work on boosting bug triaging community
* Wednesday
* QT for 16.04 LTS
* Currently working with Qt 5.5
* Qt 5.5.1 is available in a PPA for Unity8 and KDE testers
* Looking into using Qt 5.6 because it is an LTS
* Will try and help Debian get updates to Qt as we need them to keep us in sync
* Developer Desktop Plan 16.04
* Replacing Ubuntu Software Center with Gnome Software + plugins to support Ubuntu app store
* Tasked with supporting Snappy apps on Unity 7 desktop, developing the scope and roadmap for that
* Triaging and fixing a number of bugs in Unity 7, Compiz and Nux
* Dropping Gtk patches where possible, looking into ways to work better with Gnome apps&#8217; menu and header bar
* Removing Brasero and Empathy from the default install
* Adding Gnome Calendar to the default install
* Continued work to remove Python2 from the default install so we can be Python3 only
* Supporting legacy applications on Ubuntu Personal
* The libertine project allows users to install legacy X11 apps packaged as debs inside an lxc container, and run them with XMir on top of Ubuntu Touch.
* Developing Unity 8
* Albert gave a detailed explanation on how to set up an development environment to compile Unity8 itself, plus a quick overview of the structure of the code and its components.
* Thursday
* Convergence Q&A
* Lots of good questions, go and watch the video
* No physical HDMI support for existing OEM devices
* But investigating wireless display options to enable convergence anyway
* Discussed ways the app lifecycle is different between phone and desktop installs
* Talked a little about what happened to Ubuntu for Android and how it led us to the convergence we have today
* New syncing framework, Buteo, being used for contacts already, will make it easier to implement more syncing options in the future
* App Convergence
* Great demonstrations of convergence in action by the webbrowser-app and contacts app
* highlighted both layout changes as well as feature changes to suit the appropriate user interactions
* Demonstrations of new SDK components and improvements to existing components for desktop use
* Flash support being worked on for the browser, using pepperflash
* Designing Convergent Apps
* &#8216;Phone/Tablet/Desktop&#8217; is less relevant now than &#8216;Staged &Windowed modes&#8217;, and..
* Staged/ Windowed modes are mutually exclusive.
* Touch, Pointer and Focus inputs need to be supported at all times, as&#8230;
* Inputs are not mutually exclusive.
* Get ready for the largest overhaul of the SDK in recent memory, both in design and engineering terms!
* Plasma Mobile - A Brief Summary
* 

=== Core ===

Presenter: Steve Langasek

Track leads: Steve Langasek, Daniel Holbach

* Tuesday
* Creating more Snappy Frameworks: Good discussion about the general definition and understanding of Frameworks. What can be a framework, what should be an app, what other options are there. Received good input from many &#8220;customers&#8221; of snappy. Things are looking good for Snappy Ubuntu Core being the basis of Ubuntu&#8217;s future. Also: bluetooth and connectivity (based on network-manager) landing soon.
* Snap packages for phone and desktop apps: Kyle Fazzari and Alejandro Cura presented their analysis on what it would take to convert the phone from clicks to snaps. A detailed discussion of a plan ensued and will be ongoing for the next weeks.
* Wednesday
* nodejs and libv8 for 16.04
* There&#8217;s a general trend to increase dependencies on nodejs, but its long term security support statement is weak. The main use case is building documentation for packages in main using jquery and other js packages. The conclusion is to allow node.js and jquery in main as a build dependency, but not for general use. To do that, pursue archive reorg and change the definition of main vis-a-vis security support instead of having to provide security support for nodejs
* Python3 Only on the images
* Discussed and assigned work items for removal of Python 2 from the desktop, server, and cloud images.  Very close on the latter two (we were there for 15.10 but regressed at the last minute) and we have a good roadmap for the former. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Python/FoundationsXPythonVersions
* We briefly discussed what happens to /usr/bin/python (nothing!) and how scripts that can run on Python 2 & 3 can work from Precise to Xenial.  No decisions made.
* EFI Capsule and Fallback
* Started to define our story for supporting firmware updates through UEFI.
* Thursday
* Your feedback counts: the Snappy onboarding experience
* Lots of great feedback from all kinds of developer audiences of Ubuntu Core. Will be factored into our documentation and onboarding plans.
* Snappy Developer Community Resources
* We are already using a number of social media and support channels for snappy, so it was time to review them and bring more structure to them. We also decided which presentation/workshop materials we want to provide enthusiasts with, so they can represent Snappy at conferences/universities/LUG meetings out there.
* Porting popular apps/software to Snappy
* We put together a nice list of apps which are often used on Raspberry Pis and other devices. This should help us start a conversation on the mailing list on how we can collaborate to bring the most interesting ones to snappy too.

=== Show & Tell ===

Track Leads: balloons, hggdh, David Callé, Laura Czajkowski

Presenter: David Callé

* Tuesday
* Testing Snappy - balloons
* Covered the snappy unit testing efforts, showing off how snappy is tested and how you can help by running snappy tests locally or on real hardware
* Unity8 Convergence
* Fantastic convergence demo session from Michael Zanetti (Nexus4 + TV) with a lot of questions!
* Snappy Clinic
* Nice demo on how to turn ROS apps into Snappy apps. We got some good feedback from current ROS users who are building robots and will continue the dialogue.
* Modeling Network Partitions with JuJu
* Demo of Jupsen, a Juju plugin that allows network partitions modeling in a simple way, so you can easily test how your app handles them and guard against failures.
* Matt demonstrated jupsen Network partitions happen, your distributed system needs to be designed to handle them. One of the reasons they39re often not tested is the difficulty in setting up failure scenarios.
* I39d like to show jupsen (https://github.com/mattyw/jupsen). Jupsen is a juju plugin that allows you to model network partitions in a simple way, so you can easily test how your app handles them.
* I will start by giving a brief tour of the commands available. I will then show an app writing to a mongodb replica set during a network partition. I will create a partition that causes lost writes, and demonstrate how you can guard against them.
* 
* Wednesday
* Ubuntu SDK Q and A - balloons
* New SDK IDE package with bundled depends coming very soon
* You will be able to target any framework running the SDK on any version of ubuntu
* 1.3 components shown off
* additional converged components will continue landing as the cycle goes
* Ubuntu Pi Flavour Maker
* Martin demoed how to create a raspberry pi 2 image of your favorite ubuntu flavor using debootstrap
* images are available on ubuntumate.org
* Martin also covered areas needed for help, as well as talked about future work like kodi on pi
* Plasma Mobile
* Thursday
* Kubuntu&#8217;s CI - balloons
* Harald Sitter demonstrated how Kubuntu has setup a robust CI process using launchpad to produce builds into ppa&#8217;s. They perform many checks as part of the package build in order to insure the package is well made, has it&#8217;s dependencies, the metadata is valid, installs cleanly, etc.
* User Level Testing for Ubuntu Phone - balloons
* The QA team shared the history of automated testing on the phone, to mimic the user. They shared how they test location, telephony, gps, etc.
* They also gave information on how to join up and write some tests; if low-level testing sounds fun to you and autopilot is a skill you have, contact them to try your hand at writing some tests.
* Javascript Scopes Hands-on - David
* Alex Abreu and Marcus Tomlinson, in a joined Unity APIs and Webapps team effort, have presented the new Javascript bindings for scopes, with node.js integration so you can take advantage of its vast library of modules.
* Mycroft on Ubuntu
* Ryan from Mycroft was on hand to demonstrate the IA unit and talk about Unity8 integration
* Game Development for Ubuntu Phone
* Mike Sheldon gave demonstrations of writing games for ubuntu, showing off his work in progress game made using Bacon2d. In addition, he demonstrated packaging a game made with PlayCanvas to ubuntu using a simple script.
