{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''*** DEADLINE PASSED ***''' - Information below held for tracking.

In order to reduce the cost of attending UDS-Natty we've done some research into alternative accommodation which is quite a bit cheaper when shared. If you would like to take part in this program, please email doctormo@ubuntu.com.

''Deadline:'' 26th September 2010

== Location ==

The selected location for the alternative accommodation is the Grand Beach Vacation Resort:

* Distance: >300 meters
* Type: Resort/Villa
* Map: <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?client=ubuntu&channel=fs&oe=utf-8&q=Grand+Beach+Vacation+Resort,+Orlando,+FL&ie=UTF8&ei=Oj-STJDeNoP58AbTmrC_Bg&ved=0CBoQ_AU&hq=Grand+Beach+Vacation+Resort,&hnear=Orlando,+Orange,+Florida&ll=28.361325,-81.492183&spn=0.011291,0.026157&z=16&iwloc=A|Google Maps]]</nowiki>

=== Cost ===

Prices are for the entire week, from Sunday 24th October until the Saturday 30th October 2010.

* ~$350 each room in a 3 bedroom villa.
* ~$180 each person sharing a bedroom between two.

=== Transportation ===

* This accommodation is close enough that no organised transport to and from the UDS event is required.
* If you do require some transportation, we can organise some on site.

== Details to Send ==

* Name
* Gender
* Room mate preference (if any)

== Fall Back Hotels ==

If we get too many people or the rooms book up faster there are some fallbacks:

* Buena Vista Suites (more expensive, but as close)
* Holiday Inn Express (less expensive, but a mile away)
