{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== UDS-Boston keysigning party details ====

* ''When: Lunchtime on Friday at UDS''
* ''Where: Main hallway (where the food appears)''

* ''What to do:''
  1. Bring with you several[1] copies[2] of your GPG key signature. Your printout should look something like this: {{{
--------------------------------------------------------
aristotle.mojo.home ~ $ gpg --fingerprint 75FF043B
/home/moquist/.gnupg/pubring.gpg
--------------------------------
pub   1024D/75FF043B 2007-10-16
      Key fingerprint = 898A 39B2 605B C10A 5AE0  CCB8 682E 5790 75FF 043B
uid                  Matt Oquist <moquist@majen.net>
sub   4096g/B8893561 2007-10-16
--------------------------------------------------------}}}
## Bring with you the strongest form of photo identification[3] that you have available.
## You will receive further instructions at the keysigning.

[1] You will need one printout of your fingerprint for every person you want to sign your key. Somewhere between 50-100 copies may be reasonable.

[2] There is a JetDirect HP Color Laserjet 3600 printer available: 10.2.3.5. It is essential that you configure it with JetDirect and the proper printer model number. If you're running Gutsy this should be automatically detected.  :)   E.g. system/admin/printer/new printer/appsocket-hpdirect/ then enter 10.2.3.5 and                   accept the defaults

[3] At the keysigning you will choose what types of ID you consider acceptable, so (for example) a passport is better than a driver's license because more people are likely to accept it and agree to sign your key.
