{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Mobile current status ==

Tollef Fog Heen led discussion on the status of Ubuntu Mobile.  This was held the morning of 29-Oct-2007 (Monday) during UDS Boston summit.

* ''Attach images of whiteboard here''

Priorities: P1: most important, P2: medium important.  P3, can wait.

FP == Features, Polish (the shiny stuff, not people from Poland)

=== Working ===
* Python apps/bindings
* Kernel
* Terminal

=== Needs Work ===
* Hildon input method (on-screen keyboard) - P1
* User Interface - P1
* Themeing - P2, FP
* Performance (boot time) - P1, FP
* Network - P1
* Power Management (suspend) - P1
* Home Screen/hildon desktop - P1
* Usability -P1
* Web Browser -P1
* Footprint -P2, FP
* Graphics drivers (2D/3D acceleration) - P1
* Bluetooth -P2
* Media Framework (gstreamer/Helix) - P1
* Maemo Mapper (GPS Navigation) -P3
* Chat/VoIP -P2
* Media playback /Plugin - P1
* Cheese (camera application) -P2
* NTP support (date/time applet) -P3

=== Missing ===
* Software updates - P1
* Software Developer Kit (SDK) - P2
* Handwriting recognition - P3
* Accessibility -P3
* Testing - P2
* Application criteria P2
* Synchronisation  - P3
* Supportability P2
* Gesture support ("iPhone scrolling") - P3
* Email (not web based email) -P2
* Documentation on Device - P3
* Help Infrastructure - P3
* Bling - P3
* Zoom - P2
* Initial user setup (name, l10n) - P2
* Backup/restore Implementation  - P1
* Import/Export of data/media - P1

=== Not for MID ===
* Multi-user

=== Notes ===
* Boot
* Usplash
* Managing upstream (Who is upstream?)
* Bug-tracking (a howto)
* Releases
* Branch management
* Working hardware platforms (developer/reference hardware)

=== Use cases ===
* Use cases
** What do we want the user to be able to do
** Not to do
** Eg. take a picture of themselves drunk at the bar and upload it to Flickr
* Websites that must work
** Facebook
** <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com|Youtube]]</nowiki>
** Google
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com|Flickr]]</nowiki>
** Myspace
** Ebay
** Amazon
** Orkut (Brazil)
** Yahoo homepage
** Hotmail
** <nowiki>[[http://www.gmail.com|Gmail]]</nowiki>
** Twitter
** Wikipedia
** Wall Street Journal
** Weather.com
** New York Times
** lastfm
** Live365
** Ubuntu.com
** Launchpad.net
* On line music sites (must work in background while continuing to browse)
** Panel volume applet
** Hardware volume control
** Incoming phone calls (pausing music)
* Media
 
=== Priority 1 === 
* Calculator
* GPS nagivation
* Stock market
* Note-taking
* Other iPhone applets
* Other N810 applets

==== Explicit Use Cases ====
* 18-30?
* "digital parent" (the people who ask how to add things to the phone)
* Surf the web
* Chat (instant messaging)
* Consumer not business
* High-powered executive "boys-toy"
* Single user only (not designed for multiple users)
* "Just works" (should not ''have'' to return to the control panel)

=== Discussed ===
* open ended applications (web browser)
* take and upload a picture to flickr
* MID: task-oriented device (not a computer)
** Reduced functionality optimised for specific tasks
** Sports Scores
** Email
** Driving directions
** Surf.
** play music
* Make the web-browser work
** Flash
*** Alternative (swfdec, gnash) or Adobe supported?
** Media playing
* Queuing off-line email
* Flight-mode
** Feedback to applications that the network is off-line
** Visual feedback to "prove" to the flight attendants they are off
** Power-saving mode
** Driver issues, deep sleep.
* Location-based retrieve (eg. all images taken in "Boston" "2 weeks ago").

=== Second board ===
==== Hildon ====
* SDK
==== General ====
* Acceptance Tests
* Applications
* E????
* Intel input (??)

=== Network access ===
* User want an '''internet application'''
** User doesn't care how they get it 
* Picks the last one used (eg. Nokia N770, N800, N810)
* Network Manager is the only choice (as Nokia solution is not available)
* Must cover
** Bluetooth
** WiMax
** GSM
** WiFi
* Turn the network connections off when not needed (no apps)
* Ad-hoc networks (IPv4/IPv6 links so Avahi/zeroconf work)
* Between all Linux devices close together
* Network Manager; for the wimax;  work arounds for different devices
* Netconf (Python scripts "quick hacks")
* Who handles the user experience (UI code)
* Intel have a "resource" (Todd) dedicated to "control panel"
* NM asks you what type of key (and yet, iwlist knows)
* Automatically connect to open-wifi?
* Sensible decisions
* Use Flat-rate UMTS in your own country, but not abroad
* Policy
** "Should I automatically connect"
* Network Manager vs. Reimplement Nokia network solution
** "Network Manager doesn't fit on the screen"!

=== Talked about but not written down ===
* Packaging issues/releasing:
* Meta-packing issues (getting packages added to the meta-package)
* Should be a Launchpad project for 'ubuntu-mobile'
* Standardisation, LSB-like
** minimum set of libraries
** LSB came out last month and is broken
* Input transformation
** Voice input
** Handwriting
** On screen keyboard
* USB-mass storage 
** VFAT emulator
* Thought-free WiFi
* Target market 
 
=== Not discussed ===
* ARM support
