{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== The Illustrious Crew ==

<pre>
“I am a member of a team, and I rely on the team, I defer to it and sacrifice for it, because the team, not the individual, is the ultimate champion.”
- Mia Hamm
</pre>

Thank you for volunteering to crew at UDS! You'll find crewing a rewarding experience as you get to meet new people. We also give you the highly-sought rarely-seen special Ubuntu crew t-shirt for your work! Here are the assignments.

* Crew Chief: Laura Czajkowski
* IRC Crew Chief: Jussi Shultink
* Videos: Amber Graner and Alan Pope
* Summit: Dave Walker

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Day
| Crew 1
| Crew 2
|-
| Monday
| Adam Sommer <nowiki>[[Asommer|(sommer)]]</nowiki>
| Alan Bell (AlanBell)
|-
| Tuesday
| Chris Johnston (cjohnston|uds)
| Adi Roiban (adiroiban)
|-
| Wednesday
| Andres Rodriguez <nowiki>[[4nDr3s|(RoAkSoAx)]]</nowiki>
| Chris Crisafulli (itnet7)
|-
| Thursday
| Benjamin Humphrey ([humphreybc])
| Chris Johnston (cjohnston|uds)
|-
| Friday
| Roderick B. Greening (rgreening)
| Jonathan Thomas (JontheEchidna)
|}

Duties:

* Your primary responsibility is to help people who are attending UDS. They might need to know who a track lead is, or where to find something. You can direct them to the desk if you can't answer their question.
* Assist the track leads - sometimes they need AV help from the IS crew or something, usually a crew member will act as a runner.
* On Monday everyone on crew must report to the venue at 8:15am to help set up and guide people into the venue.
* On Monday when the crew shirts arrive please see Maria/Marianna at the desk to pick up your crew shirt.
* Wear your crew shirt during your day so attendees know you are crewing.
* On your day of assignment report to Maria *15 minutes before the start of sessions* and ask her if she has any duties for you. These might include last-minute schedule changes or something to that effect.
* Inbetween sessions Sign placement - Help Maria update the signs on the rooms inbetween sessions.

== Video Crew ==

=== Monday ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Session
| Person
|-
| Desktop Roundtable
| Bejamin Humphries
|-
| QA - Improving Communication
| William Grant
|-
| Desktop - Search and Indexing
| Alan Pope
|-
| Dev Workflow Review
| Chris Crisafulli
|-
| Upstart Q+A
| 
|-
| General ARM Overview
| Grant Likely
|-
| Daily Builds for Server
| Ante Karamatic
|-
| QA - Ubuntu ready and self test
| Ara Pulido
|-
| Foundations - A review of 10.04
| Jussi Schultik
|-
| Desktop - X as a regular user
| Ian Lane
|}

=== Tuesday ===

Tuesday
---------

* PyGTK base class for app dev - Desktop
* Improvements for cloud-init - Server

* Desktop as your IDE - Desktop
* ARM toolchain review - ARM

* btrfs support - Foundations
* Security metrics - Security

* Cloud based loadbalancing - Server
* Social from the start - Desktop

* Testdrive graphic frontend  Desktop
* Improve translations packaging for help Community

* Enhanced sound menu         Desktop
* Integrate hadoop and pig    Server

* Creating great first use scenarios  Design
* Updating desktop in the cloud image Desktop
* Ubuntu Server on ARM Server

* Installer Redesign Foundations
* Distributed Development Foundations

Wednesday
---------

* What's next in UEC/Eucalyptus   Server
* Dev tools for archive/image/build   ARM

* Desktop and upstart     Desktop
* UEC cloud monitoring    Server

* Packaging docs update   Community
* Using use cases for good    Design

* Advocate use of daily builds    Community
* Server SRU process      Server

* Making beautiful fonts      Design
* DX indicator keyboard       Desktop

* Kernel config review        Kernel
* Patch process review        Community

* Single menubar for apps in the panel    Desktop

Thursday
--------

* Software center UI enhancements     Desktop
* Improving cloud libraries       Server

* Ubuntu One filesync UI changes      Desktop
* Bugsquad roadmap                    QA

* Add testcase tracking to LP         QA
* Maverick kernel version             Kernel

* UNE default app selection           Desktop
* Boot loader performance             Foundations

* Handling defaults on upgrade        Desktop
* UEC installer and autoreg           Server

* Cloud filesystems                   Server
* Desktop app selection for maverick  Desktop

* Cross compiler packages             ARM
* Reducing DKMS packages for hard enab    Kernel

* OpenOffice.org planning             Desktop
* Single menubar (second)             Desktop

Friday
------

* Apport hooks for server packages    Server
* Boxee                               ARM

* Touch support       Desktop
* U1 music streaming  Desktop

* Dev education of localization   Community
* Simpler image management in Ubuntu  Desktop

* Server seed review      Server
* Opp dev with desktopcouch   Desktop

* Server papercuts        Server
* GPS on netbooks         ARM

* Maverick free culture showcase      Design
* dx-m-indicator-power        Desktop
