{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Plenary Ideas and Suggestions ==

'''Submission deadline is April 25!'''

After lunch at UDS we have an hour of plenary talks to give people an opportunity to address Ubuntu developers as a whole. Usually these are broken up into 4 15 minute sessions. If you want to do a plenary then please add your topic below. Here are some hints:

* The intended audience is the group of Ubuntu Developers and upstreams/downstreams in attendance. This may also include attendees from partners, ISVs, OEMs, and any one who has an interest in the Ubuntu ecosystem.
* "Here's what's going with this upstream project and how it will affect Ubuntu" makes for great plenaries.
* The plenary length will be 15 minutes. 
* The presenter should not bore people to death, remember it's right after lunch. We have limited slots and we expect presenters to be prepared with slides and for the talk to be relevant to the wider Ubuntu development audience. 
* Presenters are expected to be ready to present the week of UDS. Due to changing travel schedules on occasion we may need to shuffle people to a different day, we expect presenters to be prepared prior to arrival at UDS and not doing slides the day before.
* If your talk is not accepted then we instead encourage you to condense your talk into 5 minutes and do a lightning talk on Friday instead.

If your talk is accepted and when scheduling starts JorgeCastro will slot your plenary into a session and it will show up on the schedule. If you do not have a laptop you can share your presentation with JorgeCastro via USB stick, mail, Ubuntu One, or whatever. If you have your own laptop the AV room and AV team are available throughout the week for you to check your laptop works with the projector. 

=== Proposed Plenaries ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Title'''
| '''Presenter(s)'''
| '''Special Needs'''
| '''Description of Presentation'''
| '''Topics Covered'''
| '''Target Audience'''
|-
| Eucalyptus 3.1 featuring HA
| Brian Thomason
| None
| Eucalyptus is the world's most widely deployed cloud computing software platform for on-premise (private) Infrastructure as a Service clouds. It uses existing infrastructure to create scalable and secure AWS-compatible cloud resources for compute, network and storage.
| Introduction to the newly released Eucalyptus 3.x focusing on the new features including High Availability and Access Management (IAM)
| IT professionals and cloud enthusiasts
|-
| LXC - Containers for human beings
| Stéphane Graber
| None
| LXC (Linux Containers) is a set of tools to control the kernel namespaces and cgroups. With these you can create containers running a full Ubuntu system but at the same cost as a chroot. This plenary will show you what's possible with LXC nowadays, how you can use it in your everyday work and what to expect in the near future.
| Basic introduction to LXC and containers, quick review of current features, overview of improvements in 12.04, few use cases with demo (depending on time), overview of what's to come
| developers, QA, sysadmins
|-
| Ubuntu Automation Test Harness
| Gema Gomez
| None
| Ubuntu Automation Test Harness is the new tool that will help developers and testers automate end to end for Ubuntu without having to worry about little details such as provisioning or gathering results. Existing test code will be easily integrated within the harness.
| Basic introduction to the Ubuntu Automation Test Harness, review of existing features and roadmap for 12.10, quick guide on how to use the harness, how  to integrate existing test cases into it and how to write new test cases, demo of existing functionality depending on time.
| QA Engineers, developers, testers
|-
| Ubuntu Server
| Robbie Williamson
| Need Mon slot
| A quick tour of the new technologies in Ubuntu Server and my thoughts on the direction we should take.
| Ubuntu Server & Cloud related technologies
| Everyone
|-
| Calxeda ARM Hardware Demo
| Calxeda
| Infrastructure to run a hardware demo, ie power & ethernet
| 
| 
| 
|-
| State of the !OpenStack union
| Thierry Carrez
| Not Friday, preferably not Monday
| What happened in the !OpenStack world since last UDS, and what's coming up in the "Folsom" cycle.
| 
| Everyone
|}

=== Lightning Talks ===

On the Friday instead of Plenaries we will have Lightning Talks. Remember that it's the end of UDS and everyone will be tired, so don't be boring. We're just going to queue you up next to the projector and fire off a 5 minute timer. 

Lightning talks are 5 minutes per, after 5 minutes your time is up and we move on to the next person, no exceptions. Presenters, the line is first-come-first-serve, so you'll want to make sure you eat lunch quickly on Friday and show up early so you can test your laptop. 

=== Plenaries and Lightning Talks You'd Like to See ===

If you'd like to see a topic covered put it down here so we can hunt presenters down:
