{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Current use case:'''

User visits uds.ubuntu.com to find information about upcoming UDS. User clicks link that sends user to Summit webapp with no warning. Summit provides a page with a similar theme and similar types of content with no links back to uds.ubuntu.com and not really explaining what happened.

'''Proposal:'''

Combine current uds.ubuntu.com into the Summit webapp and point uds.ubuntu.com. This would allow for seemless integration for all information related to UDS. Hotel information, sponsorship, travel information, and scheduling are all provided in one place in an easy to understand format.

'''Proposed use case:'''

User visits new uds.ubuntu.com and finds all information in one location for everything about UDS.

'''Rationale:'''

As mentioned in <nowiki>[[http://www.andreagrandi.it/2011/04/09/some-ideas-to-improve-community-collaboration-for-ubuntu-developer-summit/|Some ideas to improve Community collaboration for Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki> by Andrea Grande, the way that things are currently setup is not very user friendly. This would make finding out information about UDS much easier on the user.

'''Ideas:'''

* 'new' uds.ubuntu.com home page would provide similar information as the current home page

* Provide a link to the upcoming UDS. On this page, information is provided about the upcoming UDS, dates, the hotel, the travel info etc. could even be made to replace the wiki 'Attendees' and 'Crew' pages.

* Information would be edited, added, removed in a similar fashion to how teams are edited in the LoCo Team Directory by users of a specified team (UDS Drivers or some such)

* i18n'able

* FAQs page

* Info on remote participation

* Info on Guidebook (conventionist)
