{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

In order to reduce the cost of attending UDS-O we've done some research into alternative accommodation which is quite a bit cheaper when shared.

==== Alternate Hotels ====

Thanks to <nowiki>[[Hajni|Hajnalka Horváth]]</nowiki> of the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/|Ubuntu Hungary]]</nowiki> LoCo Team for getting us this list!

(sorted least to most expensive)

'''<nowiki>[[http://hotelqueenmary.hu/|Hotel Queen Mary]]</nowiki>''' (3-star)

Budapest, Kertész utca 34.

~45 EUR/night

Distance from Hotel Corinthia: 200 m (2 mins walk)

'''<nowiki>[[http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-1681-ibis-budapest-city/index.shtml|Hotel Ibis Budapest City]]</nowiki>''' (3-star)

Budapest, Akácfa u. 1-3.

~50 EUR/night

Distance from Hotel Corinthia: 700 m (8 mins walk)

'''<nowiki>[[http://www.kingshotel.hu/|King's Hotel]]</nowiki>''' (3-star)

Budapest, Nagydiófa utca 25-27.

~55 EUR/night

Distance from Hotel Corinthia: 650 m (7 mins walk)

'''<nowiki>[[http://www.mercure.com/gb/hotel-2997-mercure-budapest-metropol/index.shtml|Mercure Budapest Metropol]]</nowiki>''' (4-star)

Budapest, Rakóczi út 58.

~70 EUR/night

Distance from Hotel Corinthia: 900 m (9 mins walk)

'''<nowiki>[[http://www.radissonblu.com/hotel-budapest/|Radisson Blu Beke Hotel]]</nowiki>''' (4-star)

Budapest, Teréz körút 43.

~82 EUR/night

Distance from Hotel Corinthia: 600 m (7 mins walk)

'''<nowiki>[[http://www.hotelambra.hu/|Hotel Ambra]]</nowiki>''' (4-star)

Budapest, Kis Diófa utca 13.

~80-90 EUR/night

Distance from Hotel Corinthia: 600 m (7 mins walk)

'''<nowiki>[[http://www.hotelcarat.hu/services.html|Carat Boutique Hotel]]</nowiki>''' (4-star)

Budapest, Király utca 6.

~100 EUR/night

Distance from Hotel Corinthia: 1.1 km (13 mins walk)

==== Couch Surfing ====

''Coming soon''
