{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== UDS Intrepid QA Report ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>><nowiki>[[UDS-Intrepid/Report|back to the reports index page]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Plans for 8.10 ===
==== Testing ====

* '''Upgrade testing''' - Take over the running of mvo's upgrade scripts. Perform regular upgrade tests leading up to release in VMs with a significant number of packages installed
* '''Stock Ubuntu KVM images''' - Provide stock KVM images of different flavours and releases of Ubuntu used for performing SRU, upgrade and install testing (e.g. testing migration and resizing).
* '''KVM images for upstream software''' - Provide downloadable KVM images of an upstream versions of key software for testing related to bug forwarding. Initial image based on Debian testing, covering Gnome, Open``Office and Firefox (replacing Iceweasel).
* '''Upstream kernel builds''' - Work with the kernel team to provide PPA builds of upstream kernels for user testing.
* '''Desktop test automation''' - Implement and deploy a basic set of desktop tests to be run regularly in the data centre on the development archive
* '''Mobile test automation''' - Write test scripts for basic functionality of the UME desktop to be run in VMs and on mobile devices
* '''ISO testing automation''' - Use pre-seeding to to test desktop images as well as server images (currently performed by the server team)
* '''Improved test case management''' Improve the structure and level of detail in the test cases in the wiki. Fork the current cases into an Intrepid and Hardy LTS set.

==== Triage ====

* '''Kernel bug migration''' - merge and close bugs from 2.6.x packages with 'linux'. 
* '''Confirmed -> Triaged bug migration''' - Move a significant proportion of bugs from Confirmed to Triaged. 
* '''Bug upstreaming documentation''' - Improve the documentation explaining how to file bugs upstream for individual upstream projects.
* '''Bug escalation procedures''' - Provide mechanism for trusted community members to escalate serious bugs

==== Tracking & Monitoring ====

* '''Bug metrics''' - Continue to improve the set of available bug metrics, focusing increasingly on information that can be used to guide development as well as triage
* '''Package-specific status pages''' - Implement weather-report style status pages for key packages located at to status.qa.ubuntu.com
* '''SRU bug tracking''' - Improve tracking of the SRU bug lists with a set of script-generated web pages that extracts status, test case text and tag information from SRU process bugs. Provide views of main and universe as well as current and archive views
* '''Release bug tracking''' - Clarification and documentation of bug milestones and nominations

==== Specs ====

QA Intrepid specs are listed <nowiki>[[QATeam/Specs]]</nowiki>.

=== Sessions ===

==== Kernel Bug Migration ====

See <nowiki>[[QATeam/KernelBugMigration]]</nowiki>.

==== Bug response times ====

Spec: UbuntuSpec:foo

===== Agenda =====

* How can we measure it?
* How can we improve it?
* Display on per-package status page?
* Larger picture: global bug volume

===== Notes =====

* How can we measure it?
** some date transitions are recorded in Launcpad
** available on a per task basis
*** date-left-new - particularly useful
*** this is the first time the bug's state changed
*** date-confirmed
*** date-triaged
*** date-incomplete
*** date-triaged - particularly useful
*** date-fixcommited
*** date-fix-released - particularly useful
*** date-closed
*** date-inprogress
*** date-assigned
*** date-created
*** the date-created for a bug watch would show when the upstream task was created
*** the activity log, bug-watch-updater first comment, shows when the watch was created
** available for the bug in general
*** date reported
*** date updated
** missing?
*** date importance set - in activity log but potentially hard to parse
** look at the average or median response times over a 1,3,6 month period
** a new tool in the bughelper suite could be used to show time in state statistic infromation
* How can we improve it?
** making information publicly available
* Display on per-package status page
** also combine some packages for example linux-source, linux-restricted-modules, linux-ubuntu-modules, linux-backports-modules
* Display on a per repository basis
* Display on a per team basis using something like https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-printing/+packagebugs
** these are packages that a team is subscribed to

==== Bug escalation procedures ====

Spec: UbuntuSpec:foo

===== Agenda =====

* Case 1: World breaking regressions in stable or late devel version
** Using the critical importance with an escalation bot
* Case 2: Important bugs that need be made more prominent before release
** Formal and informal escalation paths within the QA team

===== Notes =====
* Notes

==== Upstream Bug Workflow ====

===== Agenda =====
===== Notes =====

==== Extending the test tracker ====

===== Agenda =====
* SRU Fix validation facility
* More granular test case recording

===== Notes =====

==== Extending qa.ubuntu.com ====

===== Agenda =====
* Landing page
* Per-package weather reports

===== Notes =====
