{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== The Illustrious Crew ==

<pre>
“I am a member of a team, and I rely on the team, I defer to it and sacrifice for it, because the team, not the
individual, is the ultimate champion.”
- Mia Hamm
</pre>

Thank you for volunteering to crew at UDS! You'll find crewing a rewarding experience as you get to meet new people. We also give you the highly-sought rarely-seen special Ubuntu crew t-shirt for your work! We will meet Monday morning at 7:30 to discuss the duties as well as introduce Marianna and Michelle. Here are the assignments:

* Crew Chief: Chris Johnston
* IRC Crew Chief: 
* Videos: 
* Summit: Michelle Surtees-Myers

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Day'''
| '''Crew 1'''
| '''Crew 2'''
|-
| Mon
| {*} Adnane Belmadiaf
| {*} Ayrton Araujo
|-
| Tue
| {*} Rohan Garg
| Joel Pickett
|-
| Wed
| {*} Joe Liau
| {*} Mohana Kumar
|-
| Thu
| {*} Steve Riley
| Fabio Marconi
|}

* Backup Crew: {*} Tiago Hillebrandt, {*} Randall Ross

==== Duties: ====

* Your primary responsibility is to help people who are attending UDS. They might need to know who a track lead is, or where to find something. You can direct them to the desk if you can't answer their question.
* Assist the track leads - sometimes they need AV help from the IS crew or something, usually a crew member will act as a runner.
* On Monday everyone on crew must report to the venue at 7:30am to help set up and guide people into the venue.
* On Monday when the crew shirts arrive please see Michelle/Marianna at the desk to pick up your crew shirt.
* Wear your crew shirt during your day so attendees know you are crewing.
* On your day of assignment report to Marianna *15 minutes before the start of sessions* and ask her if she has any duties for you. These might include last-minute schedule changes or something to that effect.
* In-between sessions Sign placement - Help Marianna update the signs on the rooms inbetween sessions.
