{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

|
=== General ===

''I was wondering if either of you could help create a restaurants page or places to eat page and add any suggestions, as you know people come from all over the world to UDS and sometimes many won't have lots of spare cash so finding places that are affordable is key, also vegetarian or vegan places are good. All help is welcomed thanks!''

=== Intro ===

Copenhagen is home to some of the worlds best restaurants. It is also one of the most expensive cities to live (and dine) in.
However it should not be impossible to find a decent meal whil you are attending the UDS. Hopefully this wikipage will help you.

=== Restaurants ===

==== RizRaz ====

Two restaurants in the city center, close to the Nørreport Metro. Student friendly prices, and a vegetarian buffet.

http://www.rizraz.dk/da/kontakt

http://www.rizraz.dk/da/menuer

==== Ristorante Italiano ====

In the city center, close to Nørreport Metro station. Italian restaurant. Looks like a ''tourist trap'', but reasly has ok quality.

http://www.italiano.dk/

==== Bryggens Spisehus ====

Eat right by the waterfront. Takte the Metro to Islands Brygge, then walk to the water.

For larger groups (8+) it may be a good idea to call for reservations.

http://www.bryggens.dk/ (website all in danish...)

==== Noma - Worlds best restaurant ====

Reservations closed for the UDS timeperiod.
