{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== THURSDAY night at the Firing Range ===

(!) Use this for signing up please for the THURSDAY night Firing range 

 
* Any folks up to take part in going to a firing range on the Thursday evening, http://www.dfwgun.com/about/rentals.html. We have a limit of 25 people and 2 hours!

* Meet at 6:30pm in the hotel lobby, we're going to order a bunch of cabs and head over to the range.  YOU NEED TO BRING A PHOTO ID

The following people have signed up

# Laura Czajkowski
# Elizabeth Krumbach
# Dave Walker
# Timo Jyrinki
# Hardik Dalwadi (I would be there by myself)
# BenjaminRubin

=================================================================================  ==
=== Monday night at the Firing Range ===

(!) Use this for signing up please for the Monday night Firing range 

 
* Any folks up to take part in going to a firing range on the Monday evening, http://www.dfwgun.com/about/rentals.html. We have a limit of 25 people and 2 hours!

* Meet at 6:45pm in the hotel lobby, we're going to order a bunch of cabs and head over to the range.  
 
 

The following people have signed up

# Laura Czajkowski
# Dave Walker
# Stuart Langridge
# Matthew Revell
# Julian Edwards
# Amber Graner
# Jorge Castro
# Darik Horn
# KeesCook
# MarcDeslauriers
# Chris Crisafulli
# Daniel Bray
# Jussi Schultink
# GordAllott
# KurtvonFinck
# JohnLenton
# Jason Smith
# LucioTorre
# MichaelJeanson
# StephaneGraber
# Mirco "MacSlow" Mueller
# Scott James Remnant
# Evan Dandrea
# Aurelien Gateau
# Fabian Rodriguez

For everyone, even those very familiar with firearm safety, please adhere to the following <nowiki>[[http://www.thefiringline.com/Misc/safetyrules.html|four rules]]</nowiki> at all times:

# Treat all firearms as if they are loaded.  Never take someone's word that, "It's not loaded."
# Never point the muzzle of a firearm at anything you are unwilling to destroy or kill.  If you turn to look away from a target, make sure the firearm does not follow your gaze.
# Never put your finger on the trigger until your sights are on the target.  Keep the safety on until it is ready to be fired (but even with the safety on, continue to follow rules 1 and 2).
# Know your target, know what is beyond it, and know what is likely to intercede between you and the target before you pull the trigger.

If these four rules are followed, accidents leading to injury (or worse) are close to impossible.
