{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Plenary Ideas and Suggestions ==

'''Submission deadline is TBD!'''

After lunch at UDS we have an hour of plenary talks to give people an opportunity to address Ubuntu developers as a whole. Usually these are broken up into 4 15 minute sessions. If you want to do a plenary then please add your topic below. Here are some hints:

* The intended audience is the group of Ubuntu Developers and upstreams/downstreams in attendance. This may also include attendees from partners, ISVs, OEMs, and any one who has an interest in the Ubuntu ecosystem.
* "Here's what's going with this upstream project and how it will affect Ubuntu" makes for great plenaries.
* The plenary length will be 15 minutes. 
* The presenter should not bore people to death, remember it's right after lunch. We have limited slots and we expect presenters to be prepared with slides and for the talk to be relevant to the wider Ubuntu development audience. 
* Presenters are expected to be ready to present the week of UDS. Due to changing travel schedules on occasion we may need to shuffle people to a different day, we expect presenters to be prepared prior to arrival at UDS and not doing slides the day before.
* If your talk is not accepted then we instead encourage you to condense your talk into 5 minutes and do a lightning talk on Friday instead.

If your talk is accepted and when scheduling starts JorgeCastro will slot your plenary into a session and it will show up on the schedule. If you do not have a laptop you can share your presentation with JorgeCastro via USB stick, mail, Ubuntu One, or whatever. If you have your own laptop the AV room and AV team are available throughout the week for you to check your laptop works with the projector. 

=== Proposed Plenaries ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Title'''
| '''Presenter(s)'''
| '''Special Needs'''
| '''Description of Presentation'''
| '''Topics Covered'''
| '''Target Audience'''
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

=== Lightning Talks ===

On the Friday instead of Plenaries we will have Lightning Talks. Remember that it's the end of UDS and everyone will be tired, so don't be boring. We're just going to queue you up next to the projector and fire off a 5 minute timer. 

Lightning talks are 5 minutes per, after 5 minutes your time is up and we move on to the next person, no exceptions. Presenters, the line is first-come-first-serve, so you'll want to make sure you eat lunch quickly on Friday and show up early so you can test your laptop. 

=== Plenaries and Lightning Talks You'd Like to See ===

If you'd like to see a topic covered put it down here so we can hunt presenters down:
