{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Leadership Mini Summit Ideas ==

At the Leadership Mini-Summit we want to provide an opportunity to block off some time to discuss leadership topics and help empower our leadership and governance community to feel empowered to lead in our community.

This time it will only be one afternoon and it's currently pencilled in for Tuesday afternoon.

One thing we also would like to change since last time is to make it a bit less heavy on governance-related bits and pieces, but more open to general team leadership. This leadership mini-summit we want to share as much experience among everyone interested as possible.

=== When ===

The leadership summit will take place at one afternoon at UDS in Copenhagen, Denmark. 

The summit is open to all. Remote participants are welcome to join in the sessions too.

=== Ideas ===

At the beginning of the leadership summit we will review the ideas list below and prioritize which topics are of most interest and then flesh out the time in leadership summit afternoons to discuss the most interesting topics.

Please add your topics below (if you add a topic, you should be willing to attend and help run the session -- feel free to add your name to an existing topic if you are happy to coordinate it too):

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Title'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Added By'''
|-
| Actively training successors
| involving team members in leadership jobs, opening up governance/leadership
| Daniel Holbach
|-
| Reaching the outer rims of the Ubuntu universe
| Reaching out to new contributors who are not in the loop yet
| Daniel Holbach
|-
| Leadership Clinic
| workshop where you bring up your struggling project/team and the people present brainstorm with you on how to resolve them - this might work well in small groups who present their work after 10 minutes)
| Daniel Holbach
|-
| Making your project do-ocractic
| make new contributors feel empowered and creative, but make sure the team/project is progressing
| Daniel Holbach
|-
| Milestones and mid-cycle check points for community projects
| 
| Daniel Holbach
|-
| Changing "user" perception
| Develop strategies to encourage people new to Ubuntu to drop the "user" mindset as a way to increase participation in the project
| Randall Ross
|-
| Encouraging "localness"
| A discussion about how we might foster the creation of highly localized teams and capitalize on the ease of collaboration on a local scale
| Randall Ross
|-
| Ubuntu Member "incubator"
| A program to expeditiously create and on-board Ubuntu Members
| Randall Ross
|-
| Governance discussion
| Are current governance processes accelerating or capping growth? Are they scaleable to match the growing population of people discovering Ubuntu?
| Randall Ross
|-
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
|}
