{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== The Illustrious Crew ==

<pre>
“I am a member of a team, and I rely on the team, I defer to it and sacrifice for it, because the team, not the individual, is the ultimate champion.”
- Mia Hamm
</pre>

Thank you for volunteering to crew at UDS! You'll find crewing a rewarding experience as you get to meet new people. We also give you the highly-sought rarely-seen special Ubuntu crew t-shirt for your work! Here are the assignments.

* Crew Chiefs: Laura Czajkowski and Alan Pope
* IRC Crew Chief: Jussi Shultink
* Video Crew Chief: Jorge Castro

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Day
| Crew 1
| Crew 2
|-
| Monday
| Scott Ritchie
| Dave Walker
|-
| Tuesday
| Milo Cassagrande
| Michael Rooney
|-
| Wednesday
| Adi Roiban
| Amber Graner (akgraner)
|-
| Thursday
| Didier Roche
| Lyz Krumbach
|-
| Friday
| Ralph Janke
| Roderick Greening
|}

Duties: 

* Your primary responsibility is to help people who are attending UDS. They might need to know who a track lead is, or where to find something. You can direct them to JorgeCastro if you can't answer their question.
* Assist the track leads - sometimes they need AV help from the IS crew or something, usually a crew member will act as a runner.
* On Monday everyone on crew must report to the venue at 8:15 to help set up and guide people into the venue.
* On Monday when the crew shirts arrive please see Maria/Claire at the desk to pick up your crew shirt.
* Wear your crew shirt during your day so attendees know you are crewing.
* On your day of assignment report to Claire *15 minutes before the start of sessions* and ask her if she has any duties for you. These might include last-minute schedule changes or something to that effect.
* Inbetween sessions Sign placement - Help Maria/Claire update the signs on the rooms inbetween sessions.
* Video camera person for the plenaries for that day. (It's up to you and your partner who will record the sessions).

= Video Crew = 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Session
| Video1
| Video2
|-
| Byobu Window Management
| Adam Sommer
| Roman Shtylman
|-
| Boot performance work
| Agostino Rosso
| Alessio Treglia
|-
| Encourage Team Roadmaps and Planning
| Andres Rodriguez
| Andrew Starr-Boccichio
|-
| Audio hardware enablement
| Ante Karamatic
| C de-Avillez
|-
| LoCo Council Lucid Plans
| Daniel Fore
| David Kalnischkies
|-
| Software Center Roadmap
| Dylan McCall
| Grant Likely
|-
| Cross-building Ubuntu
| Gratziano Obertelli
| Ian Lawrence
|-
| Boot experience work
| Jon Bernard
| Lucas Nussbaum
|-
| Distributed development feedback
| Macenzie Morgan
| Shane Fagan
|-
| Distributed Development in Lucid
| Matthew Helmke
| Ryan Paul
|-
| Quickly template enhancements
| Scott Ritchie
| Scott Kitterman
|-
| Boot-time configuration for UEC/EC2 images
| Sebastian Heinlen
| Mads Rosenthal
|-
| Daily Builds work in Lucid
| Timo Jyrinki
| Thorsten Wilms
|-
| IRC Council Lucid Plans
| Stephane Graber
| Tollef Fog Heen
|-
| Status of dropping sun-java6 package
| Vincent Untz
| Mackenzie Morgan
|-
| Add device-tree support to ARM
| Adam Sommer
| Roman Shtylman
|-
| Next Steps for the Ubuntu Women Project
| Agostino Rosso
| Alessio Treglia
|-
| Ubuntu appliances defined
| Andres Rodriguez
| Andrew Starr-Boccichio
|-
| Ubuntu One Client Application
| Ante Karamatic
| C de-Avillez
|-
| Flexible UEC installation
| Daniel Fore
| David Kalnischkies
|-
| LTS Upgrades
| Dylan McCall
| Grant Likely
|-
| Application selection in the default install
| Gratziano Obertelli
| Ian Lawrence
|-
| Update-Manager "Stop the line!" Feature
| Jon Bernard
| Need a volunteer!
|-
| Release collaboration with Debian
| Macenzie Morgan
| Mads Rosenthal
|-
| The New Edubuntu
| Matthew Helmke
| Ryan Paul
|-
| Kernel Configuration Review
| Scott Ritchie
| Scott Kitterman
|-
| Ubuntu on ARM Devices
| Sebastian Heinlen
| Shane Fagan
|-
| Improve startup time for desktop
| Stephane Graber
| Thorsten Wilms
|-
| Kernel Bug Handling Process and Review
| Timo Jyrinki
| Tollef Fog Heen
|-
| Team Leadership Workshop
| Vincent Untz
| Mackenzie Morgan
|-
| Multiarch Support for gcc, binutils, dpkg, and apt
| Adam Sommer
| Roman Shtylman
|-
| Ratings and reviews in software-center
| Agostino Rosso
| Alessio Treglia
|-
| Lucid Kernel Decision
| Andres Rodriguez
| Andrew Starr-Boccichio
|}
