{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== The Illustrious Crew ==

<pre>
“I am a member of a team, and I rely on the team, I defer to it and sacrifice for it, because the team, not the
individual, is the ultimate champion.”
- Mia Hamm
</pre>

Thank you for volunteering to crew at UDS! You'll find crewing a rewarding experience as you get to meet new people. We also give you the highly-sought rarely-seen special Ubuntu crew t-shirt for your work! We will meet Monday morning at 7:15 to discuss the duties as well as introduce Marianna and Michelle. Here are the assignments:

* Crew Chief: Chris Johnston
* Crew Backup list: Randall Ross
* IRC Crew Chief: Jussi Schultink
* Videos: Charles Profitt, Amber Graner
* Summit: Michelle Surtees-Myers, Dave Walker

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Day'''
| '''Crew 1'''
| '''Crew 2'''
| '''Crew 3'''
|-
| Mon
| Alessio Treglia
| Andrea Grandi
|-
| Tue
| Aron Xu
| Eleanor Chen
|-
| Wed
| Luke Faraone
| Rick Spencer
|-
| Thu
| Marek Bardoński
| Andrea Azzarone
|-
| Fri
| Marco Trevisan
| David Wonderly
|}

* Crew can be found at the top of the daily display schedule.

==== Duties: ====

* Your primary responsibility is to help people who are attending UDS. They might need to know who a track lead is, or where to find something. You can direct them to the desk if you can't answer their question.
* Assist the track leads - sometimes they need AV help from the IS crew or something, usually a crew member will act as a runner.
* On Monday everyone on crew must report to the venue at 7:15am to help set up and guide people into the venue.
* On Monday when the crew shirts arrive please see Michelle/Marianna at the desk to pick up your crew shirt.
* Wear your crew shirt during your day so attendees know you are crewing.
* On your day of assignment report to Marianna *15 minutes before the start of sessions* and ask her if she has any duties for you. These might include last-minute schedule changes or something to that effect.
* Inbetween sessions Sign placement - Help Marianna update the signs on the rooms inbetween sessions.
