{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== General ===
Getting through Copenhagen by car can be quite a hassle as most traffic is located on a few larger roads and a lot of really small roads, so unless it is your only choice, getting around by car is rarely encouraged. Thus most people living in Copenhagen get around the city by bike or public transport.

The different possibilities for public transport will be discussed below, but if you know where you are going from, and where you are going to, you can look up the details of your travel on <nowiki>[[http://www.rejseplanen.dk/||rejseplanen]]</nowiki> (the travel plan). You can search for stations and street addresses alike.

=== Biking ===
Copenhagen is known for being a bicycle city, and a bike will get you anywhere in the city. All large streets have dedicated bicycle lanes, and car drivers are aware that bicycles are everywhere. It is possible to rent a bike, but it is also possible to borrow a <nowiki>[[http://www.bycyklen.dk/english/thecitybikeandcopenhagen.aspx||city bike]]</nowiki>. City bikes can be found at dedicated parking areas, from where they can be borrowed by depositing 20DKK (just below €3). This deposit will then be repaid when the bike is returned to one of the dedicated city bike parking areas.

=== Metro ===
Currently the <nowiki>[[http://intl.m.dk/#!/||Copenhagen Metro]]</nowiki> only has 2 routes, but if your travels takes you along one of these lines, this is likely the fastest method of transportation.

There is a metro station located right outside the Bella Centra (the UDS venue) which will take you to Nørreport Station in about 10 min. From Nørreport you will connections to the rest of the public transport system, or you can walk to the central part of Copenhagen.

During rush hour the metro is running with 2-4 min intervals. Mid-day/evenings with 3-6 min, and all night with 15-20 min intervals.

=== Buses ===
Almost all places in Copenhagen which are not accessible by metro or s-train (and most places that are), are accessible by bus. Bus schedules differ a lot for each line, inside the city the planned time between buses can be anything between 2 and 30 min depending on your line. Be sure to check out <nowiki>[[http://www.rejseplanen.dk/||rejseplanen]]</nowiki> to plan your trip.

=== S-Train ===
If you are going to the area surrounding Copenhagen, the local trains, called the S-Train, is likely the way to go. All s-trains stop at Nørreport (which is the S-train's connection to the metro), as well as the central station.

Every s-train usually runs every 10 minutes during working hours, and every 20 minutes outside working hours. The time of the last night train differs for each line.

=== Prices ===
All public transportation in Copenhagen uses the same zone and ticket system, this means you can buy one standard ticket/10-trip card for your entire trip, no matter how much you have to change between metro, bus and train. From the Bella centre you can travel to large any part of Copenhagen City paying for 2 zones (the minimum amount of zones you can buy).
A 2 zone ticket currently costs 24DKK (€3.2), a 10-trip card costs 145DKK (€19.5). It is not a problem to buy one 10-trip card, and use the same card for several people travelling together!
