{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== UDS Prague 19/04/08 Topic ==

=== Automation ===

There is a need to make baseline testing of UME builds standardized. Automation offers a means by which Moblin Compliance and Mobile Application Standards can be quickly and consistently tested on each release before the larger test effort begins.

Dogtail is an application that captures information on Gnome desktop apps through the Accessibility framework. This is the tool of choice for the desktop group, and should be adopted by the mobile group as well.

Some changes may need to be made to Dogtail or UME releases for Dogtail automation to be used. This topic is proposed as a means of identifying the work that must be done for that support to be added, the resources assigned, and the method for creating automated scripts.

=== Sub Topics ===

'''Topics to be covered within the Virtualization discussion:'''
* Discussion of changes required to support Dogtail (if any)
* Dicussion of resources required to make the necessary changes
* Discussion of timelines for creating a baseline suite of Automation scripts
* Discussion of roadblocks preventing the proposed changes and timelines
* Discussion of how the community could be best utilized to offload some of the effort from the Canonical Team
