{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Lodgings ===

Sponsored attendees will be staying at the hotel Husa Rey Juan Carlos I, http://www.hrjuancarlos.com/en/600.htm. The information on your travel arrangements is in the email JorgeCastro sent you.

For those of you who wish to attend on your own, we have a special rate that is available on a first come, first serve basis based on availability. Please fill out <nowiki>[[attachment:hotelrey.pdf|this form]]</nowiki> and email or fax it to the contact information on the form.

=== Directions from the Airport to the Hotel ===

==== By Car ====

Please, see the <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=d&source=s_d&saddr=barcelona+airport,+spain&daddr=Avinguda+Diagonal+661-671,+08028+Barcelona,+Spain+(Husa+Rey+Juan+Carlos+I)+to:avinguda+d%27albert+bastardas&geocode=%3BFeZ3dwIdqzUgACGXXrZpzZf2Mw%3B&mra=ls&sll=41.379884,2.107294&sspn=0.005619,0.009474&ie=UTF8&t=h&z=13|map from the Barcelona airport (A) to the hotel (B), and near public parking (C)]]</nowiki>.

(!) The public parking has room for about 500 cars, but there are a lot of people using it everyday.

==== By Train and Metro ====

Taking the train from the airport is cheap and easy. The airport station is directly in front of the airport. It also has a direct footpath link, located at the end of Terminal B (next to the Lufthansa check-ins) - see <nowiki>[[http://www.aena.es/cartografia/recinto.jsp?id=7&poi=&t=&p=|this map]]</nowiki>.

* Take the train at the airport station (leaves on a half-hourly schedule).
* Stop at <nowiki>[[http://www.tmb.cat/en_US/barcelona/moute/planols/lineametroaccesos.jsp?linia=3&estacion=319|Barna Sants]]</nowiki>.
* Board a northbound train on the <nowiki>[[http://www.tmb.cat/en_US/barcelona/moute/planols/lineametroplano.jsp?linia=3#|L3 metro (green) line]]</nowiki>.
* Stop at the <nowiki>[[http://www.tmb.cat/en_US/barcelona/moute/planols/lineametroaccesos.jsp?linia=3&estacion=314|Zona Universitària]]</nowiki> terminal station (last stop in this direction).
* Once here, it is a <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=d&source=s_d&saddr=metro+zona+universit%C3%A0ria,+barcelona&daddr=41.382178,2.109273&geocode=&mra=dme&mrcr=0&mrsp=1&sz=18&dirflg=w&sll=41.382098,2.109901&sspn=0.002809,0.004737&ie=UTF8&ll=41.383128,2.110421&spn=0.002809,0.004737&t=h&z=18|few minutes walk]]</nowiki> to the hotel.

A complete map of the Barcelona rail and subway system may be downloaded <nowiki>[[http://www.tmb.cat/en_US/barcelona/moute/planols/planols.jsp|this page]]</nowiki>.

(!) If you plan to travel a little by metro/bus and around Barcelona, or if you are a group of people sharing the way to the hotel, it is cheaper to buy a <nowiki>[[http://www.tmb.cat/en_US/barcelona/moute/targetes/t_10.jsp|T10 travel card]]</nowiki> instead of a single ticket. The T10 travel card is multiperson and multiday pass. It may be purchased from the ticket vending machine at the airport station.

==== By Bus ====

(to be written).
