{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Overview ===

This is a top-level page for UEFI support in Ubuntu.

* <nowiki>[[OVMF]]</nowiki> has information about running UEFI under qemu. This is useful for testing.
* <nowiki>[[SecureBoot]]</nowiki> has information about using UEFI secure boot with Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[EDK2]]</nowiki> has information about Intel's EFI Development Kit, and how you can build EFI binaries yourself
* <nowiki>[[SecureBoot-PXE-IPv6]]</nowiki> has information about how to netboot Ubuntu from the stock EFI bootloader images included in the archive, which works with Secure``Boot enabled and also gives sample server configuration for both ipv4 and ipv6
* <nowiki>[[PXE-netboot-install]]</nowiki> has information about performing Ubuntu installs on UEFI machines over the network with a custom GRUB2 image

=== Subpages ===

=== External Links ===

Please consider reading <nowiki>[[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface]]</nowiki> for further information on configuring and modifying UEFI Ubuntu installations. The information contained therein may be particularly useful for configuring and repairing multi-boot environments.
