{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== SecureBoot in Ubuntu (WinQual signed) ==

== Introduction ==
To maintain maximum compatibility, Canonical will participate in the !WinQual program and purchase a secure boot code-signing certificate. The Ubuntu boot images will be signed in the following manner:
# The to-be-signed binary for the shim bootloader is given to IS with an RT to request signing
# IS uses Canonical's !WinQual key pair to sign the binary, and submits this binary to Microsoft's !WinQual program
# In parallel, Canonical submits a review request for shim at shim-review@lists.freedesktop.org.
# Microsoft then verifies the submitted signed binary was signed by the Canonical !WinQual key pair, and if so, re-signs it with their key such that it will verify with Microsoft's key in UEFI firmware and allow SecureBoot.
# The Microsoft-signed shim is given to Canonical
# Canonical takes the Microsoft-signed shim binary and updates the shim, shim-signed packaging to include it

Previous discussions assumed that the !WinQual key pair would act as a sort of intermediate CA and did not require the round-trip through Microsoft's !WinQual program. Microsoft has stated they will not sign a Canonical x509 certificate in this manner and that Canonical must use a !WinQual certificate for the purpose of proving its identity to Microsoft. By doing so, Microsoft retains control of secure boot for Ubuntu.

=== Sign the certificate ===
To purchase a code-signing certificate you must:
* generate a private key
* generate a CSR for the private key
* submit the CSR to the !WinQual program for signing

== Image signing procedure ==
For !WinQual only signing, please see the <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam-SecureBoot-ImageSigning#WinQual_only_.28default.29|image signing procedure by WinQual]]</nowiki> for more information. 
