{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== How can I sign my own kernel modules? ===

<nowiki>[[UEFI-SecureBoot-Signing]]</nowiki>

=== How can I sign my own kernel or GRUB? ===

<nowiki>[[UEFI-SecureBoot-Signing]]</nowiki>

=== Why not disable Secure Boot? ===

UEFI Secure Boot genuinely protects you to some degree against booting a malicious copy of the bootloader or kernel, if you were to get those from a bad update (from a malicious PPA, or some other third-party archive). It does not protect against people with physical access to the system from going in to change things, but this already gives you a higher level of assurance that your system's early boot environment has not been tempered with.

=== Is it safe to keep the Machine-Owner Key password-less and unencrypted on disk? ===

We feel it is sufficiently safe. The MOK only allows signing kernel modules, and if someone has enough access (meaning, root access) to the system, they have already compromised it.

=== I use special hardware that does not include Microsoft keys, how can I still use Secure Boot? ===

You could import the Microsoft certificates, if you're lazy and decide that you trust Microsoft sufficiently. The certificates are available here:

https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/jejb/efitools.git/tree/

Otherwise, you may <nowiki>[[UEFI-SecureBoot-KeyManagement-KeyGeneration|create your own signing certificates]]</nowiki> and sign your own files.
