{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Education Summit 2007 : Presentation ==

==== [ purpose of this page ] ====

This page provides an abstract of the presentation for the Ubuntu Education Summit in Seville, Spain.

=== mEDUXa ===

==== [ submitted by ] ====
* Agustín Benito Bethencourt. Coordinador del desarrollo de mEDUXa (mEDUXa Development Coordinator) . <nowiki>[[http://www.grupocpd.com|Grupo CPD]]</nowiki>

==== [ description ] ====

mEDUXa is a Free Software GNU/Linux distribution, based on Kubuntu Breezy, developed for educational purposes that is part of the MEDUSA project. It will be deployed in 35,000 computers distributed in 1100 schools, which represents 325,000 possible users (25,000 teachers and 300,000 students) from the Canary Islands state schools. Teachers and students will be able to use it through a dual boot, accessing it by a boot loader.

The whole project has been developed under Free licences as defined by the Debian project. This affects all modifications made to every package, module and document.

mEDUXa is not only a desktop project. It has three levels:

 1. The central server
 2. The school servers
 3. The desktop

We are now deploying mEDUXa and resolving some bugs teachers have reported us. We have also began to design our community project that, by the time of this talk, is going to be running. We are going to show mEDUXa and talk about the following steps planned.

The talk will survey some of the major problems and advantages of introducing a Kubuntu based edu distro, like mEDUXa, in a mature Windows structure. 

==== [ comments ] ====
* What are you interested about mEDUXa? Let me know about it by writting your comments here or write me to abenito@grupocpd.com (Agustín Benito)

* Please remember to add your name to your comments.
----
CategoryUbuntuConferences
