{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<Include(UETeam/Header))>>

'''Launchpad Blueprint Link:''' http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntu/

Please place a brief description of the problem here, a paragraph will be more than enough, give just enough to outline the problem.

=== Detailed Outline ===

Please go on to describe the problem is as much detail as possible.

Use screen shots of the problems faced, describe the actions taken etc.

=== Proposed Solution ===

Please outline your proposed solution to the problem, discuss the advantages of this solution over the current one.

Try to include diagrams to better explain the issue you are experiencing.

=== Technical Changes ===

If you are aware of the way Ubuntu is put together, suggest changes that should be made to each package.

==== Example Package 1 ====

Changes in this package include adding a close button to the XYZ dialogue window.

==== Example Package 2 ====

Changes in this package include merging the Play/Pause button into one unit.

=== Action List ===

Add the various actions taken, noting the date, the person who performed the action and the action itself.

* '''AlexLatchford (20070415)''' - Blueprint drafted.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUETeam]]</nowiki>
