{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This is a list of issues that users believe are the reasons behind why people find the User Experience challenging in Ubuntu. 

This is '''NOT''' a list of bugs, please see the <nowiki>[[UITeam/PriorityBugList|PriorityBugList]]</nowiki> if you are interested in that aspect, this is a list of changes to existing solutions that would make the user experience a lot easier, more enjoyable or more intuitive.

=== The List ===

An example Blueprint can be found <nowiki>[[UETeam/Blueprints/Example|here]]</nowiki>, please try to stick to the criteria specified and log the actions taken in order to keep up the pressure on an issue.

For the more experienced reporter, a draft template can be found <nowiki>[[UETeam/Blueprints/Template|here]]</nowiki>.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ID
| Description
| Drafter
| Bug Link
| Upstream Affected?
| Status
|-
| 1
| <nowiki>[[UETeam/Blueprints/MediaCollaboration|MediaCollaboration]]</nowiki>
| AlexLatchford
| None
| Yes
| Drafting
|}

=== Explanation ===

==== Bug Link ====

If an issue has already been reported in a bug, probably as either a Low or Wishlist priority then please link it so we can track it as the Blueprint is drafted.

==== Upstream Affected? ====

The answer to this is most likely Yes, if a package is not actively developed by the Ubuntu Community but as another project then we will need to talk with them about the suggestions we have for their software.

==== The Status ====

Either one of these 6, all are fairly self explanitory:

* New
* Drafting
* Drafted
* In Communication
* In Progress
* Resolved

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUETeam]]</nowiki>
