{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{{{#!IRC
<Silver_Fox_> Agenda - http://ubft.pastebin.com/Q0WDyfkH
<hobgoblin> the draft was better 
<Silver_Fox_> Probably
<Silver_Fox_> Anyway,  I say skip number 1
<Silver_Fox_> We are all here and have been for some time
<hobgoblin> yep 
<uRock> si
<Silver_Fox_> Okay, well #2 is pretty straight forward
<phillw> I'd suggest darkod from the forum area, if he has time to join, I've worked with him and he is a really good guy.
<Silver_Fox_> Any suggestions for people who you think could add to the group?  We will take any nomination seriously,  though we ask that forum activity is a must
<hobgoblin> phillw: http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=946366
<hobgoblin> that one?
<hobgoblin> we have wojox and k3lt01 more or less on board I think 
<phillw> the very same man, I was just dragging up his details.
<uRock> two great minds
<Silver_Fox_> Indeed :)
<uRock> those are the two I have seen contributing a lot lately
<phillw> well, kansassn00b is a bit tied up with stuff atm, he's an excellent person and does a lot of help, as does oldfred
<Silver_Fox_> Yes,  I would also like to add that I broke my duck today. I am back on the forum plugging away.  I am sound of mind once again :)
<hobgoblin> wojox is in the bt help channel, just PMd him 
<Silver_Fox_> Apparently ;)
<hobgoblin> both good people I think phillw 
<phillw> I know them from my time in the 10.04 test cycle.
<Silver_Fox_> Thank you for the suggestion :)
<Silver_Fox_> Shall we wait for wojox or move on to the next item ?
<hobgoblin> I think that if we see people in ABT and GH a lot we need to talk about them amongst ourselves first 
<Silver_Fox_> Okay,  that sounds like a good idea
<Silver_Fox_> On that basis i see ajgreeny a lot
<hobgoblin> I would wait - if new to irc it might take a while to see the tab in webchat 
<hobgoblin> aaah - yes that one 
<hobgoblin> I see a lot of people and it is hard to remember the good ones ... 
<Silver_Fox_> Profile - http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=27747
<phillw> Silver_Fox_: you can have a forum on my phillw.net area, or you can have a sub-section that is password protected / hidden etc.
<hobgoblin> wojox has quit 
<phillw> ufbt.phillw.net, or you can apply a domain name
<Silver_Fox_> phillw,  It is very kind to offer :)
<hobgoblin> might be worth talking to bodhi about ajgreeny, I'd be surprised if they were not approcahed at the beginning of BT
<Silver_Fox_> We have a number of domains already registered phillw  :)
<phillw> I can have it pointed over quite quickly, though you would have to slum it with a phpBB3 forum (I cannnot afford Vb)
<Silver_Fox_> Why do we need a forum? - sorry, got to ask
<hobgoblin> I'd say we have one already 
<Silver_Fox_> So do I
<phillw> 3)  How to improve the teams output - Possibly recommend forum sections that are off the beaten track (i.e. Not ABT or General Help) ?
<phillw> Or am i  reading the wrong set of notes?
<hobgoblin> oic - we were meaning the other sub-forums 
<hobgoblin> that tend to get forgotten 
<Silver_Fox_> Sorry, sub forums
<Silver_Fox_> Yes
<Silver_Fox_> The masses flock to abt and general help
<Silver_Fox_> Installation & Upgrades is one i like to look in -  http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=333
<hobgoblin> yep 
<uRock> I watch that one, too
<phillw> " forum sections that are off the beaten track" was my suggestion, one just for ufbt would do that :-|
<hobgoblin> though I would say that the more specific sub forums have people wandering in them anyway 
<Silver_Fox_> +1
<Silver_Fox_> Hardware & Laptops is another I keep my eye on (no pun intended) -  http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=332
* collinp (~collin@ubuntu/member/hellow) has joined ##ufbt-meeting
<uRock> I've tried looking for threads in the Testimonial that could use redirection, but find myself falling for the flames, so I quit visiting it.
<hobgoblin> 2 excellent new stickies in there 
<phillw> you're late, I hope you've got a note
<Silver_Fox_> The problem with that forum is that it is often to late
<collinp> phillw: Does skinned foot count?
<hobgoblin> testimonials is not a support forum anyway 
<uRock> yes
<Silver_Fox_> It is not for support as hobgoblin says
<hobgoblin> quick recap for collinp 
<Silver_Fox_> It is simply feedback for the devs that do not hang around on the forum anyway ;)
<phillw> Silver_Fox_: I also keep an eye on http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=333 
<uRock> ^^ I can help with installs, but upgrades are my arch nemesis
<Silver_Fox_> ;)
<Silver_Fox_> :)
<hobgoblin> collinp: we are looking for people on the forum to join the team - the team is not about anything other than support - much like the BT was at the start - and getting away from the 'politics' that BT ended up with - putting the fun back into what we do 
<collinp> Ah
<collinp> Many of the remaining old-timers from the BT would probably work well.
<Silver_Fox_> We are only interested in Forum support
<Silver_Fox_> Hmm,  maybe collinp 
<hobgoblin> collinp: yes - but we do not want a wholesale implant - we are picky :) if that does not sound ungrateful 
<collinp> Ah.
<hobgoblin> hence the meeting is not in the channel 
<Silver_Fox_> Yes, nor is it particularly well organised
<Silver_Fox_>  / advertised
<Silver_Fox_>  ;)
<hobgoblin> collinp: there are 2 or 3 that are missing - bodhi and drs to start with 
<Silver_Fox_> And wojox
<hobgoblin> AND IF YOU LOOK AT THE SOCILA FROUP ON THE FORUM THERE ARE A FEW MORE 
<hobgoblin> whoops 
<Silver_Fox_> To kick mr shouty or not...
<hobgoblin> so I think  that catches up 
* phillw throws in a hand-grenade http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=647614  You take him as he is, but he's a really nice guy.
<hobgoblin> I'd +1 him - if onyl for the bugger in every post 
<Silver_Fox_> Ah, someone active in testing release forum
<Silver_Fox_> Wonderful :)
<Silver_Fox_> +1
<phillw> hobgoblin: we did say that we cannot change us 'old timers'
<hobgoblin> and very pro making people from testing move out onto the forum to help people installing new versions 
<hobgoblin> I will note to PM him if we agree 
<phillw> Silver_Fox_: not just that, but he will put a troll down so wonderfully, it is a joy to watch, :-D
<collinp> haha
<Silver_Fox_> Okay, so we have 3 potential new people to message hobgoblin . Looking good :)
<phillw> There are a couple on the Dev area that you may want to consider (but nor Gnome_user)
<hobgoblin> I have 4 
* Silver_Fox_ counts again...
<hobgoblin> oldfred oldrod ranchhand kansasnoob
<collinp> There are a few people on what remains of the UF-UA that might be good.
<uRock> maybe Rubi1200, I have seen him/her give some great advice. http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1040746
<hobgoblin> I've noticed that one 
<phillw> kansass I asked before, you may ask again., but he said his life had got really compilcated
<hobgoblin> collinp: we need names 
<hobgoblin> phillw: oh ok - ignore that one then 
<collinp> Iowan
<hobgoblin> he might  - he might also be busier now he's a mod 
<collinp> Iowan seems to be enthusiastic about helping.
<uRock> snowpine?
<hobgoblin> and ajgreeny - maight be worth asking bodhi about - I just do not believe he's not been approached before 
<Silver_Fox_> I was looking at snowpines profile recently
<collinp> zkriesse
<collinp> tuxxy, possibly.
<hobgoblin> always the joker collinp 
<Silver_Fox_> Very funny
<collinp> :)
<hobgoblin> not seen tuxxy for some while
<collinp> shredder12
<collinp> gnomefreak
<hobgoblin> buggar it - I will add ajgreeny 
<Silver_Fox_> We also need to see about sisco hobgoblin 
<Silver_Fox_> But that one is complicated
<hobgoblin> oh yes 
<hobgoblin> no - I will do it and blag it if necessary
<uRock> presence1960 is good, but I haven't seen him/her on for quite some time
<collinp> If panickedthumb ever comes back, he's good too.
<collinp> Last I heard some real life things were keeping him away.
<hobgoblin> busy busy busy he is  
<Silver_Fox_> We all have lives :)
<hobgoblin> yep - but I know other stuff 
<uRock> I don't
<collinp> There's also lukjad
<Silver_Fox_> Lukjad,  has he moved out of the cafe of games section in last month?
<collinp> He does enjoy the games.
<hobgoblin> mmmm - not so sure about him - I like the guy a lot - but it is about support 
<collinp> Lets see...
<phillw> well, again from the 10.04, and now the 10.10 area, you may want to stalk http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=690937
<Silver_Fox_> lukjad007 last two posts say it all
<hobgoblin> we must also tyalk to andrew again 
<Silver_Fox_> May 9th, 2010  and  June 4th, 2010 
<collinp> Andrew?
<hobgoblin> but it is hard to catch him 
<Silver_Fox_> He's been too busy to bump even 
<hobgoblin> andrew46 
<Silver_Fox_> I catch andrew hobgoblin 
<Silver_Fox_> And its 47 now
<hobgoblin> then do so 
<collinp> overdrank
<Silver_Fox_> hobgoblin,  Andrew joins the channel 
<hobgoblin> we need to get these people onto the social group so we have a list 
<hobgoblin> Silver_Fox_: I know - but I've been missing him 
<Silver_Fox_> Okay,  perhaps we have enough to be getting on with
<hobgoblin> collinp: good call - I will pm him 
<Silver_Fox_> Don't want to get swamped with people just yet, do we? 
<hobgoblin> well a little bit, yes :)
<hobgoblin> I ahve 10 now 
<Silver_Fox_> How many on the list of people to contact...10 ?
<hobgoblin> I'll sort a paste out - let's carry on 
<Silver_Fox_> Thats a nice number to stop at for the time being
<Silver_Fox_> We can always add more later
<Silver_Fox_> Okay,  I think we covered #3 on the agenda
<Silver_Fox_> collinp,  http://ubft.pastebin.com/Q0WDyfkH 
<Silver_Fox_> Agenda for you ;)
<collinp> aye.
<Silver_Fox_> So number 4...
<Silver_Fox_> Anyone have anything else to say  ?
<Silver_Fox_> I have nothing
<collinp> Lets rock.
<uRock> \m/
<Silver_Fox_> Except I met someone special last weekend ;)
<uRock> kool
<Silver_Fox_> Sounds epic collinp 
<Silver_Fox_> Rock on our of here!
<Silver_Fox_>  *out
<Silver_Fox_> I think we are done...
* phillw can i  beg?
<Silver_Fox_> Sure
<Silver_Fox_> :)
<uRock> I thought the last person in was supposed to bring donuts?
<phillw> if anyone would support my application for ubuntu membership could they pop a note on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phillw
<Silver_Fox_> Oh that,  everybody say NO
<Silver_Fox_> :)
<phillw> I't's kinda embaressing to ask, but evidently I do need them
<Silver_Fox_> When are you up phillw  ?
<hobgoblin> few weeks 
<Silver_Fox_> I will attend the meeting
<hobgoblin> k - I have 8 
<collinp> If I can remember, I'll attend it as well.
<Silver_Fox_> I do not sleep brilliantly anyway so timezones hardly matter to me
<Silver_Fox_> But you are in UK say yay
<phillw> UK
<hobgoblin> http://ubft.pastebin.com/pepFCNV7
<Silver_Fox_> yay
<hobgoblin> I will PM them unless there are any nays 
<collinp> *sigh* I need to update my wiki page.
<phillw> I think it is september
<hobgoblin> phillw: 7/9 
<Silver_Fox_> ajgreeny
<hobgoblin> buggar 
* phillw still re-writing own wiki apge
<phillw> *page*
<Silver_Fox_> And still sisco 
<hobgoblin> gah 
<Silver_Fox_> Sorry, you did post a list master
<hobgoblin> any others 
<hobgoblin> http://ubft.pastebin.com/4107ueMs
<uRock> HappyFeet, j/k
<hobgoblin> k - that is 10 again lol 
<hobgoblin> sigh 
<Silver_Fox_> None from me at the minute,  though I may have one by next month
<hobgoblin> happyfeet - I would +1 but not seen for a while 
<uRock> lol, he got his beans burnt
<hobgoblin> Last Activity: May 11th, 2010 
<hobgoblin> lol uRock 
<hobgoblin> we don't want them ones :d
<uRock> nope
<hobgoblin> star would be a good one too 
<Silver_Fox_> You know what I think - a waste :(
<hobgoblin> yea - I swear these people get hammered and post and then it's a d'oh moment 
<uRock> yup, don't drink and post
<Silver_Fox_> I am still sober by the way :)
<uRock> sweet
<hobgoblin> collinp: so who were you thinking of from BT?
<hobgoblin> and still we manage to make it an hour lol 
<collinp> hobgoblin: nigel, starcraftman, tenach, paultag
<hobgoblin> tenach is in the social group - but rarely comes to ufbt for some reason 
<hobgoblin> star is busy - but is on the radar 
<Silver_Fox_> I have been in contact with starcraft
<hobgoblin> nigel is busy and wandered off, but .... 
<Silver_Fox_> nigel is settling into a new job i know, but is he active on forum?
<hobgoblin> paul is in the team but forgets to come - I think he is biusy with trying to pull BT back together and I wish him well with that one :)
<Silver_Fox_> So do I
<Silver_Fox_> I hate how bureaucratic it is. Seems everyone has an agenda
<collinp> Scratch nigelb. He has 16 posts.
<hobgoblin> at some point I hope to return - when I do the water will be sweet again :)
<hobgoblin> k 
<hobgoblin> collinp: so the 3 in your list are about already lol 
<collinp> yeah.
<Silver_Fox_> fail ;)
<Silver_Fox_> Hehe
<hobgoblin> but tenach needs to be about or not I think :)
<collinp> There's also Joeb454, but
<hobgoblin> I'll talk to him tenach 
<Silver_Fox_> I am seeing more of the lolrus in the channel, perhaps we should invite permanently ;)
<hobgoblin> joeb is sort of in and out everywhere atm collinp :)
<uRock> =)
<Silver_Fox_> joeb is finishing up with some uni work 
<collinp> That sounds far too much like myself :(.
<hobgoblin> well we all have lives 
<collinp> Mine involves wasting 7 hours at a school that teaches me near nothing academically.
<Silver_Fox_> Happiness Now
<hobgoblin> collinp: at some point I want to talk to you about UA - I was in it and left, but it's too late in the day now 
<collinp> AKA: United States public high school.
<Silver_Fox_> Seems positive person
<hobgoblin> mmmmm 
<collinp> hobgoblin: Ok
<hobgoblin> Silver_Fox_: do they do support - all I see is spammy cafe threads 
<hobgoblin> if they do I will PM them 
<Silver_Fox_> I am checking
<hobgoblin> collinp: it's life - if you don't do the academic school stuff a life of hope or shelf stacking awaits 
<hobgoblin> make the most of the time you have at school 
* hobgoblin takes of parent hat again 
<collinp> lol
<Silver_Fox_> hobgoblin,  No support, just likes general technical chat 
<collinp> 3 years + collage.
<collinp> Hopefully collage is going to be MIT.
<uRock> collinp, college is even better, you pay for classes on the degree sheet that are junk, but such is the way of life
<hobgoblin> Silver_Fox_: then no then - I do not want another one of those - he's luke 
<Silver_Fox_> Good morning from UK
<Silver_Fox_> Okay hobgoblin .
<uRock> good morning to the UK
<hobgoblin> k - so the list is http://ubft.pastebin.com/4107ueMs and a boot up the ass for tenach
<hobgoblin> also leoquant was interested and then has disappeared 
<hobgoblin> hang on  -  lp list 
<collinp> I haven't seen leoquant.. anywhere.
<hobgoblin> https://launchpad.net/~ufbt
<hobgoblin> so I will PM on the forum - get replies - get them onto irc and then do the lp thing 
<Silver_Fox_> Cool
<hobgoblin> right - all done - there is one more thing to deal with 
<uRock> and then?
<hobgoblin> let me type it out (drunkenly and slow)
<hobgoblin> k - the BT works with everyone having voice and getting votes - this team does not  - there are 5 voiced people - bodhi, ibuclaw, paultag, silver fox and I - we will make decisions when there are any issues to deal with - we will always listen to anyone in the team, but our decision is final 
<uRock> Si
<hobgoblin> we will make decisions about who are the voiced core - if we decide to change them you'll be told 
<hobgoblin> we do not want to end up with stagnant water 
<uRock> k
<hobgoblin> we want it to be fun, there is no CoC - we expect people to be aware and mature enough to know when to stop 
<hobgoblin> we expect everyone to say si 
<hobgoblin> :)
<hobgoblin> think that is it :)
<uRock> Ci
<Silver_Fox_> The voiced make a collective decision when issues come up
<uRock> sounds good to me
<Silver_Fox_> I think thats it...
<collinp> That's a far more authoritarian approach, but it also works far better than the BT's current setup.
<hobgoblin> finally - one more thing 
<hobgoblin> the biggest thing is that we want people to be helping people - and we want people to enjoy it 
<hobgoblin> that is what was missing when I left BT 
<hobgoblin> collinp: yep - but the collective has a voice - just not as obvious
<Silver_Fox_> So thank you for helping :D
<Silver_Fox_> And for attending
<uRock> most welcome
<hobgoblin> cool - that went so much better than I was expecting - great :)
<hobgoblin> ty - all
<Silver_Fox_> Yes, I was not thinking it would go well.   :)
}}}
