{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== About the UF Jewels Project ==

Hello, and welcome to the homepage of the UF Jewels Project. This is a project to collect and maintain a database of the most influential threads in the Ubuntu Forums. This project will probably be worked on until the Ubuntu Forms stop, so please contribute where you can.
* We now have an official IRC channel on Freenode called #ufjewels. Stop by there sometime and chat with us!
* We are now on Launchpad! Please register for the team at https://launchpad.net/~uf-jewels, or register on there if you are already a member.

=== How this is organized ===

The different sections of the forum will be on different pages, if the section of the forum has sub-forums, then they will be on the same page as the section they are under to reduce confusion.

== Specific Proposals ==

Please post here if you have any proposals and you are a official member of the project(see below).

== Official Project Members ==

To become an official project member, please register on our official Launchpad team at https://launchpad.net/~uf-jewels

Official Members:

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Collin15|Hellow]]</nowiki>

== Links ==

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ufjewels/beginners|Absolute Beginners Talk]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ufjewels/support|Main Support Categories]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ufjewels/archive|Forum Archive]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ufjewels/communitydiscussions|Other Community Discussions]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ufjewels/forumcommunitydiscussions|Forum Community Discussions]]</nowiki>

Want to discuss the development of the project? Drop on over to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ufjewels/discussion|Project Discussion]]</nowiki> page!
----
CategoryForum
