{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
UHomework is an open-source program availible to everyone. It is a merge of GHomework and KHomework. It has a user-friendly interface and loads quickly for you "on the go" people. UHomework is basically an HTML file with many helpful search engines for homework that include SparkNotes, Wikipedia, Wiktionary, and Google with Google Calculator. If you are an HTML amature who loves to do random HTML stuff, please consider contributing to UHomework.

== Contact & Download ==
* Contact Information: John Smith (jsprojects@inbox.com) 

* The current web forum for UHomework can be found here: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1406247

* The current homepage for UHomework is here: https://sourceforge.net/projects/uhomework/ I am currently building uhomework.sourceforge.net

* You can currently download the most current UHomework here: https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=175397

== How to Contribute ==
If you would like to contribute to the UHomework project, there is always room for volenteers. Just e-mail me ideas, questions, or comments, or you could join the UHomework team! (e-mail me for details on joining)

== Projects ==
* Current project: UHomework
** Email John Smith <jsprojects@inbox.com>

== Developers ==
Current Developers:

* John Smith <jsprojects@inbox.com>

----

----

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
