{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Leaflet Library ===
This table contains marketing leaflets which we believe are in a usable state. You may change, reuse and redistribute any of this work. Some files are uploaded as PDF, but if you check out the rest of this wiki page you can also download the editable 'source' documents.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f0f5fa> '''Brief Description'''
| <#f0f5fa> '''Target Audience'''
| <#f0f5fa> '''Link to File'''
| <#f0f5fa> '''File Format'''
|-
| Advertisement style leaflet with Ubuntu styling
| New Users
| <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet_hadenough_beta.pdf|Had Enough?]]</nowiki>
| .PDF
|-
| Text based FOSS information leaflet
| New Users
| <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet1-foss_alan_cocks.odt|FOSS Intro]]</nowiki>
| .ODT
|-
| Teletubby background style leaflet reminiscent of Windows
| New Users
| <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_withgraphics_0.1_chris_rowson.pdf|Why Change from Windows?]]</nowiki>
| .PDF
|}

=== Current Thinking ===

The leaflet is targeted at non-technical users and is a sort of half-advert to entice people and half-guide to provide basic information on Ubuntu and how to switch.

Development of the leaflet has been taking place on the ubuntu-uk e-mail list. Current ideas are:

* Maybe the development of 3 leaflets: A FOSS one, Linux One and Ubuntu One. Maybe targeted at different demographics
* The text is friendly to the user and does not include any technical terms
* Mention of linux is avoided as it leads to confusion as to what users are installing
* To remind possible users that Ubuntu is easy to install / use and can read MS Formats
* To inform readers about FOSS and its implication for all the free software that can be installed
* Avoid any 'zealoting'
* 3 Steps: Download, Burn, Install
* To give confidence in the FOSS / Ubuntu movement
* Could a leaflet be created that would be suitable for distribution with a CD?

The possible target audience of the leaflet are:

* People at computer fairs
* Home users with an interest in technology
* People who do not want to use Windows yet don't know how to switch
* Students?
* For use at promotional events
* Computer stores / shops / copies of Ubuntu

=== "Had Enough" Leaflet Beta ===

This is the beta of the "Had Enough" leaflet. Suggested grace period will last 2 weeks commencing 2 Jul 2007 ending on  16 Jul 2007.

The leaflet has been tested in colour, grayscale and black and white.

* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet_hadenough_beta.pdf]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet_hadenough_beta.odg]]</nowiki>

=== Leaflet Examples ===

==== Leaflet example one ====

* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet1_alan_cocks.odt]]</nowiki>
simple folded leaflet for a techie audience who have probably heard of Linux at some time

* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet1-foss_alan_cocks.odt]]</nowiki>
simple folded leaflet for traditional users of computers who have probably never heard of FOSS

==== Leaflet example one (a) ====

* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet1a-SHIPIT_alan_cocks]]</nowiki>
Simple double side A4 sheet containing SHIPIT Text raw content, for use when offering Desktop (7.04) Live CDs

==== Leaflet example one (b) ====

* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet1b-SHIPIT-folded_alan_cocks]]</nowiki>
Folded paper shipit: Double side A4 sheet containing SHIPIT Text content, arranged for simple folding, for use when offering Desktop (7.04) Live CDs.

* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet1b-SHIPIT-folded-instructions_alan_cocks]]</nowiki>
Instructions for folded paper shipit.

==== Leaflet example two ====

* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_0.1_chris_rowson.pdf]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_0.1_chris_rowson.odg]]</nowiki>

==== Leaflet example two with graphics ====
* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_withgraphics_0.1_chris_rowson.pdf]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_withgraphics_0.1_chris_rowson.odg]]</nowiki>

The idea for this leaflet is to target the 'never heard of anything but Windows before' user. 

=== Graphics Example ===

This is what I had in mind for the graphics on the leaflet, I based it on chris's example 2 leaflet

* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_matthewgraphicsversion.odg]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_matthewgraphicsversion.pdf]]</nowiki>

Literally a graphical update to chris's version, blurb from e-mail:
I kept the green and blue backgrounds
for 2 reasons: The blue represents the switching from Windows to Linux
(The title text implies this) and all the sections in blue are about
the switch. The green part has the ubuntu logo in it (almost) and is
used to represent facts about ubuntu. It helps seperate the leaflet
out more.

* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_matthewgraphicsversion_2.odg]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_matthewgraphicsversion_2.pdf]]</nowiki>

This is a cleanup from the one above, text made white. This version has been tested in grayscale and black & white. 

=== Comments and Discussion ===

After talking with Alan Pope in IRC, it seems pretty apparent that we need to create a range of leaflets to target users in various demographics. It may be helpful to identify who you're targeting your leaflet out if you post it up here. - ChrisRowson

Just added a bit of blurb based on what is going on in the e-mail list. I forget what has been discussed a lot, hope you don't mind - Matt

Hey, that's what the wiki is for mate ;-) - ChrisRowson

I'm liking the mark2 leaflet with the white text Matt - really stands out. One thing I did wonder, is would it look a bit less busy without the mini pictures near the header text? - ChrisRowson

I put the mini-pictures on as I think it helps bridge the gap a bit between the two. I also think it helps glue the text to the leaflet and I think they look pretty! :P - Matt

Added another section so we can edit the text of the leaflet on the wiki - Matt

Right decided to finish the thing. A suggestion from some people I work with is to remove the 'anyone can contribute bit' <-- avergae Joe is not likely to contribute and can be a bit un-nerving to think about who has fiddled with it - Matt

=== Leaflet Text ===

why bother?

Ubuntu doesn't get viruses

Ubuntu runs faster and is more stable than windows

Ubuntu and the programs that run on it are free and compatible with windows formats

Ubuntu can run on computers that can't run windows vista

Ubuntu can run much of your existing windows software

Ubuntu doesn't cost you a penny

Ubuntu supports the majority of your hardware out of the box

Ubuntu has full automatic updates for all software installed on your system

=====================  ==

why is it free?
Good question, after all there's no such thing as a free lunch eh?

 Lose the "eh?". It's a statement.
 I like it :(

ubuntu is open-source software, which means that the original blueprints are available for anyone to view, edit and distribute. This means that thousands of programmers around the world are constantly working to improve it and iron out any problems. Anyone who is willing can contribute!

It isn't just ubuntu where this is the case: its been happening for thousands of software projects all around the world for decades. Did you know that for many years the open-source software apache has powered the majority of websites on the internet?

Many people in the ubuntu-uk team volunteer their own free time to help new users of ubuntu and help with any problems

For more information about free and open-source software visit http://www.opensource.org/

======================  ==

enjoy

That's it! you have now joined the ranks of people running ubuntu - the world's leading free operating system

Now you will want to know how to install programs, play movies, music and games

Guess what?

We wrote another website for you containing all the information you could ever need!

help.ubuntu.com

There are thousands of free programs available at the click of a button from the add/remove programs menu

Simply select the program you want, and ubuntu downloads and installs it for you!

If you have any problems with ubuntu you can get technical support over the internet for free from

answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu 

ubuntu.com/support

or find us in the #ubuntu-uk irc channel on irc.freenode.net

======================  ==

lets fix your pc
Ubuntu is a great free replacement for windows that you can download and install for free

With ubuntu you can connect to the 'net safe in the knowledge that you and your trusty pc are safe from hackers, viruses and malware 

Best of all ubuntu comes with thousands of high-quality software packages available for download - also free!

======================  ==

download
Fire up your poor old PC, connect to the internet and visit ubuntu.com/getubuntu

 What if I have a nice new PC, not a poor old one? :)
 Then tough :) I like the personalisation so feel we should leave it

Click on the 'download now' link and then the 'start download' button

Now go make a cuppa - this may take some time!

If you're on a really slow connection then you might want to order a cd instead of downloading - it's still free! Just visit ubuntu.com/getubuntu

======================  ==

burn
OK, so you've downloaded ubuntu to your computer, now you need to put it onto a cd

If you don't know how to do this, no problem, we've created a webpage to help you

It's internet time again!

visit
help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto

======================  ==

install
Simply put the cd into your computer and reboot it

Select 'install or start ubuntu'

Wait for a few minutes... 

What loads is a demo of what ubuntu will be like when it's installed (although the demo mode is a lot slower than the real thing). In demo mode you can test-drive ubuntu and all its features without fiddling with your hard disk.

Install ubuntu to your hard drive by double clicking the install icon on the desktop and answering a couple of questions. Don't worry, ubuntu wont erase windows if you have it installed! (whenever you boot up your computer ubuntu will ask if you want to load ubuntu or windows)

a little while later it's done!

=== Old Leaflets/Unwanted revisions/Trashbin ===

* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_chris_rowson.pdf]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_chris_rowson.odg]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_withgraphics_chris_rowson.pdf]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:leaflet2_withgraphics_chris_rowson.odg]]</nowiki>
