{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The  <nowiki>[[http://www.mirrorservice.org|UK Mirror Service]]</nowiki> is provided by the <nowiki>[[http://www.cs.kent.ac.uk|Computer Science Department]]</nowiki> of the <nowiki>[[http://www.kent.ac.uk|University of Kent]]</nowiki>, primarily for the benefit of the Kent community, the UK free and open source software communities and academic users in general.

We copy ("mirror") data from source sites all over the world, updating our copies at least once a day. By using our mirrors, users can get rapid access to a variety of popular Internet resources, even if the source site is unavailable or overloaded. By having us as a mirror, source sites can reduce their load and provide faster access to their data for users in the UK and Europe.<nowiki>[[http://www.mirrorservice.org/Help/Introduction|More...]]</nowiki>

If you find something that seems to be faulty anywhere in the UK Mirror Service, web site or ftp service, please take a minute to fill out our Bug Report Form so that we can fix it for you. <nowiki>[[http://www.mirrorservice.org/Help/FeedBack/Bug|BugForm]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.mirrorservice.org/Help/Contact_Us|Contact details]]</nowiki>
