{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Welcome to the Ukrainian Ubuntu Team.

Ласкаво просимо на сторінку Ukrainian Ubuntu Team. Нашим обов'язком ми вважаємо подальшу підтримку, допомогу у розробці, і допомогу у вивченні Убунту.

=== Наші першочергові завдання: ===

* підтримка україномовних та російськомовних користувачів, які проживають в Україні;
* покращення української локалізації;
* відкрити світ Ubuntu кожній людині;
* роспоширення CD-дисків серед інших;
* та багато іншого.

=== Team Status: ===

At the moment Ukrainian Ubuntu Team is so-called 'new' LoCo team, but we are looking forward to official recognition of our Team.

=== Team Goals: ===

* Mission: To raise Ubuntu share on the Ukrainian OS market at least to 20% of Linux distributions and/or 5% of total market.
* Vision: To spread word and disks ;) of Ubuntu to interested newcomers; also to support and enhance user experience of old Ubuntu user.
* 2006 Goal: To gain 10 Ubuntero members; to spread 500 Ubuntu CDs by Team efforts; to establish Team's means of communication (irc, maillist, forum, website etc)

=== Communication: ===
* http://ubuntu.kiev.ua/

=== Members: ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="text-align: center;">'''Status'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''Name'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''Wiki'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''E-mail'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''IRC'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''Jabber'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''AIM'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''Skype'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''Yahoo'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''ICQ'''
|-
| Member
| Eugene Pyvovarov
| 
| 
| 
| besenok ~-jabber.kiev.ua-~
| 
| bsn_ua
| 
| 194470597
|-
| Member
| Viacheslav Biriukov
| 
| 
| 
| sov1et ~-jabber.ru-~
| 
| Sov1et
| 
| 385063
|-
| Member
| Sergiy Matrunchyk
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SkyManPHP|SkyManPHP]]</nowiki>
| 
| SkyManPHP
| skymanroot ~-jabber.org-~
| 
| adventist.ua
| matrunchik@yahoo.com
| 98888908
|-
| Member
| Anton Starikov
| 
| 
| 
| tesla@jabber.ru
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
