{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by TheOpenSourcerer at 21:00 ==
 <''''''> Are we missing a popey or Daviey for any input

 <''''''> Good evening everyone and thanks for being here. I will try and ensure that this meeting keeps on subject and flows swiftly. Here's the Agenda:

 <''''''> HazRPG: i set an android alarm,

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda''
|}

 <''''''> present. o/

 <''''''> Please try to keep comments within the relevant topic, when I close a topic by posting the next one you may finish the line you are typing and return to it in any other business or after the meeting.

 <''''''> brobostigon: I should remember to do that

 <''''''> We are using MootBot [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot. If a vote is called you can say +1, 0 or -1 to record your vote.

 <''''''> HazRPG: :)

 <''''''> Want to do a roll call then?

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> sure

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> OK - Moving swiftly on to the first topic of the evening:

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/LastMeeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/LastMeeting''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Review of action items from last meeting

=== Review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> As you may see, there weren't any actions that were actually *recorded* in the last meeting according to the Wiki, so this could be a very short topic.

 <''''''> ooh, am i actually around for a meeting?

 <''''''> If anyone thinks they did have an action and wants to discuss it please do so now.

 <''''''> dutchie: seems so

* '''''' skims the minutes

 <''''''> However, reading through the recorded minutes of the last one, I do note the following discussions took place (abridged somewhat by me):

 <''''''> <popey>so candtalan and barrydrake to report back about novatech and maplin?

 <''''''> <candtalan> ok

 <''''''> <barrydrake> YEP

 <''''''> I also believe we decided to start an Etherpad type page to dicuss and plan a campaign to talk to PC retailers about trying to hold in-store "Ubuntu Days"...

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> <TheOpenSourcerer> Why not use an etherpad page to do some prep

 <''''''> <popey> yeah, we could mail the list and put a page together, good idea TheOpenSourcerer

* '''''' failed to send feedback to maggie :(

 <''''''> <TheOpenSourcerer> So there are consistent messages etc

 <''''''> <popey> get some collaboration going

 <''''''> <popey> yes, agreed

 <''''''> I note that there were no timescales assigned. So can I suggest that we record these as actions now for the record? Then they can be followed up in future meetings?

 <''''''> +1

* '''''' succeeded in getting beta.ubuntu.org up and running

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> or popey did to be accurate

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> AlanBell: congrats, impressive, :)

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> Thanks.

 <''''''> OK.

 <''''''> [ACTION] candtalan and barrydrake to report back about approaches to Novatech and Maplin?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' candtalan and barrydrake to report back about approaches to Novatech and Maplin?''
|}

 <''''''> and

 <''''''> [ACTION] Create an Etherpad style page in the first instance to collect ideas and "messages" to use.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Create an Etherpad style page in the first instance to collect ideas and "messages" to use.''
|}

 <''''''> Anyone else want to add any actions that should be here?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/UbuntuInStore''
|}

 <''''''> http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/UbuntuInStore

 <''''''> there, we'll start that

 <''''''> Great.

 <''''''> Thanks popey

 <''''''> OK, if nothing more, next then.

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in February, please place it in the report.

==== People who have achieved something in February, please place it in the report. ====
 <''''''> url?

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/March

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/March''
|}

 <''''''> That one?

* '''''' got natty working :)

 <''''''> win

 <''''''> Anyone want to quickly mention any activities they have got up to for the record?

 <''''''> any more to add to this one? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/February

 <''''''> Guessing we need to create that page?

 <''''''> Yep. :-)

* '''''' checks against http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/2011plan

 <''''''> the ODF plugfest was interesting

 <''''''> And the OSSG?

 <''''''> and I handed out about 25 CDs at the meeting with the home office chap

 <''''''> Nice.

 <''''''> including one to Tariq of the Home Office and Qumar of the Cabinet Office

 <''''''> AlanBell: nice

 <''''''> An extra house point for AlanBell I think.

 <''''''> and I think the chap from the MoD got one too :)

 <''''''> agreed, TheOpenSourcerer

 <''''''> indeed

 <''''''> Anyone else get up to anything then "Ubuntu-esque" then?

* '''''' wonders whether popey should mention the podcast

 <''''''> its on the march page

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> OK?

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/March

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: Erm, I've been learning how to install/setup Ubuntu Server recently

 <''''''> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/March

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/March''
|}

 <''''''> HazRPG: Have you told anyone else about it goodness?

 <''''''> is anyone doing an Ubuntu Developer week presentation?

 <''''''> because that should go on March if you are

 <''''''> Been taking notes of everything I learn and will slowly be posting them on my blog, and then later maybe make some videos to put up on the ubuntu/ubuntu-uk site

 <''''''> Great,

 <''''''> Anyone else or shall we move on?

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: So far, my friends and people on #ubunut-uk ... but like I said, videos on the way hopefully :)

 <''''''> I will take that as a let's move on then...

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Quiz night

=== AlanBell - Quiz night ===
 <''''''> Over to you AlanBell

 <''''''> yup, ok

 <''''''> AlanBell: Ubuntu Developer week?

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> so we have some schwag left over from the cloud expo event

 <''''''> and we decided the best way to dispose of it would be to use it as a prize in a quiz night

 <''''''> good thinking,

 <''''''> I have a team of crack quizmasters beavering away in dictionary corner making questions

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> and I fixed the quiz bot that we have in the #ubuntu-trivia channel

 <''''''> nice

 <''''''> and if I never see TCL again it will be too soon

 <''''''> What are some of the great prizes AlanBell ?

 <''''''> oh yes, for the winners we have some baseball caps, for that American gangsta look

 <''''''> And what type of questions, Ubuntu/Linux/FSF or general knowledge/sport/General mix etc

 <''''''> wear with a hoodie to avoid being dragged on tiresome trips round shopping centres

 <''''''> ooo the ubuntu hoodie?

 <''''''> for the loser, we have a copy of the official Ubuntu Book, Edition 5

 <''''''> schweet!

 <''''''> HazRPG: no, you have to provide your own hoodie

 <''''''> Sounds great.

 <''''''> oh the schweet was for the bookt ^^

 <''''''> the questions will be on Ubuntu

* '''''' just had the vision of AlanBell as a hormonal teenager in ubuntu cap and hoodie.

 <''''''> brobostigon: same

 <''''''> ^^

 <''''''> a whole new category of questions that have not been loaded into the bot as yet

 <''''''> brobostigon: You are not that far from the truth

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: hehe, :)

 <''''''> some, all, or none of the questions may have been written by picking random bits out of the book

 <''''''> ok,

 <''''''> ooh, a quiz night

 <''''''> So when will the quiz take place?

 <''''''> doodle poll?

 <''''''> Do we want to decide now or ask further afield?

 <''''''> I would like to kinda decide now

 <''''''> not on a pub night, :(

 <''''''> and I think it should be part drinking game too

* '''''' checks diary

 <''''''> [IDEA] Quiz should be part drinking game too

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Quiz should be part drinking game too''
|}

 <''''''> Maybe the easter weekend could be a good idea, or Royal wedding weekend, although somewhat far off

 <''''''> oh wait, so is this an actual quiz meetup or a bot-based one?

* '''''' doesnt like AlanBell's idea.

 <''''''> HazRPG: bot based

 <''''''> Both bank holidays so a fair number of people are likely not to be concerned with work the next day

 <''''''> drinking isn't compulsory, don't worry

 <''''''> heh, would be interesting if we could setup a VoIP or V/VoIP conference up too :)

 <''''''> You could always pretend too?

* '''''' just doesnt like drinking games-

 <''''''> HazRPG: it would be a good time to try a mumble server or something

 <''''''> Hmm, where did that question mark come from?

 <''''''> AlanBell: I've setup mumble countless times, so I could assist in that :)

 <''''''> HazRPG: interesting idea, :)

 <''''''> can even host it on my new VPS I've setup with my new ubuntu server skills (WIP)

 <''''''> I think a lot of people go to visit family over easter

 <''''''> yeah, pub quiz + mumble sounds fun

 <''''''> what is mumble,?

 <''''''> brobostigon: it's like irc for voice chat

 <''''''> open source skype

 <''''''> Thanks brobostigon

 <''''''> basically

 <''''''> I was wondering who'd ask.

 <''''''> interesting,

 <''''''> How long do you think the Quiz would take AlanBell

 <''''''> Its a voice service much like TeamSpeak/Ventrilo/Skype

 <''''''> flash or something similer needed?

 <''''''> brobostigon: nope, but mumble needs to be installed on your machine (in the repo)

 <''''''> no, it has its own dedicated client

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: half an hour to an hour I should think, depends how fast we go through the questions and how many get written

 <''''''> HazRPG: ah, i see.

 <''''''> we can always go on to the generic linux questions, there are thousands of them

 <''''''> so dates

 <''''''> week day or weekend?

 <''''''> Not Fridays for me :-)

 <''''''> I don't mind helping with setting up mumble, and maybe having like a pre-quiz "get mumble working" thing going

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: same here,

 <''''''> i'm a student, so every day is simultaneously a work day and weekend

 <''''''> I'm flexible

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> also thursday might be difficult.

 <''''''> I see my elves are up to Q29 now

 <''''''> Weekend would suit me better, early starts on weekday mornings mean early to bed

 <''''''> as long as I have a day I can write down/save - I'm sorted :)

* '''''' suspects Saturday might be best

* '''''' would agree with popey 

 <''''''> Yeah, Saturday probably be best for a lot of people.

 <''''''> How long away from now then approximately?

 <''''''> how about March 19th after lots of rugby?

 <''''''> i am open, really.

 <''''''> march 19th is perfect for me

 <''''''> i was about to say i was busy both the next two

* '''''' staggers in late, sorry

 <''''''> 19th will be bad. Will not be back till late.

 <''''''> And will be very drunk.

 <''''''> Daviey: talking about setting up a quiz night to get rid of some ubuntu swag

 <''''''> late is a problem, drunk isn't so much

 <''''''> I can't do 26th

 <''''''> Just a thought, IRC rather than voice may make it easier deciding who gets the correct answer first rather than trying to listen to multiple voices shouting an answer

 <''''''> I can't do the 2nd April.

 <''''''> DJones: we have the technology

 <''''''> DJones: quizbot in #ubuntu-trivia

 <''''''> DJones: voip isn't for the quiz ;)

 <''''''> 9th then?

 <''''''> Can I suggest you do a doodle poll AlanBell?

 <''''''> DJones: its just so we can have a banter while the quiz is on

 <''''''> At least we can get some more people to join in as well.

 <''''''> May be worth opening this up to the mailing list as well

 <''''''> (to decide upon the date)

 <''''''> yeah, ok, I will do a doodle picking several dates including 9th, 16th April and some others

 <''''''> action me up

 <''''''> Sounds a good plan

 <''''''> I don't know what you mean by doodle, but we could setup a pad with dates, listed, and people just tally their votes on it

 <''''''> [ACTION] AlanBell to do a doodle picking several dates including 9th, 16th April and some others

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell to do a doodle picking several dates including 9th, 16th April and some others''
|}

 <''''''> HazRPG: don't worry, it will all make sense

 <''''''> ok, probably done on the quiz for now then

 <''''''> Are we done for now on this one?

 <''''''> Thanks for that AlanBell.

 <''''''> Moving on then.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

=== Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> Anyone AOB to discuss?

 <''''''> Erm...

 <''''''> Silence is golden as they say ...

* '''''' thinks

 <''''''> One thing I thought of that isn't on the schedule, given Daviey's plans on stepping down as UK contact is to consider a replacement

 <''''''> Or pressgang a volunteer, maybe something to take to the next meeting so people can think & Daviey can hopefully list out what the responisbilities are

 <''''''> DJones, Yes... It;s already  scheduled to have closed

 <''''''> The process is underway I thought.

 <''''''> Daviey: ok, no worries, I hadn't realised

 <''''''> Whilst I believe AlanBell would make a super replacement, i am somewhat concerned with it being a one horse race.

* '''''' is not a horse

 <''''''> Ha

 <''''''> His wife would confirm that.

 <''''''> just like to be clear on that point you understand

 <''''''> OI!!

 <''''''> AlanBell, don't look so long in the face about it.

 <''''''> AlanBell: Nay!

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> harsh lol

 <''''''> I have one for AOB I think...

 <''''''> So...

 <''''''> Daviey: whats the plan then?

 <''''''> Any initial plans/ideas suggestions for the Natty release party?

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer, Hold fire

 <''''''> hang on TheOpenSourcerer  :)

 <''''''> OK.

* '''''' wont be, but might suggest one in oxford.

 <''''''> I'd like a vote...

 <''''''> 0

 <''''''> A) Just Declare AlanBell new leader

 <''''''> B) Have an election with AlanBell and "None of the above"

 <''''''> C) Chase for more potential candidates

 <''''''> do we have quorum? :)

 <''''''> I have a question before that. How did you get the role Daviey?

* '''''' votes for 2 weeks of C) followed by A) if nobody steps up

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer, vote

 <''''''> Any other candidates?

 <''''''> 2nds popey's notion

* '''''' nominates Phinias/Ferb/Insert Random nick here :)

 <''''''> +1 for popey' idea.

 <''''''> Yeah - +1 for popey 's idea

 <''''''> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-uk/+poll/teamlead09

 <''''''> ^^^ the vote that happened last time

 <''''''> although, I'm fine with AlanBell getting it though :)

 <''''''> Do we have general agreement on popey 's plan?

 <''''''> seems that way

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> Being totally honest, I don't see anybody more appropriate to being appointed to the role than AlanBell, unless TheOpenSourcerer decides to stand against him

 <''''''> do a vote on it TheOpenSourcerer

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> for what its worth, thats what we do in other teams / councils / boards in Ubuntu

 <''''''> There was one other person that expressed an interest some weeks ago

 <''''''> But can't remember who that was... adn they haven't stepped up

 <''''''> hmm, if you make it 2 weeks today for example, then we could end it on the next meeting

 <''''''> ++1

 <''''''> I don't feel that there enough of us here to decide on the role itself?

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: there is no constitutional setup for the team to determine that :)

 <''''''> Yeah

 <''''''> traditionally the outgoing person set the terms for the next one

 <''''''> equally, it's always been a point of contention if it is purely PoC or Leader

 <''''''> Daviey then? Your choice I reckon

 <''''''> I'm not saying its right or wrong

 <''''''> it just was the way we did it

 <''''''> do we prehaps need a proper constitution?

 <''''''> ideally I'd like a policy set and it be reused

 <''''''> agreed

 <''''''> That sounds like an Action for daubers :)

 <''''''> but nothing too onerous

 <''''''> fwiw nominations were called for on this page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/2011Election

 <''''''> personally a proper vote should be done

 <''''''> [IDEA] popey would ideally like a policy set and it be reused

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' popey would ideally like a policy set and it be reused''
|}

 <''''''> that way, no one can complain if they didn't vote

 <''''''> i dont think its unreasonable to extend the call

 <''''''> When did that nominations page get created

 <''''''> we could spend the time gettin the word out

 <''''''> we need allpossible candiates time to come forward.

 <''''''> it should also be detailed what the role entails

 <''''''> Can we vote on a 2 week notice from today then?

 <''''''> DJones: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/2011Election?action=info

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: I'm happy to

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> Do we need to?

 <''''''> So, nearly 3 weeks and only AlanBell has put his name forward

 <''''''> +1,

 <''''''> ah yes, I remember seeing that in the last meeting

 <''''''> volunteer for blog post calling for candidates?

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> awesome :)

 <''''''> will write it tonight

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> and will post it to mailing list

 <''''''> (if you want)

 <''''''> To avoid disputes, probably better to notify the list/irc of a 2 week notice period for the vote

 <''''''> An Action then.

 <''''''> probably best to post on the mailing list :)

 <''''''> Would 1 week make the process faster?

 <''''''> Don't wanna just needlessly linger

 <''''''> 2 weeks would allow us to pimp it on the podcast ;)

 <''''''> hah

 <''''''> then what, A or B?

 <''''''> candiate pimping,

 <''''''> hmm.

 <''''''> How is the vote to be carried out? next meeting, poll, Mailing list etc

 <''''''> Something like this?

 <''''''> Team to call for candidates. Unless anyone else comes in 2 weeks, AlanBell gets it by default?

 <''''''> DJones: condorcet

 <''''''> AlanBell: Fair enough

 <''''''> everyone in the lp team is eligible

 <''''''> and the team gets locked before the vote

 <''''''> so people dont join 20 people to vote

 <''''''> DJones: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-uk/2011-February/028779.html

 <''''''> Can I suggest an action: "team effort to try and garner some more candidates for two weeks from today?"

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> 17th March closing date.

 <''''''> Midday.

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> next meeting on 17th at 21:00, to kick off the vote or nominate?

 <''''''> hmm.. we need a venue for the crowning ceremony... and i need to get the crown cleaned.

 <''''''> Hmm, not that many supporters. Any decenters for that suggestion?

 <''''''> No?

* '''''' is abstaining from decisions about voting procedures

 <''''''> OK then.

 <''''''> [ACTION] team effort to try and garner some more candidates for two weeks. Closing date 17th March 12:00

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' team effort to try and garner some more candidates for two weeks. Closing date 17th March 12:00''
|}

 <''''''> sounds good to me

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> Anything else on this subject?

* '''''' is writing a blog post as we speak :)

 <''''''> if there should be no other candidates what happens?

 <''''''> popey, I have a draft, if that helps? :)

* '''''' pins medal to popey's chest

 <''''''> haha

 <''''''> AlanBell, I say you just get it....

 <''''''> the suggestion was that AlanBell gets it

 <''''''> AlanBell: I would guess you get the position

 <''''''> "None of the above" doesn't help

* '''''' puts a snooker ball in a sock and goes to give AlanBell  it

 <''''''> .. i suspect most are ambivalent

 <''''''> +12

 <''''''> I think you are right Daviey

 <''''''> But we should also try to be fair and inclusive.

 <''''''> Agreed

 <''''''> AlanBell should just get it if nothing comes out of the polls/calls to candidates

 <''''''> great, I hope there are other candidates actually, the CIVS process is cool for democracy geeks

 <''''''> obviously during the next meeting

 <''''''> You started the "one horse race" discussion in the first place.

 <''''''> OK - can we move on then?

 <''''''> would be cool if I get to experience the CIVS process (pretending to know what that means)

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: Sure

 <''''''> HazRPG: The throw your hat into the proverbial ring.

 <''''''> OK. Still on AOB then.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/civs.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/civs.html

 <''''''> Any plans/ideas suggestions for the release party?

 <''''''> It's next month.

 <''''''> Ooo

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: i wont be doing one again, but might do an afternoon, over in oxford.

 <''''''> from the plan: "London release party with the Ubuntu release team - Looking for a venue near milbank - John Stevenson @JR0cket"

 <''''''> I'll  be in London  o/

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> when is it?

 <''''''> 28th April I think

 <''''''> "When it's ready" :)

 <''''''> :P

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyReleaseSchedule

 <''''''> I would like to do one, but I haven't a clue where to start - and I have a feeling there's not enough interest in cumbria for it

 <''''''> I didn't have any ideas myself - I just thought I'd ask.

 <''''''> but would be nice if we could get one going

 <''''''> Daviey: would it be Gerry Carr and team organising it?

 <''''''> from the Canonical side

 <''''''> AlanBell, Suspect not

 <''''''> esp since I don't know any venues in Carlisle that would lend us a room to do it

 <''''''> HazRPG: i would startwith an email to your local lugs mailing lists.

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> AlanBell, I'll dig tomorrow regarding that.

 <''''''> Want to move on? It doesn't seem to have captured our joint imagination yet.

 <''''''> ok great

 <''''''> the trouble is we spend weeks checking out venues and organising stuff, then Canonical just do something else

 <''''''> brobostigon: Our LUG seems dead :( - been subscribed to it for about 3 weeks and only 1 e-mail has ever come through

 <''''''> Have we done with AOB then?

 <''''''> stuff outside London is in some ways easier as you won't get trumped by Canonical

 <''''''> HazRPG: try and bring it alove again, if anything, take control and gets things going again.

 <''''''> alive*

* '''''' likes the sound of alove

 <''''''> Anyway.

 <''''''> brobostigon: might do that

 <''''''> Next topic then.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> HazRPG: get hold of the current, lead, and work from there.

 <''''''> I think this has already been decided

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> 17th March? The crowning day.

 <''''''> sounds good :)

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> works here, is it a thursday?

 <''''''> yes, should be ok.

 <''''''> Anyone any problems with the 17th?

 <''''''> Time?

 <''''''> if not, my vote will have to be pre-cast.

 <''''''> is 9PM ok for everyone?

 <''''''> should be,

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> It's better for me than 8 if I'm honext

 <''''''> me too.

 <''''''> fine

 <''''''> OK.

 <''''''> [ACTION] Next Meeting 17th March at 9:00PM UK Time.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Next Meeting 17th March at 9:00PM UK Time.''
|}

 <''''''> Can someone with the right privileges set the date in the /topic of #ubuntu-uk and #ubuntu-uk-meeting please?

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> And finally:

 <''''''> fill yer boots

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

=== Chair for next meeting ===
 <''''''> Who will take the reins next time then? Come on, don't all rush at once...

 <''''''> ...

* '''''' hides

 <''''''> :(

 <''''''> Hear the tumbleweed

 <''''''> Oh dear.

 <''''''> go on then

 <''''''> i will

 <''''''> still need to attend more before I attempt to hold a meeting :P

 <''''''> popey: You did it last time.

 <''''''> HazRPG: It is quite easy.

 <''''''> Go on have a go.

 <''''''> We'll be nice.

 <''''''> i wont, incase i wont be able to make it,

 <''''''> It will be a lively meeting too :-)

 <''''''> that's what scares me xD

 <''''''> I'm not going to try and force you.

 <''''''> I might do the one after that :)

 <''''''> Don't make me do it.

 <''''''> OK.

 <''''''> cos this is my 2nd meeting I've seen so far (I think?)

 <''''''> popey: Thanks.

 <''''''> np

 <''''''> hmm, would be interesting to see AlanBell do it :P

 <''''''> [AGREED] popey to chair next meeting.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' popey to chair next meeting.''
|}

 <''''''> specially if he gets crowned :P

 <''''''> I don't feel that would be "proper" though.

 <''''''> Thanks everyone, that was great. See you next time.

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 22:04 ==
=== People Present ===
* DJones

* TheOpenSourcerer

* brobostigon

* AlanBell

* HazRPG

* dutchie

* popey

* Daviey

=== Actions Recorded ===
* candtalan and barrydrake to report back about approaches to Novatech and Maplin?

* Create an Etherpad style page in the first instance to collect ideas and "messages" to use.

* AlanBell to do a doodle picking several dates including 9th, 16th April and some others

* team effort to try and garner some more candidates for two weeks. Closing date 17th March 12:00

* Next Meeting 17th March at 9:00PM UK Time.
