{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by AlanBell at 20:01 ==
 <''''''> hi all, please wave to indicate your presence

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> aloha

 <''''''> \o (only half here)

 <''''''> Daviey: Your on the Agenda

 <''''''> ok, welcome one and all

 <''''''> oh goody.

 <''''''> With me

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - review of action items from last meeting

=== AlanBell - review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in September, please place it in the report.

==== People who have achieved something in September, please place it in the report. ====
 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/September

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/September''
|}

 <''''''> I think I was the only one with an action item from the last meeting

 <''''''> anyone done anything interesting they want to add to the report?

 <''''''> if so, it is a wiki, please add it

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] Monotoko to call places

==== Monotoko to call places ====
 <''''''> I'm in the progress of trying to work out how to install NBR without a cdrom or usb

 <''''''> I have called places, however the cost is too high for me to cover alone and I have not heard anything from IT companies

 <''''''> If it was to go ahead, we also have a set location of Leeds

 <''''''> hmm, ok

 <''''''> what costs are you looking at?

 <''''''> around Â£150 for the hire for a day

 <''''''> thats not so bad

 <''''''> I did try to call some libraries as you suggested but due to the fact that it is a Sunday the majority are closed

 <''''''> popey, I'm still a student so don't really have a working wage

 <''''''> same

 <''''''> we need to get more businesses involved in the loco

 <''''''> Just snooping but why not look for a community trust that has a hall - they might welcome the income of a day's hire

 <''''''> Yeah...I mean if no business is willing to sponsor fully I could put up half

 <''''''> community trust in Leeds...hmmm I could have a look

 <''''''> I would totally sponsor something like that if it was close to me

 <''''''> so would I

 <''''''> Councils are trying to ditch their community centres in the Midlands, so they are probably doing the same in Yorks

 <''''''> ditto

 <''''''> I think another appeal for sponsorship to the list is worth a try

 <''''''> AlanBell, okay I will have a go...shall i appeal to the local LUG as well?

 <''''''> other than that it is a pointer that we need to do more to convince businesses of the value of getting involved in the community

 <''''''> Monotoko: Probably

 <''''''> AlanBell, definitely

 <''''''> also, Sunday was a bit of a poor choice of release date, even if it is 10/10/10

 <''''''> Oooh er

 <''''''> evening

 <''''''> MichaelH, okay I will shoot an email over there...and yes it certainly was, could have had the university if it wasn't a sunday

 <''''''> ok, lets move on

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Daviey and MichealH - Website

=== Daviey and MichealH - Website ===
 <''''''> (well we all suspect it will be unofficially released on the |Friday)

 <''''''> any updates on that?

 <''''''> Well the last 2 weeks have been pretty hectic for me, so i apologise that not too much has changed

 <''''''> One key thing that has changed is that....

 <''''''> The problem i was having was integreting the planet

 <''''''> Following a discussion with AlanBell, and some further thought... that should be kept seperate

 <''''''> Daviey: And thats fixed?

 <''''''> Ahh

 <''''''> there is a cunning plan

 <''''''> Daviey: Are you going to call for help?

 <''''''> (hopefully with the hope of it being part of the main planet, but under a seperate location... need to ack that with the CC)

 <''''''> Daviey: Like, Let us get involved?

 <''''''> So as it stands... it's actually in a pretty good shape.

 <''''''> what is?

 <''''''> I'd be willing to help out

 <''''''> It has probably another hour of work left to do... which is great timing as now we are in FF -.. my life is easier

 <''''''> One issue we do have... is content

 <''''''> Once it's live... it's still gonna be bare of content

 <''''''> Daviey, as in Articles?

 <''''''> The main thing we really need at the comment is content

 <''''''> Daviey: I can write for the site

 <''''''> Monotoko, well yes.. but also "What we do"

 <''''''> MichealH, Awesome

 <''''''> Daviey, i can write for the site...i write for brighthub under the Linux channel at the moment

 <''''''> Daviey: :)

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> Okay

 <''''''> One thing the team needs to decide is how to control that

 <''''''> shoot an email over to me tomorrow

 <''''''> I think in some form, there needs to be peer review.

 <''''''> the fridge does that, peer review

 <''''''> one person submits, another accepts

 <''''''> Monotoko / MichealH: will do... Any other volunteers for content?

 <''''''> popey, perfect

 <''''''> yeah, I will help with content

 <''''''> me too

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> sorted :D

 <''''''> Should we have an editoral team?

 <''''''> ok, so Daviey, when can you tell the content peeps how it all works?

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> no single point of failure

 <''''''> and no single point of win

 <''''''> AlanBell, I would like to tie it to Wednesday evening next week.. that gives me time for some polish.

 <''''''> and get it uploaded.

 <''''''> Is that suitable?

 <''''''> Daviey, yes...everyone makes typo's

 <''''''> Daviey: Yes

 <''''''> It can be done for Wed

 <''''''> [action] Daviey to work with the website editorial team Wednesday 22nd

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Daviey to work with the website editorial team Wednesday 22nd''
|}

* '''''' proposes AlanBell to form an editoral team :).

 <''''''> [action] AlanBell to form an editorial team

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell to form an editorial team''
|}

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> any more on the website?

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> [TOPIC] daubers - Improving Support

=== daubers - Improving Support ===
 <''''''> AlanBell, just that - interested people - jump here on Wednedsay evening.

 <''''''> ah me!

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> Umm... I've been through a manic period at work (blasted customers) so haven't done anything more really

 <''''''> daubers, what needs doing?

 <''''''> There is a meeting shortly (next week I think) to go over stuff, so I need to do stuff by then

 <''''''> Shall put a mail to the list

 <''''''> ok, so can you sumarise the last meeting a bit?

 <''''''> The last meeting was a very good starting point for getting things moving. We identified that some effort needs to go into talking to the docs team

 <''''''> and some targets and stuff need to be set

 <''''''> But everyone was interested, which is cool :)

 <''''''> [action] daubers to mail list relating to progress and next steps on the improving support project

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' daubers to mail list relating to progress and next steps on the improving support project''
|}

 <''''''> ta

 <''''''> next meeting is on the 23rd still?

 <''''''> Yes

 <''''''> great

 <''''''> I've been trying to timethem as the week following the -uk general meeting

 <''''''> ok, lets move on then

 <''''''> [TOPIC] 10.10.10 Release Party

=== 10.10.10 Release Party ===
 <''''''> right, now there is some news on this

 <''''''> ohhh?

 <''''''> yay

 <''''''> Canonical seem to want to support a community event more this time

 <''''''> rather than the london event being an office party for Canonical

 <''''''> and we have an event in the planning already

 <''''''> AlanBell, that just gave me an idea, would Canonical be interested in sponsoring the leeds installfest?

 <''''''> Monotoko: we can but ask

 <''''''> :) add that to my actions ^.^#

 <''''''> [action] AlanBell to put Monotoko in touch with someone at canonical to ask about sponsorship of Leeds installfest

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell to put Monotoko in touch with someone at canonical to ask about sponsorship of Leeds installfest''
|}

 <''''''> [link] http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/307/detail/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/307/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> that is the details of the party as is, we think the venue will be big enough

 <''''''> John Stevenson has organised it which is fantastic

 <''''''> and lets all get behind that one and support it how we can

 <''''''> I really wish I could attend that one

 <''''''> starting by registering attendance on that page I guess

* '''''' is registering now

* '''''' will check with the bank of wife

 <''''''> I guess we should publicise that a bit more including something to the list and on the planet etc.

 <''''''> any more to say on the release party at the moment?

 <''''''> (Don't forget your towel)

 <''''''> good point

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Any Other Business

=== AlanBell - Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> what's the smile for towel?

 <''''''> ok, one thing that happened in the last day or so is the UDS sponsorship decisions

 <''''''> I am not going :-(

 <''''''> anyone get sponsorship, or is going anyway?

 <''''''> id take that as a no

 <''''''> :P

 <''''''> tumbleweed rolls past

 <''''''> I believe there is quite a focus on upstreams getting to UDS this time

 <''''''> not going either: I would need a new passport...

 <''''''> I wish i was, but not enough money or a passport

 <''''''> well, remote participation all round then.

 <''''''> ok, another thing

 <''''''> indeed!

 <''''''> the Profile Roulette thing was a good project, however I keep forgetting to spin the wheel

 <''''''> autospinner?

 <''''''> but it is a wiki, so anyone can do it

 <''''''> and I would encourage you to do so

 <''''''> CyberJacob: if you can do an autospinner that can do oauth authentication against the wiki that would be fab

 <''''''> the auth may be a problem, but I'll give it a go

 <''''''> CyberJacob, if not I could...I have oauth scripts and a server for other projects

 <''''''> it is all possible, I just never found the time to figure out oauth from python

 <''''''> I've got a brand new server sitting in a datacenter to run it on

 <''''''> [action] CyberJacob to investigate automating the profile roulette page

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' CyberJacob to investigate automating the profile roulette page''
|}

 <''''''> any other other business?

 <''''''> hmmm, nope I think thats all

 <''''''> from here anyways

 <''''''> going once

 <''''''> going twice

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> sold!

 <''''''> any date should be fine by me as long as its this sort of time

 <''''''> same here

 <''''''> shall we just say 2 weeks then?

 <''''''> 1st October

 <''''''> 1st sounds good to me

 <''''''> friday

 <''''''> that's a Friday, probably better on the 30/9

 <''''''> maybe tuesday 28th

 <''''''> haven't done tuesday for a while

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> tuesday is good by me

 <''''''> tuesday 28th works for me

 <''''''> any objections to tuesday 28th?

* '''''' watches tumbleweed roll past again

 <''''''> Tuesday is better than friday

 <''''''> indeed

 <''''''> nope, no objections

 <''''''> [Agreed] next meeting Tuesday 28th September 9PM

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' next meeting Tuesday 28th September 9PM''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

=== Chair for next meeting ===
 <''''''> popey nearly volunteered last time

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> I am tempted, but not sure..

 <''''''> I will wait another meeting i think

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> sure

 <''''''> great

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> CyberJacob: shadow a few more meetings first, then certainly

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> [agreed] popey to chair the next meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' popey to chair the next meeting''
|}

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 20:41 ==
=== People Present ===
* AlanBell

* Monotoko

* CyberJacob

* brunogirin

* MichealH

* popey

* ck

* czajkowski

* Daviey

* contrary

* daubers

* TheOpenSourcerer

=== Actions Recorded ===
* Daviey to work with the website editorial team Wednesday 22nd

* AlanBell to form an editorial team

* daubers to mail list relating to progress and next steps on the improving support project

* AlanBell to put Monotoko in touch with someone at canonical to ask about sponsorship of Leeds installfest

* CyberJacob to investigate automating the profile roulette page
