{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MattDaubney (daubers) will chair the meeting ==
The next meeting is scheduled for <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=10&day=23&year=2010&hour=19&min=00&sec=0&p1=0|23rd October 2010, 19:00 UTC (20:00 BST)]]</nowiki> and will be held in #ubuntu-uk-meeting on irc.freenode.net.

The chair of the meeting should endeavour to ensure that key points are discussed in an appropriate time. The chair will paste in items from the agenda during the meeting, please try to keep comments within the relevant topic, when the chair closes a topic by posting the next one you may finish the line you are typing and return to it in any other business or after the meeting.
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot|MootBot]]</nowiki> is used in meetings, please familiarise yourself with the functionality available prior to the meeting.
If a vote is called you can say +1 0 or -1 to record your vote. You can do this with a private message to the bot if you don't want your vote to be public.

Please read the following <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Meeting/Guidelines|guidelines]]</nowiki> before taking part in the meeting.

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

Please put a brief statement of the issue to be discussed here, and link to a more detailed description or summary elsewhere in the wiki.

How to report (issues/progress/problems fixed) for statistical purposes
Blogging problems and resolutions
Training
How
Where
What to train on (problem solving techniques/diagnosis howto/?)
What materials do the training team have for this
Mentoring?
How to put people in contact with the correct person to solve their issue
==== [TOPIC] MattDaubney - Purpose of the Meeting and Team ====
* Meeting in order to form team and set priorities
* Team to help formalise part of community support in order to improve support to the general populous

==== [TOPIC] MattDaubney - Initial Targets ====
* IRC
* Forums
* Blogs
* Stack Exchange
* Mailing lists
* Where should effort be based

==== [TOPIC] MattDaubney - Specialists ====
* How best to use their time
* How to identify who can help with what

==== [TOPIC] MattDaubney - Reporting ====

* How to judge effectiveness
* How to identify weak areas

==== [TOPIC] MattDaubney - Training and Mentoring ====
 
* How to train
* Available resources from Training team
* Can we run sessions on howto diagnose problems in specific areas?
* Mentoring in specific areas
* Global Jam sessions?

==== [TOPIC] MattDaubney - Any Other Business ====

==== [TOPIC] MattDaubney - Date of next meeting ====
* Set the date in the /topic of #ubuntu-uk and #ubuntu-uk-meeting

==== [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting ====
