{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Results of the <nowiki>[[UKTeam/QuizNight]]</nowiki> held on 14th March 2007 

* Quizmaster: popey (AlanPope)
* Number of Questions: 35
* Log: http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2007/03/14/%23ubuntu-uk.log

=== Scores ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Seeker
| 14.5
|-
| GazzaK
| 5.5
|-
| treb0r
| 3.5
|-
| daivey
| 3
|-
| goblimeyW
| 3
|-
| anto9us
| 3
|-
| dsas
| 3
|-
| deiaccord
| 2
|-
| X3N
| 1
|-
| gord
| 1
|}

=== Questions ===

<pre>
Q1. What technical term is given for the middle of an earthquake?
* Epicenter
Q2. What is Victoria Beckham's maiden name?
* Adams
Q3. In which 1990 film did Sean Connery play a defecting Soviet submarine commander?
* The Hunt For Red October
Q4. What flame haired actress teamed up with popstar Robbie Williams to record 'Something Stupid'?
* Nicole Kidman
Q5. What colour is the M of the MacDonald's logo?
* Gold
Q6. Name the ghost who appears at a banquet in Shakespeare's Macbeth?
* Banquo
Q7. Who was the creator of the TV series "ER"?
* Michael Crichton
Q8. How many hurdles are there in the men's 100m race?
* 10
Q9. Which hangs down from the ceiling of a cave, a stalactite or a stalagmite?
* Stalactite
Q10. Where in London would you find Poet's Corner?
* Westminster Abbey
Q11. What single letter of graffiti did Donna Diego De La Vega scratch on walls?
* Z
Q12. What would a Conchologist be interested in?
* Shells
Q13. What lies between Mars and Jupiter?
* Asteroid belt
Q14. Who were the creators of Fireball XL5, Stingray, and Thunderbirds amongst others? ( I want full names )
* Gerry and Sylvia Anderson
Q15. Where is Tabasco sauce made?
* Louisiana, USA
Q16. What is Hobson's Choice?
* No choice
Q17. Where did the first traffic lights appear?
* Outside the houses of parliment
Q18. Litmus paper turns what colour in contact with an acid?
* Red
Q19. What was the name of the boy who befriended ET?
* Elliott
Q20. What is inflamed if you suffer from Nephrititis?
* Kidneys
Q21. What type of animal are Balugas?
* Whale
Q22. What does the acronym SCUBA stand for? (half point per word)
* Self Contained Underwater Breathing Apparatus
Q23. Which peak overlooks the city of Cape Town?
Q24. Howard Carter and Lord Caernarfon discovered what in 1922? (will accept dodgy spellings)
* Tutankhamun's tomb
Q25. What dish is made from Mexican minced beef with chilli and beans?
* Chilli Con Carne
Q26. Who was the last British Prime Minister not to have a wife? (First and last name, capitalised and spelled right)
* Margaret Thatcher
Q27. Whose was 'the face that launched a thousand ships'?
Q28. Isabelle Dinoir was the 1st person to undergo the 1st what?
* Face transplant
Q29. Parker and Barrow were the surnames of which famous couple?
Q30. "Take My Breath Away" is the theme from which film? (and bonus points also (on the same line) name the lead actor)
* Top Gun - Tom Cruise
Q31. What name is given to kettledrums in an Orchestra?
* Timpani
Q32. In which martial art do people fight using bamboo swords?
Q33. Where is the ceremony of the Keys held every day?
* Tower of London
Q34. Which is always the first event of the Men's Decathlon?
Q35. What is the Japanese for "single number"?
* Sudoku

</pre>
