{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by AlanBell at 20:02 ==
 <''''''> hi all, who is here?

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> here I am!

 <''''''> hi barrydrake

 <''''''> hi

 <''''''> hi

 <''''''> hi furst-timer

* '''''' wonders if popey is here

 <''''''> he is

 <''''''> ok, i will gtet my bit of the way, i wont be able to attend oggcamp, my eczema is seriously playing up, and have a bad skin infection.

 <''''''> brobostigon: oh, sorry to hear that

 <''''''> i was hoping it would calm, but it isnt.

 <''''''> so, my apolgies.

 <''''''> ok, lets start with oggcamp

 <''''''> not doing the report and progress items as they seem a bit redundant

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Popey - OggCamp

=== Popey - OggCamp ===
 <''''''> Hullo!

 <''''''> hullo

 <''''''> Hi

 <''''''> any stuff we need to know about oggcamp?

 <''''''> OggCamp happens this Saturday and Sunday in Farnham, Surrey!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://oggcamp.org/ for details''
|}

 <''''''> http://oggcamp.org/ for details

 <''''''> pretty much everything is sorted

 <''''''> we have people booked for talks, and will have slots for people to give talks if they want to

 <''''''> and will have a live recording of the Ubuntu UK Podcast (and Linux Outlaws)

 <''''''> and a raffle! to win a kindle, books, and other cool stuff :D

 <''''''> including some canonical goody bags

 <''''''> the event is .. FREE!

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> It's friendly, community run and everyone is welcome

 <''''''> I think that's it :

 <''''''> yay

 <''''''> sounds exciting - wish I could be there

 <''''''> ok, that sounds excellent, lets move on

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - LoCo reapproval, are we ready?

=== AlanBell - LoCo reapproval, are we ready? ===
 <''''''> hmm, well that was the topic last time and we figured we were nearly ready

 <''''''> there have been a few minor edits to the page since then, but really more needs doing

 <''''''> i had a look at my rss logs, and couldnt really find anything more than we already had.

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/ReApprovalApplication2011

 <''''''> AlanBell: We'll have loads of piccies/videos and stuff after Oggcamp :)

 <''''''> AlanBell: maybe have an edit session at OggCamp :D

 <''''''> excellent idea, I am planning to do some editing this week on it too

 <''''''> I was thinking of doing an ubuntu-uk session at oggcamp

 <''''''> AlanBell: We should try and get as many loco members together there as we can and do a group photo

 <''''''> that too!

 <''''''> perhaps we could copy/paste it into etherpad and edit simultaneously at oggamp

 <''''''> sounds good

 <''''''> one thing we need to do is look up the dates of things and sort into years

 <''''''> another is to add more pictures

 <''''''> that sounds like a collaborative task in a room

 <''''''> sounds interesting.

 <''''''> ok, I will take that as an action

 <''''''> #action AlanBell to do a session at oggcamp on collaborative editing of the reapproval application

 <''''''> AlanBell: We could do a promo video... "Why should you reapprove the UK Loco". We'll have all the gear to do it at oggcamp :)

 <''''''> maybe, sounds like a big edit job though

 <''''''> the other thing we need to do is turn up in force next tuesday

 <''''''> big flash mob in #ubuntu-meeting

 <''''''> I have some testing time coming up I could use to do it (possibly)

 <''''''> sorry - next Tuesday?

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda

 <''''''> Ah!

 <''''''> we are on the LoCo Council meeting agenda for next tuesday

 <''''''> *gulp*

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/ApprovalApplication2011

 <''''''> that is the other team up at the same time

 <''''''> exyensive.

 <''''''> extensive*

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> so we have a bit of work to do

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> ok, lets move on and close up this meeting then do some poking about with the application

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Any Other Business

=== AlanBell - Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> anyone want to raise anything else?

 <''''''> not i

 <''''''> neither.

 <''''''> Just that I managed to get to the Nottingham LUG last week for the first time, and it's impressive!

 <''''''> great

 <''''''> Also! There's some people trying to start a hackspace in Reading

 <''''''> Surrey LUG is kind of good, but very inconvenient for me

 <''''''> Anyone who's interested can have a look at http://www.readingmakerspace.co.uk/joomla/

 <''''''> nice

 <''''''> one suggestion for events that was knocking about was to do a moving monthly pub night

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> how moving?

 <''''''> so we might designate a particular day of the month (like second wendnesday or something) and find a pub in a random city to go to

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> I'll offer Nottingham - how random is that?

 <''''''> so London, Reading, Milton Keynes, Oxford, Cambridge, etc

 <''''''> Nottingham

 <''''''> banbury*

 <''''''> It exists

 <''''''> so every few months there should be one close enough to go to for most people

 <''''''> interesting idea.

 <''''''> I like it

 <''''''> me too.

 <''''''> places reasonably accessible by train and car

 <''''''> Helps if a local person would help to find a place

 <''''''> decent beer. is a given, :)

 <''''''> yeah, we have local people everywhere, which is kind of the point of the team

 <''''''> We could invite the local LUGF along too

 <''''''> Yup

 <''''''> good idea barrydrake

 <''''''> LUGF ?

 <''''''> typo brobostigon

 <''''''> oh.

 <''''''> Sorry, LUG

 <''''''> yes,sorry.

 <''''''> AlanBell: might even be worth pinging any open source types around (hackspaces etc)

 <''''''> so to do that we kind of need to pick a day, and map out a schedule of cities

 <''''''> Ubuntu UK Roadshow :D

 <''''''> AlanBell: First half of the months best

 <''''''> daubers: good thinking :)

 <''''''> thursday, is quiz night at my local here, hit several stones at once.

 <''''''> Anytime in Auitume through Spring

 <''''''> be nice to bill as an Ubuntu Hour

 <''''''> so no obligation to stay all night

 <''''''> AlanBell: Also might be best for a friday so people can travel/drink if they want (but other reasons may stop people coming then?)

 <''''''> just pop in for an hour

 <''''''> I dont think you can set a day that will be great for everyone

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> Friday's fantastic fot me

 <''''''> if regions want to set their own and keep it (i.e. month 3 moves to another city, but the city in month 2 want to re-visit again, they can)

 <''''''> yup, it is an expandable scheme

 <''''''> so could become multiple regular meets

 <''''''> the Ubuntu UK happy hour

 <''''''> yes!

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> it sounds like a great idea

 <''''''> i like that a lot

 <''''''> Et moi

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> ok, lets do that then

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> Great

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> so we need to make a list of rough locations (to the nearest city) and put them in some kind of order so that it bounces about the country a lot

 <''''''> I will have a look through the wordpress plugins and see if there is anything cool to help put it on the website

 <''''''> :)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/google-maps-route-plugin/screenshots/''
|}

 <''''''> http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/google-maps-route-plugin/screenshots/

 <''''''> like that :)

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> ok, closing up

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> Monday 29th?

 <''''''> haven't done a monday for a while I think

 <''''''> OK for me

 <''''''> here also

 <''''''> am I too late?

 <''''''> yes, just ended.

 <''''''> dNG

 <''''''> *dang

 <''''''> closing up CyberJacob

 <''''''> been busy keeping track of the london riots

 <''''''> CyberJacob: yeah, bit of a mess :(

 <''''''> bit.ly/brohoofriots

 <''''''> night all

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

=== Chair for next meeting ===
 <''''''> night barrydrake

 <''''''> brobostigon: want to chair?

 <''''''> AlanBell: ummm,

 <''''''> maybe.

 <''''''> ok :)

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 20:50 ==
=== People Present ===
* AlanBell

* brobostigon

* barrydrake

* furst-timer

* popey

* daubers

* jacobw

* CyberJacob

=== Actions Recorded ===
