{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the nth meeting of the UKTeam, starting at 20:13 BST and finishing at 21:41 BST

== Attendance ==
<pre>
<hrickards> PRESENT
<kn100> present
<TheOpenSourcerer> PRESENT
<AlanBell> PRESENT
<brobostigon> present
<markie-> present
<slarty> PRESENT
<TonyP> present
<DJones> PRESENT
<stevepearce> PRESENT
<Laney> present
<ball> PRESENT, just not sure whether I'm supposed to be ;-)
<Yownanymous> present
<ball> PRESENT
<dutchie> PRESENT
</pre>
== Agenda ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
|-
| AlanPope
| <nowiki>[[UKTeam-GlobalJam09]]</nowiki> discussion
|-
| Josh Holland
| <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/2009/07/29/free-books-for-approved-loco-teams/|Free books for LoCos]]</nowiki> What to do with them
|-
| Alan Bell
| Introducing businesses to Ubuntu
|-
| Alan Bell
| Karmic stuff, KarmicReleaseParties and the like
|-
| Alan Bell
| Date of next meeting
|}

== Minutes ==

<pre>
--- Log opened Sun Aug 09 20:13:52 2009
= 2009-08-09:20:13:52-!- Irssi: Starting query in freenode with MootBot
= 2009-08-09:20:13:52<MootBot> Meeting started at 14:13. The chair is brobostigon.
= 2009-08-09:20:15:46<MootBot> New Topic:  UKTeam/GlobalJam09 discussion
= 2009-08-09:20:19:24<MootBot> IDEA received:  looking for venues
= 2009-08-09:20:22:10<MootBot> LINK received:  http://hackerspaces.org/wiki/List_of_Hacker_Spaces
= 2009-08-09:20:23:11<MootBot> IDEA received:  venues to be surveyed and then reported back on.
= 2009-08-09:20:25:20<MootBot> IDEA received:  video from and to between venues.
= 2009-08-09:20:27:30<MootBot> IDEA received:  use planet and mailing to promote.
= 2009-08-09:20:29:24<MootBot> ACTION received:  Laney promote globaljam09
= 2009-08-09:20:31:26<MootBot> ACTION received:  at next meeting evaluate progress
--- Log closed Sun Aug 09 20:37:01 2009
--- Log opened Sun Aug 09 20:38:58 2009
= 2009-08-09:20:38:58<MootBot> ACTION received:  survey locations and report back at next meeting.
= 2009-08-09:20:39:30<MootBot> New Topic:  Free books for LoCos What to do with them
--- Log closed Sun Aug 09 20:45:01 2009
--- Log opened Sun Aug 09 20:48:08 2009
= 2009-08-09:20:48:08<MootBot> Please vote on:  elaborate scheme for passing them about.
= 2009-08-09:20:50:09<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 4 against. 3 abstained. Total: 1
= 2009-08-09:20:51:11<MootBot> Please vote on:  give them away as prizes in the Ubuntu-uk podcast.
= 2009-08-09:20:52:14<MootBot> Final result is 4 for, 6 against. 1 abstained. Total: -2
= 2009-08-09:20:52:36<MootBot> Please vote on:  raffle them off at a karmic release party.
= 2009-08-09:20:53:40<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 6 against. 1 abstained. Total: -1
= 2009-08-09:20:55:09<MootBot> Please vote on:  keep to use at ubuntu-uk events..
= 2009-08-09:20:56:04<MootBot> Final result is 2 for, 5 against. 3 abstained. Total: -3
= 2009-08-09:20:56:34<MootBot> Please vote on:  no-thanks and not take them.
= 2009-08-09:20:57:08<MootBot> Final result is 2 for, 5 against. 1 abstained. Total: -3
= 2009-08-09:20:57:45<MootBot> Please vote on:  let daviey decide.
= 2009-08-09:20:58:44<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 4 against. 4 abstained. Total: 1
= 2009-08-09:20:59:14<MootBot> Please vote on:  donate to a school or library?.
= 2009-08-09:21:00:14<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 2 against. 3 abstained. Total: 3
= 2009-08-09:21:01:06<MootBot> New Topic:  Introducing businesses to Ubuntu - Alan Bell
= 2009-08-09:21:03:27<MootBot> IDEA received:  running some business focussed seminars showing people what linux/ubuntu can do
= 2009-08-09:21:05:02<MootBot> IDEA received:  Deploy it early and often.
= 2009-08-09:21:10:04<MootBot> IDEA received:   business focussed Karmic launch event
= 2009-08-09:21:11:12<MootBot> New Topic:   business focussed Karmic launch event - alan bell
= 2009-08-09:21:11:35<MootBot> New Topic:  karmic
= 2009-08-09:21:13:30<MootBot> Please vote on:  pie.
= 2009-08-09:21:14:19<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5
= 2009-08-09:21:14:37<MootBot> IDEA received:  banbury release party, 30th October 09
= 2009-08-09:21:16:29<MootBot> IDEA received:  help canonical with release party planning.
--- Log closed Sun Aug 09 21:21:16 2009
--- Log opened Sun Aug 09 21:23:17 2009
= 2009-08-09:21:23:17-!- Irssi: Starting query in freenode with MootBot
= 2009-08-09:21:23:17<MootBot> IDEA received:  corporate focused release party
= 2009-08-09:21:27:38<MootBot> IDEA received:  talk to canonical about a more business focused event.
= 2009-08-09:21:31:37<MootBot> New Topic:  next meeting date and time.
= 2009-08-09:21:33:14<MootBot> IDEA received:  more frequent meetings.
= 2009-08-09:21:33:36<MootBot> IDEA received:  more regular meetings.
= 2009-08-09:21:34:49<MootBot> IDEA received:  next meeting on a sunday?
= 2009-08-09:21:35:18<MootBot> IDEA received:  next meeting, ask in mailing list and irc channel.
= 2009-08-09:21:37:32<MootBot> IDEA received:  jam specific meeting.
= 2009-08-09:21:37:58<MootBot> Please vote on:  monthly in channel meetings?.
<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5
--- Log closed Sun Aug 09 21:39:46 2009
--- Log opened Sun Aug 09 21:41:23 2009
= 2009-08-09:21:41:23-!- Irssi: Starting query in freenode with MootBot
= 2009-08-09:21:41:23<MootBot> Meeting finished at 15:41.
= 2009-08-09:21:41:23<MootBot> Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/
--- Log closed Sun Aug 09 21:42:33 2009
</pre>

== FULL IRC LOG ==

<pre>
<brobostigon> #startmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting started at 14:13. The chair is brobostigon.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
<hrickards> PRESENT
<kn100> present
<TheOpenSourcerer> PRESENT
<AlanBell> PRESENT
<brobostigon> present
<markie-> present
<slarty> PRESENT
<brobostigon> ok, first topic is?
<TonyP> present
<DJones> PRESENT
<stevepearce> PRESENT
<kn100> #
<Laney> present
<matti> What's all about?
<AlanBell> brobostigon: UKTeam/GlobalJam09 discussion https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda
<ball> PRESENT, just not sure whether I'm supposed to be ;-)
<Yownanymous> present
<ball> PRESENT
<hrickards> AlanBell: Would popey want to save that for next time though (his names on it on the wiki)
<AlanBell> ball: anyone here and paying attention can say present
<brobostigon> [TOPIC] UKTeam/GlobalJam09 discussion
<MootBot> New Topic: UKTeam/GlobalJam09 discussion
<ball> Thanks AlanBell
<AlanBell> hrickards: lets say what we have to say, if popey wants to add anything later he can
<AlanBell> so the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/GlobalJam09 uk jam has a few people participating
<AlanBell> and this is what it is all about https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
<hrickards> I'll Add myself no (unfortunately with no under in-person)
<dutchie> PRESENT
<AlanBell> by the look of that page we are lacking venues
<ubuntujenkins> present
<AlanBell> does anyone have a suitable venue they can beg borrow or steal?
<brobostigon> [idea] looking for venues
<MootBot> IDEA received: looking for venues
<markie-> The Wales area would be nice.
<dutchie> there's two marked in swansea
<czajkowski> Aloha folks
<matti> czajkowski: Shhy... they have a meeting you see.
<matti> ;]
<hrickards> What about one of these new 'hacker space' venues? They might rent one for free to some Linux geeks.
<TheOpenSourcerer> What do we need for a venue? Room Size, capacity, location etc?
* matti hugs czajkowski
<AlanBell> hrickards: what are they?
<hrickards> AlanBell: See http://hackerspaces.org/wiki/Hackerspaces
<hrickards> AlanBell: That probably explains it better than I can
<dutchie> there are quite a few
<matti> hrickards: Nice!
<dutchie> perhaps someone near to one should check it out and report back?
<dutchie> http://hackerspaces.org/wiki/List_of_Hacker_Spaces
<MootBot> LINK received: http://hackerspaces.org/wiki/List_of_Hacker_Spaces
<brobostigon> dutchie: thats a good idea.
<Laney> where would you have an additional one?
<AlanBell> wow, that looks really good, and something worth supporting
<Laney> too much fragmentation would be bad
<brobostigon> [IDEA] venues to be surveyed and then reported back on.
<MootBot> IDEA received: venues to be surveyed and then reported back on.
<dutchie> Laney: video streams are usual
<Laney> streaming to one guy on his own in a room?
<AlanBell> dutchie: streaming between venues?
<dutchie> one guy would be pushing it
<dutchie> 4 or 5 would be about the minimum
<Laney> right
<brobostigon> and outside access to the streams aswell.
<Laney> and we don't have that many people down as attending
<dutchie> AlanBell: we did back in march (or whenever the last one was)
<brobostigon> [IDEA] video from and to between venues.
<MootBot> IDEA received: video from and to between venues.
<jpds> Febuary.
<hrickards> I can probably get some people from GLLUG and SLUG to come (even if only via IRC)
<AlanBell> I don't think the signup sheet for the jam has been sufficiently promoted in ubuntu-uk mailing list and on the planet
<Laney> no there's an action
<Laney> now
<Laney> someone on planet to write a post?
<brobostigon> [idea] use planet and mailing to promote.
<MootBot> IDEA received: use planet and mailing to promote.
<dutchie> I'm on planet ubuntu-uk, but I think planet ubuntu is considerably better read
<Laney> who's on it?
<Laney> besides me...
<AlanBell> well everyone can post about it really
<Laney> sure, everyone can
<Laney> but at least one person should
<Laney> brobostigon: you can action me to
<Josh_> hello
<brobostigon> [action] Laney promote globaljam09
<MootBot> ACTION received: Laney promote globaljam09
* Josh_ is confused
<Laney> imo we shouldn't look to expand unless we have a need to
<dutchie> Josh_: we're having a meeting
<Josh_> oh ok lol
<Josh_> what is the meeting about?
<Laney> so if we have another meeting soon we can evaluate then
<AlanBell> Josh_: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda
<brobostigon> Josh_: have a look at the meeting agenda on the uk wiki
<Josh_> erm, ok...
<brobostigon> Laney: yes.
<AlanBell> is there anything particular we want to do in a non-bug way for the jam?
<brobostigon> [action] at next meeting evaluate progress
<MootBot> ACTION received: at next meeting evaluate progress
<dutchie> does anybody have a particular skill/experience in eg translations?
<hrickards> What about giving out the free books for locos at jams?
<Laney> we'll get to that
<Laney> dutchie: we have some motus in here
<Josh_> oh so is this the meeting for free books for LoCos?
<Laney> not sure about triagers, translators or document writers
<Josh_> what exactly does that mean?
<AlanBell> Josh_: that would be the next topic on the agenda
<brobostigon> Josh_: no, we are on the first egenda item.
<Josh_> oh okay
<hrickards> Josh_: So at the mo we're talking about a Bug Jam (see wiki) in October
<AlanBell> I am interested in marketing and other advocacy at the jam
<dutchie> if possible, it would be good to distribute experienced people across locations
<Laney> are there talks? practical sessions?
<AlanBell> dutchie: true, good reason to get people and locations sorted then.
<dutchie> the birmingham one is confirmed, and
<dutchie> Mez is a member
<Josh_> AlanBell: why is it that your name is sometimes yellow?? sorry, random question but i'm curious
<brobostigon> dutchie: i maybe be able to attend that one, if my health is ok.
* dutchie should be able to make it for the w/e
<hrickards> Josh_: Probably when he puts your name at the start of a message like this.
<AlanBell> Josh_: when I talk directly to you it highlights me
<brobostigon> ok, do we need a vote on action?
<Josh_> oh ok
<dutchie> we could do with a location up north
<dutchie> anyone around there?
<AlanBell> brobostigon: don't think we have a proposal that needs a vote
<brobostigon> [action] survey locations and report back at next meeting.
<MootBot> ACTION received: survey locations and report back at next meeting.
<dutchie> ok, next item?
<brobostigon> AlanBell: ok, next topic then?
<AlanBell> sure
<brobostigon> [topic] Free books for LoCos What to do with them
<MootBot> New Topic: Free books for LoCos What to do with them
<dutchie> right, has everyone read Jono's post?
<AlanBell> so this is a pair of books
<AlanBell> suggestion in the post was to share them about
<AlanBell> one is on ubuntu desktop, one on server
<brobostigon> AlanBell: between all the loco's?
<dutchie> no, within UK
<ball> Is there an Ubuntu UK Memorial Library? ;-)
<brobostigon> ah, ok.
<AlanBell> brobostigon: a pair per loco, so UK gets a pair.
<brobostigon> AlanBell: uk and cym, ok.
<Yownanymous> wow, the UK gets 2 books
<Yownanymous> 4 then
<Yownanymous> :P
<dutchie> is u-cym registered?
<AlanBell> and we have to pay for shipping
<brobostigon> dutchie: yes.
<hrickards> What would be the legality of scanning them in and creating an ebook (*without* drm) for ubuntu-uk users?
<dutchie> yes, so 4 in UK
<jpds> cym is not an official LoCo team.
<AlanBell> hrickards: no, this is a promotional gift from the publishers in order to get them more sales
<Yownanymous> Canonical make enough money off, why can't they pay shipping?
<brobostigon> ok, so what happens to said books in each of the loco's?
<dutchie> they have to be claimed by 13th Aug, so Daviey will have to email them before them
<dutchie> brobostigon: that's up to the loco
<brobostigon> dutchie: ok.
<AlanBell> so we could have some elaborate scheme for passing them about
<brobostigon> dutchie: i will get in contact with ianto aswell.
<AlanBell> we could give them away as prizes in the Ubuntu-uk podcast
<dutchie> AlanBell: that was what I wanted to discuss really
<Laney> someone could keep them for events
<AlanBell> we could raffle them off at a karmic release party
<brobostigon> AlanBell: i will get hold of ianto and make plan for ubuntu-cym.
<AlanBell> we could say no-thanks and not take them.
<AlanBell> any other ideas?
<stevepearce> how about donating them to a library?
<ubuntujenkins> something that is free should be had
<hrickards> What about giving them away at the Bug Jam for the person who fixes the most bugs?
<stevepearce> or a school or something similar
<jpds> brobostigon: You can't, as cym is not official.
* dutchie thinks they should be shared around somehow
<brobostigon> jpds: ah, ok, thanks.
<AlanBell> I think a vote is in order, don't want to spend too much time on a pair of books
<ubuntujenkins> +1 for the shared not sure how though
<brobostigon> jpds: i wasnt sure of the status, so thanks for elaborating.
<markie-> stevepearce: +1
<brobostigon> AlanBell: vote on what?
<AlanBell> on what to do with them, not sure how we vote on multiple options?
* ** jono_ is now known as jono
<dutchie> we have "donate to library/school", "share around", "give away as prize"
<hrickards> +1 for the vote
<brobostigon> AlanBell: i think we can only vote on a single point at once.
<AlanBell> how about I do a numbered list of options and everyone shouts a number
<hagisbasheruk> 0
<brobostigon> AlanBell: thats not practical.
<brobostigon> voting methos.
<brobostigon> method*
<dutchie> proceed through the ideas until one gets a majority
<brobostigon> ok, first one AlanBell is?
<AlanBell> elaborate scheme for passing them about
<dutchie> +1
<ubuntujenkins> +1
<brobostigon> [vote] elaborate scheme for passing them about
<MootBot> Please vote on: elaborate scheme for passing them about.
<MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to MootBot
<MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-uk
<AlanBell> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from AlanBell. 0 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1
<dutchie> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from dutchie. 1 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0
<TheOpenSourcerer> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from TheOpenSourcerer. 2 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<ubuntujenkins> +1
<TonyP> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from ubuntujenkins. 3 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
<MootBot> +1 received from TonyP. 4 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
<hrickards> +0
<markie-> -1
<MootBot> Abstention received from hrickards. 4 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
<MootBot> -1 received from markie-. 4 for, 2 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
<Laney> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from Laney. 4 for, 3 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
<stevepearce> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from stevepearce. 4 for, 4 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0
<ball> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from ball. 4 for, 4 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 0
<Yownanymous> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from Yownanymous. 4 for, 4 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 0
<hrickards> -1
<hrickards> Damn. Can't I change my vote?
<AlanBell> hrickards: vote again, see what happens
<hrickards> AlanBell: Just did. Nothing. Oh well.
<dutchie> someone else vote
<Laney> why?
<hagisbasheruk> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from hagisbasheruk. 5 for, 4 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 1
<dutchie> there, we have a majority
<brobostigon> [endvote]
<AlanBell> next vote will be on "give them away as prizes in the Ubuntu-uk podcast" when all done
<Laney> rofl
<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 4 against. 3 abstained. Total: 1
<matti> LOL
<brobostigon> next one?
* Laney wanders away in a daze
<ball> Oooh... I feel I should abstain, but I really like this option.
<brobostigon> [vote] give them away as prizes in the Ubuntu-uk podcast
<MootBot> Please vote on: give them away as prizes in the Ubuntu-uk podcast.
<MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to MootBot
<MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-uk
<hrickards> +1
<AlanBell> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from hrickards. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<MootBot> +1 received from AlanBell. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
<DJones> +1
<dutchie> -1
<MootBot> +1 received from DJones. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
<MootBot> -1 received from dutchie. 3 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
<ubuntujenkins> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from ubuntujenkins. 3 for, 2 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<TheOpenSourcerer> -1
<markie-> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from TheOpenSourcerer. 3 for, 3 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0
<MootBot> -1 received from markie-. 3 for, 4 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1
<stevepearce> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from stevepearce. 3 for, 5 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -2
<Yownanymous> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from Yownanymous. 4 for, 5 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1
<Laney> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from Laney. 4 for, 6 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -2
<jpds> I thought popey said he was thinking about giving them away on the podcast?
<Laney> the power of democracy!
<ball> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from ball. 4 for, 6 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -2
<brobostigon> [endvote]
<MootBot> Final result is 4 for, 6 against. 1 abstained. Total: -2
<stevepearce> yes, but do that and the books will end up in the hands of one person
<stevepearce> (maybe)
<brobostigon> [vote] raffle them off at a karmic release party
<MootBot> Please vote on: raffle them off at a karmic release party.
<MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to MootBot
<MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-uk
<hrickards> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from hrickards. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<Yownanymous> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from Yownanymous. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
<dutchie> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from dutchie. 2 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<markie-> -1
<DJones> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from markie-. 2 for, 2 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0
<MootBot> -1 received from DJones. 2 for, 3 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1
<stevepearce> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from stevepearce. 3 for, 3 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0
<AlanBell> +1
<TheOpenSourcerer> -1
<MootBot> +1 received from AlanBell. 4 for, 3 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<ubuntujenkins> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from TheOpenSourcerer. 4 for, 4 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0
<MootBot> -1 received from ubuntujenkins. 4 for, 5 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1
<Laney> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from Laney. 5 for, 5 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0
<AlanBell> not very positive are we!
<jpds> Which party?
<TonyP> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from TonyP. 5 for, 6 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1
<Laney> tbd
<ball> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from ball. 5 for, 6 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -1
<jpds> Laney: London rulez.
<Laney> technically ye
<Laney> s
<hrickards> jono: Quick vote for +1
<brobostigon> [endvote]
<AlanBell> jpds: probably london, but from the count it looks academic anyhow
<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 6 against. 1 abstained. Total: -1
<TheOpenSourcerer> We'd need a vote
<TheOpenSourcerer> :-)
<brobostigon> TheOpenSourcerer: what on?
<hagisbasheruk> -0
<dutchie> it looks like sharing them around then
<AlanBell> dutchie: we are not done yet
<TheOpenSourcerer> Which party but it doesn't matter.
<Laney> hey you ignored my suggestion
* Laney hisses
<hrickards> AlanBell: what else is left?
<DJones> raffling them off is a bad idea, there will be multiple release parties, selecting one to raffle them at would need a vote/discussion and even then they end up in the hands of one person
<brobostigon> Laney: sorry, i must have missed it, what was it.?
<stevepearce> mine also, donating them to a library or school
<Laney> keeping them to use at u-uk events
<dutchie> ok, two more
<markie-> brobostigon: library one
<brobostigon> [vote] keep to use at ubuntu-uk events.
<MootBot> Please vote on: keep to use at ubuntu-uk events..
<MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to MootBot
<MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-uk
<hrickards> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from hrickards. 0 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0
<ball> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from ball. 0 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 0
<markie-> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from markie-. 0 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -1
<TheOpenSourcerer> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from TheOpenSourcerer. 0 for, 2 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -2
<TonyP> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from TonyP. 0 for, 3 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -3
<stevepearce> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from stevepearce. 0 for, 4 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -4
<ubuntujenkins> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from ubuntujenkins. 0 for, 5 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -5
<AlanBell> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from AlanBell. 1 for, 5 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -4
<Laney> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from Laney. 2 for, 5 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -3
<Laney> :(
<dutchie> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from dutchie. 2 for, 5 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now -3
* Laney has backed a loser
<brobostigon> [endvote]
<MootBot> Final result is 2 for, 5 against. 3 abstained. Total: -3
<AlanBell> remaining options are say no-thanks and not take them
<AlanBell> donating them to a library/school
<brobostigon> ok, anymore ideas on this front?
<TheOpenSourcerer> has anyone actually stated that they "want" the books in the first place?
<brobostigon> [vote] no-thanks and not take them
<MootBot> Please vote on: no-thanks and not take them.
<MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to MootBot
<MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-uk
* dutchie -1
<ball> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from ball. 0 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0
<dutchie> -1
<ubuntujenkins> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from dutchie. 0 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -1
<MootBot> -1 received from ubuntujenkins. 0 for, 2 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -2
<AlanBell> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from AlanBell. 1 for, 2 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -1
<hrickards> -1
<Laney> +1
<markie-> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from hrickards. 1 for, 3 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -2
<MootBot> -1 received from markie-. 1 for, 4 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -3
<MootBot> +1 received from Laney. 2 for, 4 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -2
<stevepearce> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from stevepearce. 2 for, 5 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -3
<DJones> How about letting Daviey decide the best use of the books as the "leader" of ubuntu-uk
<brobostigon> [endvote]
<MootBot> Final result is 2 for, 5 against. 1 abstained. Total: -3
<dutchie> DJones: if he was here...
<AlanBell> DJones: well the point of this is to have a democratic decision
<TonyP> -1
<TheOpenSourcerer> we could vote on letting Daviey decide.
<TheOpenSourcerer> ;-)
<brobostigon> [vote] let daviey decide
<MootBot> Please vote on: let daviey decide.
<MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to MootBot
<MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-uk
<DJones> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from DJones. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<TheOpenSourcerer> +1
<stevepearce> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from TheOpenSourcerer. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
<MootBot> +1 received from stevepearce. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
<dutchie> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from dutchie. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
<hrickards> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from hrickards. 3 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
<markie-> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from markie-. 3 for, 2 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
<AlanBell> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from AlanBell. 3 for, 2 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 1
<ubuntujenkins> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from ubuntujenkins. 3 for, 3 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 0
<TonyP> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from TonyP. 3 for, 3 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 0
<ball> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from ball. 3 for, 3 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 0
<hagisbasheruk> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from hagisbasheruk. 4 for, 3 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 1
<Laney> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from Laney. 4 for, 4 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 0
<jpds> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from jpds. 5 for, 4 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 1
<brobostigon> [endvote]
<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 4 against. 4 abstained. Total: 1
<markie-> did i miss 'donate to the library'?
<TheOpenSourcerer> lol
<brobostigon> ok, one more,
<AlanBell> markie-: comming right up I think
<brobostigon> [vote] donate to a school or library?
<MootBot> Please vote on: donate to a school or library?.
<MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to MootBot
<MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-uk
<hrickards> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from hrickards. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<AlanBell> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from AlanBell. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
<stevepearce> +1
<dutchie> +0
<MootBot> +1 received from stevepearce. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
<ubuntujenkins> what library
<MootBot> Abstention received from dutchie. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
<TheOpenSourcerer> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from TheOpenSourcerer. 3 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
<DJones> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from DJones. 3 for, 2 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
<markie-> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from markie-. 4 for, 2 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
<Laney> elaborate scheme for passing around every library in the country
<ubuntujenkins> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from ubuntujenkins. 5 for, 2 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
<TonyP> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from TonyP. 5 for, 2 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 3
<ball> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from ball. 5 for, 2 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 3
<Mez> dutchie: member of what?
<dutchie> ubuntu
<brobostigon> [endvote]
<Mez> yup
<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 2 against. 3 abstained. Total: 3
<brobostigon> ok, everyone done, on this one?
<AlanBell> yay, we have a decision
* ball abstains again, just for good measure.
<hrickards> Is there a reason mibbit wont connect to irc.ubuntu.com?
* TheOpenSourcerer thinks more beer is in order.
<jpds> hrickards: Blocked off.
<brobostigon> [topic] Introducing businesses to Ubuntu - Alan Bell
<MootBot> New Topic: Introducing businesses to Ubuntu - Alan Bell
<DJones> hrickards: mibbet is no longer allowed on freenode
<AlanBell> I suggest we let daviey donate them to any library that will accept them
<AlanBell> oh, next topic, good
<stevepearce> aye
<brobostigon> AlanBell: fire away.
<AlanBell> So, I would like to see the loco team doing more stuff to get businesses aware of and interested in Ubuntu
<AlanBell> maybe running some business focussed seminars showing people what it can do
<AlanBell> this is something that we do in our business, mainly promoting what we do on top of Ubuntu, but anything that raises awareness of Free software is good
<brobostigon> [idea] running some business focussed seminars showing people what linux/ubuntu can do
<MootBot> IDEA received: running some business focussed seminars showing people what linux/ubuntu can do
<AlanBell> gosh did I really have an idea?
<ball> I hope to put it on a small file server that I look after. Just need to be confident that my backups are working before I wipe it.
<AlanBell> does anyone else have ideas or suggestions on what we could do for business focussed advocacy?
<AlanBell> this might be an area where money could be found if costs need to be met
<ball> [idea] Deploy it early and often.
<MootBot> IDEA received: Deploy it early and often.
<TheOpenSourcerer> What do you mean ball
<ball> TheOpenSourcerer: Use it successfully somewhere and then document what you've done. Show people that it works and what its advantages are.
<AlanBell> in Dublin there is the OSS bar camp run by czajkowski, could we do something similarish?
<ball> e.g. there's a productivity win in binary packages and automated updates.
<TheOpenSourcerer> OK - so case studies.
* ball nods
<AlanBell> so how do we raise awareness of the case studies we have?
<TheOpenSourcerer> Typical LoCo promotional activities tend to focus on: people who are already FOSS aware to some extent, and individuals.
<ball> ...if the community has helped you set something up, document that too because it supports the value of both the software and the people using it.
<AlanBell> and does anyone have a case study that they want help writing up?
<ball> AlanBell: give me a month or seven ;-)
<brobostigon> ok, so what the plan on this one.
* daubers doesn't arrive late
<AlanBell> how about a business focussed Karmic launch event (creeping over into the next item)
<brobostigon> [idea] business focussed Karmic launch event
<MootBot> IDEA received: business focussed Karmic launch event
<brobostigon> ok, shall we move on?
<AlanBell> ok
<brobostigon> [topic] business focussed Karmic launch event - alan bell
<MootBot> New Topic: business focussed Karmic launch event - alan bell
<AlanBell> err
<brobostigon> [topic] karmic
<MootBot> New Topic: karmic
<AlanBell> much beter
<BobIsNotMyUncle> There should be pie
<AlanBell> so Karmic Koala, open discussion
* dutchie is running it
<stevepearce> same
<dutchie> it only breaks occasionally :)
* AlanBell picked lots of blackberries for a blackberry and apple pie
<ball> [observation] I like pie.
<ubuntujenkins> +1
<BobIsNotMyUncle> +2
<ball> vote?
<ubuntujenkins> yes
<brobostigon> ok, banbury release party, 30th October 09
<brobostigon> [vote] pie
<MootBot> Please vote on: pie.
<MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to MootBot
<MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-uk
<dutchie> +1
<ubuntujenkins> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from dutchie. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<ball> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from ubuntujenkins. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
<MootBot> +1 received from ball. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
<AlanBell> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from AlanBell. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
<BobIsNotMyUncle> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from BobIsNotMyUncle. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
<TheOpenSourcerer> 0
<TheOpenSourcerer> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from TheOpenSourcerer. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
<dutchie> :o
<TheOpenSourcerer> Depends on what is in the pie
<brobostigon> [endvote]
<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5
<TheOpenSourcerer> This is going downhill rapidly.
<brobostigon> [idea] banbury release party, 30th October 09
<MootBot> IDEA received: banbury release party, 30th October 09
<AlanBell> anyhow, back to the koala
<BobIsNotMyUncle> How is support for 802.11n?
<brobostigon> BobIsNotMyUncle: not now.
<AlanBell> there is usually a london party announced at the last moment by Canonical
<brobostigon> yep AlanBell
<AlanBell> I think we should try once more to help them sort it out a bit earlier
<AlanBell> I think Kat Kinnie might have moved on from Canonical?
<brobostigon> [idea] help canonical with release party planning.
<MootBot> IDEA received: help canonical with release party planning.
<TheOpenSourcerer> The London venue needs to be larger than the last 2
<TheOpenSourcerer> But still free to get in. And preferably in a pub.
<BobIsNotMyUncle> An idea raised at my local ALUG was to merge the release date with a meet, maybe this on a larger scale could be organised?
<AlanBell> TheOpenSourcerer: preferably with a bar
<daubers> It might be worth trying to get some press attendence too
<BobIsNotMyUncle> * LUG
<AlanBell> not neccessarily a pub
<brobostigon> daubers: good idea.
<brobostigon> daubers: thats certainly my plan here in banbury.
<TheOpenSourcerer> AlanBell: I know where you are heading with that but I think it needs to be a static venue.
<TheOpenSourcerer> Where people can come and go at times of their choosing.
<AlanBell> TheOpenSourcerer: no, I wasn't heading anywhere particular, just a low age limit
<TheOpenSourcerer> daubers: CodePope from The H was at the last one.
<TheOpenSourcerer> But some more mainstream press would be good.
<daubers> Never heard of either of them!
<ubuntujenkins> I agree with alanbell there should be a low age limit
* ** BobIsNotMyUncle is now known as BenBewick
<TheOpenSourcerer> Dan leMesuirier was there too.
<AlanBell> press attendance was one reason I was thinking about a business focussed party
<AlanBell> in addition to a geeks getting smashed party
<brobostigon> yes,
<dutchie> the two should definitely be separate
<TheOpenSourcerer> Do you not think the press like getting pissed?
<Nafallo> lol
<TheOpenSourcerer> I know of no journalists who are teetotal
<BenBewick> beer == press incentive?
<AlanBell> TheOpenSourcerer: yes they do!
<brobostigon> [idea] press attended karmic release party
<MootBot> IDEA received: press attended karmic release party
<AlanBell> however they do like to have some content to write about in the event
<brobostigon> am i connected,
<BenBewick> brobostigon: yes
<daubers> brobostigon: yes
<AlanBell> brobostigon: to what?
<hagisbasheruk> lol , not to the net
<BenBewick> brobostigon: wb
<AlanBell> ok, so we like the idea of two london parties?
<brobostigon> sorry/
<brobostigon> adsl interruption
<dutchie> perhaps start off all corporate and enterprisy, then go out and hit the pub :D
<TheOpenSourcerer> I'm not sure I do.
<AlanBell> or launch events rather. With a different focus and atmosphere to each
<AlanBell> dutchie: sounds good
<ball> My time has expired. I hope the rest of the meeting goes well.
<brobostigon> [idea] corporate focused release party
<TheOpenSourcerer> A business event needs to be very different.
<MootBot> IDEA received: corporate focused release party
<ubuntuuk-planet> [Jono Bacon] Community Council: Why I Chose Not To Stand - http://www.jonobacon.org/2009/08/09/community-council-why-i-chose-not-to-stand/
<brobostigon> ok, so a plan, a vote?
<AlanBell> TheOpenSourcerer: yes it does
<TheOpenSourcerer> Needs lots of slideware and giveaways etc.
<brobostigon> pens, lanyards?
<brobostigon> flash drives?
<TheOpenSourcerer> A launch party needs beer
<dutchie> canonical will no doubt supply
<hagisbasheruk> CDs
<brobostigon> ok, so any specific thing we need to record in action or vote?
<Nafallo> not that Canonical will supply beer, that's for sure. but it was a nice quote ;-)
<TheOpenSourcerer> If we think it is a good diea to hold a more business event too, then we should
<TheOpenSourcerer> promote that to canonical.
<AlanBell> well we would have to talk to canonical about such a concept
<brobostigon> [idea] talk to canonical about a more business focused event.
<MootBot> IDEA received: talk to canonical about a more business focused event.
<BenBewick> There should be an ubuntu tie / tie clip for buisness promotion
<hagisbasheruk> buisnesscard cd's
<TheOpenSourcerer> BenBewick: I don't know many folks who wear ties regularly.
<BenBewick> IT people at work do. For example, in our IT area at college
<Nafallo> go to Canary Wharf a regular working day :-)
* BenBewick lives in Norfolk
<AlanBell> any more karmic related stuff to discuss?
<czajkowski> Nafallo: cant imagine you wearing a tie
<Nafallo> czajkowski: neither can I :-)
<hagisbasheruk> fix ath5k it sux when downloading iso files
<BenBewick> How about a pxe server at the launch event for netbooks and the like
<AlanBell> BenBewick: the pub events have never really called for any technology
<AlanBell> beyond the science of fermentation
<brobostigon> hehe.
<brobostigon> ok, is that it for this topic?
<zleap> hi
<jpds> Nafallo: Release party at Brera? Interesting..
<TheOpenSourcerer> Date for the next meet then?
<Nafallo> jpds: too small venue
<brobostigon> [topic] next meeting date and time.
<MootBot> New Topic: next meeting date and time.
<Nafallo> jpds: we'd have to take over the entire Jubilee Place ;-)
<TheOpenSourcerer> Is Sunday eve the *best* time for everyone?
<jpds> Nafallo: Haha.
<AlanBell> do we want to have more frequent meetings?/regular meetings?
<TheOpenSourcerer> I would suggest monthly
<TheOpenSourcerer> regular
<brobostigon> [idea] more frequent meetings.
<MootBot> IDEA received: more frequent meetings.
<brobostigon> [idea] more regular meetings.
<MootBot> IDEA received: more regular meetings.
<AlanBell> I guess sunday evening is going to be achieveable for everyone who turned up, but would another day/time get more people who are not here now?
<brobostigon> ok, is that it?
<TheOpenSourcerer> They aren't here.
<brobostigon> [idea] next meeting on a sunday?
<MootBot> IDEA received: next meeting on a sunday?
<TheOpenSourcerer> We need to ask in the channel
<dutchie> or on the list
<TheOpenSourcerer> over a couple of weeks
<TheOpenSourcerer> get a good consensus
<brobostigon> [idea] next meeting, ask in mailing list and irc channel.
<MootBot> IDEA received: next meeting, ask in mailing list and irc channel.
* ** filo1234_ is now known as filo1234
<AlanBell> so monthly would put us into the second week of September
<AlanBell> which is prior to the global jam
<TheOpenSourcerer> the 6th would be a month today.
<AlanBell> and we need to work out the best time, or leave it on Sunday 6th if no better date arrises
<brobostigon> ok, these ideas of dates and times need to be recorded?
<daubers> might be worth having a jame specific meeting in a couple of weeks
<daubers> s/jame/jam
<AlanBell> shall we do a vote on monthly meetings?
<TheOpenSourcerer> good suggestion
<daubers> just a quick one to see where things stand
<brobostigon> [idea] jam specific meeting.
<MootBot> IDEA received: jam specific meeting.
<brobostigon> [vote] monthly in channel meetings?
<MootBot> Please vote on: monthly in channel meetings?.
<MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to MootBot
<MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-uk
<AlanBell> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from AlanBell. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<dutchie> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from dutchie. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
<ubuntujenkins> +1
<TheOpenSourcerer> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from TheOpenSourcerer. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
<stevepearce> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from ubuntujenkins. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
<MootBot> +1 received from stevepearce. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
<BenBewick> +0
<MootBot> Abstention received from BenBewick. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
<AlanBell> hmm, I think we might get a vote tally > 6 at some other point in the week.
<brobostigon> [endvote]
<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5
<TheOpenSourcerer> hmmm not exactly a quorum of approval
<TheOpenSourcerer> 6 votes.
<brobostigon> adsl, arghhh
<brobostigon> ok, sorry.
<TheOpenSourcerer> Thanks for chairing brobostigon
<AlanBell> same results as the pie vote
<AlanBell> yes, well done brobostigon
<brobostigon> AlanBell: is that it?
<TheOpenSourcerer> AOB?
<brobostigon> #endmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting finished at 15:41.
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
