{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The following text should be sent to the mailing list. Please note you will need to add the date and time (and ensure you use the right timezone) before sending. Also replace the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/MeetingNotes?action=AttachFilemeeting.ical|attachment]]</nowiki> on the <nowiki>[[UKTeam-MeetingNotes |MeetingNotes]]</nowiki> page.

==== Subject ====
<pre>
[ADMIN] Next meeting DD/MM/YY @ HH:MM GMT in #ubuntu-uk
</pre>

==== Body ====

<pre> 
Hi all,

The next Ubuntu-UK Team meeting will be held via IRC at HH:MM GMT
(that's HH:MM UTC) on DAYOFWEEK DDth MONTHNAME YYYY in #ubuntu-uk.

We encourage everyone who is a member of the UKTeam to attend whether to
take part or merely watch from the sidelines.

If you have anything in particular you would like to table for
discussion at the meeting, please add it to the following page:-

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda

You will need a launchpad account to edit this page. 

If you would rather not register on launchpad then feel free to mail me
or reply to this post with items for discussion and someone else can add
the item(s) for you. 

Please note however if you wish to discuss something then it makes sense
for you to turn up at the meeting or it may get passed over.

We try to keep the meeting to just one hour, but if there is a lot to
discuss then we may overrun. Once the meeting is over we usually post
the log to the page linked above pretty much immediately, then over the
next few days whoever chaired the meeting disseminates the information
into a more manageable summary on the same page. 

Hope to see you there.

</pre>
