{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Map Planning ===

* We are creating a map similar to the Belgian LoCoTeam maps (<nowiki>[[http://map.ubuntu-be.org/nl/|Dutch]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://map.ubuntu-be.org/fr/|French]]</nowiki> indicating where free/non-commercial support/friendly faces can be found. 

* <nowiki>[[GeemanUK|Grant]]</nowiki> - The maps will consist of several features and overlays, see below for details
* MatthewEast has suggested that we should first recruit people who can offer support before it's worth creating a map.  In order to keep this list "live" and available for easy immediate use it is located on <nowiki>[[UKTeam/Support]]</nowiki>.  '''Please add yourself there if you can help!'''

* You sign up for a Google Maps API key on a "per-domain" basis.  It would probably be easiest for the person coding the map to temporarily sign up for it on their own domain under their own name, then when we're ready to port it to <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-uk.org|ubuntu.org]]</nowiki> we can sign up for a new API key then.
* When you click on the support points the link should go to somewhere that as well as providing a contact form should feature fun, friendly photos of support people in that area.

SteveSmith: I'm very keen to support/advertise Google maps (<nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/apis/maps/|details of Google Maps API here]]</nowiki>), because of their whole business practice (have you ''seen'' their office? ;-) ), involvement in Open Source (Summer of Code, porting Google Earth to Linux, Wine, etc.) but that's just a personal preference.  Also, the map is easily zoomable, scrollable and you can navigate around it like lightning compared with any other map I've used online.

<nowiki>[[GeemanUK]]</nowiki>: I am firmly of the opinion that we should thank Microsoft for their continued support of the Ubuntu project by using Microsoft Live Maps....

===== Map Feature List =====

Based on Google Maps API

* The Map will contain 3 overlays: 

'''Non-commerical/free:''' same description as Belgian site<<BR>>
'''Distribution:''' same description as Belgian Site<<BR>>
'''Commercial:''' for paid-for support - useful for organisations/government/local education establishments that would prefer to use paid for support for ubuntu
* When you click on the support points the link should go to somewhere that as well as providing a contact form should feature fun, friendly photos of support people in that area.
* Will include a random featured support point each time the page is loaded.
* Full web upload form with one click approval and full management via administration console. 
* Full support for Where is my nearest? (aka support point finder) - By entering your postcode will show the top 5 nearest support points including distance to location from users postcode.
* Full integration into google maps directions for obtaining directions.  

SteveSmith: Just found the <nowiki>[[http://googlemapsapi.blogspot.com|Google Maps API blog]]</nowiki>, would be worth keeping an eye on.  <nowiki>[[http://googlemapsapi.blogspot.com/2006/06/geocoding-at-last.html|Geocoding]]</nowiki> is worth a look, it'll parse addresses for you, how cool is that!  Even handles abbreviations.  It'd be a good experiment into naturalising data input: type as much of the address as you can remember sort of thing.

<nowiki>[[GeemanUK]]</nowiki>: Thanks for the comment Steve. Google doesn't support UK geocoding yet, however it is strongly likely that they will do so shortly.  I just read this..... http://googlemapsmania.blogspot.com/2006/06/summary-of-google-geo-developer-day.html so I hope we get a result....

(Please put your suggestions below here or add comments below including your name. What would be even nicer is if someone could turn this into a specification that has clear implementable steps like Ubuntu use for development.)

CarlosMonteiroPT The maps should be worldwide not just another map and if possible advertised in ubuntu.com I'm sure they would agree on that.
----
CategoryLoCoTeams <nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
