{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by AlanBell at 21:05:00 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-uk-meeting/2012/ubuntu-uk-meeting.2012-01-12-21.05.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda   (AlanBell, 21:07:09)
* The Chair - review of action items from last meeting
** monthly reports  (AlanBell, 21:08:14)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/December this is december, might be nice to add some links to it  (AlanBell, 21:08:30)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/12/January is ready for people to add stuff  (AlanBell, 21:09:00)
** Christmas Party  (AlanBell, 21:10:05)
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/109175303602657131317/posts/DdqGasa4qKn   (AlanBell, 21:11:11)
** en_GB iso  (AlanBell, 21:12:22)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricOcelot/LocalizedImagesRollout   (AlanBell, 21:17:45)

''LINK:'' https://translations.launchpad.net/+languages/gv   (AlanBell, 21:22:33)

* AlanBell - The Next Happy Hour(s)
''ACTION:'' AlanBell sort out pub and date for Southampton Happy Hour this month  (AlanBell, 21:33:20)

''ACTION:'' daubers pick pub and date for happy hour Reading in Feb  (AlanBell, 21:33:42)

* The Chair - Any Other Business
''ACTION:'' AlanBell and daubers to find out more about picnic/visit possibility at Bletchley  (AlanBell, 21:49:04)

''LINK:'' http://www.watercressline.co.uk/Our-Services/RAT   (AlanBell, 21:50:23)

''LINK:'' http://codeyear.com/   (YaManicKill, 22:01:55)

Meeting ended at 22:19:03 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* AlanBell sort out pub and date for Southampton Happy Hour this month
* daubers pick pub and date for happy hour Reading in Feb
* AlanBell and daubers to find out more about picnic/visit possibility at Bletchley

=== Action items, by person ===

* AlanBell
** AlanBell sort out pub and date for Southampton Happy Hour this month

** AlanBell and daubers to find out more about picnic/visit possibility at Bletchley
* daubers
** daubers pick pub and date for happy hour Reading in Feb
** AlanBell and daubers to find out more about picnic/visit possibility at Bletchley

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (93)
* bigcalm (41)
* YaManicKill (31)
* jutnux (31)
* brunogirin (23)
* daubers (12)
* isleofmandan (11)
* popey (10)
* BigRedS (8)
* jacobw (7)
* meetingology (6)
* barrydrake (4)
* SuperEngineer (2)
* Seeker` (1)

=== Full Log ===

 21:05:00 <AlanBell> #startmeeting

 21:05:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Jan 12 21:05:00 2012 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 21:05:01 <meetingology> 

 21:05:01 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 21:05:11 <AlanBell> hi all, who is here for the meeting?

 21:05:18 <barrydrake> here

 21:05:23 <popey> ola

 21:05:25 <SuperEngineer> o/

 21:05:47 <bigcalm> o.

 21:05:59 <bigcalm> My arm fell off :(

 21:06:10 <jacobw> whoops

 21:06:13 <popey> /

 21:06:16 <popey> ^ there it is!

 21:06:51 <bigcalm> Cheers!

 21:06:56 <bigcalm> Glue?

 21:07:09 <AlanBell> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda

 21:07:23 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - review of action items from last meeting

 21:08:14 <AlanBell> #progress monthly reports

 21:08:30 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/December this is december, might be nice to add some links to it

 21:08:58 <daubers> Sorry I'm late

 21:09:00 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/12/January is ready for people to add stuff

 21:09:36 <AlanBell> any short bullet points of a team or significant individual activity can be added to the report

 21:09:58 <BigRedS> o/

 21:10:05 <AlanBell> #progress Christmas Party

 21:10:12 <AlanBell> that was great fun :)

 21:10:51 <YaManicKill> here...sorry wasn't watching

 21:10:58 <bigcalm> Darn tootin it was

 21:11:11 <AlanBell> https://plus.google.com/109175303602657131317/posts/DdqGasa4qKn

 21:11:38 <bigcalm> :)

 21:12:22 <AlanBell> #progress en_GB iso

 21:12:40 <AlanBell> I spoke to some people about this

 21:13:05 <AlanBell> it is a bit pointless for us as the default install is in English and has the en_GB stuff in it already

 21:13:24 <jutnux> Indeed.

 21:13:58 <AlanBell> we could tweak a few settings and make a .iso image that wouldn't be quite as easy to support as the official ones

 21:14:23 <bigcalm> Are there other regional specific ISOs? For instance there are different French versions of fr_FR

 21:15:03 <AlanBell> for some languages the localised iso makes a heap of sense

 21:15:37 <AlanBell> if anyone does want to do a cockney or gordie iso that would be great fun, but probably not a useful team activity

 21:15:55 <bigcalm> Hah

 21:15:55 <YaManicKill> the only real differences is spellings...to me, an iso with a different language should only be if theres a possibility of someone not being able to understand one already existing...no?

 21:16:04 <jutnux> Agreed, it's not like we speak in derivatives of English.

 21:16:15 <popey> the default kb layout isnt UK though â˜º

 21:16:22 <jacobw> nobody needs en_GB to use their computer

 21:16:23 <popey> you specifically have to set that

 21:16:32 <popey> not worth spinning an entire CD for that though â˜º

 21:16:33 <jutnux> Is it worth creating a whole ISO just for a kb layout change?

 21:16:46 <jacobw> no

 21:16:51 <YaManicKill> def not

 21:16:59 <BigRedS> is this just installer language, then?

 21:17:04 <AlanBell> YaManicKill: it was worth investigating as it might be more appealing to the educational market, but it is not worth it

 21:17:38 <isleofmandan> 'software centER' niggles me until I swap languages :)

 21:17:38 <SuperEngineer> a welsh language iso?

 21:17:39 <YaManicKill> AlanBell: was the thinking that it would save time?

 21:17:45 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricOcelot/LocalizedImagesRollout

 21:18:05 <BigRedS> YaManicKill: If it'd save time to have an ISO in the right language, it'd save even more time to automate the whole install

 21:18:33 <YaManicKill> BigRedS: yeah, that's what i was thinking. generally they install it once and then they have their installed image that they just blast onto the other computers, no?

 21:18:33 <AlanBell> we could have put the Ubuntu UK podcast in Rhythmbox by default

 21:18:55 <jutnux> YaManicKill: I believe so as the machines are normally identical.

 21:18:56 <jacobw> loco specific iso might be a good idea

 21:19:00 <isleofmandan> Manx would be good one day. Only a handful on translation team though, but there's a Manx language primary school here, who would probably bite your hands off.

 21:19:07 <Seeker`> and put 'popey for president' in subliminal messages

 21:19:36 <AlanBell> isleofmandan: would the teachers be interested in doing translations?

 21:19:37 <YaManicKill> isleofmandan: is there a manx language file in ubuntu?

 21:19:39 <jacobw> _although_ if you set location as UK in the installer, it'd be much better to install package ubuntu-uk-desktop with RB podcasts etc.

 21:19:41 <brunogirin> sorry I'm late

 21:19:56 <bigcalm> Should all Ubuntu podcasts be in Rhythmbox by default?

 21:20:02 <isleofmandan> There's a partially done translation.. New releases come faster than translation team can cope!

 21:20:16 <jutnux> bigcalm: I think there should be an option to have them there.

 21:20:27 <isleofmandan> Teachers might want to do the translations. I will ask around.

 21:20:34 <jacobw> another option woudl complicate things

 21:22:33 <AlanBell> https://translations.launchpad.net/+languages/gv

 21:22:56 <AlanBell> interesting stuff

 21:23:09 <AlanBell> ok, lets move on to the happy hours

 21:23:19 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] AlanBell - The Next Happy Hour(s)

 21:23:41 <AlanBell> this kind of paused over christmas, need to get things starting again

 21:24:10 <AlanBell> there are vauge expressions of interest in Oxford, Reading, Sussex, Cambridge, Southampton

 21:24:22 <AlanBell> however we are lacking a firm date and place for the next one

 21:25:12 <AlanBell> Southampton is quite a strong candidate, I am probably going to be down there next week, maybe thursday

 21:25:25 <AlanBell> anyone have an alternative proposal?

 21:25:51 <YaManicKill> the awkward moment when everyone wants to propose something but doesn'twant to be the one to organise it :-P

 21:26:18 <AlanBell> there really isn't much in the way of organising

 21:26:42 <AlanBell> just state a day that is convenient for you to go to a pub

 21:26:45 <AlanBell> and which pub

 21:26:53 <AlanBell> that is *it*

 21:27:11 <YaManicKill> ok, well i will suggest one for Glasgow, but not this month...exams...

 21:27:47 <isleofmandan> Well I can do one on the Isle of Man pretty much any week. There'd only be me and possibly Mr S who would turn up though!

 21:27:47 <AlanBell> ok, so I will sort out when I am going to be in Southampton and put that one out as the next one

 21:27:50 <jutnux> If only a) people lived near me and b) I could get served at a bar.

 21:28:18 <YaManicKill> jutnux: you might be surprised...when i found out how many people near me run ubuntu i was

 21:28:35 <jutnux> On the Ubuntu map there is nobody.

 21:28:41 <jutnux> :P

 21:28:43 <barrydrake> I would offer one, but we had one in Nottingham quite recently.

 21:28:44 <popey> isleofmandan: in his bus!

 21:29:09 <YaManicKill> the ubuntu map?

 21:29:43 <jutnux> YaManicKill: http://ubuntu-uk.org/where-are-we/

 21:30:03 <jacobw> where do you live jutnux

 21:30:37 <jutnux> Norwich/Great Yarmouth

 21:32:18 <YaManicKill> ahh good, added myself on that map now then

 21:32:56 <AlanBell> ok, so proposing a happy hour is fun and easy, and more people should do it :)

 21:33:08 <daubers> I'm happy to organise reading for next month

 21:33:20 <AlanBell> #action AlanBell sort out pub and date for Southampton Happy Hour this month

 21:33:20 * meetingology AlanBell sort out pub and date for Southampton Happy Hour this month

 21:33:42 <AlanBell> #action daubers pick pub and date for happy hour Reading in Feb

 21:33:42 * meetingology daubers pick pub and date for happy hour Reading in Feb

 21:33:48 <daubers> (sorry, just catching up)

 21:33:50 <YaManicKill> quick q... do we generally only do 1 a month?

 21:34:31 <AlanBell> YaManicKill: yeah, but it is like the pirate code, more of a guideline than an actual rule

 21:34:35 <AlanBell> arrr

 21:34:42 <YaManicKill> that's fine, i'm happy to stick to that

 21:34:49 <YaManicKill> i'll be happy to organise one for another month :-)

 21:34:51 <YaManicKill> in glasgow

 21:35:00 <AlanBell> cool

 21:35:15 <YaManicKill> will try and russle up some encouragement in scotlug and geeksoc

 21:35:46 <AlanBell> doing them monthly seems to be about right to keep it going

 21:36:08 <jutnux> I'll probably get the train one day

 21:37:14 <AlanBell> ok, lets move along

 21:37:37 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - Any Other Business

 21:37:42 <AlanBell> I have a few

 21:38:06 <AlanBell> we need to start thinking about launch parties for Precise

 21:38:23 <AlanBell> 12.04 is a Long Term Support release which is nice

 21:38:32 <brunogirin> what do we need to organise?

 21:38:33 <jutnux> Google+ Hangout?

 21:38:46 <jutnux> As an internet based event?

 21:38:47 <YaManicKill> jutnux: interesting idea...but i don't like that its only 10 people?

 21:38:54 <jutnux> I thought that you could have more now.

 21:39:05 <YaManicKill> although...here's an idea

 21:39:13 <daubers> Synchronous happy hours?

 21:39:15 <bigcalm> A G+ hangout would be fun for a short period of time. We should use it more often, not just for a release party

 21:39:15 <YaManicKill> connect the UK release parties with a hangout?

 21:39:46 <AlanBell> interesting idea

 21:39:50 <jutnux> Both of them are interesting ideas.

 21:39:50 <brunogirin> do we need to find a venue?

 21:40:07 <jutnux> And I agree that Hangouts should be used more often

 21:40:14 <AlanBell> brunogirin: not sure, I will prod Canonical about it

 21:40:15 <YaManicKill> yeah def

 21:40:33 <bigcalm> I agree that linking up with g+ hangouts would be a fun idea. Though every location is likely to be noisy, not sure what the interface would make of it :)

 21:40:48 <brunogirin> AlanBell: ok, if we do, I may be able to help

 21:40:57 <YaManicKill> noisy yes, but it could be more a sort of "look, there are other people doing these things across the UK...its not just us"

 21:41:05 <YaManicKill> a community type thing, even if yu don't talk to people

 21:41:10 <YaManicKill> you*

 21:42:49 <AlanBell> ok, we can think about that further as we go along, I just wanted to bring it up now to kick off the thinking process

 21:43:08 <AlanBell> next thing to discuss is other activities you want to do this year

 21:43:38 <AlanBell> we have done some kind of a geeknic in the summer for the last couple of years, that might be fun to do again

 21:43:46 <daubers> \o/

 21:43:55 <bigcalm> I'd love to attend my 1st one

 21:44:04 <daubers> We should do a geeknic in the countryside somewhere rather than smelly london

 21:44:18 <YaManicKill> daubers +1

 21:44:25 <BigRedS> yeah

 21:44:37 <YaManicKill> but...needs to have good transport links

 21:44:53 <daubers> Organise a lift-athlon

 21:44:53 <jutnux> Since when did the countryside ever have good transport links? :P

 21:44:55 <brunogirin> +1 for geeknic

 21:45:02 <isleofmandan> London has some big parks, no?

 21:45:08 <BigRedS> jutnux: yeah, I wondered that

 21:45:27 <brunogirin> jutnux: last one was in Hyde Park

 21:45:30 <AlanBell> isleofmandan: yeah, we did hyde park

 21:45:42 <YaManicKill> all i'm saying is i'd love to come, but coming from Scotland I am not driving :-P

 21:45:43 <AlanBell> the last one was near the British Library

 21:45:44 <isleofmandan> Ah. Maybe another big city park then?

 21:45:51 <daubers> Why don't we do one at bletchley park?

 21:45:58 <AlanBell> +1

 21:46:02 <barrydrake> +1

 21:46:06 <brunogirin> +1

 21:46:08 <isleofmandan> +1

 21:46:12 <BigRedS> +1

 21:46:17 <daubers> especially as it's Alan Turing year

 21:46:25 <bigcalm> Ooo

 21:46:26 <bigcalm> +1

 21:46:34 <YaManicKill> i like...

 21:46:39 <bigcalm> I've yet to go to Bletchly Park myself

 21:47:02 <bigcalm> Which bit of the year are we looking at?

 21:47:05 <jutnux> It is meant to be beautiful

 21:47:10 <jutnux> bigcalm: Obviously the Summer ;-)

 21:47:50 <jutnux> Actually it probably makes no difference seeing that the weather is messed up throughout the year.

 21:48:12 <AlanBell> this seems worth investigating in more detail

 21:48:17 <YaManicKill> +1

 21:48:20 <bigcalm> Good lad :)

 21:48:43 <YaManicKill> train station beside it!!!!

 21:49:04 <AlanBell> #action AlanBell and daubers to find out more about picnic/visit possibility at Bletchley

 21:49:04 * meetingology AlanBell and daubers to find out more about picnic/visit possibility at Bletchley

 21:50:02 <daubers> :)

 21:50:06 <AlanBell> another potential activity has been suggested by selinuxium

 21:50:07 * daubers has to go collect his missus

 21:50:12 <daubers> will catch up later!

 21:50:15 <AlanBell> o/ daubers

 21:50:16 <jutnux> Goodbye

 21:50:19 <jutnux> o/

 21:50:23 <AlanBell> #link http://www.watercressline.co.uk/Our-Services/RAT

 21:50:40 <AlanBell> steam, beer and Free Software

 21:50:48 <AlanBell> a winning combination

 21:50:48 <brunogirin> ah yes, didn't he organise it before?

 21:51:05 <AlanBell> well I kind of did, and then went on holiday and missed it

 21:51:12 <BigRedS> ah yeah

 21:51:13 <BigRedS> haha

 21:51:27 <AlanBell> so if we do this again, I am not going to make that error!

 21:51:36 <brunogirin> alanbell: so we have to organise it again so that you can go

 21:51:49 <AlanBell> as I recall it was a *dreadful* holiday and I hated every second of it

 21:52:05 <bigcalm> :(

 21:52:09 <brunogirin> because you were thinking "I could have gone to RAT" instead?

 21:52:31 <bigcalm> I'd go just for the Ale

 21:52:34 <bigcalm> Mmmm, ale

 21:52:58 <AlanBell> anyhow, the train is something that needs to be organised quite some way in advance

 21:53:38 <bigcalm> Hayley and I are in Northen Ireland during the 1st June date, so not then ;)

 21:53:51 <brunogirin> yeah with 24 dates in 2012, that doesn't leave too many options!

 21:55:24 <AlanBell> anyone got opinions on where in the year we should schedule it (roughly)?

 21:55:41 <brunogirin> spring?

 21:55:56 <bigcalm> April/May?

 21:56:31 <AlanBell> oh, there is one on my birthday

 21:56:39 <bigcalm> Isn't that handy?

 21:56:43 <bigcalm> Free beer for you!

 21:57:32 <AlanBell> well I would be interested in the 16th of June I think

 21:58:30 <AlanBell> ok, lets park that one for the moment, and see if anyone on the mailing list has strong opinions

 21:58:30 <popey> that date rings a bell

 21:58:34 <bigcalm> My year is mostly free so far

 21:58:45 <AlanBell> anyone else got any other business to raise at this time?

 21:58:59 <brunogirin> AlanBell: is that an action for you to send an email to the mailing list then?

 21:59:23 <AlanBell> brunogirin: I will do it in the mail with the minutes

 21:59:27 <brunogirin> Yes, I have: Ubuntu Application Hacking

 21:59:34 <brunogirin> It was Christmas, I didn't do anything

 21:59:48 <brunogirin> but I'm tempted at doing it at the hackspace

 21:59:58 <brunogirin> so I need to get that sorted

 22:00:48 <bigcalm> Year of Code - are we going to make anything of it?

 22:01:22 <AlanBell> bigcalm: what is that?

 22:01:55 <YaManicKill> http://codeyear.com/

 22:02:01 <AlanBell> it is the gnome year of accessibility http://blogs.gnome.org/gnomg/2011/12/16/make-2012-the-year-of-accessibility-for-gnome/

 22:02:43 <bigcalm> I'm an xfce user

 22:03:58 <AlanBell> that looks quite cool, what were you thinking we should do with it?

 22:04:18 <bigcalm> I'm not sure

 22:04:27 <jutnux> Encourage members to participate with it?

 22:04:40 <bigcalm> Just wondering if we should/could have any influence being a loco

 22:05:13 <brunogirin> what about trying to contact an organisation like AbilityNet and doing a day of accessibility testing with them?

 22:05:27 <bigcalm> Interesting

 22:06:29 <AlanBell> bigcalm: YaManicKill: could we host a loco leaderboard or competition for that codeyear thing?

 22:06:49 <popey> i signed up for codeyear

 22:07:00 <popey> their website is a bit picky about what browser you use

 22:07:25 <barrydrake> Sorry - gotta go - see you all soon

 22:07:33 <AlanBell> bye barrydrake

 22:07:37 <brunogirin> in the same vein, should we do anything for Young Rewired State? http://youngrewiredstate.org/

 22:07:45 * jutnux looks at it

 22:07:45 <bigcalm> I'm currently trying it out in Chromium

 22:07:58 * AlanBell has signed up to be a mentor for Young Rewired State

 22:08:28 <bigcalm> Do you need a CBR check for that?

 22:08:33 <bigcalm> CRB even

 22:08:45 <AlanBell> CRB, I don't think so, and I do have one

 22:09:10 <brunogirin> AlanBell: what does being a mentor involve?

 22:09:59 <jutnux> I don't think there are near me, again.

 22:10:03 <AlanBell> working with a bunch of students, helping them get their ideas out, and into something they can make work

 22:10:17 <brunogirin> I could do that, will look into it

 22:10:55 <AlanBell> jutnux: I think that some expenses are paid

 22:11:00 <bigcalm> I don't work well with students ;)

 22:11:49 <YaManicKill> we are all students

 22:11:57 <AlanBell> oh look, on that video is asenseur

 22:12:20 <jutnux> Who is asenseur?

 22:13:13 <isleofmandan> "This video contains content from UMG, who has blocked it in your country on copyright grounds"  Boo :(

 22:13:16 <AlanBell> that is his IRC nick, not online right now

 22:13:44 <AlanBell> isleofmandan: harsh!

 22:14:16 <isleofmandan> Isle of Man IP address ranges confuse lots of Geo-IP things.

 22:14:19 <isleofmandan> :)

 22:14:24 <AlanBell> jutnux: http://youngrewiredstate.org/yrs2012/ just fill in the form :)

 22:14:57 <AlanBell> anything else we need to cover, I am aware we have rambled on for a while now

 22:16:11 <bigcalm> I'm pleased that this meeting has lasted a little longer than the last one...

 22:16:44 <AlanBell> ok, shall we set the next meeting for 3 weeks or so, and we can turn some of these hazy ideas into things with dates on

 22:16:54 <bigcalm> Ok

 22:17:03 <brunogirin> ok

 22:17:05 <bigcalm> 2nd Feb?

 22:17:07 <jutnux> AlanBell: Done :-)

 22:17:16 <AlanBell> yup, 9PM good again?

 22:17:25 <jutnux> Sounds fine to me.

 22:17:28 <bigcalm> I'll actually put time on in my calendar

 22:17:32 <AlanBell> ok

 22:17:35 <brunogirin> ah yes I forgot!

 22:17:39 <AlanBell> someone else want to chair it?

 22:17:56 * jutnux points at popey and daubers

 22:18:08 * AlanBell points at jutnux :)

 22:18:09 <jutnux> and bigcalm

 22:18:13 <bigcalm> Humm

 22:18:24 <bigcalm> I'll give it a shot

 22:18:35 <bigcalm> Might need some schooling at some point though ;)

 22:18:40 <jutnux> This is my first meeting so I don't really know the ropes :-)

 22:18:52 <AlanBell> ok, bigcalm this time, jutnux next maybe :)

 22:19:03 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

