{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by theopensourcerer at 19:59 ==
 <''''''> Hello and a very good evening everyone.

 <''''''> Thanks for attending this UK Team meeting.

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> Shall we do a quick roll call?

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: Up to you.

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

* '''''' waves

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> I'm your chairman for this session and will attempt to keep the meeting flowing at a good pace and free of ramblings etc.

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> I'll be running through the order of Agenda items listed on the wiki page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda as they are displayed.

 <''''''> When a person is explaining their topic item, please let them finish before you start to ask questions or make any comments. If you have any comments on items please try and keep it relevant to the topic that is being discussed. Please do not keep interrupting the chair or people explaining action items, failure to do so will mean you will be asked to leave.

 <''''''> So without further ado:

 <''''''> [TOPIC] theopensourcerer - review of action items from last meeting

=== theopensourcerer - review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> I saw 4 on the last minutes.

 <''''''> Postpone daubers update on support guidelines till he is back

 <''''''> Is he back yet?

 <''''''> Anyone know?

 <''''''> Nope. OK.

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: If he isnt here then no.

 <''''''> AlanBell kick off a discussion on the mailing list/IRC/Forum re installfests

 <''''''> he is back, and arranged a meeting date

 <''''''> Ahh

 <''''''> Any further info AlanBell

 <''''''> done that, we have discussed installfests

 <''''''> working on the poster for them, lacks approved logos, which we will discuss later

 <''''''> OK.

 <''''''> Daviey to create UGJ event on the LD for the UK LoCo

 <''''''> Whatever that means.

 <''''''> Daviey: is on hols is he not?

 <''''''> Ubuntu Global Jam

 <''''''> Loco Directory

 <''''''> LD is http://loco.ubuntu.com/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/245/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/245/detail/

 <''''''> So does that mean he's completed his action then?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/285/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/285/detail/

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: Seems so.

 <''''''> are the two global jam events on the directory for -uk

 <''''''> Excellent.

 <''''''> anyone can add events to the LD

 <''''''> hi, just arrived alan cocks

 <''''''> o/ candtalan

 <''''''> The final action from the last meeting: AlanBell create a poll to pick the new logo for UK LoCo so it can be submitted to the CC for approval

 <''''''> right, been working on this

 <''''''> if you have chrome or chromium you can have a look here (don't vote yet) http://pollka.libertus.co.uk/

 <''''''> if you vote now, your vote will be deleted, feel free to try it, but don't expect it to count

 <''''''> are you planning on requesting approval from Canonical first?

 <''''''> i.e. what if the one we vote for is rejected by Canonical?

 <''''''> I will fix it in Firefox, I was hoping to get it on the ubuntu-uk.org server

 <''''''> popey: well I was hoping to vote for one, then put it forward to canonical

 <''''''> rather than put loads forward to canonical then vote

 <''''''> have I got it backwards?

 <''''''> well I just wondered what happens if they reject the one we pick

 <''''''> we think again

 <''''''> popey: Have a backup?

 <''''''> When do you think you will be in a position to start the poll proper?

 <''''''> I'd hope that Canonical might suggest ways to make it "compliant".

 <''''''> AlanBell: what about keeping the 2 with the highest votes and if Canonical don't like the first one suggest the second one?

 <''''''> brunogirin: What I thought

 <''''''> If we are OK with the vote being conducted on my server then we can start the poll as soon as you like

 <''''''> if it is to go on the Ubuntu-uk.org server that might take a little longer

 <''''''> AlanBell: I dont care where we vote. I just Wanna vote!

 <''''''> :D

 <''''''> OK - Seems like we are nearly there. Suggest you discuss a little further and then let it rip.

 <''''''> yup, dont think it matters where the vote happens

 <''''''> I want to put it up for a couple of days to let everyone see the options and suggest additional options on the list before opening voting

 <''''''> I think we role the action to nect meeting.

 <''''''> as long as it works for FF :-)

 <''''''> ok, I will fix it in Firefox and mail the list

 <''''''> [ACTION] AlanBell organise poll to pick the new logo for UK LoCo so it can be submitted to the CC for approval

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell organise poll to pick the new logo for UK LoCo so it can be submitted to the CC for approval''
|}

 <''''''> OK - How about the [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in August, please place it in the report

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/August

 <''''''> that is looking quite good

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: Put it on a new line so Mootbot-UK sees it

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in August, please place it in the report

==== People who have achieved something in August, please place it in the report ====
 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/August

 <''''''> It looks good :)

 <''''''> Right. Moving on.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] ascenseur & issyl0 - Geeknic

=== ascenseur & issyl0 - Geeknic ===
 <''''''> Sounds like it went well chaps? Want to give us a breif overview?

 <''''''> Any lessons for next time?

 <''''''> need a link to popeys blog I think

 <''''''> it was good fun

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://popey.com/blog/2010/08/08/first-ubuntu-uk-geeknic-a-success/''
|}

 <''''''> http://popey.com/blog/2010/08/08/first-ubuntu-uk-geeknic-a-success/

 <''''''> we need to sort out the meeting point a bit better next time

 <''''''> ascenseur: issyl0 - Any comments?

 <''''''> and we have been discussing on the list making a banner of some kind for that purpose

 <''''''> Anyone else?

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: Not from me

 <''''''> *Nothing

 <''''''> OK - I think we shall bypass the next topic (AlanBell on the Team Logo poll result) ;-)

 <''''''> none thanks

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Daviey and MichealH - Website

=== Daviey and MichealH - Website ===
 <''''''> Daviey isnt here

 <''''''> So I dont really know progress on the Site

 <''''''> postpone for next meeting when daviey is back from hols

 <''''''> I havent had the chance to atch up with him

 <''''''> [ACTION] postpone discussion of Updated on Website for next meeting when daviey is back from hols

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' postpone discussion of Updated on Website for next meeting when daviey is back from hols''
|}

 <''''''> daubers isn't here either.

 <''''''> Thanks ^_^

 <''''''> Think I'll roll passed this one too.

 <''''''> one sec

 <''''''> OK

 <''''''>  meeting on 26th to form team and priorities

 <''''''> Hangon

 <''''''> I didnt see anything there, Spam in #ubuntu

 <''''''> is what he put on the agenda for the support team meeting

 <''''''> [TOPIC] MattDaubney - Improving Support

=== MattDaubney - Improving Support ===
 <''''''> brb

 <''''''>  meeting on 26th to form team and priorities

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: theopensourcerer apologies, I was having eBay troubles which required a phone call. What was the ping about?

 <''''''> ascenseur: The Geenick

 <''''''> just to get that in the minutes, I have nothing else to say on support

 <''''''> OK.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] 10.10.10 Release Party

=== 10.10.10 Release Party ===
 <''''''> ah, it went fantastically theopensourcerer , and me and issyl0 are hpoefully going to plan another one soon, although it';d be nice to have people set them up across the country

 <''''''> sorry

 <''''''> Oh, nice :)

 <''''''> So, no comments on this item on the agenda. Is this early planning?

 <''''''> popey: want to talk about this one?

 <''''''> there is some early planning going on

 <''''''> there's not a lot to say right now

 <''''''> other than if people want to organise parties, go ahead!

 <''''''> This could be the fastest meeting ever!

 <''''''> Anyone want to talk about 10.10.10 Parties?

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> Going,

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: I will celebrate 42

 <''''''> XD

 <''''''> Going,

 <''''''> I regret to say I think I have a vip event which may conflict...

 <''''''> Gone.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] theopensourcerer - Any Other Business

=== theopensourcerer - Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> theopensourcerer: i don't know of any venues to use (i tried for a UGJ)

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: but happy to help anyone organize if they need assistance

 <''''''> AOB anyone?

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: Seems not

 <''''''> OK

 <''''''> [TOPIC] theopensourcerer - Date of next meeting

=== theopensourcerer - Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> I want Wensdays back :(

 <''''''> They have been on two week cycles. Is this OK for everyone here?

 <''''''> Yeah

 <''''''> so wednesday 1st perhaps

 <''''''> AlanBell: Yah!

 <''''''> Fancy a vote?

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: I second AlanBell

 <''''''> +2 for Wed 1st

 <''''''> I can't make wedsnesdays, but i'm quite happy reading the logs :

 <''''''> no objection

 <''''''> *:)

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> Fine. No objections so let's say Wednesday 1st Sept.

 <''''''> Time?  9pm again?

 <''''''> |Time? 9pm OK?

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: As always?

 <''''''> It used to be 8

 <''''''> But 9 is better for me.

 <''''''> Yes

 <''''''> 9 is fine for me

 <''''''> prefer 9 myself

 <''''''> 8's a bit of a mad rush

 <''''''> mattt: Agreed

 <''''''> [AGREED] Next Meeting. 01/09/2010 at 21:00 BST.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Next Meeting. 01/09/2010 at 21:00 BST.''
|}

 <''''''> popey: Remember to set /topic

 <''''''> er

 <''''''> popey always wanted to be a timelord

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

=== Chair for next meeting ===
 <''''''> Any volunteers?

 <''''''> theopensourcerer: Me

 <''''''> I would like to volenteer

 <''''''> Anyone else?

 <''''''> Anyone Disagree?

 <''''''> Seems not.

 <''''''> yeah, go on MichealH

 <''''''> AlanBell: :)

 <''''''> [AGREE] Next chair to be MichealH

 <''''''> Thanks

 <''''''> I beleive thats it

 <''''''> [AGREED] Next chair to be MichealH

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Next chair to be MichealH''
|}

 <''''''> OK - That is it.

 <''''''> 32mins

 <''''''> Thanks everyone.

 <''''''> W00t a new record!

 <''''''> you need to #endmeeting

 <''''''> I know.

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 20:32 ==
=== People Present ===
* theopensourcerer

* popey

* MichealH

* AlanBell

* Omahn

* ascenseur

* mattt

* Yorvyk

* candtalan

* brunogirin

* thymox

=== Actions Recorded ===
* AlanBell organise poll to pick the new logo for UK LoCo so it can be submitted to the CC for approval

* postpone discussion of Updated on Website for next meeting when daviey is back from hols
