{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by AlanBell at 21:00 ==
 <''''''> [TOPIC] popey - review of action items from last meeting

=== popey - review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> well I am chairing on behalf of popey

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in December, please place it in the report.

==== People who have achieved something in December, please place it in the report. ====
 <''''''> it is more of a january thing now

 <''''''> *bails meeting for glee

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/December

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/January

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> feel free to read the December report and add interesting items we have done to January

 <''''''> whilst we are at the start of the meeting . . . HELLO EVERYONE

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> Hi

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> ok, moving onwards

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] AlanBell - XMAS bash December 21st - pics plz

==== AlanBell - XMAS bash December 21st - pics plz ====
 <''''''> the christmas event was jolly good fun I thought

 <''''''> anyone take any pictures?

 <''''''> apart from the one of my dubious mince pie

 <''''''> I have a complaint in at Waitrose about that

 <''''''> :(

 <''''''> gross sheet of blue plastic stuff in it

 <''''''> urghh

 <''''''> not open source then :)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://twitpic.com/3i6gfy''
|}

 <''''''> http://twitpic.com/3i6gfy

 <''''''> thats the one

 <''''''> horrible!

 <''''''> anyhow, it was nice to get together apart from that!

 <''''''> that's disgusting.  You deserve a BIG compensation for that.

 <''''''> yeah, I will keep you posted

 <''''''> anyhow  . . .

 <''''''> lets move on to

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] danfish and brunogirin to brainstorm re public sector OSS event

==== danfish and brunogirin to brainstorm re public sector OSS event ====
 <''''''> any output from your brain to share danfish?

 <''''''> hmm, not much to report here I'm afraid - too busy with worky stuff :(

 <''''''> I'm afraid I've stalled

* '''''' watches binary numbers from danfish's brain flow past.

 <''''''> ok, no problem

 <''''''> want to carry it over to the next meeting or park it for a while?

 <''''''> park it I think

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> brobostigon: :)

 <''''''> danfish: :)

 <''''''> danfish: I may have some other public sector stuff occurring in the next few months, might be an opportunity to revive the idea then

 <''''''> ok, lets move on to the first main topic for discussion

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - OpenSourceExpo/Cloud Expo stand

=== AlanBell - OpenSourceExpo/Cloud Expo stand ===
 <''''''> so there is an event coming soon

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.opensourceexpo.co.uk/''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.opensourceexpo.co.uk/

 <''''''> and http://www.cloudexpoeurope.com/

 <''''''> which is all really the same event

 <''''''> and we have a stand in the .org village \o/

 <''''''> sounds interesting.

 <''''''> the .org area is sponsored by LinuxIT which is rather awesome of them

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> we can have a stand as the Ubuntu UK community

 <''''''> we also have some goodies from Canonical which is nice

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> i'm going on the Wednesday (afternoon) and am happy to help out

 <''''''> very genorous.

 <''''''> they look like this http://www.flickr.com/photos/rorymccann/5333737140/in/photostream/

 <''''''> banner and tablecloth and some other odds and sods I think

 <''''''> we do lack any CDs at the moment, but I will try and get that sorted out

 <''''''> so, what do you think we should do on the stand?

 <''''''> will there be any mince pies?

 <''''''> suprengr: not from waitrose

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> any ideas, key messages, thoughts on stuff to demo?

 <''''''> Will there be wi-fi?

 <''''''> one way or another, yes

 <''''''> AlanBell: unity will be a big change, aswell as gnome-shell, iwould demo both, as ubuntu is a gnome distro as wellas the future of gnome.

 <''''''> I think we should just offer demos of what's out there now.  10.10

 <''''''> Maybe Netbook and Desktop

 <''''''> brobostigon: gnome might be there too, which is great

 <''''''> AlanBell: thats good, yes.

 <''''''> how about organising staffing for the stand?

 <''''''> maybe an etherpad schedule or something?

 <''''''> AlanBell: wiki page, add yourself type of thing

 <''''''> iwont be abke to attand, so count me out.

 <''''''> I can offer either or both days.  Bit far to commute but would do B&B

 <''''''> etherpad maybe good - we can add ideas

 <''''''> AlanBell: how did laura do it for the rugby meet?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/linuxexposchedule''
|}

 <''''''> http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/linuxexposchedule

 <''''''> MooDoo: that is loco directory, doesn't do quite what I had in mind for this

 <''''''> ok

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://openetherpad.org is dead easy to use''
|}

 <''''''> http://openetherpad.org is dead easy to use

 <''''''> barrydrake: we have our own instance of it

 <''''''> didn't know

 <''''''> ok, http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/linuxexposchedule add names and thoughts where you like

 <''''''> ....and someone to blame if it goes wrong ;)

 <''''''> why is nobody looking at it?

 <''''''> oh, ok it is working :)

* '''''' willbe looking after.

 <''''''> think we should have a dress code for the stand staff?

 <''''''> smart - casual ?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=731 or http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=736 as appropriate''
|}

 <''''''> http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=731 or http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=736 as appropriate

 <''''''> Neckbeards :)

 <''''''> and absolutely not http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=776

 <''''''> ouch, :(

 <''''''> Can someone tell me how we are going to demo unity when it's hardly more than a crude demo at the moment?

 <''''''> barrydrake: it should be a less crude demo after the platform sprint

 <''''''> hoefully - but if not I think we ought to stick with Maverick

 <''''''> we should concentrate on maverick certainly

 <''''''> but also show ubuntu's future aswell.

 <''''''> but if there happen to be people who have unity and can demo it then that would be a good preview of what is coming up

 <''''''> screenshots?

 <''''''> yes, :)

 <''''''> we won't have masses of space

 <''''''> what's the target audience at the expo?

 <''''''> barrydrake: for real, to play with,

 <''''''> I have Unity - but it doesn't look right yet

 <''''''> freesitebuilder: kind of mixed, mainly professional IT types

 <''''''> barrydrake: ihave gnome-shell here, i would saythe same thing, it is not totally ready yet.

 <''''''> if they are geeky folk they're nog going to be interested in pretty, but want to see what it does.  Unity doesn't alter that!

 <''''''> anyone object to having stand staff all wearing the maverick Tshirt?

 <''''''> do we get to keep it?

 <''''''> you get to buy it, and keep it :)

 <''''''> I don't have one yet

 <''''''> nor me

 <''''''> fine by me

 <''''''> IT pros may well be reporting back to management so Ubuntu business suitability & server?

 <''''''> suprengr: I think that is something that is easier to talk about than to demo, I expect that at different times there would be people who can talk about that

 <''''''> I certainly want to get more businesses using Ubuntu

 <''''''> and more ...  remember SpecSavers, GOSH and Gendarmerie Nationale to name but three ...

 <''''''> as we are on the .org village we are not representing Canonical at all, this is the Ubuntu-UK community

 <''''''> ought to send invites to our MPs :)

 <''''''> I think we should also emphasise that we have an active supportive community :)

 <''''''> which can still be business focussed, just we are not pushing any Canonical services (they can turn up and do that themselves)

 <''''''> just there to be Ubunthusiasts?

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> in effect LinuxIT are picking up the bill for the stand

 <''''''> ok, should do some actions really

 <''''''> ok, so we are agreed on the dress code

 <''''''> [agreed] stand staff to wear maverick Tshirt

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' stand staff to wear maverick Tshirt''
|}

 <''''''> how do I get the tee shirt?

 <''''''> barrydrake: from the store

 <''''''> OK

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://shop.canonical.com/index.php?cPath=14''
|}

 <''''''> http://shop.canonical.com/index.php?cPath=14

 <''''''> [action] people who want to help on the stand to put their availability and contact details down on the schedule http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/linuxexposchedule

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' people who want to help on the stand to put their availability and contact details down on the schedule http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/linuxexposchedule''
|}

 <''''''> [action] Daviey to get banner and tablecloth to AlanBell somehow

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Daviey to get banner and tablecloth to AlanBell somehow''
|}

 <''''''> [action] AlanBell to sort out CDs somehow

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell to sort out CDs somehow''
|}

 <''''''> anything else?

 <''''''> AlanBell: CDs - do you mean from Canonical?

 <''''''> I'm willing to burn a few CD's but I don't do labels.  Someone would have to bring them

 <''''''> danfish: hopefully

 <''''''> we should have something like 200 as a loco, but Daviey hasn't got them yet

 <''''''> OK

 <''''''> ok, moving on then . . . .

 <''''''> [TOPIC] discuss status of http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org

=== discuss status of http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org ===
 <''''''> ok, this progressed a teeny bit since last time

 <''''''> dunno really what to do next

 <''''''> bit more work and slap it live?

 <''''''> what else do you want to do?

 <''''''> I would like to un-break the map

 <''''''> wow the podcast flip down thing colour is bright

 <''''''> whythe piicture of te eden project ?

 <''''''> MooDoo: oh yeah, I did that for a laugh hoping that the podcast peeps would object and do it properly for me

 <''''''> AlanBell: phew :)

 <''''''> it's looking pretty good as is - the map would be kept in beta

 <''''''> brobostigon: good question, I don't know how the picture rotating thing works, would like to maybe make that bit more wordpressish

 <''''''> AlanBell: wordpressish ?

 <''''''> brobostigon: the idea is to have a series of pictures that represents the UK a bit

 <''''''> AlanBell: good idea, yes,

 <''''''> AlanBell: may i suggest several pictures of bletchly and colossus,

 <''''''> brobostigon: it is this: http://ubuntu-uk.org/dev/headerimages/rotate.php

 <''''''> brobostigon: that is a great suggestion, Bletchly is a great UK computing topic

 <''''''> AlanBell: that is wht i thought, :)

 <''''''> I was looking for a plugin that would show a random image from a flickr stream but I couldn't find one

 <''''''> ok, lets carry that forward for now, there are a few topics in there that people can work on

 <''''''> anyone is welcome to help, just give me or popey a shout if you want access to the admin of the site

 <''''''> ok, will remember,maybe,

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

=== Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> any other items people want to talk about

 <''''''> not me

* '''''' shakes head

 <''''''> nope.

 <''''''> ok, lets wrap it up then

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> thanks for the beer.  my round next

 <''''''> how about thursday 27th?

 <''''''> fine

 <''''''> OK

 <''''''> depnds on the time.

 <''''''> OK

 <''''''> I dn't do late

 <''''''> 9PM seems to be not very objectionable to most people

 <''''''> fine

 <''''''> i wont be able to attend that late ontht thursday,

 <''''''> brobostigon: 8PM?

 <''''''> AlanBell: that might be easier, but anything after around 7pm is going tobe difficult.

 <''''''> that starts to get hard for lots of people commuting on trains or with kids bedtimes

 <''''''> AlanBell: i am happy for you to go ahead later, and then icath up on the notes,

 <''''''> got a wedding rehearsal earlier that evening ... around 6.00

 <''''''> Apologies for my (too) late arrival. Realistically, I'm not going to be able to help man the stand at the Cloud thing, but would be happy to give some suitable sound-bites / business-viewpoint quotes if there a suitable medium for such to be displayed.

 <''''''> hi MarkHarrison

 <''''''> there will be minutes shortly

 <''''''> AlanBell: go ahead with 9pm, and i will ctch up,

 <''''''> ok brobostigon

 <''''''> [agreed] next meeting Thursday 27th January 9PM

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' next meeting Thursday 27th January 9PM''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

=== Chair for next meeting ===
 <''''''> well I best not suggest brobostigon :)

 <''''''> bad idea, yes,

 <''''''> actually popey was down for this meeting

 <''''''> shall we nominate popey?

 <''''''> I think he may have fallen off the internet

 <''''''> lets agree on popey before he comes back

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> router firmware update i believe,

 <''''''> [agreed] popey to chair next meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' popey to chair next meeting''
|}

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 21:58 ==
=== People Present ===
* AlanBell

* CyberKing

* Daviey

* brobostigon

* barrydrake

* danfish

* MooDoo

* freesitebuilder

* suprengr

* Yorvyk

* popey

* MarkHarrison

=== Actions Recorded ===
* people who want to help on the stand to put their availability and contact details down on the schedule http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/linuxexposchedule

* Daviey to get banner and tablecloth to AlanBell somehow

* AlanBell to sort out CDs somehow
