{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by AlanBell at 20:05:50 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-uk-meeting/2011/ubuntu-uk-meeting.2011-09-19-20.05.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda   (AlanBell, 20:07:07)
* Review of action items from last meeting
** REPORT] People who have achieved something in September, please place it in the report.  (AlanBell, 20:08:13)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/September   (AlanBell, 20:08:18)
** popey to do a report on the amazing oggcamp event  (AlanBell, 20:10:19)
** GreenDance to start a sub-project specifically look at how to improve Ubuntu's coverage in the education area.  (AlanBell, 20:13:03)

* AlanBell - Release Parties

''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-uk/1283/detail/   (AlanBell, 20:14:12)

''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-uk/1293/detail/   (AlanBell, 20:18:07)

''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-uk/1257/detail/   (AlanBell, 20:19:22)

''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-uk/1277/detail/   (AlanBell, 20:20:11)

''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-uk/1286/detail/   (AlanBell, 20:21:38)

* Any Other Business

* Date of next meeting

* Chair for next meeting

Meeting ended at 20:30:31 UTC.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (56)
* brobostigon (15)
* popey (10)
* meetingology (3)
* tonytiger (1)
* suprengr (1)
* ormiret (1)
* Yorvyk (1)
* DJones (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:05:50 <AlanBell> #startmeeting UK LoCo Team

 20:05:50 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep 19 20:05:50 2011 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 20:05:50 <meetingology> 

 20:05:50 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:06:01 <AlanBell> hi everyone who is here o/

 20:06:05 <brobostigon> o/

 20:06:12 <ormiret> o/

 20:06:17 <brobostigon> evening AlanBell :)

 20:06:17 <Yorvyk> o/

 20:06:43 <popey> o/

 20:06:47 * popey tickles tonytiger

 20:06:49 <suprengr> o/

 20:07:07 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda

 20:07:22 <DJones> o/

 20:07:41 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Review of action items from last meeting

 20:08:13 <AlanBell> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in September, please place it in the report.

 20:08:18 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/September

 20:08:38 <AlanBell> so we will have the happy hour to put in

 20:08:53 <AlanBell> and a podcast or two

 20:08:59 * popey is adding

 20:09:08 <AlanBell> anything else of team significance?

 20:10:13 <AlanBell> ok, moving onwards

 20:10:14 <brobostigon> no. sorry.

 20:10:19 <AlanBell> [PROGRESS REPORT] popey to do a report on the amazing oggcamp event

 20:10:25 <AlanBell> was an action item from last meeting

 20:10:37 <popey> erk

 20:10:51 <AlanBell> why was that an action?

 20:10:51 <popey> postposne

 20:11:02 <popey> I'll blog it, I'm the last one of the presenters to do that I think :D

 20:11:56 <AlanBell> ok, we linked to the lanyrd collection of posts, then popey piped up volunteering to write up a report on it :)

 20:12:14 <popey> yeah, fool

 20:12:34 <popey> i think i was drunk in a field at the time

 20:12:41 <brobostigon> lol

 20:12:45 <brobostigon> :(

 20:12:57 <AlanBell> fair enough

 20:13:03 <AlanBell> [PROGRESS REPORT] GreenDance to start a sub-project specifically look at how to improve Ubuntu's coverage in the education area.

 20:13:13 <AlanBell> well GreenDance isn't here right now

 20:13:33 <AlanBell> and I didn't see anything much on this, will postpone that one

 20:13:41 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Release Parties

 20:13:47 <AlanBell> right :)

 20:13:53 <AlanBell> so the release party is on

 20:14:12 <AlanBell> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-uk/1283/detail/

 20:14:20 <AlanBell> it is at a pub in London called the Cask

 20:14:28 <AlanBell> I went there to check it out the other day, looks fine

 20:14:51 <AlanBell> the Kentish brewery "Dark Gold" on tap was quite nice

 20:15:02 <brobostigon> :)

 20:15:33 <AlanBell> it is on one level, quite open plan with tables

 20:16:00 <AlanBell> I have been coordinating with Canonical, they were investigating booking the place out, but that would be Â£Â£Â£Â£

 20:16:38 <AlanBell> so we are going to decorate it a bit, hand out freebies, and there might be a large order of nibbles sorted out

 20:17:26 <AlanBell> I think it will be very well attended by the Canonical staff as it is a pretty short walk to Millbank

 20:17:32 * brobostigon looks if there is one near him.

 20:17:54 <AlanBell> we have another release party up in Leeds

 20:18:07 <AlanBell> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-uk/1293/detail/

 20:18:20 <AlanBell> and a few attendees to that one as well

 20:19:03 <brobostigon> ok.

 20:19:06 <tonytiger> o/

 20:19:14 <AlanBell> this Thursday we also have the inaugural Happy Hour, which by strange coincidence is also in the Cask in London

 20:19:19 <brobostigon> i should have thought about oxford again.

 20:19:22 <AlanBell> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-uk/1257/detail/

 20:19:57 <AlanBell> the Happy Hour series will then continue to Farnborough on the 20th October

 20:20:11 <AlanBell> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-uk/1277/detail/

 20:20:13 <AlanBell> then probably up to Nottingham

 20:20:34 <brobostigon> :)

 20:20:35 <AlanBell> then perhaps down to Southampton

 20:20:41 <AlanBell> or Oxford

 20:20:46 <AlanBell> who knows!

 20:21:08 <brobostigon> oxford :)

 20:21:35 <AlanBell> whilst going through the events we have planned, the final one active on the LoCo directory page at the moment is Barcamp Blackpool

 20:21:38 <AlanBell> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-uk/1286/detail/

 20:21:59 <AlanBell> which is just after the release and is kind of a release party for that region

 20:22:23 <AlanBell> any more eventy stuff to cover?

 20:22:38 <AlanBell> any questions about happy hours or release parties?

 20:22:58 <brobostigon> not that i dont think have been asked and or answered.

 20:23:34 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

 20:24:01 <AlanBell> anyone got anything?

 20:24:56 <AlanBell> times up :)

 20:25:05 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

 20:25:21 * brobostigon shakes in socks. at the loud bell.

 20:25:37 <popey> :D

 20:26:05 <AlanBell> Tuesday 18th October?

 20:26:30 <AlanBell> shortly after the Oneiric release

 20:26:34 <brobostigon> fine here.

 20:26:53 <AlanBell> #agreed next meeting Tuesday 18th October 9PM

 20:27:04 <brobostigon> :)

 20:27:12 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

 20:27:58 * AlanBell waits for someone to crack

 20:30:02 * popey points at tonytiger

 20:30:28 <AlanBell> #agreed tonytiger to chair next meeting

 20:30:31 <AlanBell> #endmeeting
