{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the nth meeting of the UKTeam, starting at 21:06 GMT and finishing at 22:27 GMT

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT at the start of the meeting to ensure we are all clear who is online and paying attention.
Active Atendees:
* Daviey
* MasterCheese
* LoudMouthMan
* andy101
* dgjones
* gord
* mgdm
* davmor2
* Nafallo

== Agenda ==
When adding an agenda item please "sign" it by leaving your name next to it. If you won't be attending the meeting please also spell out your item in detail, otherwise we can't fruitfully discuss it.
 
* '''Announcement of meetings''' Could someone please send an email to the mailing list announcing when meetings are? As an added bonus feature could it have some consistent feature that could be used to filter it so it doesn't get missed. (RobertMcwilliam)
** How about doing what most other teams do and hold the meeting in #ubuntu-meeting, send a mail to fridge-devel list to get it put on the fridge event calendar http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event - it will also (as a by-product) appear in Ubuntu Weekly News e.g. . https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue55#head-fb2b34d43240681f6aa8000710f9f9435d7adf9b . The other benefit is that you don't get people wandering in babbling in the channel (as much) in #ubuntu-meeting as you do in -uk - AlanPope
* '''UKTeam Contact for 2007/2008''' Nik Butler announces his handing off of the Ubuntu-UK Team project to a new Team and we need to talk and discuss how and what is involved.  

== Minutes ==

* 

== Any Other Business ==

* 
* 
 

== Guide Lines ==

The chairman of the meeting should endeavour to ensure that key points are discussed in an appropriate time. Key Topics from the Agenda should be tabled in the channel using a market such as [ TOPIC ] or * TOPIC * Followed by the agenda item. Where Suggestions or Ideas are put forward and considered as acceptable to the group then it should be noted by the Chairman as [ IDEA ] or * IDEA * . Where a concept is discussed and agreed the use of [ AGREED ] or * AGREED * should be defined by the chairman and should signify the topic is discussed and the meeting is to move on.  Be clear on the channel when the meeting is concluded and how and when the minutes will be posted.

== IRC LOGS ==

<pre>
[19:56:49] <Daviey> Please type PRESENT to ensure we are all clear who is online and paying attention
[19:56:52] <Daviey> PRESENT
[19:57:07] <MasterCheese> PRESENT
[19:57:09] <LoudMouthMan> PRESENT
[19:57:30] <andy101> present
[19:57:37] <dgjones> PRESENT
[19:58:14] <Daviey> anybody else?
[19:58:17] <Daviey> gord: ^
[19:58:25] <gord> present
[19:59:31] <Daviey> First, can we approve the minutes of the last meeting?
[19:59:59] <Daviey> Andybody object to the truth'ness :)
[20:00:19] <Daviey> Okay, lets move on
[20:00:34] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Announcement of meetings Could someone please send an email to the mailing list announcing when meetings are? As an added bonus feature could it have some consistent feature that could be used to filter it so it doesn't get missed. (RobertMcwilliam)
[20:00:49] <Daviey> Is RoberMcWilliam here?
[20:00:54] <mgdm> PRESENT
[20:00:56] <mgdm> (sorry)
[20:01:33] <gord> why can this person not just filter his incomming ubuntu-uk messages for things like 'meeting'
[20:01:36] <gord> ?
[20:02:01] <Daviey> gord: to be fair - I have been sending announcments on the list, but for the last two meetings i haven't
[20:02:05] <Daviey> Maybe that is the issue?
[20:02:22] <gord> yeah i was just talking about the second part
[20:02:37] <gord> announcements of meetings on the list is a given that we should have isn't it?
[20:02:39] <Daviey> jono: here for our meeting?
[20:02:52] <Daviey> It should be done, agreed
[20:03:13] <LoudMouthMan> indeed.
[20:03:17] <gord> indeedy
[20:03:22] <Daviey> What sort of time schedule prior to meeting tho?
[20:03:32] <Daviey> 24hrs, 2 days, 5 etc?
[20:04:23] <dgjones> i saw the topic for the channel saying that there was a meeting due today, but not the time, guessed it was 9 just from past experience watching the channel
[20:04:25] <gord> a reminder a week before?
[20:04:27] <Daviey> Popey suggesting holding the meeting in #ubuntu-meeting... what do people think of that?
[20:04:53] <gord> is there a reason for it?
[20:05:07] <Daviey> Consistency for meetings?
[20:05:13] <LoudMouthMan> indeed.
[20:05:42] <dgjones> Are the majority of other loco group meetings held there, or in the general channel?
[20:06:02] <Daviey> One thing i was going to leave until AOB, was sugegsting a trial of holding the next meeting as a voice conference. Either VOIP or normal Phone... Would that help draw more people in?
[20:06:02] <andy101> Would we need approval from someone high up to use #ubuntu-meeting ?
[20:06:18] <Daviey> dgjones: *some* hold their meetings there.. not many
[20:06:40] <Daviey> andy101: naa.. there is a fair chunk of schedule space - wouldn
[20:06:47] <Daviey> t think it would be an issue
[20:06:51] <gord> if someone wants to be in charge of organising #ubuntu-meetings so we get it to ourselfs then i have no objection
[20:06:54] <PriceChild> andy101, not that I am aware of.
[20:07:10] <PriceChild> If you would like to use #ubuntu-meeting then you should inform the fridge of meeting schedules so that no-one clashes
[20:07:44] <Daviey> Other than consistency of meetings, what beneift would it have holding it there
[20:08:23] <cinex> other than conistency of meetings, what other reasons do you neeD?
[20:09:28] <Daviey> Being a LoCo meeting, and the amount of people who reside in -meeting, do we want outsiders of -uk LoCo getting heavily involved in our meetings
[20:09:55] <Daviey> Also, if we over run in here - it's not an issue, schedules are pretty strict in -meeting
[20:10:45] <LoudMouthMan> indeed
[20:10:56] <LoudMouthMan> uk is a place for uk business.
[20:11:22] <cinex> could always create a new room: #ubuntu-uk-meeting if you really wanted too
[20:11:40] <Daviey> true
[20:11:57] <gord> i don't think we really want to that much do we?
[20:12:16] <LoudMouthMan> but for those who are new new new isnt here easier to know about . keep everything simple
[20:12:23] <Daviey> agreed
[20:12:45] <Daviey> I think if we keep it here, we are more likely to get accidental visters - which is great
[20:13:04] <LoudMouthMan> agreed
[20:13:16] <gord> maybe one day but not today i say
[20:13:48] <dgjones> Daviey, as an accidental visitor, i'd agree with that comment, more chance of people being around in the channel
[20:13:55] <Nafallo> run them here.
[20:14:10] <Daviey> Okay, can I sum up for a vote?
[20:14:25] * Nafallo already voted ;-)
[20:14:35] <Daviey> How is this, "Announcments of meeting should be made 7 days & 24 hours before meeting"?
[20:14:45] <LoudMouthMan> i vote yes to keep it here
[20:14:47] <mgdm> Gets my vote
[20:14:50] <andy101> yes
[20:14:53] <MasterCheese> Yup
[20:15:03] <Nafallo> so thats 8 days then?
[20:15:04] <cinex> (virin media is naff)
[20:15:08] <Daviey> [VOTE} Announcments of meeting should be made 7 days & 24 hours before meeting
[20:15:13] <LoudMouthMan> i am voting yes to notify by mail for meeting announcements.
[20:15:15] <mgdm> Yes
[20:15:16] <Daviey> +1
[20:15:20] <gord> +1
[20:15:21] <MasterCheese> +1
[20:15:21] <mgdm> +1
[20:15:22] <LoudMouthMan> +1
[20:15:23] <dgjones> +1
[20:15:26] <andy101> +1
[20:15:34] <Nafallo> +1
[20:15:37] <gord> maan now i feel bad for against :(
[20:15:51] <Daviey> [AGREED]
[20:15:56] <Daviey> is that right?
[20:16:27] <LoudMouthMan> heheh pass.
[20:16:31] <LoudMouthMan> endvote .
[20:16:46] <Daviey> [ENDVOTE]
[20:16:49] <Daviey> bah
[20:16:51] <Daviey> [VOTE] meetings should be held in #ubuntu-meeting ?
[20:16:56] <Daviey> ffs
[20:17:06] <andy101> poke it with a spork
[20:17:18] <Daviey> #endvote
[20:17:25] <Daviey> yah
[20:17:29] <Daviey> [VOTE] meetings should be held in #ubuntu-meeting ?
[20:17:33] <Nafallo> +1
[20:17:34] <mgdm> -1
[20:17:35] <Daviey> -1
[20:17:39] <dgjones> -1
[20:17:39] <LoudMouthMan> -1
[20:17:39] <andy101> -1
[20:17:45] <davmor2> -1
[20:17:48] <MasterCheese> -1
[20:17:54] <Nafallo> noo!
[20:17:54] <Nafallo> -1
[20:17:56] <Nafallo> damnit
[20:17:59] <Daviey> davmor2: are you PRESENT :D
[20:18:08] <Daviey> all done?
[20:18:15] <davmor2> yes sorry only just got back
[20:18:33] <Daviey> (HINT: type PRESENT)
[20:18:41] <Daviey> #endvote
[20:18:50] <Daviey> Shall we move on?
[20:18:50] <davmor2> PRESENT
[20:18:52] <Nafallo> PRESENT
[20:19:07] <Daviey> [TOPIC] UKTeam Contact for 2007/2008 Nik Butler announces his handing off of the Ubuntu-UK Team project to a new Team and we need to talk and discuss how and what is involved.
[20:19:14] <Daviey> LoudMouthMan: wanna kick off?
[20:20:14] <LoudMouthMan> uhm yeah .. im not able to confer as much time to Ubuntu-uk so we need to establish new contact points for the Locoteam
[20:20:28] <LoudMouthMan> see my blog posting on Loudmouthman.com
[20:20:47] <LoudMouthMan> http://www.loudmouthman.com/2007/09/16/and-now-for-something-completely-different/
[20:21:33] <gord> define contact points?
[20:21:40] <Daviey> Well i think i would like to say that it will be a shame to see LMM step down.. but it's good to see he is doing the CoC thing
[20:21:59] <Daviey> gord: I suppose contact (nee Leader)
[20:22:02] <LoudMouthMan> thanks Daviey .. gord ukteam need a loco contact for the team.
[20:22:21] <gord> anyone want to step forward then?
[20:22:29] <LoudMouthMan> it doesnt have to be a person
[20:22:33] <LoudMouthMan> you could have a group email
[20:22:35] <Daviey> LoudMouthMan: what contact have you had, as official apacity this last year?
[20:22:46] <LoudMouthMan> pretty much little to none .
[20:22:51] <LoudMouthMan> about 2 contact points.
[20:23:12] <Daviey> Hmm.. that will hopefully increace over the comming year
[20:23:54] <Daviey> So we have established that the demand is low.. So technically an individual could handle it... But i like the idea of a group email; where almost a mini-committee could get involved?
[20:24:06] <davmor2> I think it needs to be 1 person rather than a group mail.
[20:24:49] <gord> i would prefer a single person who can use the mailing list to hold any such mini-committee
[20:24:50] <Daviey> davmor2: Can i ask why?
[20:24:53] <davmor2> in a similar fashion to the lug's
[20:25:13] <PriceChild> I think decisions will/should always be made by a group concensus...
[20:25:35] <gord> unless of course we can't find anyone willing who is around enough to be able to handle a position like that
[20:25:38] <PriceChild> But I think that this job needs a sole person else people will get confused who to talk to in contacting the uk team
[20:25:58] <Daviey> PriceChild: surely contact@ubuntu-uk.org ?
[20:26:01] <davmor2> I think 1 person is less confusing than a bunch of people. what happens if all the people get the message and have a different view of it?
[20:26:35] <Daviey> Thats the idea, it would prompt discussion.. Having one point of contact means decsions can be made via one person
[20:26:51] <PriceChild> You missed my point.. :/
[20:26:52] <mgdm> It's another layer of abstraction though
[20:27:15] <gord> not nessaseraly, just make sure you have someone who can forward any discussions to the mailing list. then that single point of contact can respond with the groups will
[20:27:16] <davmor2> no my thought was you could talk about what to do here
[20:27:25] <Daviey> Ah PriceChild, i see what you mean.. Phone calls / IM etc
[20:27:46] <LoudMouthMan> anyway . look I actually have to go .. ( hence why I am handing off ) can I trust you dont need my any further ?
[20:27:52] <LoudMouthMan> my or me ?
[20:28:05] <Daviey> LoudMouthMan: anything thing you want to add before you go?
[20:28:06] <LoudMouthMan> see I said I was busy !
[20:28:12] <davmor2> ta ta lmm good luck :)
[20:28:24] <LoudMouthMan> nope I blogged it and emailed it .. ill not disappearing .... im just ...stepping back.
[20:28:24] <PriceChild> The "LoCo Contact"... isn't necessarily a "leader" right?
[20:28:25] <LoudMouthMan>
[20:28:31] <andy101> round of applause for LoudMouthMan's hard work before he leaves?
[20:28:38] <LoudMouthMan> cheers...
[20:28:39] <mgdm> *clap*
[20:28:44] <Daviey> PriceChild: I think they go hand-in-hand surely?
[20:28:45] * andy101 claps
[20:28:48] <LoudMouthMan> right im off catch you guys laters.. and have fun ...
[20:28:50] <dgjones> good luck
[20:28:51] <Daviey> hip hip
[20:29:48] <PriceChild> Daviey, how many of our pms do you think type their own email/postal replies back? In my opinion its the same kind of deal... this one contact is like a secretary almost. Decisions are made by a group, (or the pm in my example) wheras its this contact that relays everything?
[20:29:50] <davmor2> Daviey: if all the post were received by one person and voted on here or at meetings (plan of action could be drawn up etc)
[20:30:10] <Daviey> agreed
[20:30:46] <Daviey> [VOTE] single point of contact?
[20:30:54] <davmor2> +1
[20:30:55] <gord> +1
[20:30:55] <PriceChild> +1
[20:30:56] <Daviey> +1
[20:30:57] <dgjones> +1
[20:30:57] <MasterCheese> +1
[20:31:01] <mgdm> +1
[20:31:20] <Daviey> #endvote
[20:31:58] <Daviey> suggestions for POC?
[20:32:12] <Daviey> any volunteers?
[20:32:42] <PriceChild> Daviey, I think that should be posted on the ML etc. to give time for people to apply
[20:32:46] <PriceChild> its the weekend
[20:32:51] <Daviey> Should we open this up to the ML? Then hold a EGM?
[20:32:53] <PriceChild> LMM's message has been out a day?
[20:33:07] <gord> egm?
[20:33:09] <Daviey> PriceChild: > 1 week IIRC
[20:33:18] <PriceChild> I'm reeeeeeeally slow Daviey :)
[20:33:26] <PriceChild> vorian pointed it out to me this afternoon :P
[20:33:28] <Daviey> gord: extraordinary g.m
[20:33:45] <Daviey> Ie, an extra meeting
[20:34:11] <Daviey> Say next Sunday, same time?
[20:34:46] <davmor2> I think that it would need to be someone who is already active on this list in order for post to be passed on in a timely fashion.
[20:34:47] <dgjones> there's quite a few regulars not in the channel at the minute, giving a week for people to think/volunteer sounds a good idea
[20:35:16] <cinex> you could have a bot that managed all that
[20:35:26] <cinex> informing people and stuff.
[20:35:43] <Daviey> cinex: good idea... I know some LUG's use bots for such
[20:36:04] <gord> ubuntu is about humanity not robots ;)
[20:36:21] <cinex> robots increase the quality of life.
[20:36:27] <Daviey> gord: but the hum-bots are rubbish at that sort of thing :P
[20:36:57] <davmor2> I think again that if there is not that much post then it kinda makes it pointless
[20:37:13] <Daviey> Volunteers for putting this to the ML?
[20:37:35] <davmor2> I'll do it now :)
[20:37:36] <Daviey> PriceChild: ^ :)
[20:37:41] <Daviey> davmor2: cool
[20:37:45] <cinex> ML?
[20:37:49] <cinex> monkey losers?
[20:37:50] <Daviey> mailing list
[20:37:53] <cinex> ohhhhhh
[20:38:37] <Daviey> Anybody have any other comments on this topic?
[20:39:39] <Daviey> [AGREED] davmor2 will open the point-of-contact position to members on the mailing list, holding a further meeting next Sunday
[20:40:21] <Daviey> Okay, that's the Agenda done.. Any other business?
[20:40:53] <gord> does anyone have any cake for me?
[20:41:10] <Daviey> I would like to trial holding the next normal meeting as a voice conference rather than IRC.. What do people think?
[20:41:26] <cinex> teamspeak ?
[20:41:32] <MasterCheese> Sounds like a good idea
[20:41:36] <andy101> what is teamspeak?
[20:41:45] <Nafallo> SIP
[20:41:45] <cinex> its good for mic chats
[20:41:56] <Daviey> cinex: I was thinking SIP (Ekiga et al) and having a telephone number access for people without Mic's
[20:41:56] <MasterCheese> But it's rather rubbish on Linux
[20:42:00] <cinex> lets you have chatrooms that have mics and whatnot
[20:42:02] <cinex> for gaming i think
[20:42:09] <cinex> MasterCheese: it still works
[20:42:14] <MasterCheese> I guess
[20:42:18] <Nafallo> Daviey: aye
[20:42:24] <andy101> TeamSpeak is proprietary Voice over IP software that allows users to speak on a chat channel with other users (according to Wikipedia)
[20:42:32] <gord> i would prefer a normal meeting with a test of said software at the end. if it works well the next meeting could be held with such technology
[20:42:38] <dgjones> what extra hardware/software is needed for that? is it something you have to register and pay for a service?
[20:42:39] <andy101> I assume it runs on Ubuntu?
[20:42:52] * Daviey is happy to deal with the technical aspects.. he has a hosted server running asterisk
[20:42:59] <gord> i don't really want 30 mins of 'ahh its not working here" "oh wait it is here" "you have to blah blah blah..." n stuff
[20:43:14] <mgdm> A trial run before the meeting would be good
[20:43:32] <gord> meetings should not be used as a testing ground :)
[20:43:33] <Daviey> gord: agreed - hence you will become a guinea pig to help test it prior to meeting :D
[20:43:38] <dgjones> if its just a case of downloading software & plugging in a microphone/headset, then a trial beforehand would be useful
[20:43:41] <mgdm> so you can then have all the "Schnell! Schnell! Kartopelkopf" stuff first
[20:43:59] <mgdm> dgjones: Ekiga is apt-getable
[20:44:05] <mgdm> might even be there by default
[20:44:08] <Daviey> Ekiga is installed as deault?
[20:44:12] <andy101> yes
[20:44:15] <Daviey> default*
[20:44:19] <andy101> i think
[20:44:24] <dgjones> yep, i see it, Ekiga softphone
[20:44:55] <Daviey> [VOTE] Trial the next meeting as a voice conference, with testing done prior?
[20:45:00] <Daviey> +1
[20:45:01] <MasterCheese> +1
[20:45:05] <cinex> -1
[20:45:06] <dgjones> +1
[20:45:28] <andy101> -1
[20:45:42] <gord> it depends, do we have people setup who can create text logs from the audio and such?
[20:45:53] <mgdm> +1
[20:45:58] <davmor2> +1
[20:46:01] <matl4rsen> hi all
[20:46:19] <Daviey> gord: The conference can be recorded, without issue.. but transcripts would have to be done by hand - then approved at the next meeting
[20:46:19] <Nafallo> +1
[20:46:50] <Nyx> :S mind if I ask whats going on?
[20:46:56] <MasterCheese> Right, I must be off (Not that I was contributing much)
[20:47:00] <davmor2> meeting
[20:47:03] <Daviey> MasterCheese: come back soon
[20:47:10] <andy101> does it just require a SIP client btw or does it need special magical software?
[20:47:19] <Daviey> andy101: just SIP or IAX
[20:47:24] <MasterCheese> Daviey: If tomorrow counts as soon, I certainly will
[20:47:25] <Daviey> Ekiga works fine
[20:47:38] <Daviey> as should GAIM / Pidgeon
[20:47:44] <davmor2> Daviey: Mail sent to list :)
[20:47:50] * gord abstains his vote
[20:47:53] <Daviey> *Pidgin
[20:47:59] <andy101> I didn't think GAIM had voice support?
[20:48:34] <Daviey> andy101: Erm.. never tested it - but it does support SIP iirc.. so kinda strange if no voice
[20:48:56] <Daviey> gord: Is it just the transcipts that causes concern to you?
[20:49:19] <Daviey> davmor2: ^ Great
[20:49:42] <dgjones> Daviey, i've never used Ekiga/voip etc and haven't got anything preconfigured, but I'm willing to act as a "guinea pig" for setup etc, but i'll probably need talking through the setup & how to use it etc
[20:49:58] <gord> i'm not sure weather i like the idea of voice conferincing for a meeting yet, i'll wait and see
[20:50:00] * Daviey kicks Seeker` for being late
[20:50:16] * andy101 had to upgrade ekiga to talk through the stupid router :(
[20:50:17] <Seeker`> late for what?
[20:50:21] <andy101> meeting
[20:50:22] <Daviey> gord: Yeah.. could get hectic - but i would like to trial it for one meeting then see where it goes
[20:50:28] <mgdm> we can still have a sort of out-of-band channel on here too
[20:50:31] <Seeker`> when did it start?
[20:50:35] <andy101> 9pm
[20:50:36] <mgdm> just to increase the confusion :)
[20:50:57] <Daviey> mgdm: And that could be relayed by a designated person... might also be able to stream the meeting in real time - will need to look into that
[20:51:12] <andy101> is it going to be a problem with people talking over each other, especially with some many people and the latency
[20:51:25] <andy101> s/some/so
[20:51:36] <mgdm> Daviey: I presume it can be recorded and put online pretty quickly afterwards, podcast style?
[20:51:45] <Daviey> andy101: Possibly - but with the GSM codec, latency should be low
[20:51:55] <Daviey> The server should cope bandwidth wise
[20:52:01] <Daviey> mgdm: yup
[20:52:02] <gord> it depends how clever the software is, if it only uploads/download data when people are talking and with a speex type codec then it would be bandwidth friendly
[20:52:03] <Seeker`> i think that it would make it difficult to give everyone a fair representation doing it via voice
[20:52:25] <mgdm> the voting could get interesting
[20:52:31] <mgdm> we'd probably still need to use IRC for that
[20:52:47] <Daviey> mgdm: could make a press 1 + press 2 app if it goes well - for future meetings
[20:52:48] <mgdm> (I'd imagine)
[20:52:54] <Nyx> hang on.. so your meeting so far has consisted of an hr talking about how your gonna hold the meeting?
[20:52:56] <mgdm> cool
[20:52:58] <andy101> Does SIP not have a text interface as well as voice?
[20:53:04] <Daviey> Nyx: no
[20:53:15] <Seeker`> it would unneccisarily exclude people too
[20:53:16] <Daviey> andy101: It's poop
[20:53:18] <Nyx> was getting worried :S
[20:53:29] <dgjones> I'll have to leave now
[20:53:31] <mgdm> Nyx: this is the "AOB" section
[20:53:42] <Seeker`> what did i miss?
[20:53:48] <Daviey> Seeker`: It could work the other way.. it could be more accissble and give people a chance to have points heard, rather that being missed
[20:54:06] <Daviey> dgjones: bye
[20:54:19] <Seeker`> Daviey: How so?
[20:54:19] <Nyx> ah, guess im too late to say good luck to LMM then
[20:54:26] <Daviey> Seeker`: What part?
[20:54:34] <Seeker`> give people more chance
[20:54:39] <Nyx> but not too late to ask if we are gonna hold that release part!
[20:54:45] <Nyx> *party
[20:55:06] <gord> text can be interperated in a veriety of ways, there are so many online arguments for that reason really. voice meetings could help a lot of that fade away, but then again it could also end up with a clique of people doing all the talking and anyone with a point they want to make not bringing it up
[20:55:10] <davmor2> Daviey: It also has the advantage that people like myself who are dyslexic can keep up with the banter
[20:55:15] <Daviey> Well you may have missed it, but i'm looking to use both SIP(VOIP) and a regular telephone number.. Would seem more accessible than IRC
[20:55:26] <Seeker`> but what about cost?
[20:55:36] <Nyx> I read somewhere you only get 40% of the understanding using text
[20:55:44] <andy101> who's going to set up the phone number thingy?
[20:55:47] <Daviey> Seeker`: If that's an issue, for a few people i can call them into the conference
[20:56:00] <Daviey> andy101: me
[20:56:11] <Seeker`> it would extend the meeting times doing it via voice
[20:56:20] <Seeker`> because only one person can talk at a time
[20:56:22] <gord> its also hard to misspell words when you use voice, apart from their, im always misspelling that when i talk
[20:56:29] <Nyx> and you would need an arbitrator
[20:56:49] <andy101> maybe a token for who has the floor?
[20:57:12] <Nyx> why not just do it over text? everyone has a computer + irc
[20:57:17] <gord> conch like system is a given is it not?
[20:57:20] <Nyx> and its easier to talk over each other
[20:57:30] <Daviey> Nyx: Talking over is not an issue?
[20:57:56] <gord> its an experiment Nyx, we already have text meetings
[20:57:57] <Nyx> daviey: you know what I mean. Its easier to have lots of msgs than lots of people talking at once
[20:58:09] <Seeker`> also, it constrains the environment that you can take part in
[20:58:18] <Daviey> Exactly, and i think each persons point should get full consideration.. not just scroll past
[20:58:20] <Seeker`> with text, you can do it anywhere with a net connection
[20:58:34] <Seeker`> with voice, you have to have somewhere you can listen and talk
[20:58:41] <Daviey> Seeker`: and with voice you can do it anywhere with a phone to hand :D
[20:58:44] <Nyx> maybe you should setup a special room for meetings then
[20:58:57] <Nyx> where there is some sort of 'question queue' or something
[20:59:03] <gord> we already voted on that Nyx
[20:59:04] <Seeker`> e.g. if i visit my parents, the computer is in the living room, so I couldn't talk
[20:59:23] <davmor2> Seeker`: with voice you can do it anywhere there is a net connection and a nokia n800 :)
[20:59:45] * Daviey steals davmor2's n800
[20:59:52] <Seeker`> davmor2: My point is that you need to be in a quiet environment, or somewhere you can talk
[21:00:04] <davmor2> :)
[21:00:04] <davmor2> :)
[21:00:14] <Nyx> how many people do you usually get in a meeting?
[21:00:18] <Daviey> And surely to give an IRC meetingfull consideration you need something similar?
[21:00:27] <Daviey> Nyx: not 'nuff
[21:00:36] <andy101> Nyx: not that many, I'd say about 10
[21:00:37] * davmor2 beats Daviey half to death for trying to nick n800
[21:00:40] <Daviey> I'm hoping voice can bring more
[21:00:49] <Nyx> well I would have joined earlier if I found out it was on today :(
[21:00:54] <Seeker`> Daviey: The range of situations that you can use voice is smaller than the range of situations text would be suitable
[21:01:02] <Nyx> 10? maybe voice IS a good idea then
[21:01:06] <Nyx> i thought it was something like 50
[21:01:18] <Seeker`> 50 people in the channel, about 10 contribute
[21:01:25] <Daviey> Seeker`: are you fundamentally against the idea?
[21:01:35] <Seeker`> Daviey: Yes
[21:01:41] <Nyx> why don't you do both
[21:01:47] <Daviey> Seeker`: votes still open btw
[21:01:48] <Nyx> just treat everyone equally
[21:01:49] <Nafallo> +1
[21:02:03] <gord> its not feasable to handle text and voice at the same time
[21:02:09] <Nyx> Daviey: cant anyone take part?
[21:02:11] <andy101> maybe we should prototype it to check feasibility and then discuss this after that?
[21:02:21] <Nyx> feasable as in technically or managerially?
[21:02:22] <Daviey> andy101: sounds good
[21:02:41] <Seeker`> -1
[21:02:41] <Daviey> This can be ready for testing next week? Volunteers?
[21:02:48] <Nyx> you could use something like teamspeak
[21:02:53] <Nyx> i'l volunteer
[21:03:02] <Nafallo> SIP
[21:03:03] <gord> i should be around to test things next sunday
[21:03:04] <Nyx> if you really want to hear me babble on about all sorts of rubbish
[21:03:07] <Nafallo> not non-free
[21:03:15] <davmor2> Daviey: easy solution do one on (voip) one off (irc)
[21:03:23] <Seeker`> the idea is ok, but i dont think its faesible
[21:03:25] <Daviey> gord: hmm.. next Sunday looks like we will be having the POC meeting
[21:03:45] <Seeker`> POC?
[21:03:50] <Daviey> point of contact
[21:03:53] <davmor2> point of contact
[21:03:54] <Daviey> keep up at the back ;)
[21:03:56] <gord> yeah thats why its a good time Daviey, that'll only last a short while and there should be people around to test stuff
[21:03:58] <Seeker`> :P
[21:04:00] <Nyx> i'm off to bed all, just popped in to say hi again (last log in something like a month ago) and to say gl to LMM
[21:04:11] <Nyx> night all, e-mail me if you want a volunteer (mat.larsen@gmail.com)
[21:04:15] <Daviey> nn Nyx
[21:04:17] <Daviey> Will do
[21:04:29] <Nyx> nn
[21:04:48] <Daviey> Okay, If we are holding the POC meeting next Sunday @ 9;00, shall we test this voice idea at 8:00?
[21:05:06] <mgdm> +1
[21:05:06] <mgdm> :)
[21:05:14] <Daviey> #endvote
[21:05:25] <gord> sounds like a plan :)
[21:05:28] <Nafallo> 9?!?!
[21:05:42] <gord> meetings are usually at 9 Nafallo
[21:05:47] <gord> pm
[21:05:49] <Nafallo> can we allow people to wake up first please? :-P
[21:05:56] <davmor2> Daviey: might not be back by then but 9 sounds good for the meet
[21:05:59] <Nafallo> ah. pm...
[21:06:04] <andy101> I am assuming he meant PM
[21:06:24] <Daviey> davmor2: hmm.. you are difficult.. :D
[21:06:37] * Nafallo has only had am/pm for a month ;-)
[21:06:40] <Daviey> Will testing the voice, after the IRC meeting be better for peeps?
[21:07:03] <davmor2> yes
[21:07:03] <Daviey> ~9:30-10:00pm
[21:07:20] <Nafallo> I can test all sunday ;-)
[21:07:23] <Daviey> Or mid-week? :P
[21:07:26] <Nafallo> probably
[21:07:29] <davmor2> yes
[21:07:31] <andy101> when do we ever finish by 21:30?
[21:07:45] <Daviey> andy101: yeah, but it won't be a proper meeting - just deciding POC
[21:07:56] <gord> (pie or chicken)
[21:08:04] <gord> im gonna vote for both
[21:08:10] <Daviey> chicken pie ftw
[21:08:16] <Nafallo> oh.
[21:08:21] <Nafallo> you make me hungry...
[21:08:27] <Seeker`> Daviey: It doesn't matter - we never have a meeting in 30 mins :P
[21:08:37] <Daviey> heh
[21:08:55] <Daviey> Okay, we'll test the voice next Sun
[21:09:05] <Daviey> any other businnes?
[21:09:21] <andy101> i think someone mentioned a party way back
[21:09:30] <Nafallo> releaseparty?
[21:09:32] <Daviey> Gutsy release party.. yup
[21:10:06] <Seeker`> Davieys house!
[21:10:21] <gord> with daviey supplying beer and cake
[21:10:21] <Daviey> davmor2: nice email :)
[21:10:27] <Nafallo> was the venue offically decided yet?
[21:10:30] <davmor2> thought so
[21:10:32] <gord> and chickenpie
[21:10:37] <Daviey> gord: I don't have _those_ sorts of cakes, sorry
[21:10:56] <gord> boo
[21:11:12] <Daviey> Popey was gonna go to London to check out a site, this week just gone
[21:11:15] <andy101> is there going to be "free beer" (sorry couldn't resist)
[21:11:17] <Daviey> Didn't hear how it went
[21:11:35] <Daviey> andy101: free as in freedom to bring your own beer :P
[21:11:37] <Nafallo> Daviey: pumbley?
[21:11:43] <Daviey> dunno
[21:12:38] <Nafallo> its a bit of a mess to get to from what I've seen. but it has weireless ;-)
[21:12:43] <gord> londons an excelent choice if you want to alienate people who don't live down south ;).. not that i can come :) just saying
[21:13:22] <Nafallo> gord: I'll be there, Sweden should be alien enough to make all UK humans ;-)
[21:13:29] <Daviey> Well I'm not certain us southern'ers want the riff-raff from up north socialising with us :)
[21:13:50] <gord> us riff-raff have parties 20x better than the posh lot ever could :P
[21:14:10] <Daviey> gord: and yet, i've never had an invite
[21:14:20] <gord> gotta keep the riff-raff out
[21:14:31] <Daviey> heck, the last bash/event (LRL) you didn't come - and that was up your way :P
[21:14:33] <Seeker`> Hadrians wall is too far north
[21:14:40] <Seeker`> :P
[21:14:43] <andy101> problem is the train fare to london's so high because "it's london" :(
[21:15:16] <Nafallo> oh. that argument again...
[21:15:25] <Nafallo> is the logs public?
[21:15:39] <gord> if i were gonna reccomend anywhere id say somewhere like birmingham, big enough to have fun places to go, good travel connections and closer to people than london
[21:15:44] <Nafallo> in that case, check them ;-)
[21:16:57] <Daviey> and gord provides a sofa free-of-charge
[21:17:10] <Daviey> and a full english breaky
[21:17:13] <gord> pfft, im not taking my sofa all the way to birmingham
[21:17:18] <Daviey> anyway, shall we close the meeting?
[21:17:23] <gord> yup
[21:17:28] <Daviey> #endmeeting
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
