{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

It was decided that, after running around Hyde Park to find other GeekNic-Goers, that it would be an idea to create a banner for the Ubuntu UK events

== Contents ==
It should ideally advertise the following:
* the fact that it is a Ubuntu UK event
* the Ubuntu-UK website (ubuntu-uk.org for those that don't know it!)
* the Ubuntu-UK event hashtag (#uukout)
* the Ubuntu Colours (Ubuntu Aubergine, Community Orange)
* the Circle of Friends

== Submissions ==
If you have ideas for the banner design, please add it below. Make sure to include your name and Wiki Page link!
Banner images should (ideally) be submitted as SVG files.

* ''<nowiki>[[JoeBloggs]]</nowiki> - http://example.com/example_banner.svg - This is an example submission!''

== Printing ==
Using a Digital Print company is probably the cheapest option. A quick google showed up this company to be fairly good:
* http://www.e-printing.co.uk/banner_printing/banner_printing.htm

== Pledges ==
As with everything, it can't be done for free, and as such some money is needed to pay for it.

Anything Pledged is gratefully received, if you have any queries, please ping someone in the IRC channel #ubuntu-uk

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''Date'''
| '''Amount Pledged'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}
