{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by AlanBell at 19:03 ==
 <''''''> MooDoo: hey,

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> [TOPIC] review of action items from last meeting

=== review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> do have a look and add stuff to the report whilst I go hunt for actions in the last minutes https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/June

 <''''''> wow pretty bare

 <''''''> [Progress report] popey to provide sample awesome reapproval page

==== popey to provide sample awesome reapproval page ====
 <''''''> well some folk attended the last LoCo council meeting

 <''''''> there are some awesome reapproval pages, I think it is going to be a tough process, but more on that later

 <''''''> Im here :P

 <''''''> I forgot that the meeting was at 8 :P

 <''''''> is popey recording this weeks podcast?

 <''''''> no matter MichealH :)

 <''''''> AlanBell: do you have examples of some pages that you think are really good?

 <''''''> popey is indeed off podcasting

 <''''''> !

 <''''''> AlanBell: Sorry for arroving late, But I would have remembered If I was thinking today :P

 <''''''> brobostigon, have a look at this page! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda

 <''''''> venuzuela for example

 <''''''> MooDoo: onemoment,

 <''''''> sorry

 <''''''> ok, i have it,

 <''''''> apologies for butting in

 <''''''> the other action was for me to arrange a workshop, which I kind of did for today, and did a little on it but not very collaboratively

 <''''''> ok, so before we go back to reapprovals . . .

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - CD Distribution

=== AlanBell - CD Distribution ===
 <''''''> MooDoo: sorry, i was distscted aswell, mymum is asking me question.s

 <''''''> so I have a lot of CDs

 <''''''> lots and lots

 <''''''> I want them distributed to useful places

 <''''''> yes, definatly.

 <''''''> trade shows are not what they used to be, there are not linux shows out there

 <''''''> !

 <''''''> we have a lot of hackerspaces in nottingham, i'd like some for there

 <''''''> really, cool

 <''''''> I tried contacting a bunch of university computing societies, but they either don't  exist or don't reply

 <''''''> :(

 <''''''> I am totally out of the loop in terms of universities in this country

 <''''''> i dont know anything either.

 <''''''> if people want CDs I am more than happy to arrange to meet in London and hand over a big box, or try and figure out some other distribution method

 <''''''> MooDoo: how can I get them to you?

 <''''''> AlanBell, if you have paypal i could make payment to get some shipped up here to notts

 <''''''> yup, can do

 <''''''> AlanBell: maybe something better planned, so we cansee, where cd's are being used directly.

 <''''''> ie pay you for the postage

 <''''''> brobostigon, perhaps a page that shows where they go

 <''''''> brobostigon: I did encourage people to put events and CD requirements on http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/2011plan

 <''''''> MooDoo: yes, something like that.

 <''''''> AlanBell: ok, let melook, good idea.

 <''''''> I wonder if there is a london hackerspace

 <''''''> or a linux user group that wants them

 <''''''> My IRC client just froze.  Had to re-boot

 <''''''> I will give a bunch to paula at Fossbox, Alan Cox wants some in Bracknel, Bea wants some for a course up north somewhere

 <''''''> museum of computing at Swindon is a possibility for some, that is Diana

 <''''''> AlanBell: this ones the first one that comes up on Google, in Shoreditch: http://london.hackspace.org.uk/

 <''''''> we have this - http://www.antenna.uk.com/

 <''''''> i am not familier any around here, near me.

 <''''''> nice

 <''''''> and lacemarket house - http://www.nostringsattached.biz/index.php

 <''''''> ok, well I want them gone, the Irish Loco got rid of theirs before ours even arrived!

 <''''''> lots of office sharing and hacker space :)

 <''''''> i'm trying to plan a few ubuntu hours, i should be able to get rid of them there

 <''''''> I will take a box to London tomorrow and see if I can find that hackerspace

 <''''''> I would love to do installfests in Universities

 <''''''> get students in a room and actually get things done and installed

 <''''''> however I have no idea how to make that happen

 <''''''> interesting idea.

 <''''''> big stick and beer....

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> every machine you convert to ubuntu take a drink :)

 <''''''> everyone that works take 2

 <''''''> Ont the list earlier, someone was suggesting that Canonical might be the ones to make 'first contact' Hows about?

 <''''''> Fix a bug, take 3

 <''''''> barrydrake, wouldn't it be better for someone in the specific area to contact first?

 <''''''> then if we need the big guns speak to canonical?

 <''''''> thoughts?

 <''''''> No.  If they don't know you, they don't want to know.  Alumni might get a look in?

 <''''''> Canonical can sell stuff to university chancellors if they want, I don't care about that

 <''''''> I'm talking introductions to the IT bod

 <''''''> getting a bunch of students enthused about ubuntu isn't a commercial proposition

 <''''''> AlanBell: only intellectual.

 <''''''> Beer and 'buntu sounds good to me :)

 <''''''> Getting Ubuntu out there is - in the long term

 <''''''> MooDoo: :)

 <''''''> AlanBell - Canonical do 'pro-bono' - look at the support they gave to PC mag

 <''''''> no, they do rescuing a PR disaster

 <''''''> surely that was nothing but PR?

 <''''''> they sent jpds out for a morning to fix stuff

 <''''''> AlanBell - you're a cynic!

 <''''''> and right :)

* '''''' is too i think :)

 <''''''> the community needs to do different stuff, sometimes in collaboration with Canonical

 <''''''> like we did for the ubuntu in business event

* '''''' likes the beer idea, and dissappears for a moment,

 <''''''> anyhow we should probably move on from CD distribution  to the reapproval

 <''''''> yes, what needs to happen, there alan.?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Reapproval Application

=== AlanBell - Reapproval Application ===
 <''''''> I need to find the tab with the agenda, thats what!

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/ReApprovalApplication2011

 <''''''> and the application

 <''''''> so we have to make that awesome

 <''''''> really awesome

* '''''' reads.

 <''''''> we need to include all the stuff we have done for the last few years

 <''''''> we need links to articles in the press and blogosphere about what we have been up to

 <''''''> are we going to just add everything we find to the pad and then write it up properly later?

 <''''''> ok, let me seewhat i can drag up, i star everything in google reader.

 <''''''> can we take the credit for canonical's release dos?

 <''''''> MooDoo: yes

 <''''''> do we have an etherpad for this?

 <''''''> BigRedS: not much of it

 <''''''> ok, i will lookthrough my rss,

 <''''''> BigRedS: that is a really interesting point you raise, and it has been raised before

 <''''''> surely they're all members of u-uk? :)

 <''''''> BigRedS, it wouldn't surprise me if lots of them have never heard of us ;)

 <''''''> well yeah, loads of LoCo team members from the community and Canonical go to them

 <''''''> for the last 4 or so I have been coordinating with Canonical about them (to varying degrees of success)

 <''''''> in terms of selecting a venue, attempting to do a press launch

 <''''''> then at least the things about the press launch and stuff should be included

 <''''''> ah yeah, there was plans for a business-friendly one this year

 <''''''> and loads of canonical folk do contribute to the LoCo

 <''''''> it seems odd to discount their contributions on the basis that they work for Canonical vs any other company

* '''''' doesnt know,how he can be of use, inall this.

 <''''''> the podcast doesn't have a link, maybe it should?

 <''''''> it should, we need lots of links and especially pictures

 <''''''> brobostigon, trawling through mails, planets, blog posts looking for ubuntu -uk events and things we've done over the years.

 <''''''> some of us have participated in canonical surveys, does it count?

 <''''''> not sure about that

 <''''''> we manned the stand at the cloudexpo in Barbican

 <''''''> that's one for the list then :D

 <''''''> MooDoo: thats one thing i am good at, keeping record of those kinds of things, somehow.

 <''''''> brobostigon, there you go when the pad us up, add away :)

 <''''''> MooDoo: ok, :)

 <''''''> i'm not sure if there is a generic application template though

 <''''''> brunogirin: yeah, that is on the list for sure

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/reapproval''
|}

 <''''''> http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/reapproval

 <''''''> a quick way to add stuff would be to go through all monthly pages and select the interesting stuff

 <''''''> yes, the team reports have useful information on them

 <''''''> perhaps i could point people to this? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/TeamApprovalGuidelines

 <''''''> I'm not volunteering - but someone could trawl through the list archive

 <''''''> you could indeed

 <''''''> there is the en_GB translation activity

 <''''''> and the welsh team

 <''''''> let's steal all the ideas from laura's ubuntu ie applcation page, she won' mind ;)

 <''''''> AlanBell: i would get hold of chris, abour welshteam, i havent been keeping up, recently.

 <''''''> perhaps we could just set a date of reviewing the pad page to see what we've got and what we need?

 <''''''> month from today maybe?

 <''''''> is there a due date, it all needs tobe done by ?

 <''''''> next LoCo council meeting is 19th July which is our first opportunity to go for it

 <''''''> has to be done this cycle

 <''''''> ok,

 <''''''> not too long then.

 <''''''> wow that's like 21 ish days.....

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> best get cracking..

 <''''''> i was in the last approval meeting and really felt for the team that was declined renewal

 <''''''> so don't want that to happen :D

 <''''''> ok, let me see, i have bookmarked the pad.

 <''''''> MooDoo: yeah, it is a distinct possibility

 <''''''> czajkowski won't vote for us, don't know if popey will

 <''''''> so even getting quorum for us is going to be a challenge, much less approval!

 <''''''> AlanBell, i would of thought laura would as she's more known for ubuntu ie

 <''''''> no

 <''''''> popey is a bit bias so he'd have to abstain

 <''''''> no?

 <''''''> dunno, haven't asked him, but anyhow, we don't need to analyse the voting intentions of the panel, we need to do an awesome application

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> I hate politics

 <''''''> quorum was my point

 <''''''> indeed so everybody needs to find something to add to the pad

 <''''''> if they can't get enough voters in the meeting it might end up being voted on using the mailing list

 <''''''> Who represents us at the meeting?

 <''''''> me and everyone

 <''''''> I am the point of contact so I have to be there

 <''''''> but everyone else can come and support

 <''''''> I'm in Ireland and connection is via phone dongle and very dodgy.  Will come if able.

 <''''''> I am also going to do a bunch of stats on the ubuntu-uk launchpad team

 <''''''> it is one of the biggest teams in the world

 <''''''> nice, :)

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> irc and mailing list stats too

 <''''''> both, get alot of activity.

 <''''''> we're pretty big on freenode aren't we?

 <''''''> we tend not to use the ubuntu forums specifically to the -uk, but I guess a lot of forums users are from the UK

 <''''''> fairly big, yeah

 <''''''> i dont know, the forums, always seemed alttle weird,

 <''''''> we have 3 users more than #london-hack-space so not vast

 <''''''> there is a UK LoCo forum, but it doesn't really get used

 <''''''> some other teams are all about the forum, especially where they have a language to identify with

 <''''''> we get lost in the Americans :)

 <''''''> and the ozzies and kiwis, etc

 <''''''> yeah, I just know -nl and -fr use the forums a lot

 <''''''> ok, lets carry on with the reapproval discussion later and in the #ubuntu-uk channel

 <''''''> [topic] books and butties

=== books and butties ===
 <''''''> ok, i havent been keeping on the ml thread about this,what it it about ?

 <''''''> meetup at the library for a trip and have a geeknic after i think

 <''''''> Sorry guys. Gotta go.  Probably not able to connect next meeting.  Will try to be there the one after.

 <''''''> o/ barrydrake

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=156528094418552''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=156528094418552

 <''''''> for the facebook folk it would be great if you could attend that and share it

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/1032/detail/ is the event on the LoCo directory thing''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/1032/detail/ is the event on the LoCo directory thing

 <''''''> feel free to share the facebook thing even if not going

 <''''''> I am sure facebook would be useful if I knew what I was doing with it

 <''''''> there maybe cake, :)

 <''''''> there are groups and pages and I don't really understand the difference or whether we should have one

 <''''''> there is an Ubuntu group with 200 members

 <''''''> no idea,either.

 <''''''> i think it's a good idea, just for the amount of people that use facebook

 <''''''> more exposure

 <''''''> there is an Ubuntu page with 400,000 fans

 <''''''> There will be cake

 <''''''> every time I did something with facebook before it wanted me to buy adverts to promote stuff

 <''''''> you don't need to do tht to create a page.....but you need 25 likes before you get a vanity url

 <''''''> should we do a page then?

 <''''''> +1 from me, it's not going to hurt and can be removed at a later date if not working.

 <''''''> I only know a few people on facebook

 <''''''> the problem is people need to remember to update it :)

 <''''''> yet another thing to update

 <''''''> but its a good way to get events out there

 <''''''> oh hi popey :)

 <''''''> uupc has a page

 <''''''> we just feed it the rss feed from the show

* '''''' didn't know that

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.facebook.com/UbuntuUKPodcast''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.facebook.com/UbuntuUKPodcast

 <''''''> rats beat me to it

 <''''''> it doesnt update very regularly

 <''''''> i guess it might if we put shows out more regularly

 <''''''> we have 600 people who 'like' that page

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> can't see a like button, maybe I already like it

 <''''''> nor can I...

 <''''''> is there an "unlike" link

 <''''''> on the left

 <''''''> i am an admin so see different stuff

 <''''''> found it

 <''''''> yes, there is

 <''''''> so you already like it

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> don't like facebook though :)

 <''''''> so are we having one? lol

 <''''''> so how should I have seen all the stuff on that page?

 <''''''> something got posted 2 hours ago

 <''''''> how do you see that without going and checking the page?

 <''''''> it should appear on your facebook feed thing

 <''''''> what you see when you're just at facebook.com

 <''''''> this is going a bit off topic granted

 <''''''> ah yeah. what is on-topic currently?

 <''''''> the prospect of a ubuntu-uk facebook page?

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> the british library event and promoting it and other stuff like it on Facebook

 <''''''> aha! It should also go on the webpage :)

 <''''''> ah, there is a link at the top for recent news, which is different to top news

 <''''''> I've heard that facebook pages can be updated by rss

 <''''''> only by being asked how to do it, though, so it might not be possible...

 <''''''> yes21:07 < popey> uupc has a page

 <''''''> 21:07 < popey> we just feed it the rss feed from the show

 <''''''> can also post other stuff

 <''''''> and discuss

 <''''''> so yes, I think it is probably worth setting up such a page and feeding it the rss from the website, and updating the website

 <''''''> and add events

 <''''''> you can have multiple admins too

 <''''''> and it will be there for people who notice stuff on facebook that isn't top news

 <''''''> ah yeah

 <''''''> and a single point to refer back to when we have to do next time next times re-approval :D

 <''''''> it will become top news if people click like

 <''''''> uh no MooDoo  :D

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> the loco council doesnt look at facebook stuff

 <''''''> we want single point to be the wiki please

 <''''''> and the other advantage is that those who notice can then send stuff to friends and promote the group further

 <''''''> i was more thinking about it being reference

 <''''''> [action] AlanBell to set up a facebook page

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell to set up a facebook page''
|}

 <''''''> and link it to the web site's RSS

 <''''''> yeah that too

 <''''''> https://www.facebook.com/pages/create.php

 <''''''> ok, any other stuff to discuss?

* '''''' shakes head

* '''''' shakes head, with a maybe.

 <''''''> yes: I may go to the desktop summit in Berlin in August: is anybody going?

 <''''''> apologies all i have to leave, pregnant wife is a callin......i'll catch up with the logs :)

 <''''''> bye MooDoo o/

 <''''''> I think we're mostly at the end anyway :)

 <''''''> ok :)

 <''''''> MooDoo: give her our greetings.

 <''''''> will do brobostigon :)

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> brunogirin: cool, what is that?

 <''''''> I am off to berlin in a week or two I think for an ODF plugfest

 <''''''> that's the combined GUADEC + KDE meeting: http://trac.yorba.org/ticket/3203

 <''''''> nice

 <''''''> ok, next meeting

 <''''''> lets do one a bit sooner and focus on the reapproval stuff

 <''''''> sorry, wrong URL: https://desktopsummit.org/

 <''''''> we should move fairlyquicker, concerning reapproval.

 <''''''> brunogirin: I was beginning to wonder :)

 <''''''> BigRedS: copy/paste error :-)

 <''''''> 6th July?

 <''''''> wednesday

 <''''''> looks fine here.

 <''''''> sounds good

 <''''''> I'll have no real idea until the day itself, though :)

 <''''''> 8PM?

 <''''''> later?

 <''''''> earlier?

 <''''''> same, is ok, here.

 <''''''> ok 8 it is then

 <''''''> either works for me. I was surprised by this one being not at 9, though

 <''''''> yeah, we thought we would try it earlier as some people found 9 rather late

 <''''''> yeah, I sort-of remembered that after seeing it was going on at 8

 <''''''> ok, we can pick a chair on the night, might be me as it is rather focussed on reapproval

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 20:37 ==
=== People Present ===
* brobostigon

* AlanBell

* StevenR

* brunogirin

* MooDoo

* MichealH

* barrydrake

* daubers

* BigRedS

* popey

=== Actions Recorded ===
* AlanBell to set up a facebook page
