{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Overview ===

The idea is resource for people studying to become an Ubuntu Certified Professional, or a similar goal to get help and help each other  

=== Detail ===

The idea is to form an informal group of people in UK who are studying or have studied technical aspects of ubuntu and maybe taking or considering taking the exams required for ubuntu certification. 

Participants in the group would be able to pool resources share information and generally help and encourage each other towards achieving their goals.

I'm a bit sketchy on the details because it is just an idea but some of the things that i think should defiantly be included;

* Some sort of introduction (of course)
* A list of people who are currently studying
* A list of "ubuntu mentors" a list of people who are prepared to be involved as helpers who may have already completed the certification or know a fair bit about it
* Links to study materials; syllabuses, ebooks, screen casts, practice test etc
* Information on testing, what tests are needed, how much it costs, where to book tests etc.

Some things it could also include 

* Some sort of irc meetings (or real life if enough demand) either regular irc meet up, or a meeting section where meeting can be scheduled
* People's comments, blogs, stories; basically someway that people can tell others about their experiences.

=== Resources Required ===

The only resources involved would really be people and their time, if we can get a couple of people to agree to be mentors that would be great. you would not be required to do a great deal, just maybe answer the odd question or irc or forums, which i know a lot of people do quite happily anyway.
The only other thing that is needed to get started is some resource links
i've put together some links to start things off

Ubuntu Certification Syllabus 

http://www.ubuntu.com/training/certificationcourses/professional/curriculum2

Linux Profosional Institution Certification Level 1 information (prerequisite for ubuntu certification)

http://new-www.lpi.org/eng/certification/the_lpic_program/lpic_1

Test Center Locater 

https://www6.pearsonvue.com/servlet/vue.web2.core.Dispatcher?application=VTCLocator&action=actStartApp&v=W2L&cid=117

http://securereg3.prometric.com/
=== Interested people ===

* Ging

=== Comments ===

