{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by AlanBell at 13:09:51 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-uk-meeting/2011/ubuntu-uk-meeting.2011-12-15-13.09.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda   (AlanBell, 13:10:01)
''LINK:'' http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-uk-meeting/2011/ubuntu-uk-meeting.2011-11-10-21.07.moin.txt I will put them on the wiki shortly  (AlanBell, 13:11:50)
* The Chair - review of action items from last meeting
** report] AlanBell to sort out loco directory event for dans le noir  (AlanBell, 13:13:16)
** report] brunogirin to investigate venues for an Ubuntu desktop apps hacking evening  (AlanBell, 13:13:36)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/December is the place to put team report stuff by the way  (AlanBell, 13:14:53)

* AlanBell - The Next Happy Hour(s)

* The Chair - Any Other Business

Meeting ended at 13:23:54 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (26)
* brobostigon (10)
* bigcalm (6)
* danfish (4)
* meetingology (3)
* TonyP_2 (1)
* MooDoo (1)
* DJones (1)

=== Full Log ===

 13:09:51 <AlanBell> #startmeeting

 13:09:52 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Dec 15 13:09:51 2011 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 13:09:52 <meetingology> 

 13:09:52 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 13:10:01 * brobostigon makes a pot of tea and coffee, for the comunity table.

 13:10:01 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda

 13:10:58 <AlanBell> hmm, I may have failed to do the minutes from the last one

 13:11:36 <brobostigon> ohwell.

 13:11:50 <AlanBell> http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-uk-meeting/2011/ubuntu-uk-meeting.2011-11-10-21.07.moin.txt I will put them on the wiki shortly

 13:12:05 <AlanBell> ok, so we should have stuff to go on the team report this month

 13:12:17 <AlanBell> the christmas meal at Dans Le Noir was good fun

 13:12:23 <bigcalm> Agreed

 13:12:28 <AlanBell> the Happy hour happened, but was a bit light on attendees

 13:12:42 <danfish> (2)

 13:12:52 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - review of action items from last meeting

 13:13:16 <AlanBell> [progress report] AlanBell to sort out loco directory event for dans le noir

 13:13:22 <AlanBell> yes, did that :)

 13:13:24 <bigcalm> :D

 13:13:36 <AlanBell> [progress report] brunogirin to investigate venues for an Ubuntu desktop apps hacking evening

 13:13:58 <AlanBell> bruno has been progressing this, we talked about it a bit the other day, we do have some potential venues

 13:14:04 <bigcalm> I can recommed it to anybody who didn't go as an exciting an unique experience. Helps if you have an open mind

 13:14:24 <AlanBell> I will be following this up with Bruno again, and we will get something happening in the new year.

 13:14:53 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/December is the place to put team report stuff by the way

 13:15:04 <AlanBell> ok, thats the actions

 13:15:07 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] AlanBell - The Next Happy Hour(s)

 13:15:25 <AlanBell> now where should we go next?

 13:15:30 <MooDoo> poo

 13:15:32 <brobostigon> o/

 13:15:54 <bigcalm> davmor2: fancy organising one in Wolverhampton?

 13:16:27 <brobostigon> AlanBell: i would orangise with some help, for eaither here in banbury, or in oxford.

 13:16:52 <AlanBell> we have had tentative suggestions from a number of places but nobody has so far positively said a date and a pub they want to do

 13:16:59 <AlanBell> oxford would be great

 13:17:04 <brobostigon> :)

 13:17:10 <AlanBell> wonder when dutchie goes back?

 13:17:16 * brobostigon thinks of good pubs in oxford.

 13:17:59 <AlanBell> ok, not sure we are going to decide right now, but the first person to come to me with a clear date in their diary and a pub suggestion gets it.

 13:18:21 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - Any Other Business

 13:18:24 <brobostigon> ok.

 13:18:31 <AlanBell> anyone got anything else they want to raise?

 13:18:44 <AlanBell> happy christmas and all that to everyone o/

 13:18:57 <bigcalm> And to you AlanBell :)

 13:18:59 <brobostigon> happy christmas AlanBell :)

 13:19:07 <danfish> right back at you :)

 13:19:35 <TonyP_2> & a FOSS New Year

 13:19:46 <bigcalm> Heh, oh dear :)

 13:19:57 * danfish stick on Slade

 13:20:05 <danfish> s/stick/sticks

 13:20:22 * brobostigon puts wizzard on the playlist also.

 13:20:58 * DJones pust Bohemian Rhapsody on as was christmas number one twice :)

 13:23:07 <AlanBell> ok, that probably about wraps it up, I was just having a look to see if there was an open week or anything coming up in the classroom channel but I can't see anything on the schedule

 13:23:19 <brobostigon> ok.

 13:23:54 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
