{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by AlanBell at 20:13 ==
 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda

 <''''''> ok, fairly light agenda, lets rattle through it

 <''''''> o/

* '''''' creates https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/April

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - review of action items from last meeting

=== AlanBell - review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in April, please place it in the report.

==== People who have achieved something in April, please place it in the report. ====
 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/April

 <''''''> done :)

 <''''''> doing it now

 <''''''> so podcasts and the oggcamp announcement are in

 <''''''> hi Biglesp, u3 can go there, that would be great

 <''''''> quiz night will go in (more on that later)

 <''''''> beerex? :)

 <''''''> global jam

 <''''''> U3 is in there now

 <''''''> nice one Biglesp

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] Poke AlanBell for an update on the launch party for natty.

==== Poke AlanBell for an update on the launch party for natty. ====
 <''''''> right, I can give an update on this

 <''''''> the planned press launch in the afternoon is cancelled :(

 <''''''> Canonical couldn't come up with anyone to attend and say a few words

 <''''''> so not doing that this time

 <''''''> however, the suggestions from the list of the Porterhouse in Covent Garden were liked by Canonical

 <''''''> that was the pre-pub bit at BCS?

 <''''''> that was indeed the pre-pub bit

 <''''''> so we are going straight on with the pub bit now

 <''''''> timing is after work, or whenever you get there, till late

 <''''''> and of course we have the Natty bank holiday the day after

 <''''''> any more to mention on that?

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] Notify the team of the change in title to PoC.

==== Notify the team of the change in title to PoC. ====
 <''''''> it should probably be in http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/744/detail/ ?

 <''''''> or from PoC to team leader that should be

 <''''''> the loco launch do list thingy

 <''''''> BigRedS: it should indeed

 <''''''> [action] AlanBell to put launch party on loco directory

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell to put launch party on loco directory''
|}

 <''''''> add an action for me to add it to next podcast

 <''''''> which will be live on 26th

 <''''''> released on 27th

 <''''''> just in time :)

 <''''''> [action] popey to mention launch party on the next podcast

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' popey to mention launch party on the next podcast''
|}

 <''''''> not sure the change in title went to the list, I will sort that out with the minutes of this meeting

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] Deferring "Daubers - UUK PoC Election Process" till next meeting

==== Deferring "Daubers - UUK PoC Election Process" till next meeting ====
 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] AlanBell to cover Election process at Global Jam

==== AlanBell to cover Election process at Global Jam ====
 <''''''> putting those together, we did review the process document during the global jam

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/UUKElectionProcess''
|}

 <''''''> http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/UUKElectionProcess

 <''''''> need to pop that on a wiki page and vote it in I think

 <''''''> probably at the next meeting as this one is rather lightly attended as we all forgot about it

 <''''''> [action] AlanBell to put election process on the wiki

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell to put election process on the wiki''
|}

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] AlanBell to email the list about mumble, etc

==== AlanBell to email the list about mumble, etc ====
 <''''''> did that

 <''''''> mumble worked rather well for the global jam I thought

 <''''''> and we are going to use it again on saturday for the quiz

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] daubers to email list about Sci-Fi event, and post up doodle poll

==== daubers to email list about Sci-Fi event, and post up doodle poll ====
 <''''''> hmm, I didn't see that

 <''''''> nope, looks like that is one to carry forward

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] HazRPG to hit up Cumbria LUG about Sci-Fi event and post some details their way.

==== HazRPG to hit up Cumbria LUG about Sci-Fi event and post some details their way. ====
 <''''''> well that would be a bit hard without the details being set first really

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> HazRPG: how is Cumbria LUG?

 <''''''> no HazRPG, never mind

 <''''''> AlanBell: If HazRPG isn't on, I know that he posted the Sci-fi event on the mailing list, and that Cumbria LUG is restarting to a degree

 <''''''> yeah, saw something about that which was quite encouraging

 <''''''> anyhow . . .

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] Poke Biglesp about how they got on at U3.

==== Poke Biglesp about how they got on at U3. ====
 <''''''> Looks like Cumbria LUG will be split into smaller lugs

 <''''''> POKE!!!

 <''''''> POKE RECEIVED

 <''''''> UCubed was a great success, we had a full day of talks and workshops.

 <''''''> Talks ranged from Ubuntu packaging, to video editing, and home servers.

 <''''''> The attendees enjoyed the unconference format of the event.

 <''''''> Blackpool LUG were there, and they ran a Debian demo area, which proved to be a huge crowd pleaser.

 <''''''> A write up can be found here http://ucubed.info/ucubed-2011-report

 <''''''> And our pictures can be found here http://www.flickr.com/groups/1687774@N22/

 <''''''> The organisers will be meeting soon to review the event and create a lessons learnt document for future events.

 <''''''> </copy-paste>

 <''''''> excellent

 <''''''> that would be a useful document to circulate

 <''''''> Put me down for that then mate

 <''''''> [action] Biglesp to produce and circulate lessons learned document from U3

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Biglesp to produce and circulate lessons learned document from U3''
|}

 <''''''> Probably take a few weeks to get a version to you

 <''''''> yeah, no problem

 <''''''> ok, moving on?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell Quiz night

=== AlanBell Quiz night ===
 <''''''> good photos

 <''''''> so the quiz night is on Saturday

 <''''''> at 21:00 local time

 <''''''> the questions are all set and ready

 <''''''> they have been prepared by people from all over the world for the UK team

 <''''''> :D

 <''''''> it is in the #ubuntu-trivia channel

 <''''''> and you can go there now and have a play with the quiz bot

 <''''''> the ubuntu questions will be released before the quiz

 <''''''> and we will also be using the mumble server so we can laugh at each other

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> win!

 <''''''> I will also reset the score table before the quiz so everyone starts from zero

 <''''''> but generally there is a running high score, and the observant will notice that I am in the top 10 \o/

 <''''''> ok, any questions on the quiz?

 <''''''> how will you stop googling?

 <''''''> it has cheat protection which stops people putting in multiple answers, can't stop people using google

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> however googling is slower than knowing the answer in the first place

 <''''''> and they are all on the subject of Ubuntu

 <''''''> unless we run out of questions and move to a different category

 <''''''> and there will be awesome prizes

 <''''''> which are somewhere on my desk I think

 <''''''> okies

 <''''''> lets leave the british library topic for the moment as Daubers isn't available

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Any Other Business

=== AlanBell - Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> anyone got anything else they want to bring up?

 <''''''> oggcamp tickets are going rather well

 <''''''> blimey 26 left

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://oggcamp11.eventbrite.com/''
|}

 <''''''> http://oggcamp11.eventbrite.com/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://oggcamp.org/''
|}

 <''''''> http://oggcamp.org/

 <''''''> is there scope for releasing more?

 <''''''> yes ;)

 <''''''> maaaaybe

 <''''''> (main room holds 450)

 <''''''> so that is 174 tickets gone!

 <''''''> Blimey!

 <''''''> in what three days?

 <''''''> hope they turn up!

 <''''''> yeah, since monday 20:00

 <''''''> 100 went in first 24 hours iirc

 <''''''> there is a nice chattery channel at #oggcamp too

 <''''''> oooh

 <''''''> so for the benefit of the minutes, popey what is oggcamp?

 <''''''> OggCamp is a community driven un-conference

 <''''''> made possible by the presenters of Ubuntu UK Podcast and Linux Outlaws

 <''''''> It's on 13th - 14th August in Farnham, Surrey

 <''''''> this will be our third - binary 11, which handly is the year

 <''''''> (last year was oggcamp 2, 10)

 <''''''> we're asking people to come along and talk about stuff that interests them

 <''''''> not specifically linux or ubuntu, but just 'stuff'

 <''''''> open technology, open culture, open minds

 <''''''> <EOF>

 <''''''> and Farnham is awesome

 <''''''> It is

 <''''''> I'm well chuffed to get that venue

 <''''''> its a lovely place

 <''''''> I hope the weather holds out, because Farnham is beautuful

 <''''''> *beautiful

 <''''''> popey: Will there be a list of hotels etc put on the website?

 <''''''> yes and no

 <''''''> we dont have an 'official' hotel

 <''''''> but we are recommending the Premiere Inn in Aldershot

 <''''''> which is just a few miles down the road and they have a deal on at the moment

 <''''''> 44 quid a night iirc

 <''''''> ok cheers

 <''''''> we have a bug tracker too

 <''''''> if there's anything you think we need to do

 <''''''> file a bug against http://launchpad.net/oggcamp

 <''''''> there may also be some camping options

 <''''''> possibly even one with some soothing farmyard clucking sounds

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> any more any other business?

 <''''''> not from me

 <''''''> oh actually

 <''''''> if anyone has suggestions for people we should invite to oggcamp, please do let me know!

 <''''''> just arequest to resend the mumble email... pretty please

 <''''''> suprengr: will do

 <''''''> AlanBell: :)

 <''''''> in short apt:mumble

 <''''''> then connect to mumble.libertus.co.uk

 <''''''> cool... & thanks

 <''''''> ok, will think about people to invite to oggcamp

 <''''''> thanks

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> bump to 1 week after release IMO

 <''''''> May 5th then?

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> sounds good to me

 <''''''> [agreed] date of next meeting May 5th 9PM

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' date of next meeting May 5th 9PM''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

=== Chair for next meeting ===
 <''''''> yeah gwan

 <''''''> [agreed] popey to chair

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' popey to chair''
|}

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 20:57 ==
=== People Present ===
* AlanBell

* popey

* Biglesp

* BigRedS

* suprengr

=== Actions Recorded ===
* AlanBell to put launch party on loco directory

* popey to mention launch party on the next podcast

* AlanBell to put election process on the wiki

* Biglesp to produce and circulate lessons learned document from U3
