{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by AlanBell at 20:01:46 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-uk-meeting/2011/ubuntu-uk-meeting.2011-10-20-20.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* review of actions from last meeting
** REPORT] People who have achieved something in October, please place it in the report.  (AlanBell, 20:03:20)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/October   (AlanBell, 20:03:23)
** REPORT] popey to do a report on the amazing oggcamp event  (AlanBell, 20:05:55)
** REPORT] GreenDance to start a sub-project specifically look at how to improve Ubuntu's coverage in the education area.  (AlanBell, 20:06:22)

* AlanBell - The Next Happy Hour(s)
''ACTION:'' AlanBell to call for a contact person for the December happy hour  (AlanBell, 20:19:32)

* AlanBell - Christmas Party?

* AlanBell - en_GB Localised ISO
''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2011-July/005506.html   (AlanBell, 20:41:44)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricOcelot/LocalizedImagesRollout   (AlanBell, 20:43:07)

* The Chair - Any Other Business

* Date of next meeting

Meeting ended at 20:54:44 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* AlanBell to call for a contact person for the December happy hour

=== Action items, by person ===

* AlanBell
* * AlanBell to call for a contact person for the December happy hour

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (73)
* BigRedS (26)
* brunogirin (10)
* meetingology (4)
* TonyP (3)
* SuprEngr (3)
* jacobw (2)
* popey (2)
* diplo (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:01:46 <AlanBell> #startmeeting LoCo Meeting

 20:01:46 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Oct 20 20:01:46 2011 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 20:01:46 <meetingology> 

 20:01:46 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:01:57 <popey> o/

 20:02:02 <brunogirin> o/

 20:02:23 <BigRedS> o/

 20:02:31 <TonyP> hi

 20:02:37 <popey> I'm in a pub!

 20:02:37 <AlanBell> #topic review of actions from last meeting

 20:02:45 <AlanBell> yay, pub

 20:03:20 <AlanBell> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in October, please place it in the report.

 20:03:23 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/October

 20:05:55 <AlanBell> [PROGRESS REPORT] popey to do a report on the amazing oggcamp event

 20:06:02 <AlanBell> popey failed :)

 20:06:05 <AlanBell> moving on

 20:06:19 <AlanBell> #

 20:06:19 <AlanBell> #

 20:06:22 <AlanBell> [PROGRESS REPORT] GreenDance to start a sub-project specifically look at how to improve Ubuntu's coverage in the education area.

 20:06:54 <AlanBell> um, more lack of action I think :(

 20:07:14 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] AlanBell - The Next Happy Hour(s)

 20:07:19 <BigRedS> There has been a lot of pub recently

 20:07:30 <AlanBell> so one is happening right now

 20:07:55 <brunogirin> BigRedS: you can never have too much pub :-)

 20:07:57 <AlanBell> the next one is planned for Nottingham, 10th November

 20:08:02 <AlanBell> in the Roundhouse

 20:08:14 <AlanBell> I have added the event to the LoCo directory

 20:08:32 <BigRedS> brunogirin: no, but it can get in the way of progress :)

 20:08:38 <AlanBell> would be great if people can publicise that a bit, especially in the Notts area

 20:09:11 <AlanBell> so, after Nottingham, where next?

 20:09:50 <BigRedS> where's that map of members? Pick another population hotspot?

 20:10:24 <brunogirin> Manchester?

 20:10:26 <BigRedS> oh, here: http://ubuntu-uk.org/where-are-we/

 20:11:03 <AlanBell> Oxford, Southampton, Manchester are all quite good options

 20:13:08 <AlanBell> any preferences?

 20:14:17 <brunogirin> nope

 20:14:27 * BigRedS can't really get to any of those so doesn't particularly mind

 20:15:10 <TonyP> none near me either

 20:15:40 <AlanBell> ho hum

 20:16:44 <brunogirin> I can probably do Oxford or Southampton

 20:17:06 <brunogirin> Manchester at a push if it's on a Friday

 20:17:40 <AlanBell> ok, well lets try to find a person in one of those places who can certainly turn up one evening early december

 20:18:01 <AlanBell> I want to announce that one on the day of the Notts one

 20:18:44 <brunogirin> so is that an action for you to post on the mailing list a request for volunteers to go to the pub one evening in December?

 20:18:54 <AlanBell> yup

 20:19:32 <AlanBell> #action AlanBell to call for a contact person for the December happy hour

 20:19:32 * meetingology AlanBell to call for a contact person for the December happy hour

 20:19:45 <AlanBell> which brings us on to  . . .

 20:19:50 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Christmas Party?

 20:20:11 <BigRedS> Aha!

 20:20:14 * BigRedS votes 'yes'

 20:20:14 <AlanBell> so should we do a christmas party?

 20:20:21 <AlanBell> where?

 20:20:56 <brunogirin> in a pub?

 20:20:58 <BigRedS> London!

 20:21:12 <AlanBell> pub in london sounds possible

 20:23:15 <brunogirin> but won't it clash with the december happy hour?

 20:23:33 <AlanBell> well maybe put the happy hour in Manchester

 20:23:39 <BigRedS> ah, perhaps. the december happy hour would probably be a christmasy do by default

 20:23:48 <AlanBell> it might be a bit chirsmassy

 20:24:24 <AlanBell> should we try something more of a meal perhaps?

 20:24:49 <BigRedS> might be hard close to christmas through everybody else wanting to do same?

 20:25:18 <AlanBell> sure, but we could book a christmas meal somewhere

 20:25:29 <AlanBell> would cost a bit, but hey, it is christmas

 20:25:40 <AlanBell> or just go to a pub

 20:26:13 <BigRedS> hmm, depends what the people going want, I suppose. Pubs are more flexible, which is probably handy

 20:26:20 <BigRedS> but also more alcoholic, which might be less so

 20:27:10 <AlanBell> maybe pub is best

 20:28:55 <diplo> I'm interested but defo would like some notice so i can make sure whether my ex or i have kids so i can arrange around them

 20:30:01 <AlanBell> ok, I will mail the list asking for venue suggestion for a christmas pub visit I think

 20:30:09 <AlanBell> some time late december

 20:31:51 <AlanBell> we are having interesting discussions here about London venues

 20:36:44 <AlanBell> ok, possible meal in total darkness

 20:37:05 <BigRedS> haha

 20:37:51 <AlanBell> ok, I will do some investigation

 20:37:54 <AlanBell> moving on

 20:37:57 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] AlanBell - en_GB Localised ISO

 20:38:43 <AlanBell> so we have Ubuntu 11.10 the Oneiric Ocelot and the official iso imaves

 20:38:46 <AlanBell> images

 20:39:19 <AlanBell> there is a process for LoCo teams to do a custom respin with their own locale and translations pre-installed

 20:39:24 <AlanBell> we should do that

 20:39:35 <BigRedS> yes

 20:39:41 <BigRedS> stop popey complaining about his trash can :)

 20:39:48 <AlanBell> with no americanisms

 20:39:51 <AlanBell> and a rubbish bin

 20:40:29 <TonyP> waste basket?

 20:40:29 <BigRedS> what do we need to do?

 20:40:31 <jacobw> ahem, 'deleted items'.

 20:40:53 <BigRedS> they're patently not deleted if they're in the not-yet-deleted-stuff directory...

 20:41:16 <jacobw> endangered items.. :P

 20:41:22 <BigRedS> haha

 20:41:44 <AlanBell> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2011-July/005506.html

 20:42:01 * SuprEngr thinks of a name - but darn't suggest it - it's got 4 leters & starts with an 's'

 20:42:25 <AlanBell> David Planella or dpm on IRC is the contact person for thatg

 20:42:28 <BigRedS> oh yeah, I remember that one

 20:43:07 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricOcelot/LocalizedImagesRollout

 20:44:30 <brunogirin> so how do we organise ourselves to do that?

 20:45:18 <AlanBell> well there are some instructions on that page, and some scripts which may wokr

 20:45:35 <AlanBell> we need to have a bunch of people working on this I think

 20:46:02 <AlanBell> getting it running, testing it, making sure the transkations are right etc

 20:46:54 <AlanBell> so how should we do this, kick off with a mail to the list and find some people to do it?

 20:47:17 <AlanBell> I will have lots of emails to get out later

 20:47:47 <BigRedS> haha, yeah, sounds like a plan. I think I'd be up for a bit of that. Though I'm already a bit short on time...

 20:47:55 <AlanBell> me too

 20:48:02 <AlanBell> however I would like to see it happen

 20:48:06 <BigRedS> yeah

 20:48:19 <AlanBell> ok, will do

 20:48:23 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - Any Other Business

 20:48:42 <AlanBell> anyone got anything thye want to raise?

 20:50:37 * BigRedS hasn't

 20:51:17 <SuprEngr> only to apologise for my tardiness... sdlight heating emergency

 20:51:25 <SuprEngr> *slight

 20:52:51 <AlanBell> okies :)

 20:52:53 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

 20:53:01 <AlanBell> about 3 weeks

 20:53:31 <AlanBell> ooh, 10th November, on the day of the Notts Happy Hour

 20:53:42 <BigRedS> aha

 20:53:53 <AlanBell> I like this plan

 20:53:54 <BigRedS> could make it a frequent thing

 20:54:08 <AlanBell> will pick a chair nearer the time

 20:54:09 <BigRedS> does introduce laptops to the happy hour, though

 20:54:23 <AlanBell> optional

 20:54:35 <AlanBell> I think chairing from the pub is sub-optimal

 20:54:44 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
