{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu UK @ LinuxWorld London 2006 ==

The UK Ubuntu LoCo team will be exhibiting as part of the .org village at LinuxWorld 2006 at Olympia in London on the 25th and 26th October 2006. This page is intended to act as a place to organise our presence there.

=== Volunteers ===

These people will be helping to man the booth:

* Adam Bagnall - Able to help on Thursday. Can bring laptop for demos.
* Alan Helmore-Simpson - Confirmed for both days.
* AlanPope - Can bring laptop for demos 
* StuartParkington - Confirmed for both days (aka MrSparks)
* NikButler - confirmed for both days
* Ashley Hooper - should be available at least one day.  Can possibly bring ancient laptop (P3-600) :-O
* Matthew Garrett - Available Wednesday .
* Alan Cocks - Available both days, uncertain about arrival time in mormning each day at present. Laptop possible if needed.
* Ana37 - need to check dates
* Caroline Ford - can do Wednesday and Thursday
* Tony and Laura Whitmore - days to be discussed!
* StuartEllis - can bring laptop

=== Stuff to take ===

These are the things we should take along - if someone can help, mail the ubuntu-uk list and add your name next to the item below:

* Laptop(s) with Dapper/Edgy - AlanPope (can also show how hardware such as mp3 player, palm TX, USB card reader and bluetooth "Just Works(tm)" with Ubuntu Laptop) - StuartParkington (Dapper laptop and iPod) - StuartEllis (laptop with Edgy and Edubuntu)
* Ubuntu CDs with Edgy (Wouldn't Dapper be better? Edgy will only just be released, and Dapper has LTS - Adam) (plus we can get hold of Dapper CDs easily)
* Hand out sheets
* Posters for the booth
* Ubuntu T-shirts for booth people?
* Senseo Coffee machine and a stack of coffeee pods and UHT(bluch! ) does anyone have a watertank to fit this ?
* Anything else?
* Big Bags to put away rubbish into
* Big Boxes to make things easier to carry 
* Stickers to identify stuff 
* Things to Lean on and Write with 
* Things to Write with 
* a Hipster for taking notes  .. old skoool style.

=== Messages To Get Across ===

* Ubuntu UK is a UK wide network of Ubuntu users
* Getting involved in Ubuntu
* Ubuntu UK supported UK related support issues?
* Growing Ubuntu UK?
* Edgy will be released on the Thursday. So documentation and articles and information about it especially upgrading and content.
* One choice, One Disk , One Place  - Ubuntu 
* We are the community that Support both the Developers and the Users of Ubuntu :- so what will make it work for you.

=== Events ===

* Setup Team  - Grab a Curry after configuring the booth 24th October 2006
* Ubuntu UK Meet - meet at the booth at 2.30pm on Wed 25th October 2006

=== Schwag ===

** We have Ubuntu and Ubuntu-64 and mac-Ubuntu and EduBunutu and Kubuntu CDs to give away.
** We have Stickers 
  
=== Schwag to Buy ===
** We have 25 Black Polo Shirts with the Ubuntu Logo on the Chest  in XXL, XL and L Mix available to buy for £14.00, note the price is £14.00 or preshow orders and £15.00 on the day . Thanks.

** If anyone can recommend or suggest anything Else let Nik Butler know.  

=== Planning ===

Stuff that has now been done and or has been actioned is now detailed in <nowiki>[[UKTeam/LinuxWorldLondon2006Planning]]</nowiki>
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
