{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by MichealH at 20:01:02 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/ubuntu-uk-meeting/2011/ubuntu-uk-meeting.2011-06-09-20.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda   (MichealH, 20:01:26)
* MichealH - review of action items from last meeting

* Progress Report - People who have achieved something in May or June, please place it in the report.

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/May https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/June  (MichealH, 20:03:07)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/MeetingNotes/20110526?action=show&redirect=UKTeam%2FLastMeeting#Actions%20Recorded   (AlanBell, 20:03:18)

''ACTION:'' popey to provide sample awesome reapproval page  (MichealH, 20:07:08)

''ACTION:'' AlanBell - Election Process Vote  (MichealH, 20:07:30)

* AlanBell - Election Process Vote
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Elections?action=diff&rev2=3&rev1=2   (AlanBell, 20:08:33)

* Daubers - British Library Sci-Fi Exhibition

* MichealH - Any Other Business
''ACTION:'' AlanBell to arrange a meeting on a workshop sometime and Mail it to the lists.  (MichealH, 20:18:14)

* Date of next meeting

* Chair for next meeting
''ACTION:'' CyberJacob to chair the next meeting.  (MichealH, 20:24:03)

Meeting ended at 20:24:22 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* Approve the contents of the wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Elections
   For: 8 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* popey to provide sample awesome reapproval page
* AlanBell - Election Process Vote
* AlanBell to arrange a meeting on a workshop sometime and Mail it to the lists.
* CyberJacob to chair the next meeting.

=== Action items, by person ===

==== AlanBell ====
* AlanBell - Election Process Vote
* AlanBell to arrange a meeting on a workshop sometime and Mail it to the lists.

==== CyberJacob ====
* CyberJacob to chair the next meeting.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MichealH (60)
* AlanBell (34)
* meetingology (26)
* CyberJacob (13)
* Ricey (11)
* daubers (11)
* SuprEngr (7)
* BigRedS (6)
* Core_UK (1)
* TonyP (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:01:02 <MichealH> #startmeeting

 20:01:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Jun  9 20:01:02 2011 UTC.  The chair is MichealH. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 20:01:02 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 20:01:09 <MichealH> Hi all, Welcome to this evenings Ubuntu UK LoCo Meeting! Glad to see many show up to the meeting... Please show your attendence by a "o/". The Meeting Agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda - Thanks again for showing up! :)

 20:01:11 <AlanBell> yay, hi MichealH

 20:01:14 <CyberJacob> o/

 20:01:15 <AlanBell> o/

 20:01:17 <Ricey> o/

 20:01:19 <SuprEngr> o/

 20:01:20 <MichealH> Hey AlanBell :)

 20:01:23 <Core_UK> o/

 20:01:26 <MichealH> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda

 20:01:42 <BigRedS> o/

 20:02:09 <MichealH> #topic MichealH - review of action items from last meeting

 20:02:09 <meetingology> TOPIC: MichealH - review of action items from last meeting

 20:02:41 <MichealH> Im sure we can just move on to the progress report?

 20:02:50 <AlanBell> oh, they didn't all get pulled through

 20:03:07 <MichealH> #topic Progress Report - People who have achieved something in May or June, please place it in the report.

 20:03:07 <meetingology> TOPIC: Progress Report - People who have achieved something in May or June, please place it in the report.

 20:03:07 <MichealH> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/May https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/June

 20:03:09 <daubers> o/

 20:03:18 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/MeetingNotes/20110526?action=show&redirect=UKTeam%2FLastMeeting#Actions%20Recorded

 20:03:45 <MichealH> AlanBell: What didn't?

 20:03:57 <AlanBell> MichealH: the list of actions, but never mind

 20:04:23 <AlanBell> so me to grab daubers, done, we sorted the date for the library thing

 20:04:30 <AlanBell> me to update wiki elections page, done

 20:04:42 <AlanBell> next meeting to vote, yeah, on the agenda

 20:04:54 <AlanBell> popey did follow up with daubers and get that done

 20:05:14 <AlanBell> popey: to provide sample awesome reapproval page  - not seen that

 20:05:30 <AlanBell> me to kick off reapproval page, yeah, did that not 30 minutes ago

 20:05:49 <AlanBell> me to canvas team about CDs, yeah, blogged it and mailed the list

 20:06:11 <AlanBell> MichealH to chair next meeting - that seems to be in progress :)

 20:06:18 <AlanBell> ok, that is the review of the actions done I think

 20:06:31 <MichealH> SO the action is to get popey yet again to do the reapproval page?

 20:06:42 <MichealH> I think I should #action that to him...

 20:06:53 <AlanBell> to send good examples from other teams, yes

 20:07:08 <MichealH> #action popey to provide sample awesome reapproval page

 20:07:08 * meetingology popey to provide sample awesome reapproval page

 20:07:26 * CyberJacob is afk

 20:07:30 <MichealH> #action AlanBell - Election Process Vote

 20:07:30 * meetingology AlanBell - Election Process Vote

 20:07:33 <MichealH> Oops

 20:07:35 <MichealH> D:

 20:07:41 <MichealH> #topic AlanBell - Election Process Vote

 20:07:41 <meetingology> TOPIC: AlanBell - Election Process Vote

 20:07:50 <MichealH> Sorry about that, AlanBell

 20:07:59 <MichealH> You are up, anyways

 20:08:14 <AlanBell> :)

 20:08:22 <AlanBell> ok, so this page has been updated https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Elections

 20:08:33 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Elections?action=diff&rev2=3&rev1=2

 20:08:37 <AlanBell> those are the changes

 20:08:48 * MichealH looks :)

 20:08:58 <AlanBell> everyone happy with them? anyone not ready to vote on accepting them?

 20:09:21 <MichealH> AlanBell: It seems like it is me and you At the moment :P

 20:09:24 <BigRedS> looks good

 20:09:26 * daubers is happy

 20:09:27 * SuprEngr looked - approved

 20:09:31 <Ricey> looks fine to me

 20:09:41 <MichealH> Shall we vote now?

 20:09:41 <Ricey> can a re-election occur?

 20:09:47 <BigRedS> yeah

 20:09:53 <Ricey> ok

 20:09:59 <BigRedS> I think we breifly covered that before, but perhaps didn't write it down

 20:10:01 <AlanBell> Ricey: yes, there is nothing to stop someone from re-standing

 20:10:09 <MichealH> #vote Approve the contents of the wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Elections

 20:10:09 <meetingology> Please vote on: Approve the contents of the wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Elections

 20:10:09 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:10:14 <AlanBell> +1

 20:10:14 <meetingology> +1 received from AlanBell

 20:10:15 <BigRedS> +1

 20:10:15 <meetingology> +1 received from BigRedS

 20:10:18 <Ricey> +1

 20:10:18 <meetingology> +1 received from Ricey

 20:10:18 <MichealH> +1

 20:10:18 <meetingology> +1 received from MichealH

 20:10:23 <TonyP> +1

 20:10:23 <meetingology> +1 received from TonyP

 20:10:27 <SuprEngr> +1

 20:10:27 <meetingology> +1 received from SuprEngr

 20:10:45 <daubers> +1

 20:10:45 <meetingology> +1 received from daubers

 20:10:56 <MichealH> AlanBell: Also, while i remeber meetingology does not do +1 COMMENT :(

 20:10:58 * CyberJacob is no longer afk

 20:11:14 <MichealH> I think we have all voted :)

 20:11:14 <CyberJacob> +1

 20:11:14 <meetingology> +1 received from CyberJacob

 20:11:21 <MichealH> #endvote

 20:11:21 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Approve the contents of the wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Elections

 20:11:21 <meetingology> Votes for:8 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:11:21 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:11:25 <AlanBell> I also have a proxy +1 vote from Neil Greenwood

 20:11:35 <MichealH> Great!

 20:11:45 <AlanBell> yay

 20:11:53 <MichealH> Im sure that means there is a no action to this topic :P

 20:11:59 <AlanBell> yup

 20:12:10 <daubers> \o/

 20:12:11 <MichealH> #topic Daubers - British Library Sci-Fi Exhibition

 20:12:11 <meetingology> TOPIC: Daubers - British Library Sci-Fi Exhibition

 20:12:13 <AlanBell> I might clarify that the incumbent can re-stand

 20:12:18 * MichealH cheers for no actions :)

 20:12:37 <MichealH> AlanBell: incumbent?

 20:12:39 <SuprEngr> [unless there's an action: done & dusted'!]

 20:12:54 <AlanBell> MichealH: the current leader

 20:13:02 <MichealH> Ah :)

 20:13:11 <MichealH> daubers: Anyway, you were saying?

 20:13:16 <MichealH> :)

 20:13:17 <daubers> Umm... I wasn't aware of this topic, so a bit off guard. But everything is moving along. I need to write a meeting peoples plan, and bend peoples arm for picnic goodies

 20:13:38 * BigRedS will bring cake and coffee if he can make it

 20:13:46 <daubers> Thats all I think :)

 20:13:55 <CyberJacob> do we have a date yet?

 20:14:00 <MichealH> daubers: Where will this take place?

 20:14:04 <daubers> Yes!

 20:14:16 <MichealH> Or has that not been decided on yet?

 20:14:17 <daubers> Umm.. it's in an email on the list and the topic in -uk

 20:14:24 <AlanBell> 24th July!

 20:14:29 <daubers> MichealH: British Library in London

 20:14:49 <MichealH> Oops... Dis not read the #topic :P

 20:14:53 <daubers> :)

 20:14:58 <MichealH> daubers: That is all?

 20:15:23 <daubers> MichealH: Indeed

 20:15:29 <MichealH> #topic MichealH - Any Other Business

 20:15:29 <meetingology> TOPIC: MichealH - Any Other Business

 20:15:57 <MichealH> Anything else that we need to talk about?

 20:16:22 <AlanBell> the reapproval application will need some work

 20:16:34 <MichealH> Call for people to help?

 20:16:35 <AlanBell> but I don't have a plan as yet for how and when to do that

 20:16:49 <Ricey> I'll be happy to help

 20:17:01 <AlanBell> yeah, will probably call a separate meeting to do a workshop on that or something

 20:17:16 <Ricey> affirm

 20:17:35 <MichealH> AlanBell: You may be able to sort it out and Mail the Lists about that?

 20:17:42 <AlanBell> yeah

 20:18:14 <MichealH> #action AlanBell to arrange a meeting on a workshop sometime and Mail it to the lists.

 20:18:14 * meetingology AlanBell to arrange a meeting on a workshop sometime and Mail it to the lists.

 20:18:34 <MichealH> #topic Date of next meeting

 20:18:34 <meetingology> TOPIC: Date of next meeting

 20:18:48 * MichealH prefers it not to be a Thursday :P

 20:19:07 * MichealH looks at his calender

 20:19:22 <MichealH> Wed 22?

 20:19:24 <Ricey> no preference here, there's nowt on telly anyway recently!

 20:19:35 <CyberJacob> +1

 20:19:54 <AlanBell> wednesday 22 is good for me

 20:19:56 <MichealH> AlanBell: Is Wed 22 okay with you?

 20:19:59 <MichealH> Too late :P

 20:20:14 <MichealH> Anyone here have any objections to Wed 22?

 20:20:26 <CyberJacob> :Pd:

 20:20:32 <SuprEngr> whoopee.. 2 meetings in a row when not working out of hours shift :)

 20:20:42 <SuprEngr> wed 22 pleeese

 20:20:45 <CyberJacob> :bq:

 20:20:58 * MichealH assumes that everyone is happy

 20:21:06 <Ricey> i am

 20:21:17 <CyberJacob> same here

 20:21:19 <MichealH> #agreed The Next meeting will be on the 22nd June 9:00PM BST

 20:21:33 * SuprEngr thanks

 20:21:44 <MichealH> #topic Chair for next meeting

 20:21:44 <meetingology> TOPIC: Chair for next meeting

 20:22:22 <CyberJacob> *silence*

 20:22:42 * MichealH would happily do it again, but i'm sure its against the rules to do it 2 times in a row :P

 20:22:42 * Ricey hides

 20:22:49 <CyberJacob> o/

 20:23:01 <MichealH> CyberJacob: You Volenteer?

 20:23:02 <Ricey> can't guarantee i'll be around

 20:23:05 <CyberJacob> yep

 20:23:19 <MichealH> Agreed, CyberJacob is the next chair?

 20:23:25 <CyberJacob> :)

 20:23:36 <AlanBell> yup

 20:23:54 <MichealH> #agreed CyberJacob will chair the next meeting on Wed 22.

 20:24:03 <MichealH> #action CyberJacob to chair the next meeting.

 20:24:03 * meetingology CyberJacob to chair the next meeting.

 20:24:14 <MichealH> Its done! :)

 20:24:22 <MichealH> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
