{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Back to <nowiki>[[UKTeam]]</nowiki>

=== Goals ===

* Introduce <nowiki>[[http://www.edubuntu.org|Edubuntu]]</nowiki> into schools.
* Encourage use of <nowiki>[[http://www.theopencd.org|Free/Open Source Software for Windows]]</nowiki> in schools and universities to increase acceptance of FOSS.
* Currently joining the <nowiki>[[http://www.openschoolsalliance.org/|Open School Alliances]]</nowiki> effort to lobby MPs to sign <nowiki>[[http://edmi.parliament.uk/EDMi/EDMDetails.aspx?EDMID=31752&SESSION=885|Early Day Motion 179]]</nowiki>, backing open source in schools and expressing concern over current software procurement methods. Currently fifteen M.P.s have been lobbied with at least one successful response.

=== UKTeam Involvement in Educational Organisations ===

==== The Photographic Society at Cardiff University ====

Contact: SteveSmith

I'm president of the Photographic Society.  Beginning in September we'll be teaching photo manipulation with <nowiki>[[http://www.gimp.org|GIMP]]</nowiki>.  My philosophy is to focus on the basics, with emphasis on ''why'' you do things in a particular way (e.g. why it's good to use layers).  If you teach photo manipulation or anything similar I'd love to hear your experiences!

I'm finding that Windows Free/Open Source (see <nowiki>[[http://www.theopencd.org|TheOpenCD]]</nowiki>) is a great way to slowly inch people in the 'right direction'.  I'm involved in <nowiki>[[http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/teams/europe/uk/cardiff|Cardiff's Software Freedom Day team]]</nowiki>.

=== Resources ===

==== Organisations ====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.edubuntu.org|Edubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.moodle.org|Moodle]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.schoolforge.org.uk|Schoolforge-UK]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.schoolforge.org.uk/index.php/Case_Studies|list of schools using FOSS]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.becta.org.uk|BECTA]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://business.newsforge.com/search.pl?tid=35|NewsForge education section]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.elearning.ac.uk|JISC e-Learning]]</nowiki>

==== Articles ====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.becta.org.uk/corporate/publications/documents/BEC5606_Full_report18.pdf|BECTA: Open Source Software in Schools (PDF)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://moodle.org/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=34002|The Open University builds student online environment with Moodle and more]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://insight.zdnet.co.uk/software/linuxunix/0,39020472,39256042-6,00.htm|ZDNet UK: Open source in education: Winning hearts and minds]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://uk.sun.com/sunnews/press/2006/2006-03-08.html|Sun Microsystems: Bradford Council Builds Schools for the Future with Sun Microsystems]]</nowiki>

----

CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryMarketing <nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
