{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

UKSkills is an offshoot of the UK Ubuntu Team. It allows all users to offer and look up particular skills and resources needed for your event / project. Whilst technical help is available through the support channels, UKSkills is here to help you with practical side that's needed to help you realise your project. It may be as simple as being able to design/print A4 flyers or have access to a CD duplicator or are being pretty snazzy with an iron to put artwork onto t-shirts, it all helps!

Listed below are the users who are offering their knowledge, skills and resources to help with your event and/or project. Please feel free to email me with your name, contact details and skill base you're willing to offer to the Ubuntu-UK community.
(or edit this page as required)

Thanks in advance.

Dave Lamb (daveubu@gmail.com - Norf-ubu #ubuntu-uk)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Contact / Alias
| Contact
| Skill Base (and availability)
|-
| Martin Fitzpatrick
| martin.fitzpatrick@gmail.com
| Web, Wordpress & Drupal development (PHP, HTML etc.)
|-
| 
| 
| Short-term Apache web hosting / management
|-
| 
| 
| Writing & proofreading
|-
| Dave Lamb
| daveubu@gmail.com
| DTP - Various formats (Via Email)
|-
| 
| 
| Design - Various formats (Via Email)
|-
| 
| 
| Proof Reading (Via Email)
|-
| Adam McMaster
| astopy@gmail.com
| Writing
|-
| 
| 
| Copy editing / proofreading
|-
| 
| 
| Short-term web hosting
|-
| 
| 
| Server administration
|-
| 
| 
| PHP coding
|-
| Michael Wood / X3N
| MichaelWood3
| Web development
|-
| 
| 
| Server administration http/ftp/ssh/irc/mail/dns/ Management / Hosting
|-
| 
| 
| C/C++ & Scripting / Grapic Design
|-
| Gary Kearley
| GaryKearley
| Proof Reading / Coffee
|-
| 
| 
| Hardware (used to work as a Field Service Engineer)
|-
| Gord Allott
| gordallott@gmail.com
| Coding: C, python. Graphic Design
|-
| James Pain
| jamesepain@gmail.com
| Server administration http/ftp/ssh/irc/mail/dns/ Management / Hosting
|-
| Alistair Crust
| tsurc@tsurc.force9.co.uk
| Thin Clients, rsync, (x)html, OPEN Source in schools
|-
| Matt Medland
| MattMedland
| PHP, (X)HTML, CSS, basic graphic design
|-
| Paul Mellors
| paul@paulmellors.net
| Web/Domain Hosting, Server Admin, ftp/dns/apache
|-
| Neil Greenwood
| <nowiki>[[Neilgreenwood]]</nowiki>
| Coding: Java, C (rusty). Proof Reading. (X)HTML, CSS
|-
| Chris Rowson aka 'leftcase'
| <nowiki>[[Chrisrowson|Chrisrowson]]</nowiki>
| Desktop/Server Administration (Linux/Windows) / Web Design / SEO (some) / Marketing / Infrastructure / Public Internet Projects
|-
| AndrewBarber
| andrew-alex-barber@ubuntu.com
| Coding: Java, C/C++, PHP
|-
| 
| 
| Web: (X)HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, Wiki, Planet, Various CMS
|-
| 
| 
| Can also offer: Web Space, IRC services, GNU/Linux help
|-
| Joe Bloggs
| me@here.now
| stuff
|}

As you'll appreciate, the time, skills and resources are offered on a goodwill basis, so please discuss your needs with the "listee" and any time constraints.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
