{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Older News ===

==== 29th March 2008 ====

* A <nowiki>[[UKTeam/PackagingJamJune2008| packaging/bug jam]]</nowiki> is being organised, tentatively for early June.

==== 26th March 2008 ====

* <nowiki>[[UKTeam/MeetingNotes/20080326Meeting|Next meeting]]</nowiki> announced for 26th March 2008 at 20:30 UTC / GMT in #ubuntu-uk on IRC.

==== 30th September 2007 ====

* New Loco contact found. AlanPope is now the point of contact for the Ubuntu-UK Loco team.

==== 23rd September 2007 ====

* <nowiki>[[UKTeam/NewLocoContact | New Loco Contact Needed]]</nowiki>

==== 5th February 2007 ====

* <nowiki>[[UKTeam/LugRadioLive2007| Lugradio Live 2007]]</nowiki> has just been announced; and a wiki page created to plan for Ubuntu's presence

* The CommunityCouncil have approved the UKTeam as an official LoCoTeams 
* AlanPope, NikButler, <nowiki>[[Joseph_Price]]</nowiki> and DeanSas have been accepted as Ubuntu members. Congratulations guys.
* Lobbying MPs to sign <nowiki>[[http://edmi.parliament.uk/EDMi/EDMDetails.aspx?EDMID=31752&SESSION=885|EDMI 179]]</nowiki> backing Open Source in schools - <nowiki>[[UKTeam/Education|more info]]</nowiki>
* The Charity Auction raised £300.0 for Children In Need, well done guys and thank you.
 