{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== What? ==

GUADEC is the GNOME Users and Developers European Conference. It is a big get together for GNOME users and developers who are scattered around the world to talk about GNOME, its future direction and to showcase the latest technology (and to drink beer).

GNOME is the desktop "graphical environment" for plain Ubuntu and Edubuntu, it provides most of the applications you see in the menus on a fresh install and provides the tool kit for many other applications. 

More info at http://guadec.org/ or by <nowiki>[[http://www.uk.gnome.org/?page=Contact|contacting the GNOME UK Team]]</nowiki>.

== When? ==

Sunday July 15th - Saturday July 21st 2007.

== Where? ==

<nowiki>[[http://www.conservatoire.uce.ac.uk/about/directions|The UCE Birmingham Conservatoire]]</nowiki>, Birmingham, UK. 

== Who? ==

Add your name if you're planning on attending

* DeanSas
* AlexLatchford
* <nowiki>[[Andrewwilliams2]]</nowiki>
* PaulMellors
* MichaelWood3 (also a guadec.org website admin)
* DaveWalker
* Ciarán Mooney

== Ideas ==

What should we do when there? (aside from attending presentations, workshops and bofs)
* In person UKTeam meeting
* Hand out Ubuntu CDs - Inside and outside the Venue ie around Birmingham
* Give out participation information, mailing list and IRC info

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
