{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by popey at 20:00 ==
 <''''''> Hi. Welcome all to the Ubuntu UK Meeting

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> I'm Alan, your chair for this evening. Please let us know you're present with a o/

 <''''''> Please keep chit-chat to a minimum whilst we hold the meeting.

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> Ã´/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> The agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda please take a moment to open that up

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> First item on the agenda..

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> [TOPIC] popey - review of action items from last meeting

=== popey - review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in July, please place it in the report

==== People who have achieved something in July, please place it in the report ====
 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/July

 <''''''> if you've done anything to do with Ubuntu this month, please add it to the above page

 <''''''> popey: Do we need this as it is the middle of July?

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> other team report months will not really be suitable for July :)

 <''''''> I thought we did it at the start of every month

 <''''''> I guess it could be updated until the end of the month though.

 <''''''> we remind people all the time every month

 <''''''> it can be updated at any time

 <''''''> \o/ Wikis!

 <''''''> moving on..

 <''''''> Ooops Sorry popey

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] Daubers update on support guidelines

==== Daubers update on support guidelines ====
 <''''''> daubers isnt around, I believe he was unable to make the meeting due to other commitments

 <''''''> so we can defer that

 <''''''> next..

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] popey to determine testing methods for ISO testing

==== popey to determine testing methods for ISO testing ====
 <''''''> I mailed the list about this.. which was my action item from last time, and so far I've had one volunteer who has offered to take this on

 <''''''> other volunteers welcome too!

 <''''''> Eek!

 <''''''> popey: I volenteer!

 <''''''> great! see me after the meeting!

 <''''''> Phew! It's not just me then?

 <''''''> Not at all gneel

 <''''''> awesome, having multiple people help with that will be really useful!

 <''''''> Absolutely.

 <''''''> ok, next up..

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] popey to to mail the list and blog about non-technical events

==== popey to to mail the list and blog about non-technical events ====
 <''''''> Geeknick?

 <''''''> MichealH: I'm on top of the agenda, don't worry

 <''''''> No waut thats tech realted... Just forget it :S

* '''''' was in wrong room

 <''''''> I mailed the list, blogged and we covered this on the podcast, so I think thats that action item initially covered

 <''''''> Yes

 <''''''> Is it worth a follow-up when we've got a list of event types?

 <''''''> but happy to hear (via the list or my blog or feedback to the podcast) about any other non-tech events that people might want to pimp ubuntu at!

 <''''''> sure, we can certainly do that

 <''''''> we have a wiki page to track this :)

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> popey: Oh...

 <''''''> Yay!

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/NonTechEvents

 <''''''> these are suggested events that the LoCo might want to consider attending

 <''''''> Moving on...

 <''''''> please.

 <''''''> Okay... issyl0 and ascenseur isnt here

 <''''''> no, please don't I mean.

 <''''''> well we could try a ping

 <''''''> please be patient

 <''''''> Oh sorry

 <''''''> I am not finished

 <''''''> we can discuss this more on the list, will add a progress report item again for the next meeting, as I only posted to the list very recently and the podcast wont come out until later this evening

 <''''''> so discussion can certainly carry on for a while about that subject.

 <''''''> I agree

 <''''''> Ok, moving on...

 <''''''> [TOPIC] ascenseur & issyl0 - Geeknic

=== ascenseur & issyl0 - Geeknic ===
 <''''''> issyl0: poke!

 <''''''> I know Joe sent a mail to the list recently, so anyone interested in coming along to the London Geeknic, please do sign up, and let Joe know!

 <''''''> popey: I know I cant!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/172/detail/ has detail''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/172/detail/ has detail

 <''''''> ok, we can bump the geeknic update till issyl0 and joe are about :)

 <''''''> Next we have...

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Review of the Ubuntu In Business Event

=== AlanBell - Review of the Ubuntu In Business Event ===
 <''''''> AlanBell: over to you..

 <''''''> popey: there is just one question: where? Hyde Park is big

 <''''''> brunogirin: I expect there will be a map

 <''''''> brunogirin: perhaps ask on the list?

 <''''''> A google map?

 <''''''> brunogirin: Or ask in #geeknic

 <''''''> popey: I did, Joe said he would sort that out

 <''''''> ok, so the Ubuntu in Business event was held on the 13th

 <''''''> I'd rather it was on the list so everyone could see it

 <''''''> I think a great time was had by all

 <''''''> but lets move on to the next item with AlanBell

 <''''''> congrats to AlanBell and all

 <''''''> there were a number of presentations and demos conducted by members of the community and various partner organisations

 <''''''> The Ubuntinis were an interesting drink

* '''''' would love to see an ubuntu in the public sector event and would be happy to help :0

 <''''''> it generated some press coverage, somewhere on ITpro that I don't have a link for right now

 <''''''> AlanBell: Thats great!

 <''''''> we are having a followup call with the Canonical half of the organising team tomorrow

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.itpro.co.uk/625159/is-open-source-ready-for-business-prime-time''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.itpro.co.uk/625159/is-open-source-ready-for-business-prime-time

 <''''''> and will be discussing stuff to do better at the next one :-)

 <''''''> thats the one

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> danfish: that sounds sensible with the NHS just ditching MS contract

 <''''''> so yes, one with more of a public sector focus might work well

 <''''''> any other comments from people who attended?

 <''''''> there are a few articles on http://blog.canonical.com/ about it too

 <''''''> We need to look for more venues

 <''''''> the venue was.. quirky

 <''''''> both quirky good and quirky bad

 <''''''> it was

 <''''''> I agree, in particular there wasn't enough space around the tables for the demos

 <''''''> popey: Maybe on up north?

 <''''''> we can have them wherever people are willing to organise them

 <''''''> north, south, east or west

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> Okay... So...

 <''''''> question: was any of the material shown at the event available elsewhere for review?

 <''''''> lee_cow: presentations and things you mean?

 <''''''> ah yes, I had the same question: is there a way to have access to the presentation material?

 <''''''> i have a copy of all the presentations

 <''''''> could the presentations be added to wiki?

 <''''''> not sure how useful they'd be without the chat

 <''''''> ^^ I agree

 <''''''> I can put my presentation up somewhere

 <''''''> but I can certainly put them online

 <''''''> comments understood, merci

 <''''''> sounds like an action

 <''''''> [ACTION] popey to put the presentations online from UiB

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' popey to put the presentations online from UiB''
|}

 <''''''> Talking about the NHS MS contract being ditched, my PCT are looking for alternative virtualisation schemes - an area for me to action?

 <''''''> ok, think I am done on the UiB area

 <''''''> danfish: want to add it as an agenda item for next time or bring it up as AOB?

 <''''''> next item..

 <''''''> [TOPIC] danfish - Distributed Backup proposal

=== danfish - Distributed Backup proposal ===
 <''''''> over to you danfish

 <''''''> ta

 <''''''> A discussion was had a few weeks ago on distributed backup and how it would be a rather attractive addition to ubuntu(-uk?)

 <''''''> Essentially with distributed backup you sacrifice some of your own storage to gain offsite storage.

 <''''''> I've done some googleinging and have looked at existing projects

 <''''''> popey in fact came up with a good example in the proprietary wuala (http://www.wuala.com)

 <''''''> but the 'overhead' is fairly steep

 <''''''> there is an similar project from MIT called Distributed Internet Backup System (DIBS)

 <''''''> a guy in hampshire lug also has one called DIASER

 <''''''> which is open source

 <''''''> the licence on the site looks pretty much linux friendly and permissive

 <''''''> popey: ok not seen that one

 <''''''> Is this idea worth pursuing in people's opinions, or too ambitious/unrealistic/dumb?

 <''''''> Is there a way to set a schedule for uploads/downloads? I'm on metered broadband with an unmetered period.

 <''''''> gneel: those are kinda implementation details

 <''''''> each is different

 <''''''> OK, I'm not familiar with either.

 <''''''> maybe danfish could go away and review a few and maybe we could build a little team of people who want to take part?

 <''''''> gneel: the idea is you could allocate a specific time/volume ratio

 <''''''> me neither gneel :)

 <''''''> It seems a good Idea but how are we supposed to temp host if lets say the host rejects it... The backup is there... but useless?

 <''''''> there is no concept of 'rejection', its a system for distributed backups which is usually encrypted

 <''''''> so people dont know what they're storing or even who for

 <''''''> I would be happy to do that popey - would me setting up a wiki page to explore further be an idea?

 <''''''> you give over a chunk of your disk to the scheme

 <''''''> Ahh I didnt know what it was I thought it was a "backup"

 <''''''> danfish: yeah, and review each one maybe?

 <''''''> ask for volunteers to help?

 <''''''> popey: yup, happy to do that :0

 <''''''> danfish: I would volenteer

 <''''''> me too

 <''''''> I might be interested in this too

 <''''''> great!

 <''''''> I expect it's a long term project tho!

 <''''''> sounds great danfish

 <''''''> No matter I have over 200 GB to spare :)

 <''''''> Well 360 GB

 <''''''> [ACTION] Danfish to document distributed backup solutions and call for volunteers on the list

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Danfish to document distributed backup solutions and call for volunteers on the list''
|}

 <''''''> okay?

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> great!

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> Agreed

 <''''''> anyone else got any points about that before we move on?

 <''''''> 5

 <''''''> Nope

 <''''''> 4

 <''''''> 3

 <''''''> 2

 <''''''> 1

 <''''''> ok...

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Profile Roulette

=== AlanBell - Profile Roulette ===
 <''''''> AlanBell !

 <''''''> ooh, me again

 <''''''> ok, so this is something invented by a student in the Irish team working on his masters degree

 <''''''> he is studying computing and at the moment looking at community development

 <''''''> and for the -ie team he kicked off a profile of the day project where they promote a different member of the team each day

 <''''''> to help people to get to know each other a bit better

 <''''''> <1>

 <''''''> kind of a team building activity

 <''''''> <1

 <''''''> GRR

 <''''''> quite a good idea

 <''''''> <!>

 <''''''> MichealH: what are you doing??

* '''''' seconds AlanBell 

 <''''''> :D

 <''''''> AlanBell: <!> Signifies you want to speak

 <''''''> not here it doesnt

 <''''''> AlanBell: It seems a good Idea

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/ProfileOfTheDay

 <''''''> that is the link to the original

 <''''''> I tweaked the concept a bit and added some additional wiki-foo

 <''''''> I was amused when the UK page picked popey when I first looked at it. :-)

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> me too!

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/ProfileRoulette

 <''''''> were you the only one with the tag?

 <''''''> gneel: first was daubers I think

 <''''''> yes daubers was first

 <''''''> Ah.

 <''''''> ok, so each day the ProfileRoulette page above will contain a different person's profile

 <''''''> It did spur me into updating my page a bit!

 <''''''> popey: What a coincidence!

 <''''''> except for today coz I was out

 <''''''> if you want to join in there are some requirements

 <''''''> firstly, you need a wiki page on wiki.ubuntu.com

 <''''''> AlanBell: Fire them at me!

 <''''''> [ACTION] Everyone create and update their wiki page :)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Everyone create and update their wiki page :)''
|}

 <''''''> this is easy to create, you just need a launchpad account to log on to the wiki, then go to http://wiki.ubuntu.com/YourName and create a page there

 <''''''> AlanBell: My Wikipage is differnt from my IRC Nick... Can I give it to you?

 <''''''> see other people's pages for examples of stuff to put on it

 <''''''> it doesn't matter what the exact page name is

 <''''''> at the end of the page put a horizontal line

 <''''''> ----

 <''''''> like that

 <''''''> then

 <''''''> MichealH: doesn't matter

 <''''''> Oh :P

 <''''''> <nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeamProfile]]</nowiki>

 <''''''> that will put you on the index on this page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CategoryUKTeamProfile

 <''''''> I (or someone, doesn't have to be me) will use a fair random number generator each day to pick someone and update the ProfileRoulette page

 <''''''> you will note on the Profile Roulette page there is an edit this profile link

 <''''''> Is the process documented anywhere?

 <''''''> AlanBell: May I volenteer?

 <''''''> that is for you to edit the profile of the current person and maybe fix something up or leave them a testimonial

 <''''''> gneel: documented in the minutes of this meeting :-)

 <''''''> \o/ auto minutes

 <''''''> AlanBell: :-)

 <''''''> :D I <3 Bots!

 <''''''> MichealH: I am OK with doing it for the moment

 <''''''> ok, thanks for that AlanBell

 <''''''> I will tend to tweet about it when I spin the wheel

 <''''''> probably with the #profileroulette hashtag

 <''''''> the wheel of misfortune :)

 <''''''> AlanBell: I have a question

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> and I am @alanbelltolc on twitter if you are not already following

 <''''''> MichealH: ask away

 <''''''> AlanBell: If the same person is picked out then do you choode annother?

 <''''''> *choose

* '''''' seconds MichealH 

 <''''''> incidentally I tweeted about #profile #roulette and a load of gambling sites retweeted it

 <''''''> AlanBell: LOL

 <''''''> fail

 <''''''> MichealH: no, it is random, but really not that important, I can't be bothered to keep track of the number of days each profile is up there

 <''''''> Okay

 <''''''> actually if it was the same on consecutive days I would probably pick another

 <''''''> AlanBell: Thats what I was saying :P

 <''''''> ok, if we all think this is a jolly good idea I will mail the list about it as well

 <''''''> jolly good

 <''''''> Cool

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> it's good

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> [ACTION] AlanBell to mail the list about profile roulette

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell to mail the list about profile roulette''
|}

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/ProfileRoulette it has been picked up by the -us-nc loco too!

 <''''''> hah!

 <''''''> ok, lets move on, time is passing..

 <''''''> PlanetUbuntu FTW

* '''''' agrees with gneel :P

 <''''''> AlanBell: all done?

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> [TOPIC] MichealH - Update on Website

=== MichealH - Update on Website ===
* '''''' waves

 <''''''> Okay... The Website is coming along well but we have yet had anything close to someone make a HTML demo based on the mockups... Anyone Volenter?

 <''''''> So what are the next steps?

 <''''''> [LINK] www.ubuntu-uk.org

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' www.ubuntu-uk.org''
|}

 <''''''> [LINK] wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam''
|}

 <''''''> oooh

 <''''''> I am willing to make a Live Demo mockup thingy

 <''''''> Anyone else want to help?

 <''''''> Someone was prepared. :-)

 <''''''> I can probably help

 <''''''> you know @daviey is working on the site too?

 <''''''> Yes gneel

 <''''''> have you spoken to daviey?

 <''''''> I didnt knot that popey

 <''''''> he talked about it at the last meeting

 <''''''> and showed off some screenshots

 <''''''> well we have more bits in place now, such as the design toolkit and the first release of the font (to Ubuntu Members but only the regular weight)

 <''''''> be good if you guys talked to eachother about this :)

 <''''''> don't want lots of duplication of effort

 <''''''> Is there some kind of NDA on the font or can people get hold of it if they aren't ubuntu members? ;D

 <''''''> only ubuntu members can get the font at the moment

 <''''''> Okay popey fire an [CTION]

 <''''''> *[action]

 <''''''> [ACTION] MichealH to contact daviey about the new website design

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' MichealH to contact daviey about the new website design''
|}

 <''''''> :D

 <''''''> win

 <''''''> Everyone agree?

 <''''''> yep

 <''''''> yeah, do it!

 <''''''> Okay popey Do your stuff

 <''''''> MichealH: happy to move on?

 <''''''> Yup :) Unless there are questions?

 <''''''> great, thanks

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Release activities for 10.10

=== AlanBell - Release activities for 10.10 ===
 <''''''> YOU AGAIN!

 <''''''> ooh again

 <''''''> AlanBell: :/

 <''''''> right, so this is some way in advance of the release, but lets start thinking about release activites

 <''''''> :L

 <''''''> the release day will be Sunday 10/10/10

 <''''''> ooo, didnt notice it was a sunday

 <''''''> which is a bit odd, but we can work with that

 <''''''> yeah, the release team actually have to get the code ready for the friday

 <''''''> so there will no doubt be a London party organised by Canonical

 <''''''> not sure on which day

 <''''''> can we action you to find out?

 <''''''> not odd, it was voted on to make it special seeing as the date is rather geeky

 <''''''> that is likely to be in a bar, over 21s and not really much about Ubuntu

 <''''''> I'm going to try and organise a party in Cardiff. Left it too late for 10.04

 <''''''> AlanBell: I will have a mini-party here!

 <''''''> czajkowski: sunday is an odd day to release

 <''''''> czajkowski: and it was most definitely _not_ _voted_ on :)

 <''''''> czajkowski: yes, 10/10/10 is great, sunday is odd

 <''''''> 101010 is 42 in binary

 <''''''> popey: was in the techboard or one of them boards I get confused upon

 <''''''> lets discuss the democratic process later :-)

 <''''''> yes, lets talk about parties :)

 <''''''> so other things around that time?

 <''''''> do we want to do an installfest perhaps?

 <''''''> ooo

 <''''''> actually a Sunday could be a good day for an installfest

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> or multiple ones :)

 <''''''> it could

 <''''''> and we should have the actual code if they are spinning it on Friday

 <''''''> That would be a nice change ÂD

 <''''''> how about install fest a potluck kinda thing

 <''''''> in a community halll ?

 <''''''> would it not be available through iso testing or did i miss a link on the iso topic

 <''''''> yeah, or perhaps schools/universities or something

 <''''''> people can be installing stuff, chatting and potluck means you provide the food

 <''''''> lee_cow: yeah, normally the final final .iso is only just going out to mirrors when the party kicks off

 <''''''> ok, so a plan of action?

 <''''''> ok, any other types of activty?

 <''''''> I think for the installfests some venues need to be found

 <''''''> what about computer fairs? I know there are a couple of them every Saturday around Tottenham Court Rd

 <''''''> House Party?

 <''''''> popey: tell you what, give me an action to mail the list and call for venues in different cities

 <''''''> [ACTION] AlanBell to mail the list about venues for the 10.10 on 10.10.10 release party/installfest/picnic/jam/thing/doodah

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell to mail the list about venues for the 10.10 on 10.10.10 release party/installfest/picnic/jam/thing/doodah''
|}

 <''''''> ok, time is short..

 <''''''> [TOPIC] BrunoGirin - Update on Shotwell for Maverick

=== BrunoGirin - Update on Shotwell for Maverick ===
 <''''''> brunogirin!

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> so as you may or may not know, Shotwell will replace F-Spot in 10.10

 <''''''> [LINK] https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-shotwell

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-shotwell''
|}

 <''''''> brunogirin: Anyone who reads OMG!Ubuntu! knows

 <''''''> MichaelH: yes, I know, I'm getting to the other interesting info but I wasn't as well prepared as you :-)

 <''''''> Shotwell is developed by an organisation called Yorba

 <''''''> MichealH: will you stop interuptig people when they are explaining their action item

 <''''''> I accidentally got involved in solving bugs

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> and am now delivering the F-Spot import functionality

 <''''''> ooooo

 <''''''> The Yorba guys are very responsive and have brought their 0.7 release forward in order to release it in time for 10.10

 <''''''> so anybody interested in trying out the latest version of the software, get it from the Yorba PPA (version 0.6.1 at the moment)

 <''''''> anybody willing to do a bit more testing, it's really easy to install from source, provided you have the Vala compiler installed (apt-get install valac)

 <''''''> is the f-spot import written?

 <''''''> [LINK] http://yorba.org/shotwell/install/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://yorba.org/shotwell/install/''
|}

 <''''''> Thanks brunogirin

 <''''''> I will test

 <''''''> i.e. if i load shotwell on a machine that has lots of photos in f-spot will it pull them in? what can we do to test that?

 <''''''> popey: I have some working code, it's ticket #139 in Yorba's bug tracker

 <''''''> popey: it's not in yet but a first version should be ready within a week or 2

 <''''''> would be good to let the loco know when it's ready

 <''''''> I'm sure some people would like to test it

 <''''''> [LINK] http://trac.yorba.org/ticket/139

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://trac.yorba.org/ticket/139''
|}

 <''''''> yep

 <''''''> great stuff

 <''''''> would it be worth you mailing the list and/or blogging about it?

 <''''''> popey: will do, in fact, my next point was to coordinate testing during beta

 <''''''> yes I've been planning to blog about it for some time now but found it was more productive to actually get the code sorted for now :-)

 <''''''> so shall I give you an action to raise awareness on the list?

 <''''''> and we can help promote it

 <''''''> yes, please do

 <''''''> [ACTION] brunogirin to publicise testing of shotwell

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' brunogirin to publicise testing of shotwell''
|}

 <''''''> great, glad you brought it up, I have been wondering how the import would work!

 <''''''> good to know a local is working on it :)

 <''''''> ok, thats all the main items...

 <''''''> [TOPIC] popey - Any Other Business

=== popey - Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> anything else anyone wants to bring up?

 <''''''> Nope.

 <''''''> nada

 <''''''> I'll be at GUADEC next week so will do a summary when back

 <''''''> ok, great

 <''''''> [TOPIC] popey - Date of next meeting

=== popey - Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> 2 weeks or 4?

 <''''''> I think popey has troubles looking at the tweet

 <''''''> popey: 2 weeks.

 <''''''> 2

 <''''''> Tes 3rd?

 <''''''> *Tues 3rd

 <''''''> Any objections?

 <''''''> i cant do that

 <''''''> Can't make a Tuesday

 <''''''> Wed 4th?

 <''''''> Yep

 <''''''> popey: 4th?

 <''''''> thats certainly two weeks..

 <''''''> ok, no dissent, 4th it is

 <''''''> can't make the 4th :-(

 <''''''> So is it agreed?

 <''''''> 5th?

 <''''''> would it be an idea to fix the date for the meeting... so a monthly meeting on a certain date ?

 <''''''> MichealH: you're not going to go through all of the dates are you in the month

 <''''''> czajkowski: we have tried various ways of doing it

 <''''''> moving it around helps people who can't do certain days

 <''''''> popey: fair enough just wondered, just hard to keep track

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> I really need to go but I want to stay to the end...

 <''''''> thats why we pimp it a lot :)

 <''''''> should the next meeting not be on the ubuntu-fridge calendar?

 <''''''> dontfoget to add it to the report :)

 <''''''> we can do that

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

=== Chair for next meeting ===
 <''''''> I nominate czajkowski !

 <''''''> popey: I nominate myself

 <''''''> ooh interesting, czajkowski for chair

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> it doesnt clash with anything so I can

 <''''''> thanks

 <''''''> ok shall do it

 <''''''> ok..

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 21:11 ==
=== People Present ===
* popey

* AlanBell

* cps

* funkyHat

* MichealH

* lee_cow

* gneel

* Yorvyk

* DJones

* czajkowski

* brunogirin

* danfish

* Thingymebob

=== Actions Recorded ===
* popey to put the presentations online from UiB

* Danfish to document distributed backup solutions and call for volunteers on the list

* Everyone create and update their wiki page :)

* AlanBell to mail the list about profile roulette

* MichealH to contact daviey about the new website design

* AlanBell to mail the list about venues for the 10.10 on 10.10.10 release party/installfest/picnic/jam/thing/doodah

* brunogirin to publicise testing of shotwell
