{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

There are a few of us in the [UKTeam] who are lucky enough to live in Scotland; we should be able to organise a semi-regular meetup at least, even if we just piggyback onto one of the many fine Scottish GNU/Linux user groups such as ScotLUG, AberLUG and EdLUG.

=== Who ===
Obligatory list of the "usual suspects".
* WilliamAnderson (Cumbernauld)
* KennyDuffus (Glasgow)
* MartinFitzpatrick (Edinburgh)
* Chad Longstaff (Aberdeen)
* GlennjiMason (Edinburgh)
* RobertMcwilliam (Aberdeen)
* AndrewBarber (Glasgow)
* AlistairMarshall (Edinburgh)

=== Where ===
This is a bit tougher, as there are already localised LUGs for various cities and towns.  Ideas?

Alternating meeting places may work. West Edinburgh / East Glasgow really aren't that far apart. Falkirk/Stirling would only be work if we actually had members from there. Nothing to stop outings into the sticks on occasion - MartinFitzpatrick

Could it be a semi-tied location, for example one time it is located in say Glasgow, next Edinburgh, next Aberdeen etc - AndrewBarber

=== When ===
Again, it's a tough one.  I (<nowiki>[[GlennjiMason|glennji]]</nowiki>) don't finish work until after 6pm of a night, so even travelling to Glasgow during the week is an effort.  Would anyone be interested in meeting on a weekend?

Avoid Thursdays as that's the meeting day for EdLUG (first Thursday of each month) and ScotLUG (last Thursday).  Weekends might make for more relaxed meets, though pubs/etc. may be too busy? Are we looking at once a month? - MartinFitzpatrick

I do not think the weekend is a good option. Students like myself work ;) - AndrewBarber

<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
