{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by AlanBell at 21:07:11 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-uk-meeting/2011/ubuntu-uk-meeting.2011-11-10-21.07.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* The Chair - review of action items from last meeting
** REPORT] People who have achieved something in November, please place it in the report.  (AlanBell, 21:08:07)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/November   (AlanBell, 21:08:10)
** REPORT] Christmas Party  (AlanBell, 21:09:41)
''LINK:'' http://www.danslenoir.com/london/   (AlanBell, 21:10:54)
''LINK:'' http://www.danslenoir.com/book/gui/calendar.php?PHPSESSID=vccqkiudd2co4hit6b8odajmi2&id_restaurant=3&month=12&year=2011   (AlanBell, 21:19:12)
''ACTION:'' AlanBell to sort out loco directory event for dans le noir  (AlanBell, 21:27:33)

* AlanBell - The Next Happy Hour(s)

* AlanBell - en_GB Localised ISO
''LINK:'' http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-p/meeting/19613/community-p-localized-iso-community-growth/   (AlanBell, 21:36:55)

* The Chair - Any Other Business
''ACTION:'' brunogirin to investigate venues for an Ubuntu desktop apps hacking evening  (AlanBell, 22:05:26)

Meeting ended at 22:06:51 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* AlanBell to sort out loco directory event for dans le noir
* brunogirin to investigate venues for an Ubuntu desktop apps hacking evening

=== Action items, by person ===

* AlanBell
* * AlanBell to sort out loco directory event for dans le noir
* brunogirin
* * brunogirin to investigate venues for an Ubuntu desktop apps hacking evening

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (87)
* bigcalm (54)
* brunogirin (22)
* smouty (6)
* DJones (6)
* christel (5)
* meetingology (5)
* daubers (5)
* SuprEngr (4)
* Jorvyk (4)

=== Full Log ===

 21:07:11 <AlanBell> #startmeeting

 21:07:11 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Nov 10 21:07:11 2011 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 21:07:11 <meetingology> 

 21:07:11 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 21:07:29 <AlanBell> #meetingtopic Ubuntu UK LoCo Meeting

 21:07:48 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - review of action items from last meeting

 21:08:07 <AlanBell> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in November, please place it in the report.

 21:08:10 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/November

 21:08:18 <AlanBell> oh, who is here? o/

 21:08:22 <bigcalm> o/

 21:08:26 <SuprEngr> o/

 21:08:32 <daubers> o/

 21:08:35 <Jorvyk> o/

 21:09:20 <AlanBell> think we might adjust the time next meeting to get more people along

 21:09:41 <AlanBell> [PROGRESS REPORT] Christmas Party

 21:09:47 <bigcalm> Thought it was a bit quiet

 21:09:49 <AlanBell> so christmas party stuff

 21:10:26 <AlanBell> I have been investigating the options here, and as discussed we are going to make it more of a meal out than a drinkie pub meet

 21:10:36 <AlanBell> because we are doing plenty of them and they are great

 21:10:54 <AlanBell> http://www.danslenoir.com/london/

 21:11:01 <AlanBell> ^^ full of awesome

 21:11:04 <AlanBell> lets go there

 21:11:22 <DJones> o/

 21:11:25 <AlanBell> I have been talking to Canonical about doing a joint thing, but they have been a bit unresponsive

 21:11:43 <AlanBell> so I am going to go ahead and get it arranged

 21:11:50 <SuprEngr> could Father Christmas arrive there and bring gifts of a working Unity ;)

 21:11:50 <bigcalm> I am all for Danslenoir, though my better half has doubts sadly

 21:12:10 <daubers> 'tis a touch pricey, so will depend on dates :)

 21:12:31 <bigcalm> Talking of dates, I'm already doing an xmas meal thing on the 8th Dec

 21:12:37 <AlanBell> yeah, I think some time in mid December, but what suits you?

 21:13:03 <daubers> Either the start of the month or the very end of the month suites best for the wallet :)

 21:13:19 <AlanBell> well there is christmas in that month!

 21:13:39 <daubers> Yep

 21:13:43 <bigcalm> We are up in the midlands, so would need to make it into a 2 day thing to allow for trains etc

 21:14:21 <AlanBell> bigcalm: so does that mean a saturday?

 21:14:29 <bigcalm> AlanBell: Friday or Saturday

 21:14:39 <bigcalm> AlanBell: thinking of taking a half day to get down there

 21:15:10 <bigcalm> Will also need to find somewhere to stay for the night :)

 21:15:25 <AlanBell> thats probably best for various people coming from some distance

 21:15:44 <bigcalm> Right, so we're all kipping on AlanBell's sofa!

 21:15:54 <AlanBell> they do a 7pm and 9:15pm sitting

 21:16:08 <AlanBell> bigcalm: out in the chicken house :)

 21:16:12 <bigcalm> :D

 21:16:23 <bigcalm> 7pm meal and then pub afterwards?

 21:16:29 <AlanBell> yeah I think so

 21:16:37 <AlanBell> otherwise trains home become an issue

 21:16:39 <bigcalm> Or is that a crazy idea for a Friday anywhere in the big smoke?

 21:16:53 <SuprEngr> q/ why London as only choice?

 21:17:36 <AlanBell> SuprEngr: it is the most equally inconvenient place for everyone, plus that interesting restraunt is there

 21:17:48 <SuprEngr> ;)

 21:18:26 <AlanBell> trains all go to london

 21:18:31 * bigcalm pokes christel

 21:19:03 <bigcalm> If I can't get Hayley to go, I might try and blag a sofa off somebody ;)

 21:19:12 <AlanBell> http://www.danslenoir.com/book/gui/calendar.php?PHPSESSID=vccqkiudd2co4hit6b8odajmi2&id_restaurant=3&month=12&year=2011

 21:19:53 <bigcalm> Heh, the page is in french

 21:20:04 <AlanBell> hmm, some dates are full already

 21:20:07 <DJones> Click the union jack

 21:20:50 <bigcalm> DJones: got it, ta :)

 21:21:31 <bigcalm> 9th is still available

 21:21:46 <bigcalm> 23rd is a bit close to xmas I think

 21:21:53 <bigcalm> Will push hotel prices way up

 21:22:47 <bigcalm> If we can't all do 9th, I'll see if I can blag a day off in the week

 21:23:13 <AlanBell> 9th is good for me

 21:23:40 <AlanBell> bit concerned that there might just be one or two seats left

 21:23:41 <daubers> I'll have to check with the calendar, but she's out on the town :)

 21:24:06 <bigcalm> It's not the best booking system is it?

 21:24:15 <AlanBell> not the best

 21:24:26 <bigcalm> Maybe it would be best to get an idea of +ve numbers and then phone in a booking?

 21:24:31 <AlanBell> I spoke to them on the phone, they seemed fine

 21:24:41 <AlanBell> bigcalm: yeah, I think that would be best

 21:25:38 <AlanBell> OK, I think I will set up a loco directory event for it with a provisional date, get people to sign up to that and then phone the place and get us all booked in together

 21:25:54 <bigcalm> Sounds good

 21:26:08 <AlanBell> preferably on a friday or saturday 7PM sitting, followed by later sitting on friday or saturday followed by a weekday

 21:26:16 <bigcalm> Hopefully it's not too late to accommodate us all

 21:26:38 <bigcalm> AlanBell: I agree

 21:26:56 <AlanBell> they seemed fine when I spoke to them, but that was about a weekday lunchtime private party :)

 21:27:33 <AlanBell> #action AlanBell to sort out loco directory event for dans le noir

 21:27:33 * meetingology AlanBell to sort out loco directory event for dans le noir

 21:28:07 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] AlanBell - The Next Happy Hour(s)

 21:28:16 <AlanBell> right, next happy hour, probably Southampton

 21:28:56 <smouty> Southampton sounds good to me (my home town!)

 21:29:02 <AlanBell> trying to get a date for that when some locals (Tony Whitmore in particular can turn up)

 21:29:04 <bigcalm> Still a bit far for me, but do carry on :)

 21:29:04 <brunogirin> sorry I'm late

 21:29:28 <AlanBell> ooh smouty pick a date you can certainly attend and we will go with that

 21:29:39 <AlanBell> I just need commitment from one person that they will turn up

 21:29:51 <brunogirin> maybe I could make Southampton, depends on the date

 21:30:45 <AlanBell> I might be able to get down to Southampton too

 21:30:47 <smouty> After xmas would be great say 2nd fri in jan?

 21:31:09 <AlanBell> smouty: was hoping a bit sooner than that, early december perhaps

 21:31:29 <AlanBell> if someone wants to volunteer a different city then that would be good too

 21:32:41 <smouty> unfortunatley my ubuntu using friend who would also love to join in is in hospital early dec and is likley to be recovering over xmas

 21:32:49 <AlanBell> :(

 21:33:01 <smouty> but if early dec I could make it alone

 21:33:51 <AlanBell> ok, well I will try and sort something out, 2nd friday in jan would work great for the happy hour after next, so if we can do somewhere else early december and go to Southampton in January that works

 21:34:16 <smouty> works for me too :)

 21:35:26 <AlanBell> ok, I will get that sorted one way or another

 21:35:34 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] AlanBell - en_GB Localised ISO

 21:35:57 <AlanBell> last week was the Ubuntu Developer Summit, I think there was a session on these localised ISO images

 21:36:29 <bigcalm> Are people really in need of a GB specific ISO? It would be en_US with only minor alterations surely?

 21:36:55 <AlanBell> http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-p/meeting/19613/community-p-localized-iso-community-growth/

 21:37:06 <AlanBell> bigcalm: yeah, but the translations are done pretty much

 21:37:21 <AlanBell> good for schools in particular

 21:38:04 <AlanBell> I am not 100% certain of the benefits

 21:38:35 <bigcalm> I'm struggling myself. A tool to set up localisation during install would be a good idea though

 21:38:56 <bigcalm> Though isn't that what's done during install already?

 21:39:07 <AlanBell> dunno, but I think we should find out more about it

 21:39:59 <bigcalm> Who here added it as a discussion topic for this meeting?

 21:40:07 <AlanBell> me from last time

 21:40:23 <bigcalm> Not blaming anybody, just wondered if they had any input

 21:40:24 <bigcalm> Ah :)

 21:40:38 <AlanBell> not much input sadly :)

 21:40:48 <Jorvyk> A live Cd without Trashcans and color would be nice!

 21:40:56 <AlanBell> just the localised iso project was mentioned to all loco teams and I figured it could be interesting for us

 21:40:56 <christel> bigcalm: POKEAGE?

 21:41:04 <AlanBell> christel o/

 21:41:07 <DJones> I would say find out more about it, but seems to be a bit of a duplication of work

 21:41:11 <bigcalm> Somebody thought it was a good enough idea have it discussed at UDS

 21:41:17 <bigcalm> christel: \o/

 21:41:27 <christel> 9th works for me to i think!

 21:41:37 <AlanBell> yay

 21:41:57 <bigcalm> christel: mind if I pm for a moment?

 21:42:07 <christel> AlanBell: i think we need a happy half-hour next week sometime since we still don't have a southampton date

 21:42:09 * christel nods

 21:42:16 <christel> bigcalm: go ahead! :)

 21:42:44 <AlanBell> anyhow, I think for the iso thing we should just follow along with the progress, maybe listen to the audio of the session and figure out what the benefits are over the standard image

 21:42:48 <AlanBell> lets move on

 21:42:57 <DJones> I would guess the localised iso would be more useful for non-english based locos, but certainly worth looking into

 21:43:26 <AlanBell> DJones: yes, more useful for other languages, but on the flip side I figure it is probably less hard for us to do

 21:43:35 <DJones> very true

 21:43:55 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - Any Other Business

 21:44:00 <DJones> Unless we go for Yorkshire/Lancashire/Geordie/Cockney localised versions :)

 21:44:20 <AlanBell> DJones: ee by gum, what a smashing thought

 21:44:28 <Jorvyk> Would it take the image under 700M ir there was only English on it?

 21:44:29 <bigcalm> Haha

 21:45:26 <AlanBell> Jorvyk: there might be some space saving, interesting point as they are thinking of busting the CD size limit (no idea if they will need it or not)

 21:45:33 <bigcalm> The image is being extended to 750mb to give more room for good packages

 21:45:40 <AlanBell> anyone got anything else to raise?

 21:45:47 <AlanBell> anything interesting that happened at UDS?

 21:45:47 <brunogirin> yes

 21:45:58 <AlanBell> go ahead brunogirin

 21:46:43 <brunogirin> unrelated to UDS but wild thoughts I had over the weekend: what abut organising an Ubuntu App Bar/Pub/Cafe evening?

 21:46:59 <brunogirin> i.e. anybody interested in building Ubuntu apps, come along

 21:47:07 <brunogirin> whatever level of experience

 21:47:14 <brunogirin> would need a place with decent free wi-fi

 21:47:28 <smouty> intersted in learning how to build apps!

 21:47:33 <bigcalm> Or wi-fi for the price of a coffee?

 21:47:43 <brunogirin> bigcalm: yes that sort of things

 21:47:53 <bigcalm> Though a lot of gastro pubs offer free wifi as well

 21:48:09 <AlanBell> ok, I like that plan

 21:48:11 <bigcalm> brunogirin: were you thinking any region of the UK?

 21:48:15 <bigcalm> As do I

 21:48:27 <bigcalm> I'd like to do desktop app dev at some point

 21:48:29 <brunogirin> I'm based on London so I could organise one here, see how it goes

 21:49:04 <bigcalm> brunogirin: you have experience in this field then?

 21:49:15 <AlanBell> London is quite good for getting Canonical folk along who may be able to help

 21:49:53 <brunogirin> bigcalm: I have a lot of experience in development and I was planning to use quickly to start with as it simplifies the deployment part

 21:49:54 <bigcalm> Seems to be a few Canonical folk in the West Midlands as well (see work place days organised by davmor2)

 21:50:11 <bigcalm> brunogirin: what language?

 21:50:13 <AlanBell> there are, and sil did a talk in Manchester on development

 21:50:23 <bigcalm> Indeed he did

 21:51:09 <brunogirin> bigcalm: if using quickly, it would be python but happy to do Java, Vala, C++ or anything you can think for which we can find good resources online

 21:51:20 <bigcalm> Fair enough

 21:51:21 <brunogirin> s/for/of

 21:51:35 <AlanBell> making unity lenses would be an interesting topic

 21:51:47 <bigcalm> I'm a PHP web dev with a history of perl. So I'd have to learn a new language whatever it is :)

 21:51:52 <brunogirin> AlanBell: yes, I'd like to do that but probably not on the first one

 21:52:00 <bigcalm> Ooo, interesting

 21:52:14 <brunogirin> as I'd have to work out how you do it first :-)

 21:52:23 <bigcalm> Shame I've had to move to xubuntu-desktop due to my multi-monitor set up and thus don't have the lens to play with

 21:52:24 <AlanBell> yeah, me too

 21:52:39 <AlanBell> I have modified a lens, but I didn't really understand what it was doing very much

 21:53:49 <AlanBell> ok, so we need some kind of venue

 21:54:13 <bigcalm> Find a Yates and snarf their wifi? ;)

 21:54:46 <AlanBell> yeah, but not too worried about connectivity, phone wifi tethering is good now

 21:54:58 <bigcalm> Indeed

 21:54:58 <brunogirin> yes, requirements: free wi-fi, not too busy, where they are happy for a bunch of geeks to sit down for a couple of hours sipping a glass or two

 21:55:11 <bigcalm> I know diddly about London :)

 21:55:36 <brunogirin> AlanBell: true but that implies at least one person present has their phone setup to do that

 21:56:15 <AlanBell> I think a starbucks or something would be good for that kind of thing

 21:56:20 <brunogirin> more requirements: somewhere with power sockets! you don't want to run out of juice halfway

 21:56:38 <bigcalm> Netbooks

 21:57:37 <brunogirin> I'll go have a look at a few places in central London

 21:57:51 <brunogirin> the other question is: would it be better in the evening or at the weekend?

 21:59:20 <AlanBell> evening sounds good to me

 22:00:51 <brunogirin> ok so the place needs to be open until 9pm-ish while not being a busy pub where drunken patrons are likely to spill beer on laptops

 22:01:03 <AlanBell> I think cafe would be better

 22:01:10 <AlanBell> and quieter in the evening

 22:01:22 <brunogirin> yes, as long as they are open in the evening :-)

 22:02:34 <Jorvyk> What about https://london.hackspace.org.uk/

 22:03:33 <brunogirin> Jorvyk: that's a possibility, I'll see if I can go round one evening and ask

 22:03:52 <AlanBell> I have been round there, interesting place, it might work for this

 22:05:04 <AlanBell> ok, lets give bruno an action

 22:05:26 <AlanBell> #action brunogirin to investigate venues for an Ubuntu desktop apps hacking evening

 22:05:26 * meetingology brunogirin to investigate venues for an Ubuntu desktop apps hacking evening

 22:05:43 <AlanBell> anything else to discuss right now?

 22:06:46 <AlanBell> ok, lets wrap it up then

 22:06:51 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
