{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Team Lead Candidates: ==

Please only add your own name to the list, if you wish to be considered as the Team Lead for the Ubuntu-UK LoCo.

''' Names: '''

Stephen Johnston(Saj0577)

Philip Wyett (philwyett)

Dave Walker (Daviey)

=== Stephen Johnston (Saj0577) ===
I am Stephen Johnston (Saj0577), and I pride myself on trying to be as much help to the Ubuntu Community as possible when back from college on a night. I am on the Beginners and Unanswered Posts Teams, and I spend a lot of my time helping people with their problems no matter how basic or complex.

If you want more information about me see my (work in progress) Wiki or contact me via Ubuntuforums.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Saj0577

http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=268494

I would add some organisation to the team, have some social meetings put a name to a face meet up for a BBQ in the summer, have a Christmas celebration dinner or just meet for a few drinks in the pub.I would like to see us making ourselves present at more computer conventions to show Ubuntu to the rest of the UK.

As well as the social meetings I think the LoCo team should also be a team where say you cant sleep at night or had a bad day you can log on to IRC have a good laugh with like minded people.

I want our projects page, to no longer have one lonely completed project on it but for it to have an extensive list of completed and successful projects we have completed as a team. I would endeavour to keep http://ubuntu-uk.org/ up to date with UK news related to Ubuntu. I would also keep the LoCo Wiki up to date.

The UK LoCo Team would no longer just be a group of people that live in the UK and use Ubuntu, it would become a group of people that use Ubuntu and are of great presence and help in the Ubuntu Community both locally and worldwide that just happen to be from the UK.

Thanks for your time,

Saj0577 - Here To help

=== Philip Wyett (IRC: philwyett) ===

Firstly may I thank Alan Pope for all his great work as the lead of Ubuntu UK and look forward to his ongoing involvement in the future of Ubuntu UK and his continued great work as part of the Ubuntu UK Podcast team.

Hi! I am Philip Wyett (just call me Phil). As a user, developer and advocate of Open Source Software for a decade (Ubuntu UK member since Sept 2006) I have seen both the software and the community change, grow and would like to see and be a further help in it's continued growth. The Ubuntu community and UK arm are still young and with the great success of the distribution and growth in the community we have seen growing pains in both. The UK community is a rich source of people and skills and with organisation we can change the perception of Linux and work as a team at both a national and local level to promote the Operating System we use and love!

===== Proposed goals for 2009 =====

* Monthly meetings that happen each month.
* Regular updates to the ubuntu-uk web site. I would like to see this be a small dedicated group working with the new team leader and providing the valuable window into the ubuntu UK team which many visitors will take a first impression from.
* Marketing efforts on a national and local level for both home and business.
* Promotion of community involvement in Ubuntu development large or small.
* Local UK geographic team creation for social and official team events. I would hope to take the show on the road with events all around the UK.
* Open discussion regarding support options. Better ways to serve the community in the UK and be more inclusive. IRC, Mailing lists etc. [1]
* Promotion of 'first instance' use of Open Source software and codecs over proprietary software and formats. Things like why are we getting this content on You''''''Tube and waiting a long time to see the theora download when really we should get it in our format first and then upload to You''''''Tube.
   
Additional to these will be the decision of the Ubuntu UK membership a part of common consensus!

[1] Thank you to andatche, selinuxium and DJones (on IRC) for input and discussion on this point. Discussion showed rather than being as specific as I was, a more general discussion regarding this point would be better had.

===== Projects and links =====

To dig around and see my Ubuntu works and involvements, the LUG's I am
associated with and Crystal Space ~ The worlds No. 1 OSS game engine :-)
see below.

* Launchpad - https://launchpad.net/~philipwyett
* Ubuntu bugs on Launchpad - https://bugs.launchpad.net/~philipwyett
* Ubuntu wiki - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PhilWyett
* Ubuntu bug fixes 2008 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PhilWyett/Bugs
* Crystal Space 3D - http://www.crystalspace3d.org/

Thank you for your time and I hope if elected or not to serve you we can continue the great work and make Ubuntu even better!

Regards

Phil

=== Dave Walker (Daviey) ===
Hi all, many people will know me as Daviey. 

I have been in the Ubuntu UK community for some time now, and constantly active on IRC. Many people may know me from my attendances at conferences and other related events. 

One of my most active contributions for the Ubuntu-UK community has been presenting the Ubuntu UK Podcast. Other contributions have included 
organising of The Linux Expo Live 2008 stand, and manning the stand for the duration. Also organising Ubuntu branded merchandise, various PR projects, such as contacting Channel 4 in an attempt to get a Ubuntu poster included in the background of the series “IT crowd”. 

My contributions to Ubuntu have included co-founding the Mythbuntu project, the Ubuntu derivative focused on MythTV. Various packaging of applications with the attempt of getting them included in Ubuntu. 

I also attended the Ubuntu Developers Summit - Prague where I had an opportunity to get involved in both community and technical related discussions, and have now been sponsored by Canonical to UDS-Boston where I wish to represent the UK community, and further get involved in making the next release of Ubuntu better. 

I have attended quite a few release parties, and had made the Hardy cake – for the Hardy party, this seemed to go down well.

I do intend to have more 'real life' meetings, and more structure to our online meetings - perhaps having them every 4-8 weeks, with the intention of getting more people involved than previously.  I further wish to try to coordinate and improve the advocacy effort, currently it is largely word of mouth, and i think we can improve this.

I'm really keen for Ubuntu-UK to be the best of all the LoCo's -and I hope you will entrust me with your support to help this happen. 

=== Name ===
Pitch

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
