{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the 16th meeting of the UKTeam, starting at 20:30 GMT and finishing at 21:22 GMT

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT at the start of the meeting to ensure we are all clear who is online and paying attention.
Active Atendees:
* popey
* Laney
* corenomial
* cied
* tonytiger
* freesitebuilder
* james_w
* dgjones
* brobostigon
* daviey
* mgdm

== Agenda ==
When adding an agenda item please "sign" it by leaving your name next to it. If you won't be attending the meeting please also spell out your item in detail, otherwise we can't fruitfully discuss it.
 
* Getting people involved in the podcast
* Hardy release part[y|ies]
* Any interest in a Packaging Jam, as mentioned on the mailing list - Laney
* 5-a-day - james_w
* Insert agenda items here

== Minutes ==

<pre>
21:31:33 	LINK 	popey 	 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/MeetingNotes/20080326Meeting
21:31:52 	LINK 	popey 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot
21:34:03 	Topic: Getting people involved in the podcast
21:42:07 	IDEA 	popey 	call for suggestions on the mailing list for the podcast well before the next one airs, asking for stuff to be sent to podcast@
21:44:03 	IDEA 	popey 	as people to submit audio questions, discussion items
21:44:27 	IDEA 	popey 	outline in the mail to the list some specific areas or segments we could do with help on
21:49:34 	IDEA 	popey 	have a segment where we catch up with what's happening in the LoCo
21:50:33 	Topic: Hardy release part[y|ies]
21:51:00 	IDEA 	popey 	have one after the demo day (26th april) two days after hardy releases (and on a saturday) somehwere near the demo day
21:58:30 	ACTION 	popey 	popey mail the list coaxing people to have release parties, not just one big one that nobody can get to
21:59:02 	IDEA 	popey 	Use daft terms like distributed release party and grid party in the mail
21:59:40 	Topic: Any interest in a Packaging Jam, as mentioned on the mailing list - Laney
22:11:18 	ACTION 	popey 	james_w / Laney to organise bug/packaging jam for sometime after UDS
22:12:45 	Topic: #
22:12:45 	Topic: 5-a-day - james_w
22:16:02 	LINK 	james_w 	http://daniel.holba.ch/5-a-day-stats/
22:17:46 	ACTION 	popey 	james_w to mail the list raising the profile of 5-a-day
22:22:45 	ACTION 	popey 	Next meeting here 9th april 20:30
</pre>

== Any Other Business ==

* 
* 
 

== Guide Lines ==

The chairman of the meeting should endeavour to ensure that key points are discussed in an appropriate time. Key Topics from the Agenda should be tabled in the channel using a market such as [ TOPIC ] or * TOPIC * Followed by the agenda item. Where Suggestions or Ideas are put forward and considered as acceptable to the group then it should be noted by the Chairman as [ IDEA ] or * IDEA * . Where a concept is discussed and agreed the use of [ AGREED ] or * AGREED * should be defined by the chairman and should signify the topic is discussed and the meeting is to move on.  Be clear on the channel when the meeting is concluded and how and when the minutes will be posted.

== IRC LOGS ==

<pre>
<popey> #startmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting started at 21:31. The chair is popey.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
<corenominal_> hi popey :)
<popey> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/MeetingNotes/20080326Meeting
<brobostigon> now
<MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/MeetingNotes/20080326Meeting
<popey> thats the agenda
<brobostigon> present
<popey> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot
<MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot
<popey> that's how we use the bot
<popey> ok, those here, say [PRESENT]
<popey> [PRESENT]
<Laney> [PRESENT]
<corenominal_> PRESENT
<CieD> [PRESENT]
<tonytiger> [PRESENT]
<freesitebuilder> [PRESENT]
<james_w> [PRESENT]
<popey> (makes it easy for us later when we type this up)
<dgjones> PRESENT
<brobostigon> present
<Daviey> [PRESENT]
<popey> cool
<Daviey> although a bit busy atm
<brobostigon> [PRESENT]
<popey> It's been some time since we had the last meeting, although there has been very little call for one
<mgdm> [PRESENT]
<popey> now we have a few things on the agenda, and an upcoming release, it seems like a good time
<popey> if you have anything you want added to the agenda, do so now by editing the agenda page and tacking it on the bottom
<corenominal_> [PRESENT]
<popey> or bring it up at the end under "AOB"
<popey> Ok, lets start
<popey> [TOPIC] Getting people involved in the podcast
<MootBot> New Topic: Getting people involved in the podcast
<popey> We had a lot of great feedback about the podcast
<popey> and a little negative
<popey> what we would like to do is get more people involved
<popey> discuss :)
<brobostigon> what was the negative??
<popey> two things
<popey> 1) Audio issues - pretty much resolved in episode 2
<popey> 2) the fact that it came as a surprise to those who had previously expressed an interest in being involved
<corenominal_> involved how? production and/or content
<popey> corenominal_: discuss :)
<popey> if people can create content that would be great!
<popey> interviews, discussions, debates..
<Daviey> i thought the presenters were rubbish :)
* mgdm is up for it, as he has probably mentioned
<corenominal_> right
<james_w> I thought the second was very good. The audio issues were almost gone, but one presenter sounded a little distant.
<corenominal_> lol
<popey> that would probably either be CieD or tonytiger
<tonytiger> james_w: Any idea which?
<brobostigon> well popey you produce it, so i think contect is implyed
<james_w> tonytiger: sorry, no, let me find out.
<tonytiger> james_w: OK cool
<popey> So you know.. some info about the first two episodes
<CieD> I'd like to people to send in news items to the email address
<tonytiger> It would be great to receive content (i.e. recorded segments) or just ideas for suggestions. If ubuntu-uk members can make recordings in person that would be cool too, although I appreciate this is difficult.
<popey> that would reduce our research workload, yes CieD
<popey> any ideas on how we can get people to contribute?
<popey> not necessarily _what_ can people do, but more _how_ do we get them to do it?
<mgdm> I propose having a wiki page where we can line up interviews with people from interesting projects, which could then be followed up by interested UK LoCoFolk?
<popey> mgdm: good idea, and done, we have a wiki :)
<mgdm> Doing them over Ekiga/Skype is probably possible, should the other party be up for it
<corenominal_> sounds good
<james_w> tonytiger: it was CieD, but I think it improved as time went on
<popey> it's a separate wiki from the ubuntu one, kept private so that info doesn't leak out
<popey> if someone is interested in helping, we can get them access to the wiki
<tonytiger> james_w: OK cool, thanks.
<mgdm> popey: sign me up :)
<corenominal_> also, if people are starting projects etc, maybe they could send in a sound clip letting people know about...
<Laney> Perhaps a list of people able to do any interviews/reporting in each general area, who can then be called upon if the need arises?
<popey> mgdm: drop a mail to podcast@ubuntu-uk.org
<mgdm> popey: ok, will do
<james_w> could an email a few days before your planning meeting to the list prompt some suggestions?
<tonytiger> mgdm: We're reluctant to use skype for obvious reasons, although plan some telephone interviews in the future.
<popey> Laney: good idea
<mgdm> tonytiger: Yeah, I know what you mean. I can likely do telephone recording too if it comes to it.
<popey> james_w: yes, good idea, but i dont want tooo much public discusion in the list about it, because its (and this place) are publicly archived
<popey> we have a private non-logged irc channel and wiki, er, and gobby :)
* Moniker42 walks in on the middle of a meeting
<popey> so those people who really _do_ want to help can just drop a mail to podcast@ubuntu-uk.org and we'll "let you in" as it were
<james_w> popey: true, but perhaps a reminder to email you off-list with any suggestions or news items for that episode would work instead.
<popey> james_w: ah, better idea, yes
* Moniker42 looks sheepish, has a conflict in the fight/flight reflex in his legs and collapses on the floor
<brobostigon> popey: that sounds ok
<tonytiger> james_w: good idea
<popey> [IDEA] call for suggestions on the mailing list for the podcast well before the next one airs, asking for stuff to be sent to podcast@
<MootBot> IDEA received: call for suggestions on the mailing list for the podcast well before the next one airs, asking for stuff to be sent to podcast@
<popey> is that enough do you think?
<james_w> I think as there are more episodes people will get the idea of what is "appropriate" for the podcast, which might help.
<popey> we can't be any more "forceful" than that
<popey> yeah, I hope so
<Daviey> Sorry i'm not taking part chaps, still working :*(
<popey> Daviey: it's fine
<Moniker42> popey, i think given the nature of oss news (projects develop over time) it's unlikely to be an issue if segments and speakers are delayed till the next episode
<popey> ok, so is that enough for the podcast? We just ask on the mailing list regularly?
<CieD> I would like people to send in their questions as audio files rather than email, this will add to the content of the podcast
<james_w> perhaps a quick list of some general areas would help, e.g. news, upcoming events, interviews...
<Moniker42> is there a forum?
<popey> [IDEA] as people to submit audio questions, discussion items
<MootBot> IDEA received: as people to submit audio questions, discussion items
<popey> Moniker42: no
<popey> [IDEA] outline in the mail to the list some specific areas or segments we could do with help on
<MootBot> IDEA received: outline in the mail to the list some specific areas or segments we could do with help on
<popey> Moniker42: why do you ask? :)
<Moniker42> popey, a wiki sounds like a rather odd way of submitting ideas to me
<brobostigon> i got disconnected
<popey> well, we have http://uk.ubuntuforums.org/
<james_w> I assume that you will also bring recording equipment to any events, which would allow people to contribute that way.
<popey> Moniker42: thats not the way of submitting ideas, mail is
<freesitebuilder> Do you plan to have the same topics or segments in each issue?
<popey> james_w: that would be the idea
<popey> freesitebuilder: good point, probably not, generally speaking "a discussion", "an interview", "news" would be it at a high level, not no more specific than that
<Moniker42> "and now over to alan for our current affairs segment..."
<popey> Moniker42: the wiki is just used for consolidating the documentation
<popey> :)
<popey> we use gobby during the recording session itself to tweak it as we go
<corenominal_> how about a regular segment dedicated to stuff happening within the LoCo? on going projects etc
<popey> like it corenominal_
<tonytiger> Is there enough happening to make it sustainable?
<popey> although it will be a short segment
<brobostigon> corenominal_: good idea
<popey> tonytiger: some segments could come and go
* tonytiger nods
<popey> i.e. not be in every episode, but every 4th or every 2nd or something
<tonytiger> Whenever there's content for it :)
<corenominal_> true, but maybe it might be a good way to get people involved
<james_w> I think ongoing reports could be a little dry, but highlighting interesting things would be great.
<popey> well, we have mentioned the upcoming ubuntu demo day in both episode so far..
<tonytiger> If LoCo members have projects they want to talk about
<corenominal_> sometimes stuff appears on the list and then dissappears
<popey> much of it for good reason corenominal_ :)
<popey> because nothing happens
<corenominal_> maybe the podcast could help with momentum
<corenominal_> :)
<popey> true
<popey> i did consider a segment about "what's in discussion"
<popey> i.e. what are people talking about in the communit
<tonytiger> Even discussing ideas for projects could be interesting
<popey> +y
<popey> [IDEA] have a segment where we catch up with what's happening in the LoCo
<MootBot> IDEA received: have a segment where we catch up with what's happening in the LoCo
<corenominal_> yay!
<brobostigon> popey: sound ok
<popey> ok, we have spent a while on the podcast, shall we move on if there are no more points to raise?
<brobostigon> popey: i mean, sounds ok, fine
<popey> [TOPIC] Hardy release part[y|ies]
<MootBot> New Topic: Hardy release part[y|ies]
<Daviey> Southampton++
<james_w> party on wayne!
<popey> [IDEA] have one after the demo day (26th april) two days after hardy releases (and on a saturday) somehwere near the demo day
<MootBot> IDEA received: have one after the demo day (26th april) two days after hardy releases (and on a saturday) somehwere near the demo day
<james_w> popey: good idea.
<brobostigon> in swindon. near swindon??
<CieD> I've asked WiltsLUG members to look for a suitable venue
<freesitebuilder> I am not responsible for the councils car-parking fees :)
<CieD> I've had no replies yet
<popey> May I remind everyone that _anyone_ can have a release party _anywhere_
<freesitebuilder> Only two I know of are on that hotspots site that I mentioned
<popey> I don't think we should aim to have wifi at the release party
<freesitebuilder> popey: what time shall we come round?
<popey> it's not required
<popey> haha
<corenominal_> How many people are needed for a party? Does 1 count?
<popey> corenominal_: sure :)
<popey> take photos :)
<corenominal_> will do ;)
<corenominal_> it's going to ROCK!
<popey> I'm seroius, last year there were lots of arguments about the location. i want to avoid that
<brobostigon> anybody live near banbury, i would be happpt to host one??
<james_w> I agree with popey on the WiFi
<popey> I want people to just get on and do it
<Laney> What happened in the end with Gutsy, and how well did that go?
<popey> For example the one we had in London, we just told people which pub we would be in
<popey> Daviey: how many people turned up?
<popey> 10-20?
<popey> including Mark Shuttleworth and Matt Zimmerman and a few other Canonical bods
<james_w> I'm happy to meet in a pub in Bristol if anyone is in the area.
<Moniker42> warning: release parties can be very depressing
<james_w> Moniker42: why?
<freesitebuilder> why?
<popey> Moniker42: the one in London wasnt
<Moniker42> i don't mean the ones that are actual parties
<corenominal_> are you mean hardly release parties :)
<Moniker42> i mean when three guys sit in a pub and realise they're celebrating a piece of software they've had installed for weeks
<james_w> heh
<brobostigon> banbury, i would be happy to host a meeting, if there is interest????
* mgdm disappears
<gord> thats not really what its about Moniker42, its just an excuse to meet up with friends
<popey> Ok, how about I send out a mail to the list and we spark some discussion there, then people like james_w and brobostigon can reply with their ideas?
<corenominal_> gord: and enemies :)
<brobostigon> popey: ok
<CieD> good idea popey
<popey> ok
<james_w> popey: yeah, and state that there is not going to be one release party, but a bunch.
<popey> [ACTION] popey mail the list coaxing people to have release parties, not just one big one that nobody can get to
<MootBot> ACTION received: popey mail the list coaxing people to have release parties, not just one big one that nobody can get to
<Laney> A distributed release party ;)
<popey> yay!
<popey> Grid Party
<popey> [IDEA] Use daft terms like distributed release party and grid party in the mail
<brobostigon> then you can go to the one nearest to you
<MootBot> IDEA received: Use daft terms like distributed release party and grid party in the mail
<popey> ok, next topic unless anyone has anything more to add on that?
<popey> [TOPIC] Any interest in a Packaging Jam, as mentioned on the mailing list - Laney
<MootBot> New Topic: Any interest in a Packaging Jam, as mentioned on the mailing list - Laney
<popey> Laney: explain what a packaging jam is if you please?
<Laney> Righto.
<brobostigon> what is jam??
<Laney> Here is the original mailing list post from james_w: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-uk/2008-March/011600.html
<Laney> As you all probably know, Ubuntu developers take softwhere which has been developed by other groups of people, and make it available for Ubuntu users through a package manager (Synaptic, apt-get, ...)
* corenominal_ registers some interest
<Laney> The process of taking software from these groups (upstream), and turning it into a Ubuntu package is called, unsurprisingly, packaging.
<Laney> A packaging jam is where a group of people (such as our LoCo) get together and learn how to create and maintain packages. :)
<popey> get together in real life or online or both Laney ?
<Laney> popey: Primarily real-life; there is already a fairly strong community going online.
<Laney> Although I don't see why it couldn't be webcast
<Moniker42> gagh, i keep getting dragged away from the computer... there's no point in me finishing that strand i was on about release parties now :(
<james_w> this normally takes place on line, but the point of a Jam is to make it a personal thing.
<popey> Moniker42: bring it up on the list
<popey> james_w: how many people make a jam?
<james_w> well, my Grandma used to do it on her own, but she'd let me lick the spoon
<corenominal_> poor :)
<corenominal_> you're FIRED!
<Daviey> re: release party - i've already hit the ML, and there was little interest
<Daviey> (/me unsuprised)
<Moniker42> gaagggh
<james_w> it can be any number though, I think 4 would be a reasonable minimum, a dozen would be perfect if we had a few people with experience.
* Moniker42 jams a chair under his door
<Laney> What I wanted to get from this meeting was a consensus on whether we want a packaging jam in principle. This can be made more concrete through ML posts.
<Laney> Having a mandate from this meeting would be a good driver, I feel.
* Daviey up for a packaging jam
<Laney> Then we can nail things like location down later.
<popey> i would be up for it too
<james_w> The other alternative is a bug jam, which focuses on how to handle bugs, which requires less technical skill.
* corenominal_ up for it in theory, would be good to learn more
<popey> james_w: do both?
<popey> then the bug triagers can learn packaging :)
<james_w> I thought if we managed to get a full day we could perhaps do both, but it's up to you guys.
<CieD> I'm interested in learning about packaging and bugs
<popey> ditto
<popey> I'm interested in this idea
<james_w> I thought there was enough interest expresses on the mailing list to take it to the next step.
<popey> deffo james_w
<james_w> is there anyone that didn't reply that is interested?
<popey> whats the next step :)
<CieD> I didn't reply on the list
<brobostigon> i got disconnected again
<james_w> I think I've seen a couple, so that's even better.
<james_w> so I think the next step is to find a venue, anyone think different?
<Laney> Well, and a date
<popey> james_w: be nice to get some canonical people involved.. maybe even just one
<james_w> and a tentative date as well.
<james_w> popey: done
<popey> are we not a bit late for hardy?
<Moniker42> popey, to make it /canon/? :)
<james_w> yeah, for the packaging definitely.
<james_w> the bugs maybe by the time I actually get off my butt and organise it.
<popey> ok, so is this something that should be planned for Irritable Ibex?
* Laney nods
<james_w> I think so, but it can happen pretty much anytime.
<popey> how about one shortly after UDS?
<james_w> we should avoid things like UDS and the like
<popey> once the repos open
<james_w> sounds good to me.
<Laney> UDS is when?
<popey> end of may
<james_w> that time is pretty crazy, but there's loads to do.
<popey> I'll be at UDS so can butter up some people in the UK to come along to help us get started
<james_w> so, first/second week of June?
<popey> james_w: sounds like a good target
<james_w> I'm there as well, so we can double team them.
<popey> O RLY?
* tonytiger is also going
<james_w> so, there's a certain Ubuntu-friendly company with office space in London we could hit-up for some space to host it, that's one possibility.
<popey> so can we agree an action that james_w / Laney organise this?
<james_w> anyone else know any suitable places?
<popey> james_w: they already host jams so I dont think that's unreasonable
<Laney> james_w: Sounds fair
<popey> I'd go to london for that
<james_w> and I'm happy to organise another somewhere far from London if people want that.
<popey> brum would be good, we have a lot of people round there
<popey> ok..
<Moniker42> mgdm, i think that still puts both of our areas out of the picture :)
<popey> [ACTION] james_w / Laney to organise bug/packaging jam for sometime after UDS
<MootBot> ACTION received: james_w / Laney to organise bug/packaging jam for sometime after UDS
<james_w> cool.
<Laney> Status update at next meeting?
<brobostigon> i am in banbury, not far from brum
<james_w> and, is everyone happy with a Saturday?
<popey> yes
<brobostigon> ok
<popey> james_w: have to see what the office people say
<james_w> yeah, that may be the trouble, but I assume that it suits u-uk better
<popey> james_w: talk about this detail on the list
<popey> yes
<james_w> sure thing
<popey> ok, shall we move on?
<james_w> yup
<popey> you again :)
<popey> [TOPIC] #
<popey> [TOPIC] 5-a-day - james_w
<popey> #
<MootBot> New Topic: #
<MootBot> New Topic: 5-a-day - james_w
<popey> bah
<brobostigon> ok
<Moniker42> yes, i think james should definitely be getting his fruit and veg
<popey> :)
<james_w> 5-a-day is the effort trying to get everybody in the Ubuntu community to work on 5 bugs a day.
* Moniker42 has yet to contribute anything but terrible puns to this meeting...
<Laney> james_w: "work on" meaning...?
<popey> s/ but terrible puns//
<james_w> you don't have to fix them, just confirm them, or ask for more information, or something useful.
<Laney> :)
<james_w> and it doesn't have to be 5, some people do one, some do 30.
<james_w> you may have heard all of this already, but the news is that 5-a-day now has team support
<CieD> james_w: I hope to understand what's involved once I've been to the jam
<james_w> so as well as earning cool points for yourself, you can earn them for the team as well.
<james_w> yeah, after the Bug Jam, you'll all be well prepared to do this.
<Moniker42> oh, ffs....
<james_w> so, I just wanted to make a plug so that people know about it, and will set ubuntu-uk as their team.
<popey> james_w: wanna mail the list about it?
<Laney> james_w: Do you have a link to this team business?
<popey> to raise the profile?
<james_w> http://daniel.holba.ch/5-a-day-stats/
<MootBot> LINK received: http://daniel.holba.ch/5-a-day-stats/
<james_w> that's the "leaderboard"
<james_w> you can see the teams at the bottom
<james_w> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/5-A-Day
<james_w> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/5-A-Day#head-61830a788a483cb40f6da2d9ed5baf8a53d48c71
<james_w> that's the general instructions, and the team instructions
<popey> james_w: can you mail the list about this? raise profile and outline teams and stuff?
<james_w> so, if you want to get started you can swing by #ubuntu-bugs, where there's a whole load of helpful people who will help you out
<james_w> popey: sure.
<Laney> Running the add-... program reports back to Daniel's stats?
<popey> [ACTION] james_w to mail the list raising the profile of 5-a-day
<MootBot> ACTION received: james_w to mail the list raising the profile of 5-a-day
<james_w> I've said my bit, any questions, or shall we move on?
<popey> I think we need a bigger audience for that and consolidation of that info
<popey> so a ML post would be great
<popey> blimey - that's all the topics we have
<popey> ok, anything else anyone has to discuss speak now
<corenominal_> erm...
<Daviey> next meeting date?
<popey> thats next
<popey> ok, when? two weeks today?
<corenominal_> just to say congrats to all involved in getting the podcast off the ground, good job guys!
<james_w> yeah, I agreee
<popey> oh cool, thanks
<james_w> emphatically it seems
<popey> next meeting 9th april at 20:30 to keep momentum of some of these things going?
<Daviey> (short meeting methinks)
<tonytiger> Sadly I won't be able to make it.
<james_w> works for me
<corenominal_> and me
<tonytiger> I'm not really that important to the meeting though :)
<popey> awww
* popey hugs tonytiger
<popey> depends how well you edit the next podcast :)
<CieD> :)
<popey> ok, done
<popey> [ACTION] Next meeting here 9th april 20:30
<MootBot> ACTION received: Next meeting here 9th april 20:30
<popey> #endmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting finished at 22:22.
<popey> thanks everyone
<popey> 21:22:14 <MootBot> Logs available at http://blackbird.kaarsemaker.net/mootbot/meeting

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
