{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by daubers at 19:01 ==
 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> Apologies if I muck up commands, my lappy screen is a bit small for two sets of crib sheets

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> Anyone who's present say so please :)

 <''''''> present

 <''''''> present

 <''''''> present

 <''''''> present

 <''''''> present

 <''''''> present

 <''''''> present

 <''''''> present

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Review of action items from last meeting

=== Review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] Daviey to kick off team reporting and find interested parties to do regular reports

==== Daviey to kick off team reporting and find interested parties to do regular reports ====
 <''''''> Daviey?

 <''''''> \o

 <''''''> oops, present

 <''''''> How goes said reporting?

 <''''''> Ok, deadline for April is technically this Sunday

 <''''''> I've today posted to the LoCo list

 <''''''> asking people to add activities

* '''''' read it. 

 <''''''> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-uk/2010-April/023790.html

 <''''''> Essentially, it's a call for people to add anything they have achieved in April

 <''''''> (or the LoCo)

 <''''''> I'm going to poke a few people that i know have achieved stuff

 <''''''> if people present could do that also, it would be grand

 <''''''> Excellent :)

 <''''''> willdo Daviey

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> [ACTION] People who have achieved something in April, please place it in the report

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' People who have achieved something in April, please place it in the report''
|}

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> Shall we move on?

 <''''''> agreed.

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] AlanBell to find out what happened at the manchester jam

==== AlanBell to find out what happened at the manchester jam ====
 <''''''> the manchester jam occured and seems to have gone well, MunkyJunky talked about it on the full circle podcast

 <''''''> ta

 <''''''> present btw :)

 <''''''> It did go well!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/51/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/51/detail/

 <''''''> Excellent, well done to those that organised it

 <''''''> Moving on?

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] Daviey and czajkowski to do more publicity on the geeknic

==== Daviey and czajkowski to do more publicity on the geeknic ====
 <''''''> Daviey?

 <''''''> czajkowski?

 <''''''> no action from here.

 <''''''> she was talking about it in #ubuntu-uk not long ago.

 <''''''> Ok, can we someone volunteer to post to the mailing list?

 <''''''> [ACTION] Daubers to either poke czajkowski to or get himself to send a mail to the -uk list this evning about the geeknic in Liverpool

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Daubers to either poke czajkowski to or get himself to send a mail to the -uk list this evning about the geeknic in Liverpool''
|}

 <''''''> Ok, next

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] daubers to put support guidelines in a wiki page prior to next meeting

==== daubers to put support guidelines in a wiki page prior to next meeting ====
 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Support_Guidelines

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> iam happy with it, right now.

 <''''''> I've popped these on the wiki now, and (think) I dropped an email to the list.

 <''''''> I'll go further into this in a second

 <''''''> since thats the end of the last meetings actions

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Daubers - Support Guidelines

=== Daubers - Support Guidelines ===
 <''''''> Do we need to do a review of those proposedguidelines?

 <''''''> As I said these are now on the wiki, an I believe I emailed the mailing list. Do people want time to review them further and me to push them a bit more, or how would people like to proceed?

 <''''''> i would like to be able to review them, please.

 <''''''> would be good to share them about at UDS

 <''''''> Ok, are there any major failings in the proposed guidelines?

 <''''''> daubers: not that i can immediatly remember, no.

 <''''''> AlanBell: Would you be happy to do that? I'm not going

 <''''''> Work, money and stuff are in the way

 <''''''> I see no failures, but they can probably be expanded on over time

 <''''''> yes I can try and talk to other teams about them at UDS

 <''''''> I would be happier with review before proper adoption.

 <''''''> Awesome, if anyone thinks it would help, I'm happy to do a session at oggcamp

 <''''''> and good scruteny.

 <''''''> I think they need to bee used to see if they work

 <''''''> an oggcamp session would be great

 <''''''> So, if I do an oggcamp session and write up some bits, are we happy to do a trial implimentation as of next week and then a review afterwards?

 <''''''> I am

 <''''''> See if I can organise a meeting dedicated to that topic

 <''''''> [ACTION] Daubers to write a tal for Oggcamp on the proposed support guidelines

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Daubers to write a tal for Oggcamp on the proposed support guidelines''
|}

 <''''''> Do we want to vote on a trial implimentation?

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> after review,yes.

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> not before.

 <''''''> brobostigon: Not sure there's a lot to review initially. They're set out fairly plainly in the wiki page. There will be a lot of wiggle room in the trial as well

 <''''''> I'd suggest a trial to find out what needs adding. I've had a skim and there appears to be vagueness rather than anything likely disagreeable

 <''''''> daubers: i mean, for any big issues, thats all, or any possible additions or changes.

 <''''''> brobostigon: I think a trial would be best to hilight that (personally)

 <''''''> If it all fails during the trial then obviously it'll get pulled and discussed further

 <''''''> daubers: true, but a "not firm trial" rather thandefinate firm trial.

 <''''''> Yes, as I said, wit a lot of wiggle room

 <''''''> ok,

 <''''''> more of a beta than a release candidate

 <''''''> i am happy.

 <''''''> [VOTE] Should we have a beta trial of the support guidelines, followed by a meeting to review them?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion:  Should we have a beta trial of the support guidelines, followed by a meeting to review them?''
|}
 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> Blimey, I think we can take that as a yes

 <''''''> [ENDVOTE]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 11 in favour, 0 against, 0 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 11
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Carried:  Should we have a beta trial of the support guidelines, followed by a meeting to review them?
|}

* '''''' goes to make a copy of the guidelines,

 <''''''> [ACTION] Daubers to send a mail to the list explaining the guidelines

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Daubers to send a mail to the list explaining the guidelines''
|}

 <''''''> [Action] Daubers to organise a meeting following the trial

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Daubers to organise a meeting following the trial''
|}

 <''''''> Everyone happy?

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> Ok, moving the train along :)

 <''''''> [TOPIC] TBA - OGGCamp related bits

=== TBA - OGGCamp related bits ===
 <''''''> hehe, I did 99.9% of stuff that was in the guidelines anyway :)

 <''''''> Should the IRC channel be informed

 <''''''> Yorvyk: I'll do that as well

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> daubers: Wikipage + url to topic?

 <''''''> ok, so who is going to oggcamp?

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> Daviey: Yes please :)

 <''''''> sorry, I moved on a bit quick there

 <''''''> Would Daviey or anyone like to say a few words about oggcamp?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://ideas.oggcamp.org/ is a collection of bits of oggcamp info''
|}

 <''''''> http://ideas.oggcamp.org/ is a collection of bits of oggcamp info

 <''''''> in particular look at the talks page

 <''''''> and there is of course the geeknic on Friday afternoon

 <''''''> have i missed the meeting

 <''''''> ahhh that'll be a no

 <''''''> good

 <''''''> Anyone considering a talk, do it! :)

 <''''''> yamanickill_: still proceeding

 <''''''> Also, anyone I've not yet met, come say hello!

 <''''''> AlanBell: cool thanks, sorry if i missed my section

 <''''''> Any other Oggcamp business people would like raised?

 <''''''> go to oggcamp!

 <''''''> :) We'll move along then

 <''''''> Steaming through today

 <''''''> [TOPIC] TBA - UDS related bits

=== TBA - UDS related bits ===
 <''''''> I am going to UDS

 <''''''> Anybody intending to attend UDS?

 <''''''> and I found out today I am doing crew for it too

 <''''''> No

 <''''''> AlanBell: \o/ Crew is the best thing to do at these things

 <''''''> I am in the vacinty that week so might pop in

 <''''''> popey and Daviey are going, amongst others

 <''''''> writing a blueprint thoygh

 <''''''> if there is anything that you want raised with the wider community then fill in blueprints or hassle people who are going

 <''''''> or both

 <''''''> If poeple want help finding who to hassle or with blueprints please ask in the channel

 <''''''> will do

 <''''''> AlanBell: Anything else you wanted to cover here?

 <''''''> no, don't think so

 <''''''> Ok

 <''''''> party on the Eurostar

 <''''''> Heh, just don't go starting any fires!

 <''''''> eggplant =! aubergine

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Any other business

=== Any other business ===
 <''''''> Anyone like to raise something?

 <''''''> want an update on scottish release party?

 <''''''> yamanickill_: Yes please!

 <''''''> I must have missed that

 <''''''> sorry :(

 <''''''> wasn't there a release parties topic?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Release Parties

=== Release Parties ===
 <''''''> AlanBell: yeah, but i wasn't here

 <''''''> i couldn't get onto irc

 <''''''> the planning for this party is going pretty well. 1 week to go until the party

* '''''' smacks his head

 <''''''> we have almost everything organised. didn't get any sponsors for beer, so we are just gonna let people BYOB

 <''''''> and everything is going good :-

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> yamanickill_: Where's the party going to be?

 <''''''> yamanickill_: Got a link for your release party info?

* '''''' sneaks in banbury

 <''''''> brobostigon: ^_^

 <''''''> The_Toxic_Mite: it is in the Strathclyde university union

 <''''''> daubers: erm its on the release parties page, me thinks

 <''''''> you mean detailed info?

 <''''''> release parties should be now added to the loco directory

 <''''''> yamanickill_: Ah. Glasgow's fairly inconvenient for me, and given that I have exams on, I may not be allowed to come

 <''''''> yamanickill_: Yes please

 <''''''> ok, well the only detailed info that is public is the info on my evernote...2 secs lemme get the link

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.evernote.com/pub/yamanickill/ubuntu''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.evernote.com/pub/yamanickill/ubuntu

 <''''''> [ACTION] Anyone in the vicinity of the Scottish Release Party to go, be sociable and enjoy themselves while celebrating Lucid

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Anyone in the vicinity of the Scottish Release Party to go, be sociable and enjoy themselves while celebrating Lucid''
|}

 <''''''> Awesome :)

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> yamanickill_: Can you make sure a reminder goes to the -uk list?

 <''''''> ok, London party is tomorrow night

 <''''''> daubers: yep, will do that

 <''''''> daubers: banbury also please.:)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/121/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/121/detail/

* '''''' checks timetables on nationalrail.co.uk

 <''''''> [action] yamanickill to send a reminder to the list

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' yamanickill to send a reminder to the list''
|}

 <''''''> brobostigon: Once AlanBell is done with London we'll come to you

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> i am eating, so give me a shout.

 <''''''> Was the London one organised by Canonical again this time around?

 <''''''> so the London party is in a wine bar in Pall Mall

 <''''''> it is canonical organised, they sorted the venue

 <''''''> but we had some input into it and it should be a bit classier than before :-)

 <''''''> Excellent :)

 <''''''> not sure of the age limit

 <''''''> anyone under 21 and intending to go might want to give them a call and check first

 <''''''> If only I didn't have college the following morning, I might have caught the train down from Northampton

 <''''''> see you all tomorrow o/

 <''''''> Good good :)

 <''''''> So to Banbury

 <''''''> one sec.

 <''''''> [action] People attending the London launch part to enjoy themselves immensley

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' People attending the London launch part to enjoy themselves immensley''
|}

 <''''''> okies

 <''''''> ...or else?

* '''''' will do his best

 <''''''> brobostigon, over to you

 <''''''> saturday night, may 1st, olde reindeer inn, more social.

 <''''''> nothing to formal,

 <''''''> daubers: aw...can the scottish launch party people not enjoy themselves?

 <''''''> yamanickill_: That was already actioned

 <''''''> also need to be of the right age, and dress responably smart/casual.

 <''''''> reasonably*

 <''''''> brobostigon: What's the age limit?

 <''''''> around 7:30pm start,

 <''''''> daubers: ha, nothing about fun tho :-P

 <''''''> daubers: generally over 21.

 <''''''> Ok, and is there an event page?

 <''''''> daubers: on loco.ubuntu.com and onthe wiki. yes.

 <''''''> ido have the paghe infront of me,

 <''''''> dont*

 <''''''> ok, http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/120/detail/

 <''''''> Looks to be the one

 <''''''> thats it.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/120/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/120/detail/

 <''''''> Thank you Mr Bot

 <''''''> Ok, any other release parties?

 <''''''> [action] People attending Banbury release party to enjoy themselves

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' People attending Banbury release party to enjoy themselves''
|}

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> I have a bottle of port waiting for my personal release party :)

 <''''''> and good beer, :) as always,

 <''''''> Daviey: May I suggest some cheese with that?

 <''''''> daubers: you may!

 <''''''> Ok :) Going back to AOB

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Any other Business

=== Any other Business ===
 <''''''> I just phoned the London venue, it is over 18

 <''''''> Anyone like to raise any issues?

 <''''''> go to oggcamp!

 <''''''> generally over 18 is fine for banbury, aswell,

 <''''''> but over 21 is there as a rule for certain peole.

 <''''''> Okey dokey.

 <''''''> brobostigon: Can you drop a reminder to the -uk list too please?

 <''''''> for the banbury party

 <''''''> daubers: yes, :)

 <''''''> [action

 <''''''> [action] brobostigon to send reminder to mailing list re: banbury release party

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' brobostigon to send reminder to mailing list re: banbury release party''
|}

 <''''''> No more business?

 <''''''> not from here, no.

 <''''''> May 6th, don't forget to vote

 <''''''> Oh yes, everybody remember to vote on the 6th

 <''''''> :) always,

 <''''''> AlanBell: oh cool, is that when the election is?

 <''''''> Those who are eligable anyway

 <''''''> Azelphur: yes

 <''''''> i see

 <''''''> I registered at aboutmyvote.org but never received any papers yet

 <''''''> aboutmyvote.co.uk, rather

 <''''''> Ok, shall we organise the next meeting?

 <''''''> ahh yes...the election

 <''''''> [topic] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> are we continuing on the 1st wed of each month?

 <''''''> apart from today obv

 <''''''> I think so

 <''''''> i'm happy with that. not so good with the last wed

 <''''''> Is it ok for me to organise an out of sequence meeting the following week to chase support guidelines? Or would people rather we have it run for 2 weeks

 <''''''> (though that would be 2 weeks)

* '''''' is confused

* '''''' is also confused

 <''''''> sothree insted of two?

 <''''''> The first wednesday of the month would be next week

 <''''''> ok, this meeting was brought forward a week to be in front of release and oggcamp

 <''''''> Ah, ok

 <''''''> true

 <''''''> the next meeting I was expecting would be July 7th

 <''''''> oops, no

 <''''''> June 2nd

 <''''''> so when do you want the support guidelines meeting?

 <''''''> as long as not, tuesday evening, i amhappy, i play chess tuesday evening.

 <''''''> I'd like to run that on the week containing the 14th

 <''''''> i am happy to go with everyone else on this one, i am very free.

 <''''''> Which lets it run for 2 weeks

 <''''''> UDS is the week containing the 14th

 <''''''> Ah, ok, so the following week

 <''''''> sounds good

 <''''''> is there internet at uds? :-P

 <''''''> sounds fine here.

 <''''''> [action] Daubers to organise support meeting on the 19th of April

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Daubers to organise support meeting on the 19th of April''
|}

 <''''''> i am hppy.

 <''''''> Can we have a chair for the meeting on the 7th of July? (as that is a general meeting)

 <''''''> count me out, my internet is not reliable right now, consistently.

 <''''''> April ??

 <''''''> danfish for chair?

 <''''''> sorry :( I'll correct that in the minutes, I meant may

 <''''''> june...not july

 <''''''> and june

 <''''''> I'm rubbish at this!

 <''''''> :-P

 <''''''> danfish: Would you like to volunteer?

 <''''''> or yamanickill_ ?

 <''''''> 19 may is a tuesday

 <''''''> Yorvyk: It's a wednesday according to my calender

 <''''''> We can leave it without a chair, and get a volunteer prior to the start of the next

 <''''''> OK wring Year

 <''''''> i'll go for it if someone tells me what to do. i've no iea what to do. this is the 2nd of june, yeah?

 <''''''> yamanickill_: 7th of june :)

 <''''''> according to AlanBell

 <''''''> yep, I'll voluteer - flattered!

 <''''''> 7th is a friday...that was the july one wasn't it?

 <''''''> wow this is confusing just now

 <''''''> yamanickill_: 7th is a monday

 <''''''> 2nd of June!

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> Next meeting: 2nd of June

 <''''''> danfish or yamanickill_: Who'd like to do it?

 <''''''> danfish: you go for it

 <''''''> i'll take it some other time

 <''''''> [topic] Next meeting 2nd of June danfish to chair

=== Next meeting 2nd of June danfish to chair ===
 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 20:03 ==
=== People Present ===
* AlanBell

* dutchie

* brobostigon

* daubers

* Yorvyk

* MunkyJunky

* BigRedS_

* freesitebuilder_

* Azelphur

* L0ki

* Daviey

* The_Toxic_Mite

* TonyP

* danfish

* yamanickill_

* funkyHat

=== Actions Recorded ===
* People who have achieved something in April, please place it in the report

* Daubers to either poke czajkowski to or get himself to send a mail to the -uk list this evning about the geeknic in Liverpool

* Daubers to write a tal for Oggcamp on the proposed support guidelines

* Daubers to send a mail to the list explaining the guidelines

* Daubers to organise a meeting following the trial

* Anyone in the vicinity of the Scottish Release Party to go, be sociable and enjoy themselves while celebrating Lucid

* yamanickill to send a reminder to the list

* People attending the London launch part to enjoy themselves immensley

* People attending Banbury release party to enjoy themselves

* brobostigon to send reminder to mailing list re: banbury release party

* Daubers to organise support meeting on the 19th of May
