{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by AlanBell at 21:05 ==
 <''''''> present

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> hi all, give us a wave

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> present

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - review of action items from last meeting

=== AlanBell - review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> so first up our standing item on the team report

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in October, please place it in the report.

==== People who have achieved something in October, please place it in the report. ====
 <''''''> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/November

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f9edbd>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/November''
|}

 <''''''> ok, so we will have this meeting to add

 <''''''> did you mean November then?

 <''''''> anything else of note that we have missed?

 <''''''> brunogirin: yes!

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in *November*, please place it in the report.

==== People who have achieved something in *November*, please place it in the report. ====
 <''''''> Two podcast eps to add

 <''''''> Will do

 <''''''> jolly good

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] AlanBell - discuss ongoing work re new website

==== AlanBell - discuss ongoing work re new website ====
 <''''''> ok, well some things have moved on

 <''''''> we have added a totally awesome recipes section

 <''''''> is that beta.ubuntu-uk.org ?

 <''''''> I think most should be ubuntu themed in some way

 <''''''> [link] http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f9edbd>'' http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org''
|}

 <''''''> and we are having a website hack day on the 10th of December

 <''''''> it will be an all day thing, somewhat organised on the IRC channel, pop along whenever you can

 <''''''> Great plan

 <''''''> sounds interesting.

 <''''''> how are  we contributing?

 <''''''> any thoughts and ideas on the website while we are here?

 <''''''> nperry: content, some articles about the loco and what we are up to

 <''''''> i havent had a good look yet, so dont know AlanBell

 <''''''> the map needs a bit of work

 <''''''> or you could even try putting in an Ubuntu themed recipe

 <''''''> let me expand, I'm free for some wordpress hacking.. but we need the source first :)

 <''''''> do we have the Ubuntini in there?

 <''''''> so maybe github?

 <''''''> we can put the ubuntini in, perhaps adding a uniquely british twist to it somehow

 <''''''> I'm interested in the map project.

 <''''''> nperry: or launchpad :)

 <''''''> Also, is it just tweets up there, or dents too?

 <''''''> Be nice if we didn't fiddle much with the word press core

 <''''''> nperry: actually the source is in a bzr repo, based on the light-wordpress-theme in the ubuntu-website project on launchpad

 <''''''> JamesTait-HTC: just tweets, adding dents would be awesome

* '''''' notes the project report.

 <''''''> repo! Autocomplete....

 <''''''> I wouldn't touch the wordpress core, but we can do plugins that can do anything

 <''''''> ipopey: if it's in launchpad then we can all start branches and someone (AlanBell?) can do the merges and make sure we don't touch the core

* '''''' gets a caffeince topup.

 <''''''> caffeine*

 <''''''> sounds like you need one brobostigon

 <''''''> ok, moving on?

 <''''''> Cool

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] AlanBell - liaise with the Hub re XMAS bash, booked for December 21st

==== AlanBell - liaise with the Hub re XMAS bash, booked for December 21st ====
 <''''''> yeah, done that

 <''''''> [link] http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/568/detail/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f9edbd>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/568/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> so it is all booked for the 21st at the Hub Islington

 <''''''> I was hoping for a few more people to be signed up than we have so far

 <''''''> can't make it :-(

 <''''''> if anyone can help promote it and push it out to more people that would be great

 <''''''> Bit far for me. :(

 <''''''> tweets, dents, emails to LUGs etc

 <''''''> sames as JamesTait-HTC

 <''''''> facebook thingumies

 <''''''> stick it on diaspora

 <''''''> etc. etc.

 <''''''> Lol

 <''''''> pimp that event!

 <''''''> no-one had disapor access yet.

 <''''''> AlanBell: I'll mention it where possible. Sorry I can't come, us poor northerners dont venture to the big smoke that often.

 <''''''> diaspora*

 <''''''> has*

* '''''' hands brobostigon a coffee.

 <''''''> thank you JamesTait-HTC

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] danfish and brunogirin to brainstorm re public sector OSS event

==== danfish and brunogirin to brainstorm re public sector OSS event ====
 <''''''> I had a couple of email exchange with danfish and we came up with a few ideas

 <''''''> then work deadlines took over

 <''''''> but that should be over by the end of this week so will pick up with danfish from next week and over the xmas hols

 <''''''> ok, that happens, want to share some of the ideas?

 <''''''> ok, and danfish is currently lost in the snow on the way back from somewhere warm

 <''''''> basic ideas: start with a state of the (health) nation

 <''''''> Maybe group talks around use cases, such as:

 <''''''> >       * Primary care: what software is in use in GP practices,

 <''''''> >       * Secondary care: hospitals, community and mental health trusts,

 <''''''> >       * Medical labs?

 <''''''> add the word "enterprise" to the oss software, and tell them its ?100,000 plus additional payments for the next 100 years, and they will surely buy into it. ..

 <''''''> might be nice to compare or showcase open source healthcare solutions working in other countries

 <''''''> yes indeed

 <''''''> oh and don't forget openmolar for the dentists

 <''''''> didn't know about it, so I will make a note :-)

 <''''''> the author was interviewed on the podcast

 <''''''> anyway, as I said, I'll pick up with dan as soon as work quietens down

 <''''''> I expect ipopey will tell you which episode

 <''''''> right, lets move on, but have a progress report on that again in the next meeting.

 <''''''> no problem

 <''''''> [TOPIC] ipopey - Open Source Expo

=== ipopey - Open Source Expo ===
 <''''''> Eh?

 <''''''> Oh is this the expo in London?

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> had your name against it, but I actually emailed the organiser

 <''''''> Any news?

 <''''''> I need to follow up with a call

 <''''''> I suspect we can get a stand in the .org village bit

 <''''''> Do you have a link ?

 <''''''> especially if we can pursuade Canonical to get a paid for stand

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f9edbd>'' http://www.opensourceexpo.co.uk/''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.opensourceexpo.co.uk/

 <''''''> Ta

 <''''''> is this something we want to do? What would we be doing there? what is our core message and so on

 <''''''> So once we have a stand we can put the call out for volunteers

 <''''''> Yeah

 <''''''> or do we just get a desk and hand out CDs

 <''''''> That has worked in the past

 <''''''> We have previously had the busiest stand

 <''''''> AlanBell: maybe we can make it an Ubuntu in Business event?

 <''''''> oh and have we done whatever we need to do to get the banner?

 <''''''> Demos of Ubuntu on various kit always brings in the crowds, especially jogglers ;)

 <''''''> Heh

 <''''''> brunogirin: the event itself is quite big, it is a proper show

 <''''''> or have it running on an iPad . . . I wonder where we can find one of them . . .

 <''''''> AlanBell: I know but if we prepare like a UIB event, we can prepare demos and stuff to show and say

 <''''''> Heresy!

 <''''''> You'd need a lot of space for that

 <''''''> And for free you get very little

 <''''''> Ubuntu on my nexus <3

 <''''''> not necessarily, it's a case of thinking about the message as it's an enterprise event

 <''''''> brunogirin: yeah, I am inclined to make it as professional as we can, but as ipopey said there won't be much room

 <''''''> It's not our event

 <''''''> As such

 <''''''> indeed not

 <''''''> we will get a small table and a little booth

 <''''''> yes I know but we can have a laptop or two with some demos ready to run

 <''''''> Sure can

 <''''''> but we can have some kit demoing things, we might be able to get a projector doing something on the back wall

 <''''''> That goes down well

 <''''''> we can have posters on the walls

 <''''''> If there is room

 <''''''> yeah, these things aren't a free for all

 <''''''> you'll get a little cube

 <''''''> end of

 <''''''> we can have uniformed staff on the booth http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=776

 <''''''> Depends, we got a big one last year

 <''''''> Alan: ha!

 <''''''> and possibly prepare a few real life examples that we can talk visitors through

 <''''''> or slightly more sensibly: http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=736

 <''''''> indeed, and some CDs

 <''''''> ok, so this sounds like something we want to try to do?

 <''''''> AlanBell: Sounds good to me mate

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> AlanBell: I'll lend a hand / provide advice where I can

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> [AGREED] lets try and get a stand at the expo thing

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f9edbd>'' lets try and get a stand at the expo thing''
|}

 <''''''> [AGREED] nobody will wear http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=776 unless actually on a bike

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f9edbd>'' nobody will wear http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=776 unless actually on a bike''
|}

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Any Other Business

=== AlanBell - Any Other Business ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f9edbd>'' http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=648 looks quite nice''
|}

 <''''''> http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=648 looks quite nice

 <''''''> JamesTait-HTC: it does

 <''''''> JamesTait-HTC: Looks good mate

 <''''''> Sorry, I'm a bit slow on the phone.

 <''''''> Want

 <''''''> ok, anything else to discuss?

 <''''''> not that i can think of, AlanBell

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> we have had a request for not a tuesday

 <''''''> yes, i need to go to chess more, and that is a tuesday evening.

 <''''''> Thursday 16th?

 <''''''> Any day works equally well for me.

 <''''''> between the website hack day and the christmas party?

 <''''''> Thursday 16th is good for me

 <''''''> looks fine here AlanBell

 <''''''> Nice to mix it up

 <''''''> I'm happy with that

 <''''''> any objections to the 16th?

 <''''''> [agreed] next meeting Thursday 16th December, 9PM

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f9edbd>'' next meeting Thursday 16th December, 9PM''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

=== Chair for next meeting ===
 <''''''> eeny meeny miney moe

 <''''''> lets hope its not forgotten :)

 <''''''> Sure

 <''''''> nperry: did you just volunteer?

 <''''''> I'll do it

* '''''' hides in corner, not used to chairing meetings.

 <''''''> ipopey sounded like a volunteer with more conviction than nperry

 <''''''> I won't volunteer because my attendance is not guaranteed.

 <''''''> [agreed] ipopey to chair, but probably using a real computer

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f9edbd>'' ipopey to chair, but probably using a real computer''
|}

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> and with that

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 21:45 ==
=== People Present ===
* brobostigon

* brunogirin

* AlanBell

* Yorvyk

* nperry

* Biglesp

* freesitebuilder

* Thingymebob

* JamesTait-HTC

* suprengr

* ipopey

* exobuzz

* mattt

* phillw

=== Actions Recorded ===
 None
