{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by AlanBell at 20:10 ==
 <''''''> thanks

 <''''''> ok, evening all o/

 <''''''> Evening

 <''''''> hi o/

 <''''''> evening AlanBell :)

 <''''''> [TOPIC] review of action items from last meeting

=== review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in April, please place it in the report.

==== People who have achieved something in April, please place it in the report. ====
 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/April

 <''''''> well there is the London release party to add to that

 <''''''> ok, i may have something for that,but it is a personal achievement, and not related to ubuntu, but OSS and OSH.

 <''''''> I need to add a link for Linux Outlaws, and add the fullcircle podcast

 <''''''> great

 <''''''> quite a full report this month

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] AlanBell Update on the quiz night

==== AlanBell Update on the quiz night ====
 <''''''> ok, well this was great fun

* '''''' missed it due to personal commitments, :(

 <''''''> MartijnVdS and popey won baseball hats for their impressive high scores

 <''''''> yay

 <''''''> Jessica_Lilly won a copy of the official Ubuntu book as she admitted being a Gentoo user and thus was considered most in need of it!

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> lol, :)

 <''''''> she got the book today

 <''''''> popey's hat is sat on my desk still

 <''''''> using Mumble worked quite well and we agreed to do that again some time

 <''''''> possibly for some evening hack sessions or something

 <''''''> AlanBell: yes, it worked very well, once we got it refined properly.

 <''''''> for those who missed the quiz you can join the #ubuntu-trivia channel at any time and play with the quiz bot

 <''''''> we should  use it more, :)

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> the "ubuntu" category was released for the quiz night and is now generally available in the brain of the bot

 <''''''> neat.

 <''''''> ok, I think that is about it on the quiz

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] Update on the launch party for natty

==== Update on the launch party for natty ====
 <''''''> yup, that happened

 <''''''> the more formal thing at the BCS didn't, I had to cancel that

 <''''''> how come?

 <''''''> canonical couldn't send a representative

 <''''''> thats a pity

 <''''''> That is not good

 <''''''> agreed.

 <''''''> I worked my way down the org chart asking people until it was getting silly

 <''''''> however, they are going to try to arrange it for the next release

 <''''''> AlanBell: couldnt someone from us, the community be representtive.

 <''''''> not really

 <''''''> ok,

 <''''''> hmm.

 <''''''> however the thing in the pub was fun

 <''''''> thats good. :)

 <''''''> although some people struggled to find us

 <''''''> was that before or after the beer ;)

 <''''''> interesting question.

 <''''''> they do have a rather fine selection of beers at the porterhouse

 <''''''> ok, the next topic should be the election process vote

 <''''''> AlanBell: this is the same place oggcamp will be held?

 <''''''> think I am going to defer that to the next meeting as I am not sure where the page is we are voting on and this meeting wasn't announced in advance enough

 <''''''> brobostigon: nope, the porterhouse is a pub in central london

 <''''''> oggcamp will be in the maltings in Farnham

 <''''''> AlanBell: oh, it must be a similer name then.

 <''''''> (where they have an annual beer festival)

 <''''''> yes, they are similer

 <''''''> ok,sorry.

 <''''''> hmm, no daubers

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Daubers - British Library Sci-Fi Exhibition

=== Daubers - British Library Sci-Fi Exhibition ===
 <''''''> daubers isn't online right now it seems

 <''''''> however take a look at http://www.bl.uk/whatson/exhibitions/outofthisworld/outofthisworld.html

 <''''''> what do you think about that as an activity?

 <''''''> a meetup at the british library including or followed by a geeknic of some kind

 <''''''> and cake

 <''''''> I like it

 <''''''> sounds good

 <''''''> any potental dates?

 <''''''> interesing idea.

 <''''''> I don't think any dates have been proposed yet

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/2011plan''
|}

 <''''''> http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/2011plan

 <''''''> okey dokey, I'll keep an eye out

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> Can we have a votey thing?

 <''''''> yes, we can have a votey thing

 <''''''> but we have to narrow it down to a reasonable selection of options first

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.bl.uk/whatson/planyourvisit/openinghours/index.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.bl.uk/whatson/planyourvisit/openinghours/index.html

 <''''''> so looks like saturdays and sundays would be good options

 <''''''> or possibly a tuesday evening

 <''''''> definitely weekends, and if we can get dates soon enough it won't cost me an arm and a leg to come

 <''''''> i dont think i could  attend either, unless finances improve, so count me out, of the decision making,

 <''''''> the library and exhibition are free, but travel costs can indeed be a pain

 <''''''> yeah, I'm up in Blackpool, so its about Â£60 return

 <''''''> farnham is around Â£12 eachway, that is alot for me, for oggcamp.

 <''''''> I'mm up for that, but have very few unbooked weekends in July/August

 <''''''> right now, anyway.

 <''''''> ok, so I will have a chat with daubers (as he suggested it) and get some dates together to put to the list on a doodle poll

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> good

 <''''''> [action] AlanBell & daubers to sort out doodle poll for British Library SciFi exhibition

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell & daubers to sort out doodle poll for British Library SciFi exhibition''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

=== Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> does anyone have other things they want to raise at this time?

 <''''''> If I may

 <''''''> go ahead

 <''''''> yes, my someones idea, of me doing a preentation at oggcamp because of myhydraulic car project, using arduino and other.

 <''''''> I took an action at the last meeting to pull together a lessons learnt document, based on my experience of organising ucubed

 <''''''> I have pulled together the following http://dl.dropbox.com/u/448790/Lessons%20learnt%20from%20UCubed.pdf

 <''''''> excellent

* '''''' shuts up.

 <''''''> and this is still in draft form, I will refine the document and include it in a full guide soon

 <''''''> I will also be working with the venue to produce a template for other events to use, to ensure that they achieve the most from their day

 <''''''> that looks great at first glance, will read in full later

 <''''''> hopefully the template will be transferrable for other events / venues

 <''''''> AlanBell: Thanks

 <''''''> All done!

 <''''''> Just curious as to reactions to Natty so far

 <''''''> great

 <''''''> brobostigon: do you need any help with that talk?

 <''''''> AlanBell: yes, not done anything like it before,

 <''''''> ok, lets discuss that a bit more after the meeting

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> thank you.

 <''''''> barrydrake: natty seems to be going down OK in the media I think

 <''''''> Great!

 <''''''> I think the next release will be a lot more "finished"

* '''''' is  gnome-shell man though, than a unity one.

 <''''''> and that means the important LTS at 12.04 will be great

 <''''''> Indeed

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> remembering the year + worth of work prior.

 <''''''> couple of other things to raise, this week is Ubuntu Open Week

 <''''''> which is a series of online presentations aimed at users of Ubuntu

 <''''''> ah

 <''''''> mark's questions yesterday.

 <''''''> loads of really great information in them

 <''''''> when does that start or did it start

 <''''''> I WAS a gnome desktop person until I persevered long enough to appreciate the power of Unity

 <''''''> sorry

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek

 <''''''> logs and schedule for the rest of the week are there

 <''''''> hi popey

 <''''''> ah

 <''''''> evening popey

 <''''''> Hi popey

 <''''''> zleap: you have 2/5th of it remaining

 <''''''> sorry, forgot :(

 <''''''> brb, sorry.

 <''''''> np

 <''''''> it would be good if there was a way to notify users of such events, via the ubuntu notification thing

 <''''''> and the next thing to raise is the Ubuntu Developer Summit which is next week

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-o/''
|}

 <''''''> http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-o/

 <''''''> zleap: http://ubuntu-news.org/calendars/fridge/

 <''''''> thanks

 <''''''> so the developer summit is a week packed with sessions discussing different topics

 <''''''> generally about things people might be working on for the next development cycle

 <''''''> we do have our google calendar thingie dont we, zleap

 <''''''> me, er nope

 <''''''> decisions get taken there, and then get implemented and turn up on the CD six months later

 <''''''> ical*

 <''''''> i still use a paper organiser

 <''''''> AlanBell: i have some idea, on the gnome3 blueprint.

 <''''''> the schedule is huge, and you can attend stuff remotely

 <''''''> there are IRC channels for each room, a live audio feed

 <''''''> :) yes.

 <''''''> and collaborative notes via etherpad (I made that bit \o/)

 <''''''> here is a thought, uds session contribution help via mumble,

 <''''''> so do have a look through the schedule and drop in on some sessions

 <''''''> will have to look in to it,  just signed up for another open uni course, that should keep me busy over summer

 <''''''> audio is one way using icecast

 <''''''> ok, anything else to mention?

 <''''''> i have all the sessions layed out in my google calendar,

 <''''''> Apologies I do not have time just now to attend  usefully

 <''''''> alan cocks

 <''''''> hi candt

 <''''''> evening candt

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> Hi Alan,  a bit over busy  with a couple of PCs from a friend from france and doing soem maintenance, so cannot attnd, apols.

 <''''''> that is OK

 <''''''> so next meeting, 3 weeks or so?

 <''''''> no worries.

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> Thursday again?

 <''''''> AlanBell: sounds ok here,

 <''''''> 26th may

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> I'm out of the country, but if I can get a good signal, I'll be there

 <''''''> popey to chair?

 <''''''> uh, yes

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> feel free to phone/text me next time

 <''''''> you have my number

 <''''''> [agreed] next meeting Thursday 26th 9PM popey to chair

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' next meeting Thursday 26th 9PM popey to chair''
|}

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 20:53 ==
=== People Present ===
* zleap

* AlanBell

* barrydrake

* Biglesp

* brobostigon

* popey

* candt

=== Actions Recorded ===
* AlanBell & daubers to sort out doodle poll for British Library SciFi exhibition
