{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the 14th meeting of the UKTeam, starting at 20:30 BST and finishing at 21:30 BST

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT at the start of the meeting to ensure we are all clear who is online and paying attention.
Active Atendees:

* Daviey
* brobostigon
* corenominal
* popey
* leftcase
* MasterCheese
* Seeker`
* OwdGitRon
* dgjones
* davmor2
* hermz
* Mez

== Agenda ==
When adding an agenda item please "sign" it by leaving your name next to it. If you won't be attending the meeting please also spell out your item in detail, otherwise we can't fruitfully discuss it.
 
* Bulk CD ordering - (AlanPope)

== Minutes ==
<pre>
 20:36:14 	Topic: Bulk CD ordering - (AlanPope)
 20:52:13 	ACTION 	Daviey 	Alan Pope will consult the mailing list
</pre>
== Any Other Business ==
<pre>
 20:56:14 	Topic: Any other Items?
 21:01:00 	ACTION 	Daviey 	leftcase will contact the ML asking for team members to consider contacting their local newspaper with an article on Ubuntu
 21:01:26 	Topic: Next meeting date.
 21:05:57 	AGREED 	Daviey 	Next meeting Sun 18th Nov. 2007 20:30 UTC/GMT
</pre>

== Guide Lines ==

The chairman of the meeting should endeavour to ensure that key points are discussed in an appropriate time. Key Topics from the Agenda should be tabled in the channel using a market such as [ TOPIC ] or * TOPIC * Followed by the agenda item. Where Suggestions or Ideas are put forward and considered as acceptable to the group then it should be noted by the Chairman as [ IDEA ] or * IDEA * . Where a concept is discussed and agreed the use of [ AGREED ] or * AGREED * should be defined by the chairman and should signify the topic is discussed and the meeting is to move on.  Be clear on the channel when the meeting is concluded and how and when the minutes will be posted.

== IRC LOGS ==

<pre>
20:34:50 < Daviey> #startmeeting
20:34:50 < MootBot> Meeting started at 20:34. The chair is Daviey.
20:34:50 < MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
20:34:57 < Daviey> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/MeetingNotes/20071013Meeting
20:35:01 < Daviey> ^ Agenda
20:35:03 < brobostigon> what happens know??
20:35:04 < corenominal> PRESENT
20:35:10 < popey> PRESENT
20:35:11 < Daviey> PRESENT
20:35:11 < leftcase> PRESENT
20:35:14 < MasterCheese> PRESENT
20:35:18 < Seeker`> PRESENT
20:35:25 < corenominal> peasant
20:35:37 < popey> PHEASANT
20:35:43 < corenominal> lol
20:35:45 < brobostigon> pleasent
20:35:47 < OwdGitRon> present
20:35:47 < dgjones> PRESENT
20:35:48 < popey> \o/
20:35:48 < Seeker`> DUCK
20:35:53 < Daviey> [TOPIC] When adding an agenda item please "sign" it by leaving your name next to it. If you won't be attending the meeting please also spell out your item in detail, otherwise we can't fruitfully discuss it.
20:35:53 < MootBot> New Topic:  When adding an agenda item please "sign" it by leaving your name next to it. If you won't be attending the meeting please also spell out your item in detail, otherwise we can't fruitfully discuss it.
20:36:02 < Daviey> Ahhh
20:36:04 < popey> eh?
20:36:06 < Seeker`> Daviey: That isn't up for discussion :P
20:36:14 < Daviey> [TOPIC] Bulk CD ordering - (AlanPope)
20:36:15 < MootBot> New Topic:  Bulk CD ordering - (AlanPope)
20:36:17 < popey> he's drunk in charge of a meeting, I'll be bound
20:36:18 < MasterCheese> I think he meant to copy the "Bulk CD Ordering", and missed
20:36:20 < popey> oooh, that's me
20:36:20 < MasterCheese> Hehe
20:36:27 < Daviey> popey: shoot
20:36:29 < MasterCheese> Yes, yes it is
20:36:34 < popey> Ok, chaps - as a loco we can ask canonical for some CDs
20:36:37 < popey> but we don't get many
20:36:40 < popey> like 100 for the whole loco
20:36:49 < popey> some other locos have found this to be a problem
20:36:50 < brobostigon> thats not many,
20:36:54 < popey> and as such have ordered their own
20:37:00 < popey> i.e. paid for it themselves
20:37:06 < popey> via donations that they have received
20:37:13 < brobostigon> i can use some if i am hosting a launch meeting.
20:37:30 < popey> I asked if we could join and get some cheap/free CDs and it seems like plans are moving on
20:37:41 < Daviey> I notice there is a thread on the ML regarding duplication.
20:37:42 < brobostigon> thats good.
20:37:48 < popey> Daviey: this is separate to that
20:37:49 < corenominal> so how do they work the donations?
20:37:57 < popey> corenominal: I'll come to that in a mo
20:38:02 < corenominal> sorry, k
20:38:06 < popey> so the question is, do "we" want some..
20:38:12 < popey> and how do we distributue
20:38:14 < popey> who pays
20:38:22 < popey> discuss
20:38:46 < popey> note "we" (ubuntu-uk) have NO funds, bank account, constitution, paypal account etc
20:38:50 < Daviey> popey: The thing we have to establish first.. What would we do with them?  If one member holds on to them - how to they get distributed, and under what circumstances?
20:38:56 < brobostigon> i suggest we give those for meetings, and donaate for  those within thoose meetings.
20:39:06 < popey> indeed Daviey 
20:39:12 < popey> and also what criteria for distribution
20:39:31  * Daviey points out canonical provided plenty for LugRadio live..
20:39:44 < brobostigon> the criteria should be o further the distribution of ubuntu.
20:40:07 < Daviey> brobostigon: Putting them through random letter boxes would do that.. needs to be more specific IMO
20:40:17 < brobostigon> i agree.
20:40:26 < corenominal> At the last LUG meeting I went to the organiser was struggling to give the disks away at the end of the night...
20:40:30 < Seeker`> could you get them included with a newspaper?
20:40:43 < MasterCheese> Ooh
20:40:52 < corenominal> ...might have been because they were feisty disks and gutsy is close to release
20:40:55 < Daviey> Ouch... we really can't afford that ATM
20:41:01 < MasterCheese> That could be possible, but yes, expensive
20:41:14 < brobostigon> i could in my local newspaper, i can ask them if we can publish a small article with it.
20:41:32 < popey> ok newspaper distribution is anothe topic
20:41:33 < Daviey> We are starting to slip OT
20:41:42 < popey> can we stick to the ordering and distribution to members of the team?
20:41:48 < leftcase> brobostigon: See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKMarketing/ArticleForLocalMagazine
20:42:14 < popey> we almost never meet up so handing over CDs in person isnt an option
20:42:24 < MasterCheese> Ordering as a LoCo may not be all that useful
20:42:28 < brobostigon> i agree.
20:42:29 < MasterCheese> The UK is fairly large :-P
20:42:30 < Daviey> From ShipIt i can order 10 cds.  So to me, can anybody suggest how Bulk Ordering would benefit me?
20:42:30 < popey> if people are willing to pay shipping of (some number - dunno, 50 picked at random) then that might work
20:42:49 < popey> MasterCheese: the idea of ordering as a loco is to get bulk buy reduction in cost
20:42:53 < MasterCheese> Ah
20:42:54 < brobostigon> how much would that cost.
20:43:04 < popey> brobostigon: don't know yet
20:43:06 < dgjones> when you said 100 for a loco, is that the whole uk, or each individial lug within the uk?
20:43:14 < popey> dgjones: lug != loco
20:43:23 < Daviey> popey: in a case where i need 50+, i can put in a special request (i know you know this, but to flow the disccusion)
20:43:28 < brobostigon> thats not many for the whole loco.
20:43:36 < popey> yes brobostigon thats the point
20:43:44 < corenominal> just out of interest, how many of us actually use the cd? over downloading and burning
20:43:48 < popey> thats why I am looking at ordering "large" amounts separately
20:43:56 < popey> many people give them out
20:44:03 < popey> may give them to their lug to give out at meetings
20:44:07 < popey> some give to friends and collegues
20:44:16 < brobostigon> ii have given out five in the last few weeks
20:44:20 < popey> so cost of postage is clearly an issue that needs to be investigated
20:44:27 < popey> good stuff brobostigon :)
20:44:40 < Daviey> yeah.. a sole member shouldn't be picking up that tab IMO
20:44:42 < brobostigon> firends and two colleages
20:44:42 < popey> so is it even worth uk loco ordering some?
20:44:50 < leftcase> I think that when trying to convince people that Ubuntu is a serious and professional alternative to Windows, having a proper commercially printed CD helps convince people
20:44:51 < brobostigon> fellow workers
20:44:51 < popey> Daviey: I haven't checked whether we would even pay
20:45:08 < corenominal> I'm not so sure
20:45:11 < popey> Daviey: these locos I have been talking to are (relatively) cash rich
20:45:12 < brobostigon> it does help convince people
20:45:23 < brobostigon> which
20:45:30 < Daviey> popey: I mean.. If you, or I for example held the CD's and distributed them to UK LoCo'ers (we shouldn't be picking up the tab)
20:45:39 < popey> what tab?
20:45:40 < davmor2> popey: how did loudmouth get the bulk cd's for expo's
20:45:49 < popey> davmor2: from canonical
20:45:56 < popey> and there aren't that many in a "bulk" order
20:46:03 < davmor2> can we not do the same then?
20:46:03 < popey> I got ~400 for Software Freedom Day
20:46:05 < popey> and that was one day
20:46:14 < popey> no davmor2, locos can order "bulk" but you don't get many
20:46:19 < popey> 100, and the team has 400 people in it!
20:46:25 < popey> (albeit not all active of course)
20:46:37 < popey> i had to use my contacts in canonical to get 400 of them
20:46:49 < popey> and that was for a special event - SFD - not just a regular order
20:46:54 < brobostigon> so maybe a limit ro only regular ective members frstly
20:46:57  * Daviey suggests a "Bulk Order" made on an AdHoc basis, and posted directly to where needed in the country.  (Must be approved by the LoCo IMO)
20:47:09 < popey> maybe packaged in packs of ???? 20??
20:47:16 < davmor2> popey:  okay time for everyone to sign up to shippit 400*10=4000 :)
20:47:25 < corenominal> :S
20:47:25 < popey> no davmor2 that wont work
20:47:30 < popey> in all seriousness
20:47:46 < leftcase> Could popey not hold the cds as it where, and they then be supplied to deserved people on a basis that we all decide upon... ?
20:47:50 < popey> if we ordered say 1000 cds, and divvyd them up into packs of 20-50  that would make lot of batches
20:48:05 < Daviey> leftcase: and is it fair popey pays the postage?
20:48:06 < popey> yes leftcase, but a) who decides, b) who pays the postage
20:48:17 < popey> people could paypal me the postage?
20:48:21 < popey> (just an option)
20:48:30 < MasterCheese> That could work
20:48:31 < popey> i would pack them in such a way that it would be cheap
20:48:31 < leftcase> If you want the CDs, you should pay the postage to popey to send them
20:48:37 < davmor2> popey: why are we second guessing anyway.  Why don't you get onto canonical and make the suggestion as to what you want to do.  Then get back to us with the result?
20:48:40 < MasterCheese> If we can trust you not to run off with the money -and- the CDs
20:48:41 < MasterCheese> :-P
20:48:46 < Daviey> popey: but if we can order in plenty of time - ShipIt will pay, what value does us stock keeping them add?
20:48:48 < popey> davmor2: I am not second guessing
20:49:01 < hermz> greetings
20:49:01 < corenominal> so do we need a kitty?
20:49:04 < popey> Daviey: much larger quantities
20:49:15 < popey> we got 400 for a one off event
20:49:17 < leftcase> corenominal: I'd say so mate - yeah...
20:49:32 < popey> there are 100 lugs in the UK - that's 4 CDs per lug
20:49:39 < davmor2> popey: what are you classing as large quantities?
20:49:41 < popey> (as an example)
20:49:42 < Daviey> before money gets involved in the LoCo, i _want_ a consitution
20:49:51 < popey> davmor2: over a thousand
20:49:55 < popey> Daviey: +1
20:49:56 < leftcase> so lets build one
20:50:00 < popey> leftcase: not yet
20:50:10 < popey> leftcase: put that on the agenda for the next meeting.. or Daviey 
20:50:18 < brobostigon> what are they suggesting??
20:50:30 < corenominal> that we join Europe :D
20:50:36 < leftcase> popey: I didn't mean tonight mate :-P
20:50:39 < popey> :)
20:50:46 < popey> i know, just trying to keep on topic :)
20:51:06 < popey> ok, so shall I form this into a mail to the list and get a discussion going there
20:51:13 < popey> raising some of the points you lot have brought up?
20:51:20 < brobostigon> yes
20:51:21 < corenominal> good idea
20:51:22 < Daviey> sure
20:51:28 < leftcase> sounds sensible
20:51:33 < popey> any other points we should consider?
20:51:34 < brobostigon> it does
20:52:01 < corenominal> regarding this topic?
20:52:14 < Daviey> [ACTION] Alan Pope will consult the mailing list
20:52:14 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Alan Pope will consult the mailing list
20:52:25 < leftcase> So we're talking about getting CDs, money, shipping and constitution...
20:52:29 < leftcase> on mailing list
20:52:36 < Daviey> yep
20:52:40 < leftcase> cool
20:52:40 < brobostigon> yes
20:52:48 < Daviey> Any other points on this?
20:52:51 < popey> not constitution
20:52:56 < leftcase> no?
20:52:56 < popey> Daviey can bring that up separately
20:52:58 < popey> I will mention it
20:53:00 < leftcase> k
20:53:04 < Daviey> popey: sure
20:53:08 < popey> it's too big a subject
20:53:12 < popey> the thread would go on forever
20:53:18 < corenominal> and ever
20:53:22 < popey> and ever
20:53:26 < davmor2> popey: can the suggestion be put out to the lugmasters too?
20:53:33 < Daviey> I will start to draft one for the next meeting, that we can discuss feasability
20:53:35 < brobostigon> eternaty
20:53:42 < popey> cool
20:53:47 < corenominal> sounds like a plan
20:53:50 < leftcase> ad infinitum
20:53:52 < popey> thanks for all the contributions, that's very helpful!
20:53:57 < popey> davmor2: I don't see why not
20:54:22 < brobostigon> whats a lugmaster??
20:54:33 < davmor2> well I'm thinking if it is pulling in for the lug's get the lug's involved :)
20:54:34 < popey> brobostigon: it's a mailing list where the contacts for UK LUGs hang out
20:54:53 < brobostigon> ok, where is that??
20:54:56 < popey> davmor2: it's not specifically _for_ LUGs, but they are nice geographically atomic units of geeks :)
20:55:04 < popey> brobostigon: mailman.lug.org.uk
20:55:38 < brobostigon> ok
20:55:40 < popey> Daviey: so is that #endmeeting?
20:56:00 < Daviey> erm
20:56:14 < Daviey> [TOPIC] Any other Items?
20:56:15 < MootBot> New Topic:  Any other Items?
20:56:35 < leftcase> I know I didn't add it to the agenda
20:56:42 < Daviey> Anybody?
20:56:47 < Daviey> moving on..
20:56:51 < corenominal> leftcase: go on
20:56:51 < leftcase> But is anyone interesting in submitting article to newspaper type activity
20:56:53 < leftcase> .....
20:57:06 < brobostigon> what do you mean??
20:57:21 < brobostigon> writing a newspaper erticle
20:57:36 < leftcase> A little while ago I wrote this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKMarketing/ArticleForLocalMagazine which was then edited by ubuntu-uk and ended up kinda sitting there
20:57:38 < Daviey> leftcase Has been working towards this
20:57:58 < corenominal> leftcase: I read that this week, tis good
20:58:08 < Daviey> leftcase: I would like to submit this to my local free rag
20:58:14 < leftcase> I just though that it might be an idea if people where interested in as brobostigon said, contacting press etc,
20:58:38 < brobostigon> i think it would be good.
20:58:38 < leftcase> that people knew we'd already made something to do this so the effort is quite low in getting it out there
20:58:47 < corenominal> not good about the resident Windows guy at your local rag :|
20:58:51 < popey> I will contact my local rag too
20:58:57 < popey> see what their policy is
20:58:59 < brobostigon> me too.
20:59:00 < popey> local paper
20:59:01 < leftcase> corenominal: I think we might see a bit of it ;-)
20:59:09 < corenominal> good stuff
20:59:29 < Daviey> leftcase: good work btw
20:59:30 < leftcase> Just if anyone does, please update the table at the bottom so we can see if the article is useful or not etc
20:59:31 < popey> leftcase: have you mentioned it on the -uk mailing list recently?
20:59:38 < popey> might be worth giving people a nudge?
20:59:43 < leftcase> OK, will do
21:00:21 < leftcase> It would be pretty cool if it could be submitted alongside CDs, but perhaps unlikely/costly
21:00:28 < brobostigon> i will get hold of my local newspaper than, and disccuss publishing an ubuntu based article.
21:00:52 < leftcase> great :-D
21:00:59 < brobostigon> and give cds to pople who asked for them and were interested
21:01:00 < Daviey> [ACTION] leftcase will contact the ML asking for team members to consider contacting their local newspaper with an article on Ubuntu
21:01:00 < MootBot> ACTION received:  leftcase will contact the ML asking for team members to consider contacting their local newspaper with an article on Ubuntu
21:01:13 < Daviey> Any other Items?
21:01:19 < popey> date of next meeting
21:01:26 < Daviey> [TOPIC] Next meeting date.
21:01:27 < MootBot> New Topic:  Next meeting date.
21:01:30 < Daviey> popey: i was onto that!
21:01:30 < popey> and set a date for audio meeting
21:01:41 < corenominal> woo audio meeting
21:01:44 < popey> sorry
21:01:48 < brobostigon> whats an audio meeting.
21:01:50 < popey> _test_ of audio meeting technology
21:01:55 < popey> via t'internet
21:01:56 < corenominal> oh
21:01:59 < brobostigon> voip
21:02:21  * Daviey suggests Sun 18th Nov. 2007 8:30
21:02:37 < Daviey> ^ for regular meeting
21:02:40 < brobostigon> 8:30 pm or am
21:02:50 < corenominal> 2030hrs
21:02:57 < davmor2> what will we be using or does it not matter?
21:03:07 < brobostigon> irc
21:03:09 < Daviey> "2030 UTC"
21:03:35 < popey> we will be GMT then wont we
21:03:46 < popey> it will be a normal irc meeting
21:03:46 < corenominal> tis true, well spotted
21:03:50 < MasterCheese> UTC = GMT
21:03:58 < brobostigon> yep
21:04:13  * MasterCheese points out the obvious
21:04:21 < Daviey> popey: thats why i said UTC and not UTC+1 :)
21:04:32 < popey> just clarifying
21:04:47 < popey> cool, that date/time looks good
21:04:55 < Daviey> good for everybody else?
21:05:00 < corenominal> yep
21:05:02 < leftcase> Seems fine
21:05:04 < popey> good to move the day
21:05:10 < popey> nice to keep everyone on their toes
21:05:19 < OwdGitRon> ok
21:05:22 < brobostigon> that looks ok
21:05:57 < Daviey> [AGREED] Next meeting  Sun 18th Nov. 2007 20:30 UTC/GMT
21:05:58 < MootBot> AGREED received:  Next meeting  Sun 18th Nov. 2007 20:30 UTC/GMT
21:06:00 < brobostigon> i can make that.
21:06:09 < popey> good stuff brobostigon :)
21:06:09 < Daviey> end meeting?
21:06:11 < popey> no
21:06:15 < popey> audio meeting test run date ?
21:06:22 < popey> or do you want to do that separately?
21:06:51 < brobostigon> using what method
21:06:54 < davmor2> what audio software will be used? ekiga
21:06:55 < leftcase> Is there a wiki page showing technology needed to join audio meeting etc ?
21:07:05 < Daviey> There will be :)
21:07:07 < popey> not yet decided
21:07:09 < brobostigon> and how??
21:07:10 < popey> not written
21:07:19 < leftcase> ah ok :_)
21:07:21 < popey> i propose we set a date and then write the how-tos
21:07:33 < Daviey> popey: Can i suggest next Thursday Eve.. for the Alpha testers?
21:07:39 < brobostigon> wtire the howto first and then set a date
21:07:46 < popey> _this_ thursday?
21:07:51 < Seeker`> thurs is bad for me
21:07:56  * Seeker` does tai chi on thurs
21:08:03 < Daviey> next Sat night?
21:08:07 < popey> the alpha test is only 4 people
21:08:09 < popey> or so iirc
21:08:18 < Daviey> yeah.. 4-5 i'd favour
21:08:35 < brobostigon> we need to discuss that.
21:08:36  * Mez yawns a little...
21:08:40 < popey> not really brobostigon 
21:08:44 < davmor2> popey: if it's an evening count me in
21:08:44 < popey> we already have :)
21:08:49 < popey> its not a meeting
21:08:54 < popey> just a test of the technology
21:09:01 < popey> plan was to have an alpha test of 4-5 peple
21:09:03 < brobostigon> it can be as many people as can.
21:09:08 < popey> no brobostigon 
21:09:10 < popey> hang on
21:09:17 < popey> then the beta test would involve more people
21:09:21 < brobostigon> why?? i do understand why.
21:09:22 < popey> assuming the alpha worked
21:09:24 < Daviey> brobostigon: Phase 1 is 4-5 people, Phase 2 is as many as possible
21:09:42 < corenominal> sounds sensible
21:09:54 < Seeker`> Popey: Daviey: You free tomorrow night?
21:09:55 < popey> and then if it works with lots of people we schedule a "proper" meeting using it
21:09:59 < brobostigon> i can see now, i am sorry.
21:10:00  * Mez bangs head
21:10:02 < Seeker`> I'll help you test
21:10:09 < Mez> what time will it be in england at 12 UTC tomorrow /
21:10:10 < popey> its find brobostigon 
21:10:16  * Seeker` shoves a cushion under Mez' head
21:10:16  * Daviey bangs Mez's head and says "Shhhhhh"
21:10:18 < popey> Mez: 13:00
21:10:31 < brobostigon> 12 am or pm
21:10:37 < Mez> popey, couldnt work out whether I had to be uop for 11 or for 1 :P
21:10:57 < popey> ok, so Daviey will co-ordinate an alpha..
21:11:02 < Mez> Daviey, I'm not allowed to talk in here now ?
21:11:04 < popey> ..then announce the beta onthe mailing list
21:11:10 < popey> Mez: not during a meeting no Mez 
21:11:35 < Daviey> Okay.. I think we can close now?  Agreed?
21:11:37 < Mez> popey, didn't realise it was a meeting - I thought that was what -meeting was for
21:11:41 < corenominal> agreed
21:11:45 < popey> no probs Mez 
21:12:12 < Daviey> #endmeeting
21:12:13 < MootBot> Meeting finished at 21:12.

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
