{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Overview ===

To exhibit, and promote, the Assistive Technologies available within the Gnome desktop on Ubuntu at Sight Village 2008.

=== Detail ===

Sight Village is an annual three day event held at the Queen Alexandra College for the Blind in Edgbaston, Birmingham UK.  It is billed as one of Europe's leading exhibitions to highlight the technologies available for those who have a visual impairment.  This area, until quite recently, has been the domain of proprietary software mainly based on the Windows platform.

It is proposed to set up a stand at this event to promote Ubuntu, and also demonstrate the Assistive Technologies supported within the Gnome desktop by Orca and it's various components and services.

The target audience at this event will be the visually impaired themselves, and their Support Agencies.

These Support Agencies including Government Bodies and Charitable Organisations, being there as  exhibitors or attendees, it is hoped that the event can be used to increase Ubuntu’s profile, and as a result provide opportunities to become involved with these Agencies at a later date.

Although in it’s infancy, a clear set of requirements and resources have been identified.

Depending on costs and location, the current plan is to have a stand with three computers on it.  These being:

* a Ubuntu only system running the Gnome desktop with Assistive Technologies enabled;
* a dual boot system with Windows and Ubuntu, both hopefully with Assistive Technologies enabled;
* a Windows only system to demonstrate the capabilities of the Live CD
and

* LAN hub / switch / router to enable Internet connection to demonstrate Firefox’s ability’s.

Although this could be run by an individual just demonstrating one computer, it is hoped that members of the Ubuntu UK team, and other FOS groups, will make themselves available to provide both “front of house” and technical support.

The dates for this event are:  Tuesday 15th - Thursday 17 July 2008 with set up on Monday 14th July 2008.

=== Resources Required ===

In no particular order:

* Loan of suitable computers / laptops and network infrastructure
* Volunteers
* Supply of "How To" guides in printed, brail, and audio formats
* Supply of Ubuntu Live CDs - v8.04 Hearty Heron
* Funding / Sponsorship

In addition, a further resource has been suggested for after the event:

* Support

=== Interested people ===

* Ian Pascoe, (it's all my fault!)
* AlanPope - laptop and attendance 
* PeteLewis - keen to help out but will need some introducing to the technologies in question (especially since I'm a KDE user!) Also a member of BrumLUG.
* Andylockran - can provide a 3.2Ghx Celeron Box with 1GB RAM.  I'm also a member of BrumLUG (remotely though) and will be good to put my money where my mouth is.  Can also burn some CDs if necessary.  Enthusiasm.  Will also have a word with contact about Braille documentation as a contact has recently installed a braille printer in the High Peak (near Whaley Bridge, Derbyshire).

=== Comments ===

It may be worth approaching the GNOME accessibility team (if it hasn't already been done) for any further technical help or additional volunteers - DeanSas
20-Oct-07:  Ian Pascoe
Upload template of "How To" guide (.doc format).  Please don't alter as this will be updated regularly as time and experience permits.  Final version will be .PDF, maybe.
13-Oct-07:  Ian Pascoe
Sponsorship
* Approached my employer to find out if funds available to either financially sponsor all / some of the event, or provide network infrastructure free of cost.

How To Guides
* Started initial enquiries on providing brail documentation.  This looks as though it will be both expensive, and is only partially supported through drivers within the FOS community.  Will approach QAC and RNIB to see if they can provide either printing facilities, or costs / recommendations for commercial printing.
* Attempted to make contact with Document Writers for both Ubuntu Accessability and Gnome > Orca pages.  No responses to date.
* Necessary documentation:  in addition to the standard "How To" for getting the system up and running from both Live CD, and pre-installed system, need to look at keyboard "How To"s for both Evolution and Firefox.  If time permits, maybe also look at Pigeon and an audio app.
* Established that any printed material needs to have a font size of at least 16 pt to conform with the UK's "Articles for the Blind" standards.

Volunteers
* Thought to be given to having a face to face meeting with those who have offered time to help at the exhibition at least one, maybe two, months in advance of the show, but after Hearty Heron is launched to ensure everyone is comfortable with using / demonstrating.  Possible locations are either to approach Birmingham LUG to see if access to their rooms are available, or get permission to use my companies facilities; probably best done on a Saturday starting mid morning.

To Do
* Get data from Weiki pages to start to make basic installation guides.
* Approach QAC, RNC Hereford and Worcester to see if they can get student volunteers to try guides, and maybe convert as well!
* Update this Weiki within a fortnight.
