{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by AlanBell at 20:00:57 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-uk-meeting/2012/ubuntu-uk-meeting.2012-11-14-20.00.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda is our agenda for today  (AlanBell, 20:01:24)
* The Chair - review of action items from last meeting

* Christmas Party

* Installfest/Nexus 7 Flashparty
''LINK:'' http://fireboxlondon.net/ is a possible venue  (AlanBell, 20:08:09)
''ACTION:'' AlanBell to check with firebox about December availability and set up doodle poll  (AlanBell, 20:18:08)

* CD Distribution
''LINK:'' http://ubuntu-uk.org/free-cds/ is how they are being distributed so far  (AlanBell, 20:21:04)

''LINK:'' http://www.aber.ac.uk/en/undergrad/courses/compsci/open-source-computing/   (AlanBell, 20:27:17)

* The Next Happy Hour(s)
''LINK:'' http://ubuntu-uk.org/happy-hour/   (AlanBell, 20:41:27)

* Removing unused team resources

''LINK:'' http://planet.ubuntu-uk.org/ is there and has a bunch of feeds on it  (AlanBell, 20:48:52)

''LINK:'' http://ubuntu-uk.org/uk-bloggers/   (AlanBell, 21:00:12)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/ubuntu-uk.org/planet/   (popey, 21:01:18)

''ACTION:'' popey to turn off planet.ubuntu-uk.org and leave a static XML file with a "this has been turned off" post in it  (AlanBell, 21:02:54)

''LINK:'' http://ubuntu-uk.org/ircstats/   (AlanBell, 21:04:30)

''ACTION:'' popey to turn off http://ubuntu-uk.org/ircstats/  (AlanBell, 21:07:21)

''ACTION:'' brobostigon to look at doing pisg logs  (AlanBell, 21:09:49)

* The Chair - Any Other Business

* Date of next meeting.

* Chair for next meeting

Meeting ended at 21:17:26 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* AlanBell to check with firebox about December availability and set up doodle poll
* popey to turn off planet.ubuntu-uk.org and leave a static XML file with a "this has been turned off" post in it
* popey to turn off http://ubuntu-uk.org/ircstats/
* brobostigon to look at doing pisg logs

=== Action items, by person ===

* AlanBell
* * AlanBell to check with firebox about December availability and set up doodle poll
* brobostigon
* * brobostigon to look at doing pisg logs
* popey
* * popey to turn off planet.ubuntu-uk.org and leave a static XML file with a "this has been turned off" post in it
* * popey to turn off http://ubuntu-uk.org/ircstats/

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (143)
* popey (32)
* brobostigon (31)
* BigRedS (21)
* czajkowski (20)
* bigcalm_xoom (10)
* meetingology (7)
* einonm1 (4)
* Jo_ (2)
* kurtisb (1)
* SuperEngineer (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:00:57 <AlanBell> #startmeeting

 20:00:57 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Nov 14 20:00:57 2012 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:00:57 <meetingology> 

 20:00:57 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:01:01 <AlanBell> evening all

 20:01:12 <brobostigon> evening AlanBell

 20:01:24 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda is our agenda for today

 20:01:45 <BigRedS> g'morning

 20:02:04 <AlanBell> everyone sitting comfortably?

 20:02:14 <brobostigon> with beer topup, :)

 20:02:22 <AlanBell> I have an empty coffee

 20:02:26 <brobostigon> :(

 20:02:39 <AlanBell> might sort out a full beer shortly

 20:02:43 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - review of action items from last meeting

 20:02:51 <popey> ooh

 20:03:30 <AlanBell> action items from last time related to sorting out happy hours and investigating a Bletchley visit

 20:03:38 <AlanBell> which we didn't get round to sorting out

 20:03:51 <AlanBell> but it would be nice to do that at some point

 20:04:28 <brobostigon> i was thinking, a good day for it, is remembrance day, considering the work that was done there and why.

 20:05:23 <AlanBell> missed that :)

 20:05:31 <brobostigon> yes.

 20:05:43 <AlanBell> anyhow, lets move forward with some other stuff

 20:05:47 <BigRedS> wouldn't there be an expectation that visitors that day are there for a service?

 20:05:57 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Christmas Party

 20:06:05 <BigRedS> Aha!

 20:06:18 <AlanBell> yay, lets sort out a christmas meetup of some kind

 20:06:21 <AlanBell> what do people want to do?

 20:06:40 <brobostigon> curry night. ?

 20:06:44 <AlanBell> nom

 20:06:47 * BigRedS votes pub

 20:06:49 <AlanBell> turkey curry \o/

 20:06:52 <BigRedS> but I normally do...

 20:07:03 <popey> somewhere cheap

 20:07:03 <AlanBell> pub is good

 20:07:28 <AlanBell> now one thing I was contemplating was doing some kind of London based installfest event, followed by pub

 20:07:39 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Installfest/Nexus 7 Flashparty

 20:07:44 <AlanBell> lets combine these topics

 20:07:53 <BigRedS> flashparty? oo-er

 20:07:55 <AlanBell> or split them up and talk around them :)

 20:08:09 <AlanBell> http://fireboxlondon.net/ is a possible venue

 20:08:25 <AlanBell> it is a nice newly decorated cafe, with a downstairs area

 20:08:49 <AlanBell> they are up for doing private events for not much money

 20:09:14 <AlanBell> and that could be a good pre-pub venue for doing geeky stuff

 20:09:33 <BigRedS> good for public transport, too

 20:11:07 <AlanBell> czajkowski: hullo

 20:11:23 <AlanBell> czajkowski had a cool idea about doing a hack and talk kind of event

 20:11:50 <AlanBell> which I thought might work well at http://fireboxlondon.net/ as a bit of an installfest/pre-pub geeky thing

 20:11:53 <czajkowski> aye yes hackntalk.org

 20:12:00 <czajkowski> but not sure it may happen before december

 20:12:05 <czajkowski> it'd be nice if it did though

 20:12:14 <czajkowski> the idea being they hapen every 3-4 months in different locations

 20:12:27 <AlanBell> so kind of kick it off like that combined with a christmas event, then the hackntalk thing carries on from there

 20:13:07 <czajkowski> nods

 20:13:14 <czajkowski> so maybe 2 talks and a demo

 20:13:26 <czajkowski> folks can tinker away on stuff like take apart AlanBell computers :)

 20:13:26 <AlanBell> yup

 20:13:32 <AlanBell> indeed :)

 20:13:53 <AlanBell> I would be interested in some nexus 7 flashing

 20:14:09 <bigcalm_xoom> It's LUG night and I'm here somehow. Have I missed much?

 20:14:10 <brobostigon> i would be interested in dualbooting,

 20:14:16 <AlanBell> hi bigcalm_xoom

 20:14:31 <bigcalm_xoom> Ello :)

 20:14:57 <AlanBell> so when would be a plausible date to pencil in for such an event?

 20:15:14 <czajkowski> December 7th ?

 20:15:24 <czajkowski> gives enough notice for all involved

 20:15:27 <czajkowski> maybe/

 20:15:28 <AlanBell> can't do that day

 20:15:51 <AlanBell> 14th?

 20:16:19 <czajkowski> work xmas do on the 13th

 20:16:30 <BigRedS> hah, so's ours

 20:16:42 <czajkowski> 2 nights in London good job other half will still be here.

 20:16:45 <bigcalm_xoom> What;s the event?

 20:16:51 <popey> doodle it

 20:16:52 <BigRedS> I've no idea when I'm free/busy in december yet so I can't really help here

 20:16:56 <AlanBell> bigcalm_xoom: geeky stuff, followed by beer

 20:17:00 <bigcalm_xoom> yay

 20:17:10 <czajkowski> also depends on the location and what dates are avilable there

 20:17:13 <AlanBell> popey: good suggestion, if we have some options

 20:17:18 <AlanBell> I can talk to the venue tomorrow

 20:17:19 <czajkowski> maybe check ther and see what is what and then chose from that via doodle?

 20:18:08 <AlanBell> #action AlanBell to check with firebox about December availability and set up doodle poll

 20:18:08 * meetingology AlanBell to check with firebox about December availability and set up doodle poll

 20:19:48 <AlanBell> any other thoughts around that plan?

 20:20:10 <popey> wfm

 20:20:19 <popey> one suggestion

 20:20:26 <popey> actually I will leave it for AOB

 20:20:31 <AlanBell> ok

 20:20:35 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] CD Distribution

 20:20:41 <AlanBell> I have a bunch of CDs

 20:20:44 <AlanBell> of 12.10

 20:21:04 <AlanBell> http://ubuntu-uk.org/free-cds/ is how they are being distributed so far

 20:21:21 <AlanBell> I will be passing a box to Alan Cocks at some point soonish

 20:21:29 <AlanBell> need more ways to get them out to people

 20:22:00 <AlanBell> I have so far sent out maybe 6 or so, plus a box of 20 to zleap

 20:22:16 <AlanBell> I get more requests for them from India than from the UK

 20:22:29 <brobostigon> wow, interesting.

 20:23:19 <AlanBell> yeah, I have been trying a bit to encourage the India Loco team to get themselves organised so they can get approved and get a shipment, but that is another issue altogether

 20:23:36 <Jo_> What about getting in touch with local pc/laptop shops?

 20:24:03 <AlanBell> hi Jo_ yes, I would love people to do that!

 20:24:14 <AlanBell> if anyone wants a heap of them for a shop they can certainly have them

 20:24:51 <AlanBell> probably has to be independent shops rather than PC World and other big chains

 20:25:03 <AlanBell> people can sell them too

 20:25:22 <czajkowski> or unis/computer socieies

 20:25:40 <czajkowski> the  college down in wales does a massive open source program down there

 20:25:41 <AlanBell> Â£4.71 in the canonical store http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=1027

 20:25:42 <kurtisb> putting then on fleabay @ nominal charges to cover the listing costs?

 20:25:46 <BigRedS> problem with shops is they may not like the implication of support

 20:26:14 <AlanBell> I took some 12.04 ones to the London Hackspace

 20:26:53 <Jo_> I will talk to you later about some for the Cardiff hack space

 20:27:03 <AlanBell> excellent

 20:27:17 <AlanBell> http://www.aber.ac.uk/en/undergrad/courses/compsci/open-source-computing/

 20:27:20 <AlanBell> interesting

 20:27:43 <czajkowski> yup

 20:27:50 <czajkowski> so they take about 20 students each year to FOSDEM

 20:28:00 <czajkowski> but also their college actively enourages and promotes FOSS

 20:28:06 <czajkowski> in the lectures and methods

 20:28:15 <brobostigon> also, me and mark anc chris, are talking about, meeting up, at that welsh OSS thingie. to do some planning.

 20:28:56 <AlanBell> that is cool, last time I tried to contact Uni computer societies they were all dead

 20:29:37 <einonm1> brobostigon: which welsh OSS thingie is that?

 20:30:59 <brobostigon> einonm1: haciaith.

 20:32:00 <einonm1> Ah,ok. Language stuff?

 20:32:24 <AlanBell> there was a heap of work done on the welsh translation of Ubuntu

 20:32:28 <brobostigon> einonm1: i dont fully understand it, i only have gone by what mark and chris jave told me.

 20:32:56 <AlanBell> it would be really good to get that more known to schools in Wales

 20:33:08 <brobostigon> AlanBell: yep, this is why we need to get together, and do some planning.

 20:33:42 <AlanBell> I would kind of like welsh language teachers (non geeky) to get involved in the ongoing translation effort

 20:33:45 <brobostigon> and are planning a plan, to meetup. and have al;ready done a g+ video thingie.

 20:34:46 <brobostigon> AlanBell: ok, you give chris a shout, and i will make a note, and it can be worked on.

 20:34:54 <AlanBell> will do

 20:35:01 <AlanBell> any other CD distribution ideas?

 20:35:02 <brobostigon> ok, :)

 20:35:44 <AlanBell> ok, moving on

 20:35:46 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Next Happy Hour(s)

 20:35:58 <AlanBell> we need more happyness \o

 20:36:32 <AlanBell> does anyone want to have a happy hour near them?

 20:36:41 <popey> yup!

 20:36:43 <popey> :)

 20:36:43 <AlanBell> just needs someone to nominate a pub, and commit to turning up

 20:36:53 <AlanBell> and it can be anywhere you like

 20:37:06 <brobostigon> yes. several ideas, just need to work out viability.

 20:37:52 <AlanBell> I think it would be good to plan one for January

 20:38:34 <AlanBell> London and Surrey are good reliable areas, but it would be good to have them happening further afield

 20:39:42 <brobostigon> i had a couple of places in oxford in mind.

 20:39:57 <AlanBell> I think I will remind the mailing list and various social networky things about the happy hours

 20:40:02 <brobostigon> more research required.

 20:40:08 <AlanBell> oxford would be great

 20:40:14 <AlanBell> also some south coast places

 20:40:21 <AlanBell> and maybe south wales

 20:40:38 <einonm1> how often do the happy hours happen?

 20:40:54 <AlanBell> einonm1: as often as you like :)

 20:40:59 <AlanBell> we were aiming for monthly

 20:41:09 <AlanBell> and bouncing about the country randomly

 20:41:22 <brobostigon> AlanBell: that can maybe be combined with a cymru team, planning meeting, yes.

 20:41:27 <AlanBell> http://ubuntu-uk.org/happy-hour/

 20:41:50 <einonm1> AlanBell: thnx

 20:42:20 <AlanBell> there is a map on that page of places we have been so far, I did have thoughts about planning them in such a way as to draw a picture of a bunny or something nsfw on the map

 20:42:59 <AlanBell> but I think that would be a bit too challenging, and I would settle for just lots of points

 20:43:23 <AlanBell> ok, lets go on to the next thing

 20:43:32 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Removing unused team resources

 20:43:36 <AlanBell> pruning!

 20:43:42 <AlanBell> Added by AlanPope. I propose that we pare down (decommission) our unused or little used community resources which are little-used or provide no additional value to the community or team. This would include (but not be limited to) the Ubuntu UK etherpad, wordpress install on the website, planet ubuntu-uk, irc stats. These would be replaced by a semi-static home page which links to all the places we really do use, including the mailing ...

 20:43:48 <AlanBell> ... list, irc channel and loco directory (for events).

 20:43:58 <AlanBell> any thoughts on pruning our stuff?

 20:43:59 <popey> I have nothing more to add than I put on the wiki and list

 20:44:29 <AlanBell> I went through the wordpress install on http://ubuntu-uk.org and removed all the dated pages

 20:44:41 <bigcalm_xoom> I'm in a agreement

 20:44:59 <AlanBell> so it just has stuff that is timeless and generally works

 20:45:14 <AlanBell> like the map. happy hour, irc links and free cds page

 20:45:16 <BigRedS> yeah, looks good

 20:45:51 <AlanBell> I would be inclined to keep it running wordpress as that is quite flexible and easy

 20:46:05 <AlanBell> just not use it as a blog, but as a simple CMS

 20:46:24 <BigRedS> yeah, seems the least-faff route

 20:46:41 <AlanBell> it was never intended as a blog, but having out of date "event" and "news" stuff there made it look dead

 20:46:47 <brobostigon> and is also easy and simple to maintain and upgrade etc.

 20:47:02 <AlanBell> ok, so other things for the chop

 20:47:21 <AlanBell> anyone really really want to keep:

 20:47:23 <AlanBell> etherpad?

 20:47:44 <BigRedS> that was there in lieu of a 'proper' ubuntu one wasn't it?

 20:47:45 <AlanBell> planet.ubuntu-uk.org (I kind of like it)

 20:48:05 <AlanBell> it was BigRedS

 20:48:23 <popey> which now exists, Daviey runs pad.u-u.org and has said he wants to shut it down

 20:48:52 <AlanBell> http://planet.ubuntu-uk.org/ is there and has a bunch of feeds on it

 20:49:04 <AlanBell> it is the old branding and should be updated or binned really

 20:49:11 <popey> i propose bin

 20:49:28 <AlanBell> the main planet.ubuntu.com site is for Ubuntu members it is mildly interesting that we can run a uk planet for anyone

 20:49:36 <BigRedS> do the logs suggest anybody is downloading the feed?

 20:49:52 <AlanBell> however I am not entirely convinced we need a "UK" focused reading list

 20:50:03 <brobostigon> i have both in rss, on GReader.

 20:50:08 <popey> i haven't checked the logs tbh

 20:50:51 <bigcalm_xoom> Is  the pad  open source?

 20:51:09 <popey> yes, its etherpad

 20:51:11 <AlanBell> bigcalm_xoom: it is, and that is an old version based on java, the new one is node.js

 20:51:26 <bigcalm_xoom> Good to know, thanks

 20:51:34 <popey> -rw-r----- 1 www-data adm  470K Nov 14 20:49 access_log

 20:51:36 <BigRedS> wow. from one bad idea to a worse one...

 20:51:36 <popey> -rw-r----- 1 www-data adm  669K Nov 11 05:36 access_log.1

 20:51:39 <popey> so not many hits

 20:52:06 <AlanBell> looks like the only person blogging on planet.ubuntu-uk.org this month who isn't on planet.ubuntu.com is liam proven

 20:52:47 <AlanBell> oh and possibly Michael Wood (X3N)

 20:53:10 <brobostigon> sparse thrn.

 20:53:14 <bigcalm_xoom> I'm not on planet.ubuntu.com, yet I do appear on the  u-u one now and then. just not a big blogger

 20:53:15 <popey> the planet currently kills the box when it runs

 20:53:59 <BigRedS> just nice it into oblivion :)

 20:54:50 <AlanBell> ok, how about I have a look for a wordpress plugin that does something interesting with the list of feeds it has

 20:54:52 <popey> no, it OOMs

 20:54:53 <AlanBell> then we turn it off

 20:55:05 <BigRedS> oh

 20:55:06 <popey> meh

 20:55:09 <popey> I'd just kill it

 20:55:27 <popey> nobody posts to it, nobody reads it, it consumes time and resources to maintain

 20:55:48 <BigRedS> yeah, I'd go for binning it

 20:59:01 <bigcalm_xoom> Can't say I've ever read it

 20:59:28 <bigcalm_xoom> I do like to see the notifications in irc though

 21:00:12 <AlanBell> http://ubuntu-uk.org/uk-bloggers/

 21:00:35 <AlanBell> ok, that has saved the list of people on it in case we want to do something with that

 21:00:43 <AlanBell> lets turn it off

 21:00:59 <popey> the list was already saved on the wiki :)

 21:01:06 <AlanBell> true

 21:01:15 <AlanBell> maybe a final post to it, or something in the xml to say it is turned off rather than broken?

 21:01:18 <popey> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/ubuntu-uk.org/planet/

 21:01:41 <popey> we can make it a static xml page

 21:02:16 <AlanBell> cool

 21:02:27 <popey> gimmie an action to do that

 21:02:54 <AlanBell> #action popey to turn off planet.ubuntu-uk.org and leave a static XML file with a "this has been turned off" post in it

 21:02:54 * meetingology popey to turn off planet.ubuntu-uk.org and leave a static XML file with a "this has been turned off" post in it

 21:03:27 <AlanBell> irc stats doesn't get looked at

 21:04:12 <AlanBell> I can't even remember the URL for it

 21:04:21 <brobostigon> i have an irc stats thingie, on my server, so could modify it, for out stats.

 21:04:23 <SuperEngineer> I hope someone will remember to notify the "Ubuntu Podcast from the UK LoCo (feed)" people :)

 21:04:30 <AlanBell> http://ubuntu-uk.org/ircstats/

 21:04:52 <popey> its in the /topic of #ubuntu-uk

 21:04:56 <AlanBell> "AlanBell is either insane or just a fair op, kicking a total of 1 people!"

 21:05:04 <popey> again, nobody looks at it

 21:05:48 <brobostigon> i do, :)

 21:05:57 <BigRedS> I do, too

 21:06:02 <BigRedS> but it stopped updating ages ago didn't it?

 21:06:18 <BigRedS> " Statistics generated on Sunday 26 August 2012 - 22:55:06 "

 21:06:23 <popey> see

 21:06:26 <brobostigon> wow.

 21:06:43 <AlanBell> lets just turn it off then :)

 21:06:53 <popey> action me up

 21:07:01 <popey> if someone else wants to make a stats thing, knock yourself out

 21:07:09 <AlanBell> I would kind of like someone to do some interesting data mining of all of irclogs.ubuntu.com

 21:07:21 <AlanBell> #action popey to turn off http://ubuntu-uk.org/ircstats/

 21:07:21 * meetingology popey to turn off http://ubuntu-uk.org/ircstats/

 21:07:32 <AlanBell> is there anything else to prune?

 21:07:47 <brobostigon> i have functioning pisg on my server, so could run it, ?

 21:08:06 <AlanBell> brobostigon: sure, and if you want to send a bot into the channel to do that then fine

 21:08:27 <brobostigon> AlanBell: it runs atm, directly from my irssi logs.

 21:08:37 <AlanBell> ok, great

 21:08:42 <AlanBell> brobostigon is the bot :)

 21:08:47 <brobostigon> :)

 21:09:07 <brobostigon> AlanBell: ok, let me set that up, and give you a shout.

 21:09:49 <AlanBell> #action brobostigon to look at doing pisg logs

 21:09:49 * meetingology brobostigon to look at doing pisg logs

 21:10:13 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - Any Other Business

 21:10:17 <AlanBell> popey: you had something?

 21:11:55 <popey> no, I'll bring it up on the list

 21:12:16 <AlanBell> anything else from anyone?

 21:12:43 <brobostigon> nope

 21:13:06 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting.

 21:13:30 <AlanBell> probably January really

 21:14:15 <AlanBell> I think we had the meetings too frequently and ended up with nothing to discuss and stopped for too long

 21:14:28 <AlanBell> how about Wednesday 9th January?

 21:15:36 <AlanBell> in the absence of any disent . . .

 21:15:49 <AlanBell> #agreed Wednesday 9th January as the date of the next meeting

 21:15:53 <brobostigon> sounds good. thursdays are a no go, beer and quiz and curry night,

 21:16:02 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

 21:16:23 <AlanBell> any volunteer? or shall we pick on someone nearer the time?

 21:17:11 <popey> sure, I'll do it

 21:17:22 <AlanBell> #agreed popey to chair the next meeting

 21:17:26 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
