{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Notes and Minutes from  <nowiki>[[UKTeam]]</nowiki> Meetings regarding can be noted here. It will at a later date make sense to break these out into sub Pages but for now lets get on with the first meeting.

'''Date:''' 25 October 2006<<BR>>
'''Location:''' London Olympia <<BR>>
'''Attendance:''' Quite a few from UKTeam but I forgot to get a roll call , sorry !<<BR>>
'''Chairman:''' Jono Bacon<<BR>>
'''Notes by:''' Nik Butler<<BR>>

'''Agenda:'''
To discuss initial ideas and possible wish list for the Ubuntu UK Local Support Comminity. What will be its purpose and what can it achieve.

'''Notices:'''

<nowiki>[[http://guadec.org/|Guadec the 8th Gnome Users and Developers Conference]]</nowiki> will be at the UCE Conservatoire, Birmingham, UK on 15-21 July. Nik Butler Announced that we will (suject to conditions) be running a Stand at the show.

'''Minutes:'''

Concern was raised that the Ubuntu UKTeam should not be a replacement to Linux User Group ( LUG ) activities. No one in the team wants to replace or overtake the already established community presence. It was discussed and mutually agreed that the Team should be able to provide support and communication to the LUGS for local Ubuntu UKTeam events. It was noted that whilst it was felt that other distros did not as yet have clear Community Teams it is likely that they may follow suite. The actions of the Team in integrating and associating with existing LUGS should set the precendence for ongoing involvement.

Questions were raised about the aviailability of good marketing, promotional and awareness material in the forms of Letter heads, Compslips and Stationary for the purpose of writting and informing external agencies and users on behalf of the Ubuntu UK Team.

Jono Bacon invited community members to dicuss what Ideas or actions they would most like to see the UKTeam deliver on, these are the suggestions.

* A Mentoring process in place to help community members become more involved in the development process where interested.

* News activity and constant awareness in order to promote Ubuntu UKTeam involvement in general is important in order to maintain a high profile in the media and public minds.

* Ubuntu Buddies some level of commitment where in Ubuntu UK Team members agree to provide direct 1 to 1 support and assistance to Ubuntu new users in the UK Community. This lead to concerns and questions about the qualitative support that the Team will offer. The areas of support discussed were Technical, Advocacy and Developers.

* Technical support, it was suggested that overall the UKTeam would provide , though not exclusively or possibly directly , Support and assistance to new users. However it is important to avoid splintering or fragmenting existing support streams and it would be better to ensure that new users use the correct support environments.

* Advocacy, Promotional awareness and Considerate advertising of the Ubuntu Distributions ( the varieties there of ) in a productive fashion was discussed.

* Developers, The UKTeam should be able to provide good support and assistance to the Ubunutu development community possibly by ensuring that technical support leads to informative and relative bug reports and patches passed upstream to the developers.

* Screencasts to create demonstrations of technology and ubuntu applications and processes were discussed and this lead to an agreement to have a seperate team to begin investigating the process of how to create these.

* Disk remastering tutorials, to aid in the creation of Ubuntu disks containing other technology demonstrations

* How new users and new members of the community will be intergrated and introduced. Making it easier to know how to join in and contribute to the community .

* Finally the issue over motivation and progress and ensuring that ideas are delivered or discarded as appropriate and it was agreed that the next meeting ( to be agreed ) would be held on IRC the details of which would be confirmed.

With this the meeting concluded and the notes were typed up by Nik Butler
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
