{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

After some quick discussion over cups of tea at issyl0's Science Museum Visit, it was formulated that we should organise a GeekNic in London during the Summer Holidays. After everyone enjoyed the day so much, it makes sense to turn this into a "Family Event".

(Of course, Children remain responsibilities of their respective parents!)

There's not much here to think of yet, but please add your ideas.

'''Doodle Poll now closed! Date is the 8th of August 2010 The preliminary start time is 1pm with an estimated finish of around 4pm. '''

=== Location ===
The Location is '''Hyde Park''', meet at Speakers Corner and then move onto grass.

==== Getting to Hyde Park ====
'''Tube''': 
* Marble Arch (~0.3 mile, 8 to 10 mins walk) - '''Central''' Line
* Hyde Park Corner (~0.7 mile, 15 mins walk) - '''Piccadilly''' Line
* Knightsbridge (~ 0.8 mile, 18 mins walk) - '''Piccadilly''' Line
* Green Park (~1.1 miles, 25 mins walk) - '''Victoria''', '''Piccadilly''' and '''Jubilee''' Lines.

'''Bus''': 
Main Stop: Hyde Park Corner (~1 mile, 15 mins walk) - Bus Route(s):
* '''North London''': 6, 7, 10, 16, 52, 73, 82, 390, 414
* '''South London''': 2, 36, 137, 436
* '''West London''': 9, 10, 14, 19, 22, 52, 74, 148, 414
* '''East London''': 8, 15, 30, 38, 274

'''Cycle''':

There are several TfL Barclays Cycle Hire ("Boris Bike") points around Hyde Park/Speakers Corner.

A map of docking stations can be found here: https://web.barclayscyclehire.tfl.gov.uk/maps

Speaker's Corner is at the top right of Hyde Park, near Marble Arch tube station.

'''Car''': 
Parking is available at;
* Park Lane : http://bit.ly/96GDHZ 
* Marble Arch : http://bit.ly/drPnbf
Both £12 for 4 hours. It is possible to book online.

Parking also available at West Carriage Drive and the Car Parks at Serpentine Bridge : http://bit.ly/awK62g

=== Things to do ===
We need things to do at the GeekNic! Add them here if you think of any, or add comments to existing ones!

* Keysigning?
* Frisbee
* Eating
* Have a great time!

=== Timing ===

'''The Date, By Public Vote, Is Now The 8th Of August, 2010 The preliminary start time is 1pm with an estimated finish of around 4pm.'''

=== Publicity ===
Ideally, it would be good to get this around as many people as possible so we have a big group of people attending.

However, we also need to make a balance between a big group of people and having a manageable size.

Ideas for Publicity:

* fossevents.org
* registering at geeknic.org
* LUGS and other special-interest groups
* Facebook event

=== Supplies ===

* Bring-Your-Own Picnic, Blanket and Drinks
* We'll supply kitchen towel and amusements
* Enjoy the Day! Bring what you think will be necessary!

=== People Attending ===
Attendance has moved to <nowiki>[[UKTeam-UKGeekNic2010-Attendance]]</nowiki>

=== Links ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Site Name'''
| '''URL'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| Royal Parks Site
| http://bit.ly/dz87q
| BBQ's are banned in Royal Parks
|-
| FOSSevents
| http://www.fossevents.org
| List our GeekNic there?
|-
| GeekNic.org
| http://www.geeknic.org
| Main GeekNic worldwide site ''(seems inactive)''
|}
