{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by AlanBell at 20:01 ==
 <''''''> hi all

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> quick meeting today, not that much to cover

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> [topic] review of action items from last meeting

=== review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> [burp]  too much coke

 <''''''> only action item was to set up a facebook page, and we did that

 <''''''> success :)

 <''''''> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuUK

 <''''''> and then google+ camalong.

 <''''''> 60 people like it which is nice

 <''''''> indeed, G+ is interesting, we should probably do a mass hangout or something at some stage

 <''''''> yes!

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> isnt there a hangout limit ?

 <''''''> dunno, but I expect that won't be a huge issue

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Daubers - British Library last minute arrangements

=== Daubers - British Library last minute arrangements ===
* '''''' sees muffins

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> so the plan for tomorrow is as follows

 <''''''> meeting at 11:00 at platform 9 3/4 Kings Cross station

 <''''''> this is just outside the station and looks like two bits of cheap plastic brick wallpaper that someone stuck on a wall

* '''''' points at the message to the ML earlier also.

 <''''''> and a baggage trolley that someone took an angle grinder to shoved up against it

 <''''''> https://plus.google.com/photos/109175303602657131317/albums/5632279650910795537/5632131424301638930

 <''''''> so we can hang out there for a bit and take photos of people pushing the trolley through the wall etc

* '''''' awaits floods of pictures to see on google+

 <''''''> oh jeez

 <''''''> it's going to take me 1.5 hours and two train changes to get to Kings Cross

 <''''''> why?

 <''''''> thats what the train thing says

 <''''''> train to waterloo, tube to kings cross

 <''''''> and engineering work on underground

 <''''''> this weekend

 <''''''> crap

 <''''''> aye sunday trains are also a lot slower

 <''''''> they go the longer route from waterloo to farnham

 <''''''> No trains will run. Because of this engineering work there will be no interchange with the London Underground at:

 <''''''> London Kings Cross

 <''''''> (amongst many other stations)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.nationalrail.co.uk/service_disruptions/end16af6c54f4ac388a6e578971b3e70/details.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.nationalrail.co.uk/service_disruptions/end16af6c54f4ac388a6e578971b3e70/details.html

 <''''''> I was thinking of driving quite a long way in anyway

 <''''''> dunno if that link works

 <''''''> sympathies - but you're at least able to get there

* '''''' refers all to mail sent to list & earlier post here... & re-apologises for absence tomorrow :(

 <''''''> bother

 <''''''> well that is a bit of a pain

 <''''''> ok, so I will send a mail to the list suggesting people check their transport arrangements

 <''''''> best plan. yes, incase people dont know.

 <''''''> anyhow, lunch at Argyle Square

 <''''''> then over to the British Library for the Science Fiction thing

 <''''''> AlanBell: is the square far from the park

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.londontown.com/LondonStreets/argyle_square_215.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.londontown.com/LondonStreets/argyle_square_215.html

 <''''''> it is just over the road from the station really

 <''''''> I might drive all the way in, want a lift popey?

 <''''''> thats very kind of you

* '''''' looks at maps

 <''''''> latitude :)

 <''''''> yay, I have a navigator

 <''''''> Sam is good with a map, but maybe not that good.

 <''''''> cool 14 mins on tube

 <''''''> or 25 on zee bus

 <''''''> czajkowski: did you miss where I mentioned tubes being closed?

 <''''''> popey: elephant and castle says ok..

* '''''' is uber late

 <''''''> czajkowski: kings cross is closed

 <''''''> bus it is then

 <''''''> ty

 <''''''> k/c is closed?

 <''''''> no, it isn't

 <''''''> just from circle line

 <''''''> northen line from waterloo takes you to euston, which is close to kings cross

* '''''' is reminded he needs to look for oggcamp arrangements.

 <''''''> oh, sorry, just circle line

 <''''''> & H&C

 <''''''> Hmmmm.. have to play tube bingo tomorrow to get there from paddington by the look of it

 <''''''> northern from elephant and castle goes all the way there

 <''''''> and victoria line should be working

 <''''''> ok, I will mail the list and update various places with transport info

 <''''''> although the norther line is seemingly working fine tomorrow

 <''''''> damn lag

 <''''''> any other questions about tomorrow?

 <''''''> food? or did I miss that?

* '''''' made muffins \o/

 <''''''> bring some stuff

 <''''''> OK, already had some spanish omelets. no drinks though, ..

 <''''''> daubers: whoooo

 <''''''> :d

 <''''''> bring some food, some drink, some stuff to share

 <''''''> something to sit on

 <''''''> We still meeting at platform 9 and doo dah?

 <''''''> the exhibition and library are free

 <''''''> yes, still meeting at platform 9 3/4

* '''''' wonder if the oggcamp camp site has facilities. ie, showers etc?

 <''''''> 8 mile away. hmm.

 <''''''> ok, lets move on from the geeknic stuff

 <''''''> sorry. my mind is wandering.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - LoCo reapproval, are we ready?

=== AlanBell - LoCo reapproval, are we ready? ===
 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/ReApprovalApplication2011

 <''''''> probably not

 <''''''> we need to put dates against all the events and arrange them into some kind of logical order

 <''''''> we need to cover two years, not sure if we have or some goes back further

 <''''''> and we need to put more photos in

 <''''''>  i agree. i think we got most of it organised a afew weeks ago.

 <''''''> Generally we need to be better at writing up events after they happen, we have stuff saying "we are going to do $awesome event" but not much about how awesome it was

 <''''''> my achievement was an unsuccessful release party, and i am not going to put that in there, a release party of four people.

 <''''''> three better than it could have been

 <''''''> agreed.

 <''''''> however anything can go in the form really

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.lczajkowski.com/2011/07/22/preparing-for-approval-and-re-approval-dos-and-donts/''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.lczajkowski.com/2011/07/22/preparing-for-approval-and-re-approval-dos-and-donts/

 <''''''> wonderful blog post I saw the other day

 <''''''> </creep>

 <''''''> So we need photo and video from tomorrow :)

 <''''''> we do indeed

 <''''''> \o/

* '''''' checks the camera battery

 <''''''> consisting of me, directhex, and then partners, friends.

 <''''''> The LoCo Council meets on the 3rd Tuesday of every month at 21:00 UTC

 <''''''> I make that 16th August for the next meeting

 <''''''> i dont think there is much more i can add, other than about my release party.

 <''''''> if you can work out some dates of things that would be great

 <''''''> so should we go for 16th August?

 <''''''> AlanBell: thaat isnt going to be easy, i am awful and remembering dates.

 <''''''> look them up on the mailing list

 <''''''> good thinking.

 <''''''> or you know, your team reports :)

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> will be easier now as well to look at past events on the LD if you've created them there

 <''''''> yes, them too

 <''''''> AlanBell: I would go for it, so there is a deadline at least

 <''''''> Otherwise we'll just keep dithering until the last minute

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> team reports don't go back two years though I think

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-uk/events/history''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-uk/events/history

 <''''''> however, lets go for August 16th and get it done by then, I think we have enough down already that it is a realistic deadline

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> [agreed] put the team down for reapproval at the August 16th LoCo Council meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' put the team down for reapproval at the August 16th LoCo Council meeting''
|}

 <''''''> ok, any other business?

 <''''''> don't forget to come to the meeting :)

 <''''''> oggcamp stuff?

 <''''''> do we have an ubuntu-uk diary to put it into linked tio google calnadar?

 <''''''> and update the bug

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> bug, yes :)

 <''''''> AlanBell: the stuff i mumbled about ealier.

 <''''''> AlanBell: We good on video cameras now?

 <''''''> brobostigon: right, I was in the maltings earlier, could have checked

 <''''''> don't think they have showers, but it is a big rambling place, they might somewhere

 <''''''> AlanBell: my concern is, i dont mind camping, however transport back and forth, and the facilities there.

 <''''''> AlanBell: he was talking about campsite, not maltings

 <''''''> AIUI

 <''''''> ah

 <''''''> brobostigon: http://www.iwantoneofthose.com/pocket-shower/index.html :)

 <''''''> some people are camping in my back garden

 <''''''> AlanBell: my main concern in my eczema, and loking after it properly, more than anything.

* '''''' is intending to commute, have offered the Reading Hackspace guys lifts

 <''''''> is there a campsite others are using?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.ukcampsite.co.uk/sites/details.asp?revid=4113 <- is the campsite on the website. Says it has showers''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.ukcampsite.co.uk/sites/details.asp?revid=4113 <- is the campsite on the website. Says it has showers

 <''''''> as does http://www.campingandcampsites.co.uk/campsites/Basingstoke+Canal+Centre/205/

 <''''''> ok,

 <''''''> howabout travekl back and forth from there to the nevue?

 <''''''> venue*

 <''''''> hazrpg is giving me a lift down there.

 <''''''> I would recommend anyone thinking of camping should contact oggcamping@gmail.com

 <''''''> that is a bit of a trek

 <''''''> they are co-ordinating the camping

 <''''''> no chance, with osteoporosis.

 <''''''> popey: i only recently considered camping, when i saw hotel prices.

* '''''' emailed oggcamping and had no reply

 <''''''> eeeek

 <''''''> brobostigon: I suspect you might be able to bag a lift from someone :)

 <''''''> daubers: yes, however, i cant work as random as that, i need a layed plan.

 <''''''> brobostigon: Email the camping peeps

 <''''''> ok, well this is something to work on I think

 <''''''> daubers: i am just formulating something.

 <''''''> the other point was videos

 <''''''> we can discuss that a bit more tomorrow I think

 <''''''> Okies

 <''''''> probably do need more cameras/tripods

* '''''' is getting a worries feeling about uncertainty again.

 <''''''> any more other business before we wrap up the minutes?

 <''''''> no.

* '''''' lies, but keeps quite, to to silly questions.

 <''''''> quiet*

 <''''''> next meeting then

 <''''''> maybe August 9th? a week before the reapproval meeting?

 <''''''> saturday also?

 <''''''> a tuesday

 <''''''> 2 weeks tuesday

 <''''''> Sounds good to me

 <''''''> nope. play chess tuesday night.

 <''''''> want to get the people who are available on a tuesday there

 <''''''> i am of limited use anyways.

 <''''''> aww

 <''''''> you are fine :)

 <''''''> thank you AlanBell :)

 <''''''> however if you are not available on tuesdays preparing for the reapproval meeting on the following tuesday will be of limited use :)

 <''''''> tuesday however ownt work for me, i can catch up though.

 <''''''> quite.

 <''''''> [agreed] meeting Tuesday 9th August 9PM

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' meeting Tuesday 9th August 9PM''
|}

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 21:01 ==
=== People Present ===
* AlanBell

* brobostigon

* suprengr

* popey

* czajkowski

* daubers

* andres_kain

=== Actions Recorded ===
