{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the nth meeting of the UKTeam, starting at xx:xx GMT and finishing at xx:xx GMT

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT at the start of the meeting to ensure we are all clear who is online and paying attention.
Active Atendees:
* PersonOne
* PersonTwo

== Agenda ==
When adding an agenda item please "sign" it by leaving your name next to it. If you won't be attending the meeting please also spell out your item in detail, otherwise we can't fruitfully discuss it.
 
* More bug jam planning.
* VPN Support Service (On behalf of Ian Pascoe, <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-uk/2009-January/016183.html|see original message on the mailing list for more info]]</nowiki>)
* Possible PGP key signing event at the bugjam(s)? A government standard ID is required however when verifying people's true identity's and keys. More info <nowiki>[[http://cryptnet.net/fdp/crypto/keysigning_party/en/keysigning_party.html|here]]</nowiki>. (Chris`)

== Minutes ==

* 

== Any Other Business ==

* 
* 
 

== Guide Lines ==

The chairman of the meeting should endeavour to ensure that key points are discussed in an appropriate time. Key Topics from the Agenda should be tabled in the channel using a market such as [ TOPIC ] or * TOPIC * Followed by the agenda item. Where Suggestions or Ideas are put forward and considered as acceptable to the group then it should be noted by the Chairman as [ IDEA ] or * IDEA * . Where a concept is discussed and agreed the use of [ AGREED ] or * AGREED * should be defined by the chairman and should signify the topic is discussed and the meeting is to move on.  Be clear on the channel when the meeting is concluded and how and when the minutes will be posted.

== IRC LOGS ==

<pre>
IRC logs
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
