{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by AlanBell at 21:14:40 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-uk-meeting/2012/ubuntu-uk-meeting.2012-02-02-21.14.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* The Chair - review of action items from last meeting
** REPORT] People who have achieved something in January, please place it in the report.  (AlanBell, 21:15:30)

* AlanBell - The Next Happy Hour(s)

* The Chair - Any Other Business
''LINK:'' http://ubuntu-uk.org/happy-hour/   (AlanBell, 21:23:33)

* Date of next meeting

Meeting ended at 21:29:17 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (26)
* Gruntchef (6)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 21:14:40 <AlanBell> #startmeeting

 21:14:40 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Feb  2 21:14:40 2012 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 21:14:40 <meetingology> 

 21:14:40 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 21:14:45 <AlanBell> hi all o/

 21:15:04 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - review of action items from last meeting

 21:15:11 <AlanBell> hmm, chair, that would be me

 21:15:30 <AlanBell> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in January, please place it in the report.

 21:15:48 <AlanBell> ooh need to update that agenda :(

 21:16:03 <AlanBell> so stuff going on in January is a bit thin tbh

 21:16:48 <AlanBell> anyone got anything interesting to mention for January?

 21:18:50 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] AlanBell - The Next Happy Hour(s)

 21:19:06 <AlanBell> um, I kinda failed to sort one out for Southampton

 21:20:45 <AlanBell> I think daubers will be sorting out a Reading event this month

 21:21:23 <AlanBell> this is going to be a seriously quiet meeting

 21:21:33 <AlanBell> apart from in the pub I am in

 21:21:36 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] The Chair - Any Other Business

 21:21:51 <AlanBell> does anyone else have any other business they would like to raise?

 21:22:28 <Gruntchef> i would just like to ask what you guys are up to in general? if this is the right place to ask...

 21:22:52 <AlanBell> it kind of is, but this is not the very most active meeting we have ever had

 21:23:07 <AlanBell> so we do advocacy, via tradeshows sometimes

 21:23:16 <Gruntchef> ok

 21:23:22 <AlanBell> organised online events, and real life meetups

 21:23:33 <AlanBell> http://ubuntu-uk.org/happy-hour/

 21:23:39 <Gruntchef> will have a look

 21:24:34 <Gruntchef> i used to do software development a few years ago but not done anything in linux really...just picked ubuntu up again and was looking for places to be useful

 21:24:57 <AlanBell> and as an approved local team we get a heap of CDs http://ubuntu-uk.org/free-cds/

 21:25:04 <Gruntchef> cool

 21:25:07 <AlanBell> which we give out for free

 21:25:39 <AlanBell> there are lots of places to be useful, in packaging, development, bug handling/triaging etc

 21:26:12 <Gruntchef> yeah spent the last few hours working out all the ubuntu bits and bobs....still making sense of it

 21:28:53 <AlanBell> ok, this meeting is kind of a bit of a fail

 21:28:58 <AlanBell> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

 21:29:13 <AlanBell> about 3 weeks, I will take it to the mailing list

 21:29:17 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
