{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Manchester Lucid Ubuntu Global Jam ==

The Ubuntu Global Jam is an incredible opportunity for the Ubuntu community to unite together around the weekend of 26th - 28th March 2010 to work together to improve Ubuntu. As of today a Manchester jam is being organised, this wiki page serves as a central location for this organisation and once something is confirmed it should be added here.

=== What is a Jam? ===
The Ubuntu Global Jam incorporates events that have been organized over the world to get Ubuntu contributors and fans together to have a great time and improve Ubuntu. Each event has one or more of our four themes:

* Bugs - finding, triaging and fixing bugs.
* Testing - testing the new release and reporting your feedback.
* Upgrade - upgrading to Lucid from Hardy or Karmic and reporting your upgrade experience.
* Documentation - writing documentation about how to use Ubuntu and how to join the community.
* Translations - translating Ubuntu and helping to make it available in everyone's local language.
* Packaging - work on Ubuntu packages and improve them.
* Other - other types of contribution such as marketing, packaging, advocacy etc.

see <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki> for more info

General Info
* Date: Saturday 27th and Sunday 28th March, 10am - 4pm.
* Venue: Madlab Manchester, 36-40 Edge Street (Northern Quarter) 

Schedule / Presentations:
* Presentation: "Reporting Bugs: Real life guide to improving Free Software" by Michael Dorrington
* More information about things to do on the day is available at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/ManchesterJam10-04/Info]]</nowiki>

Helpers:
* Simon Wears
* Gordon Allott
* Lucy Bridges
* Les Pounder
* Luke Taylor
* Michael Dorrington
