{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by MichealH at 20:00 ==
 <''''''> Hello and welcome to the Ubuntu UK meeting in the Ubuntu UK meeting room. If you are new then the only thing we suggest is looking at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda and wait untill its your turn or If you are making a arguing point, wait thill the person who is speaking about the agenda item has finsished.

 <''''''> As always, Please mark you presence with a wave (\o) or some other way we know you are here.

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda''
|}

 <''''''> Pleas make sure that is open in your browser

 <''''''> Okay, Lets get going!

 <''''''> [TOPIC] MichealH - review of action items from last meeting

=== MichealH - review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in August, please place it in the report, and if you do anything this month, put it in the September one (simples!)

==== People who have achieved something in August, please place it in the report, and if you do anything this month, put it in the September one (simples!) ====
 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/August https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/September

 <''''''> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/August

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/August''
|}

 <''''''> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/September

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/September''
|}

 <''''''> August looks really good \o/

 <''''''> Yes, It does indeed

 <''''''> it really does, excellent job ^.^

 <''''''> shall have to see what i can do about organizing something for Sept

 <''''''> Okay

 <''''''> Going

 <''''''> Going

 <''''''> Gone

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Team Logo

=== AlanBell - Team Logo ===
 <''''''> right, so this is going well

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://pollka.libertus.co.uk/''
|}

 <''''''> http://pollka.libertus.co.uk/

 <''''''> we have been voting on the logo for a week, the vote closed on tuesday

 <''''''> the winning option was number 8

 <''''''> Yay!

 <''''''> fine result

 <''''''> I voted on that

 <''''''> excellent :)

 <''''''> having checked the rules the circle of friends was a fraction too close to the other bits so I adjusted that and submitted this:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://people.ubuntu.com/~alanbell/uuk/uuklogopaths.svg''
|}

 <''''''> http://people.ubuntu.com/~alanbell/uuk/uuklogopaths.svg

 <''''''> And AlanBell What is the fallback logo?

 <''''''> to the trademark team at Canonical to make it an approved LoCo logo

 <''''''> So its approved?

 <''''''> Yipee

 <''''''> looks great, thanks for the effort in getting that logo put together

 <''''''> not approved yet, I have had no response

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://pollka.libertus.co.uk/results.php''
|}

 <''''''> http://pollka.libertus.co.uk/results.php

 <''''''> the fallback seems to be the Union Jack logo?

 <''''''> it is a fine lgog, thanks for your efforts from me

 <''''''> that is the list of responses (although I think a couple of extra votes arrived after I counted them

 <''''''> Yeah

 <''''''> Anyone have anything else to say before we move on?

 <''''''> I am pretty confident that logo will get approved, there isn't really anything controversial about it

 <''''''> can take trademarks some time to respond

 <''''''> czajkowski: Yeah It took me 2 weeks

 <''''''> where is it?

 <''''''> oh found it

 <''''''> yeah, I am hoping they approve before Maverick release

 <''''''> ok, I am done on this topic MichealH

 <''''''> nice alanbell    :D

 <''''''> Anyone have anything else?

 <''''''> No?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Daviey and MichealH - Website

=== Daviey and MichealH - Website ===
 <''''''> I dont know If Daviey is at his desk

 <''''''> We havent heard of the website recently

 <''''''> Daviey: ping

 <''''''> Seems he isn't, can this be done without him?

 <''''''> Okay, Lets move on and If he replys then we can add it to the end

 <''''''> [TOPIC] daubers - Improving Support

=== daubers - Improving Support ===
 <''''''> daubers: Youre up

 <''''''> ooh, this is going to be a short meeting

 <''''''> AlanBell: Yup

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> [TOPIC] 10.10.10 Release Party

=== 10.10.10 Release Party ===
 <''''''> very short, I shall have to add some things to the next agenda :)

 <''''''> Monotoko: Great!

 <''''''> ok, there is a release party in the planning for London

 <''''''> I was thinking of having a release party up in the Leeds area?

 <''''''> 10.10?  on the 10.10.10?

 <''''''> for those of us that cant get to London

 <''''''> AlanBell: ping me if you need help w/ anything (or let whoever is organizing know)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/307/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/307/detail/

 <''''''> sam898889: Yup

 <''''''> Monotoko: great, do add it to the loco directory if you do

 <''''''> Monotoko, a central/northern party would get my vote

 <''''''> sam898889: The perfect 10

 <''''''> so that one in London isn't the canonical organised one

 <''''''> Ricey: Mine too

 <''''''> MichealH,   indeed.    can i come?

 <''''''> Ricey, I will see what I can do with settings on up :)

 <''''''> I *think* it is being organised by John Rocket

 <''''''> sam898889: Im not organising

 <''''''> Monotoko, nice :)

 <''''''> MichealH,   do u know who is ???

 <''''''> AlanBell: does jr0cket use irc?

 <''''''> sam898889: Ask AlanBell after the meeting

 <''''''> mattt: don't know, I emailed him earlier asking about it

 <''''''> MichealH,  thanks.

 <''''''> AlanBell: k, thanks

 <''''''> Okay Anyone else wanna say anything else before we move on?

 <''''''> Canonical have been in communication asking what we are doing for release parties

 <''''''> they seem to be thinking about something, normally it is announced rather late

 <''''''> AlanBell: Installfests

 <''''''> Installfests + Pub

 <''''''> Pub + Installfests

 <''''''> yeah, the installfests are a great idea for a during-the-day activity on the sunday

 <''''''> Monotoko: I wouldnt be able to attend then :

 <''''''> *:(

 <''''''> but organising a separate pub type party in London to the Canonical one (if there is one) could be a bit of a washout

 <''''''> MichealH, Maybe we could organize a seperate pub day

 <''''''> installfests also don't have an age limit on them which is handy for our younger members

 <''''''> Monotoko: Im 13! I think there would be very little for me to do but sit down and IRc all day like I usually do

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> AlanBell: I understand

 <''''''> ok, hopefully there will be more info on parties for the next meeting

 <''''''> AlanBell: Done?

 <''''''> I think so

 <''''''> Any Questions?

 <''''''> AlanBell, I will call up some places...see if I can get anywhere booked

 <''''''> Monotoko: Thats the sprirt

 <''''''> cool, MichealH action Monotoko to do that

 <''''''> how many people are expected to join?

 <''''''> sam898889: We dont know

 <''''''> join what sam898889?

 <''''''> Anyone could come

 <''''''> the 10.10.10 launch party..

 <''''''> MichealH: [action] Monotoko to call places

 <''''''> [action] Monotoko to call places

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Monotoko to call places''
|}

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> Monotoko: Your first action?

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> Monotoko: don't let us down

 <''''''> MichealH, yepp ^.^

 <''''''> mattt, I wont :)

 <''''''> :P

 <''''''> Okay Lets move on

 <''''''> sam898889: normally for the london party it is >100 people

 <''''''> [action] Monotoko to call places

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Monotoko to call places''
|}

 <''''''> ok AlanBell ..  thanks

 <''''''> oops

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> Sorry

 <''''''> [TOPIC] MichealH - Any Other Business

=== MichealH - Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> Seems to be no buisness here :-)

 <''''''> Anyone have some questions?

 <''''''> Wanna bring up something?

 <''''''> just a quick one.

 <''''''> Ricey: Go ahead

 <''''''> has everyone seen the thread on the mailing list ref the "rubbish bin" ?

 <''''''> Ricey: I saw the bug on LP

* '''''' is on the translation team

 <''''''> Ricey: which list?

* '''''' too

 <''''''> ubuntu-uk mailing list - i think

 <''''''> mattt: I think the UK one

 <''''''> Ricey: odd, don't recall seeing it

 <''''''> nor me

 <''''''> ok, hang on let me grab the LP link...

 <''''''> me either

 <''''''> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/406626

 <''''''> Launchpad bug 406626 in nautilus "Deleted Items Folder inconsistently named in en_GB localisation" [Undecided,Fix committed]

 <''''''> that's it

 <''''''> nope, spoke to popey about it though

 <''''''> Thanks popey

 <''''''> There is one on the en_GB list

 <''''''> Okay

 <''''''> just this - are we generally happy as UK users that whatever gnome/ubuntu use for "trash" we should use Rubbish Bin?

 <''''''> Im happy

 <''''''> indifferent

 <''''''> Ricey: maybe mail the main list about it (it will be a long thread no doubt)

 <''''''> Ricey, I'm happy :)

 <''''''> AlanBell, indeed, just wanted to get a quick feel from this group

 <''''''> Sahll we draw a quick vote on it?

 <''''''> *Shall

 <''''''> I don't think we have enough people for a meaningful vote

 <''''''> I was going to suggest waste bin but this has taken a long tome so rubbish bin will do

 <''''''> Okay

 <''''''> Lets move on

 <''''''> ok, yes, thanks

 <''''''> 3

 <''''''> 2

 <''''''> 1

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> 2 weeks time?

 <''''''> how about Thursday 16th?

 <''''''> Ach! Thursday

 <''''''> works for me..I will have more information on the Northern release party

 <''''''> fine by me, i will be out the country, but will try to connect

 <''''''> works for me

 <''''''> can someone add me to the mailing list or tell me how. i would love to join the party~~

 <''''''> I may be late but Yeah I will attend

 <''''''> sam898889: Ak after the meeting

 <''''''> *Ask

 <''''''> sam898889: link in the topic for #ubuntu-uk

 <''''''> sam898889, https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-uk

 <''''''> So Its agreed? Thurs 16th?

 <''''''> I think so :)

 <''''''> if you [agreed] it

 <''''''> [AGRREED] Next meeting on Thurs 16th September 2010 9PM BST in #ubuntu-uk-meeting

 <''''''> excellent

 <''''''> [AGREED] Next meeting on x September 2010 9PM BST in #ubuntu-uk-meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Next meeting on x September 2010 9PM BST in #ubuntu-uk-meeting''
|}

 <''''''> Typo

 <''''''> 16th

 <''''''> Grr

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

=== Chair for next meeting ===
 <''''''> Any nominations?

 <''''''> volenteers?

 <''''''> o/

* '''''' hasn't been chair for a while

* '''''' retracts

* '''''' nominates AlanBell 

 <''''''> Does ukbot have the @random command?

* '''''' nominates AlanBell as well :)

* '''''' seconds

 <''''''> +4 for AlanBell

 <''''''> Hurrah!

 <''''''> [AGREED] The next chair is AlanBell and will chair the meeting on 16 September at 9PM BST.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' The next chair is AlanBell and will chair the meeting on 16 September at 9PM BST.''
|}

 <''''''> great

 <''''''> gratz

 <''''''> awesome

 <''''''> Thanks fot your time

 <''''''> *for

 <''''''> and your support

 <''''''> thankyou :)

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 20:27 ==
=== People Present ===
* MichealH

* AlanBell

* popey

* sam898889

* Monotoko

* Yorvyk

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ricey|Ricey]]</nowiki>

* mattt

* czajkowski

* TonyP

* ukbot

=== Actions Recorded ===
* Monotoko to call places

* Monotoko to call places
