{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Project Overview ===

You can find the origins of this idea here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-uk/2007-June/005140.html

=== Interested/Involved Members ===

* ChrisRowson
* DaveWalker
* AlanPope

=== Ideas/Discussion ===

Maybe look at setting reverse SSH tunnel 'click and run' script to aide remote assistance.  Would avoid the need for port-forwarding.

==== Option One ====
* User submits contact details (Telephone No.) on a web interface and receives a callback
** This is how Ubuntu-Ohio have implemented their solution.
** Presumably it would email all interested volunteers to alert them of new support requests.
*** We would need a way of following the requests - so the person doesn't receive 15 calls.
*** Maybe a web-interface to track, so future requests can be easily solved.
*** Have an on call calendar - shared google calendar?
** Funding calls out - How will this be paid for?
*** The only cost i can see is the outbound call
**** That's about it! It's still a cost though..

        
==== Option Two ====
* User calls a phone number that directs them to an available assistant.
** Either share a voip inbound number that we take in turns.
** Or use an Asterisk server and have volunteers sign in/out as available
** Manning the helpline
** If a question can't be solved it gets passed down the line to another helper
** How is the helpline manned - what hours - how is it roted?
**** When nobody is available is passed to voicemail; promising a callback.
** There has been a suggestion of using a premium rate line - This'd put people off though I reckon..
****** 0845 is 'Low-call' rate but could still raise an enough income to cover costs.
******** I don't think 0845 calls raise income, they're supposed to be local rate - are you thinking of national rate numbers?
********** 0845 numbers can raise between 0.5p p/m and 1p p/m  (0870 can be around 5p p/m (but caller pays upto 10p p/m = too much)
****** I suspect initial costs will be a £2-3 per month, using VOIP carriers.
****** I suppose that really depends on how many people use the service ;-)
******** Based on 5 hours outbound calls per week - would cost £2-3 p/m (flat rate)

* Manage calls with a request tracker?
** http://bestpractical.com/rt ?
