{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by popey at 21:02:15 UTC.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda   (popey, 21:03:03)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda   (popey, 21:03:15)
** REPORT] People who have achieved something in October, please place it in the report.  (popey, 21:05:03)
** REPORT] AlanBell - discuss ongoing work re new website  (popey, 21:05:45)
''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/website   (AlanBell, 21:06:29)

''LINK:'' http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org/   (popey, 21:06:35)

''LINK:'' http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org/where-are-we/ is a map mashup, developed by another Ubuntu member initially  (AlanBell, 21:07:58)

''LINK:'' http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org/todays-chatter/ should point to todays IRC logs in an iframe  (AlanBell, 21:08:47)

''ACTION:'' AlanBell to choose a day to hack on the ubuntu-uk website, and mail the list to gather interested parties  (popey, 21:18:50)
** REPORT] AlanBell - liaise with the Hub re XMAS bash, provisionally for Thurs 16th  (popey, 21:19:03)
''LINK:'' http://kingscross.the-hub.net/public/   (AlanBell, 21:20:07)

''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-uk/events   (popey, 21:20:30)
** REPORT] danfish and brunogirin to brainstorm re public sector OSS event  (popey, 21:21:38)
* Any other business

Meeting ended at 21:40:38 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* AlanBell to choose a day to hack on the ubuntu-uk website, and mail the list to gather interested parties

=== Action items, by person ===

* AlanBell
** AlanBell to choose a day to hack on the ubuntu-uk website, and mail the list to gather interested parties

=== People present (lines said) ===

* popey (65)
* AlanBell (48)
* Biglesp (10)
* tombrough (9)
* danfish (8)
* dutchie (7)
* meetingology (4)
* freesitebuilder (3)
* Seeker` (3)
* mattt (1)
* jacobw (1)

=== Full Log ===

 21:02:15 <popey> #startmeeting

 21:02:16 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov  2 21:02:15 2010 UTC.  The chair is popey. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 21:02:16 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 21:02:22 <popey> \o/

 21:02:24 <popey> who's here?

 21:02:26 <popey> o/

 21:02:27 <AlanBell> o/

 21:02:30 <mattt> o/

 21:02:48 <Biglesp> o/ Hi!

 21:03:03 <popey> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda

 21:03:13 <dutchie> semi-o/

 21:03:15 <popey> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda

 21:03:22 <popey> one day I'll learn to drive this bot

 21:03:41 <AlanBell> it is quite a quiet bot

 21:04:16 <AlanBell> if you give it ops it will sort out the /topic too

 21:04:34 <popey> ok

 21:04:49 <popey> ok, first things first..

 21:05:03 <popey> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in October, please place it in the report.

 21:05:11 <popey> as always.. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/October

 21:05:17 <popey> and now of course https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/November

 21:05:45 <popey> [PROGRESS REPORT] AlanBell - discuss ongoing work re new website

 21:05:49 <popey> AlanBell: over to you..

 21:06:07 <AlanBell> ok, so work has started on the website, we have knocked about a number of ideas

 21:06:29 <AlanBell> http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/website

 21:06:30 <popey> oo, you got the side bar working..

 21:06:35 <popey> http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org/

 21:06:54 <AlanBell> and the twittery thing

 21:07:31 <AlanBell> at the top are some major pages to work on

 21:07:49 <popey> ooooo map

 21:07:58 <AlanBell> http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org/where-are-we/ is a map mashup, developed by another Ubuntu member initially

 21:08:05 <AlanBell> spads I think it was

 21:08:23 <AlanBell> and we can tweak that for our "where is everyone" kind of thing

 21:08:47 <AlanBell> http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org/todays-chatter/ should point to todays IRC logs in an iframe

 21:09:05 <AlanBell> to expose those a bit more to casual browsers

 21:09:13 <popey> thats a great idea

 21:09:24 <AlanBell> and http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org/join-the-conversation/ embeds the freenode webchat

 21:09:39 <popey> maybe we could have an additional "join-the-meeting" :)

 21:09:49 <AlanBell> yes, we could indeed

 21:10:02 <dutchie> possibly a whole meeting sub-hierarchy?

 21:10:12 <dutchie> with links to the agenda/last meeting logs

 21:10:13 <AlanBell> yes, I did ponder meeting minutes

 21:10:27 <AlanBell> those are also being pondered in the context of the loco directory

 21:10:34 <AlanBell> much pondering was done at UDS on that

 21:11:20 <AlanBell> that is about it for the moment, UDS sucked up a lot of free messing with Ubuntu time over the past week

 21:11:32 <popey> thats looking great

 21:11:38 <popey> any specific help you're looking for?

 21:11:57 <AlanBell> more ideas of stuff to put on the site

 21:12:17 <AlanBell> and if people want to pick up a specific task and run with it (like the map for example) then give me a shout

 21:12:43 <dutchie> is it going to be used as a team blog too?

 21:12:52 <dutchie> to announce events and so forth?

 21:13:02 <Seeker`> AlanBell: ponies!

 21:13:19 <dutchie> unicorns!

 21:13:20 <AlanBell> yes, for specific types of posts, events would be a good example

 21:13:20 <Seeker`> AlanBell: that an maybe a gallery of ubuntu-uk events

 21:13:41 <Seeker`> someone must have taken a picture at one of the launch parties

 21:13:50 <AlanBell> yup, gallery of events and ponies sounds good

 21:15:53 <popey> anything else of note to discuss about the website?

 21:16:07 <Biglesp> AlanBell: If its any help you can use some of my Ubuntu Installfest pics here http://www.flickr.com/photos/45703688@N07/

 21:16:10 * dutchie has a proofreading account :)

 21:16:11 <AlanBell> not from me right now

 21:16:16 <AlanBell> thanks Biglesp

 21:16:36 <popey> any action items?

 21:17:29 <AlanBell> maybe we should do a bit of a hack day on the website

 21:18:04 <popey> i like the sound of that

 21:18:09 <AlanBell> or a sprint

 21:18:18 <AlanBell> action me to pick a day and mail the list

 21:18:50 <popey> #action AlanBell to choose a day to hack on the ubuntu-uk website, and mail the list to gather interested parties

 21:18:50 * meetingology AlanBell to choose a day to hack on the ubuntu-uk website, and mail the list to gather interested parties

 21:18:56 <popey> win!

 21:19:03 <popey> [PROGRESS REPORT] AlanBell - liaise with the Hub re XMAS bash, provisionally for Thurs 16th

 21:19:06 <popey> :)

 21:19:18 <AlanBell> no update really

 21:19:23 <popey> ok

 21:19:24 <AlanBell> still on for the 16th I think

 21:19:32 <popey> is the hub where we were last year?

 21:19:36 <popey> mince pies and olpcs?

 21:19:41 <AlanBell> different branch of the hub

 21:19:45 <popey> ah okay

 21:19:52 <popey> maybe worth announcing to keep in peoples minds?

 21:19:55 <popey> people get booked up

 21:20:07 <AlanBell> http://kingscross.the-hub.net/public/

 21:20:30 <popey> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-uk/events

 21:20:31 <AlanBell> yes, I will give the venue a call tomorrow, they were trying to get several groups together

 21:20:33 <popey> maybe it needs adding?

 21:21:02 <AlanBell> I will add it when I confirm with the venue

 21:21:29 <popey> ok

 21:21:38 <popey> [PROGRESS REPORT] danfish and brunogirin to brainstorm re public sector OSS event

 21:22:00 * popey storms danfishs brain

 21:22:07 <danfish> ouch!

 21:22:09 <tombrough> ok I work for a local authority so if I can help let me know.

 21:22:17 <danfish> tombrough: definitely

 21:22:24 <danfish> pad at http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/OSSinPublicSector

 21:22:30 <danfish> feel free to edit

 21:22:57 <danfish> we've made a start and a friend of mine specialises in organising public sector conferences

 21:23:10 <tombrough> note my experience is very negative my boss is an ex ibm man and has moved to the "nobody got sacked for using microsoft" model.

 21:23:17 * AlanBell needs to have a chat with danfish about this

 21:23:32 <AlanBell> tombrough: yeah, but that was pre-comprehensive spending review

 21:23:55 <danfish> AlanBell: much appreciated

 21:24:17 <AlanBell> tombrough: cabinet office is *very* keen on open source right now, and so are a number of local authorities

 21:24:39 <tombrough> AlanBell: My boss is STILL trying to push through sharepoint licensing (as we type).

 21:24:52 <Biglesp> AlanBell: DWP as a whole is warming to the idea of thin clients and open source software

 21:25:12 <jacobw> speaking of OSS in the public sector, I think there is some dabbling with Asterisks in the ambulance service

 21:26:04 <danfish> I think this is a ripe area, but needs v careful planning and the experience of peeps like AlanBell :)

 21:26:21 <popey> sounds like more brainstorming to be done

 21:26:31 <danfish> yep

 21:26:58 <Biglesp> I'd be happy to help out here, I work in the public sector so have first hand experience.

 21:27:06 <popey> ok, I'll leave it on the agenda to keep it in our minds

 21:27:23 <popey> anything else to say on this topic?

 21:28:01 <tombrough> Problem with public sector is a lot of areas will be farmed out to "social enterprise" this will create an even less coordinated service with everybody having to get their own IT resources etc....

 21:29:11 <popey> ok, finally..

 21:29:18 <popey> [TOPIC] Any other business

 21:29:18 <meetingology> TOPIC: Any other business

 21:29:58 <popey> Anyone?

 21:30:05 <tombrough> Internet Cafe's as a source of income / contact point for open source development in the community

 21:30:09 <AlanBell> not I said the chicken

 21:30:38 <popey> you thinking of setting one up tombrough ?

 21:30:49 <popey> I cant recall the last time I saw an internet cafe!

 21:31:06 <freesitebuilder> quite a few in swindon

 21:31:18 <freesitebuilder> mainly for people from abroad

 21:31:28 <popey> ahh

 21:31:44 <tombrough> yes after 10+ years in IT in the Public Sector (most of which I have tried to get movement on Open Source with no joy) I am thinking of bailing and setting up a cafe / workshop / consultancy for local community on a non-profits basis.

 21:32:26 <freesitebuilder> I think the free access through public libraries has made for a fall in internet cafes in general

 21:32:33 <Biglesp> tombrough: Good idea mate, good luck!

 21:32:58 <tombrough> Yes well on public libraries I cant get to use the meeting rooms and plug in my computer without a PAT certificate.

 21:33:09 <tombrough> And I work for the ....

 21:33:56 <AlanBell> oh, an item of AOB, next UDS is in Budapest

 21:34:02 <tombrough> ask for help on computers at a public library and you will be shown where they are and told to get on with it.

 21:34:04 <popey> oh yes

 21:34:08 <AlanBell> 9th May 2011 for a week

 21:34:53 <popey> tombrough: if you need help with that project I'm sure people on the list would be willing

 21:35:04 <popey> I think we're done?

 21:35:19 <Biglesp> If I may add this to AOB? We are in the initial stages of planning another UCubed event for April 2011, early work is going on to organise promotion and resources so we can put on a bigger and better event. Our website is ucubed.info and we are currently designing and sourcing content.

 21:35:32 <popey> nice

 21:35:32 <AlanBell> excellent

 21:35:43 <AlanBell> loco directory event :)

 21:36:01 <popey> ok, so when shall we have the next meeting?

 21:36:05 <popey> did we go for 3 weeks?

 21:36:33 <popey> 2 it seems

 21:36:49 <Biglesp> 2 weeks is good

 21:36:59 <AlanBell> some time week commencing 22nd  perhaps

 21:37:10 <popey> any particular reason?

 21:37:21 <AlanBell> that would be three weeks

 21:37:26 <popey> ok

 21:37:28 <popey> lets do it

 21:37:40 <popey> next meeting Tuesday 23rd at 21:00 GMT

 21:37:45 <AlanBell> sure

 21:37:49 <popey> done

 21:37:50 <Biglesp> ok

 21:37:56 <popey> volunteer chair?

 21:38:35 <AlanBell> Biglesp: want to have a go?

 21:39:02 <Biglesp> AlanBell: No thanks Alan, lets not run before I can walk ;)

 21:39:24 <AlanBell> :)

 21:40:03 * popey looks at AlanBell

 21:40:08 <popey> then back to me

 21:40:10 <AlanBell> in the absence of anyone else leaping forward

 21:40:22 * AlanBell leaps forward

 21:40:27 <popey> ta

 21:40:33 <Biglesp> I'll leap forward once I learn more about IRC ;)

 21:40:38 <popey> #endmeeting
