{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

L.U.G. Radio Live 2007 has just been <nowiki>[[http://www.lugradio.org/live/2007/|announced]]</nowiki>.

This page is for the Ubuntu UK Loco Team to discuss what we want to do there.

== Who will be there ==

Add your name if you plan on going to LRL07

* AlanPope
* AlexLatchford
* ColinMccarthy
* JohnLevin
* NikButler The Loudmouthman will be back .
* GaryKearley
* OsdeInfo
* PhilWyett
* MichaelErskine (with Xubuntu MAME cabinet!)
* AlistairCrust (with wife....probably)
* AndrewBarber
* DaveMurphy
* MatthewWalster
* FreddieRuddick - Probably Saturday, possibly Sunday too (depending on trains)
* DaveWalker
* RobertMcwilliam
* AndrewDavidWilliams - Saturday maybe Sunday

== Stand Schedule ==

Put your name here for volunteering to man the Ubuntu stall:
* JohnLevin
* DaveWalker
* NikButler ( Give or Take OpenId/OpenRights/Coffee Breaks !)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| SATURDAY
| TASK
| NAMES
| NOTES
|-
| 9am - 10
| Set up
| JohnLevin
| 
|-
| 10 - 11
| 
| 
| I'll be close to the stand all day both days.
|-
| 11 - 12
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 12 - 1
| 
| 
| Time of Ubuntu-UK BOF
|-
| 1 - 2
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 2 - 3
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 3 - 4
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 4 - 5
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 5 - 6
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 6 - 7
| Take down
| JohnLevin
| Stall has to be cleared for the evening
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| SUNDAY
| TASK
| NAMES
| NOTES
|-
| 10 - 10.45
| Set up
| JohnLevin
| 
|-
| 10.45 - 12
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 12 - 1
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 1 - 2
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 2 - 3
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 3 - 4
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 4 - 5
| Take down
| JohnLevin
| Tidy Up and go home
|}

== Ideas for BoFs ==

The BOF schedule has been announced: <nowiki>[[http://www.lugradio.org/live/blog/]]</nowiki>

* LUG.org.uk: scheduled for 11am Saturday; chaired by AlanPope
* Ubuntu UKTeam: scheduled for 12 Midday Saturday; chaired by NikButler.

== Ideas for Stands ==

* Give out Ubuntu / Kubuntu / Xubuntu / Edubuntu CDs
* Laptops demonstrating K/X/Ed/Ubuntu, and running the screencasts
* Sell merchandise
* The polo shirts from LinuxWorldExpo were rather popular (NikButler says"I have a few left and will get some more" )
* Get Ubuntu guides (with bulk discount) from Lulu to sell
* Leaflets to hand out, detailing who Ubuntu-UK are and what we do
* Ubuntu advocacy ? lets get people who dont know about the team to be more aware.
* Buy a Sheet of these Temporary Tattoos and sell each tattoo for 20p <nowiki>[[http://www.tattooyou.co.uk/custom.htm|Custom Tattoos]]</nowiki>

Having listened to the comments from the LugRadio presenters I'd like to suggest we make the stand , stand out, a little by theming it in the style of a Village Fete stall. Since we are the UK Team I propose a Middle England themed Village Fete stall with the usual collection of dodgy side show games, themed for our event, such as.

* Throw the CD onto a Peg to win a prize.
* Guess the Baby photos. Where we get pictures of well known FOSS members as babies and ask people to match them up.
* Guess how many CDs are in the Jar. 
* Human Fruit Machine ( requires at least 3 people and lots of fruit ) 
* Pin the Beard on the presenter. 
* Face Painting 
 
These activities can be charged for so yes we need some schwag to give as prizes I'll ask canonical for a lead on that and Ill see if we can twist dells arm for some freebies if possible. Your thoughts please?

== Talking Heads ==

 Will there be a Mass Debate , will Ubuntu get up on the stand vs novell and redhat and if so (cough Alan) who should be on the stand.
* I don't believe there will be any such 'duel of the distros' debate. JohnLevin
* We should have a distro tug-of-war or arm-wrestling contest to finally end all disputes :) MichaelErskine

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
