{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Meeting opened by danfish at 20:00 ==
* '''''' has a loco council meeting so wont be here :(

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> Give a o/ if you're here

 <''''''> present

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeamMeetingAgenda/''
|}

 <''''''> righty, let's crack on with the agenda

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> as always if you've done anything this month, please update the report

 <''''''> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/October

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/10/October''
|}

 <''''''> links to release party pictures would be good to put there

 <''''''> most definitely

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> an email to the mailing list may be an idea

 <''''''> [ACTION] danfish to email the mailing list re piccies

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' danfish to email the mailing list re piccies''
|}

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] daubers to mail list relating to progress and next steps on the improving support project

==== daubers to mail list relating to progress and next steps on the improving support project ====
 <''''''> daubers around?

 <''''''> this is interesting.

 <''''''> well, there was definitely a mail sent to the list asking where everybody was based

 <''''''> yes brunogirin

 <''''''> it also may link into some of the ideas for the new website re location etc

 <''''''> dont we have a location map onthe beta site

 <''''''> there's the beginnings of one AFAIK

 <''''''> moving on

 <''''''> a beginning is good,

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] CyberJacob to investigate automating the profile roulette page

==== CyberJacob to investigate automating the profile roulette page ====
 <''''''> haven't heard anything further on that

 <''''''> i dont know anything about this.

 <''''''> I think it got carried over from the last meeting as well - probably best let it drop

 <''''''> ok,

 <''''''> lets move on from that, there might be a better way to do it . . .

 <''''''> OK

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] danfish - Distributed Storage

==== danfish - Distributed Storage ====
 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> oh - that's me :)

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Projects/DistributedBackup

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Projects/DistributedBackup''
|}

 <''''''> a few meetings back I proposed looking into p2p distributed storage for archival purposes

 <''''''> something we could offer team members

 <''''''> interesting idea.

 <''''''> I had a poke round some of the projects I could find, including one of the proprietary ones (wuala)

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> tbh, most of the projects I found have been abandoned for a number of reasons

 <''''''> the legal situation for one is fraught with problems

 <''''''> understandable.

 <''''''> however, from the mailing list, a few people were interested in dropbox/ubuntu one alternatives

 <''''''> maybe that's an idea for the future

 <''''''> yes, i agree.

 <''''''> moving on to...

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - The new team website

=== AlanBell - The new team website ===
 <''''''> [LINK]http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''http://beta.ubuntu-uk.org/''
|}

 <''''''> right

 <''''''> so, that is the new website we are working on

 <''''''> [LINK] http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/website

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/website''
|}

 <''''''> that is the discussion document where we are throwing ideas down

 <''''''> anyone with ideas should join in the pad document for a start

 <''''''> looking for features to implement mostly at the moment

 <''''''> or tweaks to the aesthetics

 <''''''> i will think,

 <''''''> then we will move on to content type stuff

 <''''''> "Tweets We Twote" :)

 <''''''> not duplicating generic Ubuntu stuff, focussing on UK stuff

 <''''''> it's taking shape nicely

 <''''''> we can do things like funky map integration, presenting the IRC stuff better

 <''''''> provide news and links to events etc.

 <''''''> It is looking great so far, really good work.

 <''''''> any burning comments anyone wants to make now? or discuss more in the planning document

 <''''''> i havent managed to have a good look at it yet,

 <''''''> I think discuss more in the planning document and review at next meeting

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> [ACTION] AlanBell - discuss ongoing work re new website

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell - discuss ongoing work re new website''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - Christmas Party

=== AlanBell - Christmas Party ===
 <''''''> me again

 <''''''> is it nearly that time already!

 <''''''> :o

 <''''''> ok, so last year we had a party, it was fun

 <''''''> [LINK] http://picasaweb.google.com/alanbelltolc/UbuntuUK <- fun

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://picasaweb.google.com/alanbelltolc/UbuntuUK <- fun''
|}

 <''''''> so lets do it again \o/

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> any dates in mind?

 <''''''> I spoke to a venue called the Hub today, sister site of the place we did last year

 <''''''> the one in king's cross?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://kingscross.the-hub.net/public/''
|}

 <''''''> http://kingscross.the-hub.net/public/

 <''''''> they are thinking of doing a shared christmas event

 <''''''> so it would be several groups at once

 <''''''> as I said on the list, I live just up the road from there so if you need help organising, count me in

 <''''''> great

 <''''''> So take some CDs to hand out! ;-)

 <''''''> it might be on the 16th of December (a Thursday)

 <''''''> JamesTait-HTC: certainly!

 <''''''> or I could tell them we would prefer Friday 17th

 <''''''> opinions?

 <''''''> friday might be better for those workingpeople.

 <''''''> Thursday

 <''''''> do we want to vote?

 <''''''> IIRC, the Canonical bash is on the 9th.

 <''''''> hmm, not really

 <''''''> Lots of people will have already got Christmas doos organised for Fridays.

 <''''''> i wont be ble to get to london, so no vote from me,

 <''''''> Not saying that should influence anything, just FYI.

 <''''''> very true TheOpenSourcerer

 <''''''> ok, so Thursday or Friday both have their merits

 <''''''> I will continue the discussion with them then

 <''''''> At that time of year, everyone wants to party as much as possible. So why clog up a busy Friday the week before Christmas.

 <''''''> are you happy to lead on that AlanBell, with brunogirin to help?

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: Thursday is looking more probable certainly

 <''''''> danfish: yup

 <''''''> [ACTION] AlanBell - liaise with the Hub re XMAS bash, provisionally for Thurs 16th

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' AlanBell - liaise with the Hub re XMAS bash, provisionally for Thurs 16th''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] danfish - Ubuntu and OSS in Public Sector Event

=== danfish - Ubuntu and OSS in Public Sector Event ===
 <''''''> me again

 <''''''> a good event (though I couldn't go) was held by AlanBell and others re ubuntu in business

 <''''''> with the squeeze in public sector finances occuring, a similar event to target the public sector is an idea I've been brewing

 <''''''> i like that ide, danfish

 <''''''> idea*

 <''''''> do we want to do public sector in general or more health oriented?

 <''''''> I think both really

 <''''''> when, where, what help do you need?

 <''''''> danfish: It's a good idea.

 <''''''> It's gonna take some planning and advertising

 <''''''> so any help welcome

 <''''''> but I was thinking next year - Feb/March

 <''''''> I think Public Sector is an impossibly broad target to start from, maybe select specific targets to gain momentum?

 <''''''> I can help with passing the word around, in fact I've mentioned it to some people I know in the health sector and got some interest

 <''''''> There is increasing levels of interest and equal amounts of fear and uncertainty. We should take the opportunity to satisfy and help.

 <''''''> We could start with health, as the microsoft exclusivity deal has now ended

 <''''''> but then I'm biased :)

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> the BCS are holding an event next week

 <''''''> [LINK] http://www.oshi-uk.com/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.oshi-uk.com/''
|}

 <''''''> I don't know your background, but if you have contacts already we should capitalise!

 <''''''> I had that in my diary but will not be able to make it now.

 <''''''> which I'm hoping to attend. I think this may be good place to judge the 'mood'

 <''''''> Sounds like a plan.

 <''''''> The Westminster Eforum I spoke at last month was also interesting.

 <''''''> A whole event on Open Source.

 <''''''> The Policy Makers know what's coming.

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: I saw your transcript - good talk

 <''''''> TY

 <''''''> 5 minutes isn't long enough really.

 <''''''> how do we intend to run the event? talks + demos like last time?

 <''''''> Not sure on the demo front.

 <''''''> Success stories.

 <''''''> Yes. JamesTait-HTC

 <''''''> I'm not sure we can only focus on Ubuntu - it may have to be more OSS

 <''''''> in general

 <''''''> yes it would open up the discussion a bit

 <''''''> OK - I'll put some time into this one and report back at the next meeting

 <''''''> any leads or contacts anyone can provide would be most welcome

 <''''''> danfish, do you need help with ideas? I can also help with leads

 <''''''> brunogirin: *any* help appreciated

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> maybe an etherpad for this one

 <''''''> good idea

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> and what about an action for the both of us to start brainstorming ideas and come back with progress at the next meeting?

 <''''''> [LINK]http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/OSSinPublicSector

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/OSSinPublicSector''
|}

 <''''''> brunogirin: excellent

 <''''''> [ACTION] danfish and brunogirin to brainstorm re public sector OSS event

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' danfish and brunogirin to brainstorm re public sector OSS event''
|}

 <''''''> (and anyone else!)

 <''''''> moving on

 <''''''> [TOPIC] danfish - Any Other Business

=== danfish - Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> any takers?

 <''''''> UDS

 <''''''> next week

 <''''''> anyone here going?

 <''''''> no, too far

 <''''''> there are lots of sessions happening, do join in and get your opinions across

 <''''''> Or participating remotely?

 <''''''> czajkowski posted a great article on remote participation, go read it

 <''''''> Indeed.

 <''''''> [LINK]http://www.lczajkowski.com/2010/10/19/how-to-remote-participate-at-uds-n-and-get-the-most-of-the-sessions/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''http://www.lczajkowski.com/2010/10/19/how-to-remote-participate-at-uds-n-and-get-the-most-of-the-sessions/''
|}

 <''''''> any other, other business?

 <''''''> Ok then

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> we left a 3 week gap this time instead of the 'normal' 2 weeks

 <''''''> any preferences?

 <''''''> nothing specific here, no

 <''''''> Same time works for me, not fussed about the day.

 <''''''> let's say 2 weeks then

 <''''''> 2nd November?

 <''''''> ok.

 <''''''> 2nd November 2010 at 20:00 UTC (21:00 BST)

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> ^ sole contribution from me

 <''''''> Will we still be in BST then?

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> No. UTC

 <''''''> JamesTait-HTC: good point - no

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> s/UTC/GMT

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> \o/ timezones

 <''''''> 9PM dammit

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> UTC==GMT

 <''''''> no, it isnt

 <''''''> so that would be 21:00 UTC (21:00 GMT) then?

 <''''''> AlanBell: http://meow.popey.com/

 <''''''> I didn't think UTC accounted for timezones

 <''''''> So 21:00 UTC/GMT

 <''''''> sorry leap secounds

 <''''''> 2nd November 2010 at 21:00 GMT/UTC/GMB/GBH

 <''''''> 21:00 "UK Time" :D

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Chair for next meeting

=== Chair for next meeting ===
 <''''''> PST (popey standard time)

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> 21:00 Popey'o'clock

 <''''''> o/ volunteers

 <''''''> "In casual use, when fractions of a second are not important, Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) can be considered equivalent to UTC or UT1."

 <''''''> I'll have you know there's nothing casual going on here Mister Lord!

 <''''''> In technical contexts, usage of "GMT" is avoided; the unambiguous terminology "UTC" or "UT1" is preferred.

 <''''''> Hah

 <''''''> was that TheOpenSourcerer volunteering?

 <''''''> and on the third stroke ...

 <''''''> danfish: popey volunteered

 <''''''> danfish (21:57:38) popey: o/ volunteers

 <''''''> freesitebuilder, the time will be... KITTY \o/ ?

 <''''''> oh yeah, my bad

 <''''''> Seconded.

 <''''''> [ACTION] popey to chair next meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' popey to chair next meeting''
|}

 <''''''> EOM?

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 21:00 ==
=== People Present ===
* popey

* AlanBell

* brunogirin

* danfish

* brobostigon

* freesitebuilder

* Yorvyk

* JamesTait-HTC

* jacobw

* TheOpenSourcerer

* webpigeon_laptop

=== Actions Recorded ===
* danfish to email the mailing list re piccies

* AlanBell - discuss ongoing work re new website

* AlanBell - liaise with the Hub re XMAS bash, provisionally for Thurs 16th

* danfish and brunogirin to brainstorm re public sector OSS event

* popey to chair next meeting
