{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by AlanBell at 21:12 ==
 <''''''> hi all

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> Present

 <''''''> [TOPIC] review of action items from last meeting

=== review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> hmm, anything much to add to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/January ?

 <''''''> Not as far as I can see

 <''''''> ok, well I will add the meeting links

 <''''''> no podcasts

 <''''''> like Ross and Rachel, they are *on a break*

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AlanBell - OpenSourceExpo/Cloud Expo stand

=== AlanBell - OpenSourceExpo/Cloud Expo stand ===
 <''''''> ok, main business of the day

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#CCCCCC>'' http://www.opensourceexpo.co.uk/''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.opensourceexpo.co.uk/

 <''''''> we are exhibiting at that

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#CCCCCC>'' http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/linuxexposchedule''
|}

 <''''''> http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/linuxexposchedule

 <''''''> we have a box of assorted swag from Canonical

 <''''''> it is a conference pack of goodies

 <''''''> 55 lanyards, couple of Tshirts

 <''''''> stickers

 <''''''> badges

 <''''''> the official Ubuntu book

 <''''''> couple of baseball hats

 <''''''> From whats been said on the mailing list, it sounds like you've got quite a few volunteers as well to help out

 <''''''> yes, and I need to mail the names to the organisers in a sec

 <''''''> after the event on the wednesday we will go to a pub somewhere nearby and perhaps meet up with other folk working in London

 <''''''> Are you going to be fully covered with enough volunteers, hardware etc? Or does there need to be a further request to the list?

 <''''''> Thursday AM is looking a bit thin

 <''''''> would be good if selinuxium does the Thursday

 <''''''> we don't at the moment have the CDs

 <''''''> Much as I'd like to go down there, its too far & too busy at work for me

 <''''''> but Daviey will be chasing this tomorrow and one way or another I expect this will get sorted out in time

 <''''''> I am not entirely sure how to best use the swag we have been given

 <''''''> lanyards we can just hand out to people

 <''''''> but other things like hats and the book?

 <''''''> prizes or something?

 <''''''> Hopefully anyway, if not, I'd send an email to the list asking for more help if possible, maybe specify when help is needed

 <''''''> WOuld live to volounteer - however instead I send sincere apologies. I deliberately did/could not add my name to list of helpers as I have heard rumours of being sent up to Scotland.

 <''''''> *love

 <''''''> suprengr: it is cold up there

 <''''''> Raffle? Free ticket to everyone who visits the stall

 <''''''> For the book anyway

 <''''''> could do

 <''''''> we don't *have* to use it all at this event

 <''''''> Are there any other events planned/expected that it could be used at

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#CCCCCC>'' http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/2011plan''
|}

 <''''''> http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/2011plan

 <''''''> need moar events

 <''''''> Thinking outloud, could you take a list of names & email addresses for visitors to the stall in return for a raffle ticket, maybe one way of notifying visitors of future events

 <''''''> ohh, good idea

 <''''''> How about another Ubuntu in Business event?

 <''''''> ok, I will maybe get some raffle tickets or figure out a more high tech way of doing that

 <''''''> TheOpenSourcerer: yes indeed, bung one on the schedule we can always move it

 <''''''> and an Ubuntu in Healthcare event

 <''''''> done

 <''''''> The only other thought on that would be making sure we get peoples permission to send emails so there isn't a complaint about people being spammed

 <''''''> DJones: meh, it is an expo, people expect a followup if they give their card/get scanned

 <''''''> True

 <''''''> ok, so I will take all the goodies and we will either use them usefully or retain for some better idea

 <''''''> Sounds good

 <''''''> I don't want to just hand out the bigger items randomly for no purpose

 <''''''> ok, any more on the expo?

 <''''''> Nope from me

 <''''''> [TOPIC] discuss status of beta.ubuntu-uk.org

=== discuss status of beta.ubuntu-uk.org ===
 <''''''> not much more to discuss on this

 <''''''> I would kind of like to get the flippin map working by the time of the expo and turn it on

 <''''''> not entirely sure I will get round to that

 <''''''> Its not something I've had much chance to look at, so maybe move this forward to the next meeting when more people are available

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

=== Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> anyone got anything they want to raise?

 <''''''> Nothing

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> When is the expo? Do you need another meeting before then

 <''''''> expo is next wednesday

 <''''''> this *is* the meeting before then

 <''''''> Wednesday 16th?

 <''''''> 9/10 Feb I guess.

 <''''''> Might be an idea to have a review of the Expo - See what worked what didn't etc...

 <''''''> yup

 <''''''> Whilst it is still fresh (ish)

 <''''''> Thursday 10th at 9:00?

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> ditto

 <''''''> [agreed] next meeting Thursday 10th Feb 9pm

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#CCCCCC>'' next meeting Thursday 10th Feb 9pm''
|}

 <''''''> and lets make popey chair it :)

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 21:39 ==
=== People Present ===
* AlanBell

* DJones

* suprengr

* TheOpenSourcerer

=== Actions Recorded ===
