{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by popey at 21:00 ==
 <''''''> *waves*

 <''''''> anyone about for the meeting go o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> quite one :)

 <''''''> o/ btw

 <''''''> quiet even

 <''''''> Are we supposed to have a vote on Daviey's replacement, or was that last meeting which I may have missed

 <''''''> hmm

 <''''''> AlanBell / Daviey poke

 <''''''> erm, if I recall... this meeting was to confirm it

 <''''''> we were giving people chance to at least pick someone

 <''''''> sort of an extended chance... since no one else came forward (and still haven't iirc, but links are failing me at this moment in time)

 <''''''> Hullo

 <''''''> ok, well if neither Daviey nor AlanBell are around we'll have to defer it

 <''''''> anyway...

 <''''''> [TOPIC] review of action items from last meeting

=== review of action items from last meeting ===
 <''''''> :D

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/MeetingNotes/20110303 is the log from the last meeting

 <''''''> action items at the bottom

 <''''''> nothing from barry and alan so far

 <''''''> I'll take an action to poke them

 <''''''> [ACTION] popey to poke Barry Drake and Alan Cocks about in-store promos

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' popey to poke Barry Drake and Alan Cocks about in-store promos''
|}

 <''''''> the next one is part of that

 <''''''> I believe Alan Bell has done the doodle poll and there is a date selected for the quiz

 <''''''> Saturday 16th April at 21:00 BST

 <''''''> [TOPIC] next team leader

=== next team leader ===
 <''''''> (as part of the actions from last time)

 <''''''> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-uk/2011-February/028779.html was the original mail from Dave stepping down

 <''''''> ]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/2011Election has only Alan Bell on it

 <''''''> safe to assume Alan Bell wins

 <''''''> well, we decided on the following last time...

 <''''''> two weeks of more potential candidates followed by declaring AlanBell the leader if nobody else steps up

 <''''''> we have done the first part so it's really a formality to announce the latter

 <''''''> agreed?

 <''''''> Agreed

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> win

 <''''''> agreed

 <''''''> I'll take an action to announce that tonight after the meeting

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> [ACTION] popey to announce the new uk team leader on the mailing list tonight

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' popey to announce the new uk team leader on the mailing list tonight''
|}

 <''''''> right, that's everything from the last meeting

 <''''''> as usual..

 <''''''> ooh, a  meeting

 <''''''> [PROGRESS REPORT] People who have achieved something in march, please place it in the report.

==== People who have achieved something in march, please place it in the report. ====
 <''''''> hi dutchie

 <''''''> dutchie: you always seem to do that :P

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/TeamReports/11/March

 <''''''> HazRPG: it is due to my high degree of organisation

 <''''''> dutchie: also, oh hi :)

 <''''''> so that's basically it :)

 <''''''> Podcast only since last meeting then

 <''''''> yeah, just added that

 <''''''> Sorry I'm late!

 <''''''> I haven't had chance to write up my notes yet, so likewise some video-casts haven't been made yet

 <''''''> congrats on the new season

 <''''''> no gneel

 <''''''> thanks

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Any other business

=== Any other business ===
 <''''''> right, we have ~50 mins to kill :D

 <''''''> open house

 <''''''> but I'll be working on it at some point

 <''''''> DJones, gneel: \o

* '''''' turns up

 <''''''> Congratulations AlanBell :)

 <''''''> yay

 <''''''> thanks

 <''''''> AlanBell: Congrats dude :)

 <''''''> ah you beat me to it popey :P

 <''''''> COngrats, well deserved

 <''''''> indeed, don't know a better man for the job :)

* '''''' is quite pleased

* '''''' quietly says speech to AlanBell - but is unsure if this is the appropriate place for it

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> I would just like to thank my agent, my mum, my chickens . . .

 <''''''> If there is a speech,ds to fill the remaining 45 minutes of the meeting slot :)

 <''''''> s/ds/it needs

 <''''''> That's an impressive typo

 <''''''> I do have something to ask, but ... speech first :D

 <''''''> BigRedS: indeed!

 <''''''> BigRedS: sticky keyboard

 <''''''> won't ask ...

 <''''''> DJones: I'll ask no questions! :)

 <''''''> there will be no speech, move on!

 <''''''> ah okay

 <''''''> Release party/ies?

 <''''''> I spoke to marianna from Canonical about the London party

 <''''''> she was going to run some ideas past Jane Silber

 <''''''> I will find out what happened with that

 <''''''> erm... iirc, there was mention of how elections are done, memory is foggy - but I think something about posting somewhere about it (like a formal rule set) to be sort of devised

 <''''''> however I could just be making this up in my mind :S

 <''''''> that was an action for daubers

 <''''''> HazRPG: we usually use CIVS

 <''''''> but on this occasion only one person volunteered and it was decided he was more than capable

 <''''''> ah, ok

 <''''''> [ACTION] Alan Bell to liase with Canonical to organise one of the Natty release parties

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Alan Bell to liase with Canonical to organise one of the Natty release parties''
|}

 <''''''> yeah I figured that this election was fair since Alan was the only one to come forward

 <''''''> HazRPG: Usually, if only one person stands, questions are asked about the nomination process :)

 <''''''> I'm not suggesting this is applicable here

 <''''''> It was a self-nomination process, and only Alan stepped forward

 <''''''> we will just write up what happens with a little flowchart or something

 <''''''> but there's probably something suboptimal somewhere if only one person steps forwards

 <''''''> Or everyone else stepped back quickly!

 <''''''> AlanBell: sounds good

 <''''''> BigRedS: the sub-optimal part was when we didn't know quite what to do next

 <''''''> and as you shouldn't really make up election processes as you go along we will just document those kind of eventualities and it is all cool

 <''''''> AlanBell: well, if too few people have the time/inclination to fulfil the role, should it be filled by one person?

 <''''''> [ACTION] Alan Bell to begin implementation of process to find his successor

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Alan Bell to begin implementation of process to find his successor''
|}

 <''''''> :D

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> :P

 <''''''> still trying to make some sense out of my local LUG to try and see if we can get an ubuntu release shin-dig going

 <''''''> or anything...

 <''''''> still no joy

 <''''''> seems some people have corrugated onto facebook, and just seems to be a stream of info but no real communication going on... and seems no one knows what exactly is happening

 <''''''> your lug is a facebook group?

 <''''''> and I'm not sure if I'm up to being a leader of any type

 <''''''> BigRedS: seems that way :/

 <''''''> which LUG?

 <''''''> how times change...

 <''''''> Cumbrian LUG

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.cumbria.lug.org.uk/''
|}

 <''''''> http://www.cumbria.lug.org.uk/

 <''''''> ahh

 <''''''> schwuk lug

 <''''''> I'm on the mailing list, but not much happens

 <''''''> heh, yeah apparently one of my friends is on a course with schwuk

 <''''''> all my knowledge is about him, he's on a course with my friend Lunchie doing the HND I previously did... and seems to be the head guy on the facebook group

 <''''''> and works for Canonical (I think?)

 <''''''> he does

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> anything else that needs discussing?

 <''''''> don't laugh, but an idea I had floating around was to see if I could try and get in contact with Stephen Fry, see if he would be willing to come to Carlisle for an ubuntu-uk release and see if we could do something fancy...

 <''''''> or anywhere in Cumbria... that's sort of central to Cumbrians

 <''''''> good luck :)

 <''''''> see if I can get a linux user base going

 <''''''> popey: I know it sounds out there, but it could happen

 <''''''> Not the worst idea I've heard

 <''''''> don't ask, don't get - sort of scenario

 <''''''> ok, so

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Date of next meeting

=== Date of next meeting ===
 <''''''> 2 weeks?

 <''''''> seems people have stuff on today...

 <''''''> we didnt send a reminder

 <''''''> 2 weeks sounds good to me

 <''''''> Ah, paddy's day

 <''''''> ah, of course heh

 <''''''> 31/3

 <''''''> Not a Tuesday is my preference

 <''''''> 2 weeks is good

 <''''''> 31st sounds ideal

 <''''''> yeah, lets roll with that

 <''''''> [ACTION] next meeting 31/3 at 21:00

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' next meeting 31/3 at 21:00''
|}

 <''''''> Thursdays are good for me

 <''''''> sounds good

 <''''''> chair?

 <''''''> HazRPG:

 <''''''> wait, what...

* '''''' freezes up

 <''''''> well volunteered!

 <''''''> HazRPG: I think you mentioned watching a meeting then possibly running one...

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> erm... okay... sure... gotta start somehow right?

 <''''''> great!

 <''''''> HazRPG: Its not that difficult, mostly copy & paste & keeping things moving

 <''''''> thank you!

 <''''''> "<HazRPG> I might do the one after that :)"

 <''''''> The log never lies.

 <''''''> heh, I know what I said :P

 <''''''> [ACTION] HazRPG to chair

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' HazRPG to chair''
|}

 <''''''> I thought there was going to be more interaction in this one to learn more - but still cool with it either way :) *steps forward*

 <''''''> guessing the meeting start # (but other way round) is how one kicks the whole thing off correct?

 <''''''> HazRPG: If you want to test out beforehand, I'm sure there'll be somebody around to practise

 <''''''> ah, I'm sure it'll be fine :)

 <''''''> HazRPG: http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings/Mootbot-UKHowTo

 <''''''> DJones: winner :)

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 21:44 ==
=== People Present ===
* HazRPG

* popey

* DJones

* ZoeR

* dutchie

* gneel

* AlanBell

* BigRedS

=== Actions Recorded ===
* popey to poke Barry Drake and Alan Cocks about in-store promos

* popey to announce the new uk team leader on the mailing list tonight

* Alan Bell to liase with Canonical to organise one of the Natty release parties

* Alan Bell to begin implementation of process to find his successor

* next meeting 31/3 at 21:00

* HazRPG to chair
