{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Back to <nowiki>[[UKTeam]]</nowiki>

This page should list LUGs, Ubuntu user groups or anyone else interested in Ubuntu that is in the South West of the UK. If you have any Ubuntu-related events planned then please add them here to hopefully get more people involved, and if you have any Free Software/Open Source or related projects then please post links to sites giving more information so that Ubuntu users can add to and improve the project, in true Open Source fashion! 

=== People ===

The following is a list of team members in the region.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| DEVON
| SOMERSET
| CORNWALL
|-
| Rob Beard (Torquay, Devon)
| Daniel(somerset)
| Jen Ockwell (St Stephen, Cornwall)
|-
| Paul Sutton (Paignton, Devon)
| Jamie Bennett (Bath)
| Chris Tipney (Hatt, Cornwall)
|-
| Chris Smith (Exeter, Devon)
| Mark Fraser (Somerset)
| Richard Brown (Lostwithiel, Cornwall)
|-
| Steve Lee (Exeter, Devon)
| 
| 
|-
| Neil Stone (Plymouth, Devon)
| 
| 
|-
| Mark Hajdukiewicz (Barnstaple, Devon)
| 
| 
|-
| Tom Potts (Holsworthy, Devon)
| 
| 
|-
| Dave Walker (Okehampton, Devon)
| 
| 
|-
| Grant Sewell (Plymouth, Devon)
| 
| 
|}

=== LUGs ===
At present the only meetings taking place are those organised by the dclug or similar organisations.

DCGLUG MEETINGS
* Exeter - Exwick community centre 1st Saturday of the month
* South Devon - Paignton Lug meet - Shoreline Paignton : 2nd Saturday of the Month
* North Devon - Holsworthly meet - White Hart, Holsworthy: 3rd Saturday of the Month
* Plymouth - Location ??  - 4th Saturday of the month.
