{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu-UK IRC ==

Along with the rest of the Ubuntu project, Ubuntu-UK makes use of the <nowiki>[[https://libera.chat/|Libera Chat]]</nowiki> IRC servers. Most of the communication outside of the mailing list, takes place in the Ubuntu-UK IRC channel. A lot of general chat also takes place here.

You can connect to the Ubuntu-UK IRC channel using IRC clients such as Pidgin Internet Messenger or XChat, by pointing your client to the Libera Chat network ('''irc.libera.chat''') and joining the '''#ubuntu-uk''' channel. You can even try it out <nowiki>[[https://web.libera.chat/?#ubuntu-uk|in your web browser]]</nowiki> but after a while most people prefer to use a desktop client.

Note: Many irc clients are working to have "Libera Chat" listed as a selectable network. Once connected in a graphical IRC client you can select the channel. Alternatively (and in command-line IRC clients) you can join a channel with the '''/join''' command, for example '''/join #ubuntu-uk'''.

=== Channel Guidelines ===

While in the Ubuntu-UK IRC channel (and in any Ubuntu channel) you are expected to abide by the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> (CoC). Most of what is applicable to the IRC Channel can be summarised as follows (taken from <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>):

'''''Be respectful.''' The Ubuntu community and its members treat one another with respect. Everyone can make a valuable contribution to Ubuntu. We may not always agree, but disagreement is no excuse for poor behaviour and poor manners. We might all experience some frustration now and then, but we cannot allow that frustration to turn into a personal attack. It's important to remember that a community where people feel uncomfortable or threatened is not a productive one. We expect members of the Ubuntu community to be respectful when dealing with other contributors as well as with people outside the Ubuntu project, and with users of Ubuntu.''

==== Language guidelines ====
A new channel policy on bad language has now been decided.

# Mild swearing is ok, as long as it isn't excessive or directed at a person.
# Any other bad language will result in a warning, or a kick at the operators discretion.

=== Channel Logs ===

Logs of #ubuntu-uk are available <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com|here]]</nowiki> 

=== Meetings ===

The Ubuntu-UK team's meetings also take place in the IRC Channel. Currently these meetings are held on an irregular basis. More details can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam#head-0351ef3488343164b5bccaa8983cb9aa9900b3dc|Meetings Section]]</nowiki>. Anyone is welcome to drop in for the meetings, even if only to eavesdrop.

=== IRC Ops ===

IRC Ops are people in an IRC Channel who have extra privileges and responsibilities. They are the people to call for any trouble in a channel. Currently, the Ubuntu-UK IRC Channel has the following Ops:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| apokryphos
| FrancisGiannaros
|-
| loudmouthman
| NikButler
|-
| jono
| JonoBacon
|-
| Daviey
| DaveWalker
|-
| GazzaK
| GaryKearley
|-
| Mez
| MartinMeredith
|-
| popey
| AlanPope
|-
| Seeker'
| ChrisOattes
|-
| AlanBell
| AlanBell
|}

Thanks to the Australian Team for most of the page text.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki> CategoryLoCoTeams
