{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the nth meeting of the UKTeam, starting at 19:33 GMT and finishing at 20:08 GMT

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT at the start of the meeting to ensure we are all clear who is online and paying attention.
Active Attendees:
<pre>
19:33 < andylockran> PRESENT
19:33 < Chris`> PRESENT
19:33 < brobostigon> present
19:33 < ProfFalken> PRESENT
19:33 < daubers> PRESENT
19:33 < Daviey> PRESENT
19:33 < neuro_> PRESENT
19:33 < webpigeon> Present
19:33 < Laney> present
19:33 < slarty> PRESENT
19:33 < popey> present
19:33 < andy101> present
19:33 < jpds> PRESENT
19:33 < lucyb> present
19:34 < MattJ> present
19:34  * ball present
</pre>
== Agenda ==
When adding an agenda item please "sign" it by leaving your name next to it. If you won't be attending the meeting please also spell out your item in detail, otherwise we can't fruitfully discuss it.
 
* More bug jam planning.
* ubuntu-uk.org server upgrade planning

== Minutes ==
<pre>
19:34 <MootBot> New Topic:  Bug Jam Planning
19:38 <MootBot> IDEA received:  Multiple Locatins for Bug Jams
19:40 <MootBot> ACTION received:  neuro_ to mobilise some ScotLUGgers
19:44 <MootBot> ACTION received:  Mez to reserch Brum Bug Jam Location
19:47 <MootBot> ACTION received:  technolalia is researching UW Bug Jam Location..
19:50 <MootBot> New Topic:  Bug Jam LOCATION planning
19:56 <MootBot> ACTION received:  popey to set up a poll of LP to gauge attendance per venue.
19:58 <MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to scratch the wiki with basic venue + kit list.
20:00 <MootBot> ACTION received:  james_w to talk to jorge and the qa team, and see if there are plans to draw up lists or similar
20:03 <MootBot> ACTION received:  popey to draw up day-planner of typical bug jam day
20:04 <MootBot> New Topic:  popey's announcement
20:06 <MootBot> AGREED received:  popey to update the ubuntu-uk server.. date announcement will be posted to the list (and IRC channel topic)
</pre>

== Any Other Business ==

* NONE DISCUSSED

== Guide Lines ==

The chairman of the meeting should endeavour to ensure that key points are discussed in an appropriate time. Key Topics from the Agenda should be tabled in the channel using a market such as [ TOPIC ] or * TOPIC * Followed by the agenda item. Where Suggestions or Ideas are put forward and considered as acceptable to the group then it should be noted by the Chairman as [ IDEA ] or * IDEA * . Where a concept is discussed and agreed the use of [ AGREED ] or * AGREED * should be defined by the chairman and should signify the topic is discussed and the meeting is to move on.  Be clear on the channel when the meeting is concluded and how and when the minutes will be posted.

== IRC LOGS ==

<pre>
19:33 < andylockran> #startmeeting
19:33 < MootBot> Meeting started at 13:33. The chair is andylockran.
19:33 < MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
19:33 < neuro_> popey: ah, that's ok then
19:33 < Chris`> PRESENT
19:33 < brobostigon> present
19:33 < ProfFalken> PRESENT
19:33 < daubers> PRESENT
19:33 < Daviey> PRESENT
19:33 < neuro_> PRESENT
19:33 < webpigeon> Present
19:33 < Laney> present
19:33 < slarty> PRESENT
19:33 < popey> present
19:33 < andy101> present
19:33 < jpds> PRESENT
19:33 < lucyb> present
19:34 < MattJ> present
19:34  * ball present
19:34 < andy101> btw, why is mootbot GMT-6 ?
19:34 < Daviey> Okay, we're all here for a _short_ meeting to talk about Bug Jam planning.
19:34 < neuro_> it's like christmas day all over again
19:34 < technolalia> present
19:34 < andylockran> [TOPIC] Bug Jam Planning
19:34 < MootBot> New Topic:  Bug Jam Planning
19:34 < Daviey> IIRC the last position we were in. popey kindly offered his gaff
19:35 < popey> i did
19:35 < Daviey> However, others including james_w were going to explore further options
19:35 < Chris`> And what is the location of popey's gaff?
19:35 < neuro_> Wo ist popey's gaff?
19:35 < Daviey> Mez also had a suggestion IIRC
19:35 < brobostigon> i discovered a few interesting options, but nothing really totally suitable for the cuse,
19:36  * Chris` remembers Hampshire
19:36 < neuro_> oder das gaff von popey
19:36 < popey> neuro_: farnborough
19:36 < neuro_> long drive for me then :)
19:36 < technolalia> I emailed the Uni of Westminster, but not had a reply yet.
19:36 < popey> you can _drive_!?
19:36 < Daviey> neuro_: it's right next to an airport :)
19:36 < Daviey> sadly.. not a public airport :)
19:36 < neuro_> true
19:36 < Laney> technolalia: did you speak to GLLUG?
19:37 < technolalia> no, I went to the contact at UW
19:37 < daubers> FRN airport is public... just not very big (IIRC)
19:37 < technolalia> I organised an event there for gllug before
19:37 < neuro_> so if you guys are gonna squeeze into a physical place to jam, how onliney will it be?
19:38 < brobostigon> technolalia: sounds like an interesting place to have the avent
19:38 < Daviey> Okay.. Are we looking to have multiple jam's?
19:38 < neuro_> or as daviey says, should we have more than one?
19:38 < Chris`> neuro_: For those unable to join, it will be broadcasted on IRC or so I heard
19:38 < neuro_> makes sense
19:38  * Mez might be able to arrange some space for a bugjam in brum
19:38 < andylockran> [IDEA] Multiple Locatins for Bug Jams
19:38 < MootBot> IDEA received:  Multiple Locatins for Bug Jams
19:38 < Mez> depending on when
19:38 < hellocatfood> I hope there's one in Brum too
19:38 < ball> I propose that neuro_ submits "onliney" to the OED.
19:38 < brobostigon> Daviey: i would say maybe, i am still loking for a place for it, near me,
19:38 < neuro_> us geeks do like to chat on irc to people sitting next to us, after all
19:38 < popey> :)
19:39 < brobostigon> Mez: that would be good, i am not far away from brum
19:39 < popey> I think we should all pursue venues
19:39 < popey> i see no reason not to have multiple events
19:39 < Mez> one sec, lemme make a call
19:39 < popey> and many positive reasons for doing it
19:39 < neuro_> i might try and corral some ScotLUGgers
19:39 < popey> that would rock neuro_
19:39 < neuro_> maybe a glasgow thang
19:39 < brobostigon> the more the better
19:39 < Daviey> Are there decent locations in Glasgow? :)
19:39 < Mez> do we have dates for a bugjam ?
19:40 < andylockran> [ACTION] neuro_ to mobilise some ScotLUGgers
19:40 < Chris`> I'm not sure if this is the time during the meeting, however what about some international folk who wish to participate in the UK? i.e. jpds who is 
                considering coming over to the UK. Will anyone have any idea about how he will manage his accommodation?
19:40 < MootBot> ACTION received:  neuro_ to mobilise some ScotLUGgers
19:40 < Daviey> 20-22 Feb 2009
19:40 < popey> Chris`: i doubt there will be many people in that position
19:40 < Mez> weekend... hmm, that cuts one possibility out
19:40 < neuro_> andylockran: ta
19:40 < andylockran> neuro_: no worries.. I enjoy keeping minutes :)
19:41 < neuro_> Daviey: a pub may suffice :)
19:41 < CShadowRun> also splitting the meetings up all over the place too much kinda defeats the objective
19:41 < andy101> Chris` hotel?
19:41 < ProfFalken> I may be able to find somewhere in herefordshire, but I can't do the 20th because my Parents are over for the weekend to see the kids...
19:41 < neuro_> pub + 3g + shared wifi \o/
19:41 < popey> CShadowRun: what objective?
19:41 < CShadowRun> popey the objective of everyone being together to have a bug jam?
19:41 < brobostigon> Mez: if you can do it in brum,  would be able to attend, brum is less tham 30mins train yourney away.
19:41 < popey> CShadowRun: but people _can't_ _all_ be together
19:41 < popey> that flat out cannot happen
19:41 < neuro_> CShadowRun: given the number of people far away from each other ... yeah, as popey says
19:41 < CShadowRun> yea i'm just saying don't split it up too much
19:42 < popey> CShadowRun: define too much?
19:42 < ProfFalken> +1 for brum (it's about 1hr from me) but only if I cancel on the 'rents... :o)
19:42 < Laney> technolalia: Do the UW offer their rooms gratis?
19:42 < CShadowRun> popey i guess there'd need to be atleast 5 people at each meeting
19:42 < brobostigon> +2 for brum
19:42 < CShadowRun> maybe more
19:42 < ball> What about regional get-togethers, all linked via the Internet?
19:42 < neuro_> CShadowRun: are you saying we can't work in a distributed fashion?
19:42 < neuro_> i'm confused as to what everyone's been doing so far :)
19:42 < Daviey> I do see where CShadowRun is coming from, there does need to be a line.  It would be a shame to have multiple jams with only 3 people at each
19:42 < technolalia> Laney: yes, I think so
19:42 < james_w> hi all, sorry I'm late, bad dinner timing
19:42 < popey> i wouldn't want to put a limit on numbers
19:42 < neuro_> Daviey: true
19:42 < CShadowRun> neuro no i'm saying we could work in a distributed fashion at home, which would defeat the objective :P
19:42 < Mez> what resources are needed for the bugjam?
19:42 < popey> Mez: net connection, power
19:43 < hellocatfood> Mez: Electricity
19:43 < andylockran> ORDER, ORDER ..
19:43 < CShadowRun> Daviey exactly :)
19:43 < james_w> Mez: walls
19:43 < Daviey> james_w: I'm eating at the moment, no excuse :)
19:43 < neuro_> CShadowRun: i know ... setting a minimum bar on attendees might be a good idea tho
19:43 < Mez> popey: proxied http only net connection ?
19:43 < popey> Mez: not ideal
19:43 < CShadowRun> neuro_ yea thats what i'm saying :)
19:43 < Daviey> it'll do..
19:43 < brobostigon> Mez: and of course good beer would be good.:)
19:43 < james_w> Mez: IRC would be useful
19:43 < popey> and ssh
19:44 < andylockran> Mez: reckon you could research a Brum location within the week ?
19:44 < technolalia> not sure as to Uni Westminster's net connection, which is crucial to this
19:44 < Chris`> Regarding beer, any general rules of it? :)
19:44 < Mez> yeah, so there goes using the local school :D
19:44 < neuro_> CShadowRun: :)
19:44 < MattJ> neuro_: No minimum bar needed, just maximum meetups, 2 or 3 around the place should be enough IMHO
19:44 < neuro_> beer + bugs = potential catastrophe ... or perhaps potential genius!
19:44 < james_w> I think having one in the south (Popey's), one in the midlands (brum) and one in Scot would be a good start
19:44 < andylockran> as there seems to be a bit of interest for it.
19:44 < andylockran> james_w: +1
19:44 < Mez> andylockran: I've just dropped a mail to Tim...
19:44 < Chris`> neuro_: The Balmer effect!
19:44 < Daviey> Mez: it's not hard to break out of a proxy.. if the venue is avaliable, might be worth considering
19:44 < Mez> andylockran: and I'll poke Dave :D
19:44 < MattJ> james_w: I like that
19:44 < andylockran> [ACTION] Mez to reserch Brum Bug Jam Location
19:44 < neuro_> Chris`: ew, sweaty :)
19:44 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Mez to reserch Brum Bug Jam Location
19:44 < popey> Daviey: i wouldn't want to expect we can break out of a proxy
19:44 < andy101> james_w: I would say we need one in London, it is the capital and easily reachable by public transport
19:44 < Laney> yes please
19:45 < popey> and i wouldn't like to factor in breaking the local policy either
19:45 < popey> could get people in trouble
19:45 < Mez> Daviey: no, I think this one allows random SSL CONNECT but... still. tis annoying :D
19:45 < Laney> technolalia's UW contact, or popey's if that doesn't happen?
19:45 < popey> we dont want to get a reputation for being "hackers" (yes I know)
19:45 < Mez> popey: it'd be done with support from the local Sysadmin (he does it all the time)
19:45 < james_w> andy101: seems reasonable. perhaps that could be the one in the south
19:45 < andylockran> technolalia: do you have a strong lead at UW ?
19:46 < neuro_> Mez: 3g ftw
19:46 < CShadowRun> i agree a london venue is a good idea, but london venues do cost more
19:46 < Daviey> neuro_: apt-get source * over 3g sounds fun :)
19:46 < Mez> neuro_: indeed, but depending on how many there are, can your connection handle that ?
19:46 < technolalia> another London possibility if we go the pub route is the pembury tavern in Hackney
19:46 < neuro_> Daviey: good point :)
19:46 < neuro_> local mirror \o/
19:46 < james_w> I'm not too bothered about numbers at each, as long as we don't fragment too much, but I think we should put some consideration in to making sure we 
                 get the experience balance correct at each location
19:46 < popey> true technolalia
19:46 < Daviey> ooo
19:46 < Mez> CShadowRun: london venue.... canonical offices ? :P
19:46 < Laney> canonical is no go
19:46 < technolalia> andylockran: I've met the gllug contact at uni westminster, and spoken a few times
19:46 < CShadowRun> Mez that would be cool
19:46 < popey> Mez: already asked
19:46 < Laney> can't get in there on teh weekends apparently
19:46 < Daviey> james_w: another good point
19:47 < Chris`> Guys I'm backing up the i386 mirror to my HDD at the moment, so I could be a local mirror I guess
19:47 < technolalia> organised a talk by a guy from miro there
19:47 < andylockran> technolalia: can I put you down to get that sorted for next weekend then ?
19:47 < Mez> popey: aw :( what about Phil Hands ?
19:47 < Daviey> Laney: yeah, i got the same response
19:47 < neuro_> phil++
19:47 < popey> what about him?
19:47 < popey> he's a person not a venue :)
19:47 < brobostigon> is a brum isnt possible i will do mor research near me, but its not going to be easy
19:47 < neuro_> popey: :)
19:47 < brobostigon> if*
19:47 < technolalia> andylockran: waiting for my contact to get back to me; emailed him last week
19:47 < andylockran> [ACTION] technolalia is researching UW Bug Jam Location..
19:47 < MootBot> ACTION received:  technolalia is researching UW Bug Jam Location..
19:48 < Daviey> james_w: Did you have any joy with a local venue search?
19:48 < Daviey> iirc you wer elooking at Bristol?
19:48 < Chris`> Should we have a local mirror for each location to speed up the net connections and latencies?
19:48 < daubers> When is bug jam day?
19:48 < Laney> 20-22 feb
19:48 < neuro_> Chris`: how big is i386 roughly?
19:48 < popey> neuro_: 17G
19:48 < Chris`> neuro_: About 25GB
19:48 < neuro_> and x86_64 is about the same i guess
19:49 < popey> yes
19:49 < popey> binary only
19:49 < CShadowRun> could we not do it in canocial HQ on a friday?
19:49 < james_w> Daviey: I didn't contact anyone, but I looked at the options. I can go further if we want a South-West location as well.
19:49 < popey> but lets take the discussion of mirroring offline
19:49 < daubers> Might be worth me talking to the computing society here then, as they're considering moving all their machines to Ubuntu
19:49 < CShadowRun> friday the 20th being in the bounds of bug jam?
19:49 < Mez> popey: but he has a big office at his disposal IIRC
19:49 < Daviey> CShadowRun: it seemed like a LOT of hassle
19:49 < CShadowRun> Daviey yea i guess
19:49 < neuro_> so a 50 gig vmware preloaded with x86 and x64 is probably not that straight forward :)
19:49 < Daviey> james_w: meh, it would be closer to me - but i'm happy to go to Farn'
19:49 < james_w> CShadowRun: the office will be full of Canonical employees on a Friday
19:49 < Mez> daubers: ooh, good point :D one of our uni's CS departments runs kubuntu :D
19:49 < andy101> would we not get less attendance on a Friday because people would be at work?
19:49 < Chris`> neuro_: I have an external hdd for that :). Install apache on one computer and away we go
19:50 < neuro_> and rsync
19:50 < popey> guys
19:50 < mehall> strathclyde uni's CS dept. runs kubuntu
19:50 < Daviey> girls
19:50 < neuro_> popey: ja?
19:50 < andylockran> let's get back on topic :)
19:50 < popey> lets focus on location
19:50 < neuro_> location, location, location
19:50 < brobostigon> brum popey
19:50 < andylockran> [TOPIC] Bug Jam LOCATION planning
19:50 < MootBot> New Topic:  Bug Jam LOCATION planning
19:50  * neuro_ shuts up as long as the focus is on england :)
19:50 < Laney> london/farn + brum + scot
19:50 < Laney> right?
19:50 < popey> sounds good
19:50  * mehall joins neuro_ 
19:50 < brobostigon> good idea laney
19:50 < CShadowRun> yup, i like london :)
19:51 < Laney> good
19:51 < Chris`> london +1
19:51 < andylockran> is that London or, or London & popey's?
19:51 < james_w> yep, and we have people volunteering to hunt for locations in each place?
19:51 < Chris`> Â£33 fare though
19:51 < brobostigon> i am happy attending brum, if it can be organised
19:51 < Laney> we do
19:51 < james_w> score
19:51 < daubers> I might be able to organise a mini-jam in Swansea
19:51 < popey> who is looking into brum? Mez ?
19:51 < andylockran> Mez has brum covered.
19:51 < popey> action it :)
19:52 < james_w> it has been :-)
19:52 < andylockran> popey: Have done :)
19:52  * popey tries to keep up
19:52 < Daviey> who here lives near brum?
19:52 < Mez> andylockran: I'll look, can't promise anything
19:52 < andylockran> +0.5
19:52 < Mez> Daviey: I and hellocatfood do :D
19:52 < brobostigon> Daviey: half an hour train journey away
19:52 < popey> Mez: contact sblug?
19:52 < Mez> popey: already done :D
19:53 < Chris`> daubers: That'll be swell, I'm a Swansean
19:53 < daubers> Chris`: At the uni?
19:53  * Daviey would like to see >5 attendees at each location
19:53 < ball> Chris`: "Swansea Jack"? :-)
19:53 < Chris`> ball: NO NOT FROM THE ACTUAL CITY MORE LIKE THE OUTSKIRTS
19:53 < james_w> daubers: if you can find somewhere it might be worth it
19:54 < popey> remember this is fri-sun, so it could be 5 spread over 3 days?
19:54 < andylockran> Daviey: want a vote on that proposal ?
19:54 < popey> or 5 most of the time?
19:54 < popey> or just 5 total?
19:54 < Daviey> andylockran: naa
19:54 < Chris`> daubers: If we could get a good response from the uni, why not?
19:54 < popey> be nice to get locations sorted within the week or so, then mail the list and get some numbers for each location
19:54 < Daviey> just a "nice" have really
19:54 < popey> maybe put a little vote on launchpad?
19:55 < daubers> I'll enquire with the CS society
19:55 < popey> "which venue would you attend?"  "Which venue _will_ you attend?"?
19:55 < brobostigon> popey: :)
19:55 < andylockran> popey: we've got 5 locations I think.. LDN, Farn, Brum, Swan, and Scot
19:55 < andylockran> with a minimum of 5 people per location, that's 25 people :)
19:55 < andylockran> popey: can you set that up on LP ?
19:55 < Chris`> It depends on the outlook and planning running up to it, if Swansea looks like a no go, or poorly planned then I'm off down South
19:56 < popey> andylockran: yes
19:56 < andylockran> shall I action that then.. I think it's a good idea.
19:56 < Daviey> +1
19:56 < andylockran> [ACTION] popey to set up a poll of LP to gauge attendance per venue.
19:56 < MootBot> ACTION received:  popey to set up a poll of LP to gauge attendance per venue.
19:56 < brobostigon> :)
19:57 < Daviey> We need a wiki page on a "kit list"
19:57 < Daviey> venue + individual kit list
19:57 < Chris`> Another question, how are the "Experts" going to be distributed?
19:57 < andylockran> Daviey: volunteer for that ?
19:57 < james_w> Daviey: I agree
19:57 < Daviey> andylockran: i can scratch it
19:57 < Venko> Hey guys
19:57 < Laney> who's an expert?
19:57 < andylockran> [ACTION] Daviey to scratch the wiki with basic venue + kit list.
19:58 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to scratch the wiki with basic venue + kit list.
19:58 < Chris`> Laney: The guys who do it for a living ;)
19:58 < Chris`> Sorry if I take some time to respond, 20s latency
19:58 < andylockran> Chris`: no worries.
19:58 < Mez> we have Experts coming ?
19:59 < Laney> Not by that definition I'd wager
19:59 < Chris`> I heard that last week :(
19:59 < Chris`> There were only 2 or something
19:59 < Daviey> hmm.. Should we ear-mark some bitesize bugs prior to the jam?
19:59 < Chris`> popey said something 8-)
19:59 < Laney> yes
19:59 < popey> wat?
19:59 < Laney> Assign them to the ubuntu-uk team
19:59 < Laney> imo
19:59 < Daviey> i think so
19:59 < james_w> Daviey: I'll talk to jorge and the qa team, and see if there are plans to draw up lists or similar again
19:59 < Laney> at least for the intial presentation/tutorial/whatever
20:00 < Daviey> james_w: cool
20:00 < Daviey> james_w: can you report back with that
20:00 < james_w> the other idea is to pick an upstream project and work with them to learn about their package and triage a bunch of bugs with them
20:00 < andylockran> [ACTION] james_w to talk to jorge and the qa team, and see if there are plans to draw up lists or similar
20:00 < |aspire|> hello
20:00 < MootBot> ACTION received:  james_w to talk to jorge and the qa team, and see if there are plans to draw up lists or similar
20:00 < |aspire|> is there any one that can tell me how to load the vmci kernel module
20:00 < |aspire|> ???
20:00 < james_w> that me be something we want to do
20:00 < Chris`> |aspire|: Hold on for now ;)
20:01 < andylockran> ok, so I think we've got Locations nailed.
20:01 < james_w> but I think we can discuss this sort of thing at a later meeting, let's not try and do everything in one meeting
20:01 < Mez> |aspire|: try #ubuntu for now :D we've got a meeting going on in here
20:01 < Daviey> james_w: I would suggest that our first bug jam should be as simple as possible
20:01 < popey> |aspire|: we're just ina meeting right now
20:01 < |aspire|> OK
20:01 < |aspire|> NP
20:02 < popey> I'd like to see activities other than bug-related stuff - answer tracker, packaging etc going on, but that we can draw up later
20:02 < andylockran> We've got actions in place, I think that topic is sorted.  If we're going to keep it as simple as possible, then I think we've covered all bases.
20:02 < james_w> popey++
20:02 < andylockran> popey: reckon that deserves a wiki page - what to actually do with your time?
20:02 < popey> yeah
20:02 < andylockran> popey: you willing to draft it ?
20:02 < popey> might even be worthwhile carving up the day, to give us some focus
20:03 < andylockran> [ACTION] popey to draw up day-planner of typical bug jam day
20:03 < MootBot> ACTION received:  popey to draw up day-planner of typical bug jam day
20:03 < Daviey> hah
20:03 < james_w> "typical" :-)
20:03 < andylockran> people are bound to put their own slant on it..
20:03 < andylockran> ok.. what's next on the agenda :)
20:03 < andylockran> lets keep it efficient.
20:04 < popey> i added something to the agenda but it was more notification than discussion
20:04 < andylockran> ok.. 
20:04 < andylockran> [TOPIC] popey's announcement
20:04 < neuro_> server stuff?
20:04 < MootBot> New Topic:  popey's announcement
20:04 < popey> the ubuntu-uk.org box is going to be upgraded  "soon", so there will be a little downtime
20:04 < popey> thats an outage for ubuntu-uk.org and podcast.ubuntu-uk.org#
20:04 < Daviey> popey: upgraded?
20:04 < |aspire|> popey: let me know when this is over
20:04 < popey> Daviey: yeah, we need to upgrade it
20:04 < andylockran> |aspire|: we'll ping you :)
20:04 < Daviey> to..
20:04 < popey> a later release
20:05 < Daviey> Ahhh
20:05 < popey> we can discuss this offline :)
20:05 < Daviey> I thought you mean't RAM etc
20:05 < webpigeon> What is it running on at the moment?
20:05 < popey> just wanted to let people know that's all
20:05 < neuro_> popey: i keep meaning to say, if you need any of my l33t sysadmin skills on the ubuntu-uk box(en), gimme a ping
20:05 < popey> webpigeon: ubuntu :)
20:05 < popey> thanks neuro_
20:05 < webpigeon> popey, what version?
20:05 < Daviey> popey: well for the podcast, the backup site can kick in straight away
20:05 < popey> webpigeon: feisty
20:05 < popey> hence the need for the upgrade
20:05 < neuro_> popey: since i'm not a developer, i like to help out where i can with what i'm able to do :)
20:05 < webpigeon> :P, thats a little old
20:05 < popey> neuro_: appreciated
20:05 < popey> webpigeon: well duh :)
20:06 < webpigeon> :)
20:06 < andylockran> popey: do you have a date for this upgrade in mind?
20:06 < popey> long story, one for another day
20:06 < popey> andylockran: not immediately, no
20:06 < popey> probably within a week or two though
20:06  * andy101 wonders why popey isn't using an LTS for servers
20:06  * neuro_ also has a box still running feisty for $reason_i_dare_not_reveal
20:06 < ProfFalken> neuro_: pr0n?
20:06 < andylockran> [AGREED] popey to update the ubuntu-uk server.. date announcement will be posted to the list (and IRC channel topic) 
20:06 < MootBot> AGREED received:  popey to update the ubuntu-uk server.. date announcement will be posted to the list (and IRC channel topic)
20:06 < WastePotato> ...
20:06 < neuro_> ProfFalken: exim
20:06 < Daviey> andy101: hah, we didn't want to upgrade it - it's on a bad way
20:06 < popey> andy101: long story
20:06 < Laney> andylockran: finish this!
20:06 < popey> Finish Him!
20:06 < WastePotato> When did this meeting start. -_-
20:07 < neuro_> FATALITY!
20:07 < popey> \o/
20:07 < neuro_> FLAWLESS VICTORY!
20:07 < Chris`> Mortal Kombat D:
20:07 < popey> Any other business?
20:07 < james_w> I'd like to thanks the podcast peeps for their work and congratulate them on a great first season. I hope the second isn't too far away
20:07 < neuro_> off topic: mortal kombat vs dc universe on the xbox kicks ass.  That is all.
20:07 < popey> date for next meeting?
20:07 < popey> thanks james_w  - we'll interview you one day ;)
20:07 < Daviey> james_w: thank you
20:07 < neuro_> podcast ftw!
20:07 < webpigeon> WastePotato, 7:30pm
20:07 < webpigeon> popey, when is the next meeting?
20:07 < Daviey> next Sunday for another short one, methinks
20:07 < neuro_> popey: you could interview me too, tho i'd probably just sit and make fart noises
20:07 < popey> webpigeon: thats what i was asking
20:07 < popey> Daviey: +1
20:08 < andylockran> #endmeeting 
20:08 < MootBot> Meeting finished at 14:07.
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeam]]</nowiki>
