{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Elisa, an open-source Media-Center in Python/Gstreamer Project before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/elisa/+spec/umc-gaming
* '''Packages affected''': ''See below''
* ''' Contributors ''': <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bhavani%20Shankar|Bhavani Shankar]]</nowiki>  
=== Scope ===
This specification concerns the gaming part in ''' UBUNTU MEDIA CENTER EDITION '''

=== Summary ===
This is a proposal for Inclusion of games in Ubuntu Media Center Edition(UMC) and discussing various factors involving it(in order to review games proposed by users through the irc and mailing lists(Hopefully mailing list will be up soon..)).

=== Rationale ===
Who doesn't love a little card game?

=== Use Cases ===
* ''' Mike ''' is a newbie to Linux and he has just installed UMC.. He finds games included in UMC and and starts to play. As he plays, he is able to learn his way around the desktop environment and starts to feel more comfortable with his new Linux/UMC install.
* ''' Kate ''' is little bored and she wants some entertainment.. She tries a couple of games included in UMC and gets addicted - she plays at least once a day.

=== Design ===
* Draw up a list of proposed games.
* Draw up a list of system requirements that games must meet; Also while ''' drafting the requirements ''', goals and intentions of UMC ''' must be considered '''.
* Periodic Review of packages required to ensure quality.
* Create a final list of games that will be proposed to be included in UMC. The final list must contain games from a variety of different genres, meet the UMC game inclusion requirements, and meet the main repository inclusion requirements. And more number of games must be included in the main repository for easier installation.  

=== Implementation ===
* Create a UMCGIR (Ubuntu Media Center Gaming Information Report/Request) link on the UMC Website along with other feedback forms(If feedback on-line is implemented) for games we wish to include in UMC(upon users feedback and based on our final decision after processing users feedback) if they are not in the main repository.
* Modification required accordingly to include the games in the default UMC installation.
* Addon is needed For Elisa, i.e Elisa Game Manager for easier download,installation/removal of games(analogus to GameSpyArcade), ofcourse,the user can download ganes using the standard method.

==== Proposed Games ====

The following is the current list of proposed games:

'''Status:''' '''Drafting'''

===== Puzzle games =====
* Sudoku
* Rocks'n'Diamonds
* Mirrormagic
* Enigma (needs Lua)
* Lmarbles
* Icebreaker 
* Pingus
* Tetravex
* LMaster Mind
 
==== Shooters ====
* Nexuiz
* Open arena
* Code Red(Alien arena)
* Powermanga
* Penguin-command
* Boom + FreeDoom gfx
* Abuse-SDL

===== Board/card games =====
* PySol
* Xmahjongg
* GNU Chess
* Concentration
* Freecell
* Hangman 
* Lagno   

===== Platformer =====
* Circus Linux
* Super Tux
* Scavenger
* Xevil
* Xrick

===== Arcade games =====

* Frozen Bubble
* xJump
* Rock dodger
* Battalion
* Tower toppler
* Ltris
* Lbreakout2
* XJewel
* XWelltris
* CXHextris
* GemDropX
* Freedroid classic

===== RPG / strategy =====

* Xnethack
* FreeCiv
* Crimson fields
* Lgeneral
* Freedroid RPG
* H-Craft Championship
* Tile Racer
* VDrift
* 
===== Multiplayer =====

* Liquid War
* Xscorch
* Xpilot
* Heroes
* XBlast
* Double Dash

===== Misc =====
* Tux Racer 
* Scorched3d
* Xinvaders 3D (wireframe)
* Xmoto 
* SupertuxKart

===== Emulators =====
* psemu
* Neutrino SX2 (PS2 Emulator)
* snes9x (or whichever current version) (Nintendo Emulator)
 
=== Unresolved issues ===

* Final game list description
* Incorporating final game list into main.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* There is a nice collection of games at http://gaming.gwos.org/doku.php/start --Bhavani Shankar.
----
CategorySpec UbuntuMediaCenter
