{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/elisa/+spec/umc-security
* '''Created''': Date(2008-02-15) by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bhavani%20Shankar|Bhavani Shankar]]</nowiki>
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bhavani%20Shankar|Bhavani Shankar]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
This spec defines the UMC Security Core, an Ubuntu meta-package that configures the Ubuntu installation to provide core security monitoring and defenses for a network.

=== Rationale ===
The deployment of competent network security solutions requires large amounts of time-consuming effort. Firewall, intrusion detection, intrusion prevention, scanning, and patch management services take time to set up and manage, and provide hurdles for new users learning them. We should supply a network monitoring and defense solution with installation and configuration complexity in Ubuntu Media Center thus making it a secure digital entertainment Platform..

=== Use Cases ===
There are different uses,
* Penetration testing (testing for vulnerabilities)
* Forensic analysis (data analysis and recovery)
* Intrusion detection (Detection and prevention of threats and attacks)

Some Scenarios:

* Bhavi is a system administrator and comes across an intro of umc through various media(most common being the internet) and want to look through umc from his point of view. Therefore umc must be a secure os which can be used by various IT professionals to improve their security.

* John has directly connected his machine to the Internet.  To assure a high level of security, he installs a skeletal Xen manager with a firewall/NAT/IPS tyson,connected to the Internet; his Desktop tyson@desktop connected to that as the default gateway; and the xxx controller using GDM/KDM Chooser to log into the Desktop.

=== Scope ===
The initial scope includes several essentials:

* '''Intrusion Detection Software'''
** ''<nowiki>[[http://www.snort.org|Snort]]</nowiki>'' - Network analysis and intrusion detection
** ''samhain'' - File comparison software, like Tripwire
** ''libsafe'' - Can log to Prelude
* '''Intrusion Prevention Software'''
** ''libsafe'' - Anti-exploit library
* '''Auditing Software'''
** ''Nessus'' - Security scanner.
** ''nmap'' - Network service scanner.

Also consider major monitoring systems that overlap:

* ''<nowiki>[[http://www.prelude-ids.org/|Prelude]]</nowiki>'' - Full log management suite, including Snort IDS logs
** ''<nowiki>[[http://www.prelude-ids.org/|Prelude-LML]]</nowiki>'' - Prelude log analyzer for system logs like IIS, apache, `/var/log/secure`, etc.
** ''<nowiki>[[http://www.prelude-ids.org/|Prewikka]]</nowiki>'' - Prelude front-end
** ''<nowiki>[[http://www.wallinfire.net/files/brouette-doc.html|Brouette]]</nowiki>'' - Prelude event collector you can theme (http://www.gscore.org/blog/index.php/post/2007/03/27/New-brouette-theme)
* ''<nowiki>[[http://www.ossec.net/|OSSEC-HIDS]]</nowiki>'' - Host Intrusion Detection/log analyzer
** ''OSSEC-BASE'' - OSSEC can interact with BASE to monitor Snort.
* ''<nowiki>[[http://www.ossim.net|OSSIM]]</nowiki>'' - Another Prelude/OSSEC type job, brings together a whole bunch of software.
** ''OSSIM-BASE'' - OSSIM can interact with patched BASE as well.
* ''BASE'' - Basic Snort monitor console

An administrator should be able to install and use all tools easily.  Consider, Prelude, Prewikka, and OSSEC-BASE, which require manual database population et al; compared to content management systems like Joomla or a Snort monitor program like BASE that walks you through.

Prelude is a standard, recognized by several books (http://books.google.com/books?q=prelude+ids&btnG=Search+Books&as_brr=0) and is the most advanced IDMEF IDS (http://tools.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4765.txt) compliant. It also has commercial support.

OSSEC-HIDS, according to Linuxworld, has also gained <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxworld.com/news/2007/031207-top-5-security.html|acceptance in the enterprise]]</nowiki>.

OSSIM has an interesting correlation engine that relates attacks and vulnerability scans to prioritize alerts; and also monitors host behaviour to determine probability of compromise.

=== Design ===
The system should include the above basic scope elements.  A guided configuration program should allow easy addition of given software and rapid configuration.

No assumptions on other functions of the system should occur; 

=== Implementation ===
Implementation should interact with upstream as much as possible.  Either give priority to writing code in such a way as to improve the products rather than tackle on hackish script that script kiddies use; or work with upstream and have them do some of the code as well.  Consider the following:

* ''Prelude-IDS'' uses <nowiki>[[http://www.prelude-ids.org/IMG/txt/rfc4765.txt|Intrusion Detection Message Exchange Format]]</nowiki>.
** ''Snort'' can act as a ''Prelude-IDS'' sensor, sending IDMEF to `prelude-manager`
** Other systems should implement an IDMEF service; this would extend OSSIM or OSSEC well.
* ''Prelude-IDS'', ''OSSEC'', and ''OSSIM'' can take effort to install.  ''BASE'' behaves somewhat nicer.
** Consider ''drupal'', ''joomla'', ''xoops'', and ''CMS Made Simple'' content management systems 
** Consider as well that these tools want to know where files and a database reside, and how these tools could provide as easy installation and configuration as a CMS (In case an user builds his own small server on umc.. Sounds absurd but umc should be just as flexible to fit in for a small server usage)
** Do not implement simple configuration utilities; instead, actually fix the tools themselves and send the patches upstream.
* Integration could use a boost.
** Two of these products (''OSSEC'' and ''OSSIM'') integrate with ''BASE''
** Each of these comes with its own patch to ''BASE''
** Each also comes with a piece of SQL to modify the MySQL database schema ''BASE'' uses
** If at all possible, get rid of this crap.  Come up with some way to wave a magic stick around and have each of these integrate directly with ''BASE'' with no modification.  This should involve the ''BASE'' codebase allowing embedding of ''BASE'' for a UI and configuration; and extraction of alerts from ''BASE'' using IDMEF (XML-based) through some PHP script.

=== Bluetooth Security ===

First off For a understanding of Bluetooth security in detail see <nowiki>[[http://www.securityfocus.com/infocus/1830|here]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.securityfocus.com/infocus/1836|here]]</nowiki>

So we have to provide a solid bluetooth Monitoring system..

The tool that has got a wide reputation is <nowiki>[[http://blueproximity.sourceforge.net/|Blue Proximity]]</nowiki> which is a clever program that sets up your computer to lock itself when your phone is out of bluetooth range, and unlock itself when it comes close enought again.

Blue Proximity is now available in an ubuntu package and <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V3OXCt7wNWA&eurl=http://jessedyer.blogspot.com/2008/02/blueproximity-and-x10-peanut-butter-and.html|here]]</nowiki> is a nice video demonstration of controlling lights with Blue Proximity..

and its easily installable in ubuntu,<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4368425&postcount=1|here]]</nowiki> is a nice HOWTO on the same..

    
==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===
* Some of the stuff here is hard to set up for new users, even when they understand the concepts...;)

==== Extra Software ====

For extra software addition into the repos here are some places to start:

* http://www.knoppix-std.org/tools.html
* http://backtrack.offensive-security.com/index.php?title=Tools
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InstallingSecurityTools?highlight=%28nmap%29
* http://sectools.org

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
----
CategorySpec
