{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Test Setup ===

Prior to running the Moblin Compliance tests on a new installation, several steps need to be taken and additional packages need to be installed.

First, install the following packages:

* moblin-compliance
* libqt4-qt3support
* libqt4-webkit
* foomatic-filters
* libfakekey0
* lsb 
* libqt3-mt-sqlite
* libperl-dev
* libxml-parser-perl
* libxml-sax-perl
* libtest-harness-perl
* libtest-simple-perl
* wget
* manpages
* manpages-dev

A couple of links may need to be added.  Usually, adding links to newer library versions will cause serious issues, but in this case, it appears to be ok:
* /usr/lib/libtiff.so.3 ->/usr/lib/libtiff.so.4.2.1
* /usr/lib/libtiffxx.so.3 -> /usr/lib/libtiffxx.so.0.0.6

Additionally, copy and paste the following command to generate locale files.  This is crucial for the stdc++ tests and QT tests to pass.

 sudo locale-gen de_DE de_DE@euro en_HK en_PH en_US en_US.ISO-8859-15 en_US.UTF-8 es_ES es_MX fr_FR fr_FR@euro is_IS is_IS.UTF-8 it_IT ja_JP.EUC-JP se_NO ta_IN zh_TW

After these steps have been taken, the test suite can be downloaded and installed according to <nowiki>[[http://moblin.org/documentation/moblin-sdk/coding-tutorials/moblin-compliance|these]]</nowiki> guidelines.

=== Notes ===

Currently, some tests are failing due to differences in library versions.  This is to be expected.

=== Results ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/moblin/20090911/report.htm|20090911]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/moblin/20091001/report.htm|20091001]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/moblin/20091006/report.htm|20091006]]</nowiki>^2^
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/moblin/20091009/report.htm|20091009]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/moblin/20091016/report.htm|20091016]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/moblin/20091022/report.htm|20091022]]</nowiki>^3^
| <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/moblin/20091029/report.htm|20091029]]</nowiki>^4^
|-
| Test Cases Total
| ~- totals unreported -~
| 68372
| 69265
| 69932
| 70084
| 70106
| 69854
|-
| Tests Passed
| 
| 61177
| 62555
| 63017
| 63176
| 63275
| 63028
|-
| Failures
| 
| 449
| 171
| 173
| 165
| 133
| 56
|-
| Warnings
| 
| 57
| 58
| 57
| 57
| 12
| 12
|-
| Tests Waived
| 
| 294
| 290
| 290
| 291
| 291
| 349
|-
| FIPs^1^
| 
| 10
| 10
| 10
| 10
| 10
| 10
|}

~- 
1. Further Information Provided, meaning manual intervention required for these tests. 
2. Retested Beta image with several tweaks to fix test failures.  See '''Test Setup''' above. 
3. '''Release Candidate Image''' 
4. '''Final Release'''
-~
