{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.25em;"><<BR>>
|}

=== Ubuntu Moblin Remix Project ===

Ubuntu Moblin Remix is based on Ubuntu 9.10 and is a version of Ubuntu specially designed to run on netbooks.  Based on the Moblin v2 for Intel Atom™ processor platform, Ubuntu Moblin Remix is optimised for a retail environment. With its new consumer-friendly interface to bring together online and offline worlds, users can view and post updates to social networks, listen to music and watch videos and manage their daily calendar.

Moblin is a completely new user experience, and Canonical has integrated Moblin into Ubuntu. Moblin’s integrated web browser and media player makes it easier to work and play, providing quick and easy access to favourite applications, tasks, appointments, recently used content and the latest updates from friends.

=== Ubuntu Moblin Remix pre-installed ===

If you would like to purchase a netbook with Ubuntu Moblin Remix pre-installed you can now purchase an Ubuntu Moblin Remix Developer Edition of the Dell Inspiron Mini 10v.  Just go to http://www.dell.com/ubuntu.

For more information about the see the <nowiki>[[http://en.community.dell.com/wikis/linux/ubuntu-9-04-moblin-remix-developer-edition.aspx|Dell Community page for Ubuntu 9.04 Moblin Remix Developer Remix]]</nowiki>.

=== Support resources ===

Looking for help with Ubuntu Moblin Remix?  There are a number of resources available to you from the worldwide Ubuntu and Moblin.org communities.

==== Ubuntu Forums ====

You can find support forums on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=376|UbuntuForums.org]]</nowiki>.

==== Filing bugs ====

If you find any bugs in Ubuntu Moblin Remix or have a patch to fix a bug already filed that affects Ubuntu Moblin Remix you can file them from the Ubuntu Moblin Remix project on Launchpad:  https://www.launchpad.net/ubuntu-moblin-remix.

==== IRC ====

To interact with the Moblin community and ask questions about developing on Moblin you can use the #moblin channel on irc.freenode.net

=== Downloading UMR ===

==== From Dell ====

For the latest information on downloading Ubuntu Moblin Remix specifically for the Dell Inspiron Mini 10v please go to the <nowiki>[[http://en.community.dell.com/wikis/linux/ubuntu-9-04-moblin-remix-developer-edition.aspx|Dell Community page for Ubuntu 9.04 Moblin Remix Developer Remix]]</nowiki>.

==== Ubuntu 9.10 Moblin Remix ====

You can download a CD image from http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-moblin-remix/releases/.  There you will find a .iso (CD image) file.  If you are installing on a netbook and you do not have a CD or DVD drive then follow <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick|this guide]]</nowiki> for installing Ubuntu from a USB disk.  If you have access to a device running Ubuntu 8.10 or later the recommended method is to use <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick#Ubuntu%20USB%20desktop%20image%20creator|USB Image Creator]]</nowiki> to copy the .iso file to a USB stick.

=== Moblin Compliance Testing ===

The Karmic version of Moblin is tested regularly against the <nowiki>[[http://moblin.org/projects/moblin-compliance-tools|Moblin Compliance Tools]]</nowiki> developed by the Linux Foundation to ensure that the software meets the current standards laid out in the Moblin Specifications.  The test installation and release notes are located <nowiki>[[UMR-ComplianceTesting|here]]</nowiki>.
