{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<<BR>>

== Meeting of April 04, 2008 ==

=== Meeting Summary ===
* Where is our team going? / Team situation.
* What our purpose is.
* Team Tracker
* Regular Meetings?
* Wiki + Canned Responses?
* Other Items

=== Log ===
* The meeting was a complete washout. Not enough members in the team, or present, at the meeting.

1. '''Team Tracker'''
* Tracker is at http://ua.codechunk.net - All users without an account, contact jacob, kidders or ajmorris
* Decided, for the time being, to test how it goes, tag any unanswered posts that you answer, not just ones you need help with.
* Try to use it as much as possible, collaboration will get unanswered posts, solved.
* An opera plugin should be coming soon.

2. '''Canned Respsonses'''
* What are they? -- Canned responses are quick access links. They are generic responses, such as, how to mark your post as solved, or how to reconfigure xorg.
* Located at <nowiki>[[http://ua.codechunk.net/canned/]]</nowiki> Add your own there if you wish, and subscribe to the RSS feed, to get quick access to these links. If you are not using firefox, the actual RSS link is here: <nowiki>[[http://ua.codechunk.net/rss/canned.rss.php]]</nowiki>

3. '''Team Wiki'''
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam]]</nowiki> -- Possible further use of this wiki? Suggestions appreciated.
