{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<<BR>>

== Meeting of November 21, 2009 ==
=== Meeting Summary ===

The Ubuntu Forums Unanswered Posts Team convened on the date of November 21, 2009 at 23:21:00UTC to discuss the following:<<BR>>
* New Member Nominations
* Welcomed new members <nowiki>[[TuxPurple]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[stlsaint]]</nowiki> to the team.<<BR>>
* The meeting convened later than the planned time of 22:00UTC due to the leader being absent.<<BR>>
* Happy Thanksgiving!

=== Time ===
15 Minutes

=== Log ===
{{{#!IRC
<Hellow> #BEGIN Possibly the shortest meeting ever
<stlsaint> w00t
<Hellow> Ok, just FYI, this is going to be a *short* meeting. 15-20 minutes max
<Hellow> There isnt much to cover.
<Hellow> I can see that we have some idlers in our channel now :).
<Hellow> I'm glad that our team has been getting some more attention in the Ubuntu community..
<Hellow> Now
<Hellow> Does anyone have anything to add or announce before we proceed?
<Hellow> Ok
<Hellow> Lets move to new member elections
<Hellow> TuxPurple, Do you want to join the UA?
<Hellow> (heh)
<Hellow> Also, again, before we proceed, this is going to be a *very* informal meeting.
<TuxPurple> yes Hellow, but i haven't been able to contribute much lately
<Hellow> Ok, three new members to vote on, one isnt here.
<Hellow> Two I have nominated :)
<Hellow> stlsaint and TuxPurple.
<stlsaint> hola
<Hellow> drubin, linuxwizard, starcraftman, tuxxy Awaken
<Hellow> Lets vote on stlsaint 
<TuxPurple> :)
<Hellow> +1 = Yes; -1 = No; 0 = Abstain
<Hellow> +1
* Hellow feels alone
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<FFEMTcJ> ill vote so you have another voice ;-)
<Hellow> Go right on ahead
<FFEMTcJ> +1 vote from the new kid...
* talsemgeest (n=talsemge@124-197-24-185.callplus.net.nz) has joined #ubuntuforums-unanswered
* ChanServ gives voice to talsemgeest
<Hellow> talsemgeest, You missed nothing of importance
<Hellow> talsemgeest, We are voting on stlsaint's membership
<TuxPurple> morning talsemgeest
<Hellow> (I nominated stlsaint and TuxPurple :P)
<Hellow> 2 +1's so far
<talsemgeest> Ah, ok Hellow :)
<talsemgeest> Hey TuxPurple :)
<stlsaint> hey talsemgeest
<FFEMTcJ> dinner time.. enjoy the meeting
<talsemgeest> Heya stlsaint :)
<Hellow> +1 = Yes; -1 = No; 0 = Abstain
<talsemgeest> Well, a +1 for stlsaint's membership from me :)
<Hellow> 3 +1's, membership passes
<Hellow> stlsaint, I'll add you to the LP page and access list later. Rejoin if I kick you.
<Hellow> Next up, TuxPurple.
<Hellow> 3 +1's, membership passes
<Hellow> err
<Hellow> +1 = Yes; -1 = No; 0 = Abstain
<Hellow> +1
<stlsaint> lol..kk
<talsemgeest> +1
<stlsaint> +1
<TuxPurple> \o/
<Hellow> 3 +1's, membership passes
<Hellow> TuxPurple, I'll do the same as with stlsaint in a few
<TuxPurple> thanks =]
<Hellow> Anyone want to add anything to the meeting before I close?
<stlsaint> not right now
<Hellow> sleep 60;
<talsemgeest> Not that I can think of
<Hellow> done;
<Hellow> #END Shortest and least official meeting ever
}}}
