{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About ===
Hello, I am Keimpe de Jong, mostly known online as UndiFineD
I have a collection of girls, my GF and 4 daughters.

My ICT knowledge spans over many years.
My first time online was in 1988.
My first encounter with Linux was in august 1995
at a hardware sale there was this guy selling Infomagic Slackware Linux 4cd's for a cheap price
I just went there to buy some new antivirus (TBAV) and went home with kernel 1.0.28
I installed it on windows95 launchday.

==== Learning ====
I am a skilled PHP developer, this I thought myself.
In school I had some c(++) training, but never really liked the language.
I wish to learn python and conquer the world with it.

==== Use ====
I use Linux because it is fun, kicking it's tail and then make it all better again.

==== Sharing ====
I use apt-mirror to share and save bandwidth.
Integrating packages in one single mirror has the advantage that you'll know it will be there.
my mirror is also available online, and I would not mind if people grabbed some packages.

==== Adoption ====
Since I use Linux I have converted my GF to it as well, she was a windows gamer at first but now she is hooked to how it all simply works.
She now has joined me to be more actively involved, here is her <nowiki>[[hajour|profile]]</nowiki>

==== Why using Ubuntu? ====
I have worked with many different distributions in the past, at first Slackware of course, but you had to do everything manually by editing some configuration file.
Since I was in school at that time I noticed that windows had become a requirement and that I had to learn about Novell netware networks.
So my Pentium66 desktop migrated to windows and my 486DX100 server migrated to Novell.
From 2001 I switched back to using Linux full time at home and at work.
I Have played with early and late Redhat, SuSE, Fedora, CentOS, Fermi, LFS, Debian
But I wanted something easier at home. Yes Ubuntu is easy.
By now, our family has 6 machines, of which four are only running ubuntu.

==== Professionally ====
I have been into computers since 1988. after college CS I did mostly programming in PHP.
I started working for a television studio to program a call monitor.
After that I started working for the European Patent Office as a Data Center manager and I have been trained in Data Center Design.
Then I went to Petten to work for the European Commision as a Local Linux/Solaris Systems Administrator
And after that I moved back to Friesland to work for JC-Electronics as a IT-Manager / PHP programmer
to make a full company administrative system.

==== Life Goals ====
My own bug #1 is solved, I found a job as a php programmer :)
In my spare time I work on the projects listed below. And slowly spend time to learn Python.
In the future I would love to setup a business around Linux. Especially for government and schools.

==== Desktop ====
Ubuntu, Darklooks + Ambiance borders + Crystal SVG icons + redglass pointer
