{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Development document for the Ubuntu Beginners Team. 

This is a set of task description skills, a job description if you will. 
Within the UBT we offer our knowledge to other so they may learn, and in turn we hope they will pass on and improve that knowledge to increase the quality of our work. 
You get the freedom to choose to work on the projects of your liking. 
We hope that you will make some international friends from all around the world. 

=== Howto be a great Master ===
* Welcome potential new students to the team. By welcoming them you are their first contact, make them feel comfortable.
* Verify that student applicants are committed and not just "passing through". Ensure that this student is returning regularly and willing to learn.
* Get to know your students, show an interest in their work / home. Find their soft spot, what does your student want to achieve, what tickles their interests.
* Inform the student of the teams mission statement, the structure of the current team, he may ask questions to the master and other members of the team, notify them of the forum and mailing lists.
* Inform the student of #ubuntu-meeting , the fridge and where to find the logs, have the student attend a good meeting example.
* Have the student learn the content of the code of conduct and getting it signed.
* Assist prospective members creating and maintaining their wiki and launchpad pages.
* Help them find and integrate into one or more focus groups of their choice.
* Find projects of interest to them. Introduce them to the people involved.
* Provide prospective students with a wide array of resources for learning and answering their questions.
* Answer the question the student might have.
* Teach the student how and where to find the answers to his questions.
* Provide feedback to the student on their activities in relation to the associated team.
* Do they need further help ? Is the student ready for membership ?
<pre>
you will know when the padawan has enough experience
has a couple of testimonials from others that they are ready.
Even from a focus group they would be required to know basic wiki editing etc.
And encouraged to either help on IRC or the main forum in the beginners area.
</pre>
* Help the prospective member get his Community Recommendation.
* Writing a testimonial:
<pre>
I have worked with <CANDIDATE> for the past <LENGTH> on the <TEAM>. He has been doing some terrific work on <STUFF>.
I can support the quality of his work, and believe <CANDIDATE> is here to stay. <<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[NAME]]</nowiki> <DATE>
</pre>

=== Howto be a great Support Mentor ===
* Join the support forums
* Join the IRC support channels
* Learn about common hardware
* Learn about <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/01292011/Finding%20Help%20in%20Ubuntu]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[starcraft.man|starcraftman]]</nowiki>
* Learn about <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/01292011/Using%20IRC | Using IRC]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>
* Learn about <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/01292011/Tips%20and%20tricks%20for%20multi-booters | multi-boot]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[Cheri703]]</nowiki>
* Learn about <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/01292011/Desktop%20Environments%3A%20Gnome%2C%20KDE%2C%20XFCE | Desktop Environments]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MacoMorgan|maco]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[pleia2]]</nowiki>
* Learn about <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/01292011/Software%20Installation | software installation]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[shrini]]</nowiki>
* Learn about <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/01292011/Networking%20and%20sharing%20files%20in%20Ubuntu | networking and sharing files]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[ArvindSRaj|dnivra]]</nowiki>
* Learn about security
 1.  The council approves of the mentor
 2.  The associated team approves of the mentor

=== Howto be a great Documentation Mentor ===
* Join the documentation teams
* Join the optional translation teams
* Contact the LoCo's translation team
* Learn wiki editing
* 
 1.  The council approves of the mentor
 2.  The associated team approves of the mentor

=== Howto be a great Development Mentor ===
* Join the beginners ubuntu-beginners-dev launchpad team
* Join the beginners ubuntu-beginners-dev mailing list
* Follow a few sessions through the Development Focus Group Academy
* Install the development tool set
* Learn to create a blueprint
* Learn application design
* Learn programming concepts
* Learn coding style
* Learn Version Control Systems (svn)(bzr)
* Learn a programming language
* Read the Packaging Guide
* Join a UBT community programming project
* Before starting a project
* Search for existing material
* License information
* Starting a project
* Starting an official irc channel
* Setting up a launchpad team
* Create the projects wiki page
* Advertise, getting people
* Request a mailing list
* Start the creative process
* Prepare a meeting
* Attend a meeting
* Host a meeting
* Keep a team going
* Dealing with conflicts
* How to get a program into ubuntu
* Learn about Release cycles
* Learn about handling Bugs
* Learn about Testing
* Learn about Solving Bugs
 1.  The council approves of the mentor
 2.  The associated team approves of the mentor

=== Howto be a great Bugs Mentor ===
* Join the beginners ubuntu-beginners-launchpad launchpad team
* Join the beginners ubuntu-beginners-dev mailing list
* Join bugs control team
* Learn about bug triaging
* quality assurance (qa team)
* Testing (testing team)
* Educate members on the tools and processes to triage bugs.
* Show people how they can find bugs to triage.
* Help members get started on their way to joining Bug Control.
* Current Tasks
* Read the Triage Guide.
* Look over this Flow Chart outlining the process
* Read the different pages linked on Bug Squad's Knowledge Base
  it contains a collection of very informative links on Bug Triage
* Join the Bug Squad. Though not required we encourage you too, 
  it helps keep up to date on current issues with triaging.
* Triage bugs
* join the Focus Group on Launchpad when you are a full member.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/01292011/Asking%20questions%20on%20Launchpad%20and%20Reporting%20bugs%20on%20Launchpad]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[CharlieKravetz|charlie-tca]]</nowiki>
 1.  The council approves of the mentor
 2.  The associated team approves of the mentor

=== Howto be a great Accessibility Mentor ===
* Join the accessibility launchpad team
* Learn about several difficulties people may have
* Learn about several different accessibility programs available
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/01292011/Accessibility%20apps]]</nowiki> by Pendulum
 1.  The council approves of the mentor
 2.  The associated team approves of the mentor

=== Howto be a great  editor-in-chief (EiC) / Head of Development ===
The editor-in-chief is responsible for the overall quality and content of the manual and ensures that it is published in a timely fashion. The editor-in-chief manages the chapter editors and authors.  The editor-in-chief must commit to the following duties for the duration of the release cycle (approximately six months):
* Check spelling, grammar, writing style, and factual accuracy.
* Track changes between previous and current Ubuntu releases and ensure that the current edition reflects those changes.
* Motivate and coordinates with the chapter authors/editors to contribute in a timely fashion.
* Provide regular status updates to the mailing list.
* Ensure proper attribution for text that has been copied from other (CC-licensed) sources.
* Maintain the list of credits (authors, editors, translators, designers, etc.).
* Verifies that all screenshots and graphics are correct.
* Gives the final go-ahead to publish the online and print versions of the manual.
* Get to know your team. Who can do what, even if they do not know themselves.
* Who has similar interests. Let them cooperate with eachother.
* Explain with compelling arguments if you want things diffirent.
* But capable of listening to their reasons.
* Lead the team, assign tasks, review their work.
* Be able to pinpoint the teams weakness and express needs to the team leader.
* Kick some asses. Get the team to work. 
* Capable in solving arguments.
* Make reports and explain to the team leader(s).
* End decision is made by the team leader(s).
The editor-in-chief should have the following qualifications:
* Self-motivated.
* Good at managing people (namely chapter authors and editors).
* Has a firm grasp of American English.
* Understanding of the Ubuntu Manual Style Guide.
* Able to run alpha and beta releases of Ubuntu

=== Howto be a great Project Team Leader ===
The Project Leader is responsible for guiding and directing the project.
The project leader's responsibilities include:
* Cheerleading
* Marketing / promotion
* Recruiting
* Scheduling
* Release Planning
* 
