{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Ubuntu Beginners Team Membership ====
I became an Ubuntu Beginners Team member on 2011-01-12. I would like to thank everyone involved, and especially <nowiki>[[pedro3005]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Mohan_chml|Mohi]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[jackyalcine|JackyAlcine]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MahyuddinSusanto|udienz]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners-council|Council]]</nowiki> and ofcourse <nowiki>[[hajour]]</nowiki> for her support.

Keimpe has been a great companion on a project that've been working on together, and the advice and guidance he's given has done more than helped me; it allowed me to learn and give back the Ubuntu way. THAT, I'm thankful for. <<BR>> -- (last edited 2010-12-18 07:51:20 by <nowiki>[[jackyalcine|JackyAlcine, Student]]</nowiki>)

As my mentee, UndiFineD showed great qualification, unending stamina and an incredible tenacity within the projects he has dedicated himself to, the Speech Control being an example. I have no doubt in claiming that he will be a priceless contribution to the Ubuntu Beginners Team and to all the teams he joins. <<BR>> -- (last edited 2010-12-24 00:36:38 by <nowiki>[[pedro3005|Pedro Mendes]]</nowiki>)

Undefined across the various teams I see him on is always helpful and with his knowledge and patience I have no hesitation in recommending him for membership of both <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam | UBT]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/EMEA | full Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>. His work on bringing in re-energising the LoCo is wonderful. <<BR>> -- (last edited 2010-12-19 06:26:37 by <nowiki>[[phillw|Phill Whiteside]]</nowiki>)

I dont wanna flood the whole page by listing all his activities here. He really does a great work in both helping, testing and development. I am watching all his projects and his involvement. I do endorse his application for both UBT membership as well as Ubuntu membership and for anything he applies in the future.(Now you owe me a cookie ;) ) <<BR>> -- (last edited 2011-01-10 12:48:47 by <nowiki>[[Mohan_chml | Mohi]]</nowiki>)

I'm new in UBT, but wait.. i think UndiFineD is UBT member! sure because he is very active. If i'm UBT board i must approved him and no reason to defer him <<BR>> -- (Mon, 10 Jan 2011 12:35:57 +0000) by <nowiki>[[MahyuddinSusanto|udienz]]</nowiki>
