{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:unified-disk-manager

=== Summary ===

There have been many requests for different disk management utilities, and all of them can be summed up into one configuration GUI, which should be included in Ubuntu. Has a brainstorm idea at http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/5722/

=== Rationale ===

There are many common disk management tasks that can only be accomplished by the command-line or using apps that require downloading from the repositories. These tasks are common enough and simple enough that they should be integrated together and included by default.

=== Use Cases ===

* Bob wants to check the status of his hard-drive via S.M.A.R.T. so he goes to System>Administration>Disk Management and sees that it's working fine.
* Jane is running out of disk space, so she goes to System>Administration>Disk Management and runs the disk cleanup wizard.

=== Scope ===

Provide a desktop-agnostic backend, with a frontend for Gnome and KDE.

=== Design ===

Very rough:

Tab 1: Free Space
-integrate Baobab (and remove it from the applications menu)
-create an extensible disk cleaner with default plugins for emptying the trash, clearing the firefox cache, possibly deleting logfiles (using policykit), etc.

Tab 2: Health
-allow setting frequency of fsck, so an option something like:
[x]Automatically check my disks every [35] boots.
-a button for immediately checking all filesystems
-S.M.A.R.T. integration

Tab 3: Backup
-a scheduled backup utility that can image the entire disk or zip certain folders using cron.
-allow creating multiple backup 'profiles' for advanced scheduling
-incremental backup would be nice, but probably difficult

Tab 4: Advanced
-integrate the partition editor from the installer, and enhance it to allow fstab editing as well 

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
