{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Unit 193, apply for the Xubuntu packageset upload rights.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Unit 193
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~unit193 | ~unit193 ]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a Xubuntu team member, developer, and the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Leaders|Debian liaison]]</nowiki>.
As part of the role of Debian liaison, I keep a close eye on Xfce bugs and uploads in Debian and report to the team any that may affect us.  I also keep an eye on our delta over the packages in pkg-xfce.

== My Ubuntu story ==
Started playing with Kubuntu back in '07 or so, converted fully to Xubuntu later.

=== My involvement ===
* Currently mainly involved in Xubuntu, either as a packager or whatever else needs done.
* Provide support and channel management for several core channels.
* Work upstream in Debian both as a package maintainer and team member (non uploading).

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* I debugged and fixed a longstanding bug in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/parole/0.6.1-0ubuntu2|Parole]]</nowiki> that didn't affect Debian.
* Cherry picked a git commit fixing apt-offline for Xubuntu, and assisted with the SRU.
* Packaged xubuntu-community-artwork after our first community wallpaper contest.
* Various Xfce/Xubuntu related packages, including package updates, default settings changes, and new optional packages.
* A few uploads/syncs of packages I'm interested in, some of which I helped Debian with.
* In Debian:
** I am part of the pkg-multimedia team so I have helped with packaging on gmusicbrowser (shipped in Xubuntu), icecast2, and ices2.
** I am the maintainer for inxi and thunar-dropbox-plugin (with the Xubuntu lead developer as uploader), and am marked as uploader for alpine and pianobar (non-team packages.)
** Have done a couple QA uploads as well as assisted others with packaging.
* See my <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Unit+193&sponsoree_search=name |Sponsorship Miner]]</nowiki> page for a full listing.

=== Areas of work ===
* I am a Xubuntu developer, so I work with the Xubuntu development team (hence this application), which puts me working with Sean Davis, the Xubuntu development lead, a lot.
* I have also worked a little bit with Mirv, dholbach, and Logan for sponsored uploads.

=== Things I could do better ===
I tend to lack some self-reliance or want everything I do/upload reviewed well, so I could likely do without trying to get an ACK on everything.  With my somewhat new role in the Xubuntu developers team, I have been given more of an opportunity with this as I have commit access to our VCS and have been fixing and cleaning things.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
Well, as I'm going for packageset rights in Xubuntu, I clearly plan to continue to make Xubuntu a great flavor.  At some point in the future, I'm likely going to go for MOTU so I can more easily help out in areas not directly related to Xubuntu.  I'm also planning on going for DM in Debian.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

* It is a great pleasure to offer Unit 193 a reference in support of his application for upload rights to the Xubuntu package set. He has been contributing to the Xubuntu team steadily for some years now and has recently taken on the role of Debian liaison. Being a steady contributor to Debian as well, he is a perfect fit for the position. Unit 193 has supported our project out as a packager over the recent years, helping us with managing PPAs as well as building specific packages for exploratory testing purposes. He is clearly an experienced packager and by improving existing packages he has demonstrated his attention to detail. He has also shown tremendous initiative and community spirit within the team. I am confident that the Xubuntu team will benefit greatly from him gaining upload priviledges. For the reasons stated above I consider him an ideal candidate for upload rights to the Xubuntu packageset and fully support his application. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:simon-steinbeiss|Simon Steinbeiss]]</nowiki>, Xubuntu Project Lead 
* The amount of Unit 193's contributions to Xubuntu are almost countless, both as a packager or fixing bugs. His importance in the development team is unquestionable and his community spirit tireless. He's always sharing his knowledge and expertise where possible. I have worked closely with him on several Xubuntu documentation efforts and am always delighted by his positive attitude to whatever he is working on and with. In my opinion it would be very beneficial to the Xubuntu Project Unit 193's upload rights to the Xubuntu packageset, so a strong +1 from me on his application. -- <nowiki>[[slickymaster]]</nowiki>, Xubuntu Documentation Lead 
* I've worked with Unit193 since I was the project lead. Since then, he's slowly started taking more responsibilities in the team and has always delivered his promises. He takes initiatives that help the team keep on top of isseus and ultimately, take important decisions. These initiatives include, but are not limited to improving and creating packaging, managing PPAs and creating custom ISOs for testing. He's always considerate and doesn't mind lending a hand for other teams as well if it allows making Ubuntu better. +1 -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:knome]]</nowiki>, former Xubuntu Project Lead 
* It is hard to add much to Unit193's application that hasn't already been mentioned previously. That said, I believe that Xubuntu without his contribution would have been much the poorer. In particular the work he has done to bring the new Xubuntu Minimal experimental iso has been a great addition. I've worked closely in this with Unit193 from a QA pov, as indeed also with the experimental ISOs he has created for us. His attention to detail and willingness to take the initiative is indicative in my opinion as to what he'll be able to bring to the table to Ubuntu as a whole when he does go further with his plans. His gaining upload rights for the Xubuntu packageset can only be a positive move in my opinion and I fully support his application for that. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:elfy]]</nowiki>, Xubuntu QA Lead <<DateTime>>

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Sean Davis ===
==== General feedback ====
I've worked with Unit193 since I started contributing to Xubuntu. He is very familiar with packaging guidelines and I have sought his advice when creating a number of packages, especially when I started packaging. To date, I have sponsored at least 11 of his packages (the miner seems to be missing some, I just uploaded his xfce4-settings last night) and relied on him for the creation of many other packages we have in the Xubuntu Development PPAs. I certainly trust him with helping to maintain the Xubuntu packageset. Because of his continued contribution, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:simon-steinbeiss]]</nowiki> and I recently added him to the Xubuntu Developers team to be able to maintain our settings, seed, and other components directly.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Sean%20Davis&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Unit+193&sponsoree_search=name|Sponsorship Miner]]</nowiki>: Unit193 has consistently provided a number of updated Xfce packages for sponsorship, all of which have been of very high quality
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/parole/0.6.1-0ubuntu2|Parole Plugins]]</nowiki>: While this one was upload by Logan, this was a bug that plagued Xubuntu for several releases, where Parole's plugins were not properly detected. Unit193 resolved the long-standing issue with this package.
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/ubuntu-seeds/xubuntu.vivid/|Xubuntu Core and Desktop Seeds]]</nowiki>: Unit193 has gone to great lengths to improve our seed, and develop a new "core" seed. His contributions can be seen in the bzr history

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I don't see any areas of weakness when working with Unit193. He is always available and follows through with every task assigned, consistently providing exceptional work.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:bluesabre|Sean Davis]]</nowiki>, Xubuntu Technical Lead 
----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
