{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': UbuntuSpec:client-1310-unity7-app-gestures
* '''Created''': 2013-10-07
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[StephenMWebb|Stephen M. Webb]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': to be determined

Provide and expand the repetoire of touchscreen (and possibly touchpad) gestures used with common applications on the Ubuntu desktop.

=== Rationale ===

Personal computer manufacturers are increasingly following the trend of adding multi-touch gesture capable input devices to their product offerings.  If particular importance is the multi-touch touchscreen input device on the portable computer.

Few if any of the more common desktop applications have been designed to work with touch input.  Full support of touch input requires a ground-up redesign of many user interactions, which is the point of teh upcoming Ubuntu Touch experience.  It is still possible, however, to adopt some touch input for use on more traditional KVM (keyboard, video, mouse) style applications like those found on the Ubuntu Desktop experience.

The Unity7 application gesture support strategy has three prongs.

# Direct modification of application source code to add gesture support (for example, Evince and Eye of Gnome).
# Modifications to toolkits or libraries to add gesture support to unmodified applications (for example, adding 2-finger scrolling to Overlay Scrollbars).
# Input translations to convert recognized multi-touch gestures into other input events for specific applications for example, using the Launchpad:Ginn or Launchpad:Touchégg daemons).

<pre> comment/dotted
=== User stories ===

=== The rest of the specification ===

Replace that heading with headings for each thing you’re changing or specifying.

Checklist:

1. Have you reviewed the bug reports for the relevant package? (Yes, this may take an hour or two. But you might be able to fix multiple bugs with a well-designed change.)

1. If any user interface is involved, is it fully described? Include any wireframes or mockups.

1. Have you had any new user interface, or new visible text, reviewed by a designer? (Or if you are a designer, have you had it peer-reviewed?)

1. Is the change accessible? (For example, have you specified accessible labels for any graphic-only elements?)

1. How will users learn the new way of doing things? Describe any help pages required, and any changes to the Ubuntu Web site or installer slideshow.

1. Is any migration of data or settings required?

1. How will the feature be tested? Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

=== Unresolved issues ===

Highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

</pre>
----
CategorySpec
