{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Launcher ==

=== Appearance ===

'''1. Devices in Launcher'''

    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/devices_option
Show devices in the launcher (0 = Never, 1 = Only Mounted, 2 = Always)

'''2. Launcher Icon Size'''

    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/icon_size

The size of the launcher icons (32 - 64)

'''3. Launcher Opacity'''

    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/launcher_opacity

The opacity of the Launcher background. (0.0 - 1.0)

'''4. Launcher Icons Backlit Mode'''

    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/backlight_mode

Change how the icons are backlit (0 = Backlight Always On, 1 = Backlight Toggles, 2 = Backlight Always Off, 3 = Edge Illumination Toggles, 4 = Backlight and Edge Illumination Toggles)

'''5. Desktop Icon" in the launcher'''

    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/show_desktop_icon

Enable/Disable "Show Dekstop icon" in the launcher.

=== Behaviour ===

'''1. Hide Animation'''
    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/autohide_animation

Animation played when the launcher is showing or hiding (0 = Fade on bfb and Slide, 1 = Slide only, 2 = Fade only, 3 = Fade and Slide)

'''2. Hide Launcher Mode'''
    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/launcher_hide_mode

Make the launcher hide automatically after some time of inactivity: always or just when the focussed window is not over the launcher (0 = Never, 1 = Autohide)

'''3. Launch Animation'''

    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/launch_animation

Animation played when a launcher icon is in the process of spawning a process (0 = None, 1 = Pulse Until Running, 2 = Blink)

'''4. Urgent Application Icon'''

    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/urgent_animation

Animation played when a launcher icon is in the urgent state (0 = None, 1 = Pulse, 2 = Wiggle)

== Dash ==

'''1. Dash Blur'''

    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/dash_blur_experimental

Type of blur in the Dash (0 = No Blur, 1 = Static Blur, 2 = Active Blur)

'''2. Display Available Apps'''

    com.canonical.Unity.ApplicationsLens.display-available-apps

Display Apps Available for Download in the Applications lens.

''' 3. Display Recent Apps'''

    com.canonical.Unity.ApplicationsLens.display-recent-apps

Display Recently Used apps in the Applications lens.

'''4. Shortcut Hints Overlay'''

    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/shortcut_overlay

Enable Shortcut Hints Overlay

== Panel ==

'''1. Panel Opacity'''

    /apps/compiz-1/plugins/unityshell/screen0/options/panel_opacity

The opacity of the Panel background. (0.0 - 1.0)

