{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/unity/+spec/client-1404-unity7-gestures|client-1404-unity7-gestures]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': 24-Oct-2013
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[StephenMWebb|Stephen M. Webb]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': Unity, Nux

Improve and extend support for touchscreen multi-touch gestures in Unity.

=== Rationale ===

Additional multi-touch gesture handling added to the Launcher, Dash, and Switcher components of Unity7 to improve the Ubuntu desktop experience on modern hardware.

=== User stories ===

* Fred has purchased a new Microsoft™ Windows™ 8 compatible laptop with a multi-touch capable touchscreen, and wants to improve his experience by running Ubuntu.  He wants to be able to use the Dash and free WiFi on his commuter train to browse artwork from various sites while making up his sample book, and can't use a mouse. He needs to be able to expand and scroll results in the Dash, open and close previews, and drag-and-drop between the dash and other applications using the touchscreen.

* Wilma has a new convertible laptop with a detachable keyboard.  She docks the screen while in the office but takes it on the road as a tablet.  She wants to be able to open and navigate to her various productivity apps to prepare for appointments while travelling, all without a keyboard but by using the touchscreen.

=== Functional Checklist ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Component
| Gesture
| Action
| Status
|-
| Window Management
| 3-touch long hold
| toggle greedy mode
| not implemented
|-
| Window Management
| 3-touch drag
| move window
| works
|-
| Window Management
| 3-touch tap
| open the HUD
| not implemented^0^
|-
| Window Management
| 3-touch double tap
| switch to previous window (alt-tab)
| works^1^
|-
| Window Management
| 3-touch tap then drag
| open Switcher with focus on previous window
| implemented^2^
|-
| Window Management
| 3-touch pinch
| maximize/unmaximize window
| implemented^2^
|-
| Dash
| 4-touch tap
| open/close the Dash
| works
|-
| Launcher
| 1-touch edge drag
| reveal the Launcher
| not implemented^3^
|}

''notes''

 ^0^ Original designs as implemented have the 3-touch tap bring up the move handles to move or resize windows.  Perhaps a different gesture for opening the HUD should be designated.

 ^1^ Switcher flashes on the screen ... may be a bug?

 ^2^ Code is present but does not work on test hardware (may be a bug in OIF stack).

 ^3^ Edge drags may not be physiologically practical on desktop form factors.

----
CategorySpec
