{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The page lists some of the known issues with the unity session after the Ubuntu Desktop move to GNOME

gnome-user-share

* gnome-user-share in Ubuntu 18.04 no longer provides a Personal File Sharing dialog. Maybe mate-user-share can be adapted to work instead.

Remote Desktop Sharing

* The latest version of vino drops the Desktop Sharing dialog because GNOME offers an integrated Settings > Sharing > Remote Desktop panel.

No online accounts

* unity-control-center and the unity dash were integrated with Ubuntu Online Accounts which was removed from Ubuntu. GNOME offers GNOME Online Accounts.
* Tracked on Trello: https://trello.com/c/2cMgendl

libinput

* GNOME (and others desktops) have been moving to libinput but Unity didn't and installing the old driver leads to non working mouse settings under GNOME. 

The default GNOME applications might look less well integrated

* Ubuntu was carrying non trivial patches to some of its applications (nautilus, totem, ...) to look better under Unity, in particular restoring the use of a classic menubar and avoiding client side decorations when being used under an unity session. To reduce the maintenance work those are being removed.

Shared GSettings keys

* Some settings are shared between the sessions and needs to be separated
* Tracked on Trello: https://trello.com/c/2uAVLGcb

deja-dup settings panel

* deja-dup is now a separate app instead of integrated into the Unity System Settings app.

unity launcher integration

* some applications are using libunity to integrate with the unity launcher (nautilus to display a progress bar on copies for example, deja-dup, update-manager) which forces us to keep that source in main

libappindicator

* to integrate with the unity indicator we build some code with libappindicator (update-notifier, vino, nmapplet, ...) which forces us to keep libindicator/libdbusmenu in main
