{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''Canonical stopped their support of Unity8 in April 2017. The desktop environment is now developed by the <nowiki>[[https://ubports.com|UBports Community]]</nowiki>.

* <nowiki>[[https://unity8.io|Unity8 website]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ubports/unity8|Code]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ubports/unity8/projects/1|Project Management]]</nowiki>

Development of the <nowiki>[[https://mir-server.io|Mir display server]]</nowiki> is continued by Canonical.'''

== The Unity 8 Desktop (Preview) ==

=== Introduction ===

The Unity 8 Desktop Preview is the new Unity 8 desktop shell running on the Mir display technology.  It's called a preview, because it's a pre-release view of technology and designs that are not yet ready for general consumption as a full desktop experience.  It's there for developers, and anyone else who is interested, to test and review how the Unity 8 stack works in the desktop experience with an eye to full Ubuntu convergence.

=== Getting the Unity 8 Desktop Preview ===

The Unity 8 desktop preview is available as an add-on package. To install it, open a terminal and type:

<pre>
    sudo apt install unity8-desktop-session
</pre>

After finishing the installation, simply log out and then select the Unity 8 session at the greeter prompt.

=== What to test ===
Try installing applications, using things, check out the store and scopes, etc.

=== Limitations ===

Unity 8 uses Mir display technology.  Proprietary video drivers do not yet offer the required level of support for Mir, so your experience if you're using the binary block nVidia or AMD drivers will be somewhat disappointing.

=== Reporting issues ===

Issues should be reported on launchpad, using the appropriate component. In doubt of what component is to blame for the issue, file the bug against <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity8-desktop-session|unity8-desktop-session]]</nowiki>.

==== Known issues ====

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/?field.tag=unity8-desktop|List of known issues]]</nowiki>

=== See Also ===

* <nowiki>[[Unity8Desktop-PreviewSpecification|Desktop Preview Session Specification]]</nowiki>
