{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:client-t-unity7-polish
* '''Created''': 2013-09-30
* '''Contributors''': The <nowiki>[[UnityMaintenanceTeam|Unity maintenance team]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': Many packages will be affected.  See individual breakdown pages.

=== Summary ===

The 14.04 release of Ubuntu is a long-term support release.  That means there are people who are going to be using it until the year 2020, so a solid, reliable, dependable release is mandatory.  That's the first and primary goal of this release.

Today's current hardware rends for the desktop form factor are heavily influenced by the mobile world:  touchscreens and tablet convertibles are common and a growing segment of the installed base.  A desktop environment that works seamlessly and well on such hardware will be the second goal of the 14.04 release.

=== Release Note ===

Targeted release goals for the Ubuntu 14.04 Unity7 Desktop include but are not limited to the following.

* <nowiki>[[Unity7ShellGestures|improved touchscreen gesture support in the Unity Dash and Launcher,]]</nowiki> with emphasis on Switcher and scrolling in the Dash
* <nowiki>[[Unity7AppGestures|improved touchscreen gesture support for desktop applications]]</nowiki> -- ''Ginn 2.0 in Universe as a community project, crowdsourced configs for arbitraty applications''
* <nowiki>[[Unity7FormFactorChanges|improved support for form factor changes such as screen rotations and keyboard removal]]</nowiki> -- ''postponed until Unity8''
* <nowiki>[[Unity7ShellPolish|additional thematic polish for the Unity7 shell]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Unity7GreeterPolish|greeter polish]]</nowiki>, including a <nowiki>[[Unity7GreeterPolish-LockScreen|Unity7-themed lockscreen]]</nowiki> -- ''GTK Unity Greeter may be replaced by Unity8 Greeter for 14.04''

Of course, ongoing bug fixing will continue as always.

----
CategorySpec
