{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Unity Feature Walkthrough ==

Unity is a big and interesting change for Ubuntu users. For users of Ubuntu 10.10 they are going to get an exciting new interface and I would love to have an awesome feature guide that explains how things work in Unity as well as detailed feature lists for the different parts of Unity.

This strikes me as an awesome community project for us to work together on. I think we could produce a really fun and visual screenshot guide that explains all these benefits when we release.

==== How To Take Part ====

Easy! Edit this wiki page and contribute! Please try to use good grammar and check your spelling.

Please add a screenshot for each feature and make sure screenshots are:

* Using the default theme/icon/wallpaper.
* Are clean and professional.

== The guide ==

=== Overview ===

==== An Introduction To Unity ====

Different parts of the interface.

explaining how windows maximize into the panel

explaining the global menu

notification bubbles

==== The Launcher ====

how it works

how to access it

keeping apps in there

==== Starting and Finding Apps ====

Apps place.

Launcher.

==== File Management ====

Files place.

====  ====

====  ====

=== Detailed Features ===

==== Launcher ====

==== Dash ====

==== Places ====

==== Indicators ====

general indicator info - simple to use, accessible etc

sound

network
