{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="width: 600px; background-color: #FFFFAA;"> /!\ '''Notice:''' The information on this page is likely to change soon as we switch our development focus to the !UnityNext project.  For more information about !UnityNext, please read <nowiki>[[UnityNextSpec|the spec]]</nowiki>.
|}

The wiki documentation is targeting technical users, if you want to get an overview of Unity you might be interested ready those:

* <nowiki>[[http://unity.ubuntu.com|Unity Homepage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:Unity_Architecture.pdf|Unity Architecture]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Unity-Lenses | Unity Lenses]]</nowiki> - Information for developers for implementing Unity Lenses, which are plugabble elements to the Unity Dash.
* <nowiki>[[Unity-HUD | Unity HUD]]</nowiki> - '''[Experimental]''' Information for developers for integrating with the Unity HUD, which is an intent-driven alternate interface to application menus.
* <nowiki>[[Unity-Bitesize|Unity Bitesize Bugs]]</nowiki> - A great place for new hackers to contribute improvements and fixes.
* <nowiki>[[Unity-CodingStyle|Coding Style Guidelines]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Unity-CodeReviews|Standards for Unity Code Reviews (Merge Proposals)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Unity-LauncherAPI|Launcher Integration]]</nowiki> - For application developers that want to add progress bars and other "overlays" onto their icon in the Unity Launcher
* <nowiki>[[Unity-Theming|Theming Unity]]</nowiki> - For theme writers, how to write themes for unity

=== Frequently Asked Questions ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DemystifyingUnityGraphicsHardwareRequirements|Hardware Requirements]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/29553/how-can-i-configure-unity|How to configure Unity]]</nowiki> - For Natty we're concentrating on shipping good defaults, however you can still change some things around.
* <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/10228/whats-the-right-terminology-for-unitys-ui-elements/19166#19166|Unity Terminology]]</nowiki> - this page explains what we call the different parts of the UI
* <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/28086/unity-keyboard-mouse-shortcuts|Keyboard Shortcuts]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/InstallationGuideFromSource|Building Unity from Source]]</nowiki> - For developers who want to learn how to build Unity and Nux.
* <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/tags/unity/faq|Full FAQ]]</nowiki>

=== How and where to file bugs ===

==== Crash bugs ====
The most valuable bug reports are crash reports. 

After installing, enable apport: edit /etc/default/apport, set enabled=1 and restart you computer. Once activated the system should detect crashes and prompt you to report those.

==== Non crash bugs ====

The best way to log a bug is to use this command:

<pre>
ubuntu-bug unity
</pre>

It will collect the required details and send you to launchpad to write your bug description.

(If you build Unity from source or want to open a bug without using ubuntu-bug please follow <nowiki>[[Unity-FilingBugs|this guide]]</nowiki>)

==== Window matching problems ====

If you notice a problem with an application icon in the launcher (blurry icon, pinning not working, etc.), Unity is probably having some problems matching the window to the correct .desktop file. Please edit <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/WindowMatching|this wiki page]]</nowiki> with the details of any problems of this kind you find.

=== How to Contribute to Unity ===

http://unity.ubuntu.com/getinvolved/ has instructions on how to get the code and hack on it.

=== Support ===

* Please consult the <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-UnityHardwareRequirements|Hardware Requirements for Unity]]</nowiki>.
* To report bugs: see <nowiki>[[Unity-FilingBugs]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryDocumentation CategoryDocteam
