{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~unnikrishnan|unnikrishnan]]</nowiki>
|-
| Location:
| India, Kerala
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=143695|webofunni]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-mail''':
| unnikrishnan[DOT]a[AT]gmail[DOT]com
|-
| '''Website''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.mutexes.org]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===

I am a Linux administrator from India. I have completed 4 years in my professional life and at present I am working in IBM india. I started using Linux in my college days. It is a real fun to setup or solve the issues in Linux. 

I am interested in OS level programming, web designing and photography. I am an occasional gamer and a big fan of movies ( both Hollywood and local ). I am learning device driver development and my long term goal is to move in to OS level development from system administrator side. 

=== Ubuntu Participation ===

I started using Linux in my college days. Ubuntu was the first distro that I started to use. The ease of installation helped me at that time. But later in my life I moved to Arch Linux to get more exposure to linux, because Ubuntu become too much user friendly :-). Now I am running both Ubuntu and Arch in my netbook and Laptop respectively. 

I am a member of Ubuntu India local groups and used to help students and other people coming to Linux and Ubuntu. Helping other people educates myself and helps to build relationships. I am interested to help people in Ubuntu forums and also to do technical things like packaging etc to gain more technical knowledge. 

=== Long-Term (computing) Plans ===

As I mentioned my long term goal is to become more active in OS level development and system/application coding. My interest includes C, Python, bash and perl programming. I am developing my coding skills and I believe I can participate in opensource application/OS development in near future. 

----
