{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''As of UNR 9.10 These instructions are out of date. Instead use <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick|these]]</nowiki>.'''

Currently, using the Jaunty Daily live-image is the recommended way of putting UNR on your device. It's based on the standard Ubuntu install and will give you the latest drivers and truest-to-Ubuntu experience. 

==== How-to ====

===== Downloading the Image =====

'''5/12/2009 - Note that the daily builds for UNR are broken. For the time being use the Jaunty 9.04 image. http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download-netbook'''

The UNR Jaunty image (.img) and release notes are now available at http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook-remix/daily-live/current/. To install, do the following:
1. For .img, save image to disk from http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook-remix/daily-live/current/
** make bootable USB key using Usb Imagewriter or dd command line
** boot the device with USB key and install UNR
The following steps detail getting your downloaded .img file to a USB key, either with the usb-imagewriter gui tool or the "old" way in a terminal via commandline.

===== Writing the Image =====

====== Easy (graphical) Way ======

Click on the download link below to get the usb-imagewriter package. Firefox will offer you to either download the file or, as default action, to open it with the gdebi package installer. Keep the default action here and click ok.

<nowiki>[[http://ppa.launchpad.net/ogra/ubuntu/pool/main/u/usb-imagewriter/usb-imagewriter_0.1.3-0ubuntu1~intrepid~ppa1_all.deb|Download]]</nowiki> usb-imagewriter here

After gdebi finished you will find a new starter in your menu at '''Applications -> Accessories -> Image Writer'''

Put the USB Key you want to write the image to into your USB port (give the system a second to recognize it)

Then run the Image Writer tool, select the downloaded image, select the target device and click on "Write to device".

Now just wait until the tool tells you you can remove the key, if you want to see the details of the copying process you can open the details window during operation.

More details, screenshots etc. about usb-imagewriter can be found <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/usb-imagewriter|here]]</nowiki>

If you find any bugs in the tool, please report them <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/usb-imagewriter/+filebug|here]]</nowiki>

====== Harder (commandline) way ======

======= From commandline with dd =======

# Download the image to your disk.
# Open a terminal and plug in your USB key
# Run the dmesg command to find the devicename the kernel assigned to it.
# In the terminal run: <pre>
sudo dd if=/path/to/your/downloaded.img of=/dev/device/you/saw/in/dmesg bs=1M </pre>
1. Wait until your prompt returns, unplug the USB key.

======= From Windows with Image Writer for Windows (GUI based tool) =======

For me the flashnul tool didn't produce a bootable USB stick. That's why I used <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/win32-image-writer/+download|Image Writer for Windows]]</nowiki> to create the bootable USB stick. Just download, unzip, start the .exe - the rest is self evident. Here is an other <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromImgFiles#Windows|guide to use Image Writer for Windows]]</nowiki>.

======= From Windows Command Prompt using flashnul =======

1. Download the image to your disk.
2. Download flashnul from http://shounen.ru/soft/flashnul/
3. At the command prompt run:  <pre>
flashnul -p </pre>
4. Note the drive letter for the target USB disk.
5. At the command prompt run:  <pre>
flashnul <letter obtained in prior step>: -L \path\to\unr-<version>.img
</pre>
6. Answer "yes" after verifying the destination device.

Booting from such a USB key will let you install Ubuntu Netbook Remix on your device.
