{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Current Situation ==
The current update system which update-manager and update-notifier works quite well. Update Notifier does the update checking and displays a neat little icon in the systray.

When the icon is clicked it opens up Update Manager to display a list with updates with changelogs, and button to install them.

I beg to differ.  Please see blog article "Recent GNOME panel apps" at http://www.linuxjournal.com which expresses the feeling a lot of us have about the nag messages from update manager that are impossible to turn off and impossible to respond to unless you are root or an admin.  The update manager probably has no business being in the systray.

== Main thoughts ==

* Update Manger doesn't really have frontend-backend seperation. We should seperate it so more frontends can be made.
* We should clean up the code, and maybe split the package into a library and multiple frontend GUI's (GNOME and KDE) (rewrite?)

Possible features:

* Display a dialog at the start of Update Manager to show the progress of the initialization. (requires some hacking in python-apt)
* Option to fetch all changelogs at initialization (already possible --download-changes-at-startup, but seems to have a bug right now)
* Show a loading cursor when doing something.
* HIGify dialogs.
* Integrate with gnome-app-install desktop files? This way we can draw little icons next to applications.
* Do installation of packages by itself, not with the help of Synaptic (should be more responsive in user views)
* Add filters (applications, libraries, etc.)

== Client/Frontend seperation ==
It would be nice to have a LibUpdateManager or equilevant as a python library. (Yeah we need a better name for it, suggestions?)

Some random thoughts:

* For Breezy, we might be able to integrate python-apt changes in LibUpdateManager so it can install the updates without the need of Synaptic. This way other GUI toolkits won't have to use a GNOME package manager to install the updates. 

The lib should be able to:

* check for updates
* select/deselect updates
* install updates
* configure apt's config variables (update checking etc.)

From shermann Thu May 12 09:30:27 +0100 2005
From: shermann
Date: Thu, 12 May 2005 09:30:27 +0100
Subject: python-apt Progress implementation thoughts
Message-ID: <20050512093027+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

As I discussed this issue with Michael Vogt, we should think about implementing the progress stuff as callback methods. So, we can use the normal processEvent() queues from gnome or kde.
I was thinking about an implementation like the one in the BitTorrent Python API. 

CategoryArchive
