{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== FAQ ==

=== Disaster recovery ===

In case a power failure happens during a upgrade, the system will be in a pretty bad state. The following
should make it easier to recover:

For hardy (8.04), please boot into recovery mode, select root shell and then run:
<pre>
$ wget http://launchpadlibrarian.net/14251233/friendly-recovery_0.2%7Eppa1_all.deb
$ dpkg -i friendly-recovery_0.2~ppa1_all.deb
$ exit
</pre>
then there should be a "Repair broken packages" option. Please use that option to bring the system back into better shape. The repair option is a default feature of 8.10 (but did not make it for 8.04).

=== Upgrade modes ===

When a release upgrade is performed there are two modes of operation:
* desktop 
* server

Those can be controlled via "update-manager --mode" or "do-release-upgrade --mode".

In "desktop" mode the release-upgrader will care about meta-packages like ubuntu-desktop (or kubuntu-desktop), ubuntu-standard etc. If they are missing, it will put them back. 

In "server" mode it will ignore meta-packages and just do a "apt-get dist-upgrade" equivalent then. It will inspect the installed tasks and update them (if needed).

=== Upgrade gui ===

There are also different user interfaces for the release upgrader. Those can be changed via "--frontend" and the following are available "DistUpgradeViewText", "DistUpgradeViewGtk", "DistUpgradeViewKDE". 

=== Defaults ===

When running "update-manager" it will run the release upgrader with "gui=gtk" and "mode=desktop" by default. 

When running "do-release-upgrade" it will run with "gui=text" and "mode=server" by default.
