{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:update-manager-app-view
* '''Packages affected''': update-manager, app-install-data

=== Summary ===

Abstracting packages on the application/section level in update-manager.

=== Release Note ===

The view of available updates has been simplified. Instead of all the software core and technical package names you now get a list of applications and system components that needs to be updated. Furthermore a notification informs you which application has to be restarted after the update. 

=== Rationale ===

We already provide an application abstraction for software with gnome-app-install. But in update-manager the user still faces the technical package names. The idea is too reduce and simplify the list with terms the user already knows.

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

The alternate list of available updates is created by collecting all applications that are included in the corresponding binary package. Furthermore we hide all packages that do not contain any application if another binary package of the common source package is already listed (aka. contains an application). All other packages are grouped by their section: e.g. libgtk-2.0, libglade2, libgnomevfs would summarized under a single update "GNOME Desktop components".

Finally making use of the Exec attribute of the application we could look if an updated application is currently running. If so the user would get a notifcation to restart the application.

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

N/a.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
