{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Don't edit this page directly''' - please see <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/upgradewizard|the Upgrade Wizard project page]]</nowiki>. Questions/suggestions are welcome <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/upgradewizard/+addquestion|on Launchpad]]</nowiki> or on <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-upgrade-wizard|IRC]]</nowiki>.

== Welcome ! ==
The Ubuntu Upgrade Wizard is a guide built using wiki pages to help you decide if you should upgrade your current Ubuntu version and choose the best way to do it. Reading through these pages you will be guided through a few steps until reaching a recommended upgrade path. The following resources may also be useful to you:
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes|Complete upgrade instructions for any Ubuntu version]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading|Upgrading to the current Ubuntu stable version (9.10)]]</nowiki> - only possible if you're using Ubuntu 9.04.
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades|Upgrading to the current Ubuntu development version (Lucid Lynx, 10.04 LTS)]]</nowiki> - possible if you're using Ubuntu 8.04 LTS or Ubuntu 9.10.

=== Requirements and preparation ===
Before attempting a full Ubuntu distribution upgrade make sure:
* You have a proper backup of important data
* Your system exceeds <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/9.10/installation-guide/i386/minimum-hardware-reqts.html|disk space requirements]]</nowiki>
* You have enough time to perform the update. If you already have a USB, CD or DVD installer, time will vary between 15 minutes to an hour or so, depending on hardware and network conditions.

'''>> <nowiki>[[UpgradeWizard-Version|Step 1-3: What version of Ubuntu do you currently have ?]]</nowiki>'''<<BR>>
''(further steps will be proposed depending on your choices)''
