{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

To be carried out by: QA Team

Goals:
* Discover any major issues relating to an upgrade from the current stable release to the current development release
* Ensure that these issues are appropriately recorded and brought to the attention of the release team

=== Summary ===

The means to find upgrade problems are automatic testing, manual testing and user feedback.

The tests should cover:
* the ReleaseUpgrader (update-manager -d) 
* CDROM upgrades (sh /cdrom/cdromupgrade)
* CDROM only upgrades (CDROM install without network, CDROM upgrade without network)
* manual upgrades (apt-get dist-upgrade)

=== Manual testing ===

This test covers: package upgrade issues, maintainer script failures, hardware regressions, and bugs in the ReleaseUpgrader.

==== Network upgrade ====

# Perform a regular ubuntu install (preferably in a VM that can be snapshotted), or restore a snapshot to get a clean system state.
# Run: <pre>
$ update-manager -d 
</pre>
# check if the ReleaseUpgrade button shows up.
# click on upgrade, check the release notes, check the text of the ReleaseUpgrader
# wait for the dialog box that comes up and shows the calculated upgrade
# do a sanity check over the changes 
# run the upgrade
# report/fix any failures and repeat 

==== CD upgrade ====

# Install from CD without network access (or restore a snapshot)
# Insert a CD and wait for update-notifier to come up with a dialog asking about the upgrade.
# Check if the upgrade can be calculated, if the calculated upgrade makes sense and if it actually works.

==== Command-line upgrade ====

The apt-get dist-upgrade test uses a fresh install too. Then the sources.list is modified and apt-get dist-upgrade is run. Check if ubuntu-desktop is cleanly upgraded and if the output looks sane, if not. Check with apt-get dist-upgrade -o Debug::pkgProblemResolver=true -o Debug::pkgDepCache::AutoInstall=true why not. Report/fix any problems here and then run the actual upgrade. Check for failures and report/fix them.

=== Automatic testing ===

The AutoDistUpgradeTestingSpec describes the plans for feisty. We will have a automatic test in the datacenter that will test {ubuntu,kubuntu,edubuntu,xubuntu}-desktop upgrades, server upgrades and most-of-main upgrades. Failures will be sent to the test-failure mailing list. The test will be run in a chroot initially (maybe later in some form of VM). 

This test covers: package upgrade issues, override problems, certain maintainer script failures, certain dependency issues.

=== User feedback ===

We should encourage users to test the upgrade. The spec UbuntuSpec:scalable-installation-testing covers what needs to be done here. 

=== Reporting upgrade problems ===

All upgrade problems should be tagged with $dist-upgrade and/or $dist-regression, targeted to the distribution release and monitored by the release team as high priority items that need to be resolved before the release.

----
CategoryProcess
