{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Uphaar Agrawalla ==

=== Myself ===
Hi! I am an IT student from India. I have just given the final semester exams of the 4-year engineering degree, so gonna be a graduate soon. I plan to get a job and start working as a software engineer.

=== Interests ===

Computers and Internet - I'm pretty much addicted to these :-)
Close in comes music, and then movies.
I've been learning Python/PyGTK lately and found it very interesting. Hopefully I'll make something useful with it in the future. I also like making websites, and made a PHP-based site. I'm hoping to make a python-based site sometime soon.

I also designed the website (frontend and backend) for the little Spread Firefox GMail Project - which aimed to give donated GMail invitations to people in exchange for a Firefox button/banner on their site. We managed to approve over 1500 applicants through the system, and in those days Gmail invitations used to be scarce.

=== Ubuntu & Me ===

Well, interesting subject... atleast for me :-) I heard about Ubuntu first on #gnome-love on GIMPNet and came to know that they ship free CDs. I had always used Red Hat distros (upto RH9, and then FC) - so although I ordered some CDs I wasn't really excited about it.

I never got the CDs, and I didnt have latest Fedora so I downloaded Ubuntu Warty - being just a single CD distro compared to 4. And as soon as the install finished... I was just amazed! Hadn't used a beautiful and polished distro before. The colors were refreshing a well, not the same old blue theme base like Fedora (and Windows) used.

After using Ubuntu for a while, I started telling my friends about it, and now some are happily using it. A lot of them tried out the LiveCD and loved it - their perception of Linux being a not-so-pleasing-and-comfortable OS has changed a lot now (they are Windows & Mac users primarily).

=== Contributions to Ubuntu ===

===== Support =====
I visit the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> regularly and had made several posts with helping out people. (Haven't been much active lately because I had my semester exams and also having some hardware issues with my computer.)

I also sometimes spend time on #ubuntu helping people out.

===== Development =====
I've reported and helped in triaging a very few in Ubuntu Bugzilla so far, but hoping to do a lot more ahead. Also, I've started reporting Universe bugs with Malone now.

====== Relevant Links ======
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?do=finduser&u=5843|My Ubuntu Forums Posts]]</nowiki> (currently 75)

<nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&product=Ubuntu&long_desc_type=substring&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=allwords&keywords=&bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&bug_status=NEEDINFO&bug_status=UPSTREAM&bug_status=PENDINGUPLOAD&bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=VERIFIED&bug_status=CLOSED&resolution=FIXED&resolution=INVALID&resolution=WONTFIX&resolution=NOTABUG&resolution=NOTWARTY&resolution=UNIVERSE&resolution=LATER&resolution=REMIND&resolution=DUPLICATE&resolution=WORKSFORME&resolution=MOVED&resolution=---&emailtype1=substring&email1=&emailassigned_to2=1&emailreporter2=1&emailqa_contact2=1&emailcc2=1&emaillongdesc2=1&emailtype2=substring&email2=euphaar%40gmail.com&bugidtype=include&bug_id=&votes=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&cmdtype=doit&order=Reuse+same+sort+as+last+time&field0-0-0=noop&type0-0-0=noop&value0-0-0=|Bugzilla Bugs List]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/people/euphaar/+reportedbugs|Launchpad Bugs List]]</nowiki>

=== Contact ===
 1. e-mail: euphaar [@] gmail [.] com
 2. IRC Nick: ups
----
CategoryHomepage
