{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-lucid-upstream-documentation
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': 
* '''See also''': SpecTemplate

=== Summary ===

The /Upstream namespace needs to be defined and made useful to become "the place where Upstreams come to learn about Ubuntu and how to work with us".

=== Rationale ===

There is no single place where any upstream can find out how Ubuntu development works. They have no idea how MOTUs, SRU's, and all the processes relate to them so they have to go digging and asking people for information that is spread all over the Ubuntu wiki. The /Upstream namespace will be the "Guide for Upstreams".

=== Use Cases ===

* Bruce is an upstream that has a critical fix for his app that ships in Ubuntu, he has no idea what an SRU is and how to proceed. 
* Janick is a new upstream who is trying to get into Ubuntu. He has no idea how Debian figures into the equation or who to talk to for packaging help. 
* Steve is an Ubuntu user who wants to get Janick's application into Ubuntu, but he doesn't know how to do it either, however he is motivated to help if he has the right instructions. (This is kind of covered by Upstream Contacts but they're related so I am mentioning it here)
* Nicko runs his own third party repository but wishes he had something more "official" and something to take the infrastructure burden off of his project. Maintaining his own project in Ubuntu would be ideal, but a search just shows the packaging guide, he doesn't know where to look for becoming an Ubuntu contributor.
* Adrian is an upstream who just wants to code and not care about distribution packages, he does however want to look at bugs and patches coming in from Ubuntu. He has no idea where to find out where Ubuntu keeps it's patches or who his upstream contact is.
* Steve knows Ubuntu LTS is coming but has no idea where to find out when freezes and release dates are published. 

=== Scope ===

* For Lucid we will consolidate the links of all steps of being an Ubuntu developer as it relates to upstreams in one place, the /Upstream namespace.

=== Design ===

 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Upstream

* Requirements gathering (Jorge)
** The basics (CoC, governance)
** How to contact Ubuntu developers.
*** How to escalate to an upstream contact and/or jcastro if something is totally hosed.
** Day-to-day things upstreams need to know (SRUs, security, etc)
** How we release
*** Time based releases
*** Freezes
** Fixing things in Ubuntu
*** Finding an upstream contact (or appointing one)
*** How to find bugs and patches.
*** Workflow diagrams.
*** core-dev and -dev processes so they get an idea of how things work.
** Things upstreams should tell Ubuntu users to lessen the noise upstreams deal with.
*** Pointers to how to file bugs
*** How to link bugs upstream
*** Helping filter out junk bugs from inexperienced users.
*** How to get their package from Ubuntu.
*** Pointers to PPA resources in general.
