{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu for Upstream Developers ==

This page is for upstream software authors that will hopefully answer your questions on how to work Ubuntu. Work in progress, dive in or contact me. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jorge]]</nowiki> 
=== Getting Your Software in Ubuntu ===
* <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide|Packaging Guide]]</nowiki> - This guide teaches you how to package your software for Ubuntu.
* Working with Ubuntu Developers - Follow the <nowiki>[[MOTU-GettingStarted]]</nowiki> page to learn about the Ubuntu development process.
* Things you need to know about Ubuntu
** <nowiki>[[ReleaseSchedule|Release Schedule]]</nowiki>

=== Maintaining Your Software in Ubuntu ===

* Ubuntu <nowiki>[[StableReleaseUpdates|Stable Release Update]]</nowiki> Policy - This document covers how we maintain your software after a release of Ubuntu. 
* Typical workflow, etc.
* <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam-UpdateProcedures|Preparing Security Updates]]</nowiki> for your software, also see the general <nowiki>[[Security|security]]</nowiki> section for more details.
* Make use of <nowiki>[[Upstream-AdoptingTemplate]]</nowiki> to organise your links.
* Get upload rights for your packages: <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers#PerPackage]]</nowiki>.

=== Resources Available to You ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+ppas|Personal Package Archives]]</nowiki> - PPAs are a delivery mechanism you can use to get your software out to users. (<nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Packaging/PPA|Docs]]</nowiki>)
* Contacting Ubuntu Developers
* I have a question!

----
CategoryUpstream
