{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-lucid-upstream-contacts
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': 
* '''See also''': SpecTemplate

=== Summary ===

We would like upstream contacts for major projects in Ubuntu so that we can communicate with upstreams more effectively.

=== Rationale ===

Upstreams need a "person in ubuntu" who can communicate roadmaps, bug and patch workflow, and general relations 

=== Use Cases ===

** James cares about an application but notices that bugs and patches aren't being forwarded upstream and in general that there isn't good communication between the 2 projects, so he reads up on the contacts guide and implements the changes to workflow.
** Kirk is an upstream who is frustrated with an old snapshot of his application in Ubuntu, so he sees that Joe is listed as his upstream contact and they work together to update the app or set up a PPA.
** Lars notices from a UDS spec that a change in Ubuntu affects an upstream project he is a contact for, he posts to the development mailing list upstream to start off a discussion on how this will affect them.
** Robert is an upstream who notices a gaping security hole in his application and doesn't know who in Ubuntu to contact, so he asks his upstream contact to get him in touch with the security team.

=== Scope ===

The work in Lucid will clarify the responsibilities and expectations of this role.

=== Design ===

** Clean up and finish the wiki page at <nowiki>[[Upstream-Contacts]]</nowiki>. Need to define the role better. [jorge]
** Announce to an internal ubuntu mailing list what the plan and ideas are.
** Use hggdh2 as a volunteer for an upstream to test the workflow.
*** Pick a friendly upstream to "test" workflow with, making it clear that we're just starting this and to expect a cycle to nail down the problems.
*** Use the results of this to adjust the role responsibilities.
** Launch as an official "drive to get volunteers"
   
