{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== What is the Uptime Project? ==

The Uptime-Project is a Fun-Project. Using their service you can collect all your uptime-data (your computer's uptime) and compete against other users.

This is beneficial to Ubuntu as it is another form of passive advertisement.

The Ubuntu league can be found here http://ubuntu.league.uptime-project.net

In order to report your 'uptime' you need do download a client.  The current recommended client for a 32-bit processor (most people) is "Yasuc".

=== To Install: ===

Ensure you have 'joined' Uptime-Project and the ubuntu league at 
http://ubuntu.league.uptime-project.net

==== Open a terminal window. ====
	Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal

==== Download the client (check http://en.uptime-project.net/geturl.php?id=2 for latest client) ====
	In the terminal type:
	wget http://www.i-glyphix.net/files/yasuc-0.4.1_x86_linux.tar.bz2

==== Extract it - rename to fit current version ====
	type:
	tar xjvf yasuc-0.4.1_x86_linux.tar.bz2

==== Start Install ====
	type
	cd dist/yasuc-0.4.1/
	sudo ./install.sh

==== Enter your username and password ====
	sudo gedit /etc/yasuc.conf

==== Update our uptime automatically ====
Make it a 'cron' job - scheduled task to it automatically updates
	sudo crontab -e
	40 * * * * /bin/yasuc
Then press :wq to save

All done
----
CategoryArchive
