{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

We have tested one person with two installations in two Compaq Laptops.
* In the install Party of the Karmic Release Party of The CatalanTeam in Lleida. <nowiki>[[CatalanTeam-KarmicKoala]]</nowiki>.
* Testers: another_sam, redoxkun and crazyserver
* Our target: <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/redoxkun/4085790415/in/photostream/]]</nowiki>

=== Test one ===
Kubuntu 9.10 on Compaq Presario Centrino Duo Laptop
1. Kubuntu installer: confusing message "unable to read block ..." that it means  "The CD is damaged or the CD player is damaged".
** <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/22347/]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/478489]]</nowiki>
# Kubuntu have been installed completely and correctly in a Compaq Presario Centrino Duo Laptop.
# Firefox installation from the apps menu in Kubuntu does not work, we have to user KPackageKit instead.
** Question at ubuntu forums: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1318601]]</nowiki>
** Fixed for 10.04: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kubuntu-firefox-installer/+bug/439431]]</nowiki>
1. In Kubuntu, virtualbox-ose-qt installs 3 dependencies but not virtuabox-ose-source, why?
** In Ubuntu virtualbox-ose-qt takes virtuabox-ose-source. How strange!

=== Test two ===
Ubuntu 9.10 on Compaq Presario R3000
1. In Ubuntu on a Compaq Presario R3000 wifi does not work we have to install <nowiki>[[http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43]]</nowiki>. Automatic detection and installation will be better.
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1318646]]</nowiki>
1. In Ubuntu if you install Opera from a .deb does not appears in Ubuntu Software Center
** Will be fixed for 10.10: <nowiki>[[SoftwareCenter#October 2010]]</nowiki>
