{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/90552
* '''Ubuntuforums:''' http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=378395
* '''Created''': 2007-03-07 by PauloTanimoto
* '''Contributors''': (please enter your username here)
* '''Packages affected''': none

== Proposal for Changing Download Descriptions ==

=== Summary ===
We propose to improve the descriptions of CD images on the Ubuntu downloads page.

=== Rationale ===
The current download descriptions are too technical for new users.  They also contain wording that might be misleading.  This can confuse users when trying to decide which image to download.  In the specific case of AMD64, it has reportedly caused some users to think the image was not appropriate for their Intel 64-bit capable processors. 

We want to improve the information on the download page to contribute to an easier decision process.  We hope this will decrease the chances of waste of time, patience, and Internet bandwidth for individuals who are considering migrating to Ubuntu.

=== Proposals ===
Note: At this stage we are merely brainstorming ideas for names and descriptions.  This is not the definitive version of this proposal.  In particular, we have to decide among 64-bit, AMD64, and x86_64.  It is likely that we will not change names, only the descriptions.

==== 32-bit / i386 / x86 ====
For almost all PCs. This includes most machines with Intel/AMD/etc type processors and almost all computers that run Microsoft Windows. Choose this if you are at all unsure.

==== 64-bit / AMD64 / x86_64 ====
You may download and install this image if you have an AMD or Intel processor that is 64-bit capable (see list below). However, the i386 version will work as well, as current 64-bit processors can also run 32-bit applications.

List of 64-bit capable processors: Any AMD64.  Intel includes Xeon, Core 2, Pentium 4, Pentium D, and others tagged with EM64T.

=== References ===
* '''Current descriptions:''' http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/edgy/release/
* '''Plain English:''' http://www.plainenglish.co.uk/
* '''Wikipedia - x86_64:''' http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64
