{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': https://launchpad.net/products/ubuntu-website/+spec/usability-downloadiso
* '''Created''': 2006-08-01 by MatthewNuzum
* '''Contributors''': MatthewNuzum
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
The goal is to test the Ubuntu website to see if we can make it easier for people to download the Ubuntu CD Image.

=== Rationale ===
The Ubuntu website is largely made up by highly technical and web-savy users. However Ubuntu seeks to be accessible to potential users of all skill levels. Sometimes we create processes that seem logical to us but confuse those with out the same level of experience. The only way to fix these prblems is to find them, and because we dont perceive them as problems, the only way to find them is to enlist target users and watch what they do.

=== Use cases ===
* Jane read an article in a PC magazine which gave Ubuntu an excellent review. She didn't really know that there was an alternative to Windows and wants to find out more. The magazine article indicated that she could download the program at www.ubuntu.com. Jane uses her computer now for basic word-processing, e-mail and web-surfing.
* Tom has been using Linux for years. The buzz about Ubuntu has grown to the point where he needs to finally see what this is about. He has some time  and an AMD64 based work station allocated at work and wants to get started right away. Tom is a network admin and dabbles with computer programming.
* Rick has owned his G4 laptop for 2 years now. He wants to add some life to his old computer and has heard about Ubuntu. He is not very technical and mainly surfs the web and plays games with his computer.

Here we see 8 characteristics we'd like to test for:
 1. x86 PC based computers
 2. G4 based computers
 3. AMD64 based computers
 4. Typical busines-use computers (Jane)
 5. Technical enthusiasts (Tom)
 6. Neophytes (Rick)
 7. Men
 8. Women

=== Scope ===
There will be much usability testing going on, but each type of testing will be given a different spec. Please limit this spec to simply downloading the Ubuntu CD image. If the user has a fast-enough internet connection then you may test the process of creating a CD from the CD image.

=== Design ===
==== Data ====
For each test, please collect the following data before testing begins:
* Gender (man, woman)
* How they rate their technical competency (maybe on a scale of 1 - 10 where 10 means they are very competent, or maybe it would be better to use wording like "novice," "comfortable" and "expert")
* What type of computer platform they use. They may not be able to answer this, if so, don't push for it. They may answer "Dell" and that's fine)
* How they typically use a computer (web surfing, e-mail, work)

During the test, make notes about questions they ask, points where the tester is verbally or visibly frustrated, items that slow them down or confuse them. If they make incorrect decissions or assumptions make note about what they did, what they should have done and what contributed to the poor choice.

After the test, rate wither they were successful, how long it took to get to the CD Download step (where the cd image actually started downloading), how many clicks it took (this may be tricky if you're writing though; if you aproximate, please indicate that your number is an estimate) and describe what can be done to make the process easier for this particular user.

If the test includes the step of burning the cd, please note the same data for this but completley separate from the above results. Treat this as a separate test.
==== Scenario ====
You recently read a magazine article that gave Ubuntu an excellent review. The article explained that Ubuntu Linux is an alternative to Windows and Mac OS and that you can visit the www.ubuntu.com website to download a CD. You can then evaluate the program without having to actually install it on your computer. When you're done you can remove the CD from the computer and it will revert back to its prior operation.

Since this is a no-risk scenario, you've decided to give it a try. You must have a blank cd-r disk and the hardware to burn a CD. You also need a fast-internet connection as the download is big.

The Ubuntu team wants to make the process of downloading the CD as easy as possible. We feel that what we have now can be improved upon. Therefore we are asking people of all skill levels to try out this process while we watch. Because most people do not have someone from the Ubuntu team there in the room with them, we'd like you to pretend that you're on your own. That way we can qietly watch to see what portions of the process are tricky or need better explanation. If you fail or get stuck, that's OK. We think we can make things better than they are now and only through your difficulties can we see how best to do this.

We ask that you think out-loud as we watch. Tell us what you're thinking, why you're making the choices you make, if you get frustrated and if there are things you feel work well. This will help us understand the process better.

Again, we cannot answer your questions as you test; we want to simulate what a typical user has to do.

=== Implementation ===
Do not set the user up for complete failure... if the user has no CD-R drive or a blank disk, evalute the process of testing ShipIt instead.

If the user can download CD-images in the amount of time you want to allocate, feel free to watch them as they burn the CD image to a disk. Please note this as separate time.

----
CategorySpec
