{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/prefetch-files-to-usb
* '''Created''': 2006-03-21 by David
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Allow ubuntu to prefetch system files to an external USB flash drive to allow for quicker boot ups, less strain on the  HDD and possibly cut power consumption?

=== Rationale ===

* Michael wants his desktop to start up quick and programs to load faster.  He plugs in a spare USB drive he has kicking around and notices speed increases on next reboot.

=== Changes ===
Ubuntu would need to prefetch programs that are commonly used and move those files to a USB flash drive.  If such a system were to be more simply implemented, then just certain system files would need to be cached.  The files would have to be readonly files so that if the drive were to be suddenly removed, no data would be lost and the files could be loaded from HDD if needed.

=== Discussion ===

* This will be a needed feature if ubuntu wants to stay competitive on modern markets. Faster and larger Flash drives will show up. They will no longer be solely external and will be the method to counteract the slowest component of a modern PC, "The hard disk". Interesting Video on this topic is from Channel 9 interviewing Michael Fortin on Windows Vista <nowiki>[[http://channel9.msdn.com/Showpost.aspx?postid=242429|SuperFetch]]</nowiki>. explaining benefits and problems. ( By finalbeta  )

* This probably should be considered alongside <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/fcache|fcache]]</nowiki>. fcache might actually be faster than a USB flash cache, as I understand that ''linear'' reads on HDDs are faster than on flash devices. -- SteveDodd
