{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foundations-karmic-usb-creator-for-windows
* '''Created''': 2009/05/08
* '''Contributors''': EvanDandrea
* '''Packages affected''': usb-creator

=== Summary ===

usb-creator will grow a Microsoft Windows backend.  Time permitting, it will gain an Apple OSX backend, but will not write a GUID partition table and do other OSX specific tasks until GRUB2 fully supports EFI on the Mac.

=== Release Note ===

You can now create Ubuntu USB images from Windows.

=== Rationale ===

The Mobile Team has specifically requested support for Windows and Mac OSX as download statistics have shown that a fair number of the people grabbing their image are running Windows.  They have written a tool for 9.04, but it only writes disk images and only works on Windows.  As usb-creator is already backend/frontend split, supports writing disk images in lp:~evand/usb-creator/future, and can use a single pyGTK frontend across all platforms, we will extend it to meet the needs of the Mobile Team.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

The following requirements came from the Mobile Team:

* usb-creator can write disk image files.
* usb-creator can write to SD cards.

=== Design ===

* The winui Python wrapper to MFC, originally created for Wubi, will be used to construct the interface.
* A Windows backend will be written.

=== Implementation ===
 
* Bundled by one of several available tools (http://faq.pygtk.org/index.py?file=faq21.005.htp&req=show), and possibly compressed using the -sfx option in 7z (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-extracting_archive).

==== Migration ====

There is no need to split usb-creator into multiple packages as a result of this specification.  The Windows and Mac executable will be built from the usb-creator source package and distributed independent of the Ubuntu archive.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

Booting from Ubuntu USB disks on Mac OSX has not worked in the past.  We will investigate the state of GRUB2's EFI support further to determine when we can make a reasonable effort at booting Ubuntu USB disks on Intel Macs.
* http://grub.enbug.org/TestingOnEFI

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
