{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''This page is probably out of date as of Intrepid due to input-hotplug'''.  If you update this page, please remove this message.
|}

=== How-to install an USB keyboard ===
''Due to the fact that many community forums posts cover problems connected with the installation of USB keyboards, a simple description of basic steps to gain access to this kind of USB devices follows.''

Please notice that this "how-to" covers problems appearing up to (and not included) the Linux log-in phase. Further explanations regarding USB keyboards problems during and after the Linux log-in phase are strictly related to configuration issues of the Linux installation thus out of scope to this how-to.

What we try here is to ensure that once connected a USB keyboard to a USB port, it will be ready to use both for BIOS setup and to correctly access to the bootloader's menu' selections (be it Grub, LiLo or whatever...).

Any connection/disconnection of USB devices during the procedures described in this how-to, has to be made with the PC switched off only.

To have no interference and to simplify the operations, please, detach any other USB device from the computer. This will also avoid them to be stressed by the probably required repetitive reboot activities.

Connect your USB keyboard directly to a USB port on the PC and not to an external USB HUB! This because some HUBs are partially USB compatible only, and may interfere with normal messaging between the system and the attached devices and may induce you to think your USB keyboard is stuck.

Check if this first suggestions solve the problem.

If yes, take in account to seriously suspect your USB HUB or another USB device is creating the problem. Check them singularly and place the culprit directly in the trash as it may seriously damage further USB devices if not your PC's USB ports.

If this doesn't help, go on reading the following steps. Don't forget to reset the PC to check any modification made!

We have to distinguish three moments where a USB keyboard is used, during:
 1. BIOS setup;
 2. Linux boot (by the use of Grub or LiLo);
 3. during and after log-in (both in terminal as Xwindow mode).

<<BR>>
'''Case 1.'''<<BR>>

At the initial POST (Power On Self Test) stage, when the PC is running up for a power-up or a restart, the USB keyboard input is managed by the BIOS routines if the option "USB keyboard support" is set to "on" in the BIOS.

If that option is set to "off", there is no way the USB keyboard can be recognised and a PS/2 type keyboard is supposed by default instead.

As your USB keyboard isn't recognised, you aren't able to access the BIOS so you can't do anything else as to connect a PS/2 type keyboard, access the BIOS (by the use of [Del], [F1], [F2], [F9] or whatever key is indicated at the early stages of the start-up process of the PC) and set the "USB keyboard support" opion to "on".

If the USB keyboard doesn't react (e.g. you can't go into the BIOS by pressing the correct key) and you are sure the "USB keyboard support" option is set correctly, your problem is probably the keyboard itself (e.g. a hardware incompatibility (rare) or a broken keyboard).

Test the USB keyboard with another computer and/or operating system and you know what you are dealing with.

--

If so far nothing helped (and you are sure your keyboard is OK),  then you have to use a PS/2 keyboard to enter the BIOS and look at the "PnP mode" option.
PnP is the procedure to set-up extension cards (and some on-board chips) connected to the PCI bus.

There are mostly two PnP modes available:

. the BIOS has to manage the PnP setup;

. the operating system deals with the PnP setup.

On some mother boards, and USB interface cards (if you already added any),  you have to explicitly specify the BIOS has to manage PnP to obtain the USB keyboard recognised during this phase.

So you have to verify this and, on change, reset the PC and control if the USB keyboard is now alive.

<<BR>><<BR>>
'''Case 2.'''

You can access the BIOS with your USB keyboard but when Grub's menu' appears on the screen either pressing [Arrow-up] or [Arrow-down] you aren't able to move the selection to one different from the default one.

This means you haven't correctly tested the case 1.!

''It must be clear that Grub doesn't manage to load any keyboard device-driver so it expects the BIOS to manage the keyboard correctly.''

'''''During this stage Linux hasn't been already loaded so any change to the o.s. will not solve the problem!'''''

You have no choice, go back to Case 1., and work to solve the situation from there.

<<BR>><<BR>>
'''Case 3.'''

So you have managed to get the USB keyboard recognised by the BIOS, and in Grub (or LiLo) you are able to select a choice different from the default by the use of the up/down arrows keys.

After a not so long time (we hope), the log-in screen appears but you discover to be unable to write any character into the user/password fields, or if you started from a live CD-R/DVD and you aren't able to write with your keyboard to any application you run from the desktop.

From this point on, problems related to the USB keyboard have to be conducted, in some way, to the Linux operating system configuration issues (and in rare cases to bugs).

In this case, the principal sources of the problem to be searched in are:

 . incorrect o.s. setup files for character mode terminal emulation (e.g. the recovery mode in [x]ubuntu);

 . incorrect Xserver setup files for graphic windowing environment (when the windowing mode is run);

 . missing, wrong, bugged device drivers;

 . unsupported USB devices.

As stated before this case isn't covered in this how-to. This because the verifications/operations to be made to get the USB keyboard working are so many and depending from e.g. the window manager used, to justify separate how-to documents.
