{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

There could be an additional tab in Synaptic / Gnome App Install where users could see reviews about the program by other users. This could include a score/rating.

The reviews should probably be per source package, like changelogs. 

Perhaps a launchpad interface to edit them?
This would probably be text-files (or stripped html?) on launchpad and downloaded on demand by Synaptic or GAI.

The reviews would probably have to be moderated.

Since capabilites and bugs change, reviews for a package from a previous release of Ubuntu should not be shown by default. New versions in the same Ubuntu release shouldn't throw away reviews though. How to integrate this with -backports is not clear atm.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
