{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Session Logs ====

<pre>
[12:00] <cjohnston> Hello everyone, and welcome to our first Ubuntu User Day! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[12:01] <cjohnston> To get things started, who is here for this and where are you from?
[12:01] <openweek5> anonrock from bangladesh
[12:01] <pleia2> Elizabeth from Philadelphia, USA :)
[12:01] <Yos> Yos from Israel
[12:01] <fvaresi> fvaresi from Montevideo, Uruguay
[12:01] <hhlp> <- from spain
[12:01] <Pendulum> Penelope from New York, USA
[12:01] <Terrabit> Maxim from Russia
[12:02] <Ryan1> I'm from Australia
[12:02]  * _marx_ from North Carolina, USA
[12:02] <habra_Smith_rus> Russia, Yakutia.
[12:02] <Seadog47> Russia, Moscow
[12:02] <dox_drum> Chile
[12:02] <gukk_devel> germany
[12:02] <nigelbabu> nigel from India
[12:02] <fobosnet> Russia, Spb
[12:02] <qense> Sense , the Netherlands
[12:02] <HoellP> Austria
[12:02] <ParsnipSoup> Kate, Boston, MA, USA
[12:02] <ulysses> Szolnok, Hungary
[12:02] <jepong> the Philippines!!!!
[12:02] <AlanBell> Alan from England
[12:02] <n0fun> Russia, Severodvinsk
[12:03]  * czajkowski is from ireland 
[12:03] <yofel> Philip, Germanyy
[12:03] <RPG_Master_> Alabama
[12:04] <cjohnston> Anyone else?
[12:04] <Deem> <--- germany
[12:05] <cjohnston> Great!
[12:05] <cjohnston> So, what is this day all about anyway?
[12:05] <cjohnston> User Days was created to be a set of classes offered during a one day period to teach the beginning or intermediate Ubuntu user the basics to get them started with Ubuntu, including:
[12:05] <cjohnston> (sorry to lernid users!)
[12:06] <cjohnston> Learn how to install Ubuntu
[12:06] <cjohnston> Learn how to find equivalent programs in Ubuntu
[12:06] <cjohnston> Learn how to get help with Ubuntu
[12:06] <cjohnston> Learn the basics of how to use Ubuntu
[12:07] <cjohnston> Learn how to get involved in the community
[12:07] <cjohnston> And more! For our full schedule head over to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[12:08] <cjohnston> User Days was born out of a discussion at the Ubuntu Developers Summit in November 2009 regarding Ubuntu Open Week not being targeted enough at users.
[12:08] <cjohnston> Over the past two months, many people have taken the time to help put this day together for you.
[12:09] <cjohnston> We will be introducing each instructor at the beginning of their session, but I would like to take the time to introduce the leads behind this project, and your hosts for today.
[12:09] <cjohnston> First let me introduce you to pleia2.
[12:10] <pleia2> My name is Elizabeth Krumbach, I'm currently living in Philadelphia, USA (soon to be moving to San Francisco!) and I got involved with this via the Ubuntu Community Learning Project: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning
[12:11] <pleia2> I'm also a member of the Ubuntu Community Council, do a lot of work with LoCo teams and do upstream development in Debian
[12:11] <cjohnston> Next we have Pendulum.
[12:13] <Pendulum> Hiya, I'm Penelope Stowe. I live in New York City (for now), although people online seem to often think I'm in the UK. I got involved through the Ubuntu Developer Summit when this was first suggested as an event.
[12:13] <Pendulum> Other things I do with Ubuntu include working on the Ubuntu Women project, Ubuntu NGO, and doing transcripts for the Ubuntu Uk Podcast
[12:14] <cjohnston> Up next is _marx_
[12:14] <_marx_> My name is Mark Cox. I currently live in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
[12:14] <_marx_> I began using Linux in '98 about a year after my wife and I bought our first computer for Christmas '97. We couldn't share that computer so I took an old clunker given to me by a customer and installed RedHat 6.0 on it
[12:15] <_marx_> I bagan using Ubuntu with the 5.04 release.
[12:15] <_marx_> I'm also involved with the North Carolina LoCo Team
[12:15] <_marx_> I hope to be unique by being the first Grandfather in recorded history to convert his grandsons to Ubuntu instead of the other way around. The two oldest were dazzled by "the cube" over the holidays.
[12:16] <cjohnston> nigelbabu, is next.
[12:16] <nigelbabu> Hi, I'm Nigel and I'm a computer science student from India who is a passionate FOSS and Ubuntu enthusiast and, like pleia2, I got involved via the Ubuntu Community Learning Project!
[12:17] <nigelbabu> I'm a course writer with the Ubuntu Community Learning Project and a bug triager with the Ubuntu Bug Squad.
[12:18] <cjohnston> And I guess that I am last... ;-)
[12:18] <cjohnston> My name is Chris Johnston. I'm from Orlando, Florida.. (Go Florida LoCo!) In real life I'm a Fire Fighter Paramedic.
[12:19] <cjohnston> Around here I'm a member of the Ubuntu Community Learning Project, Ubuntu Beginners Team, Ubuntu Bug Squad, and I do quite a bit of work helping out with the Ubuntu Website.
[12:19] <pleia2> thanks cjohnston!
[12:19] <pleia2> Now, we will give you a quick rundown of how today will work:
[12:20] <pleia2> Each hour, a presenter will be giving a class in this channel, #ubuntu-classroom
[12:20] <pleia2> During the classes, #ubuntu-classroom will be moderated (+m), meaning that only the instructor and hosts will be able to speak in that channel.
[12:21] <pleia2> Please hold all discussion about the class in #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[12:21] <pleia2> If you have a question during the class, please ask in #ubuntu-classroom-chat with the prefix QUESTION for instance, you may say
[12:21] <pleia2> QUESTION How do you uninstall a program?
[12:22] <Pendulum> After each session (as soon as our volunteers can), we'll be posting logs on the wiki, so be sure to check back to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays if you missed anything.
[12:22] <Pendulum> Logs will also be automatically generated at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com
[12:22] <Pendulum> Since you're already here, you know how to participate, but in case you have a friend you'd like to invite, you can find some help on the Joining In wiki page,
[12:22] <Pendulum> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/JoiningIn
[12:23] <Pendulum> It gives you links to some client documentation, as well as the direct link to joining #ubuntu-classroom & #ubuntu-classroom-chat via a web browser.
[12:23] <_marx_> You may have seen articles about the Lernid application which is designed for learning events such as this, you can certainly try out Lernid for User Days,
[12:24] <_marx_> We should note here that lernid is still alpha software and as such users should be aware it may have problems.
[12:24] <_marx_> we just won't be using the slideshow functionality this time.
[12:24] <_marx_> More info on Lernid including how to install it on Ubuntu at
[12:24] <_marx_> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lernid it would be great to have your feedback on Lernid at the end of the day.
[12:25] <_marx_> We hope that this event can continue to grow and that we'll host more days like this.
[12:25] <_marx_> Indeed, it's already inspired a Spanish version of the day which is also being held today: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DiaDelUsuarioUbuntu
[12:26] <nigelbabu> The User Days Team has worked with Local Community Teams (LoCos), the Ubuntu Beginners Team, Ubuntu Classroom and the Ubuntu Community Learning Project and others within the wider community to bring this day to you.
[12:26] <nigelbabu> For more information about any of these see their wiki pages
[12:26] <nigelbabu> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams
[12:27] <nigelbabu> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam
[12:27] <nigelbabu> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
[12:27] <nigelbabu> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning
[12:27] <nigelbabu> To quiet various noise that happens in the IRC channels during the talk use this command (in supported clients only)
[12:27] <nigelbabu> type "/ignore #ubuntu-classroom CRAP NOTICES SNOTES CTCPS JOINS PARTS QUITS KICKS MODES WALLOPS NICKS DCC DCCMSGS CLIENTNOTICES CLIENTCRAP CLIENTERRORS HILIGHTS" without the quotes
[12:28] <nigelbabu> If you are on webchat, Click on the small blue box on top left corner and click "Options."  Add a tick to "Hide JOINS/PARTS/QUITS:"
[12:28] <nigelbabu> Unfortunately, Freenode, the IRC network we use, has been hit hard recently with an influx of javascript spam. For more information please see http://blog.freenode.net/2010/01/javascript-spam/. Do NOT click ANY other links that say you are infected or they give you more information about the spam.
[12:29] <nigelbabu> Finally, before we get to some general Q&A in this introduction session, a big thanks to everyone who made this day possible :)
[12:29] <nigelbabu> Anyone have any general questions about the day?
[12:30] <Pendulum>  doxdrum> QUESTION - What does supported clients only means?
[12:30] <Pendulum>  doxdrum> QUESTION - What does supported clients only means?
[12:30] <nigelbabu> well, not all clients support the /ignore function.  try it and if ti doesn't work, let us know your client
[12:32] <pleia2> < HoellP> QUESTION how can i un-ignore stuff again?
[12:33] <nigelbabu> For those of you, if the command didn't work and you're on X-chat
[12:34] <nigelbabu> On x-chat GNOME, there is a checkbox for hiding/showing join/part messages in the channel context menu of Xchat GNOME (thanks qense )
[12:35] <pleia2> regarding un-ignoring, most clients have an /unignore option
[12:35] <pleia2> < Deem> Question is this "tutorial" tody for all ubuntu versions?
[12:36] <pleia2> we're focusing on karmic Ubuntu
[12:36] <pleia2> but some sessions may touch upon other varients and versions
[12:36] <pleia2> < starcraftman> Question - Where's the cake and refreshments and anything else edible? I could have sworn that was mentioned, if not, I say we make a last minute addition!
[12:36] <pleia2> uuuh, sure!
[12:36]  * pleia2 shares cake ;)
[12:36]  * Pendulum hands out tea to go with the cake
[12:36] <cjohnston> starcraftman it was your job to bring the refreshments
[12:37]  * _marx_ shares "Sweet Eyetalian" light roast coffee
[12:38] <pleia2> < gukk_devel> Question will special questions like hardwaredetection be answered, especially former xorg-stuff
[12:38] <pleia2> there is a restricted drivers session which will seek to cover some of this
[12:39] <pleia2> this will be jamalta's session at 16:00 UTC
[12:40] <Pendulum> Question: i never used an irc before. i think i got it, ignoring  stuff in one window wont affect another or subsequent
[12:40] <Pendulum>  windows?
[12:40] <Pendulum> For most IRC clients (at least that I know of) this is true
[12:41] <Pendulum> each window (channel as they're called on IRC) needs to have /ignore set separately
[12:42] <cjohnston> Are there any more questions related specifically to the Ubuntu User Day?
[12:43] <nigelbabu> Question, How often a day like this one is hold?
[12:44] <Pendulum> This is the first User Day that has been held.
[12:44] <pleia2> so we're not sure yet :) I think we're going to shoot for every 6 months to start out
[12:44] <pleia2> maybe every 3 if we can get enough volunteers
[12:44] <Pendulum> Please let us know if you want them more or less often in your feedback!
[12:45] <pleia2> < gukk_devel> Question is there a german version of this UsersDays planned?
[12:45] <nigelbabu> There is nothing planned now
[12:45] <nigelbabu> but if you'd like to help out organize, we can assist you
[12:48] <_marx_> The more languages the better.
[12:53] <cjohnston> Any other questions about today? If not, we will start the next class in about 7 minutes
[12:54] <nigelbabu> Okay, so that about it from our introduction session.  Next up in a few minutes is "Switching to Ubuntu & Installation" by nagendra
[12:54] <nigelbabu> If you have anymore questions, we'll be taking it :)
[12:54] <pleia2> < Yos> QUESTION will there be a chance at the end of the day for making suggestions for the next user day
[12:54] <pleia2> there is a survey
[12:55] <cjohnston> < doxdrum> Question - I'm interested in participate in future UserDays, Who should I contact?
[12:55] <cjohnston> me
[12:55] <_marx_> t -5
[12:55] <cjohnston> later please though. ;-)
[12:55] <Pendulum> or come find us in #ubuntu-learning :)
[12:55] <Pendulum> (but, again, later please)
[12:55] <pleia2> http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY
[12:55] <pleia2> is the survey for the day :)
</pre>
