{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''''The following is the introduction for Ubuntu User Days on January 23, 2010:'''''

=== cjohnston ===

Hello everyone, and welcome to our first Ubuntu User Day! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays

To get things started, who is here for this and where are you from?

* allow people to answer*

So, what is this day all about anyway?

User Days was created to be a set of classes offered during a one day period to teach the beginning or intermediate Ubuntu user the basics to get them started with Ubuntu, including:

Learn how to install Ubuntu

Learn how to find equivalent programs in Ubuntu

Learn how to get help with Ubuntu

Learn the basics of how to use Ubuntu

Learn how to get involved in the community

And more! For our full schedule head over to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays

User Days was born out of a discussion at the Ubuntu Developers Summit in November 2009 regarding Ubuntu Open Week not being targeted enough at users.

Over the past two months, many people have taken the time to help put this day together for you. 

We will be introducing each instructor at the beginning of their session, but I would like to take the time to introduce the leads behind this project, and your hosts for today.

First let me introduce you to pleia2.

* pleia2 speaks*

Next we have Pendulum.

* Pendulum says something*

Now _marx_.

* _marx_ turn*

Next up is nigel_nb.

* nigel_nb you get the point?*

* cjohnston*

=== pleia2 ===

Now, we will give you a quick rundown of how today will work:

Each hour, a presenter will be giving a class in this channel, #ubuntu-classroom

During the classes, #ubuntu-classroom will be muted, meaning that only the instructor and hosts will be able to speak in that channel. 

Please hold all discussion about the class in #ubuntu-classroom-chat

If you have a question during the class, please ask in #ubuntu-classroom-chat with the prefix QUESTION for instance, you may say

`QUESTION How do you uninstall a program?` 

=== Pendulum ===
After each session (as soon as our volunteers can), we'll be posting logs on the wiki, so be sure to check back to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays if you missed anything.

Logs will also be automatically generated at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com

Since you're already here, you know how to participate, but in case you have a friend you'd like to invite, you can find some help on the Joining In wiki page:

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/JoiningIn

It gives you links to some client documentation, as well as the direct link to joining #ubuntu-classroom & #ubuntu-classroom-chat via a web browser.

=== _marx_ ===

You may have seen articles about the Lernid application which is designed for learning events such as this, you can certainly try out Lernid for User Days,

we just won't be using the slideshow functionality this time. More info on Lernid including how to install it on Ubuntu at 

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lernid it would be great to have your feedback on Lernid at the end of the day.

We hope that this event can continue to grow and that we'll host more days like this.

Indeed, it's already inspired a Spanish version of the day which is also being held today: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DiaDelUsuarioUbuntu

=== nigel_nb ===
The User Days Team has worked with Local Community Teams (LoCos), the Ubuntu Beginners Team, Ubuntu Classroom and the Ubuntu Community Learning Project and others within the wider community to bring this day to you.

For more information about any of these see their wiki pages:

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning

Finally, before we get to some general Q&A in this introduction session, a big thanks to everyone who made this day possible :)

Anyone have any general questions about the day?
