{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


==== Session Logs ====

<pre>
[16:02] <Pendulum> Next up is leogg to talk about Ubuntu Equivalent Programs
[16:02] <Pendulum> Leandro Gómez is a system engineer and free software advocate from Uruguay. He currentlly lives in Nicaragua and is one of the six members of the Ubuntu LoCo Council.
[16:02] <leogg> Thank you Pendulum!
[16:02] <leogg> Hello and welcome everyone!
[16:03] <leogg> My name is Leandro Gómez and I'm here today to talk about applications on Ubuntu that can replace commonly used applications on Microsoft Windows or Mac OS X.
[16:03] <leogg> This session is aimed at users that have recently switched or are considering switching to Ubuntu.
[16:04] <leogg> Many of the applications I'm going to present today are cross-platform.
[16:04] <leogg> That means that they can be run on Ubuntu, or Microsoft Windows, or Mac OS X.
[16:05] <leogg> The cool thing about this (for those of you who haven't made the transition yet) is that you can try all these open source applications on your non-free operating system.
[16:06] <leogg> That makes a smooth transition from your proprietary operating system to Ubuntu.
[16:06] <leogg> I'm going to start with some basic applications included on a standard installation of Ubuntu.
[16:06] <leogg> OpenOffice.org
[16:07] <leogg> I'm sure most of you have used or heard of this office productivity suite.
[16:07] <leogg> OpenOffice.org (or OOo for short), was developed by Sun Microsystems and the OOo community. OpenOffice.org has been acquired recently by Oracle.
[16:08] <leogg> OOo is a modern, full-featured, free and open source office productivity suite, and a great replacement for Microsoft Office and iWork.
[16:08] <leogg> The suite includes a word processor (Writer), spreadsheet (Calc), presentation software (Impress), database (Base) and a basic drawing and vector graphics editor (Draw).
[16:09] <leogg> These applications are equivalent to Microsoft Word, Excel, Powerpoint and Access.
[16:10] <leogg> One of the biggest fears people have when switching to Ubuntu is that their friends and colleagues at work won't be able to exchange documents with them.
[16:10] <leogg> OOo is able to read and write in numerous formats, including -of course- Microsoft Office propietary formats.
[16:11] <leogg> You can open a Microsoft Word document, make changes in it with OOo Writer, and save it as a Microsoft Word document, or as a standard OOo document (ODF).
[16:12] <leogg> ODF, or Open Document Format, is the default file format for all OOo documents, and approved as a mandatory standard by a significant amount of countries, including the USA, United Kingdom, many countries in the EU, Brazil, South Africa, etc.
[16:12] <leogg> OOo is included on the Ubuntu Live CD and is installed by default.
[16:12] <leogg> http://www.openoffice.org
[16:12] <leogg> Some derivatives of Ubuntu doesn't include OpenOffice.org.
[16:13] <leogg> That's the case of Xubuntu and Lubuntu.
[16:13] <leogg> Both of these derivatives are aimed at low-specs PC's, and requires applications that doesn't consume much RAM.
[16:13] <leogg> Two of the most popular replacements for OpenOffice.org are Abiword and Gnumeric.
[16:14] <leogg> Abiword is a word processor included in Xubuntu and Lubuntu.
=== shadeslayer_ is now known as evilshadeslayer
[16:14] <leogg> It's very fast and light and has some cool features such as collaborative edition of documents using TCP or Jabber/XMPP.
[16:15] <leogg> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abiword
[16:15] <leogg> Gnumeric is a lightweight, yet powerful, spreadsheet application.
[16:16] <leogg> It has most of the features included in Calc, and more. Gnumeric can export documents to OOo, Excel and LaTeX.
[16:16] <leogg> Gnumeric is famous for its precision.
=== lkjoel is now known as eviltux
=== eviltux is now known as eviltux2
[16:17] <leogg> Gnumeric is part of the GNOME Office suite, developed by the GNOME community.
[16:17] <leogg> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gnumeric
[16:17] <leogg> Both of these applications are available in the official repositories and can also be installed in Ubuntu using Synaptic or the Ubuntu Software Center.
[16:18] <leogg> Another application that all (or most) users needs is a web browser.
[16:18] <leogg> In Ubuntu we have a lot of applications to choose from.
[16:19] <leogg> The default web browser is Internet Explorer in Windows and Safari in Mac OS X.
[16:19] <leogg> The default web browser in Ubuntu is Mozilla Firefox.
[16:20] <leogg> Firefox is very popular and can also be found on numerous Windows and Mac computers.
[16:20] <leogg> Many people complaint about Firefox being very resource hungry.
[16:21] <leogg> It may be true, but the availability of thousands of plug-ins that brings additional functionality to the Firefox web browser, is priceless.
[16:22] <leogg> If you want a lightweight web browser, you can always try Chromium, the open source fork of the Google Chrome web browser.
[16:23] <leogg> Other options include Epiphany and Galeon, web browsers for the GNOME desktop, or Konqueror, the KDE web browser and file manager (great choice if you're using Kubuntu).
[16:24] <leogg> You can also try Midori, a lightweight web browser based on WebKit, or Kazehakase, that can use either Gecko or WebKit as its rendering engine.
[16:24] <leogg> And if you feel super geeky, take a look at ELinks, a text based web browser for your terminal.
[16:25] <leogg> http://www.elinks.cz/
[16:26] <leogg> And while we're talking about web applications, let's take a look at what options you have for instant messaging.
[16:26] <leogg> Ubuntu uses Empathy by default.
[16:26] <leogg> Well... not Ubuntu, GNOME does. :)
[16:27] <leogg> Empathy is an instant messaging application supporting text, voice, video and file transfers.
[16:27] <leogg> Empathy supports many different protocols, including: MSN, AIM, Google Talk, Yahoo!, Facebook, ICQ, etc.
[16:28] <leogg> That means that you don't need to have multiple messaging applications installed for all the different protocols/services.
[16:28] <leogg> With a single application you can chat with all your friends and family. It doesn't matter what protocol they're using, you'll have them all in a single window.
[16:29] <leogg> Another excellent application for instant messaging in Ubuntu is Pidgin.
[16:29] <leogg> http://www.pidgin.im/
[16:30] <leogg> If your contacts use the MSN network exclusively, you can try aMSN, or Emesene. Beware that these apps aren't multi-protocol, they only support MSN.
[16:30] <leogg> http://www.amsn-project.net/
[16:31] <leogg> http://www.emesene.org/
[16:31] <ClassBot> IdleOne asked: Could you explain the difference between Google Chrome browser and chromium-browser that is available in the Ubuntu repos?
[16:33] <leogg> IdleOne: Chromium is free as in freedom.
[16:34] <leogg> IdleOne: Google Chrome has a dual license. BSD with some proprietary bits.
[16:35] <leogg> IdleOne: I've only used Chromium, but AFAIK they both share (almost) the same code.
[16:35] <leogg> IdleOne: The proprietary bits aren't included in Chromium, of course.
[16:35] <ClassBot> ech0tk asked: Why choose Empathy over Pidgin?
[16:36] <leogg> ech0tk: It's a matter of choice.
[16:36] <leogg> ech0tk: I like Pidgin more, but I'm getting used to Empathy, so... :)
[16:36] <ClassBot> mohi57o9 asked: I am not able to change the status in pidgin. Is there any package error? I am using Lucid Lynx
[16:37] <leogg> mohi57o9: Please try the #ubuntu channel for support :)
[16:37] <ClassBot> Nandu201 asked: I am not able to transfer files using pidgin.Is there any solution to rectify it?
[16:37] <leogg> Nandu201: Same as above :p
[16:38] <leogg> Ok, let's move on...
[16:38] <leogg> Let's talk about software for more specific needs.
[16:39] <leogg> In almost every talk I have given about Ubuntu, people ask about applications for designing.
[16:39] <leogg> There's a common perception that Ubuntu (or Linux as a whole) is not suited for graphic design.
[16:40] <leogg> People that know their stuff buys a Mac, or install the latest Adobe design suite on their Windows box.
[16:40] <leogg> I'm not a designer, but I've made tons of stuff for my local community;
[16:41] <leogg> Web buttons, huge printed banners, t-shirts, stickers, CD labels, posters, flyers... all of it using only free and open source software on Ubuntu.
[16:41] <leogg> You can see some of my stuff at http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/en/users/leogg
[16:41] <leogg> Feel free to download the artwork, improve it and pass it on! :)
[16:42] <leogg> The GIMP is an image editing and processing application equivalent to Adobe Photoshop.
[16:43] <leogg> In my opinion, The GIMP has always been underestimated.
[16:43] <leogg> It's not as pretty as Photoshop, but it's a very powerful tool with a lot of cool plug-ins.
[16:43] <leogg> And yes... it's cross-platform too!
[16:44] <leogg> http://www.gimp.org/
[16:44] <leogg> Inkscape is a free vector graphics editor and the open source equivalent to Adobe Ilustrator or Corel Draw.
[16:44] <leogg> I must say that I just love Inkscape!
[16:45] <leogg> Inkscape is very intuitive and easy to use. There's also a lot of tutorials for Inkscape out there, so it's quite easy to learn.
[16:45] <leogg> I recommend http://screencasters.heathenx.org/
[16:46] <leogg> Übercool!
[16:46] <leogg> The official website of the project is at http://www.inkscape.org/
[16:47] <ClassBot> eviltux asked: Does linux software work on Mac? I have heard that Ma uses Unix.
[16:48] <leogg> eviltux: Most of the apps I've mentioned are cross-platform, so they will work on both Linux and Mac.
[16:49] <ClassBot> IdleOne asked: Can I get all these programs from the Ubuntu Software Center?
[16:49] <leogg> IdleOne: Yes!
[16:49] <leogg> I'm going to name a few more applications that I use on a daily basis, and that are pretty cool;
[16:50] <leogg> Synfig Studio, a vector based 2D animation package.
[16:50] <leogg> http://www.synfig.org/
[16:50] <leogg> Scribus, graphic page layout and publication software.
[16:50] <ClassBot> There are are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[16:50] <leogg> http://www.scribus.net/
[16:50] <leogg> Blender, for 3D modelling, rendering and animation.
[16:51] <leogg> Blender has a high learning curve, but it's extremely powerful, and the results are amazing! (Be sure to check out Big Buck Bunny at the Blender web site ;)
[16:51] <leogg> http://www.blender.org/
[16:51] <leogg> Agave, a colorscheme designer for the GNOME desktop.
[16:51] <leogg> http://home.gna.org/colorscheme/
[16:52] <leogg> Screenie, a small tool for composing fancy and stylish screenshots.
[16:52] <leogg> http://code.google.com/p/screenie/
[16:52] <leogg> All of these applications are available in Ubuntu, and they're just a few clicks away!
[16:53] <ClassBot> eviltux asked: I couldn't use Scribus for some reason. But the last time I used it was on 2008. Was there an update after 2008?
[16:54] <leogg> The latest stable release is 1.3.3.14
[16:54] <leogg> eviltux: January 2010
[16:54] <leogg> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scribus
[16:55] <ClassBot> regi asked: Is there an opensource alternative for MS Visio?
[16:55] <ClassBot> There are are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[16:55] <leogg> regi: Yes! There's a lot!
[16:56] <leogg> regi: You could try Dia, http://live.gnome.org/Dia/
[16:56] <ClassBot> eviltux asked: Is there a development release channel for scribus? (channel such as repository)
[16:57] <leogg> eviltux: Yes. The development release is the scribus-ng package in Ubuntu.
[16:57] <leogg> Some useful links for finding free and open sources alternatives;
[16:57] <leogg> http://linuxappfinder.com/
[16:58] <leogg> http://www.osalt.com/
[16:58] <leogg> If you have any questions, this is the right place to be; http://ubuntuforums.org/
[16:58] <leogg> That's all from me... thank you very much and enjoy the rest of the day! :)
</pre>
