{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

'''This is a draft document'''

User services encompass all data objects which are linked to a user of a computer but are:

# Generic to many applications and processes
# Where it is not practical to save them because they
** use events or
** multiple processes must be able to edit them at the same time

Examples are Contacts, People, Addresses, Phone numbers, Events, Places etc

Because of the nature of the data involved it is not acceptable to use any data services which are tied or designed with a specific application in mind. this rules out using evolution_data_services. another important factor is allowing data to be made available over dbus to the right users on a system at all times no matter what gui, application or cli tool is in use and not just a lib and c header which limits development possibilities.

Examples of well designed user services can be found in Apple's MacOSX where they neatly provide a set of APIs for a number of useful user services such as Address Books and Calendars although misses the opportunity to include other useful information and to organise it in a more object orientated way.

Another example is Akonadi which should be pushed as a solution if the development of it can be finished and it's ties to kde and kde-pim are not too great. although the project seems cloaked in kde some how and not accessable to outside developers.

== Proposal ==

I propose the construction or implementation of a simple daemon service to provide user information to applications on demand and allow all data to have standard logic for sharing across users of the same systems. If the user services can be built to allow other applications to use them effectively it will reduce the number of formats any syncing software would have to use in order to share information between web services and portable devices.

== Important Issues ==

* Getting various application projects that interact with this kind of data to implement this system rather than their own will involve a lot of politically charged problems and may need backing from big names.
* Making sure that the data encompasses all variants and possibilities will require robust testing and integration with a number of different applications that all expect different data.

== People Involved ==

* MartinOwens

'''Please add to this document as you feel is required'''
