{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
[08:31] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/01/29/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[08:32] <pleia2> Hello everyone, and welcome to our third Ubuntu User Day event! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[08:32] <pleia2> The User Days Team has been working hard these past few weeks in order to bring you these 20 sessions.
[08:32] <pleia2> Due to today's event lasting more than 20 hours, the other members of the User Days Team are unable to be here right now. However, they will be around helping out later in the day, so be sure to thank them for all of their hard work when you see them :)
[08:33] <pleia2> (I myself am heading to bed after this session, it's just after midnight here)
[08:33] <pleia2> Now, we have members from many teams in the Ubuntu community here today who have graciously volunteered to share their knowledge with all of us.
[08:33] <pleia2> Before we begin, we would like to get a quick feel for who is here. If you are here, please say your name and where you are from.
[08:33]  * zkriesse is here... Rockford IL, US
[08:34] <pleia2> ah, you're up late! :)
[08:34] <pleia2> California here
[08:34]  * JackyAlcine is from NYC, NY.
[08:34] <digbydog> digbdog ... Bristol, UK
[08:34] <zkriesse> yeah..I am
[08:34] <Fred55411> Fred in Minneapolis, Mn
[08:35] <tvaculin> Zubri, Czech Republic
[08:35] <yofel> Philip, Stuttgart/Germany
[08:35] <pleia2> Great! Quite the international turnout, good to see.
[08:35] <pleia2> A few of you are probably wondering what User Days are all about.
[08:35] <pleia2> User Days were created to be sets of classes offered during a one day period to teach the beginning or intermediate Ubuntu user the basics in order to get them started using Ubuntu. This includes:
[08:35] <pleia2> Software Installation, Finding Help in Ubuntu, Accessibility Apps, Command Line Basics, Linux Security Myths, Unity, What's Cooking in Ubuntu...
[08:35] <zeroseven0183> Jean Austin, Philippines
[08:36] <pleia2> ...and more! For our full schedule head over to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[08:36] <pleia2> User Days were born out of a discussion at the Ubuntu Developers Summit in November 2009 regarding Ubuntu Open Week not being targeted enough at users.
[08:36] <pleia2> Now for a quick rundown of how today will work:
[08:36] <pleia2> Each hour, an instructor will be giving a class in this channel, #ubuntu-classroom
[08:36] <pleia2> During the classes, #ubuntu-classroom will be moderated (+m). This means that only the instructor and hosts will be able to talk in the channel.
[08:37] <pleia2> Any discussion about the class should take place #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[08:37] <pleia2> If you have a question during the class, please ask in #ubuntu-classroom-chat. Be sure to prefix it with 'QUESTION:' to ensure that it gets noticed. For example:
[08:37] <pleia2> QUESTION: What are Ubuntu User Days?
[08:37] <pleia2> Anyone wanna give it a try? :)
[08:38] <ClassBot> zeroseven0183 asked: How long has Ubuntu been holding Ubuntu User Days
[08:38] <pleia2> We held our first User Days in January of 2010, had the second in July of 2010
[08:38] <ClassBot> geekosopher asked: who is the target audience
[08:39] <pleia2> beginner to intermediate users, but some sessions may be of interest to everyone
[08:40] <ClassBot> Fred55411 asked: is there a way to see schedule in local time?
[08:40] <pleia2> there are a couple of ways, you can add the schedule ical in the topic to your own calendar: http://is.gd/8rtIi
[08:41] <pleia2> or you can go to the schedule on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays and click on the time - it'll take you to a website which tells you the local time in dozens of cities around the world
[08:41] <pleia2> After each session, our group of volunteers will post the IRC logs to the wiki as soon as possible.
[08:41] <pleia2> So if you miss a session or just want to review what you learned, be sure to check out https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays for links to logs that our volunteers will put up as soon as they are able
[08:42] <pleia2> If you can't wait, Logs will also be automatically posted on http://irclogs.ubuntu.com near the end of each hour.
[08:42] <pleia2> Please be sure to remind all of your friends and family who might be interested in using Ubuntu that this event is taking place today. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/JoiningIn has some information about how they can participate.
[08:42] <pleia2> Finally, before we move on to answering any more questions about Ubuntu User Days that you might have, I would like to give a big thanks to everyone who has helped make this day possible.
[08:43] <pleia2> It simply would not have been possible to organize this event without all of their help :)
[08:43] <pleia2> Finally, at the end of the day, please take some time to fill out our survey! We will use the results to help make the next Ubuntu User Day event even better. http://tinyurl.com/UUDSurveyJan11
[08:43] <pleia2> Now, does anyone have any general questions about the day?
[08:44] <ClassBot> Fred55411 asked: What percent of time would you expect will be questions?
[08:45] <pleia2> It depends on the class and the instructor and some instructors have a lot of Q&A throughout their session, some wait until the end
[08:46] <pleia2> generally it's most of the class as a lecture, and a minority of questions
[08:46] <ClassBot> digbydog asked: I'm using IRC via my browser and there is a long list of users to the right but there are only a few users attending this class. Who are all the ussers on the right?
[08:46] <pleia2> a lot of people idle in this channel 24/7 and some people are here but don't wish to speak up (that's fine!)
[08:46] <pleia2> so you'll always get a good percentage of people who are "here" but inactive
[08:47] <ClassBot> geekosopher asked: how were the topics for UUD selected?
[08:47] <pleia2> a call for instructors goes out a month or two prior to the Day, volunteer instructors then submit class suggestions to the classroom team
[08:48] <pleia2> from there the team goes through the proposals and instructors and selects ones from the day, we've been quite fortunate in recruiting to have lots of great volunteers
[08:48] <ClassBot> Fred55411 asked: Is it ok to ask questions at any time even if they will be aswered at the end?
[08:49] <pleia2> it depends on the instructor, they will often tell you when it's ok to ask questions
[08:49] <pleia2> generally it's fine though, you may just have to wait until the end
[08:49] <ClassBot> zeroseven0183 asked: Do you need to be an official Ubuntu Member to be an instructor?
[08:50] <pleia2> no, but if you're a new instructor and the classroom team isn't familiar with you we may ask for some documentation of previous work or a class outline so we can make sure you're prepared for the class
[08:51] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[08:52] <treb29> Is this for newbies?
[08:52] <ClassBot> zeroseven0183 asked: What if I miss a class? How do I catch up? Are there any chat logs I can see?
[08:53] <pleia2> at the end of each hour, all logs are automatically posted to http://irclogs.ubuntu.com and we'll also link the logs on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[08:53] <pleia2> treb29: yes, beginners to intermediate
[08:53] <treb29> Thank you
[08:55] <ClassBot> Fred55411 asked: Do you encourage chat on the topic in the ...chat channel?
[08:55] <pleia2> Yes, please stay on topic in the -chat channel, remember the chat channel is where questions are, so instructors have to keep an eye on it during their class
[08:56] <pleia2> if you have a lot of offtopic chat this makes it very difficult for them to follow while giving their class
[08:56] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[08:56] <pleia2> so feel free to talk as much as you like about the current session :)
[08:57] <ClassBot> digbydog asked: Will other media aprart from IRC be used in these sessions?
[08:58] <pleia2> some instructors may post links to screenshots or other things during their class, but other than that no
[08:58] <ClassBot> Fred55411 asked: Is being able to ask questions (and gets answers) the main advantage over reading the archives?
[08:58] <pleia2> that's certainly one of the advantages - you get to hear and talk with the expert directly
[08:59] <pleia2> I also have found it fun to chat with folks in -chat who share my interest for a subject, so there is the social aspect as well
</pre>
