{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Finding Helpful Resources ===

==== Introduction - 5 Minutes ====
 I. About Me
 I. Course Overview

==== Preparing for Help - 10 Minutes ====
 I. Principle of getting help.
 I. Important Step
  I. Gather Information
  I. Find Resolution

==== Google Power Searching - 5 Minutes ====
 I. Power Searching to Narrow Results

==== Ubuntu Documentation (System and Wiki) - 15 Minutes ====
 I. System Documentation
 I. Finding Information on the Wikis

==== Ubuntu Forums - 10 Minutes ====
 I. Organization of the Forums
 I. Etiquette on posting, how to get help

==== Launchpad - 5 Minutes ====
 I. Launchpad Answers
 I. Bug Reporting - Last Resort

==== AskUbuntu - 5 Minutes ====
 I. What is it?

==== Closing & Q&A - 5 Minutes + Extra ====
 I. Closing comments and then questions.

=== Links & Materials ===
'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/starcraft.man|More Information on me - starcraft.man]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://search.ubuntu.com|Search Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.googleguide.com/|Google Guide]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/|Online System Documentation]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community|Community Wiki]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/|Team Wiki]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/|Launchpad]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/|AskUbuntu]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1052065|Free Beginners Guide in PDF]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=801404|Beginners Launch Point to Forum Guides]]</nowiki>'''

==== Extra Links ====
<nowiki>[[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/|Psychocats]]</nowiki> - Useful Short Tutorials

<nowiki>[[http://linuxappfinder.com/|Linux App Finder]]</nowiki> - Finding Alternatives and the Right Applications

<nowiki>[[http://www.linuxcommand.org/|Linux Command]]</nowiki> - Nice place for learning more about the terminal

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Main_Page|Ubuntu Guide]]</nowiki> - A bit chaotic compared to Official Documentation efforts. Does sometimes have the info needed though.

==== Lecture Draft ====
http://paste.ubuntu.com/695859/

==== Logs ====
<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/09/24/%23ubuntu-classroom.html#t18:00]]</nowiki>
