{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Session Logs ====

<pre>
[13:00] <cjohnston> Shrinivasan, is a open source lover, who lives in Chennai, India. He talks about open source philosophies in local colleges and schools.  Currently he is giving technical support to subversion and TeamForge at CollabNet. He runs a weekly newsletter "FossNews" and a blog for Foss Jobs.
[13:01] <shrini> hello friends
[13:01] <shrini> good to to see you all here
[13:02] <shrini> "Ubuntu One" is a fantastic feature that comes with ubuntu for free
[13:02] <shrini> to make your files and folders follow you whereever you go
[13:02] <shrini> It started with ubuntu 9.10
[13:02] <shrini> can be installed in ubuntu 9.04 too
[13:03] <shrini> ubuntu 10.04 makes it much better with added features
[13:03] <ClassBot> Gryllida asked: why is it called 'Ubuntu One'? Is it open source as well?
[13:03] <shrini> it is not open source still.
[13:04] <shrini> it is a personal cloud to store our files in the canonical's server
[13:04] <shrini> it is free only
[13:04] <shrini> not open
[13:04] <shrini> it is like the "DropBox" service
[13:04] <shrini> clients are open
[13:05] <shrini> and you can develop you own clients too. :-)
[13:05] <shrini> It has the following features
[13:05] <shrini> 1. storing your files and folders
[13:05] <shrini> 2. publish them online to easy access
[13:05] <shrini> 3. store and sync contacts
[13:06] <shrini> 4. store and sync Notes
[13:06] <shrini> 5. sync book marks
[13:06] <shrini> 6. Sync contact from mobile
[13:07] <shrini> 7. Buy Music from stores
[13:07] <ClassBot> abhi_nav asked: how much secure is storing our sensible files on ubuntu one? can we encrypt it?
[13:07] <shrini> storing files online is just like storing your emails and attachments with gmail. :-)
[13:09] <shrini> ubuntu one uses ssl encryption for the file transfers. so it is secured one.
[13:09] <shrini> http://one.ubuntu.com is the homepage
[13:09] <shrini> Canonical gives 2GB of free space to every ubuntu user in the world
[13:09] <shrini> If you need more space, you can buy it for 10$/minth
[13:09] <shrini> 10$/month
[13:10] <ClassBot> dnielsen asked: Is Phone sync support expected be expanded to the N900 (Maemo) or MeeGo any time in the future
[13:12] <shrini> yes
[13:12] <shrini> They are adding more phones and models
[13:12] <shrini> check them here. https://one.ubuntu.com/phones
[13:12] <shrini> Let us look at Installation
[13:12] <shrini> If you use ubuntu 10.04, it is already there. :-)
[13:12] <shrini> Look at the top right "Me Menu"
[13:12] <shrini> where you give about your status and details
[13:13] <shrini> Click on the "Ubuntu One" item
[13:13] <shrini> Thats all.
[13:13] <shrini> Firefox opens a page asking for you to create account or login
[13:13] <shrini> If you have a Launchpad account, use the same login
[13:13] <shrini> it is SSO enabled
[13:14] <shrini> If you dont have an account, you can create now
[13:14] <shrini> After login, you have to add your computer to the cloud.
[13:15] <shrini> It will show the "hostname" of your computer.
[13:15] <shrini> Click "Subscribe and Add this computer"
[13:15] <shrini> Viola!
[13:15] <shrini> You are added to the "Ubuntu One" Cloud
[13:15] <shrini> You will see the "Ubuntu One Preference" Window
[13:16] <shrini> click "connect" button
[13:16] <shrini> Thats all
[13:16] <shrini> you can get much information on https://one.ubuntu.com/support/installation/
[13:22] <ClassBot> dnielsen asked: Is there a plan to offer a calendar and todo list syncing as well. It would be really useful especially for platforms like phones (thinking specifically of MeeGo here but android is also a candidate)
[13:22] <shrini> for now, there is no plan for calendar and todo list
[13:22] <shrini> we can add it later
[13:22] <shrini> The apis provide facilities to create our own application
[13:23] <shrini> to sync with ubuntu one.
[13:23] <shrini> you can get the development details in #ubuntuone
[13:24] <ClassBot> Gryllida asked: what is the location of ubuntu1 servers? how many are there?
[13:24] <shrini> The files are stored in amazon S3 servers in USA
[13:25] <shrini> Not did research on how many servers are there
[13:26] <ClassBot> Marceau asked: So what is the advantage of Ubuntu one over Gmail or Google docs?
[13:26] <shrini> You can not sync files with the size of 50MB in gmail
[13:27] <shrini> here, you can sync any files
[13:27] <shrini> your contacts, notes, bookmarks, music
[13:27] <shrini> The new feature is
[13:27] <shrini> you can sync any folder in your home
[13:28] <shrini> right click it, "Synchronize with ubuntu one"
[13:28] <shrini> this will sync all the content of the folder
[13:28] <shrini> to the cloud
[13:28] <shrini> Inside that folder, right click on any file
[13:29] <shrini> "Publish via ubuntu one"
[13:31] <shrini> it will sync the file and
[13:31] <shrini> give you a url
[13:31] <shrini> you can share the url with your friends to get that files quickly
[13:31] <ClassBot> dnielsen asked: Currently all my U1MS downloads in Banshee are stalled in "Transferring to Ubuntu One storage". So far your service isn't really that impressive, what improvements can we expect in the 10.10 timeframe
[13:35] <shrini> There may be a network issue
[13:35] <shrini> a lot of new features are getting added there
[13:36] <shrini> keep watching http://voices.canonical.com/ubuntuone/
[13:36] <shrini> for new announces
[13:36] <shrini> You can sync your evolution contacts
[13:36] <shrini> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOne/Tutorials/Contacts
[13:37] <shrini> you can have ubuntu one address book and make it to sync with the cloud
[13:37] <shrini> you can sync the Tomboy notes
[13:38] <shrini> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOne/Tutorials/Notes
[13:39] <shrini> The Firefox bookmarks are sync'ed
[13:39] <shrini> so that you can have the bookmarks with you always
[13:39] <shrini> The new feature today is Music Store
[13:40] <shrini> you can buy music from 5 regional stores
[13:41] <shrini> The good news is there is no limit of 2GB if you buy music
[13:41] <shrini> your music will follow you as you move around computers
[13:42] <ClassBot> Gryllida asked: $10 / months of what additional storage?
[13:42] <shrini> you can get 50GB
[13:42] <shrini> https://one.ubuntu.com/plans/
[13:42] <shrini> this page explains the plans
[13:43] <shrini> There is a web interface too
[13:43] <shrini> where you can create, edit, delete the files, folders, notes, bookmarks, etc
[13:43] <shrini> you can share any object with your friends
[13:44] <shrini> you can right click a folder, "Share on ubuntu one"
[13:44] <shrini> give the contact details
[13:44] <shrini> he will get a notification email with the link
[13:44] <shrini> he can see those files in his shared folder
[13:44] <ClassBot> Gryllida asked: s/months/month/
[13:44] <shrini> it is 10$/month
[13:45] <shrini> you can do all the things with the web interface also
[13:45] <shrini> syncing with phones is the very new feature
[13:46] <shrini> https://one.ubuntu.com/phones
[13:46] <shrini> select the phone and model
[13:46] <shrini> you will get the settings, username and password
[13:46] <shrini> enter those details in your phone and
[13:46] <shrini> sync your contacts in the cloud
[13:47] <shrini> there are more interesting developments are going
[13:47] <shrini> as clients for other distro/ OS
[13:47] <shrini> screen sharing
[13:50] <ClassBot> There are are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[13:53] <ClassBot> abhi_nav asked: hey i want to clear that I dont asked if transmission is encryted. I want to know that if the files stores in the server are encryted or not?
[13:54] <shrini> the files are not encrypted in server
[13:54] <shrini> because, you can share the files and folders with your friends
[13:54] <shrini> they can access it even via a URL
[13:55] <shrini> The development team is so energetic and
[13:55] <shrini> have a good roadmap
[13:55] <shrini> you can talk to them in #ubuntuone
[13:55] <shrini> they support they give is awesome
[13:55] <ClassBot> There are are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[13:55] <shrini> as still there are ubuntuforumw.org
[13:55] <shrini> Forum – http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=367
[13:55] <shrini> FAQ – https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntuone/+faqs
[13:56] <shrini> LP answers – https://answers.launchpad.net/~ubuntuone-users
[13:56] <shrini> LP project page – https://launchpad.net/~ubuntuone-users
[13:56] <shrini> You are welcome to report bugs here.
[13:56] <shrini> Bugs – https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntuone-client
[13:56] <ClassBot> Gryllida asked: does Ubuntu One mean shell access to some server, or only file sync service?
[13:56] <shrini> no shell access
[13:56] <shrini> only file sync
[13:57] <shrini> Use ubuntuone
[13:57] <shrini> make sure that your files are following you and your friends
[13:57] <shrini> Ofcourse, sharing is caring
[13:57] <shrini> Any questions?
[13:58] <ClassBot> abhi_nav asked: forgive me, but what is ubuntu one? I mean how it is different from storing my files in google docs or in any email?
[13:58] <shrini> it is a file sync service
[13:58] <shrini> you can sync files online
[13:58] <shrini> and access from anywhere
[13:58] <shrini> you can share with friens
[13:58] <shrini> learn more at http://one.ubuntu.com
[13:59] <ClassBot> dnielsen asked: beam.smp which appears to be part of the couchdb stuff tends to occasionally run amok and use an awful lot of CPU. Is there a wiki page with U1 debugging hints to make bugreports more useful
[14:00] <shrini> you can talk about this in #ubuntuone
[14:00] <shrini> people will help you to give you better service
</pre>
