{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

 I. Setup a survey for feedback from UUD 0123 (survey monkey??) --<nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
 I. Will there be helpers in -chat?
 I. Should we try for another UUD, if so when?
 I. Add a 15 minute wrap up at the end to thank everyone for their participation, special thanks to instructors, and ask to fill out survey? -- <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
 I. FirasKraiem dropped.. trying to find replacement..(jamalta) <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
 I. Nagendra??? duane?? <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
=== Minutes ===

 I. Setup a survey for feedback from UUD 0123 (survey monkey??) --<nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
** cjohnston will setup survey
** asked for input on questions
 I. Will there be helpers in -chat?
** no specific helpers, hosts will move questions from -chat to -classroom... 
 I. Should we try for another UUD, if so when?
** tabled until after first UUD
 I. Add a 15 minute wrap up at the end to thank everyone for their participation, special thanks to instructors, and ask to fill out survey? -- <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
** host will give out survey link when introducing instructor
** Put the survey URL in /topic
 I. FirasKraiem dropped.. trying to find replacement..(jamalta) <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
 I. Nagendra??? duane?? <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
** Pendulum sent an email to Nagendra and shrini giving them until 2200 EST on the 20th to respond or they will be dropped.. duanedesign is backup for Nagendra's class

Other notes:
** -classroom will be +m, hosts and instructor will be voiced...
** Pendulum is sending an email tomorrow and Friday to remind people, plus ask them to be 15 minutes early to their class, and join #ubuntu-learning at that time so that a host can speak with them

=== Log ===
<pre>
21:01:20 <cjohnston>	#startmeeting
21:01:23 <cjohnston>	not that it helps
21:01:23 <cjohnston>	lol
21:01:40 <cjohnston>	Agenda:
21:01:42 <cjohnston>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDaysTeam/Meetings/01192010
21:02:23 <cjohnston>	Setup a survey for feedback from UUD 0123 (survey monkey??) --cjohnston
21:02:37 <cjohnston>	anyone wanna set up a survey for us?
21:02:52 <pleia2>	is survey monkey a site or one of us? :)
21:03:01 <cjohnston>	site
21:03:19 <pleia2>	hehe, ok
21:03:39 <cjohnston>	http://www.surveymonkey.com/
21:04:09 <cjohnston>	i think i wrote down like two questions... but we need more than that of course
21:05:24 <cjohnston>	check... ill setup a survey.. if you come up with any questions please email them to me!
21:05:45 <_marx_>	cjohnston: send link to the survey please
21:06:01 <cjohnston>	now or when i make it?
21:06:04 <cjohnston>	:-P
21:06:11 <pleia2>	ok :)
21:06:43 <cjohnston>	Will there be helpers in -chat?
21:06:46 <cjohnston>	I think that was marks
21:06:59 <Pendulum>	oops, sorry, lost track of time, i'm here now ;)
21:07:03 <Hellow>	What do we define "helpers" as?
21:07:05 <cjohnston>	o/
21:07:20 <cjohnston>	Not sure... _marx_ ?
21:07:22 <_marx_>	so any helpers in -chat
21:08:03 *	komputes has quit ("I haven't slept for ten days, because that would be too long.")
21:08:10 <_marx_>	cool, i can look at both at the same time
21:08:19 <cjohnston>	_marx_: im kinda curious about Hellow's question too
21:08:34 <cjohnston>	im sure  quite a few of us will be in both
21:08:41 <cjohnston>	ill probably have 2 clients running
21:08:51 <Hellow>	I'll be in -classroom and -chat for most of the day.
21:08:56 <cjohnston>	and lernid to learn about learning with lernid
21:09:06 <_marx_>	Hellow: can you repeat your question
21:09:13 <pleia2>	helpers mostly tell people to quit talking in -classroom, and how to ask questions properly
21:09:20 <pleia2>	and keep -chat from being too off-subject if they get chatty
21:09:21 <Hellow>	What do we define "helpers" as?
21:09:46 <_marx_>	Hellow: question forwarders in -chat for one
21:09:59 <cjohnston>	question forwarders will be one of the hosts
21:09:59 <pleia2>	also might change the topic in the channels for each session, post QUESTIONS to the person giving the course if they request it
21:10:23 <cjohnston>	pleia2: is it possible to make -classroom voice only can talk during the day?
21:10:41 <pleia2>	yeah, it's possible
21:10:44 <_marx_>	pleia2: yes channel topic needs to be changed each hour
21:10:50 <Hellow>	That should be done; questions and the like get asked in -chat, forwarded to -classroom.
21:11:06 <cjohnston>	who has access to /topic ? just pleia2 ?
21:11:14 <pleia2>	cjohnston: anyone with an ubuntu member cloak
21:11:18 <pleia2>	or +o
21:11:19 <cjohnston>	oh really
21:11:20 <cjohnston>	hmm
21:11:21 <cjohnston>	lol
21:11:22 <Hellow>	heh
21:11:25 <pleia2>	which I can give to anyone
21:11:29 <cjohnston>	ic
21:11:54 <cjohnston>	can i make the request that -classroom be voice only to speak... hosts get voice and the instructor?
21:12:04 <Pendulum>	I think that's a good idea
21:12:19 <Hellow>	+m would be a good idea
21:12:22 <pleia2>	what is the difference you're seeing between "hosts" and "helpers"?
21:12:31 <pleia2>	in the past we never really had a distinction
21:12:43 <Hellow>	Are there going to be any "defined" helpers?
21:12:48 <cjohnston>	hosts == https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-user-days
21:12:57 <cjohnston>	i dont think we need defined helpers
21:13:01 <cjohnston>	imo
21:13:05 <cjohnston>	i dunno tho
21:13:05 <pleia2>	yeah, maybe I don't know what a helper is then :)
21:13:37 <_marx_>	play it by ear, fly by the seat of your pants then?
21:13:51 <cjohnston>	?
21:13:53 <Pendulum>	I don't think we need "helpers" (as anything separate from "hosts")
21:14:00 <cjohnston>	+1 pleia2
21:14:03 <cjohnston>	oops..
21:14:06 <pleia2>	Pendulum: I tend to agree, unless I'm missing something :)
21:14:09 <cjohnston>	+1 Pendulum
21:14:14 <pleia2>	ok cool
21:14:19 <Hellow>	What do we define "hosts" as? People who are/will be hosting a session?
21:14:37 <cjohnston>	Hellow: hosts: https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-user-days
21:14:53 <cjohnston>	basically _marx_ pleia2 Pendulum myself
21:14:57 <Hellow>	Ah.
21:15:23 <cjohnston>	anyone else can help "control" -chat....
21:15:24 <Hellow>	Sorry if I'm asking less-than-intelligent questions right now, my mind's a little foggy :P.
21:15:33 *	Hellow volunteers himself for that
21:15:33 <cjohnston>	but noone specifically designated
21:15:35 <cjohnston>	np Hellow
21:15:38 <pleia2>	for UOW jorge, akgraner and I pretty much just snagged each other as needed, "hey I am going to lunch, can you make sure the next session goes ok?" etc
21:15:52 <cjohnston>	thats kinda what i figured
21:15:54 <_marx_>	hosts, guests or attendees, and helpers
21:16:18 <_marx_>	same here
21:16:22 <Pendulum>	yeah
21:16:33 <cjohnston>	I don't think we need an official "helper" title...
21:16:41 *	_marx_ nods
21:16:50 <Hellow>	Helper title: Anyone on the access list :P.
21:16:59 <cjohnston>	lol
21:17:01 <cjohnston>	# Should we try for another UUD, if so when?
21:17:17 <cjohnston>	motion to table this item until after the first user day
21:17:22 <pleia2>	yes, but I need a vacation first :)
21:17:25 <pleia2>	+1
21:17:34 <cjohnston>	oh im having something
21:17:38 <cjohnston>	it wont be a vacation..
21:17:39 <Pendulum>	+1
21:17:48 <cjohnston>	it will probably be 1 beer before i have to go back to studying
21:17:52 <pleia2>	hehe
21:17:54 <cjohnston>	but itll be my one beer
21:18:04 <_marx_>	cjohnston: me scared too, i've never done an online class
21:18:34 <_marx_>	quarterly or on release cycle?
21:19:01 <cjohnston>	_marx_: I think we are gonna wait to see the feedback from this first one before we decide that
21:19:01 <_marx_>	or decide after event polling?
21:19:01 <Pendulum>	I think see how this one goes, see what feedback we get, and then worry about the next one
21:19:37 <_marx_>	I agree, I also think quarterly could be do able
21:20:01 <cjohnston>	Add a 15 minute wrap up at the end to thank everyone for their participation, special thanks to instructors, and ask to fill out survey? -- cjohnston
21:20:12 <cjohnston>	not that anyone would stay for this..
21:20:27 <cjohnston>	or do we want to try to get each instructor to give out the survey link after their course
21:20:31 <_marx_>	well still you have to put it in there
21:20:36 <cjohnston>	how do we wanna get the survey word out
21:21:00 <pleia2>	I think we can give a link to the survey when we introduce each instructor
21:21:04 <pleia2>	no need to ask them to do it
21:21:11 <cjohnston>	ok...
21:21:13 <cjohnston>	works for me
21:21:18 *	itnet7 (n=itnet7@ubuntu/member/itnet7) has joined #ubuntu-learning
21:21:29 <cjohnston>	get out of here itnet7 :-P
21:21:30 <cjohnston>	lol
21:21:37 <_marx_>	pleia2: that needs to be set up before the 23rd
21:21:49 <pleia2>	_marx_: the survey?
21:21:53 <_marx_>	yes
21:22:00 <cjohnston>	_marx_: im gonna work on setting up the survey in the next couple days
21:22:12 <_marx_>	so posting the link can happen in session
21:22:17 <cjohnston>	yup
21:22:26 <pleia2>	yeah
21:22:50 <_marx_>	hum surveys for each session?
21:22:56 <cjohnston>	no
21:22:58 <cjohnston>	one survey
21:23:19 <Pendulum>	but announced each session as people aren't necessarily going to stay for every session
21:23:20 <cjohnston>	but to get the most feedback it needs to be anounced often as not everyone will be there all day
21:23:32 <Pendulum>	cjohnston: when did you become my brain twin?
21:23:40 <pleia2>	hehe
21:23:44 <cjohnston>	when i lost mine
21:23:46 <cjohnston>	:-P
21:23:51 <cjohnston>	jk Pendulum
21:24:00 <_marx_>	+1 each session
21:24:07 <_marx_>	geez...
21:24:13 <cjohnston>	what itnet7 said
21:24:15 <_marx_>	y'all are scary
21:24:16 <cjohnston>	speak up!
21:24:18 <cjohnston>	we cant hear you
21:24:30 <itnet7>	put the url in the topic/motd
21:24:34 <itnet7>	of each class
21:24:37 <cjohnston>	survey url
21:24:39 <cjohnston>	^^
21:24:41 <itnet7>	ty
21:24:42 <cjohnston>	I like that idea
21:24:54 <Pendulum>	+1
21:24:56 <Hellow>	Problem is, not everyone reads the channel topic. Especially not newbies to IRC.
21:25:08 <Pendulum>	no, but in topic and announcing it
21:25:09 <cjohnston>	Hellow: if we do both.. we will get I hope everyone
21:25:16 <Hellow>	cjohnston, Both would be good.
21:25:21 <cjohnston>	Pendulum: your scaring me
21:25:22 <_marx_>	might as well although i find long topic messages...I don't read them
21:25:30 <Hellow>	cjohnston, Identical twins.
21:25:33 *	Hellow ducks
21:25:42 <cjohnston>	i dont think so
21:25:49 <cjohnston>	if only for one reason...
21:25:53 <itnet7>	oh, dear God no... no cjohnston twins *shudders*
21:25:58 <cjohnston>	lmao
21:26:02 <Pendulum>	hah
21:26:17 <cjohnston>	itnet7: dan drove from gainsville.... :-P
21:26:19 <cjohnston>	heh
21:26:38 <itnet7>	cjohnston: I know, I know
21:26:48 <cjohnston>	with his baby
21:26:53 <cjohnston>	im messin with you
21:27:18 <_marx_>	agenda
21:27:18 <cjohnston>	you wish i had a twin in our loco
21:27:22 <cjohnston>	FirasKraiem dropped.. trying to find replacement..(jamalta) cjohnston
21:27:24 <_marx_>	item missed?
21:27:26 <cjohnston>	whats an agenda
21:27:33 <cjohnston>	whats missed?
21:27:45 <_marx_>	replacement for
21:27:53 <cjohnston>	we hadnt gotten there yet
21:28:02 <_marx_>	ok
21:28:04 <Hellow>	What is this thing you call an agen-da, hu-man?
21:28:13 <cjohnston>	jamalta didnt join in.. but some others from the florida loco did..
21:28:25 <cjohnston>	Firas /msg'ed me yesteday.. his gfx card fried
21:28:35 <pleia2>	sad
21:28:35 <Hellow>	cjohnston, You live in the state directly below mine :P.
21:28:50 <cjohnston>	Jamalta from the FL LoCo (the best LoCo in the world) stepped up to take his place
21:28:50 <Hellow>	In physical orientation, that is.
21:29:01 <cjohnston>	so your a northerner?
21:29:12 <itnet7>	cjohnston: technically we are "all" one LoCo
21:29:19 <Hellow>	If you consider Georgia to be "northerner", yes :P.
21:29:22 <Hellow>	err
21:29:26 <_marx_>	i think he's in georga
21:29:27 <cjohnston>	its north of florida
21:29:27 <Hellow>	Georgia to be a northern state :P.
21:29:30 *	jamalta (n=jamalta@209.20.66.76) has joined #ubuntu-learning
21:29:34 <cjohnston>	there he is
21:29:34 <cjohnston>	lol
21:29:38 *	nigel_nb (n=nigel_nb@122.172.146.96) has joined #ubuntu-learning
21:29:41 <jamalta>	><!
21:29:42 <jamalta>	what? hi
21:29:49 <jamalta>	i didn't knwo there was a metting of sorts
21:29:52 <cjohnston>	hey jamalta
21:29:55 <cjohnston>	and nigel_nb !
21:29:55 <Hellow>	nigel_nb, What is this I don't even.
21:29:56 <jamalta>	cjohnston: hey
21:30:03 <jamalta>	so what happened?
21:30:11 <cjohnston>	absolutly nothing
21:30:13 <Hellow>	jamalta, Someone set us up the bomb.
21:30:13 <jamalta>	and no one told me there was a meeting
21:30:16 <Hellow>	[/meme]
21:30:19 <cjohnston>	there isnt
21:30:24 <jamalta>	Hellow: agh!
21:30:27 <jamalta>	now i have that song stuck in my ehad
21:30:29 <jamalta>	no better eyt
21:30:31 <jamalta>	i'm goign to play it
21:30:31 <Hellow>	hah
21:30:36 <Pendulum>	I think we've gotten side tracked
21:30:40 *	jamalta hates teh eeepc keyboard and apologizes for the frequent typos
21:30:45 <jamalta>	Pendulum: seems like so
21:30:48 <jamalta>	Hi, to everyone, btw
21:30:50 <jamalta>	I don't know most of you :)
21:30:54 <Hellow>	Pendulum, I think we've been sidetracked for most of the meeting :P.
21:30:57 <nigel_nb>	user days meeting?
21:30:58 <pleia2>	yeah, my attention is split so if we could get back on track it would be helpful :)
21:30:58 <Pendulum>	cjohnston: so we theoretically have someone covering?
21:30:59 <cjohnston>	I could have scratched #V off.. but i just wanted to mention that he stepped up at the lsat minute.. which brings me to:
21:31:09 <cjohnston>	Pendulum: jamalta is covering Firas spot
21:31:15 <Pendulum>	awesome :)
21:31:17 <cjohnston>	Nagendra??? duane?? cjohnston
21:31:18 <Pendulum>	thank you jamalta :)
21:31:22 <cjohnston>	here is my issue
21:31:27 <jamalta>	Pendulum: my pleasure
21:31:27 <jamalta>	:)
21:31:33 <jamalta>	hmm. should i put my name on the wiki?
21:31:35 <cjohnston>	i havent heard from nagendra in...
21:31:37 <jamalta>	for that slot?
21:31:38 <cjohnston>	a long time
21:31:40 <cjohnston>	jamalta: i will
21:31:45 <cjohnston>	its on my list
21:31:46 <pleia2>	even if Nagendra shows up, having the extra course written will help UCLP
21:31:52 <jamalta>	cjohnston: oh ok, thanks
21:32:04 <cjohnston>	he has me extremely nervous right now...
21:32:17 <cjohnston>	so i have secured duanedesign to write a course for that topic...
21:32:32 <cjohnston>	and I believe he did confirm that he could teach it also..
21:32:46 <cjohnston>	my brain is fried tho...
21:32:51 <cjohnston>	so i dont remember that part
21:33:09 <cjohnston>	but if the course is written, i can teach it.. i just dont have time to write it
21:33:11 <Pendulum>	cjohnston: I wasn't clear on whether he could or not. Although I suspect if he writes it, one of us can teach as needed
21:33:22 <Pendulum>	*nods*
21:33:37 <nigel_nb>	cjohnston, once the course is written, anyone can teach it.  that's the hard part
21:33:46 <cjohnston>	ya
21:33:57 <Pendulum>	I am also re-emailing nagendra to see if we can get any sort of response from him
21:34:02 <cjohnston>	k
21:34:09 <cjohnston>	and nigel_nb you emailed him also?
21:34:17 <_marx_>	partitioning might be the hardest part of course one to cover
21:34:32 <nigel_nb>	not yet! but if Pendulum is, then do you want me to?
21:34:53 <jamalta>	cjohnston: i'll have the writeup tomorrow night hopefully
21:34:57 <_marx_>	nigel_nb: did you see my shared opening .odt files?
21:34:58 <jamalta>	i'll see if ic an do it tomorrow durin glunch
21:35:06 <cjohnston>	I want (need) someone else to make a decision... when do we need to hear from him by?
21:35:12 <cjohnston>	before we bump him out
21:35:22 <Hellow>	cjohnston, Tomorrow would probably be the wisest.
21:35:25 <cjohnston>	i have my opinion.. but im not gonna say it
21:35:27 <nigel_nb>	put it in the mail
21:35:28 <Pendulum>	nigel_nb: do you actually know him?
21:35:31 <_marx_>	Hellow: +1
21:35:36 <cjohnston>	Pendulum: no :-(
21:35:41 <cjohnston>	tomorrow what time?
21:35:46 <nigel_nb>	Pendulum, nope, just responded to my invitation from the mailing list
21:35:46 <cjohnston>	pleia2: ^
21:35:48 <Hellow>	cjohnston, Evening EST tomorrow.
21:35:53 <nigel_nb>	cjohnston, 24 hours from when he gets the mail
21:35:58 <Hellow>	nigel_nb, Or that.
21:36:08 <_marx_>	nigel_nb: +1
21:36:12 *	Vantrax has quit (Read error: 113 (No route to host))
21:36:16 <Pendulum>	nigel_nb: so he's in India? (I'm trying to guage what time zone he's in)
21:36:21 <cjohnston>	ok... can someone send an email in the next 24 minutes?
21:36:29 <cjohnston>	that way I can say 2200 EST tomororw?
21:36:31 <Pendulum>	I've got one 1/2 written now
21:36:35 <nigel_nb>	Pendulum, yeah (but not necessarily)
21:36:35 <cjohnston>	ok
21:36:36 <cjohnston>	cool
21:36:50 <nigel_nb>	Pendulum, just make sure you give reasons why this kind of confirmation is necessary
21:37:10 <cjohnston>	either way... thanks to duanedesign for stepping up (and everyone else who has offered to help write this course)
21:37:11 <nigel_nb>	i.e. we need confirmation for all classes and time to think of backup
21:37:28 <Pendulum>	yep, that's in there :)
21:38:00 *	_marx_ has carpenter work tomorrow am w/linux access on jobsite, home after that
21:38:23 <nigel_nb>	_marx_, not yet.  I was away from fast internet
21:38:26 <nigel_nb>	I'll check it out today
21:38:30 <cjohnston>	anyone know shrini?
21:38:36 <Pendulum>	I'm giving time in UTC, btw
21:38:41 *	mhall119 (n=mhall119@pool-173-65-27-166.tampfl.fios.verizon.net) has joined #ubuntu-learning
21:38:48 <cjohnston>	thats fine Pendulum
21:38:49 <Pendulum>	and now is a good time to let me know who else should get similar e-mails :)
21:39:05 <nigel_nb>	lol, copy to the 3 of you guys
21:39:19 <nigel_nb>	cjohnston, who else left to confirm?
21:39:26 <cjohnston>	i havent gotten info from everyone else Pendulum... but shrini is the only one who makes me nervous other than that..
21:39:34 <cjohnston>	but everyone else i talk to enough to be ok
21:39:37 <Pendulum>	*nods*
21:39:37 <_marx_>	nigel_nb: sorry for your xp and dialup vacation, er holiday
21:39:56 <nigel_nb>	hehe
21:39:59 <cjohnston>	Pendulum: i sent you the link for the intro page right?
21:40:15 <Pendulum>	umm... you did, but I was on my phone at the time so don't have it handy now
21:40:19 <cjohnston>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDaysTeam/01232010/intro
21:40:27 <Pendulum>	ta :)
21:40:35 <cjohnston>	and the people who are linked on the schedule are the ones who have put up an outline
21:40:41 <Pendulum>	right
21:40:46 <cjohnston>	is it just me or is there a table problem
21:41:01 <cjohnston>	ok
21:41:02 <cjohnston>	maybe just me
21:41:10 <Pendulum>	for the e-mail to nagendra, btw, I'm asking that he e-mail check in with Chris or myself directly
21:41:19 <cjohnston>	ty
21:41:22 <nigel_nb>	Pendulum, just reply to the mail
21:41:34 <nigel_nb>	Pendulum, make sure cjohnston and pleia2 have copies so one of you will know
21:41:54 <pleia2>	table problem?
21:41:55 <cjohnston>	im at work tomorrow too
21:42:01 <cjohnston>	pleia2: n
21:42:02 <cjohnston>	nm
21:42:08 <cjohnston>	!fail on my part
21:42:19 *	Hellow now has peppermint tea
21:42:20 <pleia2>	while we're on introductions
21:42:21 <pleia2>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDaysTeam/Introduction
21:42:30 <cjohnston>	i need to look at that more
21:42:34 <pleia2>	finished this weekend, anyone want to have a stab at fixing it up?
21:42:35 <cjohnston>	i glanced over it..
21:42:41 <cjohnston>	but its lookin good
21:42:59 <pleia2>	it's probably fine the way it is, but I wanted anyone else's ideas to be tossed in if they have any
21:43:13 <cjohnston>	do we need more to make it an hourish?
21:43:39 <cjohnston>	pleia2: did you confirm that we will do +m?
21:43:39 *	Vantrax (n=Vantrax@ubuntu/member/vantrax) has joined #ubuntu-learning
21:43:42 <pleia2>	no, as it is I'm *hoping* people will ask enough questions
21:43:46 <Hellow>	pleia2, I might add some improvements to it later on tonight, but so far, it looks nice :).
21:43:46 <cjohnston>	ok
21:43:47 <cjohnston>	gotcha
21:43:55 <pleia2>	cjohnston: we can +m if we want, no big deal
21:44:00 <pleia2>	Hellow: thanks :)
21:44:09 <cjohnston>	I say leave it open for intro... and then close for the first class?
21:44:12 <pleia2>	during the intro we probably want to -m
21:44:13 <pleia2>	yeah
21:44:14 <_marx_>	more hourish yes
21:44:24 <cjohnston>	so are we tripplets?
21:44:27 <Hellow>	Also, I would prefer a setup like Open Week has: Classroom is +m, questions are asked in -chat and responded to in -classroom.
21:44:27 <nigel_nb>	pleia2, make it m+ after the first me minutes
21:44:36 <nigel_nb>	first few minutes of intro
21:44:59 <pleia2>	nigel_nb: the first few minutes are asking who is there and where they are from :)
21:45:06 <pleia2>	so we need them talking then at least
21:45:14 <nigel_nb>	yea, that's what I meant
21:45:14 <Vantrax>	hellow + project board =?
21:45:22 <nigel_nb>	make it m+ after that
21:45:30 <Hellow>	Vantrax, hmm?
21:45:54 <pleia2>	Hellow: yeah, questions will be in -chat
21:45:59 <pleia2>	same as UOW
21:46:04 <Hellow>	Hee.
21:46:11 <pleia2>	we didn't always have -classroom +m for sessions
21:46:13 <_marx_>	and UDS
21:46:17 <pleia2>	but as it grew it got to be a bit much
21:46:23 <Vantrax>	Hellow, you tried to join the project board group
21:46:27 *	Hellow didn't attend UDS, so wouldn't know
21:46:36 <Vantrax>	so i got an email
21:46:45 <Pendulum>	_marx_: UDS didn't use -classroom
21:46:48 <pleia2>	Vantrax: no, he tried to join the regular learning team
21:46:48 *	_marx_ attended via IRC
21:46:52 <Hellow>	Vantrax, I submitted a request to join https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-learning :P
21:47:01 <cjohnston>	thanks penny
21:47:05 <Vantrax>	oh, and i got it via the board
21:47:10 <pleia2>	Vantrax: yep :)
21:47:11 <_marx_>	Pendulum: yes but did do -chat
21:47:11 <Vantrax>	bah.. ignore me
21:47:23 <Vantrax>	im at Linux.conf.au atm so a little distracted
21:47:25 *	cjohnston is lost
21:47:25 *	pleia2 hugs Vantrax 
21:47:30 <Pendulum>	did it? I only used -uds and the various -uds channels
21:47:34 <Vantrax>	btw, can anyone make sense of 000000d1ed686c4400206e4f1f370f9a43ba0f4367376f5317474fda1f375fe294d07fd417373f00
21:47:34 <Vantrax>	163000b4c410908080b8f1
21:47:40 <cjohnston>	Open discussion........
21:47:41 <Vantrax>	its a puzzle...
21:47:43 <cjohnston>	Anything else?
21:47:46 <pleia2>	I'm done
21:47:51 <Hellow>	Vantrax, Looks like a massive pile of numbers and letters to me.
21:47:54 <_marx_>	done
21:47:59 <Hellow>	I'm finished.
21:48:00 <Vantrax>	me too
21:48:14 <_marx_>	Pendulum: maybe i'm wrong, won't be the first time
21:48:16 <Pendulum>	nothing here
21:48:21 <cjohnston>	Sounds good..
21:48:23 <mhall119>	looks like a hash
21:48:27 <cjohnston>	Thank you all VERY much for your help!
21:48:34 <pleia2>	thanks cjohnston :)
21:48:36 <cjohnston>	#endmeeting
</pre>
