{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

 I. Hellow/MagicFab courses - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
 I. Confirm Schedule - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
 I. Plan Intro - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
 I. Discuss how we want to run the day - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
 I. Inform instructors about Lernid? - <nowiki>[[lyz|pleia2]]</nowiki>
 I. Promoting UUD - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
 I. Second email requesting overviews/outlines from instructors for their course.. Only received one so far. - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>

=== Minutes ===

 I. Hellow/MagicFab courses - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
** pleia2 is emailing MagicFab to discuss his course offerings to determine if they are different enough from other courses already being offered.
** Hellow has gotten some suggestions on courses and should have his course on the wiki tomorrow.
 I. Confirm Schedule - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
** cjohnston will email instructors to verify the schedule works for them
 I. Plan Intro - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
** Karmic Open Week Intro for more information: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekKarmic/Intro
** pleia2 will try to have a draft of the intro available by Friday.. cjohnston will try to help
** Intro will be split into sections for each host to have part
 I. Discuss how we want to run the day - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
** cjohnston will send an email requesting a brief introduction from each instructor to be used by the hosts to introduce the intructors at the beignning of their hour
** instructors will be given the choice of handling pasting questions in -classroom themselves or if they want a host to paste questions.
 I. Inform instructors about Lernid? - <nowiki>[[lyz|pleia2]]</nowiki>
** let instructors know that it exists, but we aren't supporting the features of lernid for this session.. Maybe revisit next time.
 I. Promoting UUD - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
** fridge?
** all four of us will post on our blogs. 
** email to loco team contacts
** email to ubuntu-users mailing list
** pleia2 will try to find out if we can email on ubuntu-announce
 I. Second email requesting overviews/outlines from instructors for their course.. Only received one so far. - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
** cjohnsotn will email instructors for this information

=== Log ===

<pre>
20:02 < cjohnston> I see pleia2 and _marx_ but i dont see Pendulum 
20:02 < _marx_> present
20:02 < cjohnston> you got me a present?
20:03 < pleia2> :)
20:03 < _marx_> ah, no sorry about that
20:03 < cjohnston> uggh
20:04 < _marx_> charcoal?
20:04 < cjohnston> lol
20:04 < _marx_> lol back at ya!
20:05 < cjohnston> ok... well.. do we want to go on and start and hopefully Pendulum will show up?
20:05 < pleia2> yeah
20:05  * _marx_ nods
20:05 < cprofitt> the meeting is at 9pm yes?
20:05 < cjohnston> cprofitt: this is the User Days meeting..
20:05 < pleia2> cjohnston: yeah, this is the user days meeting
20:05 < pleia2> err cprofitt
20:05 < _marx_> cprofitt: yes this is uud
20:05 < pleia2> tabfail++
20:05 < cjohnston> The team meeting is at 9
20:06 < cprofitt> not sure I got any notice for that one...
20:06 < cjohnston> cprofitt: its mostly just the 4 of us talkin..
20:06 < cprofitt> k
20:06 < cjohnston> feel free to hang out and give input though
20:06 < _marx_> first hour is intro, what's that going to be like?
20:07 < cjohnston> Hellow/MagicFab courses - cjohnston
20:07 < pleia2> cjohnston: do you want me to email MF?
20:07 < cjohnston> Hellow still doesn't have a topic idea for himself, and mentioned to me a couple days ago about removing his name.. I have no problem with this of course... but wanted to try to get any last course ideas
20:07 < cjohnston> sure pleia2 
20:08 < pleia2> ok, I'll do that now
20:08 < cjohnston> Sounds good..
20:08 < _marx_> I'm planning on being around all day that day
20:09 < cjohnston> any thoughts on a topic for Hellow?
20:10 < pleia2> do we know where his strengths are?
20:10 < pleia2> evening ZachK_
20:10 < ZachK_> oh hello pleia2
20:10 < cjohnston> I don't..
20:10 < ZachK_> pleia2: what's up? I say that as you usually don't ping me
20:11 < pleia2> ZachK_: user days meeting
20:11 < ZachK_> right now?
20:11 < pleia2> yep
20:11 < ZachK_> oh sweet
20:11 < pleia2> hey Hellow
20:11 < ZachK_> ok...what's it about
20:11 < cjohnston> hello Hellow 
20:12 < _marx_> hi Hellow
20:12 < ZachK_> Hellow....what up dude
20:12 < Hellow> Ohai thar.
20:12 < cjohnston> Hellow: we are talking about you
20:12 < cjohnston> ;-)
20:12 < pleia2> trying to think of what new people would need to know about
20:12  * ZachK_ sharpens keyboard
20:12 < cjohnston> We are trying to come up with a course for you.. 
20:12 < ZachK_> pleia2: command line
20:12 < PabloRubianes> Sorry i am late, hello
20:12 < pleia2> ZachK_: covered
20:12 < cjohnston> ZachK_: have you seen the schedule
20:12 < pleia2> ZachK_: the schedule so far is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
20:12 < ZachK_> thanks pleia2 will look right......NOW!
20:13 < cjohnston> I have also invited PabloRubianes to join in since he is half of the lead for the spanish UUD
20:13 < _marx_> ZachK_: i have that but i'd love to talk to you about it
20:13 < cjohnston> PabloRubianes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDaysTeam/Meetings/01112010
20:13 < ZachK_> _marx_: about what?
20:13 < pleia2> let me see if I can get cproffit back
20:13 < ZachK_> cjohnston: did you say you're trying to get a course for me?
20:13 < _marx_> what to cover how to present it etc
20:13 < Hellow> This is an.. interesting time to be doing this.
20:14 < pleia2> I'd like to see if he can let us know what he'll be covering in "equivalent" talk
20:14 < cjohnston> ZachK_: no.. for Hellow 
20:14 < ZachK_> cjohnston: roger
20:14 < cjohnston> Hellow: ?
20:15 < ZachK_> _marx_:
20:16 < pleia2> so I'm wondering if there is anything on the desktop itself we're not covering but would be interesting
20:16 < ZachK_> :-D
20:16 < cjohnston> PabloRubianes: do you all have any courses we dont have?
20:16 < ZachK_> pleia2: can you pm me the scrollback of the meeting so far?
20:17 < pleia2> Hellow: how are you at basic system configuration, explaining the differences between "preferences" and "administration" and what things you can edit?
20:17 < doctormo> pleia2: This meeting is in 40mins right?
20:17 < Hellow> Package management, command line, bash scripting, etc. programming languages, system config, desktop preferences, desktop config, etc.
20:17 < ZachK_> doctormo: it's right now
20:17 < cjohnston> doctormo: two different meetings.. this is user days team meeting
20:17 < pleia2> doctormo: yeah, this is just a sort of impromptu user days meeting
20:17 < pleia2> Hellow: I am thinking "system config, desktop preferences, desktop config"
20:18 < doctormo> Ah, *few* I meant ubuntu-learning meeting... i.e. the channel we're in ;-)
20:18 < Hellow> desktop preferences could be a little hard, as there are three primary DE's for Ubuntu.
20:18 < pleia2> Hellow: or whatever you think you can fit into an hour :)
20:18 < pleia2> Hellow: we're focusing on Gnome
20:18 < Hellow> Desktop config, in many ways, = desktop preferences
20:18 < cjohnston> That sounds good..
20:18 < PabloRubianes> cjohnston: So far we have confirmed (Terminal, Join LoCo, Bugs report and equivalent software for Ubuntu)
20:18  * pleia2 nods
20:19 < cjohnston> PabloRubianes: thanks
20:19 < cjohnston> Hellow: are you good with that?
20:19 < Hellow> I am, but I don't know if I can make it fill an hour.
20:19 < ZachK_> have you done how to set up movies/cd's or at least how to play them? I know that's like SUPER easy but some users just don't know how
20:20 < PabloRubianes> cjohnston: we are wainting for more presenters to confirm, for the spanish speaking people this is Holiday time
20:20 < ZachK_> and wireless is always a good one
20:20 < Hellow> Oh god wireless.
20:20 < cjohnston> gotcha PabloRubianes 
20:20 < pleia2> Hellow: haha
20:20 < ZachK_> What....what did I say?
20:21 < cjohnston> wireles
20:21  * ZachK_ said, "Wireless"
20:21 < cjohnston> s
20:21  * pleia2 gets the impression that Hellow doesn't want to do the wireless talk :)
20:21 < Hellow> Exactly. Never use "wireless" and "linux" in the same sentence/context.
20:21 < cjohnston> So we have some ideas that you should be able to make something out of Hellow ?
20:21 < ZachK_> Haha
20:21 < cjohnston> mine works
20:21 < Hellow> Possibly.
20:21 < cjohnston> right no
20:21 < cjohnston> w
20:21 < pleia2> cjohnston: hehe
20:21 < _marx_> lernid
20:22 < cjohnston> im on a laptop in bed with the wife who is PASSED OUT
20:22 < pleia2> mine too, so I don't mess with it ;)
20:22 < Hellow> I'm *best* with everything that's already taken :P.
20:22 < cjohnston> I want her drugs
20:22 < ZachK_> pleia2: has anyone covered server/Firebird?
20:22 < pleia2> ZachK_: no, but we're trying to keep this pretty basic
20:22 < ZachK_> pleia2: oh.....ok then
20:22 < Hellow> Yeah, that's a little advanced.
20:22 < ZachK_> nevermind
20:22 < cjohnston> II. Confirm Schedule - cjohnston
20:22 < ZachK_> I'll just keep quiet then
20:23 < _marx_> hum i was planning on alpine...
20:23 < Hellow> I'll have a decision on my topic up on the UserDays wiki tomorrow.
20:23 < cjohnston> Right now, I haven't recieved any negative feedback on the current schedule as set..
20:23 < cjohnston> thanks Hellow !
20:23 < cjohnston> glad we could keep you in this
20:23 < pleia2> Hellow: great, thanks
20:24 < cjohnston> I will email everyone and confirm that the schedule works for them.. Anyone have any issues with it the way it stands now?
20:24 < pleia2> cjohnston: nope, looks good
20:24 < _marx_> first hour is intros?
20:24 < cjohnston> _marx_: getting there
20:25 < cjohnston> actually thats next
20:25 < _marx_> so how do we use that hour
20:25 < cjohnston> III. Plan Intro - <nowiki>[[cjohnston]]</nowiki>
20:25 < pleia2> I am starting to think we need to use that hour to give a lernid demo
20:25 < cjohnston> pleia2: i know at one point we talked and you said you had some stuff we could work with
20:25 < duanedesign> _marx_: alpine is neat. I saw someone asking about mutt earlier
20:26 < pleia2> cjohnston: yeah, I was thinking of using some of the material from the intro to the open week
20:26 < cjohnston> pleia2: AlanBell (I think) had made the suggestion that we dont tailor this to lernid due to the possibility of having people on windows
20:26 < cjohnston> or people who dont know how to install lernid
20:26 < cjohnston> via a ppa
20:26 < pleia2> jono always does an introduction
20:26 < Hellow> Wait, are we using lernid on this?
20:26 < cjohnston> he isnt availbale
20:26 < cjohnston> available
20:26 < pleia2> right, he doesn't have to do it :)
20:26 < pleia2> we can
20:26 < cjohnston> one day ill learn to spell
20:26 < pleia2> but a similiar thing is what I had in mind
20:26  * _marx_ votes no on lernid
20:27 < cjohnston> I was tryin to be funny.. but didnt come out
20:27 < _marx_> new users will have to learn how to enable a ppa
20:27 < cjohnston> we do have jcastro tho
20:27 < pleia2> _marx_: no to using it at all, or no to telling people about it and how to use it?
20:27 < chitchatcurtis> what is it
20:27 < Hellow> ...actually, I think that might be my topic. Using apt-get/aptitude.
20:27 < _marx_> pleia2: no as default
20:27 < cjohnston> If people want to use it on their own its fine, but I don't think we should 'support' it
20:27 < Hellow> Or general package management.
20:27 < pleia2> the karmic intro: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekKarmic/Intro
20:28 < ZachK_> gotta go folks....chores
20:28 < Pendulum> I agree with cjohnston
20:28 < pleia2> _marx_: I agree it shouldn't be default
20:28 < cjohnston> pleia2: !
20:28 < cjohnston> oops.. tab fail
20:28 < cjohnston> Pendulum: !
20:28 < pleia2> hey Pendulum
20:28 < Pendulum> hi, sorry, I've been somewhat reading, but things are moving fast and my brain has decided to stop moving fast ;)
20:28 < chitchatcurtis> what is this site all about
20:28 < ZachK_> pleia2: i wish to speak with you in say an hour or so? that acceptable
20:28 < Hellow> Pendulum, More coffee always works.
20:28 < duanedesign> Hellow: i know i used ubuntu for 2 years before i realized you could type just 'aptitude' and get the ncurses package manager window
20:28 < pleia2> ZachK_: sure, I'll be around
20:29 < Hellow> duanedesign, LOL.
20:29 < Pendulum> Hellow: no coffee. it'd be bad.
20:29 < ZachK_> pleia2: in an hour then.....bye team
20:29 < cjohnston> duanedesign: i didnt know that.... lol
20:29 < cjohnston> bye ZachK_ 
20:29 < cjohnston> didnt care to... i dont think.. but didnt know that
20:29 < pleia2> Hellow: maybe installing packages in general?
20:29 < pleia2> Hellow: apt, aptitude, synaptic, software center
20:29 < Pendulum> installing packages is good
20:30 < Pendulum> (as an idea for something to do)
20:30 < Hellow> pleia2, I think general package management would be useful, but focus upon installing packages yes.
20:30 < cjohnston> that sounds good
20:30 < Hellow> Adding repositories through the command line and software sources, using software center, using apt to install, remove, upgrade, and dist-upgrade, etc.
20:30 < chitchatcurtis> wow this is fast
20:31 < cjohnston> maybe we can move things around too.. and get that earlier in the day
20:31 < pleia2> Hellow: I'd also touch base with paultag, his class is about finding trusted software
20:31 < _marx_> Hellow: I wasn't going to cover that in cli basics
20:31 < chitchatcurtis> am I here?
20:31 < cjohnston> is that sarcasm?
20:31  * Hellow headdesk
20:31 < pleia2> chitchatcurtis: we're having a meeting about the upcoming Ubuntu User Day: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
20:31 < Hellow> This is going to be interesting.
20:31 < _marx_> indeed
20:31 < chitchatcurtis> o I c
20:32 < cjohnston> So maybe more with software center and stuff and less with cli?
20:32 < Hellow> There's not much left to that topic if you take out the command line part of it.. :P.
20:32 < cjohnston> Hellow: cover 16 smaller topics in one hour
20:32 < cjohnston> heh
20:32 < Hellow> Oh great.
20:32 < Hellow> :P
20:32 < cjohnston> ;-)
20:33 < _marx_> Hellow: I'm planning on installing mc and lynx
20:33 < pleia2> hehe
20:33 < Hellow> _marx_, In that case, I could cover the more detailed/advanced features of aptitude and apt?
20:33 < _marx_> apt-cache and apt-show?
20:34 < chitchatcurtis> this looks like it is over my head for now lol
20:34 < Hellow> Those too.
20:34 < cjohnston> lets get back to the intro please.. we are limited on time with the learning meeting immediatly after this
20:34 < _marx_> Hellow: we should talk some what hour do you have?
20:34 < Hellow> But, more like upgrade, dist-upgrade, remove, purge, check, *clean, etc.
20:34 < _marx_> intro yes
20:35 < Hellow> _marx_, 0:00 UTC, if that is what you mean.
20:35 < cjohnston> So we need to write an intro and decide how we want to present the intro.... 
20:35 < _marx_> Hellow: yes
20:35 < cjohnston> pleia2: provided a link to the karmic intro for reference
20:35 < Hellow> Although I could easily do earlier :P.
20:35  * _marx_ waits on cjohnston 
20:35 < cjohnston> whatcha waiting on
20:35 < pleia2> the karmic intro is good, I'd like to see something similar for ours
20:36 < cjohnston> ok.. i dont know that i have read it. so i will read it later..
20:36 < pleia2> ok
20:36 < Hellow> Where's the intro at?
20:36 < Hellow> :P
20:36 < pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekKarmic/Intro
20:36 < cjohnston> ^^
20:37 < Hellow> So we're using the same general intro as the Ubuntu Open Week?
20:37 < pleia2> something similar, yeah
20:37 < pleia2> I am proposing anyway :)
20:37 < cjohnston> sounds good...
20:37 < cjohnston> and how do we want to present the intro?
20:38 < cjohnston> each of us gets a part?
20:38 < pleia2> yeah, I'd say so
20:38 < pleia2> evening swoody
20:38 < cjohnston> ok.. so we can work on writing the intro.. and then assign parts to it..
20:38  * pleia2 nods
20:38 < cjohnston> parts of it to each person..
20:38 < swoody> hello pleia2 :)
20:38 < Pendulum> yeah, that makes sense
20:39 < cjohnston> who wants to work on writing the intro?
20:39 < chitchatcurtis> hey can I say something as a newby?
20:39 < cjohnston> sure chitchatcurtis 
20:39 < pleia2> chitchatcurtis: sure
20:40 < cjohnston> anyone?
20:40 < pleia2> cjohnston: ok ok, I'll have a draft by friday
20:40 < chitchatcurtis> there are some out the as I that are very new to this so basics are great.
20:40 < cjohnston> pleia2: ok.. I will try to help you with it too.. :-)
20:40 < _marx_> cjohnston: I kinda thought the intro would be the four of us that started this mess would just introduce ourselves
20:40 < Pendulum> pleia2: feel free to poke me if you want a hand or want me to do it
20:41 < pleia2> ok, I'll prep it on the wiki so you can all see my progress
20:41 < cjohnston> _marx_: we have an hour
20:41 < cjohnston> pleia2: sounds good
20:41 < cjohnston> _marx_: that will be part of it thought
20:41 < _marx_> k
20:41 < chitchatcurtis> it may be redundant to some but very helpful to many
20:42 < cjohnston> chitchatcurtis: that is the whole point of this 
20:42 < cjohnston> IV. Discuss how we want to run the day
20:42 < chitchatcurtis> ok
20:42 < _marx_> for me one part is that i've only met y'all here on IRC
20:42 < pleia2> _marx_: weren't you at SELF?
20:42 < _marx_> yes
20:42 < pleia2> we met :)
20:43  * cjohnston needs to start meeting people
20:43 < pleia2> akgraner introduced us, I'm Lyz from the pennsylvania loco
20:43  * _marx_ runs memtest on his brain
20:43 < pleia2> hehe
20:43 < cjohnston> What I have invisioned in how we will run this is get each instructor to give us a little intro to themselves, in which one of us will use that to introduce each instructor at the beginning of the hour
20:44 < cjohnston> s/the hour/their hour
20:44 < _marx_> pleia2: oh yeah! sector 2367
20:44 < pleia2> _marx_: http://princessleia.com/images/journalpics/062009/self_local_bof.jpg I'm third from the left, waving a pen around
20:44 < pleia2> I think you're sitting 2 seats away from me there
20:45 < pleia2> sorry, tangent
20:45 < _marx_> cjohnston: sounds good
20:45 < pleia2> yep, sounds good
20:46 < cjohnston> pleia2: how are questions normally done at the events? instructor tracks and copies/pastes and answers them, or should we copy questions into -classroom for them?
20:46 < pleia2> cjohnston: it's up to the instructor
20:46 < pleia2> we ask them whether they want to do it themselves or not
20:46 < cjohnston> ok... 
20:46 < _marx_> questions are asked in the chat channel
20:46 < Hellow> From what I've seen, the channel is in auditorium mode and questions are asked in chat, responded to in the main channel.
20:46 < pleia2> Hellow: yep
20:46 < Hellow> Or something like that.
20:47 < _marx_> sometimes there is a moderator to pass them on to the classroom
20:47 < Hellow> ...err, is it auditorium mode? Does freenode even have that?
20:47 < Hellow> :P
20:47 < cjohnston> should we try to get that information prior to the day, or at the start of each class?
20:47 < Hellow> It might be just +m.
20:47 < Pendulum> probably not this week, but next week should we decide who is introducing each session? (I think we should meet next week)
20:47 < cjohnston> Pendulum: agreed..
20:47 < pleia2> cjohnston: we tend to do it right before each session as we're prepping the instructor
20:47 < cjohnston> ok pleia2 sounds good
20:47 < pleia2> that way they'll have an idea of the crowd - if it's really busy that day they might need help
20:47 < pleia2> otherwise it might be eaiser just for them to do it
20:47 < cjohnston> V. Inform instructors about Lernid?
20:48 < cjohnston> Sorry for rushing..
20:48 < pleia2> np
20:48 < cjohnston> I say -1... 
20:48 < Hellow> I believe you have 12 minutes left :P.
20:48 < cjohnston> maybe let them know it exists but that we arent supporting it?
20:48 < Hellow> Or something like that.
20:48 < pleia2> nhandler and nigel_nb were working on this, getting us an ical thing made and stuff in case we wanted to give people the opportunity to use it
20:48 < nigel_nb> we are creating an event Hellow
20:49 < nigel_nb> lernid can be used, but we assume that people won't have it
20:49 < nigel_nb> sorry to be late ;)
20:49 < cjohnston> I dont have a problem creating the event.. but i say no to the slides and such
20:49 < _marx_> no prob nigel_nb
20:49 < pleia2> nigel_nb: no worries, this is just our little user days meeting, learning project meeting isn't for another 10 minutes :)
20:49 < nigel_nb> if the start times and end times are ready, jono will get the config file on the server and it will be listed as an event
20:49 < _marx_> what is our audience?
20:49 < cjohnston> beginners
20:49 < _marx_> or who?
20:49 < cjohnston> new people
20:50 < cjohnston> maybe never used ubuntu
20:50 < _marx_> so adding a ppa is ...?
20:50 < Hellow> Part of what I was going to teach :P.
20:50 < cjohnston> that should be covered throughout the course of the day
20:50 < Pendulum> I think it might be something worth teaching, but not something we should expect them to have done
20:50 < pleia2> _marx_: maybe someone else will install it for them if they're recommending they attend the day :)
20:51 < cjohnston> 10 minutes
20:51 < nigel_nb> pleia2, I know, I'm here for the user days meeting
20:51 < Hellow> Is there a website that lists instructions on getting and using Lernid?
20:51 < _marx_> Hellow: great
20:51 < cjohnston> If nothing else, I say maybe shoot for lernid for the next UUD, this one, we can set it up, but I still say no slides, no fancy stuff....
20:51 < Hellow> I know what it is, but eh.
20:52 < pleia2> cjohnston: yeah, I agree
20:52 < cjohnston> ok..
20:52 < _marx_> +1 cjohnston
20:52 < cjohnston> VI. Promoting UUD
20:52 < Pendulum> +1
20:52 < Hellow> +1 cjohnston
20:52 < cjohnston> I have already blogged about it once..
20:52 < cjohnston> its made it to UWN
20:52 < cjohnston> and planet
20:52 < pleia2> I was waiting to blog about it so they weren't all blogged at the same time
20:52 < chitchatcurtis> but there are new users
20:52 < pleia2> but I want to post something on the planet this week
20:52 < pleia2> maybe wednesday
20:52 < cjohnston> I owe PabloRubianes a post on the spanish version too
20:53 < cjohnston> I will probably blog about it atleast one more time..
20:53 < cjohnston> Were else can we promote pleia2 
20:53 < Pendulum> I can blog, but my blog isn't syndicated anywhere
20:53 < PabloRubianes> the link is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DiaDelUsuarioUbuntu
20:53 < Hellow> I'll probably blog about it sometime later this week. Friday, perhaps.
20:53 < pleia2> cjohnston: did it make it to the fridge?
20:53 < cjohnston> Pendulum: still better than nothing
20:53 < Pendulum> twitter/identica
20:53 < cjohnston> pleia2: hmm
20:53 < cjohnston> dunno
20:53 < cjohnston> i dont think so pleia2 
20:53 < cjohnston> but dont quote me
20:53 < Hellow> How does Open Week get promoted?
20:53 < _marx_> i'll blog too but it's little read
20:53 < pleia2> nope
20:54 < pleia2> every bit helps
20:54 < _marx_> Hellow: may i /msg
20:54 < Hellow> _marx_, Sure.
20:55 < cjohnston> pleia2: what else does UOW or UDW get?
20:55 < Pendulum> so if pleia2 blogs friday, should I blog Monday of next week?
20:55 < cjohnston> any idea?
20:55 < pleia2> cjohnston: I think they tend to email the loco-contacts list too
20:55 < Hellow> UOW *might* get put on the ubuntu.com front page, but uh. I don't know :P.
20:55 < cjohnston> pleia2: is that something that we can do?
20:56 < pleia2> cjohnston: email to loco-contacts? I think so, just frame it like "let your loco teams know"
20:56 < pleia2> they are good at reaching new users
20:56 < cjohnston> and also on (e)(k)ubuntu-users mailing lists
20:56 < cjohnston> pleia2: thats a good though..
20:56 < Pendulum> *nods*
20:57 < pleia2> our focus is gnome, so I'm not sure about those other lists
20:57 < pleia2> or if any would be appropriate for posting it on
20:57 < chitchatcurtis> what about ubuntu business?
20:57 < cjohnston> pleia2: still educating on cli, finding help, etc
20:57 < PabloRubianes> we send letters to every spanish speaking LoCo Admin too, but in English is more dificult
20:57 < Hellow> ubuntu-announce?
20:57 < Hellow> I don't know if you can do that or not.
20:57 < pleia2> I'm not sure either
20:58 < cjohnston> pleia2: could you investigate that
20:58 < Hellow> ubuntu-news too.
20:58 < cjohnston> you would be the one to know
20:58 < cjohnston> who to talk to 
20:59 < pleia2> yeah, I'll see what I can figure out
20:59 < cjohnston> the last topic is just me saying im going to send out another email asking for an overview/outline from the instructors to post on the wiki page
20:59 < pleia2> ok great
20:59 < cjohnston> last thing.. 10 seconde
20:59 < cjohnston> seconds
20:59 < cjohnston> next meeitng
21:00 < cjohnston> thoughts?
21:00 < Hellow> This is going to be /fun/.
21:00 < cjohnston> same time next week?
21:00 < _marx_> ditto
21:01 < Pendulum> works for me
21:01 < cjohnston> _marx_ pleia2 ?
21:01 < pleia2> no good for me, but I'll catch up
21:01  * _marx_ good
21:01 < cjohnston> ok.. we will discuss later
21:01 < pleia2> my mother is visiting, but my schedule is pretty crazy for the next few weeks anyway
21:01 < cjohnston> ok.. we will discuss later
21:01 < cjohnston> #end
21:01 < pleia2> thanks cjohnston
21:02 < cjohnston> thanks all
</pre>
