{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Please join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~user-days-instructors|User Days Instructors]]</nowiki> group on Launchpad when signing up.'''

==== Course suggestions ====
* Switching to Ubuntu
*** from Windows
*** from OS X
*** from BSD
*** another distro
* Command Line Basics
*** navigating the file system from the command line (key concept: where am I)
*** using tar (tape archive) with gzip/bzip (key concept: input file(s) output file)
*** aliases, setting an alias, adding an alias to ~/.bashrc (key concept: saving keystrokes)
* Ubuntu Equivalent programs (LibreOffice == MS Office, etc)
* Customizing the desktop
* Using Ubuntu One
* Launchpad
*** Why have a Launchpad account
*** Creating a Launchpad account
*** Using your Launchpad account for OpenID
*** Asking questions on Launchpad
*** Reporting bugs on Launchpad
*** How to become an Ubuntero
* How to get help
*** Asking questions on Launchpad
*** Reporting bugs on Launchpad
* How to 'use' restricted drivers
*** From the repositories
*** From the vendor
* Using Shotwell for photo management
* Whats new in Precise
* How to Get Involved with the Community (this section isn't really appropriate for User Days as our focus is using Ubuntu, not contributing)
*** LoCo Teams
*** Forums
*** BugSquad
*** Translations
*** Developing
*** Joining teams on Launchpad
* Seahorse and GnuPG
*** Creating a key pair
*** Use with Launchpad/Code of Conduct
*** Use with Evolution/Email
*** Signed packages in the repositories and PPAs

==== Instructor Requirements ====

To make sure attendees get the best possible experience from User Days, we are required to confirm that all instructors meet high standards we wish to have for the event.

* If you're new to the Classroom Project
** What is your expertise within Ubuntu (a link to your wiki page is fine) and how does it relate to the class you wish to teach?
** What experience, if any, do you have teaching Ubuntu (or other related software)? This may include presentations at LoCo teams, LUGs and conferences, other IRC-based events, etc.
** Are there any folks within the community who can vouch your experience? Who?
* If you've been involved with the Classroom Project
** What have you taught in the past?

Please send these answers to Elizabeth Krumbach Joseph (lyz@ubuntu.com) and José Antonio Rey (jose@ubuntu.com) or drop by #ubuntu-classroom-backstage to talk with us
