{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Debian GNU/Linux user since ~ 2001 ==

Just installed Ubuntu 11.0.4 on a little Acer Aspire One - very impressed.

Now for my rant :)

I was actually installing it for a friend and the first thing he did was install the 'Pre-School Bundle'.&nbsp; He then asked me how to run it but having never installed this package before I had no idea what packages had actually been installed (let alone the names of any executable files) so my answer was "Ummm... I'm not sure".

We were using the Ubuntu Software Center so I scrolled down the page and we immediately noticed the section called 'Add-ons'.&nbsp; It was obvious to us both that as these were add ons they had nothing to do with the software we had just downloaded and installed (although we did wonder why all the checkboxes were selected).&nbsp; Anyway, I then had to do what I ''really'' didn't want to have to do - fire up a terminal and start issuing commands:

 <code>dpkg -L pre-school-bundle</code>

"Damn.  The package isn't called pre-school-bundle."

 <code>dpkg -l | grep bundle</code>

"Nope.... I REALLY shouldn't need to be doing all this..." 

Anyway, cut a long story short, the information I was looking for was right there, staring me in the face - the list of so-called 'Add-ons' was/is in fact the list of package dependencies, so in this case it was a list of the 'apps' we had just installed, yet here they were being called 'Add-ons'.

This is, er..., what's the word?..., oh yes... BROKEN.

Please, please, please call a spade a spade and just list them under the heading DEPENDENCIES!!!

''''Add-ons' is a disastrous decision.'''  Honestly, people can understand the concept of dependencies - it's not that hard - and it will not cause the confusion I've just described when people install a collection of packages (like the 'Pre-School Bundle') and the names of the 'add ons' are actually more important than the name of the collection.
