{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Nagendra ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Switching to Ubuntu & Installation ~~ Presented by Nagendra || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Switching to Ubuntu & Installation ~~ Presented by Nagendra || Please ask questions here || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Our first instructor today is Guru Nagendra Prasad. Nagendra has been using Linux & GNU packages since 97. He is pursuing bachelors degree in computers. 

His first introduction to Linux was RedHat. He received 2 CD's of RedHat Linux from my friend in 97 and tried to install it on his system. However he crashed his HDD at that time. 

He has since learned how to install Linux on a system. In the year 2000 he started to teach Linux in an institute. 

However at that point in time he didn't know about how to install audio/video drivers (Due to no Internet connection). So, he screwed up few systems.

In the year 2005 Nagendra joined Google and worked 3 years as a data analyst. After leaving Google in 2008 he have started working on his own project. 

In the year 2008 he also developed a distro called Gubuntu, based on Linux Mint. It was a multimedia based OS, with all audio and video tools in it and bunch of few other stuff.

==== _marx_ ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Command Line Basics ~~ Presented by _marx_ || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Command Line Basics ~~ Presented by _marx_ || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Mark Cox lives in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. He has made his living as a carpenter since getting out of the Army in '85.

He has been using Linux since 1998. Mark has been using Ubuntu since 5.04. He hopes to be unique by being the first Grandfather in recorded history 

to convert his grandsons to Ubuntu instead of the other way around. Mark's two oldest grandchildren were dazzled by "the cube" over the holidays.

==== starcraft.man ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Finding Helpful Resources ~~ Presented by starcraft.man || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Finding Helpful Resources ~~ Presented by starcraft.man || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

starcraft.man is a Computer Science student studying at the University of Concordia in Montreal. He'll be explaining how to get effective help by 

understanding the problem and using useful resources. starcraft.man is involved in the Beginners Team and the Documentation Contributors. Most importantly, 

he's friendly and doesn't mind answering questions. For more information see his wiki page at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/starcraft.man

==== Jamalta ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Restricted Drivers ~~ Presented by jamalta || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Restricted Drivers ~~ Presented by jamalta || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Next up is Jamal Fanaian. Jamal lives in Orlando, FL. He have been a web developer for a few years, and has been using Ubuntu as his primary operating system 

for about two years now. Jamal like to help out with the Ubuntu Community and show up to LoCo events, as well as helping out 

some open source projects with code and what not. 

==== nigel_nb ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Using Launchpad ~~ Presented by nigel_nb || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Using Launchpad ~~ Presented by nigel_nb || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Nigel is a computer science student who is a passionate FOSS and Ubuntu enthusiast.  He is involved is various teams in the Ubuntu community like the beginners Team, 

Ubuntu Community Learning Project, and Bug Squad.

==== mhall119 ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Seahorse and GnuPG ~~ Presented by mhall119 || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Seahorse and GnuPG ~~ Presented by mhall119 || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Michael Hall has been working in software development for 10 years. He has been a Desktop Linux user for 6 years, the last 4 being on Ubuntu. 

He is the main developer of Qimo, an Ubuntu-derived Linux Distribution for kids. He currently spends his days doing Python development for the 

Moffitt Cancer Research Center in Tampa, FL.

==== MagicFab ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Choosing hardware that will work with Ubuntu ~~ Presented by MagicFab || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Choosing hardware that will work with Ubuntu ~~ Presented by MagicFab || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Fabián work at Canonical's Global Support Services center in Montreal, Canada as a senior support analyst and technical trainer since November 2006. The scope of his works includes hardware, desktop and server support issues, as well as training support partners on how to best tackle those. He is mostly interested in free technologies advocacy (including formats, content, licensing) & training for new users, with an emphasis on security.

==== popey ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Partitioning 101 ~~ Presented by popey || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Partitioning 101 ~~ Presented by popey || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Alan Pope is a long term Ubuntu user and co-presenter of the Ubuntu UK Podcast. He's also a member of the EMEA Membership Board, the LoCo Council and the Ubuntu Community Council. Alan is married with two kids and two cats. By day he works with evil proprietary software from Germany, and in his spare time he balances the force by helping people with Ubuntu. You can follow Alan on identi.ca and twitter @popey

==== cprofitt ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Ubuntu Equivalent Programs ~~ Presented by cprofitt || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Ubuntu Equivalent Programs ~~ Presented by cprofitt || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

cprofitt is a Systems Administrator who works with Windows and OS X at this day job, but is a passionate advocate for FOSS and Ubuntu. He is an Ubuntu member, leader of the Linux User Group of Rochester, leader of the NY State Ubuntu LoCo, council member of the Ubuntu Beginners Team, council member of the Ubuntu Community Learning Project and leader of the Ubuntu Beginners Team Security Focus Group.

==== jcastro ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Getting involved in the Ubuntu Community ~~ Presented by jcastro || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Getting involved in the Ubuntu Community ~~ Presented by jcastro || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Jorge O. Castro currently works on the Community Team in External Developer Relations for Canonical Ltd. A long time GNOME and Ubuntu enthusiast, Jorge has been a contributor to the GNOME Journal and Linux Ars, and is an active member and supporter of MUG, the oldest Unix user group in Michigan. Jorge has been using Linux since 1998, and his current passion is putting the Midwest on the Open Source map by speaking and promoting at Open Source conferences such as Penguicon, and Ohio LinuxFest. When he’s not involved in geekery, you can likely find Jorge at brewery, tacqueria, watching the Detroit Red Wings, or thrashing to Metallica. 

==== paultag ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Trusted Software, Where to find it, and why ~~ Presented by paultag || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Trusted Software, Where to find it, and why ~~ Presented by paultag || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Paul has nearly 10 years of Linux experience. He has spent most of that time giving back to the community by helping users as a member of the Ubuntu Beginners Team and through his role as team contact for the Ohio LoCo. Today, Paul will share some of the knowledge that he has acquired, and teach us about trusted software. 

==== Hellow ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Package Management Basics ~~ Presented by Hellow || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Package Management Basics ~~ Presented by Hellow || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Hello, my name is Collin Pruitt, also known as Hellow on the internet. I'm a 14 year old Ubuntu Member from the United States. I'm a co-leader of the Ubuntu Forums Unanswered Posts Team and a member of the Ubuntu Beginners Team. I've been using Ubuntu since 2007, and I have been an Ubuntu Member since May 2009. Ubuntu was my first Linux distribution that I had used, and I am still using it to this day. Ubuntu has opened up an entire world of opportunity for me in the world of technology, and it has been a continuous honor to work with everyone related to it. I hope to be the best teacher that I can for everyone who is here :). For more information, see my Ubuntu wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Collin15

==== shrini ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Using Ubuntu One ~~ Presented by shrini || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Using Ubuntu One ~~ Presented by shrini || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Shrinivasan, is a open source lover, who lives in Chennai, India. He talks about open source philosophies in local colleges and schools.

Currently he is giving technical support to subversion and TeamForge at CollabNet. He runs a weekly newsletter "FossNews" and a blog for Foss Jobs.

==== nhandler ====

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Using IRC ~~ Presented by nhandler || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

<code>/topic Ubuntu Classroom Chat || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Using IRC ~~ Presented by nhandler || Please ask questions here; prefix your question with QUESTION || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY</code>

Nathan Handler, an up-and-coming Chicago native, is a member of many respected teams in the Ubuntu community. He is also currently serving as a member of the Ubuntu Beginners Team Council and MOTU Council. In addition to being a freenode staff member, he has recently been chosen to serve on the Ubuntu IRC Council. Nathan will be sharing some of his knowledge with us as he teaches us about using IRC. 
