{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
[03:00] <jcastro> Ok, I'm going to give it another minute or so, since DBO isn't around yet.
[03:00] <jcastro> In the meantime feel free to familiarize yourself with Unity:
[03:00] <jcastro> http://unity.ubuntu.com/
[03:01] <jcastro> and you can see other Unity questions people have been asking us over the past 4 months: http://askubuntu.com/questions/tagged/unity?sort=votes&pagesize=50
[03:01] <jcastro> I'll give it another minute and then I'll start to take questions, so smoke if you got em!
[03:01] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/01/30/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[03:02] <jcastro> Hi DBO!
[03:02] <DBO> howdy
[03:02] <jcastro> we're just going to give it another minute before we begin
[03:02] <DBO> awesome
[03:02] <jcastro> I gave people some links to familiarize themselves with Unity
[03:02] <jcastro> and a link to the Unity tag
[03:03] <jcastro> So for this hour we're going to do questions about Unity, and we have Jason Smith (DBO) here to answer your technical questions
[03:03] <jcastro> then the last hour you can ask me about anything coming up in 11.04 in general
[03:03] <jcastro> DBO: Ok let's start, introduce yourself!
[03:04] <DBO> my name is Jason Smith, I am a developer on the Unity project
[03:04] <DBO> I have worked largely on BAMF and the launcher aspects of unity
[03:04] <DBO> however I have a good high level view of all parts of the project
[03:04] <jcastro> What other projects have you worked on?
[03:05] <DBO> panel, nux (the toolkit behind unity), compiz, mutter when we were using that, and quicklists
[03:05] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: can we still use the 2-panel Gnome layout?  I've heard that the global menu changes have broken it
[03:06] <jcastro> I can field that one
[03:06] <jcastro> yes, the GNOME 2.x desktop is actually our 2D fallback for 11.04
[03:06] <jcastro> in GDM there's a "Classic GNOME" session that you can select to get the same desktop you have today
[03:07] <DBO> to answer the other half of the question
[03:07] <jcastro> DBO: and I believe we're doing something with detecting wether the driver can support unity or not and making a smart choice about that?
[03:07] <DBO> I am not aware of any conception break in the global menu for gnome 2.0
[03:07] <DBO> however if there is one, we will fix it before release
[03:08] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: What is Canonical doing to help other distro's include Unity in their repo's? if anything?
[03:08] <DBO> i got this one :)
[03:08] <DBO> we are getting interest from several packagers involved with other distros
[03:09] <DBO> I know fedora and suse have shown interest recently
[03:09] <DBO> we communicate with them and help answer packaging questions
[03:09] <DBO> in a couple cases we have helped them either build unity without upstream patches or helped remove patches altogether
[03:10] <DBO> next :)
[03:10] <ClassBot> habeous asked: Is Unity going to completely replace GNOME? OR will they be shipped together?
[03:10] <DBO> got it
[03:11] <DBO> Unity is not a replacement of GNOME at all
[03:11] <DBO> GNOME is collection of applications and frameworks
[03:11] <DBO> among those things is a window manager and a "shell" (panel)
[03:11] <DBO> in Ubuntu we have not been defaulting to the GNOME window manager for some time, opting for Compiz instead
[03:12] <DBO> The only real change here is we will now also be replacing the GNOME Panel
[03:12] <DBO> everything else remains the same, GTK, EDS, menu framework
[03:12] <DBO> its all still GNOME :) just a new shell
[03:12] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: Why exactly was it decided to go with Unity for 11.04 desktop as well as netbook, instead of going with Gnome Shell by default?
[03:13] <jcastro> This one is best answered by this article:
[03:14] <jcastro> in which Mark is interviewed and explains on why we chose to go with Unity for 11.04: http://arstechnica.com/open-source/news/2010/10/shuttleworth-unity-shell-will-be-default-desktop-in-ubuntu-1104.ars
[03:14] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: Is there any sharing going on with the GNOME Shell developers in terms of usability testing?
[03:15] <DBO> none that I know of but I know both the design team and the DX team look at what GNOME Shell does, both good and bad. We also publish our findings, so I figure they must do the same.
[03:16] <ClassBot> Sashin asked: What are the plans in regards to Unity post Natty Narwhal?
[03:16] <jcastro> ooh, good question
[03:16] <jcastro> tell us something cool DBO
[03:17] <DBO> Well from a developer standpoint this question is a bit tricky because its hard to tell sometimes when a feature will land, however!
[03:17] <DBO> Post natty we will see better web integration inside of unity
[03:18] <DBO> as well as standard design iterations and maintenance tasks
[03:18] <jcastro> UDS is coming up in May, we'll have a better idea then -- we're not quiet about things we plan at UDS, so I guess stay tuned.
[03:18] <ClassBot> jmarsden asked: Are there perceived performance issues with Unity compared to "Classic GNOME" -- put another way, is there a minimum hardware recommendation (CPU? RAM? video card?) for using Unity without being annoyed by it seeming slow?
[03:19] <DBO> the Dell Mini 9 is our target bottom end machine for an optimal performance
[03:19] <DBO> currently we feel we are hitting that
[03:20]  * jcastro pops in with a subquestion: Does unity add any hardware requirements on top of normal compiz?
[03:20] <jcastro> If I was running compiz fine before will I have problems I mean
[03:20] <DBO> Frame buffer objects are the only additional requirement
[03:20] <DBO> most video cards made after 1998 or so support this
[03:21] <DBO> so yeah, if you can run compiz, you should be able to run Unity
[03:21] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: I want to get involved with Unity development, but I'm not a C/C++ developer, what are my options?
[03:21] <DBO> well we have some projects that are in Vala, which might be even more obscure for you
[03:21] <jcastro> well, we could always use help triaging  bugs
[03:21] <DBO> oh yeah, that too!
[03:22] <jcastro> also, by merely building and testing unity you can help report bugs
[03:22] <jcastro> either by running natty or running a daily build on top of natty
[03:22] <DBO> some of the best contributors to the project are guys who build trunk, report bugs and get us awesome stack traces
[03:22] <jcastro> and since now Unity can run in Virtualbox 4.0 that's an easy way to get started
[03:23] <jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/InstallationGuideFromSource
[03:23] <DBO> those who test our patches... we cant help but love that :)
[03:23] <jcastro> ^ here are the instructions on how to build unity from source
[03:23] <jcastro> https://launchpad.net/~unity/+archive/daily
[03:23] <jcastro> or you can fire up some of those daily builds if you are crazy
[03:24] <ClassBot> Sashin asked: Will the full screen dash and application menu make an appearance on netbooks again? Will there be any distinguishing between Desktop and Netbook in Unity?
[03:24] <DBO> the only difference between netbook and desktop unity is the default options
[03:24] <DBO> otherwise they are the exact same code
[03:25] <DBO> the full screen dash will be back however (as an option in some form)
[03:25] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: follow-up, anything for a Python developer to do?
[03:26] <DBO> you can make plugins as places using python
[03:26] <jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.org/Unity/Places
[03:26] <jcastro> places aren't ready yet, expect me to make a bunch of noise about places after Alpha 2
[03:26] <jcastro> you'll be able to make your own Dash things we call Places
[03:26] <DBO> it is worth noting the API for places wont change between maverick and natty
[03:27] <jcastro> there will be tons of places you could make, they'll be similar to things like Firefox search extension things, except system wide and they'll be able to talk to zeitgeist
[03:27] <jcastro> so you can do "super key" + "batman" and the imdb place would return movies into the dash, etc.
[03:28] <jcastro> but we'll need people like you to make them!
[03:28] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: Have any of the developers of other distros contributed any Unity code yet? Or is it still mainly Canonical and the Ubuntu Community making it?
[03:28] <DBO> I dont know if we have had code contributions yet from other distro developers
[03:29] <jcastro> I don't think so, but I could be wrong
[03:29] <ClassBot> Omega asked: Are there any plans for a merge between Unity-2D and Unity-3D? What is the relationship between the two?
[03:29] <DBO> I know a fedora guy found some missing header licenses for us
[03:29] <DBO> No :) The 2D version is simply a 2D realization of the 3D version
[03:30] <DBO> its simply designed to be identical to the 3D version minus 3D :)
[03:30] <jcastro> (You can find the 2d version here: https://launchpad.net/~unity-2d-team/+archive/unity-2d-daily)
[03:30] <jcastro> it's pretty nice for older laptops, I have this old junky laptop with a crap graphics card and 2d unity runs great on it
[03:31] <ClassBot> charlie-tca asked: Is there a list of keyboard shortcuts used in Unity?
[03:31] <DBO> evil answer: currently no
[03:32] <DBO> less-evil answer: you can look in ccsm
[03:32] <DBO> better answer: we need to make a wiki page :)
[03:32] <jcastro> right now the super key invokes the launcher
[03:32] <jcastro> and you guys are bringing back the super-1, super-2, etc shortcuts right?
[03:32] <DBO> yes
[03:33] <jcastro> mhall119: making a wiki page of the shortcut keys would be a good place for a non-C++ programmer to start ... :)
[03:33] <jcastro> I'll start on a page on Monday I think, this would be quite useful
[03:33] <ClassBot> Sashin asked: What's happening with the proposed unity people's place?
[03:34] <DBO> I think Seif Lofty has written the code for this already
[03:34] <jcastro> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2010/11/unity-ppl.png
[03:34] <DBO> ideally this will be packaged and placed in Universe repositories
[03:34] <jcastro> yep, he's been working on that
[03:35] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: What's the status of accessibility in Unity?
[03:35] <jcastro> Pendulum: want to field that one? I am totally in the dark on a11y
[03:35] <Pendulum> The current status is "it's being worked on"
[03:36] <Pendulum> They're hoping to get the initial bits of the framework into alpha2, but I'm not sure if it'll happen or not
[03:36] <jcastro> ok, thanks
[03:36] <Pendulum> I do believe, however, (and charlie-tca can correct me in chat if I'm wrong about this) that the accessible installer works, but that's about it
[03:36] <Pendulum> otherwise we need the documentation on keyboard control ;)
[03:36] <jcastro> DBO: while we wait for more questions can you fill us in on what we can expect in the launcher over the next coming weeks?
[03:37] <jcastro> Pendulum: I'll get on a wiki page on monday, that shouldn't been too hard to set up
[03:37] <DBO> Drag and Drop support is the biggest work item coming soom
[03:37] <DBO> we are also getting some edge scrolling effects, and quite a few stability fixes
[03:37] <jcastro> drag and drop like applications and stuff into the launcher?
[03:37] <DBO> correct
[03:38] <jcastro> how about folders and whatnot? or things like my favorite document I am working on or something?
[03:38] <DBO> so you could say drag a file onto the launcher and launch an application with that file as an argument
[03:38] <jcastro> finally. :)
[03:38] <DBO> Im not sure if we are going to allow storing files on the launcher itself yet
[03:38] <DBO> I hope so... but I have my doubts :P
[03:38] <ClassBot> Sashin asked: What's multimonitor support like in unity? Does the top panel extend across both monitors? Is it one virtual desktop per monitor?
[03:39] <jcastro> I can field this one as I use unity in twinview
[03:39] <jcastro> right now there are 2 annoying issues, first is the top panel still isn't multimonitor aware, so it streches across
[03:39] <jcastro> though neil tells me he's working on that
[03:40] <jcastro> and the second is if one monitor is larger than the other the launcher gets confused, but alex launi (our QA/testing dude for Unity) has a grasp on that one
[03:40] <jcastro> the multiple workspaces are just like how they used to be pre-unity
[03:40] <jcastro> that is when I move around both panels switch to a new workspace
[03:40] <jcastro> maybe someday we'll get independant workspaces per panel (that would be sweet)
[03:41] <DBO> dream big
[03:41] <DBO> :P
[03:41] <jcastro> so what else are you guys going to put in the dash?
[03:42] <jcastro> I see the search field there but it's not working right now
[03:42] <jcastro> can you explain a bit how search will work?
[03:42] <DBO> search is a "live search"
[03:42] <DBO> so as you type, the results will update
[03:42] <DBO> there is a really cool cross fade blur animation planed for that, I dont envy the GL programmers job for that...
[03:43] <jcastro> how many GL programmers on the team?
[03:43] <DBO> results will be organized in much the same way they are in the maverick version
[03:43] <DBO> 3 GL gurus, 2 more GL competent
[03:43] <ClassBot> Sashin asked: Are you going to reduce the Icon to tile ratio to make it like Maverick Unity? ( I think it looks cleaner with more spacing)
[03:44] <DBO> Nope :)
[03:44] <jcastro> can you explain what he means?
[03:44] <DBO> yeah
[03:44] <jcastro> he means the size of the icons inside the little tile things right?
[03:44] <DBO> so there are two parts of the tile
[03:44] <DBO> there is a "tile" and an "icon" part
[03:45] <DBO> the tile part in maverick is 48x48 and the icon is 32x32
[03:45] <DBO> in natty the tile is 52x52 and the icon is 48x48
[03:46] <ClassBot> Omega asked: Will Ubuntu Light still be powered by Unity? Can you tell us a little more about that?
[03:46] <DBO> Ubuntu Light isn't really part of my pervu, but as far as I know it will remain unity based
[03:46] <DBO> thats all I really know :/
[03:47] <jcastro> me either, but  basically Ubuntu Light = Unity + Normal Ubuntu customized for specific hardware
[03:47] <jcastro> DBO: I hear we support icon sets in the launcher now
[03:47] <DBO> yeah we more or less follow whatever the selection icon set is
[03:47] <jcastro> so people can make all sorts of crazy icon sets for the thing right?
[03:48] <DBO> yeah I guess they could
[03:48]  * DBO fears the results
[03:48] <jcastro> (about 10 minutes left for questions folks, keep them coming)
[03:49] <ClassBot> Omega asked: Some people have been making Unity mockups, have you guys taken a look at those? link: http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/01/4-beautiful-ubuntu-unity-ui.html
[03:49] <DBO> I can say with 100% certainty the whole team looks at them, sometimes we oggle, sometimes we giggle
[03:49] <DBO> I love that the community is making mockups
[03:49] <DBO> you guys come up with some great ideas
[03:50] <jcastro> those mockups remind me of a question
[03:50] <jcastro> for 11.04 will we be able to switch to a light theme like Radiance?
[03:50] <DBO> probably not
[03:51] <DBO> if not in 11.04, for sure in 11.10
[03:51] <ClassBot> Sashin asked: Why is the menubar hidden without mouseover?
[03:51] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[03:51] <jcastro> DBO: your favorite question!
[03:51] <DBO> I wont lie to you
[03:52] <DBO> I have absolutely no idea, I dont like it myself
[03:52] <jcastro> http://askubuntu.com/q/22486/235
[03:52] <DBO> im not really a designer however
[03:52] <jcastro> Mark answers that specific question himself ^
[03:52] <DBO> awesome
[03:52] <jcastro> now you don't have to. :)
[03:52] <DBO> whew, close call
[03:53] <jcastro> We have time for  like 2-3 more questions
[03:53] <DBO> is there a session with Otto or John Lea?
[03:53] <jcastro> nope
[03:53] <DBO> sweet
[03:53] <ClassBot> Sashin asked: What significant changes will come to the unity interface by final release?
[03:54] <DBO> The dash will undergo major visual changes (as well as become functional)
[03:54] <DBO> it currently does not reflect our design goals
[03:54] <jcastro> And we'll have places
[03:54] <jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.org/Unity/Places/Ideas
[03:54] <jcastro> here are some ideas for places we have ^
[03:55] <DBO> the BFB will also have some design changes
[03:55] <jcastro> what's the bfb?
[03:55] <DBO> the Big Friendly Button
[03:56] <jcastro> the button with the ubuntu logo you mean?
[03:56] <jcastro> what kind of changes?
[03:56] <DBO> yeah that one :)
[03:56] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[03:56] <DBO> when the dash is open it will have a visual appearance similar to it being integrated with the launcher
[03:56] <DBO> its cool looking
[03:56] <jcastro> i don't suppose you have a teaser screenshot?
[03:56] <DBO> I do not :)
[03:56] <jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/Places/Ideas  <-- correct URL from before, sorry
[03:57] <jcastro> ok welll, thanks Jason for joining us
[03:57] <jcastro> we'll take a short break
[03:57] <DBO> sure :)
[03:57] <jcastro> and then you guys can Q+A me on the rest of 11.04 for another hour
[03:57] <jcastro> cheers!
[03:57] <jcastro>  Bitesize Bugs you can help with: http://goo.gl/i1WA1 and http://goo.gl/tiheb
[03:57] <jcastro> ^^ For those of you who want to dive in and help with Unity!
[04:01] <jcastro> ok, taking a quick break to go to the bathroom, chill out for a few, mingle amonst yourselves, and then we'll begin!
</pre>
