{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{{{#!IRC
[04:01] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/01/30/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[04:05] <jcastro> ok
[04:05] <jcastro> we'll run this one unmoderated and less formal
[04:05] <jcastro> so we can go deeper into discussions and Q+A without worrying about the bot
[04:05] <jcastro> I'm Jorge Castro and I'll be your host!
[04:05] <jcastro> So for this session basically I'd like to answer your questions about what's going on around Ubuntu for 11.04
[04:06] <jcastro> so we can really have this session be whatever you guys want to ask questions about
[04:06] <jcastro> wether it's new features coming in 11.04
[04:06] <jcastro> or specific questions about the distro in general
[04:07] <Sashin> So, what are the plans in regard to the software centre changes, have we seen them all (ratings and reviews) or is there more to come? (interface changes, new icon, features etc)
[04:07] <mhall119> is there any chance of the server-side of Ubuntu One being opened?
[04:07] <jcastro> ok so let's start off with the software center
[04:07] <jcastro> In case you didn't know, they uploaded a new USC this week that let's people rate and review software
[04:08] <jcastro> you can rate things from 1-5 stars, and leave comments
[04:08] <jcastro> I asked mvo (one of the developers) if this was going to be backported to 10.10
[04:08] <jcastro> and he tells me that they're still looking at doing that, depending on how complicated it is to backport what they need
[04:09] <jcastro> as far as the look and feel and icon and all that, 24 March is the userinterface and beta freeze
[04:09] <jcastro> so I expect any changes would have to land by then. I am not sure what the design team is cooking up for USC though
[04:09] <jcastro> (I wonder if the yellow color for the comments is on purpose for example)
[04:10] <jcastro> mhall119: No change in that policy as far as I know
[04:10] <mhall119> is there an Ubuntu One webservice API?
[04:10] <jcastro> you're in luck
[04:10] <mhall119> or any way to integrate webapps with a user's U1 data
[04:10] <jcastro> "soon" is what they tell me
[04:11] <mhall119> yay!
[04:11]  * jcastro searches for a sec
[04:12] <jcastro> can't find anything
[04:12] <jcastro> but last I heard there will be a full API and SDK and all that jazz
[04:12] <mhall119> it's okay, I know where to find you for updates
[04:12] <mhall119> I also know where to find U1 devs
[04:13] <jcastro> so another thing coming for 11.04 will be the 2.6.38 kernel
[04:13] <jcastro> which is starting to land in natty itself right now
[04:13] <jcastro> this does include the "200 line magic patch" thing everyone was talking about
[04:14] <Habeouscorpus> wow, that alone makes it worth the upgrade
[04:14] <jcastro> there are also 2 new programs in the default install
[04:14] <jcastro> the first one is the switch from openoffice.org to LibreOffice
[04:14] <jcastro> which has already been uploaded this past week
=== abhijain is now known as abhishek
[04:14] <jcastro> and the second is that Banshee is now the default music player
[04:15] <jcastro> (feel free to jump in with any questions at any time)
[04:15] <Habeouscorpus> does libre office still support all that open office does?
[04:15] <jcastro> yep
[04:15] <jcastro> and more
[04:15] <Sashin> Anything else apart from unity planned as a part of the Ayatana initiative landing in Natty?
[04:16] <jcastro> in fact libreoffice derives from "go-ooo", which was a patchset of improvements to openoffice
[04:16] <gpc> What does the future hold for the "classic desktop" in Ubuntu?
[04:16] <jcastro> so for ubuntu users it's just a continuation of improvements from the past
[04:16] <jcastro> Sashin: good question
[04:16] <jcastro> suport for the global menu in Firefox and Thunderbird will land
[04:17] <jcastro> as far as the classic desktop
[04:17] <jcastro> I suspect it won't be going anywhere for a while
[04:18] <sebsebseb> Why is Banshee default?
[04:18] <Pendulum> so it should still be an option when Unity 2D starts to really be pushed (which I'm under the impression will happen in O-cycle)
[04:18] <jcastro> Sashin: as far as the rest of ayatana, this cycle is mostly maintenance, so instead of improvements to them we'll see more work being done on apps, etc.
[04:18] <Sashin> Any planned changed to the installer ubiquity?
[04:18] <gpc> jcastro: I would hope until at least 12.04
[04:18] <Sashin> ah I see
[04:19] <jcastro> Banshee by default mostly because of it's healthy improvement upstream
[04:19] <sebsebseb> yeah Unity 2D probably the default fallback option for 11.10?
[04:19] <jcastro> I have more detail on why Banshee here: http://askubuntu.com/questions/10911/why-is-banshee-becoming-the-default/10963#10963
[04:20] <jcastro> Sashin: on the installer front mostly all bug fixing
[04:20] <jcastro> 10.10 was the big one featurewise for the installer
=== abhijain is now known as ajain
[04:20] <jcastro> in 10.10 they made it so it installed in the background while you answered the questions
[04:20] <jcastro> which really makes for a fast install
[04:21] <jcastro> I suspect our decision to use Unity 2D in the future as a fallback will depend on how long GNOME 2.x is maintained upstream
[04:21] <jcastro> but as with anything, we make those decisions at UDS, and it's much to early to determine something like that
[04:21] <jcastro> especially when Unity 2D isn't finished yet, and GNOME 2.x is very mature code that's been rocking for us for going on 6 years.
[04:21] <Sashin> Isn't unity going to be a shell over gnome 3?
[04:22] <jcastro> yes
[04:22] <sebsebseb> Maybe the encrypted home should be in an advanced option or something?  I remember people in #ubuntu with issues after re installs or whatever it was, because they had used encryption
[04:22] <jcastro> yeah, that'd be a nice wishlist bug
[04:22] <sebsebseb> was that at me?
[04:22] <jcastro> yes
[04:22] <sebsebseb> ok :)
[04:22] <jcastro> on the server side there are some cool improvements
[04:22] <jcastro> this release will mark the debut of cobbler in ubuntu
[04:22] <sebsebseb> What's cobbler?
[04:23] <jcastro> cobbler is a deployment server from the guys at Red Hat
[04:23] <jcastro> basically you have a server
[04:23] <jcastro> and you tell it "I want ubuntu desktop 10.10, server 10.04, and these other isos"
[04:23] <jcastro> it then imports them
[04:23] <jcastro> and then you just start net booting machines and installing it
[04:24] <jcastro> it's like an out of the box PXE installer with management features
[04:24] <jcastro> http://www.ubuntu-user.com/Online/Blogs/Amber-Graner-You-in-Ubuntu/Chuck-Short-Discusses-Cobbler-On-Ubuntu
[04:24] <jcastro> http://zulcss.wordpress.com/2011/01/19/using-cobbler-on-ubuntu/
[04:24] <gpc> ohh, that sounds nice
[04:24] <sebsebseb> oh ok so cobbler for more than one distro?  So they can be installed eaiser on a server?
[04:24] <jcastro> https://fedorahosted.org/cobbler/
[04:24] <jcastro> basically, most sysadmins set up their own kickstart server anyway
[04:25] <jcastro> this one just comes out of the box
[04:25] <jcastro> something else in the tasksel, like we do for LAMP, DNS, etc.
[04:25] <jcastro> you just check the box and voila!
[04:26] <jcastro> hmm, let's see what else
[04:26] <LeGambitteur> what about the web browser ? will Minefield be ready ?
[04:26] <jcastro> yep, it'll be firefox 4
[04:26] <jcastro> which is already in natty
[04:26] <jcastro> (with the global menu as I said earlier)
[04:26] <jcastro> oh, here's one
[04:26] <jcastro> we finally fixed the resizing of windows
[04:27] <jcastro> so instead of that stupid 1 pixel target, you'll be able to basically grab any part of the "shadow" around a window to resize it
[04:27] <jcastro> and on top of that there will be a little grippie on the bottom right corner of every window
[04:27] <jcastro> (it's about time we fixed that bug, it was horrible)
[04:27] <sebsebseb> Unity 2D probably by default for well versions of Ubuntu after 11.04 right?  Gnome 2 is on the verge of dieing after all.  Also I think I read that for Ubuntu to do Gnome 3,  would need to do the whole thing so no Gnome 2 fall back option. Which is planned for 11.10?
[04:28] <jcastro> like I said before it's much to early to tell
[04:28] <jcastro> at this point in the cycle all we're thinking about is 11.04
[04:28] <jcastro> it's not until UDS where we start to think about 11.10
[04:28] <jcastro> so, ask me in May. :)
=== abhijain is now known as abhijain1
[04:29] <Pendulum> sebsebseb: if you have a strong opinion either way, you might want to consider attending UDS either in person or remotely :)
=== abhijain1 is now known as ajain
=== ajain is now known as aajain
[04:29] <Sashin> Gnome shell will still be in the repos?
[04:29] <jcastro> we had to move gnome shell to a PPA
[04:29] <jcastro> for a number of reasons
[04:29] <sebsebseb> Pendulum: I did attend some sessions for not the last UDS, but the one before, remotely
[04:29] <jcastro> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2011-January/002740.html
[04:30] <jcastro> here's the full summary
[04:30] <jcastro> but basically, since we're using GNOME 2.x as the fallback
=== aajain is now known as abhijain1
[04:30] <jcastro> we can't ship parts of GNOME 3 on the disc
[04:30] <jcastro> so we're moving -shell and other parts onto a PPA
[04:30] <sebsebseb> jcastro: yeah bingo, that's the one I read
[04:31] <jcastro> that will let anyone work on -shell for ubuntu, since they don't have to have permissions to do that in the archive
=== abhijain1 is now known as ajain
[04:31] <sebsebseb> yep and the PPA can be updated after the 11.04 release as well and all that
[04:31] <jcastro> and this way too they don't have to worry about freezes, etc. in the distro
[04:31] <jcastro> so they'll be able to keep putting in fresh snapshots in the PPA while the rest of the distro freezes
[04:31] <Sashin> makes sense
[04:31] <jcastro> if we kept it in the archive by the time we released it would be old
[04:31] <jcastro> anyone is more than welcome to join that team
[04:32] <jcastro> it has ricotz and some of the other people who have been running gnome 3 ppa's
[04:32] <jcastro> https://launchpad.net/~gnome3-team
[04:32] <sebsebseb> yes it will be interesting to see how distros deal with Gnome 3 :)
[04:32] <Sashin> ohh, I have that installed but it doesn't have the new interface...
[04:32] <jcastro> it's just the way that the archive is organized it makes more sense to kick fast moving projects out of the distro and then bring it back in
[04:32] <Sashin> still has the old gnome 3.
[04:32] <jcastro> right
[04:33] <sebsebseb> I think the way Ubuntu are doing it for 11.04 makes sense though,  even though I wasn't that sure when I first read it was going to a ppa
[04:33] <jcastro> we have feature freeze coming up in about a month
[04:33] <jcastro> if -shell was in the archive then effectively whatever -shell was in the archive at that time would be what we would release
[04:33] <jcastro> this way you can just run natty + the ppa and run the freshest shell
[04:34] <jcastro> hmm, lets see, what else
=== abhijain is now known as abhijain1
[04:34] <Sashin> Is there any more desktop integration with internet planned?
[04:34] <sebsebseb> jcastro: yeah and maybe a bit easier then doing it the current Gnome 3 site way, but at the moment, I haven't tried either,  for the later Gnome Shell's
[04:34] <jcastro> oh, dunno if you guys saw but network manager is now a proper indicator
[04:34] <Sashin> (like gwibber ubuntu one, etc)
[04:34] <jcastro> so no more old icons in the "tray"
=== abhijain1 is now known as xyz
[04:35] <Sashin> that'll make things alot smoother.
[04:35] <jcastro> oh, let me see if ken's around for gwibber
[04:35] <gpc> cyphermox has been working hard on n-m
=== xyz is now known as abhijain
=== abhijain is now known as akash
[04:36] <stefano-palazzo_> This may be a bit technical. Will this 200-line kernel patch business be disabled by default on the server?
[04:36] <days_of_ruin> Must you change your name constantly?
[04:36] <jcastro> stefano-palazzo_: we don't ship the patch, we ship what's in 2.6.38, which iirc has whatever linus approved
[04:36] <jcastro> I don't expect it will suck on servers
[04:36] <gpc> !nickspam > akash
[04:36] <ubot2> akash, please see my private message
[04:37] <Sashin> it would be cool if we could right click a picture and upload it to flickr or tinypic or something...
[04:37] <jcastro> ken tells me that the improvements for gwibber this cycle are error handling and stability, and not much else.
[04:37] <ikt> a lot of people think the changes to the desktop are massive, and that a lot of people will have to re-learn how to use the desktop, are there any plans for tutorials or guides or something similar built into ubuntu?
=== akash is now known as ajain
=== ajain is now known as abhijain
[04:37] <Omega> This was from a while ago, but is still important, Ubuntu used to ship go-ooo, so the switch to Libreoffice is not that radical.
[04:37] <jcastro> sure
[04:37] <gpc> abhijain: please stop that
[04:38] <sebsebseb> ikt: I guess the offical support pages for Ubuntu will get re done for 11.04 or parts of them
[04:38] <jcastro> that's part of the reason we have things like feature and UI freeze, to give teams a chance to update documentation
[04:39] <sebsebseb> Lubuntu still won't be an offical  one in 11.04?
[04:39] <jcastro> I'm not sure what the lubuntu progress is lately
[04:39] <jcastro> maybe asking on their project mailing list
[04:40] <ikt> but I mean going further than standard documentation, like the possibility of having video guides or at worst maybe a youtube channel showing some of the newer features etc (can you tell I'm not a fan of reading :X)
[04:40] <sebsebseb> Why isn't it offical already? I have tried it a few times, its quite good really as an Ubuntu based distro.
[04:40] <jcastro> I don't know why it's not official
[04:40] <jcastro> yeah, I'm sure people will make plenty of videos, etc.
[04:41] <jcastro> I'll be making some myself
[04:41] <ikt> :>
[04:41] <ikt> on youtube or ?
[04:42] <sebsebseb> ikt: yeah reading can be quite time consuming, but reading is a good way to find out things :)
[04:42] <jcastro> yeah, we always post videos on the ubuntu developer channel
[04:42] <jcastro> http://www.youtube.com/user/ubuntudevelopers
[04:42] <sebsebseb> videos and audiocasts may be more fun though
[04:42] <ikt> yeah :D
[04:42] <Omega> If videos are made, do not forget to transcribe them.
[04:43] <sebsebseb> Yeah and Jono has his ustream for people who want to ask questions about Ubuntu and such
[04:43] <Pendulum> Omega: +1
[04:43] <jcastro> right
[04:43] <ikt> sebsebseb, yeah I read a lot, but honestly I just prefer watching videos and seeing how things are done
[04:44] <sebsebseb> http://www.ustream.tv/channel/at-home-with-jono-bacon
[04:44] <jcastro> 15 minutes left, what other questions?
[04:44] <sebsebseb> ikt: he likes showing Unity at the moment it seems, for example
[04:44] <gpc> What is your favorite food?
[04:45] <Sashin> Any work being done on empathy or evolution?
[04:45] <gpc> :-P
[04:45] <jcastro> tacos
[04:45] <gpc> haha
[04:45] <stefano-palazzo_> How do you see Unity being used in large scale deployments, big companies and that?
[04:45] <jcastro> evo and empathy we depend on upstream to do that work
[04:45] <jcastro> we just ship it, though we keep in contact with the guys @ collabora for improvements to empathy, etc.
[04:46] <jcastro> stefano-palazzo_: I don't suspect most large companies would deploy a non-LTS release
[04:46] <jcastro> however when the next LTS is ready for them then Unity will have gone through a bunch of iteration
[04:46] <jcastro> by then it will be pretty metal
[04:48] <jcastro> anything else?
[04:48] <jcastro> no one's asked about btrfs yet!
[04:48] <sebsebseb> uhmm sure
[04:48] <sebsebseb> ,but
[04:48] <sebsebseb> that won't be 11.04 by default I guess
[04:48] <Sashin> What are its advantages over ext4?
[04:48] <sebsebseb> maybe 11.10 though or at least as an option?
[04:49] <sebsebseb> Sashin: snapshots
[04:49] <sebsebseb> so can restore the system to an earlier state or something, if a problem, but I don't know much about btrfs right now at all
[04:49] <jcastro> it's in 11.04 now as an option
[04:49] <stefano-palazzo_> What are the limitations of an install on btrfs going to be on release day?
[04:49] <gpc> how stable is it?
[04:49] <jcastro> but it'll take some time for things like being able to snapshot back after an apt-get install, etc.
[04:49] <sebsebseb> jcastro: oh yeah it was in 10.10 as an option as well if I remember correctly
[04:49] <jcastro> gpc: I won't be using it. :)
[04:50] <jcastro> sebsebseb: yeah but you couldn't boot into it
[04:50] <jcastro> you had to make /boot ext2/3/4
[04:50] <gpc> jcastro: neither will I in that case :)
[04:50] <sebsebseb> unless a seperate boot partition or whatever
[04:50] <jcastro> now the support is there in grub2 and the installer
[04:50] <jcastro> so you'll be able to install it with just pure btrfs if you want
[04:50] <jcastro> but to me it won't really be useful until it's integrated with dpkg and all that
[04:51] <sebsebseb> Ext4 will be good enough for many of us, for quite a while yet I guess
[04:51] <jcastro> imagine being able to say "you know what, I liked 12.04 better than 12.10"
[04:51] <jcastro> and then just roll back
[04:51] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[04:51] <gpc> I like the idea of rollback
[04:51] <sebsebseb> jcastro: well yeah, but the snapshots will take up quite a lot of space or?
[04:51] <jcastro> but it'll be there if people want to play with it
[04:51] <gpc> but it has to be absolutely stable and not wipe all my data
[04:51] <jcastro> not really, that's the best part
[04:51] <jcastro> snapshots are very cheap
[04:51] <sebsebseb> gpc: you and others may get more lonely in #ubuntu when btrfs becomes default :D
[04:52] <jcastro> actually, I found a good video on btrfs, one sec
[04:52] <sebsebseb> gpc: since most problems, can be fixed by a rollback I guess
[04:52] <gpc> sebsebseb: I long for the day we can close #ubuntu or maybe just keep it open as a chat channel and not a support channel .
[04:52] <sebsebseb> that there will be then I mean
[04:53] <jcastro> gpc: I've wanted that closed since 2004. :)
[04:53] <jcastro> http://video.linux.com/video/1608
[04:53] <gpc> haha
[04:53] <jcastro> here you go, this is a good video for btrfs
[04:53] <sebsebseb> jcastro: yeah heh heh I guess
[04:53] <jcastro> from the main upstream guy. :)
[04:54] <sebsebseb> what about ZFS?  maybe that will come properly later on as well? :D
[04:54] <jcastro> that'll catch you up on btrfs in like 45 minutes
[04:54] <Omega> support for ZFS already landed in grub
[04:54] <sebsebseb> Omega: well yeah I read something about that
[04:54] <sebsebseb> ,but I did say more properly above :D
[04:54] <ikt> is there an ubuntu dev website coming along? a la this video: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GT5fUcMUfYg <- ~6:45 in
[04:54] <jcastro> I'm keeping ext4 for a while.
[04:54] <jcastro> http://developer.ubuntu.com/
[04:55] <Omega> I've always been fond of reiserfs myself.
[04:55] <jcastro> this is coming together
[04:55] <ikt> ^_^
[04:55] <jcastro> it'll be following the same release as the distro, so the website will be ready for 11.04
[04:55] <sebsebseb> Omega: Why?
[04:55] <ikt> that's awesome :D
[04:55] <Omega> sebsebseb: I've never had problems with it, except yesterday :(
[04:56] <sebsebseb> oh, and what problem yesterday?
[04:56] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[04:56] <Omega> We can talk about it later, it's kind of off-topic for here
[04:56] <jcastro> ok awesome, well it's midnight here, and we're about out of time
[04:56] <sebsebseb> Omega: true
[04:56] <jcastro> thanks so much everyone for joining in
[04:56] <Omega> Thank you jcastro.
[04:56] <jcastro> you can always keep abreast of changes going in 11.04 by following this list
[04:56] <stefano-palazzo_> jcastro, this has been awesome, thanks a lot
[04:56] <LeGambitteur> thanks to you all guys
[04:56] <jcastro> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/natty-changes/
[04:57] <Omega> Thank you for everyone who gave sessions.
[04:57] <gpc> thank you jcastro
[04:57] <Omega> to*
[04:57] <jcastro> and this forum: http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394
[04:57] <sebsebseb> Longer user days, the better in a way, I guess
[04:57] <pleia2> thanks jcastro :)
[04:57] <ikt> ty jcastro and to all the teachers :>
[04:57] <LeGambitteur> till the end sebsebseb
[04:57] <gpc> thank you pleia2 nhandler Pendulum nigelb and everybody else :)
[04:57] <jcastro> and if you have any questions about ubuntu in general feel free to ask us on http://askubuntu.com/
[04:57] <gpc> thank you ClassBot
[04:57] <jcastro> (though we stick to stable releases on ask ubuntu)
[04:57] <gpc> :)
[04:58] <jcastro> cheers, and goodnight everyone!
}}}
