{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Session Logs ====

<pre>
[10:30] <pleia2> Hello everyone, and welcome to our second Ubuntu User Day! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[10:30] <pleia2> To get things started, who is here for this and where are you from?
[10:30] <ech0tk> Hello
[10:31] <ech0tk> I'm here and I'm from Sweden
[10:31] <AlanBell> hello, I am from the UK
[10:31] <oneDoRa> I am from Sri Lanka
[10:31]  * pleia2 waves to everyone from middle-of-the-night California ;)
[10:31] <zkriesse> Hi ya'll and I'm from the US/Illinois
[10:32] <nigelb> \o from india
[10:32] <_marx_> north carolina
[10:32] <setac> Hi from Fiji
[10:32] <kbmonkey> Hi from South Africa :)
[10:32] <Pendulum> hiya from Connecticut
[10:32] <dwidge> howzit! South Africa
[10:32] <Lilspanyol> I'm from Belgium
[10:32] <kermiac> Hi from Australia :)
[10:33] <pleia2> great, sounds like we have quite a diverse crowd :)
[10:33]  * cjohnston wants to go to kermiac's house
[10:33] <Marceau> Belgian as well
[10:33] <pleia2> cjohnston: for the kangaroos?
[10:33] <Lilspanyol> Marceau : cool :)
[10:33] <cjohnston> sure
[10:33] <zkriesse> lol
[10:33] <kermiac> cjohnston: feel free to come over & have a beer mate.. yeah pleia2, we've got roo's out the back (but they're asleep right now)
[10:34] <pleia2> hehe
[10:34] <pleia2> Alrighty, So, what is this day all about anyway?
[10:34] <sebsebseb> I am from England
[10:34] <pleia2> User Days was created to be a set of classes offered during a one day period to teach the beginning or intermediate Ubuntu user the basics to get them started with Ubuntu, including:
[10:34] <zkriesse> kermiac: I don't drink but i'll take some coffee if ya got it
[10:34] <moorthykmd> Chennai, India
[10:34] <MichealH> pleia2: It is about getting users encouraged into ubuntu
[10:34] <MichealH> ???
[10:34] <pleia2> Basic Ubuntu Installation and Setup, Partitioning 101, Package Management Basics, Getting involved in the Ubuntu Community, Command Line Basics...
[10:35] <pleia2> MichealH: that too!
[10:35] <pleia2> ...and more! For our full schedule head over to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[10:35] <ClassBot> There are are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[10:35] <nigelb> The User Days Team has worked with Local Community Teams (LoCos), the Ubuntu Beginners Team, Ubuntu Classroom and the Ubuntu Community Learning Project and others within the wider community to bring this day to you.
[10:35] <nigelb> User Days was born out of a discussion at the Ubuntu Developers Summit in November 2009 regarding Ubuntu Open Week not being targeted enough at users.
[10:36] <Pendulum> Now, we will give you a quick rundown of how today will work:
[10:36] <Pendulum> Each hour, a presenter will be giving a class in this channel, #ubuntu-classroom
[10:36] <MichealH> Pendulum: Can we have a link for classroom schedule
[10:36] <ech0tk> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[10:36] <Pendulum> During the classes, #ubuntu-classroom will be moderated (+m), meaning that only the instructor and hosts will be able to speak in that channel.
[10:36] <MichealH> Thanks ech0tk
[10:36] <Pendulum> Please hold all discussion about the class in #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[10:37] <cjohnston> If you have a question during the class, please ask in #ubuntu-classroom-chat with the prefix QUESTION: for instance you may say:
[10:37] <cjohnston> QUESTION: How do you uninstall a program?
[10:37] <cjohnston> After each session (as soon as our volunteers can), we'll be posting logs on the wiki, so be sure to check back to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays if you missed anything.
[10:38] <cjohnston> Logs will also be automatically posted at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com at the end of each hour
[10:38] <_marx_> Since you're already here, you know how to participate, but in case you have a friend you'd like to invite, you can find some help on the Joining In wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays/JoiningIn
[10:38] <_marx_> You may have seen articles about the Lernid application which is designed for learning events such as this, you can certainly try out Lernid for User Days: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lernid
[10:39] <_marx_> In Ubuntu 10.04, Lucid, to use lernid you just want to install the "lernid" package.
[10:39] <_marx_> Finally, before we get to some general Q&A in this introduction session, a big thanks to everyone who made this day possible :)
[10:39] <_marx_> So, does anyone have any general questions about the day?
[10:39] <Lilspanyol> Yes, I do
[10:40] <_marx_> ask away Lilspanyol
[10:41] <Lilspanyol> The next session will be quite hard to follow, ah?
[10:41] <Lilspanyol> Installing Ubuntu
[10:42] <Lilspanyol> But during the installation, I can't look at the IRC chat because I only have acces to my laptop at the moment
[10:42] <Lilspanyol> access
[10:42] <zkriesse> Lilspanyol: You wont' be installing at the time of the session. It's a basic guide
[10:42] <AlanBell> Lilspanyol: do you have virtualbox or vmware?
[10:43] <Lilspanyol> yup, thanks, I didn't consider that
[10:44] <Lilspanyol> Just for the sake of the class I'll be following it, because back when I installed Ubuntu Hardy, I messed up because of installing on the wrong partition
[10:45] <pleia2> any other questions about the day?
[10:48] <MichealH> pleia2: I dont think so
[10:48] <Lilspanyol> I don't. I hope to be able to follow some classes, but I'm having a busy day and it's so hot in belgium today
[10:49] <sebsebseb> Lilspanyol: You can read stuff later on, there will be logs as well.
[10:49] <sebsebseb> Lilspanyol: Its rather hot here as well
[10:49] <oneDoRa> its always hot in here :D
[10:51] <cjohnston> At the end of your day, please take the time to fill out our survey! http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/FJ697T7
[10:52] <sometimesworks> is there a schedule somewhere - was expecting to see it in the topic
[10:52] <Lilspanyol> http://www.ubuntu-user.com/Online/Blogs/Amber-Graner-You-in-Ubuntu/Ubuntu-User-Days-Scheduled-for-July-10-11-2010
[10:52] <pleia2> sometimesworks: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[10:53] <Lilspanyol> got that link in the weekly Ubuntu Newsletter
[10:53] <pleia2> the schedule in the topic works too
[10:53] <sebsebseb> Lilspanyol: Maybe you missed my reply to installing in classroom chat, so i'll do it in here as well.
[10:53] <zkriesse> sometimesworks: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[10:53] <sebsebseb> Lilspanyol: Theres also a basic install guide in the Ubuntu Manual by the way and i'll sometimes help people get set up with an install with a seperate /home from #ubuntu
[10:53] <_marx_> you can just type /topic to see the topic
[10:53] <sebsebseb> !manual
[10:53] <ubot2> The Ubuntu Manual will help you become familiar with everyday tasks such as surfing the web, listening to music and scanning documents. With an emphasis on easy to follow instructions, it is suitable for all levels of experience. http://ubuntu-manual.org/
[10:53] <sometimesworks> pleia2: didn't see the odd link - was expecting a wiki one :)
[10:54] <sometimesworks> _marx_: I know ;)
[10:54] <Lilspanyol> i'll go to the classroom-chat channel ,see ya there guys
[10:54] <sebsebseb> Lilspanyol: You are already in there, but yeah see you there :)
[10:55] <ClassBot> There are are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[10:56] <ech0tk> Quick Question: How 'basic' is this user day? For the users who hasn't seen Ubuntu before or for the guys who used it for a couple months
[10:56] <cjohnston> ech0tk: yes...
[10:56] <pleia2> ech0tk: we start off with installation :) so it covers both
[10:56] <_marx_> both would fit i think
[10:56] <ech0tk> Alright
[10:56] <sebsebseb> ech0tk: For newbies mainly, but some of it could be still quite interesting for us more expereinced users.
[10:57] <MichealH> ech0tk: Of for peeps like me who have been here for 4 years, refreshing on basics
[10:58] <sebsebseb> ech0tk: (Well I don't know if you have used it for a while)
</pre>
