{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Below are the topics that I am going to cover:

1. Difference between windows and Linux (Ubuntu)

2. Why Windows?

3. Why Ubuntu?

4. Who need Ubuntu and who need Windows

5. Different version of Ubuntu and Linux

6. Using Ubuntu live media

7. Ubuntu Installation

8. FAQ

==== Session Logs ====

<pre>
=== cjohnston changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Ubuntu Classroom || Ubuntu User Days | Current Session: Switching to Ubuntu & Installation ~~ Presented by Nagendra || Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Ubuntu User Days Survey: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY
[13:01] <Pendulum> Our first instructor today is Guru Nagendra Prasad. Nagendra has been using Linux & GNU packages since 97. He is pursuing bachelors degree in computers.
[13:01] <Pendulum> His first introduction to Linux was RedHat. He received 2 CD's of RedHat Linux from my friend in 97 and tried to install it on his system. However he crashed his HDD at that time.
[13:02] <Pendulum> He has since learned how to install Linux on a system. In the year 2000 he started to teach Linux in an institute.
[13:02] <Pendulum> However at that point in time he didn't know about how to install audio/video drivers (Due to no Internet connection). So, he screwed up few systems.
[13:02] <Pendulum> In the year 2005 Nagendra joined Google and worked 3 years as a data analyst. After leaving Google in 2008 he have started working on his own project.
[13:02] <Pendulum> In the year 2008 he also developed a distro called Gubuntu, based on Linux Mint. It was a multimedia based OS, with all audio and video tools in it and bunch of few other stuff.
[13:03] <Pendulum> Before nagendra  begings, I just want to remind people Unfortunately freenode, the IRC network we use, has been hit hard recently with an influx of javascript spam. For more information please see http://blog.freenode.net/2010/01/javascript-spam/. Do not click other links that say you are infected or they are more information about the spam.
[13:04] <Pendulum> Also, please fill out our survey about today!  http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/WQWHJQY
[13:05] <nagendra> hi please let me know when should I start ?
[13:05] <pleia2> now :)
[13:05] <cjohnston> Now
[13:05] <nagendra> ok
[13:06] <nagendra> so my first topic is : Difference between windows and Linux (Ubuntu)
[13:07] <nagendra> their are few things to remember with you switch from windows to ubuntu that windows only supports FAT and NTFS file system however Ubuntu supports many file systems
[13:10] <nagendra> while installing windows you will have to specify only one drive usually C-Drive however while installing ubuntu you will have to specify 2 different drive one for the ROOT (/) and another for the SWAP area
[13:11] <nagendra> ubuntu uses a sperate drive for swaping files however the same thing in windows called the paging file
[13:12] <pleia2> < doxdrum> Question - Is it better to have only / and swap than also the extra home partition?
[13:13] <nagendra> is depends on you if you want to use another drive partation called home
[13:14] <nagendra> apart from root (/) and swap every other partation will work just like your other dirves like d,e,f and so on
[13:14] <pleia2> < zhukaster> Question: is it necessary to have swap at least 2x larger than RAM amount?
[13:15] <nagendra> giving my experience it dosen't matters if your physcial RAM is larger then 1 GB
[13:15] <nagendra> however it is recommended
[13:16] <pleia2> < ehlim> Question is that posible to change filesystem witout reinstall ubuntu, said like from ext 3 to ext 4
[13:16] <nagendra> as far as I know its not possible
[13:18] <nagendra> people always get scared when they see linux or ubuntu on a system but its just their state of mind :)
[13:19] <nagendra> any other question about- Difference between windows and Linux (Ubuntu)?
[13:21] <nagendra> so my next topic is -why Windows?
[13:21] <nagendra> this is a question we have to ask ourselves
[13:23] <nagendra> see if you are a basic user of computer like net surfing, chatting, listening to music and few office stuff why do you want to waste your money on windows when you can do the same tasks on any version of ubuntu
[13:24] <nagendra> so their might be the next question that may come to your mind is why Ubuntu ?
[13:26] <nagendra> Ubuntu is very easy to use, install, update, troubleshoot and you will get the community help as well for your issues how about that :)
[13:26] <nagendra> any questions guys ??
[13:28] <pleia2> < jazz__> Question what do they mean "free as in beer?"
[13:29] <nagendra> so my next topic is - Who need Ubuntu and who need Windows?
[13:32] <nagendra> I don't know about others but in india ppl teach some programing languages based on windows like VB, VC++ and so on so for those they might be needing windows but for others like in small bussiness holders, shop keepers who wants to maintain their daily sales and purchase accounts they can switch to ubuntu as its free :)
[13:33] <nagendra> their are so many different versions of Linux starting from Redhat, fedora, suse, ubuntu etc
[13:33] <nagendra> its on you which version or distor you want to use
[13:34] <nagendra> however giving my experience Ubuntu is the best one when it comes to linux :)
[13:35] <nagendra> also ubuntu supports a large numbers of hardware devices
[13:36] <nagendra> if you want to make sure if your computer hardware will work on ubuntu use a live media of Ubuntu and you will get an idea about it
[13:37] <pleia2> < Jedemco> Question What is live media and why is it called live media?
[13:38] <nagendra> live media is nothing but a complete Ubuntu OS which will be run on your system without installing on your HDD
[13:39] <nagendra> its like this you have a viedo DVD with you and when you insert the DVD in your DVD drive you can watch the movie  directly from DVD but only if you like you copy the DVD on your system
[13:40] <nagendra> so the same thing applies here the live media gives you a chance to see how the OS is working on your system and if everything is OK then you can install it on your HDD
[13:41] <nagendra> any questions guys ?
[13:43] <nagendra> here are the few links which you might want to read about ubuntu installation :http://news.softpedia.com/news/Installing-Ubuntu-9-10-126370.shtml
[13:43] <nagendra> http://ubuntuguide.net/a-step-by-step-guide-for-ubuntu-910karmic-complete-installation
[13:44] <pleia2> < Jedemco> Question How long does it take to install Ubuntu?
[13:44] <nagendra> Max -30 Min
[13:44] <nagendra> again it depends on your system
[13:45] <pleia2> < Jedemco> Question How much room does the operating system take up on the HDD?
[13:46] <nagendra> basically you will have to specify 5 GB of free space for root and 1 GB for swap
[13:48] <nagendra> if you have any question about how to install Ubuntu with dual boot please ask :)
[13:48] <pleia2> < LuizAquino> Question What type of filesystem to choose on install?
[13:49] <nagendra> you can choose ext3 or ext4
[13:49] <pleia2> < Jedemco> Question Can dual boot be done so that Ubuntu not the first choice
[13:50] <nagendra> yes you can when you install ubuntu it will ask you to change the boot loader of you want
[13:51] <nagendra> their you can change the OS order :)
[13:51] <pleia2> < lannocc> Question better to install Windows or Ubuntu first?
[13:51] <nagendra> better to install windows first then install Ubuntu
[13:52] <pleia2> < userday20> Question, if i have winxp and an another linux distro. will i have to delete the partion of other linux distro, and then start installing ubunut or should i directly start installing ubuntu and i'll have the option to delete the other linux distro during installation
[13:52] <nagendra> any more question guys I just have 10 min left :)
[13:52] <nagendra> yes you will get an option to delete the existing linux partation
[13:53] <pleia2> < lannocc> Question (followup) but doesn't Windows try to use up all available disk space?
[13:54] <nagendra> no if you have already installed windows then in the installation Ubuntu will give you the option to use the free space of windows
[13:54] <nagendra> in this case your windows will be safe as well
[13:54] <pleia2> < LuizAquino> Question Is it save to change the size of a partition with Windows on installation?
[13:55] <pleia2> 5 minute warning :)
[13:55] <nagendra> yes you can and your windows will be safe
[13:57] <nagendra> thank you all for taking part in Ubuntu user day. I wish a very good luck to you all and if you have any other questions please feel free to join the Ubuntu community
[13:58] <nagendra> I still have 3 min left I can take 1 more question
[13:59] <cjohnston> Thank you nagendra!
[13:59] <nagendra> you are welcome :)
[13:59] <_marx_> thanks nagendra
</pre>
