{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Discussion about USplash errors in Dapper ==
----
<nowiki>[[WilliK]]</nowiki>: This seems not to work with Dapper (Flight 4)... Reconfiguration of the image complains about being in upgrade mode, and would not touch some symlinks.... You end up with a black screen during boot (and shutdown).
Does anyone know how to fix this?

MichałWoźniak: dpkg-reconfigure "complains" about being an upgrade on Breezy, too. It doesn't matter, as it's not necessary for the symlinks to get touched (the kernel image is just being re-created and saved in the file that the symlinks are already leading to). The problem is elswere, IMHO: make *sure* the image is 640 x 480 x 16 colours, and remember to use "sudo update-alternatives --config usplash-artwork.so" to select the newly created usplash image. Please try the #kubuntu or #ubuntu IRC channels (see InternetRelayChat) to get some help.

<nowiki>[[WilliK]]</nowiki>: Image is OK (no image works, not even the original one), all done according to instructions. Seems to be the usplash bug #27837 (see https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/usplash/+bug/27837 )...

MichałWoźniak: Got almost the same error with Breezy (mine was about xx, not yy), it was a problem with the image. Maybe it's a matter of the resolution not being set correctly by one script or another - try passing vga=791 as a kernel option in GRUB.

<nowiki>[[WilliK]]</nowiki>: vga=791 would not work with me, but '''vga=773''' did!

MichałWoźniak: And in Dapper, what about usplash.sh not setting the console fonts? Had to make a nasty hack in my usplash.sh to make it do that on Breezy - is that solved on Dapper?
