{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
20:00 < pleia2> ok, meeting time :)
20:00 < pleia2> Agenda is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings
20:00 < pleia2> who all is here for the meeting?
20:00 < cprofitt> I am here, but distracted by kids... I will likely listen
20:01 < cprofitt> and not contribute much.... sorry
20:01 < xq> i am here, switching computers
20:01 < xq> you won't notice, screen'd session
20:01  * johnc4510 +1
20:01 < Grantbow> I'm a California team member here for the meeting
20:02 < pleia2> welcome Grantbow :)
20:02 < pleia2> alright, so first order of business - a permanent board
20:03 < pleia2> we appointed a temporary board a few months back to get things rolling, JonReagan, eightyeight and myeslf
20:03 < pleia2> JonReagan has stepped down, eightyeight has handed off some of the resources to me since he's got to back off from contributing much (he had planned this, part of the reason we went with a temporary board at first, he knew he was leaving)
20:04 < pleia2> so mostly I think we just need to figure out who we want on the board, I'd be happy to stay on, and I think johnc4510 is a good candidate :)
20:05 < johnc4510> ah thx
20:05 < johnc4510> pleia2 should stay on
20:05 < johnc4510> IMO
20:05 < johnc4510> and i would serve if everyone agrees
20:06 < johnc4510> are we going to keep it at 3 people?
20:06 < pleia2> I think so
20:06 < johnc4510> k
20:06 < johnc4510> you have ideas for another?
20:06 < pleia2> not really :)
20:06 < pleia2> dantalizing perhaps
20:06 < pleia2> he's our other mentor already
20:07 < johnc4510> nods
20:07 < pleia2> I just wanted to bring this up, we can come back to it
20:07 < pleia2> the website!
20:07 < pleia2> canonical hosting is not fantastic :(
20:07 < johnc4510> agreed
20:07 < xq> as we've seen
20:07 < pleia2> so I'll be setting up things on the ubuntupennsylvania server
20:08 < dantalizing> i'd be wiling to serve if needed as well
20:08 < johnc4510> cool
20:08 < dantalizing> sorry..i'm one topic back
20:08 < pleia2> dantalizing: great, thanks :)
20:08 < pleia2> johnc4510 will be the primary website admin for now, he's heading up that project ;)
20:09 < johnc4510> k, i have two others ready to start working once we get decided where and get the initial setup
20:09 < pleia2> great
20:09 < pleia2> now the planet... I haven't gotten a theme ready yet :)
20:09 < johnc4510> we'll just need access
20:09  * pleia2 nods
20:09 < pleia2> I'll give you the initial admin user
20:09 < johnc4510> k
20:09 < pleia2> you can add admins as you see fit
20:10 < johnc4510> k
20:10 < pleia2> and I should write an email to the list asking for more planet feeds, I kept forgetting
20:10 < xq> Did you decide to include non-approved teams, pleia2 ?
20:10 < pleia2> xq: yep
20:10 < johnc4510> pleia2: yes, we need more posters
20:11 < johnc4510> AZ has been trying to post as much as possible
20:11 < pleia2> yeah, PA too
20:11 < pleia2> you guys have that newsletter thing going on, it's cool :)
20:12 < cprofitt_> non-approved teams for what? Sorry I missed it while I was switching computers
20:12 < xq> cprofitt_: for planet
20:12 < dantalizing> we need to get dthomasdigital's nm feed up there too
20:12 < Grantbow> I'll post to the california list about blog streams
20:12 < pleia2> ok, I'll nudge him about that
20:12 < johnc4510> btw, i've included some posts that were for the whole US project too.  Like the Jaunty countdown banners. i hope that was ok
20:13 < pleia2> Grantbow: we're looking for news feeds, not planety blog feeds
20:13 < johnc4510> yeah, what's going on with your team
20:13 < Grantbow> oh, ok, so -announce type stuff?
20:13 < johnc4510> right
20:13 < pleia2> Grantbow: yeah, so ubuntupennsylvania.org has news and planet.ubuntupennsylvania.org has blogs
20:13 < pleia2> we want the ubuntupennsylvania.org feed
20:13 < Grantbow> kk
20:14 < pleia2> the last thing I had on my list was a quick mention of mentors stuff
20:14 < johnc4510> k
20:14 < pleia2> for folks who havent noticed, we now have a page with their assignments state-mentoring wise: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Mentors
20:14 < pleia2> plus a note about coming here or asking me if a team needs one
20:15 < pleia2> and I had an unfortunate experience this week with a team approval which I wanted to mention
20:15 < johnc4510> :(
20:15 < pleia2> the NY team went up for approval and were asked to come back in 3 months, I was pretty sure they'd be fine
20:16 < pleia2> the rules have tightened up quite a bit since PA was approved by the CC 2 years ago, and I hadn't kept up
20:16 < xq> do you know what went wrong?
20:16 < pleia2> so I am going to suggest that people who become mentors pop around a couple approval meetings, and really work hard to get the teams they mentor to have good documentation
20:17 < dantalizing> k
20:17 < pleia2> xq: I think the issue was documentation, it wasn't clear enough, I really do think they were active enough
20:17 < xq> just documenting the activity, meeting documentation (logs, etc.)
20:17 < pleia2> but I should attend more meetings to be sure :)
20:17 < pleia2> they pretty much had everything documented, it was just a little confusing
20:17 < xq> got it
20:17 < pleia2> I didn't notice that it was unclear I guess since I'd been staring at tit too long :)
20:17 < xq> i would be interested
20:17 < johnc4510> they thought that what they had done from the first of the year was great...but documentation before that was lacking
20:18 < xq> because that's one of my worst nightmares for my team
20:18 < pleia2> xq: it can be quite discouraging
20:19 < johnc4510> i was told be one of the members of the council that in a couple of months they would be ok if they continued on the path they have established from the first of the yr
20:19 < xq> that's good
20:20 < pleia2> yeah, they have a lot of events planned, they just need to finish them
20:20 < johnc4510> the one thing i've found with membership boards is that you need really good documentation of what you've done
20:20 < pleia2> but attending that meeting was very helpful for me to understand how the process works these days
20:20 < johnc4510> nods
20:20 < xq> i've attended a few and read quite a few logs
20:20 < xq> so thanks for letting us know :)
20:21 < dantalizing> yes
20:21 < xq> 2/ ER!!
20:21 < xq> miss
20:21 < pleia2> that's all I've got :)
20:21 < johnc4510> should we set another meeting date?
20:22 < dantalizing> yes
20:23 < johnc4510> and should new board members be approved by all those here, or by the loco council?
20:23 < pleia2> we'll discuss bringing dantalizing and johnc4510 onto the board between meetings, possibly finalize then if there are no issues
20:23 < johnc4510> ah ok
20:23 < pleia2> :)
20:23 < pleia2> so... say a meeting in 3 weeks?
20:24 < johnc4510> ok with me
20:24 < dantalizing> close to release date
20:24 < pleia2> tuesday the 21st?
20:24 < dantalizing> +1
20:24 < johnc4510> +1
20:24 < xq> +1
20:24 < pleia2> same time as this meeting?
20:24 < xq> yes please
20:25 < johnc4510> ok with me
20:25 < dantalizing> eyes
20:25 < pleia2> ok, cool
20:25 < johnc4510> thx pleia2
20:26  * xq kindly notes the final "ER" is on after 15 seasons after the sudden outburst.
20:26 < pleia2> xq: hehe
20:26 < xq> ;)
20:26 < johnc4510> :)
</pre>
