{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2009-02-18 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Discuss task assignments
* Get mentoring rolling! 

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* johnc4510
* pleia2
* eightyeight
* etank
* !JonReagan
* dantalizing
* doctormo
* itnet7
* cprofitt
* dinda
* MTecknology

== Proceedings ==
* Discussed need for !LoCo teams to get on Ubuntu Planet (following up with Jono)
* Website and planet situation
** Zelut will give the board access once we figure out how the Canonical Sysadmins go about transferring
* Launchpad
** Added board members as admins
** Added approved teams who hadn't been previously added
* Forums
** Learned that we can contact ubuntu-geek if we need any changes made to mods on forums
* Discussed deployment of Drupal and other infrastructures for !LoCos, determined working with upstream (general !LoCo community) is optimal
** Would be nice if Drupal help documents existed to help !LoCos get started
* We should encourage teams to get involved with TeamReports
* Mentors
** Repeated requirements of Mentors to be in approved team and to have signed the CoC
** What do mentors do?
** Get assigned tasks
** Officially assigned to/work with teams
** Jon created a <nowiki>[[USTeams-Mentors|Mentors]]</nowiki> page where folks can sign up
** We want to do a community push to encourage folks to step up as mentors
** What can people who aren't part of approved teams do, since they can't be mentors?
** Can be on mailing list, forums and IRC channel and help out
** Focus on their own team getting approved to be an example for others
** Approved team qualification is so we have folks who are familiar with the approval process and how to have successful events

== Conclusion ==
Our resources are coming together nicely. Major things right now are getting back in control of our website & planet and getting Mentors for the team. We'll be hosting our first Mentor approval meeting on Mar 5, 8pm EST.
