{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2009-03-05 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* <nowiki>[[USTeams-Mentors|Mentor]]</nowiki> approvals
* Website discussion
* Planet discussion

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* boredandblogging
* dantalizing
* johnc4510
* JonReagan
* MTecknology
* pleia2
* Yasumoto

== Proceedings ==

* Planet
** Do we want the US Planet to include unapproved teams?
** The official stance is that unapproved teams should not have websites
** The reality is that many unapproved teams have websites
** We found no reason that unapproved teams should not be allowed to participate in the planet if they have a site, but we should uphold the official stance (share your feed if you have one, but we won't encourage unapproved teams to make sites to participate)
** We now have access to the planet, pleia2 will be working on making the template more US-oriented
* Website
** johnc4510 volunteered to work on the Drupal site that Canonical is hosting as a Mentor he will be given Administrative access
** MTecknology and Yasumoto also offered up their expertise
** At the time of writing, it was decided to stick with Canonical hosting unless a reason to look for hosting elsewhere is uncovered
** Content?
** Will we aggregate news? Who would write news? Should planet be news? Undecided.
** For now we will keep current content, and expand upon it as time, ideas and initiative dictate
* Mentors
** <nowiki>[[JohnCrawford|johnc4510]]</nowiki> of the US-AZ !LoCo was approved as a mentor
** <nowiki>[[DanTrevino|dantalizing]]</nowiki> of the US-FL !LoCo was approved as a mentor

== Conclusion ==
We're happy to welcome our new mentors. We are moving forward with trying to work with the current website hosting situation. The planet will continue to be updated with a new theme and more feeds to be added soon.
