{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== November 2007 US Teams Reports ==

== Projects ==

* ChristerEdwards has come back from UDS with some exciting ideas for the US Teams Project and will be working on getting it out to the US LoCo teams very soon.

* The US Teams Project held a meeting on November 11 to discuss getting the US Teams Project focused on meeting the end-year goal of having a LoCo team in every state and share initial ideas for ideas brought back from UDS by ChristerEdwards.

* The MichiganTeam hosted a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Projects/PackagingJam1|Packaging Jam]]</nowiki> on November 3 to learn about packaging for Ubuntu.  AWESOME project GregGrossmeier!

== Meetings ==

* A US Teams meeting was held on November 11 to focus on meeting the end-year goal of having a LoCo team in every state and share initial ideas for ideas brought back from UDS by ChristerEdwards.  Minutes for the November 11 Meeting <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Minutes/Nov11|Nov 11 Meeting Logs]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Minutes/Nov11Formal|Nov 11 Meeting Summary]]</nowiki>

* There will be a few more meetings by year-end to discuss the goal of having a LoCo team in every state and sort out ideas brought back from UDS by ChristerEdwards.  These meetings are currently being planned.

== Metrics ==

=== Total Number of LoCo Teams in the US ===

* Currently 55 State and City LoCo Teams in the US

* Still need LoCo teams for the following:

	{*} <nowiki>[[DelawareTeam|Delaware]]</nowiki>

	{*} <nowiki>[[IdahoTeam|Idaho]]</nowiki>

	{*} <nowiki>[[IowaTeam|Iowa]]</nowiki>

	{*} <nowiki>[[HawaiiTeam|Hawaii]]</nowiki>

	{*} <nowiki>[[NothDakotaTeam|NorthDakota]]</nowiki>

	{*} <nowiki>[[WestVirginiaTeam|WestVirginia]]</nowiki>

	{*} <nowiki>[[TexasTeam|Texas]]</nowiki>

=== Total Number of Approved Teams in the US ===

* Current Count of approved teams is 7

* No new LoCo teams approved this month as the Ubuntu Community Council did not meet.

* LoCo teams that are up for approval at the next <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda|Ubuntu Community Concil meeting]]</nowiki> are:

	{*} <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam|NewJersey]]</nowiki>

	{*} <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam|Michigan]]</nowiki>

	{*} <nowiki>[[NewMexicoTeam|NewMexico]]</nowiki>

	{*} <nowiki>[[GeorgiaTeam|Georgia]]</nowiki>

=== Total Number of State LoCo Teams ===

* Current Count of State Teams is 43 (Went down a number because we really need some attention paid to Texas and how to get a team(s) started there)

=== Total Number of City LoCo Teams ===

* Current Count of City Teams is 11
