{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2008-11-13 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' Aaron Toponce (eightyeight) <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Elizabeth Krumbach (pleia2) <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Plans for moving forward with team

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* eightyeight
* pleia2
* Flannel
* r2d2rogers
* MTecknology
* !PrivateVoid
* boredandblogging

== Proceedings ==
* Aaron outlined Goals:
** i want to keep the project a project, not a team, however, i want us to think about a council for the project. or leadership board. whatever you want to call it
** we need to set some goals for 2009, so when january 1 hits, we can get running hard, and meet them
** redefining who can mentor states. i think we dropped the ball on this a bit ago, and might have hurt some feelings. we should probably keep who we had previous, and re-invite those we tore from mentoring
* Discussed creation of a US Teams LoCo Leadership Board

== Conclusion ==
* Decided getting together a Leadership Board may be first step to moving forward, to discuss qualifications and appointment/election of Board members at later meeting
