{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

IRC Log: <nowiki>[[../../IRCLogs/2007-12-06|/2007-12-06]]</nowiki>

== Agenda ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Name'''
| '''IRC nick'''
| '''Concern'''
|-
| ChristerEdwards and CraigHuffstetler
| Zelut & xq
| Question why we need a team leader for a non-team.  US Teams is a cooperation of teams, not a team itself
|-
| CraigHuffstetler
| xq
| Working together with Ubuntu IRC team and other teams. We need to make sure this is continued...i.e. the channel name (syntax) changes. Communication established and a clear line (downstream) established and in use? If not, we definitely need it.
|}

== December 6th US Teams Meeting Summary ==

* Discussed why the US Teams Project needs a leader.

* Discussed what the US Teams Project leader would do.

* Discussed having US Teams Project leaders by time zones and/or geographical locations.

* Discussed and reconfirmed the the roles of the Mentors witin the US Teams Project <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/MentorList|Mentor List]]</nowiki>
 
* Discussed the history of the US Teams Project and earlier attempts at voting on a leader.
 
* Discussed the reason for the interest in having a US Teams Project leader <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/MeetingAgenda|Meeting Agenda]]</nowiki>

* Voted for the following:

** -1 to having a US Teams Project leader.
** +1 to regular US Teams Project monthly meetings with a different Mentor presiding on rotating evenings and weekdays, e.g. 8pm PST Tues, then 8PM 	      	  MST Wed, then 8PM CST Thu and finally 8PM Tues again.
** +1 to keeping the US Teams Project meeting in ubuntu-us.
	

* Established a date and time of January 9th at 8 pm PST for the next US Teams Project meeting.

* Discussed keeping sidetracked conversations in ubuntu-us-offtopic during meetings in ubuntu-us.

* greg-g agreed to conduct the US Teams Project meeting scheduled for January 9th at 8 pm PST.

* boredandblogging has the meetings announced on the Fridge.

* atoponce has sent an email on the us mailing list about the meeting scheduled got January 9th at 8 PM PST.

 