{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu-US.org Articles ==

The team maintains a Wordpress site at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-us.org/|ubuntu-us.org]]</nowiki> where we regularly publish articles. This page is to document article ideas and ongoing series' of articles.

=== Article Brainstorm ===

* Tips for running a successful event -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>  * Methods of structuring a LoCo team. (i.e. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-community/+bug/392986/comments/17|this]]</nowiki> is one method, other LoCos have other structures). -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nhandler]]</nowiki>  * Making effective team websites (Maine, Pennsylvania, other examples?) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>  * ''Your idea here!''

=== Article Series: Approved Team Interviews ===

Amber proposed having a "featured approved team" as a frequent feature of the month. This may have several articles devoted to a single team, ideas for articles include:

* Showcase a recent event
* Publish an article written by a state team member related to the team or !LoCo teams in general
* Interview team lead(s), questions may include:
** Where is your team located and what are some fun facts about your state?
** When was your Team established?
** Do you have a website? Mailing List? IRC channel? Forum? Twitter? Identi.ca? Facebook group?
** What is the most useful to your team? What do you wish you never bothered spending time on?
** Can you let people know some of the things the team did on the way approval? (also a link to the roadmap and approval wiki)
** What are some of the biggest Challenge the team faced during this process, how did the team overcome it?
** Did the team have a mentor and if so were they instrumental to motivating and helping the team? If not, do you wish you had a Mentor?
** How is your team structured? (Link to this structure, if applicable)
** Does your team have an "elevator pitch" (explain Ubuntu to a non-user in the span of time you are in an elevator) for your team. If so what is it?
** What suggestions do you have for other teams looking to improve their roadmap and have an effective team?
** ''Your question here!''

=== Article Series: Event How To ===

cprofitt proposes having occasional articles featuring a LoCo team and an event they sponsored/organized.

* Showcase the event
** Go in to the details on how it was organized
** Advertising strategies
** How the space was found / paid for
** What did the event feature
** Who was the event targeted at

-- Some examples would be launch parties and global bug jams.

=== Article Series: Your Idea Here! ===
