{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2009-08-26 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:

 a. Ubuntu-US.org status

 a. Wiki Navigation Path to USTeams - How does an individual find the USTeams wiki pages? Besides being referenced by a couple of Lo``Co wiki pages, USTeams isn't listed prominently anywhere. If someone looks at LoCoTeamsList, there are links to the individual Lo``Cos, but nothing about USTeams. USTeams exists as an island. The biggest downside is no one is able to find information about mentors. Similarly, how does someone find http://ubuntu-us.org? At the minimum, it should be listed on the sidebar of the planet.

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* pleia2
* dantalizing
* akgraner
* Flannel
* johnc4510
* Grantbow

== Proceedings ==
* Suggestions for new articles?
** Basic event planning
** Getting hotel space for cons
* Visibility of <nowiki>[[USTeams]]</nowiki> resources, how do people find us?
** Can we add to the LoCoTeamsList wiki page?
** Can we get added to the solar system on planet.ubuntu.com?
** More blogging about project
* Website general
** akgraner will compile a list of basic links that she thinks would be useful to the site
* UbuntuGlobalJam
** There are lots of great Docs on the wiki, a <nowiki>[[USTeams]]</nowiki> "Doc Day" portion of the event was proposed
** And agreed upon! <nowiki>[[USTeams-Events-WikiDocDay2009|WikiDocDay2009]]</nowiki>

== Conclusion ==
We will continue publishing articles for the website and promote a Doc Day during UbuntuGlobalJam
