{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2009-08-04 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Article structure on Ubuntu-US.org
* Mentoring status review
* Ubuntu Global Jam October 2 - 4 -- dantrevino 2009-08-04 13:57:49 

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* dantalizing
* pleia2
* tyche
* Flannel
* johnc4510

== Proceedings ==
* Administrative discussion on the status of the team and how mentoring projects were coming along.
* Congrats to NY Team on Approval! 
* Congrats to pak33m for becoming a Mentor!
* Dan reminded us all about the upcoming Global Jam, we want to see more US Teams on the Events page!
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam/Events
* We also discussed the upcoming implementation of monthly (or more?) articles on ubuntu-us.org directing folks to LoCo resources and issuing news announcements (team approvals, etc).

== Conclusion ==
John will be handling infrastructure edits to the site to allow for articles, Lyz will submit the first three articles for the site, Dan will be continuing with Global Jam promotion
