{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{{
Aug 30 22:59:14 <atoponce>	Thu Aug 30 20:59:12 MDT 2007
Aug 30 22:59:39 *	pak33m has quit (Nick collision from services.)
Aug 30 23:00:24 *	Zelut is here
Aug 30 23:00:38 *	ausimage is here :)
Aug 30 23:00:44 <atoponce>	ok. roll count
Aug 30 23:00:47 *	pak33m (n=pak33m@21.159.119.70.cfl.res.rr.com) has joined #ubuntu-us-mentors
Aug 30 23:01:03 <atoponce>	where's pliea2?
Aug 30 23:01:28 <Vorian>	I think it's a bit late for her
Aug 30 23:01:36 <atoponce>	only 11
Aug 30 23:01:45 *	nixternal is here
Aug 30 23:01:49 <pak33m>	did we get a show of hands - i dropped off there for a sec
Aug 30 23:01:58 *	ausimage here
Aug 30 23:02:00 <atoponce>	going through it now
Aug 30 23:02:01 *	etank is here (for a little while at least)
Aug 30 23:02:02 <atoponce>	Zelut: ?
Aug 30 23:02:04 <nixternal>	building kde4 beta packages for gutsy, so if I seem to nod in and out, you know it crashed :)
Aug 30 23:02:06 <atoponce>	Vorian: ?
Aug 30 23:02:13 *	Vorian is here
Aug 30 23:02:20 *	pak33m here
Aug 30 23:02:26 *	johnc4510 is here
Aug 30 23:02:32 <atoponce>	boredandblogging: ?
Aug 30 23:02:35 <boredandblogging>	here
Aug 30 23:02:45 <atoponce>	cool. i think that's everyone
Aug 30 23:02:54 <pak33m>	just missing Zelut?
Aug 30 23:02:58 <Zelut>	I'm here
Aug 30 23:02:58 <ausimage>	etank?
Aug 30 23:03:06 <etank>	im here
Aug 30 23:03:07 <pak33m>	alright lets begin
Aug 30 23:03:22 <atoponce>	ok
Aug 30 23:03:35 <pak33m>	First Topic - Project Council
Aug 30 23:04:09 <pak33m>	this topic was tabled from the last meet
Aug 30 23:04:23 *	atoponce has changed the topic to: PROJECT DEFINITION
Aug 30 23:04:32 <pak33m>	ah
Aug 30 23:04:37 <atoponce>	pak33m: i'm going to change it around a bit
Aug 30 23:04:44 <pak33m>	cool go ahead
Aug 30 23:05:11 <atoponce>	first, when Zelut, Vorian and i set this up, we wanted to make it a project and not a team
Aug 30 23:05:31 <atoponce>	in other words, it's just texas helping alaska, vermont helping new jersey, etc....
Aug 30 23:05:36 <atoponce>	make sense?
Aug 30 23:05:46 <etank>	yup
Aug 30 23:05:46 <ausimage>	uh huh
Aug 30 23:05:50 <Zelut>	teams helping teams
Aug 30 23:05:50 <johnc4510>	k
Aug 30 23:06:02 <pak33m>	yeppers
Aug 30 23:06:17 <atoponce>	however, i think that there has been a shift in that paradigm, and we've forgotten what we're all about
Aug 30 23:06:24 <atoponce>	so, we're getting back to the roots
Aug 30 23:06:30 <Zelut>	I think putting together a council / presidency / leadership strays from that vision of teams helping teams.
Aug 30 23:06:38 <nixternal>	+1
Aug 30 23:06:39 <atoponce>	exactly
Aug 30 23:06:52 <nixternal>	there are enough councils as it is
Aug 30 23:07:01 <atoponce>	there are a few problems with a council, actually
Aug 30 23:07:13 <atoponce>	first, there's the whole image of the united states as it currently is
Aug 30 23:07:37 <atoponce>	seeing as though we're not a CC team, or whatnot, we'd be the first to implement a "council"
Aug 30 23:07:47 <nixternal>	what image are you talking about? the political image?
Aug 30 23:07:48 <atoponce>	how would that look to the rest of the world?
Aug 30 23:07:53 <atoponce>	nixternal: yes
Aug 30 23:08:04 <nixternal>	bah, that image is only portrayed by the ignorant
Aug 30 23:08:17 <atoponce>	if we implement a council, then it looks like the us can do as it pleases, and wouldn't come across so well
Aug 30 23:08:26 <nixternal>	the nations image should have nothing to do with having a council or not
Aug 30 23:08:27 <atoponce>	besides, again, it strays from the vision anyway
Aug 30 23:08:36 <Zelut>	nixternal: ..and, as you said, there are enough councils already
Aug 30 23:08:38 <atoponce>	this is what mentors were set up for
Aug 30 23:09:32 <atoponce>	so, no council. just states helping other states. people helping people.
Aug 30 23:09:39 <nixternal>	+1
Aug 30 23:09:44 <Zelut>	+1
Aug 30 23:09:50 <atoponce>	it's a project, not a team. not a heierarchy. not a kingdom. etc
Aug 30 23:09:59 <Vorian>	+1
Aug 30 23:10:18 <atoponce>	so, that brings me to the next topic
Aug 30 23:10:20 <johnc4510>	+1
Aug 30 23:10:26 *	atoponce has changed the topic to: MENTORS
Aug 30 23:10:35 <pak33m>	atoponce: would the team want  to creat a mission statment
Aug 30 23:10:48 <atoponce>	pak33m: the state team?
Aug 30 23:11:02 <pak33m>	mentor project
Aug 30 23:11:20 <Zelut>	pak33m: teams helping teams pretty much sums it up :)
Aug 30 23:11:25 <atoponce>	hmmm. i guess we could think about that, to help define and outline what we're about
Aug 30 23:11:27 <nixternal>	hehe, I was going to say the same
Aug 30 23:11:37 <atoponce>	but yeah...
Aug 30 23:11:43 <atoponce>	the wiki serves it pretty well too
Aug 30 23:12:01 <nixternal>	s/we're/the project :)  we're makes "us" sound like a team...there is no "I" in project!
Aug 30 23:12:06 <Zelut>	we're not here to tell teams how to function or what to do.  We're just trying to facilitate teams helping one another towards an approved team in each state.
Aug 30 23:12:11 <pak33m>	jst an idea to help remind us and others what the mentor project is about - the vision, etc.
Aug 30 23:12:45 <atoponce>	pak33m: let's table that idea for now. i've got a bit to go through, some a bit thorny... :)
Aug 30 23:12:47 <ausimage>	I guess I feel I much differently than most here :S
Aug 30 23:12:57 *	johnc4510 i know i'm jumping back here, but what is the US image
Aug 30 23:13:00 <pak33m>	atoponce: ok
Aug 30 23:13:01 <ausimage>	Must be my experiences
Aug 30 23:13:49 <atoponce>	johnc4510: just that the US can do whatever it likes. creating a council for locoteams, when one doesn't exist worldwide, would seem a bit arrogant
Aug 30 23:13:50 *	johnc4510 because i've attended several Ubuntu-locoteams meetings and it's like the US is not even recognized
Aug 30 23:14:15 <atoponce>	ausimage: what are your thoughts?
Aug 30 23:14:37 *	RoninX341 (n=etank@ubuntu/member/etank) has joined #ubuntu-us-mentors
Aug 30 23:14:51 <ausimage>	atoponce: I think some teams are looking for national to help them with certain issues they are facing
Aug 30 23:15:02 <ausimage>	*a national....
Aug 30 23:15:06 *	etank has quit (Nick collision from services.)
Aug 30 23:15:16 *	RoninX341 is now known as etank
Aug 30 23:15:33 <atoponce>	ausimage: a state team looking to get setup has all the resources it needs to get started and rolling
Aug 30 23:15:43 <boredandblogging>	a national team should be a different topic
Aug 30 23:15:46 <atoponce>	all the tools are there. this project is about pointing them in the right direction
Aug 30 23:15:48 <ausimage>	NOT ALL... :S
Aug 30 23:15:55 <Zelut>	the us teams project is not interested in becoming a national liability umbrella
Aug 30 23:16:03 <ausimage>	some want to accept donations....
Aug 30 23:16:09 <nixternal>	then accept them
Aug 30 23:16:22 <ausimage>	need the tax emption ;)
Aug 30 23:16:25 <nixternal>	no you don't
Aug 30 23:16:25 <atoponce>	ausimage: then the team can set that up just fine. doesn't need any national help
Aug 30 23:16:58 <ausimage>	atoponce: why set up 50 organizations when one would do just fine?
Aug 30 23:17:03 <pak33m>	woudlnt national help be what mentors do and/or what this project is about in a way
Aug 30 23:17:10 <nixternal>	you only need the tax exemption if the donations are to be tax deductable
Aug 30 23:17:29 <Zelut>	ausimage: because that is not what we're about.
Aug 30 23:17:29 <ausimage>	nixternal many want their exemptions...
Aug 30 23:17:34 <Vorian>	Liability discussion is not really in the scope of this project
Aug 30 23:17:40 <boredandblogging>	can we please push the national/liability talk as the last thing?
Aug 30 23:17:45 <Zelut>	ausimage: so take care of that in your state.
Aug 30 23:17:48 <ausimage>	I am not going to talk liability
Aug 30 23:17:49 <Zelut>	boredandblogging: +1
Aug 30 23:17:54 <atoponce>	pak33m: well, a bit. it's national because one state is helping another. it's not national in that a national team is helping
Aug 30 23:18:05 <pak33m>	lets get back on topic about Mentors
Aug 30 23:18:11 <atoponce>	ok. mentors
Aug 30 23:18:17 <nixternal>	ya, I thought we were on Mentors :)
Aug 30 23:18:26 <ausimage>	:S
Aug 30 23:18:43 <atoponce>	when the mentors were setup, there were two guidelines to becoming a mentor:
Aug 30 23:18:53 <atoponce>	1) he/she must be an ubuntu member
Aug 30 23:19:02 <atoponce>	2) the state they reside in must be an approved state
Aug 30 23:19:19 <johnc4510>	well, AZ is not an approved state team
Aug 30 23:19:34 <atoponce>	as you can probably see, i got a bit carried away inviting anyone and everyone who was a member that wanted to help
Aug 30 23:19:49 <ausimage>	NY isn't
Aug 30 23:19:57 <atoponce>	i didn't pay much attention to whether or not their state was approved
Aug 30 23:20:11 <Zelut>	atoponce: partly growing pains, partly enthusiasm is my guess
Aug 30 23:20:11 <atoponce>	here's the reasoning behind that decision:
Aug 30 23:20:49 <atoponce>	if a state is seeking help, whether they are new, or struggling, it doesn't make sense for another struggling/new team to try and help them out
Aug 30 23:21:01 <nixternal>	true
Aug 30 23:21:02 <Zelut>	johnc4510: we're aware that AZ is not approved, and I hope this doesn't belittle your very sizable contributions to this project.
Aug 30 23:21:09 <atoponce>	"in order to lift someone up, you must be on higher ground yourself"
Aug 30 23:21:27 <Zelut>	also, until your team is approved *your* team should be your primary focus
Aug 30 23:21:36 <johnc4510>	Zelut: it doesn't, i was just wondering if i was about to be kicked :)
Aug 30 23:21:36 <atoponce>	Zelut: exactly.
Aug 30 23:21:45 <boredandblogging>	lol
Aug 30 23:22:01 <Zelut>	I don't want anyone to feel like they're "being kicked" :)
Aug 30 23:22:12 <johnc4510>	:)
Aug 30 23:22:16 <ausimage>	:)
Aug 30 23:22:24 <Zelut>	as atoponce said, we want to make sure this project is back to its roots and we want to help you focus on *your* team
Aug 30 23:22:26 <nixternal>	no kicking, just some tripping :p
Aug 30 23:22:27 <atoponce>	let me make something clear:
Aug 30 23:22:48 <atoponce>	we are *not* discouraging discussion, help, ideas, innovation, etc
Aug 30 23:23:08 <atoponce>	however, if you would like to represent this project as a mentor, you need to me a member and your state
Aug 30 23:23:11 <atoponce>	that's all
Aug 30 23:23:17 <Zelut>	we don't want to make anyone feel like their contributions have not been very much appreciated either.
Aug 30 23:23:29 <Zelut>	this project would not be where it is without everyone in this room
Aug 30 23:23:36 <atoponce>	if you still have ideas about helping other states, speak up
Aug 30 23:23:47 <atoponce>	we still want everyone contributing where they have been up to this point
Aug 30 23:23:54 <atoponce>	Zelut: well said
Aug 30 23:24:08 <atoponce>	i'm fond of everyone in this room, and those who aren't present
Aug 30 23:24:23 *	nixternal hugs atoponce 
Aug 30 23:24:23 <Zelut>	we simply want to get back to our roots.  the project is about teams helping teams.
Aug 30 23:24:34 <ausimage>	I guess I feel as though some are seem to discount my concerns to easily :S
Aug 30 23:24:40 <Zelut>	those that are already approved should focus on helping the rest.  those that are not approved should focus on their teams.
Aug 30 23:24:48 <atoponce>	this means, that the recognized mentors of this project would be as follows:
Aug 30 23:25:02 <atoponce>	Zelut, Vorian, nixternal, etank and atoponce
Aug 30 23:25:08 <ausimage>	...don't do it then is not always the best answer :S
Aug 30 23:25:21 <atoponce>	pleia2, who is not present, as well
Aug 30 23:25:40 <atoponce>	ausimage: i'll still be addressing all of your concerns. i'm not about to ignore anyone or anything
Aug 30 23:25:55 <ausimage>	that is good... :)
Aug 30 23:26:45 <pak33m>	atoponce: are there any guidelines for mentors to follow throughout the mentoring of the teams or are they just with teams until they get on their feet
Aug 30 23:27:38 <atoponce>	pak33m: there are guidelines, or they are in the works
Aug 30 23:27:55 <atoponce>	but, there isn't necessarily 'one mentor to one state'
Aug 30 23:28:05 <pak33m>	and how many teams is enough for one mentor?
Aug 30 23:28:07 <atoponce>	anyone who is a mentor can help any state at any time
Aug 30 23:28:19 <pak33m>	got it
Aug 30 23:28:21 <atoponce>	pak33m: however much he/she feels they can take
Aug 30 23:28:36 <atoponce>	ok. cool
Aug 30 23:28:51 <Zelut>	atoponce: does this affect any of the irc/wiki/list assignments?
Aug 30 23:28:54 <atoponce>	ok. moving on then, unless there are concerns with this?
Aug 30 23:29:01 <pak33m>	should there be a plan for mentors in getting teams on their feet?
Aug 30 23:29:03 <atoponce>	Zelut: that's the next topic of discussion, actually?
Aug 30 23:29:04 <etank>	are we still thinking about doing skill assignments
Aug 30 23:29:05 <atoponce>	s/?//
Aug 30 23:29:13 <atoponce>	etank: yes. i think so
Aug 30 23:29:28 <atoponce>	pak33m: yeah. we're hameering that out as we go
Aug 30 23:29:34 <pak33m>	cool
Aug 30 23:29:34 <Zelut>	etank: atoponce: I was just wondering if the current skill assignments are affected by this change.
Aug 30 23:29:44 <ausimage>	cool skill assignment would be nice..
Aug 30 23:29:58 <nixternal>	is there a link to further information concerning the skill assignments? this is the first I have heard of such a thing
Aug 30 23:30:07 <johnc4510>	hmmm, should i leave the meeting now, since i'm not really involved anymore?
Aug 30 23:30:25 <atoponce>	nixternal: it's only just recent
Aug 30 23:30:27 <Zelut>	nixternal: I think it was in the last meeting.  atoponce is the link for irc help. myself for mailing lists.. vorian for forums.
Aug 30 23:30:29 <nixternal>	roger
Aug 30 23:30:39 <atoponce>	the idea was to get those who have talents to focus on them to help the project grow
Aug 30 23:30:43 <Zelut>	nixternal: ..and I believe its on the /USTeams wiki page.
Aug 30 23:30:54 <nixternal>	OK, I will look it over in depth
Aug 30 23:31:15 <atoponce>	nixternal: i'll be discussing it here in a sec, actually
Aug 30 23:31:19 <atoponce>	johnc4510: no
Aug 30 23:31:28 <atoponce>	johnc4510: you're still needed. very much
Aug 30 23:31:31 <johnc4510>	k
Aug 30 23:31:39 <nixternal>	johnc4510: how close is AZ to official'ness?
Aug 30 23:31:53 <etank>	i don't know if it is still relevant but I started on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/TeamMentoring a while back
Aug 30 23:32:04 <johnc4510>	it will be at least 60 days    i'm hoping
Aug 30 23:32:05 <etank>	for ideas on what to do as a mentor
Aug 30 23:32:13 <Vorian>	They should be approval ready by the next CC meet i would think
Aug 30 23:32:13 <atoponce>	etank: sweet
Aug 30 23:32:16 <nixternal>	johnc4510: rock on!
Aug 30 23:32:35 <atoponce>	ok. if no objections, i'm progressing the topic
Aug 30 23:32:36 <Vorian>	I would still like to see johnc4510 and boredandblogging mod the US Teams forum
Aug 30 23:32:43 <pak33m>	atoponce: go ahead
Aug 30 23:32:44 *	atoponce has changed the topic to: MENTOR ASSIGNMENTS
Aug 30 23:32:47 <nixternal>	johnc4510: fyi: I am a council member, so I am sure it won't be to difficult to get you approved :)
Aug 30 23:33:00 <atoponce>	sweet
Aug 30 23:33:14 <atoponce>	ok. let's discuss mentor assignments now
Aug 30 23:33:15 <Zelut>	nixternal: you're CC?
Aug 30 23:33:21 <Vorian>	nixternal, when did that happen?
Aug 30 23:33:32 <johnc4510>	nixternal: i'm not to worried about the cc, but i won't put the team up until they have met the standards
Aug 30 23:33:34 <nixternal>	KCC which is a subset of the CC, which means I get to read all of the behind the scenes dirt they talk about us :)
Aug 30 23:33:44 <Vorian>	ah, kewl
Aug 30 23:34:02 *	Zelut is scared of the behind-the-scenes dirt
Aug 30 23:34:14 <nixternal>	actually, the CC list is dead quiet
Aug 30 23:34:21 <atoponce>	ahem
Aug 30 23:34:23 <atoponce>	:)
Aug 30 23:34:32 <ausimage>	yeah?
Aug 30 23:34:38 <Vorian>	go ahead atoponce :P
Aug 30 23:34:46 <pak33m>	atoponce: are the mentor assignments that same as skill assignments or diff
Aug 30 23:34:52 <atoponce>	pak33m: yes
Aug 30 23:34:55 <atoponce>	same thing
Aug 30 23:35:01 *	Zelut gets a big crane, jaws of life, and other very large equipment and gives the floor back to atoponce.
Aug 30 23:35:17 <Zelut>	pak33m: I would say they are the same.
Aug 30 23:35:29 <pak33m>	just checking
Aug 30 23:35:45 <atoponce>	basically, now that the mentor list has shrunken a bit, we may need to readjust assignments. maybe not
Aug 30 23:35:55 <nixternal>	holy smokes, 6 states are left for needing a team...freakin' impressive
Aug 30 23:36:13 <ausimage>	and stubborn hawaii ;)
Aug 30 23:36:28 <pak33m>	atoponce: would mentors assign themselves?
Aug 30 23:36:31 <Vorian>	yeah, and some upstarts havent done anything 
Aug 30 23:36:39 <Zelut>	dead quiet from hawaii since day one
Aug 30 23:36:39 <Vorian>	that's a little concerning
Aug 30 23:36:43 <johnc4510>	Vorian: agreed
Aug 30 23:37:09 <etank>	south carolina is the same way too
Aug 30 23:37:28 <Vorian>	so, side bar
Aug 30 23:37:31 <ausimage>	I am willing to help... but have not got any asking for their help ;)
Aug 30 23:37:35 <Vorian>	if we may
Aug 30 23:37:55 <Vorian>	never mind
Aug 30 23:38:09 <Vorian>	pak33m, let's add recruiting for the next meeting
Aug 30 23:38:21 <pak33m>	Vorian: got it
Aug 30 23:38:33 <Vorian>	"recruiting leaders & fixing broken teams"
Aug 30 23:38:45 <etank>	Amem
Aug 30 23:38:47 <Vorian>	thanks
Aug 30 23:38:53 *	Vorian ducks
Aug 30 23:38:55 <atoponce>	so, because we're losing johnc4510, boredandblogging, joe_cot and others as mentors, what do we do with the assignments?
Aug 30 23:39:01 <Zelut>	Vorian: we need to put the focus back in teams "building resumes to show sabdfl!" :)
Aug 30 23:39:15 <nixternal>	OK, either I am dead arse blind, or the assignments are elsewhere
Aug 30 23:39:28 <Vorian>	old page
Aug 30 23:39:41 <Vorian>	the first day we talked about this project
Aug 30 23:39:42 <atoponce>	nixternal: trying to find them
Aug 30 23:39:53 <atoponce>	nixternal: i don't think it's been writting down anywhere official
Aug 30 23:39:57 <Zelut>	nixternal: what I was referring to were the team resources (although only two are listed as assigned)
Aug 30 23:39:58 <Vorian>	we discussed breaking the US into regions
Aug 30 23:40:15 <Vorian>	We could break mentoring assignment along those lines
Aug 30 23:40:15 *	johnc4510 i had MO, KS, NM
Aug 30 23:40:18 <Zelut>	nixternal: lp, irc, lists, wiki, forums--the naming standards section.
Aug 30 23:40:28 *	atoponce sees if he can recall it from memory
Aug 30 23:40:32 <atoponce>	Vorian: forums
Aug 30 23:40:35 <atoponce>	Zelut: mailing lists
Aug 30 23:40:37 <atoponce>	atoponce: irc
Aug 30 23:40:39 <atoponce>	etank: wiki
Aug 30 23:40:44 <atoponce>	johnc4510: marketing/uwn
Aug 30 23:40:51 <atoponce>	joe_cot: website
Aug 30 23:41:01 <boredandblogging>	boredandblogging: class clown
Aug 30 23:41:07 <atoponce>	heh
Aug 30 23:41:08 <nixternal>	hahaha
Aug 30 23:41:14 <atoponce>	pak33m: secretary
Aug 30 23:41:19 <atoponce>	...
Aug 30 23:41:25 <pak33m>	weee
Aug 30 23:41:25 <atoponce>	that's all i can recall from memory
Aug 30 23:41:26 <nixternal>	now you are just making stuff up
Aug 30 23:41:43 <atoponce>	no, if i were making stuff up, you'd be the mascot
Aug 30 23:41:52 *	atoponce ducks
Aug 30 23:41:57 <nixternal>	I am the mascot, just call me Konqi! :p
Aug 30 23:41:58 <etank>	atoponce: that seems right
Aug 30 23:42:11 <atoponce>	etank: there were a few more, iirc
Aug 30 23:42:17 <atoponce>	any ideas what they were?
Aug 30 23:42:25 *	Zelut imagines a giant childish dragon... that morphs into nixternal and back again.
Aug 30 23:42:27 <atoponce>	boredandblogging: did you get an assignment?
Aug 30 23:42:28 <boredandblogging>	think I was doing LP and sites as they came up
Aug 30 23:42:29 *	etank checking logs
Aug 30 23:42:33 <Vorian>	yes
Aug 30 23:42:34 <atoponce>	yeah. that's right
Aug 30 23:42:58 <atoponce>	we need to get this on the wiki, if it isn't there
Aug 30 23:43:12 <atoponce>	we can't rely on my sharp memory all the time. :)
Aug 30 23:43:53 <nixternal>	ahh, haven't been tot he forums in a while...I see a USAREUR/USAFE proposal...I like that idea
Aug 30 23:44:04 <pak33m>	where do we want it to go on the wiki?
Aug 30 23:44:31 <atoponce>	so, my question is this. some of those assignments are to non-mentors. do they continue in their course, or do we reassign?
Aug 30 23:44:45 <atoponce>	pak33m: anywhere under USTeams
Aug 30 23:45:04 <pak33m>	got it, i can get it there
Aug 30 23:45:17 <Zelut>	atoponce: continuing to help is fine, just not acting as official "mentors" I think.
Aug 30 23:45:31 <Zelut>	contributing to the project, but not "core devels" kind of thing..
Aug 30 23:45:46 <etank>	atoponce: your memory is good
Aug 30 23:45:49 <ausimage>	Motu of the Mentors ;)
Aug 30 23:45:53 <etank>	that was all of them
Aug 30 23:46:02 <Zelut>	mentors of the universe! w00t
Aug 30 23:46:17 <ausimage>	:D
Aug 30 23:46:19 <atoponce>	cool. i'm down with that
Aug 30 23:46:20 <atoponce>	:)
Aug 30 23:46:34 <nixternal>	oh lord, not another MOTU :)
Aug 30 23:46:35 *	Zelut pulls a chain hanging from the ceiling and the "w00t!" alarm goes off, following suddenly by disco lites.
Aug 30 23:46:48 <nixternal>	Mentors Of The US actually :)
Aug 30 23:47:05 <ausimage>	oh my
Aug 30 23:47:06 <atoponce>	nixternal: perfect
Aug 30 23:47:14 <atoponce>	for the United States of Ubuntu
Aug 30 23:47:27 >UncleSam<	say #ubuntu-us-mentors w00t! w00t! w00t! (sorry but Zelut pulled my w00t chain)
Aug 30 23:47:28 <UncleSam>	w00t! w00t! w00t! (sorry but Zelut pulled my w00t chain)
Aug 30 23:47:29 <atoponce>	ok. next topic
Aug 30 23:47:37 <atoponce>	and right on target...
Aug 30 23:47:43 *	atoponce has changed the topic to: UNCLE SAM
Aug 30 23:47:46 <Vorian>	k
Aug 30 23:47:46 <Zelut>	lol
Aug 30 23:47:48 <nixternal>	btw, I hate Uncle Sam!
Aug 30 23:48:01 <Vorian>	my UncleSam?
Aug 30 23:48:02 <nixternal>	that bastard takes way to much money from me
Aug 30 23:48:04 <Vorian>	ah
Aug 30 23:48:06 <Vorian>	:)
Aug 30 23:48:07 <atoponce>	i have one concern with the bot, and a lot of questions
Aug 30 23:48:18 <Vorian>	let me start of by spainin some things
Aug 30 23:48:22 <Vorian>	first off
Aug 30 23:48:23 <atoponce>	ok
Aug 30 23:48:42 <Vorian>	the rss has been turned off for over a week now (maybe 2)
Aug 30 23:48:57 <atoponce>	no problem
Aug 30 23:49:16 <Vorian>	the only channels UncleSam hangs out in are ones he's been invited to
Aug 30 23:49:20 <atoponce>	which was my concern: the bot speaking when not spoken to
Aug 30 23:49:31 <atoponce>	ok. perfect
Aug 30 23:49:42 <Vorian>	the "jokes"
Aug 30 23:49:50 <Zelut>	at the last meeting the topic of his jokes, etc was brought up too
Aug 30 23:49:53 <Vorian>	are a plugin from ubotu
Aug 30 23:50:04 <Vorian>	they are set on a CoC level
Aug 30 23:50:13 <Vorian>	as determined by Seveas
Aug 30 23:50:26 <pak33m>	we agreed in the us teams meet against jokes
Aug 30 23:50:27 <nixternal>	heh, Seveas shouldn't determine anything CoC :p
Aug 30 23:50:38 <Vorian>	there is an offensive setting that has been turned off completely
Aug 30 23:50:39 <Zelut>	his morning I saw UnceSam say "Jack Bauer doesn't use condoms for birth control. he uses guns!"
Aug 30 23:50:40 <pak33m>	or it was agreed anyway
Aug 30 23:50:53 <atoponce>	i don't mind the bot, but i want us to decide if it's going to be a toy bot, or tool bot
Aug 30 23:51:06 <nixternal>	tool bot
Aug 30 23:51:07 <Zelut>	I don't think that is terribly appropriate.. or could be considered innappropriate
Aug 30 23:51:11 <nixternal>	ubotu has the toys covered
Aug 30 23:51:11 <Vorian>	My goals for UncleSam were two fold
Aug 30 23:51:12 <Zelut>	tool bot
Aug 30 23:51:25 <Vorian>	one is provide LoCo specific info
Aug 30 23:51:37 <Vorian>	and other Community type factoids
Aug 30 23:51:55 <atoponce>	both are perfect. right inline with the project, i think
Aug 30 23:51:57 <Vorian>	the other is logging and stats on http://unclesam.ubuntu-us.org
Aug 30 23:52:13 <atoponce>	so far, all tools
Aug 30 23:52:32 <Vorian>	the "joke" plugin can be channel specific
Aug 30 23:52:50 <Vorian>	but if it needs to be turned off completely, that's fine with me.
Aug 30 23:53:01 <Zelut>	i don't know that the joke plugin is needed really.
Aug 30 23:53:08 <Zelut>	i'd just hate to see someone get offended and leave.
Aug 30 23:53:18 <atoponce>	i think we should turn off the 'fun stuff' completely, and make it 'professional', like stuffing it to the brim with factoids, and community help, and what not
Aug 30 23:53:21 <Zelut>	we've had a bit of offended-and-leaving happen recently on our team so I'm very sensitive to it.
Aug 30 23:53:25 <Vorian>	done
Aug 30 23:53:36 <pak33m>	Vorian: in the last us teams meet some people wee asking what they could use UncleSam for in their channel or just in general and it was tabled
Aug 30 23:54:01 <Vorian>	UncleSam, tell pak33m about UncleSam 
Aug 30 23:54:12 <Vorian>	or
Aug 30 23:54:18 <Vorian>	UncleSam, tell pak33m UncleSam 
Aug 30 23:54:20 <Vorian>	:)
Aug 30 23:54:23 <atoponce>	it should definitely be going to other team state channels, if the channel wants it. i'm glad to see that it's already being done, actually
Aug 30 23:54:30 <nixternal>	I don't think Chicago members can be offended...we actually had a guy cracking gay jokes..and I confronted him about saying people will get offended with those type of jokes...only to find out, he is a) gay, and b) one of the top comedians at Second City
Aug 30 23:54:36 <nixternal>	everyone knew this but me
Aug 30 23:54:47 <atoponce>	heh
Aug 30 23:54:49 <Vorian>	:)
Aug 30 23:54:53 <pak33m>	should we send something out on he s teams mailing list (or did i miss it) about using unclesam?
Aug 30 23:55:03 <nixternal>	he is good..I went and seen one of his shows a couple of weeks ago
Aug 30 23:55:12 <Vorian>	$UncleSam 
Aug 30 23:55:13 <Zelut>	more people need to be on the -us list by the way
Aug 30 23:55:14 <UncleSam>	"UncleSam" : I am Uncle Sam, The US Teams' LoCo Bot. If you would like to utilize my services, please /msg Vorian. Find out more at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/UncleSam
Aug 30 23:55:39 <atoponce>	pak33m: we should hit up the mailing list about him, and what services he provides
Aug 30 23:55:57 <atoponce>	i think the bot can be great for this project. i'm glad Vorian thought of him, and i love the name
Aug 30 23:56:17 <Vorian>	as you've seen on some recent blog posts of mine, I had a bit of a problem with a recent server purchase.
Aug 30 23:56:36 <pak33m>	can we agree here to what teams can and cant use unclesam for
Aug 30 23:56:42 <Vorian>	so, as soon as I get that sorted, The website should be up and running
Aug 30 23:56:47 <etank>	i would love to see a all in one bot
Aug 30 23:56:57 <etank>	we have like 4 in our channel
Aug 30 23:57:06 <atoponce>	pak33m: i think the bot should be for official business only. if they want a toy bot, they can get another
Aug 30 23:57:06 <etank>	i would like to get it down to 1
Aug 30 23:57:12 <Vorian>	RSS can be channel specific
Aug 30 23:57:21 <atoponce>	as UncleSam does rely our image as as project across the nation
Aug 30 23:57:27 <ausimage>	Vorian: I think I could help get Mootbot style plugin for Sam ;)
Aug 30 23:57:27 <Vorian>	actually, any plugin can be channel specific.
Aug 30 23:57:28 <atoponce>	s/rely/relay/
Aug 30 23:57:38 <atoponce>	yeah
Aug 30 23:57:53 *	atoponce is running a supybot in the utah channel, and it's easy to setup/maintain
Aug 30 23:57:58 <Vorian>	atoponce, like auntjemima?
Aug 30 23:58:00 <pak33m>	atoponce: i can get an email out for that  - about unclesam
Aug 30 23:58:09 <atoponce>	pak33m: cool
Aug 30 23:58:12 <atoponce>	Vorian: ?
Aug 30 23:58:40 <pak33m>	Vorian: should i wait until there is some more info on he wiki or put out generic info?
Aug 30 23:58:52 <pak33m>	...about unclesam that is
Aug 30 23:59:01 <atoponce>	pak33m: get with Vorian about what is enabled, what he can do, etc, then send it out
Aug 30 23:59:06 <Vorian>	pak33m, people can contact me about the bot
Aug 30 23:59:15 *	ChanServ gives channel operator status to Vorian
Aug 30 23:59:15 *	You've invited AuntJemima to #ubuntu-us-mentors (calvino.freenode.net)
Aug 30 23:59:16 *	ChanServ removes channel operator status from Vorian
Aug 30 23:59:25 <pak33m>	ok
Aug 30 23:59:26 <atoponce>	ok. if no problems, moving on
Aug 30 23:59:39 <pak33m>	lets
Aug 30 23:59:42 *	AuntJemima (n=Jemima@unaffiliated/vorian/bot/auntjemima) has joined #ubuntu-us-mentors
Aug 30 23:59:54 <etank>	oh my
Aug 30 23:59:55 *	atoponce has changed the topic to: TERRITORIES: AS, PM, MH, UG, MP, PW, PR, VI
Aug 30 23:59:57 <nixternal>	bug 123456
Aug 30 23:59:58 *	AuntJemima has quit (Remote closed the connection)
Aug 31 00:00:00 <etank>	a mate for UncleSam
Aug 31 00:00:05 <nixternal>	heh
Aug 31 00:00:08 <Vorian>	just kidding
Aug 31 00:00:23 <Vorian>	ok folks
Aug 31 00:00:27 <Vorian>	I have to hit the hay
Aug 31 00:00:36 <ausimage>	night Vorian
Aug 31 00:00:40 <atoponce>	Vorian: np. thx for your input
Aug 31 00:00:41 <pak33m>	Vorian: so patriotic
Aug 31 00:00:43 <Vorian>	up in 4.5 hours
Aug 31 00:00:45 <nixternal>	g'nite Vorian
Aug 31 00:00:48 <pak33m>	night ausimage
Aug 31 00:00:50 <Vorian>	:)
Aug 31 00:00:55 <Vorian>	night 
Aug 31 00:01:07 *	ausimage still hanging in here :)
Aug 31 00:01:12 *	atoponce tried getting this done in under an hour
Aug 31 00:01:14 <pak33m>	ausimage: sorry
Aug 31 00:01:17 <atoponce>	:)
Aug 31 00:01:33 <pak33m>	ok, ausimage and everybody i got this
Aug 31 00:01:35 <pak33m>	AS American Samonan
Aug 31 00:01:36 <pak33m>	PM or FM Federated States of Micronesia
Aug 31 00:01:36 <pak33m>	MH Marshall Islands
Aug 31 00:01:36 <pak33m>	GU Guam
Aug 31 00:01:36 <pak33m>	MP Northern Mariana Islands
Aug 31 00:01:36 <pak33m>	PW Palau
Aug 31 00:01:38 <pak33m>	VI Virgin Islands
Aug 31 00:01:59 <atoponce>	i think as far as helping teams in the territories, we should definitely provide that help
Aug 31 00:02:09 <pak33m>	+1
Aug 31 00:02:10 <atoponce>	however, i would prefer to see a presence there, rather than seeking it out
Aug 31 00:02:14 <Zelut>	I think we should help if/when approached
Aug 31 00:02:15 *	UncleSam_ (n=USbot@unaffiliated/vorian/bot/unclesam) has joined #ubuntu-us-mentors
Aug 31 00:02:22 <etank>	+1
Aug 31 00:02:33 <Zelut>	I  don't want to come across as us teams pushing our project on other areas of the world.
Aug 31 00:02:36 <atoponce>	but, we should help anyone and everyone that needs the help
Aug 31 00:02:37 <pak33m>	atoponce: i was wondering how we go about doing that
Aug 31 00:02:40 <ausimage>	the places should go on the wiki page then ??
Aug 31 00:02:47 *	UncleSam has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
Aug 31 00:02:50 <nixternal>	I have a couple of Guam connections...I need to find out what they are doing down there
Aug 31 00:02:52 <pak33m>	ausimage: for sure
Aug 31 00:03:04 <atoponce>	ausimage: only if we get responses from those areas, i think
Aug 31 00:03:11 <nixternal>	how come Puerto Rico isn't on your list there
Aug 31 00:03:13 <Zelut>	I think we need to focus on the us states before we start stretching out to these.
Aug 31 00:03:15 <atoponce>	has there been anything from the territories?
Aug 31 00:03:26 <nixternal>	hurricanes, that's about it I think
Aug 31 00:03:34 <Zelut>	if PR or others approach us for help we can offer advice, but I'd prefer not to include them in the main project body.
Aug 31 00:03:44 <pak33m>	we could put them on the startup listhttps://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/TeamList
Aug 31 00:03:55 *	atoponce has changed the topic to: TERRITORIES: AS, PM, MH, UG, MP, PW, PR <--nixternal, VI
Aug 31 00:04:01 <atoponce>	:)
Aug 31 00:04:03 <Zelut>	pak33m: -1 from me
Aug 31 00:04:05 <pak33m>	nixternal: i forgot to add PR
Aug 31 00:04:06 <nixternal>	well I didn't see it listed above
Aug 31 00:04:18 <nixternal>	OK, sorry, we can blame it on pak33m :)
Aug 31 00:04:23 <pak33m>	yep
Aug 31 00:04:30 <atoponce>	$blame pak33m
Aug 31 00:04:58 <atoponce>	pak33m: i think only the 50 recognized states should be listed, and our focus
Aug 31 00:04:59 <pak33m>	not only am i a secratary but also a mentor punching bag
Aug 31 00:05:07 <nixternal>	haha
Aug 31 00:05:12 <pak33m>	atoponce: got it
Aug 31 00:05:36 <Zelut>	any of those territories should be treated like any other country (france, canada, mexico, etc).
Aug 31 00:05:37 <atoponce>	if someone comes from the territories seeking help, then by all means let's give it to them, otherwise, we only have 6 states left
Aug 31 00:05:39 <ausimage>	atoponce: but we will not turn them down if asked?
Aug 31 00:05:58 <Zelut>	if they approach us for ideas we help. otherwise, we let those countries be independent and build teams tehir way.
Aug 31 00:06:00 <atoponce>	ausimage: nope. not at all. we wouldn't turn down france or germany either
Aug 31 00:06:11 <ausimage>	cool
Aug 31 00:06:50 <pak33m>	ok, we can all agree to help if needed and we wont list them on the teams list
Aug 31 00:06:57 <etank>	we have had at least one area ask for ideas on how to set up a project like this in their country
Aug 31 00:06:59 <atoponce>	yup
Aug 31 00:07:02 <Zelut>	+1
Aug 31 00:07:22 <Zelut>	etank: I spoke with Canada at OSCON about what we've done as well.
Aug 31 00:07:42 <boredandblogging>	blaaaaaaame canada!!
Aug 31 00:07:45 <etank>	i think that this was Germany that was talking in #ubuntu-us a few days ago
Aug 31 00:07:47 <boredandblogging>	oops, sorry.
Aug 31 00:07:51 *	atoponce has changed the topic to: FINAL THOUGHTS, CONCERNS, IDEAS, QUESTIONS, COMMENTS, RUDE REMARKS
Aug 31 00:07:53 <pak33m>	boredandblogging: no, blame pak33m
Aug 31 00:08:02 <ausimage>	:S
Aug 31 00:08:11 <Zelut>	atoponce: you're just opening yourself up with the rude remarks stuff there :)
Aug 31 00:08:17 <nixternal>	oh ya he is
Aug 31 00:08:22 <nixternal>	I am working on some as we idle
Aug 31 00:08:24 <nixternal>	:)
Aug 31 00:08:27 <atoponce>	Zelut: i have to add it. i don't want nixternal to feel left out
Aug 31 00:08:28 <etank>	but they have to be pointed at pak33m
Aug 31 00:08:32 <atoponce>	see?
Aug 31 00:08:33 <atoponce>	:)
Aug 31 00:08:40 <nixternal>	nope, drawing a blank
Aug 31 00:08:45 <boredandblogging>	nixternal: you gonna help get Georgia approved? Jono already poo-pooed us
Aug 31 00:08:46 <atoponce>	hah
Aug 31 00:08:47 <Zelut>	./configure --rude-remarks
Aug 31 00:09:12 <atoponce>	ausimage: did you want to discuss the liability/tax exempt stuff?
Aug 31 00:09:18 <Zelut>	the infamous jono poo-poo
Aug 31 00:09:22 <nixternal>	CONCERN: A lot of teams have joined up with the previous blog posts, is the progress of these teams being monitored? I haven't heard anything else about these new teams
Aug 31 00:09:52 <atoponce>	nixternal: yes. we have Vorian, Zelut and johnc4510 iirc, in every state channel
Aug 31 00:09:59 <atoponce>	and many are still in -us
Aug 31 00:10:04 <ausimage>	Yeah I am willing to discuss it... but please none of this find another way stuff :S
Aug 31 00:10:15 <Zelut>	nixternal: 57 channels and counting. irssi ftw!
Aug 31 00:10:23 *	nixternal rewords "find another way" :p
Aug 31 00:10:41 <nixternal>	heh, I have that many channels and then some, so there is no way I am joining all of those other channels
Aug 31 00:10:49 <atoponce>	ausimage: well, this project will not be seeking 501c3 status or anything of the like
Aug 31 00:10:51 <Zelut>	ausimage: every established team in here has given you the same answer.  I understand its not the answer you want to hear, but its always been the same answer.
Aug 31 00:11:04 *	atoponce is hovering around 25
Aug 31 00:11:08 <etank>	CONCERN: Jump starting a dead / dying team. ie South Carolina
Aug 31 00:11:21 <ausimage>	Zelut: I disgree I HAVE had queries about it
Aug 31 00:11:46 <nixternal>	etank: we need to locate someone down there who is interested in jump starting it...there is a lot of opportunity around the larger cities in SC for sure
Aug 31 00:11:52 <Zelut>	the us teams project does not intend to pursue tax exempt status on behalf of other teams.  if teams want/need to do that it is their responsibility.
Aug 31 00:12:01 <etank>	nixternal: i agree
Aug 31 00:12:24 <etank>	nixternal: but how do we go about helping with a leadership change without stepping on someones toes
Aug 31 00:12:24 <ausimage>	If that is the choice here, then I will try other avenues
Aug 31 00:12:27 <nixternal>	I have a lot of friends around Jackson, but I think most of them are in Iraq right now
Aug 31 00:12:40 <Zelut>	teams have and are more than able to function without funding and without liability coverage.
Aug 31 00:12:43 <nixternal>	speaking of which, there is a good chance I will be heading to Iraq next month for a 4 month training venture
Aug 31 00:13:18 <ausimage>	Zelut: the only way that is accomplished is through your cosponsors carrying the team
Aug 31 00:13:32 *	pak33m has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
Aug 31 00:13:35 <nixternal>	etank: there is a clause in the CoC about stepping down correctly...if the person doesn't want to step down, we use the CC to force the *needed* change
Aug 31 00:13:46 *	pak33m (n=pak33m@70.119.159.21) has joined #ubuntu-us-mentors
Aug 31 00:14:01 <etank>	nixternal: the problem is that this person is nowhere to be found
Aug 31 00:14:01 <Zelut>	ausimage: again. every approved team here has given you the answer that they are able to function without either.  if NY is not able to you may be going in the wrong direction.
Aug 31 00:14:11 <etank>	i emailed him and got no response
Aug 31 00:14:15 <atoponce>	etank: then pull it. sometimes you have to
Aug 31 00:14:19 <nixternal>	etank: then count him as "gone"
Aug 31 00:14:19 <ausimage>	Zelut: I am sorry YOU ARE WRONG
Aug 31 00:14:28 <etank>	i dont think that he has been online for about 6 weeks or more
Aug 31 00:14:35 <ausimage>	I have had positives from some :S
Aug 31 00:14:38 <atoponce>	take other avenues to get the admin rights as needed
Aug 31 00:14:45 <Zelut>	ahem
Aug 31 00:15:05 <Zelut>	all approved teams that have tax exempt and liability insurance raise a vote
Aug 31 00:15:21 <nixternal>	ausimage: can you please explain your liability concerns so I can possibly understand a little further
Aug 31 00:15:21 <ausimage>	they may still be interested ;)
Aug 31 00:15:28 <Zelut>	... anyone?
Aug 31 00:15:46 <nixternal>	you know how much liability insurance would cost if there was such a thing?
Aug 31 00:15:55 <Zelut>	is there *any* approved team in the US--anyone in this room--that has not been able to function and become approved without tax exempt status?
Aug 31 00:16:00 <nixternal>	I have limited-liability on my pick-up :)
Aug 31 00:16:09 <ausimage>	AZ lost a donation
Aug 31 00:16:26 <nixternal>	what kind of donation and why?
Aug 31 00:16:27 <ausimage>	and this poo poo that well you did not need it any is BS
Aug 31 00:16:28 <Zelut>	ausimage: I didn't ask if they lost a donation.  I asked if they have not been able to function.
Aug 31 00:16:33 *	pak33m interweb connection is back
Aug 31 00:16:33 <pak33m>	what did i miss there?
Aug 31 00:16:44 *	Zelut is still waiting for anyone with approved team experience to back up ausimage's concern.
Aug 31 00:17:05 <ausimage>	Zelut wait till you get bit then
Aug 31 00:17:13 <nixternal>	ausimage: how can we get bit?
Aug 31 00:17:24 <nixternal>	I am trying to figure out this whole liability definition here
Aug 31 00:17:32 <Zelut>	ausimage: at this point I want you to publically drop the topic.
Aug 31 00:17:40 <Zelut>	ausimage: discuss it in NY, but leave it there.
Aug 31 00:17:52 <nixternal>	hold on Zelut, I want to listen a little closer actually on the issue of liability
Aug 31 00:17:57 <ausimage>	Zelut I will not drop my concerns
Aug 31 00:18:17 <Zelut>	ausimage: don't drop your concerns but stop instigating issues
Aug 31 00:18:23 <ausimage>	I CANNOT drop my concern without them being adequately addressed
Aug 31 00:18:30 <ausimage>	I am not instigating
Aug 31 00:19:07 <Zelut>	ausimage: every approved team has given you the same answer. we've listened to your concern. its been addressed to death.
Aug 31 00:19:11 <ausimage>	nixternal: pm if you want me to explain
Aug 31 00:19:39 <nixternal>	ausimage: I would rather it be out in the open so I can also voice opinion on the matter and so everyone can kind of know actually
Aug 31 00:19:41 <ausimage>	Zelut: BS... you have not been privy to all my conversations and cannot say that
Aug 31 00:20:03 <nixternal>	liability is a serious issue no doubt, but laws and stipulations can help you avoid such issues
Aug 31 00:20:07 <Zelut>	you're afraid your team/yourself is going to be sued. you want someone to protect you.
Aug 31 00:20:40 <Zelut>	if you need protection it is your concern and the concern, based on the democratic vote, of your team
Aug 31 00:20:51 <nixternal>	Zelut: I think Microsoft and Google want that right now too :)
Aug 31 00:21:11 <etank>	would each state have different rules about such things anyway?
Aug 31 00:21:22 <atoponce>	etank: most likely
Aug 31 00:21:34 <Zelut>	legal, tax and liability concerns are those of each state.
Aug 31 00:21:37 <etank>	so there would be no way to do this on a national level
Aug 31 00:21:47 <Zelut>	the us teams project or its mentors will not offer advice or guidance on such things.
Aug 31 00:21:55 <ausimage>	etank: there are national coorporations
Aug 31 00:21:55 <etank>	each state would still be responsible for its own stuff
Aug 31 00:21:57 <Zelut>	...we wouldn't want to be held liable ;)
Aug 31 00:22:06 <atoponce>	etank: even if there were, the us teams project is not persuing it
Aug 31 00:22:36 <ausimage>	I understand the US teams wants nothing of it... but my concerns are still there...
Aug 31 00:22:39 <etank>	i think that if it were that big of a concern then Canonical would be recommending it to the teams
Aug 31 00:22:51 <atoponce>	if a state team, such as NY or AZ wishes for funding or coverage, then canonical would be the best avenue for that help
Aug 31 00:23:02 <etank>	LUGs have been around for years without this concern
Aug 31 00:23:03 <Zelut>	ausimage: and it is your concern to deal with. we don't need to be involved.
Aug 31 00:23:24 <etank>	most just make you sign a waiver before they touch your machine
Aug 31 00:23:36 <Zelut>	if you have run into it, which I believe you have, then deal with it as best you can.
Aug 31 00:23:41 <nixternal>	ausimage: with the liability concern, you can have people sign a waiver, just like you do when you go sky diving...that will release you of any liability by law
Aug 31 00:23:56 <ausimage>	What needs to be resolved cannot be resolved in this environment....
Aug 31 00:23:57 <Zelut>	I *don't* want new teams thinking they *have* to got those things settled before they can do anything else.
Aug 31 00:24:22 <etank>	what environment can it be solved in then?
Aug 31 00:24:33 <nixternal>	the tax thing kind of sucks because it caught up the AZ team..I don't know a way around the tax exemption 100% at this time, but it is something I can get the answer too within a day or so
Aug 31 00:24:43 <ausimage>	I am not sure there is such hostility in here with even the mention of it
Aug 31 00:25:15 <nixternal>	actually, I think a "waiver of liability" might not be a bad thing truthfully for events
Aug 31 00:25:20 <Zelut>	ausimage: I apologize if I come across as hostile.  I've tried to be very potient.
Aug 31 00:25:26 <Zelut>	*patient
Aug 31 00:25:29 <nixternal>	impotent?
Aug 31 00:25:46 <Zelut>	ausimage: I understand you've run into this issue in NY.  I don't doubt what youv'e told me.
Aug 31 00:25:56 <ausimage>	I understand... but you seem to outright ignore the remote possibilities....
Aug 31 00:26:03 <Zelut>	ausimage: I'm only trying to tell you that the rest of us have not had those problems so we have no advice for you.
Aug 31 00:26:20 *	nixternal must be on ignore...walking away calmly
Aug 31 00:26:34 <Zelut>	ausimage: we have no advice for you and, as a group, are not interested in putting together a blanket coverage ..thing.
Aug 31 00:26:34 <etank>	nixternal: http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Installfest-HOWTO/legalprotection.html
Aug 31 00:26:36 <atoponce>	$impotent nixternal
Aug 31 00:26:57 <ausimage>	Alright I will work on this myself then ....
Aug 31 00:27:09 <Zelut>	ausimage: for team-based issues we're more than happy to help--those are things we know how to do
Aug 31 00:27:09 <ausimage>	with my teams blessing of course
Aug 31 00:27:24 <Zelut>	ausimage: but we've never dealt with it before.  we *can't* help you
Aug 31 00:27:25 <ausimage>	understandable...
Aug 31 00:27:29 <nixternal>	etank: funny you should link that...I was the one of the original documentors on that
Aug 31 00:27:49 <ausimage>	My wife is calling so I need to see what she want...
Aug 31 00:27:50 <etank>	nixternal: that is what we have used in the past for our team :)
Aug 31 00:28:02 <Zelut>	ausimage: if NY needs it your team may be the pioneers and build the structure for it.  teach something to the rest of us
Aug 31 00:28:16 <ausimage>	I plan to ;)
Aug 31 00:28:20 <nixternal>	we use to use it, but the GPL covers you from that...remember there is a warranty and liability clause in it :)
Aug 31 00:28:51 <etank>	how do you use the GPL for an install fest
Aug 31 00:28:54 <Zelut>	ausimage: if we had advice to offer I'm sure we would do so, but we don't. NY may be the first of many.
Aug 31 00:28:54 <nixternal>	I think the liability that ausimage is concerned with is what if someone gets hurt at an event
Aug 31 00:29:19 <etank>	tell them to wear non-slip shoes and a back brace
Aug 31 00:29:22 <nixternal>	hahaha
Aug 31 00:29:45 <Zelut>	ausimage: however, I would appreciate if you didn't advertise the issue.  It almost comes across as FUD--it could scare people off.
Aug 31 00:30:02 <nixternal>	actually, I will contact chris from maker faire and see how they go about it...I know when we do maker, the liability in that place is insane..shoot people have flame throwing robots in there
Aug 31 00:30:48 <atoponce>	nixternal: ahh. is that why you are so crass? :)
Aug 31 00:30:50 <pak33m>	there may very well be concerns with ausimage's state compared to others because i have done work in ny/nj and with unions and the like it can be a real struggle
Aug 31 00:30:57 <nixternal>	you know it
Aug 31 00:31:31 <Zelut>	ausimage: again, my apologies if iI've come across as a hard-ass.  I hope I haven't been *too* offensive.
Aug 31 00:31:31 <nixternal>	pak33m: you want to see unions, by law we can even run cat5 or even hook up our own computers..ie. you can't even plug into a wall socket legally in chicago w/o the union getting involved
Aug 31 00:31:32 <pak33m>	but yeah his state should take a close look into it so he doesnt really get in any trouble
Aug 31 00:31:38 <atoponce>	aside from ausimage's concern about liability and tax exemption, is there anything else that needs adressing?
Aug 31 00:32:06 <pak33m>	nixternal: ive delt with unions and the like there too , yikes
Aug 31 00:32:22 *	atoponce has changed the topic to: Next Meeting: TBD
Aug 31 00:32:23 <nixternal>	the tax exemption will be a pita obviously, but seeing as AZ got shot down for such a clause, it might be interesting to pursue
Aug 31 00:32:29 *	ChanServ removes channel operator status from atoponce
Aug 31 00:33:01 <Zelut>	ausimage: I appreciate what you have done in NY, and you've been a good addition here.  Perhaps my methods of addressing your concern were off and that is my fault.
Aug 31 00:33:13 <etank>	nixternal: it is possible that the group that was "wanting" to donate to AZ was looking for a reason out of doing it too
Aug 31 00:33:32 <johnc4510>	etank: nope
Aug 31 00:33:44 <etank>	guess not :)
Aug 31 00:33:45 <nixternal>	OK, but I can tell you this...nobody in the US has the power/right to create a NFP (non-profit) with Ubuntu in the name, LLC would be way to much overhead as I am sure you don't want to have to pay an accountaint to do your quarterly ERs
Aug 31 00:33:50 <johnc4510>	it was a clear donation of $500
Aug 31 00:34:11 <nixternal>	you know, for donations, maybe check with Free Geek and see how they go about it
Aug 31 00:34:20 <nixternal>	they might be an NFP though
Aug 31 00:34:30 <etank>	i think that Free Geek is
Aug 31 00:34:39 <etank>	we are wanting to start one here in KY
Aug 31 00:34:52 <etank>	but as something seperate but associated with the LoCo
Aug 31 00:35:06 <nixternal>	ya, Ubuntu Chicago is tied in with Free Geek here, and the funny thing is, I think Ubuntu Chicago donates more than we receive
Aug 31 00:35:25 <Zelut>	looks like we've moved more into discussion than meeting at this point.
Aug 31 00:35:32 <nixternal>	ya
Aug 31 00:35:34 <Zelut>	is there anything else we need to cover?
Aug 31 00:35:38 <etank>	guys its been fun}}}
