{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
12:09 <+   pak33m> everybody can go here for the semi-agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/IRC
12:09              >>> heathen!n=heathen@unaffiliated/heathen
12:09 <   heathen> morning
12:09 <+   pak33m> 1st topic - UncleSam
12:10 <+   pak33m> Vorian or anybody else want to explain UncleSam a bit
12:10                  ChanServ sets +o Zelut
12:10 <   leftyfb> is Vorian here?
12:10 >>> topic changed by Zelut: ** FIRST TOPIC OF DISCUSSION - UNCLESAM BOT **
12:10 < spr0k3t|M> I'll give it a swing if need be.
12:10 <@    Zelut> pak33m: I'll be updating the topic to represent the agenda and then revert it when we're finished.
12:11 <+   pak33m> Zelut: cool
12:11 <+   pak33m> spr0k3t|MO: go
12:11 < spr0k3t|M> I'm not 1oo% familiar with sam, but the idea of this account is to be used as a channel bot in all of the USTeams locos across the states
12:11 < spr0k3t|M> The project is listed on LP at https://launchpad.net/unclesam
12:12 <@    Zelut> My feelings on the bot.  I appreciate Vorian's efforts to make a useful bot for the teams to use.  I do have a few reservations though.
12:12 < spr0k3t|M> Comprized of supybot for those who know it.
12:12 <@    Zelut> 1) a bot should speak when spoken to.  I don't like random posted feeds, etc.
12:12 <  doctormo> Zelut: +1
12:12 <@    Zelut> 2) i feel unclesam should only go into state channels where that team, as a whole, has voted to accept the bot.
12:13 < spr0k3t|M> agreed... I think such a bot needs to be given the option of posting a feed.
12:13 <@    Zelut> 3) the development, code, and features should be transparent and open. code requests should be granted and features should be discussed as a group as well.
12:14 <+    etank> has the bot ended up in channels where it was not requested?
12:14 <@    Zelut> for example, I saw the other day where some channel (can't remember) was discussing Chuck Norris quotes with the bot.  I've seen some of those and they could be considered offensive by some.
12:14 < spr0k3t|M> point 2: information on the bot should be open so new locos can find the existance of the bot.
12:14 <+   pak33m> Zelut: culd UncleSam do anything like the bots do for the scribes team https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam
12:14 <@    Zelut> now, features such as those should be channel limited or voted on as a whole in compliance with the CoC (if needed)
12:14 <  DirtyRed> via Sparks0548: maybe the bot can be used for posted feeds between the State/Region Leaders for posts.  Collaboration at that level and disseminate to the team
12:15 < ZeroXR|TX> Zelut, agreed about leaving off jokes and humor, because some may take offense
12:15 <@    Zelut> DirtyRed: well we have a mailing list and planet.ubuntu-us.com for things like that..
12:16 <+   pak33m> i think we can all agree to leave the j/k off unclesam?
12:16 < spr0k3t|M> aren't the jokes left up to ubotu anyway?  perhaps an adendum to ubotu for jokes if needed.
12:16 <   leftyfb> I think the autoposting of feeds should be configurable. Let the team decide if they want it auto or manual. I for one like the posts. Keeps me up to date.
12:16 < spr0k3t|M> leftyfb: +1
12:16 < ZeroXR|TX> pak33m: +1
12:16 <    jedijf> leftyfb, +1
12:16 <@    Zelut> well the question is, is a feature like that configurable by channel?
12:16 <+    etank> leftyfb: +1
12:16 < Palintheu> leftyfb: +1, but would also like links to the posts
12:17 <   leftyfb> +1 Palintheus|OK
12:17 < spr0k3t|M> Palintheus|OK: +1
12:17 <+   pak33m> Zelut: which feature
12:17 <+johnc4510> i don't think the bot will be configurable by channel  not sure
12:17 <+johnc4510> however you can mute the bot
12:17 <@    Zelut> I think we'll need to talk to Vorian about the flexibility of the features
12:18 <@    Zelut> are we in agreement about removing the jokes?
12:18 <+   pak33m> Zelut: ok, well table that one
12:18 <    jedijf> how about uncle sam as a template for individual state bots configured as wanted by the ind team?
12:18 < spr0k3t|M> supybot can be made configurable by channel last I remember.
12:18 < spr0k3t|M> Zelut: +1
12:18 <+   pak33m> Zelut: 10/4 on the jokes
12:18              >>> Sparks0548!n=philmmor@216.40.87.46
12:18 <@    Zelut> pak33m: man you are good :)
12:18 < Sparks054> I finally made it in
12:18 < greg-g|MI> +1 (sorry, giving g/f directions)
12:18 <   leftyfb> +1 on removing jokes
12:18 < Palintheu> +1 regarding jokes
12:19 <  CTech|MO> +1 on jokes
12:19 <+   pak33m> the jokes thing i believe would fall under the COC anyway
12:19 <@    Zelut> if the bot can be configured per-channel feeds and features should be decided on a per-channel basis?
12:19 <@    Zelut> +1 (aligned with the CoC, of course)
12:19 <+johnc4510> if it can sure
12:19 < ZeroXR|TX> +1 Zelut
12:19 <+    etank> +1
12:20 <    jedijf> Zelut, +1 individually configurable
12:20 <   leftyfb> +1 Zelut
12:20 <+   pak33m> agreed is removing the jokes from UncleSam
12:20 < spr0k3t|M> Zelut: +1
12:20 <+   pak33m> the individual config shold be asked of Vorian and will be tabled
12:20 <@    Zelut> if the bot can not be configured per channel we'll bring up the features for a vote at the next meeting?
12:21 < greg-g|MI> I assume so yes
12:21 <+johnc4510> +1
12:21 < ZeroXR|TX> +1
12:21 <+   pak33m> Zelut: nice, should we move on?
12:21 <@    Zelut> I think so
12:21 <+johnc4510> yep
12:21 <+   pak33m> 2nd topic - #ubuntu-us channel standards
12:21 >>> topic changed by Zelut: ** SECOND TOPIC OF DISCUSSION - UBUNTU-US CHANNEL STANDARDS **
12:22 <    JJNova> DONE!
12:22 < Sparks054> If I may interject real quick will this discussion be logged on the Wiki.  I'm still in Iraq and only have 9 minutes left
12:23 <@    Zelut> Sparks0548: yes. minutes will be posted (logs)
12:23 <+   pak33m> Sparks0548: certainly go ahead
12:23 <+   pak33m> since he is in Iraq that is
12:23 < Sparks054> Excellent, I'd like to stay up to speed
12:24 <+   pak33m> cool i can help you out myself Sparks
12:24 <@    Zelut> ok
12:24 <+   pak33m> les talk about channel standards?
12:24 <+johnc4510> yep
12:24              >>> The_Kernel!n=thomas@67-150-244-85.oak.mdsg-pacwest.com
12:24 <+    etank> what kind of standards are we talking about
12:25              <   Sparks0548!n=philmmor@216.40.87.46 []
12:25 <+   pak33m> firstly, i wanted to mention that we fall under the COC even here in irc
12:25 <@    Zelut> http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct
12:25 <@    Zelut> if anyone has not read that, please take some time to do so.
12:25 <@    Zelut> it is also suggested to sign via GPG key
12:25              johnc4510 COC should be something we live by everyday
12:25 <@    Zelut> if needed i can write a tutorial on how to do that.
12:26 < spr0k3t|M> Zelut: I think there is one on the wiki already.
12:26 <+johnc4510> Zelut: that's a good idea     current ones are outdated
12:26              <   axxium!n=michael@ip70-189-42-99.lf.br.cox.net ["Leaving"]
12:26 <    jedijf> i think that at least all team leader should sign coc with gpg key (ubuntero status)
12:26 <    jedijf> and move their memberships to do so also
12:26              >>> axxium!n=michael@ip70-189-42-99.lf.br.cox.net
12:27 < greg-g|MI> I think to be a team leader you have to no?
12:27 <+  Joe_CoT> anyway, channel standards ...
12:27 < spr0k3t|M> +1, in addendum, I think any officers of the locos need to sign asw ell.
12:27              <   axxium!n=michael@ip70-189-42-99.lf.br.cox.net [Remote closed the connection]
12:27 <+   pak33m> the COC applies to alot of things that happen that arent spcifically mentioned directly
12:27 < spr0k3t|M> *ell/well
12:27 <+    etank> spr0k3t|MO: i agree
12:28 <+   pak33m> human-like conduct
12:28 <    jedijf> spr0k3t|MO, +1
12:29 < greg-g|MI> was there something specific we needed to talk about, or was this just a reminder of the COC?
12:29              johnc4510 ok, i have one item on channel standards please
12:29 <+johnc4510> i have noticed in some channels members are op'd all the time
12:29 <+johnc4510> i don't think this is a good practice
12:29 <+johnc4510> for meetings maybe
12:29 <+johnc4510> but not all the time
12:30 < spr0k3t|M> +1 johnc4510, leads to script kiddies
12:30              spr0k3t|MO speaks from experience
12:30 <+johnc4510> there are not a lot of offenders, but a few
12:30 <    jedijf> johnc4510, +1
12:30 < greg-g|MI> makes sense, +1
12:30 < Palintheu> johnc4510: +1
12:31 <+   pak33m> what about things to keep out of the channels? ideas?
12:31 <+   pak33m> discussions? language? etc
12:31 < greg-g|MI> the usual: no swear words, talking about illegal activities
12:32 <  Yasumoto> hooray for being way late.(dropped my sister off at her practice)
12:32 < spr0k3t|M> in general, the CoC should be the guidelines of the channels... this would be a simple blanket coverage.
12:32 < greg-g|MI> correction: no excessive swear words (I could see someone getting frustrated and using one once, but not every other sentence)
12:32 < greg-g|MI> spr0k3t|MO, agreed
12:32              johnc4510 of the teams do a pretty good job of policing their own channels i think
12:32 <+   pak33m> greg-g|MI: true and we should all agree to remind somebody if it gets outta hand
12:32 < greg-g|MI> pak33m, definitely
12:33 <+   pak33m> or if other things do as well
12:33 < spr0k3t|M> perhaps a trigger of UncleSam? or would that be going too far with a bot?
12:33 <+   pak33m> ok, if theres nothing else on that topic lets move on?
12:34 < greg-g|MI> too far probably, I know there was talk of doing a points system in #ubuntu with swear words... if you use too many too quick, or a couple really bad ones, you are kicked
12:34              johnc4510 something offensive should be handled by the team leader(s)   if they have trouble mentors are there to step in
12:34 < greg-g|MI> I agree that is should be handled by a person
12:34 < spr0k3t|M> to answer myself, if you have to ask, it's probably too far.
12:35              johnc4510 i have not seen anything other than trolls that have been a problem so far
12:35 <+johnc4510> :)
12:35 <+johnc4510> spr0k3t|MO: yep
12:35 <+   pak33m> cool, i think we can all agree and are on the same page
12:35 < spr0k3t|M> nod
12:35 <+   pak33m> 3rd topic - ubuntu badges
12:36 < greg-g|MI> weeee
12:36 <+   pak33m> doctormo: wanna take this one?
12:36 <+   pak33m> lts us know whats going on and he success youve had so far?
12:36              <   jono!n=jono@ubuntu/member/jono ["Ex-Chat"]
12:37 <+   pak33m> doctormo: ping
12:37 <   leftyfb> hold on, he's comin
12:37 <   leftyfb> i paged him :)
12:37 <  doctormo> yo
12:38 <+   pak33m> doctormo: want to explain the what going on with the badges
12:38 <+johnc4510> doctormo: can you bring us up to date on badges?
12:38 <  doctormo> OK so apart from some mismatches I'm currently dealing with paypal (about $10 out I think hasn't cleared) the workings of the project are going well
12:38 <  doctormo> That's the fiscal side
12:39 <  doctormo> The production side is, we've got a proof and we're faxing it back to LustraCal and signed and everything
12:39 <  doctormo> Once we have all the payments that are going to arrive we'll put an order in for slightly more that that after the 31st
12:39 <  doctormo> And I plan to ship things out ASAP
12:40              johnc4510 thanks doctormo for putting this together for the teams!!!!
12:40 <  Yasumoto> doctormo++
12:40 <   leftyfb> Missouri, Maryland, Nebraska, Kentucky, Arizona, California, New Mexico, Utah and Oklahoma
12:40 <    jedijf> ma badge project +1
12:40 <+   pak33m> yes, it seems like its been a lot of work
12:40 <   leftyfb> I think those are the teams we're still waiting on
12:40 <   leftyfb> correct me if i'm wrong doctormo
12:40 <+    etank> Kentucky will be sending in the money this week
12:40 < spr0k3t|M> leftyfb: payment is printed and being sent.
12:41 <   leftyfb> which team is that spr0k3t|MO ?
12:41 <   leftyfb> oh, nm :)
12:41              johnc4510 AZ will be sending this wk also
12:41 < spr0k3t|M> 8^)
12:41 <  Yasumoto> California's meeting is Sunday, and we'll get our money in shortly after
12:41 <+   pak33m> doctormo: can teams order still?
12:41 <  doctormo> spr0k3t|MO: hehe, you print your own money ;-)
12:41 <  CTech|MO> lol
12:41 < spr0k3t|M> doctormo: yup, I do... reminds me, I need to order more checks.
12:41 <  doctormo> pak33m: I want teams to have priority; if you can send me money quickly enough there is no reason why not
12:42 <+   pak33m> has the ordering ended
12:42 <  doctormo> pak33m: for the public, but I'm squeezing people on who ask nice
12:42 < spr0k3t|M> pak33m: 20th was the last day, but there are still people interested.
12:42 <   heathen> im a horrible person
12:42 <+   pak33m> just wanted to make sure for anybody that was unsure
12:43 <  doctormo> the reason for the dates was so we have a cut off when people can send in money; so long as you can send money right away
12:43 <  doctormo> heathen: any reason why/
12:43 < greg-g|MI> do we have an ETA?  a 2 week gap would be fine
12:43 <+  Joe_CoT> heathen: an interesting introduction to the conversation
12:43 <  doctormo> greg-g|MI: no estimates, I will get one once the proof is back with them
12:43 < greg-g|MI> doctormo, cool
12:43 <+johnc4510> doctormo: how long is production time?
12:43 <   heathen> some kid just busted their nose open after faceplanting with those stupid shoes with wheels
12:43 <  doctormo> johnc4510: <doctormo> greg-g|MI: no estimates, I will get one once the proof is back with them
12:44 <   heathen> i laughed a lot
12:44 <+johnc4510> doctormo: np   just wondered
12:44 <   heathen> the father didnt think it was so funny... made me laugh more...
12:44 <  doctormo> heathen > leftyb see see!
12:44 <+   pak33m> doctormo: links for everybody?
12:44 <  doctormo> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadges
12:44 <   heathen> im a horrible person because that one event made my day
12:45 <+johnc4510> doctormo: which design was decided on?
12:45 <   heathen> i can go to sleep happy today, despite what else may happen
12:45 <  doctormo> are we all done, my wife is about ready to claw my eyes out if we don't leave for breakfast
12:45 <+   pak33m> anybody, doctormo got anything more about badges?
12:45 <   leftyfb> heh
12:45 <   leftyfb> I can try and answer anymore questions  doctormo
12:45 <  doctormo> johnc4510: on the wiki you'll see the design; the black one won
12:45 <+johnc4510> cool
12:45 <+johnc4510> the one i liked
12:46 <  doctormo> everyone here it seems liked the black one or didn't care
12:46 < ZeroXR|TX> Could I ask someone for some help with sending my GPG key to the Ubuntu key server? I am confused on the syntax: gpg --send-key <key-id>, I have tried a bunch of things and it keeps saying that the command is invalid and skips the sending.
12:46 <   leftyfb> anyone from the remaining teams here? NM, UT, MD, OK, NB, OR
12:46              ZeroXR|TX is an officer from the Texas team trying to sign the CoC
12:47 < ZeroXR|TX> I apologize for being a bit off topic
12:47              ~   doctormo is now DoctorMO_breaky
12:47 <   leftyfb> sorry, NE , not NB :)
12:47 < spr0k3t|M> wow... kitteh r mashin me face
12:48 <+johnc4510> pak33m: anything else?
12:49 <   leftyfb> i'll be contacting the team leaders of NM, UT, MD, OK, NE, OR and of personal orders this weekend/week
12:49 <   leftyfb> oh
12:49 <   leftyfb> and please send payments to the paypal on the wiki, not to DoctorMO
12:49 <   leftyfb> :)
12:49 <   leftyfb> we lose money transferring back and forth
12:49 <   leftyfb> if you're paying via paypal. Checks and cash can go to the address on the wiki
12:51 <   leftyfb> that's all from me
12:52 <   leftyfb> hello?
12:52 < greg-g|MI> hi
12:52 <   leftyfb> heh, ok . .wasn't sure if I lost connection or something :)
12:52 < greg-g|MI> anything else on the agenda?
12:53 < greg-g|MI> did we lose Zelut, pak33m etc?
12:53 <+johnc4510> don't know
12:54              johnc4510 pak33m you still here?
12:54 < greg-g|MI>  ...
12:55 < spr0k3t|M> So what's left on the agenda?
12:55 <+johnc4510> Zelut: you around?
12:55 <+johnc4510> nothing that i know of
12:55 <+    etank> i think that covered everything
</pre>
