{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== October 2007 US Teams Reports ==

== Projects ==

 {*} US LoCo Teams celebrated the release of 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyReleaseParties|Gutsy Release Parties]]</nowiki> and continue to beyond the release date October 18th, 2007.

 {*} Engaged in discussion, for a second time, on how teams handle money and reduce exposure to liability.  This was discussed during the US Teams October 04 meeting. 

== Meetings ==

 {*} A US Teams meeting was held on October 04 mostly to discuss how teams handle money and reduce exposure to liability.  Minutes for the October 04 Meeting <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Minutes/Oct04|Oct 04 Meeting Logs]]</nowiki>

== Metrics ==

=== Total Number of LoCo Teams in the US ===
Currently 55 State and City LoCo Teams in the US

=== Total Number of Approved Teams in the US ===
Current Count of approved teams is 7

{*} The Ubuntu Florda Team was officially approved as of September 27th, 2007.

{*} The Ubuntu Massachusetts Team is an officially approved team as of October 9th, 2007

=== Total Number of State LoCo Teams ===
Current Count of State Teams is 44 (still, a wee 6 short of Manifest Destiny)

=== Total Number of City LoCo Teams ===
Current Count of City Teams is 11
