{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2009-01-22 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' Aaron Toponce (eightyeight) <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Person's Name <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Creating a leadership board for the team
* Reassigning assingments (wiki, events/news, ubuntu-us.org site, mailing list, forums, etc.)
* Defining what qualifies a "mentor"
* US Centralised, What were doing this month email to be distributed on loco mailing lists. -DoctorMO
* Agenda Item 2

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* 

== Proceedings ==
* 

== Conclusion ==
Brief statement concerning the meeting and outcome.
