{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%; margin: 10px 0;" style="width: 40px; border: none; background-color: #E2E2E2; font-size: 0.90em; color: #AB3B00; text-align: center; border-radius: 5px;"> '''This mentoring initiative is currently inactive.'''
|}

== Mentors ==
Mentors are people who are interested in helping LoCo teams in need.  Remember that time when your team was having a hard time getting started?  Well, many teams today in the US are going through those same things, and could use your help and advice -- all in the spirit of Ubuntu! :)

=== Requesting a Mentor ===

Does your team need a mentor? Email <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> at lyz@ubuntu.com or ask on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us|US Teams Mailing List]]</nowiki> or drop by #ubuntu-us and ask!
 
=== Becoming a Mentor ===

For those interested, there are a few requirements:

# You must have signed the Code of Conduct: https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/1.0.1
# You must be from an approved team.
# You must actively involved with you team and be familiar with !LoCo resources

==== Mentor Expectations ====

''What is the job of a US Teams Mentor?''

A Team Mentor is tasked with working with an existing person (or group of people) who are interested in moving their team toward <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved|Getting Approved]]</nowiki>. The mentor is a helper who will answer questions posed by the team regarding a variety of aspects related to the running of a !LoCo team, to assist getting resources properly allocated, to track down lost team leaders and to advise when it comes for the team to seek approval.

A Team Mentor is ''not'' there to do all the work for the team. A successful team must have driven members who will "do the legwork" to make a team succeed, a mentor can only take them part of the way.

==== Mentor Signup ====

Want to become one? Add your name to the list and show up to the next meeting! At the meeting the board will review your qualifications.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name (wiki page)'''
| '''Home Team'''
|-
| (e.g.) Chuck Norris
| Right behind you.
|-
| RichardJohnson
| ChicagoTeam
|-
| <nowiki>[[bkerensa|Benjamin Kerensa]]</nowiki>
| OregonTeam
|}

==== Current Mentors ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name (wiki page)'''
| '''Home Team'''
| Mentoring
|-
| JohnCrawford*
| ArizonaTeam
| MO, AR, OK
|-
| DanTrevino*
| FloridaTeam
| SC, NC
|-
| <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki>*
| PennsylvaniaTeam
| TN, TX, KS
|-
| <nowiki>[[pak33m|Jimmy Harris]]</nowiki>
| FloridaTeam
| AK
|-
| <nowiki>[[paultag|Paul Tagliamonte]]</nowiki>
| OhioTeam
| NE, IA
|-
| <nowiki>[[cprofitt|Charles Profitt]]</nowiki>
| NewYorkTeam
| ID
|}

* Indicates Board Member in the project
