{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2009-09-09 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|pleia2]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|pleia2]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* UbuntuGlobalJam promotion
** USTeams promoting a WikiDocDay2009 for teams to clean up docs
** Action Item: Nudge our own teams and teams we're mentoring about the event (./)

* Discussion about motivating teams
** Concern about teams having trouble with wiki syntax, wiki How-To session proposed
** <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-Administriva]]</nowiki> for resource tracking
** Action Item: Create a <nowiki>[[USTeams-Administriva]]</nowiki> page

* USTeams promotion
** Get our planet added to Ubuntu Planet?
** Action Item: Create an RT ticket (./) (submitted 9/9/09, followed up after no response 1/9/09)

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* johnc4510
* tyche
* r2d2rogers
* doctormo
* pleia2
* Irishmanluke
* dinda
* boredandblogging
* Flannel
* akgraner
* Grantbow
* 

== Proceedings ==
* Discussion on how the team can promote UbuntuGlobalJam

== Conclusion ==
