{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== December 2007 US Teams Reports ==

== Projects ==

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2007/11/24/us-teams-education-week-reporting-improving-and-fixing-bugs|US Teams Education Week : Reporting, Improving and Fixing Bugs]]</nowiki> ChristerEdwards along with members of the Ubuntu bug team, conducted an introduction to interested LoCo team members about participating in the Ubuntu bug system while triaging and preparing bugs for upstream.  This project will continue in the future and possibly packaging with MOTU, Ubuntu documentation and more.  More info about this project will be listed on the <nowiki>[[USTeams|US Teams]]</nowiki> to come.

* <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncil|Community Council]]</nowiki> has asked all US teams to change the naming of their team channels so we all will be set up the same.  All LoCo IRC channel names were changed to ubuntu-us-xx (xx = state) were completed without much trouble.  

== Meetings ==

* The US Teams Project held a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Minutes/Dec06Formal|December 6 Meeting]]</nowiki> to discuss the possibility of establishing a US Teams leader and getting back to regular meetings. Minutes for the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Minutes/Dec06|December 6 Meeting Logs]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Minutes/Dec06Formal|Dec 06 Meeting Summary]]</nowiki>

* The next <nowiki>[[IRC|US Teams Project Meeting]]</nowiki> will be January 9 <nowiki>[[GregGrossmeier|greg-g]]</nowiki> presiding @ 8 pm PST, 9 pm MST, 10 pm CST and 11 pm EST.

=== Total Number of State & City LoCo Teams in the US ===

   54

=== Total Number of Approved Teams in the US ===

   11

* State LoCo teams approved in December:

  {*} <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam|NewJersey]]</nowiki>

  {*} <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam|Michigan]]</nowiki>

  {*} <nowiki>[[NewMexicoTeam|NewMexico]]</nowiki>

  {*} <nowiki>[[GeorgiaTeam|Georgia]]</nowiki>

=== Total Number of State LoCo Teams ===

  45

* State LoCo teams needed:

  {*} <nowiki>[[DelawareTeam|Delaware]]</nowiki>

  {*} <nowiki>[[IdahoTeam|Idaho]]</nowiki>

  {*} <nowiki>[[IowaTeam|Iowa]]</nowiki>

  {*} <nowiki>[[NothDakotaTeam|NorthDakota]]</nowiki>

  {*} <nowiki>[[WestVirginiaTeam|WestVirginia]]</nowiki>

* State teams the are just starting to form:

  {*} <nowiki>[[HawaiiTeam|Hawaii]]</nowiki>

  {*} <nowiki>[[TexasTeam|Texas]]</nowiki>

=== Total Number of Approved City Teams in the US ===
 
  2

=== Total Number of City LoCo Teams ===

  9
