{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Log for US Teams Meeting on April 21st, 2009 ==
<pre>
20:00 < pleia2> meeting time! :)
20:00 < pleia2> agenda is up here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings
20:01 < pleia2> so who all is here?
20:01 < johnc4510> +1
20:01 < pleia2> alright, well it's nothing major really tonight
20:02 < lamalex> oo meeting?
20:02 < pleia2> as discussed last time, we're going to promote dantalizing and johnc4510 from mentors to the board
20:02 < lamalex> congrats
20:02 < johnc4510> thx
20:03 < pleia2> that's official as of tonight :)
20:03 < dantalizing> :)
20:03 < dantalizing> yay
20:04 < pleia2> now, website...
20:04 < itnet7> Nice congrats dantalizing!!!
20:04 < pleia2> johnc4510 has been slaving away on our new drupal site :)
20:05 < pleia2> it's pretty much ready to go, unfortunately we couldn't get dns updated by tonight
20:05 < pleia2> but it's very pretty and much more useful than the old map+planet one :)
20:05 < pleia2> links to resources, has an about page, etc
20:05 < dantalizing> is the dev site available somewhere?
20:05 < pleia2> if you update your /etc/hosts file you can see it
20:05 < johnc4510> should thank tyche and kennymc0 too. they did a lot of the work too
20:06 < pleia2> the IP is 207.192.72.66
20:06 < johnc4510> add this line to /etc/hosts    207.192.72.66 www.ubuntu-us.org/
20:07 < pleia2> looks like the old site is down again
20:07 < johnc4510> any word on the map?
20:07 < johnc4510> think xp was maybe doing something on that
20:08 < pleia2> not yet, xq is looking into some ajaxy things
20:08 < johnc4510> k, will it still be on the wiki then or what?
20:08 < pleia2> for now, yes
20:08 < johnc4510> k
20:08 < johnc4510> good
20:08 < xq> i'm here and looking into it
20:08 < johnc4510> xpthx
20:08 < xq> since we'd rather it not be flash (hehe)
20:09 < dantalizing> +1    
20:09 < johnc4510> right
20:09 < pleia2> now there is the question of news on the main site
20:09 < johnc4510> well, i agree we have to be careful on what we put up there
20:09 < pleia2> currently the planet covers what news the locos (with rss feeds) themselves publish as far as events and things
20:10 < johnc4510> and we could always have a separate page for news
20:10 < johnc4510> yeah, we can post to the us planet
20:10 < pleia2> I'm just trying to think of what kinds of news the USTeams would have
20:11 < xq> think of topics
20:11 < xq> or even examples
20:11 < johnc4510> hmmmm
20:11 < xq> it will help :)
20:11 < johnc4510> well, we should maybe acknowledge with a team gets approved
20:11 < r2d2rogers> new members who are us loco teams memebers?
20:11 < pleia2> ah, both good ideas
20:12 < r2d2rogers> Personal recognition type stuff related to the community
20:13 < r2d2rogers> I guess the teams themselves should be posting progress to getting approved on their own sites
20:13 < Yasumoto> maybe a "team of the month" or "loco member of the month" ?
20:13 < xq> that's a good idea
20:13 < xq> and a blurb on what they did
20:13 < johnc4510> yeah, it would have to be on a per instance basis, and something we can put up and then take down if it is on the front page
20:13 < Yasumoto> r2d2rogers: yeah, I think it's important that locos publish about themselves, I like the 'aggregation' aspect of ubuntu-us.org
20:14 < johnc4510> if we put the news on a separate page we could do it in blog from and leave the history there
20:14 < xq> if a new team is up for vlogging or interviewing that would be nice
20:14 < Yasumoto> but would be happy to see some additional posts by "Ubuntu US" as well
20:14 < xq> you can post an interview or transcript (maybe even "video interview") after they get approved or after an event
20:14 < xq> it's a good place to give other teams (and even non-approved teams...) ideas
20:14  * pleia2 nods
20:15 < johnc4510> well, most teams add the log of the approval meeting to their application, or should. we could link to that
20:15 < Yasumoto> xq: great point
20:15 < xq> johnc4510: not just an irc log, i would rather read an article or hear it/see the team
20:16 < johnc4510> at some time, i would like to discuss having a schedule page of upcoming planning...ie like when the releases come out and when we should start encouraging the teams to start planning...etc
20:16 < xq> but we could always link to that like the UWN does at the end of member approval "blurbs"
20:16 < johnc4510> xq: k
20:16 < Yasumoto> johnc4510: don't we have a US google calendar?
20:16 < pleia2> I don't know who has access to the US google calendar
20:16 < johnc4510> Yasumoto: we don't but
20:17 < johnc4510> maybe we do
20:17 < pleia2> johnc4510: one exists :)
20:17 < johnc4510> lol
20:17 < pleia2> I'll ask around, maybe Zelut knows
20:17 < lamalex> maybe some helpful tips and tricks for locos, by members of successful locos
20:17  * xq grins
20:17 < lamalex> "how to throw a great release party"
20:17 < johnc4510> if there is one zelut and/or eightyeight have access i would think
20:17 < lamalex> "running an installfest"
20:17 < xq> throw around admin access (whoever has owner right now) on gcal
20:17 < Yasumoto> pleia2: yeah, he might
20:17 < xq> that might be a good action item hehe
20:18 < Yasumoto> lamalex: that's cool
20:18 < pleia2> lamalex: good ideas
20:18 < r2d2rogers> Timely stuff would be good, like right now would be the time to post pointers to Release party tips
20:18 < johnc4510> lamalex: yes, good point...but we do have wiki pages for those things...however linking to them would be good
20:18 < pleia2> johnc4510: right, a reminder that the resources exist
20:18 < xq> and bringing them up in a timely manner
20:18 < xq> aye!
20:18 < pleia2> alright, I'll write these things down - then we need volunteers to keep them up :)
20:18 < johnc4510> there is so much info on the wiki and a lot of the time new teams don't know how to find it
20:19 < johnc4510> nods
20:19 < Yasumoto> oh, I wanted to mention that neal (flannel) and I are presenting some tips about "Exhibiting Ubuntu at Conferences" at Open Week, so if anyone has suggestions, either ping me or come into #ubuntu-california
20:19 < lamalex> a lot of stuff is in a specific teams' wiki too
20:19 < johnc4510> Yasumoto: great
20:19 < Yasumoto> I think that getting info like that out helps everyone not re-invent the wheel 50 times
20:20 < Yasumoto> johnc4510: yeah, making sure it's well organized is a problem
20:20 < johnc4510> the idea with the new web site is to have info in one place for the teams
20:20 < johnc4510> we have a start
20:20 < johnc4510> but can always expand it some
20:20  * pleia2 nods
20:20 < johnc4510> we hope that when it goes live you'll like the setup
20:20 < johnc4510> let us know
20:20 < johnc4510> :)
20:21 < johnc4510> we have lots more links and info than the old site did
20:22 < pleia2> great, so I think we have consensus that we want newsy posts and some ideas for what they can be :)
20:22 < pleia2> next up... the planet
20:22 < johnc4510> i think we should maybe all think on this some and then when the site is live we can all better discuss direction
20:22 < johnc4510> k
20:22  * pleia2 nods
20:23 < pleia2> the current theme is a copy of the ubuntu planet, it's awful and the links are not really on-topic per se
20:23 < Yasumoto> johnc4510: agreed
20:23 < johnc4510> pleia2: yes
20:23 < pleia2> I said I'd redo the theme, but when I started looking at it I remembered that I don't really like doing web stuff anymore :x
20:23 < dantalizing> lol
20:23 < pleia2> so I need someone else to do it :)
20:23 < johnc4510> lol
20:23 < johnc4510> whos server is it on?
20:24 < johnc4510> and is it drupal
20:24 < pleia2> canonical's
20:24 < pleia2> no, just plain planet
20:24 < johnc4510> i probably can't help with that if it's just css
20:24 < pleia2> it's css and some other templatey pieces
20:24 < johnc4510> or html
20:25 < pleia2> yeah
20:25 < pleia2> all css and html
20:25 < johnc4510> yeah, i'd be lost there
20:25 < johnc4510> sorry
20:25 < johnc4510> we need someone who is good at that then
20:25 < johnc4510> anyone
20:25 < johnc4510> ?
20:25 < pleia2> yep
20:26 < dantalizing> there are people in fl i can ask
20:26 < johnc4510> dantalizing: great
20:26 < pleia2> cool
20:26 < pleia2> if they need the source code or a dev place to fiddle with themes I can help
20:26 < dantalizing> ok
20:27 < pleia2> getting direct access to the live thing would be hard though, since we have to go through canonical
20:27 < pleia2> (we should have one other person aside from me at some point though)
20:27 < johnc4510> any chance of moving it to the website server and making it drupal?
20:27 < dantalizing> agreed
20:27 < johnc4510> lol
20:28 < pleia2> we could
20:28 < johnc4510> we could manage it easier that way i think
20:28 < johnc4510> and drupal is very flexible
20:28 < pleia2> does drupal5 have the planety thing?
20:28 < johnc4510> something to think about
20:29 < johnc4510> i think so
20:29 < johnc4510> i'd have to check
20:29 < xq> i've seen it
20:29 < johnc4510> i'll let you know tomorrow
20:29 < xq> oh might've been 6, not sure on version. sorry
20:29 < johnc4510> it probably looks very different
20:29 < johnc4510> but...
20:29 < dantalizing> planet has a planety thing
20:29 < johnc4510> that's np too me
20:30 < pleia2> ok
20:30 < johnc4510> i'll check
20:31 < pleia2> I think that's all I've got
20:31 < johnc4510> ok, i have a couple of annoucements
20:31 < johnc4510> .
20:31 < johnc4510> 1) Jaunty Release Parties...please add yours here if you haven't already: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyReleaseParties
20:32 < johnc4510> we would like to see all the us teams having release parties
20:32 < johnc4510> :)
20:32 < johnc4510> 2) Jaunty release is tomorrow. Please use the torrents if possible.
20:32 < johnc4510> that's it
20:32 < johnc4510> lol
20:32 < pleia2> thanks johnc4510 :)
20:32 < johnc4510> yep
20:33 < dantalizing> jaunty release is thursday, no?
20:33 < dantalizing> wait, whats today?
20:33 < johnc4510> ah yes
20:33 < johnc4510> sorry
20:33 < pleia2> hehe
20:33 < dantalizing> oh good
20:33 < johnc4510> tues
20:33 < johnc4510> release is thursday
20:33 < johnc4510> my mistake
20:34 < johnc4510> that's what happens when your in a hurry
20:34 < johnc4510> lol
20:34 < johnc4510> next meeting??
20:34 < pleia2> maybe in 2 weeks? the site should be launched by then
20:35 < johnc4510> ok with me
20:35 < pleia2> May 5th?
20:35 < pleia2> that's another tuesday
20:35 < xq> aye, 8pm est?
20:35 < pleia2> yeah
20:35 < dantalizing> +1
20:35 < johnc4510> k, that should be good...i leave the next day on vacation
20:35 < xq> +1
20:35 < Yasumoto> +1
</pre>
