{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== USTeams Meeting ==

'''Date:''' Wednesday January 9th
'''Time:''' 8pm PST, 9 pm MST, 10 pm CST & 11 pm EST
'''Where:''' #ubuntu-us on irc.freenode.net

IRC Log: <nowiki>[[../../IRCLogs/2008-01-09|2008-01-09]]</nowiki>

== Agenda ==
=== General Proposed Items ===
Please add your information in the table below. Add @``SIG@ at the end of your comments so that we get an automatic timestamp with your user name on it. It will be expanded when you save the changes, so don't worry when you don't see the timestamp and username in the preview.

==== US Teams Leader ====
Question why we need a team leader for a non-team.  US Teams is a cooperation of teams, not a team itself -- ChristerEdwards and CraigHuffstetler

==== Teams Collaboration ====
Working together with Ubuntu IRC team and other teams. We need to make sure this is continued...i.e. the channel name (syntax) changes. Communication established and a clear line (downstream) established and in use? If not, we definitely need it. -- CraigHuffstetler

==== New Georgia US Team Leader ====
JoshuaChase is the new leader and contact for the state. 

==== New Georgia US Team Leader ====
* JoshuaChase is the new leader and contact for the state. 

==== Update by Mentors on work with new Teams ====
* Report on activities of mentors
* Report on what we can do to help things along.

==== Community Council Meeting Tomorrow ====
* We have two (at least) people going up for membership approval, posingaspopular and greg-g, go cheer them on!  (#ubuntu-meeting at 16:00 UTC)

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda|CC Agenda]]</nowiki>
