{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2009-06-02 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' <nowiki>[[Pleia2|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' <nowiki>[[Pleia2|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Planet 
** theme update
** pro-active approach to contributions
* Upcoming articles?
* Any interest in -US cluster?

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* pleia2
* MTecknology
* dantalizing
* rihanh1

== Proceedings ==
* Planet
** MTecknology mentioned he could work to develop a new planet module for 5.x but it was felt that our current Canonical hosted planet is working fine for us
** Quickly outlined what needed to be done for current planet, dantalizing volunteered to take a look at the template code and make some adjustments, pleia2 to email templates
* The global !LoCo meeting was mentioned, they are working to find a way to make it easier for all teams to share info about their events, our planet works well for that within the US but does not keep a record - only events from the past few months are listed
** Hoping in the future the fridge could be a more useful outlet for contributions
** Are there any other states in the country with RSS feeds that we aren't including on the planet?
* Upcoming articles
** pleia2 has one drafted, needs to talk to johnc4510 about how we're putting articles on the website
** another article: how important it is to document your loco events
* rihanh1 proposed that the USTeams maintain a checklist of things a team should do
** pleia2 pointed to <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-Administriva]]</nowiki> as one that exists, but perhaps could be added to and generalized to include other tasks LoCos should do (TeamReports, etc)
* boredandblogging (in absentia) was interested in our current thoughts about the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us/2009-May/000475.html|US Teams Cluster idea he proposed]]</nowiki>
** Interesting, exciting and useful idea!
** We currently lack the momentum nationwide and volunteers to accomplish such a task, should probably be shelved for now

== Conclusion ==
* pleia2 will send dantalizing the planet templates
* pleia2 will do an audit of current teams to see if she can find more teams with RSS feeds for the planet
* rihanh1 and pleia2 will work on generalized administriva page for the team
* We're not ready for a US Teams Cluster at this time
