{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
The intention of this page is to provide some direction in how to mentor a new LoCo team. It will also give the teams being mentored an idea of what to expect from the mentors.

== Get Involved ==
If you would like to help with this project and help mentor new teams please add your name and contact information to the /MentorList.  If you need advice or help in creating a team in your area please see the resources below.  Please be sure that a team does not already exist in your area. To see if an Ubuntu Local Community Team exists for you state, please look at the <nowiki>[[/TeamList|US Teams List]]</nowiki>.

== Links / Resources ==
* Know where to find information on how to get a new team started (i.e. <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamHowto]]</nowiki>)
* Recommend that the leader of the new team (and any other members that want to) spend some time in the #ubuntu-us and #ubuntu-locoteams channels.

== Guidance ==
The goal of the mentor should be to give advice not governance. 

A good way to do this may be to invite the members of the mentored team into your team channel. This is especially helpful during your team meetings to help team leader see how you run a team meeting. 

=== Presence ===
* Be available to the team. 
* Let them know where to find you.
* Hang out in their IRC channel. 
