{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
Being a channel operator is serious business! (well, maybe not that serious) There are a few things to remember when operating an Ubuntu Channel. These are all listed on the IrcGuidelines page. Operators should also read and follow the information on this page <nowiki>[[IrcTeam/OperatorGuidelines|OperatorGuidelines]]</nowiki>

If you ever have trouble on your channel, visit #ubuntu-us or #ubuntu-ops.  There are people that idle in these channels that are happy to help you in a pinch.  

== Operator Scripts ==
There are some really good scripts available for operators to perform specific operations.  Seveas created a script for Xchat, and it is all inclusive. 

To use:
first you need to make sure you have Xchat installed:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install xchat
</pre>

then pull the script

<pre>
cd ~/.xchat2 && wget http://ubuntu.vorian.org/chanserv.py
</pre>

in Xchat, go under the Xchat tab> load plugin or script.  That will open a new window.  In the column on the left, double click on the .xchat2 folder. Then double click on the chanserv.py script, and bingo! you are ready to use your new script. (documentation at the bottom of this page)

== Chanserv Script Options ==
when using chanserv, you abbreviate the commands (like /cs instead of msg chanserv)  The methodology is always /cs <action> <nick> (ex. /cs kb vorian) 

these are the commands for chanserv.py:

/cs o  or op      - Let chanserv op you/others (/cs op, /cs op somenick)

/cs d  or deop    - Let chanserv deop you/others (/cs deop, /cs deop somenick)

/cs k  or kick    - Op, kick, deop (/cs kick somenick [comment])

/cs b  or ban     - Op, ban, deop (/cs ban somenick)

/cs f or forward  - Ban a user with a forward (/cs forward nick chan)

/cs n or nameban  - GECOS ban (/cs nameban nick)

/cs m  or mute    - Op, mute, deop (/cs mute somenick)

/cs kb or kickban - Op, kickban, deop (/cs kb somenick [comment])

/cs kf or kickforward - Same as kb, but with a forward (/cs kf somenick channel [comment])

/cs kn or kicknameban - Same as kb, but with a GECOS ban (/cs kn somenick [comment])

/cs l or lart     - A combination of kick, ban, nameban, ident ban and nick ban.

/cs u or unban    - Op, unban, deop (/cs u somenick)

/cs t or topic    - Op, set topic, deop (/cs t New topic here)

/cs m or mode     - Op, change channel mode, deop (/cs mode modes here)

/cs i or invite   - With nick as argument: op, invite, deop. Without nick: invite to a channel
