{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Log for US Teams Meeting on May 5th, 2009 ==
<pre>
20:00 < pleia2> ok, who all is here for the meeting this evening?
20:00 < johnc4510> +1
20:00 < Grantbow> +1
20:01 < pleia2> alright, we'll wait a couple minutes to see if anyone else shows up :)
20:01 < dantalizing> +1
20:01 < dantalizing> o/
20:02 < johnc4510> k
20:02  * dantalizing waves
20:02 < pleia2> hey dantalizing :)
20:02 < johnc4510> hey dantalizing
20:02 < dantalizing> hello
20:02 < pleia2> happy cinco de mayo :)
20:03 < johnc4510> dantalizing pleia2 just an FYI, i'm leaving on vacation tomorrow for the rest of May. But I'll be dropping in channels as much as possible. email me if you need anything.
20:03 < dantalizing> nice
20:04 < pleia2> where are you skipping off to?
20:04 < johnc4510> Missouri
20:04 < johnc4510> :)
20:04 < pleia2> hrm :)
20:04  * itnet7 is lurking as well :-)
20:04 < johnc4510> I'm also hopeing to meet up with some of the teams i have: MO AR KS & OK
20:04 < pleia2> alright, lets get things rolling then
20:04 < pleia2> cool
20:04 < pleia2> so, first up is the website
20:05 < pleia2> anyone have any thoughts?
20:05 < Grantbow> is the map coming back someday?
20:05 < pleia2> Grantbow: that's the plan :) xq is working on some ajaxy options
20:05 < Grantbow> kk, thanks
20:05 < pleia2> if not we might just bring back the old one
20:05 < johnc4510> just from a admin view point...site seems to be working well, no problems at all.
20:06 < pleia2> good to hear
20:06 < pleia2> I was thinking we should plan some upcoming news articles, we had lots of ideas from the last meeting: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/Minutes/2009-04-21#Proceedings
20:06 < johnc4510> sounds good
20:07 < pleia2> I'll volunteer for one, I'll go around to folks in the US who held successful release parties and get some tips :)
20:07 < johnc4510> nice
20:07 < johnc4510> we could do one on planning installfests too
20:07 < johnc4510> ?
20:08 < pleia2> yeah, that's on the list of suggestions
20:08 < greg-g> pleia2: we promise (non-free-as-in-beer) beer.
20:08 < pleia2> greg-g: nice :)
20:08 < johnc4510> good stuff here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoRunningInstallfests
20:08 < pleia2> johnc4510: so maybe one of us can review that, pull out key points and then link to the wiki page for an article?
20:08 < johnc4510> i can do that one, but it will probably be monday before i get around to it...on the road till sat.
20:09 < johnc4510> nods
20:09 < johnc4510> and sunday is moms day
20:09 < johnc4510> :)
20:09 < pleia2> sounds good :)
20:09 < johnc4510> k
20:09 < pleia2> I probably won't have mine done until next week anyway, I just wanted to get some committments on the table
20:09 < dantalizing> is there a process for submitting?
20:10 < pleia2> not yet
20:10 < johnc4510> i'll send my rough draft to you and pleia2 for final
20:10 < pleia2> maybe submit it to the board and we'll get it posted (and offer feedback as requireD)
20:11 < johnc4510> yeah that sounds good
20:11 < pleia2> cool
20:11 < pleia2> any other comments about the site before we move on to the planet?
20:11 < johnc4510> off topic AZ got it's bulk shipment of cds yesterday
20:11 < pleia2> johnc4510: oh good :) we should get ours soon then
20:12 < johnc4510> yep
20:13 < pleia2> ok, planet! johnc4510 - all you
20:13 < johnc4510> k
20:14 < johnc4510> I installed the planet module on the new site. After my experiences with it and reading a ton of google posts, I'm not sure we can get it working on drupal 5.x.
20:14 < johnc4510> .
20:14 < johnc4510> I first got it to post to the front page which is not what we're using that page for. I then got it to post to individual pages, but not a planet type one page for all posts situation. And it then started posting every post from the feed every hour. By the time I caught it, it had posted 14,000 entries of the same multiple post over and over again. :( I wasn't happy hee hee!!
20:14 < pleia2> hehe
20:14 < johnc4510> yeah
20:14 < johnc4510> it was a ball deleting all those
20:14 < johnc4510> :)
20:15 < johnc4510> so, i think we'd better try revamping the old site
20:15 < pleia2> alright
20:15 < johnc4510> as we discussed before
20:15 < pleia2> dantalizing: you said you might have some html people?
20:15 < dantalizing> yes
20:15 < pleia2> any word on their availability to work on our ole planet?
20:15 < dantalizing> if we just want to theme planet to match the website
20:16 < dantalizing> i think that can happen
20:16 < pleia2> that would be fine
20:16 < pleia2> mostly I'm concerned about the links being all wrong
20:16 < johnc4510> nods
20:16 < r2d2rogers> Sorry I'm late...
20:16 < dantalizing> which links are wrong? or would be?
20:17 < pleia2> dantalizing: it doesn't link to the teams participating in the planet at all, and the "solar system" is a bit random
20:17 < pleia2> (probably just what was on the main ubunt planet when the theme was copied)
20:17 < dantalizing> ah
20:17 < dantalizing> so there is some cleanup as well
20:17 < pleia2> and the top should probably link to the US teams resources, not general ubuntu ones :)
20:17 < johnc4510> yes the tabs at the top are all wrong
20:18 < dantalizing> gotcha
20:18 < pleia2> I didn't add it to the agenda, but does anyone have any thoughts about how we can get more mentors?
20:18 < dantalizing> reya276 is the person in our team who does most of the web stuff
20:18 < pleia2> cool
20:18 < dantalizing> he initiall agreed
20:18 < johnc4510> it would also be nice to be able to utilize the right hand side bar more i think???
20:18 < dantalizing> so i'll ping him
20:18 < pleia2> dantalizing: thanks :)
20:18 < pleia2> johnc4510: yeah
20:19  * dantalizing made notews
20:19 < dantalizing> and notes
20:19 < johnc4510> k
20:19 < pleia2> with jonreagan stepping down as mentor, the three board members are the only mentors :\
20:19 < johnc4510> yeah
20:20 < pleia2> maybe we can nudge people we know personally and see if they're up for it?
20:20 < johnc4510> we need to hit up nixternal to resubmit
20:20 < pleia2> yeah, he's on the list but doesn't show up for meetings :)
20:20 < johnc4510> ok, i'll hit him up about that
20:20 < dantalizing> pak33m: maybe
20:20 < dantalizing> if he has time
20:20 < pleia2> just make sure he'll be a more reliable mentor ;)
20:20 < johnc4510> pleia2: k
20:21 < pleia2> yeah, I'll poke around my loco for people too
20:21 < johnc4510> i'll see who i can think up for others and let you two in on suggestions before i approach
20:21 < pleia2> great
20:21 < johnc4510> k
20:22 < pleia2> any other comments before we wrap things off?
20:22 < pleia2> er, up
20:22 < dantalizing> ubuntu rules?
20:22 < rihanha> we'll be happy to apply as mentors when we get to that level, we've only just started.
20:22 < pleia2> ubuntu rules!
20:22 < johnc4510> rihanha: great
20:23 < r2d2rogers> whereas I think in LA we're re-starting...
20:23 < johnc4510> understood
20:23 < pleia2> r2d2rogers: one of our pretty active members is moving down to nola soon :)
20:23 < r2d2rogers> \o/
20:23 < r2d2rogers> I think we've already heard from him
20:23 < pleia2> probably, bts3685
20:24 < pleia2> he's come down to visit a couple of times, is working down there on a shelter
20:24 < r2d2rogers> got him plugged in with one of our guys there, but I think he's planning to move out of state himself soon
20:24 < r2d2rogers> Oh yeah
20:24 < r2d2rogers> saw the site...
20:24  * pleia2 nods
20:25 < johnc4510> MO is talking installfest, OK, is busy in channel and mailing list now, AR is moving along and I need to get some things changed there as far as resourch go, KS is pretty dead but have a few people in the channel now
20:25 < johnc4510> resources
20:25 < r2d2rogers> johnc4510: let me know when you have someone to transfer the -us-ar channel to
20:25 < pleia2> cool :)
20:25 < johnc4510> r2d2rogers: k
20:26 < johnc4510> pleia2: that's it for me tonight i think :)
20:26 < pleia2> ok great, I think we're all set then :)
20:26 < pleia2> thanks for coming everyone
</pre>
