{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
First and foremost the US Teams Project is not the creation of a new team but a cooperation of existing teams to help mentor upcoming teams.  Existing teams will be able to offer resources to Ubuntu users anxious to create official Ubuntu teams in their area.

The purpose of this page is to act as a resource for US based Local Community Teams.  It will act as a central place to offer publications, resources, frequently asked questions and more.

Currently different states have had better success at getting up and running than other teams.  This is most likely due to poor communication and lack of resources or know-how.  We hope that with the cooperation of successful teams and struggling teams everyone can become stronger.  A strong team in every US state is the goal of this project for 2007.  

If you would like to help with this project and help mentor new teams please add your name and contact information to the list of Volunteer Mentors.  If you need advice or help in creating a team in your area please see the resources below.  Please be sure that a team does not already exist in your area. To see if an Ubuntu `Loco`Team exists for you state, please look at the LoCoTeamList.

== Contact ==
Active volunteers on the US Teams Project are generally listed in the Volunteers Mentors section or can be found lurking in #ubuntu-us.

== Volunteer Mentors ==
Current volunteer mentors are listed below.  If you would like to help mentor a new team please add yourself to the list.  Mentors should be official Ubuntu Members as accepted by the Community Council.  If you are willing to mentor a specific team, add that team under the assignment section.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <:> '''TEAM'''
| <:> '''NAME'''
| <:> '''IRC NICK'''
| <:>'''MENTOR ASSIGNMENT'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[UtahTeam|Utah]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[AaronToponce|Aaron Toponce]]</nowiki>
| atoponce
| <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam|Michigan]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam|New York]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam|California]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[SanDiegoTeam|San Diego, CA]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[UtahTeam|Utah]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ChristerEdwards|Christer Edwards]]</nowiki>
| Zelut
| <nowiki>[[OregonTeam|Oregon]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[WashingtonTeam|Washington]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[OhioTeam|Ohio]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[StephenStalcup|Stephen Stalcup]]</nowiki>
| Vorian
| <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam|Arizona]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam|Florida]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[WisconsinTeam|Wisconsin]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[KansasTeam|Kansas]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[ColoradoTeam|Colorado]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[JoeyStanford|Joey Stanford]]</nowiki>
| Rinchen
| <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam|New Jersey]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam|Chicago]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[RichardJohnson|Richard Johnson]]</nowiki>
| nixternal
| <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam|Maryland]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam|Kentucky]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[EricLake|Eric Lake]]</nowiki>
| etank
| <nowiki>[[MontanaTeam|Montana]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam|Pennsylvania]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam|Kentucky]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Brian King]]</nowiki>
| bkingx
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam|Arizona]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Johnc4510|John Crawford]]</nowiki>
| johnc4510
| <nowiki>[[KansasTeam|Kansas]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam|Missouri]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[NewMexicoTeam|New Mexico]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam|New York]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Ausimage|Jeremy Austin-Bardo]]</nowiki>
| ausimage
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam|Pennsylvania]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Pleia2|Elizabeth Bevilacqua]]</nowiki>
| pleia2
| <nowiki>[[MaineTeam|Maine]]</nowiki>
|}

== How to Contribute ==
Anyone can contribute to this project.  Most help is needed in closely mentoring upcoming teams.  Other resources to contribute would be answering frequently asked questions, suggestions on recruitment and leadership attributes.

== Goals ==
Current goals for this project are as follows:
* Official Ubuntu `Lo`Co teams in each state by 2008.
* Improved communication between US based teams.
* A "mentoring" program for improved and pain-free application process.

== Meetings ==
We have planned an IRC meeting in '''#ubuntu-us''' for '''Sat August 25^th^ @ 16:00 UTC'''.  If you have anything you would like to add to the agenda please list it <nowiki>[[USTeams/IRC| here]]</nowiki>.

Looking for a US Team meeting?  Check the  <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=dDA2bGswMjEwdTJ0azltcWdhc3Z1YWxqc2tAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ|calendar]]</nowiki>.

== US Teams Planet ==
The US Teams Project has a Planet, found at http://planet.ubuntu-us.org, which syndicates events, news and progress from approved US `Lo`Co Teams sites.  If you are part of an approved US `Lo`Co Team please contact <nowiki>[[ChristerEdwards]]</nowiki> to be added to the Planet.

<nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/IRC/|Logs can be found here]]</nowiki>.

== Team Naming Standards ==
For those interested in setting up resources for their team please refer to the following:
* IRC: ubuntu-statename (ie; ubuntu-utah, ubuntu-newyork, ubuntu-florida, etc)
* Launchpad: ubuntu-statename (ie; ubuntu-utah, ubuntu-newyork, etc)
* Mailing List: ubuntu-us-stateprefix (ie; ubuntu-us-ut, ubuntu-us-ny, ubuntu-us-fl, etc) contact <nowiki>[[ChristerEdwards|Christer Edwards]]</nowiki> for a list
* Ubuntu Forums: state.ubuntuforums.org (ie; utah.ubuntuforums.org, etc) contact <nowiki>[[StephenStalcup|Stephen Stalcup]]</nowiki> for a team forum
* Team Wiki: StateTeam (ie; UtahTeam, OhioTeam, FloridaTeam, etc)

== List of US Teams ==

 <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/TeamList/|Current list can be found here]]</nowiki>

=== Sub Pages ===

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
