{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2009-05-05 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Website discussion (what do we like? what do we want to change?) 
* Planet module for the new site. Update on what has been done so far. 

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* pleia2
* johnc4510
* Grantbow
* dantalizing
* itnet7
* rihanha
* r2d2rogers

== Proceedings ==
* Is the Map coming back? Yep! xq is working with some folks on some options
* Articles:
** pleia2 will go around to folks in the US who held successful release parties and get some tips
** johnc4510 will do one on planning installfests
** Submission process? Submit to board for review.
* Planet
** Attempts to get the drupal module working with 5.x were unsuccessful
** Going to stick with Canonical-hosted planet
** dantalizing will see if he knows anyone who can help with a theme
* We need more Mentors!
** Ask people we know personally to apply

== Conclusion ==
Things are moving along nicely, tasks outlined above.
