{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== February 2008 US Teams Reports ==

== Projects ==

* The NewJersey team will host a <nowiki>[[http://nj.ubuntu-us.org/node/13/|HackFest]]</nowiki> on February 23^rd^ from noon until midnight EST to engage in <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam/Events/HackFestFebruary|bug fixing and other activities]]</nowiki>.

* The FloridaTeam <nowiki>[[http://wrevolution.org/index.php/2008/02/12/florida-linux-show/|exhibited]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam/Projects/FloridaLinuxShow|Floirda Linux Show]]</nowiki> on February 11^th^.  Members of both the FloridaTeam and <nowiki>[[GeorgiaUSTeam]]</nowiki> met up the night before in a show of LoCo bonding.  Many, many CDs were given out particulairly Edubuntu CDs.  The FloridaTeam was very busy at the show advocating the use of Ubuntu, Edubuntu, Kubuntu, Server and Xubuntu and capped the night off with a dinner with the Jon "Maddog" Hall.

* The CaliforniaTeam <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam/Projects/Scale6x|exhibited]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://socallinuxexpo.org/scale6x/|Southern California Linux Expo]]</nowiki> on February 8 - 10 ^th^.   JonoBacon gave the CaliforniaTeam a big <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=1128|woohoo]]</nowiki> for their efforts.

== Meetings ==

* The US Teams Project held a <nowiki>[[USTeams/Meetings/Minutes/2008-02-06|Meeting]]</nowiki> on February 6^th^ to discuss LoCo teams that need help, what LoCo teams are working on, LoCo teams that are MIA, ops in -us channel and the upcoming Hardy release.
 
 	<nowiki>[[USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2008-02-06|Minutes]]</nowiki>

* The next <nowiki>[[/USTeams/Meetings|Meeting]]</nowiki> will be Thursday 13^th^ of March @ 10pm EST, 9pm CST, 8pm MST, 7pm PST.

=== Total Number of State & City LoCo Teams in the US ===

   55

=== Total Number of Approved Teams in the US ===

   13

* Teams approved on February 22^nd^ :)

 {*} <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam|Maryland]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[IndianaTeam|Indiana]]</nowiki>
   
=== Total Number of State LoCo Teams ===

   46

 <!> State LoCo teams needed <!>

 {*} <nowiki>[[DelawareTeam|Delaware]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[IdahoTeam|Idaho]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[IowaTeam|Iowa]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[NothDakotaTeam|NorthDakota]]</nowiki>
 
=== Total Number of Approved City Teams in the US ===
 
   2

=== Total Number of City LoCo Teams ===

   9
