{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Log for US Teams Meeting on August 26th, 2009 ==

<pre>
22:01 < pleia2> hey everyone :)
22:01 < pleia2> who is about for the meeting?
22:01 < dantalizing> morning!
22:01 < akgraner> hey pleia2
22:01 < dantalizing> o/
22:01 < akgraner> o/
22:02 < pleia2> ok, so we've got an agenda up here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings
22:02 < pleia2> site update: we have two articles in the wings near ready for publishing, just queuing them up
22:03 < dantalizing> i owe you a doc ...
22:03  * dantalizing adds a note to his todo
22:03 < akgraner> pleia2, do I owe you anything else?
22:03 < pleia2> akgraner: nope! :)
22:03 < akgraner> whew!
22:03 < dantalizing> a beer
22:03 < pleia2> mmm beer
22:03 < akgraner> hehe that's a given..
22:04 < pleia2> any other thoughts/comments on the website at the moment?
22:04 < dantalizing> it makes me happy
22:05 < pleia2> suggestions for articles?
22:05 < pleia2> beer or the website?
22:05 < pleia2> hehe
22:05 < dantalizing> yes
22:05 < pleia2> me to \o/
22:05 < akgraner> basic event planning..
22:05 < pleia2> too
22:05 < pleia2> akgraner: do you know if are there any wiki pages out there that can be referenced for that?
22:05 < akgraner> or is that already being done?
22:06 < pleia2> not done, but it's a good idea
22:06 < akgraner> I don't but I can look a little harder to find some
22:06 < pleia2> hoping we could dig up existing docs, add to them, write our article
22:07 < pleia2> akgraner: that'd be great :)
22:07 < akgraner> I need to do one about negotiating space/hotel rooms etc some folks don't know that hotels will give some great deals on room rates and spaces for events..
22:08 < pleia2> akgraner: yes! that'd be great, I'm working to help plan fosscon and we're clueless..
22:08 < akgraner> I'll work on that this week then
22:08 < pleia2> thanks :)
22:08 < Flannel> Is fosscon going to actually happen this year then?
22:08 < pleia2> Flannel: we're in active discussions with RIT (Rochester, NY) for next summer
22:09 < Flannel> Eh?  sheesh, two false starts in my backyard and you decide to finally have it somewhere all the way across the US?
22:10 < pleia2> we're a whole different organization team, most of which is on this coast
22:10 < pleia2> I don't think we've even talked to the west coast failed fosscon people
22:11 < pleia2> anyway, if you are interested we're doing planning over in #fosscon
22:11 < pleia2> looks like we sent off a proposal to RIT today with some details about food
22:11 < pleia2> hehe
22:11 < pleia2> right, US meeting!
22:12 < pleia2> so if we don't have more thoughts about articles/site...
22:12 < pleia2> boredandblogging added an agenda item about increasing visibility of the site
22:12 < dantalizing> :)
22:12 < pleia2> "How does an individual find the USTeams wiki pages? Besides being referenced by a couple of LoCo wiki pages, USTeams isn't listed prominently anywhere. If someone looks at LoCoTeamsList, there are links to the individual LoCos, but nothing about USTeams." etc
22:13 < pleia2> any thoughts?
22:13 < Flannel> US Teams (finding a mentor, etc) is something LoCos need, so we don't really need prominent placemet insofar as the wiki page stuff.
22:13 < pleia2> I blog about it sometimes, tweet articles
22:14 < akgraner> can there be a section on the LoCo Teams wiki
22:14 < pleia2> that would be nice, but I don't know the protocol there since it's not /actually/ a loco team itself
22:15 < Flannel> How does one find the other teams? (not loco teams, just team teams)
22:15 < pleia2> how do we get added to the solar system on planet.ubuntu.com ?
22:15 < dantalizing> i think we sent an email to rt
22:15 < akgraner> can we just ask?
22:16 < pleia2> by looking here? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu
22:16 < pleia2> but I think mostly people find teams by googling for them or something
22:16 < akgraner> Dang I need to get out more that's the 1st time I've seen that one...
22:17 < pleia2> yeah, I don't know if it's actively maintained
22:17 < Flannel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Teams
22:17 < pleia2> neat
22:17 < pleia2> oh dear, my wrong name is on that page
22:17 < johnc4510> sorry i'm late
22:18 < pleia2> welcome, johnc4510 :)
22:18 < dantalizing> mm...history
22:18 < johnc4510> thx
22:18 < dantalizing> morning johnc4510
22:18 < johnc4510> dantalizing: hey bud
22:18 < akgraner> can there be a place on the website or the LoCo page that has links like the last 2
22:19 < pleia2> good idea
22:20  * Grantbow sneaks into the back of the room - sorry I'm late.
22:20 < pleia2> hm, I don't have any bright ideas, I guess I can keep an eye out for ways we can better integrate the USTeams elsewhere
22:21 < akgraner> I only knew to ask about a mentor because I read about them on the UW site and I figured if UW offered it then other teams did too...
22:21 < akgraner> then I started asking about it..
22:21 < pleia2> one thing I'd like to do is meander through the 50 teams in this country and see who has RSS feeds I can add to the planet
22:21 < pleia2> akgraner: ah, interesting
22:21 < johnc4510> pleia2: i was just reading back to catch up...about visibility...can we add ourselves to the master team list in some way??
22:21 < pleia2> then I can say "hey I added you to the planet, yay!"
22:22 < pleia2> johnc4510: akgraner suggested that, I don't know about protocol with editing that list
22:22 < ShawnR> would anyone here mind helping me with a touchpad tweak for 9.04?
22:22 < pleia2> hm, so when googling for "ubuntu us" our site is on top
22:22 < johnc4510> well, it is an open wiki...but i think we should run it by boredandblogging and see what he says...maybe under a different catagory
22:22 < johnc4510> ?
22:23 < pleia2> I think the page itself says "don't touch" :)
22:23 < johnc4510> ah
22:23 < ShawnR> synaptics touchpad, the scrolling and touch works fine, it's just the tap zones, all things i read tell me to edit the xorg.conf and every time i change it (as they state) i reboot to a "your xorg.conf is corrupt, need to use low gfx mode"
22:23 < pleia2> ShawnR: might want to try in #ubuntu for support (this channel is for US Teams mentoring and we're in the middle of a meetign)
22:23 < ShawnR> oh, sorry
22:23 < pleia2> no problem :)
22:23 < ShawnR> i tried the main chan
22:23 < ShawnR> but it is so flippin busy
22:23 < pleia2> just want to get you to the right place
22:24 < ShawnR> no one helps
22:24 < johnc4510> i know i have edited my own teams info in the past but...i understand
22:24 < ShawnR> i was looking through all the ubuntu type chans
22:24 < dantalizing> the page was just updated 2 months ago
22:24 < pleia2> dantalizing: can ShawnR get help in #ubuntu-us-fl?
22:24 < ShawnR> is there such a chan?
22:24 < pleia2> ShawnR: yes :)
22:24 < Grantbow> ShawnR: try #ubuntu-beginners
22:24 < ShawnR> lol, guess not, but i'm in there now :)
22:24 < dantalizing> pleia2: shawnr, if there are people around, they will certainly try to help
22:24 < ShawnR> well, i just "made" the -fl chan
22:24 < ShawnR> i'll try -beginners, but it doesn't seem to be a beginners ?
22:24 < pleia2> #ubuntu-us-fl has 35 people in it...
22:25 < pleia2> sure you typed it right?
22:25 < ShawnR> oh, i clicked on the first link... i guess it took the ? as part of the chan name
22:25 < ShawnR> lol
22:25 < pleia2> so maybe we can ask boredandblogging about the protocol and whether it can be added, it is his agenda item and all :)
22:25 < pleia2> see if he has any other thoughts too
22:26 < johnc4510> we might also add a sticky here pointing to the website: http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=284
22:26 < pleia2> good idea
22:27 < doctormo> hey pleia2
22:27 < pleia2> doctormo: hey :)
22:27 < johnc4510> we probably need to go through that and clean it up anyway
22:27 < doctormo> tonights lesson went well, remote access.
22:27 < pleia2> johnc4510: hm who has admin on our forum anyway?
22:27 < johnc4510> i do
22:27 < pleia2> oh good
22:27 < johnc4510> nick and etank
22:28 < pleia2> yeah, we should clean up those sticky things, the lands end thing is kinda moot now
22:28 < pleia2> as are hardy heron release parties :)
22:28 < johnc4510> nods
22:28 < pleia2> so, sticky there, follow-up on loco list
22:28 < johnc4510> we should get the forums admins to change nick and etank for you and dantalizing too
22:28 < pleia2> yeah
22:29 < akgraner> there are some folks who will look to the website for the answers as they don't like wiki's forums or mailing lists.. as more and more average non-technical users  come on board..
22:29 < johnc4510> ok, i'll take care of that
22:29 < pleia2> akgraner: so, do you think more links on the main website to resources would help?
22:29 < akgraner> so the website can be a place to get ahead of that curve and be prepared for that
22:29 < akgraner> yep
22:30  * pleia2 nods
22:30 < akgraner> people don't mind clicking a link, but figuring out how to search for through wiki's...
22:30 < johnc4510> we can set up some links in one of the sidebars...but i need ideas/a list of what we want linked
22:31 < johnc4510> specifics in other words
22:31 < johnc4510> :)
22:31 < pleia2> yeah
22:32 < johnc4510> if someone could make a list for us to go over...?? akgraner ??
22:32 < pleia2> we actually do have a lot of news stuff linked already
22:32 < johnc4510> lol
22:32 < akgraner> johnc4510, I can make a list and send it to the mailing list and you all can narrow it or whatever if that will help
22:33 < pleia2> akgraner: that would be great!
22:33 < johnc4510> akgraner: it would...thsx
22:33 < johnc4510> thx
22:33 < johnc4510> :)
22:33 < akgraner> however I don't know all the wiki's as I just saw tonight so I might just be able to give you some topics..
22:33 < pleia2> your suggestions will probably jog my memory for others
22:33 < johnc4510> better than nothing
22:34 < akgraner> but I will search for them as well...before I just post a topic/idea
22:34 < johnc4510> we will have to be a little selective so as not to have a 100 links available
22:34 < johnc4510> akgraner: thx
22:34 < johnc4510> there is a lot of info on the wiki for the loco teams :)
22:35 < pleia2> yeah, too much and our site becomes uselessly overwhelming
22:35 < johnc4510> btw, did all the approved teams send for a free copy of jono's community book?
22:35 < johnc4510> i hope so
22:36 < pleia2> us-pa did
22:36 < akgraner> I was thinking more of one link to a wiki that held links to all the other stuff.. not a million links on the website  does that make sense?
22:36 < johnc4510> az +1
22:36 < johnc4510> akgraner: that might be good too
22:36 < pleia2> the loco wiki documentation needs a map to navigate - a map that doesn't exist
22:37 < johnc4510> nods
22:37 < johnc4510> it's a jungle hee hee
22:37 < akgraner> yeah I ask boredandblogging if there was a wiki tree
22:37 < pleia2> a wiki tree would be nice
22:37 < johnc4510> a tree would have work from the start...not sure if you could now
22:37 < pleia2> with the loco docs you click 4 times and you are lost :)
22:38 < johnc4510> nods
22:38 < pleia2> there are a couple different menus at the tops of pages for wiki stuff
22:38 < pleia2> consolidation would help a lot
22:39 < Grantbow> who is the lead manager of the LoCo pages?
22:39 < johnc4510> on the wiki?
22:39 < pleia2> in theory, I think the loco council
22:39 < pleia2> in practice, it's a wiki, sorta just exists
22:39 < johnc4510> nods
22:39  * Grantbow nods
22:40 < pleia2> hm, so I think if some of us start weeding through the jungle to pull out what we like and link to it, it'd be helpful to contributing to a more global initiative in the future to tame it
22:40 < pleia2> I think there was a loco docs day a while back?
22:41 < dantalizing> yes
22:41 < dantalizing> we're actually doing some wiki cleanup (doc jam) as part of the global jam
22:41 < pleia2> cool
22:41 < dantalizing> maybe we can have a -us doc jam?
22:42 < akgraner> dantalizing, we are looking into doing that in NC as well...
22:42 < johnc4510> that would be great
22:42 < pleia2> well, that would be a nice way of getting us out there
22:42 < pleia2> all of us blabbering about our doc jam, nudging teams into contributing
22:42 < dantalizing> mmm...blabber
22:42 < johnc4510> :) az would be willing to help with that
22:42 < pleia2> pa too!
22:43 < johnc4510> btw...that would be an awesome thing for an unapproved team to add to their approval wiki :)
22:43 < pleia2> yeah, so nc should do it too
22:43 < pleia2> hehe
22:43 < dantalizing> mmm...coersion
22:44 < dantalizing> seriously ...good idea
22:44 < dantalizing> i'll mention it to some teams
22:44 < pleia2> cool
22:44 < akgraner> I like that idea...
22:44 < johnc4510> so can we have a us loco doc jam on jam day then???
22:44 < pleia2> so what do we think - our doc day would be... cleaning up our on wiki, us teams cleaning up their own wikis, all of us cleaning up loco documentation in general?
22:44 < akgraner> woo hoo can I just say I luv events!
22:45 < dantalizing> pleia2: +1
22:45 < dantalizing> akgraner: +1
22:45 < akgraner> pleia2, +1
22:45 < Grantbow> pleia2: +1
22:46 < johnc4510> i like the idea of us all working as one team so to speak to clean up the loco documentation
22:46 < pleia2> johnc4510: I'm not sure, the pa jam day is pretty busy with myth stuff... I'm wondering if this should be a separate thing entirely
22:46 < dantalizing> well the jam is 3 days
22:46 < johnc4510> k
22:46 < dantalizing> so we have a weekend :)
22:46 < dantalizing> october 2-4
22:47 < pleia2> is there risk of it getting lost in the noise of the big Jam itself?
22:47 < dantalizing> i dont think so
22:47 < pleia2> ok :)
22:47 < akgraner> there are teams asking "what can we do"
22:48 < dantalizing> i think the idea of contributing to the larger jam is more enticing to a lot of people/teams
22:48 < johnc4510> nds
22:48 < johnc4510> nods
22:48 < pleia2> so I think maybe for pa we'll do something like "here is our live event... but if you're stuck home..docs!"
22:48 < pleia2> and I'll pitch in on the 2nd and 4th when I'm not all tied up with eventing
22:48 < akgraner> we can have doc days like people do hug days with bugs right...
22:48 < johnc4510> i think we should submit the us loco team as one team that will coordinate all the us loco teams as one
22:49 < johnc4510> for the jam
22:49 < pleia2> maybe, I think we should at least nudge some teams into participating that haven't signed up
22:49 < pleia2> not enough from the US on the page yet :)
22:49 < johnc4510> k
22:50 < johnc4510> az hasn't signed on yet, but i can get them in on this for sure
22:50 < akgraner> wanna divide up the US area and conquer I mean start nudging
22:50 < akgraner> :-)
22:50 < pleia2> so... I'll put together a wiki page probably tomorrow night describing our intentions for a doc-jam that weekend
22:50 < pleia2> hehe
22:50 < dantalizing> i'll hit the teams i'm mentoring
22:51 < dantalizing> and GA
22:51 < dantalizing> :)
22:51 < akgraner> yeah that GA team jeez..:-P
22:51 < pleia2> johnc4510: oh! Kansas is your team and they had some trouble while you were gone
22:51 < johnc4510> cool....we should post it to the web site too
22:51 < pleia2> "your team" - one you mentor
22:51 < Grantbow> I'll email the California list about it when the wiki page is up
22:51 < johnc4510> pleia2: what sort of problems
22:51 < pleia2> I've helped them some, but they're still having trouble talking to each other
22:51 < Flannel> Email us about what?
22:52 < pleia2> johnc4510: there seem to be at least 3 people trying to start things, but they are having trouble communicating
22:52 < Grantbow> Flannel: US Doc Jam
22:52 < pleia2> one lurks on irc, another on forums, some just are *around* the internet
22:52 < pleia2> hehe
22:52 < Flannel> Grantbow: I don't think there'll be a need for email, we'll just incorporate it
22:52 < Flannel> that is, for a separate email
22:52 < Grantbow> whatever
22:53 < pleia2> johnc4510: Ahmuck in #ubuntu-us-ks might be someone to talk to (he's not there at the moment)
22:53 < johnc4510> pleia2: ok, i'll check into the irc channel tomorrow then...are they hanging out there?
22:53 < johnc4510> pleia2: kk
22:53 < johnc4510> thx
22:53 < pleia2> np
22:54 < akgraner> dantalizing, you wanna post to NC or you want me to take care of that?
22:54 < dantalizing> lol...
22:54 < dantalizing> akgraner: thats all you
22:54 < akgraner> :-P
22:55 < akgraner> take me to your mentor..  dantalizing isn't that you  :-P
22:55 < dantalizing> akgraner: no i just lurk there
22:55 < dantalizing> :)
22:55 < akgraner> :-)
22:55 < pleia2> hehe
22:55 < dantalizing> i'm just there to pick up tips
22:56 < akgraner> :-)
22:56 < pleia2> ok, I think we can probably wrap this up
22:56 < dantalizing> awight
22:56 < dantalizing> gn all ..
22:56 < pleia2> night, dantalizing!
22:57 < dantalizing> thx everyone
22:57 < akgraner> night, dantalizing
22:57 < johnc4510> thx to all
22:58 < johnc4510> pleia2: oh, next meeting??
22:58 < akgraner> what johnc4510 said...  what a cool meeting...:-)
22:58 < pleia2> oh right
22:58 < pleia2> same time and evening in 2 weeks?
22:58 < johnc4510> ok with me
22:59 < pleia2> cool
22:59 < johnc4510> thx
22:59 < akgraner> so the 9th
22:59 < akgraner> cool with me
</pre>
