{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Meetings/IRCLogs/2009-04-21 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> (pleia2) <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Permanent board
* Website update
* Planet update 

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* pleia2
* johnc4510
* dantalizing
* lamalex
* xq
* r2d2rogers
* Yasumoto

== Proceedings ==
* johnc4510 and dantalizing promoted from mentors to members of the "permanent" board
* Website Map - xq is working on a new revision, site will be launched just linking to wiki
* Website News - Do we want news? Yes! What does USTeams have that is newsworthy?
** Announce when a US Team gets approved
** Plus Interviews, posting Approval Application
** Announce when US LoCo members become Ubuntu Members
** "team of the month" or "loco member of the month"
** helpful tips and tricks for locos, by members of successful locos
** Example: "how to throw a great release party"
** Example: "running an installfest"
** Articles don't have to be complicated! Just showcase wiki pages that already exist with these resources that people may not know about
** Timely posts, such as "Release Party Tips"
* Planet
** pleia2 had volunteered to redo the planet theme, but can't make the time for it, needs help - she can offer dev space and give copies of current files to an HTML/CSS person if required
** Switch to drupal planet module? Need to see if it exists and works well for 5.x
* Announcements
** Jaunty Release Parties...please add yours here if you haven't already: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyReleaseParties
** 2) Jaunty release is Thursday. Please use the torrents if possible.

== Conclusion ==
* Google Calendar? Who has access? johnc4510 following up
* DNS update has been requested, site will go live soon
* Looking for HTML/CSS folks to redo planet theme
