{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This document is still pending.  Constitution will be posted by month end, Jan 2007.  User feedback and input is appreciated and expected.

== Preamble ==
We, the members of Ubuntu Utah, hereby establish this constitution to provide support, direction, and education to Utah based Ubuntu users, and to outline the purpose for the team.

== Name ==
The official name shall be "Ubuntu Utah", "Utah Team" or "Utah LoCo Team".

== Purpose ==
The purpose of the Utah Lo''''''Co Team is to
 1. Build community
 2. Spread knowledge about Ubuntu and Free Software
 3. Provide end-user support

== Mission Statement ==
As an approved Ubuntu Lo''''''Co team, we... (blah. not sure what to add here)

== Membership ==
Membership is open to anyone interested in advocacy, support, education and the freedom of using the Ubuntu distribution.

=== Application ===
Application to this team is done by registering yourself on the Utah Team page on launchpad.  No other initial action is required.

=== Rights & Benefits ===

=== Expectations ===
There are no required expectations for team users.  However, there are suggested actions to be taken for those that want to be pro-active in the pursuit of Ubuntu Membership.

=== Termination ===
Membership may be terminated at any time by the request of the user.  If the team member no longer has a desire to support or advocate Ubuntu they may request to be removed from the team.  The team or team leaders will not terminate membership of any applied member with the exception of a 2/3 vote of current membership '''and''' have grossly violated the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.

== Leadership ==
Team leadership should be taken from current '''official''' Ubuntu Members.  Official Members have shown a sustained contribution to the Ubuntu distribution and would therefore qualify as a candidate as a long-term representative of the team.  When one leader steps down, for whatever reason, the transitional leadership should be taken from Ubuntu Member pool.  If no other Ubuntu Members are available elections will be held.  Potential team leaders should be nominated by two current members and voted to leadership by a 2/3 majority.  If a non-official Ubuntu Member is assigned as team leader this members priority should be applying for Ubuntu Membership.  If needed he / she will contact the US Teams Project for mentoring on team building and membership framework.

== Finances ==
The Team shall remain a not-for-profit group.  It may raise non-mandatory funds from its user base for use in meetings, presentations, etc.  No member will be monetarily compensated for their time spent in any leadership position.

== Amendments / Changes ==
This constitution may not be changed or updated unless by a majority vote of current members, with the approval of X outside Ubuntu Members (ie; neighboring team, Jono, etc?).

== Notes from Jan 13, 2007 meeting ==
Initial outline:
* PURPOSE OF GROUP (vision statement - direction)
* comment & discuss idea behind submission.
* rationale behind the submission
* code of conduct inclusion (integration with ubuntu code of conduct)
* leadership code of conduct (integreation with ubuntu leadership code of conduct)
* leader transition concerns - ubuntu membership requirement
* pursuing membership as a main goal

* goals page
 '''timeline for ubuntu-utah membership toward official membership'''
 '''timeline for achievements after official membership'''

 '''how to become an ubuntu member'''
 '''how to create an ubuntu team'''

 '''release party / install fest'''
 '''yearly team project'''

Describe UtahTeam/Constitution here.
