{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Key Details ===

** Date - 2010-08-03
** Team Contact - Christer Edwards <christer.edwards@ubuntu.com>
** Membership - 36 as of 1st August 2010
** Mailing List - ubuntu-us-ut on lists.ubuntu.com
** IRC - #ubuntu-us-ut on freenode
** Launchpad - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-utah|Ubuntu Utah]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===
* Increase visibility of Linux and Ubuntu by participating in local events.
* Publish articles and tutorials in local and national media that describe how Ubuntu can meet key needs.
* Support the development projects of Ubuntu-Utah members.

=== Experience ===

===== Regular Meeting Schedule =====

Since the team was founded in early 2006 we have held meetings every second Saturday of the month. Over the past four years we may have only missed a half-dozen meetings. Unfortunately we haven't kept minutes at all of these meetings, but some of them are documented here:

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2008Mar8|Bug Reporting]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2008Feb9|Debian Package Building]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2008Jan12|Shell Basics]]</nowiki>

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2007Dec8|SSH Tunneling & Network Encryption]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2007Nov17|find vs locate vs beagle vs tracker]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2007Nov11|Multi-Distro Release Party @ Novell OSTC]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2007Oct20|Gutsy Release Party]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2007Sept8|Utah Open Source Conference]]</nowiki>

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2006Nov11|Ubuntu Resources / Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2006Oct28|Install Fest @ BYU]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2006Sept9|DNS]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam/Meetings/2006Aug12|Encryption & GPG]]</nowiki>

More documentation regarding our team schedules, topics and members can be found on our <nowiki>[[http://utah.ubuntu-us.org/|website]]</nowiki>.

===== Utah Open Source Conference =====

Ubuntu Utah has held a presence since 2007 at the Utah Open Source Conference. Team members have given Ubuntu-specific presentations, we've represented Ubuntu with a booth, and distributed a huge number of CDs.

** <nowiki>[[http://2008.utosc.com/pages/home/|Utah Open Source Conference 2008]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://2009.utosc.com/pages/home/|Utah Open Source Conference 2009]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://2010.utosc.com/pages/home/|Utah Open Source Conference 2010]]</nowiki>

This year, we expect several of our members to present on a wide variety of subjects, including: how writers can make use of Ubuntu/Linux to be more productive, and how to preserve your digital memories using open source tools.

===== Linux User Group Collaboration =====

In addition to our own meetings, our members both attend and have made presentations to the <nowiki>[[http://www.sllug.org|Salt Lake Linux Users Group]]</nowiki>, the <nowiki>[[http://plug.org|Provo Linux User's Group]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[http://oalug.com|Ogden Area Linux Users Group]]</nowiki>.

Our region includes more than 7 universities and we've worked toward distributing CDs at each.

===== Publications =====

Members of the Utah Ubuntu team maintain various websites that cover Ubuntu related news and provide tutorials.

Christer Edwards publishes Ubuntu specific articles for Packt Publishing Article Network:

** <nowiki>[[http://www.packtpub.com/article/create-local-ubuntu-repository-using-apt-mirror-apt-cacher|Creating Ubuntu Repository Mirrors]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.packtpub.com/article/ubuntu-user-interface-tweaks|Ubuntu User Interface Tweaks]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.packtpub.com/article/what-is-new-in-ubuntu-9.10-karmic-koala|What's new in Ubuntu 9.10]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.packtpub.com/article/folding-at-home-on-ubuntu-cancer-research-made-easy|Folding@Home Made Easy on Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.packtpub.com/article/securely-encrypt-removable-media-with-ubuntu|Encrypting Removable Media with Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.packtpub.com/article/five-years-of-ubuntu|Five Years of Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.packtpub.com/article/install-gnome-shell-on-ubuntu-karmic-koala|Install GNOME Shell on Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.packtpub.com/article/ubuntu-9.10-how-to-upgrade|How to upgrade to Ubuntu 9.10]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.packtpub.com/article/network-based-ubuntu-installations|Network Based Ubuntu Installations]]</nowiki>

Mike Basinger publishes <nowiki>[[http://www.mikesplanet.net/|Mike's Planet]]</nowiki>, which primarily includes Ubuntu discussion and tips.

Rob Oakes writes for and maintains "<nowiki>[[http://blog.oak-tree.us|Apolitically Incorrect]]</nowiki>" and routinely covers topics related to LaTeX, LyX and Linux software development. 

Christer Edwards is also the primary author of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com|Ubuntu Tutorials]]</nowiki>, a site dedicated to enhancing the Ubuntu experience.

==== Development Efforts ====

Members of our team are active in various Open Source projects.  Where appropriate, we try to support those efforts by promoting the programs, helping to create documentation/use-case scenarios, and providing other resources as needed.  Notable examples of such efforts include:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/time-drive|Time Drive]]</nowiki>: A simple to use backup utility for desktop Linux users.  Rob Oakes, the primary developer and project maintainer, is an active member of our team.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/lyx-outline|LyX-Outline]]</nowiki>: An add-on for the LaTeX front-end, LyX.  LyX-Outline provides writers with a way to better visualize and manipulate the structure of their documents.  It is primarily targeted toward academic and creative writers.
* <nowiki>[[http://origami.zelut.org|Origami]]</nowiki>: Maintained by Christer Edwards is a front-end to Folding@Home which is included in the Ubuntu repositories. Christer, along with the F@H project, are very active with <nowiki>[[http://folding.extremeoverclocking.com/team_summary.php?s=&t=45104|TeamUbuntu]]</nowiki>, a competitive Ubuntu Folding@Home team.
