{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2008 Mar 8th ==
* Meeting Topic - Bug reporting

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Trevor Sharpe<<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* atoponce
* Heartsbane
* nearn
* bigfox
* fizz
* herlo
* Technoviking/Mike Basinger
* synic
* bigmac2

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''6:00pm''', by Aaron Toponce''
* ''Meeting called to end at '''8:00pm''', by Aaron Toponce''

=== Agenda ===
'''Bug Reporting'''
* '''Presenter''': <nowiki>[[http://exaile.org/|Adam Olsen]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/exaile|Presentation]]</nowiki> 
* Download podcast: '''NO Podcast this meeting''' due to unfortunate permissions issue, sorry.

== Additional ==
* Adam Olson of Exaile.org, w00t!!!
* Jim Vantassel, bug tracker with Trac
* Several of us went to <nowiki>[[http://www.slcwaiter.com/category_detail.php?CatID=55|MacCool's]]</nowiki> after the meeting for a late dinner
