{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2006 Nov 11 ==
* Ubuntu Resources - presented by Tristan Rhodes
* Ubuntu Membership - presented by Christer Edwards

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Christer Edwards <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

===== Members Present =====
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/tristanbob|Tristan Rhodes]]</nowiki> - Tristanbob / [Utah]tristanbob
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChristerEdwards|Christer Edwards]]</nowiki> - Zelut / Kuyaedz
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AaronToponce|Aaron Toponce]]</nowiki> - Atoponce
* Robert Rivera
* Clint Savage - Herlo
* John Andersen - Sontek

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''4:00pm''', by Christer Edwards''
* ''Meeting called to end at '''6:00pm''', by Christer Edwards''

=== Agenda ===
The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

===== Agenda Item #1 =====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Tristanbob|Tristan Rhodes]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed/|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter RSS]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu Mailing Lists]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-utah.org/index.php/2006/06/22/ubuntu-utah-irc-channel/|Ubuntu IRC]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net|Ubuntu Launchpad]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/edgy/+translations|Ubuntu Rosetta (translation)]]</nowiki>

Basically, the resources available in Ubuntu are abundant and offer something for every level of user. Whether it be support via a mailing list or forum, or through community contribution through the Ubuntu Wiki or Rosetta there is a lot to offer. If you aren’t familiar with these different resources you really should visit the links and get a feel for what you can contribute or how it can help you.

===== Agenda Item #2 =====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChristerEdwards|Christer Edwards]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <<BR>>
I was approved for Ubuntu Membership in February of 2006. Ubuntu Membership is an application process that any fan of Ubuntu can aspire to. All it takes is continued contribution to the community through advocacy and support. Your contributions can be through a local team (like Ubuntu Utah), volunteering on the forums, working with bugs in Malone or offering translation in Rosetta. In the end all it requires is continued support for the Ubuntu Project. Below are the steps you can take to apply for Ubuntu Membership.

   1. Document your work on your home page on the Ubuntu Wiki. This can include links to code, mailing list messages, or wiki pages. It can also include narrative descriptions.
   2. Be prepared to have current Ubuntu members provide testimonials on your work and involvement in Ubuntu. For many types of work, testimonials will be the single most important part of a members application. For example, if you are doing great work with the MOTU, ask some of them to be at the Community Council meeting where your membership is considered.
   3. Add yourself to the Community Council Agenda and link to the wiki page
   4. If it is convenient, come to the next Community Council meeting.
   5. Upon approval by the council, you will need to “sign” a copy of the Code of Conduct. This can be done in three ways:
         1. A signed (i.e., with a pen) paper copy FAXed to Benjamin Mako Hill at (+1) 815.361.7509.
         2. A cryptographic (GPG) signature on the text of the code itself sent to Benjamin Mako Hill
         3. A cryptographic (GPG) signature on the Code of Conduct in your Launchpad account.

If you would like to strive for Ubuntu Membership my best suggestions are to closely follow the steps outlined above with these tips.

   1. Use your personal Wiki page as an Ubuntu resume. Clearly and in detail outline your contributions to the Ubuntu community.
   2. Make sure you are prepared for the Community Council meeting by knowing the date and time of the meeting and inviting other Ubuntu Members to offer testimonials. (I am more than happy to vouch for anyone on our team!)
   3. Outline current and future goals for yourself and outline them on your Wiki. What will you do as an Ubuntu Member? Why should we approve you?

Ubuntu Membership comes with its perks. If not merely for the satisfaction of knowing that your contributions have been recognized by the worldwide community you also get an @ubuntu.com email address and are authorized to carry Ubuntu business cards. You will have become an official representative of the Ubuntu distribution.

I hope many of our team members will aspire for Ubuntu Membership. It’s a great way to motivate yourself to contribute and a high standard to shoot for. Please contact me if you have any questions about Ubuntu Membership. I’d love to be able to offer any advice that I can.

== Additional ==
* 225 CDs were distributed to representatives from three area LUGs.  <nowiki>[[http://oalug.com|OALUG]]</nowiki> (Ogden Area Linux Users Group), <nowiki>[[http://tvlug.org|TVLUG]]</nowiki> (Tooele Valley Linux Users Group) and <nowiki>[[http://fslc.usu.edu/|FSLC]]</nowiki> (Free Software and Linux Club).
