{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2006 Oct 28 ==
* Ubuntu 6.10 (Edgy Eft) Installfest @ Brigham Young University

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Christer Edwards <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

===== Members Present =====
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChristerEdwards|Christer Edwards]]</nowiki> - Zelut / Kuyaedz
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jsmidt|Joseph Smidt]]</nowiki> - jsmidt
* Clint Savage - Herlo
* Scott Paul Robertson - SPR
* Robert Rivera
* -- General Public --

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''11:00am''', by Christer Edwards''
* ''Meeting called to end at '''4:00pm''', by Christer Edwards''

=== Agenda ===
The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

===== Agenda Item #1 =====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtahTeam|Ubuntu Utah]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <<BR>>
We had a good turnout to the Brigham Young University campus for the Ubuntu 6.10 (Edgy Eft) installfest.  Below is a copy of the report sent to the mailing list.
<pre>
The Install Fest Party we had this morning at BYU was a big success.  We
had a pretty good turnout & were able to help everyone that came by with
their machines.  A few hiccups here & there, but nothing we couldn't
handle--we even attempted installing Beryl on a machine & got that
showed off.

A big thanks to Scott "SPR" from BYU for helping us put the event
together.  Also thanks to Clint "herlo" Savage for coming by to offer
support and to Joe "jsmidt" for helping run the show.  Everything was
appreciated.

Let's put together another great show for 7.04 release in the spring.
I'm sure it'll prove to be another impressive release.

How did the meet go up at OALUG today?  Anyone else put together any
kind of Release Parties for 6.10?
</pre>

== Additional ==
