{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Current status ===

As of Hoary, there is now a package called ''utf8-migration-tool''. Install it and run the command '''utf8migrationtool'''. It changes the users default login locale. Additionally, it searches for files in the users home directory with 8-bit characters and transforms them to utf-8.

=== Other tools ===

''How do you rename filenames automatically to UTF-8 outside you home directory?''
 Download the package convmv (from the universe repository) and run it like 
{{{ 
apt-get install convmv
convmv --notest -f iso-8859-1 -t utf8 -r -i /path/to/your/files
}}}

''How do you transform textfiles that contain 8-bit characters into UTF-8?''
 See man page for more into on command iconv. Here is an example:
{{{ 
iconv -f old-encoding -t UTF-8 filename > temp.tmp && cat temp.tmp > filename && rm temp.tmp 
}}}

''How do you mount vfat/ntfs/samba filesystems that contain 8-bit encoded characters?''
 Options for mount command are following:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Filesystem type
| Option to enable utf-8 support
|-
| ntfs
| nls=utf8
|-
| vfat
| utf8
|-
| smbfs
| iocharset=utf8,codepage=unicode,unicode
|}

== Comment ==

Warbo: Would this completely obliterate the AmigaOS installation that I keep in my Home directory and use with E-UAE? I am pretty sure it would, since AmigaOS doesn't use UTF-8 (at least, version 3.x doesn't and that is what I have installed) and E-UAE translates a regular ext3 folder into a partition for the emulated Amiga on-the-fly, and any filenames using foreign characters in the Amiga will always appear garbled if I go to that folder in Nautilus (which is fine, since I don't need to use Nautilus in there). Also, E-UAE's documentation says that it is not completely UTF-8 compatible. I really think things like this should be pointed out, since this page seems to be hailing UTF-8 conversion as the answer to all problems, without mentioning that it can have serious negative effects!
