{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

=== Applying for ===

* per-package upload rights to:
** walinuxagent
** hv-kvp-daemon-init
* Ubuntu Contributing developer

=== About Me ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Ben Howard
|-
| '''IRC'''
| utlemming
|-
| '''Launchpad '''
| https://launchpad.net/~utlemming
|}

----

Over the last two years, my focus has been delivering Ubuntu to Amazon AWS and other Cloud vendors (like Windows Azure and HP), mirror improvements and the porting Ubuntu to Windows Azure.

Before coming to Canonical, I was employed by Novell and most recently Amazon. For Novell, I was a advantage support engineer. At Amazon I worked on the Amazon Linux project, built the Amazon Linux S3 installation repositories, and maintained a Xen Fleet (a 40K physical machine installation). In general, I consider myself a cloud-guy and enjoy working on cloud and server projects. 

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* Various package work: https://launchpad.net/~utlemming/+related-packages
*** Uploaded packages: https://launchpad.net/~utlemming/+uploaded-packages
*** Maintained packages: https://launchpad.net/~utlemming/+maintained-packages
* Ubuntu-specific changes and Debian packaging for the walinuxagent
*** Currently am the Ubuntu point of contact for Microsoft related to issue with walinuxagent
* The build-out of the S3 Amazon images archive
* Porting of the Ubuntu Cloud Images to work on Windows Azure
* The Ubuntu Vagrant Cloud Images
* Continued maintenance of the Ubuntu Cloud Images on AWS

=== Future Goals ===

My goals are pretty cloud centric, with the overriding goal to make the Ubuntu Cloud Images the best in the Cloud. With that, comes more packaging work -- such as updates to the AWS tools, packaging new tools to support cloud products, and continued maintenance of the Cloud Images. 

=== Testimonials ===
