{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Introduction ===

I'm Ben, and I am the guy that currently spins, releases, and manages the Ubuntu Cloud images and http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com. I spend a lot of time working on improving the build process, working on build or cloud image bugs, work with new EC2 S3 mirrors and generally doing cloud-type stuff. I do a lot of engagement with Ubuntu users via direct IRC chatting, email and updating users via the cloud list.  I've been actively involved with the Ubuntu Server Team and have done some bug triaging. The thing that I am most proud of, was my technical work to do get Ubuntu on the AWS Qucikstart (http://cloud.ubuntu.com/2012/03/ubuntu-cloud-guest-images-in-amazons-quickstart-launcher/), which allows fellow Ubuntu users to find and launch the official Ubuntu images on AWS (previously only Red Hat, SuSE and Amazon Linux were there). The other bit is the new EC2 S3 mirrors. Once the new EC2 S3 mirrors are activated, users will be able to get packages from a very highly reliable source. 

My reason for applying as a Ubuntu member, instead of a contributing developer, is because I don't do a lot of packaging work. 

=== Prior Application === 

I applied previously, but my application was not acted on due to time constraints. 

<nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-Ben_Howard%28utlemming%29 | Previous Application ]]</nowiki> 

=== About Me ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="background:#F07746;color:#ffffff;align:center;border:0;margin:0;">'''Email:'''
| bhoward{@}utlemming{.}org
|-
| <style="background:#F07746;color:#ffffff;align:center;border:0;margin:0;">'''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~utlemming| utlemming ]]</nowiki>
|-
| <style="background:#F07746;color:#ffffff;align:center;border:0;margin:0;">'''IRC nick:'''
| <nowiki>[[ utlemming ]]</nowiki>
|-
| <style="background:#F07746;color:#ffffff;align:center;border:0;margin:0;">'''Google +:'''
| <nowiki>[[ gplus.to-utlemming | ben.howard ]]</nowiki>
|-
| <style="background:#F07746;color:#ffffff;align:center;border:0;margin:0;">'''Location:'''
| <nowiki>[[ http:--maps.google.com-maps?q=Spanish+Fork,+UT&hl=en&ll=40.111689,-111.621094&spn=47.420177,79.980469&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=49.223579,79.980469&oq=spanish+for&hnear=Spanish+Fork,+Utah&t=m&z=4 | Spanish Fork, Utah, USA ]]</nowiki>
|-
| <style="background:#F07746;color:#ffffff;align:center;border:0;margin:0;">'''Code Contributions'''
| <nowiki>[[ https:--code.launchpad.net-~utlemming | lp:~utlemming  ]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

===== Ubuntu Cloud Images =====

* During the Oneiric development cycle, I implemented Debian's Live-build to deprectate the old build system of VMBuilder. 
* Various changes to the Cloud Image publishing process ( <nowiki>[[ http:--bazaar.launchpad.net-~ubuntu-on-ec2-ubuntu-on-ec2-ec2-publishing-scripts-changes-422?start_revid=442 | ec2-publishing-scripts ]]</nowiki> )
** Implemented new <nowiki>[[ http:--cloud-images.ubuntu.com-query2 | Query2 ]]</nowiki> format for discovery and mirroring of cloud image 
* Added ARM{hf,el} build process to produce ARM Cloud Images
* Cloud Image Process
** I manage the daily build process
** I also handle release-day launches of the cloud images
* Rebranded <nowiki>[[ http:--cloud-images.ubuntu.com | cloud-images.ubuntu.com ]]</nowiki> to use new styling

===== S3 Ubuntu Mirrors =====
** Authored and setup syncronization process to mirror new S3 mirrors in EC2
*** Process took over two months to implement
*** Published code publiclly <nowiki>[[ https:--code.launchpad.net-~utlemming-s3aptmirror-alpha1 | here ]]</nowiki>
** Working with Amazon to resolve bug <nowiki>[[ https:--bugs.launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-apt-+bug-948461 | 948461 ]]</nowiki>
*** Currnently planned as the replacement for current EC2 mirror
** Unique distribution method of APT mirrors, which no other major distribution has implemented

===== Precise LXC =====

Contributed to the <nowiki>[[ http:--bazaar.launchpad.net-~ubuntu-branches-ubuntu-precise-lxc-precise-view-head:-templates-lxc-ubuntu-cloud.in | Ubuntu Cloud template ]]</nowiki> 

===== Contributed to Cloud-Init =====
** Proposed <nowiki>[[ https:--code.launchpad.net-~utlemming-cloud-init-cloud-init.apt_debug-+merge-97268 | APT Debuging ]]</nowiki> module
** Disabled <nowiki>[[ http:--bazaar.launchpad.net-~ubuntu-branches-ubuntu-precise-cloud-init-precise-revision-1.1.20 | APT pipelining ]]</nowiki> 
*** Currently preparing SRU's MP for Natty and Oneiric

===== Current Project =====

I'm currently developing a tool that utilizes the new Query2 data-format to allow users to consume and customize cloud-images at for arbitrary clouds. The source is <nowiki>[[ https:--code.launchpad.net-~utlemming-+junk-sync-images | here ]]</nowiki>

In the near term, I will be putting up a public Glance server for openstack installations to consume images. 

===== Bug Triaging =====

I have done a little bug triaging for the Ubuntu Server Team. 

=== Future Goals ===

I plan on actively working toward Core-Dev status and making Ubuntu the top-tier distribution within the clouds. 

=== Testimonials ===

---

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jorge]]</nowiki>  - Ben has been a tremendous help keeping Ubuntu in shape on Amazon Web Services. 

I helped test the work he did on putting the mirrors in EC2 and though it sounds simple it's a huge benefit; this is something that was previously only available to Amazon Linux users and is now available for Ubuntu users to use. If membership is granted I'd like to see your blog on Planet Ubuntu talking about some of these infrastructure-y cloud bits that we all take for granted.

Ben is great to work with.  He's my contact for getting the cloud images coordinated with the rest of the images for our releases.  When ever I ask, he's got things ready to go, and doesn't need reminders - which is awesome from my perspective. :)   Have also enjoyed brainstorming with him on ideas for making our release processes better, and looking forward to more brainstorming and improvements in the months to come.  KateStewart
