{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Xubuntu 14.10 ==

The Xubuntu team is pleased to announce the immediate release of Xubuntu 14.10.

'''The release is available for download by torrents and direct downloads from <nowiki>[[http://xubuntu.org/getxubuntu/]]</nowiki>.'''

The release announcement with a brief introduction to the release is at <nowiki>[[http://xubuntu.org/news/14-10-release]]</nowiki>.

=== Highlights and Known Issues ===

To celebrate the 14.10 codename "Utopic Unicorn" and to demonstrate the easy customisability of Xubuntu, highlight colors have been turned pink for this release. You can easily revert this change by using the theme configuration application (gtk-theme-config) under the Settings Manager; simply turn Custom Highlight Colors "Off" and click "Apply". Of course, if you wish, you can change the highlight color to something you like better than the default blue!

Starting with Xubuntu 14.10, you should use pkexec instead of gksudo for running graphical applications with root access from the terminal for improved security. The Xubuntu team has prepared and shipped the necessary pkexec policy files for all default applications in the Xubuntu installation that we deemed necessary.

==== Highlights ====
* New Xfce Power Manager plugin is added to the panel <<BR>> ''Note: Upgraders from Trusty will not see the new xfce4-power-manager panel plugin by default, but instead stick to indicator-power. This can easily be resolved by uninstalling indicator-power and adding the "Power Manager Plugin" to the panel.''
* Items in the newly themed alt-tab dialog can now be clicked with the mouse

==== Known Issues ====

* com32r error on boot with some live usb sticks (Bug:1325801)
* Virtualbox can start with a black screen (Bug:1378423)
* Black background to Try/Install dialogue (Bug:1365815)
* Qt apps don't use the Gtk+ style by default, workaround is to install qt4-qtconfig and set the style there

==== Workarounds for issues in virtual machines ====

* Move to TTY1 (with Virtual''''''Box, Right-Ctrl+F1), then move back to TTY7 (with Virtual''''''Box, Right-Ctrl+F7)

<<BR>>
=== Trusty to Utopic Changelog ===

==== Changes to Xubuntu Default Settings ====
Please note that changes in the default configuration affect all users who haven't changed the default configuration.

* xubuntu-default-settings 14.04.4 to 14.10.11
* Enable minimize and maximize on Gtk''''''Headerbars (Bug:1373887)
* Pink highlights
* Set desktop icon size to 48px
* Set desktop tooltip size to 64px.
* Updated panel layout for login screen.
* Reduce number of workspaces to 1.
* Use saner defaults for DPMS timeouts
* Enable lock-screen on suspend and hibernate
* Light Locker is enabled and will lock on suspend, but not auto-locking after being idle.
* New Xfce Power Manager plugin is added to the panel
* Add pkexec policies for Mousepad and Thunar
* Enable clutter as default videosink in parole
* Add Settings submenu to main menu to make launchers in the Settings category appear in Whisker menu (Bug:1310264)

==== New and removed applications ====
* New: <nowiki>[[http://xubuntu.org/news/inxi/|Inxi]]</nowiki>
* Removed: XChat

=== Updates ===

* abiword 3.0.0-4ubuntu1 to 3.0.0-5ubuntu1
* blueman 1.23-git201403102151-1ubuntu1 to 1.23-git201406261335-deb-1ubuntu1
* catfish 1.0.2-2 to 1.2.2-1 Detects outdated locate database, shows infobar to update
* gmusicbrowser 1.1.12+ds0-1 to 1.1.13~ds0-1ubuntu1
* gnome-system-tools 3.0.0-3ubuntu4 to 3.0.0-3ubuntu5
* gnumeric 1.12.9-1 to 1.12.17-1build1
* gtk-theme-config 1.0-1 to 1.2-0ubuntu1 
** Now has translations
* light-locker-settings 1.2.1-0ubuntu1 to 1.4.2-0ubuntu1
** Supports updated xfce4-power-manager
** Now adds a button to control screensaver settings from Xfce Power Manager
* lightdm-gtk-greeter 1.8.4-0ubuntu1 to 1.9.0-0ubuntu1
* menulibre 2.0.3-1 to 2.0.6-1ubuntu1
** Bug fixes galore.
* mugshot 0.2.3-1 to 0.2.5-1
** Better support for LDAP users, bug fixes.
* parole 0.6.1-0ubuntu3 to 0.7.0-0ubuntu2
** New clutter backend (default) means that video works correctly even in Virtualbox,
* shimmer-themes 1.7.3-0ubuntu1 to 1.8.1-0ubuntu1
** New theme releases
** shimmer-themes is now a metapackage.  Albatross dropped from depends.
* thunar-archive-plugin 0.3.1-2 to 0.3.1-3
* tumbler 0.1.30-1ubuntu1 to 0.1.30-1ubuntu2
** Now supports thumbnails for webm format
* xfburn 0.5.0-0ubuntu1 to 0.5.2-1
** New bluray support
* xfce4-appfinder 4.10.1-1 to 4.11.0-1
* xfce4-dev-tools 4.10.0-2 to 4.11.0-1
* xfce4-mailwatch-plugin 1.2.0-1 to 1.2.0-2
* xfce4-notifyd 0.2.4-2 to 0.2.4-3
* xfce4-panel 4.11.0-0ubuntu1 to 4.11.1-0ubuntu2
** Supports dm-tool for user switching
* xfce4-power-manager 1.2.0-3ubuntu4 to 1.4.1-0ubuntu1
** New release includes panel plugin with fixed presentation mode, other new features
* xfce4-screenshooter 1.8.1-2ubuntu1 to 1.8.1-5
* xfce4-session 4.10.1-3ubuntu5 to 4.11.0-1ubuntu1
* xfce4-settings 4.11.2-1ubuntu2 to 4.11.3-0ubuntu2
** New release includes drag-n-drop display settings
* xfce4-systemload-plugin 1:1.1.1-1ubuntu2 to 1:1.1.1-2ubuntu1
* xfce4-weather-plugin 0.8.3-1 to 0.8.3-2
** Fixes recent "NO DATA" issue
* xfce4-whiskermenu-plugin 1.3.2-1 to 1.4.0-1ubuntu1
* xfdesktop4 4.11.6-1ubuntu1 to 4.11.8-0ubuntu1
* xfwm4 4.11.1-2ubuntu2 to 4.11.2-0ubuntu2
* xubuntu-artwork 14.04.2 to 14.10.3
 

<<BR>><<BR>>
== Common infrastructure ==
