{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 95%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #ffccaa; font-size: 0.90em;" :> '''Important Note:''' Please '''DO NOT''' Download any version of Ubuntu GNOME without READING '''the Release Notes - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntugnome.org/reading-the-release-notes-is-a-must-do-step/ | here is why]]</nowiki> - specially the Known Issues''' - Thank you!
|}
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

Read the Release Notes in your language:<<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/German | German]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Greek | Greek]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Norwegian | Norwegian]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Slovak | Slovak]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Swedish | Swedish]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Chinese | 中文 (Chinese)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Malayalam | മലയാളം (Malayalam)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Korean | 한국어 (Korean)]]</nowiki>
|}

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

== Ubuntu GNOME 14.10 ==
'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME | Ubuntu GNOME]]</nowiki>''' is an official flavour of Ubuntu, featuring the '''<nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/ | GNOME]]</nowiki>''' desktop environment. Ubuntu GNOME is a mostly pure GNOME desktop experience built from the Ubuntu repositories. This version is based on the '''GNOME 3.12''' release - Why? please check <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME#See_Also | See Also]]</nowiki> Section for more details.

== Minimum System Requirements ==

* 1 GHz processor (for example Intel Celeron) or better.

* 1.5 GB RAM (system memory).

* 7 GB of free hard drive space for installation.

* Either a CD/DVD drive or a USB port for the installer media.

* Internet access is helpful (for installing updates during the installation process).

If you have an old machine, you may consider other alternatives like '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu]]</nowiki>''' or '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu | Xubuntu]]</nowiki>'''.

== Features of Ubuntu GNOME 14.10 ==

* Most of '''GNOME 3.12''' is now included. See the <nowiki>[[https://help.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.12/ | GNOME release notes]]</nowiki> for more details. The few missing bits of 3.12 are available in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gnome3-team/+archive/gnome3 | ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3]]</nowiki>. We do NOT use gnome-software to install applications, instead we use Ubuntu Software Center.

* gnome-maps and gnome-weather are now installed by default. gnome-photos, gnome-music and polari are available to install from the Ubuntu archive.

* A set of '''10 new high-quality wallpapers''' are included by default.

* '''GNOME Classic session''' is included. To try it, choose it from the Sessions option on the login screen.

* New themes (like numix) are available on the archive.

== Applications in Ubuntu GNOME 14.10 ==

* '''GNOME Shell'''. The GNOME desktop environment from where you can search and start applications, switch between windows, etc.

* '''Nautilus''' (File Manager). An easy to use file manager for organizing your documents, music, pictures, videos and files in general.

* '''Firefox Web Browser'''. Browse the web with one of the most popular fast, flexible and secure web browsers.

* '''LibreOffice'''. Create professional documents, spreadsheets, presentations and even more with the open-source office suite.

* '''gedit''' (Text Editor). A small and lightweight text editor for the GNOME desktop environment.

* '''Ubuntu Software Center'''. Lets you browse and install thousands of free and paid applications available for '''Ubuntu'''. 

* '''Tweak Tool'''. Change advanced settings – appearance, fonts, keyboard and mouse, windows and workspaces. Install extensions, set power options, select startup applications.

== Get Ubuntu GNOME 14.10 ==
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/14.10/release/ | DOWNLOAD]]</nowiki> Ubuntu GNOME 14.10

=== Upgrading from last release ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 95%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #ffccaa; font-size: 0.90em;" :>'''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntugnome.org/to-upgrade-or-not-to-upgrade/ | To Upgrade Or Not To Upgrade?]]</nowiki>'''
|}
<<BR>>
Before upgrading, it is highly recommended to back up your data. See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem | this page]]</nowiki> for tutorials on how to backup your data. Or just download '''<nowiki>[[http://clonezilla.org/downloads.php | Clonezilla]]</nowiki>''' and create an image of your hard drive or system partition.

The included GUI update manager will offer you the latest release of '''Ubuntu GNOME'''. Which can also be accessed via Terminal:

<pre>
sudo update-manager -d
</pre>

Alternatively, launch '''Terminal''' by hitting Ctrl+Alt+T and run the following command:

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

'''Note'''. If you were using the '''gnome3-team/gnome3-staging''' PPA, you should run
<pre>
sudo ppa-purge ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3-staging
</pre>
before upgrading.

* If you are having problems with upgrading - '''''No new release found''''' - please <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/125392/why-is-no-new-release-found-when-upgrading-from-a-lts-to-the-next | see this]]</nowiki>.

* More information about '''Upgrading''' can <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/110477/how-do-i-upgrade-to-a-newer-version-of-ubuntu | be found here]]</nowiki>.

== Personal Package Archives (PPAs) ==

PPAs for '''Ubuntu GNOME''' can be found on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Developers | this link]]</nowiki>.

* Missing bits of 3.12 are available on the Gnome3 PPA

* Most of 3.14 is now available on the Gnome3-staging PPA

== Known Issues ==
* Extensions disabled at every startup (Bug:1236749): As a workaround select "System Default" from the cog menu on the login screen.

* Installation freezing when selecting manual partitioning (Bug:1361951): This can be avoided by creating partitions with gparted before running the installer.

* VirtualBox boots to black screen or corrupted screen with daily (Bug:1378423): For more information, please see <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/325/builds/82602/testcases/1303/results | this comment]]</nowiki>.

== Ubuntu Release Notes ==

* For common issues with '''Ubuntu''', please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes | Ubuntu release notes]]</nowiki>. 

== Support ==

* 9 Months – see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases | releases]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu GNOME 14.10 (Utopic Unicorn) is our Non-LTS Release, hence it is supported for 9 months only. If you seek stability and long support, please consider <nowiki>[[http://ubuntugnome.org/ubuntu-gnome-14-04-lts-is-released/ | Ubuntu GNOME 14.04 (Trusty Tahr) LTS]]</nowiki> Release. If you seek the latest software/packages that we can offer, then go ahead and use Ubuntu GNOME 14.10 (Utopic Unicorn).

== Contact Us ==

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Contact Us]]</nowiki>

== See Also ==
* '''Q:''' Why GNOME 3.14 is not included by default with Ubuntu GNOME 14.10?
* '''A:''' Please see <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-gnome/2014-September/002278.html | this E-mail]]</nowiki>. To get the latest GNOME, you need to use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Developers | our PPA]]</nowiki>. 
