{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

We’re preparing  Ubuntu GNOME Utopic Unicorn (14.10) for distribution in  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule | October 23rd, 2014]]</nowiki>. With this Beta 1 pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next (stable) version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' 

This is Beta 1 Release. 
Ubuntu GNOME '''Beta Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu GNOME '''Beta Releases''' are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu GNOME developers

== Getting Ubuntu GNOME Utopic Unicorn (14.10) Beta 1 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/14.10/beta-1/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/14.10/beta-1/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Beta 1 Highlights ==
=== Software Updates ===

* Gnome-shell 3.12 is now included.
 
* gnome-weather and gnome-maps are now installed by default

== Known Problems ==

=== Ubuntu GNOME Desktop ===

* After reboot of Ubuntu Gnome installation, password for LVM encryption is not accepted (Bug:1362333)

* Can't select which drive to resize when using "install alongside" in Trusty  (Bug:1262824)

* Ubiquity offers to erase existing OS rather than use entire disc even when more than one disc exists (Bug:1361914)

* Utopic installation freezes during partition creation (Bug:1361951)

* If started from the advanced boot menu Ubuntu GNOME Utopic live session boots to TTY prompt (Bug:1361962)

* Utopic "Installation completed" window nearly spans the width of the screen (Bug:1361972)

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu GNOME Utopic Unicorn (14.10) is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date and you're installing the '''latest build'''.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/daily-live/current/ | Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing Ubuntu GNOME ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Testing | More Information about Testing Ubuntu GNOME is here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Ubuntu GNOME Official Channels are here]]</nowiki>
