{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo CMS ====
 '''Launchpad Address: ''' https://launchpad.net/vanulc . 

 '''Description: ''' the project is designed as a collaborated development and maintenance effort by the members of Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo, to increase their impact on the society and overcome some of the barriers that they face.

==== Current Status ====
The project currently has two main series. the first of these is project's <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/vanulc/trunk|trunk]]</nowiki> series, which consists of efforts that are the focus of development by members who are creating webpages and CMS engines as a proof of concept to get things going. This line has a milestone set for Nov 20, 2009 when the final output will be decided upon. <<BR>>
The second series, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/vanulc/stable1.0|stable1.0]]</nowiki> aims to systematically document and control the project. Here a trimmed down version of RUP (the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenUP|OpenUP]]</nowiki>) methodology is used to manage and monitor iterations. Once Inception and Elaboration phases are over, Construction follows Agile Scrum methodology to get to the Initial Operational Capacity milestone. At the time of this writing, the Life Cycle Objective Milestone, signaling the end of Inception phase, is set for Nov 20, 2009. <<BR>>

==== Team Collaboration ====
Collaboration follows an example by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekKarmic/LoCoTeamBuilding|Jono Bacon]]</nowiki>, with each member specifying what they want to do until the next milestone, by registering <nowiki>[[uvlc-howtoBP|Blueprints]]</nowiki> in the project management web page. by aggregating these suggestions the team will have a clear understanding of what they are going to achieve and community resources can be organized to fulfill the project goals accordingly.

  
