{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== How to Create a Blueprint for Launchpad Project ====
This is a How-to which uses the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/vanulc|Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo CMS]]</nowiki> project as an example to show how to create a Blueprint for a project.

 - On the project page, click on "Register a Blueprint" link <<BR>>
 - Give a name to your blueprint. Ubuntu Vancouver LoCo asks that names of blueprints for this project start with uvlc- <<BR>>
 - Specify a title for your blueprint<<BR>>
 - if you have a wiki for your blueprint, specify the URL to it. <<BR>>
 - Give a summary of what you are proposing to be done. try to be as specific as possible. avoid open ended suggestions and subjective descriptions like: "a very nice interface" since something can be very nice in someone's view but not in others'.<<BR>> 
 - Set the definition status to New<<BR>> 
 - There are 3 types of assignments you can make: 
*** Assignee, who implements the feature specified by the blueprint
*** Drafter, who documents and creates the specification
*** Approver, who reviews and approves the results before deployment. for uvlc, the Approver is Randall Ross.
 - select The Sprint you want to propose this blueprint for, and click Register Blueprint.

if all goes well, you will have a registered Blueprint. 
 - once you are in the blueprint spec page, like <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/vanulc/+spec/uvlc-vision|this]]</nowiki> one, you can further edit your blueprint. <<BR>>
 - if you have permission to edit the page, you will see small yellow icons with a pen in them which are the edit icon for the items that you can edit. these items include:
* Priority. your approver changes this to reflect that you are moving in the correct direction, and to show how much the next milestone is dependent on the completion of this blueprint.
* Definition. This shows the state the blueprint is in. The project goes through these states: New, Discussion,Drafting, Review,Pending Approval, Approved, and optionally Superseded or Obsolete.
* Implementation Status. This shows the state implementation of Blueprint is in. your Blueprint starts at Unknown. the approver changes this to Not Started/Deferred/Blocked/Needs Infrastructure or Started, Good Progress/Slow Progess, Beta Available, Needs Code Review, Deployment, Implemented, or Informational depending on the state your project is in.
* You also have a White board in which you can put any additional comments you have about your blueprint.
* in the Dependencies section, you can add blueprints that your blueprint depends on.
  
   
