{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello,
my name is Uwe Hauck and i am an enthusiastic Linux user for some years now, in the end of 2006 with ubuntu.
I like to help others with questions regarding linux as far as I can.
I have studied computational linguistics and artificial intelligence at the university of osnabrueck and finished with Magister Artium in 1995. Since then I am working in the field of software engineering

I am a software developer and software architect for a living, working for a IT departement of a german "Bausparkasse"(a financial institute, sort of). But  I find my real enjoyment in everything open source and Linux expecially.

Other than that i am happily married with children.... (i know, i know) and am rather old in regards of a community member (40+, but you are always as old as you feel).
On irc you can find my by the nickname of #bicyclist.

My blog can be found at http://www.livingthefuture.de

and my profil at:http://www.uwehauck.de

Hallo,
mein Name ist Uwe Hauck und ich bin bereits seit einigen Jahren begeisterter Linux Nutzer, seit ca. Ende 2006 von Ubuntu Linux.
Helfe gerne bei Fragen zu Ubuntu so weit ich kann.

Ich habe an der Universität Osnabrück Computerlinguistik und Künstliche Intelligenz studiert und mit dem Magister Artium 1995 abgeschlossen. Seitdem bin ich in der Softwareentwicklung tätig.

Meinen Lebensunterhalt verdiene ich mir als Softwareentwickler und Architekt für die IT Tochter eine Bausparkasse. Meine eigentliche Leidenschaft gehört allerdings der Open Source Idee und Linux im Speziellen.

Ansonsten bin ich verheiratet, habe drei Kinder und bin für die Community mit Sicherheit schon alt  (40+, aber man ist immer so jung wie man sich fühlt ;) )
im irc bin ich unter #bicyclist zu finden.

Meinen Blog findet Ihr unter http://www.livingthefuture.de

Mein Profil unter http://www.uwehauck.de.
----
CategoryHomepage
