{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Leo Jackson, apply for Ubuntu Member,MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Leo Jackson
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~lajjr|lajjr]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
My name Leo Jackson from Scranton, Pa I live for coding, writing patches.
Packaging software. I have been working on bugs, Packaging, Answers, General. I have 
been working with launchpad for awhile helping in answers. I also enjoy using Ubuntu as
my main Desktop and Laptop OS. 

== My Ubuntu story ==

I have started to use Ubuntu since 6.04, I was not doing to much on the scene. I 
Decided to use it in my company LJ's Electronics and Software. Now that I have the system 
where I want it I can now devote some time to helping others. I will try to help with the
problems I faced during my changing my company's operating systems out. I had a few different GNU/Linux 
OSes on our systems where we found problems so we switched to Ubuntu completely and it's running great. 

== My Contributions ==

* I have helped many people on questions in Launchpad. <nowiki>[[ https:--answers.edge.launchpad.net-~lajjr | My Answers ]]</nowiki>
* I have also worked on many bugs in Launchpad. <nowiki>[[ https:--bugs.edge.launchpad.net-~lajjr-+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_cve.used=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&search=Search | My Bug Work ]]</nowiki>
* I'm also a member of the Ubuntu Translators group in 3 languages. <nowiki>[[ https:--translations.edge.launchpad.net-~lajjr | My Translations ]]</nowiki>
* I will be developing the <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-drupal-planet | UD Planet ]]</nowiki> module for the <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-drupal-planet | Ubuntu Drupal ]]</nowiki> team.
* I have been working with the LoCo in my area, the Pennsylvania, US team.
* I have been working on becoming a MOTU, 
* I'm currently being mentored by Martin Pitt(Apport).
* I'm also helping cr3 (Marc Tardif) with Checkbox

== Future Work ==

* I will continue to work on bugs and answers and help out wherever I can.
* I plan to become a MOTU.
* I want to package programs and help get them in to Ubuntu.
* I will keep pushing myself to do more and more.
* I want to squash <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-bugs- | Bug 1 ]]</nowiki>.
* I want to work toward core development. Make Ubuntu out scale, and be better than windows.

== Testimonials ==

** <nowiki>[[MTecknology]]</nowiki> - I have been working with lajjr for a short while in Ubuntu-Drupal. He's offered to code the Planet module. His ambitions in working with a community impress me and his LP profile reveals some hard work.
** <nowiki>[[JohnMazer]]</nowiki> - I have known Leo Jackson for almost 7 1/2 Years. He is the reason I use Ubuntu 9.04 now. He had also agreed to mentor me in packaging.
** <nowiki>[[BryceHarrington]]</nowiki> - Leo has helped on bug triage for Inkscape, which has been quite welcome.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
