{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Objective ==
The goal of this process is to increase the velocity of the landings and
keep the risk of regressions on a reasonably low level.

The idea is to try gathering several fixes in a single silo before submitting it to QA sign-off but still try to be as safe as possible. Each class represents the potential risk level and allows for faster velocity landings for safer teams.

== Procedure ==

=== Landing Classes ===
3 classes of landings define how many fixes each team is allowed to land per
silo:

* class 1: 1 fix per silo
* class 2: 3 fixes per silo
* class 3: at the discretion of the team. 

The classes apply to a team (which can be represented by one or several landers)

==== Definition of a fix in this context ====

The definition of this concept is non-trivial. A fix is thought to be an isolated batch of changes introduced with the common aim of fixing a specific problem. The term 'isolated' in this context means that the series of changes (either in one or more branches) serve a common, strict purpose, addressing a selected problem.
A fix does not particularly mean one bug-fix only, as a single fix can sometimes address multiple bugs at once. It doesn't mean 'branches' (or merges) as well, as a single bug-fix can be sometimes composed of a few branches.

=== Promotion / Demotion ===

A team can be '''promoted''':

* from class '''1''' to class '''2''': '''3 successful''' landings in a row
* from class '''2''' to class '''3''': '''3 successful''' landings in a row

The criteria for success is the silo was shown to fix what it said it fixed,
and it introduced no regression.

A team will be '''demoted''':

* from class '''2''' to class '''1''': 1 landing failure
* from class '''3''' to class '''2''': 1 landing failure
 
A landing fails if the criteria for success are not met or if a regression is introduced by this landing in the build.

The landing team and the QA team are responsible for counting the pass/fail.
