{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>'''G'day and welcome to my ubuntu 6.06 wiki page.'''
<<BR>>
<<BR>>~-by forum community member u.b.u.n.t.u-~
<<BR>>~-(started Sunday 11 June 2006)-~
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>'''~+ubuntu+~'''
<<BR>>'''~-humanity towards others-~'''
<<BR>>
----
<<BR>>
<<BR>>'''How to add 3D Nvidia drivers.'''
<<BR>>
<<BR>>There are 3 steps.
<<BR>>~-1. Download.-~
<<BR>>'''~-sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx linux-restricted-modules-'uname -r'-~'''
<<BR>>
<<BR>>'''~+IMPORTANT+~''' ~-I cannot show the correct code,
<<BR>>     you need the ` which is the button under the "esc" button
<<BR>>     and not ' where you see 'uname -r'.-~
<<BR>>
<<BR>>~-2. Configure.-~
<<BR>>'''~-sudo nvidia-xconfig-~'''
<<BR>>~-3. Reboot.-~
<<BR>>
<<BR>>~-*  Tests that you have 3D.-~
<<BR>>
<<BR>>~-*  Test 1-~
<<BR>>'''~-You see a Nvidia logo flashscreen when starting ubuntu.-~'''
<<BR>>
<<BR>>~-*  Test 2-~
<<BR>>~-   See the FPS (frames per second).
<<BR>>     Wait a few seconds for the FPS to show. 3D will be like 500+FPS. Newer cards are like 5000+FPS.-~
<<BR>>'''~-glxgears -iacknowledgethatthistoolisnotabenchmark-~'''
<<BR>>
<<BR>>~-*  Test 3-~
<<BR>>~-   Check the xorg.conf to see if your have "nvidia" which means you have 3D.-~
<<BR>>'''~-sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf-~'''
<<BR>>~-   You want to see this:-~
<<BR>>'''~-Section "Device"
<<BR>>      Driver "nvidia"-~'''
<<BR>>
----
<<BR>>
<<BR>>'''How to add a second Hard Disk Drive (HDD)'''
<<BR>>
<<BR>>There are 5 steps.
<<BR>>~-1. Make a mount folder for the HDD.-~
<<BR>>'''~-sudo mkdir /media/storage-~'''
<<BR>>~-2. Open to edit your fstab file.-~
<<BR>>'''~-sudo gedit /etc/fstab-~'''
<<BR>>~-3. Add this line to the bottom of your fstab file and then save.-~
<<BR>>'''~-/dev/hdb1 /media/storage ext3 defaults 0 0-~'''
<<BR>>~-4. Mount your HDD.-~
<<BR>>'''~-sudo mount /dev/hdb1 -t ext3 /media/storage-~'''
<<BR>>~-5. Give yourself access permission to your HDD.-~
<<BR>>'''~-sudo chown -R username: /media/storage-~'''
<<BR>>
<<BR>>'''~-Notes.-~'''
<<BR>>~-"/media" is the folder HDD are usually mounted.
<<BR>>"/media/storage" - where "storage" can be any name your choose.
<<BR>>"hdb1" is the name of your HDD you are adding. 
<<BR>>"username" is the name your log in with.-~
<<BR>>
----
<<BR>>
<<BR>>'''Nautilus''' ~-(File manager to always see the path.)-~
<<BR>>
<<BR>>~-1. To always see the path in Nautilus.-~
<<BR>>'''~-Edit > Preferences > Behaviour-~'''
<<BR>>~-2. Tick the box.-~
<<BR>>'''~-Always use text-enty location bar-~'''
<<BR>>
----
<<BR>>
<<BR>>'''Restart X''' ~-(Restart gnome without fully rebooting.)-~
<<BR>>
<<BR>>'''~-ctrl-alt-backspace-~'''
<<BR>>~-Wait a few seconds for the login screen to appear.-~
<<BR>>
----
<<BR>>
<<BR>>'''Firestarter''' ~-(Firewall GUI for iptables.)-~
<<BR>>
<<BR>>~-*  Check to see if Firestarter is running.-~
<<BR>>'''~-sudo /etc/init.d/firestarter status-~'''
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>~-*  Add Firestarter to start-up programs.-~
<<BR>>'''~-System > Preferences > Sessions-~'''
<<BR>>~-Click.-~
<<BR>>'''~-Add-~'''
<<BR>>~-Enter the text.-~
<<BR>>'''~-sudo firestarter --start-hidden-~'''

----

CategoryHomepage
