{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Landing non-standard changes to Ubuntu Touch ==

=== Landing click applications ===

Each core-app click application that wants to land in either Ubuntu and Ubuntu RTM needs to follow the same QA sign-off process as with Ubuntu-RTM released debian packages in the CI Train. Currently the click-app store is the same for both the ubuntu and ubuntu-rtm variants, which means any click upload results in the updated application appearing in both distributions. Because of this, core click app uploads need to be coordinated with the Landing Team.

Currently there are no technical mechanisms that would enforce these rules so click uploaders are asked to remember about this. A regression in a core-app can make the end-client experience broken as much as breakage in any of the platform components.

Whenever you have a click core-app ready to publish, please make sure you inform the QA team so that they can perform the QA sign-off step as part of <nowiki>[[citrain-LandingProcess#QA_Sign-off_Needed]]</nowiki>.

=== Landing device/custom tarballs ===

==== Ubuntu RTM / Stable releases ====

Device and custom tarball uploads always require to pass through the QA sign-off step as described in <nowiki>[[citrain-LandingProcess#QA_Sign-off_Needed]]</nowiki>. Before uploading the selected tarball to the image server, make sure you ask QA to sign it off by providing a location from which the tarball can be fetched, the list of changes and the results of your own tests. This will then be added to QA's sign-off queue and handled with priority.

Only after receiving a +1 from both QA and the Landing Team the tarball can be formally released.

==== Ubuntu Devel ====

No sign-off needed - but please make sure you test each of your uploads throughly.
