{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Releasing Milestones ==

The LandingTeam is responsible for managing and coordinating Milestone Releases of the Ubuntu Phone image on request of the Canonical Product team. 

Generally Milestone releases are aimed to be released by end of the US workday on a Thursday, latest on a Friday EU morning. 

Milestone preparation requires an archive freeze that usually lasts two days until the Milestone promotion has happened.

=== Requirements ===

* The Product Team requests a Milestone 2 weeks in advance, an announcement is sent (with a pointer to this wiki page and the expected release date) to the developers via the ubuntu-phone Mailing list by the Landing team.
* The Product Team hands the Landing Team a list of blocking Bugs together with the request for the milestone, this list gets published along with the above email so developers are aware of the urgency of the open issues. This bug list can be modified during the following weeks towards the milestone, the Product team is the gatekeeper for adding/removing bugs.
* Once a week the Landing team will include a summary of the bug status of the above list in the Landing team email.
* During the Milestone preparation period (see timeline below) the automated Image builds get disabled, silo landings for the targeted distribution get shot down with the exception of regression fixes that were found during image testing. Bugfixes for blocker bugs from the above list have to be in silos '''before''' the freeze.

=== Timeline ===

==== Tuesday (US TZ) EOD before a Milestone ====

* '''All blocking bug fixes''' from the Product team list '''are in silos''' so that they can be signed off by QA when the day in the european timezone starts.

==== Wednesday morning (EU TZ) before a Milestone ====

* The '''archive freeze''' gets called out by the LandingTeam, QA tests the final silos in preparation of the Milestone, in case issues are found the developer will work with the QA and Landing teams to get the silo fixed in time for the Milestone release. Please remember that QA has limited resources and if the number of queued up silos is too big, not all of them will be signed-off and landed for this milestone.

==== Wednesday afternoon (EU TZ) before a Milestone ====

* Once all blocker silos have landed a Milestone '''candidate image is created''', automated image builds get shut down.

* The '''QA team starts a regression test''' of the candidate image, in case severe regressions are found, the developer of the component gets contacted and a silo with a fix gets prepared. Once the silo lands a new milestone candidate image is prepared.

==== Wednesday EOD (US TZ) before a Milestone ====

* '''Testing''' of the candidate image on the desired target architecture '''is finished''', the LandingTeam is notified about the status.

==== Thursday morning (EU TZ) ====

* The '''QA team runs a quick test on the community architectures''' that will have to be promoted alongside the product image (mako, emulator, etc) and gives a recommendation about releasability of these images to the LandingTeam.

==== Thursday noon (EU TZ) ====

* The '''LandingTeam releases the Milestone''' image based on the recommendations from the QA team (architectures/devices etc) and releases images from the devel-proposed channel of the respective distro to the devel channel (see: LandingTeam/TouchChannels and LandingTeam/SupportedDevices).

* Automated image builds get enabled again

* Archive landings get resumed again.

=== Technical Details ===

==== Image server operations ====

En/Disabling automated build (members of the ubuntu-cdimage team):

On the "nusakan" image build machine, become the cdimage user, find your build entry in the crontab and comment it.
<pre>
ogra@nusakan:~$ sudo -u cdimage -i
cdimage@nusakan:~$ crontab -e
</pre>

Promoting (members of the ubuntu-cdimage team):
<pre>
ogra@nusakan:~$ sudo -u cdimage -i
cdimage@nusakan:~$ /srv/system-image.ubuntu.com/bin/copy-image ubuntu-touch/ubuntu-rtm/14.09-proposed ubuntu-touch/ubuntu-rtm/14.09 krillin 59
</pre>
The above shows the promotion command used to release the proposed krillin image 59 into the 14.09 channel on the "nusakan" image build machine. The command is called in a way that the image version in the target channel will automatically be incremented based on the last image in this channel.
