{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

TOPIC: ANNOUNCEMENT: Landing team - RTM landings now officially open

Hello everyone,

As we have now officially branched for ubuntu-rtm, we would also like to announce that landing for RTM-targetted images is now officially open! This means that all landers can have their changes landed into ubuntu-rtm when they want it. We have enabled some features in the CI Train for this purpose last week, but only now the test run is over and everything that lands will stay in the archive.

* How to land a package to ubuntu-rtm?

First of all, you will need to have a separate branch for your RTM backports. The naming and location of this branch is all up to you. Some of the projects that participated in the testing landings last week used the naming scheme of lp:projectname/rtm-14.09 .
Before releasing anything for ubuntu-rtm, make sure the same change is already released in Ubuntu current development series (e.g. utopic). We only accept cherry-picked changes from trunks. In other words: if something is to land in RTM it will require a double landing - one to ubuntu, then to ubuntu-rtm. Once that happens, fill in a landing with the new merge requests to the RTM branches in our CI Train spreadsheet and set the Target Distribution field to "ubuntu-rtm/14.09". The rest is the same as before, with the change being that the landing needs to be tested against ubuntu-rtm built images instead. Remember to double check that your RTM merges are targeting the right branches - i.e. the RTM branch created earlier.

To summarize, the general process:
 - Making sure an RTM branch (for this example let's use lp:foo/rtm-14.09) exists and corresponds to what is in ubuntu-rtm
 - Creating a merge request of a feature/fix to ubuntu (target -> lp:foo)
 - Driving a landing through CI Train of this merge/merges to ubuntu (target distribution -> ubuntu/utopic)
 - Creating a branch with the same changes that just landed based on lp:foo/rtm-14.09
 - Creating a merge request of the feature/fix to ubuntu-rtm (target -> lp:foo/rtm-14.09)
 - Driving a landing through CI Train of this merge/merges to ubuntu-rtm (target distribution -> ubuntu-rtm/14.09)
 - Change, after possible additional testing, lands in RTM

Currently ubuntu-rtm landings are also treated very safely, so most landings might require a QA sign-off before those can be published into the archive.

* Action items for now

Since we have just finished the initial copy of packages to ubuntu-rtm it is the best time to create your RTM-targeted branches by copying trunk. When doing this later, you will have to make sure you only copy up until the revision that is actually in the ubuntu-rtm pocket. You need to make sure that the RTM branches do not have any changes that are not in the RTM archive.

Please do not hesitate and feel free to give us a ping on IRC (#ubuntu-release or #ubuntu-ci-eng) whenever in doubt.

Thank you.

Best regards,
