{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Listing of our Smoketesting Dashboards ==

Each important channel has its own place and dashboard for per-image smoketesting. We advise all upstream developers to track test results for all important platforms, especially making sure the ubuntu-rtm tests show no regressions.

=== Ubuntu-RTM 14.09 ===

The following dashboards provide results for images using the '''ubuntu-rtm/14.09-proposed''' channel.

==== Krillin ====

Since the device is still under embargo, this dashboard is currently available only to people with the right permissions.

http://rtm-dashboard.ci.ubuntu.com/smokeng/utopic/touch_stable/

==== Mako Manta Flo ====

Public dashboard instance, no access restrictions.

http://ci.ubuntu.com/smokeng/utopic/touch_stable/

=== Ubuntu Vivid (devel) ===

The following dashboards provide results for images using the '''ubuntu/devel-proposed''' channel, which is currently pointing to the vivid distribution.

==== Krillin ====

Since the device is still under embargo, this dashboard is currently available only to people with the right permissions.

http://rtm-dashboard.ci.ubuntu.com/smokeng/vivid/touch/

==== Mako Manta Flo ====

Public dashboard instance, no access restrictions.

http://ci.ubuntu.com/smokeng/vivid/touch/

=== Ubuntu Utopic ===

The following dashboards provide results for images using the '''ubuntu/utopic-proposed''' channel.

==== Krillin ====

Since device is still under embargo, this dashboard is currently private.

http://rtm-dashboard.ci.ubuntu.com/smokeng/utopic/touch/

==== Mako Manta Flo ====

Public dashboard instance, no access restrictions.

http://ci.ubuntu.com/smokeng/utopic/touch/
