{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Hardware specifications:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc">'''Component'''
| '''Spec'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| Processor
| Intel Dothan 1.6GHz 2MB L2 Cache
| Enable ACPI for power functions
|-
| System Chip
| Intel RB82855PM / Intel FW82801DBM
| 
|-
| RAM
| 1GB PC2700
| 
|-
| Hard Disk
| 60GB
| 
|-
| Screen
| 15.4" TFT WXGA (1280x800)
| 1280x800 out of the box!
|-
| Video
| ATI MOBILITY RADEON 9600
| Requires binary driver install for 3D
|-
| Audio
| ALC201 AC'97 Audio CODEC
| Works
|-
| Network
| Realtek RTL8139CL
| Works
|-
| Wireless
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG
| Works, but requires some manual setup
|-
| Modem
| Smartlink
| ?
|-
| Firewire
| TSB22AEJKT/43AB21
| Works
|-
| Infrared
| National Semiconductor
| ?
|-
| PCMCIA
| TI PCI1620
| Works
|-
| Touch Pad
| Synaptics
| Works
|-
| Optical
| Toshiba SD-R6112 (2X DVD-R/RW)
| Works
|-
| Integrated Video Camera
| Camtel CMM-3130
| Requires driver install
|-
| 3-in-1 Card Reader
| Winbond
| ?
|-
| Multimedia Keys
| 
| See information below
|}

=== Installing Kubuntu Hoary 5.04 ===

If you wish to keep your existing Windows installation, follow the WindowsDualBootHowTo instructions and it will work fine. Resizing the NTFS partition will work. BACKUP YOUR DATA, just in case. Don't write over the MBR, but rather use dd (as the How To says) to copy over necessary GRUB info to Windows. Then boot using the Windows OS Loader.

Once Kubuntu is up and running, many things will work out-of-the-box. The table above is a quick reference sheet to what works.

==== Enabling ACPI for Power Functions ====

This is VERY easy from within KDE. 

1. Right click the plug icon in the system tray and select "Configure klaptop"

2. Select the "ACPI Config" tab

3. Press the "Setup Helper Application" button and ignore the SUID root warning

4. Type your user password, then put a checkbox next to every option.

5. Click "Apply"

==== Installing the ATI RADEON 9600 Driver ====

There is a good tutorial for this, so in the spirit of reusing documentation, go to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557|ATI Howto]]</nowiki> and follow the instructions.

==== Setting up Intel 2200BG Wireless ====

If the KDE kwifimanager doesn't seem to work properly, you'll need to manually enter wireless network settings until a better solution comes along. 

''Method 1''

1. To configure now, open a Konsole:
<pre>
$ sudo iwconfig essid "default" key XXXXXXXXXX
$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
</pre>
where "default" is the SSID of your wireless network, and XXXXXXXXXX is the WEP key (if you are using WEP).

2. To create profiles of different settings, save those lines in a text editor, and for each wireless network, save it as a new shell script.

''Method 2''

1. Download the latest Debian package of Wireless Assistant at http://wlassistant.sourceforge.net/

2. To install it, open a Konsole:
<pre>
$ sudo ln -s /usr/local /usr/local/kde
$ sudo dpkg -i wlassistant*.deb
</pre>
That creates a recursive directory loop, but it is necessary because the package wants to install to /usr/local/kde, which isn't set in PATH.

3. Go to K-Menu --> Utilities --> Wireless Assistant

==== Synaptics Touchpad ====

No action is needed to get the extra features for the Synaptics touchpad working. Settings can be adjusted by editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf (but make a backup first).

==== Installing the Integrated Video Camera Driver ====

1. Download the driver source at http://mxhaard.free.fr/download.html

2. To compile and install it, open a Konsole:
<pre>
$ sudo -i
$ mv /path/to/spca5xx-yyymmdd.tar.gz /usr/src
$ cd /usr/src
$ tar zxvf spca5xx-yyyymmdd.tar.gz
$ cd spca5xx-yyyymmdd
$ make
$ make install
$ modprobe spca5xx
$ exit
</pre>

3. Test it with
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install camorama
$ camorama
</pre>

4. Alternatively, there is a KDE application called <nowiki>[[http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=10395|Konference]]</nowiki>. However, it must be compiled from source (at least until it is added to Universe).

==== Multimedia Keys ====

1. Download lineakd from Universe
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install lineakd
</pre>

2. Set the laptop (use the Clevo D470V - it is the closest match)
<pre>
$ lineakd -c CL-D470V
</pre>

3. Add the following commands to ~/.lineakd/lineakd.conf
<pre>
AudioLowerVolume = dcop kmix Mixer0 decreaseVolume --
AudioMute = dcop kmix Mixer0 toggleMute --
AudioRaiseVolume = dcop kmix Mixer0 increaseVolume --
Launch0 =
Mail = kontact
WWW = konqueror
</pre>
Note: I figured out DCOP calls to control the volume, the Mail and WWW buttons work as well. I cannot get the kernel to detect Fn-ESC (sleep) Fn-F6 (CRT/LCD), or Fn-F11/F12 (Screen brightness). If anyone is able to, please update this configuration.

4. To create a startup link for lineakd, open a Konsole:
<pre>
$ ln -s /usr/bin/lineakd ~/.kde/Autostart/lineak
</pre>

==== External References ====
<nowiki>[[http://www.caprinae-ascendant.net/foss/linux-on-sager.php|Debian/Sarge on a Sager NP3790]]</nowiki>

CategoryCleanup
