{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: MethodOne
* Brand: Compal
* Make : N/A
* Model: DL70
* Website: http://www.bizcomcanada.com/notebookDetail.asp?prd_id=28&sid=overview
* S/N: N/A

=== Current Issues ===

=== System Info ===
<pre>
Edgy:
bios-version:V1.01A
Feisty:
bios-version:V1.03A

</pre>

=== Hardware ===
<pre>

Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/PM/GMS/910GML Express Processor to DRAM Controller (rev 04)
VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 04)
Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 04)
USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #1 (rev 04)
USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #2 (rev 04)
USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #3 (rev 04)
USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #4 (rev 04)
USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 04)
PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev d4)
Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 04)
Modem: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 04)
ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801FBM (ICH6M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 04)
IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) IDE Controller (rev 04)
SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 04)
FireWire (IEEE 1394): VIA Technologies, Inc. IEEE 1394 Host Controller (rev 80)
Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8169 Gigabit Ethernet (rev 10)
Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 2200BG Network Connection (rev 05)
CardBus bridge: ENE Technology Inc CB-710/2/4 Cardbus Controller
FLASH memory: ENE Technology Inc ENE PCI Memory Stick Card Reader Controller
Generic system peripheral [0805]: ENE Technology Inc ENE PCI Secure Digital Card Reader Controller

</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes****
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes*
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Yes**
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| No***
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| + Esc
| Sleep
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| Toggle Mute
| 
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Toggle CRT/LCD
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| Increase Brightness
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| Decrease Brightness
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowRight
| Increase Volume
| 
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| Decrease Volume
| 
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Fn+Scroll Lk
| Toggle Num Lock
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+Ins
| Print Screen
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Fn+Del
| SysRq
| 
| Untested
| Prints screen
| 
|}

==== Setting up Feisty ====
1. Install 915resolution to force the correct resolution.

2. Suspend to disk with hibernate won't work. Maybe with wsbsusp?

3. To get the hardware keys on the front to work, you have to use acerhk. Acerhk is already added to ubuntu, all
you have to do is to modprobe it. In some situations you also have to set the keycodes:

<pre>
}}}

This activates the keys.

==== Notes ====
* fglrx drivers work (tested with Unreal Tournament 2004)

* * I installed sl-modem-daemon in order for it to work.

* ** When I insert a memory card, anything I type during that time doesn't appear until I remove the card. The card doesn't mount at all.

* *** Use 915resolution

-Kernel Info:
{{{
Linux compal 2.6.15-26-386 #1 PREEMPT Thu Aug 3 02:52:00 UTC 2006 i686 GNU/Linux
</pre>

----
CategoryLaptop
