{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Installation report for a Sony Vaio SRX51P ==
'''with Ubuntu Feisty 7.04''' - written by Franko30 - somebody else moved this page into LaptopTestingTeam.

Therefore I'm inserting the required table and the report is available further down the page.

=== Table ===

* Contact: FrankHansen
* Make: Sony
* Brand: VAIO
* Model: PCG-SRX51P
* Website: not any more at Sony's site, Google it

==== System Info ====
* bios-version:R0221U2
* system-manufacturer:Sony Corporation
* system-product-name:PCG-SRX51P(DE)
* system-version:01

==== Current Issues and Regressions ====
-

==== Hardware details ====
Works great in Feisty

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| keyboard keys, see report below
| Untested
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| None
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| external, yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| None
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Memory stick, Yes
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current development)?
|-
| Fn+F3
| Mute
| 
| Yes, but on Fn+F2
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F4
| Volume
| 
| Yes, but on Fn+F2&F3
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F5
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F6
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F7
| Switch video out
| Yes
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F12
| Hibernate
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current development)?
|-
| Windows-key
| Show Pnael Menu
| Super-L
| Yes, assign via keyboard shortcuts
| Untested
| 
|-
| Menu
| Like right-click
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

Lovely laptop, everything works out of the box. Only the external monitor is a bit weird: It seems you have to attach it and boot to get it to work.

=== Report ===
I'm using gedit in this report, but often nano is nice, too. :-)

A lot of time has passed since I first did this installation report, in fact it was done for Ubuntu 5.10. I guess nobody wants to use this anymore - especially since the laptop works fine with 7.04. Therefore I changed this report to represent the 7.04, Feisty version of Ubuntu.

'''This laptop works great with Ubuntu: display 1024x768, graphics driver, CPU speedstep, LAN, PCMCIA slot, modem, USB, Firewire, touchpad, sound, Bluetooth and even the Memory Stick Reader work "out of the box" or can be configured as described in the following report. An external monitor needs to be connected on startup for having a clone of the Display available. Standby and hibernate work fine.'''

Unfortunately WLAN doesn't work anymore in 7.04 - I even tried an older live CD of 6.10... I guess the hardware  died of old age.

'''Most hotkeys work right away, but some not in the way printed on them: Standy (Fn+Esc), Hibernate (Fn+F12), Print (Print key, saves a screen snapshot), Display brightness (Fn+F5 for darker, Fn+F6 brighter), mute (uses Fn+F2 instead of Fn+F3), volume up (Fn+F3), volume down (Fn+F4), Page up/down (Fn+arrow up or down), Pos1 (Fn+arrow left), End (Fn+arrow right). The Windows key can be configured to open the panel menu via Gnome System Settings.'''

The SRX51P uses BIOS r0221u2, now has a 60GB harddisc, an 800 MHz speedstep PIII M low voltage CPU and 256MB RAM. 

I completely removed Windows from the harddisc and made a 7 GB primary partition for the Ubuntu system. A swap-partition with 1 GB is used and the rest of the harddisc was used for the /home partition. Thus it is quite easy and possible to make a clean install of another Ubuntu version without losing the personal data.
When using Ubuntu and Windows in a dual-boot setup, bear in mind that you can only have 4 primary partitions on the harddisc (and no logical volumes after that) or you just use 3 primary ones and then several logical volumes.

 

==== 1. Display and graphics controller ====
Standard installation of Ubuntu 7.04 was used and everything turned out to be OK.
<pre>
glxinfo
</pre>
returns that direct rendering is enabled and
<pre>
glxgears
</pre>
runs fine (without stuttering) but slow - this is not a gaming notebook ;-)

==== 2. Automatix ====
Go to http://getautomatix.com, install Automatix and then automatically install Java, Acrobat Reader, multimedia codecs and other stuff.

==== 3.Synaptics Touchpad ====
The touchpad works fine after Ubuntu 7.04 installation. The little mouselike wheel is usable, as is the touchpad feature 'scrolling using a sliding finger on the right side'. The 'back' button of the touchpad has no function in Ubuntu 7.04, but it can be configured  via System -> Settings to act as a key shortcut (don't know the correct menu name, as I use German desktop settings).

==== 4. PCMCIA Slot ====
The PCMCIA works fine in 7.04 - I'm using it with an old 'Advance Peripheral USB2 CardBus' card to have USB2 funtionality in this notebook.

==== 5. WLAN ====
Used to work in 5.10 - not any more in 6.10 or 7.04 - I guess my hardware 'died of old age'. At least it works in an SRX41P, see here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/PCG-SRX41P

==== 6. Hibernate/Suspend ====

Suspend (to RAM) an hibernate work fine.

To finetune the behaviour and the settings for the keys use a terminal, type gconf-editor and edit the gnome-power-manager settings.

==== 7. Modem ====

to be tested

==== 8. Powernowd ====
It's installed and working - now also controlled via the gnome-power-manager as explained above

==== 9. Memory Stick Slot ====
Working out of the box - but obviously without MagicGate support. ;-)

==== 10. Bluetooth ====
I didn't test this, as I don't have the devices to do it (and I'm too lazy to borrow stuff and learn how to setup Bluetooth devices). The hardware was recognized and the corresponding modules seem to be loaded.

That's it.

Hopefully everything works out alright with your SRX51P and feel free to edit this page in case I wrote something stupid!

==== Thanks to ====
All the fine people and webpages that laid the foundations of this installation report, mainly the Ubuntu Forums and Wiki pages.

----
CategoryLaptop CategoryHardware
