{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

I work for the University of Waterloo / Computer Science Computing Facility. A client has requested that we install Ubuntu as a dual-boot with Ubuntu Linux on this Tablet PC. I will perform a clean install of Ubuntu (not upgrading) and will post here any issues I will encounter and any solutions I may find for them.

== Installation ==

We have a pre-configured PXE boot server, which is from where I started the installation program. I also resized the windows partition beforehand using Partition Magic.

I used the <code>vga=791</code> boot option to get a higher-resolution framebuffer.

Installation proceeded as normal, no errors, nothing odd. It found the wired Broadcom NetXtreme Gigabit network adapter and used it. The Atheros AG Wireless network card was detected, but not configured. Configuration was painless using the GNOME Network manager (the settings should be obvious).

=== What Works Out-Of-The-Box? ===
* Ethernet
* Wireless
* Hibernation
* Frequency Scaling
* Display at native resolution (1024x768)

=== What Does Not Work Out-Of-The-Box? ===
* Tablet Pen (see below)
* Fn-Fx keys (no idea how to make them work, yet...)
** If you mean the special application buttons near the screen, they could be activated using <nowiki>[[http://apanel.sf.net/|apanel]]</nowiki>. -- Eckhart
** If you see my wiki entry for the Fujitsu Lifebook T4220  
     https://help.ubuntu.com/community/T4220, you can see that with the fsc_btns it is  
     quite simple. BTW this also included automatic rotation.
* Screen rotation with RandR extension xrandr (is it possible at all?)
** With X.org 7.1, the i810 driver supports RandR. Should therefore be possible in Edgy. Use relevant parts of <nowiki>[[http://www.missirina.com/risujin/debian.php]]</nowiki>. -- Eckhart
** See my wiki entry https://help.ubuntu.com/community/T4220 and go to the rotation  
     area. Either make your own scripts (four way rotation) or let fsc_btns do it for you
* Card Reader

== Post-Installation ==

=== Tablet Pen ===
==== Serial Port Configuration ====
You first need to install the setserial utility which allows us to configure serial ports:
<pre>
apt-get install setserial
</pre>

Now we need to enter the /dev/ttyS0 (COM0) settings in /etc/serial.conf. Add this to the file:
<pre>
/dev/ttyS0 port 0x220 irq 4 autoconfig
</pre>

To apply the settings immediately, execute this command:
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/setserial reload
</pre>

==== Xorg Configuration ====
Add the following lines to /etc/X11/xorg.conf:
<pre>
Section "Module"
...
	Load	"wacom"			# add this line
EndSection
...
...
...
Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "Mode"          "absolute"
        Option          "Speed"         "3.0"
        Option          "Threshold"     "2"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "Mode"          "absolute"
        Option          "Threshold"     "2"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "Mode"          "absolute"
        Option          "Threshold"     "2"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
...
##### TabletPC Pen Device
        InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
</pre>

Upon restarting X (<code>sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart</code>), the tablet pc pen should work :)
