{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: RyanBetts, <nowiki>[[Tas50]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Jonatin]]</nowiki>
* Brand: Apple
* Make : MacBook Pro
* Model: 15 inch, 2.0 GHz processor
* Website: http://www.apple.com/macbookpro/

=== Current Issues ===
* Feisty Herd>=4 required to install without manual intervention.
* FGLRX drivers are 'required' for decent video.
* Sound distorted at times, possible work around is to '/etc/init.d/alsa-sound restart' after boot.
* Touchpad doesn't work as expected even with synaptics driver and mouseemu.
* Around half the battery life on Linux than on Mac OSX on similar use.
* Suspend doesn't work.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:   MBP11.88Z.0055.B03.0604071512
system-manufacturer:Apple Computer, Inc.
system-product-name:MacBookPro1,1
system-version:1.0
</pre>

NOTE: Dapper (current stable) was entirely '''untested''', and thus was removed from the below list. - <nowiki>[[Jonatin]]</nowiki>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Installation works?
| Edgy Beta 1
| in Feisty 3
| Feisty H4
|-
| 
| Partial, fails at grub install
| Partial, freezes but there are workarounds
| Alternate-install works first try
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-5> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| Edgy Beta 1?
| Feisty 3
| Feisty Herd 4
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Grainy, inaccurate colours
| Incorrect resolution, VESA driver by default
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Partial, fglrx driver needed for full resolution
| Yes
| No 1024x768
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| <-3> Yes: with fglrx driver and Composite disabled in Xorg.conf
|-
| External monitor works?
| No
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| No
| No
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| No
| No
| No
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Yes
| Screen saver
|-
| Lid Close
| No. Screen stays on
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Partial, not external speakers, only headphone jack
| Both headphone jack and speakers work but slightly crackly/distorted sound and no sound suspend (battery drain)
| Sound distorted, ALSA mixer mutes "side" by default
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes but slightly crackly/distorted
| Partial: disables main speakers, however they must be re-enabled manually
| Pending
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Partial: input distorted
| Pending
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Wireless NIC
| No
| Yes
| Yes: with restricted 'madwifi' module
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes: OBEX file transfer only
|-
| Infrared
| <-3> Not Applicable: not an IrDA port, only works with Apple Remote (see 'Additional Hardware')
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| No
| Partial: With synaptics driver
| Yes: edit Xorg and apt-get gsynaptics
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| No
| With synaptic driver
| Partial: gsynapics enables scrolling
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| With mouseemu, but unreliable
| Yes, with gynaptics option in profile
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| External mouse - Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| Partial: Mighty mouse BT scrolling problems, standard BT mouse connection lost when it sleeps, does not auto connect at startup when HIDD_OPTIONS are set to auto connect.
| Pending
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| iSight
| Untested
| Required firmware loading from OSX partition
| Untested
|-
| Apple Remote
| Untested
| Untested
| No: requires buggy alpha-quality driver
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| Edgy Beta 1
| Feisty H3
| Feisty H4
|-
| + F1
| Brightness Down
| No
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F2
| Brightness Up
| No
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F3
| Sound Mute
| Ok
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F4
| Sound Down
| Ok
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F5
| Sound Up
| Ok
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F6
| NumLock
| Ok
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F7
| Mirror Video
| No
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| + F8
| Keyboard back light off
| No
| No
| Yes
|-
| + F9
| Keyboard back light down
| No
| No
| Yes
|-
| + F10
| Keyboard back light up
| No
| No
| Yes
|}

==== Notes ====

Hackeron:
I switched back to OSX from Feisty 3 for 2 major reasons that no one seems to mention: 
* The colours are off and the display is grainy, can't do graphics work and everyhing looks uglier and inaccurate.
* Sound quality is BAD - not as noticeable with cheap headphones or internal speakers, but plugging into external speakers, there is very noticeable distortion in the high end which isn't there on OSX.
A couple of less important but noteworthy problems:
* Touchpad very uncomfortable to use, mouseemu is awful and stop pommed (screen brightness keys) from working.
* 2 hours battery life because of poor power management and suspend doesn't work.

RyanBetts:
I needed to install the smp kernel from the repos and it works fine. Except for some of the known issues with this laptop that have user supplied patches, Edgy Eft works basically flawlessly. Since I use rEFIt, the bootloader needs to be installed to the linux root partion (sda3 for me), but in order to do that I needed to reboot after the bootloader install fails and update the partition using the rEFIt menu. After that I had to use the "rescue" mode and install lilo manually. Other than that everything else is Ubuntu ready :)

Jonatin:
* I used the Feisty Herd 4 alternate-install ISO.  Herd 5 had checksum errors in 'libc' each time I downloaded it.
* The alternate installer detected the EFI partition and installed grub.  rEFIt fixed the partitions and it worked.
* Several times after installing H4 a kernel change froze during startup, reverting back to the H4 kernel worked.

----
CategoryLaptop CategoryLaptop
