{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: PacShady, <nowiki>[[Brinley]]</nowiki>
* Brand: Asus
* Model: A6''''''Jc
* Website: http://www.asus.com

=== Current Issues ===
Ever since, I upgraded to Gutsy, there has been a distinct slowness when starting up and logging in on but have yet to pin point the cause of it. I suspect that the possibly Xgl is slowing the startup process although I never experienced this on Feisty with Beryl.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:A6JCMAS.261
system-manufacturer:ASUSTek Computer Inc.
system-product-name: A6JC
system-version: 1.0
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper? (LTS)
| in Gutsy? (current stable)
| in Hardy? (development)
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-6> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper? (LTS)
| in Gutsy? (current stable)
| in Hardy? (development)
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes [1]
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes [1]
| Yes [1]
| Yes [1]
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Yes [8]
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| Yes [8]
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Yes [8]
| Untested
| 
|-
| TV Output
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes [2]
| Unstable
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Yes [2]
| Yes [7]
| Untested
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| No [3]
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| None
| None
| None
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Yes [9]
| Untested
| 
|-
| Built-in Mic
| Untested
| Yes [9]
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes [5]
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes [5]
| Yes [4]
| Yes [4]
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| Yes [5]
| No
| No
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Unstable
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Web Cam
| No
| No
| No
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper? (LTS)
| in Gutsy? (current stable)
| in Hardy? (development)
|-
| + F1
| Sleep
| No
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| Turn wireless device on/off
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Darker screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Brighter screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Turn screen on/off
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Switch between screen/external monitor
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| Mute volume
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Decrease volume
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Increase volume
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Ins
| Num Lock
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Del
| Scroll Lock
| No
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper? (LTS)
| in Gutsy? (current stable)
| in Hardy? (development)
|-
| Power4 Gear
| Changes performance profile
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Email Launch
| Launches email client
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Internet Launch
| Launches web browser
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Pad-Lock
| Locks touchpad when using external mouse
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| CD Player Control
| Control CD player programs
| No
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

[1] Proprietary nVidia drivers required for correct function. NOTE: For correct resolution, first install nVidia proprietary drivers, then edit xorg.conf to include "1280x800" as a resolution to change it to wide screen in System Settings.

[2] Screen is blank changing power levels (hibernation, standby or suspend), I couldn't tell whether it had locked up or not until it finally powered down. Standby appeared to make the screen black and would not come back. THESE OPTIONS MAY BE UNSTABLE.

[3] Suspend makes screen permanently black when initiated by lid close. Needed to restart to get screen back

[4] Scroll area is an entire 1/3 of the touchpad surface for some reason. Haven't worked out how to fix this yet.

[5] Needed to edit xorg.conf to get Touchpad options to work properly (Dapper Only): https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad#head-771b9659c0e19809759b49f470d568c7d7a36cc3

[6] hotkeys need to be remapped in Feisty to get internet launch and CD controls to work.

[7] On resume, all network adapters and Bluetooth fail to restart. Wireless networking can be resumed by turning Wireless adapter back on (Fn + F2), however System Guard still believes the adapter is disconnected. Also, may need to set NetworkManager to Offline mode then back to Online mode before wireless networks are rediscovered.

[8] External monitor is detected automatically on startup but resolution is usually wrong, also the auto-detection usually confuses the external monitor with the laptop's built-in LCD.  But this was rather easily resolved by going to Screens menu in System / Preferences to adjust the resolution. Oh and it alters your xorg.conf in the process.

[9] Both the Build-in Mic and the external Mic works out of the box however, the build-in mic is disable if the external Mic is plugged in.

'''This laptop was tested by PacShady with Kubuntu Dapper, Gutsy, and Hardy Beta, with all latest updates.'''

'''Updated by <nowiki>[[Brinley]]</nowiki> with Ubuntu from Dapper to Gutsy.'''

NOTE (Dapper Only): usplash fails at shutdown/restart and virtual terminals fail after nVidia proprietary driver install. To fix, add "vga=786" (without quotes) to /boot/grub/menu.lst at the end of the line starting with "#kopt=". Remove this vga for Gutsy otherwise virtual terminals will not work.

----
CategoryLaptop
