{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* Contact: PacShady
* Brand: Asus
* Model: N50''''''Vc
* Website: http://www.asus.com/product.aspx?P_ID=w1Tmdeae7cgBhSVQ

=== Current Issues ===
Webcam by default is upside-down. Air Ionizer doesn't work. Fingerprint scanner took a helluva lot of work to get going. Express''''''Gate for some ridiculous reason requires a Windows partition to run, so repartitioning to only run Linux will disable your Express''''''Gate. Mostly however, this laptop works relatively well out of the box.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version: 211
system-manufacturer: ASUSTeK Computer Inc.
system-product-name: N50Vc
system-version: 1.0
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Hardy? (LTS)
| in Intrepid? (previous stable)
| in Jaunty? (current stable)
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes [1]
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| HDMI port
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes [2]
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested (Detected)
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Express''''''Cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes [3]
| 
|-
| Fingerprint Scanner
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes [4]
| 
|-
| Air Ionizer
| Untested
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| eSATA port
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hardy? (LTS)
| in Intrepid? (previous stable)
| in Jaunty? (current stable)
|-
| + F1
| Suspend
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| Toggle WiFi/Bluetooth
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Brightness Down
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Brightness Up
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Toggle Backlight
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Toggle Internal/External Display
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| Mute
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Volume Down
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Volume Up
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
1. 3D Acceleration works once proprietary nVidia video drivers are installed.

2. Video output works, but not sound. Apparently there are some problems with nVidia drivers not working well with HDMI ports.

3. Webcam is upside down by default. A new version of libv4l fixes this at least in some cases. Until the new version is in the repositories, follow these instructions:
<pre>
You can download this new version here:
http://people.atrpms.net/~hdegoede/libv4l-0.6.1-test.tar.gz

Howto install and test libv4l depends on your system. There are
different instructions for if you have a 32 bit system or a 64 bit system
which is using multilib. A 64 bit system without multilib is the same as
a 32 bit system.

To find out what you have do:
ls /lib/libc.so.6
ls /lib64/libc.so.6

If the second command gives a "No such file or directory" error, use the
Non multilib instructions, if the second command is successfull, use the
multilib instrucions.

Non multilib instructions:
==========================  ==

tar xvfz libv4l-<version>.tar.gz
cd libv4l-<version>.tar.gz
make PREFIX=/usr
sudo make install PREFIX=/usr

Multilib instructions:
==========================  ==

Basic 64 bit install:
tar xvfz libv4l-<version>.tar.gz
cd libv4l-<version>.tar.gz
make PREFIX=/usr LIBDIR=/usr/lib64
sudo make install PREFIX=/usr LIBDIR=/usr/lib64

If you also want to use 32 bit apps (such as skype):
make clean
make PREFIX=/usr CFLAGS=-m32 LDFLAGS=-m32
sudo make install PREFIX=/usr 
</pre>

4. I managed to get the fingerprint scanner working by using <nowiki>[[http://www.n-view.net/Appliance/fingerprint/|Fingerprint GUI]]</nowiki>. The instructions that come with the tarball should get it working well enough, but some things I couldn't get working (like console login), and it takes a while for the scanner prompt to come up when first logging in (so much so it's actually quicker to log in manually than wait and scan). Also, I couldn't get it to work at all with the GNOME keyring, so if you use a program like mail-notification that needs the keyring each time you log in, there's not much point in using the scanner to log yourself in.

----
CategoryLaptop
