{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Vyacheslav Goltser (slavik@bcacm.org)
* Make: Compaq
* Brand: Presario
* Model: V2000Z
* Website: 
* S/N: N/A

=== Configuration Details ===
** CPU: AMD Sempron 3000+ (1.8GHz)
** RAM: 768MB (128MB dedicated to graphics)
** Motherboard: Unknown/Generic
** Video: ATI Xpress 200M built-in (RS480) (DX9/OGL2 class)
** Audio: ATI Xpress 200M built-in (AC97)
** WiFi: Broadcomm 4318 type (using WindowsXP drivers from HP site in ndiswrapper). Using bcm43xx driver in Dapper.

=== Current Issues ===
** There is a bug/error in hotplug that make it load the hda-intel module first which makes the system stuck in a loop. Dapper's udev loads the module, but it doesn't cause problems, I blacklisted it anyway.
** X uses the ati module by default which causes problems for X (use vesa)
** The touchpad has a horizontal scroll area which isn't autodetected. (No biggie.)

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Not Tested (Used update manager)
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (Beta 2)
|-
| Screen
| Works
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes (1280x768)
| Yes (1280x768)
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| YES! (See notes)
| YES! (See notes)
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Works
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Works
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| No (See notes)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes (See notes)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Works (See notes)
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes (See notes)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Works
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Works (win driver in ndiswrapper)
| Works (open-source driver)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Works
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Parallel
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| NIC
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| PS/2
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Fn + F1
| Help
| 
| Works (launches Yelp)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F2
| Print
| 
| Works
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F3
| Web Browser
| 
| Works (launches Firefox)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F4
| Switch Monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F5
| Sleep
| 
| Does nothing
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F6
| Lock
| 
| Works (opens CD drive)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F7
| Screen Brightness down
| 
| Works
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F8
| Screen Brightness up
| 
| Works
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F9
| Play/Pause
| 
| Works (See notes)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F10
| Stop
| 
| Doesn't work (See notes)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F11
| Previous track
| 
| Works
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F12
| Next Track
| 
| Works
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + Scroll
| Numlock
| 
| Works
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + Pause
| Break
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + Insert
| Print Screen
| 
| Works (takes a screenshot and pops up adialog to save)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + Delete
| "Sys rq"
| 
| Works (Same as print screen but for app)
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| WiFi button
| Enable/Disable Wifi
| 
| Works (See note)
| Has no effect
| 
|-
| Touchpad button
| Enable/Disable touchpad
| 
| Works (software independant)
| Works (software independant
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
  1. This info will be updated as I test things.

==== Hotplug and a problem ====
** Sound works properly after doing proper configuration
** Hotplug loads the hda-intel module which tries to scan for the Intel HD chipset and doesn't find it. This causes the hotplug system to get stuck in a loop which is not infinite but never ends. (The condition never gets satisfied).
** The reason why this happens is believed to be because of PCI ID issues. Hotplug might not realise what sound card it is and try every module that it has access to.
** Dapper's udev loads the module but it actually gets loaded without trouble, along with the correct module

==== Fixing the Hotplug problem ====
** You need to have a LiveCD Linux distribution ready before installing. I used Knoppix LiveDVD 4.0.2.
** After installing and having the system get stuck on "Starting hotplug subsystem..." shut the system down and boot into Knoppix from the DVD (or CD).
** You need to mount the hard drive then edit the '''/etc/hotplug/blacklist''' file.
** At the end of the file add the following: <pre>
snd-hda-intel
</pre>
** Reboot the system after saving the file and not forgetting to take the Knoppix DVD (CD) out.
** Everything should load from the hard disk and continue installing Ubuntu. But there will be another problem.

==== Fixing Xorg ====
** Xorg detects the ati card and loads the ati module. Which would be fine if the ati module supported the Xpress 200M (RS480) chipset.
** Since Gnome will not load, you still have the command line interface.
** You will have to edit the Xorg configuration file to use the vesa module (it provides basic display support).
** Use the following command to open the file in nano: <pre>
sudo nano /etc/X11/Xorg.conf
</pre>
** Find the line which looks like this: <pre>
Driver "ati"
</pre>
** Change the ati part to vesa. The edited line should look like this: <pre>
Driver "vesa"
</pre>
** Save the changes and exit.
** Reboot the system and GMD should get loaded and after logging in, you should see the gnome desktop. :)
** To get the 3D accelaration to work, follow the guide here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI

==== Lid close ====
** After opening the lid, a promt for password appears, looks like a mini login type thing. This is standard I believe.

==== About the touchpad ====
** X finds it, configures it and it works.
** Vertical scrolling also works.
** Horizontal scrolling doesn't work, although I think that it can be easily fixed through QSynaptics (http://qsynaptics.sourceforge.net/)

==== Wifi button ====
The button seems to affect the hardware side of the wifi card. if the light is lit, then the wifi card is actually physically on.
In connection manager, if it is disabled, then ubuntu won't be able to connect with it.
In Dapper, the button has zero effect. Unloading the modules makes the card go off.

==== Media Buttons ====
** If you press play without Totem being on, it will run Totem (by default)
** Stop doesn't work because Totem doesn't have a "stop" function. Haven't tried other media players.

==== Hibernate ====
When I set the laptop to hibernate from shutdown menu, it shuts down, but when I power it back on it gives errors about IRQ and does not boot.
