{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Phasmagon (phasmagon@gmail.com)
* Make: 2008
* Brand: Toshiba
* Model: Satellite A210-16F
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://eu.computers.toshiba-europe.com/cgi-bin/ToshibaCSG/jsp/productPage.do?service=EU&PRODUCT_ID=135223|Toshiba Satellite A210-16F]]</nowiki>

=== Testing Information ===

* Date: Tuesday, October 7, 2008
* Version: Intrepid Ibex 8.10
* Release: release
* Architecture: amd64
* Flavor: Ubuntu

=== Current Issues ===

# Wireless adapter not working.
# Bluetooth not powered up.

'''Issues history and relevant info at the bottom of the page'''

=== System Info ===
* TOSHIBA
* Satellite A210
* PSAELE-01S00GGE

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Gutsy (7.10)
| in Hardy (RC)
| in Intrepid (8.10)
|-
| Screen
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| '''X'''
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| (./) (Software Rasterizer)
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| (./) /!\ ^(1)^
| (./)
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| (./) /!\ ^(1)^
| (./)
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| (./)
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| (./) /!\ ^(1)^
| '''X'''
| (./)
| 
|-
| Suspends?
| (./) /!\ ^(2)^
| '''X'''
| (./)
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| (./)
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Lid Close (Shut Off Monitor)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| (./) /!\ ^(3)^
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| (./) /!\ ^(4)^
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested (Sound Recorder Freezes)
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| (./)
| (./) /!\ ^(2)^
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Express Card
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Gutsy (7.10)
| in Hardy (RC)?
| in Intrepid (8.10)
|-
| + Space
| Change Screen Resolution
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| + Esc
| Mute On/Off
| 
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + F1
| Lock Computer
| 
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| '''X''' (Types l on a terminal)
| 
|-
| + F2
| Change Power Plan
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| + F3
| Suspend
| 
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + F4
| Hibernate
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| + F5
| Tongle LCD/VGA
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| + F6
| Brightness -
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| (./)
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness +
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| (./)
| 
|-
| + F8
| Wireless On/Off
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| + F9
| Lock Touchpad
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| + F10
| Scroll Lock
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + F11
| Num Lock
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + F12
| Scroll Up/Down (or something to that effect)
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| + 1
| Zoom Out
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| + 2
| Zoom In
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| + M
| Ins
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + .
| Del
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + 7
| Home
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + J
| End
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + 9
| Pg Up
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + L
| Pg Down
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + U
| Left
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + O
| Right
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + 8
| Up
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + K
| Down
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function keys with NumLock ON'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Gutsy (7.10)
| in Hardy (RC)?
| in Intrepid (8.10)
|-
| + M
| Numpad(0)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + J
| Numpad(1)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + K
| Numpad(2)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + L
| Numpad(3)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + U
| Numpad(4)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + I
| Numpad(5)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + O
| Numpad(6)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + 7
| Numpad(7)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + 8
| Numpad(8)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + 9
| Numpad(9)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + .
| Numpad(.)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + /
| Numpad(+)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + ;
| Numpad(-)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + P
| Numpad(*)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| + 0
| Numpad(/)
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Gutsy (7.10)
| in Hardy (RC)
| in Intrepid (8.10)
|-
| Launch Internet
| 
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| '''X''' (Launches Nautilus)
| 
|-
| Launch Media Player
| 
| 
| Untested
| '''X'''
| '''X'''
| 
|-
| Play/Pause
| 
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Stop/Eject
| 
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Next
| 
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|-
| Previous
| 
| 
| Untested
| (./)
| (./)
| 
|}

==== Warnings noted above ====
'''Gutsy'''

# The computer suspends and restores session correctly, but there is a problem with X (black screen).
# Volume level 100% is quite OK. But below 60% you can't hear a thing.
# Headphone jack works, but sound is not isolated to it. You can hear sound on both headphones and speakers.

'''Hardy'''

# External monitor turns on but and shows what the laptop screen is showing but because the resolution of the second screen is higher there is some extra working space. (panels are on the coordinates of the smaller resolution)
# Bluetooth is detected, but enabled only in reboot sequences and only after booted OS was Windows Vista.

=== Issues extended ===

==== Issues history ====

'''Hardy'''
* March 8, 2008
## Installation: The install procedure had to be ran 3 times due to random freezes
## There is '''no sound'''
## Suspend Operation: Computer suspends, but '''doesn't restore correctly''' - xserver needs restart, tty's are not available
## Hibernation: Computer hibernates, but '''doesn't restore correctly''' - xserver needs restart, tty's are not available

* March 9, 2008

 By installing updates

  1. Sound issues resolved

* April 9, 2008
## Atheros wireless is not working.
## Suspend Operation: Computer suspends, but '''doesn't restore correctly''' - xserver needs restart, tty are available
## Hibernation: Computer hibernates, but '''doesn't restore correctly''' - xserver needs restart, tty are available

* April 23, 2008
## Atheros wireless is not working.
## Suspend Operation: Computer suspends, but '''doesn't restore correctly''' - xserver needs restart, ttys are available
## Hibernation: Computer hibernates, but '''doesn't restore correctly''' - xserver needs restart, ttys '''not''' are available
## Mic Jack and Integrated Mic are not operational 
## Bluetooth only works when previously booted OS was Windows Vista
## Lost operations of Fn+F6 and Fn+F7 combinations

'''Intrepid'''

* July 14, 2008
## Wireless adapter is found and recognized, but is not configurable.
## Bluetooth is not powered on. In former tests (Hardy) if windows had previously powered on the device then it was found by Hardy and managed properly, until computer '''power off''' (the device stayed active during reboots). Can't verify this. (windows not present on the computer).
## Synaptics touchpad does not tap drag, nor does it side scroll.

* July 27, 2008
## Wireless adapter is found and recognized, but is not configurable.
## Bluetooth is not powered on. In former tests (Hardy) if windows had previously powered on the device then it was found by Hardy and managed properly, until computer '''power off''' (the device stayed active during reboots). Can't verify this. (windows not present on the computer).
## Synaptics touchpad does not tap drag, nor does it side scroll.
## Suspend operation stopped working.
## Hiberate operation stopped working.

* October 7, 2008
## Wireless adapter not working
## Bluetooth is not powered on. If windows had previously powered on the device then it was found by Intrepid and managed properly, until computer '''power off''' (the device stayed active during reboots). Workaround is to use the omnibook module with forced EcType=14.
## Suspend operation takes the computer into suspend, but then the computer cannot wake up.
## Hiberate operation stopped working.

* October 31, 2008
## Wireless adapter not working
## Bluetooth is not powered on. If windows had previously powered on the device then it was found by Intrepid and managed properly, until computer '''power off''' (the device stayed active during reboots). Workaround is to use the omnibook module with forced EcType=14.

=== Notes and personal comments ===

All test ticks on hardware details section are done right after the installation of the release with no updates.
