{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: FransSchreuder
* Brand: ASUSTeK Computer Inc.
* Make : Asus
* Model: F3Ke-AP009C
* Website: http://www.asus.com/products.aspx?l1=5&l2=26&l3=316&l4=0&model=1827&modelmenu=1
* S/N: Only needed if you have a Canonical supplied laptop

=== Current Issues ===
-Also follow this ubuntuforums site http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=555528&highlight=asus+f3ke

=== System Info ===
<pre>

bios-version:206
system-manufacturer:ASUSTeK Computer Inc.
system-product-name:F3Ke
system-version:1.0

$ lspci
* **
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Mobility Radeon X2300
06:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 01)
* ** This line below is really wrong, it should be AR5007EG which makes a big difference! ***
07:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications, Inc. AR5006EG 802.11 b/g Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)
08:01.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Ricoh Co Ltd R5C832 IEEE 1394 Controller (rev 05)
08:01.1 Generic system peripheral [0805]: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro Host Adapter (rev 22)
08:01.2 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C843 MMC Host Controller (rev 12)
08:01.3 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C592 Memory Stick Bus Host Adapter (rev 12)
08:01.4 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd xD-Picture Card Controller (rev 12)

$ lsusb 
Bus 006 Device 003: ID 174f:5a35  <<<=== This should be the webcam
Bus 005 Device 002: ID 0b05:1712 ASUSTek Computer, Inc. 

</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Feisty amd64 (last stable)
| in Gutsy amd64 (current stable)
|-
| Installation works?
| Text mode only
| Yes, from desktop CD (!)
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current stable)?
|-
| Screen
| Works need fglrx driver see howto's below
| it works originally with the vesa driver for correct resolution use fglrx driver (see howto's below)
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| After editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf see howto's below
| After editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf see howto's below
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| 2D Acceleration
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Works with ati flgrx 8.42.3 driver
| 
|-
| TV-out works?
| A kind of
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| untested
| Works
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Sleep
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| What's that?
| Works
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Works with ndiswrapper see howto's below
| Works with ndiswrapper see howto's below
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| Works
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| NA
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Status LEDs
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Webcam
| A sort of
| Bottom-up, not in all programs
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Works (tested SD only)
| Works (tested SD only)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Feisty (current stable)
| in Gutsy (current stable)
|-
| + Space
| lock screen
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| + F1
| sleep
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| wlan
| 
| No, only statusled
| Works with ndiswrapper (see howto)
| 
|-
| + F3
| email (evolution)
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| + F4
| browser (firefox)
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| + F5
| increase brightness
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| + F6
| decrease brightness
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| + F7
| lcd on/off
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| + F8
| lcd / ext. monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| touchpad on/off
| 
| No, see below
| Works
| 
|-
| + F10
| mute
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| + F11
| volume up
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| + F12
| volume down
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| stop
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| play
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| + ArrowRight
| next
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| prev
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| + Insert
| NumLock
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| + Delete
| ScrLock
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Feisty (current stable)
| in Gutsy (current stable)
|-
| Key2
| LockScreen
| 
| No, see below
| Works
| 
|-
| Key3
| touchpad on/off
| 
| No, see below
| Works
| 
|-
| Key4
| ext. monitor
| 
| No, see below
| Untested
| 
|-
| Key5
| browser
| 
| No, see below
| Works
| 
|-
| Key6
| turn off
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|}

==== Howto's ====

===== Installing =====
You can just run the live cd for Gutsy, in Feisty you will need to run the alternate install CD in text mode, since the Ati card is not supported yet in Feisty.

====== ATI restricted driver ======

To have 3d acceleration with Compiz-fusion and AIGLX working, you will need to install the new ati fglrx driver 8.42.3 (which is not yet in the Gutsy repository).

download the following file:
https://a248.e.akamai.net/f/674/9206/0/www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/64bit/ati-driver-installer-8.42.3-x86.x86_64.run

(there is also a newer version 8.44.3 now, but with this version I got some errors which didn't allow me to use compiz with aiglx, with this newer driver hibernate works though, so see what's right for you)

now run:
<pre>
sudo chmod +x ati-driver-installer-8.42.3-x86.x86_64.run
sudo ./ati-driver-installer-8.42.3-x86.x86_64.run
</pre>

and follow the instructions on the wizard you get.

I also tried some other manuals on the ubuntu-forums, but this one is really the easiest!

when you installed it pop up a terminal and run:

<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>

You get a text editor in which you cat add the following values (just add the "1280x800" on all the lines)
<pre>
Section "Screen"
        Identifier "Default Screen"
        Device     "Generic Video Card"
        Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     1
                Modes    "1280x800" "1200x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     4
                Modes    "1280x800" "1200x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     8
                Modes    "1280x800" "1200x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     15
                Modes    "1280x800" "1200x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     16
                Modes    "1280x800" "1200x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     24
                Modes    "1280x800" "1200x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection
</pre>

also check in this file if the section Device contains the following line (aticonfig --initial should have done this)
<pre>
Driver      "fglrx"
</pre>

In the Section Extensions find Composite and change it to Enable:
<pre>
Section "Extensions"
        Option          "Composite"     "Enable"
EndSection
</pre>

now save the file and exit gedit and reboot your computer.

====== Wireless ======
By default (when restricted modules are installed) ubuntu uses the madwifi driver for the wlan card of this laptop because the system thinks it is an AR5006EG card but it really is AR5007EG which is not supported by this madwifi driver. It hopefully will be so keep a close look at

http://madwifi.org/wiki/Compatibility/Atheros#AtherosAR5007EG

To install the wireless card you will need ndiswrapper with the Windows XP (x64) driver.

First download the following file: Wireless_Atheros_V5.3.0.67_XP_XB63_XB62(WHQL).zip from

ftp://ftp.work.acer-euro.com/notebook/aspire_5100/driver/ 

and extract it in your home folder.
so pop up a terminal and type the following command: (if you have installed ubuntu i386 version use Drivers/XP-x32 instead)
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install build-essential svn
svn co https://ndiswrapper.svn.sourceforge....ot/ndiswrapper ndiswrapper
cd ndiswrapper/trunk/ndiswrapper directory
make
sudo make uninstall
sudo make install

cd Wireless_Atheros_V5.3.0.67_XP_XB63_XB62(WHQL)/Drivers/XP-x64 
sudo ndiswrapper -i net5211.inf
sudo ndiswrapper -m
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
</pre>
add the lines:
<pre>
blacklist ath_pci
blacklist ath_hal
</pre>

now reboot again and check if your wifi works

You can also use the default ndiswrapper from the repository but you will get the HW-Address 00:00:00:00:00:00 if this is your problem, you can change it manually but it shouldn't occur when using the method above.
<pre>
ifconfig wlan0 down
ifconfig wlan0 hw ether 00:00:00:00:00:01
ifconfig wlan0 up
</pre>

For some reason, wlan doesn't work always. Sometimes i see in my dmesg some complains about IRQ 19, that's the address of my wirelessnic. Wireless doesn't work that time.

I'm using wpa_supplicant for authenticating and roaming for my network:
Install wpa_supplicant:
<pre>
apt-get install wpasupplicant wpagui
</pre>

This is a really usefull document: /usr/share/doc/wpasupplicant/README.modes.gz 

Create symlinks in /etc/network/if-pre-up.d, /etc/network/if-down.d and /etc/network/if-post-down.d
<pre>
ln -s /etc/wpa_supplicant/ifupdown.sh /etc/network/if-pre-up.d/
ln -s /etc/wpa_supplicant/ifupdown.sh /etc/network/if-down.d/
ln -s /etc/wpa_supplicant/ifupdown.sh /etc/network/if-post-down.d/
</pre>

Then replace/add some files to /etc/network/interfaces
<pre>
auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet manual
        wpa-driver wext
        wpa-roam /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf

iface default inet dhcp

iface home inet static
    address 192.168.1.5
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    network 192.168.1.0
    broadcast 192.168.1.255
    gateway 192.168.1.1

iface uni inet dhcp
</pre>

Copy a wpa_supplicant.conf template:
<pre>
cp /usr/share/doc/wpasupplicant/examples/wpa_supplicant.conf.template /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf
</pre>
Add ap_scan=2 to the file to get better results (following to previous document)

Also usefull to look at: /usr/share/doc/wpasupplicant/examples/README.wpa_supplicant.conf.gz

Your wireless network will start at startup time or manually using ifup wlan0. Some more control with wpagui.

====== Webcam ======
I've the webcam working (a sort of):
It works with the developent version of linux-uvc. So you have to download the code from the repository. First, you need a subversion client:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install subversion
</pre>

Then download the code, compile and install:
<pre>
svn export svn://svn.berlios.de/linux-uvc/linux-uvc/trunk ./linux-uvc
cd ./linux-uvc
make

sudo cp uvcvideo.ko /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/ubuntu/media/usbvideo/uvcvideo.ko 
sudo echo "videodev" >> /etc/modules
sudo echo "uvcvideo" >> /etc/modules
</pre>

The webcam isn't functioning good, I can use it ONLY with ekiga, and the movie is flipped.

====== Boot Splash screen ======
Due to a bug in the X64 version of Gutsy, it gives a black screen while booting.
Gnome and X start normally.

see https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usplash/+bug/147623

change /etc/usplash.conf to
<pre>
xres=1280
yres=800
</pre>

then run:
<pre>
sudo update-initramfs -u
</pre>

==== Notes ====

* Be careful not to start the recovery partition, it is listed in the grub menu as Vista/Longhorn
You better delete this line (/dev/sda1) from /boot/grub/menu.lst or even delete the partition completely if you have the recovery dvd
!!!!! I booted from the recovery partition by accident and it completely erased all my linux partitions without any question !!!!!

----
CategoryLaptop
