{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[JaniMonoses]]</nowiki>
* Make: HP
* Model: NX8220 (PG802ET)
* Website: 
* S/N: CNU5241H27

=== Current Issues ===

Final Breezy installs but X fails to start. The last known version of the xserver-xorg-driver-ati package to work is 6.8.2-75. Unfortunately I only tested the daily generated the day before RC and that was working, and subsequent updates did not bring in the new X versions (-76 and -77) because of my fault.
To workaround the installer throwing you in the console, add Option "noaccel" to the driver section in /etc/X11/xorg.conf after installation finishes. Then gdm should start but screen redraw will be slow.
On i386 you can install the .deb attached to the bug linked below.

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy (current stable)
| in Dapper May 20th
|-
| Installation works?
| No (http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=17421)
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy (current stable)
| in Dapper Flight 4 (current development)
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Not with ati, yes with fglrx 8.19.10 including suspend (reported by Simon Bergamin)
| Yes with ATI including suspend/hibernate/resume
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes (but sound is only heard from headphone not speaker on resume)
| 21574
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Blanks screen
| Blank/suspend configurable from g-p-m
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes (except after resume from suspend)
| Ditto
| 21574
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Detected, but no AP-s around to test
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes but regression from breezy on hibernate
| 34066
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested (No linux driver for this Texas Instruments SD/smart-card reader)
| Untested (driver is available). Slot detected, need card to test it
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hoary (current stable)?
| in Breezy (current development)?
|-
| + F3 - Sleep
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes (only after configured from g-p-m preferences though)
| 
|-
| + F4 - Screen on/off
| 
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F8 - Battery
| 
| 
| No
| Pops up g-p-m information bubble
| 
|-
| + F9 - Screen brightness down
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10 - Screen brightness up
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11 - Screen brightness/contrast?
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Key (i)
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes - launches yelp
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

There's one regeression I see from breezy, the mouse sometimes dead on resume
The speakers mute on resume problem is the same as in breezy
better than breezy: 3D with the free driver out of the box and probably the sd/mmc reader (not tested)

(Joseph Heled)
Another breezy regression seem to be the external monitor. Under default install the KDE control panel fails to set it up. When resurrecting the working breezy xorg.conf, external monitor mirroring sort of works - it flickers which seems to indicate it got either the resoultion or refresh rate wrong (the LCD external monitor has the same resolution of the laptop and worked fine with breezy). Other annoying features include failure of KDE monitor control panel with the modified xrog.conf and the screen coming up in 640x480 when X starts up with an external monitor plugged in. (I am running dapper with the latest updates).
It is fair to mention that I got the laptop back with a new motherboard (after it fried itself in less than a year), so the display hardware may have changed. I know that the etherent and wireless have been transposed (eth0 <==> eth1)

I have a wireless keyboard/mouse attached, and from time to time the mouse goes dead. removing and re-inserting the usb receiver restores the mouse. (keyboard is fine throuout)

 