{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

  Contact: vishketan

  Make: Sony

  Brand: Vaio

  Model: VGN SZ483N

  Website: http://www.cnet.com.au/laptops/laptops/0,239035649,339284061,00.htm

=== Current Issues ===

Battery life is lower than under Windoze.

Memorystick slot does not work. Apparently fixed in 2.6.25 kernel but not backported to Hardy yet. Also see http://swehrmann.blogspot.com/2008/04/memorystick-support-unter-ubuntu-hardy.html for a fix. There is also a bug in launchpad but I cannot find it!

Issues with warm docking. As a workaround suspend the machine before docking it. Resume it when docked. Bug has been fixed in upstream kernel but not backported to Hardy yet. See https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/194617 

External monitor hot-plugging does not work. I want to be able to place my laptop on the dock and the display to switch automatically to the external monitor. Currently I have to invoke the nvidia-settings gui press detect monitors and then configure. Would love to have this done automatically. 

Fingerprint reader does not work. This is crippled in hardware by Sony.

=== System Info ===
system-manufacturer: Sony Corporation

system-product-name:  VGN-SZ483N_C

system-version:  J002KLSB

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| in Gutsy
| in Hardy
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (see notes below)
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (see notes below)
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (see notes below)
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| Seems to work
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (but has issues noted above)
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (see notes below)
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| No (see issues noted above)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| in Gutsy
| in Hardy (current development)
|-
| Fn + F2
| Mute
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Fn + F3
| Decrease Volume
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Fn + F4
| Increase Volume
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Fn + F5
| Decrease Brightness
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Fn + F6
| Increase Brightness
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Fn + F7
| Toggle External Monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| Fn + F10
| Magnify Screen
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| No (but can be mapped)
| 
|-
| Fn + F12
| Hibernate
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| No (but can be mapped)
| 
|}
==== Notes ====
* This laptop has a switch to select between speed (nvidia) and stamina (intel) mode. To enable 3-d acceleration and direct rendering under both modes do as follows (I adapted this from http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=421350&highlight=vaio+glx): 

Step 1:

Install with graphics selector switch set to speed (nvidia) and install
nvidia-glx-new package for the NVidia restricted driver.
<pre>
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.speed
</pre>

Step 2:

Set graphics switch to stamina (intel) and restart. When X server fails to start press CTRL-ALT-F1. Login and 
<pre>
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
</pre>

After the configuration 
<pre>
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.stamina
</pre>

Step 3:

<pre>
sudo vim /etc/init.d/xorg_conf
</pre>

Add the following contents

<pre>

VIDEO=`/usr/bin/lspci |grep -c nVidia`

if [ "$VIDEO" = 1 ]; then
  cp -f /etc/X11/xorg.conf.speed /etc/X11/xorg.conf
  ln -sf /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.nvidia /usr/lib/libGL.so.1
  ln -sf /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so.nvidia /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so
else
  cp -f /etc/X11/xorg.conf.stamina /etc/X11/xorg.conf
  ln -sf /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.mesa /usr/lib/libGL.so.1
  ln -sf /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so.mesa /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so
fi
</pre>
Then
<pre>
sudo chmod +x /etc/init.d/xorg_conf
</pre>

Step 4:
<pre>
sudo ln -sf /etc/init.d/xorg_conf /etc/rc2.d/S12xorg_conf
sudo ln -sf /usr/lib/libGL.so.1 /usr/lib/libGL.so
sudo ln -sf /usr/lib/nvidia/libGL.so.1.2.xlibmesa /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.mesa
sudo ln -sf /usr/lib/libGL.so.169.12 /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.nvidia
sudo ln -sf /usr/lib/nvidia/libglx.so.xserver-xorg-core /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so.mesa
sudo ln -sf /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so.169.12 /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so.nvidia
</pre>

Step 5:

Run to verify that direct rendering is enabled under both cards:
<pre>
glxinfo | grep render 
glxgears
</pre>

* To enable hibernate and suspend install the restricted nvidia drivers. Then 

<pre>
sudo vim /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
</pre>
and add 
<pre>
Option NvAGP "1" 
</pre>
under "Device" (seems not always necessary). Then

<pre>
sudo vim /etc/pm/config.d/unload_modules
</pre>
and write into it
<pre>
SUSPEND_MODULES="uvcvideo"
</pre>
If you use the docking station then write instead
<pre>
SUSPEND_MODULES="uvcvideo ehci_hcd uhci_hcd"
</pre>
Make the file executable
<pre>
sudo chmod +x /etc/pm/config.d/unload_modules
</pre>

* When using the docking station you also need to 
<pre>
sudo vim /etc/modules
</pre>
and add 
<pre>
acpiphp
</pre>
into the file. 

* Webcam packages can be found from http://www.arakhne.org/spip.php?article50

----
CategoryLaptop
