{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: [JonDodson]
* Make: HP Pavillion
* Model: zd7000

=== Current Issues ===
impede my work.

Currenty isses in Hoary:

* No Wireless from the built in Wireless card.
* Sound is sketchy, I have to killall esd to get certain programs to work.
* The MAX resoultion is 1280x800, my coworkers with the same model can get higher using Debian Stable.  I think the resoultion went a bit lower after I installed the binary nvidia drivers.
* The whole thing seems really chunky, IO wait is really high, unsure why this is.  Perhaps DMA shold be enabled?

Things that work:

* USB
* Firewire
* The built in Mousepad(and you can turn it off, a lifesaver)
* Sound(mostly)
* DVD/CDRW
* Headphone jack
* Ethernet

Notes: 

If this list is pretty sparse, it is because I had little time to write it up.  I hope it helps.

---------------------
* Contact: [ThomPischke]
* Purchased: January 2004

What I can add:

* Video: Resolution was fine by default, but bumped down when I installed binary drivers.  Was able to correct this fairly easily by googling and tweaking config files.
* Modem: Does not work, as far as I can tell
* Wireless: Works ok with NDISWrapper
* Hibernate: Shuts down, but then just does a normal boot, so does not work by default
* Sleep key does not work
* None of the special functions keys work by default (play, stop, ff, etc)
* Sound: Has never worked to my satisfaction.  Quality ok if PCM adjusted to 75% but then volume is a bit low.
         Have tried most of the standard tricks from the guide, but I must disable 'Sounds for events' to get many things to work
* Battery monitor does not work
* USB has been stellar
* Ethernet: works fine
* CD reading/burning all good so far
* All in all, worked very well.  Performance seems generally equal or better to the dual-boot Windows XP alternative.  Sound and hibernation improvements would be nice, and probably most users will want modem and wireless to work by default.  

 