{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[AndreasSchildbach]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[ChuckShort]]</nowiki>
* Make: Dell
* Brand: Latitude
* Model: X1
* Website: http://www1.us.dell.com/content/products/productdetails.aspx/latit_x1?c=us&cs=555&l=en&s=biz

=== Current Issues ===

==== VBE ====

The VBE (VESA BIOS Extensions) of the X1 BIOS (A05 and earlier) only know the following VBE modes (ignoring the 8 and 16 bpp modes):

* Mode 50 : 640x480, 32 bits/pixel
* Mode 52 : 800x600, 32 bits/pixel
* Mode 54 : 1024x768, 32 bits/pixel
* Mode 58 : 1280x1024, 32 bits/pixel
* Mode 5a : 1600x1200, 32 bits/pixel
* Mode 5c : 1920x1440, 32 bits/pixel

As you can see, the X1 does not even support its own internal display, let alone many external displays you could connect. This is the reason you only get 1024 x 768 instead of the native 1280 x 768 out-of-the-box. In order to fix this, you have to patch one of the modes. You can use "855resolution", "915resolution" or a development version of the i810 driver for X.org (TODO: instructions). I recommend patching mode 5c, because you would most certainly not need 1920 x 1440.

I tried bugging Dell about this defect, but I got no reply. Maybe you could try, too?

==== CPU Frequency Scaling ====

I just experienced problems with CPU frequency scaling and BIOS A05, on both Dapper and Breezy. On A05, there are less available frequencies. Have a look at /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_available_frequencies:

* A02: 1100000 1000000 900000 800000 600000
* A05: 1100000 800000 600000

Also, /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_max_freq:

* A02: 1100000
* A05: 600000

This leads to always slow performance. Now, it could be possible that Dell got thermal problems with the passive cooling, and updating to more conservative thermal values was their last resort. Nevertheless, I decided to go back to A02 (haven't tried A03 and A04 though). My CPU temperature (/proc/acpi/thermal_zone/THM/temperature) oscillates at around 58 degress celsuis.

==== SD card reader ====

The SD card reader now works fine under Dapper.

==== Modem ====

As far as I know, nobody has gotten the modem to work yet. I heard there might be a commercial driver, though.

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| Installation successful
| yes
| yes
| 
| yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-4> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Hoary?
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (Flight 1)?
| In Dapper (Flight 5)
|-
| Screen
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| no, 1024x768 rather than 1280x768
| no, 1024x768 rather than 1280x768
| no, 1024x768 rather than 1280x768
| no, 1024x768 rather than 1280x768 (note 1)
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/915resolution/+bug/6271|# Launchpad 6271]]</nowiki>
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| yes
| no
| no
| yes (note 2)
| <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=15051|#15051]]</nowiki>
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| guess not, glxinfo returns "direct rendering: No"
| yes
| yes
| no (note 3)
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect/+bug/36707|#Launchpad 36707]]</nowiki>
|-
| External monitor works?
| yes
| yes
| untested
| partial (note 4)
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| untested
| untested
| untested
| no
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| no, but yes with special config
| not supported
| untested
| no
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| yes
| yes
| untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| untested
| no
| untested
| yes
| <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=15189|#15189]]</nowiki>
|-
| Sleep
| untested
| yes
| untested
| partial (note 5)
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery power and Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| yes
| untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| yes
| yes
| yes
| untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| untested
| untested
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| yes
| yes
| untested
| partial (note 6)
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| no
| no
| untested
| no
| <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14563|#14563]]</nowiki>
|-
| Firewire
| yes
| yes
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| no
| no
| untested
| untested
| <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=15711|#15711]]</nowiki>
|-
| Modem
| no
| no
| untested
| untested
| <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14158|#14158]]</nowiki>
|-
| <-6> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| untested
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| yes
| yes
| untested
| yes (note 7)
| 
|-
| CF cards
| no
| no
| untested
| untested
| <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14495|#14495]]</nowiki>
|-
| SD cards
| no
| no
| untested
| untested
| <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14081|#14081]]</nowiki>
|-
| internal keyboard
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hoary?
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (Flight 1)?
|-
| + Esc
| Standby
| 
| no
| yes
| no
| 
|-
| + F1
| Hibernate
| 0x8a
| no
| no
| untested
| <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14446|#14446]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F2
| Wireless Switch (WLAN/BT)
| 
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| Battery
| 0x87
| no
| no
| no
| <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14446|#14446]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F4
| Num Lock
| 
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Scroll Lock
| 
| no
| no
| no
| 
|-
| + F8
| CRT/LCD
| 
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Eject CD
| 0x89
| no
| no
| untested
| <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14446|#14446]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F11
| Print Screen
| 
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Pause
| 
| untested
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hoary?
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (Flight 1)?
|-
| Close Lid
| 
| 
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Power Button
| Shutdown
| 
| yes
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Fn + End
| Volume Mute
| 0xa0
| no, config in "Keyboard Shortcuts"
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Fn + Pg Up
| Volume Up
| 0xb0
| no, config in "Keyboard Shortcuts"
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Fn + Pg Down
| Volume Down
| 0xae
| no, config in "Keyboard Shortcuts"
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Fn + Crsr Up
| Screen Brightness Up
| 
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Fn + Crsr Down
| Screen Brightness Down
| 
| yes
| yes
| yes
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
Overall, Breezy Badger runs great on the X1, if you can live with having to patch the VBE BIOS and the other current issues.

1. The native resolution is detected properly with an updated 915resolution package from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/915resolution/+bug/6271]]</nowiki>

2. The refresh rate displays as 61Hz instead of the expected 60, but it doesn't cause any issues. I guess it's just rounded or something.

3. Direct rendering is not working - the video card hasn't been detected, it's using the vesa driver. Odd since it has worked for previous users.

4. The external monitor works, but mine can't display the native resolution. Some negotiation for resolutions would be nice.

5. Suspend works, and the laptop resumes, but takes a long time (~20s) in text mode, and doesn't swap back to X when done. For comparison, the laptop is capable of resuming within about 3s.

6. Wired network works, but when the cable is disconnected the network interface doesn't go down, so everything waits indefinately for responses.

7. External DVD drive works, but won't unmount/eject when it's button is pressed. It does eject fine from software.

==== Comments by users ====

Hi, actually some of the items that are specified here as not working in Breezy, actually do work. See:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InstallingUbuntuOnADellLatitudeX1

''Actually, the tests on this page do not allow to configure anything by hand. If it does not work out of the box, or can be
configured with the GUI, it counts as "not working". Of course, you can get many things to work with some custom setup (that's what
I do, too), but instructions for this is out of scope for this test protocol.''

----

* I've upgraded to the A05-BIOS, and it now seems to force thermal throtteling more often now. But when it cools off again, it easily goes to full 1.1 GHz again.
* The resume-from-suspend is delayed by timeouts in the kernel-module for the SD-reader. If the modules '''sdhci''' and '''mmc_core''' are removed, the resume happens at full speed. According to the sdhci mailing-list, this is due to Ubuntu using an old version of '''sdhci''' in its kernels.
* My X1 sometimes makes some ''very'' high-pitch beeps, which seemingly is due to a switch in the power-management hardware running at to high speed. I've disabled this by adding '''echo 2 > /sys/module/processor/parameters/max_cstate''' to '''/etc/init.d/bootmisc.sh'''. This does however seem to limit the laptops battery life a little. It seems other people have success setting some update-frequency lower/higher to rid the noise, without sacrificing battery life. Anybody got something working?
