{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Contact: NathanEckenrode
* Make: Fujitsu
* Brand: Lifebook
* Model: U810 or U1010 depending on region
* Website: 

=== Current Issues ===
* Touchscreen does not work, needs driver and Xorg configuration. (for configuration information, please see the notes section at the bottom)
* when touchscreen started with workaround, it is still highly inaccurate as compared to windows on the same hardware (likely do to with the BIOS switch)
* Resolution is 640x480 in intrepid alpha 4
* External LAN + VGA dongle doesn't seem to work in intrepid alpha 4

=== System Info ===
800 Mhz Intel CPU, 1 GB RAM, Intel Graphics and Sound, 40 GB HD.

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|3> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| in Gutsy
| in Intrepid Alpha 4
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| yes
| no
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| yes
| no
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| yes
| no
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| no
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| no
| yes
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| yes, no resume
| yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| no
| yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| yes
| no
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchscreen & Mice'''
|-
| Touchscreen
| Untested
| no
| with problems
| 
|-
| Touchscreen - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| no
| no
| 
|-
| Touchscreen - Scroll down side
| Untested
| no
| no
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| no
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| yes
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS?
| Gutsy
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| Gutsy
|-
| ''KEY''
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}
==== Notes ====
===== Touchpad operation and calibration workaround =====
First, skim https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpi-support/+bug/159358 then http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-644258.html and grab the Xorg config from the second link. 
* evtouch isn't packaged correctly, so you will need to copy a file to / before it works. (I don't recall which, I don't have my u810 handy. please update this!)
* DON'T FORGET to set / unset the Calibrate value in xorg.conf
* It seems the evtouch calibration software is highly unreliable, so I suggest doing as the author of that article suggests and doing a manual calibration after running evtouch by using a virtual terminal and switching over to the login screen and restarting it with ctrl-alt-backspace.
* if these instructions are very foreign to you, then you may be trying to run linux on a system which is too demanding on your current skills. You will need to be very familiar with basic unix skills, editing xorg.conf, using virtual consoles, force-restarting X and xdm / gdm / kdm. Many of us endeavor to make this easier, but it is not easy or quick.
* even after calibration, the touchscreen will not be very responsive. I don't currently know what does this. I believe it is related to the BIOS change outlined in the first article.
-- PaulOppenheim ==== Suspend ====
In Intrepid alpha 4, suspend / hibernate works out of the box 

I have gone over the steps in the gentoo ACPI debugging wiki, and have wound up confirming that control does return to the computer, but the screen is dark. I still need to figure this out.
-- PaulOppenheim 
On Ubuntu Hardy (alpha 5 - updated)
For suspend/resume to work (and it just has to on a umpc) :

- Install uswsusp package from debian sid (0.7)
- add "acpi_sleep=s3_bios" and remove "splash" from the kernel boot options in "/boot/grub/menu.lst" (no quotes)
- edit "/etc/default/acpi-support" to comment out "POST_VIDEO=true" and all savestates

Think you are using windows and reboot.

That's it. Now the suspend option in gnome works (it uses s2ram), then the U will resume on opening the lid again.
On resume, you will see something happening to the screen but not the desktop showing up, just press "ctrl"-"alt"-"F7" to get the password dialog to unlock the screen.

Sometimes (not always) s2ram stays in memory eating a lot of cpu-time after resume. This sometimes lasts 3 minutes. While it is there your screen-backlight buttons won't work. Just wait and when it finishes the screen will blink and everything works again. Don't try to kill it eg. only 2secs after resuming because this causes it to "hang". While it's running, you can not suspend again but you can already use the U. As soon as it finishes, it's safe to suspend again. 
Still needs some work, but quite usable already.

-- WernerVD 