{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: TomerChachamu
* Make: Lenovo
* Brand: 3000 N200
* Model: 0769-B2G
* Website: http://www5.pc.ibm.com/uk/products.nsf/$wwwPartNumLookup/_TY2B2UK?open&OpenDocument&epi=web_express

=== Current Issues ===
* Sound requires a fix (see below). Also note that sound will only work if onboard modem is enabled.
* Webcam requires drivers (see below)
* Internal speakers do not turn off when headphones are plugged in
* The fan on the left side towards the back is almost always on. Occasionally it stops for about half a minute before re-activating.
* Bug in the wireless driver. Solution here https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/149214/comments/24

=== System Info ===
<pre>
 $ sudo dmidecode -s system-manufacturer
 LENOVO
 $ sudo dmidecode -s system-product-name
 0769B2G
 $ sudo dmidecode -s system-version
 3000 N200
 $ sudo lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub (rev 0c)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 PCI Express Root Port (rev 0c)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Contoller #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 03)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev f3)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801HEM (ICH8M) LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) IDE Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) SATA AHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G72M [Quadro NVS 110M/GeForce Go 7300] (rev a1)
04:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN Network Connection (rev 61)
06:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetLink BCM5906M Fast Ethernet PCI Express (rev 02)
08:06.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Ricoh Co Ltd R5C832 IEEE 1394 Controller
08:06.1 Generic system peripheral [0805]: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro Host Adapter (rev 19)
08:06.2 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C843 MMC Host Controller (rev 01)
08:06.3 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C592 Memory Stick Bus Host Adapter (rev 0a)
08:06.4 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd xD-Picture Card Controller (rev 05)
 $ lsusb
Bus 006 Device 003: ID 04f2:b013 Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd 
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 002 Device 004: ID 08ff:2580 AuthenTec, Inc. 
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 004 Device 002: ID 0a5c:2101 Broadcom Corp. 
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
 </pre>
Note: the AuthenTec is the fingerprint reader. The Broadcom is the Bluetooth (if this doesn't appear, check the switch at the front of your laptop). The Chicony is the webcam.
=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 7.10 x86
|-
| Screen
| Works
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes, WSXGA+ on this model
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| After System -> Administration -> Restricted Driver Manager
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes, after sound setup (see below)
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes, after sound setup (see below)
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| (keyboard control) Yes, after sound setup (see below)
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes, but plugging in headphones will not mute your internal speakers
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested (it does at least see available networks)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes (OBEX data transfer at least)
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes (including burning CDs at least)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card readers
| Not working
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Yes (see below)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 7.10 x86
|-
| + Esc
| Mute
| 
| Yes, after sound setup (see below)
| 
|-
| + F1
| Vol down
| 
| Yes, after sound setup (see below)
| 
|-
| + F2
| Vol up
| 
| Yes, after sound setup (see below)
| 
|-
| + F4
| Sleep
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| Wireless?
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| External display
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| Backlight down
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Backlight up
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Suspend to disk
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Up
| Stop (media)
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Down
| Play/pause (media)
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Left
| Next track (media)
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Right
| Prev track (media)
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 7.10 x86
|-
| Power button
| 
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lenovo Care
| 
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mute
| 
| 
| Yes, after sound setup (see below)
| 
|-
| Vol down
| 
| 
| Yes, after sound setup (see below)
| 
|-
| Vol up
| 
| 
| Yes, after sound setup (see below)
| 
|}
==== Notes ====

NOTE: If you do something wrong here, your laptop might emit a very loud and piercing sound when you boot up. Instead of running your laptop on a battery, connect it to the power and disconnect the battery by undoing both latches at the bottom and sliding it out. That way, if something is misconfigured, you can just pull out the power cable.

Setting up sound:
* Upgrade to gutsy if you want to use this guide. See GutsyUpgrades
* Enable the ubuntu-backports repository. System -> Administration -> Software Sources -> Updates -> "Unsupported updates". See UbuntuBackports for more information.
* Upgrade everything and, if requested of you, reboot.
* Install the backports-modules. The simplest way to do this is to open a Terminal and paste in this command: <code>sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-`uname -r`</code>
* Edit the configuration. Paste this into a terminal: <code>gksu gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base</code> and after entering your password, a window will pop up.
* Add this to the bottom of the file:
<pre>
options snd-hda-intel single_cmd=1 model=lenovo
</pre>
* Save and close the file.
* Now paste this into a terminal: <code>sudo modprobe -rv snd-hda-intel && sudo modprobe -v snd-hda-intel</code>
* You should get one or two "remmod" lines and one or two "insmod" lines. If not, you at least have an error to go on.
* Press Alt-F2, type "alsamixer", and tick the "run in terminal" button.
* Unmute everything (use "M" to toggle mute and left and right to change channels) and turn the volume to, perhaps, 10%. (Use up and down to change the volumes.)
* System -> Preferences -> Sound and click on "Test".
* Go back to alsamixer and fiddle with the volumes until you can hear something.
* Congratulations! To change the volume, use the "PCM" channel. To mute/unmute your headphones, use the "headphone" channel. To mute/unmute your internal speakers, use the "Front" channel.
* To get your keyboard controls working, go to Sound Preferences and under Devices -> Default Mixer track -> Device, choose "HDA Intel (Alsa mixer)". Then choose "PCM" in the list below.
* To get your tray icon working, right-click and go to preferences, then choose the same options there.

Setting up video:
* Lenovo3000 webcam is supported by <nowiki>[[http://linux-uvc.berlios.de/|Linux UVC driver & tools]]</nowiki>
* In order to install the driver, you'll need subversion. Go to System->Administratrion->Synaptic Package Manager and find and check "subversion"
* To download the source code, open a terminal and type
 <code>svn checkout svn://svn.berlios.de/linux-uvc/linux-uvc/trunk linux-uvc</code>
* Now compile the code: navigate to the new directory ''linux-uvc'' and type
 <pre>
make
 sudo make install</pre>
 Webcam is ready to use
* To test the webcam, you need something that support Video for Linux 2 (V4L2); e.g. Ekiga.
