{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


  Contact: em3raldxiii

  Make: MSI

  Brand: 

  Model: GT735

  Website: http://www.msi.com/index.php?func=proddesc&maincat_no=135&prod_no=1517

=== Current Issues ===
Ubuntu 9.10:  Just about everything works out-of-the-box; most importantly, there are no longer any issues with getting audio to work through all of the speakers correctly.

Ubuntu 9.04 and earlier:  Audio does not work out-of-the-box.  A ''complete'' solution is still unavailable.  By default, audio only comes out of the subwoofer located on the bottom of the laptop.  See '''Notes''' at the bottom for more detail.  Also, the ECO button (designed for power management) does not seem to do anything.

The "windows key + E" opens all work spaces.

=== System Info ===

system-manufacturer: Micro-Star International

system-product-name: GT735

system-version: Ver 1.000

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| Ubuntu 9.04
| Ubuntu 9.10
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| HDMI Out
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| ESATA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| YES
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| YES
| Yes*
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| YES
| Yes*
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| NO*
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| YES*
| Yes
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
|-
| CD/DVD drive (Read)
| YES
| Yes
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive (Write)
| YES*
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| YES SD Class 6
| YES SD Class 6
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Untested*
| Untested*
| 
|-
| USB 2.0 Support
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| Ubuntu 9.04
| Ubuntu 9.10
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| -
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| ?
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| Disable Touchpad
| 
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| + F4
| Dim Screen
| 
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| + F5
| Brighten Screen
| 
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| + F6
| -
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| Volume Down
| 
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| + F8
| Volume Up
| 
| Yes
| YES
|-
| + F9
| Mute
| 
| Yes
| YES
| 
|-
| + F10
| -
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| -
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| Suspend
| 
| Yes*
| YES*
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other Special Keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| Ubuntu 9.04
| Ubuntu 9.10
|-
| Windows key + E
| Open All Workspaces
| 
| Yes
| YES
| 
|-
| Media Key Rewind
| Player Skip Backwards
| 
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Media Key Rewind
| Player Stop
| 
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Media Key Rewind
| Player Play
| 
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Media Key Rewind
| Player Skip Foreward
| 
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Media Key Eco
| Battery Saving Modes
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Media Key Turbo
| Built-in Overclock
| 
| Yes*
| YES*
| 
|-
| Media Key Webcam
| Webcam
| 
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
|-
| Media Key Bluetooth
| Enable Bluetooth
| 
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Media Key WIFI
| Enable Wireless Network Adapter
| 
| Yes
| YES
| 
|-
| Media Key P1
| User Entered Application Launcher
| 
| No*
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

===== Wireless =====
I have had Ubuntu 9.04 (now upgraded to 9.10) running on this computer for some time now, and I do have wireless networking working with no trouble.  However, I don't remember if I had to do any special work to get it to work.

===== Audio =====
Ubuntu 9.04:  To begin with, audio was only available through the subwoofer.  All controls worked (volume, mute, etc), but sound quality was obviously not very good.  Eventually I opened up a discussion here:  <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118837|Ubuntu Forum Discussion]]</nowiki>.  The short version of the partial solution is here:

Add this line to the bottom of your /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf configuration file.

''options snd-hda-intel model=6stack-dig probe_mask=1''

Ubuntu 9.10:  Audio appears to work perfectly; some games which were designed to access the audio device directly (as opposed to playing nice with Pulse) may have issues.  For example, Chromium-B.S.U (the game) has sporadic audio functionality, with a lot of crackling being the norm.  The application does not show up in the pulse-audio applications tab.

===== CD/DVD Burning =====
According to various Internet forums regarding the optical drive in this laptop, the drive has a problem with the firmware which causes it to have numerous write errors.  I have encountered a number of errors in audio CDs that cause the disc to have trouble playing in my car stereo (it either takes a long time to begin playing, or gives me an error message).  The CDs in question still work fine in my computers.  I have never encountered problems with burned DVDs.

===== Suspend mode =====
Going INTO suspend or hibernate hasn't caused me any troubles yet.  However, sometimes coming out of suspend the computer will hang with a black screen.  This is incredibly annoying.  Also note that if I am using advanced desktop effects (like compiz-fusion with the cube and reflections) or a different window manager (such as Emerald) coming out of suspend can cause strange graphics problems, such as reflection borders simply being a black blob hiding the background.  My only solution so far has been to log out and back in.

Ubuntu 9.10:  It appears that closing the lid does not always work correctly - it either does not enter sleep mode, or when coming out of sleep, the screen stays black and a hard-boot is required.  On the other hand, if I use the fn-F12 sleep/suspend command instead, it always enters and exits suspend as it should.

===== Media Keys =====
This laptop comes equipped with several touch-sensitive (non push-button type) buttons at the top of the keyboard.  They glow blue when touched, and the associated application or action is launched.  All keys work more or less as advertised with the following provisos:

* Rewind, play, forward, and stop buttons work with Totem Movie Player by default.  However, it is not immediately obvious how to change the associated application.  I prefer to use VLC player and have yet to figure out how to make these media keys work directly with VLC.
* Webcam light comes on, and stays on when touched; however the webcam has not been tested.
* P1 button is supposed to be a user-initiated application launcher.  I have not discovered a way to associate a program with this button yet.
* Eco button flashes, but light does not stay on.  No CPU frequency scaling appears to happen, in fact, there seems to be no effect.
* Turbo button light comes on and stays on.  However, no CPU scaling appears to take place (according to the gnome panel widget), and there seems to be no other effect.  Once, however, pressing this button did ''seem'' to cause the cooling fan to accelerate.

----
CategoryLaptop
