{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

	
* Contact: <nowiki>[[JohnStowers]]</nowiki>
* Make: Panasonic
* Brand: Panasonic
* Model: CF-R4
* Website: (japanese) http://panasonic.jp/pc/products/r4j/

----
* Processor : Intel(R) Pentium(R) M processor 1.20GHz (or 1.3GHz)
* Chipset : Intel i915GMS Express
* Southbridge : ?
* Memory : DDR2-SDRAM PC2-3200 - 1 GBytes
* Touchpad : Synaptic
* Audio : Intel Corp. 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 04)
* NIC : Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
* WiFi : Intel 2915 a/b/g
* Video : Intel i915GM
* Display : 1024x768
----

=== Current Issues ===
Quite substancial regressions from Breezy, 
* Hotkeys only work with kernel 2.6.15-20 and later[1]
* Does not wake from suspend
* Does not wake from Hibernate
* Sdcard driver works in MMC mode only (slow transfers)

The following are serious regressions from breezy and render the laptop a lot less useful. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/33855|33855]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/acpi-support/+bug/35170|35170]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/35973|35973]]</nowiki>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| yes
| yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| untested
| Yes see [5]
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| no
| no
| 
|-
| Sleep
| yes
| yes sometimes. see[2]
| 
|-
| Dim/Blank monitor?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| NA
| NA
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| yes (works with WG511/prism54)
| 
|-
| Firewire
| NA
| NA
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| NA
| NA
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| NA
| NA
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| NA
| NA
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator''' no docking option
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| NA
| NA
| 
|-
| SD cards slot
| no
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy (current stable)?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| NA
| NA
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| NA
| NA
| 
|-
| + F1
| Brightness down
| 
| yes
| yes. see [3]
| 
|-
| + F2
| Brightness up
| 
| yes
| yes. see [3]
| 
|-
| + F3
| Cycle Display
| 
| no
| no [5] (must use i810switch)
| 
|-
| + F4
| Mute
| 
| yes
| yes [3], with handler scripts in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/16424/|16424]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/33855/|33855]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/16424/|16424]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F5
| Volume down
| 
| yes
| yes [3], with handler scripts in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/16424/|16424]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/33855/|33855]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/16424/|16424]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F6
| Volume up
| 
| yes
| yes [3], with handler scripts in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/16424/|16424]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/33855/|33855]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/16424/|16424]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F7
| Sleep
| 
| yes
| button generates acpi event, but see [2]
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| NA
| NA
| 
|-
| + F9
| Show Battery %
| 
| no
| no
| 
|-
| + F10
| Hibernate
| 
| yes
| no
| 
|-
| + F11
| SysRq?
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Print Screen
| 
| 
| yes
| 
|-
| + 1
| 
| 
| Untested
| NA
| 
|-
| + 2
| 
| 
| Untested
| NA
| 
|}

=== Notes ===
1. In order to get hotkeys working, you need the latest pcc_acpi driver, which is found in the standard ubuntu kernel packages starting with version 2.6.15-20.
2. Sleep troubles:  The laptop successfully sleeps if I use GPM to click the suspend option. It sometimes sleeps if I shut the lid. Somtimes it does nothing (misses the event I guess).
** ''It would appear from other reports that the `pcc_acpi` kernel module maybe busted'' -PaulSladen
** ''I agree. I am tracking this in bug 35170. I thought that the solution was in 33855 but this was rejected'' -JohnStowers
** ''On my machine, with no X running, suspend to S3 does not resume.  The power button returns to solid, but the harddrive and backlight do not turn on.  I should mention that I initiate the suspend by manually running /etc/acpi/sleep.sh'' -TedKisner
3. The brightness keys are correctly handled by /etc/acpi/events/panasonic-* scripts.  The /etc/acpi/panabright.sh script needs some minor changes in order to work on the R4.  The volume/mute keys do not have handler scripts to call the appropriate acpi_fakekey number.  See tarball with proposed handling scripts <nowiki>[[http://librarian.launchpad.net/1916123/acpi-support_panasonic_tsk20060402.tar.gz|found here]]</nowiki> or in bug <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/16424/|16424]]</nowiki>.  After updating these scripts, the brightness keys work and the mute, volume down, and volume up keys generate X11 key numbers 160, 174, and 176.  These key numbers can then be mapped to the appropriate actions.  For example, in KDE, you could create a script ~/.kde/Autostart/sound_keys.sh (and make it executable with chmod +x) that does this:<pre>
xmodmap -e 'keycode 160=XF86AudioMute'        # Mute
xmodmap -e 'keycode 174=XF86AudioLowerVolume' # Volume Down
xmodmap -e 'keycode 176=XF86AudioRaiseVolume' # Volume Up
</pre>Then configure the Global Shortcuts in the KMix Settings menu.  For Gnome, ('''gnome users please add guidance here''')...
4. SD Card Slot:  Works (slowly)
** ''Currently the driver only works in MMC mode.  How slow is "slow"?'' -PaulSladen
** ''About 20-30 senconds to transfer a 2mb image. About 3-5 mins to thumbnail 100Mb of pics off the card'' -JohnStowers
5. External Monitor:  Using the i810switch utility works perfectly. I am unaware of any other easy means to enable the external monitor on this laptop.
** ''Please file a bug against `acpi-support` with the ACPI event from `sudo tail -0f /var/log/acpid` when you press the key'' -PaulSladen
** ''This is a dupe (or the same behavior) as <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/acpi-support/+bug/31525|31525]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/acpi-support/+bug/35170|35170]]</nowiki>. Should I stil file another report?'' -JohnStowers
** ''According to comments in the source of pcc_acpi.c, the LCD toggle (Fn+F3) is purposely not handled by the hotkey driver.  So we will always need to use i810switch I think.  Of course this can be mapped to a button or menu item for convenience.'' -TedKisner
