{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/IanRedfern|IanRedfern]]</nowiki>, DavidHughJones
* Make: Lenovo/IBM
* Brand: Thinkpad
* Model: X60
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://www.williambrownstreet.net/wordpress/?page_id=4|Linux on X60 at William Brown Street]]</nowiki>
* lspci output:
<pre>
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/PM/GMS/940GML and 945GT Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 02)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) Serial ATA Storage Controller AHCI (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 02)
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82573L Gigabit Ethernet Controller
03:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection (rev 02)
15:00.0 CardBus bridge: Ricoh Co Ltd RL5c476 II (rev b4)
15:00.1 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Ricoh Co Ltd R5C552 IEEE 1394 Controller (rev 09)
15:00.2 Generic system peripheral [0805]: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro Host Adapter (rev 18)
</pre>

=== Current Issues ===
Current Testing Hardy Alpha 3 + updates to 2008-01-21

Everything installs and works out of the box, except multiple monitor support.

=== System Info ===
32-bit Centrino Duo T2400

DMI details:
* system-manufacturer = LENOVO
* system-product-name = 1707WR6
* system-version = ThinkPad X60

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper?
| in Feisty?
| in Gutsy 64bit?
| in Hardy?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes(but, see <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/42339|#42339]]</nowiki>)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-6> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-4> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper?
| in Feisty Herd 5?
| in Gutsy 64bit?
| in Hardy?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| External monitor works?
| No
| At boot
| Not tested
| No*
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| No
| Yes if modify xorg.conf
| Not tested
| No
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| No
| Partly if hack xorg.conf
| Not tested
| No
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Hibernates?
| No
| No
| Yes*
| 
|-
| Sleep
| No
| Yes
| Yes*
| Yes*
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes (Need to drop PCM to 70% to avoid distortion)
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Not tested
| Yes
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Yes
| Not tested
| Yes*
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Wireless NIC
| No
| Yes
| Yes <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/44036|#44036]]</nowiki>
| Yes
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Not tested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Not tested
| Untested
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| No
| Not tested
| Yes
|-
| Infrared
| No
| Untested
| Not tested
| No*
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| N/A
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| No(Use as third mouse button)
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Not tested
| Untested
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| No
| At boot/with xorg.conf manual changes
| Not tested
| 220563
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| n/a
| n/a
| Not tested
| N/A
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Not tested
| Untested
|-
| NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| Not tested
| Untested
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| No (but thinkfinger does)
| Not tested
| Untested
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes (External USB DVD writer)
| Yes (Docking Station)
| Not tested
| Yes (Docking Station)
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Yes
| Not tested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| Not tested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes
| Untested
| Not tested
| 
|-
| Internal Microphone
| Untested
| Yes
| Not tested
| Yes*
|}

* ) Additional comments

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-8 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-4> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper?
| in Feisty (current development)?
| in Gutsy 64bit?
| in Hardy?
|-
| + Space
| Zoom
| f9
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F2
| Lock
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F3
| Battery/Power
| 
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F4
| Sleep
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F5
| Bluetooth/Wireless
| 
| Yes
| Yes (permanent)
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Toggle External Monitor
| 
| No
| At boot
| Untested
| No*
|-
| + F8
| Input Device
| 
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F9
| Eject
| 
| Untested
| No
| No*
| 189185
|-
| + F12
| hibernate
| 
| Yes
| No
| Yes
| Yes*
|-
| + PgUp
| ThinkLight
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + Home
| Brightness Increase
| 
| Yes
| No (kills screen)
| Yes
| Yes, but flashes
|-
| + End
| Brightness Decrease
| 
| Yes
| No (kills screen)
| Yes
| Yes, but flashes
|-
| + ScrLk
| Numlock
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PrtSc
| SysRq
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Pause
| Break
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Down Arrow
| Play/Pause
| a2
| Untested
| Yes via Keyboard Shortcuts
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + Right Arrow
| Next Track
| 99
| Untested
| Yes via Keyboard Shortcuts
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + Left Arrow
| Previous Track
| 90
| Untested
| Yes via Keyboard Shortcuts
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + Up Arrow
| Stop Playback
| a4
| Untested
| Yes via Keyboard Shortcuts
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| <-8> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-4> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper?
| in Feisty (current development)?
| in Gutsy 64bit
|-
| Volume Up
| Increase Volume
| b0
| Yes
| Yes (loud beep)
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Volume Down
| Decrease Volume
| ae
| Yes
| Yes (loud beep)
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Volume Mute
| Mute
| a0
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| ThinkVantage
| ??
| 9f
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| No
|-
| Page Forward
| Browser Page Forward
| ea
| No
| No
| Untested
| No
|-
| Page Back
| Browser Page Back
| e9
| No
| No
| Untested
| No
|-
| Hardware Wireless Switch
| Switch Wifi On/Off
| N/A
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|}
==== Notes ====

Note that the X60 is almost identical to the X60s (the X60s has a low-powered CPU, but the rest of the hardware is the same or similar).  There may also be activity on the [LaptopTestingTeam/ThinkpadX60s] page.

===== Hardy (32bit) =====

Worked out of the box without any of the earlier glitches.

For Microphone have to Open Volume Control, raise Microphone volume to 80% and unmute, then Edit/Preferences and Capture track, then on Recording tab raise Capture volume to 80% and unmute microphone. 

External monitor is not visibly detected and displayconfig-gtk just comes up with nothing helpful - also prints "*** Error: couldn't find any ServerLayout sections".

Alternatively, if external monitor is detected, dual-head can't be configured without manual changes to /etc/X11/xorg.conf. See<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/220563]]</nowiki>, and for the fix see <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Intel_Graphics_Media_Accelerator_950]]</nowiki>.

Fn-F7 makes the monitor wake up, but then it goes back to sleep. It also makes the internal display redraw painfully, and a little green running man briefly appears in the top right corner (weirdest error I've seen in a long time). So currently no out-of-box multiple monitor support.

Sleep works, and it reconnects to WiFi when it wakes, but CPU Frequency scaling stops and it's locked to full-speed.

The laptop hibernates correctly, but when it comes out of hibernation you are returned to the GRUB boot screen. If you choose Linux, it comes back to your original state rather than rebooting.

Crashes when undocking from the dock - see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/linux/+bug/189185|bug 189185]]</nowiki>. (The Intrepid kernel fixes this but breaks a lot of other things, beware.)

===== Gutsy (64bit) =====

Almost every thing seems to work fine, but there are error messages after waking up after sleep or hibernate. But it seems to work.

Tip for x60 users: check out <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxpowertop.org]]</nowiki>

===== Feisty =====

The brightness keys turn the monitor off, and it can only be turned back on by restarting X. The fix mentioned in <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2089459|Thinkpad x60 tablet brightness and Fn buttons fixed!]]</nowiki> works, but the on-screen display and the Brightness applet no longer register the correct brightness when adjusted using the buttons. Bug #70073.

The wireless off key turns BlueTooth off, and it can only be turned back on by booting Windows.

I've raised bug #90810 for the hotkeys that aren't setup automatically.

The external monitor key only works at boot time and the built-in LCD is then disabled. Using the monitor for dual-head requires manual xorg.conf changes.

Ejecting the docking station seems to do nothing. On removing the docking station, any mounted CDs become un-unmountable, and reconnecting doesn't change anything - a reboot is required.

The volume control buttons beep very loudly on each step. The system beep is similarly very loud. It does not seem possible to control the beep volume with xset, only duration and pitch - the volume parameter seems to set duration. Bug #90818 but there's a Windows control panel that turns the beep off.

Laptop doesn't recover from hibernate. Sleep works 80% of the time.

Dual-core support works out-of-the-box.

===== Dapper =====

The first try for installing did not work see <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/42339|#42339]]</nowiki>. However the second try succeeded. 

I got wireless to work by installing ipw3945-1.0.0 and ieee80211-1.1.13. However the GNOME Network Manager has disappeared and I did not mangage to restart. I am using KWIFIManager currently.
I installed SMP package for dual core support.
