{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: flx.foo
* Brand: Asus
* Model: n10jc-hv006n
* Purchase Date: Nov 2008
* Location: Bangkok (Thailand)

=== Current Issues ===

La webcam affiche l'image en mirroir vertical. Ceci est connu, mais non corrige.
Le driver utilise est l'uvc.

La reconnaissance d'empreinte ne fonctionne pas non plus. Le pilote ne prend pas encore en charge la puce.

Un petit desagrement egalement. La luminosite fluctue sans arret. Je n'ai pas trouve pourquoi pour l'instant. Ceci dit, une caracteristique de cet asus, est l'utilisation d'une puce regulant la luminosite en fonction de la lumiere exterieur. Donc a voir...

Something a little shitty. About the brightness which is going up and down anytime. Maybe it's because of a sensor (someone told about when i bough it) which is managing this feature by adjusting brightness with the outside light. Wait and see...

Webcam shows mirror Y axis image. This bug is already reported, but still open.
uvc is used as driver.

Fingerprint device is not working yet. If i remember well, sensor not yet supported by the driver.

=== System Info ===

<pre>
bios-version:207
bios-version:218 (27-05-2010)
system-manufacturer:ASUSTeK Computer Inc.
system-product-name:N10Jc
system-version:1.0
</pre>

<pre>
processor	: 0
vendor_id	: GenuineIntel
cpu family	: 6
model		: 28
model name	: Intel(R) Atom(TM) CPU N270   @ 1.60GHz
stepping	: 2
cpu MHz		: 800.000
cache size	: 512 KB
</pre>

=== Hardware Info ===

<pre>
david@david-laptop:/var/lib/acpi-support$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 02)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA IDE Controller (rev 02)
01:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 02)
02:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR928X Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 9300M GS (rev a1)
</pre>

<pre>
david@david-laptop:/var/lib/acpi-support$ lsusb
Bus 005 Device 005: ID 058f:6366 Alcor Micro Corp. 
Bus 005 Device 002: ID 04f2:b071 Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd 
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 002: ID 0b05:1712 ASUSTek Computer, Inc. BT-183 Bluetooth 2.0+EDR adapter
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 003: ID 147e:1000  
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
</pre>

=== Installation ===

I have only tested Intrepid Ibex on this laptop. All is working out of the box. Except for the sound.
At least, it needs a little tweak to work ok.

In /etc/modprobe.d/alse-base change for:
<pre>
options snd_hda_intel model=3stack-dig
</pre>

=== Comment ===

Donc, excepte la reconnaissance d'empreinte et la webcam (meme si c'est corrigeable logicielement). Tout marche a merveille, meme pour les drivers Nvidia.

So except for the webcam (and the upside down image wich can be correct by software) and the sound all is ok. Even for the Nvidia device driver and compiz for example.

Fingerprint device is the "'Bus 003 Device 003: ID 147e:1000'"

Sorry for the poor english i got... ;)

Battery tested up to 6 hours working good.
