{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Contact: Jukka Hellen
* Make: MSI
* Brand: ER710
* Model: ER710-021NE
* Website: http://global.msi.com.tw/index.php?func=proddesc&prod_no=1177&maincat_no=135&cat2_no=269#

=== Current Issues ===

- Webcam not detected (Ali M5602) https://sourceforge.net/projects/m560x-driver/

=== System Info ===
Micro-Star International
MSI Notebook ER710
Ver 1.000

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 7.10
| in 9.10 (current)
|-
| Screen
| Yes, with Envy
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes, with Envy
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes, with Envy
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes, with Envy
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| No
| Mostly
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes, mostly
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes, but doesn't deactivate speakers
| Yes, but doesn't deactivate speakers
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes, see above
| Yes, see above
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Mostly OK
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes, mostly just fine
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - HDMI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes, 4-in-1
| Yes, 4-in-1
| 
|}

'''Output of lspci'''

00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 Host Bridge

00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (Internal gfx)

00:04.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc Unknown device 7914

00:06.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (PCI Express Port 2)

00:07.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (PCI Express Port 3)

00:12.0 SATA controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 Non-Raid-5 SATA

00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB (OHCI0)

00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB (OHCI1)

00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB (OHCI2)

00:13.3 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB (OHCI3)

00:13.4 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB (OHCI4)

00:13.5 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB Controller (EHCI)

00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 SMBus Controller (rev 14)

00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 IDE

00:14.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 Azalia

00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 PCI to LPC Bridge

00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 PCI to PCI Bridge

00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration

00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map

00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller

00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control

01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon X1200 Series

01:05.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon X1200 Series Audio Controller

02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications, Inc. AR5006EG 802.11 b/g Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)

05:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 01)

06:04.0 CardBus bridge: O2 Micro, Inc. OZ711MP1/MS1 MemoryCardBus Controller (rev 21)

06:04.2 Generic system peripheral [0805]: O2 Micro, Inc. Integrated MMC/SD Controller (rev 01)

06:04.3 Bridge: O2 Micro, Inc. Integrated MS/xD Controller (rev 01)

06:04.4 FireWire (IEEE 1394): O2 Micro, Inc. Firewire (IEEE 1394) (rev 02)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 7.10?
| in 9.10
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| Brightness -
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| Brightness +
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| Volume +
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| Volume -
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| Mute
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| Sleep
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| Home
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgDn
| End
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 7.10?
| in 9.10 (current development)?
|-
| ''Shortcut buttons''
| P1, Mail, Internet, WLAN/Bluetooth, Webcam, Audioplayer
| 
| Yes, all of them
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

After install I recommend to download http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html to get the latest "working" ATI-drivers installed.
