{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[MichaelHelmling]]</nowiki>
* Make: IBM/Lenovo
* Brand: Thinkpad
* Model: Z60t 2511-FFG (2GHz 80GB DVD-RW-Multi Bluetooth)
* Website: http://www5.pc.ibm.com/de/products.nsf/Products?openagent&brand=Thinkpad&series=ThinkPad+Z+notebooks

=== Current Issues ===

2006-11-05

With the release of edgy I returned to ubuntu on my z60t. Issues:
* Wifi still doesn't work out of the box. However it is quite easy to install the windows driver with ndiswrapper. Doing this even the NetworkManager is working (though I have problems connecting to unencrypted networks).
* Currently changing the brightness results in either the highest or lowest level due to a bug in gnome-power-manager. Bug is filed, should be fixed soon,
* Neither suspend nor hibernate work
* Something fails at the beginning of booting, so I don't see the new upstart artwork but only a blinking cursor until GDM fires up.

2006-09-08

I must commit that I stopped using kubuntu on my laptop and switched to my favourite distribution, Gentoo, which I was using on my desktop for two years. But I'm still heavily related to (K)Ubuntu (all my friends use it), so I might switch back some time. If I find something interesting I will still post it here.

The only thing that still annoys me sometimes is the wireless adaptor, especially since I cannot exchenge it for e.g. an INTEL model because IBM laptops have some BIOS lock to prevent "unauthorized" WLAN adaptors from working. The connection is quite stable, though, only after suspend it starts to trouble.

Thinkwiki.org is the best source for any information regarding Linux on Thinkpads.

2006-05-18

Since the drake is really coming soon, I'm afraid this laptop won't work out of the box with it because there are still no madwifi-ng drivers in the kernel, and even if I use self-compiled ones (with self-compiled wpasupplicant), NetworkManager doesn't cooperate with that.

Most of the other things seem to work.

2006-05-09

Suddenly suspend started working again like it did before my reinstallation a few weeks ago. I suppose some upgrad did cause this. So, one less problem. ;) But now it'd be really necessary to integrate madwifi-ng into official ubuntu, make it work with network manager, and deliver out a version of wpa_supplicant working with madwifi-ng (I had to compile my own which solved me some connection problems).

2006-04-29

Suspend seems to be generally broken in current dapper releases, my girlfriend's laptop also doesn't suspend anymore since a few weeks, with the same symptoms. It's a samsung.

2006-04-23

I still have problems with WLAN. It sometimes works, but mostly it doesn't. Trying to figure out why.

Ok, so basically suspend to RAM works with <code>echo mem > /sys/power/state</code>, but not with the acpi daemon or the KDE laptop tool.
I am creating a list of things I had to do manually after installing out-of-the-box kubuntu dapper beta.

- manually start the KDE battery monitor

- add "acpi_sleep=s3_bios" to the kernel (without that one, display remains black after suspend)

- remove all wacom drivers from "ServerLayout" in <code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code>, otherways I get odd errors and some X apps (e.g. konqueror) didn't start. Bug filed.

- installed build-essential and linux-headers, then downloaded, compiled and installed madwifi-ng

later 2006-04-22

I installed now from the beta release of kubuntu dapper. I am updating the table benieth. All in all, there are a lot of things that now work but didn't with flight 2, but sadly ACPI suspend to RAM doesn't work yet. I hope I'll find a solution. Note: The table isn't complete yet, everything beneith "dim monitor on battery" still applies to flight 2.

2006-04-22

Sorry, was quite busy this days. I still have some trouble with WLAN, I think the newest cvs version of madwifi-ng is not working correctly, but I'm gonna check that out. Maybe I'll even reinstall from the newest flight, just to see what works and what doesn't ATM.

2006-03-27

I just gave it a foolish try today and - ACPI suspend-to-RAM worked with the ubuntu standard kernel. I don't know why, it definitively did NOT work the time I tried it first. Well, the kernel keeps getting better. So, you probably won't have to compile your own kernel (which might take a long time if you don't make much changes to the standard kernel). But you'll need the headers to build the madwifi-ng driver.
Anyways, I plan to figure out what kernel options are really needed and post a z60t-optimized config file here. But that will take some time. ;)
* ''If the kernel doesn't work out of the box, that is a bug!  Please file anything required against `linux-source-2.6.15`.  There shouldn't ''need'' to be any reason to recompile `linux` to get it to work on a piece of hardware.'' -PaulSladen
* ''Well, suspend-to-RAM works with all the newer kernels, but I have the feeling that it worked a bit faster with my own kernel, taking only 2 secs to wake up compared to maybe 10 secs now. What still doesn't work is the atheros wifi card because it needs the madwifi-ng drivers. But those are installable without kernel recompilation. Th reason I had to compile my own kernel is that it was necessary to completely remove framebuffer support for suspend to work (see <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Problem_with_display_remaining_black_after_resume|here]]</nowiki>).
So should I also file a bug because of the missing madwifi-ng?'' -MichaelHelmling

2006-03-08

Another step to full linux support ... at another wiki I found how to make use of some more function keys, added that to this page.
* ''`hotkey-setup` and `acpi-support` should make all of the function keys work out of the box;  if they don't, please file a bug with the information from LaptopTestingTeam/HotkeyResearch'' -PaulSladen

2006-03-07

I found out that the browser back/forward keys work with tpb. They can be customized with the BACKWARD and FORWARD option in /etc/tpbrc.
* ''`tpb` should be dead.  It conflicts with `hotkey-setup` and you shouldn't be able to have it installed.  Can you file a bug against `xkeyboard-config` that the standard BACK and FORWARD keycodes should work in X'' -PaulSladen

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| dapper beta (04/22/06)
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes (beta dapper)
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| dapper beta (04/22/06)
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| YES (1280x768, didn't work with flight 2)
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| YES (out of the box now)
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| wrongly with same config as internal screen, without any config
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| yes
| yes (didn't start battery monitor by self, but maybe that is because I removed the battery before installation and ran from A/C adapter
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| yes
| YES, takes some time to go to sleep. As it wakes up, the screen consists of black-white stripes for a few secons, then turns to normal screensaver on top of a locked session dialogue. So, generally, works perfect.
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Untested
| yes (not 100% stable)
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| yes
| BIOS-Setting, can be turned off
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| works with SVN madwifi-ng, for WPA I also needed to compile wpa_supplicant by hand following <nowiki>[[http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/802.11i|this]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| yes
| yes (out-of-the-box with kbluetoothd)
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| YES!! see thinkwiki.org for more
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| yes (burning not tested yet)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

NOTE: for the acpi events of the type ibm/hotkey to work, you first need to execude the following as root:
<code> echo enable,0xffff >/proc/acpi/ibm/hotkey </code>
Add this to a bootscript to have it done every startup.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| zoom
| none
| Untested
| with kmilo-thinkpad or tpb
| 
|-
| + F2
| lock screen
| ACPI event "ibm/hotkey HKEY 00000080 00001002"
| Untested
| ACPI event is triggered, to lock the screen you must write some script
| 
|-
| + F3
| save battery(turn off monitor)
| ACPI event "ibm/hotkey HKEY 00000080 00001003"
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| suspend to ram (moon)
| ACPI event button/sleep
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| wlan and bluetooth on/off
| ACPI event  ibm/hotkey HKEY 00000080 00001005"
| Untested
| turns of wifi and bluetooth, however in my case it didn't turn wlan back on, but this might be due to the lack of power management in the madwifi-ng driver
| 
|-
| + F7
| external monitor switch
| 
| Untested
| seems to work, didn't connect a monitor but the internal screen turns black and comes back if you push the button again
| 
|-
| + F8
| multihead monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| eject
| ACPI event ibm/hotkey HKEY 00000080 00001009
| Untested
| you may use the acpi event for a script to eject the drive
| 
|-
| + F12
| suspend to disc
| 
| Untested
| should be recognized, didn't test suspend-to-disk yet
| 
|-
| + roll
| numlock
| 77
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + UPARROW
| media stop
| 164
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + DOWNARROW
| media play/pause
| 162
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + LEFTARROW
| media back
| 144
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + RIGHTARROW
| media forward
| 153
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| volume/mute keys
| 
| 
| Untested
| work with kmilo thinkpad plugin or "tpb" for non-kde
| 
|-
| Thinkpad button
| 
| 
| Untested
| works with kmilo thinkpad plugin or "tpb" for non-kde
| 
|-
| front wifi slider
| 
| 
| Untested
| only turns on/off bluetooth, wifi stays on
| 
|-
| broswer forward/back keys (above left/right arrow)
| none
| 
| Untested
| yes, with tpb (FORWARD and BACKWARD)
| 
|}
==== Notes ====
More information will arrive soon.
