{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This laptop is sold in Italy by Marvel PC <nowiki>[[http://www.marvelpc.it/]]</nowiki> (and perhaps by others) as ''Ali-Book VBI serie 81''. It can be purchased '''without''' a MS Windows License and '''with''' a custom configuration. Moreover, the Olidata Tehom CW 4800 seems to be the same computer. It has the same chassis and similar hardware.<<BR>>
In Switzerland it was sold as JET H8100.
* Contact: Giuseppe Borzi <nowiki>[[Gborzi]]</nowiki>, AndreasRudin
* Brand: Compal
* Make : HEL
* Model: 81
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://www.compal.com/index_En.htm|Compal homepage]]</nowiki>
** Specifications: <nowiki>[[http://www.compal.com/Product/Html/notebook/EL81.htm]]</nowiki>

=== Current Issues ===
* Card reader doesn't work in edgy and feisty, works fine for SD and MMC cards with gutsy, but MS (Sony) cards don't work.
* Internal modem doesn't work but there is some hope it will <nowiki>[[http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/bigarch/archive-seventh/msg00915.html]]</nowiki>

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:110B
system-manufacturer:COMPAL
system-product-name:HEL81I
system-version:*
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
* Intel Core 2 Duo 2.0 GHz T7200
* 2 GB 667 MHz RAM
* Intel 945G chipset
* FUJITSU MHV2080AH 80 GB 5400 rpm hard disk
* Slimtype DVDRW SSM-8515S DVD writer
* Intel Corporation Mobile GMA950 Graphics chipset
* 15.4" WXGA+ 1280x800 screen
* Realtek RTL8111B wired NIC
* Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG wireless NIC
* VIA IEEE 1394 Host Controller firewire
* ENE Technology Inc CB-712/4 Cardbus Controller and SD/MMC-Card and MS-Card Reader

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current stable)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-5> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current stable)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes, see note 1
| Yes, see note 1
| Yes, see note 1
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes, see note 1
| Yes, see note 1
| Yes, see note 1
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes, see note 5
| Yes, see note 5
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes, see note 2
| Yes, see note 2
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cardbus NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| ExpressCard NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes, see note 7
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes, see note 3
| Yes, see note 3
| Yes, see note 3
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| ExpressCard slot
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes, see note 7
| 
|-
| SD Card reader
| No
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| MMC Card reader
| No
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| MS Card reader
| No
| No
| No
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current stable)?
|-
| + F1
| Sleep
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| Wireless on/off
| 
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F3
| External monitor
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Brightness down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Brightness up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Mute
| 
| Yes, for headphone
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Volume down
| 
| Yes, for headphone
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Volume up
| 
| Yes, for headphone
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| Start/Stop playing
| 
| Yes, if configured with Keyboard Shortcuts
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Pause
| 
| Yes, if configured with Keyboard Shortcuts
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Previous track
| 
| Yes, if configured with Keyboard Shortcuts
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Next track
| 
| Yes, if configured with Keyboard Shortcuts
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Num lk
| Scroll lock
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Insert
| Print Screen
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Del
| R Sist
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current stable)?
|-
| Browser Key
| Launch browser
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mail Key
| Launch mail client
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Key 1
| Customizable
| 
| Yes, see note 4
| Yes, see note 4
| Yes, see note 4
| 
|-
| Key 2
| Customizable
| 
| Yes, see note 4
| Yes, see note 4
| Yes, see note 4
| 
|}
==== Notes ====
1) Before trying hibernate, I changed the value in /sys/power/image_size from the default 512 MB (in bytes) to the amount of memory (in bytes) of this laptop (2 GB). I have not tried hibernate with the default 512 MB value (edgy, feisty and gutsy). The best settings in /etc/default/acpi-support to have sleep and hibernate always working are to disable SAVE_VBE_STATE, SAVE_VIDEO_PCI_STATE and USE_DPMS (edgy).

2) The current kernel driver for the ethernet card doesn't support link beat detection. The newer 1.05 version of the driver doesn't seem to support link beat detection yet (edgy). For feisty, see bug #86798. Works fine in gutsy.

3) The touchpad is identified by the system as an "ImPS/2 Logitech Wheel Mouse" in /proc/bus/input/devices, so the Xorg synaptic driver is not loaded and not able to control the touchpad. Nevertheless, it works (edgy, feisty and gutsy).

4) To have these two extra keys available, follow the <nowiki>[[MultimediaKeys]]</nowiki> howto. The scancodes are e074 and e073 for edgy and feisty, e074 and e039 for gutsy.

5) I had noticed choppy sound in a game (glest <nowiki>[[http://www.glest.org]]</nowiki>) and a kernel error message "azx_get_response timeout". Both were solved adding a pci=noacpi option to the kernel in grub (edgy). Choppy sound problem on feisty too, solved adding a .openalrc file in $HOME with the following content ''(define devices '(esd alsa arts native))'' and installing libesd0-dev (feisty).

6) When the wireless NIC is turned off with the front switch, the system sometimes fails to boot giving the ''soft lockup detected on CPU#X'' (with X=0 or 1) error message. This doesn't happen anymore since the latest kernel upgrade to 2.6.17.1-11.37 (edgy).

7)Tested with STLab Gigabit Ethernet ExpressCard34: Works fine when pluged in before booting the computer. Is not recognized when added hotplug
----
CategoryLaptop
