{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Pham Thanh Nam
* Make: Acer
* Brand : Aspire
* Model: 4710

=== Current Issues ===
No driver for MS/xD card reader.

Voice support limitation in modem driver.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:V1.14
system-manufacturer:Acer
system-product-name:Aspire 4710
system-version:0100
</pre>
=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| '''Hardy'''
| '''Intrepid'''
| '''Jaunty'''
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
|-
| '''Hardy'''
| '''Intrepid'''
| '''Jaunty'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Correct resolution (1280x800)?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Correct refresh rate (60Hz)?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| External monitor works?
| Problems (See below)
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Problems (See below)
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Problems (See below)
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Hibernate
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Power Button
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| CPU frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| <-4> '''Sound''' (need a little configuration, see notes below)
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Headphone jack sense
| See below
| See below
| See below
|-
| Microphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Line-In jack
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| Internal microphone
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Volume Wheel
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes (See below)
| Yes (See below)
| Yes (See below)
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| Bluetooth
| <-3> None (though bluetooth key exists)
|-
| Modem
| Partially (See below)
| Partially (See below)
| Partially (See below)
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll emulation
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| No
| No
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| AC plug detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| External Monitor - S-Video
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| ExpressCard
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Card reader
| Partially (only SD/MMC)
| Partially (only SD/MMC)
| Partially (only SD/MMC)
|-
| Webcam
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5> '''Function keys''' (see notes below for more help)
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Description'''
| <-3> '''Status or Operation'''
|-
| '''Hardy'''
| '''Intrepid'''
| '''Jaunty'''
|-
| + F1
| Help
| Bring up Ubuntu Help Center
| Do Nothing but Customizable
| Do Nothing but Customizable
|-
| + F2
| Acer eSettings
| No Keycode - Need Tweak
| No Keysym but Usable
| No Keysym but Usable
|-
| + F3
| Acer ePowerManagement
| No Keycode - Need Tweak
| Activate notification from Gnome Power Manager
| Activate notification from Gnome Power Manager
|-
| + F4
| Sleep
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F5
| Display toggle
| No Keycode - Need Tweak
| Detect all monitors and display on them
| Detect all monitors and display on them
|-
| + F6
| Screen blank
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F7
| Touchpad toggle
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + F8
| Speaker toggle
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + Home
| Play / Pause
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + PgUp
| Stop
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + PgDown
| Previous Track
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + End
| Next Track
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + ArrowRight
| Brightness up
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| Brightness down
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| <-5> '''Other special keys''' (see notes below for more help)
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Description'''
| <-3> '''Status or Operation'''
|-
| '''Hardy'''
| '''Intrepid'''
| '''Jaunty'''
|-
| Acer E Key
| Acer Empowering Technology
| Do Nothing but Customizable
| Do Nothing but Customizable
| Do Nothing but Customizable
|-
| Wifi
| Enable / Disable Wifi
| Yes (not perfect and No Keycode)
| Yes (not perfect)
| Yes
|-
| Wifi indicator
| Wifi LED
| Yes (not perfect)
| Yes (not perfect)
| Yes (not perfect)
|-
| Bluetooth
| Useless on Windows
| No Keycode - Need Tweak
| Do Nothing but Customizable (Keysym regression over kernel versions)
| Do Nothing but Customizable
|-
| Web
| Launch Default Web Browser
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Mail
| Launch Default Mail Client
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Euro
| Euro Sign
| No Keycode - Need Tweak
| No Keycode - Need Tweak
| No Keycode - Need Tweak
|-
| Dollar
| Dollar Sign
| No Keycode - Need Tweak
| No Keycode - Need Tweak
| No Keycode - Need Tweak
|}

=== Notes ===
==== External VGA monitor ====
Tested with a Panasonic projector.

To use external VGA monitor in Hardy, go to System - Preferences - Screen Solution. You must type password and logout (because of modification in ''/etc/X11/xorg.conf''). Problems may happen after stop using projector.

In Intrepid, you don't need to type password and logout. Settings are on the fly. To make clone quickly on external VGA monitor, press Fn + F5.
==== Sound ====

Sound is supported by snd-hda-intel driver. By default, all works except headphone jack sense (speaker still plays with headphone plugged in). You can control speaker volume and headphone volume separately in Gnome Volume Control (I prefer it).

To activate headphone jack sense, you can add the following line to ''/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base'' (''/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf'' for Jaunty) and reboot:

<pre>
options snd-hda-intel model=acer
</pre>

==== Wireless ====
Wireless is supported by either Broadcom B43 driver or Broadcom STA driver. Broadcom STA driver gives more performance. Default kernel in Hardy (just after installing) has B43 driver only. To have STA driver in Hardy, use an updated kernel.

In Hardy and Intrepid, Wifi button only disables/enables radio signal but not turn off/on wireless network interface. This may be problem for NetworkManager (an annoying dialog asks for reattempting). In Jaunty, Wifi button turn off/on wireless interface, this behavior is better.

Wireless LED does not blink. LED is on (solid yellow) when wireless is off and LED is off when wireless is on.

==== Modem ====
Modem is supported by linuxant's hsfmodem driver (see http://www.linuxant.com/drivers/hsf/index.php). Free version only supports 14.4 kbps connection without fax. Full version supports 56 kbps with fax.

In Hardy, you can use full OEM version from Dell (see http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/hardy/modem-drivers/hsf/). In Intrepid and Jaunty, there are still some ways to use full driver version without paying, but it may be illegal to write them here.

==== Function and special keys ====

===== Tweak for "No Keycode" =====
In Hardy, add following lines into ''/etc/init.d/rc.local'' before the line ''exit 0'':
<pre>
setkeycodes e026 202 # Fn + F2
setkeycodes e027 203 # Fn + F3
setkeycodes e029 238 # Fn + F5
setkeycodes e033 219 # euro sign key
setkeycodes e034 239 # dollar sign key
setkeycodes e054 237 # bluetooth key
setkeycodes e055 218 # wifi key
</pre>

In Intrepid and Jaunty, add following lines into ''/etc/rc.local'' before the line ''exit 0'':
<pre>
setkeycodes e033 219 # euro sign key
setkeycodes e034 239 # dollar sign key
</pre>
Reboot or execute directly above setkeycodes commands

Create file .Xmodmap in your home directery with following lines:

For Hardy:
<pre>
keycode 195 = EuroSign
keycode 244 = dollar
</pre>
For Intrepid and Jaunty:
<pre>
keycode 227 = EuroSign
keycode 247 = dollar
</pre>

Logout to make this change take effect, or execute:
<pre>
xmodmap ~/.Xmodmap
</pre>

===== For "No Keysym" keys and "Do Nothing" keys =====

All keys have their keycodes in X now. You can assign actions to keys in System – Preferences – Keyboard Shortcuts
----
CategoryLaptop
