{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[SteffenDressler]]</nowiki>
* Make: Sony
* Brand: Vaio
* Model: PCG-FR215E
* Website: http://vaio.sony-europe.com/view/ShowProduct.action?product=PCG-FR215E&site=ite_de_DE&pageType=Overview&category=PM+FR+Series
* S/N: n.a.

=== Current Issues ===
Flight 5: While installation process I had a problem partitioning the hard disk. I tried to mount the windows (ntfs, hda1) partition to "/windows", but an error occured. After repeating the partitioning dialogue - this time with "/media/hda1" as mount point - it worked.
Update Flight 6: The problem did not reoccur.

Flight 5: The hardware switch for brightness does not work always (!). I made the following experiences: Pressing the hardware toggle LCD/VGA lowers the screen brightness. After that, the brightness switch worked (toggles the brightness in four intensities). Update: After rebooting a few times, I was not able to reproduce that problem.
Update Flight 6: The problem did not reoccur. 

Sound: Normally, the sound is OK. After one (single) reboot, the sound was not working. There was no error message, but the system was muted. As above, I can't reproduce that phenomenom.
Update Flight 6: The problem did reoccur, but not reproducible. It seems to have something to do with the sound volume at shutdown: Perhaps a specific sound volume leads to a failed start of the sound system.

Flight 5 & Flight 6: Hardware switch for changing sound volume. The keyboard has got only one hardkey for raising the sound volume. In MS windows, a further pressing at highest volume toggles to minimal volume. That enables the user to lessen the sound volume. With ubuntu, pressing the volume switch does only maximize volume, the step highest->lowest volume does not work.

Flght 5 & Flight 6: The internal modem is not found by the OS.

Flight 5: Sleep modus: Pressing the sleep buttons causes the machine to switch off. Unfortunately, the wake up does not work at all. The system has to be rebooted.
Update Flight 6: The machine wakes up when a key is pressed, but the screen remains black. The system has to be rebooted.

A general issue of Dapper Flight 5 seems to be the translation. I tested the german "version" - it's way from completion!
Update Flight 6: Translation has improved, but is still half-hearted.
  
Flight 6: Sometimes, the battery is not detected! If it is detected, the panel shows two applications: "Energieverwaltung 2.14.0" and "Batterieladeanzeige 2.14.0". That's confusing.

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| yes
| yes (see current issues)
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| no
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| no (see above)
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Untested
| no
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| no
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| no (volume was increased but not decreased)
| no (volume was increased but not decreased)
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| no
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
My testing was only superficial - I was not able to reproduce some of the system's errors. Since my linux knowledge is somewhat user-like :-) I can't dig deeper into these problems. Sorry! 
