{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: [Jean-Louis Boers]
* Make: Hewlett Packard - Compaq
* Brand: NC6120
* Model: PR126UA#ABA, PU885ET#ABH
* Website: http://h10010.www1.hp.com/wwpc/us/en/sm/WF05a/321957-64295-89315-321838-f33-447346.html
* S/N: N/A
=== Current Issues ===
Running Ubuntu 6.10 Edgy Eft.

Built in media card reader is not supported by Linux. Manufacturer is Texas Instruments. Rumors are present that something is in the works, however I have not found anything about it.

Items marked as "N" (not working) refer to the out-of-the-box state.

Breezy notes left in place for comparison.

Some items are marked untested and need input from someone who has the hardware. i.e. bluetooth device, IR, docking station ,firewire device etc...
Please add the additional info to the end of the wiki.

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
|-
| Installation works?
| Y
| Y
| Y
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-5> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
|-
| Screen
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Y on 1024x768 model only * NOTE 1 for 1400x1050
| Y on 1024x768 model only * NOTE 1 for 1400x1050
| Y on 1024x768 model only * NOTE 1 for 1400x1050
| 37596
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| N
| Untested
| Untested
| no automatic or gui method available.
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Y
| y
| Y
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Y
| Y
| Y
| *Not with lid switch.Must enable switch manually
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Y - Blanking Only *NOTE 2 to enable suspend to ram action
| Y - Blanking Only *NOTE 2 to enable suspend to ram action
| Y - Blanking Only *NOTE 2 to enable suspend to ram action
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Y
| Y
| Y
|-
| Correct volume?
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Y
| Y
| Y
| headphone jack sense not enabled in volume applet by default
|-
| Mic jack
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Y *Note 3
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Y
| Untested
| Y
| orinoco based card used.
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| Bluetooth
| Y
| Untested
| Y
| activated wlan and did a 'hcitool scan'. Send file with nautilus-send-to works fine
|-
| Modem
| Y
| Untested
| Y
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| Y
| I can backup my Nokia6210 with gnokii
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Not available for testing
| Untested
| Not available for testing
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''(tested by phen@gmx.de / dapper & edgy MatthijsHoltkamp)
|-
| AC through replicator
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| USB
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Y (see note 5)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Unsupported from laptop
| Unsupported from laptop
| Unsupported from laptop
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Y
| Untested
| Y
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Y
| Untested
| Y
| 
|-
| T.I. Card reader
| N
| Y
| Y *Note 6
| See link regarding Card Reader at end of page.
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper
| in Edgy?
|-
| + F3
| Sleep
| 
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| + F4
| External Monitor
| 
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| + F8
| Battery
| 
| N
| Y
| Y
| Shows a message if the laptop runs on baterie or not
|-
| + F9
| Screen Dim
| 
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| + F10
| Screen Bright
| 
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper
| in Edgy (current stable)?
|-
| WiFi On/Off
| WiFi On/Off
| 
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| WiFi On/Off LED
| WiFi On/Off LED
| 
| N *SEE NOTE 4 TO ENABLE
| N *SEE NOTE 4 TO ENABLE
| Y
| 
|-
| "I" Button
| Gnome Help
| 
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Presentation Mode Button
| Power Schema or Application
| 
| Key is not assigned
| Key is not assigned
| Key is not assigned
| 5229
|-
| Volume Mute
| Volume Mute
| 
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Volume Down
| Volume Down
| 
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Volume Up
| Volume Up
| 
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
-----------------------------------------------

* NOTE 1: If you have a screen able to reach 1400x1050, take a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/i915Driver

-----------------------------------------------

* NOTE 2: Suspend to RAM works out of the box on breezy. To get the lid switch to activate suspend to RAM, edit /etc/acpi/events/lidbtn and change
"action=/etc/acpi/lid.sh" to "action=/etc/acpi/sleep.sh"

-----------------------------------------------

* NOTE 3: Great success obtained with GTKWiFi version 1.09. Appears to work 100% of the time with this.

Out of the box: Wireless IPW2200 works out of the box but is somewhat buggy. Configuration profiles get confused when switching between them. i.e. home vs work. Open vs. WEP. Sometimes does not always associate after a fresh start. Decent success obtained with network-manager (bug 15144 marked as will not fix, will include in Dapper release) Use GTKWiFi 1.09 or better for proper operation.

-----------------------------------------------

* NOTE 4: Wifi Status LED can be made to work easily by creating/editing /etc/modprobe.d/ipw2200.
i.e.   'sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/ipw2200'
add the following text to it, save, and after your next reboot you will have a functioning blue LED.

options ipw2200 led=1

* Please file a bug so that is done automatically for your laptop. -PaulSladen
-----------------------------------------------

* NOTE 5: The external monitor can be used with dual head setup fully funtional. If you try to clone the primary display to an external monitor with a higher resolution than your laptops internal display, you have to follow these steps: add your external monitors resolution to xorg.conf as if it were for the internal screen, boot into text mode, turn off the internal screen (via hotkey) and start X. The system now tries the highest resolution for the active display. that is 1024x768 for the internal and 1280x1024 for the external display. that was the only way for me to use my external monitor with its native resolution, while the laptop is closed and hidden under my desk.

Is there a command to switch between internal / external / internal+external display?

** `i810_switch` might be.  But this should just work (in X or in console). -PaulSladen
-----------------------------------------------

* NOTE 6: Works fine with SD and MMC. The others are not supported yet.

-----------------------------------------------

Further observations by Torsten 2005-10-25:

Ubuntu 5.10 "Breezy Badger"

* plugged in ieee1394 device is not detected (please provide some additional info about the device and if possible, relevant output of "dmesg"
* watching movies with mplayer occasionally results in x.org server breakdown
* I just updated xserver-xorg* 6.8.2-77 -> 6.8.2-77.1, but after one suspend to ram the error reoccured. So I have to keep on avoiding xv (=> alias mplayer='mplayer -vo x11') or maybe I should follow Angelo's advice or maybe I should wait for Dapper...  -Torsten 2006-05-19
* if you use a different desktop environment, low battery status is not detected and the machine will just switch off; here is a cron script which has worked for me so far: http://www.i0i0.de/toolchest/batterycheck -Torsten 2006-02-16
* Card Reader: http://blog.lobstertechnology.com/2006/01/25/ti-7x21-flashmedia-sd-host-controller-104c-8033/ -Torsten 2006-03-14
* Unfortunate fan activity threshold: Recently I noticed that the fan is constantly running keeping the temp at 41dC. With "echo -n 3 > /proc/acpi/fan/C25[67]/state" I stopped the fan for temperatures below 65dC resulting in less noise and longer battery life. Torsten 2006-12-04
-----------------------------------------------

Further observations by Angelo Lisco 2006-02-07:

* Torsten, you need to use i810 video driver from http://www.fairlite.demon.co.uk/intel.html to avoid x.org crashing during video playback. I opened 2 bugs about that...one at freedesktop's bugzilla (https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=5774) and the other one in malone (https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-driver-i810/+bug/28326)
I hope Daniel Stone will include it in Dapper!

* Using a different X driver doesn't solve the problem for people with Ubuntu!  :-)  Could you find the appropriate patch and make sure it's filed.  -PaulSladen (btw, Daniel Stone is moving to Finland to work there...)

* BTW: I didn't have any xv problems with Ubuntu 2005/04. -Torsten 2006-02-16

* Angelo's hint with the i810 video driver didn't make it into Dapper until 2006-07-17. My X still crashes reproducibly when using "mplayer -vo xv" (the default output driver), suspending the system, and using it again.
* The annoying X crash when using xv is still present in Edgy. -Torsten 2006-11-09 
---------------------------------------------------
* Note about the sound recorder

Can anybody record from your mic in Dapper I tried but in vain.
Although I could hear the sound while using a mic, but the gnome-sound-recorder never start to record and audicity did not catch anything from my mic neither. 
Hope to get some advices here
-firingstone 2006-04-04

Try 'alsamixer -V capture' or 'alsamixer' + [TAB] and use Space to set capture to CAPTUR. -Torsten 2006-07-01
----
CategoryLaptop
