{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== ASUS Eee 901 ==
* Contact: <nowiki>[[Matt_LaRiviere]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[mailto:Matthew.LaRiviere@gmail.com|e-mail]]</nowiki>
* Make: Asus Eee PC 901  <nowiki>[[http://eeepc.asus.com/global/eeecommunity.html?n=3|Asus' Eee Portal]]</nowiki>
* Model: Eee 901 Onyx / 20G SSD / OEM 1Gb DDR2 (Upgradeable to 2Gb?) / Linux

==== General Comments ====

=== Live ===
See hardware and software comments.

=== Installation ===
==== Transfer Media ====
===== unetbootin =====
There are a few ways to use <nowiki>[[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/|unetbootin]]</nowiki>.
* You can manually download the ISO and  use the Diskimage option to load the image to a 800Mb+ thumb drive. This is recommended so you do not have to wait for the ISO to re download if there is an issue with the transfer process.
* You may also use the Distribution option from a <nowiki>[[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/unetbootin-windows-latest.exe|current release]]</nowiki>.
===== USB CD-ROM or HDD =====
* You should be able to use unetbootin to use a USB HDD.
* The method I prefer is to dd if=/iso/isoimage.iso of=/dev/usbhdd
* USB CD-ROM should work as well if the image is burned. BIOS is fairly new age.
==== Post Installation - Partitioner ====
The drives should be partitioned as follows. Gives a general idea of what kind of room is available.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Device
| Type
| Mount Point
| Format
| Size
| Used
| Comments
|-
| /dev/sda
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| /dev/sda1
| ext3
| /
| x
| 4030 MB
| ~3200 MB
| Average install size with basic apps
|-
| /dev/sdb
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| /dev/sdb1
| ext3
| /home
| x
| 16137 MB
| ~384 MB
| Fresh home directory size, may be a bit bigger
|}

* Remember, you can also install applications to a /home/user/folder and ln -s to the /bin or /sbin if storage is a concern
* It is reccomended that a swap partition not be used, it will cook the drive.
* Without a swap partition hibernate will not function.
==== customization ====
These are notes for myself..
<<BR>>
`apt-get remove vinagre ekiga evolution`  <<BR>>
`apt-get install vlc thunderbird xvnc4viewer`  <<BR>>

=== Hardware ===
A summary of hardware standings after a clean install of Ubuntu 8.10 x86 via unetbootin image method.

(probed via lspci and dmesg - please add to)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Device
| Supported?
| Comments
| Alternative support?
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Enable in BIOS
| eee-applet
|-
| Wireless
| No*
| Requires Array.org or custom
| eee-applet , wicd
|-
| Camera
| 
| Enable in BIOS
| eee-applet
|-
| Ethernet
| Yes
| Plug n Play
| Array.org kernel
|-
| Video
| Yes
| Configures properly for accelerated X sessions
| 
|-
| Sound
| Yes
| Kind of quiet but good
| 
|-
| Card Reader
| 
| 
| eee-applet
|-
| USB
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| VGA / D-Sub
| 
| 
| 
|}

* I have been using a combination of wicd and the array.org kernel since it is much more feature rich and user friendly. It has not proven to be too stable.

=== Software ===
==== eee-applet ====
Eee applet will allow you to control processor scaling and enabling or disabling bios functions such as bluetooth, wlan, camera, and card reader to squeeze more battery life.
1. 'apt-get install eee-applet'
2. System > Preferences > Sessions
** +Add
** Name: 'Eee PC Control Applet'
** Command: 'eee-applet'
3. Enable or disable something in the applet and save password to keyring
==== eee-osd ====
<nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/eee-osd/|eee-osd]]</nowiki>] is similar to the eee-applet, using the asus/xandros style control of the eee hotkeys. This requires manually compiling until it's added to the multi/uni -verse

=== Array.org ===
The <nowiki>[[http://www.array.org/ubuntu/|Array.org - Ubuntu Repository]]</nowiki> provides custom kernels currently for 8.04 and 8.10 providing everything needed for gnome desktop use. 

=== EeeUser ===
The <nowiki>[[http://wiki.eeeuser.com/|Eee User Wiki]]</nowiki> can also be resourceful.

* feel free to e-mail me as I attempt to put this together
