{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
Contact:Petebarchetta 
Make:Toshiba 
Model:Tecra 550CDT (PA1268E) 

Current Issues

USB Hard drive does not mount
PCMCIA network sporadic autodetection

Hardware details

Dapper LTS upgraded to Hardy LTS	
 

Hardware Information 

Screen & Monitors 

Device 	
Works? 	
Bug # 

in Hardy LTS (current stable)? 	
 

Screen 	
Yes 	
Yes 	

Correct resolution? 	
No; is 640x480, should be 1024x768 	
Changed Xorg.conf now resolved 

Correct refresh rate? Not by default	
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync   31.5-48.5
    VertRefresh 55-90
    Modeline "1024x786" 65.00 1024 1032 1176 1344 768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
    Modeline "800x600"  50.00  800  856  976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
    Modeline "640x480"  36.00  640  696  752  832 480 481 484 509 -hsync -vsync

3D Acceleration 	
No 	
No 	

External monitor works? 	
Yes 	
Yes 	

External monitor - mirrors 	
Yes 	
Yes 	

External monitor - extend desktop 	
Untested 	
Untested 	

Power Management 

Battery detected? 	
Yes (Main Battery)	
No (SelectBay battery, although it does charge and is used by machine) 	

Hibernates? 	
Untested (Fn-F4) 	 	

Sleep 	
Untested 	
Yes 	

Dim monitor on battery 	
Untested 	

Blank monitor on inactivity 	
Untested 	
Yes 	

Lid Close 	
Yes 	
Yes 	

Cpu frequency scaling 	
NA 	
NA 	

Sound 

Sound works? 	
	
Yes 	

Correct volume? 	
Untested 	
Yes 	

Hardware volume switch 	
Yes 	
Yes 	

Headphone jack 	
Untested 	
Yes 	

Mic jack 	
Untested 	
Untested 	

Networking 

Wired NIC 	
Not present  	

Wireless NIC 	
Not present

PCMCIA NIC 	
Yes PCMCIA(3-Com 3CCE589ET)	
Yes PCMCIA(Cisco AiroNet 340) 	
	

Firewire 	
NA 	
NA 	

Bluetooth 	
NA 	
NA 	

Modem 	
No  	
Untested 	

Infrared 	
Untested 	
Untested 	

Touchpad & Mice 

Touchpad 	
NA 	
NA 	

Touchpad - Doubletap = double click 	
NA 	
NA 	

Touchpad - Scroll down side 	
NA 	
NA 	

External mouse - USB 	
Yes 	
Yes 	

External mouse - Serial 	
Untested 	
Yes (PS/2, actually) 	

External Keyboard (PS/2) 	
Untested 	
Yes 	

Docking Station/Port Replicator 

AC through replicator 	
Yes 	
Yes 	

USB 	
Yes 	
 	

Serial 	
Untested 	
Untested 	

Parallel 	
Untested 	
Untested 	

External Monitor - VGA 	
Untested 	
Untested 	

External Monitor - DVI 	
Untested 	
Untested 	

Modem 	
Untested 	
Untested 	

NIC 	
Untested 	
Untested 	

PS/2 	
Untested 	
Yes 	

Additional Hardware 

Fingerprint reader 	
NA 	
NA 	

CD/DVD drive 	
Yes 	
Yes 	

PCMCIA cards 	
Yes 	
Yes 	

Parallel Ports 	
Untested 	
	

Card reader(s) 	
NA 	
NA 	

Function and other keys 

Fn key 	
Operation 	
Keycode 	
Works? 	
Bug # 

+ Space 	
None 	
139 	
Do nothing 	
	

+ Esc 	
Not tested

+ F1 	
Lock 	
13b 	
Blank Screen (then locked) 	
Blank Screen (then locked) 	
Not tested

+ F2 	
Low Power mode 	
13c 	
Do nothing 	
Nothing 	
Not tested

+ F3 	
??? 	
13d 	
Sleep 	
Not tested

+ F4 	
Mute 	
13e 	
Hibernate 	
Hibernate 	
Not tested

+ F5 	
Switch display 	
13f 	
Switch display 	
Switch display 	
Not tested

+ F6 	
None 	
140 	
Please double-check -Ribs) 	
Dims screen 	
Not tested

+ F7 	
None 	
141 	
Brightens screen 	
Not tested

+ F8 	
None 	
142 		
Not tested	

+ F9 	
None 	
143 	
Do nothing 	
Not tested	

+ F10 	
Scroll Lock 	
None 	
Scroll Lock 	
Scroll Lock 	
Not tested

+ F11 	
Keypad 	
None 	
Keypad 	
Keypad 	
Not tested

+ F12 	
??? (up/down arrows) 	
None 	
Nothing ?? 	
Not tested	

+ 1 	
None 	
102 	
Do nothing 	
Not tested	

+ 2 	
None 	
103 	
Do nothing 	
Not tested	

Other special keys 

Key 	
Operation 	
Keycode 	
Works? 	
Bug # 
 

Key 	
	
	
Untested 	
Untested 	

Notes
