{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Contact: PatrickVoegeli
* Make: Fujitsu Siemens
* Brand: Esprimo Mobile
* Model: u9200

=== Current Issues ===

=== System Info ===
<pre>
system-manufacturer: FUJITSU SIEMENS
system-product-name: ESPRIMO Mobile U9200
system-version: 1.0
bios-version: 1.11 - 067 - 1566
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Jaunty Jackalope (current stable)?
| in Karmic Koala (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes - see notes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes - see notes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes - see notes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Yes - see notes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes - see notes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes - see notes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes - see notes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Front mic
| Yes - see notes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Firewire
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Jaunty Jackalope (current stable)?
| in Karmic Koala (current development)
|-
| + F1
| Wireless switch
| 
| Yes - see notes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| Mute
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Volume Down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Volume Up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock Touchpad
| 
| Yes - see notes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| Camera
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes - see notes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes - see notes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| External Monitor
| 
| Yes - see notes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| Sleep
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Insert
| Print Screen
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Del
| Sys Rq
| 
| Acts as Print Screen
| Acts as Print Screen
| 
|}
==== Notes ====
Nearly everything worked out of the box, with only some minor tweaks to get it working:
* Sound & headphones jack: after installing, connecting the headphones wouldn't mute the external speakers. The solution is to add <code>options snd-hda-intel model=hippo</code> at the end of <code>/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base</code>. Save and reboot and headphone will be working fine. After rebooting, go into System->Preferences->Sound and make sure that the default mixer is "HDA Intel (Alsa mixer)" and you control the Master track. Set the sound applet also to control the Master track. If you make it control the PCM track, when playing music and muting the sound, you'll hear some nasty sound.<<BR>><<BR>>
* Front mic: after adding the model=hippo stuff, it works. Quality isn't the greatest, but it seems to be usable, a skype conversation has been tested and is fine.<<BR>><<BR>>
* Brightness up/down keys: they sort of work, but quite flaky. When pressing the down key it would jump from maximum brightness to half, missing lots of steps. Pressing the up key, would sometimes not work. To make it work a little more reliable: create the file <code>/etc/modprobe.d/brightness.conf</code> and paste the following into: <code>options video brightness_switch_enabled=0</code>. After rebooting they should work a bit better, but still not perfect, as it will increase/decrease 2 steps. Seems it will be fixed in Karmic.<<BR>><<BR>>
* Disable/enable touchpad key: it won't work. After pressing it, dmesg outputs the following: <code>Use 'setkeycodes e002 <keycode>' to make it known.</code> and nothing happens. To fix it, add <code>setkeycodes e002 91</code> to /etc/rc.local before the exit 0 line. The next step is to activate SHMconfig, so you must create <code>usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/20thirdparty/12-x11-touchpad.fdi</code> and paste in the following: <pre>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<deviceinfo version="0.2">
 <device>
  <match key="input.x11_driver" string="synaptics">
   <merge key="input.x11_options.SHMConfig" type="string">true</merge>
  </match>
 </device>
</deviceinfo></pre> We must also create the command that will actually enable/disable the touchpad. Create the file <code>/usr/local/bin/touchpad</code> and paste in the following: <pre>

	if ( synclient -l | grep "TouchpadOff             = 0")
	then 
		synclient TouchpadOff=1
	else 
		synclient TouchpadOff=0
	fi
</pre>To make it executable: <code>sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/touchpad</code>. Now you must reboot, in order to get the changes applied. <<BR>><<BR>>The next step is installing xbindkeys and its config app: <code>sudo apt-get install xbindkeys xbindkeys-config</code>. Once installed, run the following command: <code>bindkeys --defaults > /home/patrick/.xbindkeysrc</code>. You can now open xbindkeys-config, remove every action that's set up and then create a new one. Name it Touchpad, then click "Get Key" and press the touchpad button (Fn+F6). As action type in <code>touchpad</code>. Click "Save & Apply & Exit" and then Alt+F2 and run the command <code>xbindkeys</code>. You should now be able to activate/deactivate the touchpad using the button. To make it work after restarting, you should add xbindkeys to the gnome start up applications. Go into System->Preferences->Start up applications and create a new entry with command <code>xbindkeys</code>.<<BR>><<BR>>
* Switch monitor key: it works after removing the hotkey-setup package and restarting the system.<<BR>><<BR>>
* Wireless switch: it works, but it also disables bluetooth.<<BR>><<BR>>
* 3D acceleration: it works, but the intel video driver is undergoing some major changes and the performance under Jaunty is quite bad. Follow the safe or optimal configurations noted in this <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7104256&postcount=1|post at ubuntuforums.org]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
* Battery: the BIOS DSDT has a bug, which causes to incorrectly show the Charged and Discharging states. The fix is easy. First we'll get the DSDT table and dissasemble it:<pre>
sudo apt-get install iasl
cd
mkdir DSDT
cd DSDT
sudo cat /proc/acpi/dsdt > dsdt.dat
iasl -d dsdt.dat
gedit dsdt.aml
</pre>Ok, now you should have your dsdt file open. So let's fix it, look for the following code in Device (BAT0), under the Method (UPBS, 0, NotSerialized) subsection:<pre>
     If (LEqual (Local0, 0x02)) 
     {
         And (Local7, One, Local0) 
         If (LEqual (Local0, One)) 
         {
             And (Local7, 0x80, Local1)
             If (LEqual (Local1, 0x80))
             {
                 Or (Local4, 0x02, Local4)
             }
             Else
             {
                 Or (Local4, One, Local4) 
             }
         }
      }
</pre>Ok, now let's fix it. Else code is misplaced, it has to be moved out of the If (LEqual (Local0, One)). So, it should be:<pre>
     If (LEqual (Local0, 0x02)) 
     {
         And (Local7, One, Local0) 
         If (LEqual (Local0, One)) 
         {
             And (Local7, 0x80, Local1)
             If (LEqual (Local1, 0x80))
             {
                 Or (Local4, 0x02, Local4)
             }
             //ELSE WAS HERE
         }
         // ELSE CORRECT PLACE
         Else
         {
             Or (Local4, One, Local4) 
         }
      }
</pre>Now, simply save and close gedit, and let's continue:<pre>
cd
cd DSDT
iasl -tc dsdt.dsl
sudo cp dsdt.aml /etc/initramfs-tools/DSDT.aml
sudo update-initramfs -u -k all
</pre>So, that's it. What we've done is recompile the DSDT including the fix, moving it into the initramfs and then recompiled the initramfs so that the custom DSDT gets loaded. After rebooting the battery status should be always ok.
