{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Contact: DrScott

Make: ACER

Brand: EXTENSA

Model: 5635Z

Part.#: LX.EDM02.010

Website: 

=== Current Issues ===
* To boot Ubuntu9.10 LiveCD you need to add the linux kernel parameter "nomodeset". Otherwise the screen turns black right after the boot menu (GRUB). After installation you also need to add this parameter to your /etc/default/grub (GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT).
* Wireless works out of the box. But the driver included in 9.10 frequently drops connections, but always reconnects. To solve this issue you have to install the package linux-backports-modules-wireless-karmic-generic. After this there is only one small issue left (maybe for all 802.11n devices?): Every two minutes, the laptop scans for available access points. This scanning lasts about 5 seconds. Within this period the network connection stalls. It is said, that wpa_supplicant > 0.7.0 could provide a solution for this problem: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/460886/comments/11
* The function keys for brightness control are detected, but have no effect. To solve this problem, you have to run the command "xrandr --output LVDS --set BACKLIGHT_CONTROL legacy" each time you log in. This can be automated by placing this command in a new file /etc/X11/Xsession.d/10brightness_fix
* There are two additional keys for "$" and "€". They do not work and are not detected. Anyway, both characters can be generated just by normal keys...
* To enable emulated two finger scrolling on the touchpad run the following commands. But at least on my system it does not work very reliable: <pre>
synclient VertTwoFingerScroll=1
synclient EmulateTwoFingerMinZ=29
synclient EmulateTwoFingerMinW=13</pre>

=== System Info ===

system-manufacturer: Acer

system-product-name: Extensa 5635Z

system-version: Not Applicable

graphics: Intel GMA4500M

wlan: Atheros Communications Inc. AR928X Wireless Network Adapter

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 9.10
| x
| x
|-
| Screen
| YES
| 
| 
| kernel parameter 'nomodeset'
|-
| Correct resolution?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Suspend
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| NO
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| n/a
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Firewire
| n/a
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| n/a
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Modem
| n/a
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Infrared
| n/a
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| n/a
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| n/a
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| n/a
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 9.10
| x
| x
|-
| + F1
| HELP
| 
| YES, not assigned
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 0x95
| YES, not assigned
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F3
| BATTERIE
| 
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F4
| HIBERNATE
| 
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F5
| EXT. SCREEN
| 
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F6
| BLANK SCREEN
| 
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F7
| TOUCHPAD ON/OFF
| 
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F8
| MUTE
| 
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F12
| SCROLL LOCK
| 
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 9.10
| x
| x
|-
| wlan switch
| 
| 
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| additional $ key
| 
| 
| NO
| 
| 
| 
|-
| additional € key
| 
| 
| NO
| 
| 
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
There seem to be many different configurations for the model 5635Z. All these testing was made on the configuration with Part# LX.EDM02.010

----
CategoryLaptop
