{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: TimothyMccown
* Make: Pavilion
* Brand: HP
* Model: ZV6233nr
* Website: http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/product?lc=en&cc=us&dlc=en&product=1130602

=== Current Issues ===
In Dapper Drake RC: <<BR>>
* Wireless Ethernet alternates between wlan0 and eth1 using ndiswrapper. <<BR>>
* Monitor does not dim when switched to battery. <<BR>>
* Play, Stop, Rewind, and Fast Forward buttons do not work in Rhythmbox. <<BR>>

=== Hardware details ===
* HP Pavilion ZV6233NR
* AMD Athlon 64 3200+
* 1024MB Memory
* 100GB HDD 4200(?) RPM
* DVD+R DL Burner
* 15" 1280x800 Widescreen Display
* ATI Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)
* IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller
* ATI SB400 - AC'97 Modem Controller
* LAN is Realtek RTL8139 10/100
* Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 Airforce One 54g 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller
* US Keyboard

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| No
| No, works with fglrx
| 36314
|-
| External monitor works?
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| No
| No
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| No
| No, works with ndiswrapper
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| No Serial Port
| No Serial Port
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| No Parallel Port
| No Parallel Port
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| + F1
| Help
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| Print
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| WWW
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| External Monitor
| 
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| + F5
| Sleep
| 
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock
| 
| No, ejects CD
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| Play/Pause
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F10
| Stop
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F11
| Rewind
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F12
| Fast Forward
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Wireless
| 
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| DVD
| 
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Music
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| WWW
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
Latest BIOS Update from HP is needed to fix the realtime clock from running at double speed.

=== 3D Accelerated Video ===
3D acceleration does not work by default. You will need to install the ATI fglrx drivers.   You will also have to go into your system BIOS and change the video device to work off of UMA memory. Sideport or Sideport+UMA will not work. The fglrx driver only supports UMA. Paste the following into a terminal session:

<pre>
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r)
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
sudo aticonfig --initial
sudo aticonfig --overlay-type=Xv
</pre>

Reboot. Confirm it worked.

<pre>
$ fglrxinfo 
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON 9700 Generic
OpenGL version string: 2.0.5755 (8.24.8)
</pre>

Source: http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide

=== Wireless ===

Wireless Ethernet with the included bcm43xx module is very unstable but enables some advanced features. If you would like to use it, scroll down to the section titled Experimental Wireless. If you would like stable wireless ethernet, use ndiswrapper with the following driver set:

http://biginoz.free.fr/linux/bcmwl5a.inf

http://biginoz.free.fr/linux/bcmwl5.sys

After downloading the files to your desktop, paste the following into a terminal session.

<pre>
echo 'blacklist bcm43xx' | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
sudo rmmod bcm43xx
sudo modprobe -r bcmwl5
sudo rmmod ndiswrapper
sudo apt-get remove ndiswrapper-utils
sudo rm -r /etc/ndiswrapper/
sudo rm -r /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper
</pre>

Some of these steps may report errors; just ignore them.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install ndiswrapper-utils
sudo ndiswrapper -i ~/Desktop/bcmwl5a.inf
sudo ndiswrapper -m
for conffile in /etc/ndiswrapper/bcmwl5a/*.conf; do
sudo sed --in-place 's/RadioState|1/RadioState|0/g' $conffile
done
</pre>

Reboot. You should now have wireless on wlan0 or eth1. If not, try

<pre>
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
</pre>

If it still doesn't work, you may need to boot into Windows and press the wireless button on your keyboard to enable the wireless device, and then reboot into Ubuntu.

Mostly Source: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx

==== Experimental Wireless with Monitor Mode ====

This method is VERY experimental and unstable, and seems to only connect in perfect conditions. If you don't have a good line of sight of your access point, you may not be able to connect. If you just came out of standby, you may not be able to connect. If you just came out of monitor mode, you may not be able to connect. This method is useful if you need to do a wireless survey or sniff wireless traffic in monitor mode. It is not recommended for casual use. If you don't know what monitor mode or a wireless survey is, this probably isn't for you. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.

ndiswrapper will cause a conflict with the kernel level driver. Let's remove ndiswrapper.

<pre>
sudo modprobe -r bcmwl5
sudo rmmod ndiswrapper
sudo apt-get remove ndiswrapper-utils
sudo rm -r /etc/ndiswrapper/
sudo rm -r /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper
</pre>

Remove bcm43xx from /etc/modules.d/blacklist if it's in there.

<pre>
sudo nano -w /etc/modules.d/blacklist
</pre>

Reboot. 
The driver included in the kernel is not enough to get going. You'll need firmware for your specific wireless card. We get this firmware by extracting it from a driver. Grab the following driver, from which we will extract the firmware.

http://biginoz.free.fr/linux/bcmwl5.sys

Now let's install the tool to extract the firmware from the driver.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install bcm43xx-fwcutter
</pre>

Now that we've installed the tool, lets extract the firmware from the driver and put it where the running kernel can utilize it.

<pre>
sudo bcm43xx-fwcutter -w /lib/firmware ~/Desktop/bcmwl5.sys
sudo bcm43xx-fwcutter -w /lib/firmware/$(uname -r) ~/Desktop/bcmwl5.sys
</pre>

You may have received a non critical error during the prior step, but it should have told you that firmware was loaded.

Reboot.

If you need to connect to an access point, type the following.

<pre>
sudo iwconfig eth0 ap any
sudo iwconfig eth0 rate 11M
</pre>

Mostly Source: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx

As of 6-26-06, if you're going to use kismet to utilize your new shiny monitor mode, you will need to compile kismet from the latest source available on kismetwireless.net to utilize the bcm43xx driver.
