{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: KWeaver87
* Make: Averatec
* Brand: 2200
* Model: AV2260-EY1
* Website: http://averatec.com/products/portable/ultraportable/2200Series.asp

=== Current Issues ===
* Screen - On boot, X auto-configures the screen to 2048x1536. In Ubuntu, you can easily fix this with the Screen Resolution preference. In Kubuntu this can by fixed by adding the following to the "Screen" section of /etc/X11/xorg.cfg:
<pre>
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes   "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
</pre>

** External Monitor - Getting this working is touchy at best. I've only gotten it to work by having the monitor plugged in when the computer is booting, and I think the monitor needs to be able to support 1280x800 in order to display. The projector I used would sometimes only want to show about 1050 pixels across as well, so I had to adjust MythTV's appearance to fit. Then other times it would show all 1280 across.

* Wireless NIC - In my tests, the built-in drivers worked out of the box, but would fail after a few minutes. I installed the legacy rt73 drivers from http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com and only got them to work with manual network configuration, as NetworkManager would fail to connect. I tried using an Intel 3945 card to replace the stock, but neither Kubuntu nor Windows recognized it, since this isn't a Centrino system. 

* Suspend - The computer returns to normal operation immediately after suspending.

* Dapper Drake - The ACPI drivers in 6.06 will cause random slowdowns and crashes. Please use at least 6.10.

=== System Info ===
* 1.8 GHz AMD Turion 64 MT-32 or 2.0 GHz Mobile AMD Sempron 3300+
* VIA K8M890CE chipset
* 12.1" WXGA LCD
* Dual Layer DVD Burner
* 80 GB HDD
* 512MB or 1GB DDR RAM
* 802.11b/g (MSI mini PCIe using rt2571 chipset. Runs through USB, ID: 0db0:6877)
* VIA K8M890 Chrome9 Integrated Video
* VIA VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller
* VIA AC97 Modem Controller
* VIA VT6102 Rhine-II 10/100Mbit Ethernet Controller
* 3x USB ports (system has 4x 1.1 Controllers and 1x 2.0 Controller)
* O2 Micro Integrated MMC/SD/MS Controller (maybe xD as well)
* O2 Micro Firewire

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Hardy?
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-1> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Hardy
|-
| <-5> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| See Current Issues
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Unknown
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| No
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| See Current Issues
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| No
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Suspend
| No
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| No (BIOS option available)
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| See Current Issues
| 
|-
| ExpressCard NIC
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD burner
| Yes
| 
|-
| ExpressCard slot
| Untested
| 
|-
| SD Card reader
| Yes
| 
|-
| Memory Stick reader
| Untested
| 
|-
| MMC reader
| Untested
| 
|-
| xD reader?
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-1> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hardy
|-
| + F3
| Turns off monitor?
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Sleep
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| External Monitor Switch
| 
| No
| 
|-
| + F6
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Volume Down
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| Volume Up
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Volume Mute
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-1> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hardy
|-
| Power Button
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| "S" Button
| 
| 
| No
| 
|}
==== Notes ====
* My installed system is Kubuntu instead of Ubuntu. Hopefully that hasn't caused any problems with this chart.
* Most of this chart should apply to the Averatec 2300 series as well. The main differences are a Turion 64 X2, GeForce Go 6100, and SATA HDD.

----
CategoryLaptop
