{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


  Contact: Giuseppe Borzi <nowiki>[[Gborzi]]</nowiki>

  Make: HewlettPackard

  Brand: Pavilion

  Model: TX1350el

  Website: <nowiki>[[http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/product?product=3631352&lc=en&cc=us&dlc=en&lang=en&cc=us|HP Pavilion TX1350el]]</nowiki>

=== Current Issues ===
The ''rotate'' and ''mobility'' buttons do not work. These buttons are located on the lower right part of the screen, just right of ''Altec Lansing''.

This laptop suffers from the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=591503|laptop harddrive Load_Cycle_Count issue]]</nowiki>. The "ugly fix" suggested in that thread needs to be updated, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4872313&postcount=940|here]]</nowiki> you can read my fix (to the ugly fix).

In case the RAM is upgraded to more than 2GB a resume from suspend to RAM can ruin your filesystem, see note 10 below.

=== System Info ===
bios-version: F.1F

system-manufacturer: Hewlett-Packard

system-product-name: HP Pavilion tx1000 Notebook PC

system-version: Rev 1

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| in Gutsy
| Hardy
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (1)
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (2)
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (2,10)
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/203537|203537]]</nowiki>
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (3)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (4)
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (5)
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchscreen
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (6)
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xf86-input-evtouch/+bug/222164|222164]]</nowiki>
|-
| Webcam
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| in Gutsy
| in Hardy (current development)
|-
| + F1
| Help browser
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| Print
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| Open Browser
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| External monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| + F5
| Hibernate
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Screen brightness down
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Screen brightness up
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| Start/Pause Play
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Stop Play
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Previous Track
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Next Track
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgUP
| Pause
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgDN
| Break
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Home
| Scorr
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + End
| Numlock
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Ins
| Print (Screenshot)
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Del
| R sist
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgUP
| Pause
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgDN
| Break
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Home
| Scorr
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + End
| Numlock
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Ins
| Print (Screenshot)
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Del
| R sist
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> NextBug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| in Gutsy
| in Hardy (current development)
|-
| Windows key + E
| open all workspace
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Volume down
| Volume down
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mute
| Mute
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Volume up
| Volume up
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Rotate Button
| Configurable?
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| No (7)
| 
|-
| Mobility Center button
| Configurable?
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| No (7)
| 
|-
| DVD button
| Configurable
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (7)
| 
|-
| Media Button
| Configurable
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes (7)
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
1) 3D works with both nvidia-glx or nvidia-glx-new driver packages, but the latter has some problems: a flickering text console and a flickering screen after a DPMS blank of the monitor, e.g. when the lid is closed and reopened. With nvidia-glx drivers there is the need to add a line with ''Option      "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"'' in the Device section in /etc/X11/xorg.conf to have decorations with Compiz.
It has been reported that the latest nvidia driver (173.14.05) works without these problems on Hardy.

2) In order to get a working sleep and hibernate I configured the system as follows:

2a) Add a line with ''echo 2115985408 > /sys/power/image_size'' in /etc/rc.local;

2b) Add a line with ''Option      "NvAGP"     "1"'' in the Device section in /etc/X11/xorg.conf;

2c) Deactivate ''Sync To VBlank'' from CompizConfig Settings Manager, General Options, Display Settings;

2d) Add the ''vga=0'' option in grub;

2e) unload ehci_hcd module on suspend, i.e. put a file in /etc/pm/config.d (e.g. /etc/pm/config.d/modules) with ''SUSPEND_MODULES="ehci_hcd"'' in it.

After resuming from sleep the webcam doesn't work (adding uvcvideo to the list of suspended modules fix this problem, credits for this fix go to Ubuntu forums poster dudafmendes) and the touchscreen sometimes loses calibration (switching to text console and back fixes this problem).

3) The wireless chip is a Broadcom BCM4328 which is not yet supported by b43, so ndiswrapper must be used. EDIT: I have recently (Nov. 22 2008) learned that the wireless chip also works with the wl driver which is included in the ''linux-restricted-modules-<kernel version>'' package. The wl module requires that the ieee80211_crypt_tkip module is already loaded to work (but wl doesn't depend on ieee80211_crypt_tkip), and obviously that other modules, like ndiswrapper that control (or attempt to control) the wireless chip are not loaded. The module is not loaded automatically, so to have it working I did the following:

3a) put a file in /etc/modprobe.d (e.g. /etc/modprobe.d/wl) with the following content (in one line)

''install wl /sbin/modprobe -r ndiswrapper b43 bcm43xx b43legacy; /sbin/modprobe ieee80211_crypt_tkip; /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install wl''

3b) add a line with wl to /etc/modules, e.g. my /etc/modules now reads as

''# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.

fuse

lp

rtc

wl''

Actually, the unloading of ndiswrapper, b43, bcm43xx and b43legacy modules is not needed, because these are not automatically loaded, but just to be safe I have added the unloading command. I have read that the ssb module may conflict with wl, but on my system the wireless works with both ssb and wl loaded.

4) The modem is a ''Motorola model SM56 Si3054''. See this <nowiki>[[http://aldeby.org/blog/index.php/howto-ubuntu-linux-on-hp-pavilion-dv2000-dv6000-dv9000-series-laptops#modem|page]]</nowiki> to make it working. Following the instructions there I was able to activate the modem and made a telephone call, but I haven't tested a dialup connection.

5) See this <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=760018|thread]]</nowiki> about the fprint project.

6) There are two alternative drivers for the touchscreen. The free evtouch driver and the binary driver by eGalax. I'm using the evtouch driver repackaged with the patch I suggested in the bug report. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4945143&postcount=998|Here]]</nowiki> it is possible to download the package for x86_64.

7) See the ''LCD Screen Buttons'' section in the <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-HPPaviliontx1220ca]]</nowiki> page to identify the buttons. The working ones have already an assigned keycode.

8) With kernel version prior to the Hardy one, such as those found on Gutsy or Feisty, there was the need to add some kernel option to boot (e.g. noapic, nolapic, etc.). These options are no longer needed and can actually hinder a proper functioning of the system.

9) To upgrade the bios I have successfully used a Vista live CD as explained <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4986158&postcount=1020|here]]</nowiki>.

10) Bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/203537|203537]]</nowiki> seems to arise on the tx1000 series if you have more than 2GB RAM. It can be fixed adding iommu=soft to the kernel boot options, see the bug report discussion and this <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5259197&postcount=1116|post]]</nowiki>. Thanks to Ubuntu forums poster pmaconi for pointing out this problem, confirmed by Ubuntu forums poster isachan.

==== References ====
[1] <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=442483|Helpfull Hints for a tx1000 (tx1120)]]</nowiki> a 100+ pages thread in the Ubuntu Forums.

[2] <nowiki>[[http://aldeby.org/blog/index.php/howto-ubuntu-linux-on-hp-pavilion-dv2000-dv6000-dv9000-series-laptops|Tutorial: Ubuntu Linux on HP Pavilion dv2000, dv6000, dv6500 and dv9000 series laptops]]</nowiki> contains some useful information on modem setup and Lightscribe support under GNU/Linux.

[3] <nowiki>[[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_HP_tx1000|HARDWARE HP tx1000]]</nowiki> explains, among other things, how to configure the touchscreen drivers (both free and closed) and screen rotation.

[4] <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=760018|HOWTO: Fingerprint reading in Ubuntu with fprint]]</nowiki> is about the fingerprint reader.
----
CategoryLaptop
