{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== PLEASE MERGE with LaptopTestingTeam/DellLatitude110L ==

* We don't have the time to follow multiple reports unless they are for different hardware.  Please combine this page <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-DellLatitude110L]]</nowiki> and place any extra information in the appropriate spaces at the top or bottom. -PaulSladen

== Ubuntu 5.10 on Dell Latitude 110L laptop. ==

Configuration: 15”XGA, Celeron1.4, Intel 910 chipset with integrated graphics, 256M, 40G, DVD/CDRW, Wi-Fi, LAN.

Installation: 
* I used Ubuntu 6.04alpha (DapperFlight3) Live CD with GParted onboard to resize ntfs partition. I defragmented the partition by native Windows tool before.
* The installation of Ubuntu 5.10 was smooth.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Component'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Comment'''
|-
| DVD/CDRW
| Philips SCB5265
| Works
| out of box
|-
| Intel 910 Graphics @ 15”XGA
| 1024x768
| Works
| out of box
|-
| Hard drive
| Seagate ST9408114A
| Works
| out of box; 5400
|-
| Touchpad
| Synaptics PS/2
| Works
| out of box
|-
| PCMCIA
| Texas Instruments PCI-1510 CardBus Controller
| Works
| out of box
|-
| Audio
| SigmaTel C-Major Audio
| Works
| out of box
|-
| USB
| 
| Works
| out of box
|-
| LAN
| Intel PRO/100 VE
| Works
| out of box; 100Mbit
|-
| Wi-Fi
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2915ABG
| Works
| out of box. You may want to use gtkwifi GNOME applet to search for available networks.
|-
| Modem
| Conexant D110 MDC V.9x
| Problematic
| Non-free drivers from lunuxant.com  support it. Pulse dialing mode can't affect line 'ready/tone' status, so can't dial.
|}

Plus:
* Battery meter as GNOME applet out of box.
* USB mouse, USB flash drives (Mass Storage) also work out of box.
* Tested hardware modem 56K PCMCIA and LAN PCMCIA cards. Work OK out of box.

Suspend/Hibernate: sometimes work :-)
* Suspend works if not install linuxant.com modem drivers.
* Hibernate works if deactivate LAN. Strange enough LAN does not appear in 'Network Settings' after :-)

Fact: Dell sells this model of notebook in France with Mandriva linux preinstalled (<nowiki>[[http://wwwnew.mandriva.com/en/company/press/pr/mandriva_announces_the_availability_of_a_dell_laptop_pre_loaded_with_mandriva_linux_for_students_in_france|press reliase]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.eweek.com/article2/0,1895,1860031,00.asp|eweek.com article]]</nowiki>).

* Could you check is Mandriva provide any specific patches for this laptop.  -PaulSladen
** So far found this specific to Dell laptops GNOME applet <nowiki>[[http://ftp.ale.org/pub/mirrors/mandrake/devel/2005/SRPMS/contrib/hot-applet-for-dell-0.8-1mdk.src.rpm|hot-applet-for-dell]]</nowiki> 

Overall: working computer with linux.
