{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Identification ===
  
Make: Hewlett Packard (HP)

Brand: Pavilion Entertainment PC

Model: DV5-1124CA (equipped with an 1.90 GHz AMD Athlon X2 QL-60 Dual-Core Processor)

Contact: marco.laverdiere (tip to find email address:  Google service!)
 

=== Overview ===

Everything is working pretty well out of the box (my first install was with Intrepid, 8.10).  Here are some tips and tweaks to make it work perfectly:

==== Suspend-to-ram (sleep) ====

With Ubuntu Jaunty and the latest BIOS upgrade (05-2009, F. 34) it appears that suspend-to-ram is working out of the box.  For the latest BIOS, see:  http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/softwareList?os=2093&lc=en&dlc=en&cc=ca&lang=en&product=3828098

Previously (before Jaunty and/or BIOS upgrade) the kernel boot option i8042.reset had to be used for suspend-to-ram to work.  It had to be added to the Grub menu configuration file, i.e. in /boot/grub/menu.lst, as in the following:

kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-11-generic root=UUID=e805a537-55fa-4e4f-8f3d-866780911afc ro quiet splash i8042.reset  

Once this option was added, a reboot was necessary to allow the option to be effective.

See message #15 in this thread for more details:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1047284&page=2

Finally, see these bug reports on the suspend issue with HP-DV5:

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/332805

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/301353

http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=11368

==== Wifi card ====

The internal card (Atheros AR928X) works out of the box (so there's nothing to install) with the quite new (when Intrepid was released) ath9k driver:  http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/ath9k

On Jaunty (9.04) and Karmic (9.10), it is advisable to use the latest version of the ath9k driver since it appears to be more reliable.  It's just a matter of installing the backport modules:

sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-karmic

then reboot

On Karmic, while the backport module helps a lot, there is still one stability issue (i.e. interruptions due to network-manager constant scanning/roaming function).  See this bug report and my comment:

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/333730?comments=all

To circumvent the issue,  it is possible to use ndiswrapper with a Windows XP driver for the AR928X card, instead of the ath9k module.  It is probably a good idea to use the XP driver available on the own laptop Windows installation (partition) or on the manufacturer support website (there is none available for XP on HP website yet), since they may be best suited for the embedded AR928X specific card.  XP drivers for this card are also available on these sites:

http://forums.laptopvideo2go.com/topic/15297-latest-atheros-modded-driver-for-windws-7-vista-and-winxp/  (These ones work perfectly for me; look for v.7.7.0.259 or the atheros_v7.7.0.259_v1.26.exe file)

http://www.atheros.cz/ (these ones work well, but without the blue led functionality...)

==== Microphone ====

There was no problem with the HDA-Intel internal sound card until I upgrade to Jaunty.  Since then, I was not able to use the microphone, neither with sound recorder, Skype or Cheese.  Solution was to add this line to  /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf  and reboot after:

options snd-hda-intel model=hp-dv5

See these threads for more info:

http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=12440

https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/316125

Good luck!
