{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* Contact: BenRomer2
* Make: Toshiba
* Brand: Satellite
* Model: P205D-S7454
* Website: http://www.csd.toshiba.com/cgi-bin/tais/su/su_sc_modelLanding.jsp?ProductMenu_0=Portables&ProductMenu_1=Satellite&model_find=&ProductMenu_2=1854780&x=24&y=8&BV_SessionID=%40%40%40%400347867578.1194025709%40%40%40%40&BV_EngineID=ccccaddmgfhdhdecgfkceghdgngdgmn.0&moid=1854780&rpn=PSPBLU&smoid=true&ct=MH&ListType=Model

=== Current Issues ===
* Intel HD sound module requires parameters and backports package to function correctly (see notes).
* Atheros 5007EG chipset is not supported in current madwifi package (see notes).

=== System Info ===
sudo dmidecode -s system-manufacturer

TOSHIBA

sudo dmidecode -s system-product-name

Satellite P205D

sudo dmidecode -s system-version

PSPBLU-017009

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.10 LTS
| in Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy)
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Works, restricted driver
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Hang
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| Hang
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| Yes, when fixed (see notes)
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Built-in Mic
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Works (with r8101 driver)
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Unsupported (works with ndiswrapper)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Works with SD only
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS?
| in Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy)
|-
| + Space (magnify)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Fails
| 
|-
| + Esc (mute)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| + F1 (lock)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Fails
| 
|-
| + F2 (mic)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Fails
| 
|-
| + F3 (suspend)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4 (hibernate)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5 (monitor)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6 (darken)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Fails
| 
|-
| + F7  (brighten)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Fails
| 
|-
| + F8  (wireless)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Fails
| 
|-
| + F9  (touchpad)
| 
| 
| Untested
| Fails
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| in Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy)
|-
| Internet Browser
| 
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Media Player
| 
| 
| Untested
| Fails
| 
|-
| Play/Pause
| 
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Stop
| 
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Previous Track
| 
| 
| Untested
| Works
| 
|-
| Next Track
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}
==== Notes ====

===== Intel HD Audio =====

On initial installation, Gutsy selects the snd-intel-hda module for the audio chipset, but by default the
driver will not provide all of the available sound controls, and it will not mute the built-in speakers when
a headset is plugged in. This can be fixed:

* adding the line "options snd-hda-intel model=toshiba" to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base
* install the backport modules "sudo aptitude install linux-backports-modules"

===== Atheros 5007EG Wireless =====

The built-in wireless adapter is not currently supported by the madwifi package. It is also incorrectly identified
as a 5006EG. If you try to use the madwifi driver in Gutsy you will see this message:

wifi%%d: unable to attach hardware: 'Hardware revision not supported' (HAL status 13)

It is possible to use the ndiswrapper package and a copy of the 5007EG driver for Windows to get the wireless
card to function, but it has a minor problem. Sometimes the driver will start, but it will fail to give the wireless card a MAC address. This can be seen in dmesg output ( use the command "dmesg | grep wlan0" ):

wlan0: ethernet device 00:00:00:00:00:00 using serialized NDIS driver: net5211, version: 0x50003, NDIS version: 0x501, vendor: '', 168C:001C.5.conf

In this case you can give the driver another chance to work by repeating the following steps:

1. remove the driver using "sudo rmmod ndiswrapper"
2. reinstall the driver using "sudo modprobe ndiswrapper"
3. check the MAC address has been assigned by using the "dmesg | grep wlan0" command. If a valid MAC address is shown, the card is now working properly.

===== LAN Adapter failure =====

The built-in wired LAN adapter can fail during sustained large transfers using the r8169 driver, in which case the following error will
appear:

 NETDEV WATCHDOG: eth0: transmit timed out

The laptop has a Realtek 8101 LAN adapter chipset, and the 8169 driver does not support it cleanly; to fix this, use the Realtek 8101 driver that is kept on their website at http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=14&PFid=7&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false#2 . 

1. acquire the source tarball for the 8101 driver from the above website.
2. blacklist the r8169 driver by appending the line "blacklist r8169" to the file /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
3. unpack the source tarball, build it with "make", then install it with "sudo make install".
4. remove the r8169 driver from the kernel with the "sudo rmmod r8169" command. The wired LAN will stop functioning.
5. add the 8101 driver to the kernel with the "sudo modprobe r8101" command. The wired LAN should come back up and connect to the network as it was.
6. finally, run the command "sudo update-initramfs -u" to update the initrd files so they contain the correct driver. This prevents a problem on the next reboot where the r8169 driver would be loaded by the kernel during initial bootup, in addition to the r8101 driver, causing the LAN adapter to not work.

===== APIC errors =====

The x86_64 kernel will report frequent APIC errors on this laptop with the 1.00 BIOS:

 APIC error on CPU0: 40(40)
 APIC error on CPU1: 40(40)

This appears to be a BIOS problem. The kernel will not boot if APIC is disabled ( apic=off ) and it will hang if APIC
is disabled for PCI ( pci=noioapic ). The most recent BIOS update (1.30) does not fix this problem.
