{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[Sunday]]</nowiki>
* Make : HP
* Model: Compaq 6715s

=== Current Issues ===

Issues with Ubuntu Intrepid:
* runs very slow (LiveCD loads in over 10 minutes, installation will take several hours). This is a BIOS bug, a workaround exists in the linux kernel but has not yet merged in 8.10. See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/280202 | LP #280202]]</nowiki>.
* Harddisk is very slow (some problem with Southbridge SB600) - to be confirmed

Edit (Dec. 6, 2008):

The above issues appear because of APIC (Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller) - not to be confused with ACPI (Advanced Configuration and Power Interface), which is in charge of hardware recognition & power management - and might have one of the following causes: kernel bug or hardware not conforming to the official APIC standard specification.
 
Workaround:
1. LiveCD
*** in boot menu press F6 (Other Options)
*** press F6 again and choose "noapic" from the list or just edit in the command line by adding "noapic"
*** press Enter
*** installation should work without problems or slowdowns

2. After installation
*** open a terminal and type:
<pre>
    $ sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst.bak
    $ sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
    </pre>
*** go to the line that reads:
    <pre>
    kernel	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-9-generic root=UUID=d438d0ae-a266-4bd3-9d79-b9bb261cfaf5 ro quiet splash
    </pre>
    Note: kernel version should be the last you updated to
*** add "noapic" at the end of that line, like so:
    <pre>
    kernel	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-9-generic root=UUID=d438d0ae-a266-4bd3-9d79-b9bb261cfaf5 ro quiet splash noapic
    </pre>
*** save and reboot

Note: The "noapic" directive works in most cases, but if it doesn't try "apic=off" or "nolapic" instead.

Note: This has to be done every time you do a kernel update.

=== Installation ===

===== Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex =====

Intrepid Ibex 32/64 bit LiveCD works and installs as expected if you use the workaround described in the above section.

During instalation you might experience some video coruption on screen, but that will go away after installing the ATI proprietary video drivers. 

Be sure to have a wired internet connection after install to be able to download and install the ATI (video card) and Broadcom (wireless card) proprietary drivers.

===== Ubuntu Hardy =====

Hardy Heron 32bit LiveCD works and installs as expected. 

Be sure to have a wired internet connection after install because it will prompt you to download and install the ATI (video card) and Broadcom (wireless card) proprietary drivers.

===== Ubuntu Gutsy =====

Install from 64 bit version of Ubuntu Gutsy, even if you have 32 bit Sempron version, 32 bit Ubuntus do not work on this one.

To avoid number of errors,turn off wlan while install.

After reboot you have only console mode, cause missing ati driver.

Push CTRL+ALT+F4 to login in consolemode.*

Ati Driver Installation in console mode: 
<pre>
killall gdm (kdm)

apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx

depmod -a

aticonfig --initial
  

Reboot
</pre>

Wlan Installation: 

Step 1: All BCM43xx - Install NDISWrapper and Blacklist Native Driver

Open Console: <pre>

echo 'blacklist bcm43xx' | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
sudo apt-get install ndiswrapper-utils-1.9
mkdir ~/bcm43xx; cd ~/bcm43xx

 
</pre>
 

Step 2: sp34152 Driver Download/Extraction

Open Console: <pre>

sudo apt-get install cabextract 

wget ftp://ftp.hp.com/pub/softpaq/sp34001-34500/sp34152.exe  

cabextract sp34152.exe
</pre>
 

Configure NDISWrapper 
<pre>
sudo ndiswrapper -i bcmwl5.inf
ndiswrapper -l
sudo depmod -a
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
sudo cp /etc/network/interfaces /etc/network/interfaces.orig
echo -e 'auto lo\niface lo inet loopback\n' | sudo tee /etc/network/interfaces
sudo ndiswrapper -m
echo 'ndiswrapper' | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
echo 'ENABLED=0' | sudo tee -a /etc/default/wpasupplicant

 </pre>

Reboot 

* In Kubuntu install all updates,before you have install  Nidiswrapper for Wlan.
This way you get wlan works at fine whit updated networkmanager.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:68YTT Ver. F.03
system-manufacturer:Hewlett-Packard
system-product-name:HP Compaq 6715s (RU655ET#ABD)
system-version:F.03
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Gutsy?
| in Hardy Heron?
| in Intrepid Ibex?
|-
| Installation works?
| with alternate installer
| with desktop installer
| with desktop installer
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Gutsy?
| in Hardy Heron?
| in Intrepid Ibex?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes, (1280x800)
| Yes, (1280x800)
| Yes, (1280x800)
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes (60 Hz)
| Yes (60 Hz)
| Yes (60 Hz)
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes, With ATI Proprietary Driver
| Yes, With ATI Proprietary Driver
| Yes, With ATI Proprietary Driver
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Ndiswrapper
| Yes, With Broadcom Proprietary Driver
| Yes, With Broadcom Proprietary Driver
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| N/A
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Gutsy?
| in Hardy Heron?
| in Intrepid Ibex?
|-
| + F3
| Sleep
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Toggle Display Modes
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock screen
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Power information
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| Screen brightness down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Screen brightness up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| PageUp
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| PageDown
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowRight
| End
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| Home
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| 
| 
| Yes
| No
| 
|-
| + PgDown
| 
| 
| Yes
| No
| 
|-
| + Scroll
| Activate NumLock
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Insert
| PrintScreen
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Pause
| Brake
| 
| Yes
| No
| 
|-
| + Delete
| Sys Rq
| 
| Yes
| Acts as PrintScreen
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Gutsy?
| in Hardy Heron?
| in Intrepid Ibex?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|}

==== Notes ====

----
CategoryLaptop
