{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Contact: <nowiki>[[Kdb9000]]</nowiki>

Make: HP

Brand Pavilion

Model: DV5100 CTO

Website: http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/product?product=1149448&lc=en&cc=us&dlc=en&lang=en&cc=us

=== Current Issues ===
Wireless needs firmware update or use windows drivers. <nowiki>[[#wireless|(Fixed)]]</nowiki>

Card reader (5-in-1) only reads SD cards.

DVD and quickplay buttons do not work and can't be programed.

Suspend/Hibernation <nowiki>[[#suspendhibernation|(Fixed)]]</nowiki>

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="50%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| Hardy 8.04
|-
| Screen
| Works
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Works
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Works
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Works
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates
| Yes
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Works
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Works
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Works
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Works
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes (see below)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Works
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Works
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Works with Remote
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| 
|-
| LightScribe
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| 
|-
| mini PCI Express
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Partly
| 
|-
| <-5> '''5-in-1 Card Reader'''
|-
| SD
| Yes
| 
|-
| MS/Pro
| Untested
| 
|-
| MMC
| Untested
| 
|-
| SM
| Untested
| 
|-
| XD
| No
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="50%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| Hardy 8.04
|-
| + F1
| Help
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| + F2
| Print
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| WWW
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| + F4
| Display Output
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Sleep
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock
| 
| Wroks
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness Down
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| + F8
| Brightness Up
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| + F9
| Play/Pause
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| + F10
| Stop
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| Track Back
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| + F12
| Track Forward
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| + Scroll
| Num Lock
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| + Pause
| Break
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Insert
| Print Screen
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| + Delete
| Sys Reg
| 
| Like Prt sc
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| Hardy 8.04
|-
| Windows key + E
| Open all workspace
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| DVD Button
| Open DVD player
| 
| Not working
| 
|-
| Quickplay
| Open Elisa or music player
| 
| Not working
| 
|-
| Volume down
| Volume Down
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| Volume mute
| Volume Mute
| 
| Works
| 
|-
| Volume up
| Volume Up
| 
| Works
| 
|}
=== Wireless ===

This works with the Broadcom 4311 (Airforce 54g) a/b/g mini-PCI card. The b43 driver works, you just need to update the firmware. You can do that by typing (in a terminal) "sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter" and it will update the firmware and allow you to use the b43 driver with Broadcom 43xx card. Should work with other Broadcom 43xx cards. You need to restart once it is done. WPA will also works too.

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Hardy

=== DVD Playback ===

It appears that Ubuntu Hardy though my hard drive and my DVD-ROM were both SATA drives. Well as much I want them to be, they are not SATA. Here is what I found that works.

What you need to do is blacklisted ata_generic and added pata_atiixp to /etc/initramfs-tools/modules.

<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
</pre>

then add this to the file:

<pre>
pata_atiixp
blacklist ata_generic
</pre>

Then recreated the initramfs with:

<pre>
sudo update-initramfs -u
</pre>

and, after a reboot, you will be able to play DVDs. I recommend VLC, but that is up to you. This also changed my hard drive and DVD-ROM from sda and scd0 to hda and hdc.
=== Suspend/Hibernation ===

This is what worked for me. It comes from ATi's Unofficial Wiki for Linux. http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide#Suspend.2FHibernation

Make these changes in /etc/default/acpi-support:

<pre>
SAVE_VBE_STATE=false

POST_VIDEO=false 

ENABLE_LAPTOP_MODE=false
</pre>

=== Remote ===

You can get a PCMCIA remote or a PCI Express remote (that is were you hide them) with this model, or just about any model. For the most part the PCI Express remote will work (I would think the PCMCIA one will too). I have noticed that it acts like you pressed the button twice when using the arrows. Aside from that it works.

==== Notes ====
Just about everything will work right out of the box. The wireless needs to have firmware updated or you can use the windows drivers and you have the fix for the CD/DVD and hard drive so you can play movies. 
----
CategoryLaptop
