{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Averatec AV6130HS-20 ===
I'm going to borrow Jorge's layout from his Inspiron 1200 wiki, hope you don't mind!
 
* Contact: <nowiki>[[Jared_Kierstead]]</nowiki>
* Make: Averatec
* Brand: AV
* Model: 6130-HS20
* Website: http://www.averatec.com/archives/6100series.htm (the 6130 specs are at the very bottom)
* S/N: It's in the manual, which is in storage. Sorry :(

=== Currently testing / Issues / Comments ===
Using Breezy 5.10 - I'll install Dapper on it when I have some space to part with!

No issues so far, except for the dialup modem, and it's a Winmodem, so no good fix.

Breezy is extremely quick on this system, and it loads most apps pretty fast. Overall I am very pleased with the performace. Once the ATi drivers were up and running everything was great, and has been for the past month.

=== System Hardware ===
* Screen: 15.4" LCD @ 1280x800
* GPU: ATi Mobility Radeon 9600/9700 64MB / AGP 8x
* CPU: Pentium4 w/ HyperThreading @ 3000mhz core @ 800mhz FSB
* RAM: 1.0GB DDR333
* Sound: Realtek AC'97 / 5.1 Surround decoder + SPDIF / Headphone out + Microphone in
* USB: 3 USB2.0, working perfectly
* Lan: Generic onboard 10/100 Ethernet
* WLan: Ralink 54mbps
* FireWire: 1 port
* Infrared: 1 port
 \
There is also a serial-type port, but I'm not sure if it's a serial port or a printer (LPT) port. I've never used it.

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy (current stable)?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes*
| N/A
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes*
| N/A
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes*
| N/A
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes*
| N/A
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes*
| N/A
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Yes*
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Dim/Blank monitor?
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| SPDIF jack
| Works, but Surround is Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| No
| N/A
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| N/A
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroller
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| N/A
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy (current stable)?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| WLAN Button
| Turns WLAN on/off
| 
| Yes
| N/A
|-
| Fn + F5
| Volume Up
| 
| Yes***
| N/A
|-
| Fn + F6
| Volume Down
| 
| Yes***
| N/A
|-
| Fn + F7
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| N/A
|-
| Fn + F8
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| N/A
|-
| Fn + F1
| Hibernate
| 
| No**
| N/A
|-
| Fn + F3
| Pwr Save, no Sound
| 
| No**
| N/A
|-
| Fn + F4
| Turn off Screen
| 
| No**
| N/A
|}

==== Notes ====

(*) For any of these features to work, you MUST install the ATi fglrx drivers!!! The instructions can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI

(**) These keys make Ubuntu lag for a split second, but they appear to do nothing...

(***) EASY KDE FIX: After hours of messing with files and such, I finally found a much easier fix. To get the volume keys working in KDE/Kubuntu, hit Alt+F2 and run KControl. Go into 'Regional & Accessibility' and then the 'Keyboard Layout' submenu. Click the box to 'Enable keyboard layouts,' and select 'Hewlett-Packard Omnibook 5xx' from the 'Keyboard Model' dropdown. Hit apply, using the HP layout. It's a dirty fix, but a fix nonetheless, and the brightness functions will still work as well.

Breezy reads the remaining batter power just fine, and all other laptop functions seem to work except those stated here.
----
CategoryLaptop
