{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* Contact: <nowiki>[[TennesseeLeeuwenburg2]]</nowiki>, JamesRonald, TylerKinkade, SridharDhanapalan, <nowiki>[[Tas50]]</nowiki>, AntonEliasson
* Brand: Dell
* Make : Inspiron
* Model: 9400 (E1705)
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/ins9400/]]</nowiki>

=== Issues/Solutions with Lucid (alpha 3) x86-32 ===
* No proper suspend (X has to be restarted after wakeup using Alt+SysRq+K)
* PCM and Master audio channels are interchanged and have been since Karmic. This time it needed more tweaking, at least for me. First, open /usr/share/pulseaudio/alsa-mixer/paths/analog-output.conf. Change volume=merge to volume=ignore for the LFE, Master and Hardware Master sections. Second, open /etc/pulse/default.pa and add control=PCM to the end of the line load-module module-alsa-sink. So the entire line is now:
 '''load-module module-alsa-sink control=PCM
* The proprietary nvidia drivers are now functional (as of version 195 i believe). But now it's broken again as of kernel 2.6.32-15 :(
* PC speaker is now off by default I've heard?

=== Issues/Solutions with Karmic x86-32 (and possibly x86-64 as well) ===
* The standard volume control only affects the treble speakers. The woofer is set to max with no way to lower it.
** '''Workaround:''' Open /usr/share/pulseaudio/alsa-mixer/paths/analog-output.conf and change the LFE, Master and Hardware Master elements. Change 'volume = merge' to 'volume = ignore'. Now run alsamixer from a terminal and set Master and LFE to 100%. Volume hotkeys will now control PCM volume only, which is what you'll want.
* I recommend that you turn off the noisy PC speaker (see Jaunty issues on the bottom of this page)

=== System Info ===

Lucid x86 (alpha 3) tested on this system:
<pre>
   bios-version:A09
   system-manufacturer:Dell Inc.
   system-product-name:MP061
   system-version:Not Specified
</pre>
<pre>
   kernel: 2.6.32-14-generic-pae #20-Ubuntu SMP Sat Feb 20 07:07:46 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux
</pre>
   Intel Core 2 Duo T2400, 4GB RAM
   Nvidia GeForce 7800
   (Feb 2010, AntonEliasson)

Karmic x86 (stable release) tested on this system:
<pre>
   bios-version:A09
   system-manufacturer:Dell Inc.
   system-product-name:MP061
   system-version:Not Specified
</pre>
<pre>
   kernel: 2.6.31-14-generic-pae #48-Ubuntu SMP Fri Oct 16 15:22:42 UTC 2009 i686 GNU/Linux
</pre>
   Intel Core 2 Duo T2400, 4GB RAM
   Nvidia GeForce 7800
   (8th Nov 2009, AntonEliasson)

Jaunty x86 (stable release) tested on this system:
<pre>
   bios-version:A09
   system-manufacturer:Dell Inc.
   system-product-name:MP061
   system-version:Not Specified
</pre>
<pre>
   kernel: 2.6.28-11-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 17 01:57:59 UTC 2009 i686 GNU/Linux
</pre>
   Intel Core 2 Duo T2400, 1GB RAM
   Nvidia GeForce 7800
   (1st May 2009, updated 26th Aug 2009, AntonEliasson)

Intrepid x86 (stable release) tested on this system:
<pre>
   bios-version: A04
   system-manufacturer: Dell Inc.
   system-product-name: MP061
   system-version: No Specified
</pre>
<pre>
   kernel: Linux 2.6.27-11-generic #1 SMP Wed Apr 1 20:57:48 UTC 2009 i686 GNU/Linux
</pre>

   (25th April 2009, D)

Edgy x86-64 (stable release) tested on this system:
<pre>
   bios-version: A04
   system-manufacturer: Dell Inc.
   system-product-name: MP061
   system-version: Not Specified
</pre>
<pre>
   kernel: Linux 2.6.20-15-generic #2 SMP Sun Apr 15 06:17:24 UTC 2007 x86_64 GNU/Linux 
</pre>

   (27 April 2007, TylerKinkade)

<pre>
   kernel: Linux 2.6.17-10-generic #2 SMP Fri Oct 13 15:34:39 UTC 2006 x86_64 GNU/Linux
</pre>

   (10 Nov 2006, TylerKinkade)

<pre>
Linux 2.6.17-10-generic #2 SMP Fri Oct 13 18:45:35 UTC 2006 i686 GNU/Linux
</pre>
 -- SridharDhanapalan (2006-11-12)

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| Breezy?
| Dapper?
| Edgy?
| Feisty?
| Jaunty?
| Karmic?
| Lucid (alpha3)?
|-
| LiveCD boots?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Upgrade works?
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-9> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-9> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-7> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
| in Jaunty?
| in Karmic?
| in Lucid (alpha3)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes (Geforce Go 7800)
| Yes (Geforce Go 7800)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes / Yes, with <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/edgy/x11/915resolution|915resolution]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[Snifer]]</nowiki>)
| Yes, with <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/feisty/x11/915resolution|915resolution]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| No
| Yes (fixed)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes, both DVI and VGA
| Yes, both DVI and VGA
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes, both DVI and VGA
| Yes, both DVI and VGA
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes, both DVI and VGA
| Yes, both DVI and VGA
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-9> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes (32 bit) / No (64 bit)
| Yes (32-bit) / Untested (64-bit)
| Untested, but didn't work in alpha 2
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/513890|#513890]]</nowiki>
|-
| Sleep (suspend)
| Untested
| no
| yes (w/ changes to acpi-support)
| yes (w/ changes above)
| Yes (32 bit) / No (64 bit)
| Yes
| No (no screen on wakeup)
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/74330|#74330]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/513890|#513890]]</nowiki>
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Untested
| No (crashes) / Yes (32-bit) (SridharDhanapalan)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| CPU frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes, but both cores fixed at max freq after suspend on x86-64 / Yes, but the second CPU core is fixed at full speed afterwards with x86-32 (SridharDhanapalan)
| Yes
| Yes (32bit) / Yes, but cores fixed at max. freq. after hibernate (64 bit)
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-9> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes, see below --purpleidea
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| No, see issues
| No, same as in Karmic
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/410948|#410948]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/441195|#441195]]</nowiki>
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Partial
| Partial
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-9> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| ExpressCard NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-9> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes (x86-64 may need to add "notsc" to kernel options)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Bluetooth
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-9> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| ExpressCard cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card readers
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes (SD)
| Yes (SD), MS doesn't fit in my PC's card reader(?), xD untested
| Yes, same as in Karmic
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-11 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-7> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
| in Jaunty?
| in Karmic?
| in Lucid (alpha3)?
|-
| + Esc
| Sleep (suspend)
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes, but no screen on wakeup
| 
|-
| + F1
| Hibernation
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes, but doesn't wakeup from hibernation file
| 
|-
| + F2
| Wireless on/off
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| Show battery info
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/55244|55244]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F8
| External mointor on/off
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Eject DVD-tray
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| yes
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| Brightness up
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/74284|74284]]</nowiki>
|-
| + ArrowDown
| Brightness down
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/74284|74284]]</nowiki>
|-
| + End
| Volume mute
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| Volume up
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgDown
| Volume down
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-11> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-7> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
| in Jaunty?
| in Karmic?
| in Lucid (alpha2)?
|-
| MediaDirect
| Opens default media player
| 0xE012
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Opens urxvt (because I set it to do so)
| Yes, same as in Karmic
| 
|-
| Mute
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Volume Down
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Volume Up
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Play/Pause
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Previous
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Next
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Stop
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

=== Issues with Previous Releases ===

=== Issues/Solutions with Jaunty x86-64 ===
* On shutdown, displays shutdown splash screen and then displays black screen with blinking cursor and fails to power-off. Appears to be related to the issues discussed in this Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134201|forum thread]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/355054|Bug# 355054]]</nowiki>
* Blank screen on resume from suspend.
* CPUs locked at max. frequency after resume from hibernate.

=== Issues/Solutions with Jaunty x86-32 ===
* Very loud PC-Speaker, and there is no way to lower the volume. To turn it off type the following into a terminal window:
 <pre>
sudo rmmod pcspkr
 }}}
 This will last until the next reboot. To disable it completely add the following line to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf:
 {{{
blacklist pcspkr
 }}}

=== Issues/Solutions with Ibex x86-64 ===
* Problem: Media buttons (on front of laptop); Fn + PageUp (increase volume); and Fn + PageDn (decrease volume) have no affect on volume and media applications. (These automatically worked on previous releases.)
 '' Solution: Reset in System > Preferences > Keyboard Shortcuts --TylerKinkade

* Nvidia Card not utilized. 3D acceleration and desktop effects not functioning.
*** Hardware Drivers will usally automatically detect the hardware and offer the right driver.
*** If Hardware Drivers does not automatically open, go to System > Hardware Drivers.
*** Click on appropriate graphics driver.
*** Click "Activate".
*** After download and installation, reboot computer.
   -- D

=== Issues/Solutions with Gutsy i386 ===
* No virtual terminals (Ctrl + Alt + F1-F6)
 See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/129910|this page]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=582962|this thread]]</nowiki> for more information. The following is <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/129910/comments/196|my post]]</nowiki> from the launchpad page.

 This is how I got my Dell Inspiron E1705/9400 with ATI Mobility Radeon X1400 working:

 sudo nano /etc/initramfs-tools/modules

 Add the following two lines to the bottom of the file:
 {{{
 fbcon
 vga16fb
 }}}
 sudo update-initramfs -u

 sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffer

 Change the line "blacklist vga16fb" to "#blacklist vga16fb"

 The only kernel parameters I have in menu.lst are "quiet splash" (the default)

 Reboot and all the virtual terminals should work. --<nowiki>[[AlexStrabala]]</nowiki>

* The PC Speaker is very loud, and there is no way to lower the volume.I have seen Windows users complaining about this as well, so it may be a hardware design issue. To disable the pcspkr module loading on bootup simply add the following line to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
 to the end of the file. --<nowiki>[[AlexStrabala]]</nowiki>

 {{{
 blacklist pcspkr
 }}}

* Keyboard and mouse freeze sometimes when waking up from suspend. Solution here: http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2690982&postcount=14 --<nowiki>[[AlexStrabala]]</nowiki>

* Bluetooth won't connect or simply doesn't work. Install the bluez-gnome and gnome-vfs-obexftp packages and restart your computer. There's more about bluetooth further down this page if you still have problems. --<nowiki>[[AlexStrabala]]</nowiki>

* Odd behavior of volume buttons. After a fresh install, they seem to only control the treble of songs. To fix this, run the following command and restart your computer:
 {{{
 echo "options snd-hda-intel model=ref" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base
 }}}

* Right Alt key doesn't work out of the box. Solution: Go to System, Preferences, Keyboard. In the "Layout Options" tab, in the "Third Level Choosers" section, uncheck "Press Right Alt key to choose 3rd level." Also, in the "Alt/Win Key Behavior" section, select "Meta is mapped to the Win-keys."

* Horizontal scrolling in firefox functions as back/forward. To fix this, type "about:config" in the address bar. Then type "mousewheel.horizscroll.withnokey" into the filter box. Set "mousewheel.horizscroll.withnokey.action" to "0" and "mousewheel.horizscroll.withnokey.sysnumlines" to "true".

=== Issues/Solutions with Feisty x86-64 ===
* Problem: No video after resume from suspend (sleep). May only be a problem for nvidia cards
 ''Solution: Install nvidia-glx-new driver and modify settings using instructions here: http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_nvidia_feisty https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaLaptopBinaryDriverSuspend http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2644891&postcount=5  --TylerKinkade
* Problem: X will not start after installing nvidiaglx driver
 ''Solution: Modify settings using instructions here: http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2644891&postcount=5 --TylerKinkade
* Previous issues with CPU scaling do not appear to be a problem in this release as with Edgy64 --TylerKinkade

* ATI Cards: Live CD and fresh install do not boot but instead give a black screen. Solution here: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI#head-02330ccb580b6a9411d32bf617cc5a82116ba6b9 --Samuel81

In order to enter the commands on that wiki page switch to a virtual terminal after the black screen using Ctrl+Alt+F1.
* ATI Cards: Laptop does not resume from suspend. Solution: Open /etc/default/acpi-support: sudo gedit /etc/default/acpi-support. In this file, change the line "POST_VIDEO=true" to read "POST_VIDEO=" You should now be able to suspend and resume without issue. I do not know if you have to restart your computer for the setting to take effect. --<nowiki>[[AlexStrabala]]</nowiki>

=== Issues/Solutions with Edgy x86-32 ===
Note: Do not add the <code>notsc</code> kernel option mentioned in the x86-64 sections below. It will create a kernel panic with a x86-32 kernel. -- SridharDhanapalan

Note: Issues relating to the Core 2 Duo CPU and associated hardware are chronicled <nowiki>[[Core_2_Duo_Support|here]]</nowiki>.

* By default, the GRUB bootloader installs to the MBR (master boot record). Installing in this fashion removes access to the built-in <nowiki>[[http://www.goodells.net/dellrestore/mediadirect.htm|MediaDirect]]</nowiki> OS, which is located on a secret partition (not accessible by Linux or Windows) at the end of the drive.
** Instructions to have GRUB co-operate with the Dell bootloader are <nowiki>[[http://www.notebookforums.com/thread164182.html|here]]</nowiki>. I have not tested them.
** Alternatively, you can try the following steps when installing Ubuntu via the LiveCD (I have not tested them):
### Use the partitioning tool (gparted) to shrink the main Windows NTFS partition. Do not remove any partitions.
### In the free space that you just made, create your partitions for Ubuntu.
### Install GRUB to your ''/boot'' or ''/'' partition, not to the MBR.
### Set the partition that contains /boot to be active.
### Once installed, edit ''/boot/grub/menu.lst'' and disable the <code>makeactive</code> statement in the Windows section.
### Run <code>sudo update-grub</code>.
   -- SridharDhanapalan

* For improved battery behaviour, enable <nowiki>[[http://www.samwel.tk/laptop_mode/|laptop mode]]</nowiki>. In ''/etc/default/acpi-support'', set <code>ENABLE_LAPTOP_MODE=true</code>. Then edit ''/etc/laptop-mode/laptop-mode.conf'' to suit your requirements, taking note of the warnings in the file. The defaults are a good starting point. You can find more information <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1172452&postcount=2|here]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1780057&postcount=2|here]]</nowiki>. The official FAQ is <nowiki>[[http://www.samwel.tk/laptop_mode/tools/faq.html|here]]</nowiki>. -- SridharDhanapalan

* Synaptics touchpad horizontal scrolling is disabled by default.
** To enable it, edit ''/etc/X11/xorg.conf'' and look for the section that has an ''Identifier'' of ''"Synaptics Touchpad"''. To that section, add the following:
   {{{
   Option         "SHMConfig" "on"
   Option         "LeftEdge" "1700"
   Option         "RightEdge" "5300"
   Option         "TopEdge" "1700"
   Option         "BottomEdge" "4200"
   Option         "FingerLow" "25"
   Option         "FingerHigh" "30"
   Option         "MaxTapTime" "180"
   Option         "MaxTapMove" "220"
   Option         "HorizScrollDelta"      "200"
   Option         "VertScrollDelta" "200"
   Option         "MinSpeed" "0.09"
   Option         "MaxSpeed" "0.18"
   Option         "AccelFactor" "0.015"
   Option         "EdgeMotionMinZ" "17"
   Option         "EdgeMotionMaxZ" "21"
   Option         "EdgeMotionMinSpeed" "30"
   Option         "EdgeMotionMaxSpeed" "35"
   Option         "LeftRightScrolling" "1"
   Option         "UpDownScrolling" "1"
   Option         "EmulateMidButtonTime"  "75"
   }}}
** You can now restart your X server using Ctrl+Alt+Backspace and horizontal scrolling should work. 
** Additionally, you could try installing the gsynaptics package and add <code>gsynaptics-init --sm-disable</code> to startup options in System, Preferences, Sessions.
** If you want horizontal scrolling in Firefox instead of back/forward, do the following:
### Type <code>about:config</code> in the location bar.
### In the ''Filter'' field at the top of that page, type <code>mousewheel.horizscroll</code> to isolate all <nowiki>[[http://kb.mozillazine.org/Firefox_:_FAQs_:_About:config_Entries#Mousewheel..2A|preferences]]</nowiki> of that type.
### Change the values of the <code>*.action</code> preferences to be <code>0</code>.
### Change the values of the <code>sysnumlines</code> preferences to be <code>true</code>.
  -- <nowiki>[[Snifer]]</nowiki>, SridharDhanapalan

* In Xfce (''Xubuntu''), the card reader does not appear in Thunar or on the desktop (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/products/thunar/+bug/75091|Bug #75091]]</nowiki>). A workaround is to add the device node (''/dev/mmcblk0p1'') to ''/etc/fstab'' with the option <code>user</code>, then use the ''Mount Devices'' panel applet to graphically mount/unmount it. This is not a problem in GNOME (''Ubuntu'') or KDE (''Kubuntu''). -- SridharDhanapalan

* '''Bluetooth:''' The GNOME OBEX client should be able to receive (but not send) files out of the box, provided that the bluez packages are installed and `/etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf` configured. 
** In KDE, some adjustment is required to permit two-way Bluetooth communication:
### In ''/etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf'', use the option <code>class 0x100000</code>.
### You need to have `passkey-agent --default /usr/bin/bluez-pin` running. You can set it to run automatically when you log in.
### Make sure that KDE's Bluetooth services are set to run on start up.
*** Even after this, you may find that KDE's standalone OBEX client (''kbtobexclient'') cannot find clients. You can still scan for devices via the command line (using `hcitool scan`) or through Konqueror's ''bluetooth:/'' kioslave. The latter also allows you to transfer files.

* '''IEEE1394 (Firewire):''' Firewire may not work after suspend/resume. A workaround is to reload the ''ohci1394'' module. To have this taken care of automatically:
## create an executable file, ''/etc/acpi/suspend.d/59-generate-custom-modules-list.sh''
## insert the following text:
   {{{
## !/bin/sh
   MODULES="$MODULES ohci1394"
   }}}

* Pressing Fn+Up and Fn+Down may either not function (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/74284|Bug #74284]]</nowiki>) or may crash the X server (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/71433|Bug #71433]]</nowiki>). The keys may work as expected after resuming from hibernation. According to <nowiki>[[http://www.mail-archive.com/linux-acpi@vger.kernel.org/msg03696.html|this page]]</nowiki>, it's a problem with the acpi video module. Fixes (pick one):
** Add the line <code>alias video off</code> to ''/etc/modprobe.d/local''
** Blacklist the <code>video</code> module.
 -- SridharDhanapalan, <nowiki>[[Snifer]]</nowiki>

* Upon resuming from a suspend/hibernate action, the second CPU core is locked at its full speed. It will not throttle down. The first core behaves normally. This <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1640184&postcount=1|does not appear]]</nowiki> to be specific to Core 2 Duo CPUs. -- SridharDhanapalan
** It affects Core Duo, also. Bug (and workaround): <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/64070|#64070]]</nowiki>. -- <nowiki>[[Snifer]]</nowiki>
* Suspend ends with blank screen (no freeze, but no suspend and no resume). Bug (and workaround): <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/74330|#74330]]</nowiki>. -- <nowiki>[[Snifer]]</nowiki>

* Audio may not function after resume. A solution is to add the line <code>MODULES="snd_hda_intel"</code> to '' /etc/default/acpi-support'' (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/acpi/+bug/74807|Bug #74807]]</nowiki>). -- SridharDhanapalan

* When running a graphical application from a terminal, you may see the message "''X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 166''". A solution is outlined in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/42553|Bug #42553]]</nowiki>. In ''/etc/X11/xorg.conf'', comment out the lines
{{{
   InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
   InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
   InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
</pre>
   and restart your X server. -- SridharDhanapalan

* Bluetooth may not work upon resume from suspend/hibernate. A solution can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/acpi/+bug/73546|Bug #73546]]</nowiki> page. -- SridharDhanapalan

* Battery status popup only displays once (pressing Fn+F3). <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/55244|Bug #55244]]</nowiki>. -- <nowiki>[[Snifer]]</nowiki>

=== Issues/Solutions with Edgy x86-64 ===
* Problem: Both CPU cores locked at maximum frequency after resume from suspend (1.83 GHz on T5600). CPU temperature climbs over 65C. 
  ''Workaround: Create script in /etc/acpi/resume.d/ with command: "invoke-rc.d powernowd restart" Details <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1791164&postcount=21|here]]</nowiki>. --TylerKinkade

* Problem: Touchpad button AND tap-to-click frequently stop functioning. (Occurs almost every minute.) Bug No.<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/hal/+bug/70687|70687]]</nowiki>
  ''Solution: Add "notsc" to kernel options (x86-64 only, see above). --TylerKinkade
 
* Problem: Super sensitive keyboard driver: characters repeat with a single tap. (This is not the same as the holding a key down to repeat feature: keyboard repeat delay is set to about 3 seconds.)
  ''Solution: Add "notsc" to kernel options (x86-64 only, see above). 

* Problem: SLOW launch of simple applications: takes about 30-60 seconds to launch terminal, Firefox, etc. (The rectangular app launch animation usually advances at the slow speed of about 1 frame per 3 seconds.) 
  ''Solution: Add "notsc" to kernel options (x86-64 only, see above).

* SLOW Ubuntu boot up: on the order of minutes. (WinXP boots in less than 30 seconds.)
  ''Solution: Improved by adding "notsc" to kernel options (x86-64 only, see above).

* Problem: No WiFi after resume from suspend.
  ''Workaround: Install NetworkManager. --TylerKinkade

* Problem: Suspend/resume problems.
  ''Solution: modify /etc/default/acpi-support as posted on forum <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=296354|here]]</nowiki>. --TylerKinkade

=== Issues with Breezy Badger ===
This is supposed to highlight dev release problems, but I am still working on getting Breezy working correctly. Also, I'm still getting my head around this wiki template. Without further ado, my problems are:

* there seems to be an unresolved hardware issue with at least the Inspiron 9300 and 9400. Reproducible only on "affected" laptops and in windows: when system is +/- idle, toggle hardware radio switch (FN+F2) on then off again and leave at off. a ~high pitched whining noise starts, and goes away with radio switch back on, or while computer not idle; ie: if you open some windows, when computer is working, then goes away but comes back right after. any one have the same issue? some people have suggested a hardware vibration issue --purpleidea

* Headphone jack does not mute internal speakers
* Latest SMP kernel breaks keyboard.
(sorry for this but first time i edit a wiki ever !!!) I know how to fix that... the "/etc/hotplug/blacklist" file just add pcmcia and pcmcia_core and that will be fixed
* SMP Kernel boots into X and then just before GDM loads it hangs with mouse perpetually doing "hourglass" spin thing -purpleidea
* Intermittent heat-related issues -- not properly understood
* gnome-terminal and xterms not closing properly -- become uninterruptible

=== Issues with Dapper Drake ===
* Did not recognize my wireless (Intel Pro wireless 3945ABG) But the Wifi connectivity only works with the kernel provided on the livecd/installcd and does not work with updated kernels provided
* Finds my Ethernet card but the DHCP client does not obtain an IP unless you down/up the interface.
* The sound is very crackly, perhaps an interrupt issue.
* The 1440x900 video resolution does not work. 1024x768 seems to work fine.
* As of around Friday, weird hardware clock problems -- select() to /dev/rtc to wait for clock tick timed out. Seems to have been a common problem in the past, perhaps it has been unintentionally re-introduced? Commonly suggested --directisa workaround does not work.
* /dev/agpart not available with 2.6.15 kernels, but works on 2.6.16.1. -JoelReed
* Hibernate works, but after "wake up" screensaver automatically goes on even if in the middle of moving the mouse, typing, etc.
* Hibernate works, but after "wake up" my screen is full with artifacts, so I have to logoff-logon, then everything is fine again. --morgengenuss
* FN+F1 works to hibernate, but only for a first hibernate and when focus is on desktop. after wake up, to rehibernate you need to click logoff->hibernate.
* wireless can be added (is not part of apt distro right now): http://ipw3945.sourceforge.net
* SMP Kernel (stock or self-compiled -- latest versions) doesn't seem to work 100% CPU0 works fine, idles at 50% and goes up or down appropriately when needed. CPU1 either stays permanently at 50% or 100% (seems to boot up and randomly? be at either one or the other, and never throttles) anyone have the same problem? --purpleidea

=== Issues now fixed in Dapper Drake ===
* Headphone jack does not mute internal speakers
* and "jack sense" options aren't available in sound mixer
** http://www.math.umd.edu/~olsson/jerome-install.html was recommended to me for fixing the line jack sense.
* '' headphone issues are cleared up with alsa-driver-1.0.11rc4, see http://lkml.org/lkml/2006/3/17/279'' -JoelReed
* ''ALSA works, headphones broken again in latest source download from ALSA site. haven't checked CVS or above patch. is lkml patch supposed to be merged into regular alsa CVS? ''--purpleidea
* '' I just updated my kernel to .20, and everything seems to just work now. Anyone else find this?'' --TennesseeLeeuwenburg2 
* headphones work for me in stock 686-smp kernel -21 --purpleidea
* Hard disk spins down far too soon/often, no obvious control mechanism (i.e. in "power settings" or "disks" -- don't know where else to look)
* '' FIX with "sudo hdparm -S12 /dev/sda" you can read about it on "http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Use_hdparm_to_improve_IDE_device_performance" --DigitalLF
* '' now i just found out in ubuntu you should edit /etc/hdparm.conf go to line 61 (spindown_time) and edit that to whatever you want --DigitalLF
* '' This the spin-down on AC power, on Battery, on both.  It is reproducible if you start from a clean reboot?'' -PaulSladen
* '' AC Power, haven't checked with battery. Happens 100% of the time, reboots do not affect.'' --TennesseeLeeuwenburg2
* '' The problem just ... went away one update.'' --TennesseeLeeuwenburg2
* The built-in card reader does not work (Bug <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/hal/+bug/63553|#63553]]</nowiki>). -- SridharDhanapalan

==== Notes ====

This is a first time edit on a WIKI for me (<nowiki>[[DigitalLF]]</nowiki>) but i will do all i can to help with anything on this laptop.
* ''Excellent, many thanks for any testing you are able to do - hopefully you'll get a better experience out of it too!'' -PaulSladen
* i have now found out how to get the wifi working and i get around 200kbs better speed in linux then i get in windows so it seems like it works great on my home-unencrypted network :D -DigitalLF
* ''I have compiled my own kernel and have been trying to install this. The install guide says to look for the firmware directory in 'hotplug.agent', a file which doesn't exist on my system. How did you get it to install?'' --TennesseeLeeuwenburg2
* i dont have a clue about that but i dident even need to compile my own kernel its much easyer then that is there some way i can contact you msn/irc/skype? i'l walk you right through it its not that hard realy
* I have added information about Edgy on a Inspiron 9400 but don't want to step on any toes. Made some edits in the interest of clarity and organization as noted above. Please contact me if I've offended anyone because that is not my intent. TylerKinkade
* I've made a lot of additions and alterations. I can confirm that the problems mentioned by TylerKinkade are specific to x86-64 and are not present with x86-32. Also, the 'notsc' kernel option causes kernel panics with a x86-32 kernel. -- SridharDhanapalan
* The "subwoofer" works in Feisty. -- Zapek
* Been testing 8.10. Fried my Dell's Graphic card and possibly CD bay!  -- D

=== Other sources ===
* <nowiki>[[http://samwel.tk/bart/node/26|Ubuntu Hardy (alpha 2) on an Inspiron 9400]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.dettenbach.de/DellInspiron9400royal/]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linlap.com/tiki-index.php?page=Dell+Inspiron+9400]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linlap.com/tiki-index.php?page=Dell+Inspiron+E1705]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.tuxmobil.org/dell.html]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux-on-laptops.com/dell.html]]</nowiki>
