{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[RainCT]]</nowiki>
* Brand: Ahtec
* Maker: COMPAL
* Model: Ahtec Sense XHL90 Duo
* Website: http://www.ahtec.net

=== Current Issues ===

None.

=== System Info ===

system-manufacturer: COMPAL

bios-version: 1.08

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Hardy
| in Intrepid
| in Jaunty (current development)
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| MAYBE (*)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| YES (**)
| YES
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| YES (**)
| YES
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| YES (***)
| YES (***)
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| YES
| YES
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| YES (****)
| Untested
| 
|}

'''Function and other keys'''

All keys work, except for one with a wireless icon (which theoretically allows to disable bluetooth OR wifi), and its three touch sensitive keys (Smart Key Button, WOW Audio Button and WOW Video Button).

==== Notes ====

* The screen goes black but the laptop remains powered on. After switching it of (pressing the power-off button for 10 seconds) and starting it again everything is restored like it was before.

* * Sound failed after suspend, but this is fixed by creating a file called "/etc/modprobe.d/sound" containing this one line:  "options snd-hda-intel model=tohsiba". Additionally, in case the microphone doesn't work don't forget to change "Input Source" to "Front Mic" in the sound applet.

* ** Needs manual installation of [http://www.pdfserver.net/fingerprint fingerprintGUI] (32 bit version with the binary UPEK driver).

* *** Initially it only worked if a card was inserted at boot time, but for some reason now it is working fine.

==== More details ====

''' Output from lspci'''

<pre>
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Memory Controller Hub (rev 07)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset PCI Express Graphics Port (rev 07)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)
00:1a.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 03)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 03)
00:1c.4 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 5 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 93)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ICH9M LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E 2 port SATA IDE Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.5 IDE interface: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E 2 port SATA IDE Controller (rev 03)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 9600M GT (rev a1)
0e:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5300 AGN [Shiloh] Network Connection
14:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 02)
1a:00.0 System peripheral: JMicron Technologies, Inc. SD/MMC Host Controller
1a:00.2 SD Host controller: JMicron Technologies, Inc. Standard SD Host Controller
1a:00.3 System peripheral: JMicron Technologies, Inc. MS Host Controller
1a:00.4 System peripheral: JMicron Technologies, Inc. xD Host Controller
</pre>

'''Acquired configuration'''

<pre>
Model: Notebook Sense XHL90 Duo Series
CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo P7350 (2.00Ghz/3MB/Penryn/1066/25W)
RAM: 4096MB (4GB) DDR2 800Mhz (2x2GB)
Hard Disk: 250GB (5400rpm) SATA
Graphics Card: nVidia Geforce 9600M GT 512MB PCI Express
Screen: 15.4" WXGA (1280x800) Widescreen
Optical Drive: DVD±R/RW Dual Layer SATA
Wireless Card: Intel 5300AGN Wireless
Webcam: 2.0Mpixels
Fingerprint reader: YES
Bluetooth: YES
Battery: Ion/Lithium 9 cell series battery 6800mAH (85W/h)
Others: 2 years standard guarantee. No Operating System included.
</pre>

----
CategoryLaptop
