{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[Tharkun6]]</nowiki>
* Make: Samsung
* Brand: Samsung
* Model: R70 Core2 Duo T7300  @ 2.00GHz
* Website:

=== Current Issues ===

=== System Info ===
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
SR70S/SR71S
04AB

* lspci:
<pre>
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 PCI Express Root Port (rev 03)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Contoller #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev f3)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801HEM (ICH8M) LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) SATA IDE Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 8600M GS (rev a1)
03:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN Network Connection (rev 61)
04:00.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8055 PCI-E Gigabit Ethernet Controller (rev 13)
05:09.0 CardBus bridge: Ricoh Co Ltd RL5c476 II (rev b4)
05:09.1 Generic system peripheral [0805]: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro Host Adapter (rev 18)
05:09.2 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C843 MMC Host Controller
05:09.3 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C592 Memory Stick Bus Host Adapter (rev 09)
05:09.4 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd xD-Picture Card Controller (rev 04)
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| in Gutsy (7.10)
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Yes/no (See notes)
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Yes (NVIDIA binary driver)
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| No (See notes)
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| No (see notes)
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes (see notes)
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Yes (plus scroll wheel)
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Yes (Burner gets detected but not yet tested)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS?
| in Gutsy (7.10)
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Yes (See notes)
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Untested
| Yes (switch off backlight)
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Untested
| Yes (Un)mute sound
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| Yes Enable/Disable wireless
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Left/Right
| 
| 
| Untested
| Popup says it switches volume between 0 and 11% but nothing really happens
| 
|-
| + Up/Down
| 
| 
| Untested
| No (brightness)
| 
|}
==== Notes ====

* Display resolution: After installation 1280x1024 was automatically set. When setting monitor to "LCD Panel 1280x800 (Widescreen)" in kcontrol, the xorg.conf gets correctly updated BUT X will not set the correct resolution of 1280x800 on startup. When removing all other resolutions except 1280x800, 1280x800 works without problems.
* TwinView using nvidia-settings detects the external monitor and can (auto) configure, but can not enable it (throws error).
* I only have 100MBit equip, so I could not test a Gigabit connection.
* The wireless works like a charm
* Bluetooth works out of the box and can connect to my headset
* KMix shows headphones as master and you have to disable the normal speakers manually when attaching headphones. The headphone mixer shown by kmix does not work though and both the normal speakers and the headphone jack is controlled by the pcm/front volume.
* Suspend using the fn-key seems to work, but on resume the screen stays black.
