{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Contact: QuailLinux
* Brand: Acer
* Make : Aspire 5601AWLMi
* Model: ZB2
* Website: 
* Testing Page: <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-AcerAspire5601AWLMi]]</nowiki>

This HOWTO page is going to instruct you to change files that help your computer to run in a functional manner. Modifying these files is dangerous to say the least and will require use of "sudo." With that being said, if you are careful to follow the instructions you should end up with no problems.

'''Use at your own risk'''

=== Touchpad does not work correctly under Edgy Eft(6.10) ===
Open a Terminal. Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal

Backup '''''xorg.conf''''' first
<pre>
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.orig
</pre>
Edit '''''/etc/X11/xorg.conf'''''
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>

and put this info in
<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
 Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
 Driver "synaptics"
 Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
 Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
 Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
 Option "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection
</pre>
and insert the following line into the "ServerLayout" section
<pre>
InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
</pre>
Now save the file

and then in terminal run:
<pre>
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
</pre>
Example of <nowiki>[[attachment:xorg.conf.txt|xorg.conf]]</nowiki> file 

=== Display does not use correct resolution ===
Dapper Drake(6.01-1) refer to this page <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/i915Driver|i915Driver]]</nowiki>

Edgy Eft(6.10)
from terminal run:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install 915resolution
</pre>
Then restart X
<pre>
Ctrl + Alt + Backspace
</pre>

=== Wireless does not work under Edgy Eft(6.10) ===
You are missing the drivers for it and you have to install the Linux Restricted Modules.
From console type:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r)
</pre>
Now Reboot

=== 5 in 1 card reader does not work under Edgy Eft(6.10) ===
refer to bug <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/63386|#63386]]</nowiki>

'''Below has been tested under Edgy 6.10'''

'''NOTE:''' ''I have tested the drivers with a Canon 16MB SD card and SanDisk 512MB SD card and have been able to read both cards with no problem, and both the cards auto mounted.''

Open a Terminal. Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal

Loading the drivers
from terminal type:
<pre>
sudo modprobe tifm_sd
</pre>

Now to insert a SD media card and it should auto mount.

If all went well you can now edit the the '''''/etc/modules''''' file so you can load the drivers for the card reader on boot up

From terminal type:
<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/modules
</pre>

Add the drivers to the modules file
<pre>
tifm_sd
</pre>
save the file

=== No sound under Dapper(6.06.1) with HDA-Intel Realtek ALC883 ===
'''WARNING you will need experience with compiling, for this fix'''

1. download the alsa.patch from <nowiki>[[https://bugtrack.alsa-project.org/alsa-bug/view.php?id=2378|Here]]</nowiki>

2. download and unpacked alsa-driver 1.0.12rc3 from <nowiki>[[http://www.alsa-project.org/|alsa-project.org]]</nowiki>

3. patch the the alsa driver source
<pre>
patch -p1 < /path/to/acer.patch
</pre>
and if get prompted for the file to patch, enter this
<pre>
/path/to/alsa-driver-1.0.12rc3/alsa-kernel/pci/hda/patch_realtek.c
</pre>
4. Compile the driver:
<pre>
cd /path/to/alsa-driver-1.0.12rc3

./configure --with-cards=hda-intel

make

sudo make install
</pre>
5. Add to /etc/modules:
<pre>
snd-hda-intel model=ACER
</pre>
6. Add to /etc/modprobe.d/snd-hda-intel.modprobe
<pre>
options snd-hda-intel model=ACER
</pre>
7. Add to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base
<pre>
options snd-hda-intel model=ACER
</pre>
8. Reboot

Notes: Thanks to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=55654|lodp]]</nowiki> for this HOWTO :-)

It seems like the sound fix is coming to a Dapper kernel update near you (if not arrived already).
http://kernel.org/git/?p=linux/kernel/git/bcollins/ubuntu-dapper-updates.git;a=commit;h=dc02624f941c0b279d3f58f263aede1d777323a3

=== Synaptics Touchpad does not disable while typing ===
'''Part 1'''

Open a Terminal. Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal

Backup '''''xorg.conf''''' first
<pre>
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.orig
</pre>
Edit '''''/etc/X11/xorg.conf'''''
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>

Search for a section that looks like this:
<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
   Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
   ...
End Section
</pre>
Add a line above the End Section line and put this into it:
<pre>
	Option		"SHMConfig"		"on"
</pre>
Now save the file

Now to restart X
<pre>
Ctrl + Alt + Backspace
</pre>
Example of <nowiki>[[attachment:xorg.conf2.txt|xorg.conf]]</nowiki> file

'''Part 2'''

Open the sessions manager: System -> Preferences -> Sessions

Click the far right tab labeled Startup Programs

Click the Add button

Type in the following:
<pre>
syndaemon -i 1 -d
</pre>
Hit ok then hit close

Now restart X
<pre>
Ctrl + Alt + Backspace
</pre>

=== Logitech Orbicam (046d:0896) ===
The (spca5xx) module has been tried, but result in the same effect: the module loads cleanly without making any device nodes.
The OrbiCam works with the newest gspca drivers. Check out http://mxhaard.free.fr/

For HowTo to get the cam running visit http://southernvaleslug.org/modules/newbb/viewtopic.php?topic_id=25&forum=2&post_id=27#forumpost27
----
CategoryLaptop
