{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* Contributors: <nowiki>[[AlexLee4]]</nowiki>, AzraelNightwalker, JohanEhnberg, <nowiki>[[Przemkus]]</nowiki>

== System info ==
* Maker: Hewlett-Packard Co.
* Brand: HP Compaq
* Model: NX6325
* Vintage: 2006-2008
* Market: EU, US

=== Current issues ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6325#head-75862e3643039bd4a6acf3020222ab2d3b73e3be|see below]]</nowiki>

=== At a glance ===
* Socket S1 - Turion 64 X2 or Mobile Sempron
* Dimensions start from 2.6 kg and 30.3 mm at front
* ATI Radeon Xpress 1150 IGP, 64-128 MB UMA
* Two SO-DIMM slots, dual channel memory support,supports up to 4GB of 667-MHz DDR2 SDRAM
* One 5400 rpm, user-removable SATA hard drive
* Broadcom Gigabit Ethernet PCI Controller 
* Broadcom 802.11 a/b/g wireless LAN module
* Integrated Bluetooth
* 7-in-1 Media Reader
* TPM 1.2
* Biometric Fingerprint Sensor
* Touchpad with scroll zone
<nowiki>[[http://h18000.www1.hp.com/products/quickspecs/12447_na/12447_na.HTML|Specifications]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[dmesg]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[lspci]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[lspcmcia]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[lsusb]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[acpisupport]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[dmidecode]]</nowiki>

=== Models ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| Part no.
| EY351EA
| EY349EA/ET
| EY344ET
| EY343EA
|-
| CPU
| AMD Turion 64 X2 TL-60
| AMD Turion 64 X2 TL-52
| AMD Sempron 3500+
| AMD Sempron 3500+
|-
| RAM
| 1 GB DDR2 667
| 512 MB DDR2 667
| 512 MB DDR2 667
| 512 MB DDR2 667
|-
| HDD
| 80GB SATA
| 80 GB SATA
| 60 GB SATA
| 60 GB SATA
|-
| Optical
| <-4> LG GMA-4082N DVD+/-RW DL, DVD-RAM or TSSTcorp CD/DVDW TS-L632D
|-
| Screen
| 15" 1400x1050
| 15" 1024x768
| 15" 1024x768
| 15" 1024x768
|-
| IGP
| <-4> ATI Radeon Xpress 1150 RS485M 64-128 MB UMA
|-
| USB
| <-4> ATI SB400, three ports
|-
| Firewire
| <-4> Texas Instruments PCIxx12 OHCI Compliant IEEE 1394 Host Controller, one port
|-
| Bluetooth
| yes
| yes
| N/A
| N/A
|-
| WLAN
| <-4> Broadcom <nowiki>[[BCM4312]]</nowiki> UART (rev 01) Wi-Fi 802.11a/b/g
|-
| LAN
| <-4> Broadcom <nowiki>[[BCM5788]]</nowiki> (rev 03) Netxtreme Gigabit Ethernet
|-
| Modem
| <-4> 56K V.92
|-
| Audio
| <-4> ATI SB450 HDA Audio (rev 01), <nowiki>[[ADI1981HD]]</nowiki> CODEC
|-
| Card reader
| <-4> Texas Instruments 7-in-1 Multimedia Card Reader (SD/MMC/MS/MS Pro/MS Duo*/SM/xD)
|-
| Biometric scanner
| <-4> Authentec Fingerprint Sensor <nowiki>[[AES2501]]</nowiki>
|-
| Pointing device
| <-4> Synaptics PS/2 touchpad with two buttons and scroll zone
|-
| Keyboard
| <-4> 101/102-key
|-
| PC Card Slot
| <-4> one Type I/II
|-
| Express Card Slot
| <-4> one Express Card/34 or Express Card/54
|-
| BIOS
| <-4> SMBIOS Version 2.4 (DMI BIOS)
|}

* Memory Stick Duo Adapters are required and sold separately. Inserting a Memory Stick Duo Card directly into your notebook could damage the memory card and/or notebook.

== Functionality ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| cdimage
| ubuntu-8.10-desktop-amd64
| ubuntu-8.04-desktop-i386
| ubuntu-7.10-desktop-i386
|-
| Does the installation work?
| yes
| yes
| yes
|}

Test results with fresh install or livecd. Out of the box scenario. No customization. Workarounds are documented in notes section.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| 8.04 i386
| 7.10 i386
|-
| Screen
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| yes, with closed drivers or experimental open drivers
| no
| #148902
|-
| Desktop effects
| see above
| no
| #148902
|-
| External monitor works?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| untested
| yes
| 
|-
| TV-out
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| yes
| yes, but fan doesn't start after wake up, battery state wrongly shown
| 
|-
| Sleep
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| CPU frequency scaling
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| untested
| yes (turn on capturing in mixer console)
| 
|-
| Integrated Mic
| yes
| yes (turn on capturing in mixer console)
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| no
| no
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| no
| no
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| USB
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| no
| no
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| yes
| yes (partially)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| 8.04 i386
| 7.10 i386
|-
| + F3
| sleep
| 
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| video display hotkey
| 
| yes
| untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| show battery status
| 
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| decrease screen brightness
| 
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| increase screen brightness
| 
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| 8.04 i386
| 7.10 i386
|-
| wireless button
| 
| 
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| help button
| 
| 
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| presentation button
| 
| 
| yes (but no event attached)
| yes (but no event attached)
| 
|}

== Current issues and bugs ==

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/59695|#59695]]</nowiki> default value in power.sh potentially kills laptop disks. <code>sudo hdparm -B 255 /dev/sda</code>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mesa/+bug/148902|#148902]]</nowiki> r300 needs swtcl update for 200m
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/145750|#145750]]</nowiki> hibernate fails on HP nx6325.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/147298|#147298]]</nowiki> AD198x Analog: microphone misconfigured.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gstreamer/+bug/131711|#131711]]</nowiki> no sound: Failed to construct test pipeline in sound recording
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/248680|bug #248680]]</nowiki> - false "suspend error" warning after resume

== Notes and Workarounds ==

=== Touchpad ===
The feature ''Touchpad turned off while typing'' doesn't work by default.
See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad|SynapticsTouchpad]]</nowiki> for instructions to enable feature.

=== Graphics ===
<pre>
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RS485 [Radeon Xpress 1100 IGP]
</pre>
Splash screen bug #136582 affects release 7.10 but not 8.04. The user can choose between two drivers: The open source driver -ati developed in the X.org project and the closed-source -fglrx developed by AMD. Enabling 3D acceleration requires extra user configuration anyway.

* See <nowiki>[[X-RadeonXpress]]</nowiki> for information on how to enable 3D acceleration and desktop effects.
* See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver|RadeonDriver]]</nowiki> for more information on -ati driver.

==== External monitor ====
External output works with the open-source -ati driver. Use <code>xrandr</code> to configure. Display device hot-plugging works, outputs must be configured manually. See <nowiki>[[http://wiki.x.org/wiki/Projects/XRandR|RandR Documentation from x.org wiki]]</nowiki>.

=== Audio ===
<pre>
00:14.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB4x0 High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
</pre>
==== Volume control ====
There is a problem in all linux distros with non-linear volume scale. All volume control with hardware buttons is in the range between 50%-100% of master volume.

It's not true for me on Hardy. Hardware volume controls work fine. -- AzraelNightwalker 
==== Microphone ====
To make internal and external microphone work user hast to go to the sound mixer, choose "edit > preferences" in the menu, tick "capturing", and then put the capturing slider to the max on the "recording" tab.

=== Power management ===

==== Battery info ====
The battery status information is not updated correctly on parts with BIOS revision lower than F06. The workaround without updating the bios is to unload psmouse module before each restart or shutdown. Otherwise the ACPI state would get corrupted with symptoms detailed in <nowiki>[[http://home.no/slazz/nx7400/#badstate]]</nowiki>. Add <code>modprobe -r psmouse</code> to /etc/init.d/halt and /etc/init.d/reboot just before 'halt' and 'reboot' commands. This also fixes sluggish BIOS startup.

==== Suspend ====
In Gutsy, the laptop speakers stays turned on after resume from sleep or hibernation, even when headphones are plugged in. Putting <code>MODULES="snd_hda_intel"</code> in /etc/default/acpi-support
(near "# Add modules to this list to have them removed before suspend and reloaded" line)
work sometimes. Another workaround is to close or applications that use sound before suspending your laptop (music and video players, Firefox with a site using flash plugin, etc...).
In Hardy and Jaunty, it works so far.

Karmic uses kernel suspend/resume as default, which doesn't work. Switch back to uswsup:
<pre>
aptitude install uswsusp
Specify uswsusp sleep module in
/etc/pm/config.d/00sleep_module
</pre>
==== Hibernate ====
(...)

=== WLAN ===
<pre>
30:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11a/b/g (rev 01)
</pre>
==== bcm43xx / b43 (open driver) ====
Wireless works with open driver since 7.10. There are 2 open drivers, <nowiki>[[bcm43xx]]</nowiki> and b43. B43 is newer, it is used in Ubuntu 8.04. Bcm43xx is used in Ubuntu 7.10. To use these drivers you need firmware extracted from a Windows driver. Download or extraction of firmware blob can be automated with drivers manager (aka, restricted drivers manager). An existing network connection is required for downloading if the firmware blob is not on disk. To extract firmware manually install bcm43xx-fwcutter or b43-fwcutter. Fwcutter will ask at setup if you want to automatically download and extract the firmware.

==== WEP ====

==== WPA ====
* Works with open driver. Tested with eduroam academic network. It is necessary to load two kernel modules '''ieee80211_crypt_ccmp''' and '''ieee80211_crypt_tkip'''. Then login with NetworkManager or <nowiki>[[KNetworkManager]]</nowiki>.
* Works with open driver. Tested with La Fonera without loading anything before connecting.
* Works with windows driver through ndiswrapper out of the box.

==== WPA2 ====

=== Thermal management ===
There are problems with sleep and hibernation, the cpu fan doesn't start after waking laptop up, so it is necessary to turn the fan on manually by executing this script:
<pre>

acpi -t
cat /proc/acpi/fan/*/*

for fanstate in $( ls /proc/acpi/fan/*/state ); do
        echo 0 > $fanstate;
done

cat /proc/acpi/fan/*/*
</pre>

* I don't need such script for sleep - fan always work. But I didn't test hibernation. -- AzraelNightwalker 
=== Card reader ===
<pre>
02:04.2 Mass storage controller: Texas Instruments 5-in-1 Multimedia Card Reader (SD/MMC/MS/MS PRO/xD)
02:04.3 SD Host controller: Texas Instruments PCIxx12 SDA Standard Compliant SD Host Controller
</pre>
The card reader cannot recognize Sony Memory Stick cards as it can in Windows Vista. Haven't filed bug yet.

=== Bluetooth ===
To make bluetooth fully work in Ubuntu 7.10 you have to install gnome-vfs-obexftp (from universe). In 8.04 sending files via bluetooth works out of the box.

=== AES2501 fingerprint reader ===
<pre>
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 08ff:2580 AuthenTec, Inc.
</pre>
The fingerprint reader should work with <nowiki>[[http://reactivated.net/fprint/wiki/Main_Page|fprint]]</nowiki> though I didn't test it yet. -- AzraelNightwalker 
=== BIOS update ===
Hint for the BIOS update: The BIOS from the HP site comes wrapped in a .EXE file. However, you do NOT need Windows in order to update your NX6325. Go and download the FreeDos installer BIOS version from the HP website. Use cabextract (install it with "sudo apt-get cabextract" in a terminal window) to extract the files; there is then a folder containing a .ISO file which is actually a bootable CD image (in my case its exact name is ROM.ISO). Right-click it and burn the file ROM.ISO to CD. Then boot from this CD and follow the instructions.

== Guidelines for this Wiki document ==
Please do not add Kubuntu (and other derivatives) when the same Ubuntu version is already added to the table. For example: Kubuntu has exactly the same kernel and drivers as Ubuntu so everything that works in Ubuntu will work in 
Kubuntu and vice versa. Same for things that don't work. The same reasoning applies when keeping i386 and amd64 seperated. 

However, with that said. Some functionality depends on the userspace which differs between Ubuntu and Kubuntu.

Info about Ubuntu 6.06, 6.10 and 7.04 has been cut out because it's practically obsolete. Only 8.04 and 7.10 should be left.

== External links ==
<nowiki>[[http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/Home.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&prodTypeId=321957&prodSeriesId=1849082|NX6325 product page]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://h18000.www1.hp.com/products/quickspecs/12447_na/12447_na.HTML|NX6325 Specifications]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/DriverDownload.jsp?prodNameId=1849083&lang=en&cc=us&prodTypeId=321957&prodSeriesId=1849082&taskId=135|Software and driver download]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://forums1.itrc.hp.com/service/forums/familyhome.do?familyId=118|HP support forums]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://bizsupport.austin.hp.com/bc/docs/support/SupportManual/c00715299/c00715299.pdf|Maintenance and Service Guide]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://vale.homelinux.net/wordpress/?s=nx6325|Ubuntu current]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://www.ludreb.plus.com/ubuntuguide.html|Kubuntu]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://www.puchalla-online.de/nx6325.html|Debian 4.0]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://www.andreas-kleisun.homepage.t-online.de/FC5_on_nx6325.html|Fedora Core 5]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Gentoo_on_HP_Compaq_nx6325|Gentoo]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://www.wolframschenck.de/nx6325.htm|SuSE Linux 10.1]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://thinksilicon.redprohosting.de/index.php?page=39|SuSE Linux (German language)]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://www.gammu.org/wiki/index.php?title=HydePark:Nx6325|Windows]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryLaptop
