{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: RandyWill
* Brand: Hewlett Packard
* Make : Pavilion
* Model: dv8135nr
* Website: http://reviews.cnet.com/HP_Pavilion_Media_Center_dv8135nr_Turion_64_ML_37_2_GHz_17_TFT/4505-3121_7-31903047.html

=== Current Issues ===

Touchpad acts up occasionally.
Wireless is unstable: works but requires command line interaction occasionally.

=== System Info ===
HP Pavilion Media Center dv8135nr - Turion 64 ML-37 2 GHz - 17" TFT

Product Short Spec:
* Processor: AMD Turion 64 mobile technology (2 GHz)
* RAM installed: 1 GB DDR SDRAM
* Weight: 8.2 lbs
* Display: 17 in TFT active matrix
* OS provided: Microsoft Windows XP Media Center Edition
* Chipset type: ATI Radeon Xpress 200M 

<pre>
rcw@angus:~$ cd /var/lib/acpi-support/ ; grep . -r *-*
bios-version:F.31
system-manufacturer:Hewlett-Packard
system-product-name:Pavilion dv8000 (EP409UA#ABA)
system-version:F.31
rcw@angus:/var/lib/acpi-support$ 
</pre>
<pre>
rcw@angus:/var/lib/acpi-support$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 Host Bridge (rev 01)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 PCI Bridge
00:04.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc Unknown device 5a36
00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB2 Host Controller
00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 SMBus Controller (rev 11)
00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc Standard Dual Channel PCI IDE Controller ATI
00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge
00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge
00:14.5 Multimedia audio controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:14.6 Modem: ATI Technologies Inc ATI SB400 - AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 02)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc ATI Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)
06:02.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)
06:04.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCIxx21/x515 Cardbus Controller
06:04.2 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Texas Instruments OHCI Compliant IEEE 1394 Host Controller
06:04.3 Mass storage controller: Texas Instruments PCIxx21 Integrated FlashMedia Controller
06:04.4 Class 0805: Texas Instruments PCI6411, PCI6421, PCI6611, PCI6621, PCI7411, PCI7421, PCI7611, PCI7621 Secure Digital (SD) Controller
06:06.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
rcw@angus:/var/lib/acpi-support$
</pre>
<pre>
rcw@angus:/var/lib/acpi-support$ free
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       1025920     586352     439568          0      18812     275424
-/+ buffers/cache:     292116     733804
Swap:      3004112          0    3004112
rcw@angus:/var/lib/acpi-support$ 
</pre>
<pre>
rcw@angus:/var/lib/acpi-support$ cat /proc/cpuinfo 
processor       : 0
vendor_id       : AuthenticAMD
cpu family      : 15
model           : 36
model name      : AMD Turion(tm) 64 Mobile Technology ML-37
stepping        : 2
cpu MHz         : 800.000
cache size      : 1024 KB
fpu             : yes
fpu_exception   : yes
cpuid level     : 1
wp              : yes
flags           : fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt lm 3dnowext 3dnow up pni lahf_lm
bogomips        : 1597.01
TLB size        : 1024 4K pages
clflush size    : 64
cache_alignment : 64
address sizes   : 40 bits physical, 48 bits virtual
power management: ts fid vid ttp tm stc

rcw@angus:/var/lib/acpi-support$ 
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| Dapper
| Edgy
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Untested
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| Dapper
| Edgy
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes: configurable
| Yes: configurable
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes: powernowd
| Yes: powernowd
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes: bcm43xx-fwcutter
| Yes: bcm43xx-fwcutter
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Mostly
| Mostly
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| TV Tuner
| No
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| Dapper
| Edgy
|-
| + F1
| Launch Help Browser
| 0xf5
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| Print
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| Launch Web Browser
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| External Monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| Sleep
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock Screen
| 0x92
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| Play / Pause
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Stop
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Rewind
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Fast-Forward
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| Dapper
| Edgy
|-
| Calculator
| Launch Calculator
| 0xa1
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Quick DVD
| 
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Quick CD
| 
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Volume Down
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mute
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Volume Up
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

The touchpad is a Synaptics using Compaq Touch Screen Protocol.  It's pressure / proximity sensitive so it's actually kinda cool.  On the downside, it freaks out about once an hour randomly jumping all over the screen and clicking on things and such.

The wireless is pretty typical Broadcom.  It works, mostly.  Sometimes, it takes two or three module reloads to get the card to see anything.  Once you're on, you're on no problem.

Beware the wireless toggle button and light.  The light turns off when you unload the driver and turns on when you reload, as it should.  The button ""does"" toggle whether or not the antenna is on.  The button ""does not"" turn the light on and off.  Antenna power state is entirely independent of module status.  It was quite frustrating figuring this one out first hand.  To be perfectly clear: just because you have a blue wireless light does not mean that the antenna is actually on.  Try hitting the button and see what happens.

----
CategoryLaptop
