{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Web site ===

==== Support Model Search: ====

['http://h20180.www2.hp.com/apps/Lookup?h_lang=en&h_cc=us&cc=us&h_page=hpcom&lang=en&h_client=S-A-R163-1&h_pagetype=s-002&h_query=pavilion+hdx9200&submit.x=0&submit.y=0']

=== CD Installation Problems ===

Installed Ubuntu Gutsy from Alternate-CD since I couldn't boot from Desktop-CD.

=== System Info ===

dmidecode -s system-manufacturer: Hewlett-Packard  

dmidecode -s system-product-name: HP Pavilion HDX9200 Notebook PC

=== Hardware & Software Details: ===

Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy Gibbon) 

Linux Kernel 2.6.22-14-generic 

Support 3D: Yes 

VGA Controller: ATI Technologies Inc Unknown device 9583 

Maximum Screen Resolution: 1600x1200 60Hz

Sound Controller= ATI Technologies Inc Unknown device aa08 

Battery detected?: Yes 

Touch Pad: Yes

Touchpad - Doubletap = double click: Yes

Touchpad - Scroll down side: Yes

CD/DVD drive: Yes

HP Webcam on Screen: yes

Wired NIC: Yes

Wireless NIC: Yes

Wireless Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection (rev 02)

=== Problems: ===

''' Video ''' I Have to Install the ATI Catalyst 8.2 Driver from the AMD Website. Reconfiguring the Xorg with "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" file works but there is not 3D support.

''' Sound ''' The speakers in the laptop those not work, only the headphones jack.

''' System ''' some times after restart the computer it freeze and also when start up.

=== About Me: ===

My Name is Isaac M. Teletor I'm from Guatemala and I'm 20 years old. 
I started using Linux seance 2006 my first Linux Distribution was Ubuntu 6.04.
