{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: [MGlenBowden]
* Make: Toshiba
* Brand: Satellite
* Model: 4070CDS (Canadian)
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://www.toshiba.ca/web/product.grp?lg=en&section=1&group=223&product=1370&part=1312#spectop|Toshiba Canada Link]]</nowiki>

This is my first post on the Ubuntu WIKI page. Wondering how long until you get a visual editor. I had trouble getting the Labtoptestingteam template so I just copied someone elses.

=== Current Issues ===

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in 7.04Ubuntu?
| in 7.04Edubuntu?
| In Dapper
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
| yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| 
| in Dapper?
| in Fiesty?
| 
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| No
| 480 x 640 or 600 x 800 default
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| 60 and 55
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| ?
| ?
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}
||<-4> '''Power Management'''  Essentially this is a problem area as I recieve the ACPI older than 2000 error, when I use the shutdown command it kills everything put LCD is still on with splash screen. I did a quick search on how to force the acpi and cam up with a simple solution of adding the command <acpi=force> to the kernel line, check this page for more details https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/6522  Actualy the key solution for me was this.  Cesare Tirabassi  said on 2007-05-15:

1) To add acpi=off edit your /boot/grub/menu.lst file and add acpi=force to your kernel line. For instance:

kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=51270779-0fb3-447d-b429-01710687e545 ro acpi=force quiet splash. 

I still get the must force ACPI but shutdown now works.||
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Battery detected?
| i operate pluged in
| not tested
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| not tested
| not tested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| yes
| not tested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| N/A - No Hardware Support
| N/A - No Hardware Support
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| no connection with USB D link DWL G122
| not auto detected
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| slow to dead Linksys
| Link Sys worked fine
| 
|-
| Firewire
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| not tested
| not tested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| keyboard pointing device"
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| no
| no
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| marginal
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| 
| CDdrive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| yes w/Linksys
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| 
| in Dapper?
| in Fiesty?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| 
| in Dapper?
| in Fiesty?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
I picked up a few of these  laptops from a revenue canada auction.
They did not seem to run well in windows so I thought I would try Linux.
Before i tried Dapper I tried some other version of Linux, had trouble with the monitor they have a Trident viseo card.  The screen came up 640x480 and had a bunch of wriggly lines obscuring the view of the bottom of the screen.  I looked on the net tried a variety of changes to the systems still could not get them to work well.  They were slow. the screen was lousy, but the sound was OK.
-----
So this week I recieve an ubuntu and edubuntu disk from canonical. And I decide to install them one on each of two systems.
-----
If I can get them to work great if not, Oh well.

So system one I installed Ubuntu from the Live CD with no internet connection hooked up.
There were no problem with the install.  But I still have wriggly lines on bottom of screen.
-----
The Sound is great, autoCd detection worked w/ sound Juicer popping rt up.
If I cannot get the displays right I'll have to covert them into 4.3 GB oversized MP# players.
-----
Well I will come back and let you know how the other system is fairing.  It is still running. It has a few more challenges as I inserted a PcmiA Network adaptor in it (A lInksys not overly known for its usability)
___
System 2 installed with similar results.

I upgraded the bios on both systems to 8.2 the newest version available for these systems, however I syill recieved one error message on booting them regarding ACPI being to old.  And they do not shut down properly.

I still have the following to do, (in this order)
get rid of muck on bottom of screen
try to get better than 800 x 600 resolution
find a means to fix ACPI problem re: shut down,
Get my D-Link  USB wireless adaptor to work.

If you know any solutions please feel free to email me them or post a solution (link) to this page.
Thanks.

______________
Problem One the garbled screen and resolution issue.

Tried to fix this before by editing some file: the result was I completely lost my screen, would not work at all.
After more research and fiddling around the following solution worked
From terminal run
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Once in editor locate the following line under trident driver

BusID       PCI :0:4:0

then add these 2 lines directly below it.

VideoRam        2048

Option          "noaccel"

go down a few lines and locate monitor delete lines for HorizSync and VertRefresh

Finally change Depth from 24 to 16

This corrects the garbeled screen on reboot.  I still only havee 800x600 but I'll fix that a different weekend.  I tested this on 3 Satellite 4070s, the screens have never looked better.  I am pleased.
