{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Contact: PacShady
* Make: Medion
* Brand: Akoya
* Model: MD96420
* Website: http://www.medion.de/md96420/au/flash.html

=== Current Issues ===
Sound and Webcam don't work out of the box. The DVB TV Tuner card doesn't work at all. Webcam drivers are in current development. SOund support has improved, requiring only minor tweaks to get working as of Jaunty.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version: M2.02
system-manufacturer: Notebook
system-product-name: MIM2300
system-version: Not Applicable
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| Hardy? (LTS)
| in Intrepid? (previous stable)
| in Jaunty? (current stable)
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes [1]
| Yes [1]
| Yes [1]
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Unstable [4]
| Untested
| No
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/253817|#253817]]</nowiki>
|-
| Suspend
| Yes [4]
| Yes
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/253817|#253817]]</nowiki>
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes [2]
| Yes [2]
| Yes [2]
| <nowiki>[[https://bugtrack.alsa-project.org/alsa-bug/view.php?id=3886|#3886 (ALSA)]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/210865|#210865]]</nowiki>
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes [3]
| Yes [3]
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/210725|#210725]]</nowiki>
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Yes [5]
| Untested
| Untested
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/215604|#215604]]</nowiki>
|-
| DVB TV Tuner Card
| No
| Untested
| Untested
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/215624|#215624]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hardy? (LTS)
| in Intrepid? (previous stable)
| in Jaunty? (current stable)
|-
| + F1
| Toggle Wireless
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| Volume Down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Volume Up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Internal/External Display
| 
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F6
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Mute
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| LCD Backlight Toggle
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Suspend
| 
| Unstable
| Unstable
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hardy? (LTS)
| in Intrepid? (previous stable)
| in Jaunty? (current stable)
|-
| Powersave Quick Button
| Reduce power consumption on battery
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}
==== Notes ====
1. 3D Acceleration works once proprietary nVidia video drivers are installed.

2. Sound currently doesn't work with ALSA out of the box. A patch has been made, which involves recompiling the ALSA driver until such time as the patch is applied upstream by ALSA. Details on how to recompile alsa-driver for this card can be found <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4878363&postcount=36|here]]</nowiki>. NOTE: If you are using Jaunty, you can simply add "options snd-hda-intel model=mitac" and "options snd-hda-intel probe_mask=1" to the end of /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf to make it work, thans to the guys at ALSA and everyone else who helped make the patch and apply it to the ALSA source.

3. NOTE: this only applies to Ubuntu Intrepid and older. I managed to get Wireless working by using the drivers <nowiki>[[http://www.ralinktech.com/ralink/Home/Support/Windows.html|here]]</nowiki> with ndiswrapper. The only way to extract the drivers though is to run the driver setup under wine, then when the setup fails with an error BEFORE pressing OK go to ~/.wine/drive_c/Program Files/ and copy the R''''''aLink folder somewhere (maybe your desktop, or wherever), because as soon as you click OK on the setup error the driver folder within that directory will be deleted. This setup, however, may be unstable with certain wireless access points (notably, Netgear-brand routers). It should work, it may just take several times to connect. Ensure <nowiki>[[http://wicd.sourceforge.net|WICD]]</nowiki> is being used as the network manager, as KN''''''etworkManager seems to fail in detecting wireless networks for some reason.

'''UPDATE:''' I managed to get the official drivers from <nowiki>[[http://www.ralinktech.com/ralink/Home/Support/Linux.html|this page]]</nowiki> for Linux to work on my newly installed 64bit system. It should work on 32bit as well, but I think due to my messing around I couldn't get it to tell the difference between WPA and WPA2 networks then. But it works now on a fresh system, so it should work. You want the RT2860 PCI/mPCI/CB driver, follow the instructions in the README, and remember to "sudo make install" after you compile (doesn't tell you that in the readme) to enable it properly at boot. The interface is on ra0 by default instead of wlan0 so remember to set that in WICD's preferences.

4. For some reason, hibernate and suspend don't work on 64bit prior to Intrepid. As soon as the system suspends or hibernates it wakes up. Changing to uswsusp as the suspend/hibernate controller doesn't fix the problem either. Suspend worked in 32bit for the most part (network interfaces seemed to delay slightly, so use WICD because it can handle reconnecting to networks when cards become available better than KN''''''etworkManager on resume), but hibernate seemed a bit unstable and sometimes crashed on 32bit on resume.

5. The webcam drivers are currently under development <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gl860/|here]]</nowiki>. This webcam is confirmed working (albeit probably unstable) using <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/project/downloading.php?groupname=gl860&filename=gl860_0.2p_experimental3.tgz&use_mirror=osdn|this version]]</nowiki> of the drivers (currently this version is unavailable from the project's download page). '''Note:''' this driver is currently EXPERIMENTAL. 

----
CategoryLaptop
