{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[TamasSomlyai]]</nowiki>
* Make: Dell 
* Brand: Latitude 
* Model: D810
* Website: http://www1.euro.dell.com/content/products/productdetails.aspx/latit_d810?c=hu&l=en&s=bsd
* S/N: 9YBPS1J

== Please could other D810 testers e-mail `somez@t-online.hu` after editing this wiki page, so we can work together to avoid confusions! ==
Jonathan Jesse is testing Kubuntu with another D810 which you can find <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/DellLatitudeD810/Kubuntu|here]]</nowiki>

Nikolaus Rath is testing Dapper Beta on another D810 with partly different results. See below.

=== Current Issues ===

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper
| in Edgy (current development)
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| No
| No
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| No
| No
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Trackpoint
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| + Esc
| Stand by
| none
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F1
| Hibernate
| none
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| Togle wireless
| none
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| Battery
| none
| No
| No
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/61483|61483]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F8
| CRT/LCD
| none
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F10
| Eject CD/DVD
| none
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| + End
| Mute
| 160
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Page Up
| Volume increase
| 176
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Page Down
| Volume decrease
| 174
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Up Arrow
| Contrast increase
| none
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Down Arrow
| Contrast decrease
| none
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}
==== Notes ====

__My hardware specs:__
* Intel Pentium-M 1.6Ghz processor
* ATI Mobility Radeon X300 graphics card
* 40GB Harddisk
* 256MB 400MHZ DDR Ram
* DVD-ROM
* 15", WXGA (1280x800) screen
* Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG Wi-Fi network controller (rev 05)
* Broadcom NetXtreme BCM5751 Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express (rev 01)
* Texas Instruments Smartcard Reader (Unknow device 8083 by lspci)

=== Test by Nikolaus Rath ===

On Dapper Beta, my results differ from the above reported ones as follows:

* resume from sleep doesn't work
* "external monitor - extend desktop" works perfectly.
* Sound volume is way to high by default
* Standby Key doesn't work
* Hibernate Key works
* F10 is not eject CD/DVD but turn on/off infrared, no idea whether it works

System is:
* Intel Pentium-M 1.7Ghz processor
* ATI Mobility Radeon X300 graphics card
* 60GB Harddisk
* 512MB DDR Ram
* Nec DVD +/- RW
* 15", 1680x1050 screen
* Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG Wi-Fi network controller (rev 05)
* Broadcom NetXtreme BCM5751 Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express (rev 01)
* Texas Instruments Smartcard Reader (Unknow device 8083 by lspci)
* Bluetooth module

=== Test by Brian Maher ===

On Dapper 6.06 LTS, my results differ from the above reported ones as follows:

* resume from standby fails (standby key shortcut works and enters standby, just can't resume)
* hibernation fails (starts to hibenate but returns to locked screen immediately)
* Hibernate Key works
* F10 is not eject CD/DVD but turn on/off infrared, no idea whether it works
* X600 Mobility supported after following howto

System same as above except for:
* ATI Mobility Radeon X600 graphics card

=== Test by James Williams ===

Dapper 6.06

The following features work with a Dock/Port Replicator.
* USB
* External Monitor - Mirror view
* External Monitor - Multi-head view

=== Test by Jeremy Cox ===

Gutsy 7.10 Tribe 5

My results differ from the ones indicated above as follows:
* +F3 works to display battery status
* +F10 ejects the CD/DVD
* Hibernate / Sleep both fail; the computer immediately locks up, and must be restarted to recover
 
Everything else works or doesn't work as before.

Of note:
* The new displayconfig-gtk monitor configuration GUI doesn't work. It either crashes or fails to configure properly for screen extension every time.
* Display extension to another monitor won't work in an automated fashion because of this.
* Mirroring works fine with no configuration.

This system does include the ATI X600 Mobile Graphics Card
----
CategoryLaptop
