{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: pmjdebruijn
* Make: HP
* Brand: Compaq 6730s (HP6730s)
* Model: NA829ET
* Website: http://h10010.www1.hp.com/wwpc/nl/nl/sm/WF06b/321957-321957-64295-89315-89315-3687778-3921517.html (in Dutch)

=== System Info ===
* Hewlett-Packard
* HP Compaq 6730s
* F.0C BIOS revision

=== Hardware ===
* Intel dual-core Celeron T1600 (1,66Ghz)
* Intel GM45 chipset
* Intel GMA4500MHD graphics accelerator
* Broadcom BCM4312 802.11b/g wireless interface
* Marvell Yukon 2 Fast Ethernet interface

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-1> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty)
|-
| Screen
| Yes*
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes (1280x800)
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes**
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/359578|LP#359578]]</nowiki>
|-
| External monitor works?
| No***
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| No
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| No
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Yes, seems so
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| No
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Multimedia'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Not present
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| Builtin Mic
| Untested
| 
|-
| Builtin Webcam
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes****
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Detected, Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes (SD)*****
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal-info/+bug/355712|LP#355712]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-1> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty)
|-
| + F1
| Help
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| Print
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| Browse the web
| 
| No
| 
|-
| + F4
| ???
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| Hibernate/Sleep?
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock computer
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| Mute
| 
| No
| 
|-
| + F11
| Volume Up
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Volume Down
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-1> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty)
|-
| Bluetooth/Wireless killswitch
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
* The screen works and can be color calibrated, please see below.

* * 3D acceleration works, and Compiz performs excellently. However some games do have issues.

* ** The external VGA port, did not work out-of-the-box. Somehow it wanted to revert to non widescreen modes. I never got this to work properly, though I haven't invested much time in this.

* *** Wireless works perfectly using Broadcom's wl binary blob driver. For normal use this is fine. However this module does not seem to support monitor mode, so utilities like Kismet will not work properly. The Broadcom BCM4312 mini-PCIe card cannot be easily replaced, as the BIOS checks for HP certified hardware.

* **** Tested the internal cardreader with a SanDisk Ultra II 2.0 GB Secure Digital flash card, and it worked at the full 15MB/sec speed. So the internal cardreader is fast!

==== Games ====
ioQuake3 1.36 works just fine, with some very minor issues in the menu's.

Warzone2100 is current broken, as reported in the bug report.

==== Color Management ====
I've calibrated the screen on this laptop for use with color management aware applications like GIMP, UFRaw, etc. with my GretagMacbeth Huey and ArgyllCMS. You can download the ICCv2 compliant color profile as <nowiki>[[attachment:hp_compaq_6730s.icc|hp_compaq_6730s.icc]]</nowiki>. It's intended for use with the laptop screen at maximum brightness. Your milage may vary, since not every screen is manufacured identically, and screens change with age.
