{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Contact: johnsr1974 Make: Dell Brand: Inspiron Model: 15RV-1906

=== Current Issues: ===

The user is kicked out of a wireless network randomly and then that network is lost until a full shutdown is performed.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________

=== System Details: ===

System-manufacturer: Dell

System-product-name: Inspiron

System-version: 15RV-1906

Memory: 4.0 GB DDR3

Hard Drive: 320 GB

Processor: Intel Celeron(R) CPU 1017U @ 1.60 GHz x 2

Graphics: Intel Ivybridge Mobile x86/MMX/SSE2

OS Type: 32-bit

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________

=== Hardware Testing using Ubuntu 13.10: ===

'''1) Install: '''
   The installer worked without any issues.

'''2) Basic Hardware Test: '''

** Does X start correctly?
     After installation is complete, the graphical logon is running correctly.
** Is X running at the correct resolution?
     The desktop is sharp and clear. The resolution is set as 1366 X 768 (16:9)

** 3-D Acceleration: Does glxinfo return the line "direct rendering: Yes"?
     No, the message states that 'glxinfo' is currently not installed. 
     The user is prompted to install by (sudo apt-get install mesa-utils)

** Does the wired ethernet work?
     Yes, the wired ethernet works perfectly.
** Can you browse the internet when plugged into the wired ethernet port?
** Does the wireless card work?
     Yes, However the user is randomly kicked out of the connection.

** Can you browse the internet when near a wireless access point?
     Yes, However the user is randomly kicked out of the connection.

** Does the trackpad work?
     The trackpad works perfectly.

** Does it move the mouse pointer?
     Yes

** Does the right hand side emulate a mouse scroll wheel?
     No scroll wheel emulation.

** Does the trackpoint work?
     The laptop is not equipped with a trackpoint.

'''3) Advanced Hardware Test: '''

** Does the modem work?

** Does the sound work ?
     speaker-test functions correctly.
     speaker-test -c 6 -D surround51 was an invalid input
     Aside from the multi channel error the speakers seem to function properly

** Does pressing the volume hotkeys raise, lower and mute volume?
     Using Fn + F11 = volume down
           Fn + F12 = volume up
           Fn + designated mute key = mute

** Do the brightness keys alter the screen brightness?
     Using Fn + F4 = Brightness lower
           Fn + F5 = Brightness higher
     However the effects are minimal at best.

** Does the video display hotkey switch the external display on and off?
   ''This item has not been tested.''

** Does the wireless button enable and disable wireless?
     The wireless network can be enabled by using the following methods:
     1) Click the wireless icon and selected the desired network.
     2) Using the Fn + F2 to toggle the wireless network on or off.

** Do application buttons (mail, help, web) launch appropriate applications? 
     Pressing application buttons for help and web both direct the user to a search page.
     There is not an application button for mail on this laptop.

** Is the machine discoverable from a mobile phone with bluetooth?
     Yes, the device is discoverable via mobile phone.

** If an infra red phone is placed in front of the infra red port, does its address appear 
     in /proc/net/irda/discovery?    
   ''This item has not been tested.''
   
** Does attaching a docking station result in all of the hardware appearing correctly under Ubuntu?
** Do USB ports on the docking station work?
** Does the video out on the docking station work?
** Do any removable media devices in the docking station work?
** If the docking station contains a battery, does it show up correctly?
** Does removing the docking station result in correct behaviour?
** If the docking station is removed, does Ubuntu carry on running?
** If the docking station is reattached, does the docking station still work?
   ''No access to a docking station was available for testing.''

** Does the PCMCIA/CardBus port work?
   ''This laptop is not equipped with a PCMCIA/CardBus slot.''

** Does the firewire work?
   ''This laptop is not equipped with a FireWire slot.''

     
** Do the USB ports work?
     All USB ports function properly.
    
** Does the HDMI port work?
   ''This item has not been tested.''
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________

''' Power Management Test '''

** Does pressing the sleep button cause the machine to sleep?
     This machine is not equipped with a sleep button; however the user can set the screen to dim after a 
     set period of time.

** Does the machine then wake up correctly?
     To exit the sleep mode, the user can move the mouse/trackpad.

** Does the keyboard still work after resume?
     The keyboard functions properly after exiting sleep mode.

** Does the network still work after resume?
     The network still works properly after exiting sleep mode.

** Do USB devices work correctly?
     The USB ports work correctly after the computer exits suspend mode.

** Does the audio still work correctly?
     The audio works correctly after exiting suspend mode.

** Does pressing the hibernate button cause the machine to hibernate?
     This machine does not have a hibernate button; however the machine can be put in suspend 
     mode by clicking the icon in the top right corner and then select "suspend". This can also
     be accomplished by changing your power settings.   

** Does the machine then wake up correctly?
     The machine wakes by pressing the power button and the user must input their logon info to resume.

** Does the keyboard still work after resume?
     The keyboard does work correctly after resume.

** Does the network still work after resume?
     This is hit or miss, but more often than not the wireless network is lost after wake up.

** Do USB devices work correctly?
     The USB devices work correctly.

** Does the audio still work correctly?
     The audio still works correctly.

** Does performing these actions from the logout menu behave identically?
     All of the actions behave identically as above.
     
** Does repeating the entire process, having already done one suspend perform the same?
     All of the actions behave identically the same.

** Is CPU frequency scaling supported?
   ''Start a terminal and type the following:''
   ''sudo invoke-rc.d powernowd restart''
   ''It should not print "CPU frequency scaling not supported".''
     After running the test in the terminal window. The above message was not printed.
     
