{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* Contact: LexRoss
* Make: ASUSTek Computer Inc.
* Brand: ASUS
* Model: F5N
* Website: http://www.asus.com/products.aspx?l1=5&l2=23&l3=523&l4=23&model=1791&modelmenu=2

=== Current Issues ===
* My ISP requires VPN to connect to the Internet, so "pptp-linux" and "network-manager-pptp" must be installed as well. The package "network-manager-pptp" is not included with the Desktop CD, which is unfortunate.
* LCD Panel not recognized
* 8.04 Alpha 6 Hardy only: Scroll Lock LED does not work
* Fails to resume from hibernate mode (grey screen with 4 vertical stripes)
* 8.04 Alpha 6 Hardy: wakes up to black screen with backlit off from suspend
* Shut down works but restart does not
* Switching active users produces white screen due to nvidia-glx-new bug in nVidia proprietary binary code. See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24/+bug/160264|Bug #160264]]</nowiki> 
* 8.04 Alpha 6 Hardy only: Wireless and Bluetooth LEDs are constantly on, even with wireless turned off (and there is no bluetooth adaptor present on this model) - same thing on 7.10 with asus-laptop 0.42 kernel module loaded instead of deprecated asus-acpi 0.30 one.
* 7.10 Gutsy only: built-in ethernet card problem with MAC address randomly assigned
* Testing 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon 32-bit and 8.04 Hardy Alpha 6 64-bit desktop CD images.
* This laptop works good with 7.10 being properly tuned, and touchpad right side corners are working as they should. They never did under Other OS, which made me believe that was Asus' hardware problem. Now with Ubuntu 7.10 this laptop pleases me. There are still issues with wireless, web camera, and buttons, as well as suspend and hibernation. I look forward to those to be fixed before recommending this otherwise great laptop to anyone.
=== System Info ===
* system-manufacturer: ASUSTeK Computer Inc.
* system-product-name: F5N
* system-version: 1.0
* NVIDIA GeForce 7000M / nForce 610M chipset
* AMD Turion(tm) 64 X2 Mobile Technology TL-58
* 2GB DDR-2 667MHz RAM
* 128MB integrated video: nVidia Corporation GeForce 7000M (rev a2)
* 120GB 5400RPM SATA drive
* 15.4" LCD 1280x800 WXGA
* Synaptics TouchPad
* NVIDIA nForce Networking Controller (built-in Ethernet Adapter)
* Atheros Communications, Inc. AR5007EG 802.11 b/g Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)
* Built-in software modem
* Built-in USB 1.3 Megapixel Chicony CNF6131 (OEM Syntec D-MAX STK-1135) Web Camera
* Built-in PCI Express card reader
* CD/DVD rewritable drive

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Comment'''
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Screen
| No
| Yes
| in 7.10, configure xorg with vesa driver to get graphic display
|-
| Correct resolution?
| No
| No
| 1280x768 @ 60Hz with vesa driver. 8.04 Hardy: nvidia-glx-new kernel driver is loaded but no nvidia Xorg driver is present
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Untested
| 7.10 Gutsy: sudo apt-get install "nvidia-glx-new" OR use Restricted Drivers Manager to enable
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| No
| Yes, provided nvidia-glx-new driver is installed
| 7.10 Gutsy: Fails to resume from hibernation
|-
| Suspend
| Yes
| Yes
| 8.04 Hardy: Suspend works only when nvidia-glx-new driver is installed. Otherwise laptop wakes up to blank screen with backlit turned off
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| CPU frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| 800MHz - 1.6GHz - 1.9GHz
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| No
| No
| No sound; <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/200130|Bug 200130]]</nowiki>. Fix for both 7.10 and 8.04 is in the notes below
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| Sound Up/Down and Mute buttons work fine
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 7.10 Gutsy has issues with MAC address being randomly assigned
|-
| Wireless NIC
| No
| No
| http://madwifi.org/ticket/1679 This fix worked for me in 7.10 32-bit: 1. Disable MadWifi Atheros driver in Restricted Drivers Manager; 2. Download latest driver from the <nowiki>[[http://madwifi.org/ticket/1679|ticket 1679]]</nowiki> mentioned above; 3. Follow these instructions: http://www.ubuntugeek.com/atheros-5007eg-with-madwifi-on-i386-platform.html except for downloading (ignore "wget -c" line)
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| This laptop supports ExpressCard only (not compatible with PCMCIA cards)
|-
| Firewire
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Works great in 7.10 - two thumbs up! in 8.04, touchpad is way too sensitive and produces false clicks - install Gsynaptics for better control
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Parallel
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Bilt-in Webcam
| No
| Yes
| 7.10 Gutsy: instructions to install the driver are provided below
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| This laptop supports ExpressCard only (not compatible with PCMCIA cards)
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Comment
|-
| in Ubuntu 7.10?
| in Hardy (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| Change power profile
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 0000005c"
| No
| No
| in 7.10, blanks the screen
|-
| + F1
| Suspend
| ACPI event "processor P001 00000080"
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| Wireless on/off
| ACPI event  "hotkey ATKD 0000005d"
| Yes
| No
| in 7.10, turns wireless LED on and off
|-
| + F5
| Brightness down
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 00000033"
| Yes
| Yes
| goes back to maximum set up in power profile after a while if on AC power
|-
| + F6
| Brightness up
| ACPI event "video LCDD 00000086"
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Backlight off/on
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 00000034" then the screen turns off, event "hotkey ATKD 00000033 00000001" and the screen is back on
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| LCD / LCD + external monitor
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 00000061"
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| Sound Mute
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 00000032"
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Volume down
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 00000031"
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Volume up
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 00000030"
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Ins
| NumLock
| keycode 0x45,0xc5
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Del
| ScrollLock
| keycode 0x46,0xc6
| Yes
| No
| The button is recognized but Scroll Lock LED does not come on in X
|-
| + C
| Asus Splendid Utility (screen brightness/colour/gamma presets)
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 0000008a 00000009"
| No
| No
| This key has no special mark on it, and can be used to do whatever. On my Dell Inspiron 5000 I have the similar "secret" Fn + Q key which I use to hibernate.
|-
| + T
| Asus Power 4 Phone
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 00000099"
| No
| No
| This key also has no logo on it
|-
| + V
| Web camera
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 00000082"
| No
| No
| This key has a camera icon on it and is supposed to launch web camera application
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys, located at the top row next to keyboard LEDs'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 7.10
| Hardy (current development)
|-
| ''Movie/Music''
| Media Player
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 00000095"
| No
| No
| 
|-
| ''Running Power Man''
| Asus 4 Gear
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 0000005c"
| No
| No
| Blanks the screen in 7.10
|-
| ''Jupiter''
| Web Browser
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 00000051"
| Yes
| No
| 
|-
| ''Crossed out touchpad''
| Touchpad off/on
| ACPI event "hotkey ATKD 0000006b"
| No
| No
| To enable, put the following line into /etc/X11/xorg.conf file under Section "Input Device" Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad": Option SHMConfig "1"
|-
| ''Power sign''
| Power on/off
| ACPI event "button/power PWRF 00000080"
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
Features that are not working out of the box and are not present in Ubuntu repositories are marked as "No" in the table above. Instructions on how to fix them are given in "Comment" column and are provided below. The only problem that I have no clue as how to fix it that this laptop fails to reboot. Kernel parameter reboot=b (use BIOS for reboot) does not help. It did reboot right after initial system install was completed, so something must stopped working during system upgrade I suppose.

===== Ubuntu 7.10 and 8.04 Sound Fix =====
These instructions are based on the original instructions found on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto|Ubuntu Community Documentation]]</nowiki> page. Please note that you do not have to update ALSA driver in order to fix the sound problem. Just add two lines at the bottom of  /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base file as shown below.

    ''options snd-hda-intel enable=1 index=0 model=lenovo''

    ''alias snd-card-0 snd-hda-intel''

Reboot and you should have your sound working!

===== Ubuntu 7.10 Webcam Installation =====
These instructions are based on the original instructions I found <nowiki>[[http://www.zer0.net/#2420624065135683357|here]]</nowiki> (The Dec.14 2007 post) and copied over from <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/AsusF3SV|Asus F3SV page]]</nowiki> for your convenience. F3SV has Syntec STK-1125 webcam while F5N comes with Syntec D-MAX STK-1135 webcam. Colours are wrong in Camorama - apply colour correction filter to fix them. Below is the procedure for driver installation.

First download version 1.2.3 of the drivers from http://syntekdriver.sourceforge.net/ to your home dir. Now open a terminal (Applications>Accessories>Terminal) and type in the following:
   ''sudo apt-get install ctags''

   ''tar -zxvf stk11xx-1.2.3.tar.gz''

   ''cd stk11xx-1.2.3''

   ''wget http://bookeldor-net.info/merdier/Makefile-syntekdriver''

   ''make -f Makefile.standalone''

   ''sudo make -f Makefile-syntekdriver install''

   ''sudo modprobe stk11xx''

Now the drivers should be loaded properly. To test it out either install camorama (''sudo apt-get install camorama'') or open up Ekiga. If you use Ekiga you'll have to go through the configuration Druid. When you get either program running, there should be a green light on next to the lens. And you should see a video in the proper window.

==== Ubuntu 7.10 Hibernation Note ====
Hibernation works fine if no X is running (that is, there is no graphic screen). This is an indication that hibernation problem is related to the above mentioned <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24/+bug/160264|nVidia binary code bug]]</nowiki>. Wait for nVidia drivers update.

==== Making hotkeys work with asus_acpid ====
In Gutsy 7.10, you will need to reload asus-laptop kernel module instead of deprecated asus-acpi loaded by default:

    ''sudo rmmod asus-acpi''
    ''sudo modprobe asus-laptop''

To make changes permanent, edit system configuration files as follows.

    ''sudo echo blacklist asus-acpi >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist''
    ''sudo echo asus-laptop >> /etc/modules''

Now for both Gutsy 7.10 and Hardy 8.04 you have to download and compile asus_acpid daemon following instructions fount at <nowiki>[[http://acpi4asus.sourceforge.net/|ACPI4Asus]]</nowiki> project home page. You do not have to compile the kernel module (in driver directory)as it is included with Ubuntu distribution already. The only directory you need in the package is asus_acpid. If you haven't compiled anything, install build-essentials package:
    ''sudo apt-get install build-essentials''

Then change to acpi4asus-0.41/asus_acpid directory where you unpacked the package and type
    ''make''
    ''sudo make install''
That's it!

Once you have compiled and installed asus_acpid daemon, unpack the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/199682/comments/7|user_home_asus_acpi.tgz]]</nowiki> file into your home directory. Do not forget to edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to include "SHMconfig "1" option for your Synaptics touchpad. Otherwise touchpad disabling button will not work. And for the web camera you need either Cheese or Camorama installed. Restart your Gnome session to verify that everything works. Press keys, enjoy!

==== Notes concerning 8.04 Alpha 6 release: ====
It is nice my list of known issues/requests to shrink from Alpha 4 to Alpha 6 release although I am not sure if anyone actually bothers to read it. Anyways, here is where we are today.

* Ubuntu splash will not go beyond 640x480 upon startup, picking up 1024x768 on shutdown. This is provided you set up your /etc/usplash.conf to correct 1280x800. 
* In Network Manager, Point to point connection should be renamed to Modem connection, as PPPoE and GPRS are essentially modem connections; then add VPN connection as a separate option on the same menu, so that one has a choice between wired, modem, and VPN.
* It would also be nice if Network Manager could handle configurations like ISP assigned address on eth0, hoset me LAN static IP on eth0:1, and VPN to ISP. It should then be able to make Internet available to other computers on home LAN.
* Fix sensitivity for Synaptics touchpad.
* Fix LCD panel recognition. It should be 98x98 DPI 1280x800 wide screen LCD with subpixel dithering turned on. Will make fonts look beautiful. Changes the way people judge Ubuntu big time.
* Fix audio - this should be easy as the fix is already there.
* Webcam should now work out of the box but ironically, there is no application installed to test it. And without proper VPN support I cannot go to the Internet to get one. *Smile*
----
CategoryHardware CategoryLaptop
