{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Dave Meikle, Johan Dahlin
* Make: Fujitsu Siemens
* Model: Amilo A7640

=== Current Issues (Gutsy) ===

Gutsy is working on this laptop for both x86 and X86_64, except the Wireless. There is a bug open <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/138979]]</nowiki> which is tracking this problem.

To workaround this add the following entry in your /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist file:

blacklist prism54

As you may notice I still haven't updated the table for Gutsy or Feisty, but I assure you this is on my TODO list - honest ;-)

=== Current Issues (Feisty) ===

Feisty is working on this laptop in both x86 and X86_64. The Wireless Card is now working to using the prism54pci driver (details on firmware can be found here http://jbnote.free.fr/prism54usb/index.html).

=== Current Issues (Edgy) ===

Edgy works perfectly on this laptop. However, as with all the other releases, to use the Wireless you have to use NDiswrapper or Linuxant Driverloader.

=== Hardware details (x86) ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy (old stable)?
| in Dapper (current stable)
|-
| Screen
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes 1024x768
| Yes - 1024x768
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Sometimes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim/Blank monitor?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes - was a dodgy cable!
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes - with NDISwrapper/Linuxant
| Yes - with NDISwrapper/Linuxant (notes to follow)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Will now test
| Yes - using ACX100 Card
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes, but I turn this off
| Yes, but I turn this off
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| TV out
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Flash card reader
| No
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hoary (current stable)?
| in Breezy (current development)?
|-
| + F1
| Sleep
| 
| Doesn't Work
| Works
| 
|-
| + F3
| Mute
| 
| Doesn't Work
| Work
| 
|-
| + F4
| LCD/Monitor Switch
| 
| Works - at start up
| Works - at start up
| 
|-
| + F5
| Volume Up
| 
| Doesn't Work
| Works
| 
|-
| + F6
| Volume Down
| 
| Doesn't Work
| Works
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness Up
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| + F8
| Brightness Down
| 
| Works
| Works
| 
|}

=== Dapper Install Notes (x86) ===

The Installation went without hitch with Dapper's installation not required any parameters.

For Wireless, so far I have only had time to setup using Linuxant Driverloader. To do this I had to download their code from:

http://www.linuxant.com/driverloader/wlan/full/archive/driverloader-2.30/driverloader-2.30.tar.gz

tar zxvf driverloader-2.30.tar.gz
cd driverloader-2.30
sudo make install
sudo dldrconfig

NOTE: I done this against both the current kernel headers (linux-headers-386/linux-headers-686 or whatever you use) and a custom compiled kernel.

This allowed me to enter in my license details and then setup the card via GNOME.

=== Breezy Install Notes (x86) ===

Installed using the following parameters:

linux vga=771

Installation was fine. Only Problem I had after installation was getting the Wireless to work  using driverloader (NDISWrapper did not even entertain me!). Here is what happend:

I installed the kernel headers for my kernel and then driverloader. Upon the driverloader install it tried to compile the driverloader module but couldn't as it was looking for gcc-3.4. So I then installed the gcc-3.4 package. This allowed the module to be built but there was a problem inserting it into the kernel.

Upon checking dmesg it showed that it couldn't insert it as the magic number where different - this was due to it picking up gcc-4.0 for the module and the kernel was compiled with gcc-3.4 (this is due to the gcc symlink pointing to gcc-4.0 when compiling the module).

To solve this I ran the following:
cd /usr/bin
sudo rm gcc
sudo ln -s gcc gcc-3.4

NOTE: You could all use export CC=/usr/bin/gcc-3.4 and then run dldrconfig, but then you would have to do this each time a new kernel update came in.

This then allowed me to build the module and insert it. I then followed the standard procedure for setting driverloader up.

==== Notes (x86) ====
Most things in the Laptop just worked. which was pretty impressive due to the customisation I used to have to with other distros.

The Wireless Card (Intersil 3886) requires NDISWrapper or Linuxant to run correctly. This is due to no native Linux driver being available - prism54.org is working on one apparently.
Hibernation is not quite working.
It's not possible to query how much battery powers there is left, so applets will not work.

25/08/2005 - Johan, I can query how much battery power that is left <acpi -b>. This used to be a problem for me on other Distros but never on Ubuntu. The standard Gnome Battery Charge Monitor has always worked for me. If it doesn't work for you maybe we
can bang our heads together and work out why.

03/09/2005 - Dave: acpi -b just reads /proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/state which has the "present rate" field always set to 0 mA. I reported this on warty as http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=6628 and it's still present using breezy. Seems to be an ACPI interpreter incompability issue. Have you modified your ACPI bytecode or done something else to make it work?
I never got pcmcia cards working either, maybe it's a problem with my hardware, dunno.
I also tested hibernation on breezy and it seems to work just fine. I'm using the kernel command line option acpi_sleep=s3_bios, it might be needed, haven't tested without yet. --Johan
