{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Install via source drivers ==
* Install:	via-xserver-86a-50283_src.tgz
* OS:		Ubuntu 8.10
* PC:		HP2133 au version
* zd:		2d drivers only
* Date:		6/9/2009
* Author:	https://launchpad.net/people/ozfalcon

* NOTE: Recommended to use Ubuntu 9.04 & Version 86a-u904-50937 (26oct09) Binary Drivers.

<<BR>>
=== Synopsis: ===
Once installed, You can watch hardware scaled video. Something I was unable to do using the previous via or vesa drivers with 8.10.<<BR>>
Running two+ videos simultaneously still does not work. But overall desktop performance is much better than previous drivers or the vesa drivers. I am not sure of the current status of 3d integration....<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Note: vinstalls require root access (sudo)

=== Install required packages: ===
(Others would be better at determining exactly which packages are required)<<BR>>
sudo apt-get install subversion build-essential automake1.9 libtool pkg-config xserver-xorg-dev libxvmc-dev x11proto-gl-dev libglu1-mesa-dev autoconf libdrm2 libdrm-dev mesa-common-dev gettext libxinerama-dev x11proto-xf86dri-dev xutils-dev autoconf2.13 autoconf-archive gnu-standards autoconf-doc automake1.9-doc libtool-doc gcj automake

=== Get the source ready ===
Download via-xserver-86a-50283_src.tgz from http://linux.via.com.tw/
<<BR>>
Unpack the archive
	bunzip2 -c via-xserver-86a-50283_src.tgz | tar x
<<BR>>
Ensure full directory path contains no spaces.
<<BR>>
=== Compile the XServer drivers ===
	Read the README and follow to compile.
        Do not install (make install), The vinstall process will do that.

=== Compile the DRM kernel module ===
	Read the README and follow to compile.
        Do not install (make install), The vinstall process will do that.

=== Fix the vinst process ===
Copy the compiled files to "via-xserver-86a-50283_src/XServer/Misc/bin" for the vinstall script
<<BR>>
* Copy the just compiled kernel (DRM) module<<BR>>
	cp via-xserver-86a-50283_src/DRM/H5DRM_Independent_2.6.27_28/via_chrome9.ko via-xserver-86a-50283_src/XServer/Misc/bin

* Copy the just compiled X driver<<BR>>
	cp via-xserver-86a-50283_src/XServer/src/.libs/via_drv.so via-xserver-86a-50283_src/XServer/Misc/bin

* Notes (3D Driver)
	 We can't copy libGL.so.1.2		(Sourced elsewhere)<<BR>>
	 We can't copy via_chrome9_dri.so	(Sourced elsewhere)<<BR>>

=== Do the install ===
Run the vinstall script as sudo from the Misc folder.
	sudo ./vinstall_ubuntu
<<BR>>
add/modify entries in /etc/X11/xorg.conf
<<BR>>
Section "Device"<<BR>>
	BusID "PCI:01:00:0"<<BR>>
 	Option      "ActiveDevice" "LCD"<<BR>>
EndSection<<BR>>

=== Fixup libGL.so.1 ===
My libGL.so.1.2 seems to come from libgl1-mesa-glx, You may need to install this package.
I had to add a link for libGL.so.1 to enable X11/Xv playback in mplayer.
<<BR>>
	sudo ln -sf /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 /usr/lib/libGL.so.1<<BR>>
	sudo ldconfig<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Hold your breath and reboot! (or restart X)

=== Credits ===
Thanks to the people in this thread http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7887317
