{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact OsdeInfo
* Brand: Dell
* Model: Latitude D620

==== Hardware List ====

* OsdeInfo: DELL D620, Intel Core Duo, 512M RAM, 40G harddisk, DVD drive, WXGA 1280x800 TFT, Ethernet Broadcom(0000:09:02.0), Wifi (0000:09:04.0)
* LyndaMetref: Dell Latitude D620, Nvidia Quadro NVS 110M, WSXGA+ 1440x900TFT, Bluetooth, DVD+-RW Sony,1024M RAM, HD 200G
* Canglan: DELL D620, Intel Core 2 Duo T7200, 1GB RAM, nVidia Quadro NVS 110M, WSXGA+ 1440x900, 100G 7200rpm HDD, Wifi, Bluetooth, Fingerprint reader, Dock station
* AchimBohnet: D620 with intel builtin gfx card
* ArnaudQuette: D620,, Intel Core Duo T5500 @ 1.66GHz, Intel i945G integrated GPU, WXGA 1280x800 TFT, Ethernet Broadcom NetXtreme BCM5752 Gigabit, Wifi Intel 3945ABG, fingerprint chip
* ChadCannell: DELL D620, Intel Core 2 Duo T7200, 1GB RAM, nVidia Quadro NVS 110M, WSXGA+ 1440x900, 100G 7200rpm HDD, Wifi, Bluetooth, Fingerprint reader, Dock station
* StevenBell2: DELL Latitude D620, Intel Core 2 Duo T7200, 1GB RAM, nVidia Quadro NVS 110M, 1440x900 screen, 120G HD
* <nowiki>[[Huygens]]</nowiki>: Dell Latitude D620, Intel Core 2 Duo T5500 @1.66GHz, Intel i945G integrated GPU, WXGA 1280x800 TFT, Ethernet Broadcom NetXtreme BCM5752 Gigabit, Wifi Intel 3945ABG

=== Support of hardware ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-3 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Installation successful
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| Correct resolution? (WSXGA)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution? (WSXGA+)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration (Intel 945)
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration (Nvidia Quadro)
| Yes*
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes* (TwinView), No (i810), Yes (xrandr 1.2)
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-driver-i810/+bug/50243|Bug #50243]]</nowiki>
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes* (TwinView), Yes (xrandr 1.2)
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Yes* (TwinView), Yes (xrandr 1.2)
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes, see "ACPI Suspend and Hibernate" below
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes, see "ACPI Suspend and Hibernate" below
| 
|-
| Dim monitor?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes, see "Built-in Front Panel Microphone" below
| 
|-
| Built-in front mic
| Yes, see "Built-in Front Panel Microphone" below
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/42600|Bug #42600]]</nowiki>
|-
| <-3> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes*
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/66266|Bug #66266]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/62452|#62452]]</nowiki>
|-
| Wireless NIC hardware switch
| No
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Yes
| 
|-
| USB
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| Yes
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Yes
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| 
|-
| CD/DVD Rewriting
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| 
|-
| Keyboard backlight
| No
| 
|-
| Monitor Brightness Hotkeys
| Yes
| 
|-
| Parallel ports
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Yes (See Fingerprint reader below)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <-4> '''Fn key'''
|-
| '''Key'''
| '''Operation'''
| '''Works?'''
| Bug #
|-
| + Esc
| Stand By
| Yes, see "ACPI Suspend and Hibernate" below
| 
|-
| + F1
| Hibernate
| Yes, see "ACPI Suspend and Hibernate" below
| 
|-
| + F3
| Battery status
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| CRT/LCD
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| Switch 16:9/4:3
| No
| 
|-
| + Arrow Up
| Brightness +
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Arrow Down
| Brightness -
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| '''Key'''
| '''Operation'''
| '''Works?'''
| Bug #
|-
| Volume +
| Vol +
| Yes
| 
|-
| Volume -
| Vol -
| Yes
| 
|-
| Volume Mute
| Mute
| Yes
| 
|}

=== Dual Monitor and Dock Station Display ===

Please find the information regarding TwinView at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174 Please note that this method is only for nVidia cards.
Since xrandr 1.2, dual monitor works with intel cards.

=== ACPI Suspend and Hibernate ===

Both Suspend and Hibernate work reliably with some changes to /etc/default/acpi-support. Here are the steps, tested and working on both Dapper and Edgy. On Ubuntu Jaunty (Alpha 4) the Suspend/Hibernate have been tested successfully out of the box (meaning without configuring anything, just on a clean Jaunty install).

# First, restore the default `/etc/default/acpi-support` by running `sudo apt-get --reinstall install acpi-support`.
# Open `/etc/default/acpi-support` and make the following changes:
## `POST_VIDEO=false`
## `SAVE_VIDEO_PCI_STATE=true`
## `HIBERNATE_MODE=platform`
## Save your changes.
# Open `boot/grub/menu.lst` and look for the line that starts with `# defoptions=quiet splash`
## Do not uncomment this line! Leave it commented.
## If you see `acpi_sleep=s3_bios`, or any `acpi_sleep=blah` option on the commented defoptions line, remove it.
## Again, '''do not uncomment this line'''! It should look something like `# defoptions=quiet splash ` when you're done.
## Save your changes.
## Run `sudo update-grub`. Don't forget this.
# Do a full reboot of your machine. Log in to your desktop and then suspend the machine. If there are problems with coming back from suspend the first time, ignore them, reboot, and try again. Second time is the charm and you should have no further problems.

''Step one doesn't restore the default acpi-support file. ~StevenBell2''
''Worked sometimes for me in Feisty, doesn't work for me on Gutsy. ~StevenBell2''

=== Built-in Front Panel Microphone ===

Most Dell Latitude D620s have both a microphone jack and a built-in microphone. If you have the Intel High Definition Audio chipset, ALSA sometimes does not detect the built-in mic by default.

To see if this is the case, open your Volume Control, click Edit->Preferences, check the Input Source, Capture, and Capture Mux options, then click Close. Next, click the Options tab and look at the contents of the Input Source dropdown. If there is no item named "Front Mic", ALSA has missed your device and will never use your mic jack!

To fix this, add the line...

 `options snd-hda-intel model=ref`

...to the end of the file `/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base`, then reboot your machine. "Front Mic" should now be an available input source.

It seems to work out of the box with Jaunty (Alpha 4), however the sound is really low... You have to talk really close to the microphone.

=== ALPS GlidePoint Touchpad ===

Note: This is not needed for Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty)

Some (if not most) D620s come with an ALPS Glidepoint touchpad. This touchpad uses the "`synaptic`" xorg input driver, but has slower default acceleration settings than Synaptics-branded touchpads.

To see if you have an ALPS Glidepoint touchpad, run...

 `cat /proc/bus/input/devices | grep ALPS`

...and watch for output. If you see something like "`N: Name="AlpsPS/2 ALPS GlidePoint"`", you probably want to make your touchpad a bit faster.

To do this, run `sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf`. Find the `InputDevice` section containing a reference to the `synaptics` driver, and add the options as demonstrated below:

<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
   Identifier   "Synaptics Touchpad"   # Don't change this from whatever value you have set already.
   Driver       "synaptics"
   Option       "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
   Option       "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
   Option       "Protocol"              "auto-dev"

   Option       "LeftEdge"              "130"
   Option       "RightEdge"             "840"
   Option       "TopEdge"               "130"
   Option       "BottomEdge"            "640"
   Option       "FingerLow"             "14"
   Option       "FingerHigh"            "15"
   Option       "MaxTapTime"            "180"
   Option       "MaxTapMove"            "110"
   Option       "ClickTime"             "0"
   Option       "MaxDoubleTapTime"      "100"
   Option       "EmulateMidButtonTime"  "75"
   Option       "VertScrollDelta"       "20"
   Option       "HorizScrollDelta"      "20"
   Option       "MinSpeed"              "0.60"
   Option       "MaxSpeed"              "1.10"
   Option       "AccelFactor"           "0.030"
   Option       "EdgeMotionMinSpeed"    "200"
   Option       "EdgeMotionMaxSpeed"    "200"
   Option       "UpDownScrolling"       "1"
   Option       "CircularScrolling"     "1"
   Option       "CircScrollDelta"       "0.1"
   Option       "CircScrollTrigger"     "2"
   Option       "SHMConfig"             "true"
   Option       "Emulate3Buttons"       "on"
EndSection
</pre>

Save the file and close your editor.

'''Warning: Don't change the `Identifier` value of your touchpad device in xorg.conf unless you know what you're doing! Failing to change it properly could cause X to crash at startup, leaving you with no graphical environment.'''

Finally, log out. At the login screen, press CTRL-ALT-BACKSPACE. Your new touchpad settings should now be in effect.

Note: (ArnaudQuette) since "SHMConfig" is set to "true", one can use GUIs to do the same without having to restart the X server. simply install qsynaptics (Ubuntu) or ksynaptics (Kubuntu). I might check to make a gsynaptics someday.

=== Fingerprint reader ===
This works, in fact, for any laptop using a "Thomson Microelectronics Fingerprint Reader". To check your fingerprint reader type:
<pre>
sudo lsusb
</pre>

For Ubuntu Hardy (at least since July 27 2008) You just need to install the following packages: thinkfinger-tools  libpam-thinkfinger.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install thinkfinger-tools  libpam-thinkfinger 
</pre>
After this, you need to acquire a fingerprint sample to register your user:
1. Acquire the fingerprint with the command 
<pre>
sudo tf-tool --acquire
</pre>
It will ask for your fingerprint 3 times (or more if there are failed scans).

2.#2 Test your fingerprint 
<pre>
sudo tf-tool --verify
</pre>
It will tell you if the scan matches the one acquired above.

Finally, edit the file /etc/pam.d/common-auth by adding the following line BEFORE any other:
<pre>
auth    sufficient      pam_thinkfinger.so
</pre>

That's it; you are done. Upon your next reboot you will have your fingerprint reader enabled and available any time you needed to type your password.

For more information, read the original article: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ThinkFinger]]</nowiki>

Additional Information: <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_enable_the_fingerprint_reader_with_ThinkFinger#Intrepid]]</nowiki>

=== Notes ===

* on Feisty (ArnaudQuette): 
* wifi / sound / touchpad / multimedia keys work fine
* the only thing left to be done is to install i915resolution and call "sudo /etc/init.d/915resolution start" to get the right native resolution (1280 x 800 for me).

* Wireless NIC ipw3945 requires restricted-modules package to be installed.

LyndaMetref 2006-08-05 (Dapper):
* Graphics: Needs installation of nvidia-glx-drivers package to have working 3D accel.
* Wireless: Could not connect to a wep network
* lspci:

 0000:00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)

 0000:00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PCI Express Graphics Port (rev 03)

 0000:00:1b.0 0403: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)

 0000:00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 01)

 0000:00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 01)

 0000:00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 01)

 0000:00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI #1 (rev 01)

 0000:00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI #2 (rev 01)

 0000:00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI #3 (rev 01)

 0000:00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI #4 (rev 01)

 0000:00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01)

 0000:00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e1)

 0000:00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 01)

 0000:00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) Serial ATA Storage Controllers cc=IDE (rev 01)

 0000:00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 01)

 0000:01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation: Unknown device 01d7 (rev a1)

 0000:03:01.0 CardBus bridge: O2 Micro, Inc. OZ601/6912/711E0 CardBus/SmartCardBus Controller (rev 40)

 0000:09:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM5752 Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express (rev 02)

 0000:0c:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation: Unknown device 4222 (rev 02)
 
@Daniel Danek Szymanek

I had to install Intel Graphics driver to install Ubuntu.
Ubuntu detect Ethernet wired connection but the wireless driver didn't work. I had to use nadiswrapper but not from repository. I compiled ndiswrapper from source.

----

I had some problems with wireless that from some reports seemed to be because of a IRQ conflict with the NVidia.  Linux 2.6.20 seems to have a fix for that.  I updated to Feisty which had that version of the kernel and it worked.  I wouldn't necessarily recommend the Feisty upgrade, but if you can get 2.6.20 it should help.

=== Further Reading ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.linlap.com/wiki/Dell+Latitude+D620]]</nowiki>
