{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hanen Ben Rhouma|Hanen Ben Rhouma]]</nowiki>
* Make: Lenovo
* Brand: 3000 N500
* Model: 4233-47G
* Website: http://www5.pc.ibm.com/fr/products.nsf/$wwwPartNumLookup/_NS745FR?open&OpenDocument&epi=web_express

=== Current Issues ===
=== System Info ===
<pre>
 $ sudo dmidecode -s system-manufacturer
 LENOVO
 $ sudo dmidecode -s system-product-name
 423347G
 $ sudo dmidecode -s system-version
 Lenovo 3000 N500
 $ sudo lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Memory Controller Hub (rev 07)                                                                   
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset PCI Express Graphics Port (rev 07)                                                                
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 03)                                                                  
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)                                                                  
00:1a.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 03)                                                                  
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 03)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 03)
00:1c.5 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 6 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 93)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ICH9M LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E SATA AHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 9300M GS (rev a1)
02:00.0 System peripheral: JMicron Technologies, Inc. SD/MMC Host Controller
02:00.2 SD Host controller: JMicron Technologies, Inc. Standard SD Host Controller
02:00.3 System peripheral: JMicron Technologies, Inc. MS Host Controller
04:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5100 AGN [Shiloh] Network Connection
07:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetLink BCM5906M Fast Ethernet PCI Express (rev 02)
 $ lsusb
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 04f2:b090 Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 008 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 005: ID 04f3:0210 Elan Microelectronics Corp. AM-400 Hama Optical Mouse
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 0a5c:2150 Broadcom Corp.
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
 </pre>
Note: No fingerprint reader. The Broadcom is the Bluetooth. The Chicony is the webcam.
=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 9.04 x86
|-
| Screen
| Works
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes, WSXGA+ on this model
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| After System -> Administration -> Restricted Driver Manager
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| (keyboard control) Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Not Present
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes (including burning CDs at least)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card readers
| Untested
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Yes (see below)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 9.04 x86
|-
| + Esc
| Mute
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F1
| Vol down
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| Vol up
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Sleep
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Wireless?
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| External display
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Backlight down
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Backlight up
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Suspend to disk
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Up
| Stop (media)
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Down
| Play/pause (media)
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Left
| Next track (media)
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Right
| Prev track (media)
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 9.04 x86
|-
| Power button
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lenovo Care
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mute
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Vol down
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Vol up
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
|}
==== Notes ====

NOTE: If you do something wrong here, your laptop might emit a very loud and piercing sound when you boot up. Instead of running your laptop on a battery, connect it to the power and disconnect the battery by undoing both latches at the bottom and sliding it out. That way, if something is misconfigured, you can just pull out the power cable.

Setting up sound:
* Enable the ubuntu-backports repository. System -> Administration -> Software Sources -> Updates -> "Unsupported updates". See UbuntuBackports for more information.
* Upgrade everything and, if requested of you, reboot.
* Install the backports-modules. The simplest way to do this is to open a Terminal and paste in this command: <code>sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-`uname -r`</code>
* Edit the configuration. Paste this into a terminal: <code>gksu gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base</code> and after entering your password, a window will pop up.
* Add this to the bottom of the file:
<pre>
options snd-hda-intel single_cmd=1 model=lenovo
</pre>
* Save and close the file.
* Now paste this into a terminal: <code>sudo modprobe -rv snd-hda-intel && sudo modprobe -v snd-hda-intel</code>
* You should get one or two "remmod" lines and one or two "insmod" lines. If not, you at least have an error to go on.
* Press Alt-F2, type "alsamixer", and tick the "run in terminal" button.
* Unmute everything (use "M" to toggle mute and left and right to change channels) and turn the volume to, perhaps, 10%. (Use up and down to change the volumes.)
* System -> Preferences -> Sound and click on "Test".
* Go back to alsamixer and fiddle with the volumes until you can hear something.
* Congratulations! To change the volume, use the "PCM" channel. To mute/unmute your headphones, use the "headphone" channel. To mute/unmute your internal speakers, use the "Front" channel.
* To get your keyboard controls working, go to Sound Preferences and under Devices -> Default Mixer track -> Device, choose "HDA Intel (Alsa mixer)". Then choose "PCM" in the list below.
* To get your tray icon working, right-click and go to preferences, then choose the same options there.

Setting up video:
* Lenovo3000 webcam is supported by <nowiki>[[http://linux-uvc.berlios.de/|Linux UVC driver & tools]]</nowiki>
* In order to install the driver, you'll need subversion. Go to System->Administratrion->Synaptic Package Manager and find and check "subversion"
* To download the source code, open a terminal and type
 <code>svn checkout svn://svn.berlios.de/linux-uvc/linux-uvc/trunk linux-uvc</code>
* Now compile the code: navigate to the new directory ''linux-uvc'' and type
 <pre>
make
 sudo make install</pre>
 Webcam is ready to use
* To test the webcam, you need something that supports Video for Linux 2 (V4L2); e.g. Ekiga.
