{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[tweenk]]</nowiki>
* Brand: HP Compaq
* Model: TC1100
* Product website: http://h18000.www1.hp.com/products/quickspecs/11755_na/11755_na.HTML

=== Pending issues ===
* <code>echo /sys/devices/platform/tc1100-wmi/wireless</code> should print the current state of Wireless LAN (on = 1 / off = 0) - patch sent to kernel mailing list, should be in 2.6.29
* No rfkill support - patch sent to kernel mailing list, should be in 2.6.29
* Stylus buttons require a patch to wacom-tools
* SD card reader doesn't work

=== Known hardware ===
sudo lshw -short
<pre>
H/W path             Device     Class          Description
==========================================================  ==
                                system         HP Tablet PC Tx1100
/0                              bus            08B0
/0/0                            memory         106KiB BIOS
/0/4                            processor      Intel(R) Pentium(R) M processor 1.10GHz
/0/4/5                          memory         64KiB L1 cache
/0/4/6                          memory         2MiB L2 cache
/0/b                            memory         1GiB System Memory
/0/b/0                          memory         512MiB SODIMM DDR Synchronous 266 MHz (3.8 ns)
/0/b/1                          memory         512MiB SODIMM DDR Synchronous 266 MHz (3.8 ns)
/0/100                          bridge         82855PM Processor to I/O Controller
/0/100/1                        bridge         82855PM Processor to AGP Controller
/0/100/1/0                      display        NV17 [GeForce4 420 Go 32M]
/0/100/1d                       bus            82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #1
/0/100/1d.1                     bus            82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #2
/0/100/1d.2                     bus            82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #3
/0/100/1d.7                     bus            82801DB/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-M) USB2 EHCI Controller
/0/100/1e                       bridge         82801 Mobile PCI Bridge
/0/100/1e/5          eth0       network        PRO/Wireless 2200BG [Calexico2] Network Connection
/0/100/1e/6                     bridge         PCI1620 PC Card Controller
/0/100/1e/6.1                   bridge         PCI1620 PC Card Controller
/0/100/1e/6.2                   system         PCI1620 Firmware Loading Function
/0/100/1e/7          eth1       network        BCM4401 100Base-T
/0/100/1f                       bridge         82801DBM (ICH4-M) LPC Interface Bridge
/0/100/1f.1          scsi0      storage        82801DBM (ICH4-M) IDE Controller
/0/100/1f.1/0.0.0    /dev/sda   disk           120GB WDC WD1200BEVE-0
/0/100/1f.1/0.0.0/1  /dev/sda1  volume         23GiB Windows NTFS volume
/0/100/1f.1/0.0.0/2  /dev/sda2  volume         956MiB Linux swap volume
/0/100/1f.1/0.0.0/3  /dev/sda3  volume         17GiB Linux filesystem partition
/0/100/1f.1/0.0.0/4  /dev/sda4  volume         69GiB Windows NTFS volume
/0/100/1f.3                     bus            82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) SMBus Controller
/0/100/1f.5                     multimedia     82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller
/0/100/1f.6                     communication  82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Modem Controller
/1                   pan0       network        Ethernet interface
</pre>
sudo lspci
<pre>
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82855PM Processor to I/O Controller (rev 03)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82855PM Processor to AGP Controller (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 01)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 01)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 01)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-M) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 81)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801DBM (ICH4-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 01)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801DBM (ICH4-M) IDE Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) SMBus Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.6 Modem: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 01)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Go 32M] (rev a3)
02:05.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 2200BG [Calexico2] Network Connection (rev 05)
02:06.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCI1620 PC Card Controller (rev 01)
02:06.1 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCI1620 PC Card Controller (rev 01)
02:06.2 System peripheral: Texas Instruments PCI1620 Firmware Loading Function (rev 01)
02:07.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4401 100Base-T (rev 01)
</pre>

=== Achievements - results ===

(*) = needs additional setup

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">
| <|2> '''in Gutsy (7.10)'''
| <|2> '''in Hardy (8.04)'''
| <|2> '''in Intrepid (8.10)'''
| 
|-
| <-4 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''IMAGE'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Image seen on screen?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Graphic acceleration?
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
|-
| Compiz/Beryl work?
| No
| No
| Yes*
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
|-
| <-4 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''ENERGY'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| ?
| 
|-
| Suspends?
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes*
| 
|-
| <-4 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''AUDIO'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Sounds on speakers?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''CONECTIVITY'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Firewire
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PSTN Modem
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''POINTERS'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Detachable keyboard - trackpoint
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wacom digitizer - stylus
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wacom digitizer - side buttons
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| <-4 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''KEYBOARDS'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Detachable keyboard
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Local language characters
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Tablet keys
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''OTHER ASPECTS'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive reads
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive record
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Memory card reader(s)
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Live-CD boots until desktop?
| No
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Live-CD is functional/practicable?
| No
| 
| 
| 
|}

=== Notes and recipes ===

==== Suspend and hibernate ====
On Gutsy and Hardy, getting hibernation and suspend to work requires modifying <code>/etc/default/acpi-support</code> to have <code>POST_VIDEO=false</code> and <code>SAVE_VBE_STATE=false</code>. If proprietary NVIDIA drivers are in use, it additionally requires adding <code>Option "NvAGP" "1"</code> to xorg.conf in the <code>Device</code> section.

In Intrepid, I had some problems with the computer not coming back from hibernate. Sometimes it does and sometimes it doesn't - I haven't identified the cause yet.

==== Graphics ====
NVIDIA binary drivers version 96 is required to enable hardware acceleration, external monitor output and Compiz effects. On Gutsy and Hardy it had to be installed using Envy to get the recent version, on Intrepid it works after installing with Hardware Drivers. External screen works whe configured in xorg.conf i Gutsy and Hardy, not tested in Intrepid.

Beginning with Intrepid, the backlight is only turned off on battery. I think there should be some way to specify the DPMS blanking method.

==== Tablet buttons ====
In Gutsy and Hardy, keyboard configuration requires a lot of fumbling with xorg.conf to get the keymaps right for the tablet buttons and the external keyboard. Sometimes the mouse buttons on the detachable keyboard had wrong mapping (1 and 2 instead of 1 and 3). On Intrepid everything works correctly without any config.

There are 3 stylus-activated buttons which are reported through the digitizer's serial port as special packets of the form <code>C0 0n 00 00 00 00 00 00 00</code>, where n may be 1, 2 or 4. There's a patch (written by me) for wacom-tools on the LinuxQuestions wiki and on Linux Wacom Project's mailing list that turns those buttons into muse buttons 30, 31 and 32 which can then be mapped to arbitrary actions using xbindkeys.

==== ACPI features ====
The module tc1100-wmi provides backlight and wireless control. The command <code>echo 1 > /sys/devices/platform/tc1100-wmi/wireless</code> turns the wireless card on, the same with 0 turns it off. Theoretically, <code>cat /sys/devices/platform/tc1100-wmi/wireless</code> should print 0 if the WiFi is off and 1 if it's on, but this doesn't work - 0 is always printed.

==== Card reader ====
The card reader is integrated into the PCMCIA bridge and requires a firmware load to work. Texas Instruments has not provided any documentation on this part of the chipset. There are reports on the Gentoo Wiki of people enabling the reader using custom drivers, but I didn't succeed.

==== Connectivity ====
The infrared port is supported by <code>nsc-ircc</code>; it requires enabling in the BIOS setup, otherwise it won't work. I have successfully transferred a file from an infrared-equipped mobile phone. Wireless card is Intel IPW2200 but other configurations might have different cards, including IPW2100 and Atheros cards. All of them should work out of the box. Bluetooth works without any configuration and I can browse a Bluetooth-enabled mobile phone using it.

==== Docking station ====
Docking station for this tablet is purely hardware-based and doesn't need any software support.

=== See also ===
http://wiki.linuxquestions.org/wiki/TC1100

----
CategoryLaptop
