{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[AntoineL2]]</nowiki>
* Make: MSI
* Model: PR200-007
* Website: http://global.msi.com.tw/index.php?func=proddesc&prod_no=1208&maincat_no=135&cat2_no=270

=== Current Issues ===
ACPI Power management is not properly handled, Sound problem is fixed (see following). All other features are working properly (Intel Graphic Card, Wifi, Webcam, Bluetooth, Dual Screen)

=== Hardware details ===
* MSI PR200-007
* 12" ACV (Amazing Crystal Vision) Widescreen Display (1280*800)
* Intel Core 2 Duo
* 2GB Ram up to 4GB
* based on Intel GMA965 integrated graphic (shared memory)
* Touchpad, no trackpin. VGA, 100mbit Network, Modem, USBx3 (USB1&2)
* one pc-card slot, mmc reader. DVD/CD Writer.
* Built-in 1.3 Mega Pixel Webcam 
* Built-in Digital TV Receiver (optional)
* Audio jack, mic jack, HDMI.
* FigerPrint

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper (LTS)?
| in Gusty (7.10) ?
|-
| Installation works?
| ?
| yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper (LTS)?
| in Gusty (7.10) ?
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Yes, intel and mesa
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Yes (See Fix)
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Yes (See Fix)
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Yes (See Fix)
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| Yes after fix
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes after fix
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Finger Print Reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Untested
| Yes after fix
| 
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (LTS)?
| in Gusty (7.10) ?
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| Touchpad On/Off
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| brighten
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| darken
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| volume-
| 174
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| volume+
| 176
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| Mute
| 160
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Sleep
| 223
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (LTS)?
| in Gusty (7.10) ?
|-
| P1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| P2
| Activate Webcam
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Power
| 
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless
| 
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|}

==== Fixed Issues ====

===== ACPI =====
Bug description (Declared on LauchPad : <nowiki>[[[https:--bugs.launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-linux-source-2.6.22-+bug-147560|#147560]]</nowiki>])

Facts: Laptop
Chipset: Intel Santa Rosa 965PM
BIOS support: PnP, Supports ACPI 1.0b og 2.0
BIOS flashed to version 3.0E (the latest version)
Ubuntu version: Gutsy Gibbon 7.10

The bug is described as the following:
When the AC cable is plugged in then sometimes Ubuntu claims that the AC cable is unplugged and the laptop lid light is by result of this dampen.
And sometimes on battery with AC cable unplugged then Ubuntu claims that the AC cable is plugged in.

Possible fix: Add ec_intr=0 boot option to /boot/grub/menu.lst for the kernel you are using and reboot.

In Hardy, ec_intr boot option is no longer available. acpi=noirq boot option can be used instead. However, this fix disables brightness function keys.

===== Sound =====
The sound is nearly working properly with the initial installation. 

Problem : Internal Speakers are not muted when headphones or external 
speakers are plugged in.

To Fix this issue, Add the following line at the end of the /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base
<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base
</pre>
and add the following line at the end this files :
<pre>
options snd-hda-intel model=targa-dig
</pre>

====== PulseAudio ======

In Hardy it is recommeded to fix PulseAudio's behaviour a little bit. Guide to that can be found from http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578

===== Webcam =====
Work using USB Video Class : <nowiki>[[[http:--linux-uvc.berlios.de-]]</nowiki>] and pressing P2 button

Instruction for installation :
You need to install a few packages to compile the source 

<pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential kernel-headers make gcc subversion
</pre>
then get the source 

<pre>
svn checkout svn://svn.berlios.de/linux-uvc/linux-uvc/trunk linux-uvc
cd linux-uvc
</pre>

Then you have to edit the file Makefile
<pre>
gedit Makefile
</pre>
and replace the following line 
<pre>
INSTALL_MOD_DIR := usb/media
</pre>
by 
<pre>
INSTALL_MOD_DIR := kernel/ubuntu/media/usbvideo
</pre>
Save and then run 
<pre>
make && sudo make install
</pre>

Then don't forget to press the P2 button to activate the Webcam !

And the webcam should work !

===== Dual Screen =====
Remark : Due to limitation of the GMA 965 card, the dual screen cannot be fully working with 3D Desktop like Compiz. (Limiation of the total size of the screen to 2048*2048 px)

However, dual screen is properly working with xrandr 1.2 if your do not activate the Compiz Desktop 

For the MSI PR200 precise case, a solution "out of the box" with external LCD 19" screen, or projector (1280*1024), 
is given by the following instructions :

1. Do a backup of your xorg.conf (if there was any problem, then you can recover our previous configuration)
<pre>
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_safe
</pre>

2. open the /etc/X11/xorg.conf
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>

Replace the "Device", "Monitor", "Screen" and "ServerLayout" Sections of your previous /etc/X11/xorg.conf with the following lines
<pre>
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Option 		"MonitorLayout" "CRT,LFP"
	Option 		"Clone" "Off"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Philips 170S"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Philips 170S"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
		Virtual 2624 2048
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

EndSection
</pre>

3. Restart the X server
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
</pre>

Without any other manipulation, the external screen should be a cloned verion of the laptop screen. 

4. Then to launch the dual screen with External Screen (VGA) on the left of Laptop Screen (LVDS) type the folling comand in a command line :
<pre>
xrandr --output VGA --left-of LVDS
</pre>

For more informations and options, see <nowiki>[[[http:--www.intellinuxgraphics.org-dualhead.html|How to setup Dual Head for Intel Graphics with RandR 1.2]]</nowiki>]
