{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Andrew Henry
* Brand: HP
* Make : Pavilion
* Model: DV9297ea
* Website: http://www.hp.com

=== Current Issues ===
7.04 1440x900 resolution not working OOTB with nv driver.  There is a fix for this for i386 but not amd64 that has been released on the bug page: BUG 98703, but hopefully it will eventually make its way into the repositories.  This is not a problem when using the nvidia-glx driver.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:F.14
system-manufacturer:Hewlett-Packard
system-product-name:HP Pavilion dv9000 (RR358EA#UUW)
system-version:Rev 1
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty Release?
|-
| Installation works?
| Untested
| yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty Release?
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| yes* (see note below)
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| no, it suspends instead
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| yes, 2 step scaling
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| n/a
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| n/a
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| yes* (see note below)
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| n/a
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| yes, with SD
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty Release?
|-
| + Space
| n/a
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| n/a
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| Help
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| Print
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| Web
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Externel monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| sleep
| 
| Untested
| no (works ok in SW though)
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness down
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Brightness up
| 
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| Play
| 
| Untested
| no
| 
|-
| + F10
| Stop
| 
| Untested
| no
| 
|-
| + F11
| Previous
| 
| Untested
| no
| 
|-
| + F12
| Next
| 
| Untested
| no
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| n/a
| 
| Untested
| n/a
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| n/a
| 
| Untested
| n/a
| 
|-
| + ArrowRight
| n/a
| 
| Untested
| n/a
| 
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| n/a
| 
| Untested
| n/a
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgDown
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

This is the first version of ubuntu where almost everything has worked out of the box for me!  web cam/modem has not been tested and probably does not work, but Xorg nv driver works OOTB but only 1280x800 at the moment due to bug listed above.  Nvidia-glx works great, wireless Intel 3945 worked straight OOTB with NetworkManager!  Very impressive.  All hardware keys for volume control, brightness, touchpad on/off and mute work OOTB.  The media player controls do not work however.  Most problem free install I've ever done.

===== External monitor =====

External monitor works almost perfectly with nvidia-glx driver.  If you run nvidia-settings utility, you can use an external monitor in Twinview mode perfectly with right, left and below configurations, as well as clone.  I say almost perfectly:  If you connect the monitor when booting, then usplash is cloned perfectly, but when GDM starts, the laptop display blanks and only the external monitor works.  If you connect the external monitor after booting, it works perfectly.  Tested with a Hercules 17" LCD monitor.  I have not tested with the Xorg nv driver.

N.B. tested with Herd 5, not final release.

===== PCMCIA =====

I have tested a HP branded Yuan EC300 DVB-T TV tuner card which is a PC Express/34 card.  Dmesg shows that this card is correctly identified, but for some reason it gets 'unmounted' after a flurry of 'success' messages--it doesn't fail, it exits gracefully.  After much forum searching, I believe that the 'failure' is with the card itself, which leads me to believe that the actual PC Express/34 slot is working perfectly, and it depends on whether your specific card is fully supported by the kernel.

===== Hibernate & Sleep =====

These only seem to work properly with the nvidia-glx driver.  I have not been able to get them to work with the Xorg nv driver.  Hibernate does not actually hibernate in Feisty beta...it suspends instead...exact same behaviour as suspend when clicking the Gnome Shutdown button.

N.B. tested with Herd 5, not final release.

----
CategoryLaptop
