{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Few word about why those tests were performed ==
=== My first contact with Ubuntu ===
I've bought new laptop HP nx8220 PG802EA with Windows XP Professional pre-installed but I prefer work on the desktop with linux-based system.<<BR>>
I've chosen Debian Sarge (as I did it for my home workstation) but I've had problems with "not-so-fresh" kernel so I've decided to give a try to Ubuntu 5.04 (Hoary Hedgehog).<<BR>>
Instalation went smoothly so I've decided to keep it for longer.
=== Upgrades ===
In october, when ''Breezy'' have been released I decided to upgrade it immediately. So, I've edit ''/etc/apt/sources.list'' (hoary -> breezy) and launched ''sudo aptitude dist-upgrade''.<<BR>>
Again everything went (almost) smoothly. ''Breezy'' did not install properly with opensource ATI driver (ati), but I was using binary driver from ATI (fglrx) so I've had no problem with that. So, I've decided to keep Ubuntu for a little bit longer.<<BR>>
But I've started to use more and more features and polish my Ubuntu installation. I've tried to suspend/hibernate it, I've installed more software. <<BR>>
Encourage by all those things I've installed ''Breezy'' on my workstation at work (HP dc7600 USD) and I've given a try to Flight 3 of ''Dapper'' on my laptop. I was lucky that I've chosen to install it at this stage just because upgrading ''Breezy'' to ''Dapper'' Final at work went '''not''' so smoothly (all taken ''offical way'' ie. via ''update-manager'').<<BR>>
In fact I've needed almost 3 days to make it fully functional (I gave up with sound which came back to work with ''alsa-driver'' and kernel update).<<BR>>
Well, you can imagine my update to Edgy. Yes, it was quite edgy.
=== Conclusion ===
I've decided to share my experiences not only with what is working on my model of HP laptop, but also what can we expect while we'll try to upgrade it.
