{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: PTT
* Make: MEDION
* Model: MD 6200
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://www1.medion.de/downloads/]]</nowiki> - type in 6200 for this model

=== Current Issues ===

* ''Please can you post the output of `dmidecode` for this laptop'' -PaulSladen <pre>
$ sudo dmidecode -s system-manufacturer
$ sudo dmidecode -s system-product-name
$ sudo dmidecode -s system-version
</pre>
** Of course, see Hardware details.

* Microphone recording is on slider 'Capture', while direct microphone output is on slider 'Microphone'.
** ''This is most definately a bug, please file against `alsa` or `linux-source`.''  -PaulSladen
** Ok, it seems a bit strange to me, for recording from the microphone I have to use the 'Capture' channel, but for direct playback the 'Microphone' channel. There is also a 'Mic Select' with 'Mic1' and 'Mic2', but that doesn't seem to do anything. A bit more descriptive names or more documentation wouldn't hurt I think. I'll do some more research soon. Also see <nowiki>[[Sound-Problems-Mic]]</nowiki> -PTT
* Since I upgraded to Dapper and 1.25GB RAM suspend to disk doesn't work, that is, it does suspend, but when booting again it starts the normal way. I have 515 MB Swap, maybe that's the reason. I'll test  it with less RAM.
** ''Yes, suspend-to-disk works by paging the whole system out to Swap.  Depending on the actual usage of RAM you'll possibly need quite alot more Swap space than that!  :)'' -PaulSladen
** Here the problem is the swap partition isn't activated after recovering from/booting after hibernating. I can activate it by running `mkswap /dev/hda2` and `swapon -a`, only the last command gives `swapon: /dev/hda2: Invalid argument`. -PTT
** ''What is in `cat /proc/swaps`?'' -PaulSladen
*** now it contains hda2, after hibernation it's empty.<pre>
Filename                                Type            Size    Used    Priority
/dev/hda2                               partition       538168  0       -1</pre>
* Sleep (Suspend to Ram) isn't working with the `nvidia` driver. I does suspend, but doesn't come up right, with agpgart the screen turns on, but shows (beautifull) garbage, but reacts (at least) to Alt-SysRq-S-U-B. With nvagp the screen stays black, only the fan turns on, the power led even keeps flashing, and the system doesn't react to anything but a 4s power button press, after that power and battery have to be removed before being able to boot.

'''Low priority:'''
* CPU Throttle buttons don't work.
** ''Not really sure what to do about these.  They are pretty crackful and generally it's best to prevent direct user control of the FAN and CPU---on Ubuntu these should be scaled automatically as required.  I've seen your scripts below and I'll think on it...'' -PaulSladen
** The CPU throttling isn't usefull for automatical use, because it just forces N of 8 instructions to be HLT, so you can't use a part of your clock cycles. A bit useless nonetheless. -PTT
** ''What do you think about just mapping these to `KEY_PROG3` and `KEY_PROG4`?'' -PaulSladen
*** Seems right, is it detectable that these keys exist? -PTT
*** Yes, that's what the dmidecode data is used for: <pre>
        MEDION*)
        case "$name" in
******* FID2060*)
            . /usr/share/hotkey-setup/medion-md6200.hk
            ;;
        esac
        ;;
</pre> -PaulSladen
* Mail LED doesn't work (I never got it working under windows either, because the lack of MS Outlook).
** ''Could probably write a separate DBus utility and hope that Evolution sends some useful signals out (there's is a probably a libnotify applet that can be copied and extended with an option this this laptop model.'' -PaulSladen

'''Good work around, hard to really solve:''' (I think)
* Fans needs to be turned on and off before they turn off automatically (temperature based). It's very annoying but solvable with a small script, see below. Everything is working normally, but it is a lot quieter (but not silent) if the fans are 'off'. It's enough noise to keep me from running linux on it. But I guess for specific laptop problems people should look here on the wiki.
** ''Is this a ''need'' or just a ''it's quieter if they are'', my ThinkPad R52 spins the fan pretty much all the time and I think it's becoming more widespread, especially with faster CPUs'' -PaulSladen

PS. I had a irreversible hard disk error some weeks ago, with 'remounting readonly', so there's a chance not al problems are purely software related.

=== Hardware details ===
dmidecode:
<pre>
System Information
        Manufacturer: MEDION
        Product Name: FID2060
        Version:</pre>

* Intel Pentium 4 2.60 GHz
* nVidia GeForce FX Go5200 - 64 MB RAM
* 5.1 audio, Card: SiS SI7012, Chip: Realtek ALC650F (module: snd_intel8x0)
* 15" TFT XGA (1024x768)
* HD 40 GB Hitachi 4200 rpm / 2 MB
* 2 x 256 MB DDR PC 2700 Siemens -> Upgraded to 256 MB + 1 GB
* Samsung CDRW/DVD SN-324B
* Synaptic 4 button touchpad
* Neodio USB-Storage-CFC MMC/SD MSC SMC
* SiS 900 Fast Ethernet 10/100
* Intel 537AA Modem 56K V90
* Creatix CTX712 Wireless LAN miniPCI Card (Prism2, 802.11b)
* O2Micro OZ6912 CardBus-controller

* 1 x PCMCIA type II
* 2 x Cardreader (6 in 2)
* 4 x USB 2.0
* 1 x PS/2
* 1 x TV out
* 1 x VGA
* 1 x IEEE 1394 FireWire
* 1 x LAN (RJ45)
* 1 x modem (RJ11)
* 1 x COM
* 3 x mini jack, Front + Mic/Center + Line in/Rear
* 1 x Irda

* New mail LED

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Ok
| Untested
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Ok (nvidia)
| Ok (nvidia)
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Ok
| No, swap problem
| 
|-
| Sleep
| No (nvidia)
| Ok (nv) / No (nvidia)
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| No
| No
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Ok
| Ok (5.1 Untested)
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Ok, on 'Capture' instead of 'Microphone'
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Ok (tested with DV and HDD)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Ok
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| + F2
| Wireles On/Off
| Hardware
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| + F3
| Switch screen
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| Volume up
| 
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| + F5
| Volume down
| 
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| + F6
| Mute
| 
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| + F7
| Sleep
| 
| Untested
| Ok
| 
|-
| + F8
| Screen lightness up
| Hardware
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| + F9
| Screen lightness down
| Hardware
| Ok
| Ok
| 
|-
| + F10
| Start browser
| 
| Untested
| Ok
| 
|-
| + F11
| Start email
| 
| Untested
| Ok
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Throttle CPU down
| 
| 0x6b^*^
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Throttle CPU up
| 
| 0x6d^*^
| No
| No
| 
|}

* ) These scancodes are from /var/log/syslogd

* ''Could you give some information about what these keys do under MS Windows.  Do the throttle keys bring up a menu, switch between minimum and maximum or gradually go up and down like a volume or brightness control?  What happens when AC power or Battery is used;  do these over-ride the throttling?''  -PaulSladen

==== Notes ====
Under MS Windows, there is a utility that manages the CPU-throttling, it has eight states between you can switch, and a default for AC power and Battery. I didn't find it very usefull, but it would be usefull to bind these keys manually to something else. When an unknown key is pressed there can be a pop-up with a question where to bind it to.

Under MS Windows there is also a utility that turns the Mail LED on when new mail arrives, it requires MS Outlook.

I have a few scripts that I had on my debian, for making the throttle keys and the automatic fan control work:

'''cpu''' - bind the command 'cpu +' to scancode 0x6d and 'cpu -' to scancode 0x6b to make the throttle keys work. (On Debian I had made it working, didn't find it usefull so under Ubuntu I haven't made it working)
<pre>
CPUSPEED=`cat /proc/acpi/processor/CPU0/throttling|grep active|awk {'print $3'}|tr -d T`
case "$1" in
    +)
	if [ "$CPUSPEED" -gt "0" ] ; then
	    CPUSPEED=$(expr $CPUSPEED - 1)
	    echo -n $CPUSPEED>/proc/acpi/processor/CPU0/throttling
	fi
	;;

    -)
	if [ "$CPUSPEED" -lt "7" ] ; then
	    CPUSPEED=$(expr $CPUSPEED + 1)
	    echo -n $CPUSPEED>/proc/acpi/processor/CPU0/throttling
	fi
	;;
    0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7)
	echo -n $1>/proc/acpi/processor/CPU0/throttling
	;;
*** )
	cat /proc/acpi/processor/CPU0/throttling
	;;
esac </pre>

'''fan'''
<pre>
if [ -z $1 ] ; then
    cat /proc/acpi/thermal_zone/THRM/temperature
    echo -n -e "CPU Fan:\t\t "
    cat /proc/acpi/fan/FN1/state|awk {'print $2'}
    echo -n -e "GPU Fan:\t\t "
    cat /proc/acpi/fan/FN2/state|awk {'print $2'}
    exit 0
fi

if [ "$1" == "--help" ] ; then
    echo "fan on  - set fans on"
    echo "fan off - set fans off"
    echo "fan     - return temperature info"
fi

if [ "$1" == "on" ] ; then
    echo -n 0 > /proc/acpi/fan/FN1/state
    echo -n 0 > /proc/acpi/fan/FN2/state
elif [ "$1" == "off" ] ; then
    echo -n 3 > /proc/acpi/fan/FN1/state
    echo -n 3 > /proc/acpi/fan/FN2/state
elif [ "$1" == "onoff" ] ; then
    /usr/local/bin/fan on
    sleep 1
    /usr/local/bin/fan off
fi </pre>

'''silence''' - place in /etc/init.d, and link /etc/rc2.d/S21silence to it to turn off the fans on boot.
<pre>

case "$1" in
    start|reload)
	echo "switching the fans off"
	/usr/local/bin/fan onoff &
# rc_status -v
	;;
    status)
    	/usr/local/bin/fan
	;;
    stop)
	echo "switching the fans on"
	/usr/local/bin/fan on
# rc_status -v
	;;
esac
