{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[Tas50]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[jacen]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[PaulSwartz]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[Brandonwhite]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[adampope]]</nowiki>
* Make: Dell
* Brand: Inspiron
* Model: E1505
* Website: www.dell.com

1GB Ram,
80GB 7200rpm hd,
8x DVD-RW,
ATI Radeon X1400,
Intel ipw3945 WiFi,
Intel Core Duo (Dual Core) Centrino 

'''Note:''' This model is identical to Dell Inspiron 6400, but offers critical hardware differences. See LaptopTestingTeam/DellInspiron6400

=== Current Issues (for fixes see below) ===

* Video card problems\Incorrect screen resolution(fix)
* Bluetooth does not work out of the box (fix)
* Suspend does not work out of the box (fix)
=== System Info ===
<pre>

bios-version:A08
system-manufacturer:Dell Inc.
system-product-name:MM061
system-version:Not Specified

</pre>

* Mouse randomly locks up in x86_64(possibly kernel problem | no fix)
* Difficulty connecting to wireless network(fix)

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper 6.06.1?
| in Edgy Final x86?
| in Edgy Final x86_64?
| in Feisty?
| in Jaunty 9.04?
|-
| Installation works?
| Untested
| Yes
| Issues with mouse locking up (see below)
| Untestted
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-5> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-5> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper 6.06.1?
| in Edgy x86?
| in Edgy x86_64?
| in Feisty?
| in Jaunty?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes (fix below)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| No.  Max is 1024X768
| No.  Max is 1024X768
| Yes (fix below)
| Yes with 915Resolution
| Yes 1280x800
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Main screen turns off
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes. wireless problem on wake
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Option not available
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes (fix)
| Yes unable to wake
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| When lid closed it seems like it tried to sleep, but it was unable to wake
| No. Screen does not blank
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| No
| 
|-
| ExpressCard cards NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes (fix below)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| No
| No
| Yes (fix below)
| No
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| ExpressCard Cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-5> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper 6.06.1?
| in Edgy x86?
| in Edgy x86_64?
| In Feisty? 5
| in Jaunty 9.04
|-
| + Esc
| Standby
| 
| Does nothing
| Untested
| Yes
| No
| Yes unable to wake up
| 
|-
| + F1
| Hibernate
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes unable to wake up
| 
|-
| + F2
| Wifi
| 
| Does nothing
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Does nothing
| 
|-
| + F3
| Battery
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| CRT/LCD
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Eject CD
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| Sound up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgDown
| Sound down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + End
| Mute
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

==== Notes/Fixes ====
* Installation: Neither the LiveCD nor the alternate correctly detect this video card.  I was only able to install it using the text-mode installer.  When it boots into X, the screen is wrapped strangely, like the resolution is set incorrectly.  Editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf and using the "vesa" driver makes X work okay.  BinaryDriverHowto/ATI was successful in getting FGLRX running. --PaulSwartz
* Video Card:	The open source drivers supplied with edgy are decent and can get you by if you dont need 3d or gl. For those who want full use of their wonderful x1400 keep reading. For the x1400 ATI has not updated the driver that their online finder links to, so if you go to their site and look for your driver, make sure it is version 8.31.5 or higher. The driver that ATI links to for the mobility series does not support the X.org version in Edgy(7.1.1). Take method 2 of this tutorial, and remember to get the right driver: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide#Method_2:_Generating.2FInstalling_Ubuntu_packages_for_the_new_8.31.5_drivers_in_Ubuntu_Edgy_Manually|Edgy ATI Guide]]</nowiki>
* Mouse Locking Up: There is very little to be found on this error, but for this system it only seems to happen on x86-64 version 2.6.17 kernels. Until fixes arise for this problem, simply switch to x86 and it should go away. For those committed to using 64 bit OS's then use an older kernel. Better yet fix the problem and post here.
* Wireless Card: If you want to be able to choose networks through a gui, and dont like to manually input your essid's of routers, then install N4etworkMonitor, and it will place an icon in the top panel that will allow you to choose and switch routers.
* Bluetooth: running "sudo hciconfig hci0 reset" fixes Bluetooth.
* No mouse while typing: man syndaemon for more information
* Suspend: changing /etc/default/acpi-support to say "POST_VIDEO=false" and adding bluetooth to STOP_SERVICES makes the computer resume properly.

----
CategoryLaptop
