{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: DanielODonnell
* Make: Acer
* Brand: Aspire
* Model: 1410C
* Website: http://support.acer-euro.com/drivers/notebook/as_1410.html
* S/N: N/A

=== Current Issues ===

==== Negative ====

Two major issues:

1) Flight 6 hung when I put /etc/ in a separate partition (see below).

2) There is a long blue screen while the partitioner writes changes to the disk in Flight 6 in which nothing obvious is happening and things look like they've hung (of course you know something is going on if your disk LED is working, but it is still pretty scary, I imagine for a newbie). Some kind of graphic or even text saying "please wait while your changes are being written" would be a big help.

Minor issues:

1) The screen darkens more clumsily than in Breezy when focus goes to user intervention windows like "Grant access" or  "logout": in Breezy it was a graceful fade; in Dapper Flight 6 (updated to current Beta) it seems to jump in stages.

==== Positive ====

Things are much easier to use. In fact easier than you are likely to know, since there are so many websites telling you how to do things by hand that are now in the distro (i.e. make and install ndiswrapper).

Really a very good distro!

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| yes (see notes below)
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes but wrong resolution (requires Resolution 855)
| screen works but wrong resolution
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| No
| No: 768x1024 is only option given
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Don't know
| Don't know. Looks right
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Not initially; required changes to table and kernel
| YES!!!!
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Crashes even after changes to DSDT table
| YES!!!!
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Crashes ""
| YES!!!
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Out box
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Out box
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Crashes
| Screen blanks but otherwise remains power on.
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| No
| Not sure
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Out Box
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Out Box
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| <fn>+<up>=louder; <fn>+<down>=softer works
| <fn>+<up>=louder; <fn>+<down>=softer works
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Out Box
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Requires ndiswrapper and neti2220
| Not on installation. Requires ndiswrapper and neti2220. Wpa_supplicant
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Out Box
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| CD-ROM: Out Box
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Out Box
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wlan LED
| 
| Turns on Wireless
| I think it requires acerhk
| I think it requires acerhk (i.e. I didn't test it before installing acerhk)
| 
|-
| email (0xec)
| 
| programmable
| ditto
| ditto
| 
|-
| web (0xb2)
| 
| ditto
| ditto
| ditto
| 
|-
| "e" (0x9f)
| 
| ditto
| ditto
| ditto
| 
|-
| "P" (0x97)
| 
| ditto
| ditto
| ditto
| 
|}
==== Notes ====

The acer 1410 is quite similar to the 1680, except for the cpu: celeron m (1410) vs. centrino (1680). They do not share the same wireless card, but do share many other drivers.

I'm preparing a webpage describing step by step setup for this. Just need to clean up the notes in my personal wiki.

===== Hoary =====
Special keys either worked or were easy to tweak in Hoary.

===== Dapper (flight 6) =====

====== Installation ======

* ***Serious problems****

First time I installed, the reboot hung at "Mounting root file system". It went to black screen and reported: "*No inittab found \ Enter runlevel:_". This was from a clean install on a reformatted drive. The only odd thing was that I mounted /etc as a separate partition. I then tried reinstalling as OEM (worked, but didn't era oem user or ask for new info on reboot). And then finally using the "install to drive" option without a separate partition for /etc. This time it worked.

I have two quibbles about the installation:

===== Battery and Hibernation =====

Way to go. This now solves some real problems with 5.10 and other distros!

===== Touch Pad =====

Touch pad is extremely sensitive in Ubuntu (5.10 and Dapper). Much more so than in Windows.

===== Wireless =====

The wireless is much easier to set up, though there is so much odd and old information out there on the web, this is an area where some current instructions might we worth adding. I also wonder how hard it would be to use a form driven interface asking users what kind of wireless they have--googling suggests there may be about twenty or so main makes of internal wlan cards, with many duplicated under different names.

Anyway, in this case you need to do the following:

1) Ndiswrapper (apt-get)

2) Get neti2220 (available from various places including A802.zip at acer.be: )

3) Install wpa_supplicant

4) Edit `/etc/networking/interfaces` so that wlan0 is auto load. Here's mine:

<pre>
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system 
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).
# The loopback network interface

 auto lo
 iface lo inet loopback

 allow-hotplug wlan0

# The primary network interface
# auto eth0
 iface eth0 inet dhcp

 iface wlan0 inet dhcp
 auto wlan0
</pre>

5) Add `acpi=noirq` to the boot options. To do this you

a) Edit `/boot/grub/menu.lst`

b) Find the following section and add acpi=noirq at the end of the last line (i.e. after "ro"). '''Do not uncomment the line''':

<pre>
# ## BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
# # lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
# # by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

# # DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

# # ## Start Default Options ##
# # default kernel options
# # default kernel options for automagic boot options
# # If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
# # where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
# # e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
# #      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
# #      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro 
</pre>

c) Update the grub loader:

 <pre>
 sudo update-grub
 </pre>

6) Finally, you need to start `wpa_suppliant` and `wlan0` in the correct order:

 <pre>
 sudo ifdown wlan0
 sudo wpa_supplicant -Dndiswrapper -c /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf -i wlan0 -Bwd
 sudo ifup wlan0</pre>

7) Using 'wpa_gui' scan for available networks and enter password information if appropriate.
