{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Laptop model

** Make: MSI
** Brand: MSI
** Model: X320

  Website: http://www.msi.com/index.php?func=proddesc&maincat_no=135&cat2_no=&cat3_no=&prod_no=1780

=== Hardware details ===

* Processor: Intel Atom Z530 1.6GHz
* Memory:    2Gb DDR667
* Chipset:   Intel US15W (Poulsbo)
* Video:     Intel GMA500
* Screen:    13.4" 16:9 Wide Screen 1366x768
* Hard Disk: 320GB 7200rpm SATA
* WLan:      Ralink RL-3090 802.11b/g/n PCIe
* Lan:       ASIX AX88xxx Based USB 2.0 (internal)
* Mouse:     Touchpad
* Bluetooth: V2.0 VDR
* Sound:     Intel HDA (ALC888)
* Webcam:    1.3Mpx
* SD Card Reader

=== Current Issues ===
Front microphone doesn't work neither after installation nor updates.
Annoying messages about mmc card timeouts - in fact you can't use text console because of it. And your syslog just swells up. 

=== System Info ===

system-manufacturer: Micro-Star International

system-product-name: X320

system-version: Ver 1.000

Finally after all

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| Karmic Coala 9.10
|-
| Screen
| GOOD
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| 
| 
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| 
| 
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Suspend
| YES (but doesn't wake up)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| YES (see suspend)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Mic front
| NO
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| YES
| 
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Card reader(s)
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Web camera
| YES
| 
| 
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

So, finally all is perfect except front micro which is very handy for voice chats, sad.

=== Right after Ubuntu 9.10 installation ===
1. Wireless doesn't work

2. Generic VESA video resolution (acceleration doesn't work)

=== After update kernel from the official sources (as per 7.01.2010 right after installation - kernel 2.6.31-17-generic) ===
Same 

=== Further updates for 9.10 ===
1. Update from 
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/markus-tisoft/rt3090/ubuntu karmic main 
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/markus-tisoft/rt3090/ubuntu karmic main  
gives WiFi working properly (see https://launchpad.net/~markus-tisoft/+archive/rt3090)
Or you can just download the package from this build page and have it for manual installation if something goes wrong.
The card already supported in kernel 2.6.33 staging modules though, not in Ububtu supplied kernel.

2. After this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo/ (i've done old style steps)
graphics works exactly as it used to work and acceleration works properly - fullscreen glxgears 70 fps (thanks, guys).

3. Somehow sound has got disappeared at some point (after update or graphics module update - don't remember) - after some magic manipulations/packages re-installation (codecs/players) and selecting PulseAudio as default output in KDE i managed to get it working back.

=== Right after Ubuntu 10.04 installation ===
1. Wireless doesn't work
2. Generic VESA video resolution

=== Further updates for 10.04 ===
1. sudo mkdir /etc/Wireless ; sudo mkdir /etc/Wireless/RT2860STA ; sudo touch /etc/Wireless/RT2860STA/RT2860STA.dat ; reboot - wireless works perfectly (rt3090sta module needed this file, well - its been given to it)

2. Update video driver (http://code.google.com/p/gma500/wiki/PPARepository) - video works perfectly

----
CategoryLaptop
