{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact ===
* Contact: githlar at gmail.com
* Make: Dell
* Brand: Inspiron
* Model: 1525
* Website: http://www.dell.com/content/products/productdetails.aspx/inspnnb_1525?c=us&cs=19&l=en&s=dhs
* Description: Dell Inspiron 1525 with Windows Vista Ultimate and Dell MediaDirect 3.5 Preinstalled

=== Current Issues ===

* No BlueRay movie playback support. This is not a laptop-specific issue, but a copyright issue. This should be stated for those wanting to run solely Ubuntu on an Insprion 1525 with the BlueRay Combo Drive option.
* The card reader only supports SD cards in Ubuntu. Again, this is not a laptop-specific issue. The card reader driver built into the Linux kernel only has SD capability.

=== System Info ===

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub (rev 0c)<<BR>>
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)<<BR>>
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)<<BR>>
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1c.4 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 5 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev f2)<<BR>>
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801HEM (ICH8M) LPC Interface Controller (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) IDE Controller (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) SATA AHCI Controller (rev 02)<<BR>>
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 02)<<BR>>
02:09.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Ricoh Co Ltd R5C832 IEEE 1394 Controller (rev 05)<<BR>>
02:09.1 SD Host controller: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro Host Adapter (rev 22)<<BR>>
02:09.2 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C592 Memory Stick Bus Host Adapter (rev 12)<<BR>>
02:09.3 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd xD-Picture Card Controller (rev 12)<<BR>>
09:00.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8040 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller (rev 12)<<BR>>
0b:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN [Kedron] Network Connection (rev 61)<<BR>>
0c:00.0 Multimedia controller: Broadcom Corporation Device 1612 (rev 01)

=== Hardware Details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <|2 tablewidth="75%"> '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in '''8.10 Intrepid Ibex'''
|-
| <-3> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| 1440x900
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Yes
| 
|-
| TV Out
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes (Only the left-most jack)
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Works with iwlagn module out-of-box
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = Double Click
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| N/A
| 
|-
| Parallel
| N/A
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes (BlueRay Combo Drive)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Integrated Web Camera
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 8.10
|-
| + F1
| Hibernate
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| Battery Status
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| CRT/LCD
| 
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Up/Down Arrows
| Brightness Control
| 
| Yes
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
* I added the optional BD-RE combo drive to mine. I've burnt DVD's and CD's with it. I have not tried burning a BluRay data disk.
* As of 2009-01, Dell does not support Ubuntu 8.10

----
CategoryLaptop
