{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I installed ubuntu dapper 6.06 on my notebook with the "alternative" version of the i386 iso because the live cd didn't work. 
The installation goes right.
The only things that doesn't work are:

- the reboot that hangs on a blank screen

- the Ati X600 videocard isn't installed

The only solution i found for the reboot problem is to install the Edgy Eft kernel, substituting (only for this operation) the Dapper source.list archives with Edgy. (Simply substituting with gedit "dapper" with "edgy"). 
I apt-got the 2.16.17 kernel source.
Then i installed and recompiled my new kernel and rebooted. (Obviously crashed again)
The computer, since the first boot with the new kernel, is able to reboot like a normal pc.
I followed this tutorial:

http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249921&highlight=edgy+kernel+on+dapper

For the ati drivers, i installed the official ones from the ati official website.
I followed this wiki:
 
http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide

A suggestion for newbies like me is to follow method 2 and to  give a look to the section Troubleshooting for method2. It explains how to compile fglrx driver with an "homemade" kernel.
