{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: ActiuInformatica
* Brand: Hundyx
* Model: W765S
* Product website: http://www.hundyx.net/Producto/Configuradores/Hundyx%20W765S.html

=== Pending issues ===

* Full resolution with repositories' graphics driver for SiS VGA (1366x768 or 1368x768?)
* 3D acceleration with any graphics driver
* Good detection of "BisonCam NB Pro" (videocamera) for uvcvideo/V4L2
* Is needed to gnome-sound-recorder autodetect the Mic capture channel for good testing

=== Known hardware ===
'''sudo lshw -short'''
<pre>
H/W path      Device      Class       Description
=================================================  ==
                          system      W7x0S
/0                        bus         W7x0S
/0/0                      memory      107KiB BIOS
/0/4                      processor   Pentium(R) Dual-Core CPU       T4300  @ 2.10GHz
/0/4/5                    memory      16KiB L1 cache
/0/4/6                    memory      1MiB L2 cache
/0/7                      memory      1MiB L3 cache
/0/e                      memory      4GiB System Memory
/0/e/0                    memory      2GiB DIMM DRAM Synchronous
/0/e/1                    memory      2GiB DIMM DRAM Synchronous
/0/100                    bridge      671MX
/0/100/1                  bridge      SiS AGP Port (virtual PCI-to-PCI bridge)
/0/100/1/0                display     771/671 PCIE VGA Display Adapter
/0/100/2                  bridge      SiS968 [MuTIOL Media IO]
/0/100/2.5                storage     5513 [IDE]
/0/100/3                  bus         USB 1.1 Controller
/0/100/3.1                bus         USB 1.1 Controller
/0/100/3.3                bus         USB 2.0 Controller
/0/100/4      eth0        network     191 Gigabit Ethernet Adapter
/0/100/5      scsi0       storage     SATA Controller / IDE mode
/0/100/5/0    /dev/sda    disk        160GB FUJITSU MJA2160B
/0/100/5/1    /dev/cdrom  disk        DVD-RAM UJ890AS
/0/100/5/1/0  /dev/cdrom  disk        
/0/100/6                  bridge      PCI-to-PCI bridge
/0/100/7                  bridge      PCI-to-PCI bridge
/0/100/7/0                generic     SD/MMC Host Controller
/0/100/7/0.2              generic     Standard SD Host Controller
/0/100/7/0.3              generic     MS Host Controller
/0/100/f                  multimedia  Azalia Audio Controller
/0/100/1f                 bridge      PCI-to-PCI bridge
/0/1          scsi4       storage     
/0/1/0.0.0                disk        SCSI Disk
/1                        system      
</pre>

'''sudo lspci'''
<pre>
00:00.0 Host bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 671MX
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] SiS AGP Port (virtual PCI-to-PCI bridge)
00:02.0 ISA bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] SiS968 [MuTIOL Media IO] (rev 01)
00:02.5 IDE interface: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 5513 [IDE] (rev 01)
00:03.0 USB Controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 1.1 Controller (rev 0f)
00:03.1 USB Controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 1.1 Controller (rev 0f)
00:03.3 USB Controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 2.0 Controller
00:04.0 Ethernet controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 191 Gigabit Ethernet Adapter (rev 02)
00:05.0 IDE interface: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] SATA Controller / IDE mode (rev 03)
00:06.0 PCI bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] PCI-to-PCI bridge
00:07.0 PCI bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] PCI-to-PCI bridge
00:0f.0 Audio device: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] Azalia Audio Controller
00:1f.0 PCI bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] PCI-to-PCI bridge
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 771/671 PCIE VGA Display Adapter (rev 10)
03:00.0 System peripheral: JMicron Technology Corp. SD/MMC Host Controller (rev 20)
03:00.2 SD Host controller: JMicron Technology Corp. Standard SD Host Controller (rev 20)
03:00.3 System peripheral: JMicron Technology Corp. MS Host Controller (rev 20)
</pre>

'''sudo lsusb''' (without any external device)
<pre>
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 5986:0241 Acer, Inc 
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
</pre>

'''From docummentation'''
* Chipset SiS M672 + SiS 968
* LCD screen: 15,6” HD 16:9 Wide Screen (1366x768) TFT
* Memory: 2 sockets SODIMM 200Pin DDRII 667MHz, up to 2GiB
* Graphics: Integrated in chipset SiS M672 (shared memory up to 256MiB, 2D/3D acceleration), WebCam (2Mpx)
* Audio: integrated microphone, Mic jack, Headphone jack, S/PDIF jack
* Card slots: 7-in-1 (MMC/RSMMC/SD/MiniSD/MS/MS Pro/MS Duo), ExpressCard 54(34), internal MiniCard for USB and PCI-Express
* Connectivity: Ethernet 8P8C/RJ45 100mbps, wireless 802.11b/g, optional Bluetooth V2.0

=== Achievements - results ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">
| <|2> '''in Hardy (8.04)'''
| <|2> '''in Jaunty (9.04)'''
| <|2> '''in Karmic (9.10)'''
| <|2> '''in Lucid (10.04 in development)'''
| 
|-
| <-5 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''IMAGE'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Image seen on screen?
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| Correct resolution/refresh?
| 
| No*
| No*
| 
| 
|-
| Graphic acceleration?
| 
| No*
| No*
| 
| 
|-
| Compiz/Beryl work?
| 
| No
| No
| 
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| 
| 
| Yes*
| 
| 
|-
| <-5 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''ENERGY'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Suspends?
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity?
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Blank monitor when closing lid?
| 
| 
| Yes*
| 
| 
|-
| <-5 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''AUDIO'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Sounds on speakers?
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| Phisical volume roll/key works?
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| 
| 
| No*
| 
| 
|-
| <-5 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''CONECTIVITY'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| 
| Yes*
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| 
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
| 
|-
| Firewire
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| PSTN Modem
| 
| 
| No*
| 
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| 
|-
| <-5 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''POINTERS'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Touchpad
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| External mouse - RS232/Serial
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| 
|-
| External mouse - MiniDIN/PS2
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| 
|-
| <-5 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''KEYBOARDS'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Local language characters
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| External - USB
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| External - MiniDIN/PS2
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| 
|-
| ''Function'' keys
| 
| 
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| ''Fn'' Special keys (bright, volume)
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| <-5 rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD"> '''OTHER ASPECTS'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| 
|-
| (once installed) CD/DVD drive reads
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| (once installed) CD/DVD drive record
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Parallel Port
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| N.A.
| 
|-
| Memory card reader(s)
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Integrated videocamera
| 
| Yes*
| No*
| 
| 
|-
| Live-CD boots until desktop?
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| Live-CD is functional/practicable?
| 
| No*
| Yes*
| 
| 
|}

=== (*) Notes and recipes ===

==== Correct resolution/refresh ====
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope): You can ask to Cioce for a driver, but only supports 32-bit kernel. The Ubuntu's driver works at 800x600 normally, and 1024x768 if there is an external monitor working. Often the Live-CD boots with a cut/phased image, and change to 640x480 and restore 800x600 is needed.

==== Graphic acceleration ====
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope): You can ask to Cioce for a driver, but only supports 32-bit kernel and only solves the resolution issue and for the moment only for this Ubuntu version.
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.10 (Karmic Koala): As with Ubuntu 9.04 , starts on 800x600 with 2D acceleration with the distribution's driver.

==== External monitor works ====
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.10 (Karmic Koala): Ubuntu's driver sets the integrated screen (LCD) at 1024x768 , and external monitor at 800x600 , but doesn't manage the monitor's presence.

==== Blank monitor when closing lid ====
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.10 (Karmic Koala): Also suspends

==== Mic jack ====
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.10 (Karmic Koala): gnome-sound-recorder doesn't capture the voice

==== Wired NIC ====
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope): Not stable. Sometimes after DHCP configuration cannot stablish communication to anything. The same times NetworkManager doesn't detect an unplugged cable.

==== Wireless NIC ====
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope): Activation required with keyboard.
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.10 (Karmic Koala): Activation required with keyboard.

==== PSTN Modem ====
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.10 (Karmic Koala): Pending to try scanmodem utility, but in the help's chapter 6 tells about a "Network" connections tool not available in the System-Administration menu.

==== Integrated videocamera ====
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope): Cioce provides a Michael Wang's patch for UVCvideo to compile and works, but you will need to recompile it on each kernel update and it's only for Jaunty kernels.
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.10 (Karmic Koala): You can try with the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8682964|Michael Wang's patch for UVCvideo]]</nowiki>, but you will need to recompile it on each kernel update and it's only for Karmic kernels.

==== Live-CD is functional/practicable ====
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope): At 800x600 resolution, and often with the image moved/cut.
* Ubuntu GNU/Linux 9.10 (Karmic Koala): At 800x600 resolution.

=== See also ===

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/513438|Bug about incorrect resolution]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://estebanordano.com.ar/dual-monitors-setup-xorg-conf-para-la-tarjeta-sis-m672-en-linux-debian/|xorg.conf for the graphics in Debian]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.sis.com/products/sism672.htm|SiS M672 manufacturer page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxconsulting.ro/xorg-drivers/|SiS 671 XOrg driver]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsisvga.shtml|Open source driver for SiS graphics]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam|Other tested laptops]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryLaptop
