{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: FredrikStahl
* Brand: Fujitsu Siemens
* Make : Lifebook
* Model: P7120
* Website: http://www.fmworld.net/globalpc/products/lifebook.html

=== Current Issues and Solutions ===
Based on Feisty :
* After install the screen resolution is 1024x768. To get 1280x768 simply install 915resolution, no extra configuration is needed.
* Fingerprint reader and eco button are not supported as far as I know but I haven't tried them.
* Suspend to ram works but the only strange thing is that the backlight doesn't come back on automatically, so one has to change the brightness with Fn+F6 or Fn+F7 after resuming. 
* Setting the brightness to anything else than the brightest setting results in a low whirring noise. This might have become a bit louder with time, I'm not sure.
* There are problems with the internal mic and volume control, see the bug https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/62891. The issues are:
** Internal speakers are muted on first boot. Activate them in Volume Control, then it works even after a reboot (well, it does on my computer).
** The master volume only controls headphone volume, not internal speakers. A partial work around is to set the volume applet to control the internal speakers instead. The Fn keys are still connected to the master volume, I don't know how to change that (and that's not a fix of the real problem anyway). Update: volume and mute keys work perfectly under Feisty.
** External microphone works after turning on capture in Volume Control and setting the jack mode to Mic (note that you need to mark the appropriate controls under settings first to be able to see them).
** The internal mic does not work, it only gives static noise.
* To disable touchpad while typing, add the following to `/etc/rc.local`:
<pre>
 syndaemon -d -i 1 -k
</pre>
 Update: this does not work since syndaemon needs an active X session. A better idea is to place it in a script, e.g., `~/.gnome-login` and add it as a startup script in the gnome session manager.
* External monitors work by default in single mode (press Fn+F10 repeatedly). In double mode the external view often has a severe cyclic distortion due to the frequency being 60 Hz, which many monitors cannot handle properly. The good news is that it can be fixed by proper configuration and using ''gdmflexiserver''. There is an excellent description of how to do this at HowtoSetupExternalMonitorForIntel915. Alternatively, you can use the ''gnome-display-properties'' utility to set your display resolution to one acceptable for your external display before switching (Fn+F10), if you are like me, only using occasionally an external display.
* Wireless interface ipw2100 will not correctly resume for a suspended state unless you tune you /etc/default/acpi-support as indicated in https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/115743

 FredrikStahl: This has not been a problem for me, but my P7120 has an Intel PRO/Wireless 2915ABG with driver ipw2200.
* Bluetooth file transfer works under Feisty. Here's how to activate it:
** Set ''security auto'' and a personal key in `/etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf`, and run `sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth restart`.
** Run `sudo hcitool scan` to check if any external bluetooth devices are found.
** Now it should be possible to pair from an external device.
** Install ''gnome-bluetooth'' and use ''Applications``:Accessories``:Bluetooth`` file sharing'' to transfer files.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:Version 1.12
system-manufacturer:FUJITSU SIEMENS
system-product-name:LIFEBOOK P7120
</pre>

As reported by '''lshw''':
<pre>
    description: Notebook
    product: LIFEBOOK P7120
    vendor: FUJITSU SIEMENS
    version: P7120
</pre>

=== Hardware Details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| dist-upgrade works?
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-4> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Yes*
| Untested
| Yes*
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/62891|62891]]</nowiki>
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Internal mic
| No
| No
| Untested
| No
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/62891|62891]]</nowiki>
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| Untested
| Yes*
| Untested
| Yes*
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-4> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
|-
| + F3
| Mute
| 
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/62891|62891]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F4
| Mouse?
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| Screen stretch/crop
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Brightness down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Volume up
| 
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/62891|62891]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F9
| Volume down
| 
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes*
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/62891|62891]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F10
| Toggle external monitor
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Arrow Up
| Page Up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Arrow Down
| Page Down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Arrow Right
| End
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Arrow Left
| Home
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Num Lock
| Scroll Lock
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Insert
| Print Screen
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Delete
| Sys Rq
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-4> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
|-
| Wireless button
| Toggle wireless
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Eco button
| Fujitsu WinXP feature
| 
| No
| No
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Remaining Checks ====

* external monitor extend mode
* pcmcia
* firewire
* modem
* infrared
* remaining function keys
* cdrom/battery hotswap

----
CategoryLaptop
