{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[WilliamGrant]]</nowiki>
* Brand: Dell
* Model: Inspiron 630m

=== Current Issues ===
* Dapper and above support the SD and MMC component of the card reader. xD and MemoryStick support doesn't work at the moment.
* The modem will not work at the moment. It is part of the sound card, with the Connexant chipset. This is currently not supported by the kernel. However, the commercial Linuxant drivers work with the modem, if you wish to purchase them.
* The WiFi light (green) does not currently work. This is bug <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/21367|#21367]]</nowiki>. The Bluetooth light works out of the box.
* The microphone jack doesn't work at all out of the box. It's an ALSA bug which has been fixed upstream, and a workaround is available in footnote *5 below.
* *Mic is also not working in Feisty clean install
* I have Just Instaled Feisty 7.04 - Suspend to RAM is not working any more bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/108349|#108349]]</nowiki> - Note (extremecarver) - 2 days ago Suspend with Feisty worked for me, after several various changes now it doesn't work anymore. This is related to i810driver and solved in video-intel. Screen goes black and 1 second later comes back and failure notice about suspend. So if you don't mind about dual monitor setup or ever using external monitor install video-intel from the repositories as a replacement for i810 driver.
* External Monitor works with i810 driver but is a pain to setup. Cloned mode doesn't work well and in both clone and dualhead extended desktop the laptop monitor must rest the prominent monitor with the taskbars. I followed this setupguide http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=361124. At the moment clone mode works for me only in 50hz on both monitors. S-Video should work too. The setup described in the thread should work for dapper and edgy too. With video-intel (modesetting driver - in Feisty universe) externel monitor works with 1280x800 and can not be used without laptop screen, also note that it only works with the same refresh rate as laptop screen (bad for CRTs). Laptop screen only with CRT plugged in works though. Also note that currently changing between the monitors on the fly involves logging out and restarting x. This should be changed with xorg 7.3 (not yet final).

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-5> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| No-*1
| No-*1
| No-*1
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/63560|#63560]]</nowiki>
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes-*4
| Yes-*4
| Yes-*4
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes-*4
| Untested
| Yes-*4
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Yes-*4
| Untested
| yes-*6
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes (only with video-intel)
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| CPU frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| No
| No-*5
| Untested
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/42600|#42600]]</nowiki>
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yesd
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| ExpressCards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes-*2
| Yes-*2
| Yes-*2
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
|-
| + Esc
| Standby
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F1
| Hibernate
| e00a
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| Wireless
| e008
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| Battery Status
| e007
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| CRT/LCD
| e00b
| Yes?
| Yes
| Yes-*6
| 
|-
| + F10
| Eject
| e009
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| Volume Up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgDn
| Volume Down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + End
| Volume Mute
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Up
| LCD Brightness Up
| e006
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Down
| LCD Brightness Down
| e005
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
|-
| MediaDirect
| Open MediaDirect (or other media player)
| e012
| Yes-*3
| Yes
| Yes-*3
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
* ''*1'' - 915resolution is required to set the monitor to the proper (1280x800) resolution.
* ''*2'' - Dapper and above at least support SD cards, however xD/MemoryStick cards do not work at the moment.
* ''*3'' - You have to manually assign it to the Multimedia Player in Gnome Keyboard Shortcuts. In KDE it works out of the box (opens amarok).
* ''*4'' - Works - see on top, if video-intel is installed it works only in mode 1280x800 and extend desktop did not work for me at all. With i810 mirror will only work with the same display refresh rate which prohibits proper use of CRT Displays.
* ''*5'' - This is due to  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/42600|bug #42600]]</nowiki>, and is fixed in the latest version of ALSA. A workaround is to add "options snd-hda-intel model=ref" to the end of /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.
* ''*6'' - Works only with video-i810 (standard installation Feisty) - With the recommended video-intel driver (universe) it doesn't work

----
CategoryLaptop CategoryLaptop
