{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Contact: Hazica2, phaleg
* Make: Fujitsu Siemens
* Brand: Esprimo Mobile
* Model: v5505
* Website: http://www.fujitsu-siemens.com/products/mobile/notebooks/esprimo_mobile_v.html

=== Current Issues ===

=== System Info ===
<pre>
system-manufacturer: FUJITSU SIEMENS
system-product-name: ESPRIMO Mobile V5505
system-version: 20
bios-version: R01-A0X
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Gutsy Gibbon (current stable)?
| in Hardy Heron (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes - the resolution of the laptop display becomes that of the external monitor
| Yes - See Notes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Yes - See Notes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Yes - See Notes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes - but does not cut the speakers (easily fixable)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Gutsy Gibbon (current stable)?
| in Hardy Heron (current development)
|-
| + F1
| Wireless switch
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F3
| Mute
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Volume Down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Volume Up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock Touchpad
| 
| Yes - But unable to unlock touchpad
| Yes - But unable to unlock touchpad
| 
|-
| + F7
| Camera
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| No
| 
|-
| + F9
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| No
| 
|-
| + F10
| External Monitor
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F12
| Sleep
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Insert
| Print Screen
| 
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Del
| Sys Rq
| 
| No
| Acts as Print Screen
| 
|}
==== Notes ====
Basically everything worked out of the box except for the sound which had to be configured independently (see <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588089]]</nowiki>).
Manual configuration of the sound hardware is no longer necessary in Hardy Heron.

Compiz also works quite smoothly.

The V5505 has troubles with the load/unload cycles of the hard drive. See the bug report <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpi-support/+bug/59695]]</nowiki>.

To fully understand the nature of the issue, it is advisable to thoroughly read <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3675960&postcount=26]]</nowiki>. This post provides you with information on how to diagnose and fix the issues.

(and now, some MS bashing: Should you be thinking of escaping this issue by changing to Windows, I feel obliged to inform you that - at least with my current bios version/ device drivers - Vista suffers from very much the same problem, except for the fact that there is no solution that I'm aware of, and there is also no information regarding this fault on the FujitsuSiemens driver download page.)

Using an external Monitor works in general. However, in order to use mirror- or big desktop-mode, you have to adjust your "Screen" section in /etc/X11/xorg.conf so that it looks something like this:
<pre>
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
		Virtual		2048 2048
	EndSubSection
EndSection
</pre>
However, the desktop size (which includes the internal monitor and the external monitor) is limited to 2048x2048 (which seems to be the maximum value that is supported by the driver).
