{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== CPU Scaling Fix ===
Please be careful when editing these files. You can break the boot load process if you make a mistake.

1. Open a Command Line Terminal, type the following:
<pre>
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
</pre>  
This will bring up the grub boot menu configuration file.<<BR>>

2. Scroll to the bottom of the file and you'll find several boot options.<<BR>>
Go to the first.<<BR>>
This is a sample of what to look for:<<BR>>
~-<pre>
title           Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-16-generic
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-16-generic root=UUID=1dd1d295-9c26-4b2b-a242-6f9cafad3157 ro quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-16-generic
</pre>-~

3. "Insert" our acpi_osi="!Windows 2006" option.<<BR>>
The end result should look something like this:
~-<pre>
title           Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-16-generic
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-16-generic root=UUID=1dd1d295-9c26-4b2b-a242-6f9cafad3157 ro acpi_osi="!Windows 2006" quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-16-generic
</pre>-~

4. Save your file and exit the editor. You will need to reboot for the changes to take effect.

REMEMBER - These are just examples. You need to modify whats on your OWN system.<<BR>>
Do NOT just cut and paste what you see here into your own /boot/grub/menu.1st file.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
This will enable CPU speed scaling, helping preserve the Mini-Note's battery life.<<BR>>
For more information about this bug (which is in the kernel, and not specific to the Mini-Note) see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/linux/+bug/177076|this link]]</nowiki>.
