{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Contact: Joshua Welch 
Brand: Gateway
Make : ARC
Model: 200
Website: pricewatch.com
S/N: Only needed if you have a Canonical supplied laptop 
Current Issues
System Info
bios-version:42.03.01
system-manufacturer:Gateway
system-product-name:Gateway 200arc
system-version:Revision 01
Hardware details

in Feisty (current stable)? 
in Gutsy (current development)? 
Installation works? 
Yes
Untested 
Hardware Information 
Screen & Monitors 
Device 
Works? 
Bug # 
in Feisty (current stable)? 
in Gutsy (current development)? 
Screen 
yes 
Untested 

Correct resolution? 
yes- works in default, but cannot be changed higher
Untested 

Correct refresh rate? 
yes
Untested 

3D Acceleration 
yes 
Untested 

External monitor works? 
yes 
Untested 

External monitor - mirrors 
Untested 
Untested 

External monitor - extend desktop 
Untested 
Untested 

Power Management 
Battery detected? 
yes 
Untested 

Hibernates? 
yes 
Untested 

Sleep 
Untested 
Untested 

Dim monitor on battery 
yes
Untested 

Blank monitor on inactivity 
yes
Untested 

Lid Close 
yes
Untested 

Cpu frequency scaling 
yes
Untested 

Sound 
Sound works? 
yes
Untested 

Correct volume? 
yes
Untested 

Hardware volume switch 
yes
Untested 

Headphone jack 
Untested
Untested 

Mic jack 
Untested
Untested 

Networking 
Wired NIC 
yes
Untested 

Wireless NIC 
wasn't detected, works sometimes
Untested 

PCMCIA NIC 
Untested 
Untested 

Firewire 
Untested 
Untested 

Bluetooth 
Untested 
Untested 

Modem 
Untested 
Untested 

Infrared 
Untested 
Untested 

Touchpad & Mice 
Touchpad 
yes
Untested 

Touchpad - Doubletap = double click 
yes
Untested 

Touchpad - Scroll down side 
yes 
Untested 

Touchpad - turned off while typing 
no 
Untested 

External mouse - USB 
Untested 
Untested 

External mouse - Serial 
Untested 
Untested 

Docking Station/Port Replicator 
AC through replicator 
Untested 
Untested 

USB 
Untested 
Untested 

Serial 
Untested 
Untested 

Parallel 
Untested 
Untested 

External Monitor - VGA 
yes
Untested 

External Monitor - DVI 
Untested 
Untested 

Modem 
Untested 
Untested 

NIC 
Untested 
Untested 

PS/2 
Untested 
Untested 

Additional Hardware 
Fingerprint reader 
Untested 
Untested 

CD/DVD drive 
yes
Untested 

PCMCIA cards 
Untested 
Untested 

Parallel Ports 
Untested 
Untested 

Card reader(s) 
Untested 
Untested 

Function and other keys 
Fn key 
Operation 
Keycode 
Works? 
Bug # 
in Feisty (current stable)? 
in Gutsy (current development)? 
+ Space 

I noticed nothing
Untested 

+ Esc 

Standby works
Untested 

+ F1 

brought up norm help
Untested 

+ F2 

status works
Untested 

+ F3 

AutoText works
Untested 

+ F4 

LCD/CRT works
Untested 

+ F5 

Navagator works
Untested 

+ F6 

Mute works
Untested 

+ F7 

Untested 
Untested 

+ F8 

Noticed Nothing
Untested 

+ F9 

Noticed Nothing
Untested 

+ F10 

Similar to the Alt Key
Untested 

+ F11 

KeyPad Lock works
Untested 

+ F12 

Scroll Lock works
Untested 

+ ArrowUp 

brightness works
Untested 

+ ArrowDown 

brightness works
Untested 

+ ArrowRight 

volume works
Untested 

+ ArrowLeft 

volume works
Untested 

+ PgUp 

Normal PgUp function
Untested 

+ PgDown 

Normal PgDn function
Untested 

Other special keys 
Key 
Operation 
Keycode 
Works? 
Bug # 
in Feisty (current stable)? 
in Gutsy (current development)? 
all keys except check mark work 

check mark makes a “e”
Untested 

Notes
I had a hard time setting up my wireless card. It recognizes it sometimes, but I eventually gave up and just bought one for the slot. It works all the time.
I do not know what the blue button at the top of the screen does. I have it on half the time and off half the time, I notice nothing.
Other than the annoying on board WiFi, everything works out alright (that I have tested.)

CategoryLaptop 
