{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Mia Alexiou
* Brand: Toshiba
* Make : Satellite 
* Model: M50-130 (Intel Centrino, Pentium M, 1.73GHz, 512 DDR RAM)
* Website: http://uk.computers.toshiba-europe.com

=== Current Issues ===

Installing the '''xorg-driver-fglrx''' graphics drivers from the '''restricted''' repository, stops Suspend and Hibernate from resuming properly.  Tweaking some acpi settings fixes this.  Information is provided under the ATI Graphics Card section below.

The Edgy Desktop Installation CD kept requesting a minimum 2GB partition for root.  This is unreasonable for individuals who wish to organise their partitions differently. The Edgy Alternative Installation CD allowed me to partition my hard disk as I wanted.

The Texas Instruments memory card reader could detect, but not read a Memory Stick, even after proprietary drivers were installed.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:V1.90
system-manufacturer:TOSHIBA
system-product-name:Satellite M50
system-version:PSM51E-01E017AN
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Y (Desktop CD)
| Y (Alternative CD)
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Y (1280 x 768)
| Y (1280 x 768)
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Y with xorg-driver-fglrx
| Y with xorg-driver-fglrx
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| N
| N
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Y
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| N
| N
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| N
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| Change Resolution
| 
| Untested
| N
| 
|-
| + Esc
| Mute On/Off
| 
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| + F1
| Blank Screen
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| + F2
| Power Save Mode
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| + F3
| Standby Mode
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| + F4
| Hibernate
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| + F5
| Monitor On/Off
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| + F6
| Increase LCD Brightness
| 
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| + F7
| Decrease LCD Brightness
| 
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| + F8
| Wireless On/Off
| 
| Untested
| N
| 
|-
| + F9
| Touchpad On/Off
| 
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| + F10
| Arrow Mode
| 
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| + F11
| Numeric Mode
| 
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| + F12
| Text Scrolling On/Off
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| + 1
| Zoom Out
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| + 2
| Zoom In
| 
| N
| N
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6> '''Media Panel Keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Power
| Power
| 
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Media Key
| Internet Button
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| Media Key
| CD/DVD
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| Media Key
| Play/Pause
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| Media Key
| Stop
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| Media Key
| Forwards
| 
| N
| N
| 
|-
| Media Key
| Backwards
| 
| N
| N
| 
|}

=== ATI Graphics Card ===

You will have lovely 2D graphics with the standard Ubuntu installation.  If you would like to use your graphics card's 3D capabilities you will need to install ATI's proprietary drivers.  These are available in the  xorg-driver-fglrx package from the restricted repository.  For full instructions on installing the ATI drivers visit http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide.  Be warned that following this guide will prevent Suspend/Hibernate from resuming properly.  The next section provides a fix for this.

==== Correcting the Suspend/Hibernate Issue ====

1. Open the acpi-support file for editing
<pre>
sudo vim /etc/default/acpi-support
</pre>
2. Ensure that the following lines are commented
<pre>
</pre>

Sleep and Hibernate should now work

==== Checking that ATI Drivers Installed Correctly ====

To check that the ATI drivers are in use type '''fglrxinfo''' into a terminal from X.

<pre>
$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: MOBILITY RADEON X600 SE Generic
OpenGL version string: 2.0.5814 (8.25.18)
</pre>

==== Checking 3D Acceleration ====

Although glxgears is not meant for benchmarking, you can use it to get an idea of your 3D graphics performance:
<pre>
$ which glxgears | xargs strings | grep benchmark | xargs glxgears
18824 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3764.738 FPS
18794 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3758.691 FPS
28579 frames in 5.0 seconds = 5715.733 FPS
38519 frames in 5.0 seconds = 7703.653 FPS
37794 frames in 5.0 seconds = 7558.639 FPS
38037 frames in 5.0 seconds = 7607.291 FPS
36503 frames in 5.0 seconds = 7300.455 FPS
38592 frames in 5.0 seconds = 7718.375 FPS
38556 frames in 5.0 seconds = 7703.381 FPS
38318 frames in 5.0 seconds = 7663.580 FPS
</pre>

=== Splash Screen Resolution ===

'''DAPPER'''

The default resolution for the Ubuntu Start-Up Splash screen was incorrect (hence it looked stretched).  To correct this add ''vga=791'' to the end of your kernel line in the ''/boot/grub/menu.lst'' file.  For example:
<pre>
kernel      /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-26-386 root=/dev/sda4 ro quiet splash vga=791
</pre>

'''EDGY'''

The above step works well in Dapper but in Edgy it incorrectly centres the splash (and other) screens.  It is probable that 791 is an incorrect vga code code for widescreen.  I have not yet found a better vga code.

=== Further Notes ===

Ubuntu installed nicely and all the essentials (screen, touchpad, wireless, cd/dvd burning, usb drives) worked immediately.
----
CategoryLaptop
