{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Model ===

* Contact: MichaelBaar
* Make: <nowiki>[[Acer]]</nowiki>
* Brand: TravelMate Timeline
* Model: 8371-353G25 N
* Website: http://www.acer.co.uk/acer/productv.do?LanguageISOCtxParam=en&kcond61e.c2att101=61996&sp=page16e&ctx2.c2att1=17&link=ln438e&CountryISOCtxParam=UK&ctx1g.c2att92=122&ctx1.att21k=1&CRC=382200310

=== Current Issues ===
Hardware problems:
* Internal microphone not working
* Fingerprint reader not working
* Few special keys not working
* Bluetooth + WLAN always get powered on during boot and need to be switched of manually.
* All CPU scaling states (P-States from 800 MHz to 1.4 GHz) only available with BIOS >= v1.15

Bugs in the latest 9.10 Karmic release (probably not directly related to this model):
* GNOME power manager does not turn off backlight (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-power-manager/+bug/413168|bug]]</nowiki>)
* Suspend/resume not working (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/429456|bug]]</nowiki>)

=== System Info ===
dmidecode -s system-manufacturer
<pre>
system-manufacturer: Acer
</pre>
dmidecode -s system-product-name
<pre>
system-product-name: TravelMate 8371
</pre>
dmidecode -s system-version
<pre>
system-version: V1.10
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Gutsy
| in 9.10 Karmic (current development)
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| NO
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| NO
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-power-manager/+bug/413168|413168]]</nowiki>
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| YES (all p-states of su9400 available with bios v1.15)
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Internal Mic
| Untested
| NO
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| n/a
| n/a
| 
|-
| Firewire
| n/a
| n/a
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Modem
| n/a
| n/a
| 
|-
| GPRS/UMTS (3G) Modem
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Infrared
| n/a
| n/a
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| NO (sometimes)
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| n/a
| n/a
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| NO
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| n/a
| n/a
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| n/a
| n/a
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| n/a
| n/a
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| YES (SDHC)
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Untested
| YES but no powersaving! (usb suspend not working)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Gutsy
| in Karmic 9.10 (current development)
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| System properties
| 
| Untested
| NO
| 
|-
| + F3
| Bluetooth
| 
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| + F4
| Sleep
| 
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| + F5
| External Monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| Monitor Light Switch
| 
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| MUTE
| 
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Gutsy
| in Karmic (current development)
|-
| Windows key + E
| open all workspace
| 
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Euro €
| (keycode 435) separate key for euro sign
| 
| Untested
| NO
| 
|-
| Dollar $
| (keycode 434) separate key for dollar sign
| Untested
| NO
| 
|-
| WLAN
| toggle WLAN
| 
| Untested
| YES
| 
|-
| Backup switch
| start a backup tool?
| 
| Untested
| NO
| 
|-
| PowerSmart
| toggle energy saving options when running on battery
| 
| Untested
| YES but cannot be toggled on AC
| 
|-
| Keypad toggle
| disable keypad while on
| 
| Untested
| YES
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
special keys:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Key
| Key code
|-
| Euro
| 435
|-
| Dollar
| 434
|}

* Keycodes were read using showkey. Special keys without code given did give any key or scancode. No output on these keys using xev.
* Seems to be similar for other notebooks, some solutions using acerhk or acer_acpi modules available on in source.
* Euro and Dollar keys are next to the arrow keys, which are quite small. It might be more practical to keep them off in case they get hit accidentally. I guess no one will ever look for these signs there anyway as they are available on the normal keyboard.

=== Energy ===
Using the tips from powertop and laptop_mode:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Consumption
| Estimated runtime
| Display
| Disk
| Radio
|-
| 8,6 W
| 7,8 h
| off
| hd spinning
| none
|-
| 9,5 W
| ~ 7,0 h
| low backlight
| hd spinning
| none
|}

==== Notes ====
* With SU9400 and 3G modem (low backlight, wlan off, bluetooth off) the best I could get is 10.6-11 W
** With the new 1.15 BIOS (20091117) all P-states from 800MHz to 1.4 GHz are available: 9.5 W

=== Open Issues ===

==== USB autosuspend ====

Even after triggering USB autosuspend for the webcam, bluetooth and the 3G modem as recommended by powertop, they still produce wakeups.

==== Fingerprint reader ====
Manufacturer: <nowiki>[[https://www.egistec.com|Egistec]]</nowiki>

lsusb -v -d 1c7a:0801
<pre>
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 1c7a:0801 LighTuning Technology Inc. 
Device Descriptor:
  bLength                18
  bDescriptorType         1
  bcdUSB               2.00
  bDeviceClass            0 (Defined at Interface level)
  bDeviceSubClass         0 
  bDeviceProtocol         0 
  bMaxPacketSize0        64
  idVendor           0x1c7a LighTuning Technology Inc.
  idProduct          0x0801 
  bcdDevice            1.00
  iManufacturer           1 Generic
  iProduct                2 FingerPrinter Reader
  iSerial                 3 00000000000006
  bNumConfigurations      1
  Configuration Descriptor:
    bLength                 9
    bDescriptorType         2
    wTotalLength           32
    bNumInterfaces          1
    bConfigurationValue     1
    iConfiguration          0 
    bmAttributes         0xa0
      (Bus Powered)
      Remote Wakeup
    MaxPower              100mA
    Interface Descriptor:
      bLength                 9
      bDescriptorType         4
      bInterfaceNumber        0
      bAlternateSetting       0
      bNumEndpoints           2
      bInterfaceClass       255 Vendor Specific Class
      bInterfaceSubClass    255 Vendor Specific Subclass
      bInterfaceProtocol    255 Vendor Specific Protocol
      iInterface              0 
      Endpoint Descriptor:
        bLength                 7
        bDescriptorType         5
        bEndpointAddress     0x01  EP 1 OUT
        bmAttributes            2
          Transfer Type            Bulk
          Synch Type               None
          Usage Type               Data
        wMaxPacketSize     0x0200  1x 512 bytes
        bInterval               1
      Endpoint Descriptor:
        bLength                 7
        bDescriptorType         5
        bEndpointAddress     0x82  EP 2 IN
        bmAttributes            2
          Transfer Type            Bulk
          Synch Type               None
          Usage Type               Data
        wMaxPacketSize     0x0200  1x 512 bytes
        bInterval               1
Device Qualifier (for other device speed):
  bLength                10
  bDescriptorType         6
  bcdUSB               2.00
  bDeviceClass            0 (Defined at Interface level)
  bDeviceSubClass         0 
  bDeviceProtocol         0 
  bMaxPacketSize0        64
  bNumConfigurations      1
Device Status:     0x0000
  (Bus Powered)
</pre>

==== Sound ====
Hardware: Intel HDA / Realtek ALC269
Tried "auto" and "basic" model settings on the hda_intel driver.

sudo lspci -v -s 00:1b.0
<pre>
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
	Subsystem: Acer Incorporated [ALI] Device 0283
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 22
	Memory at a4500000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
	Capabilities: [60] Message Signalled Interrupts: Mask- 64bit+ Queue=0/0 Enable-
	Capabilities: [70] Express Root Complex Integrated Endpoint, MSI 00
	Capabilities: [100] Virtual Channel <?>
	Capabilities: [130] Root Complex Link <?>
	Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
	Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel
</pre>

Solution for muted internal microphone (German):

Tested on ubuntu 9.10 Travelmate 8471 (same problems there)

http://forum.ubuntuusers.de/post/2326547/

Useful for non-German speaking people too. Pictures included.

<code> sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-alsa-karmic-generic</code>

reboot

<code> sudo apt-get install pavucontrol </code>

go to Ubuntus menue - PulseAudio Volume Control

1. Disable mute

2. unlock left/right volume control

3. mute left OR right

==== Hardware details ====
sudo lspci 
<pre>
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Memory Controller Hub (rev 07)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 93)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ICH9M-E LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E 2 port SATA IDE Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.6 Signal processing controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) Thermal Subsystem (rev 03)
01:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Wireless WiFi Link 5100
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 02)
</pre>

sudo lsusb
<pre>
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 1c7a:0801 LighTuning Technology Inc.     <-- fingerprint reader
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 008 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 064e:a133 Suyin Corp.                    <-- webcam
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 0a5c:2151 Broadcom Corp. 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
</pre>

----
CategoryLaptop
