{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: C.J. Steele <coreyjsteele@gmail.com>
* Make: HP
* Brand: Compaq
* Model: nx9420
* Website: http://sodaphish.com

=== Current Issues ===
Limited testing of Bluetooth, media-card reader, and video outputs

=== System Info ===
Hewlett-Packard
HP Compaq nx9420 (RB529UT#ABA)
F.19

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 8.04 LTS
| in Intrepid Ibex (8.10)
| in Jaunty Jackalope (9.04)
|-
| Screen
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Y (see notes)
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Y (see notes)
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| N
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Y
| Y
| Y (see note)
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Y
| N
| Y
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Y
| Y (see note)
| Y
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Y
| Y
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Y
| Y
| Y
| 
|}

=== Notes ===

==== 8.04 LTS Notes ====
There were extensive hurdles to getting suspend and hibernate to operate correctly.  Principally, changes had to be made to /etc/default/acpi-support and a new script had to be added to /etc/acpi/resume.d and /etc/acpi/suspend.d for the keyboard and mouse to operate on resume.

The changes to /etc/default/acpi-support were:
* POST_VIDEO=false
* USE_DPMS=false
* ENABLE_LAPTOP_MODE=true

Getting suspend to work requires that you apply the patch supplied by Stéphane Graber at http://www.stgraber.org/download/ubuntu/hp-s2ram.patch and http://intertrusion.com/files/hp-s2ram.patch.

Suspend/Hibernate has been reported to give users trouble even with the above fixes.  These fixes do work as advertised under Hardy and appear to be very rare under Gusty.  These problems are also reported at  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=579383&highlight=hibernate  Current thinking is that these issues are likely related to fglrx driver issues.

==== 8.10 Notes ====

There are issues related to the iwl3945 drivers that ship with the default kernel.  These issues manifest themselves by allowing the user to see available access-points but not to associate with them.  Additional information can be found at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24/+bug/200064, however a simple fix is to install The latest version of the Linux Wireless Project's compatibility drivers from http://www.linuxwireless.org/en/users/Download.  Even with the wireless working, the performance is hideous; the version shipped in the 2.6.27 kernel seem to be MUCH better.

==== 9.04 Notes ====

Sound is broken in the 9.04 default kernel.  During boot the mute button comes on and will not go off and sound is completely inoperable.  This issue can be mitigated by running an older kernel -- 2.6.28-11 is the most current kernel that works well.  Before you decide to run an old kernel, make sure you know what issues that may bring with it (e.g. security, performance, feature-set deltas, etc.)
