{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Contact: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1512|wolfchri]]</nowiki>
* Make: IBM
* Brand: Thinkpad 
* Model: 600E 
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://www.lenovo.com/Search/?q=600E&v=15&lang=en&cc=us&en=utf&Search.x=29&Search.y=11&Search=Search|http://www.lenovo.com]]</nowiki>
 

=== Current Issues ===

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy (current development)
|-
| Installation works?
| 
| Yes (with limitations)
| Yes (with limitations)
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-5> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| GUI working fine; raw console screen (Ctrl-Alt-F2 etc.) does not use lower third of the screen
| GUI working fine
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Sound card doesn't support 3D
| 3D Acceleration not supported
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| No (well, sometimes...)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| n/a
| n/a
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| Needs workaround; only for experienced ussers. Alternatively see script below
| Requires intervention, see bug for fix without script
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-cirrus/+bug/40116|Bug #40116]]</nowiki>
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Yes
| Initially, hardware volume may be low.  Raise with Fn key combo
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| N/A, cardbus works fine
| n/a
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Doesn't see the router unless ACPI is disabled
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| LAN: Netgear FA511 working with Ndiswrapper driver; WLAN: Netgear WG511 working with NDiswrapper or Prism54 driver, prism 2 + ralink work out of the box, atmel needs firmware
| Works, but ACPI must be off.  Xircom RealPort Cardbus 10/100
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| cardbus works fine
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| most dongles supported
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| YES: Read http://www.mueller.ch.vu/misc/tp600e_en.html to get it to work
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Mousestick
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Untested
| n/a
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| N/A
| n/a
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| N/A
| n/a
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Internal N/A, external see Notes
| n/a
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| N/A
| n/a
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Yes, but needs changes, see Notes
| Yes, with ACPI off
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| N/A
| n/a
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

Your main ressource for Linux on the Thinkpad 600E is the <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Category:600E|Thinkpad Linux Wiki]]</nowiki>. Very useful for a deeper understanding also the <nowiki>[[http://www-307.ibm.com/pc/support/site.wss/document.do?sitestyle=lenovo&lndocid=MIGR-4BP6Q6|IBM guide for RedHat Linux on the Thinkpad 600E.]]</nowiki>

===== I. Sound =====

Since hardware detection routines on Linux misinterpret the built-in soundchip, sound does not work out of the box, although the sound chip  is perfectly supported in Linux. 

So you need to tell the system manually to use the right sound driver. 

* First, you need to make sure that the wrong sound driver is not being loaded from the hardware detection routine. Edit the driver blacklist in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist and add these lines:

''blacklist snd_cs46xx''

* Second, tell the system which drivers to load instead by adding the following lines to /etc/rc.local:

''modprobe ad1848''

''modprobe uart401''

''modprobe snd-cs4236''

* Third, you need to tell the system that you want to use a specific driver for your sound card and some hardware details about the sound device. Add to your file /etc/modprobe.d/sound the following lines:

''alias snd-card-0 snd-cs4236''

''options snd-cs4236 port=0x530 cport=0x538 isapnp=0 dma1=0 dma2=1 irq=5''

There is now <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=974031&postcount=12|a fine script available]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu that can do step 2 and 3 automatically, similar to what alsaconfig does (which is, for some unknown reason, not available for Ubuntu, so this script is very useful).

Attention: If, for some reason, the script should not work for you, you might have to find out the right hardware addresses, IRQ and DMA channel of your sound device manually via the Windows Thinkpad setup program. You can also use the PS2.exe program (DOS)  that comes with the Thinkpad's Windows98 installation in order to do so; it can also used to re-assign IRQs and stuff. The PS2 program can be downloaded from the Lenovo support websites.

In all cases, turn off the "Quick-Boot" option in the Thinkpad BIOS to get the sound to work. In order to get into the BIOS menu, <nowiki>[[http://www-307.ibm.com/pc/support/site.wss/document.do?sitestyle=lenovo&lndocid=YAST-3JWKJX|with the unit powered off, hold the F1 key and power the unit on. Keep F1 held down until Easy Setup appears.]]</nowiki> Note that the "Initialise" option will re-enable "Quick-Boot"!

You might have to update your BIOS - go <nowiki>[[http://www.lenovo.com/search/?en=utf&v=14&lang=en&cc=us&lv=c&q=600E+BIOS&x=13&y=12|here]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/BIOS_Upgrade|here]]</nowiki> for more information how to do that. Keep in mind that a BIOS upgrade '''IS DANGEROUS!!!''' - it can destroy your Thinkpad!

Links to external resources that might be helpful:

http://hardware.mcse.ms/message161125.html

http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-doc/doc-php/template.php?company=Cirrus+Logic&card=CS4237B&chip=CS4237B&module=cs4236#modp

http://augart.com/thinkpad600/thinkpad-600-sound.html

http://www.mueller.ch.vu/misc/tp600e_en.html

If this all does not help, try out different kernel boot parameters, see the "II. PCMCIA" section just below.

===== II. PCMCIA =====

In order to get PCMCIA working, you need to add at least the following kernel parameter (in /boot/grub/menu.lst): ''pci=noacpi''

Some people (depending on your BIOS settings) also need in addition:
''pnpbios=off acpi=off''  

Add that to the end of the line in which your kernel is being loaded, i.e.: 

''kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-20-amd64-generic root=/dev/sda7 ro quiet splash '''pci=noacpi'''

This line can typically be found close to the ''## ## End Default Options ##'' tag.

Other combinations that might work for you:

1) noapic nolapic
OR
2) noapic acpi=noirq
OR
3) noapic acpi=off
OR
4) noapictimer
OR
5) noapictimer irqpoll
OR
6) noapic acpi=off
OR
7) noapic acpi=noirq nolapic
OR
8 ) clock=pmtmr notsc
OR
9) notsc

Some basic information about kernel parameters on the Thinkpad can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Kernel_parameters|here.]]</nowiki> 

Keep in mind to turn off all devices via PS2.EXE or the IBM Thinkpad centre in windows98 that you do not need to limit the possible IRQ problems.

===== III. PCMCIA network cards =====

You can use for example the Netgear WG511 WLAN card without any further work if you do not require WPA encryption. The Linux prism54 driver for the card currently only supports WEP. Other supported chips incl. Prism2 and ralink. For Atmel chips you need to download the firmware.

If you need WPA encryption, or if you want to use the Netgear FA511 LAN card, one needs to install the ndiswrapper driver along with the respective Windows driver for the cards. (However, even with ndiswrapper, WPA does not reliably work (key re-negotiation fails sometimes) - but that seems to be an issue of my special version of the WG511, not a problem of the Thinkpad600E in general.

First, install ndiswrapper. The SetupNdiswrapperHowto will be helpful how to do that. In addition, get ndisgtk from the repositories,  a little program that provides you with a GUI for installing the Windows drivers for Ndiswrapper.

1. Netgear FA511 (LAN / Ethernet)

For the FA511, get the FA511 Windows drivers from the Netgear webpage or from your driver CD. Unzip them to a local directory. Use ''ndisgtk'' to install them for ''ndiswrapper''. The card will be identified as a WLAN device in the network setup, but is working perfectly. Just make sure you leave the fields for SSID and the WEP setup empty.

In order to avoid loading of the Tulip drivers that come with Ubuntu but do not correctly work for the FA511, do not forget to add ''blacklist tulip'' to your /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist file.

2. Netgear WG511 (WLAN)

First try if the prism54 driver that comes with Ubuntu is working for you. Chances are good since all the older WG511 cards have no problems with this driver. Keep in mind that the prism54 driver does NOT support WPA, only WEP encryption is supported. If the the prism54 driver is not working for you or you  need WPA, ujse the ndiswrapper together with the Windows drivers for the card.

If you use ndiswrapper, you have to prevent that the prism54 driver is being loaded at startup. 

Add ''blacklist prism54'' to your /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist file.

Get the Windows drivers from a Windows installation where you have installed the WG511 driver (not necessarily the card) since it comes as a .exe. You can find the driver after installation somewhere at C:\Programs\Netgear\WG511. 
