{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: RickBuitenman
* Make: Apple
* Brand: Powerbook
* Model: G4 / 1.25Ghz / Superdrive / 60Gb (*1)
* Website: http://www.apple.com
=== Current Issues ===
* No support for Airport Extreme (*2)
* No support for svideo-out (*3)
* Some wake-up from sleep issues (*4)
* No keyboard backlight (*9)

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Hoary (current stable)?
| in Breezy (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Untested
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Hoary (current stable)?
| in Breezy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Yes (*5)
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Yes (*5)
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Yes (*5)
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested (*6)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Yes (Sleep)
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested (*6)
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Yes (*7)
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| No (unsupported)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Yes (*8)
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested (*6)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested (*6)
| Yes (*10)
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| N/A
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested (*6)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| N/A
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hoary (current stable)?
| in Breezy (current development)?
|-
| Fn+Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Brightness Dn
| 
|-
| Fn+F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Brightness Up
| 
|-
| Fn+F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Mute
| 
|-
| Fn+F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| Sound Dn
| 
|-
| Fn+F5
| 
| 
| Untested
| Sound Up
| 
|-
| Fn+F6
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F10
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F11
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn+F12
| 
| 
| Untested
| Right Mouse Click
| 
|-
| Fn+1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Eject
| 
|-
| Fn+2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hoary (current stable)?
| in Breezy (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

* Previous Linux on this laptop was Gentoo. Some stuff that worked there is still untested with Breezy, but should work.
* Using the Sleep-LED as HD-LED is not default on Breezy. Gonna try to make it work if and when I have a good reason to recompile the kernel... This is a very handy (and cool) little feature.
* Had customized Gentoo / pbbuttonsd /gtkpbbuttons to give visual feedback on brightness/sound/eject (OSX-style). Breezy only gives OSD-feedback on sound. Installed gtkpbuttons, which works like a charm, but now I can't seem to get rid of the old Breezy/Gnome OSD feedback.
* Default changes in brightness and sound-level in Breezy is not very smooth. Response seems to be sluggish. Some tweaking of pbbuttons may be required.
 
----

* 1) 80Gb now, since the harddisk died. Shouldn't make any difference.
* 2) Broadcom won't release specs for the chipset used in Airport Extreme. There is an experimental workaround via MOL (http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-365647.html), and a reverse engineering effort going on (http://linux-bcom4301.sourceforge.net/).
* 3) Proprietary Ati-drivers are x86 only, Xorg drivers don't support tv-out.
* 4) Basically two issues: 
*** '''Don't plug in or unplug USB-devices while it's sleeping.''' It will most likely crash on wake-up.
*** Screen is sometimes scrambled on wakeup, or doesn't seem to sync properly. Putting it back to sleep and waking up again usually solves the issue (sometimes it takes a few tries). No reproducable cause.
   ''Note: Had this baby crash on wake-up three times in two weeks without any obvious cause. This was extremely rare with my old Gentoo install, something to keep an eye on.''
* 5) All works fine with MergedFB. D-Sub works normally, DVI only seems to work after a reboot with DVI-cable plugged in. What's more annoying, it also requires a reboot after wake up from sleep.
* 6) Stuff that worked with Gentoo, not expecting any trouble here.
* 7) Some tweaking with alsamixer may be required.
* 8) SMC EZ Connect g SMC2835W  with prism54 chipset. Worked out-of-the-box.
* 9) Keyboard backlight worked fine for over a year on Gentoo, not working out-of-the-box on Breezy. Tweaking /etc/pbbuttons.conf sofar hasn't worked, pbbuttons doesn't acknowledge that this machine has keyboard backlighting, so it's probably a kernel/module issue.
* 10) Don't really have a decent bluetooth device to test with, except my totally incompatible phone. But it seems to work, and others report working bluetooth on similar AlBooks.

----

At this moment there are two other pre-2005 15" Powerbooks, the 1.0 and 1.33 and Ghz, in the LapTopTestingTeam that are virtually identical.

As somebody suggested, /proc/cpuinfo is the most obvious way to identify the various versions of the Alu-Powerbook. So here's mine:

<pre>
processor       : 0
cpu             : 7447/7457, altivec supported
clock           : 1249MHz
revision        : 0.1 (pvr 8002 0101)
bogomips        : 831.58
machine         : PowerBook5,2
motherboard     : PowerBook5,2 MacRISC3 Power Macintosh
detected as     : 287 (PowerBook G4 15")
pmac flags      : 0000001b
L2 cache        : 512K unified
memory          : 1024MB
pmac-generation : NewWorld
</pre>
