{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Bruce Muirhead
* Make: Asus
* Model: A5Ec
* Website: http://www.asus.com/search.aspx?searchitem=1&searchkey=a5ec

=== Current Issues ===
 
 
* Headphone jack does not work.
* Radio card not detected: no such file as /dev/radio.
   TV card not detected.
   Radio card is combined with digital/analogue tv card. Neither work. Windows (I am dual booting at the moment) identifies this as  ''AVerMedia M103 (Cardbus, Hybrid DVB-T and NTSC/PASL/SECAM)'' device. I am unsure which device it is when I do lspci, so I haven't included this. 

* Memory card reader does not work. The card is a Ricoh and is identified in device manager as R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro Host. The MMc/Sd Host Adapter shows as unknown

 == Hardware details ==
* Asus A5Ec
* Intel Pentium M Processor 740 1.7Gh
* 1024MB Ram
* 80GB 5400rpm HDD
* 15.4" WXGA Colour Shine LCD  Resolution=1280x800
** Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 04)
* Flash Memory slot
** Supported memory types: SD, MMC,Memory Stick (MS, Memory Stick Select (MS Select), Memory Stick Duo (with MS Pro adapter). Memory stick may be "standard" or use "Magic Gate" technology.
* Audio/Video input
** Input by RCA jacks or S-Video (RCA adapter included with appropriate models)
* SP/DIF digital audio out
** Cable output. Doubles as headphone jack
* 8X DVD Dual/Double layer Optical Drive
** CD-R/RW, CD+r/RW, DVD-r/RW, DVD=R/RW, DVD9+R
* FM Radio and Digital/analogue tv card
** This works via the ausdio/video input noted above
* TV-Out port
** 15 pin D-sub monitor port. Supports standard VGA-compatible devices such as a monitor or projector.

|| || in Breezy? |yes| in Dapper (current development)? |yes|
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Installation works?
| yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| no
| no
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| no
| yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| no
| yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| yes
| yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| No
| No
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Key |Fn+Ins/NumLock|
| 
| 
| Yes
| Yes
|}

* ''Fn+F1 is marked as not working, what function should it do (eg. What does it do under MS Windows?). 
* Fn+F1 places thelaptop into suspend mode, either save to RAM or Save to Disk, depending on power management setup. Have now done further testing with the following results:
** Blank screen option in gnome works
** Hibernate: Open windows and applications closed on restarting computer.
** Suspend: did not wake up from suspend

I am not sure where to find relevent logs for information for a bug report, so am not filing one at the moment. Assistance please :-)
 Please can you file a bug at https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/hotkey-setup/+filebug with the information from LaptopTestingTeam/HotkeyResearch'' -PaulSladen

==== Notes ====
I am unable to immediately test many of the features which this machine has, but will test them as soon as I can.
** ''As I have not been able to work out how to put my email or contact details anywhere on the wiki yet (I am very new to this), please use the following email to contact me: brucemuirhead5@hotmail.com.  I can also often be found using MSN messanger, and welcome any chats about the asus and how to provide adequate testing information. (please appreciate the irony is the use of MSN!)''
* ''Excellent, many thanks for when you get a chance!'' -PaulSladen
There are a set of "special function" keys at the top of the keyboard which launch the email programme and web browser, lock the touch pad and provide different power schemes: "Power4Gear". Of these:
* Key to launch email programme works
* Key to launch web browser works, but also results in a pop up at bottom right of screen advising battery usage. A small inconvenience!
** ''The battery usage thing is fixed in the latest Dapper'' -PaulSladen
** Cool, glad it is. Will upgrade again soon :-)

* Key to lock/unlock touchpad does not work
** ''This is probably <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/31063|#31063]]</nowiki> and should be half-fixed.'' -PaulSladen
* Power4Gear key locks and turns off screen.
** ''Please can you file a bug against 'hotkey-setup' with details on the LaptopTeamTesting/HotkeyResearch page and a description of what the button /should/ do.'' -PaulSladen
** Bug filed  https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/37468
