{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Zeroxr|Zeroxr]]</nowiki>
* Brand: Toshiba
* Model : Satellite A65-S1762
* Specs: Toshiba USA no longer has an official specs web page available, please refer to the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Zeroxr|Zeroxr]]</nowiki> wiki page.

=== Current Issues ===
* LCD screen bugs (Somewhat resolved)
* Fn keys do not work
* Multimedia keys do not work
* When on battery, screen does not dim
* When system suspends, screen does not come back on
* Oddities with CPU scaling

=== System Info ===
{{{
bios-version:Version 1.90
system-manufacturer:TOSHIBA
system-product-name:Satellite A65
system-version:PSA60U-019017}}}

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Untested
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes, 1024 x 768
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes, 60 Hz
| Untested
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes, see notes below
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes, see notes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current development)?
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
The main issues at the moment are LCD screen brightness and Fn key combination functionality. The LCD screen is oddly dim at times, but on closing the lid and reopening... The screen brightens up quite dramatically. The problem here possibly lies with the ATi drivers, as support is not available for any graphics cards older than Radeon 8500 series cards. The Fn keys I am a bit baffled by as the firmware fix method does not help to resolve the issue like it has been reported with other model Toshiba laptops.

Update (03/04/2007): I did a full wipe of XP and installed Ubuntu completely... The dim LCD issues seems to be resolved, although the FN keys do not function still work.

Update (03/06/2007): After more extensive testing, I have found out a bit more on this machine.

The multimedia/internet keys on the top (by the power button) do not function either. This is in the same fate as the Fn key situation.

When I was trying to suspend the system, on wake up the system turns back on, but the LCD does not turn back on.

When the machine is unplugged and running on battery power, it does not cause the display to dim and save power. I suspect this may have to do with the graphics driver possibly.

CPU scaling was tested after I added a plug-in to test it. On "idle load" tasks such as web browsing or filling out forms, the machine reads the processor's speed as 1.86 Ghz. When the machine is "under load", the processor scales up to 3.19 - 3.2 Ghz. The machine's conditions for "under load" would be something like streaming video or playing games on ZSNES.

Update (03/06/2007): I have been reading a few interesting community posts about Feisty Fawn and its use with laptops with an interesting find. Apparently, Feisty's support for Fn and multimedia keys is supposedly better than Edgy's support. At the moment, Feisty is still in the alpha testing phase of Feisty Herd 5, I would much rather wait for the finalized release before stepping that direction.
----
CategoryLaptop
