{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Randall W. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Randallw
* Brand: Compaq
* Make : Presario
* Model: V2600 CTO (sold as Presario V2000 in Aug 2006, however a support person told me is it actually a V2600CTO. Part number: ET059AV.)
* Website: http://h10032.www1.hp.com/ctg/Manual/c00444244.pdf
* S/N: 

=== Current Issues ===
Mostly works fine. Wireless does not work out-of-the-box. Needs ndiswrapper or equivalent. (See below).
External monitor doesn't work properly with open-source (ati) driver. It does work OK with the proprietary (radeon) driver, but then power management fails. Suspend has known bugs, but there is an easy workaround/fix.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:F.27
system-manufacturer:Hewlett-Packard
system-product-name:Presario V2000 (EM702AV#ABA)
system-version:Rev 1

00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 Host Bridge (rev 01)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 PCI Bridge
00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB2 Host Controller
00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 SMBus Controller (rev 11)
00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc Standard Dual Channel PCI IDE Controller ATI
00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge
00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge
00:14.5 Multimedia audio controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:14.6 Modem: ATI Technologies Inc ATI SB400 - AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 02)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc ATI Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)
05:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
05:02.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)
05:09.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCIxx21/x515 Cardbus Controller
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Feisty ?
| in Gutsy (current stable)
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Feisty
| in Gutsy (current stable)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes (radeon driver, see below)
| Yes (radeon driver, see below)
| 
|-
| Desktop Effects?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| sort of (see below)
| buggy
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| sort of
| buggy
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes, buggy
| yes, buggy
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes, buggy
| yes, buggy. workaround exists
| bug #81767
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes, buggy
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes, with ndiswrapper
| Yes, with ndiswrapper
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Firewire
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| untested
| no
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator (this model doesn't have one)'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| USB
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Parallel
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| NIC
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| PS/2
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowRight
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgDown
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

System has a Sempron 3100+ CPU and ATI Radeon Xpress 200M graphics card that steals memory from the system. I have it set to 32M. I'm using a 32-bit install of Ubuntu. It is a "widescreen" model with native resolution 1280x768.

===== wireless =====
this laptop comes with a Broadcom BCM4318 wireless card. This is what I did to get it working:
<pre>
blacklist the bcm43xx by adding "blacklist bcm43xx" at the end of /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
sudo apt-get install ndiswrapper-utils-1.9
get the driver from links here: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=197102
untar bcm4318-nm.tar.gz
untar wifidrivers.tar.gz
(the names of these files might change, but basically you want to untar stuff and get the files "bcmwl5.inf" and "bcmwl5.sys")
cd drivers (or wherever the directory is that contains the "bcmwl5.inf" file)
sudo ndiswrapper -i bcmwl5.inf
sudo ndiswrapper -m
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
in /etc/iftab, change eth1 to wlan0
set your WEP key mode to "open" for WEP. e.g. in /etc/network/interfaces:
wireless-key open 1234567890
instead of
wireless-key 1234567890
</pre>

===== Power management =====
At first glance, power management works. From a cold boot, both software suspend (closing the lid) and suspend-to-disk work. Suspend to disk has some problems:
* a loud popping sound from the speakers about half way through the shutdown process
* coincident with the speaker pop, a list of PCI devices (shown on the screen in text mode) that suspend then resume. Puzzling.

However, if you suspend and resume more than once, things start going wrong. It is difficult to consistently reproduce these problems. Problems include:
* keyboard and touchpad unresponsive. External mouse doesn't work. (system is still running, though). This is a known bug and has a pretty simple workaround. See bug #81767.
* screen is covered with crap. System still running. Have to reboot to fix.
* automatic monitor blanking becomes buggy. Monitor blanks, then a few seconds later comes back. (The screen is still "black", but it is being lit.)

Also, the proprietary ATI (radeon) driver does not support power management at all, so I don't use it. (This was true at time of writing. It might change in the future. Who knows?)

===== External Screen =====
Attaching an external monitor to mirror the laptop screen cuts of the edges of the screen on the external monitor. I found that if I force the X11 resolution to 1024x768 (by making it the only option in the xorg.conf file) then reboot, then an external monitor works and the laptop screen just looks funny. It doesn't work if you change the resolution in real time.

----
CategoryLaptop
