{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Make: Dell

Brand: Studio 15 (1555)

Model: PP39L

Website: http://www.dell.com/us/en/corp/notebooks/laptop-studio-1555/pd.aspx?refid=laptop-studio-1555&s=corp

NB: This page is for models with Intel GMA, see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/DellStudio15 for the ATI based models.

=== Overview ===

With Ubuntu Jaunty 9.04, most everything is working out of the box, but some tweaks are needed for an optimal performance:

==== Sound ====

This option has to be added at the end of the /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf file:

 options snd-hda-intel model=dell-m6 

==== Graphic card (Intel Graphics Media Accelerator (GMA) 4500MHD) ====

Out of the box, the graphic card is working, but not so well (fuzzy rendering, some slowness with Compiz, etc.).  To make it work perfectly, advanced drivers from X Updates PPA repository must be used, using Synaptic.  See this page:  https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates

These advanced drivers will probably be integrated in future Ubuntu versions, so it will then work perfectly out of of the box.

==== Suspend to ram (sleep) & buttons for Brightness & CD/DVD Eject ====

Out of the box, multimedia and other special buttons are working, except for brightness and CD/DVD eject.  Sleep is not working at all.  To correct all this, the noapic option should be added to the defoptions section in /boot/grub/menu.lst, like in the following:

Once done, the following command must me issued:

sudo update-grub

Everything should work after reboot.

==== PC speaker ====

PC speaker "beep" is on by default, which is annoying.  To get rid of it, the following line must be added to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf:

blacklist pcspkr

PC Speaker should be off after reboot.

----
CategoryLaptop
