{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Festuc / FredericLespez
* Make: Acer
* Brand : TravelMate
* Model: 6292
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://us.acer.com/public/page4.do?link=oln56.redirect&dau22.oid=24419&UserCtxParam=0&GroupCtxParam=0&dctx1=25&CountryISOCtxParam=US&LanguageISOCtxParam=en&ctx3=151&ctx4=United+States&crc=4150111363|Acer TravelMate 6292]]</nowiki>

Note : If you cannot bear the space bar behavior anymore (it only works if you hit it right in the middle), you could fix it like <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H8s0qTjNFKQ|this]]</nowiki>.

=== Current Issues ===
==== Gutsy ====
Sound doesn't work out of the box.<<BR>>
Hardware: INTEL HD audio - Realtek ALC268 Codec<<BR>>
You need to:
* Install the following package:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-generic
</pre>
* Replace the following line in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base:
<pre>
options snd-hda-intel
</pre>
with:
<pre>
options snd-hda-intel model=acer
</pre>
* Reboot

Everything should work after that except for mics (internal and external).

See this page for more information:<<BR>>
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gutsy_Intel_HD_Audio_Controller <<BR>>

Some TM6292 laptops ship with a hard drive manufactured by Hitachi (HTS541616J9SA00). The implementation of SATA NCQ is not perfect with the Hitachi drive. See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/137470|#137470]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>

Till this is fixed, NCQ can disabled:<<BR>>
Just add the the following line to <code>/etc/rc.local</code>:<<BR>>
<code>sh -c "echo 1 > /sys/block/sda/device/queue_depth"</code><<BR>>
See <nowiki>[[http://linux-ata.org/faq.html#ncq|libATA FAQ]]</nowiki>. Thanks Enrico for the tip :-)

==== Hardy ====

Since Hardy Alpha 5, sound work out of the box ! :-)

Mics (internal and external) doesn't seem to work.

No SATA NCQ problem under Hardy.

==== Intrepid ====

Mics (internal and external) doesn't seem to work.

There is some regression in hotkeys handling.

==== Jaunty ====

Mics (internal and external) doesn't seem to work. Alsa 1.0.18a contain a fix for that:<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://git.alsa-project.org/?p=alsa-kmirror.git;a=commit;h=2cc442715c45c88016c3c1c68e8828683d1b186a|ALSA: hda - Split ALC268 acer model]]</nowiki><<BR>>
The bad news is that Alsa 1.0.18a won't make it into in Jaunty: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/304068|#304068]]</nowiki><<BR>>
The last hope is that this fixes alone is backported : <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/332506|#332506]]</nowiki>

There is some regression in hotkeys handling.<<BR>>
Some useful informations:<<BR>>
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=911184

Wifi and Bluetooth are automatically enabled during boot. See bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/306739|#306739]]</nowiki>. You workaround this (see comment #17) by adding these 2 lines in <code>/etc/rc.local</code> before the <code>exit 0</code>:<<BR>>
<pre>
echo 0 > /sys/devices/platform/acer-wmi/rfkill/rfkill0/state
echo 0 > /sys/devices/platform/acer-wmi/rfkill/rfkill1/state
</pre>

==== Karmic ====

Internal mics works !<<BR>>
But not out of the box...<<BR>>
You need to:
* Replace the following line in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base:
<pre>
options snd-hda-intel power_save=10
</pre>
with:
<pre>
options snd-hda-intel power_save=10 model=acer-dmic
</pre>
* Reboot
Internal mics now works but the record level is a bit low...

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:v1.3601
system-manufacturer:Acer, inc.
system-product-name:TravelMate 6292
system-version:Not Applicable
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Gutsy?
| in Hardy?
| in Intrepid?
| in Jaunty?
| in Karmic?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-7> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-7> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-5> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Gutsy?
| in Hardy?
| in Intrepid?
| in Jaunty?
| in Karmic?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes (60Hz)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/283723|#283723]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/272669|#272669]]</nowiki>
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes after installing the linux backports modules
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/116326|#116326]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/180557|#180557]]</nowiki>
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes after installing the linux backports modules
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes (using hotkeys. No hardware switch)
| Yes (using hotkeys. No hardware switch)
| Yes (using hotkeys. No hardware switch)
| Yes (using hotkeys. No hardware switch)
| Yes (using hotkeys. No hardware switch)
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes after installing the linux backports modules
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| No, even after installing the linux backports modules
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Internal mic
| No, even after installing the linux backports modules
| No
| No
| No
| Yes after manual tweaking (see notes above). Record level is a bit low
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes. The Gnome applet needs the gnome-vfs-obexftp package to work.
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| No
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| No
| No
| No
| No
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| Partially (See notes below)
| 
|-
| NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-7> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-9> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode / Keysym'''
| <-5> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Gutsy?
| in Hardy?
| in Intrepid?
| in Jaunty?
| in Karmic?
|-
| + F1
| Hotkey help
| 146 / Help
| Yes (Bring up Ubuntu Help Center)
| Yes (Bring up Ubuntu Help Center)
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| 
|-
| + F2
| Acer eSettings
| 149 / NoSymbol
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/327554|#327554]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F3
| Acer ePowerManagement
| 244 / XF86Battery
| Does Nothing
| Activate notification from Gnome Power Manager
| No
| Activate notification from Gnome Power Manager
| Activate notification from Gnome Power Manager
| 
|-
| + F4
| Sleep
| 150 / XF86Sleep
| Yes
| Yes
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Display toggle
| 235 / XF86Display
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| Seems to trigger something, but something useful, at least for now :-)
| 
|-
| + F6
| Screen blank
| ?
| Yes (Only blank LVDS)
| Yes (Only blank LVDS)
| Yes (Only blank LVDS)
| Yes (Only blank LVDS)
| Yes (Only blank LVDS)
| 
|-
| + F7
| Touchpad toggle
| 200 / NoSymbol
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/327554|#327554]]</nowiki>
|-
| + F8
| Speaker toggle
| 121 / XF86AudioMute
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| Volume up
| 123 / XF86AudioRaiseVolume
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| Volume down
| 122 / XF86AudioLowerVolume
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowRight
| Brightness up
| 126 / plusminus AND 233 / XF86MonBrightnessUp (Only 126 when brightness max out)
| Yes
| Yes (not reliable)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/296043|#296043]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/327707|#327707]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/332548|#332548]]</nowiki>
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| Brightness down
| 232 / XF86MonBrightnessDown
| Yes
| Yes (not reliable)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-9> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-5> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Gutsy?
| in Hardy?
| in Intrepid?
| in Jaunty?
| in Karmic?
|-
| Acer E Key
| Run the Acer Empowering Technology
| 151 / XF86Launch1
| Does nothing ;-)
| Does nothing ;-)
| Does nothing ;-)
| Does nothing ;-)
| Does nothing ;-)
| 
|-
| Wireless communication button/indicator
| Enable / Disable Wifi
| 246 / XF86WLAN
| Doesn't work well. LED doesn't work
| Works but LED doesn't work
| Yes but it is not perfect yet.
| Yes but it is not perfect yet.
| Yes but it is not perfect yet.
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/linux/+bug/176090|#176090]]</nowiki>
|-
| Bluetooth communication button/indicator
| Enable / Disable Bluetooth
| 245 / XF86Bluetooth AND 233 / XF86MonBrightnessUp (Only 245 when brightness max out)
| Yes and button LED is turn on and off accordingly.
| Yes and button LED is turn on and off accordingly.
| Yes and button LED is turn on and off accordingly.
| Yes and button LED is turn on and off accordingly.
| Yes and button LED is turn on and off accordingly.
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/linux/+bug/178891|#178891]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/296043|#296043]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/327614|#327614]]</nowiki>
|-
| Web browser
| Launch your default Web Browser
| 180 / XF86HomePage
| Yes
| Yes
| No
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mail
| Launch your default mail client
| 163 / XF86Mail
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Launch Application
| Launch Application (User-programmable)
| 157 / XF86Launch2
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| Does nothing
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

===== Behavior with external monitors =====

From Acer Support: The DVI port (found on the dock for this notebook) is not a primary port. So BIOS, grub and usplash won't be displayed on the monitor connected to the DVI port.

====== Under Gutsy ======

If an external screen is plugged after boot (docked or not), nothing happens (screen is not used), even if the command "xrandr -q" shows that screen is "seen" by the system. The display toggle hotkey doesn't work.

* '''Laptop plugged into docking station, lid closed and external DVI monitor switched on:<<BR>>'''
 BIOS, GRUB and usplash are displayed on the notebook panel (LVDS). See note above on DVI port.<<BR>>
 GDM is displayed on the external monitor (TMDS-1) but with a wrong resolution : 1152x864 instead of 1280x1024 (the preferred resolution of my monitor).<<BR>>
 In Gnome, I can choose the right resolution with the RANDR applet.<<BR>>
 The notebook panel is turned off. That's fine !<<BR>>

* '''Laptop plugged into docking station, lid opened and external DVI monitor plugged in:<<BR>>'''
 BIOS, GRUB and usplash are displayed on the notebook panel (LVDS). See note above on DVI port.<<BR>>
 GDM is displayed on external monitor (TMDS-1) but with wrong resolution 1152x864 instead of 1280x1024 (preferred resolution of my monitor). In Gnome, i can choose the right resolution with the RANDR applet.<<BR>>
 The notebook panel clones the external display. That's bad because you cannot clone a 1280x1024 screen on a 1280x800 one :-(<<BR>>

* '''Laptop plugged into docking station, lid closed or opened and external VGA monitor plugged in:<<BR>>'''
 BIOS, GRUB and usplash are displayed on the external monitor (VGA).<<BR>>
 GDM is displayed on the notebook panel (LVDS) but with a wrong resolution (1280x1024).<<BR>>
 The notebook panel (LVDS) clones the external monitor (VGA) even when the lid is closed. That's bad because you cannot clone a 1280x1024 screen on a 1280x800 one :-(<<BR>>
 What is more, the external monitor (VGA) stay black...<<BR>>

* '''Laptop not plugged into docking station, lid closed or opened and external VGA monitor plugged in:<<BR>>'''
 BIOS, GRUB and usplash are displayed on the external monitor (VGA).<<BR>>
 GDM is displayed on the external monitor (VGA) with the right resolution (1280x1024).<<BR>>
 The notebook panel (LVDS) clones the external monitor (VGA) even when the lid is closed. That's bad because you cannot clone a 1280x1024 screen on a 1280x800 one :-(<<BR>>

Here is an xorg.conf allowing all kind of setup (extended desktop for example) using xrandr commands. You must adapt the <code>Virtual</code> directive according to your monitor's resolution.
<pre>

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"fr"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"oss"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Écran générique"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Écran générique"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
## Computed for an external monitor with a resolution of 1280x1024
## This screen could be above/below the notebook panel: 1024+800=1864
## or it could be on the right/left of the notebook panel: 1280+1280 =2560
		Virtual		2560	1864
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
</pre>

After restarting X, you could setup an extended desktop on a DVI monitor using this command:<<BR>>
<code>xrandr --output TMDS-1 --auto --left-of LVDS</code><<BR>>
Then you could go back using only the notebook panel with:<<BR>>
<code>xrandr --output TMDS-1 --off</code><<BR>>
Or only use the external monitor with:<<BR>>
<code>xrandr --output LVDS --off</code><<BR>>

You can also use the following Gnome tool: <nowiki>[[http://www.albertomilone.com/urandr.html|URandR - a GUI to RandR 1.2]]</nowiki>

====== Under Hardy ======

If an external screen is plugged after boot (docked or not), nothing happens (screen is not used), even if the command "xrandr -q" shows that screen is "seen" by the system. The display toggle hotkey doesn't work.

* '''Laptop plugged into docking station, lid closed or opened and external DVI monitor plugged in:<<BR>>'''
 BIOS, GRUB and usplash are displayed on the notebook panel (LVDS). See the note above on DVI port behavior from Acer Support.<<BR>>
 GDM is displayed on the external monitor (TMDS-1) but with a wrong resolution : 1152x864 75Hz instead of 1280x1024 60Hz (the preferred resolution of my monitor).<<BR>>
 The right resolution can be set after logging into Gnome with the RANDR applet.<<BR>>
 The notebook panel tries badly to clones the external display. But nothing works has expected:<<BR>>
** The Gnome panel is fine on the DVI monitor. But on the notebook panel, the Gnome Panel thinks the resolution is 1152x864 whereas the LVDS resolution is set to 1280x800 : So the upper panel is not as wide as the notebook panel and the bottom one is not visible.
** If you maximize a window, it maximize as if the screen resolution was 1280x800 !! So on the DVI monitor, the windows is truncated on the right and doesn't use all available spaces on the bottom...

* '''Laptop plugged or not into docking station, lid closed or opened and external VGA monitor plugged in:<<BR>>'''
 BIOS, GRUB and usplash and GDM are displayed on the external monitor (VGA).<<BR>>
 GDM is displayed with a right resolution (1280x1024 60Hz).<<BR>>
 The notebook panel (LVDS) is turned off. But Gnome turns it on during session starts :-(<<BR>>
 So it's almost perfect !<<BR>>
 But :<<BR>>
** Sometimes the external monitor (VGA) stay black... You need to restart GDM to fix it up.
** Maximizing a windows doesn't work like expected when compiz is activated (See bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/linux/+bug/123205|#123205]]</nowiki>) : it maximizes as if the resolution was set to 1280x800 (the resolution of the notebook panel). To fix that, you need to turn off the notebook panel (<code>xrandr --output LVDS --off</code>), and disable then enable compiz effects.

====== Under Intrepid ======

If an external screen is plugged after boot (docked or not), nothing happens (screen is not used), even if the command "xrandr -q" shows that screen is "seen" by the system. The display toggle hotkey doesn't work.

Behavior is lot more coherent under Intrepid... but not perfect yet !

* '''Laptop plugged or not into docking station, lid closed or opened and external VGA or DVI monitor plugged in:<<BR>>'''
 BIOS, GRUB and usplash and GDM are displayed:<<BR>>
** on the external monitor if it is plugged into the VGA connector.<<BR>>
** on the notebook panel (LVDS) if it is plugged into the DVI connector. See the note above on DVI port behavior from Acer Support.<<BR>>
 GDM (and Gnome) is displayed on both monitors, notebook panel and external monitor (VGA or DVI), in clone mode with a resolution of 1024x768 at 60Hz. This behavior is not optimal since both monitors have a different preferred resolution :-(<<BR>>
 The notebook panel (LVDS) is not turned off when the lid is closed.<<BR>>
 Bug reported : <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/272669|#272669]]</nowiki>

Another issue: sometimes GDM screen doesn't show up on external monitor. See bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/283723|#283723]]</nowiki>

====== Under Jaunty ======

See Intrepid's behavior : Nothing changed except that bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/283723|#283723]]</nowiki> has been fixed : GDM alway shows up on external screen now !<<BR>>
Note that if you want to use an extended desktop you still need to modify <code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code> to add a
<code>Virtual</code> directive into the <code>Screen</code> section. See details in Gutsy's behavior description.

====== Under Karmic ======

Same behavior as Jaunty, except that :
* if you want to use an extended desktop, you no longer need to modify <code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code> to add a <code>Virtual</code> directive into the <code>Screen</code> section. It works out the box !

----
CategoryLaptop
