{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[Kuyaedz]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[brallan]]</nowiki> 
* Make: Asus Z92U
* Brand: Asus
* Model: Z92U (aka Z9200U)
----
* Processor: AMD Sempron Mobile 3000
* Memory: 512 Mb RAM DDR
* Video: Sis 760GX (memory shared)
* Screen: 15.4 WXGA Screen (1280x800)
* Audio: Integrated sound card Sis AC'97
* Touchpad: Synaptic mouse pad
* NIC:
* Wi``Fi: Broadcom 4318
* 40Gb HD
* Camera and mic
* DVD Matshita DVD-RW double-layer
----

=== Current Issues ===

The graphics card is sis, but it gets detected as vesa. Keep in mind that there is NO support for DRI/OpenGL/3D acceleration even if you change /etc/xorg.conf to winischofer's sis driver. 

When installing in Breezy, be sure to use the following kernel option so install dialogue fits on the screen: <code>linux vga=791</code>

In Dapper, when the CD boots up, F4 lets you choose video modes, choose 1024x768.

The wifi is a <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx|broadcom4318 chipset]]</nowiki>:

after a Breezy install, you will need to get a copy of your broadcom drivers bcmwl5.sys & bcmwl5.inf (c:/windows/System32/drivers/?) and follow <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Breezy|the instructions]]</nowiki> to get the wireless LAN (wlan0) to work.

In Dapper, it's a bit more complicated, but follow <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Dapper|these instructions]]</nowiki>. It explains how to download the drivers and chop them up. Keep a note of any error messages, and let ["brallan" me] know if you have problems. Keep in mind that it IS a bcm4318 card.

I tried the bcm43xx driver only on a WPA protected network. It didn't work at first, and after several tries and module (un)loading, it finally works with a 20% packet drop (pinging a local computer). After some time, eth1  disapeared and NetworkManager switched back to the wired connection. --<nowiki>[[Mongolito404]]</nowiki>

This is a followup of my preceding note, I had an occasion to retry Wifi netwoking. This time without any encryption. The Wifi is working fine and i'm still using the bcm43xx installed as described in <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Dapper|these instructions]]</nowiki>. --<nowiki>[[Mongolito404]]</nowiki>

The webcam/mike doesn't work.
 
The memory card reader doesn't work in Breezy: Ricoh

The tapping on the touchpad is very sensitive, look to the SynapticsTouchpadHowTo for help:

External monitors flicker, especially when typing quickly.  According to Thomas Winischhofer [www.winischhofer.at/linuxsisvga.shtml]:

<pre> 
My advice: Don't buy a machine with a SiS760 unless this machine has dedicated local video memory. And please don't complain about "driver bugs" if you see "flashing lines" on the screen; these are the typical effects of a bandwidth problem and unavoidable - even the Windows driver can't do better. In such cases, reduce the resolution and/or refresh rate and/or color depth, or use one output (CRT1 or CRT2) only. Sorry, can't help it. There is no driver bug involved.
</pre>

There may be <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=706808#post706808|errors]]</nowiki> with PCMCIA support for kernels before 2.6.14. ¿¿¿anybody know???

Once install is complete, you will want to edit your kernel parameters. This is to prevent a really slow connection and lots of lost packets doing pings, and to get the text-mode to fit on the screen. Anyone know how to get this to work from the liveCD install??

In a terminal window, type: sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst

and find the line that says: 

change this line to read: 

and then run the following in a terminal:

sudo update-grub

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| No
| No
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes-Fn+F6,7,8
| Yes-Fn+F6,7,8
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| No (by default)
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| See Notes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Webcam/microphone
| No
| No
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current stable)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| Hibernate
| 
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| wlan on/off
| 
| Bug - breaks connection
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| Dim display
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Brighten Display
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Dusplay on/off
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| lcd/external monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| Mute (Volume)
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Lower Volume
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Raise Volume
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + 1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current stable)?
|-
| windows key
| opens program menu
| 
| No (Yes in icewm)
| No
| 
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
