{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Tom De Boeser
* Make:XPS
* Brand:Dell
* Model:M2010
* Website:http://www.dell.com/content/products/productdetails.aspx/xpsnb_m2010?c=us&l=en&s=gen&~section=specs

=== Current Issues ===

=== System Info ===
'''dimdecode output'''

$ sudo dmidecode -s system-manufacturer

Dell Inc.

$ sudo dmidecode -s system-product-name

MXP061

$ sudo dmidecode -s system-version

Not Specified

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| in 7.10 ''Gutsy Gibbon''
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes - after Envy
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes - after Envy
| Yes - after Envy
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| No - not yet
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| No - system stays on
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes - Headphone only
| Yes - Headphone only
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Yes - Built-in Mic
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Yes ^1^
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| No
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys - Hardware keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| 7.10 ''Gutsy Gibbon''
|-
| ''Sound Control''
| 
| 
| Yes ^2^
| Yes^2^
| 
|}
==== Notes ====

First off, as a long time UNIX admin I have to say Ubuntu Rocks.  I used to enjoy installing and working on getting linux installed on various systems, but I've grown tired of that.  Its very nice to insert a disk, install and use the system.  I've installed Ubuntu on servers, PC's, and laptop with fewer problems, and less workarounds, and quicker than any other Linux distro - EVEN distro's we've paid for.  

The Dell XPS M2010 at 20lbs is a "luggable".  It will not fit in your lap.  But it is a great machine.  Big 20" screen, clear, high resolution (1680x1050) - there is no need for an external monitor.  

I initially installed 6.06, to see if I could harness the ATI®  MobilityTM X1800's power with Beryl.  It ran, but would white screen from time to time.  The best vid resolution also didn't come up as default, but the hard work of Alberto Milone's Envy helped to correct performance and resolution issues with a run of a script and a reboot.

The upgrade to 7.10 couldn't be any easier, Update Manager --> Install New Version --> answer a question or two --> reboot... done.  The default resolution was correct but video performance and refresh rate were off.  Back to Envy, reboot and everything is nice.  

I'm running 7.10 with Compiz now, which as been stable for me.  All the pretty things work well, aside from a small hesitation during initial cube movement. GLX is there, but it's not ATI's.  Apparently ATI as been more difficult to help with linux drivers.  glxgears kill's X.  Hopefully, ATI will have something for us soon.  

PROBLEMS:

** Sound - the external speakers don't work.  Although the system seems to see them.  Gnome's "Sound Preferences" sees the card, and shows a "surround" feature, but nothing works.  But sound does work through the Headphones.  Which is fine for me - I'm at work...

** Built-in Quickcam - the M2010 comes with a built-in logitech Quickcam.  The system doesn't see the Cam at all. It's possible that the "uvc" drivers may work, they've had some success with other XPS's with built-in cams.  But the driver isn't in Ubuntu and needs to be compiled in, for now I'll live with it - I like not having muk things up.  
   
** "lid shutting and "sleeping" do not work.  shutting lid doesn't not do anything, the system just stays on.  Using "Sleep" from the "logoff/shutdown" menu; the system seems to go to "sleep" or suspend, but I could not get the system to come back.  The bluetooth key board wakes up, but the screen doesn't come back on.  No amount of power button pushing or keystrokes brings it back.  - NOTE on suspend, hibernating/sleeping this thing:  This system is more of a Desktop, so suspend ( and the others ) aren't as useful as with other laptops.  

** The MMC card reader works!!  This is new, after the upgrade.   

  
^1^ - Wireless works.  Dmesg, lspci and lsmod all "saw" the  Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG card at boot time.  I had to run the ''ipw3945'' daemon manually ( actual name ''ipw3945d-2.6.20-16-generic'' ).  Then "Network Settings" saw the device.  No other workarounds.

^2^ - Sound Control keys - There "Keys" or buttons that control sound, volume up, volume down, Mute.  They all work, and display nice looking screen output ( i.e. speaker with crossout line through it. ).  

''''*BOUNUS*'''' 
  My Iriver Clix (1^st^ Gen), worked with Amarok straight outta the box.  Although it doesn't seem to charge.  Pretty cool, as I've been working from time to time on even getting linux to see my Clix on my other system's.

MORE TO COME... ( this is  a dual boot system - I need my games :P ).
