{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

/!\ Looking for 64-bit test data? See <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/AcerFerrari3400/64-bit|AcerFerrari3400/64-bit]]</nowiki>
== Laptop Information ==

* Contact: <nowiki>[[MattiViljanen]]</nowiki>
* Make: Acer
* Brand: Ferrari
* Model: 3400
** system-manufacturer: Acer,Inc.
** system-product-name: Ferrari 3400
** system-version: N/A
* Website: http://global.acer.com/products/notebook/fr3400.htm
* Drivers: http://support.acer-euro.com/drivers/notebook/ferrari3400.html

== Status on 32-bit Feisty Fawn ==
Everything seems to work on Feisty!

== Things that need attention ==
* WLAN card uses Broadcom BCM4306 chip. Its firmware cannot be included due to legal restrictions, but it is downloadable separately from certain Ubuntu reposity. See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Dapper|WifiDocs]]</nowiki> for details.
* 3D acceleration works out-of-the-box
** 'radeon' driver (the default driver) offers working 3D
** Beryl with AIGLX works great
** <code>glxgears -printfps</code> reports 2035 frames per second
** 'fglrx' driver (non-free driver) offers near perfect 3D acceleration
** should support power states
** supports clock rate changes (longer battery life!)
* External display
** works with fglrx
** possible with radeon
** Plug external display and reboot. The external display is the only display then...
* Analog modem
** Module is loaded, but ''SmartLink software modem daemon'' (sl-modem-daemon) needs to be installed
* Power states
** Suspend works
** Sound doesn't work after hibernation resume, but works again after suspend...

== Hardware information ==

=== Screen & Monitors ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor
| Yes*
| with fglrx
|}

=== Power Management ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernate
| Yes*
| 
|-
| Standby
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| 
|-
| CPU frequency scaling
| Yes
| 
|-
| GPU frequency scaling
| Yes*
| with fglrx
|}

=== Sound ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| 
|}

=== Networking ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes*
| needs firmware
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Yes
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Yes
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Yes
| 
|}

=== Touchpad & Mice ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll side
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Bluetooth
| Yes
| 
|}

=== Additional Hardware ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Yes
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| 
|-
| Memory Card Reader
| Yes
| 
|}

=== Function and Other Keys ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Key'''
| '''Operation'''
| '''Keycode (xev)'''
| '''Keycode (showkey)'''
| '''Works?'''
|-
| Fn + F1
| Help
| 246
| none
| Yes*
|-
| Fn + F2
| ???
| none
| none
| No
|-
| Fn + F3
| ???
| none
| none
| No
|-
| Fn + F4
| Sleep
| <-2> ACPI event
| Yes*
|-
| Fn + F5
| External display
| <-2> none (hardware? fglrx?)
| No
|-
| Fn + F6
| Backlight off
| <-2> (hardware)
| Yes*
|-
| Fn + F7
| Touchpad enable/disable
| <-2> (hardware)
| Yes*
|-
| Fn + F8
| Mute
| 160
| 0xe0 0x20 0xe0 0xa0
| Yes*
|-
| Fn + Up Arrow
| Volume +
| 176
| 0xe0 0x30 0xe0 0xb0
| Yes*
|-
| Fn + Down Arrow
| Volume -
| 174
| 0xe0 0x2e 0xe0 0xae
| Yes*
|-
| Fn + Left Arrow
| Brightness -
| <-2> (hardware)
| Yes*
|-
| Fn + Right Arrow
| Brightness +
| <-2> (hardware)
| Yes*
|-
| "Envelope"
| Launcher 1
| 236
| 0xe0 0xec 0xe0 0xec
| Yes*
|-
| "Planet"
| Launcher 2
| 178
| 0xe0 0x32 0xe0 0xb2
| Yes*
|-
| P1
| Launcher 3
| 159
| 0x9f**
| Yes
|-
| P2
| Launcher 4
| 151
| 0x97**
| Yes
|}
[*] The key is assigned correctly out-of-the-box

[**] This is the shown keycode from Gnome's shortcut editor

== Notes and Comments ==
* Bluetooth mouse: Enable the BT device from the front panel (you should hear a sound). In console type 'sudo hidd --search' and press connect button on your mouse. Tested with Logitech MX900. (extra button configuration has been done elsewhere)
* Home and End keys: Why do they have to be behind the Fn key? Argh!
** ''...can't do much about these :)'' -PaulSladen
* fglrx seems to be working again... I still need to double-check the power states and external display, but at least 3D works (Google Earth, Beryl w/XGL)
----
CategoryLaptop
