{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Dustin Rue
* Brand: Compaq
* Make : Presario
* Model: V2414NR
* Website: http://www.dustinrue.com

=== Current Issues ===
You must install the latest BIOS updates from Compaq/HP!

During install and on boots after installing, the the splash option will cause the screen to show just white unless a vga option is passed such as vga=788.  Wireless seems to require the use of ndiswrapper.

=== System Info ===
bios-version:F.26
system-manufacturer:Hewlett-Packard
system-product-name:Presario V2000 (EH463UA#ABA)
system-version:Rev 1

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Untested
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Not very well
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| No, I had to setup ndiswrapper
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Yes, for video and network
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes, a usb wireless
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| Help
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| Print
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| Web
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| LCD/CRT Switch
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| Sleep
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock/Screensaver
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| Display dim
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| Display bright
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| Play/Pause
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| Stop
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| Play Reverse
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| Fast Forward
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowRight
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgDown
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
There are only a couple of things that will need to get done after install on this laptop to get it up and running fully on Dapper.  

'''Networking'''

''This is an incomplete guide''  
To get wireless working you need to install bcm43xx-fwcutter and ndiswrapper. Remember that the bcm43xx-fwcutter package is in the community package repository, so you'll need to add that using th e Software Properties option under the System->Administration menu.  Use a wired connection to download, the built in NIC works great. 

Many of the how-to's I saw don't seem to mention that you need fwcutter but I couldn't get it to work at all without the firmware.  You also need to download the older broadcom driver from the hp/compaq website, its release date should be 2005.  I had to use ndiswrapper to get my wireless card to work.  I also had to download the older drivers from the hp/compaq website.  You'll need a windows box to unzip the self-extracting file from that site, but if you have this laptop then you have a copy of that.

I unzipped the files to a flashdrive and then boot into Dapper again.  Once in Dapper, run the following

  bcm43xx-fwcutter -w /lib/modules/`uname -r` /media/<path to flash drive> 

where <path to flash drive> is the name given to your flashdrive.  If you used a different method to transfer the files adjust the command accordingly.

With the firmware extracted, you can move on to ndiswrapper.  Simply run the following

  ndiswrapper -i /media/<path to flash drive>/bcmwl5.inf

This will install the drivers for the wireless card.  Next, run the following

  ndiswrapper -m

This will setup the needed modprobe entries so the card is ready each time you boot the laptop.  Rebooting will get things ready, or a simple modprobe ndiswrapper and then ifdown eth1; ifup eth1.  Configure eth1 using the network monitor tool in Gnome and you're set.

'''Splash screen on boot'''

You must pass a vga option when using the live cd or after install or you'll get an all white screen.  Passing vga=791 does the trick.

----
CategoryLaptop
