{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Contact Information ==

mdmarek -- gmail -- com (Ubuntu 7.10 Tester)

''Other maintainers of this page please add you contact information here.''

== Ubuntu 8.04 -- Intel T7250 -- Nvidia 8400M GS ==

''Please put information here.''

== Ubuntu 7.10 -- Intel T7100 -- Nvidia 8400M GS ==

=== Hardware Profile ===

* * For full hardware profile see bottom of page

<pre>
CPU                             Intel Core 2 Duo T7100 (1.8GHz, 2MB L2 Cache, 800MHz FSB)
LCD Panel 	                15.4 in WSXGA+ (1680 x 1050)
Memory 	                        2GB Shared Dual Channel DDR2 SDRAM at 667MHz, 2 DIMM
Video Cards 	                128MB NVIDIA® GeForce 8400M GS
Hard Drive 	                160G 5400RPM SATA Hard Drive
Integrated NIC and Modem 	Integrated 10/100 Network Card and Modem (Broadcom)
Optical Drive 	                8X CD/DVD Burner w/ double-layer DVD+R write capability
Sound Card 	                (Sigmatel)
Wireless Cards 	                Intel® PRO/Wireless 3945 802.11a/g
Camera 	                        Integrated Creative 2.0 mega pixel Web Camera
Bluetooth Wireless 	        Dell Wireless 355 Bluetooth Internal (2.0 + Enhanced Data Rate)
</pre>

=== Testing Results for Gusty Gibbon Tribe 5 ISO ===

Initial graphics screen comes up and after selecting `Start or install Ubuntu` the following error comes up:

<pre>
BusyBox v1.1.3 (Debian 1:1.1.3-5ubuntu1) Built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for list of built-in commands.

/bin/sh: can't access tty; job control turned off
(initramfs)
</pre>

After googling, found suggestion to run: `modprobe piix`, but this just returns the error:

<pre>
FATAL: Module piix not found
</pre>

At this point I gave up on the graphical installer and tried the alternate text mode ISO.

=== Testing Results for Gusty Gibbon Tribe 5 Alternate Text Mode ISO ===

===== Does X start correctly? =====

X does start correctly.

===== Is X running at the correct resolution? =====

The correct resolution (1680x1050) can be selected.

===== Does glxinfo return "direct rendering: Yes"? =====

The command returns the following output:

<pre>
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
</pre>

This while using the non-restricted driver. 

===== Does the restricted driver work? =====

After enabling the restricted driver X fails to start.

'''update: 09-09-2007'''

After applying updates the restricted driver now works. Output from `glxinfo |grep rendering` gives:

<pre>
direct rendering: Yes
</pre>

Output from `glxgears` gives:

<pre>
14029 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2805.761 FPS
</pre>

However, the same font size is rendered larger by the restricted driver than by the non-restricted driver. Fonts of size 10 now render like fonts of size 12 bold with the non-restricted driver.

===== Does wired networking work? =====

Wired networking does work.

===== Does wireless networking work? =====

Wireless networking also works.

===== Does the trackpad work? =====

Trackpad works and the right hand side emulates a mouse scroll wheel.

===== Does sound work? =====

Line out (headphones) works but the speakers don't. Line in (microphone) does not work, tried testing with `Sound Recorder`.

===== Do volume hot-keys work? =====

Volume hot-keys correctly raise and lower the volume. Mute hot-key also works. Start, Pause, Backward, Forward, and Stop hot-keys also work.

===== Do brightness hot-keys work? =====

Brightness hot-keys correctly decrease and increase the screen brightness.

===== Does wireless button work? =====

Wireless button correctly disables and enables the wireless networking.

===== Is cpu frequency scaling supported? =====

The output from running: `sudo invoke-rc.d powernowd restart`:

<pre>
* Stopping powernowd:                           [OK]
* Starting powernowd...                         [OK]
</pre>

===== Does integrated camera work? =====

Ekiga does not recognise the camera.
