{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* Contact: WilliamAnderson
* Brand: Dell
* Make : Latitude
* Model: X300
* Website: No current product page (EOL); <nowiki>[[http://www.dell.com/content/topics/global.aspx/corp/pressoffice/en/2003/2003_07_29_rr_000?c=us&cs=04&l=en&s=bsd|Dell Press Release]]</nowiki>

=== Current Issues ===

=== System Info ===
<pre>
neuro@melbourne:~$ (cd /var/lib/acpi-support/ ; grep . -r *-*)
bios-version:A08
system-manufacturer:Dell Computer Corporation
system-product-name:Latitude X300
system-version:A08
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Edgy (old stable)?
| in Feisty (current stable)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Untested
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| No
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes, see notes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| n/a
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes, see notes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| n/a
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| No
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - PS/2
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| SD reader
| Untested
| No
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy (old stable)?
| in Feisty (current stable)?
|-
| + Esc
| Suspend
| 
| Yes
| Yes, see note
| 
|-
| + F2
| WiFi Radio On/Off
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| Battery Status
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Num Lock
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Scroll Lock
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| + F8
| CRT/LCD
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Eject CD/DVD
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Print Screen / SysRq
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| Pause / Break
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| Brightness +
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| Brightness -
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| Vol +
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgDown
| Vol -
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + End
| Mute
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy (old stable)?
| in Feisty (current stable)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
Feisty Notes:
The volume works but the main volume only controls the speakers, the headphones must be controlled separately.
The suspend button works, but because the system cannot resume, so I would not recommend using it.

=== Previous Data from JeffWaugh and HervéCauwelier ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www1.us.dell.com/content/products/productdetails.aspx/latit_x300?c=us&cs=28&l=en&s=dfb|Dell product page]]</nowiki>
* The X300 is a rebadged Samsung Q20

==== Buttons ====

Laptop:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Power
| physical
|-
| Lid
| physical
|-
| Suspend
| Fn-Esc
|-
| Wireless Killswitch
| Fn-F2
|-
| Battery Status
| Fn-F3
|-
| Num Lock
| Fn-F4
|-
| Scroll Lock
| Fn-F5
|-
| CRT/LCD
| Fn-F8
|-
| Eject
| Fn-F10
|-
| PrntScrn/SysRq
| Fn-F11
|-
| Pause/Break
| Fn-F12
|-
| Volume Mute
| Fn-End
|-
| Volume Up
| Fn-PageUp
|-
| Volume Down
| Fn-PageDown
|-
| Brightness Up
| Fn-CursorUp
|-
| Brightness Down
| Fn-CursorDown
|}

MediaBase:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Volume Down
|-
| Volume Up
|-
| Volume Mute
|-
| Power
|-
| Disconnect Laptop
|}

==== Ports ====

* Modem
* Ethernet
* Power
* D/Bay (USB+Power)
* Firewire
* Microphone
* Headphones/Speakers
* CardBus (one slot)
* SD/MS/MMC
* VGA
* USB
* IR
* MediaBase (docking station), including:
** Power
** USB (two)
** FIrewire
** Ethernet
** Serial
** VGA
** Parallel
** PS/2 Keyboard/Mouse
** Headphones/Speakers
** CD/DVD module
** Semi-Quaver port (joke, it's a subwoofer)

=== Current support in Breezy ===

[HervéCauwelier] I run the same since Hoary and there is a quick tour. The ACPI DSDT table is broken and report wrong information about the battery. A full battery reports as 0% and when I unplug the cord, it drops (raise!) to 14% and won't change. Also the fan ventilation is bad. I thought it would be handled by the hardware but on Linux it is always too high. I have to run "i8kfan 2 2" to put the fan at maximum and get back to 50°C. Compiling packages or anything CPU-comsuptive rapidly raises the temperature to 70°C. The report could be wrong due to broken ACPI but I trust it since I feel the heat throught the keyboard. The few times I ran Windows, I couldn't get so much high temperatures, even with running software like cpuburn, watching DVD, etc. I saw it open once (changing the hard disk because I thought it was the part "burning"), and the fan is ridiculously tiny, and just below the keyboard panel, parallel to it. Yes! it tries to evacuate the heat through the keyboard! Hopefully, a little hot air evacuates from the grid on the right. I had to buy a tablet with fans at the job to use the CPU all day. At rest, it drops to 45°C instead of the average 50°C.

I installed a fixed DSDT table from the ACPI Sourceforge project and I got back the battery to normal report, but the heat issue. I remember ACPI report at the kernel boot. Checking dmesg... it is full of "ACPI: acpi_ec_space_handler: bit_width should be 8" so I can't report those messages at boot. Will try to capture the screen. ;-)

Everything else works as expected. No sudden freeze (expect when over 70°C), no strange behaviour. I haven't been able to use the SD card reader, though. It may only be a missing module but I couldn't find the right one.

I barely use the media base but it a bit broken too. When you boot with it, everything is ok. But trying to remove it while Linux is on will break the Fn keys, so you cannot change the LID lighting, etc. If you booted without it and put it aftewards, the DVD module won't be powered but USB ports do. Maybe another missing module.

I never tried the modem, VGA, FireWire, IR, Cardbus, microphone, parallel and serial ports. Hopefully the Ethernet, USB, PS/2 and headphones plugs work, though I never tried the 1GB capability. the DVD module makes its jobs but makes the computer even hotter. I burnt a few CD-Rs successfully but never tried with DVD-R/RW. I see no reason why it would fail. The Wi-Fi card makes its job. It is a well supported IPW2200. I only had twice in 6 months some crash where I had to rmmod then modprobe all the Wi-Fi related modules to make it work again. Probably a software crash of the driver, maybe fixed now.

Nice laptop... once you patched the initrd image!

=== Current support in Feisty ===
[MarkHuguet] Most of the information from Breezy still holds true for this laptop.  The only major issue I have experienced is that the suspend/resume (mostly the resume side) does not work.The DSDT table no longer needs to be modified.  The battery reports properly, and the DSDT modification does not fix issue with suspend/resume.  

The Media Base issues persist in Feisty, exactly as they were in Breezy.
----
CategoryLaptop
