{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[SladeWinstone]]</nowiki>
* Make: ASUSTeK Computer Inc.
* Brand: Asus
* Model: A8M
* Website: http://www.asus.com/products4.aspx?modelmenu=2&model=1330&l1=5&l2=26&l3=270
* S/N:
* Specs: CPU = Mobile AMD Sempron 3400+ ; Chipset = Nvidia Ge Gorce Go 6100

=== Current Issues ===

==== Gutsy (7.10) Fixes ====
'''''UPDATE'''''
See Notes section below:

All the following issues have fixes detailed in the Notes section below:
* HUGE problem with the 2.6.22.14 kernel image, that prevented me from booting.  Boot process would stop without any real errors but seemed to have problems accessing the ATA drives.  Fixed using notes below.

==== Feisty (7.04) Fixes ====

All the following issues have fixes detailed in the Notes section below:
* Sound = added option to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base and restarted my computer.

==== Edgy (6.10) Fixes ====

No known outstanding problems. All the following issues have fixes detailed in the Notes section below:
* Sound = unmute :)
* Wifi = compile and install latest madwifi driver
* Nvidia Drivers = compile and install latest nvidia driver.  Used the Envy script.
* USB Devices - Problems with USB Mouse = reload driver on bootup
* Synaptics Touchpad Driver = configure xorg.conf
* Built-in Webcam = compile and install latest gspca driver

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Feisty (7.04)?
| in Edgy (6.10)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Installation not tested, upgraded from Edgy
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Feisty (7.04)?
| in Edgy (6.10)?
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| 1024x768 was the highest resolution available by default. I changed xorg.conf to enable 1280x800.
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Yes (after install of nvidia drivers, details below)
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Yes (tested blank screen)
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes (requires option in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base, detailed below)
| Yes (after switching "External Amplifier" off, details below.)
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| None
| None
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Internal Mic
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC (Wifi)
| Untested
| Yes (Atheros AR5006EG chipset. Requires compile of madwifi drivers, details below.)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| Yes, using Synaptic Touchpad driver, detailed below
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Yes (problems with USB 1.1, solution detailed below)
| #63651 (but workaround detailed below)
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| None
| None
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| SD Card Reader Works Fine
| 
|-
| Built-in Webcam
| Untested
| Yes, using gspca driver, detailed below
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Feisty (7.04)?
| in Edgy (6.10)?
|-
| + F1
| Sleep
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| Wireless On/Off
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| LCD Brightness Down
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| LCD Brightness Up
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| LCD On/Off
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Tonggle External Monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| Mute
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Volume -
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Volume +
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Ins
| Num Lock
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Del
| Scroll Lock
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + .
| Numpad .
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + M
| Numpad 0
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + J
| Numpad 1
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + K
| Numpad 2
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + L
| Numpad 3
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + U
| Numpad 4
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + I
| Numpad 5
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + O
| Numpad 6
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + 7
| Numpad 7
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + 8
| Numpad 8
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + 9
| Numpad 9
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ;
| Numpad +
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + P
| Numpad -
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + 0
| Numpad *
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + /
| Numpad /
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Return
| Numpad Enter
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Feisty (7.04)?
| in Edgy (6.10)?
|-
| Power4Gear
| Switch Power Managment Profiles
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mail
| Launch email client
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Browser
| Launch Web Browser
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mouse
| Toggle Touchpad On/Off
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD
| Starts Media Player
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

==== GUTSY FIXES (7.10) ====

===== 2.6.22.14 Kernel set nosmp noapic =====

'''''UPDATE'''''
I have now found kernel boot parameters that will allow ACPI to run.
Instead of setting acpi=off to disable all ACPI (which previously was the only way of booting my A8M), I now use nosmp and noapic which allows some ACPI functionality and a good boot

Add to the end of defoptions and the end of the current kernel in /boot/grub/menu.lst

<pre>
nosmp noapic</pre>

Hi again,

Actually this is only semi-solved... switching the ACPI on again and now I'm suffering the notorious lock/hang bug.  Sigh.... :confused: :( It looks like I'll be going back to acpi=off...

I'll try various fixes I've picked p in a couple of threads and report back if I can get ACPI working without the horror hang!

Slade.

Note: I had some problems after that with my nvidia drivers, which I had to re-install.  This then caused my kernel to switch from the previous "generic" to "386", which in turn broke my sound and built-in web cam.  I fixed all this by install the "generic" linux-restricted package and uninstalling the "linux-restricted...-386" package.  Then everything worked fine.

Really annoying and complicated and I wish I could find out why the linux-image is broken, perhaps it's some sort of regression.

==== FEISTY FIXES (7.04) ====

===== Sound =====
nForce Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP51 High Definition Audio (rev a2) = snd-hda-intel

The following fixes the sound problem:

I added the following to the end of '/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base' and restarted my computer:

Code:
<pre>

options snd-hda-intel model=3stack</pre>

==== EDGY FIXES (6.10) ====

===== Sound =====
nForce Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP51 High Definition Audio (rev a2) = snd-hda-intel

Use the Volume Control applet to modify the ALSA Mixer:
* Mixer Switch: "External Amplifier" switch OFF 

===== Wifi =====
As at 2007-02-12, Atheros AR5006EG not supported out of the box with Edgy.  
You need to install the latest madwifi drivers from www.madwifi.org

* Download from: http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/GettingMadwifi
* Install instructions from: http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/FirstTimeHowTo
* If you have the linux-restricted-modules installed you will need to remove the volatile madwifi drivers: http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/Distro/Ubuntu

WPA works fine.

===== Nvidia Drivers =====
As at 2007-02-12, nvidia Ge Force Go 6100 not supported out of the box with Edgy.  
I used the great Envy script to install the latest nvidia drivers (thanks Albert!).

http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html

===== USB Devices - Problems with USB Mouse =====
I experienced problems with the legacy USB 1.1 drivers and a USB mouse not working. 
dmesg gives the following error:
ohci_hcd 0000:00:0b.0: USB HC takeover failed! (BIOS/SMM bug)

There is a workaround

Thanks to reech and especially http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/materiel/liste_portables/packard_bell/easynote_w51101

To add the options ohci-hcd no_handshake=1 to bootup:

* Create /etc/init.d/usbfix.sh add the following lines:
<pre> /bin/sh
sudo rmmod ohci_hcd
sudo modprobe ohci-hcd no_handshake=1</pre>

* Now, add usbfix.sh to the bootup process:
<pre>
sudo chmod 755 /etc/init.d/usbfix.sh
cd /etc/rc5.d
sudo ln -s /etc/init.d/usbfix.sh S99usbfix</pre>

Seems to fix the problem..

===== Synaptics TouchPad Driver =====
Make sure that the Synaptics TouchPad driver for X.Org server is installed. Open a terminal and type:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-synaptics
</pre>

Backup '''''xorg.conf''''' first

Now you just have to add the following lines to xorg.conf (sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf)
Code:
<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
  Driver          "synaptics"
  Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
  Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
  Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
  Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
  Option          "SHMConfig"             "on"
EndSection</pre>

Put the above under the section about the mouse.
And then further down, where it says Section "ServerLayout",
again under the "Configured Mouse", add:
<pre>
InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
</pre>

Now close all windows, and press Ctrl-Alt-Backspace, to restart X, or
alternatively just reboot. All ready.

A very nice application to configure your touchpad, is gsynaptic:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install gsynaptic
</pre>

Then look under System-Preferences-Touchpad

===== Built-in Webcam =====

Webcam: Z-Star Microelectronics Corp. idProduct 0x0321 Vimicro Corp. USB2.0 Web Camera

http://mxhaard.free.fr/spca5xx.html
Driver: gspcav1

Download the source: http://mxhaard.free.fr/spca50x/Download/gspcav1-20070110.tar.gz

The following is from: http://southernvaleslug.org/modules/newbb/viewtopic.php?topic_id=25&forum=2&post_id=27#forumpost27

Go to the folder where the source file is and uncompress it:

<pre>
tar zxvf gspcav1-20070110.tar.gz
</pre>

Compile and Install the drivers:

<pre>
cd gspcav1-20070110
make
sudo make install</pre>

My webcam works OK with camorama, but the image have a blue colour to it in Ekiga and does not look natural.  To tune the image colour:

Tune the gspca module loading
<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/options
</pre>

Add the following to the file:
<pre>
options gspca force_rgb=1
</pre>

Save and Close.

Now to load the module:

<pre>
sudo modprobe gspca
</pre>

Check that the device node is created:

<pre>
ls /dev/video*
</pre>

Now you are all done, and you can test the cam with something like camorama

----
CategoryHardware CategoryLaptop
