{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: KetilThorgersen
* Make : ASUS
* Model: A9RP
* Website: http://www.asus.com/products.aspx?l1=5&l2=26&l3=294&l4=0&model=1432&modelmenu=1
* S/N: Only needed if you have a Canonical supplied laptop

=== Current Issues ===
In order to make this laptop work without too much hassle, bios 228 (the latest at the time of writing) is highly recommended!

Sleep and hibernate does not work with a memory card inserted and mounted in the internal reader.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:228
system-manufacturer:ASUSTeK Computer Inc.
system-product-name:A9Rp
system-version:1.0
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| No*
| yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes*
| Yes*
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| No*
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| No
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Fn + F1
| Sleep
| 
| Works
| Dialoguebox
| 
|-
| Fn + F2
| Turn off wep
| 
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Fn + F5
| Dim screen
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Fn + F6
| Brighter
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| Mute
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Lower sound vol
| Yes
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Lower sound vol
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy (current stable)?
| in Feisty (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
===== Wireless =====
The wireless is not automatically configured or recognized. It will be supported out of the box from kernel 2.6.22, but until then we will have to install the driver ourselves. (Feel free to try NDiswrapper, but be warned. I locked up my installation beyond repair.) The asus wireless is a variety of the zydas zd1211 and it is possible to make the userspace driver work by modifying it slightly:
Open a terminal then
Download the driver:
<pre>
sudo wget http://zd1211.ath.cx/download/zd1211-driver-r85.tgz
</pre>
Unpack and enter the directory:
<pre>
sudo tar xfz zd1211-driver-r85.tgz
cd zd1211-driver-r85
</pre>
To add the asus identfier in the driver
<pre>
sudo gedit src/zdusb.c
</pre>
Find the section with the heading zd1211b
Add the following line above the others:
<pre>
 { USB_DEVICE(0x0b05, 0x171b) },
</pre>
save and close gedit.
Then we edit the makefile to tell that it is a zd1211b device we're compiling for
<pre>
sudo gedit Makefile
</pre>
Find the line:
<pre>
 ZD1211REV_B=0}}}
and change it to
{{{
 ZD1211REV_B=1
</pre>
save and close

Now its time to compile and install:
<pre>
sudo make
sudo make install
</pre>

Now time to make the wireless come up: Try
<pre>
sudo rmmod zd1211b zd1211rw
sudo modprobe zd1211b
</pre>

It should now be possible to connect the usual way through network under the systems menu or your favourite wireless app.
===== scrolling =====
In order to make the side scrolling work in Feisty you have to manually edit xorg.conf
<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>
Identy the section that begins with: 
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"

replace the section with this one:
<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option 		"HorizEdgeScroll" 	"1"
EndSection
</pre>
Press ctrl+alt+backspace and you should have scrolling when X comes back up.

----
CategoryLaptop
