{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[LionelPorcheron]]</nowiki>
* Make: Fujitsu Siemens
* Model: Lifebook S7010
 
=== Current Issues (Dapper) ===

=== Hardware details (x86) ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper?
| in Edgy (current stable)?
|-
| Screen
| Works
| Works
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes 1024x768
| Yes - 1024x768 1440x1050 (see note)
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Xorg crashes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Sometimes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim/Blank monitor?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| untested
| untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| ?
| ?
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| TV out
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Flash card reader
| No
| No
| 
|}

=== Dapper Install Notes (x86) ===

This great laptop works really out of the box. Only internal modem is not working.

=== Edgy Install notes, getting 1440x1050 resolution ===
==== Getting 1440x1050 Resolution ====

A Google search about 1400x1050 or intel 82855 and Linux gives a lot of matches, most of them being some kind of Swahili for the passenger freshly disembarked from Redmond to Ubuntu airport, there are tared roads around the jungle here...

Here is how I got it my way to get full resolution out of your notebook with Intel graphics and 1400x1050 LCD panels (Dell, Fujitsu, ...). (Yes you can get it over the vonsole, but here's my intuitive working way...)

First of all, if you have *a less capable* second monitor connected to your laptop, disconnect it, since XOrg will not give you more than the less capable connected monitor can.

1)From the K Menu (Start) choose System --> Adept package manager.

2) If you see a package named "915resolution" go to 4)

3) You have to get the "universe" repository first: Go to Adept --> manage repositories. The line http://**.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu edgy universe is greyed, right-click on it, choose enable. Fetch updates.

4) Click on "915resolution" select "request install" then "apply changes".

5) From System Settings --> Monitor and Display select your 1440x1050 resolution, Apply.

6) Log out --> End current Session from the Login screen, select the icon at the left and choose "Restart X Server" (you may have restarted the full OS as well, this is faster)

7) Enjoy your new real estate in Ubuntuland!

(**= your language, else EN)
P.S. this assumes that your monitor has been correctly recognized (it should), else set it up in System Settings --> Monitor and Display before restarting.
