{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''LaptopTestingTeam/HPdv9700t 23 May 2008 Ubuntu 8.04'''

Linux (computer's name) 2.6.14-16-generic #1 SMP Thu Apr 10 13:23:42 UTC 2008 i686 GNU/Linux

== Video ==
Device is a nVidia GeForce 8400M GS (rev a1)
Hardware Drivers app says that the Device Driver is "nvidia_new" which is "Enabled" but "Not in use" so that "No proprietary drivers are in use on this system". Screen resolution defaults upon installation to "1680 x 1050" which is correctly displayed on the 17" LCD screen.
GLXGEARS graphics benchmarking  "858 frames in 5.1 seconds = 169.348 FPS" but does not support 3D rendering.

== Power Management ==
Battery is a Hewlett-Packard lithium-ion type which is recognized as present and charged. Remaining capacity is 5152 mAh (of a design capcity of 6000 mAh) with a voltage of 16597 mV (although the design voltage is showing as 14800 mV).
When laptop lid is closed the screen blanks correctly.
When preferences are so set, the screen will dim a bit when idle or when the AC power cord is disconnected.
When the battery is removed and AC power is connected the battery (BAT0) removal is noted.
When the battery is present and the AC power is applied that fact is also recognized.

Fn-F5 does put the laptop to sleep (but I don't know what to do to awaken it other than a reboot!)

CPU frequency scaling works.

== Audio ==
Device is an Intel 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio controller (rev 03) which works well from the speakers but was not tested with headphones. The Altec Lansing speakers' volume can be controlled by a backlighted keyboard control which, when pressed, also gives screen feedback via a small applet window.

== Mouse ==
Synaptics pad works well.

== Ethernet (Wireless) ==
Intel PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN Network Connection (rev 61) Realtek Semiconductor RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 01). The ethernet adapter is seen as wlan0 but in 'Devices - Network Tools' the 'Configure' button says that the interface does not exist.
----
CategoryLaptop
