{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact:
** P4man<duvel123@gmail.com>
** speps <remigillig@gmail.com>
* Brand: Acer
* Make : Aspire
* Model: 5920G, nVidia GeForce 8600M GT, Intel 4965AGN Wifi (802.11a/b/g/Draft-N)

=== Current Issues ===
Gutsy: Ubuntu restricted drivers failed to work, X wouldnt start. Used Envy with workaround found here:
http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?p=107 .
Then nVidia drivers work, deskop effects work, but not in combination with other 3D apps. Other 3D apps work with desktop effects disabled. Trying both at once results in hard freezing.

Integrated microphone doesnt work, but microphone jack with external mic does work.
Neither hybernate nor standby work in either Feisty or Gutsy. uswsusp works in Gusty for hibernate but only if desktop effects are disabled.
After uswsusp resume standby leds in powerbutton and front keep flashing orange.

Sound works, but in some apps, the quality is extremely poor and there is a lot of static and distortion or sound just drops for a short time. Happens in some games and in Skype.

4965AGN wifi works, but is often very slow -> high latency. Throughput seems normal.

==== Feisty ====
* To boot from LiveCD
** At the boot menu press F6 for other options
** Add `break=top` before `--`, press Enter
** You will have a message like `can't access tty job control turned off`
** In the prompt type `sudo modprobe piix && exit`
** (Optional) Then you may randomly have a message about X Server not working properly, validate all messages by `No`, then in the prompt type `sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf` and find the section with `Driver "nv"` in it and replace `nv` with `vesa`, press Ctrl+O to save and Ctrl+X to quit, type `startx` in the prompt
** Now you have access to the graphical intallation if you want

* Graphics Card (nVidia GeForce 8600M GT)
** Restricted drivers do not work correctly, use <nowiki>[[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html|Envy]]</nowiki>

* Wifi (Intel 4965AGN)
** Follow this guide : <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=493095]]</nowiki>
** Works perfectly (only tested WEP though)

* Audio (Intel High Definition Audio (HDA))
** Follow this guide : <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto]]</nowiki>
** Sound works but plugging a headphone does not mute front speakers, no solution for Virtual SurroundSound
** Internal microphone outputs to speakers but capture does not work

* Other devices in progress

==== Hardy ====

Situation is a a lot better, pretty much everything worked out of box. I just had some problems with the wireless led which didn't light up, when the wireless was turned on.
This solved the Problem:
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-hardy
sudo rmmod iwl4965; sudo modprobe iwl4965

Touchpad and media keys can be made to work fully by following the guide here:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=517156

Crystal Eye Webcam works with the fix described here:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=939236 .  Expected to work fully out-of-the-box with Intrepid.

==== Intrepid ====

Wifi LED works out of the box, performance improved dramatically.  Webcam now works without hacking.  Sound quality fine here.  Media keys work with instructions from here:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6095327#post6095327 .

Keyboard brightness control is glitchy.  € and $ keys adjacent to the cursor keys no longer recognised.
Workarounds for both of these problems were reported in this bug report: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal-info/+bug/281951

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:v0.3505
system-manufacturer:Acer, inc.
system-product-name:Aspire 5920G
system-version:Not Applicable
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Feisty?
| in Gutsy?
| in Hardy?
| in Intrepid
|-
| Installation works?
| No (not from CD, only from USB stick)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-6> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-4> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Feisty?
| in Gutsy?
| in Hardy?
| in Intrepid
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes (with binary drivers)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes (with binary drivers)
| Yes (with binary drivers without desktop effects)
| Yes (binary drivers)
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Not properly
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| No
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| No
| No
| Yes
| Yes, resume not 100% reliable
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes, but very poor quality in some apps
| Yes, but poor quality in some apps
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Not by default
| Not by default
| Not by default (surround has to be turned on)
| 
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes (switch control to Surround)
| Yes (switch control to PCM)
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Yes. Built in microphone doesnt work
| Yes, both built in and external jack
| Yes, both
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| No (intel 4965AGN)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| No
| No
| Yes (gsynaptics)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| using ide-generic
| using ide-generic
| 
| 
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| SD works, other untested
| SD works, others untested
| 
|-
| Crystal Eye Webcam
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes- see note above
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Feisty?
| in Gutsy (LTS)?
| in Intrepid (current stable)?
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Blank Screen
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Mute
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| NumLock
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Scroll Lock
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| + ArrowRight
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes, but glitchy
| 
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes, but glitchy
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Feisty?
| in Gutsy (LTS)?
| in Intrepid (current stable)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
| 
|-
| Web Browser (left side of keyboard)
| Open Web Browser
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| E-Mail (left side of keyboard)
| Open Mail Client
| 
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|}
==== Notes ====

----
CategoryLaptop
