{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: DomagojHarkHranjec
* Brand: TravelMate
* Make : Acer
* Model: 2492NWLMi
* Website: http://global.acer.com/products/notebook/tm2490.htm
* S/N: Only needed if you have a Canonical supplied laptop

=== Current Issues ===

=== System Info ===
<pre>
bios-version:V3.01
system-manufacturer:Acer
system-product-name:TravelMate 2490
system-version:V3.01
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
| in Gutsy (current oldstable)?
| in Hardy (current stable)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes *1)
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
|-
| Upgrade works?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-5> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty (current oldstable)?
| in Hardy (current stable)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| 1024x768 *2)
| 1280x800 *6)
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| 60Hz
| 60Hz
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Yes *7)
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes *3)
| Yes *8)
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Yes *10)
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
| in Hardy (current stable)?
|-
| + Space
| N/A
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + Esc
| N/A
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F1
| Help
| 
| No
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F2
| eSettings
| 
| No
| Untested
| No
| 
|-
| + F3
| ePower Management
| 
| No
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Sleep
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| Display Toggle
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| Blank Screen
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Disable Touchpad
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Mute
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| N/A
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F10
| N/A
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + F11
| NumLk
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| ScrLk
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| Volume Up
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| Volume Down
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowRight
| Brightness Up
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| Brightness Down
| 
| Yes
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| N/A
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| + PgDown
| N/A
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Edgy?
| in Feisty?
| in Hardy (current stable)?
|-
| €
| 
| e033
| No
| Untested
| No *9)
| 
|-
| $
| 
| e034
| No
| Untested
| No
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

* 1) I recommend "alternate" install while "desktop" is excruciatingly slow. (Maybe because this model has only 256 MiB? *4) It had swap on the HDD and it did detect it but didn't activate it, for some reason. Try activating swap by hand, maybe that helps.) I found a weird workaround if you are stuck with "desktop" CD (like I was). Put in a desktop CD, wait until it boots. (Long wait.) Close the red error pop-up. Go from X to console 2, go into prompt and write "sudo vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf". Find the line 'Driver "i810"'. Comment it and add line 'Driver "vesa"'. Save and exit. Go to X and kill it. (Ctrl+Alt+Backspace) It will restart with VESA driver and it will be much faster. (Bizarre. It should be faster with native driver. Probably some conflict with LiveCD decompressing procedure?) Now you can start the installation procedure. When you, at last, boot into Ubuntu, bring back "i810" line into xorg.conf and restart X. Now it will work good and fast.

* 2) Read "https://help.ubuntu.com/community/i915Driver". At "Software Sources" add "universe". Do "sudo apg-get install 915resolution". Log-out and do "Ctrl+Alt+Backspace". Voilà! (1280x800)

* 3) Read "https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Edgy". Add "universe". (If not already.) Do "sudo apt-get install bcm43xx-fwcutter". Do "sudo /usr/share/bcm43xx-fwcutter/install_bcm43xx_firmware.sh". Reboot. I guess only these files are needed (in /lib/firmware/''kernel''): "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw bcm43xx_pcm5.fw bcm43xx_initval05.fw bcm43xx_initval06.fw". It seems to work, I managed to communicate with nearby access point. Didn't make full connection (assigning of IP address), though.

* 4) RAM is definitely an issue. I upgraded the laptop to 1280 MiB and run desktop CD. Now it boots faster, without red error pop-up and GUI is naturally responsive.

* 5) I've made upgrade to Feisty Fawn. The dist-upgrade went almost flawlessly. Some issues:

    a) I've had US English language set but I've wanted to use Croatian server. I've needed to change language to Croatian to access Croatian repository. (During login to X you can change language to English so it's OK.)

    b) I've had boot partition of cca. 25MiB. It wasn't enough! Upgrade needs more than 50MiB on boot partition (Which is insane! Boot partitions are supposed to be small! If I've knew about Ubuntu strategies I would partition my HDD differently but unfortunately, now it's too late...) so I've must move boot data to root partition and boot from there. I've turned my old boot partition to swap space.

    c) After that, upgrade went successfully except bcm43xx-fwcutter package, which couldn't download firmware. Just don't let it try to download and everything will be OK.

* 6) i915resolution was already installed.

* 7) Comparing to Edgy where compiz was additional package but worked horribly, on Feisty was pretty integrated and worked great. I've activated wobbly windows and cube. For cube I've needed to add some virtual desktop (4) and then I could rotate them. Both cube and wobbly work with no speed penalty to OS and looks great.

* 8) Read "https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Feisty". bcm43xx-fwcutter can't download firmware automatically (wrong URL) so do it by hand and cut it to /lib/firmware. Reload bcm43xx module. GNOME now has wireless support integrated by default so search for nearby WiFi in upper left corner. :)

* 9) Here's the idea for fixin' it up. On console: "setkeycodes 0e33 89; setkeycodes 0e34 90". In X terminal "xmodmap -e 'keycode 128 = dollar'; xmodmap -e 'keycode 211 = EuroSign'". You can also fix the console with "dumpkeys >dk.txt; vi dk.txt; (change to: keycode  89 = currency\n keycode  90 = dollar\n); loadkeys dk.txt". It could be automatized by putting this in adequate scripts/config files. 

* 10) This is LinModem's scanModem (http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/scanModem.gz) output:

CLASS=0403
NAME="Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801G "
PCIDEV=8086:27d8
SUBSYS=1025:0090
IRQ=21
HDA=8086:27d8
SOFT=8086:27d8.HDA
CodecDiagnosed=
slamrTest=
HDAchipVendorID=14f1
CHIP=0x14f12bfa
CodecClass=14f1
IDENT=hsfmodem
SLMODEMD_DEVICE=
OPTS=
Driver=hsfmodem-drivers
DRIVER=hsfmodem_drivers

So, it's Conexant HSF modem over Intel's HDA audio device. You can get the driver from Linuxant. You need to get two drivers.

1) alsa-driver with support for Conexant chipset
http://www.linuxant.com/alsa-driver/archive/alsa-driver-linuxant-1.0.20.3/alsa-driver-linuxant_1.0.20.3_all.deb.zip

2) hsfmodem driver
http://www.linuxant.com/drivers/hsf/full/archive/hsfmodem-7.80.02.04full/hsfmodem_7.80.02.04full_i386.deb.zip

You'll probably need to satisfy some .deb dependencies (libc-dev and such).
After installation of second driver, run 'sudo hsfconfig'. Answer the questions and that's it. FREE version is limited to 14.4 kbps.

----
CategoryLaptop
