{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: AaronWaite
* Make: Toshiba
* Model: S100
* S/N: 65519708G

=== Current Issues ===

==== Hardy Alpha 2 ====

Bug seems to be fixed in the Live CD installer and I updated the bug report. I also suggested we not close the bug yet because the issue has seemed to have been fixed in the past, only to show up again in the final release. 

==== Gutsy Final ====

Bug #19749 still exists. Updated bug report on Launchpad. 

==== Feisty Herd 5 ====

It seems as though the old bug on this machine has reared it's head again. Install went fine this time, but upon reboot the system just hangs and eventually drops me to a "BusyBox" command prompt. I've updated the bug report (mentioned below).

==== Older ====

UPDATE: with the release of Dapper Drake rc1 the drive detection raid controller bug appears to have been resolved.  I have successfully installed Dapper on a Toshiba S100 using the RC1 "desktop cd" graphical installer and did not have to use any of the workarounds previously required.  Discussion of this bug (which makes up a large portion of this page), can probably be removed.

So far I've been completely unsuccessful in installing Hoary or Breezy on this machine. Hoary would boot, allow me to select language and locale but didn't detect the DVD/CDRW drive. Breezy gets one step further but fails to detect the SATA hard drive. I've tried passing all the various ACPI options during boot with no success. The machine also supports Intel's software RAID, which I've tried disabling via Toshiba's sparse BIOS settings with no success.

I'm currently waiting for some advice on the mailing list on how to proceed with the Breezy install. I've spent a number of hours talking about it on the #ubuntu IRC channel with no real progress. In other words - HELP!

Since installing precludes any of the other things I'm supposed to be reporting, I'll mention here that I've filed Bug <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13506|#13506]]</nowiki> in regards to my missing HDD during install issue.

==== Dapper Flight 1 ====

Just added some notes to my long standing bug about my first experience with Dapper on this notebook. Still recovering from major surgery I'm not able to do much, but I took the live cd for a spin without much success. It seems even though I'm prompted to pick a hard disk driver, none of the options work. If I skip the hard disk detection, I get as far as the login screen chimes and a brown background with movable mouse, but nothing else ever loads and I'm unable to switch to another console to find out what's going on.

As soon as I'm able, I'll see if it behaves differently with the install disc.

==== Dapper Flight 2 ====

Flight 2 doesn't behave much differently than the other Flight release, or even Breezy final. When I get to the partitioning stage of the install, I'm told that a hard disk can't be found and I'm presented with a list of disk controller modules/drivers to choose from. I've tried manually selecting every one that looks the least bit relevant with no success. Still no new changes to my bug report. I'm going to try to make it on IRC in the near future and see if there's anyone around that can offer some suggestions.

==== Dapper Flight 3 ====

Same behavior as Flight 2. I updated my bug report (now here <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/19749]]</nowiki>) with some new log files.

==== Dapper Flight 4 ====

No change in the bug per-se, but Matthew had me to unloading and loading a few modules and I was finally able to get Ubuntu installed on this machine. See the bug report for the status and fix for the installer.

==== Dapper Flight 5 ====

the previously mentioned drive detection bug still exists.  A fairly simple workaround is available near the end of the flight3 bug report mentioned above.  This can be used to get Ubuntu installed until a more permanent fix is implemented.

==== Dapper RC1 ====

many issues resolved, hibernate now works, as does drive detection through the raid controller, recently released nvidia-glx 1.0.8756 drivers fixed the resolution bug, touchpad speed/doubleclick/scroll have also been fixed.

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-5> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim/Blank monitor?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes - but only in 1 of 2 ports
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| SD card reader
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hoary (current stable)?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hoary (current stable)?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

"I've spent 20 minutes to find something with google. Seems that nobody installs linux on this notebook except some japanese folks:
* http://linux.toshiba-dme.co.jp/ML/tlinux-users/7000/7072.html -- as you can see this exact the same problem. :-(
* http://archives.free.net.ph/message/20050813.111507.c969fddf.en.html -- no cd drive dedected but you said that it is working on breezy
So nobody listed on Google has managed a Linux installation on this notebook :(
Think you should ask some UbuntuDevel people and make call a Toshiba service center.

Small Update. You said that you want to resize you NTFS partition. If the partition is listed in the window you select it and define a new partition size. But let run defrag.exe over it." - ArminRonacher

----

* Separated notes so it doesn't look like I'm talking to myself. :)

I've spent many hours going above and beyond what the LaptopTestingTeam requires of me. It's not a matter of me not knowing how to do it, but of the installer (and/or hardware) not functioning as expected. I'm not presented with a hard disk to partition - therefore I can't resize NTFS or install. - AaronWaite

==== Colony 3 Update ====

I'm keeping the above mentioned bug updated with my status. So far more hardware seems to be recognized, but the functionality of the partitioning stage is not clear to me. I have the options to "Configure software RAID" or "Configure Logical Volume Manager". Both options warn that if I proceed, I won't be able to change the partitions on the physical disk, and I need to resize an NTFS partition first.

I just booted up with the Colony 3 live cd to see how far I'd get without worrying about the hard drive. We're close... really close. I got all the way to the GDM screen and heard the login music (so the wireless stuff all worked, and sound, and I can move the cursor with the trackpad), but the screen stays black. Unfortunately I can't switch to another console to see what's going on under the hood. Even tried to SSH into the machine since I couldn't remember if that was enabled on the live cd, but apparently it's not. We're definitely going in the right direction though! - AaronWaite

==== Colony 5 - Current Daily Updates ====

Current bug still persists and we're apparently just waiting for the fix to make it into an ISO. As of 10/01/2005 though, that hasn't happened as that disc behaves just like Colony 2 did. When you get to the partitioning stage, the only options are to configure RAID or configure LVM, and you're not allowed to modify the partition table at all. I haven't saved any additional log files and such since the cause of the bug seems to be known, but I'd be happy to do so if asked. - AaronWaite

==== RC1 Update ====

Same issues still remain. I mentioned it in the bug this time since I hadn't added anything since around Colony 3. I'm a little surprised actually, as the bug report made it sound like the fix was made and it just needed to make it's way into an ISO. The machine *does* behave a bit differently with this build (although not related to the bug) - both the wired and wireless devices are recognized, it's running significantly cooler and the fan isn't running full blast, and the high-pitched tone it was emitting full-time previously is now only intermittent. - AaronWaite

==== Breezy Final ====

No change in bug status or install issues. - AaronWaite

==== Edgy Eft Knot 1 ====

I used the "Desktop Install" disc this time (hybrid Live/Install CD) and was able to install with no problems. Hard disks were recognized and partitioned properly. So far this is the best install experience since I received the machine. - AaronWaite

----

I downloaded OpenSUSE
from http://www.opensuse.org/Released_Version
and disk detection was successful.

i think this difference is from module loading order or kernel version.
dose any one could find and solve the detection problem?

this is the lsmod result

<pre>
Module                  Size  Used by
nls_iso8859_1           4096  3
nls_cp949             148992  3
vfat                   12800  3
fat                    49692  1 vfat
usbhid                 43616  0
uhci_hcd               32016  0
ohci_hcd               20228  0
ehci_hcd               32136  0
usbcore               112640  5 usbhid,uhci_hcd,ohci_hcd,ehci_hcd
reiserfs              250480  1
fan                     4996  0
thermal                14472  0
processor              24252  1 thermal
sg                     35744  0
ata_piix                9860  0
ide_cd                 39684  0
cdrom                  36896  1 ide_cd
ahci                   12292  4
libata                 48516  2 ata_piix,ahci
piix                    9988  0 [permanent]
sd_mod                 18576  5
scsi_mod              131304  4 sg,ahci,libata,sd_mod
ide_disk               17152  0
ide_core              122380  3 ide_cd,piix,ide_disk
</pre>

this is the dmesg result

<pre>
Linux version 2.6.13-15-default (geeko@buildhost) (gcc version 4.0.2 20050901 (prerelease) (SUSE Linux)) #1 Tue Sep 13 14:56:15 UTC 2005

..............................

SCSI subsystem initialized
ICH6: IDE controller at PCI slot 0000:00:1f.1
ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKC] enabled at IRQ 11
ACPI: PCI Interrupt 0000:00:1f.1[A] -> Link [LNKC] -> GSI 11 (level, low) -> IRQ 11
ICH6: chipset revision 3
ICH6: not 100% native mode: will probe irqs later
    ide0: BM-DMA at 0xbf30-0xbf37, BIOS settings: hda:DMA, hdb:pio
Probing IDE interface ide0...
input: PS/2 Mouse on isa0060/serio1
input: AlpsPS/2 ALPS GlidePoint on isa0060/serio1
hda: UJDA765 DVD/CDRW, ATAPI CD/DVD-ROM drive
ide0 at 0x1f0-0x1f7,0x3f6 on irq 14
libata version 1.12 loaded.
ahci version 1.01
    ACPI-0212: *** Warning: Device is not power manageable
ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKD] enabled at IRQ 11
ACPI: PCI Interrupt 0000:00:1f.2[B] -> Link [LNKD] -> GSI 11 (level, low) -> IRQ 11
hda: ATAPI 24X DVD-ROM CD-R/RW drive, 2048kB Cache, UDMA(33)
Uniform CD-ROM driver Revision: 3.20
PCI: Setting latency timer of device 0000:00:1f.2 to 64
ahci(0000:00:1f.2) AHCI 0001.0000 32 slots 4 ports 1.5 Gbps 0x5 impl SATA mode
ahci(0000:00:1f.2) flags: 64bit ncq ilck pm led slum part
ata1: SATA max UDMA/133 cmd 0xF8828D00 ctl 0x0 bmdma 0x0 irq 11
ata2: SATA max UDMA/133 cmd 0xF8828D80 ctl 0x0 bmdma 0x0 irq 11
ata3: SATA max UDMA/133 cmd 0xF8828E00 ctl 0x0 bmdma 0x0 irq 11
ata4: SATA max UDMA/133 cmd 0xF8828E80 ctl 0x0 bmdma 0x0 irq 11
ata1: dev 0 cfg 49:2f00 82:346b 83:7f09 84:6063 85:3469 86:3e09 87:6063 88:203f
ata1: dev 0 ATA, max UDMA/100, 117210240 sectors: lba48
ata1: dev 0 configured for UDMA/100
scsi0 : ahci
ata2: no device found (phy stat 00000000)
scsi1 : ahci
ata3: no device found (phy stat 00000000)
scsi2 : ahci
ata4: no device found (phy stat 00000000)
scsi3 : ahci
  Vendor: ATA       Model: FUJITSU MHT2060B  Rev: 0000
  Type:   Direct-Access                      ANSI SCSI revision: 05
SCSI device sda: 117210240 512-byte hdwr sectors (60012 MB)
SCSI device sda: drive cache: write back
SCSI device sda: 117210240 512-byte hdwr sectors (60012 MB)
SCSI device sda: drive cache: write back
 sda: sda1 sda2 sda3 sda4 < sda5 sda6 sda7 >
Attached scsi disk sda at scsi0, channel 0, id 0, lun 0
Attached scsi generic sg0 at scsi0, channel 0, id 0, lun 0,  type 0

..................................

</pre>

I found debian sarge installation success case from

http://www.warwick.ac.uk/staff/Neil.Stewart/s100/s100.html
