{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

I installed Edgy on the HP Pavilion 1420us with the Live CD and it pretty much works out of the box.  There were some issues that I encountered.  I'll explain them below and what I did to fix it. 

== What Works: ==

Pretty much everything.

However, I didn't test the modem as I don't have a phone line to test it in. However, going to SYSTEM --> ADMINISTRATION --> NETWORKING shows that it at least detects the modem.
Network card (wired) works with DHCP and without.
The default resolution is detected properly.

Entering: "glxinfo | grep renderinglibG" returns "warning: 3D driver claims to not support visual 0x5b
direct rendering: Yes"
Touch pad works wonders.
The remote that comes with it (the one that fits in the PC Card slot) works.  This also means that the IR port works, too.
All of the external ports seems to work.  However, I didn't test the expansion port.
Volume buttons/mute buttons work.

== What did not work: ==
The Wireless hotkey above the keyboard does not work.  I used xev to see if that key actually returns anything.  It doesn't look like it does.
In Windows XP, the hotkeys above the keyboard either light up or go dark depending on the state of the button press.  This either stays on or remain off all of the time.
Hitting the Fn+? key actually even brings up the Ubuntu Help Center.  (So cool!)

== How I got stuff that had "issues" to work: ==
The wireless card works if you install Network Manager (yes, WPA works. Yay!)
The flash memory card reader works if you add tifm_core and tifm_sd to the /etc/modules file.

This is a beautiful laptop to use with Ubuntu.  Everything seems to work out of the box (or with some very minor configuration).

Why, the best thing is that the power manager even detects the notebook battery correctly.

This laptop and Ubuntu were made for each other. Also, please someone edit this entry.  This is my first wiki entry and I'm not sure how to pretty it up.  I'll add anything else if I think of it.

== Feisty Fawn ==
Everything works except for the memory card reader.  Problem with tifm_core/tifm_sd.  No matter what you do, it does not read the card.

USB to Serial Interface devices does not work.  It start up and create a /dev/ttyUSB0 then it drops the device without any error message.
