{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Lars Ljung ===

* '''Email''':  * '''Jabber''':  * '''OpenPGP key''': <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xAEBD5E20AF153D95762337D1CBB5BA5B5D50242E&op=index|5D50242E]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad profile''': https://launchpad.net/~larslj

I'm one of the system administrators for the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-se.org/|Swedish LoCo]]</nowiki> web server and also an active member of the LoCo. I have been using GNU/Linux since 1997 and Ubuntu since 2005. My home is currently in Stockholm, Sweden. Professionally I'm a software developer with a focus on digital signal processing and embedded systems.

My contributions to the Ubuntu community are mainly related to the Swedish LoCo team. Together with other system administrators I have been managing the web server since April 2007. I have also been an active member of the forum since January 2007, where I'm trying to help beginners and experienced users alike.

=== My Goals ===
I really believe in the idea of local teams and I think that we in the Swedish LoCo team contribute to the popularity of Ubuntu in Sweden. My goal is to assist in the further development of the Swedish community, and also to help with the collaboration between the <nowiki>[[Nordic]]</nowiki> LoCos.

=== Cheers from yeager ===

I've seen larslj helping out on ubuntu-se.org for years. He is very helpful and tries to understand the problem before giving suggestions.

I can't say enough how I want to see this collegue and friend as an official Ubuntu member. He deserves it better than most people :-).

----
CategoryHomepage
