{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Lars Friedrichs ===

Email: 
IRC: HighNo (irc.freenode.net)

==== welcome ====
Hi guys,

thanks for stopping by to have a look at my page. If you want to know me better you should probably try to find me somewhere and ask me something :-)

==== about me ====
I'm just another linux enthusiast and so called evangelist.

I do linux and security trainings as a freelancer since 2000 and did my UCP (ubuntu certified professional) as well as the ubuntu official instructor test in may '07 (during which I had a great time in Stuttgart, thanks again Billy and Chris).

==== personal stuff ====
Just some personal stuff:
* I'm 31 years old, married and have one lovely daughter and now even one lovely boy so far.
* If I am not working on someone's PC (including mine) I most likely will be humming an 80's song - sometimes I combine these two hobbies :-)
* If you've come to know me in IRC you should know I am the man for (try to be) funny remarks and overlengthy descriptions for things that tend to finally work :-) good example for that is <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+question/8091|here]]</nowiki>

==== my projects at this time ====
These are some of my projects:
* http://parpwatch.sourceforge.net - PARPwatch is a python arp watch daemon mostly for windows which logs to the eventlog.
* http://blueproximity.sourceforge.net - BlueProximity is a security tool to detect your presence near your computer via bluetooth for automated locking/unlocking of the screen.
* trying to understand packaging for Ubuntu and Debian by packaging my BlueProximity package myself.
* starting to have a look at <nowiki>[[http://mythbuntu.org|Mythbuntu]]</nowiki> as they want to integrate BlueProximity too - and it looks quite nice.
* actually finishing my BSc degree at the <nowiki>[[http://www.uni-hannover.de|Leibniz University Hannover]]</nowiki>.

==== working on right now ====

Thanks to persia I am trying to get rid of gtk1.2 in favour of gtk2 in old packages. Some notes on that:

* change debian/control
** change builddeps `libgtk1.2-dev` to `libgtk2.0-dev` (most common change)
** remove builddeps `libgdk-imlib` (seems integrated now)
** change builddeps `libgnome-dev` to `libgnomeui-dev` (??? not so sure about this one)
* change Makefiles
** `gtk-config --cflags` => `pkg-config --cflags gtk+-2.0`
** `gtk-config --libs` => `pkg-config --libs gtk+-2.0`
* change Source
** Drop calls to `gtk_tooltips_set_colors`
** Exchange `GTK_WINDOW_DIALOG` with `GTK_WINDOW_TOPLEVEL`
** Drop includes of `gdk-imlib.h`
** Change calls to `gnome_about_new` (old arguments ''title,version,author,desc,pixmap'', new ''title,version,desc,author,NULL,NULL,NULL'')

Good reference (should have found it earlier):
http://developer.gnome.org/dotplan/porting/

Process of creating the according __debdiff__:
* `apt-get source package`
* look for existing patches, take a trailing number XX
* change debian/control if needed
* `cdbs-edit-patch ''XX-port-to-gtk2.patch''`
* edit your stuff
* `exit`
* make sure `DEBFULLNAME` and `DEBEMAIL` are set properly
* `dch -D hardy -v ''new_package_version'' -i`
* if the previous version didn't end with "ubuntuX" you'll have to run `update-maintainer` (from package ''ubuntu-dev-tools'')
* `debuild -S`
* `cd ..`
* download the source from Hardy again (.dsc and .diff.gz) as you probably have overwritten them
* `debdiff packagename_oldversion.dsc packagename_newversion.dsc > packagename_newversion.debdiff`
* check that everything ending up in packagename_newversion.debdiff was changed by you
** if there are other changes you'll need to filter them out
** make sure that if a patch (within the debdiff) was created that it changes nothing in debian dir
* Create bug report ''ported from obsolete GTK1.2 to GTK2''
** attach debdiff
** subscribe ''ubuntu-universe-sponsors''
** set it to "confirmed"

* Strip all `debian/` stuff from package
* send patch to debian's BTS via `reportbug-ng`

Where to look for upstream packages changelogs and bugreports:
http://packages.debian.org/search?suite=default&section=all&arch=any&searchon=names&keywords=e16menuedit

Report patches to upstream according to:
http://www.debian.org/Bugs/Reporting
with tool
`reportbug-ng`
----
CategoryHomepage
