{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu IRC members ==

The Ubuntu IRC channels, alongside the Ubuntuforums, are part of the main Ubuntu support channels. They provide real-time support and advice, classes and meetings are held, and people kick back in the various -offtopic channels to relax and talk Ubuntu--the IRC sphere is quintessential to the success and development of Ubuntu as an operating system and community.

The scope of this document is to identify what an active IRC contributor is, and how activity in the IRC channels can lead to <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki>.

==== Requirements for Membership ====

Active contributors are users on freenode who contribute positively to IRC in support or operator roles in a <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core or Core Devel]]</nowiki> channel.

==== Users ====

As a normal user, you can earn Ubuntu membership for providing support on IRC. If there are certain people that you have helped a lot, you should link to logs of your help sessions from your wiki. Logs for the core channels can be found on <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki>.

==== Operators ====
Operators play a crucial role in ensuring that the IRC channels continue to run smoothly. When applying for membership, you should ask some of the other Operators with whom you have worked closely to add comments about your contributions to your wiki page. Please also keep in mind when contributing that we are looking for you to demonstrate your ability to catalyze and deal with situations when they come up, not for a large ban number.

==== Benefits of membership ====

In addition to all of the benefits granted by normal Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership#Benefits%20of%20Membership|Membership]]</nowiki>, you also gain the privilege of voting for members of the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcCouncil|Ubuntu IRC Council]]</nowiki>.

==== Membership Applications ====

More specific info about the procedure. 

==== Preparing your application ====

The application itself is very similar to what you would do if you were to apply for membership through a Regional Membership Board. You will want to follow the general <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership#Preparing%20your%20Application|procedure]]</nowiki>, but you will want to make sure that your wiki page and testimonials focus on your IRC contributions. If your contributions are more spread out among the different parts of the community, you should apply for membership through a Regional Membership Board instead.

==== Summary ====

Summarize the above. 
