{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About me ===

Welcome to my wiki page!  I have used my online moniker, Lateralis, for approximately 10 years.  I chose it when I signed up to use an online tick-based internet game after listening to and falling in love with the Tool song "Lateralus."  Little did I know at the time that the name of the song on my album sleeve was actually misprinted (intentionally) as Lateralis.  Still, I thought it was a cool name and have stuck with it.

So who am I?  I'm am currently a physics PhD student at the University of Warwick, UK.  I have just completed my thesis and am awaiting my PhD viva.  Once that is complete, I will be moving to Buffalo, NY to start work as a postdoctoral research fellow, working on a new group of semiconductor materials with applications in high efficiency solar cells and opto-electronics.  That will last for two years and then, who knows?

My first foray into the world of Linux was in 2005.  A friend and I had the idea of starting a web server for reasons that I can't really remember.  (I think something to do with backing up "online" our important documents, lecture notes and starting blogs and so forth.)  Ultimately the experiment failed owing to the command line being somewhat alien and KDE being entirely alien.  However, during 2008 I found I had no choice really but to embrace Linux.  My PhD, which started in 2007, has required the use of a lot of scientific software, which although in principle could be compiled and run in Windows, would require far more effort than if I were to run them under Linux.  And then there was one package which would only work in Linux.  So I installed Kubuntu and set about learning.  I've hardly looked back.

Since those early days I've primarily used the *buntus on a variety of different machines and even got my mother to use Ubuntu!  I have become the local Linux expert in the office, research group and collaborators, for whom I have written guides to using the group's high performance computing cluster, a variety of scripts and installed countless scientific software applications.  I've also experimented with Arch and LFS, as well as trying openSuSE and Fedora.

=== Ubuntu Contributions ===

So far, my contributions to the community have been limited owing to immense PhD-related time pressures.  Still, I have hung around on the Ubuntu forums as much as I can and done my best in this time to answer people's questions and solve their problems.

With my PhD drawing to a close, these time pressures are easing so I hope to be able to contribute more.  More specifically, I should be able to make use of IRC and increase my presence on the forums.

=== Aspirations ===

On a personal level, I'll be starting an amazing job in July 2011, which will provide many opportunities to do high quality research and teach physics to undergraduates.  I aim to continue down the academic route eventually gaining a permanent position at a university as a lecturer and researcher.

On a Linux/Ubuntu level, I aim to contribute enough through the forums, artwork and IRC to be considered for Ubuntu membership.  I would also like to contribute by writing scientific code and releasing it to the Linux community.

=== Contacts & Links ===

My current research department: <nowiki>[[http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/research/condensedmatt/surface|University of Warwick]]</nowiki>

Ubuntu forums: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=481237|Lateralis]]</nowiki>

Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jaldous|Lateralis]]</nowiki>
