{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/launchpad-integration/+spec/upstreamurls
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': LukaszJernas 
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

This specification describes the way liblaunchpad-integration should support specifying custom URL-s for translation systems and bug trackers.

=== Rationale ===

Currently Launchpad integration supports only packages whose origin is from the official Ubuntu release repositories. Also some developers would like to point users to their translation systems (like Transifex, Pootle, etc.) instead of Rosetta/Launchpad. The same goes for bug tracking systems and documentation (although we can handle 'upstreaming' of bugs pretty well, the same can't be told about translations).

=== Use Cases ===
* '''Developer''' publishes his new application in his PPA
* Shouts on his blog - grab my new app!
* '''Translator''' hits the ''Translate this app'' help menu link
* '''Translator''' gets redirected to the site where the '''Developer''' set up his preferred translation system
* When '''Ubuntu''' packages the application in a release, then the maintainer together with the developer can choose to use today's default behaviour simply by removing the line in the desktop file without touching the application's code

=== Design ===

This could be implemented in the applications desktop files as `X-URL-Translations=http://example.com/`
Launchpad integration would then read the URL via it's `fromDesktopFile()` function and act as usual.
----
CategorySpec
