{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad.net]]</nowiki> is a wonderful tool for developing Ubuntu.  Most teams use it effectively to manage their resources and time.

== Polls ==
If you are a team administrator, you can setup a poll using the following guidelines.  '''Be careful!'''  If you set a poll with a time that has already passed, you will not be able to adjust it at all.  Further still, the poll will remain on the list of polls causing possible confusion.  

# Click the "Polls" link and select the "Add a new poll" option.
# Fill out the form.  The date should be submitted in the <YEAR>-<MONTH>-<DAY> <HOUR>:<MINUTE>:<SECONDS> format.  For example <code> 2006-10-12 12:00 </code> would set the date to October 12th, 2006 at exactly 12:00 universal time.  Make sure that you take the universal time format into account.  Make sure you set at least a few minutes aside to set up your options for the poll, as once the poll begins you will be unable to adjust it.
# Add options once you have successfully created the poll.  The <code> Option Name </code> and <code> Title Name </code> will show up as "'''Option Name:''' Title Name" in the poll area.  An example of this might be something like "'''Here is your first option:''' This describes your first option as per the title area."
 
If you have completed the above steps, the poll will commence on the appropriate time with the specfications you have chosen.

== Calendar ==
If you add a calendar for your team, you can add events very easily.  

# Simply click on a given date and select a time slot for your event.  
# Describe your event.

After completion, the event should appear as a bold number on the calendar for all to view.

== Specifications ==
There is a feature tracking system available at Launchpad.  The wiki for the feature is located at https://help.launchpad.net/BlueprintDocumentation

A good sample can be located here: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/automated-problem-reports and its respective Wiki link <nowiki>[[AutomatedProblemReports]]</nowiki>

== Due Diligence ==
'''Don't just dive in and start creating specifications.'''  If you follow a path of due diligence, you might have a greater chance of getting something included in the official Ubuntu packaging:
* Take the time to familiarize yourself with the system and how it works first.  
* Discuss your thoughts on the mailing lists and IRC, and see if there is notable feedback on the issue. 
* Track down the related packages that are involved.
* Track down the related developer contacts that are involved.
* Track down all of the related specification parties involved.

=== Formalizing the Structure ===
Specifications even have their own specification at <nowiki>[[SpecSpec]]</nowiki>
The template for Specifications is at <nowiki>[[SpecTemplate]]</nowiki>

If you cannot or do not understand how to do all of the following, please take the time to learn the system from the mailing list and IRC before attempting this.

==== Steps to a Good Specification ====
# Do your due diligence above.
# Think about a good summary namespace title.  descriptive-yet-short.  
# Create a wiki entry on the wiki in the related area. 
## Use the SpecTemplate as a starting point.
# Create the appropriate Launchpad entry at http://www.launchpad.net and make sure that the relevant parties are attached to it.
## '''Assignee''' The assignee is the person responsible for executing the plan described in the specification.
## '''Drafter''' The drafter is the primary drafter for the specification.
## '''Approver''' The approver is the person responsible for final review of the spec, approval and targeting to a release.  This will generally be someone in a higher position of authority.
## '''Branches''' The branches are the Bazaar related areas that will have data 'pushed'.  For artwork, this could be one of many different packages.
# Subscribe the team to the specification.

----
'''Sub-pages :''' 