{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Agenda for the Launchpad Users meeting, 16 May 2007 08:00 UTC, in #launchpad.

{i} '''Note:''' this meeting is not for questions about or suggestions for Ubuntu.

Add your question to the ''User questions'' section of this agenda.

Chair: mrevell (Matthew Revell)

=== Agenda ===

* Welcome
* Agenda
* Introduction to the Launchpad developers are who present
* Invitation to beta team
* Issue of the week
* User questions
* Next meeting

=== Launchpad team attending ===

* mrevell

=== User questions ===
 
* Write your question here (put your IRC nick in here)

 -- TroySobotka, I probably won't be able to attend the meeting, but I am curious as to the timeline for a distribution to link packages to itself.  Will this be happening in the near future?  Secondly, where did the Launchpad calendar ability go to organize meetings - or am I simply being daft and unable to find it?  Sincerely, TJS (troy_s on freenode).

 -- GothicX, I like to see these bugs fixed on launchpad.. bug 91988 and 91925 (Kmos on freenode).

 --johnc4510, our launchpad page here:https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-arizona  is administered by a person named banditti. He his not active in our loco, and we have no way to administer the page properly. Can you advise us on how to get two of our active members added as administrators? Thanks  johnc4510@cox.net    Loco team leader of Ubuntu-Arizona Loco.
