{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': LaunchpadSpec:launchpad-voting-system
* '''Created''': 2007-04-30

=== Summary ===

A way of getting the most desired Specifications or Wishlist bugs implimented sooner or better.

=== Rationale ===

With more and more blueprints and wishlists getting submitted, a simple way to see the most popular ones could be an easy way to get features implemented and allow the developers to see exactly what the masses want.

=== Use Cases ===

** Jayne wants to get better support for her Digital Video Camera but doesnt know where to start. She files a Blueprint and it falls upon deaf ears as developers are busy doing other things and triage is taking a long time. Support for her Camera doesnt get implimented and the blueprint stays unconfirmed and unaltered for 2 years.

** Daniel has a brilliant idea for getting games to run smoother and only requires a small tweak that wont cause any problems. He files a bug. He wait to see if it moves to Wishlist. 6 months later, someone finally looks at it and decides to Close it without any comment.

** Jack wants to get involved somehow in developing Ubuntu but has no idea about programming, bug hunting or making art. He helps in IRC and the Forums, but still wants to make his voice heard on the direction of Ubuntu. He logs into Launchpad and places his weekly allowance of 5 votes against Daniels bug, pushing Daniels bug to the top of the Wishlist pile, allowing more developers to help implement Daniels bug.

=== Design ===

** Each user gets 1 vote per week

** Developers may possibly get 5 votes per week

** Users browse through the Blueprints and if something sounds really good, they add their comment and leave a vote

** Alternatively, placing votes on a bug makes the bug "More Hated" <nowiki>[[http://bugs.kde.org]]</nowiki> and developers can see what bugs are more urgent in terms of usability. 

=== Discussion ===
Similar spec: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/blueprint/+spec/vote-for-spec|Vote-for-spec]]</nowiki>

-bugs.kde is an example of how this feature could be made worthless,lets say a user keeps voting every week for a bug  but then a much worst bug comes along and he starts voting for him,the result is that the oldest bugs 
appear the most hated when actually it is not. i suggest every launchpad user will get 5 votes for favorite spec and five votes for worst bug. also maybe canonical can sell votes in a similar way to cedega see http://www.transgaming.com/

----
----
CategorySpec
