{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''':  https://blueprints.launchpad.net/products/launchpad/+spec/package-ambassador
* '''Date''': november 27 2006
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

To have users that are interested in an application to be a contact to upstream for bug reports.

=== Rationale ===

This will improve contact for all members from bug reporters to upstream.

=== Use cases ===

Bill files a bug on beryl. I would contact upstream and explain the bug and talk to them about it, find out what needs to be done upstream and rely it back to the bug reporter per the bug#. At this point if more info was needed i would ask Bill to provide more info on the bug from what upstream needs. I would stay on this bug until it was fixed.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

To add an ambassador choice to launchpad. This way a package that does not have an ambassador a person can become one if he or she is interested in the package.

=== Implementation ===

Add a link to launchpad for packages without ambassadors so someone can become one. The user should talk to the creator or maintainer before he or she can become an ambassador.

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

* Steps to become an ambassador of a package. 

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
