{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Décrire ici « Laurentdelmas ».

== CV of Laurent DELMAS ==
''contact:del_laurent at yahoo.com''

=== '''Professional experiences''' ===

'''2004-2005'''  Partner of REDICAM's Project (data recovery using a magnetic cartography), national prizewinner 2005 of contest about company's creation with innovative technologies OSEO-ANVAR. Financial study and arrangement of the project. Technological realization: mechanic of precision, embedded electronics, programming of data-processing control.

'''2002-2005'''  Engineer of studies on European project, CNRS FEMTO-ST dept LCEP (Laboratoire de Chronométrie, Electricité et Piézoélectricité) and 6 months at the university of Florence (Italy) at the chemistry department. Study and programming of physical piezoelectric sensor models by finite element analysis (ANSYS/Matlab/C). Realization of viscosimeters, microbalances, nanobalances, DNA chips and tuning forks in gallium phosphate (GaPO4). 

'''2002'''  Stage (8 months) LMARC (Laboratoire de Mécanique Appliquée René Chaleat), Besançon. Study and realization of acoustic test bench. Control and analysis of measured data-processing (Matlab/Simulink). Fellowship with SNECMA.

'''2001'''  Stage (6 months) Bosch, Rodez. Improvement and installation of new production lines. Programmation of VB software that automates estimation of new product. Data analysed come from 3 different departments (service purchase, maintenance and production).

=== '''Studies and diplomas''' ===

'''2005'''    - Ph. D in Sciences , European Thesis.

'''2002'''    - Engineer graduate of ENSMM, Besançon (Ecole Nationale Supérieure de                           
                Mécanique et des Microtechniques)
              - University degree awarded (Optronic, Mechanic et Microtechnics).

'''2001'''    - Master's degree in mechanic.

'''2000'''    - Bachelor's degree in mechanic.

=== '''Computer knowledge''' ===

OS: Red Hat, Fedora Core, Debian, Mandriva (ex-Mandrake), Windows 9x/NT/XP

Langages: Shell, Python, C/C++, PHP, HTML, VB

Server: Apache, Bind(basis), Postfix, Sendmail, Samba

Administration: LDAP, Kickstart for Red Hat, server DCHP, Boot PXE, VNC, Webmin

Security: Iptable, Ipchain, Netfilter, Nessus, Snort, SpamAssassin, SSH

Applications: Scilab, Matlab/Simulink, Mathematica, Ansys, Catia, Solidworks, AutoCad, 
              OpenOffice, Firefox, Thunderbird, MySQL

=== '''Linux experiences''' ===

Installation of Linux Desktop (dual boot) at the University, friend computers and home

Network installation 5 to 10 computers: Internet, LAMP, Lan, Samba

Gateway installation with Mandrake, Fedora Core and Debian

=== '''Langages''' ===

	French: natural langage

	English: fluent written and spoken

	Spanish and Italian: School Level

	Polish: Basis

Technical Manager « Marathon Shell », Consulting for robotic team « E=M6 »

'''Hobbies:''' Nature, animals, trips, Poland, swimming, reading, going to the cinema
----
CategoryHomepage
