{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


----
== Whois lboorse2 ==

I am a data center manager in the distribution arena of a retail drug store chain.  I have a background in system administration (primarily Microsoft) and helpdesk support.  Working in a distribution center has allowed me to get involved with many different areas of technology.  My first foray into Linux came in 2002 when we added a Cyclades terminal servers to our production areas.  I learned enough Linux then to "get by".  I later dabbled with MythTV for a brief period, but hadn't really caught the Linux bug.

Fast forward to Fall 2010.  In looking for a solution to resurrect an older laptop, I stumbled across the Ubuntu website.  I downloaded the Maverick Meerkat ISO and was impressed with the ease of installation.  At that point I decided to dig in and learn more.  I've since set up two additional laptops with Natty Narwhal.  I am eager to get involved on a deeper level  and look forward to working with the Ubuntu Testing and QA teams.  

==== Current Tasks/Projects ====

* Setting up Wiki page (check)
* Setting up Launchpad account (check)
* Getting involved with Testing and QA

==== Contact lboorse2 ====

Email: 
lboorse2@gmail.com

Launchpad:
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lboorse2|lboorse2]]</nowiki>
