{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== About Me ==

Hello, world! I am Luke Caputo, and I am an Ubuntu geek. 

=== Contact ===
 Email: ''''''<<BR>><<BR>>
 Freenode IRC Nick: '''x1k'''<<BR>><<BR>>
 LP: '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~l.caputo|l.caputo]]</nowiki>'''<<BR>><<BR>>
 AskUbuntu: '''<nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/70571/xlukasx|xlukasx]]</nowiki>'''<<BR>><<BR>>
 Twitter: '''xlukasx'''<<BR>><<BR>>
 Google+: '''<nowiki>[[http://goo.gl/aTiWX]]</nowiki>'''<<BR>><<BR>>

=== History ===

During my 2005 semester in college, I began diving into Ubuntu very heavily. If I wasn't handing out free Ubuntu CD's, I was sitting in IRC helping others who were just starting out (and learning a thing or two myself). For the past 6 years, I have been a strong Ubuntu evangelist. I dedicate the majority of my time helping new users configure their Ubuntu installations in #ubuntu. While typically most support requests are video or networking issues, I try to tackle any problem that I possibly can, and research topics that I don't fully understand. I also stay current on new, unreleased updates and submit bug reports as frequently as necessary.

* 2006 - Assisted local computer shop in installing and supporting Ubuntu installations on used computers for sale. Later, more than half of the store's computers for sale were running with Ubuntu pre-installed and configured. This was done without charge. I was told that he was selling the computers with Ubuntu, but the systems were not configured at all, ultimately frustrating his customers and turning them away from Ubuntu.

* 2008 - Attended Pennsylvania College of Technology's BYOC LAN party and installed Ubuntu 8.04 LTS on several attendee's computers, loaded boot images onto the local storage network, and handed out free Live CD's.

* 2009 - Finally got a decent job. Now I spend my working hours sitting in IRC and Ask Ubuntu... unfortunately, no, I do not work for Canonical.

=== Current Objectives ===

o''' Weekly Goals '''
* Install Ubuntu on someone else's computer
* Hand out Ubuntu Live CD's

o''' Daily Goals '''
* Answer 5 questions on Ask Ubuntu
* Search Wiki for errors
* Provide support in #ubuntu for at least one hour

=== Future Goals ===

For the past 5 years, I have been employed in the Department of Defense, and am recently pushing for a career change. Having such a dull, mundane job has pushed me to dive completely into the Ubuntu community and help as much as possible. I would like to ultimately have an established name in the Ubuntu community, not as a developer, but as a supporter and contributor. Most of my support will start to go in the direction of Ask Ubuntu, but I still see IRC as a main location for users requiring assistance. I would like to become an Ubuntu Member and take my contributions to the next level. In the longterm, I hope that my involvement in Ubuntu projects becomes a nice addition to my resume to possibly change career fields.

o''' Upcoming Events'''

* 11 August 2012 - FOSSCON Philadelphia, PA - Install party with #ubuntu-us-pa

* 27 October 2012 - CPOSC Harrisburg, PA*

* Attendance is currently tentative, but am planning on being there.

=== Testimonies ===

Standby...

=== Where to find me ===

IRC:

* #ubuntu
* #ubuntu+1
* #ubuntu-beginners
* #ubuntu-bugs
* #ubuntu-doc
* #ubuntu-testing
* #ubuntu-us-pa

AskUbuntu:
* http://askubuntu.com/users/70571/xlukasx

=== LaunchPad Teams ===

* Beginners Team
* PA USA LoCo Team
* Documentation Project Team
* 5 A Day Participants

CategoryHomepage
