{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== LDAP Integration in Ubuntu ==

This wiki page will be used to discuss how we can use openldap in the Ubuntu server-desktop combination. To explain this the easy way, this is the Active Directory for Ubuntu. 

In order for Ubuntu (and Linux in general) to make a decent chance in the enterprise market, a central management system is needed. By using ldap we can create a central dictionary that contains various properties, policies and access rights for users and workstations.

This is a work in progress, please add your thoughts and comments! 

A large amount of information regarding LDAP integration can already be found here: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenLDAPServer

=== Use cases ===
* John is a system administrator for a company and needs to create a user for a new employee. He opens the management console on his Ubuntu server and creates a new user object, Julia. He sets the various properties for the user and saves the object. Now Julia can login to any workstation that authenticates with the openldap server. 
* John also creates a new computer object in the ldap directory. He gives it the necessary properties and saves the object. 
* Now John adds the newly created computer object to Julia's list of allow workstations. When Julia tries to authenticate her on a workstation, the ldap server verifies that the computer she's using is in her list of allowed workstations.  

=== Ubuntu server ===
* Management software, web based to avoid any desktop environment on the server
* Integration with:
** Samba
** CUPS

=== Ubuntu desktop ===
* Integration of Gnome configuration and LDAP policies. 
* Easy way of authentication PAM with LDAP.
* Automatic printer creation (CUPS)
* Automatic mounting of shares (Samba)

=== Directory objects ===
* '''User''' object
** username
** fullname
** emailaddress
* '''Computer''' object
** computername
** description
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
