{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/leannogasawara|leannogasawara]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|1(> '''IRC''':
| '''ogasawara''' (''freenode'')
|-
| <|2(> '''Email''':
| leann@ubuntu.com
|-
| leann.ogasawara@canonical.com
|-
| '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portland%2C_Oregon|Portland, Oregon, USA]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
Hi :)  I work for Canonical as a Quality Assurance Engineer and my primary focus is on kernel bugs.  I actively work on triaging new incoming bug reports against the actively developed kernel.  I also follow up on new and existing bug reports made against previously released kernels.  There still exists a lot of open kernel bugs and I'd like to see that number come down!  I'm also involved in other general QA related areas such as performing <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html|SRU verifications]]</nowiki>, participating in weekly <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay|Bug Days]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|ISO Testing]]</nowiki>, and working on developing projects which have been generated from <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/developer-weather-report|Ubuntu specs]]</nowiki>. 

=== Contributions ===
* I generate a weekly <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/intrepid-buglist.html|kernel buglist]]</nowiki> which I forward to the kernel team.  The list is compiled of bugs I come across each week that should have enough information gathered for the kernel team to either quickly produce a fix or immediately start debugging.  I've received excellent feedback and the kernel team has been doing an awesome job of resolving the majority of bugs I give them.
* The mobile team also asked if I could generate a list for them as well:
** http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/mobile-buglist.html
* I'm also generating similar pages for bugs that both the QA team and Distro Team are interested in tracking:
** http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/current-buglist.html - bugs tagged 'qa-hardy-list'
** http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/desktop-buglist.html - bugs tagged 'qa-hardy-desktop'
** http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/platform-buglist.html - bugs tagged 'qa-hardy-platform'
** http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/server-buglist.html - bugs tagged 'qa-hardy-server'
** http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/malone-buglist.html - malone bugs the QA team has reported or is interested in monitoring, tagged 'ubuntu-qa'
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/developer-weather-report|developer-weather-report]]</nowiki> - the goal of this Ubuntu spec is to provide the Ubuntu release team a dashboard covering all the variables that go into determining whether Ubuntu is release ready - bug count, RC bug count, archive analysis reports, iso testing summaries, etc, linking to detailed data about each metric.
** A prototype currently being used by the release team can be seen here:  http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/weatherreport.html
* Active participant in weekly <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay|Ubuntu Bug Days]]</nowiki>
** Organized <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20080306|Kernel Bug Day]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20080325|Ubiquity Bug Day]]</nowiki>
* Participating in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/5-A-Day|5-A-Day]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|ISO Testing]]</nowiki>
* Help performing <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html|SRU verifications]]</nowiki>
* Helped create and update several QA related wiki pages such as:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/GitKernelBuild
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelOops
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Watches
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeamBugPolicies
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelBugMigration

=== Interesting Stats ===
* I've commented on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~leannogasawara/+commentedbugs|1000+]]</nowiki> bug reports
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~leannogasawara|12,000+]]</nowiki> Karma points
* ~30% of all Fix Released kernel bugs for Hardy had made the weekly <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/hardy-buglist.html|kernel buglist]]</nowiki>
* http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/hardy-buglist.svg - Status of all Hardy kernel bugs which made the weekly buglist

=== Future Goals ===
* Bring the total number of open kernel bugs down
* Find more efficient and effective ways of triaging bugs
* Try to build more community support to help triage bugs

=== Testimonials ===

Leann is a quick learner and a fantastic bug triager/patch hunter.  Big +1 from me.  -- KeesCook (kees)
----
CategoryHomepage
