{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===
Ubuntu Community Learning is a community project within Ubuntu whose mission to make it easier for organizations and users to adopt Ubuntu and reduce the current attrition rate for new users through better awareness and community education. We intend to do this by working with existing teams to build and maintain an interactive learning environment(s) to support teaching all aspects of the Ubuntu Ecosystem that will allow the community to undertake self paced and instructor lead teaching in conjunction with IRC based training, question times, challenges, and other interactive teaching methods.

We have recognized a need in the community for consolidated training that is easy to find, and can be marketed collectively by the community and teams conducting training to any users seeking training. We have also seen evidence of reasonably high attrition rates in new users both in the Ubuntu Forums and in the #ubuntu IRC channel that we wish to rectify.

This document outlines the objectives, governance, team structures and code of conduct of the project.

=== Objectives ===

1. '''Structure''' - To shape the learning courses into these kinds:
** Using Ubuntu: non technical computer use
** Maintaining Ubuntu: systems administration
** Developing Ubuntu: for all contributors of any kind
** Marketing Ubuntu: Local Communities, advocacy etc
2. '''Education''' - To create a learning environment to assist in the following identified problems in the community:
** Improve the retention rate for new users
** Improve the amount of users contributing to the distribution through providing an easy avenue for becoming involved
** Equip sysadmins with the knowledge to implement Ubuntu based desktops at work.
** Equip LoCo's to be able to run training as well as marketing and advocacy.

3. '''Integration''' - Community training in Ubuntu is something critical to its success as a distribution but as it stands training can be hard to find, difficult to attend due to timezone issues, is conducted by several different teams, and has widely varying methods of implementation. The intention of this project is to develop a integrated platform that acts as an umbrella for all community based training to make training easy to locate, easy to undertake, and maintain consistent quality.

=== Contributors ===
General Learning/Education projects the Learning team is currently working with:

* <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam-FocusGroups-Education|Beginners Team Education Focus Group]]</nowiki> (Contact: <nowiki>[[cprofitt|Charles Profitt]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[Classroom]]</nowiki> (Contact: <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU |MOTU]]</nowiki> (Contact: <nowiki>[[nhandler|Nathan Handler]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad |Bug Squad]]</nowiki> (Contact: <nowiki>[[PedroVillavicencio]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam |Doc Team]]</nowiki> (Contact: <nowiki>[[DougieRichardson]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Training/ |Desktop Training]]</nowiki> (Contact: <nowiki>[[BelindaLopez]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams |LoCo Teams]]</nowiki> (Contact: <nowiki>[[AlanPope]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[http://edubuntu.org/|Edubuntu]]</nowiki> (Contact: JordanMantha)

=== Community Organization & Governance ===

==== Community Learning Teams ====
* '''Members'''<<BR>>
The members are people who have demonstrated a significant and sustained contribution to training and the development of teaching materials for Ubuntu. 

* '''Board'''<<BR>>
The project board are people elected by the members to oversee the project and approve membership applications. The board also acts as the control team for the project and so takes technical decisions for the project, work on announcements, and updates to the wiki.

List of the project board members:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[BodhiZazen]]</nowiki>: Leader of the Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team
|-
| <nowiki>[[cprofitt|Charles Profitt]]</nowiki>:Leader of the Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team Education Focus Group
|-
| <nowiki>[[DoctorMO | Martin Owens]]</nowiki>: Leader of Massachusetts LoCo
|-
| <nowiki>[[Pleia2|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki>: Leader of the Ubuntu Classroom Team
|-
| <nowiki>[[Vantrax | Matthew Lye]]</nowiki>: Lead Contact for the Ubuntu Community Learning Project
|}

* '''Artwork'''<<BR>>
Those people who make all our work look that much more professional by supplying graphics and theme development for the project.

* '''Instructors'''<<BR>>
This team exists to acknowledge the individuals that take the time to provide instructor lead training

==== Communication ====

The project has four primary means of communication:

* Mailing Lists - the team lauchpad list to be replaced with (the yet to be created) list.ubuntu mailing list which is open to anyone who wishes to become involved in the project.
* IRC:
** <code>#ubuntu-learning</code> channel on ''irc.freenode.net'' network. Real-time development and support chat.
** <code>#ubuntu-classroom</code> channel on ''irc.freenode.net'' network. Classroom style instructor lead training.
* Wiki - the wiki is used for task tracking, and long term organization.
* Launchpad - Launchpad is used to communicate to team members and to the project board.

==== Code of Conduct & Dispute Resolution ====

As a sub-project of Ubuntu, UCLP adheres to the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. UCLP leaders are likewise expected to adhere to the <nowiki>[[LeadershipCodeofConduct|Ubuntu Leadership Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. While disputes are rare, they do happen. If a dispute between community members can not be resolved privately, one or both of the parties may appeal to the board for resolution, if the board also fails solving the issue, then it'll be escalated to the Community Council.
