{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


 {*} Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-learning|~ubuntu-learning]]</nowiki>

 {*} IRC: #ubuntu-learning @ irc.freenode.net

=== Draft ===

==== Summary ====

The project's goal is to make it easier for organizations and users to adopt Ubuntu and reduce the current attrition rate for new users through better awareness and community education. We intend to do this by working with existing teams to build and maintain an interactive learning environment(s) to support teaching all aspects of the Ubuntu Ecosystem that will allow the community to undertake self paced and instructor lead teaching in conjunction with IRC based training, question times, challenges, and other interactive teaching methods.

We have recognized a need in the community for consolidated training that is easy to find, and can be marketed collectively by the community and teams conducting training to any users seeking training. We have also seen evidence of reasonably high attrition rates in new users both in the Ubuntu Forums and in the #ubuntu IRC channel that we wish to rectify.

Our initial goal is to provide four programs for the new user, the sysadmin, marketing, and a stream for someone who wants to contribute to Ubuntu. These idea's have been based on new user feedback, requests to the Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team, to the Classroom Team and to Physical LoCo Classrooms. Our proposed course programs can be found in the sections below. 

==== Release Note ====

The end effect of this project will be to have an easy to access, centralized, standardized community based training for the Ubuntu Community from beginner topics to advanced topics for developers. The expected impact is to reduce the confusion in the community training space and reduce the attrition rate of new users.

==== Rationale ====
The rationale for this project is being discussed <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-Learning-Rationale |here]]</nowiki> and will be imported when it has been completed.

==== Assumptions ====

==== Design ====

==== Implementation ====
===== Test/Demo Plan =====

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

===== Management and Moderation =====
Managing the server, council for project/project board, who moderates, and how is the moderation structured.

===== Release Marketing Plan =====

How will the project be marketed when it is ready?

==== Unresolved issues ====

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== Discussion ===

Please add comments here as we build the Specification of the project.

----
CategorySpec
