{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
 <bgs100>	==================== C CLASS BEGIN! ====================
 <bgs100>	Alright
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, what about my pointer questions? :p
 <bgs100>	We have actually been using the file-related library th-
 <bgs100>	>:|
 <bgs100>	I answered those
 <pedro3005>	ok go on
 <bgs100>	We will review homework at the end of class...
 <bgs100>	this time
 <bgs100>	We have actually been using the file-related library this whole time
 <bgs100>	stdio.h
 <juju2143>	k
 <bgs100>	It stands for: Standard Input/Output
 <bgs100>	Now
 <bgs100>	When we call printf, puts, scanf, or whatever, we are actually writing/reading from files
 <pedro3005>	:OOO
 <juju2143>	:o
 <juju2143>	stdin/stdout?
 <bgs100>	(In Unix, anyway) stout (output), stdin (input), and stderr (We haven't used this; it's for errors) are all actually files
 <bgs100>	juju2143, Correct!
 <pedro3005>	I'm not actually surprised, I just thought you were going for that effect so I helped ya
* bgs100 gives juju2143 one of pedro3005's old stars
 <juju2143>	yay
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, lol
* bgs100 shines up the star
 <bgs100>	So yeah
 <bgs100>	Now
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, cool, makes a lot of sense
 <bgs100>	Good,
 <pedro3005>	wait
 <pedro3005>	what if I do this...
 <bgs100>	In C, there are actually two (main) ways to repre-
 <bgs100>	wat
 <pedro3005>	pedro@pedro:~$ echo "a" > stdout
 <bgs100>	uh
 <bgs100>	You made a file
 <bgs100>	congrats :P
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, Try this:
 <juju2143>	lol
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, echo "pie" > /dev/stdout
 <juju2143>	you may want to do > /dev/stdout
* bgs100 juju2143 another star
 <juju2143>	yay<
* juju2143 pins it with te other
 <bgs100>	alright
 <bgs100>	so
 <bgs100>	yeah
 <pedro3005>	I thought about /dev :( but I thought it'd result in permission error
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, lol, nope
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, ok go on
 <bgs100>	Otherwise it could be difficult to call printf() ;D
 <bgs100>	alright
 <juju2143>	kay.
 <bgs100>	okay
 <bgs100>	so yeah
 <bgs100>	Now
 <bgs100>	In C, there are actually two (main) ways to represent a file,
 <juju2143>	now.,
* bgs100 retracts star from juju2143 
 <seidos>	what does echo "pie" > /dev/stdout do?
 <bgs100>	seidos, Did you try it?
 <seidos>	I check to see if it put anything in /dev/stdout but my vim is blank
 <seidos>	bgs100, yeah
 <bgs100>	Did it print out "pie"?
* seidos nods
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <bgs100>	seidos, /dev/stdout is a special file, representing standard output.
 <juju2143>	stdout is a peripherial represented as a file
* bgs100 gives juju2143 star back
 <bgs100>	OKAY
 <bgs100>	In C, there are actually two (main) ways to represent a file,
 <juju2143>	What they are?
 <bgs100>	By integer (file descriptor),
 <seidos>	why isn't there anything in the file?
 <bgs100>	and by a special structure
 <bgs100>	seidos, It's special, okay? :p
 <seidos>	bgs100, all right, all right
 <bgs100>	Actually
 <bgs100>	seidos, Look at the bottom of vim
 <bgs100>	Here, it says: ""/dev/stdout" is not a file"
 <seidos>	oooohhhhhh
 <bgs100>	thar ya go
 <seidos>	that's weird
 <bgs100>	So yeah
 <seidos>	sending Pie to it, but it's not a file
 <bgs100>	Everything is a file
 <bgs100>	Vim acknowledges that this one is different :P
 <bgs100>	moving on.
 <bgs100>	For the beginning of today, we will be dealing with function that have to do with the special structure.
 <seidos>	it's like the blackhole file :D
 <bgs100>	No
 <bgs100>	That is /dev/null
 <seidos>	:(
 <bgs100>	:p
 <juju2143>	lol.
 <seidos>	they are both "not files" according to vim
 <bgs100>	MOVING ON
 <seidos>	all right, moving on, sorry
 <bgs100>	np lol
* bgs100 was kidding :p
 <pedro3005>	MOVING ON
 <bgs100>	Alright, I'm oging to make an example
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, ...
 <bgs100>	going*
 <seidos>	hey bgs100, what is the most complex program, in C, that you have...understood?  worked on?  I dunno
 <pedro3005>	Oging
 <pedro3005>	The act of poking, jabbing or prodding someone with a blunt, hard object.
* bgs100 retracts pedro3005's star
 <bgs100>	seidos, hmm
 <seidos>	pedro3005, that's an actual word?
 <pedro3005>	seidos, nah, urban dictionary
 <seidos>	yes!  I made the teacher think
 <pedro3005>	:P
 <seidos>	oh.
 <seidos>	I think ogling is a word.  yeah spell checker has it
 <bgs100>	Alright
 <seidos>	bgs100, do I already know the answer?  your bot?
 <bgs100>	...
 <bgs100>	My bot is written in Python :p
 <seidos>	oh
 <juju2143>	lol.
 <bgs100>	Okay, pastebining
 <bgs100>	http://pastebin.com/LeKHSz6Q
 <bgs100>	SCRO , and then run "cat lucky.txt"
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, easier than I expected
 <juju2143>	julien@maelstrom:~/ctests$ gcc file.c -o file
 <seidos>	bgs100, filename?
 <juju2143>	file.c:1:9: erreur: expected ‘=’, ‘,’, ‘;’, ‘asm’ or ‘__attribute__’ before ‘<’ token
 <seidos>	bgs100, lucky?
 <bgs100>	juju2143, lolwut
 <bgs100>	juju2143, I didn't have "<" anywhere in there
 <bgs100>	seidos, 11.c ? :P
 <seidos>	juju2143, did you use the -Wall option with gcc?
 <juju2143>	oh right
 <juju2143>	I forgot the # in #include
* seidos has no idea what -Wall does but he's been using it
 <bgs100>	juju2143, .... xP
 <seidos>	bgs100, I want to be able to reference it later
 <juju2143>	julien@maelstrom:~/ctests$ ./file
 <juju2143>	What is your lucky number? OVER 9000
 <juju2143>	julien@maelstrom:~/ctests$ cat lucky.txt
 <juju2143>	Your lucky number is 134513963, just in case you forgot.
 <juju2143>	julien@maelstrom:~/ctests$
 <seidos>	cat: lucky.txt: No such file or directory
 <seidos>	oh crap, didn't run the program
 <juju2143>	loool.
 <seidos>	*facepalm*
 <bgs100>	juju2143, ...
 <seidos>	cool, my lucky number is 76, just in case I forgot
 <juju2143>	lol.
 <bgs100>	juju2143, a specific number, please :p
 <juju2143>	ok
 <juju2143>	julien@maelstrom:~/ctests$ ./file
 <juju2143>	What is your lucky number? 42
 <juju2143>	julien@maelstrom:~/ctests$ cat lucky.txt
 <juju2143>	Your lucky number is 42, just in case you forgot.
 <seidos>	42 vs 76 who wins?
 <bgs100>	42 :p
 <bgs100>	That's what I picked :P
 <seidos>	I wonder if a grand poo bah of a masonic order would agree
 <juju2143>	lol :P
 <seidos>	:P
 <bgs100>	1337 pwns both
 <seidos>	haha
 <juju2143>	julien@maelstrom:~/ctests$ cat lucky.txt
 <juju2143>	Your lucky number is 31137, just in case you forgot.
 <juju2143>	pwned
 <bgs100>	naaah
 <bgs100>	I'm the teacher, I say not :P
 <juju2143>	k then.
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, moving on :p
 <seidos>	Your lucky number is -1208653712, just in case you forgot.
 <seidos>	that is the number for "Pi"
 <bgs100>	...
 <seidos>	my computer must be broken
 <bgs100>	seidos, "Pi" is not a number
 <bgs100>	pi is a number.
 <pedro3005>	if you import math?
 <seidos>	bgs100, sure it is, it's an irrational transcendental number
 <bgs100>	"Pi" is a string
 <seidos>	oh lowercase "P"?
 <bgs100>	No
 <bgs100>	"pi" is a string too
 <bgs100>	Neither are number
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, there should be a C interpreter
 <bgs100>	There is
 <pedro3005>	compiling is so *ugh*
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, lol
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, where?
 <seidos>	pedro3005, that's probably sacrilegious
 <pedro3005>	I'm like "Ohh, I should try this out. But then I'd have to compile.... oh... *gives up*"
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, The google power is obviously not with you.
 <bgs100>	http://www.google.com/search?client=ubuntu&channel=fs&q=C+Interpreter&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8
 <juju2143>	g2g bai.
 <bgs100>	bai
 <seidos>	later
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <bgs100>	So yeah
 <bgs100>	Moving away from pi
 <bgs100>	So
 <bgs100>	Let's look at this.
 <bgs100>	Let's take a step back, and see it as pseudo code
 <bgs100>	Include input/output library
 <bgs100>	Define main:
 <bgs100>	<declaring stuff>
 <bgs100>	Print "What is your lucky number? "
 <bgs100>	Scan a number from input into the variable 'num'
 <bgs100>	Open the file "lucky.txt" for writing (that's what the "w" means)
 <seidos>	*file is a pointer?
 <bgs100>	Yeap
 <bgs100>	That's what file functions use and return
 <bgs100>	One sec
 <bgs100>	Print "Your lucky number is <num>, in case you forgot." into file
 <bgs100>	Close file.
 <bgs100>	The end.
 <bgs100>	So yeah
 <bgs100>	We already know about printf/scanf,
 <seidos>	fprintf is obviously different
 <bgs100>	fopen opens in a file in a mode (run "man fopen")
 <bgs100>	seidos, Yes
 <seidos>	it makes sense, generally
 <bgs100>	It is veyr similar though
 <bgs100>	very*
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, do you use Geany?
 <bgs100>	printf is basically fprintf with the first argument as "stdout"
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, Not too often
 <bgs100>	sometimes
 <bgs100>	Much lighter than most IDEs
 <bgs100>	Anyway
 <bgs100>	fprintf is just like printf, but it outputs to a file of your choice
 <bgs100>	In this case, file.
 <bgs100>	fclose closes a file, writing any changes that may not have actually taken place yet as well.
 <seidos>	pointers trip me out, I know that file is related to *file, but not quite sure how
 <bgs100>	uhhhh
 <bgs100>	file is a variable
 <bgs100>	it is a FIle *
 <bgs100>	FILE *
 <bgs100>	That is why there is a * in front of "file" when why declare it
 <bgs100>	Okay?
 <seidos>	you declare *file, a pointer, and then you can use file the variable?
 <bgs100>	*file is not the pointer
 <bgs100>	There is no *file
 <seidos>	I asked earlier if it was, and you said it was
 <bgs100>	?
 <bgs100>	Asked what?
 <bgs100>	No
 <pedro3005>	<seidos> *file is a pointer?
 <pedro3005>	<bgs100> Yeap
 <bgs100>	*sigh*
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <seidos>	pedro3005, was faster than me
 <bgs100>	Look
 <seidos>	bgs100, maybe the yeap wasn't for me
 <bgs100>	seidos, Here
 <bgs100>	Look
 <seidos>	bgs100, I'll use the google pwr to search on pointers?
 <bgs100>	seidos,
 <bgs100>	No
 <bgs100>	Listen (or rather watch)
 <bgs100>	Take the line that says:
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, http://i.imgur.com/bS8rd.png
 <bgs100>	    FILE *file;
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, green bar?
 <bgs100>	seidos,
 <bgs100>	Replace:
 <bgs100>	    FILE *file;
 <bgs100>	with:
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, don't you see it?
 <bgs100>	    FILE* file;
 <bgs100>	oh
 <bgs100>	yeah
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, I don't know
 <pedro3005>	:(
 <bgs100>	seidos, Okay?
 <seidos>	yeah, see it
 <bgs100>	Did you replace?
 <seidos>	roger
 <bgs100>	Good
 <bgs100>	This is exactly the same thing
 <seidos>	working on it
 <bgs100>	Now, look at that
 <bgs100>	You are declaring file as a FILE*
 <bgs100>	Alright?
 <seidos>	dude, that's weird
 <bgs100>	I just prefer to put the * next to the variable.
 <seidos>	you can put the * either place
 <bgs100>	*more sigh*
 <bgs100>	seidos, Yes
 <bgs100>	That is correct
 <seidos>	come on!  you gotta' admit that's weird
 <bgs100>	C doesn't complain about whitespace that much
 <pedro3005>	so what is FILE?
 <bgs100>	FILE
 <bgs100>	is a struct
 <pedro3005>	why does it have a *?
 <seidos>	FILE is a struct
 <bgs100>	pedro3005,
 <seidos>	and FILE* is a struct?
 <bgs100>	No.
 <bgs100>	FILE* is a pointer to a struct
 <bgs100>	...
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, Okay, it has a * because we want it to be a pointer,
 <bgs100>	and why do we want that?
 <seidos>	so what's the pointer?  the *?
 <bgs100>	Because fopen, fprintf, fclose, and all their friends all use FILE*
 <seidos>	FILE is a struct
 <seidos>	file is var
 <bgs100>	argh :p
 <bgs100>	seidos, * makes it a pointer to a FILE struct instead of a FILE struct.
 <bgs100>	Okay?
 <seidos>	it doesn't make intuitive sense, but okay
 <bgs100>	NOW
* seidos shrugs
 <bgs100>	Why do fprintf, fclose, fopen etc use FILE*'s?
 <seidos>	hmmm
 <bgs100>	This is an educated guess, but probably because that way the can modify the actual FILE struct.
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, which file struct?
 <bgs100>	.......
 <bgs100>	The one that fopen gave you a pointer to
 <bgs100>	seidos, FILE* is different than FILE. We make a variable, file, that is a FILE*, and NOT a FILE
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, but I don't understand how can you assign something as a pointer before pointing it to anything
 <bgs100>	Uh
 <seidos>	bgs100, I'm still tripping.  we made a *file that was a FILE a few minutes ago, now we're make a file that is a FILE*, but they are the same
 <bgs100>	You are assigning it so it can be pointing to something
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, ^
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, ok
 <bgs100>	seidos, Forget the previous thing
 <seidos>	bgs100,  what is pointing to what?
 <bgs100>	file is pointing to a FILE
 <bgs100>	okay?
 <seidos>	so file is a pointer
 <bgs100>	Yes!!!
 <seidos>	I thought you said it was a variable
 <seidos>	is variable = pointer?
 <bgs100>	IT IS!!!!!!!!!
 <bgs100>	seidos,
 <bgs100>	int a = 5;
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <seidos>	a is a variable
 <bgs100>	See that line.
 <bgs100>	Stare at it
 <bgs100>	seidos, And...
* seidos stares with all his might
 <bgs100>	a is also an integer!
 <seidos>	pointer is a data type!
 <bgs100>	That doesn't mean that 5 by itself is a variable, though!
 <pedro3005>	brb
 <bgs100>	seidos, YES!!!
 <bgs100>	Yay
 <seidos>	man, that was sick
 <bgs100>	what do you mean? :p
 <seidos>	too much work for me to see that it was a data-type
 <seidos>	:|
 <bgs100>	lol
 <bgs100>	took me like a friggin' week to get it
 <seidos>	okay, gotta' remember that, pointer is a datatype
 <bgs100>	seidos, lol, yeah, I wrote it down in a text file
 <seidos>	I'm still don't think I fully grasp it, but that makes more sense
 <bgs100>	after having it snap
 <seidos>	*I
 <bgs100>	infact
 <Snova>	oh hai
 <bgs100>	I might have my old notes on C
 <seidos>	maybe I should bring my notepad
 <bgs100>	That were taken while I was learning
* seidos waves @ Snova
 <bgs100>	Hai Snova
 <seidos>	dude, can you paste them?
 <bgs100>	Snova, I think someone just achieved pointer enlightenment
* seidos shakes his head
 <seidos>	I don't think I'm "pointer enlightened" yet
 <juju2143>	ohai
 <bgs100>	I hope so; I don't want to have to answer too many more pointer questions xP
* seidos waves @ juju2143 
 <juju2143>	:P
 <seidos>	sorry bro, it's like now that I know it's a datatype, I don't really know what kind it is
 <seidos>	it's not as intuitive as int, you know?
 <seidos>	at least I remember you saying that it allows actual modification of the struct
 <bgs100>	alright
 <bgs100>	seidos, You can think of a pointer as a special datatype that modifes another
 <bgs100>	pasting old notes
 <bgs100>	which were actually really short
 <seidos>	hmmm that makes sense I think
 <seidos>	more "special" things
 <bgs100>	Snova, You wanna explain for a minute? :P
 <seidos>	first files, now datatypes
 <Snova>	seidos: C has exactly one kind of data, and that is "bytes". everything else exists as programmer convenience :p
 <pedro3005>	back
 <Snova>	when you type "int x;" you get four bytes in a row to be used as an integer. operations such as +*-/ on it will trigger the appropriate processor instructions to actually use it as an integer
 <Snova>	if you type "int* x;" you still get four bytes in a row, but it's not meant to be used as a normal number, but a memory address containing the address of some other integer
 <bgs100>	seidos, http://pastebin.com/wMiU0eNJ
 <bgs100>	It's highlighted like bash because I couldn't find the plain text :p
 <seidos>	bgs100, ascii art?
 <bgs100>	Lol, yeah
 <seidos>	Snova, I'm kind of sorry I asked.  this "c rabbit hole" probably goes down further than I would like, doesn't it?
 <Snova>	seidos: the hole is pretty shallow, actually, once you hit "memory"
 <seidos>	I mean all data types are bytes?  that just makes me want to ask more questions
 <bgs100>	Snova, methinks you've crated more work :p
 <Snova>	on some level. the difference between "float" and "int" is 1) the number of bytes they take up, and 2) the instructions the compiler will generate on them
 <bgs100>	created*
 <seidos>	Snova,  so as soon as we get to "processor instruction" that is the explanation for why there are different types of data to the programmer?
 <bgs100>	seidos, So you don't have to remember the number of bytes yourself.
 <Snova>	seidos: the x86 architecture has a set of integer instructions, and a set of floating-point instructions, but there is nothing to prevent you from applying one to the other (other than common sense)
 <seidos>	bytes seem so abstracted from int and float to me, I'm not sure how that helps me at this point
 <Snova>	probably not; ignore that then
 <bgs100>	Lol
* bgs100 brings out Men in Black memory-erasing pen
* bgs100 erases seidos's memory of the last few lines and makes seidos type in /clear
 <Snova>	every "int" you create takes up memory somewhere. an "int*" is simply another int that "happens" to contain the memory address of another int
 <seidos>	no, I think it'll be useful I just have to mull it over, or work with it so that it settles into my consciousness
 <seidos>	as long as my brain doesn't vomit it up, which it likes to do far too often
* bgs100 gives seidos some psychological pepto-bismol
 <Snova>	hehe
* seidos prays
 <seidos>	it's a psychological placebo
 <Snova>	seidos: are you reasonably familiar with the concept of a function? even just the idea; has bgs demonstated them yet?
 <bgs100>	I have somewhat.
 <seidos>	Snova, depends what you mean by "reasonable"
 <Snova>	good enough
 <bgs100>	Only one example so far have we actually made a function, though
 <Snova>	seidos: when you pass an "int" to a function, what that function gets is a copy. if it changes it, it only changes the copy. this is not always desirable, and why we have pointers
 <seidos>	I don't know to be honest.  I don't want to say that I have a good enough understanding when I don't
 <seidos>	hmmm, that's interesting
 <Snova>	seidos: if that function instead took an "int pointer", rather than having a copy of an integer, it would know where it was instead- and have the ability to modify the real thing
 <seidos>	so a pointer is a data type that allows a function to modify the data in the memory address directly
 <Snova>	sure
 <seidos>	but an int will modify a copy of it
 <bgs100>	Well, thats what it's often used for
 <Snova>	(note that, if you pass it an "int pointer", you're actually giving it a copy of said pointer- you can have pointers to pointers and so on but this is uncommon)
 <bgs100>	Snova, **argv :p
 <Snova>	bgs100: that's more of a pointer array
 <bgs100>	eh
 <Snova>	well, same thing really
 <bgs100>	multi-dimensional arrays in general.
 <bgs100>	Snova, yeah
 <bgs100>	So
 <Snova>	well... no, a multi-dimensional array has to be rectangular
 <bgs100>	?
 <bgs100>	Isn't it an array of arrays?
 <Snova>	yes, but they do have to be the same size for it to work
 <bgs100>	Oh.
 <bgs100>	meh
 <bgs100>	Anyway
 <Snova>	:p
* bgs100 prepares next example.
 <Snova>	99% of the time what pointers are actually used for is to modify someone elses variables, so describing them from that viewpoint is probably logical
 <bgs100>	Yeah
 <Snova>	oh, and dynamic allocation, but rather than asking malloc to modify something you're asking it to create it for you... I suppose it's the other way around; malloc is returning something for /you/ to modify
 <seidos>	Snova, what's the most complex c project you've worked on?
 <seidos>	I realize there is a hierarchy to code, I'm just not sure of the layers
 <Snova>	dunno, I don't use C much
 <seidos>	like how high up is Firefox?  I imagine it's at the top.  Or gnome-power-manager
 <seidos>	Snova, python mostly?
 <bgs100>	seidos, Gnome itself is written in C, if I recall correctly.
 <Snova>	in terms of complexity? firefox would be up there, certainly; something like gnome-power-manager I don't know... it has a fairly straightforward purpose, I guess, but it does a lot of things
 <Snova>	seems to mostly be a configuration tool
 <seidos>	bgs100, it looks like GNU/Linux is so hacked together it's hard to tell where one project begins and another ends for me
 <Snova>	it is :p
 <bgs100>	lol
 <seidos>	like I don't really know where gnome ends and x begins, or I should probably say where X ends and gnome begins
 <seidos>	I have a faint idea, but I don't really know in detail
 <seidos>	I do remember pausing some processes awhile back just to see what would happen though
 <Snova>	mmm, X is a complicated beast
 <bgs100>	seidos, I like to think of it as a complex hierarchy. Perhaps combined with GTK+, or maybe above it, and sitting on top of X, GNOME is also associated with many 'gnome" projects.
 <seidos>	that's true, like gnometris
 <bgs100>	Like KDE is assocated with everytihng that starts with a K or has a capital K in it.
 <seidos>	heh
 <bgs100>	:P
 <seidos>	that's a good point, I remember trying to program my blackjack game in python
 <bgs100>	seidos, pedro3005
 <bgs100>	http://paste.pocoo.org/show/227450/
 <seidos>	then saw the blackjack that came with gnome
 <bgs100>	Now,
 <bgs100>	save and compile, but DO NOT RUN
 <seidos>	and was just like blown away how little I knew
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, That means DO NOT RUN
 <seidos>	it was actually quite depressing
 <Snova>	X touches a lot of different parts of the system; its roots go deep into the kernel... but X stops when things are being displayed on the screen properly, and Gnome picks up there to draw basically everything
 <bgs100>	seidos, pshaw, the guys who made that blackjack game were once new too.
 <Snova>	20:21:01 <bgs100> Now,
 <Snova>	oops
 <seidos>	but firefox doesn't need gnome to function does it?
 <bgs100>	Snova, lolwut
 <bgs100>	seidos, No, just gtk
 <seidos>	ah gtk as a dependency
 <seidos>	so you have to have gtk libraries installed
 <Snova>	seidos: nope. it uses certain gnome components (e.g. gtk) but gtk talks directly to X. also, things like gnome's window manager are technically separate components but rather imporatnt
 <seidos>	I don't really get that
 <bgs100>	seidos, Did you save and compile?
 <seidos>	do libraries just sit on the hard disk until they're called for
 <seidos>	no sorry, will focus on that now
 <bgs100>	np
 <bgs100>	But don't run, okay? :p
 <Snova>	seidos: when you run firefox, Linux reads it off the disk; a program called the dynamic linker reads the necessary libraries off of disk and "links" them to the binary, then proceeds to continue execution of firefox
 <seidos>	bgs100, compiled
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <bgs100>	seidos, Run: echo "Hello, gentlemen! What a fine day it is" | ./whateveryounametheexecutable
 <seidos>	Snova, sounds like DLLs in windows.  What came first libraries in Unix or libraries in Windows?
 <Snova>	seidos: unix is much older
 <seidos>	bgs100, can I copy and paste?
 <bgs100>	No
 <bgs100>	Replace ./whateveryounametheexecutable with whatever you named the executable
 <seidos>	I didn't think so.  I typed it out.
 <seidos>	it capitalized it
 <bgs100>	and?
 <Snova>	seidos: also, "DLL" is pretty much the same thing as "shared library"
 <bgs100>	seidos, What about the exclamation mark?
 <seidos>	there are four exclamation marks
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <bgs100>	Good
* seidos wonders if firefox would run faster without gnome running
 <Snova>	seidos: not likely
 <Snova>	technically yes, but not to a degree anyone would really notice
 <seidos>	yeah.  I don't know why.  firefox seems sluggish to me
 <seidos>	I think it would be faster on windows, but I could be trippin'
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <Snova>	there would be fewer processes sharing the CPU (even though most of them are idle), more memory available, and the X server would be doing less, but none of that will have much of an impact
 <bgs100>	seidos, In this, we introduce 4 new things
 <seidos>	but my install of ubuntu is kind of a hack too
 <bgs100>	getchar, putchar, EOF, and ctype.h/toupper
 <bgs100>	So,
 <seidos>	I noticed ctype.h and toupper
 <seidos>	but not getchar, putchar, EOF
 <bgs100>	seidos, getchar gets one character from input.
 <bgs100>	However
 <bgs100>	No characters are "submitted" until you press enter
 <bgs100>	And
 <bgs100>	You will notice that "c" is an integer,
 <bgs100>	as opposed to a char (standing for "character"),
 <bgs100>	because EOF is equal to -1, which characters can't hold
 <bgs100>	seidos, Okay?
 <seidos>	okay
 <bgs100>	EOF means End of File, btw
 <Snova>	er, technically they can, but the problem is getchar() can otherwise return anything from 0 to 255- so would otherwise be possible to send it a fake EOF if getchar() returned one byte
 <bgs100>	>_>
 <Snova>	what? you're wrong :)
 <seidos>	yeah, EOF is end of file, knew that
 <bgs100>	Snova, ssshhhhhhh
 <bgs100>	:P
 <Snova>	orite, teachers are always correct
* Snova sits in the corner
 <seidos>	Snova, how do you learn about programming?
 <seidos>	bgs100, and how did you learn?
 <bgs100>	Snova, Yeah, I don't want to remove any possible illusions of a wizards C hacker with a long beard.
 <bgs100>	wizardly*
 <Snova>	seidos: a book, the internet, and a few years of tinkering
 <pedro3005>	back
 <pedro3005>	sorry
 <bgs100>	seidos, Help on IRC and the K&R
 <seidos>	maybe I should check out a book from the library.  I'm currently trying to read Darwin
 <seidos>	bgs100, K&R?
 <bgs100>	seidos,
 <bgs100>	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_C_Programming_Language_%28book%29
 <seidos>	haha that c variable throws me off a little
 <bgs100>	It's written by guys who created Unix and C (correct, Snova?)
 <bgs100>	Hai pedro3005
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, did you explain the code yet?
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, Which example?
 <seidos>	I don't think my library would have this book
 <bgs100>	seidos, :[
 <seidos>	whoa, this book is a tome!  I wasn't even born when it was written
 <bgs100>	I very very luckily got it at a yard sale for 50 cents
 <Snova>	bgs100: yeah, I think so
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, the last one
 <seidos>	they might have it or something like it
 <Snova>	as I recall C was invented *for* unix
 <pedro3005>	I have this book, the second edition
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, Doing so now
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, So do I
 <bgs100>	:D
 <seidos>	it's too bad good quality books aren't available for free on the Internet
 <pedro3005>	well, actually I "borrowed" it from my dad
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, lol
 <bgs100>	I bought the book with my own hard-earned 50 cents
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, ... 50 cents?!
 <seidos>	I used to have a c++ book when I took a class in college
 <bgs100>	;D
 <bgs100>	In fact
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, where do they sell books this cheap?
 <seidos>	I should've kept it
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, That was double the original price
 <bgs100>	I decided to donate an extra quarter
 <seidos>	all right, I think I need to program something
 <seidos>	but what?
* seidos ponders
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, Lol I got it from my local church's yard sale
 <seidos>	I'll program my depression calculator
 <bgs100>	xD
 <bgs100>	Anyway
 <bgs100>	ON WITH THE EXPLANATION
 <bgs100>	We love getting side-tracked here
 <bgs100>	:p
 <bgs100>	seidos, pedro3005 Okay,
 <bgs100>	putchar prints one character out.
 <bgs100>	so yeah
 <pedro3005>	seidos, gonna need a 'long long' for that one
 <pedro3005>	:P
 <bgs100>	lol
 <bgs100>	And
 <bgs100>	toupper(0 takes in a character and makes it uppercase (with letters)
 <bgs100>	toupper()*
 <seidos>	do you have to put "int main ()" or will "main ()" work?
 <pedro3005>	Oh, cool
 <bgs100>	main() technically will
 <bgs100>	But it's not good style.
 <seidos>	okay
 <bgs100>	alright
 <Snova>	seidos: "main()" is old-style; most compilers will accept it if they feel forgiving, but it's not technically valid anymore afaik
 <Snova>	it's from the days where, if you didn't specify a return type/variable type, it was int by default
 <bgs100>	then, we check if c is the character '!' ('blah' represents a character as the actual character in C),
 <bgs100>	and if so print out three additional exclamation marks
 <bgs100>	So yeah, we're just transforming input here.
 <bgs100>	seidos, pedro3005 Any questions?
 <bgs100>	er, brb
 <seidos>	bgs100, not really
 <bgs100>	nvm
 <bgs100>	Snova, Any questions? :P
* bgs100 scans room for questions
 <pedro3005>	you know you have to delete someone from your msn when you receive this
 <pedro3005>	    [21:42:46] ­I <3 twilight
 <bgs100>	...
 <bgs100>	That is not a question.
 <bgs100>	:p
 <seidos>	pedro3005, gagaga
 <seidos>	that's how I laugh
 <seidos>	"gagaga"
 <seidos>	I'm team Justin personally
 <seidos>	I think edward is too gay
 <bgs100>	...
 <seidos>	everyone knows werewolves are cooler than vampires
 <seidos>	pedro3005, ^^
 <bgs100>	 /* */ (no comment)
 <seidos>	haha
 <Snova>	bgs100: this is clearly a comment; also seidos is right
 <bgs100>	Snova, About what? :|
 <Snova>	well, maybe not; depends on the rendition
 <bgs100>	...
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, no questions about the code
 <Snova>	back to 99 I think
 <bgs100>	?
 <bgs100>	Snova, ...?
 <seidos>	Snova, something is wrong, I'm never right
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, okay
 <Snova>	seidos: you're left?
 <bgs100>	lol
 <seidos>	Snova, haha, didn't get that for a second
 <seidos>	well, maybe like 5 seconds
* bgs100 turns seidos around
 <bgs100>	Now that you're right do you get it quicker? :P
* seidos looks around uneasily
 <seidos>	I'm ambidextrous
 <bgs100>	Seriously?
 <seidos>	and I'm always confused
 <seidos>	I can type with both hands :D
 <bgs100>	Lol
 <seidos>	bgs100, HW?  You said we'd go over it at the end
 <bgs100>	...anyway... if we are done with both Twilight and directions
 <bgs100>	seidos, You're ready for the end? :p
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <bgs100>	seidos, pedro3005 Homework, please?
 <seidos>	I'm ready for something
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, sure
 <seidos>	I should really start using gedit
 <seidos>	I can't copy a full page in vim
 <seidos>	bgs100,  http://paste.ubuntu.com/452257/
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, oh, right, I was supposed to link you my homework
 <Snova>	hm, I don't think &* is necessary. you just get what you started with
 <Snova>	it dereferences a pointer and then takes its address again; you just get an identical pointer
* pedro3005 quickly removes it from his code
 <bgs100>	Lol
 <seidos>	Snova,  I'll take it out and try it
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, http://paste.pocoo.org/show/227453/
 <bgs100>	seidos, Good, no compiler warnings with wall and it works correctly.
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, Good, also no compiler warnings and functional
 <bgs100>	Also, yay for indenting
 <seidos>	Snova, I get  warning when I take out the &
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, python trashed me for good :D
 <bgs100>	I notice that you scanf("%d",&toGuess); to scanf("%d",toGuess); because now toGuess is already a pointer
 <bgs100>	seidos, No, take out the & and the *
 <seidos>	Snova, oh, I have to take out both &*
 <bgs100>	Although seidos has spaces between function arguments
 <Snova>	seidos: if you only took out that, you'd be dereferencing a pointer with the remaining *, which would go from int* to int. scanf expects an int* though
 <bgs100>	(which is good :p)
 <bgs100>	A+'s for both of you :D
* bgs100 gives seidos and pedro3005 stars
 <seidos>	I don't think I understand what the & is for
 <Snova>	seidos: goes the other way around; takes an int's address to get an int*
 <bgs100>	seidos, getting the location of something in memory
 <Snova>	seidos: so &* effectively does nothing; you go from int* to int and then back to int*
 <seidos>	I think I just found the greatest placebo
 <seidos>	playing
 <seidos>	like I can pretend I'm praying like He-man with his sword and grayskull and junk
 <seidos>	hehehe
* seidos is crazy
 <seidos>	all right, doesn't really make sense
 <seidos>	in fact, I'm surprised I got a good grade on my assignment
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, so, moar? :p
 <Snova>	it's only been two hours :p
 <pedro3005>	it felt like nothing!
 <bgs100>	Lol
 <seidos>	whoa it's been two hours?!
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, You were gone for at least 30 minutes xP
 <pedro3005>	I mean, we only really learned about fopen and getchar
 <bgs100>	Okay maybe not 30
 <bgs100>	wwwhhhhaaatttt
 <bgs100>	0_o
 <pedro3005>	what else did we learn about?
 <seidos>	I would have to go back to the code to see what I "learned"
 <seidos>	ctype.h?
 <Snova>	pedro3005: idt's, but you weren't there
 <seidos>	rehashed pointers
 <pedro3005>	Snova, wha?
 <Snova>	oh, we didn't? well then
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, Um, I was hoping you learned about files, a bit more about pointers, some file operating functions, getchar, putchar, ctype.h and toupper
 <seidos>	not even I remember idt's
 <bgs100>	At least.
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, I did
 <seidos>	man which one did we do functions in?
 <seidos>	oh yeah, toupper
 <seidos>	forgot about that one
 <bgs100>	That is not "fopen" and "getchar" :p
* bgs100 thinks pedro3005 is making little of his generous use of time. *hmpf*
 <bgs100>	(jk :p)
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, I did learn all of these!
 <pedro3005>	you can try me
 <pedro3005>	right now
 <pedro3005>	I'LL TAKE THE TEST RIGHT NOW
* pedro3005 takes shirt off
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, What's the square root of 7584378943757435784326786578436584365763241632?
 <seidos>	we should probably take a test, so I can epically fail it
 <seidos>	I don't even think my computer can calculate that
 <Snova>	pedro3005: compute the square root of that number through continued approximation, using only bitwise operators
 <seidos>	hey Snova, is there a class for the "teachers" like you and bgs100?  taught by Eric Hammond or something?
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, How many bits would it take to represent a google?
 <bgs100>	seidos, ?
 <seidos>	333
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, 2^333
* bgs100 doesn't know who that is...
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, No, it only takes 33 bits :P
 <seidos>	I think it's 333 bits
 <bgs100>	333*
 <seidos>	not 2^333 bits
 <pedro3005>	damn
 <bgs100>	seidos, Correct
 <Snova>	hehe
 <bgs100>	2^333 is quite a bit larger than 333
 <bgs100>	Around a google, I hear. :p
 <seidos>	pedro3005, better luck next time chummmmm-p
 <pedro3005>	:(
 <seidos>	no frowny faces, it's the first time I've *ever* got a question that you didn't
 <seidos>	quite frankly it's kind of cheating, since I asked the original question
 <bgs100>	Lol
 <seidos>	no glory for seidos :|
* bgs100 gives seidos the Test-Winnar (misspell intentional) award
 <bgs100>	You are now a Winnar
 <seidos>	more questions!
* Snova gives bgs100 the Spellar award
 <bgs100>	Wie thank yuo
 <bgs100>	:P
 <seidos>	I know a question I still don't remember.  what is the general form equating logs and exponents?
* bgs100 gives Snova the Sarkastic Award Award
* seidos looks at his notes
 <bgs100>	seidos,
 <seidos>	I can't remember it for the life of me
 <seidos>	bgs100
 <bgs100>	wait
 <bgs100>	Do you mean in C?
 <seidos>	waiting...
 <bgs100>	seidos, ^
 <seidos>	no, just in general
 <bgs100>	Oh
 <Snova>	seidos: if x^y = z then x log z = y
 <seidos>	I only know of pow() in C
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <bgs100>	Homework
 <seidos>	I have if x = b^y then y = log(base b) x
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, Are you around?
 <Snova>	seidos: sure
 <bgs100>	Well
 <Snova>	I think the "mathematical" notation is "x log z" but however you remember it
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, yes
 <seidos>	x log z?  that sounds like x * log base z
 <seidos>	I got it from wikipedia
 <bgs100>	Here's the homework, suggested by our resident Assistant teacher and Award Givzer:
 <bgs100>	Make a program that transforms input by making every other character uppercase.
 <bgs100>	FOR BONUS POINTS,
 <Snova>	ah, wikipedia uses a subscript, which makes sesne
 <bgs100>	Make the program also ensure that every other letter is lowercase,
 <bgs100>	aaannnddd
 <bgs100>	*thinks of other bonus*
 <bgs100>	At the end tell the length of the input.
 <bgs100>	(that is, after EOF is recieved)
 <bgs100>	Okay?
 <seidos>	yeah, I typed that in my file already
 <pedro3005>	LiKe ThIs?
 <bgs100>	Not quite
 <bgs100>	LiKe tHiS?
 <bgs100>	Because
 <Snova>	spaces count
 <bgs100>	it would have tried to uppercase the whitespcae
 <Snova>	even though you can't uppercsae/lowercase them
 <bgs100>	whitespace*
 <bgs100>	Yes, what Snova said :p
 <pedro3005>	bgs100, so we fix that bug :p
 <bgs100>	pedro3005, Okay, extra bonus, I guess
 <bgs100>	alright?
 <Snova>	pedro3005: see also isspace()
 <bgs100>	Everyone good on homework?
 <pedro3005>	alright, I'll work on it
 <pedro3005>	Snova, sure, thanks
 <bgs100>	Snova, pedro3005 and isalpha()
 <pedro3005>	I know that one
 <Snova>	perhaps
 <Snova>	depends on how you want to do it, I guess
 <bgs100>	yeah
 <bgs100>	Okay
 <bgs100>	seidos, Questions?
 <bgs100>	meh, I'll take questions after class
 <bgs100>	======================== BEGIN DISMISSAL OF CLASS! ==============================
 <bgs100>	;p
 <bgs100>	I'll see you all Monday, have a nice, uh, Saturday
 <bgs100>	(just kidding)
 <seidos>	thank you bgs100
 <seidos>	no questions
 <bgs100>	Alright, cool
 <bgs100>	:)
 <pedro3005>	thanks bgs100
 <bgs100>	You're welcome. Thank Snova, too :p
 <pedro3005>	thanks Snova
 <pedro3005>	:p
 <seidos>	thanks Snova
</pre>
