{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting on June 5 2010 ===

* '''Date: Saturday 5 June, 2010'''
* '''Start: 16:00'''
* '''End: 17:15'''
* '''Timezone: GMT +2 Beirut Time'''
* '''Where: Starbucks DownTown, Beirut, Lebanon'''
* '''Chaired By: Ubuntu-LB Team '''

'''Attendees''':

* Elijah El-Lazkani
* Khalil Harake
* Rami Omar
* Youssef Chaker
* Danny Abukalam
* Munir Nabti
* Jocelyn Habib

'''Meeting Minutes:'''

* Talked about the OpenSource software project for windows
* Mounir talked about Hibr project www.hibr.me and Opened his location to host our meeting (Thank you )
* Talked about ubuntu lb problems (specially members activation issue now is solved )
* Talked about wiki Arabic translation
* Talked about Ubuntu-lb mailing list for members for active members (Not done by Ubuntu we need to host it on our site)
* Identify the active members and who can help us in several subjects based on their expertise and free time 
* Talking about legalizing Ubuntu-lb in Lebanon (means www.ubuntu.org.lb)
* Free Remote Support services for Ubuntu users specially beginners (not enterprise support)
* More interviews on TV 
* Promoting Ubuntu in schools (let them grow with Ubuntu )
* Presentation development

{*} ''Please feel free to discuss any subject on the mailing list .''

=== Meeting on 02/10/2009 ===

* '''Date: 02/10/2009'''
* '''Start: 20:00'''
* '''End: 22:00'''
* '''Timezone: GMT +2 Beirut Time'''
* '''Where: #Ubuntu-LB Channel on FreeNode Network'''
* '''Chaired By: Jad Joubran (aka. Jad-J)'''

'''Attendees''':
* Jad-J
* Armageddon
* JAD
* mapfn
* youssefchaker
* Black_Phantom
* matata 
* bold-ally
* JosephMarc
* rapacity
* compengi
* Liquid-
* SilentRequiem-
* ubot2

'''Meeting logs:'''
* The meeting complete logs can be found <nowiki>[[http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/free/2009/10/02/%23ubuntu-lb.html|here]]</nowiki>.
* The report thread on the mailing list can be found <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-lb/2009-October/000289.html|here]]</nowiki>.

'''Discussed topics:'''
 1. Decide the target of the presentation: Universities or schools.
 2. Create a team to write presentation.
 3. Choose an outline for the presentation [in progress]
'''Decisions:'''
 1. The presentation should be aimed to University students and then we will continue our project and expand to schools.
 2. The team includes the following volunteers:
** Jad-J
** JAD
** JosephMarc
** Black_Phantom
** Eljak
** {*} you can still add you name and/or nickname here.
 3. The project will be posted on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|launchpad]]</nowiki> including the deadline and everything.
 4. Here are the suggested outlines of the presentation (feel free to give your opinion or to add your own outline): <nowiki>[[LebanonTeam-Presentations]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting on 23/12/2008 ===

* '''Date: 23/12/2008'''
* '''Timezone: GMT +2 Beirut Time'''
* '''Chaired By: Jocelyn Habib'''
* '''Topic: Presentation'''

Topics To Be Discussed:

 1. What is Linux.
 2. Why using Ubuntu.
 3. Overview about Open Source.
 4. How to Ubuntu.
 5. Differences between Microsoft Windows and Linux/GNU.

=== Not placed meeting ===

* '''Date: 21/08/2008'''
* '''Start: 21:00'''
* '''End: 22:00'''
* '''Timezone: GMT +2 Beirut Time'''
* '''Where: #Ubuntu-LB Channel on FreeNode Network'''
* '''Chaired By: Jocelyn Habib'''

'''Did not take place'''

=== Minutes for the last meeting held on 03/10/2007 ===

* '''Date: 03/10/2007'''
* '''Start: 21:00'''
* '''End: 22:00'''
* '''Place: #Ubuntu-LB Channel on FreeNode Network'''
* '''Chaired By: Roland Abou Younes'''

Topics discussed:

 1. The idea of support and its relation to community.
   - The bigger and more active the community is, the more effective it's support.
 2. We need to spread the word Ubuntu more.
   - With the help of sponsors (like Dell)

Main Approaches:

 1. Universities/Schools
 2. Hardware Providers
 3. Setup Fests
 4. Offer help train support for IT people creating Server/Desktop setups
 5. Sponsors

Hoping to see you all in the next meeting.

=== Minutes for the last meeting held on 08/01/2007 ===

* '''Date: 08/01/2007'''
* '''Place: Dunkin Donuts (None-smoking area)- Zalka main road.'''
* '''Time: 8:30PM'''

'''Attendees''':
* Karine Alouf
* Michel Ajaka
* Jocylen Habib
* Rami Omar

'''Newcomers''':
* Nancy Zakhour
* Elias El khoury
* Rabih Habchy
* Serouj Jamijian
* Elie Helou
* Elie Khalife
* Houssam Bachour
* Joe hanna.

Topics discussed:

 1. What is our team? What is our aim of creating such a community here in Lebanon?
 2. What is Ubuntu? A detailed discussion about history and development.
 3. Trying Ubuntu: Starting live CDs, taking brief hints about the graphical interface of it.
 4. Logo issue: suggested to wait till the due date:15/01/2007 to end the voting issue.
 5. Extra discussions:
              Preparation for the invitation to the CS (Computer Science) club in the NDU.

The meeting ended at 10:00PM.
Hoping to see you all in the next meeting.

For suggesting more subjects to discuss please drop an email on our <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-lb|Mailing list]]</nowiki> 
