{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== youssefchaker's suggestion ===
'''PART I: Why it matters'''
1. What is Open Source
*** Software where anyone can browse the source code
*** some Open Source software is free
*** etc...
2. Why Open Source

'''PART II: Open Source in the OS'''
  1- Examples
     http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_open_source_operating_systems
  2- Benefits
  3- Case Study: Ubuntu

=== Jad-J's suggestion ===
'''PART I: GNU/Linux + Open source'''
* To present GNU/Linux, talk briefly about distros and the open source philosophy and how normal users can benefit from it (like free softwares + no viruses + ...)
	
'''PART II: Ubuntu'''
1. Ubuntu Philosphy
2. Why Ubuntu?
3. Ubuntu vs windows (comparison chart including performance and softwares to migrate from windows to linux, exemple: MSN -> Pidgin ...)

=== Armageddon's suggestion ===
'''PART I'''

* Open Source
* GNU/Linux
** Explain what they are and their importance, after all both are the reasons Ubuntu is here.

'''PART 2'''

* Ubuntu vs Windows
** Ubuntu's answers to most problems especially the financial one. 
** Give alternatives to Windows applications. 
** How easy it is to use Ubuntu.
** The support offered and the 3 ways of installation and LiveCD.
** A little shot of compiz without needing to bring that to the front.

'''PART 3'''

NB: This part is just a suggestion but I think it's important to be considered too.

* Giving an introduction on the ability of GNU/Linux and Ubuntu to be configured to login on a Windows Domain Controller which makes it a good alternative of *NIX in the *NIX Labs for their students.

=== Black_Phantom's Suggestion ===

'''Part I: Ubuntu born from the word 'Open Source' ''' 

  A. Defining the word Ubuntu; Explaining the slogan Linux For Human Beings:

*** A short brief about GNU/Linux & UNIX and what is a distrubtion in Linux.
*** After that going through what is open source, without open source Mac OS X wouldnt be here.

 B. Delivering The "Free Software Promise"
     
*** The Economics Are Different:

***** - Available globally, free of charge
***** - Free security updates for a predictable period
***** - Real commercial support available from many companies

*** The Culture Is Different

***** - Community governance and structures
***** - Open to all participants, at all levels ( How you can see Ubuntu used by Enterprises at the same time by normal users, no "Enterprise editions" etc. Trusted by everyone )
***** - Transparency 

''' Part II: Softwares in Ubuntu '''

*** Legendary stability of the softwares which maintains the stability of the whole system( There's nothing called viruses in Ubuntu )
*** Explaining what is packages
     - Giving some credit for Debian and GNU/Linux
*** Ubuntu comes with every software you need preinstalled(Web browsing,IM,Office suite and so on )
       - It's up to you to choose which app suits you the best, depending on your preferences features you require
*** Listing the alternatives ( OpenOffice.org = Microsoft office ) and so on
*** Ease of installation and how all software comes from one repository
     

''' Part III: Comparison of Windows & Ubuntu '''

*** Reminding people of Windows
*** How it won the marketing battle ( because there was no user-friendly linux which Ubuntu now offers )
*** Removing interest by listing all the problems of Windows
*** How you should do maintenance for Windows as if your maintaining a car, From scanning for viruses to defrag. and how Windows is a RAM junky and so on
*** $150 for an OS ?!
*** How commercial licensing is annoying & piracy consequences

''' Part IV: Certifications: Ubuntu is the answer, not the alternative one '''

*** How Ubuntu is certified by Dell,HP & IBM 
*** Used in Major companies for there servers & some for their desktops
*** Promising a bright future for Ubuntu
*** Encouraging to contribute
*** How to get Ubuntu ( Interested audience will get an Ubuntu CD )

Finally we let users feel it practically, by showing off compiz for example and other stuff.
