{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lee-willy1977-williams|lee-willy1977-williams]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''willy1977''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://leemwilliams.co.uk/
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| http://twitter.com/1977_willy
|-
| '''Identi.ca''':
| http://identi.ca/willy1977/
|}
=== About Me ===

I'm a father of three and husband to a long suffering wife...

By day I'm a mild mannered windows developer building software for rugged mobile devices for use in Proof of Delivery and various Logistics applications.

By night the transformation is complete and I'm a fully fledged geek with years experience in Sci-Fi, Fantasy, graphic novels.  It's true that my star wars t-shirt is faded and that I yearn for a beard that would grow long and thick. Except on Tuesdays and Thursdays when I become a potential instructor (PI) with the Army Cadet Force.

The only other thing to say is in order to off-set my eating habit I have taken up triathlon and am currently training extensively for a couple of Half Iron Man triathlons (1900m swim, 56mile bike, 13.1mile run) this upcoming season.

=== Things I do for Ubuntu ===

==== Community ====

* I'm striving to be an active member of the Ubuntu-UK LoCo
* I attempt to give helpful support and advice in the #ubuntu-uk irc channel
* I am working hard on converting everyone I meet to Ubuntu, by forcing Live CD's and/or iso's in their direction.
* I'm hoping to join Ubuntu Beginners focusing on development projects.

==== Development ====

* At home I am running the current late Alpha, and will switch to the beta as it becomes available this way I will be able to attempt to fix triaged bugs and should have the ability to file any necessary bug reports.
 
==== Support ====
* I've contributed <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~lee-willy1977-williams|bug reports]]</nowiki>
* I help out with queries on the UK Lo Co mailing list where appropriate
 
=== Room for Improvement ===
* I need to get a grasp on Ubuntu and more importantly Linux in general coming from a windows background a lot of things in my knowledge need tweaking; I'm thinking that an overview would stand me in good stead.
* Need to consult more when trying to help with bugs etc. it's one of those where I tend to wrestle with things when a simple question could clarify in moments :D
* I need to pull my finger out and get the introduction email sent to the Ubuntu beginners mailing list.
* Want to re-learn how to play the guitar, mandolin, and banjo - can then get back to recording only this time using Linux!

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeamProfile]]</nowiki>
