{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

* Name: Leônidas S. Barbosa
* Nickname: leosilvab
* Location: Brazil
* <nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net/~leosilvab|Launchpad profile]]</nowiki>
* E-mail: leo.barbosa[AT]canonical[DOT]com
 

My name is Leônidas S. Barbosa, I'm from Brazil. I started to use linux since 2003 and ubuntu in the 2008 about. I've been using it as a normal user/developer. In June 2017 I joined Canonical as a Security Team member responsible for do the security updates for packages in main to ESM releases.

=== Contributions to ubuntu ===

I have contributed to ubuntu doing security updates for packages in main to ESM and normal releaes: 

* I have involved in many bugs, doing bug triage, sponsor for community, MIR, and so on. You can follow the bugs I was somehow participating here <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~leosilvab/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=EXPIRED&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.importance%3Alist=UNKNOWN&field.importance%3Alist=CRITICAL&field.importance%3Alist=HIGH&field.importance%3Alist=MEDIUM&field.importance%3Alist=LOW&field.importance%3Alist=WISHLIST&field.importance%3Alist=UNDECIDED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ALL&field.status_upstream=pending_bugwatch&field.status_upstream=hide_upstream&field.status_upstream=resolved_upstream&field.status_upstream=open_upstream&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&search=Search|triaged]]</nowiki> 

=== Memberships ===

** Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~leosilvab/+participation]]</nowiki>

=== For the future ===

* Improve ubuntu fixing bugs and reporting them
* Improve ubuntu writing and testing patches

=== Testimonials ===
* "If you have ever used ESM for precise or trusty then you have very likely benefited from Leo's work. Leo published more than 85% of the security updated packages in the precise ESM PPA and more than 35% of the security updated packages in the trusty ESM PPA." - mark[DOT]morlino[AT]canonical[DOT]com
 
