{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''' ***This page is out of date*** '''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:45%; background:#F1F1DD; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Contents'''
|-
| 
|}
== About me ==

My name is Leandro Gómez, I'm from Uruguay and currently living in Nicaragua. I'm a former team contact and one of the founders of the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.ni/|Nicaraguan Ubuntu LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact information ===

* Email: leogg at ubuntu dot com
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~leogg
* IRC: leogg at irc.freenode.net

== My involvement in Ubuntu ==

I'm an Ubuntu user since Breezy and began contributing to the community in February 2006. In February 2007, I started the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.ni/|Nicaraguan Ubuntu LoCo Team]]</nowiki> (approved in April) and since then my main efforts have been in improving the local team and helping <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-centroamerica|other teams in the region]]</nowiki> to get things started.

I've participated in and organized ~90 events since the creation of the team, including the award-winning <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/archives/2007/Nicaragua|SFD Nicaragua 2007]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/archives/2007/Nicaragua|SFD Nicaragua 2008]]</nowiki> events and the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/|Linux Tour]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxjournal.com/node/1005788|one of the biggest Linux events in Central America]]</nowiki>.

I'm currently an official Ubuntu translator in the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-es|ubuntu-l10n-es team]]</nowiki> and moderator of the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-es-l10n|mailing list]]</nowiki>.

As of September 2009, I'm starting the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~difundeubuntu-ni|SpreadUbuntu Nicaragua project]]</nowiki> in order to promote the creation of marketing material in Spanish and as a form of collaboration with the <nowiki>[[http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/|SpreadUbuntu]]</nowiki> project.

I've also represented Ubuntu in meetings and events with other LUGs and in <nowiki>[[NicaraguanTeam-Prensa|interviews]]</nowiki> on local newspapers, radio and <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/ubuntunicaragua|TV stations]]</nowiki>.

=== Future plans ===

* Continue my work with the Ubuntu-ni LoCo Team
* Continue mentor the Central American teams
* MOTU!!!

== My work outside the Ubuntu community ==

I'm pretty active in other FOSS communities, both in Nicaragua and internationally.

* Board member of <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.org.ni|GUL-NIC]]</nowiki> (Nicaraguan LUG, composed by four local LUGs)
* Former board member of the <nowiki>[[http://www.redslcan.org.ni|Nicaraguan FOSS Network]]</nowiki>
* Founding member of the Ubuntu Central American Team
* Close collaboration with the <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org.ni|local Debian community]]</nowiki>
* Founding member of the Central American Free Software Initiative
* International coordinator of <nowiki>[[http://installfest.info/|FLISOL 2008]]</nowiki> - Latin America's biggest installfest

== Leogg Facts ==
<nowiki>[[Leocharrua-LeoggFacts|Leogg Facts]]</nowiki> :)

== Cheers from the community ==

* leogg is a pretty cool guy :) - leogg
* leogg is the boss of Nicaraguan LoCO, we own him a lot of our accomplishments, he is our founder(with other 3 co-founder), and our main contact. - igorgue(http://igordevlog.blogspot.com/)
* leogg is our great geek-leader in the Nicaraguan LoCO a cool guy we all like - Ledanalf®
* leogg is a great partner in the Linux User Groups @ Nicaragua, full of great ideas - @LeX {<nowiki>[[http://suse-ni.blogspot.com/|NUI-Nicaragua]]</nowiki> President}
* Leogg has proven to be very responsible and with great passion for free software, decided to crush the bug # 1, and is the leader and founder of the open source movement in Nicaragua. - JorSol
* Leogg is one of the persons handed over to free software that I have meet, he deserve that membership mora than anyone - RainerEli
* Leogg is the kind of guy you want to start a develop a LoCo Team - Josernesto (ubuntu-ni CC Member).
* Nicaragua está guiando el camino para el resto de grupos centroamericanos, gracias a gente como vos vamos mejorando - <nowiki>[[elopio]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage

----
CategoryHomepage
