{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Lernid Development Page ==

'''Lernid is an Open Source project and welcomes patches and submissions to help improve it. This page outlines how you can get involved'''.

=== Programming ===

==== Getting The Source ====

Lernid uses Launchpad as it's development home. The main Lernid page is at https://www.launchpad.net/lernid

You can get the source with:

<pre>
bzr branch lp:lernid
</pre>

==== Running It ====

You can run Lernid by entering the `lernid` source directory that is created when you get the code and then run:

<pre>
quickly run
</pre>

==== Hacking On Lernid ====

Lernid uses the awesome <nowiki>[[Quickly|Quickly]]</nowiki> framework to make development easier. You will need to install the `quickly` package to use this functionality:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install quickly
</pre>

You can now run the following commands inside the main `lernid` source directory:

''Load all the source files into GEdit'':
<pre>
quickly edit
</pre>

''Run Lernid'':
<pre>
quickly run
</pre>

''Edit the Glade files used in Lernid'':
<pre>
quickly glade
</pre>

''Add a Glade dialog and source file'':
<pre>
quickly dialog SomethingDialog
</pre>

''Generate a local package'':
<pre>
quickly package
</pre>

=== Testing ===

==== Getting The Source ====

Lernid uses Launchpad as it's development home. The main Lernid page is at https://www.launchpad.net/lernid

You can get the source with:

<pre>
bzr branch lp:lernid
</pre>

==== Running It ====

You can run Lernid by entering the `lernid` source directory that is created when you get the code and then run:

<pre>
quickly run
</pre>

==== Filing Bugs ====

If you bugs or problems, you should report them in the main Lernid Launchpad project. Go to https://bugs.launchpad.net/lernid/+filebug
