{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Setting Up a Lernid Event ==

If you are organizing a learning week and want to use Lernid, you will need to create a server-side Lernid configuration file. This file should be called `<something>.lernid`. Here is an example:

<pre>
[Ubuntu Example Week]

homepage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuExampleWeek
icalurl: http://www.google.com/calendar/ical/canonical.com_96jtlbrmpltiogmjhlgl3rd0o0%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics
classroom: jono-test
chat: ubuntu-classroom-chat
eventstart: 2009-12-21 12:00:00
eventend: 2009-12-25 15:00:00
</pre>

There can be multiple events in one configuration file. Each event should specify the following settings:

* '''homepage''' - the event website that is loaded into the Lernid browser when a user connects.
* '''icalurl''' - the iCal feed that contains all the sessions.
* '''classroom''' - the name of the classroom IRC channel on freenode without the leading hash (#).
* '''chat''' - the name of the chat IRC channel on freenode without the leading hash (#).
* '''eventstart''' - the start date and time (in UTC) of the event. You must ensure the format here is `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`.
* '''eventend''' - the end date and time (in UTC) of the event. You must ensure the format here is `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`.

If a session has slides in it, you should ensure that the ''Description'' field in the iCal event has the following:

<pre>
Slides: http://www.website.com/slidesdocument.pdf
</pre>

The slides can be hosted anywhere and have any name in the document, but they must be a PDF. OpenOffice.org can easily save an Impress presentation as a PDF file. Please also be conscious that when a session starts, all Lernid viewers will download these slides, so make sure the slides are somewhere with a healthy chunk of bandwidth.

=== Connecting your users to the event ===
When you have created the configuration file you need to make it available to your users. Usually you would do this by uploading it to a public server but you could also distribute it some other way, fx. by email. To connect to your event, your users need to run lernid like this:
<pre>
lernid --config http://your.server.com/your-event.lernid
</pre>
or if you have distributed the file to each user individually:
<pre>
lernid --config /path/to/your-event.lernid
</pre>
Lernid should now open and your event should be selectable from the drop down box.
