{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Lessons Plans for Teachers Using Free and Open Source Software ==

This site is dedicated to collecting and cataloging lesson plans for classroom teachers interested in moving beyond mere document production and really tapping in to the promise of technology integration and education.

=== Introduction ===
* Free and open source software (FOSS) is software that's free of the restrictions usually placed on proprietary software - such as the right to copy, distribute or modify. As such, it is also usually free of charge. The FOSS movement is strong and growing and there are many high quality educational applications available. This site is devoted to collecting and organizing lesson plans for teachers interested in using FOSS.

* Contributors are welcome and encouraged.
** Note: Please create the lessons themselves as <nowiki>[[http://moinmoin.wikiwikiweb.de/HelpOnEditing/SubPages|SubPages]]</nowiki> of this page.

=== Requirements ===
 All lessons found on this site are tied to software application. In order to use any lesson, you will first need to secure a lab with the appropriate software installed. While some applications are available for Windows and MacOSX, many will only be available for Linux. It may be to your benefit to explore options for setting up a Linux based lab. In general, these will be of a lower cost than traditional labs and can even be assembled out of older equipment. Visit the <nowiki>[[http://www.edubuntu.org/|edubuntu]]</nowiki> website for more information.

=== Legal Notice ===
 All lessons contained here remain the property of the original author. Permission is granted to use and modify lessons as needed. However, any redistribution of lessons, including those with modifications, should include reference to the original author and this web site and also must carry the same freedoms. Any reproduction or redistribution that limits the rights of users or fails to give credit to the original author is a violation of use. For more information, please see <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/|Copyleft]]</nowiki> or the preferred <nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/|Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0]]</nowiki> license, as discussed in the Ubuntu-doc team.

== See also ==

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Education/UDS-Boston/ClassmatePC

== Software Applications and Lessons Organized by Content ==
Below is a growing collection of lessons designed to help teachers integrate technology into instruction in a way that moves technology away from mere document production to true extension and exploration. Most lessons are inquiry oriented. It is expected that teachers will modify lessons to suit their own teaching style and student needs. When included, handouts are included in both Open Office and MS Office formats so that they can be easily edited.

=== Art ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Art Lesson Plans'''
|-
| '''Subject'''
| '''Grade Level'''
| '''Topic'''
| '''Link to Lesson'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| Tux Paint
| Elementary
| Paint Program
| <nowiki>[[Lessons-TuxPaint|TuxPaint]]</nowiki>
| Alternative to KidPix
|-
| KolourPaint
| Middle School
| 
| <nowiki>[[Lessons-KolourPaint|KolourPaint]]</nowiki>
| Microsoft Paint "clone"
|-
| Gimp
| High School
| 
| <nowiki>[[Lessons-Gimp|Gimp]]</nowiki>
| Photoshop Alternative
|-
| Inkscape
| High School
| 
| 
| Adobe illustrator Alternative
|}

=== Mathematics ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Mathematics Lesson Plans'''
|-
| '''Subject'''
| '''Grade Level'''
| '''Topic'''
| '''Link to Lesson'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| Statistics
| Elementary/Middle
| Data Analysis
| <nowiki>[[Lessons-R|R For Elementary]]</nowiki>
| R is a stats analysis program
|-
| Geometry
| Elementary/Middle
| Geometry
| <nowiki>[[Lessons-Kig|Kig Geometry Lesson]]</nowiki>
| Kig is a an application for Interactive Geometry
|-
| Algebra/calc
| High school
| Solve Equations
| <nowiki>[[Lessons-Maxima|Maxima]]</nowiki>
| Maxima is a tool to teach and solve algebraic equations
|}

=== Music ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Music Lesson Plans'''
|-
| '''Subject'''
| '''Grade Level'''
| '''Topic'''
| '''Link to Lesson'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| ?
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

=== Science ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Science Lesson Plans'''
|-
| '''Subject'''
| '''Grade Level'''
| '''Topic'''
| '''Link to Lesson'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| Chemistry
| High School
| Periodic Table
| <nowiki>[[Lessons-Kalzium|Kalzium]]</nowiki>
| An interactive periodic table
|-
| Astronomy
| Any
| Earth's Rotation
| <nowiki>[[Lessons-Stellarium|Stellarium]]</nowiki>
| Portable Planetarium
|-
| Physics
| Any
| Motion
| <nowiki>[[Lessons-Phun|Phun]]</nowiki>
| Portable interactive motion simulator
|}

=== Social Studies ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Social Studies Lesson Plans'''
|-
| '''Subject'''
| '''Grade Level'''
| '''Topic'''
| '''Link to Lesson'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| ?
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

== Lessons Needed ==
Here are some other ideas for lessons.  Please pick one that appeals to you, write it up and insert it in the table above.

Science:
* Use <nowiki>[[http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Etoys|Etoys]]</nowiki> to teach lessons about programming, physics, biology etc.
* Alice: easy 3D graphics programming: http://coldfrontramblings.blogspot.com/2007/12/baby-youre-greatest.html

Art:
* Use <nowiki>[[http://www.gimp.org/|Gimp]]</nowiki> to teach Graphics Art without the need for Adobe Photoshop.
* Inkscape: easy vector graphics program in place of Adobe illustrator. http://www.inkscape.org/
* KolourPaint: simple paint program that easily replaces Microsoft Paint.
* Use <nowiki>[[http://www.blender.org/|Blender]]</nowiki> to do 3D animation.

Other ideas:
* dia = diagrams
* xsane = scanner utility
* scribus = publisher program
* kino = edit video
* kstars = desktop planetarium
* atomix = chemistry game
* kturtle = logo programming
* kmplot = graphing
* kpercentage = calculate percentages
* kbrush = fractions
* tuxmath = arithmetic game
* kverbos = spanish tutoring
* khangman = word game
* keduca = education testing (create your own tests)
* ktouch = typing program
* tuxtyping = typing program
* gcompris= over 80 educational games

== Presentations ==

We are also collecting presentations. If you have done a presentation on teaching with FOSS or anything related, consider uploading it for others to view and "borrow" for their own presentations. Creative Commons Licensing still applies.

* <nowiki>[[attachment:blendedlearning.pdf|Blended Learning Presentation]]</nowiki> (created by JimHutchinson)
----
CategoryEducation
