{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:30%; float:right;" style="border: none; -moz-border-radius: 15px; padding-left:4px; background-color: #F1F1DD;">'''Information'''<<BR>>''Name'' - Lewis Cawte<<BR>>''Home URL'' - <nowiki>[[http://lewiscawte.info|lewiscawte.info]]</nowiki><<BR>>''Launchpad ID'' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lewiscawte|~lewiscawte]]</nowiki><<BR>>''Roles/Teams'' - <<BR>> * <nowiki>[[GamingTeam|Gaming Team]]</nowiki> <<BR>> * <nowiki>[[ArtworkTeam|Artwork Team]]</nowiki><<BR>> * <nowiki>[[YouthTeam|Youth Team]]</nowiki><<BR>>''<nowiki>[[LoCo]]</nowiki>'' - Ubuntu UK
|}

Hi, I'm Lewis Cawte, I'm from the United Kingdom and I'm interested in the web, FOSS and Communities. I've known HTML and CSS since age 11, and started my own Ubuntu LAMP server at age 13. I'm now in the process of relaunching the <nowiki>[[GamingTeam|Gaming Team]]</nowiki>, as well as being part of Ubuntu UK LoCo team.

I actively follow MediaWiki development, and I've written a few simple extensions. I may start packaging MediaWiki in my own PPA soon!

----

=== Plans ===
* Become a Ubuntu Member.
* Hand over chair of the Gaming Team if voted out, after it becomes active again.
* Become a writer or founder of a popular Ubuntu blog, such as OMG! Ubuntu, to help promote the project.
* Enter some desktop backgrounds into contests.
* Run an alpha/dev version of Ubuntu on a spare machine.

=== Contributions ===
* Ubuntu Gaming Team member. (''Current chair'')
* Translator - British English.
* Youth Team Member.
* Reported <nowiki>[[http://bit.ly/LewisCawteLPBugs|some bugs]]</nowiki>.
* Member of the Ubuntu UK LoCo team.

=== Testimonials ===
''Have something useful & nice to say about me? Feel free to add it here...''

----
CategoryHomepage
