{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libagueas-ruby ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/libaugeas-ruby]]</nowiki>; available for all supported.
# ''Rationale:''
* Run time dependency of puppet.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=augeas|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=augeas|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid. No daemons
** No network activity.
** It does not direclty process binary or structured data.
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** No  <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libaugeas-ruby|Debian bugs]]</nowiki> open.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/l/libaugeas-ruby.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is nearly dead.
** <nowiki>[[http://augeas.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigrorous
** <nowiki>[[https://fedorahosted.org/augeas/report/1://|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: 
** No exotic hardware is needed.
** There is a testsuite but not ran when the package is built.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses cdbs with no patches.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (>= 5) ruby1.8, ruby1.8-dev, ruby1.9, ruby1.9-dev, libaugeas-dev, pkg-config, cdbs
** All are in main except for libaugeas-dev which is in universe(
0. ''Maintenance:''
** It is a simple package that the server team will be responsible for.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/434824]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
