{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


''Note'' I only need liaugeas-dev to be promoted to main not all of augeas.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/augeas]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of libaugeas-ruby.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=augeas|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=augeas|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid. No daemons.
** No network acitivy.
** It does not directly process binary or structured data.
** No sources code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** It should always run out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:augeas|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/augeas.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://augeas.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigrorous
** <nowiki>[[https://fedorahosted.org/augeas/report/1://|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: 
** Does not deal with any special hardware.
** There is a testsuite but its not enabled in the packaging.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and  <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with quilt.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (>= 5), autotools-dev, libreadline5-dev, chrpath, quilt
** All are in main.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
* The maintenance is done in Debian but two Ubuntu and canonical employees.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/434836]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
