{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am a 17 year old high school senior in the US. I've been using various linux distros on and off over the last several years, and I've settled with Ubuntu over the last couple. I'm mildly familiar in Python and PHP, but that's about as far as my programming knowledge goes at the moment. I'm currently planning on majoring in computer engineering, so hopefully I'll be able to expand my utility to the community as I go through college.

Aside from that, I play violin, am an editor on my school's newspaper, and play the Pokemon and Yugioh TCGs.

I've started to work on triaging bugs, and I'm looking for more ways to contribute. I'm probably going to apply to get a mentor so I can help on BugControl, and go from there.

I live in the US Eastern time zone, and am generally available from 4 PM - 11ish PM on weekdays and longer on weekends.

=== Contact Information ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| liberskym
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~liberskym
|-
| AIM
| liberskym@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| liberskym@gmail.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

As I mentioned before, I'm pretty much just starting out. I'm helping with the Bug Squad at the moment.

I'm not quite sure which sorts of packages I'd really say I have a particular interest in at this time. 

=== Future Goals ===

I kind of mentioned this in "about me"...I'm going to do the Bug Control mentor thing, and go from there.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
