{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libio-pty-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+source/libio-pty-perl/1:1.07-1build1]]</nowiki>; Built on all archs.
# ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of libipc-run-perl which is a depends of lintian 2.1 (already in Jaunty)
** 
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libio-pty-perl|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None (either under the Debian package name nor the Perl module name).
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libio-pty-perl|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None (either under the Debian package name nor the Perl module name).
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No.  Any daemons ? No.
** Network activity: does it open any port ? No.  Does it handle incoming network data ? No.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libio-pty-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None of interest.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libi/libio-pty-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is very calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/~rgiersig/IO-Tty-1.07/Pty.pm|Upstream]]</nowiki> is very calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=IO-Tty|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No open bugs.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? Yes.  Is it enabled to run in the build ? No.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? N/A.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper  Patch system ? None. Any packaging oddities ? No.  Was in Main for Dapper.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper
** perl
** Are these all in main ? Yes.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  Little or none.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ? Debian Maintainer Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? Yes.
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ? io::pty Has it had different names in the past ? It shows up in io::tty on cpan.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

Author: ScottKitterman
