{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== LibreOffice installation on Ubuntu ===

If you’re using Ubuntu, please don’t install LibreOffice manually from the .deb files available at <nowiki>[[https://www.libreoffice.org/download/|libreoffice.org]]</nowiki>. Otherwise you will not get automatic updates, upgrades when new versions come out, integration with Ubuntu, and is unsupported for Ubuntu bug filing purposes. Using packages from supported Ubuntu repositories ensures you get the best assistance as this is the recommended method to install and use LibreOffice in Ubuntu.

==== Full installation ====

Performing a full installation is the recommended way to install LibreOffice in Ubuntu. One would do this by installing the LibreOffice metapackage via a terminal:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #eee"><code>sudo apt install libreoffice</code>
|}

==== Selective installation ====

While this isn't recommended, one may install a subset of the full installation. An example package set:

* libreoffice-writer: Word processor
* libreoffice-calc: Spreadsheet
* libreoffice-impress: Presentation
* libreoffice-draw: Drawing
* libreoffice-base: Database
* libreoffice-math: Equation editor

==== Installing other related packages (dictionaries, extensions, clipart, templates, etc.) ====

Additional language modules, help files and extensions are also available if you search for “libreoffice” in your package manager. Example how to search:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #eee"><code>apt-cache search libreoffice-help-en</code>
|}

Here are a few examples:

* libreoffice-help-*: help files
* libreoffice-l10n-*: localization files
* libreoffice-nlpsolver - "Solver for Nonlinear Programming" extension for LibreOffice

==== Language localization, spell checking, dictionary, hyphenation, thesaurus, and help ====

To install proper support for language writing aids you may install the corresponding packages libreoffice-l10n-*, myspell-*, hyphen-*, mythes-*, libreoffice-help-* followed by your language ISO 639-1 code. A complete list of such language codes is available <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes|here]]</nowiki>.

For example, the corresponding French packages are:
* libreoffice-l10n-fr
* myspell-fr
* hyphen-fr
* mythes-fr
* libreoffice-help-fr

Please be advised that not all languages have these corresponding packages. For more information on language support in LibreOffice please check <nowiki>[[http://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Language_support_of_LibreOffice|here]]</nowiki>.

==== Installing a newer version of LibreOffice than available via Ubuntu repositories ====

If you want to get a later version of LibreOffice then provided by the Ubuntu repositories, and you have tested this appropriately for your environment, you may do so via one of the PPAs provided by the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~libreoffice|LibreOffice Packaging]]</nowiki> team. For example, one may add the LibreOffice PPA repository:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #eee"><code>sudo apt install python-software-properties</code>
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #eee"><code>sudo apt-add-repository ppa:libreoffice/ppa</code>
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #eee"><code>sudo apt update</code>
|}

LibreOffice is now available for installation.

=== Troubleshooting LibreOffice ===

If you find any issues when using LibreOffice with Ubuntu, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LibreOfficeBugWrangling|please follow the bug reporting guidelines]]</nowiki>.

=== Building LibreOffice ===

More information on building LibreOffice as a release build or a developer build can be found at BuildingLibreOffice.

=== Debugging LibreOffice ===

More information on debugging LibreOffice as a release build or a developer build can be found at DebuggingLibreOffice.

=== LibreOffice packaging ===

More information on packaging LibreOffice for Ubuntu is available at LibreOfficePackaging.
