{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libtest-distribution-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libt/libtest-distribution-perl/|libtest-distribution-perl]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ? All
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of spamassassin (spec'ed for Intrepid):
** ClamavSpamassassinInMain
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=Test+Distribution+perl|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=%22test%22+%22distribution%22+%22perl%22&w=0|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  No Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  No Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libtest-distribution-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libt/libtest-distribution-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> calm updated about once a year.
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/dist/Test-Distribution/|Upstream]]</nowiki> calm
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Test-Distribution|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: None, only a few old bugs that have been responded to.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Yes Is it enabled to run in the build ?  No
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> Yes, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper  Patch system ?  None Any packaging oddities ? No
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libfile-find-rule-perl -- Universe, MIR for ClamavSpamassassinInMain
** libmodule-corelist-perl -- Universe
** libfile-spec-perl -- Universe, MIR for ClamavSpamassassinInMain
** libtest-pod-perl -- Main
** libtest-pod-coverage-perl -- Main
** libpod-coverage-perl -- Main

0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ? Test::Distribution  Has it had different names in the past ? No

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libtest-distribution-perl/+bug/261722|261722]]</nowiki>

''<nowiki>[[Asommer]]</nowiki>; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
