{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, LI Daobing, apply for universe-contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| LI Daobing
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~lidaobing/
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[LiDaobing]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I lived in China and work for Kingsoft Inc.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===
I started to use Linux since 2002. I started to maintain qterm package for Debian official at 2005[1], and now I maintain more than 10 packages in Debian[2]. I also started to push packages for Ubuntu through MOTU since jaunty[3].

*** [1] http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/main/q/qterm/current/changelog#versionversion0.4.0pre2-0.3
*** [2] http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=lidaobing@gmail.com
*** [3] http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/universe/i/ibus/ibus_0.1.1.20081023-0ubuntu4/changelog 

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* ibus, a new input method framework, there are about 10 packages including the framework and the input methods. It use dbus to loose the coupling between application, input method framework and input engine. I think it will be the new default input method framework.

=== Areas of work ===
My contribution is focused on the package maintaince, especially for the packages related to the Chinese culture. For example:

** input method: including scim-tables, scim-python, ibus and ibus-* packages.
** BBS client: qterm and fqterm
** comaintained some chemistry-related packages when I was in the <nowiki>[[http://debichem.alioth.debian.org/|debichem group]]</nowiki>, such as apbs, chemtool, ... (now I have left chemistry industry, so no longer maintain them)
** some other packages: such as manpages-zh, iptux (an IM client), multiget (download client), llk-linux (game), chmsee (a .chm file viewer, I am also the upstream author).

=== Things I could do better ===
* give me more time, I can push ibus 1.1 to 9.04, does not need waiting for 9.10.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
*** short plan: push ibus 1.1 and tegaki to jaunty+1
**** ppa for ibus 1.1: https://launchpad.net/~ibus-dev/+archive/ppa
**** ppa for tegaki: https://launchpad.net/~lidaobing/+archive/ppa 
*** long plan: introduce the software made in Chinese culture to Ubuntu, introduce Debian/Ubuntu quality to Chinese FOSS developer. 

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
N/A
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored the package below and was happy with the quality. Li seems to be very dedicated and has a strong interest in improving the Ubuntu CJK experience which is fantastic. Li would make a fine contributing developer.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Great work and quick follow-up on the ibus packages.
* http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/p/ibus-anthy
* http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/p/ibus-hangul
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus-anthy/+bug/336532
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus-m17n/+bug/342793
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus-hangul/+bug/336534
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus-anthy/+bug/370190
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus/+bug/325740
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus-hangul/+bug/370199
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus-table/+bug/370216
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus-m17n/+bug/370212

==== Areas of Improvement ====

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
