{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===
I lived in China and I worked for Kingsoft Inc. I started to use Linux since 2002. and maintain qterm package for Debian official since 2005[1], now maintain more than 10 packages in Debian[2]. I also push packages to Ubuntu through MOTU since jaunty[3].

* [1] http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/main/q/qterm/current/changelog#versionversion0.4.0pre2-0.3
* [2] http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=lidaobing@gmail.com
* [3] http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/universe/i/ibus/ibus_0.1.1.20081023-0ubuntu4/changelog

=== Contact Details ===
* Email: lidaobing@gmail.com
* Launchpad ID: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lidaobing|lidaobing]]</nowiki>
* Location: Zhuhai, Guangdong, China

=== My Contributions ===
My contribution is focused on the package maintaince, especially for the packages related to the Chinese culture. For example:
* input method: including scim-tables, scim-python, ibus and ibus-* packages.
* BBS client: qterm and fqterm
* comaintained some chemistry-related packages: apbs, chemtool, ... (now I have left chemistry industry, so no longer maintain them)
* some other packages: such as manpages-zh, iptux (an IM client), multiget (download client), llk-linux (game)

=== Future Plans ===
* short plan: push ibus 1.1 and tegaki to jaunty+1
** ppa for ibus 1.1: https://launchpad.net/~ibus-dev/+archive/ppa
** ppa for tegaki: https://launchpad.net/~lidaobing/+archive/ppa
* long plan: introduce the software made in Chinese culture to Ubuntu, introduce Debian/Ubuntu quality to Chinese FOSS developer.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
