{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About me ==

I'm Chinese. Lie_ex is my general nick name used in non-native occasion. I think it hears pithily.^^

I'm 23 years old and pretty interested in GNU/Linux. I have used it for my desktop PC for 2+ years, for fun and for enjoyment. In fact, I've not predilection for a particular distribution, this is not the focal point, because I think the kernel of the OS based on GNU/Linux is not only the Linux 0.1/2.0/2.4/2.6..., but also the freedom.

So I became a contributer of Ubuntu, it provides a good way for achieving my wish.

== Contact way ==

'''Email 1''': lilith.ex@gmail.com

'''Email 2''': lie.ex@fireemblem.net

'''GoogleTalk''': lilith.ex@gmail.com

'''Nick on irc.freenode.net''': Lie_Ex

'''Launchpad profile''': https://launchpad.net/people/lie-ex

== What have you done and what are you doing? ==

I'm a member of Ubuntu Simplified Chinese Translators, three months ago I joined it. Except for my own translation project, I also try to contact to other third party translators for their achievement, and commit po files to Launchpad.

Relational URL:
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/coreutils/+pots/coreutils/zh_CN/+translate]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/konversation/+pots/konversation/zh_CN/+translate]]</nowiki>

'''#ubuntu-cn''' is our native Ubuntu support IRC channel in irc.freenode.net. I often help new users there and I'll continue to do it.

On the other hand, I like KDE very much, so I once wrote an 130+ pages' electronic book <KDE Handbook> to introduce all the KDE components. I believe it's the first comprehensive Chinese article for KDE end users now.

Relational URL:
<nowiki>[[http://www.myswear.net/myswear/kde/KDE.pdf]]</nowiki>

== What will you do? ==

What am I doing is also that what I will continue to do. Meanwhile I'm trying to be a coordinator of Ubuntu translation if no better candidate stands.

== Web Page ==

It's not relative to GNU/Linux or any computer technique. It's only a web forum for my favorest TV Game Ogre Battle/Tactics Ogre.

http://bbs.fireemblem.net/thread.php?fid=7
----
CategoryHomepage
