{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello, my name is Liel and I'm an active member in the Ubuntu Israel LoCo. I have started using ubuntu at 2005 and being an active member since 2008. 

Today, I report bugs and vote for them as well.

=== Contact Information ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| 
| Liel Fridman
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[mailto:lielft@gmail.com|lielft@gmail.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC (freenode):'''
| 
| liel
|-
| '''Google Talk:'''
| 
| lielft@gmail.com
|-
| '''Blog:'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[http://lielft.blogli.co.il|"אובונטו, לינוקס, מחשבים וכדומה" (Hebrew)]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Activities ===
* Translated 90% of <nowiki>[[http://lives.sourceforge.net|LiVES]]</nowiki> to Hebrew. It is my biggest work so far.
* Helped translating LXDE, GNOME, KDE and Ubuntu to Hebrew.
* Reported and voted some bugs in Launchpad.
* Voted and Suggested ideas in <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu Brainstorm]]</nowiki>.
=== Contributions ===

* Translating parts of some desktop environments, like GNOME and KDE. I'm a member of the Hebrew translating teams of GNOME and KDE. 
* Translating and Bugs Reporting in Ubuntu.
* Developing in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/hazon|Hazon]]</nowiki> project.
* Writing tutorials for Ubuntu in <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxguide.org.il|Linuxguide]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-il.com|Ubuntu Israel]]</nowiki>.
* More than 9000 total Karma.

You can see more contributions in my <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lielft|Launchpad page]]</nowiki>.
=== Future Goals ===
* Complete translating LiVES to Hebrew.
* Fix some bugs in Ubuntu.
* Spread Ubuntu at my country.

=== Testimonials for The Membership Application ===
 By Dolev Ravid (Shezif), the header of the Israeli LoCo Team - Liel is a user with positive spirit. He takes part in the Israeli Community. I know that this user will be develop and improve the Israeli Community.

Ddorda - Liel does a very nice (and fast) translations, must point it for his good.

moshenahmias - liel helps when he can to the ones that need help if he can and is helping in translating the OS to hebrew. also, he is active in the Israeli community

Or Cohen - You need to spend 2 minutes skimming through the Ubuntu Israeli forums to see Liel's contribution to the community - whether it be helping new-comers, translating and taking active part in development or promoting new initiatives.
