{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Escribe acerca de LinoSP aquí.
== LinSpots ==
Linspot is a small object oriented concept. Aiming at easy to install and widely accepted support for near by people and help then unleash full power of GNU/Linux. Helping out to come up with as many as linux user. 
In simple, Linspots are volunteering services offered by the soldiers of Richard M. Stallmann and Linus Torvaldas army.

== What must I know inorder to start a LinSpot? ==
* What is the actual concept of GNU/Linux  
* Basic operations of Linux.(like installing and configuring Linux to ones needs, usage of command base interface, able to, install or compile Linux aps from their repos or source)
* Desire to share and reproduce knowledge.

== Where to start a LinSpot? ==
Simple, anywhere close to public places, Internet cafes, in schools and collages or right in your home or office at your free time.

== Who to help? ==
People who are willing but don't know how to switch from commercial to freeware.

== What are LinSpot's Objectives? ==
* Help people migrate from commercial world to open source world.
* Helping people to know where to get the resources like how to get Linux or linux support.
* Encouraging more and more people to use better software than old and traditional softwares.
* Cultivating and motivating geeks in knowing programming languages.
* Being a reinforcing centre for nearby schools, collages and various institutions.
* Reproducing Ubuntu Cds or any free distro of GNU/Linux.

==== If you think you have got free or think you can contribute any time to this project add yourself to LinSpot. ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Area
| 
| Street
| 
| Contact
| 
| day
| 
| Timings
| 
| Notes
|-
| Delhi
| 
| Patparganj
| 
| k_agashe@vsnl.com
| 
| sat-sun
| 
| 08:00-13:00
| 
| 
|-
| Dilsukhnagar
| 
| Hastinapur
| 
| syamal.rao@gmail.com
| 
| sat
| 
| 08:00-13:00
| 
| 
|-
| Dilsukhnagar
| New Municiapl Colony
| unmole.in@gmail.com
| Contact me regarding place and time.
| 
| Just another geeky guy.
|-
| Hyderabad
| Vanastalipuram (BNR Colony)
| linuxswan@yahoo.com
| sat-sun
| 08:00-21:00
| Volunteer FOSS
|-
| Kondapur
| Whitefields
| vikrant82@gmail.com
| sat-sun
| 12:00-21:00
| PassionateUbuntu
|-
| Masab Tank/MdP
| NMDC
| v.v.vinaybabu@gmail.com
| |sun-sun
| 14:00-21:00
| PassionateUbuntu
|-
| Secunderabad
| Alwal
| swamy.k@gmail.com
| sun-sat
| 10:30-20:00
| I am a beginner
|-
| Secunderabad
| Old Alwal
| bharadwaj.j@gmail.com
| sat-sun
| 08:00-13:00
| keep mailin me FMD
|-
| Secunderabad
| Safilguda
| rahul.secrets@gmail.com
| mon-fri
| 16:00-20:00
| 
|}

 
Note-Keep the table in alphabetical order. Only region and street addresses are provided for exact location please mail the LinSpoter.

=== I ===f you feel this idea could be made much more interesting and effective please let me know.

 bharadwaj.j@gmail.com

-Bharadwaj
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
