{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:lintian-harness-improvements
* '''Created''': 2008-06-02
* '''Contributors''': LarsWirzenius
* '''Packages affected''': lintian

=== FIXME ===

* Should Ubuntu run lintian on main+universe+multiverse+restricted,
 combined, or on each separately? Having a combined result would
 mean its harder to concentrate on just main or just universe, but
 make it easier to get an overall picture of how things are.
* What would be a good format to integrate this with the developer
 weather report? Or a package's status page on Launchpad?

=== Summary ===

Lintian comes with a "harness", a script that runs lintian on all
(new) packages in an archive. It is not included in the lintian
package, and needs to be run from the source tree. Its output is
highly Debian branded, and assumes all interesting packages are in
one archive ("main" for Debian). Additionally, the harness currently
requires filesystem access to a Debian mirror.

This spec proposes that the harness be fixed so that it works as
a standalone tool, its output can be easily branded to the 
distribution that uses it, and so that HTTP access to a mirror
is sufficient.

=== Release Note ===

This spec has no direct end-user impact.

=== Rationale ===

It is currently a bit tricky to run the lintian harness. It would
benefit both Debian and Ubuntu to make this easier.

=== Use Cases ===

* Yvette cares about Ubuntu. She wants to make use automation to find
 all bugs that can be so found. She runs lintian on all Ubuntu packages
 and publishes the results as a website.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

The harness should do the following:

* Read Sources and Packages files from the mirror, via HTTP.
* Find any new packages (.dsc, .deb) from what has been tested already.
* Download and test the new packages.
* Output results as a set of HTML pages.
* Output additional files for integration into the developer weather
 report and Launchpad (and Debian PTS).

The output files should be based on templates that can easily be
customized/branded for each distribution.

=== Implementation ===

To be decided.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

We will take a snapshot of the Ubuntu archive and run the old and
new versions of the harness on it. Any differences in results will
be investigated and bugs fixed.

----
CategorySpec
