{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* Blueprint: UbuntuSpec:linux-connection-manager-intrepid
* Drafter: AlexanderSack
* Target: Informational (not for intrepid)

<nowiki>[[http://www.moblin.org/projects/projects_connman.php|Linux Connection Manager (connman)]]</nowiki> is developed
and maintained as a moblin.org project. Connman was first announced in
<nowiki>[[http://www.moblin.org/pipermail/dev/2008-April/001663.html|April 2008]]</nowiki> and tries
to cover similar use-cases as <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/projects/NetworkManager/|NetworkManager]]</nowiki>.
Logically, connmans architecture is quite similar to the one used by
<nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/projects/NetworkManager/|NetworkManager]]</nowiki> as it comprises a network
management daemon and a managed GUI that allow users to manage/fine-tune their network connections.

In addition, moblin.org ships a glib-style wrapper library for dbus - used by connman - which is
ment to ease dbus development without using GObject.

==== Summary ====

"The Connection Manager is designed to be slim and to use as few resources as possible,
so it can be easily integrated in other Moblin-based embedded systems. It is fully modular
system that can be extended through plug-ins, to support all kinds of wired or wireless
technologies. Also, configuration methods like DHCP and domain name resolving are
implemented using plug-ins. The plug-in approach allows for easy adaption and modification
for various use cases." -- from moblin.org website.

==== Purpose ====

Connman was created to specifically target mobile devices and doesnt aim to be a complete
replacement of <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/projects/NetworkManager/|NetworkManager]]</nowiki> - the current
(as of hardy) network management solution shipped by default in ubuntu. The connman author
emphasized during his presentation at UDSPrague that in the end both projects will benefit
as they both face common problems in buggy linux drivers as well as inefficient dhcp and
wpasupplicant implementation. Fixing those issues will directly contribute to both projects.

==== Key Objectives ====

The following key objectives were named during UDSPrague presentation and in post-session
discussions:

* connman is a lightweight solution for small form factor devices
* connman aims to reduce power consumption by improved scanning heurisitics
* connman makes connecting to networks as fast/snappy as on Mac; this should be done
 by replacing/fixing dhclient and wpasupplicant
* connman aims to support WiMax
* connman provides a kernel-developer friendly code style: no use of GObject in daemon code.

==== Status ====

As of end of May 2008 the status of the code is still in pre-alpha state and not ment
to work. The documentation is not yet available due to legal problems. Further, the
moblin.org tree is not the master tree yet - however, this was announced to happen
soon. The initial usable release is currently targetted for Q4/2008. Until then only some
use-cases will work - if any.

==== Actions ====

Given the current pre-alpha status there are no actions on the distro side. However, ubuntu
should review Linux Connection Manager at regular intervals.

==== Resources ====

* Linux Connection Manager Homepage: http://www.moblin.org/projects/projects_connman.php
* Initial Announcement of connman: http://www.moblin.org/pipermail/dev/2008-April/001663.html
* Libgdbus (git): http://moblin.org/repos/projects/libgdbus.git
* Connman (git): http://moblin.org/repos/projects/connman.git
* Connman-gnome: http://moblin.org/repos/projects/connman-gnome.git
