{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Terry Jacob (LinuxMonkey) ==

==== My Internet Locations ====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/linuxmonkey/|My Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/linuxmonkey/|My Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki>

==== My Communications ====
* <nowiki>[[mailto:linuxmonkey@gmail.com|E-mail Me]]</nowiki>
* Chat With Me @ irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-offtopic

==== My Security ====
* <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x99DDB5E92F11F5CB05BEBBFE8598601F51392281|My OpenPGP Key]]</nowiki> 

=== My Story ===
I have been using Linux OS and BSD since 1993 however my main OS was always Windows. I have since made the switch to Ubuntu and removed Windows completely. I have assisted in the Documentation team back in 1996 and since have been off the radar so to speak. I have been helping many users in #ubuntu with support and will continue to do so. I believe that a community that supports eachother will survive as we will be strong.

=== My Contributions ===
* Display pictures for use in various places such as aMSN and forums.(OLD 2006)  
** <nowiki>[[http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=40338|Kubuntu Frosted Display Picture]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=40339|Kubuntu Regular Display Picture]]</nowiki>

* You can also catch me helping in #Ubuntu and #Ubuntu-offtopic on irc.freenode.net when I have the time and in some cases I have made time to help people out. I find that the bases of a good and successfull Linux distro is in its user to user support that you find on irc and the forums.

=== My Goal ===
* Help out as much as I can were ever I can. And become part of the Ubuntu community, provide support and make myself available to help in any situation. 

=== Availability ===
I am currently available/active after 7AM until Noon and 8PM until 11PM and on nights that I am off from my work I am available all night. (All times listed are Atlantic Standard Time)

----
CategoryHomepage
