{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Linux Kernel on Ubuntu Ports Architectures ===

Following Hardy, the linux package was subdivided into three seperate packages, linux, linux-lpia, and linux-ports. linux-ports is in charge of of building kernels for the Ubuntu ports expect for lpia, as well as the linux-image-386 kernel varient. This page tracks the status of the kernel

==== Current Versions ====

* Intrepid: 2.6.24-19 (ubuntu/ubuntu-intrepid-ports.git)
* Jaunty: 2.6.27.4

=== Jaunty Release Goals ===

* Releasing with 2.6.28 or .29 
* LiveCD support on all architectures expect HPPA

==== Current Issues - General ====

* The ports tree has not been rebased against Linus's tree in an extremely long period of time, and rebasing attempts have proved difficult to impossible. A fresh branch of 2.6.27.2 has been made, and patches are being manually merged from intrepid-ports
* We need tests for architecture specific port kernels
* Useful drivers and features (i.e. AuFS/AppArmour) has been cherry picked out of the main tree into the ports tree
* WACOM tablet support causes a FTBFS. Removed for now, but this should be considered release criticia I think

=== Architecture Build Status ===
* i386-386: Currently builds and actively tested
* PowerPC: Currently builds and actively tested
* IA-64: Currently builds; needs image testing
* SPARC: Needs Porting
* HPPA: Currently builds; needs image testing

=== Architecture Specific Current Issues ===

===== PowerPC - 64-bit SMP =====
* PlayStation 3 patches from intrepid kernel need to be cherry-picked or ported.

===== IA-64 - All (2.6.27) =====
* Needs its config files sanity checked by someone more experienced with the hardware
* AuFS needs porting
* udebs are miserably broken since most of the modules requested are not built. A lot of the udebs are excluded for ia64 so the kernel builds, but d-i will need a good amount of work 

===== SPARC - All (2.6.27) =====
* LIRC needs porting if it is desirable

===== HPPA - All (2.6.27) =====
* Needs config files sanity checked
* AuFS, SquashFS, and LIRC need porting.
