{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Please can you add any updates to this to the [EventsGlobal] section so we have all the relevant Ubuntu events on one page.  Feel free to put all the relevant detail here, as long as we have at least a line mentioning the event.... 
== LinuxTag ==

=== 2007 ===

In 2007 LinuxTag will take place in Berlin between May 30th and June 2nd. The Call For Papers is running until 23rd of February 2007.

If you want to help on booth attendance for Kubuntu, send a mail to MarcusCzeslinski oder MirjamWaeckerlin.

=== 2006 ===

Due to the Football world cup, Linuxtag will already be hold in May (3. - 6. May 2006) in Wiesbaden. 
Call for projects has started (<nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtag.org/2006/de/home/cfpro.html|"Announcement on the official homepage from LinuxTag"]]</nowiki> - in german only) and first application has been made.

Ubuntu will have its own booth (not with GNOME like last year): the German <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/LocoTeam/Messen|"Messe Team"]]</nowiki> (team for fairs) started the planning.
If you want to join in, please visit the german wiki (http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/LocoTeam/Messen/) and contact the project leader JuliusBloch.

Also Kubuntu is planning to have a booth this year, provided that there are enough people to support. If you want to help, subscribe to the <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.de/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-events|mailinglist]]</nowiki> and visit the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuLinuxTag2006|wikipage]]</nowiki>.

=== 2005 ===
LT 2005 is finished. It was a huge success! You can read the LinuxTag2005WrapUp for more details!

See you in 2006!

=== Lessons Learned ===
Please add any information that might be useful for planning this specific event. The information should qualify as helpful for every year. If there is specific information for a given year, add it to the year's respective section above.

* Amount of CDs: 2000 (incl. 150 for AMD64 and 100 for PPC). (JoshKress)
* Plan ahead: Planning should start in April, booth registration ends on beginning of May. (JoshKress)
* Add more comments. (With name)
