{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== About me ===

Welcome to my personal page. My name is Lioh Moeller. I was born in September 1976 in Germany.

I have been the leader of the Swiss Ubuntu !LoCo team and regularly organize Ubuntu events.
=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="border:none;"> Launchpad
| <style="border:none;"> https://launchpad.net/~liohmoeller
|-
| <style="border:none;"> IRC
| <style="border:none;"> lioh
|}

=== Contributions ===

* Organized <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/Ubucon13|Ubucon]]</nowiki> in Zurich 
* Represented Ubuntu at the Open Source for Startups event in Zurich at Hiltl
* Showed off the new features of Ubuntu 12.10 on Open Tuesday in Zurich at Digicomp 
* Organized <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/Ubucon12|Ubucon]]</nowiki> in Winterthur 
* First <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/RegionalContacts|Regional Contact cleanup]]</nowiki>
* Established <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/Marketing_material|Marketing Material]]</nowiki> management
* Updated the Swiss team <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam|Wiki start page]]</nowiki> to make it look  fancier and neat
* Coordinated <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-locoteams/+bug/784673|re-approval]]</nowiki> of the Swiss !LoCo team
* Organized <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/2011-GNOME3ReleaseParty-Zurich|GNOME 3 Release Party]]</nowiki> in Zurich
* Organized <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/2011-UbuntuGlobalJam-Zurich|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki> in Zurich
* Ubuntu Swiss team !LoCo lead
* Organized <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/2010-FrOSCamp|FrOSCamp]]</nowiki>
* '''since 2006''' Supporting people with Ubuntu

=== Plans ===

Plans for my future contributions to Ubuntu:

* Strengthen the Swiss Ubuntu community
* Organize Ubuntu related events in Switzerland

=== Testimonials ===

Note: This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.

If you know me and my contributions to the Ubuntu community, it would be kind if you could leave a nice comment here.

==== Ralf Hersel (Nov. 2013) ====
I know Lioh since 2012 as an active member of the open source community. She has an excellent technical knowledge of several Linux distributions and applications. Due to his longtime contribution to the community she is very well known in Switzerland and Germany. I always enjoyed to work with Lioh because of his know-how and his reliability.

==== Pascal Mages (November 2013) ====
I don't remember when exactly I met Lioh, but I remember that since then I have always seen him active in the free and open source community (not just in Ubuntu). A few years ago I helped organising the FROSCAMP which was initiated by Lioh. It was a pleasure working with her. She is also very active in promoting FOSS at ETH Zürich and probably one of the most visible open source guys in Switzerland.

==== Bruno Roost (November 2013) ====
First time i heard from Lioh as an organizer of the FROSCAMP 2010. Since 2012 i know her in person and have to full agree to Ralfs comment. Marcus, in my opinion, has an excellent knowledge of Linux (and its distributions). She is very dedicated to Free Software/Systems and a real asset to the FOSS Community.

==== Hassan aka. WaVeR (15th Nov. 2013) ====
Lioh is one of the most active member in our <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ch.org|LoCo Team]]</nowiki>. She organized/participated to our events. She was doing a good job as a contact of our <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ch.org|LoCo Team]]</nowiki>. She'll again take back the responsability as a LoCo Contact and she'll help our <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ch.org|LoCo Team]]</nowiki> to bypass the language border that we have in Switzerland. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~waver|As official Ubuntu member]]</nowiki> and as  team owner of our <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ch.org|LoCo Team]]</nowiki>, I give my voice for Lioh and I highly recommend her approval as an Ubuntu member.

==== Lucas Betschart (November 2013) ====
Lioh is one of the most well known person in the Swiss FOSS community for her work in the several FOSS projects and building Open Source communities in Switzerland. She's a woman with very strong principles regarding Freedom of Speech and Free Software. She attended and organized nearly every monthly Ubuntu meetup we had since 2010, which proves that she's very reliable. A vote for Lioh is a vote for a more open world ;D

==== Torsten Franz (Ubuntu Member, Loco Contact Germany) ====
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~torsten.franz|I]]</nowiki> have worked together with Lioh to cooperate with Ubuntu events and she was always ready to help over the border from Switzerland to Germany. She is one of the first contacts when I want to call somebody in the Switzerland. I know that she is in many FOSS projects and Ubuntu is one of her passions. I'd like to see when she gets an Ubuntu member cause he represents Ubuntu and the FOSS community in a good way.
