{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page describes how to use a Pinnacle PCTV remote control under Ubuntu Feisty.

The Pinnacle PCTV is a remote control which comes with a small infrared receiver connected to a serial port ("COM port").

== Preparations ==

* Select a COM port on your machine and find out its "name" (COM1, COM2...)
** (TODO: describe how to test the ports, using a serial modem and kppp)
* Note the Linux name of the port: COM1 is accessed as ''/dev/ttyS0'' under Linux, COM2 is accessed as ''/dev/ttyS1'', and so on)
* Plug the receiver into the COM port

== Installation ==

* As the Lirc packages in Feisty seem to be broken (the PCTV driver doesn't work), download the packages for Edgy:
    {{{
wget "http://fr.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/l/lirc/liblircclient0_0.8.0-5ubuntu1_i386.deb"
wget "http://nl.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/lirc/lirc_0.8.0-5ubuntu1_i386.deb"}}}

* Install packages:
    {{{
dpkg -i liblircclient0_0.8.0-5ubuntu1_i386.deb
dpkg -i lirc_0.8.0-5ubuntu1_i386.deb}}}

* Configure lirc (use the ''pinsys'' driver and set the correct serial port):
    {{{
sudo nano /etc/lirc/hardware.conf}}}

 Search for the line
    {{{
DRIVER=""}}}
 and change it to
    {{{
DRIVER="pinsys"}}}
 Then search for the line
    {{{
DEVICE=""}}}
 and change it to contain the selected serial port, like
    {{{
DEVICE="/dev/ttyS0"}}}

* Select the PCTV signal description:
    {{{
cp /usr/share/lirc/remotes/pinnacle_systems/lircd.conf.pctv /etc/lirc/lircd.conf}}}
 This tells LIRC which infrared signals come from which buttons.

* Restart lircd:
    {{{
sudo /etc/init.d/lirc stop
sudo /etc/init.d/lirc start}}}

* Test whether the hardware is detected an works, by running in a console:
    {{{
irw}}}
 and pressing some buttons on the PCTV remote. There should appear some output in the console for every pressed button.

== Use LIRC ==

Refer to LircHowto, section "Map buttons" for this part.
