{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Data ir laikas ===

* '''2010-03-29 19:00'''

=== Vieta ===

* <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-valdyba|#ubuntu-valdyba]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|Freenode]]</nowiki> tinkle.

=== Planas ===

* LoCo pratęsimas, aptarsime ką gero nuveikėme, peržiūrėsime paraišką.
* OpenCon, gal būt Styx`as trumpai pristatys vykdymo planą?
* OpenCamp, Jaro? (jei bus)
* Lucid Release Party, ką ir kaip darom?
* Reklama ubuntu.lt svetainėje.

=== Komentarai ===

==== Laiškas dėl Ubuntu LoCo statuso pasibaigimo ====

''Maybe you already heard/read about this but from now on all LoCoTeams
will have to come up for "reapproval" about every 2 years.  The main
reason for this is to check if previously approved LoCoTeams are still
active.

More info can be found at:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval
The process is similar to the approval process you went through before.

You & your team can ask me for any help, opinion, questions, etc. about
the
reapproval process and your team's reapproval application page.
Either by mail or on IRC (I'm "JanC" on Freenode).

If you want an example of a (successful) reapproval application, you can
look at the BelgianTeam (my team) one:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/ReapprovalApplication2010
Of course your activities might be entirely different from ours, but the
main thing is: list any relevant activities, and if available, link to
reports, photographs, posters, etc.

Please also confirm you got this mail and give me updates of the
progress you make, and which LoCoCouncil meeting you want to
attend for re-approval.  Regular LoCoCouncil meetings are on the
3rd Tuesday of the month at 20h00 UTC, so next meeting is on
April 20th.

Greetings,

Jan Claeys''

=== Ataskaita ===

* LoCo pratęsimas, aptarsime ką gero nuveikėme, peržiūrėsime paraišką.
** Styx'as paruošia ataskaitą už 2 metus, kuri bus pateikta Ubuntu Comunity Council susitikimui.
** Planuojamas dalyvavimas CC susitikime, trečią balandžio trečiadienį (<nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converted.html?month=4&day=14&year=2010&hour=11&min=0&sec=0&p1=0&p2=660|Balandžio 14 d, 14:00]]</nowiki>).
** Styx'as ir Sirex'as ruošia savo CV dėl Ubuntu Member narystės.
* OpenCon, gal būt Styx`as trumpai pristatys vykdymo planą?
** Styx'as organizuos gyvą susitikimą.
* OpenCamp, Jaro? (jei bus)
** Nebuvo Jaro.
* Lucid Release Party, ką ir kaip darom?
** Kaip visada: daug miestų vienu metu. Vilniuje, ko gero kaip ir praeitą kartą, vyks bare Būsi trečias.
** Vilniaus Lucid Release Party organizuoja Sirex'as
* Reklama ubuntu.lt svetainėje.
** Kadangi buvo per mažai Ubuntu LoCo valdybos narių, nesvarstėm.
