{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 2010-04-07
* '''Team Contact''' - MantasZimnickas
* '''Membership'''
** 36 volunteers listed on https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-lt as of 2010-04-07
** 111 people subscribed to the mailing list as of 2010-04-07
** ~12 people on IRC #ubuntu-lt @ Freenode
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-lt on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-lt on Freenode
* '''Web''' - http://www.ubuntu.lt/
* '''Forum''' - http://www.ubuntu.lt/forum/ (4454 registered users)
* '''Wiki''' - http://www.ubuntu.lt/wiki/

=== Roadmap ===
* Organize release parties in Lithuania.
* Translate Ubuntu Manual, ~30% done (web site 100% translated).
* Develop database of people, that can help with Ubuntu (http://pagalba.akl.lt/).

=== Experience ===

* Release Parties in 3-5 major Lithuanian cities each time attracting more and more people. (http://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.lt?v=photos).
* Officially approved Lithuanian mirror, now all Lithuanians can download Ubuntu at maximum speed from official web site (same for updates, by default).
* Designing and voting for best Ubuntu t-shirts, that was finally printed and distributed to all who ordered them (~50 units). (http://www.ubuntu.lt/node/481).
* Migrated old ubuntu.lt website from self made CMS to Drupal (main site), phpBB (forum) and MediaWiki (wiki). (https://launchpad.net/ubuntu.lt).
** ubuntu.lt web site statistics: http://www.ubuntu.lt/node/445 (~1000 unique users daily, ~3000 few days before and after Ubuntu new releases).
* Collaboration with „AKL“ (Open Source for Lithuania). (http://www.akl.lt/).
* Collaboration with Lithuanian company „Bona Mens“, that made additional Lucid t-shirts. Also company sells computers only with Ubuntu and Baltix and provides full support for users.
