{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/live-cd-write-as-you-go
* '''Created''':  by TollefFogHeen
* '''Contributors''': TollefFogHeen
* '''Packages affected''': casper, udftools

=== Summary ===

It should be possible to use the live CD (or more realistically: DVD) as the device for the persistent  storage.  This should be done by using packet writing.

=== Rationale ===

The current persistency is complex and really too hard to use.  While it should be fixed, it would be nice if one was able to just use a single unit -- a DVD-R (or RW) as a combined live and persistent device.

=== Use cases ===

* Daniel uses lots of different computers, but they all have a DVD-RW writer.  He burns the live CD image to a DVD-RW and uses that disc in each computer.

=== Scope ===

Needs udftools in main and changes casper/wendy.

=== Design ===

* `wendy` as described in https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/livecd-sessions is extended to allow UDF as a file system in addition to regular ones such as ext2 and xfs.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* Resolve blocked specs as noted in Launchpad page.

=== Implementation ===

* Implement support in `wendy` for UDF.  It should be a file system selection and default if the selected device is a DVD-R/RW or CD-R/RW.

* Get `udftools` into main and possibly into the desktop seed.

----
CategorySpec
