{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== current livecd is based on minifo ===

==== Advantages ====
* each module mounts as an overlay of the previous
* no requirement for ramdisks and symlinks etc.

==== Issues ====
* mini-fo is _BUGGY_.
* complex
* maintenance
* divergence (hardware detection)
* different kernel
* different X
* limited architecture support
* rsyncablity

=== New design (for hoary): ===

==== writable ( mini-fo ) ====
* -> device mapper snapshots
** copy on write at block level

==== compression ( cloop ) ====
* -> want to use cloop
** currently doesn't play well with device mapper (wrong blocks, corruption, badness)

==== hardware detection ( knoppix ) ====
* -> switch to hotplug

==== build system ( morphix ) ====
* -> debian-installer & custom bits
** need to better handle netcfg w/o dhcp issues.
* other architecture support comes for (hopefully) free.
** addressed by debian-installer

==== kernel ( 2.6.7+patches vs 2.6.8.1 ) ====
* -> unifying: add cloop to stock kernel.

==== X ( mkxf86conf ) ====
* Xorg config ubuntu packages (using debconf)

=== New Fun Stuff ===
* persistant data (use a persistant device for COW)
* arbitrary storage ("it's a block device")
* debian-installer customization
* combined liveCD and install media

=== Misc notes ===
SquashFS is a read-only filesystem, which violates the design criteria.

From Juanje Tue Apr 5 14:06:42 +0100 2005
From: Juanje
Date: Tue, 05 Apr 2005 14:06:42 +0100
Subject: Squashfs, ro, and so on
Message-ID: <20050405140642+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

'''Current System''':

ext3 image (rw) + cloop (ro) = cloop image (ro)

cloop image (ro) + blocks dev (rw) + device mapper snapshots = semi-rw filesystem

'''Proposal''':

Squashfs (ro) + dir (rw) + unionfs = semi-rw filesystem

'''Reasons''':

''Cloop'' = Buggy, slow, inefficient

''Squashfs'' = Stable, fast, very efficient, it suports more architectures

''Unionfs extras'' = you can mount directories, it's no necessary to be a bloks dev. That open a lot of posibilities more than with just blocks devices'

CategoryArchive
