{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda and Previous Meetings Reports ==
=== Next Meeting ===
==== Apr. 18th 2012 ====
'''Suggested Topics:'''<<BR>>
~-Add your suggestion drectly to the bullets below. Please use the ``@SIG``@`` macro at the end of the line. When you '''save''' the page, your name/timestamp will be automatically added.-~
* Check if groups of selected testers (Cariboo907) has accepted to participate.-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * Check and discuss list of target Packages/Bugs sent by team members during the week. Define final list.
* Confirm who will approach developers for the selected targets (Balloons?) and if help from other member is needed for this task.-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * Decide who will be responsible for creating LiveTesting Page, which contains all the info for the testing session.-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * Decide who will approach IRC Management and get us infrastructure (and, also, if that will be needed in the trial).-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * ToDo: Wait for feedback from developers. Once a developers accepts to take part in the trial, we can proceed to creating the documentation and setting up a date.-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> == Previous Meetings ==
==== Apr. 12th 2012 ====
* Cariboo907 has selected a group of testers and will approach them. He will communicate us of the status of this process in the next meeting.-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * The group agreed to study and select potential target Packages/Bugs throughout next 7 days so that we a list to evaluate in the next meeting.-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * Once a list of potential target Packages/Bugs is defined, Balloons agreed to reach for developers.-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> === Apr. 4th. 2012 (kickoff) ===
'''References:'''<<BR>>
* http://meetbot.fedoraproject.org/fedora-bugzappers/2012-03-02/f17-beta-blocker-review-1.2012-03-02-17.00.html-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=752650-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Blocker_Bug_FAQ-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * http://meetbot.fedoraproject.org/fedora-bugzappers/2012-03-02/f17-beta-blocker-review-1.2012-03-02-17.00.html-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-bugs/reports/rls-mgr-p-tracking-bugs.html-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/899244-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?format=multiple&id=785053I-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> 
== Other Suggested Topics ==
* Discuss '''previous attempts''', linked at the topic '''"Ubuntu Previous Attempts"''' in this document (see index). They were completely unknown to me. Why did they fail? What can we learn from them? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki>  * Infrastructure: A more "in-depth" look at Fedora's implementation revealed to me some infrastructure we currently do not have: Special repos for Live Testing ISOs, Testing Builds of packages updated during the session, a tracker updated in real time during the session, with testing results of session participants, a system to host each tester hardware profile (relevant for developers to evaluate each test result vs hardware tested). -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:effenberg0x0]]</nowiki> 