{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Linux/*buntu Experience

I can't remember exactly when I started using linux - somewhere around RH5 or so, but I didn't fully start using it on a daily basis until I came across Ubuntu and Hoary Hedgehog. At that point, I ran my laptop entirely on Ubuntu, with my other boxes running windows. By the time Feisty rolled around, I converted entirely over to *buntu. In the Twin Cities, I used to participate loosely in the Twin Cities LUG mailing list, and went to a couple of install-fests, but that's about it.

Ubuntu Community Contributions

*** I have joined the MinnesotaTeam and am looking forward to meeting some more *buntu users in my area.

Ubuntu Community Interests

*** I have a special interest in working with kids, families, and educational institutions.

IT Experience

I have been working in IT since September 1999. I started off doing 2nd level tech support via contract, and have since run the gamut. I've done Notes Administration, Notes Development, Java development. Currently I work on a team doing development support using a number of open source projects - my current job is what I would consider ideal combining aspects of support, development, and administration.

*** Email: [MAILTO]fiddledragon@gmail.com
