{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Due to space restrictions, the official Ubuntu installation CDs (also known as ISO images) that can be downloaded from ubuntu.com contain only a handful of the many languages in which Ubuntu is available. Any additional languages can then be downloaded during or after the installation.

Localized images are customized versions of the original media, which are modified to include the translation of a particular language or other modifications that are relevant to a particular location. The tools used to create them were designed as part of the <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:desktop-o-cd-localization]]</nowiki> spec.

They make it possible to have native language support upon installation and without the need of a working Internet connection. In addition to the language, they also enable customizing other aspects of Ubuntu to make it more relevant to a particular culture or region.

This document will collect all the information related to creating localized images.

=== How to create localized images ===

This Ask Ubuntu question describes <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/95190/what-is-an-ubuntu-localized-image-and-how-do-i-create-one|the step-by-step procedure to create localized images]]</nowiki>.

=== Which policies apply to localized images ===

In order for a localized image to be considered part of the Ubuntu family, it needs to follow the <nowiki>[[Policy|Ubuntu Localized Image Policy]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing localized images ===

'''TBD''' - we're now requiring to use the ISO tracker. We need clear instructions on:

* How to set up the tracker to upload localized images.
* At which milestones the testing will happen.
* How the actual testing is performed.

==== Quantal ====

==== Precise ====

==== Oneiric ====
