{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:local-content-filter
* '''Created''':  by OliverGrawert
* '''Contributors''': OliverGrawert
* '''Packages affected''': willowng

=== Summary ===

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

=== Use Cases ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code Changes ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
Notes

willowng is an existing desktop content filtering/parental control tool
it hooks in as a proxy server between FF and the web. the software was rather
unmaintained since it was written during the dapper release cycle and will need
some adjustment for dbus changes.

using an intercepting / transparent proxy setup breaks http traffic in many ways
and is not desired, the plan is to use the local gconf setting to force the use
of the willowng port for firefox.

Guadalinex has an application called ACEPT that uses transparent proxy (not a good solution)not for content filtering, but it's not completely finished).
ACEPT also can enforce a use and internet access timetable and quotas.
Guadalinex is planning for a second version of ACEPT (could it be willowng) and a collaboration site for building black/white lists. Site should be internationalized and collaboration open to educatinal entities worlwide. We are considering the use of a voting system for the blacklisted URLs/sites.
It would be a great advantage to distribute black lists in and encrypted form in order not to be used as a "guide".

* network profiles with different sql database files should be made possible
* different url black/whitelists should be shipped as fallback if the bayesian
  filter fails (we can grab from existing filter solutions here). the main target
  though is to not have to use white/blacklisting at all but have the bayesian filter do all the work
* look at <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Proxy_Autodiscovery_Protocol|WPAD]]</nowiki>
* ask the artwork team for proper "blocked" messages, currently willow only displays
  a white page with the text "blocked" on it, artwork for such a page needs to be
  configurable and should have ubuntu branding by default
* firefox/gconf proxy interaction needs to be inspected
* port 80 should be locked by default in case willowng is running, this needs
  integration with ufw.
* have a look at BeautifulSoup for better html parsing

----
CategorySpec
