{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

* The use of the mailing list
** Open to all people? Council Member communication only?
 
* Description of a LoCo Team Council Member's task (job description?)
** General Task of the LoCoCouncil  
*** Approving teams
*** Guidelines for approval
** Administering Resources
** Conflict Resolution
** Report LoCo activities to whole community
* Revising Wiki pages.
* Meeting Times.

=== Summary ===

* The LoCo Council list is in RT - Jono will see to getting that approved ASAP. The list will be private.
* Effie will write up the approval process.
* Popey write up resource approval process.
* Jono will send an email to IS and to Popey to get the resource approval technical implementation arranged.
* Juliux will document conflict resolution process in the LoCo documentation and wiki pages, explaining that people should take issues of conflict to the LoCo Council by adding the issue to the next council agenda. Also state that private issues can be shared with council by emailing the council mailing list.
* Boredandblogging will do monthly reports.
* Meetings will take place once a month unless there are a number of issues, in which case, additional meetings will be called.
