{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Previous Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Who
| What
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
|-
| Czajkowski
| <nowiki>[[LoCoCouncil-LoCoTeamReApproval|Reapproval Process-Update]]</nowiki>
|-
| Czajkowski
| <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat | LoCo Contacts to update the IRC Ops page]]</nowiki>
|-
| Czajkowski
| Request for loco ops to idle in #ubuntu-irc
|-
| <nowiki>[[mhall119]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+bug/526800|LoCo Directory Access]]</nowiki>
|}

=== LoCo Teams ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Country or area
| Wiki page
| Homepage
| Contact
| Date
| Reason
|-
| Florida
| <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-ReapprovalApplication2010]]</nowiki>
| http://www.ubuntu-fl.org
| Dan Trevino / Chris Crisafulli
| 16/03/10
| reapproval
|-
| El Salvador
| <nowiki>[[ElSalvadorTeam-ReapprovalApplication2010]]</nowiki>
| http://www.ubuntusv.org
| CelvinRivas
| 16/03/10
| reapproval
|-
| Russia Novosibirsk
| <nowiki>[[RussianTeam-NSK-ApprovalApplication]]</nowiki>
| http://nsk.ubuntu.ru
| DenisMatveyev
| 16/03/10
| approval
|-
| Colorado, US
| <nowiki>[[ColoradoTeam-ReApprovelApplication]]</nowiki>
| http://coloco.ubuntu-rocks.org
| NerdyNick
| 16/03/10
| reapproval
|-
| Indiana, US
| <nowiki>[[IndianaTeam-ReapprovalApplication2010]]</nowiki>
| 
| MichaelSchultheiss
| 2010-03-16
| reapproval
|}

=== Summary ===

Laura chaired the meeting, and we began using mootbot. We discussed our agenda items, giving links and updates on the Re-Approval Proccess. We also asked for the LoCo teams to have their team contact update the chanops for their respective channels. It was also asked that channops idle in #ubuntu-irc for easier communication and potential issue resolution.
The next topic for discussion was LoCo Directory Access and Bug# 526800. We agreed that the LP dev folks would create a LP group for event-editors, default the event-director team to be the loco team.

"Approvals"
The Russia novosibirsk LoCo Team was up for approval and was asked by the LoCo Council re-apply in the future. They described their contributions, which were hidden in their wiki's and Approval page. The LoCo Council offered assistance in order help them prepare for when they re-apply.

"Re-Approvals"

The Colorado Team was also asked to re-apply for their re-approval in the future. The LoCo Council offered to help mentor them as well.

El Salvador was unable to attend due to a timing mix up and it was voted to take their teams re-approval to the Mailing List.

The Florida Team and the Indian LoCo Team were voted on by the LoCo Council members that were present. We needed to finish both teams up on the Mailing list and received +1 votes from the remaining LoCo Council Members and both teams were Re-Approved.

=== Mootbot Logs ===

<pre>

<html>
<body>
Meeting started by czajkowski at 15:01
<table border=1>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#0'>15:02:23</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href=" https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda"> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>

	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#1'>15:03:12</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic: Reapproval Process/Update</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#2'>15:07:14</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href="https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval">https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#3'>15:08:09</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic:  LoCo Contacts to update the IRC Ops page</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#4'>15:08:33</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href=" https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat"> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat</a></td>

</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#5'>15:11:08</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic: LoCo Directory Access</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#6'>15:11:33</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href=" https://bugs.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+bug/526800"> https://bugs.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+bug/526800</a></td>

</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#7'>15:13:44</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>Daviey</td>
<td><a href=" http://loco.ubuntu.com"> http://loco.ubuntu.com</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#8'>15:18:33</a></td>

<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href="http://pastebin.daviey.com/N5Eu/raw/">http://pastebin.daviey.com/N5Eu/raw/</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#9'>15:26:56</a></td>
<td>AGREED</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td> LP dev folks to create a LP group for event-editors, default the event-director team to be the loco team.</td>

</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#10'>15:27:15</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic: </th>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#11'>15:27:34</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic: Request for loco ops to idle in #ubuntu-irc</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	

<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#12'>15:29:41</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href=""></a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#13'>15:29:56</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href="https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/ChannelList">https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/ChannelList</a></td>

</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#14'>15:33:11</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic:  Approval/Reapprovals</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#15'>15:33:25</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic:  Russia Novosibirsk</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	

<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#16'>15:33:41</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href=" https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RussianTeam/NSK/ApprovalApplication"> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RussianTeam/NSK/ApprovalApplication</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#17'>15:34:43</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>itnet7</td>

<td><a href=" http://nsk.ubuntu.ru/"> http://nsk.ubuntu.ru/</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#18'>15:39:22</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>Agafonov</td>
<td><a href=" http://nsk.ubuntu.ru/index.php?page=fotootchet-klub-u-samovara-24-02-2010"> http://nsk.ubuntu.ru/index.php?page=fotootchet-klub-u-samovara-24-02-2010</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>

	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#19'>15:42:23</a></td>
<td>VOTE</td>
<td colspan='2' align='center'> Approval of the Russia Novosibirsk LoCo Team</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html20'>15:46:37</a></td>
<td>VOTE RESULT</td>
<td colspan='2' align='center'>1 for, 1 against, 1 abstained. Total: 0</td>

</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#21'>15:47:05</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic:  El Salvador Re Approval</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#22'>15:47:23</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href="https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElSalvadorTeam/ReapprovalApplication2010">https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElSalvadorTeam/ReapprovalApplication2010</a></td>

</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#23'>15:50:49</a></td>
<td>AGREED</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td> take el salvador loco application to mailing list</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#24'>15:51:11</a></td>

<th colspan=3>Topic:  Colorado, US LoCo Re approval</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#25'>15:52:13</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href=" https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam/ReApprovelApplication"> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam/ReApprovelApplication</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	

<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#26'>16:02:12</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>nerdynick</td>
<td><a href=" http://tiecolorado.org/site12.aspx"> http://tiecolorado.org/site12.aspx</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#27'>16:07:40</a></td>
<td>VOTE</td>
<td colspan='2' align='center'> re approval of Colarado LoCo</td>

</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html28'>16:09:03</a></td>
<td>VOTE RESULT</td>
<td colspan='2' align='center'>0 for, 0 against, 3 abstained. Total: 0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#29'>16:10:46</a></td>
<td>AGREED</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>

<td> follow up with colarado team via email</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#30'>16:11:35</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic:  Florida LoCo Team Re approval</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#31'>16:11:50</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>

<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href=" https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/ReapprovalApplication2010"> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/ReapprovalApplication2010</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#32'>16:24:19</a></td>
<td>VOTE</td>
<td colspan='2' align='center'> re approval of florida LoCo</td>
</tr>
<tr>

	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html33'>16:24:59</a></td>
<td>VOTE RESULT</td>
<td colspan='2' align='center'>3 for, 0 against, 1 abstained. Total: 3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#34'>16:26:21</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic:  Indiana LoCO re approval</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	

<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#35'>16:26:35</a></td>
<td>LINK</td>
<td>czajkowski</td>
<td><a href=" https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianaTeam/ReapprovalApplication2010"> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianaTeam/ReapprovalApplication2010</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html#36'>16:41:31</a></td>
<td>VOTE</td>
<td colspan='2' align='center'> Re approval of Indiana LoCo Team</td>

</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-meeting.log.20100316_1501.html37'>16:44:56</a></td>
<td>VOTE RESULT</td>
<td colspan='2' align='center'>3 for, 0 against, 0 abstained. Total: 3</td>
</tr>
</table>
Meeting ended at 16:46.

<br/>
<br/>
People Present:<br/>
<ol>

<li>czajkowski</li>

<li>huats</li>

<li>SandWorm</li>

<li>mhall119|work</li>

<li>Daviey</li>

<li>ubottu</li>

<li>cjohnston</li>

<li>JanC</li>

<li>pleia2</li>

<li>YoBoY</li>

<li>itnet7</li>

<li>ejv</li>

<li>dantalizing</li>

<li>jussi01</li>

<li>Sofanya</li>

<li>belco</li>

<li>nes</li>

<li>vadimkansk</li>

<li>Agafonov</li>

<li>nerdynick</li>

<li>MichelleQ</li>

<li>crashsystems</li>

<li>maxolasersquad</li>

<li>schultmc</li>

<li>SimonAnibal</li>

</body></html>

</pre>

=== Standard Logs ===

<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[15:02:23] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda
[15:02:47] <czajkowski> we'll start by working our way though agenda items and then onto the Approvals/ Reapprovals
[15:03:12] <czajkowski> [topic]Reapproval Process/Update
[15:03:45] <czajkowski> just to let folks know we are working ou way through contacting the 30 named teams so far this cycle
[15:04:15] <czajkowski> we've been mailing teams and in contact with some to schedule more to be reviewed before May and we may have an extra meeting next week to fit some teams in
[15:04:25] <czajkowski> if you are contacted please ack the mail you've recived
[15:05:00] <huats> sorry I am late
[15:06:21] <czajkowski> ok
[15:06:29] <czajkowski> does anyone have any comments on the approval/reapproval process?
[15:07:14] <czajkowski> [link]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval
[15:07:23] <czajkowski> is the list of teams we are contacting this cycle
[15:07:45] <SandWorm> czajkowski: Novosibirsk Team is here if needed
[15:08:05] <czajkowski> SandWorm: just give us a few mins
[15:08:09] <czajkowski> [topic] LoCo Contacts to update the IRC Ops page
[15:08:09] <czajkowski> Czajkowski
[15:08:16] <czajkowski> jussi01: ping
[15:08:33] <czajkowski> [link] https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat
[15:08:45] <czajkowski> the IRCC has asked us to mention this to all loco teams
[15:08:56] <czajkowski> please ensure your ops contacts are up to date on this page please
[15:09:42] <mhall119|work> czajkowski: is that the only place contacts are kept?
[15:10:09] <czajkowski> mhall119|work: I'm waiting on jussi01 to arrive to comment he was the one who asked for it to be added to the agenda
[15:10:42] <czajkowski> we shall move on and if he comes we can go back to it
[15:10:59] <Daviey> \o
[15:11:08] <czajkowski> [topic]LoCo Directory Access
[15:11:29] <czajkowski> so the love LD dev folks wated to get soe thoughts on this
[15:11:33] <czajkowski> [link] https://bugs.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+bug/526800
[15:11:34] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 526800 in loco-directory "Allow more than team admins to manage events" [Wishlist,Triaged]
[15:11:39] <czajkowski> Daviey: mhall119|work want to discuss
[15:11:53] <Daviey> it's mhall119|work's agenda point :)
[15:12:04] <Daviey> mhall119|work: did you get the emails btw?
[15:12:10] <mhall119|work> technically it was dholbach
[15:12:17] * czajkowski peers are you both
[15:12:27] <mhall119|work> Daviey: which ones? my old email address is having problems, I'm trying to switch everything to gmail
[15:12:48] <Daviey> okay, this is regarding the events element mainly
[15:12:49] <mhall119|work> PM me if it's not related to this
[15:13:07] <Daviey> Who should have access:
[15:13:11] <Daviey> * Add an event
[15:13:17] <czajkowski> perhaps ye can give a bit of background to this please
[15:13:17] <Daviey> * Perhaps approve an event
[15:13:22] <Daviey> * perhaps veto an event
[15:13:39] <Daviey> I'm sure everyone knows what the LoCo Directory is
[15:13:44] <Daviey> http://loco.ubuntu.com
[15:13:53] <Daviey> It has the ability to add "events" for your LoCo
[15:13:59] <mhall119|work> this originally came up when only admins could add/edit events for a team
[15:14:02] <Daviey> Currently only the launchpad team admin can add an "event"
[15:14:07] <Daviey> This has been a problem for some teams
[15:14:10] <mhall119|work> recently Jono has requested a change to allow any team member to add/edit events
[15:14:32] <Daviey> So to try and open it up, we need a method of controling and limited access - whilst still letting people do what they need to do
[15:14:45] <huats> This is a pb we are facing at ubuntu-fr
[15:15:02] <czajkowski> huats: yes I believe it was YoBoY who brought this to light
[15:15:02] * cjohnston has to bug an admin to add his weekly ubuntu hour..
[15:15:04] <Daviey> Well from today, andy team member can add an event regardless
[15:15:13] <Daviey> However, long term we feel there needs to be some control
[15:15:19] <mhall119|work> options we have discussed is using an additional launchpad group to specify a team that can manage events for a team
[15:15:22] <czajkowski> I beleive it will effect only a few of the larger teams , but I'm not happy with it being a free for all for anyone and everyone to just create events
[15:15:23] <JanC> it's certainly a problem if only the team owner can add events
[15:15:33] <mhall119|work> and also an approval queue, where any member can add an event, but admins are required to approve them
[15:16:20] <pleia2> mhall119|work: I like the approval queue idea, then I can add/update events without having to nag an admin, but there is oversight
[15:16:22] <Daviey> Do the LoCo countil have a problem with recieveing an email when an event is added or modded?
[15:16:31] <Daviey> This could mean a stack of emails eventually
[15:16:36] <mhall119|work> the approval queue means possibly more work for a team's admins, but makes it easier for members to bring up events
[15:16:40] <czajkowski> Daviey: aye it could do.
[15:17:01] <Daviey> czajkowski: Well for the first version, can the LoCo council let us know :)
[15:17:22] <czajkowski> I would like to see it as a small sub group with each team or a person being able to crete events, that way the admins dont have to get involed if they already know
[15:17:42] <cjohnston> +1 for czajkowski's idea
[15:17:44] <czajkowski> Daviey: I can't speak for huats JanC itnet7 or popey but I don't mind not for the begining, I can create a rule
[15:18:15] <Daviey> I suggested to the Local Council - http://pastebin.daviey.com/N5Eu/raw/
[15:18:32] <YoBoY> czajkowski: calling me ? ^^
[15:18:33] <czajkowski> [link]http://pastebin.daviey.com/N5Eu/raw/
[15:18:40] <itnet7> I think for the sake of timing, it would be fine to implement the way you are suggesting
[15:18:54] <JanC> we use LP groups to control access to certain stuff on the ubuntu-be site, so if teh LoCo-directory would do the same, that would make things easier for us too
[15:19:00] <huats> Daviey, not a problem either
[15:19:01] <pleia2> czajkowski: I still see that as creating a bottleneck, so instead of nagging team admins, I get to go to the event admins...
[15:19:11] <YoBoY> hi
[15:19:21] <mhall119|work> well it'll be open to any member until after UGJ most likely
[15:19:29] <Daviey> JanC: that sounds like a good long term idea, but for first release i would like to try and keep it simple
[15:19:34] <czajkowski> pleia2: thats why I would suggest only certain people being able to creae events and their events get automatically published
[15:19:35] <Daviey> (from a coding aspect)
[15:19:43] <itnet7> I think there should be a role added to each team though to allow the Team Contact/ and or admins flexibility to add members at their discretion
[15:19:51] <pleia2> czajkowski: ah, then maybe for other team members they can create, but it has to be approved?
[15:20:09] <mhall119|work> pleia2: alternately, we can have the approval queue, and allow a select group of non-admins approve them
[15:20:18] <pleia2> sounds good :)
[15:20:20] <itnet7> mhall119|work: that sounds good
[15:20:23] <cjohnston> agreed
[15:20:34] <czajkowski> mhall119|work: yes
[15:20:58] <mhall119|work> and is the concensus that this group should be a launchpad group?
[15:21:08] <mhall119|work> or can it be something internal to loco-directory
[15:21:28] <cjohnston> Whatever is easiest to implement, plus easy for admins to modify... I would think
[15:21:33] <czajkowski> so I think moving forward the dev folks would like to know if they go the way they've suggested here, we'd use it for our loco teams in creating events and encourage our teams to use it ?
[15:21:56] <itnet7> I think it's the best thing since sliced bread! :-)
[15:22:36] <ejv> hmmm
[15:22:43] <mhall119|work> okay, so we will provide a list of users who can approve events for a team, and an approval queue
[15:23:04] * Daviey doesn't really mind how it should be. I'm happy for the LC to say "we want this", and for the LD hackers to implement that if feasible.
[15:23:20] <itnet7> +1 from me
[15:23:37] <mhall119|work> is there any opinions on managing this sub-group through launchpad vs through LD?
[15:24:13] <itnet7> I think that users of the sub-group should only have rights granted to the LD
[15:24:13] <dantalizing> lp
[15:24:18] <Daviey> LP makes more sense.. although i think it's a less clean way overall :)
[15:24:31] <czajkowski> lets use the tools we have and use LP please
[15:24:34] <mhall119|work> itnet7: it would just be a group in LP, so it can be used however else is desired
[15:24:44] <czajkowski> ok are theree any other thoughts on this as I'd like to move on please
[15:24:46] <mhall119|work> Daviey: it means more work for us, but I'm okay with that
[15:24:55] <itnet7> sweet
[15:25:02] <mhall119|work> that also means we can use the team's mailing list to send notices
[15:25:08] <Daviey> so o clariffy this is a LP group of event-editors ?
[15:25:28] <czajkowski> yes
[15:25:29] <Daviey> so a single team for all worldwide loco's?
[15:25:53] <mhall119|work> when we make this change, can we default the 'event-editors' team to be the loco team?
[15:26:01] <jussi01> Im sorry, Im here now.
[15:26:04] <mhall119|work> that way no functionality would change until the loco team decides to
[15:26:56] <czajkowski> [agreed] LP dev folks to create a LP group for event-editors, default the event-director team to be the loco team.
[15:27:00] <czajkowski> right
[15:27:02] <czajkowski> so moving on
[15:27:06] <Daviey> thanks
[15:27:14] <jussi01> can we jump back to my item?
[15:27:14] <mhall119|work> thanks
[15:27:15] <czajkowski> [topic]
[15:27:16] <czajkowski> Request for loco ops to idle in #ubuntu-irc
[15:27:34] <czajkowski> [topic]Request for loco ops to idle in #ubuntu-irc
[15:27:38] <czajkowski> jussi01: you're up
[15:27:43] <jussi01> Ok :)
[15:28:25] <jussi01> at the ircc meeting there was a decision to ask the Loco's to try and get ops from their channels to idle in -irc. Ths improves contactability and co-ordination
[15:29:24] <jussi01> We also would like to request the Loco's update the contact information here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/ChannelList for the same reason
[15:29:41] <czajkowski> [link]
[15:29:56] <czajkowski> [link]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/ChannelList
[15:30:23] <czajkowski> mhall119|work: did you have a question for jussi01 re IRC ops list ?
[15:30:30] <jussi01> We need some help with communicating this properly to the loco's.
[15:30:31] <mhall119|work> no
[15:30:56] <czajkowski> mhall119|work: ok
[15:31:00] <mhall119|work> oh, I just wanted to know if that wiki page was the only place contacts were listed
[15:31:05] <czajkowski> jussi01: ok well mentioneding it here and we shall mail it out also
[15:31:07] <mhall119|work> because people wanted that info in LD
[15:31:18] <jussi01> mhall119|work: at the moment I do beleive so.
[15:31:21] <jussi01> LD?
[15:31:25] <mhall119|work> loco directory
[15:31:28] <czajkowski> but I think it would be good for all LoCos to go with this suggestion from the IRCC
[15:31:58] <czajkowski> so I'll add it to the mail I'll send out after this meeting
[15:32:04] <czajkowski> jussi01: any other comments on this ?
[15:32:42] <itnet7> It would be cool to have it in the LD
[15:32:47] <jussi01> czajkowski: no, we just need to make sure it gets to all the locos, and communicate that this isnt really changing anything, just making contactability and co-ordination easier
[15:33:05] <czajkowski> jussi01: gotcha :)
[15:33:11] <czajkowski> [topic] Approval/Reapprovals
[15:33:22] <jussi01> Thanks!
[15:33:25] <czajkowski> [topic] Russia Novosibirsk
[15:33:34] <SandWorm> we are here
[15:33:38] <Sofanya> Good evening! I'm Novosibirsk Ubuntu TeamLeader, Ubuntu Wonam.
[15:33:41] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RussianTeam/NSK/ApprovalApplication
[15:33:47] <czajkowski> Sofanya: welcome
[15:33:57] <czajkowski> anyone else here from your team
[15:34:08] <belco> i`m here )
[15:34:23] <SandWorm> VadimkaNSK also
[15:34:23] <nes> me
[15:34:24] <vadimkansk> i'm
[15:34:43] <itnet7> http://nsk.ubuntu.ru/
[15:34:52] <itnet7> Nice Re-branding!!
[15:35:03] <czajkowski> I do like the fact you've gotten the new colour scheme up and running on your site well done !
[15:35:11] <nes> thanks!
[15:35:20] <czajkowski> Sofanya: so can you tell me about your team, how you get things done, and organise events?
[15:35:49] <SandWorm> Sofanya has some trouble with english
[15:36:01] <SandWorm> i'm team contact
[15:36:18] <czajkowski> SandWorm: ok I dont mind who tells us :)
[15:36:52] <SandWorm> well. we have active jabber conference. we use it for coordination
[15:37:14] <SandWorm> also we have weekly meetings in sibsutis
[15:37:28] <JanC> what's sibsutis ?
[15:37:31] <SandWorm> every wednesday in the evening
[15:37:57] <vadimkansk> JanC, university
[15:38:11] <SandWorm> JanC: SIBSUTIS - Siberian State University of Telecommunication and Informatics
[15:38:20] <nes> we are workink accordint program "Fre Software in Schools", installing Ubuntu on classroom machines and teach people to use it
[15:38:34] <SandWorm> we have some kind of a club there
[15:39:01] <czajkowski> SandWorm: do you have any photos of your event?
[15:39:22] <Agafonov> http://nsk.ubuntu.ru/index.php?page=fotootchet-klub-u-samovara-24-02-2010
[15:39:38] <Agafonov> my helping hand :)
[15:39:59] <SandWorm> czajkowski: yep. we usually make photos at events
[15:40:29] <SandWorm> recently we installed an internet cafe in SibFair
[15:41:08] <SandWorm> and have some plans for event, based on sibfair
[15:41:18] <JanC> yeah, that sounds like a good idea for other teams too; provide other organisations with a cheap or free internet cafe
[15:41:59] <czajkowski> All of you have done a great job, I think we are ready to vote. Since we are using Mootbot give a second before weighing in please!
[15:42:16] <SandWorm> as i counted we have nearly 5 events in sibfair, where we are going to take part
[15:42:23] <czajkowski> [vote] Approval of the Russia Novosibirsk LoCo Team
[15:42:30] <belco> Siberian Fair is the biggest regional exhibition organizer in Russia
[15:42:31] <itnet7> +1
[15:42:35] <czajkowski> -1
[15:43:05] <czajkowski> I think you've done a great job so far, I think you need to work on your wiki page and add some more content to it regarding links to photos, but to come back soon
[15:43:20] <huats> That would be my opinion too
[15:44:20] <SandWorm> ok. we'll back
[15:44:21] <JanC> I think there are some great things, but like czajkowski says, maybe a bit more documentation would be appropriate
[15:44:28] <Agafonov> czajkowski: they do make many, many things offline
[15:44:29] <JanC> +0 from me
[15:45:08] <czajkowski> Agafonov: thats great but we need to see this on the wiki, we're not saying you're not doing anything, we just think you need to document it more on the wiki please.
[15:46:37] <czajkowski> [endvote]
[15:47:05] <czajkowski> [topic] El Salvador Re Approval
[15:47:23] <czajkowski> [link]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElSalvadorTeam/ReapprovalApplication2010
[15:47:24] <JanC> Agafonov: make a list of everything you do (or at least some more detail), and whenever possible add some links to photographs or such...
[15:47:50] <itnet7> Hey there El Salvador!
[15:47:58] <Agafonov> JanC: we do monthly reports :)
[15:48:12] <czajkowski> so who's where from el Salvador
[15:48:27] <czajkowski> Agafonov: we can discuss it after meeting but now we need to move on, please
[15:49:04] <czajkowski> hmm
[15:49:11] <itnet7> Celvin?
[15:49:11] <czajkowski> anyone here from el salvador??
[15:49:41] <JanC> Agafonov: then link them from the approval page next time!
[15:50:47] <ejv> florida up yet, did i miss it?
[15:50:49] <czajkowski> [agreed] take el salvador loco application to mailing list
[15:51:11] <czajkowski> [topic] Colorado, US LoCo Re approval
[15:51:19] <mhall119|work> ejv: not yet
[15:51:26] <ejv> sry :)
[15:51:38] <czajkowski> anyone from Colorado team present??
[15:51:41] <nerdynick> NerdyNick here for Colorado
[15:52:04] <czajkowski> nerdynick: welcome anyone more with you?
[15:52:13] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam/ReApprovelApplication
[15:52:31] <nerdynick> Not sure as its the middle of the work day for us
[15:53:21] <nerdynick> So where would you like me to start
[15:53:22] <czajkowski> nerdynick: in your application, what do you mean by Lack of timely responsiveness & support from the higher ups in the Ubuntu Community
[15:55:15] <nerdynick> During our planning of the TIE conference we kept having problems with getting response to questions we had about getting booth equiment
[15:55:56] <nerdynick> As well as problems in attempting to get our website on the official ubuntu servers
[15:56:05] <nerdynick> ie. colorad.ubuntu-us.org
[15:56:09] <czajkowski> nerdynick: can you explain what you mean, what kind of equipment, who were you looking for it from ?
[15:57:00] <czajkowski> nerdynick: did you log a ticket on RT ??
[15:57:29] <JanC> I never had problems getting a conference pack, but that only a box with some t-shirts, ballpoints, stickers, etc. -- maybe you expected more?
[15:57:33] <nerdynick> I personally was not the organizer of that event. So I do not know the contact. but the equipment we where looking to get is the Booth Equipment that is provided to teams as well as a batch of Pressed CD's as we where out
[15:59:27] <nerdynick> The CD's would have been great to of at least had but where un able to get those from ShipIt
[16:00:05] <nerdynick> So we ended up burning a few of our own. As doing a mini Edubuntu setup in a lab to at least let people experment and burn there own
[16:00:06] <czajkowski> nerdynick: was this for Karmic ?
[16:01:23] <nerdynick> Feisty & 1 other release
[16:01:47] <nerdynick> We attended the conf twice
[16:01:58] <czajkowski> waht conf was this ?
[16:02:02] <czajkowski> *what
[16:02:10] <JanC> TIE I suppose
[16:02:12] <nerdynick> http://tiecolorado.org/site12.aspx
[16:03:02] <nerdynick> Notes during planning
[16:03:02] <nerdynick> https://wiki.edubuntu.org/TIEColorado
[16:03:05] <czajkowski> nerdynick: so a question, what seperates your LoCO from a LUG ?
[16:03:14] <czajkowski> you mention more work with LUGS ?
[16:04:31] <huats> nerdynick, Another question : how often do you gather with your team ?
[16:05:06] <nerdynick> As the linux community itself in Colorado isn't the greatest in size and is very spreed out. We attempt to work with the local Lug groups in hosting events or at least attend a few of these to work a bringing new users on bord with Ubuntu
[16:05:39] <JanC> that's a good strategy IMO
[16:06:16] <nerdynick> We end up bringing a lot of our resources and knowledge to the Install Fests to help facilitate new users intrest in Ubuntu.
[16:06:28] <czajkowski> thats good to hear
[16:06:44] <nerdynick> JanC we figured it would be better to work with them and at least convert people to linux then work against them
[16:07:10] <JanC> of course
[16:07:19] <czajkowski> I think we are ready to vote. Since we are using Mootbot give a second before weighing in please!
[16:07:40] <czajkowski> [vote] re approval of Colarado LoCo
[16:07:48] <nerdynick> huats we always have a release party and that tends to be our big group gathering and brings people from the west side of the state and the north end to denver/boulder
[16:08:17] <huats> ok nerdynick thanks
[16:08:29] <czajkowski> 0
[16:08:36] <huats> +0
[16:08:39] <nerdynick> but tend to meet together at Clue, Blug, NCLug meetups
[16:08:44] <itnet7> +0
[16:08:46] <czajkowski> +0
[16:08:53] <huats> 0 for me
[16:09:03] <czajkowski> [endvote]
[16:09:24] <itnet7> Sorry, I accidently voted privatley
[16:09:35] <czajkowski> nerdynick: we'd like to meet with you guys again and talk to ye about your team and review some stuff with you guys
[16:09:55] <czajkowski> jsut at present with you only here and not seeing much other activity we'd just like to chat some more
[16:10:42] <nerdynick> Alright, Is there anything you would like us to prep/plan and when/how would you like to do this
[16:10:46] <czajkowski> [agreed] follow up with colarado team via email
[16:11:02] <JanC> I think we would also like to hear more about the problems with getting support for booths (whether you were expecting too much or something went wrong etc.)
[16:11:08] <czajkowski> nerdynick: we'll be in touch shortly ok, and we;re online a lot of the time if you need to ask us anything
[16:11:13] <czajkowski> *nods*
[16:11:15] <czajkowski> agreed
[16:11:35] <czajkowski> [topic] Florida LoCo Team Re approval
[16:11:38] <cjohnston> o/
[16:11:49] <MichelleQ> \o
[16:11:50] <mhall119|work> o/
[16:11:50] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/ReapprovalApplication2010
[16:11:55] <dantalizing> o/
[16:11:56] <crashsystems> is this the part where I say I'm from the florida team?
[16:12:02] <itnet7> :-P
[16:12:23] <czajkowski> just to state, we will be able to vte on ye guys but are missing 2 team members and itnet7 cannot vote on ye so we are going to review and then vote here and on mailing list
[16:12:35] <czajkowski> so who's from florida team
[16:12:41] <mhall119|work> me
[16:12:43] <MichelleQ> me
[16:12:44] <cjohnston> me
[16:12:44] <dantalizing> o/
[16:12:47] <maxolasersquad> I am
[16:12:50] <crashsystems> me
[16:12:52] <itnet7> mr
[16:12:55] <itnet7> lol
[16:12:55] <itnet7> me
[16:13:19] <czajkowski> right so dantalizing and itnet7 can ye exlain how ye've done stuff since your first approval and what you've learned nad done ?
[16:13:22] <dantalizing> as the esteemed council is aware ... itnet7 is our loco contact
[16:13:30] <czajkowski> you've a lot on your wiki page so thanks ++
[16:13:36] <dantalizing> so i've been working with cjohnston and MichelleQ to prepare for reapproval
[16:13:43] <dantalizing> cjohnston will be speaking for us
[16:13:43] <czajkowski> dantalizing: we're esteemed are we, we have met :)
[16:13:54] <dantalizing> czajkowski: its been awhile
[16:13:54] <czajkowski> ok cjohnston you're up
[16:13:55] <cjohnston> uh oh
[16:14:02] <dantalizing> and i wasnt including huats
[16:14:07] <itnet7> *shudders*
[16:14:14] <cjohnston> itnet7: thats not nice!
[16:14:15] <itnet7> *shudders* twice
[16:14:30] <czajkowski> oi come on foclk focus please :) 1 more team left
[16:14:33] <czajkowski> *folks
[16:14:36] <czajkowski> damn lag
[16:15:30] <cjohnston> We have obviously been involved in quite a few things.. We have members involved in the UCLP, and Ubuntu Classroom online.. Offline we have worked with the Florida Linux Fest and starting a couple of ubuntu hours
[16:16:11] <cjohnston> For 9.10 we had a release party with about 60 people, and some really good food.. thanks mhall119|work and MichelleQ !
[16:16:20] <mhall119|work> :)
[16:16:22] <MichelleQ> :)
[16:17:13] <MichelleQ> we're working on planning Ubucon for ALF this year, too.
[16:17:16] <cjohnston> We also helped out with Atlanta Linux fest..
[16:17:19] <cjohnston> and ^
[16:17:52] <czajkowski> anwhat issues if any have ye run into and had to deal with
[16:18:03] <cjohnston> dantalizing: I'll let you take that one
[16:18:16] <dantalizing> our main issues have revolved aroujnd organization
[16:18:24] <dantalizing> we have many active contributors
[16:18:44] <dantalizing> and we try to make sure taht everyone can take part in creating a great ubuntu experience in their local areas
[16:18:57] <dantalizing> while still coordinating with the team
[16:19:20] <dantalizing> we've managed this in a couple of ways
[16:19:51] <dantalizing> we try to encourage local activity and, as cjohnston mentioned re: 9.10 release party, we try to bring everyone together every now and then
[16:21:04] <dantalizing> done
[16:21:09] <dantalizing> unless you want more
[16:21:29] <itnet7> We have developed some really good friendships along the way, despite our state being pretty stretched out
[16:21:53] <dantalizing> very true
[16:21:54] <MichelleQ> And I must say, the team as a whole has been incredibly supportive of my & mhall119|work's pet project and charity.
[16:21:55] <itnet7> Oh, and Nali said we Rock! :-)
[16:22:48] <czajkowski> I think we are ready to vote. Since we are using Mootbot give a second before weighing in please!
[16:22:55] <mhall119|work> I'd also like to point out that our events have been gaining a good deal of gender and age diversity
[16:23:11] <czajkowski> +1
[16:23:15] <cjohnston> oops
[16:23:29] <huats> +1
[16:24:19] <czajkowski> [vote] re approval of florida LoCo
[16:24:23] <czajkowski> +1
[16:24:26] <huats> +1
[16:24:36] <itnet7> +0
[16:24:51] <JanC> +1
[16:24:59] <czajkowski> [endvote]
[16:25:15] <czajkowski> ok we shall take the rest of the vote to the mailing list and get back to you guys as soon as we can
[16:25:18] <czajkowski> thanks
[16:25:22] <dantalizing> thank you all
[16:25:24] <cjohnston> thank you
[16:25:29] <mhall119|work> thank you
[16:25:42] <czajkowski> is there anyone here from the Indiana LoCo team ?
[16:25:51] <schultmc> yes - SimonAnibal and I are here for Indiana
[16:25:57] <maxolasersquad> thanks
[16:26:07] <czajkowski> ok we shall start your re appvoal but we may take it to our mailing list
[16:26:14] <schultmc> ok
[16:26:21] <czajkowski> [topic] Indiana LoCO re approval
[16:26:35] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianaTeam/ReapprovalApplication2010
[16:26:46] <SimonAnibal> Hello!
[16:27:33] <czajkowski> SimonAnibal: schultmc welcome
[16:27:52] <czajkowski> SimonAnibal: schultmc can ye tell us about your team please
[16:27:58] <czajkowski> how you organise evnets?
[16:28:00] <czajkowski> *evnets?
[16:28:13] <czajkowski> *events
[16:28:19] * czajkowski wallops her internet connection
[16:28:20] <schultmc> events are typically organized via the mailing list or forums
[16:28:52] <schultmc> we have some members who prefer forums and some who prefer email so we try to encompass both media to reach the broadest audience
[16:29:06] <czajkowski> thats a good idea
[16:29:21] <czajkowski> you don't have a website, is there a reason for this ?
[16:30:00] <schultmc> not really, other than not having time to properly maintain a website in addition to the wiki
[16:30:08] <itnet7> Have you participated in any events recently?
[16:30:33] <schultmc> our most recent event was the Karmic release party
[16:31:00] <schultmc> we're also working with the local LUGs to plan an Indiana LinuxFest but that hasn't yet occurred
[16:31:31] <schultmc> due to geography, a lot of our non-release party potential events are centered around the various population centers where there are LUGs
[16:31:33] <JanC> do you do anything outside the release parties?
[16:31:34] <czajkowski> what problems if any have you encourtered and how have you delt with them ?
[16:32:20] <schultmc> JanC: we do support and troubleshooting via our mailing list and forums and are discussing holding events such as bug fixes and training sessions
[16:32:50] <schultmc> czajkowski: the main problem we've run into recently is lack of feedback from team members
[16:33:15] <schultmc> the team leadership often has to make executive decisions since the members aren't saying yea or nay for a given idea
[16:33:16] <czajkowski> schultmc: yes I can understand that, it can be very frustrating
[16:33:32] <czajkowski> schultmc: so you have a team leadership, how does that work ?
[16:34:10] <schultmc> SimonAnibal and I independently came up with the idea to start the team and jointly handle leadership
[16:34:57] <schultmc> we've tried to involve other team members in leading the team but there seems to be a reluctance to actually have others wear a leadership hat
[16:35:02] <vadimkansk> czajkowski, I'm looking at your discussion and i have no words to say! How that could be?! After an year of being registered on LaunchPad our team invited more than 100 people! We provided 5 events with regional meaning on our own initiative (and our region is NOT as small as German). And what do I see here? You talking about BALOONS, that not have been sent to the event.
[16:35:02] <vadimkansk> Don't you think, that at the moment you discouraged young initiative people from Syberia from doing something and dealing with you, foreign mature brotherhood
[16:36:07] <JanC> vadimkansk: can we discuss this later? (Indiana locoteam is up now)
[16:36:45] <JanC> schultmc: leaderschip => responsibility
[16:36:54] <czajkowski> schultmc: ys it can be hard, do you have IRC meetings, I've found people very helpful there to ake on roles,
[16:37:10] <czajkowski> even roles such as loco team reports to share out the responsibilty of stuff within the team
[16:37:37] <schultmc> czajkowski: yes, we have monthly irc meetings and fortunately one of our members has been leading them recently when SimonAnibal or I have been unable to attend
[16:37:57] <czajkowski> thats great so there are others who are willing to step up, this is good to hear
[16:38:19] <czajkowski> schultmc: is there anything that we the LoCo council can help with
[16:38:44] <schultmc> we welcome any suggestions that may lead to more activity from our members
[16:39:28] <czajkowski> schultmc: ok, well I can pop in and maybe help with a Q&A session and give some ideas, if that would help I can pp in at an IRC meeting or whenever you think would work best.
[16:39:55] <schultmc> that'd be helpful
[16:40:04] <vadimkansk>  ?>D8:. guys sitted in front of their computers till 3 PM to delight in this. Thank you very much. i'm go sleep
[16:40:22] <JanC> we can do it and/or we can ask some people from other teams
[16:40:31] <schultmc> we could also advertise our meeting some more to get better attendance
[16:40:45] <schultmc> it could also be a communication medium preference
[16:40:45] <czajkowski> schultmc: that might help and it helps to sometimes get more ideas from different people
[16:40:51] <schultmc> email vs. irc vs. forums
[16:40:57] <JanC> schultmc: maybe also communicate it to the LUGs ?
[16:41:07] <czajkowski> I think we are ready to vote. Since we are using Mootbot give a second before weighing in please!
[16:41:21] <schultmc> I'm president of the Central Indiana LUG and SimonAnibal is active in the FortWayne LUG
[16:41:31] <czajkowski> [vote] Re approval of Indiana LoCo Team
[16:41:34] <schultmc> I know we try and communicate LoCo events to both of those LUGs
[16:41:43] <czajkowski> +1
[16:42:04] <itnet7> +1
[16:42:16] <czajkowski> I think you're making a good effort and with a few tweeks could gain more folks helping you about, and I'll log into your channel and help where I can .
[16:42:30] <schultmc> thank you
[16:42:31] <itnet7> I think you have done a good job schultmc We are here for you if you need us
[16:43:03] <czajkowski> huats: JanC ^^
[16:43:30] <huats> +1
[16:44:50] <czajkowski> ok perhaps JanC has had to head we shall vote on email
[16:44:56] <czajkowski> [endvote]
[16:44:59] <SimonAnibal> czajkowski, itnet7, huat, Thank you for your time and consideration.
[16:45:16] <czajkowski> right that is our agenda covered
[16:45:18] <itnet7> SimonAnibal: no problem, good job!
[16:45:19] <czajkowski> does anyone have AOB ?
[16:45:29] <schultmc> yes, thank you and thank you in advance for helping expand our events
[16:45:42] <SimonAnibal> JanC, too
[16:46:11] <czajkowski> just to remind folks you can poke anyone on the LoCo council for help, run ideas by them or if you have any issues.
[16:46:18] <czajkowski> [endmeeting]
[16:46:28] <JanC> hm, it would be good to put a link to your forum and such on the reapproval page next time
[16:46:30] <czajkowski> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
