{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Unifying LoCo Team Resources w/Launchpad ==

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/unifying-loco-resources-with-launchpad
* '''Created''': 09 Nov 2006
* '''Packages affected''': Launchpad
* '''Owner''': <nowiki>[[JonoBacon|Jono Bacon]]</nowiki>
* '''Drafter''': <nowiki>[[JoeyStanford|Joey Stanford]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===
This spec discusses expanding Launchpad to centralize and ease the creation and management of LoCo team frequently requested resources.
=== Rationale ===

Right now, LoCo teams need a collection of resources to work. Of course, these vary between different teams, but there is a core of resources that are commonly used by teams. This includes essential resources such as:
*** Website
*** Mailing list
*** IRC
*** Domain
*** Forums
    
But, also includes non-essential, but useful resources such as:

* Planet
* User map

At the moment some of these resources are centralised (mailing lists, IRC, domains), but many are not and the LoCo team need to research, install and run seperate software to get up and running. In addition to this, there is the problem of commonality of resources. As an example, there is no central place for all of the LoCo team planets, they are instead interspersed across the net.

=== Use cases ===

* Joey is the lead of an approved LoCo team. He wants to be able to create common resources for his team such as mailing lists, webpages, and websites. Unfortunately he is not technical and doesn't have hosting resources available to him.  He would go to his LoCo Team's entry in Launchpad as the owner/administrator and select the resources he needs from a menu of available services. These are then created and mailed back to him and/or the members listed on the team page. 
* Og is a new/perspective member of a LoCo team. His local contact provides him with the launchpad address for his team. He signs up for launchpad, joins the team, and then from a single page adds himself to the mailing list, users list, adds his blog to the team's planet, and signs up to the team's forums. He is now fully connected with the team.
* Jono is the community leader and he wants to view details about a specific LoCo team. He heads to launchpad's master LoCo team and selects on the Colorado Loco Team. Launchpad displays the team general contacts, the education contacts, the marketing contacts, and the local CD distribution contacts. Launchpad displays the timezone, the various communication channels (web, irc, planet, forums, etc.), and a link to their wiki entry.
* Dave is an active member in his LoCo team but has not completed the membership process yet. He is communicating with local sponsors for an upcoming event and would like to use and publish a more professional email address than crazyclassicalguitar@mail.yahoo.be.  He heads over to his Launchpad account and enables his LoCo team email alias. He becomes dave@bru.ubuntu-be.org which he then uses on all communications.
* Melissa is a Windows user who meets Dave at a LoCo event. Dave gives Melissa his LoCo email alias of dave@bru.ubuntu-be.org.  Melissa at home puts http://bru.ubuntu-be.org in her browser and lands at the LoCo's homepage.
* Rich is planning an event for his LoCo team. He heads to his team's Launchpad entry and creates a meeting entry. He posts the meeting specifics. Later that day, Dennis, a member of the same LoCo, updates the meeting agenda with new topics which may also reference a particular specification they are tracking. Belinda, an interested member of the same LoCo, views the LoCo's website and takes note of the meeting particulars so she can attend.
 
=== Scope ===

This spec covers feature requests for Launchpad. These are primarily data elements for better integration. Launchpad should in no way take over functions (e.g. planet.launchpad.net) but rather be the integration point for those listed in this spec.

This spec assumes that every LoCo team will have a Launchpad group and that members of each LoCo, as per the current process, will have a Launchpad id. Signing of the CoC, while required procedurally, is not currently required for this spec.

This spec does NOT include the unification of the actual planet, CMS and mailing list resources. This spec is ONLY intended to get Launchpad better aware of the data associated with LoCo teams.

=== Design ===

We would like to enhance Launchpad by having it contain and maintain additional data fields of interest to LoCos. Data fields will generally be attributed to a LoCo Team record and may or may not be displayed. Each data field may have an associated policy governing it's use.

We would also like to the explore integration with commonly used tools such as mailman and planet.
 
=== Implementation ===

1) Data to store inside Launchpad 
** LoCo team record:
*** LoCo Team flag to signify whether team is LoCo team or not
*** Approved Team Flag to signify whether team is approved or not
*** LoCo team primary contact flag
*** LoCo timezone
*** LoCo Mailing List Information with basic integration (see subpage with details)
*** LoCo Website Information 
*** LoCo official IRC channel
*** LoCo Wiki Page
*** LoCo Planet address
*** LoCo Meetings (linkage)
** Member record: 
*** user email alias for approved teams (Related issue, see below)
*** user blog address
*** user Planet subscriptions
*** user mailing list subscriptions

 '''See the <nowiki>[[/lpdetails|Details for Launchpad team]]</nowiki>'''
 
2) Launchpad team will establish a master LoCo team (like the current translation team structure) and each LoCo team, approved or not, will be organized under it.

3) Creation of teams should occur in the same basic manner as it does for other towered teams today.
** The LoCo team creates a Launchpad team using the appropriate naming convension. e.g. Ubuntu-Colorado, Ubuntu-Australia
** The LoCo team owner emails the Ubuntu Community Manager (i.e. Jono Bacon) to bring their group under the official LoCo umbrella group. (Related issue, see below)

4) Launchpad will autogenerate a list of teams which can be pasted into the <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamList|LoCo Team List]]</nowiki> on the wiki. This will allow the community manager to do a frequent refresh of this information keeping it current as team dynamics change.

5) Lauchpad will link meeting information from the meeting subsystem into each LoCo team page. 

==== Code ====
n/a at this time

==== Data preservation and migration ====
No change from current implementation.

=== Comments ===

All comments and unresolved issues are on <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamsUDSMVSpecs/UnifyingLoCoTeamResources/Comments|this page]]</nowiki>.
----
CategorySpec
