{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Agenda from the Meeting:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
|-
| all
| TBD
|}

=== Topics Discussed ===

* !LoCo Team {re}approvals

N/A
=== Summary ===

== Logs ==

<pre>

[21:00] <paulta[g]> oh yes
[21:00] <paulta[g]> I'm on webchat, sorry
[21:00] <paulta[g]> I'm at my buddies, he has a bricked 9.10 install
[21:00] <itnet7> uh-oh
[21:01] <czajkowski> not sure the others will be on due to net splits
[21:01] <paulta[g]> roger
[21:01] <itnet7> Yeah, I saw your message earlier, it's been crazy lately with the NS's
[21:02] <czajkowski> we were under a DDoS earlier on
[21:04] <huats> helo everyone
[21:04] <czajkowski> huats: Aloha
[21:04] <huats> sorry I am late
[21:04] <czajkowski> it's ok
[21:04] <itnet7> Hey there huats !
[21:04] <huats> hello itnet7 !
[21:04] <paulta[g]> hey huats
[21:05] <czajkowski> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda
[21:05] <czajkowski> short agenda at least
[21:05] <huats> oh paulta[g] !
[21:05] <czajkowski> just poking jono now
[21:05] <paulta[g]> oh!
[21:06] <paulta[g]> czajkowski: righto
[21:07] <czajkowski> so who's here for LC meeting ?
[21:07] <czajkowski> o/
[21:07] <AlanBell> o/
[21:08] <paulta[g]> o/
[21:08] <itnet7> o/
[21:08] <czajkowski> huats: ?
[21:08] <huats> I am
[21:08] <czajkowski> right well we'll move on as net splits seem to have lost a popey on us
[21:09] <huats> ok
[21:09] <czajkowski> Ubuntu Global Jam
[21:09] <czajkowski> is fast approaching us
[21:09] <czajkowski> and http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/567/detail/
[21:09] <czajkowski> there are not that many teams registered for this
[21:09] <czajkowski> how can we get more teams involved folks?
[21:09] <czajkowski> we need to promote it and encourage and help teams
[21:09] <czajkowski> so thoughts?
[21:10] <paulta[g]> Well, I know not too many people are always aware
[21:10] <paulta[g]> so blogging might help
[21:10] <huats> czajkowski, I think it might be good to do again the sessions that jcastro have lead in the past
[21:10] <huats> to help and explain how to organise a GBJ
[21:11] <paulta[g]> +1 there huats
[21:11] <itnet7> They were good sessions
[21:11] <czajkowski> aye I'm just worried nobody turned up for them
[21:11] <mhall119> czajkowski: it can be promoted during UDW
[21:12] <itnet7> +1 mhall119
[21:12] <czajkowski> mhall119: oh good call
[21:12] <czajkowski> yes
[21:12] <huats> +1
[21:12] <czajkowski> so maybe next month we could also run a how to rung a UGJ n this meeting ???
[21:13] <paulta[g]> howdy joaopinto
[21:13] <paulta[g]> erm, jono
[21:13] <itnet7> lol paulta[g] !
[21:13] <paulta[g]> itnet7: damn alphabetic tab complete! :)
[21:13] <paulta[g]> czajkowski: that sounds great
[21:13] <itnet7> exactly my thoughts
[21:14] <czajkowski> ok
[21:14] <czajkowski> so I think what we need to do now is
[21:14] <czajkowski> spread some blooging amongst us
[21:14] <huats> czajkowski, you mean to replace that meeting by how to run a UGJ  ? or todo both ?
[21:14] <czajkowski> huats: replace the meeting
[21:14] <mhall119> how about small-scale, narrowly focused jams that are easier for someone to organize?
[21:15] <huats> czajkowski, ok sounds a good idea
[21:15] <huats> mhall119, that is the idea I thik
[21:15] <czajkowski> mhall119: can you explain more
[21:15] <mhall119> finding a place for 10 people to get together to triage bugs is no easy task
[21:15] <mhall119> having a friend over to your place for pizza and hacking is relatively easy
[21:15] <czajkowski> indeed
[21:16] <czajkowski> true good point
[21:16] <czajkowski> and I think sometimes that is missed
[21:16] <mhall119> so call them micro-jams or buddy-jams or something
[21:16] <huats> that is the idea of the UGJ at the launch
[21:16] <mhall119> or even coffee-jams, where you meet for a hour at starbucks
[21:17] <mhall119> getting people to organize something has been our biggest hurdle in -fl
[21:17] <itnet7> true mhall119
[21:17] <itnet7> especially lately
[21:18] <mhall119> yeah :(
[21:18] <czajkowski> I think the issue is people not knowing what to do tbh
[21:18] <czajkowski> Everyone wants to help
[21:18] <mhall119> and I'm as much at fault, I haven't organized anything in a while
[21:18] <czajkowski> but unless you know what to do, it is somewhat pointless
[21:19] <itnet7> Well maybe we can try to highlight some of the plans on planet and try to encourage more particpation word of mouth and through the lists
[21:19] <czajkowski> ok
[21:20] <czajkowski> itnet7: do you have time to write a blog post this week ?
[21:20] <czajkowski> ideally I'd like one a week please from us
[21:20] <itnet7> Sure
[21:20] <czajkowski> so we can help people
[21:20] <czajkowski> itnet7: ok thanks
[21:20] <czajkowski> huats: paulta[g] can ether of ye do one next week ???
[21:20] <paulta[g]> sure, I'll do it
[21:21] <czajkowski> ok
[21:21] <czajkowski> huats: can you do the week after
[21:21] <itnet7> I was thinking that some of the teams that have already signed up to participate could write a little about their plans on the list to help give new teams some ideas
[21:21] <czajkowski> then I'll do the folllowing week
=== AlanChicken is now known as AlanBell
[21:21] <czajkowski> that'll bring us up to the meeting wherewe can do a Q&A session here
[21:21] <itnet7> sure!
[21:22] <mhall119> and make sure everyone is using #ugj in tweets/dents/photos
[21:22] <pleia2> I'd also send an announcement email to loco-contacts and ubuntu-news-team
[21:22] <czajkowski> pleia2: aye I kinda forget about news :(
[21:22] <czajkowski> sorry!
[21:22] <pleia2> was it sent to loco-contacts?
[21:22] <czajkowski> has been in the past
[21:22] <czajkowski> will send out tomorrow
[21:22] <pleia2> cool
[21:23] <huats> czajkowski, sure
[21:23] <huats> (sorry I was away)
[21:23] <czajkowski> huats: np
[21:23] <czajkowski> so to recap
[21:23] <czajkowski> itnet7: this week
[21:23] <czajkowski> paulta[g]: next week
[21:23] <czajkowski> huats: following week
[21:23] <huats> ok
[21:23] <czajkowski> me final week
[21:23] <czajkowski> tomorrow I'll mail the contact list
[21:23] <mhall119> I know there's a big desire to see Unity get a lot of testing during UGJ, can we have a separate session on how to run a Unity testing jam?
[21:24] <czajkowski> next meeting we will run a Q&A session
[21:24] <czajkowski> mhall119: will need someone to run it
[21:24] <czajkowski> but I don't see why not
[21:24]  * czajkowski spies a jcastro 
[21:24] <mhall119> maybe jcastro will be willing
[21:24] <mhall119> heh, great minds think alike
[21:25]  * czajkowski bribes jcastro 
=== Moot2 is now known as MootBot
=== |Omega| is now known as Omega
[21:25] <jcastro> busy send me mail psl
[21:25] <czajkowski> will do
[21:25] <popey> o/
[21:25] <czajkowski> anyone any other comments on the UGJ ? and how we can get more coverage of it ?
[21:25] <popey> sorry, had to reboot my irc server thing
[21:25] <czajkowski> popey: :)
[21:27] <czajkowski> maybe we can get huats and leogg to run sessions in their languages also ?
[21:27] <czajkowski> get more folks involved
[21:28] <czajkowski> leogg: what do you think of a spanish session?
[21:28] <itnet7> We can add the banner's to our blogs
[21:28] <leogg> czajkowski: for the ugj?
[21:28] <itnet7> if you haven't already
[21:28] <czajkowski> leogg: yes but also in here, next month run a session on how to run a UGJ in Spanish ?
[21:28] <itnet7> chat it up a bit on FB
[21:29] <czajkowski> I think it was posted to the fb page
[21:29] <huats> czajkowski, might be a good idea
[21:29] <huats> I can run one indeed
[21:29] <czajkowski> perhaps getting jono to do a Q&A session specifically on how to do stuff at a UGJ and how to take part
[21:29] <czajkowski> huats: great!
[21:30] <czajkowski> I dont want community members feeling left out as sessions are only run in one language
[21:30] <czajkowski> so I'd like where possible to get as much out there in multiple ways,
[21:30] <czajkowski> over kill but I'd prefer that to only some members knowing
=== lifeless_ is now known as lifeless
=== lamont` is now known as lamont
[21:31] <czajkowski> any other comments?
[21:32] <itnet7> not that I can think of
[21:32] <huats> nope
[21:32] <czajkowski> ok
[21:33] <leogg> czajkowski: I can't promise anything... the date for the UGJ is really bad for us, it's a few days before a really big event, so...
[21:33] <czajkowski> well can someone summerise this and add to our team report :D
[21:33] <czajkowski> leogg: np, but perhaps it may help other spanish speaking teams...
[21:34] <itnet7> czajkowski: I'll do the summary
[21:34] <leogg> czajkowski: it's actually pretty bad date for all spanish speaking teams
[21:34] <itnet7> and update the team report
[21:34]  * czajkowski hugs itnet7 thank you
[21:34] <czajkowski> leogg: ahh why is that ?
[21:34] <itnet7> and hopefully blog tonight as well!
[21:34] <MrChrisDruif> Hai y'all :)
[21:34] <czajkowski> itnet7: you rock
[21:34] <czajkowski> thank you
[21:34] <leogg> czajkowski: http://flisol.info/
[21:34] <MrChrisDruif> Meeting over?
[21:34] <czajkowski> MrChrisDruif: nope
[21:34] <leogg> czajkowski: it's on April 9
[21:34] <MrChrisDruif> Great :)
[21:35] <czajkowski> leogg: nods
[21:35] <czajkowski> leogg: does that happen on the same date each year?
[21:36] <leogg> czajkowski: usually it's the fourth Saturday of April, but they changed it this year
[21:36] <czajkowski> :S
[21:36] <czajkowski> ok any other thoughts comments, ?
[21:37] <czajkowski> agenda only had this topic down
[21:37] <popey> be nice to promote local UGJ events
[21:37] <popey> "Hyper local"
[21:37] <MrChrisDruif> Agenda?
[21:37] <popey> I am thinking of having one at my house
[21:37] <MrChrisDruif> What is the current topic?
[21:37] <popey> MrChrisDruif: this is a loco council meeting
[21:37] <huats> popey, that is the focus we try to have : local event
[21:37] <czajkowski> popey: indeed
[21:37] <popey> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
[21:38] <popey> maybe we should focus on that?
[21:38] <popey> rather than the big massively organised events
[21:38] <czajkowski> popey: houses or coffee shops are ideal
[21:38] <popey> just 3 people in a room with laptops is UGJ
[21:38] <czajkowski> popey: so true!
[21:38] <itnet7> +1 popey !
[21:38] <popey> saves people travelling
[21:38] <huats> popey, like I said I think this is the idea that was behing UGJ in Prague
[21:38] <popey> means people can have one local to them, and not massively inconvenience them
[21:39] <MrChrisDruif> czajkowski: What is this Ubuntu Global Jam about?
[21:39] <czajkowski> MrChrisDruif: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/567/detail/
[21:39] <itnet7> Yeah, and those that want to can still have big events, it will just let everyone know it's not required..
[21:39] <popey> MrChrisDruif: http://www.jonobacon.org/2011/02/15/ubuntu-global-jam-call-for-events/
[21:40] <popey> itnet7: exactly
[21:40] <itnet7> Think Globally act locally ;-)
[21:40] <popey> set the barrier for entry as low as we possibly can
[21:40] <popey> yes!
[21:40] <huats> at least we all agree :)
[21:41] <MrChrisDruif> Why that weekend? :P
[21:41] <MrChrisDruif> You could do it the weekend after Natty release and make it an installfest :D
[21:43] <czajkowski> MrChrisDruif: the idea is to do it before natty is released to find bugs and help out and work on translations etc
[21:43] <MrChrisDruif> Yeah....first read the details...sorry :)
[21:44] <czajkowski> MrChrisDruif: :)
[21:47] <czajkowski> anyting else folks or shall we finish up ?
[21:47] <itnet7> I think we're good for now...
[21:47] <czajkowski> excellent
[21:47]  * czajkowski hugs the loco council ye rock :D 
[21:47] <MrChrisDruif> Let me just say I was thinking about organizing a installfest, not a bug/test fest
[21:48] <MrChrisDruif> First make a bit of community here in Holland O:-)
[21:48] <MrChrisDruif> Which want to meet up for things like ugj :D
[21:48] <MrChrisDruif> Other than that...great initiative :)
[21:49] <czajkowski> MrChrisDruif: sounds like fun
[21:49] <MrChrisDruif> Yeah, hope it will be :D
[21:49] <itnet7> ttyiab, leaving class now
[21:50] <czajkowski> thanks folks
</pre>
