{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: LoCoCouncil 2017-12-11, 11 Dec at 20:07 &mdash; 21:09 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-12-11-20.07.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== AZLOCOTeam ====
The discussion about "AZLOCOTeam" started at 20:11.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-validationApplication2017 
** ''Vote:'' AZLOCOTeam re-verification (Carried)

==== MyanmarTeam ====
The discussion about "MyanmarTeam" started at 20:18.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MyanmarTeam/VerificationApplication2017 
** ''Vote:'' MyanmarTeam Two month extension (Carried)

==== VenezuelaTeam ====
The discussion about "VenezuelaTeam" started at 20:25.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/Re-validationApplication2017 
** ''Vote:'' VenezuelaTeam (Carried)

==== Ubuntu Tunisia ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Tunisia" started at 20:34.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/ReVerificationApplication2017 
** ''Vote:'' Ubuntu Tunisia Two month extension (Carried)

==== Ubuntu Portugal ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Portugal" started at 20:48.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PortugalTeam/Re-validationApplication2017 
** ''Vote:'' Ubuntu Portugal (Carried)

==== SwissTeam ====
The discussion about "SwissTeam" started at 20:56.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/ReVerificationApplication2017 

==== SwissTeam Two month extension ====
The discussion about "SwissTeam Two month extension" started at 21:01.

** ''Vote:'' SwissTeam Two month extension (Carried)

==== any other business? ====
The discussion about "any other business?" started at 21:03.

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-12-11-20.07.log.html#286 Ubuntu Portugal]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 5/0/1)
** Voters svij, kyrofa, Letozaf_, kenvandine, gsilvapt, nhaines
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-12-11-20.07.log.html#38 AZLOCOTeam re-verification]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)
** Voters svij, kyrofa, Letozaf_, kenvandine, gsilvapt, nhaines
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-12-11-20.07.log.html#141 VenezuelaTeam]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)
** Voters svij, kyrofa, Letozaf_, nhaines, gsilvapt, kenvandine
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-12-11-20.07.log.html#348 SwissTeam Two month extension]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)
** Voters svij, kyrofa, Letozaf_, kenvandine, gsilvapt, nhaines
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-12-11-20.07.log.html#222 Ubuntu Tunisia Two month extension]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)
** Voters svij, kyrofa, Letozaf_, kenvandine, gsilvapt, nhaines
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-12-11-20.07.log.html#93 MyanmarTeam Two month extension]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)
** Voters svij, kyrofa, Letozaf_, kenvandine, gsilvapt, nhaines

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* kenvandine (112)
* meetingology (73)
* kyrofa (44)
* nhaines (42)
* gsilvapt (39)
* svij (32)
* tcarrondo (18)
* Letozaf_ (16)
* tiagopolicarpopt (7)
* DiogoC (6)
* MajB (4)
* x3mboy (4)
* Naudy (3)
* pavlos (2)
* elmudometal (2)

=== Full Log ===

 20:07 <kenvandine> #startmeeting LoCoCouncil 2017-12-11

 20:07 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 11 20:07:51 2017 UTC.  The chair is kenvandine. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:07 <meetingology> 

 20:07 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 20:08 <kenvandine> council members please wave to record attendance

 20:08 * kenvandine waves

 20:08 * svij waves

 20:08 * gsilvapt waves

 20:08 * Letozaf_ waves

 20:08 * kyrofa waves

 20:09 <kenvandine> just missing nhaines

 20:09 <gsilvapt> FYI, I'm creating the minute page for this meeting. I'll take a previous sample and modify as we need and require.

 20:09 <kenvandine> gsilvapt, thx

 20:10 <kenvandine> anyone know what we need for a quorum?

 20:10 <kenvandine> i'd imagine we have enough

 20:10 <svij> I guess so

 20:10 <svij> more than 50% :)

 20:11 * nhaines waves

 20:11 <kenvandine> yay!

 20:11 <kenvandine> 100% attendance!

 20:11 <kenvandine> ok... shall we move on to the re-verifications?

 20:11 <gsilvapt> Yes

 20:11 <kenvandine> #topic AZLOCOTeam

 20:11 <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-validationApplication2017

 20:12 <kenvandine> anyone here to represent AZLOCOTeam?

 20:12 <pavlos> I'm here

 20:12 <MajB> I am here from the AZLOCO Team

 20:13 <kenvandine> the re-verification wiki page looks very thorough and kudos for being so active!

 20:13 <MajB> Thank you

 20:13 <nhaines> It looks like you've continued your great work this year.

 20:14 <kenvandine> does anyone have questions for AZLOCO?

 20:15 <svij> no questions from me, looks good :)

 20:15 <kyrofa> Indeed, no question here either

 20:15 <nhaines> I think things are pretty straightforward.  No questions from me.

 20:15 <Letozaf_> ok for me too

 20:16 <kenvandine> i guess we should vote

 20:16 <gsilvapt> Yeap. I like their page and although the roadmap is ambitious, they have some members in their group so they are up for it

 20:16 <kenvandine> #vote AZLOCOTeam re-verification

 20:16 <meetingology> Please vote on: AZLOCOTeam re-verification

 20:16 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 20:16 <svij> +1

 20:16 <meetingology> +1 received from svij

 20:16 <gsilvapt> +1

 20:16 <meetingology> +1 received from gsilvapt

 20:16 <kenvandine> +1

 20:16 <meetingology> +1 received from kenvandine

 20:16 <kyrofa> +1

 20:16 <meetingology> +1 received from kyrofa

 20:16 <Letozaf_> +1

 20:16 <meetingology> +1 received from Letozaf_

 20:16 <nhaines> +1 Good job, AZ team  :)

 20:16 <meetingology> +1 Good job, AZ team  :) received from nhaines

 20:17 <kenvandine> #endvote

 20:17 <meetingology> Voting ended on: AZLOCOTeam re-verification

 20:17 <meetingology> Votes for:6 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:17 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:17 <svij> congrats :)

 20:17 <pavlos> thank you all

 20:17 <kenvandine> thanks for the great work!

 20:17 <MajB> Thank you LoCo Council

 20:18 <kyrofa> pavlos, MajB thank you for all your good work, and for attending today

 20:18 <nhaines> Thank you for your service to the Ubuntu community.  :)

 20:18 <kenvandine> #topic MyanmarTeam

 20:18 <kenvandine> anyone here to represent MyanmarTeam?

 20:19 <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MyanmarTeam/VerificationApplication2017

 20:20 <kyrofa> I'm afraid this loco looks relatively inactive to me

 20:21 <nhaines> It does seem like outward events have dropped off sharply since the last two years.

 20:21 <kyrofa> Most recent event listed in the verification app is 2016, and most recent post on the website seems to be for 16.10

 20:21 <kenvandine> yeah, that concerned me as well

 20:21 <gsilvapt> I was reading their page a few hours ago and it feels they are inactive since 2016. At least according to the provided information. I'd suggest they work up their page and/or show some activity and apply again in some time

 20:21 <kyrofa> Flickr shows a 17.10 release party, though

 20:21 <kyrofa> I agre with gsilvapt

 20:21 <kyrofa> Looks like they have a community, but it needs more leadership

 20:22 <gsilvapt> s/provided information/information provided

 20:22 <nhaines> I'm sure there is leadership, but I'd like to see more information about their recent activities and their roadmap for thefuture.  I suspect that the application is simply incomplete.

 20:22 <kenvandine> so do we vote?  or ask them to get added to the agenda when someone can be here?

 20:23 <nhaines> I'd like to extend their verification provisionally and request more information from them for the next meeting.

 20:23 <gsilvapt> +1 with nhaines

 20:23 <kenvandine> +1

 20:23 <kyrofa> +1 from me as well

 20:23 <kenvandine> should we do a vote to extend 2 months?

 20:23 <Letozaf_> +1

 20:23 <gsilvapt> lets vote on that, kenvandine

 20:23 <nhaines> +1

 20:23 <kyrofa> Don't we meet once a month?

 20:24 <kenvandine> yeah, but thought with the holidy

 20:24 <gsilvapt> Yes, but I think the idea is to give a few months so they have time to prepare their stuff

 20:24 <kenvandine> might be good to give them a little more time

 20:24 <nhaines> Yeah, but it's all kinds of crazy holidays right now.

 20:24 <gsilvapt> and there's that too

 20:24 <kenvandine> we are behind

 20:24 <kyrofa> Fair enough

 20:24 <kenvandine> #vote MyanmarTeam Two month extension

 20:24 <meetingology> Please vote on: MyanmarTeam Two month extension

 20:24 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 20:24 <kyrofa> +1

 20:24 <meetingology> +1 received from kyrofa

 20:24 <kenvandine> +1

 20:24 <meetingology> +1 received from kenvandine

 20:24 <Letozaf_> +1

 20:24 <meetingology> +1 received from Letozaf_

 20:24 <gsilvapt> +1

 20:24 <meetingology> +1 received from gsilvapt

 20:24 <svij> +1

 20:24 <meetingology> +1 received from svij

 20:25 <nhaines> +1 Please improve the application and get back to us.  :)

 20:25 <meetingology> +1 Please improve the application and get back to us.  :) received from nhaines

 20:25 <kenvandine> #endvote

 20:25 <meetingology> Voting ended on: MyanmarTeam Two month extension

 20:25 <meetingology> Votes for:6 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:25 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:25 <kenvandine> #topic VenezuelaTeam

 20:25 <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/Re-validationApplication2017

 20:26 <kenvandine> anyone here to represent VenezuelaTeam?

 20:26 <elmudometal> i am VenezuelaTeam

 20:26 <Naudy> I'm here

 20:27 <x3mboy> I'm here too

 20:27 <kenvandine> hello!

 20:28 <gsilvapt> hi guys :-) I had a look to your application and I honestly think it is a similar case to Arizona. Well structure, nothing to point out. Very ambitious Roadmap, seems ok with your member's numbers

 20:28 <gsilvapt> s/structure/structured

 20:28 <svij> I agree :)

 20:28 <nhaines> It looks like you have a lot of momentum built up.

 20:29 <kyrofa> Yeah, easy review indeed

 20:29 <tiagopolicarpopt> Hi again

 20:29 <kenvandine> indeed

 20:29 <nhaines> I noticed that there were less events for 2017 than 2016.  But it's still extremely impressive.  Is there anything that lead to this that you're concerned about?

 20:29 <gsilvapt> The only question I have is: Why didn't you guys renew your membership?

 20:30 <kyrofa> nhaines, there were like 100 in 2016. They probably got burnt out :D

 20:30 <svij> hehe

 20:31 <gsilvapt> he he

 20:31 <kenvandine> lets hope not :)

 20:31 <kenvandine> or... hope they feel refreshed

 20:32 <tcarrondo> hi! still on time?

 20:32 <Naudy> Problems with internet in Venezuela which have been many failures

 20:32 <nhaines> kyrofa: They have nothing to be ashamed about for a strong 2017.  I just want to get a feeling for how things are going.

 20:32 <nhaines> Naudy: that would be a good reason!

 20:32 <kenvandine> agreed

 20:33 <Letozaf_> sorry had a prolbem

 20:33 <kenvandine> shall we vote?

 20:33 <svij> yup

 20:33 <kenvandine> #vote VenezuelaTeam

 20:33 <meetingology> Please vote on: VenezuelaTeam

 20:33 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 20:33 <kenvandine> #voters kenvandine svij gsilvapt kyrofa Letozaf_ nhaines

 20:33 <meetingology> Current voters: Letozaf_ gsilvapt kenvandine kyrofa nhaines svij

 20:33 <kyrofa> +1

 20:33 <meetingology> +1 received from kyrofa

 20:33 <nhaines> +1

 20:33 <meetingology> +1 received from nhaines

 20:33 <gsilvapt> +1

 20:33 <meetingology> +1 received from gsilvapt

 20:33 <svij> +1

 20:33 <meetingology> +1 received from svij

 20:33 <kenvandine> +1

 20:33 <meetingology> +1 received from kenvandine

 20:33 <Letozaf_> +1

 20:33 <meetingology> +1 received from Letozaf_

 20:33 <tiagopolicarpopt> I'm part of the loco team

 20:33 <kenvandine> #endvote

 20:33 <meetingology> Voting ended on: VenezuelaTeam

 20:33 <meetingology> Votes for:6 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:33 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:33 <svij> tiagopolicarpopt: venezuela not portugal ;)

 20:33 <kenvandine> congrats!

 20:34 <kenvandine> we're looking forward to what 2018 has in store!

 20:34 <nhaines> Good job, Venezuela Team.  Keep up the excellent work!

 20:34 <x3mboy> :D

 20:34 <elmudometal> Thz :D

 20:34 <kenvandine> #topic Ubuntu Tunisia

 20:35 <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/ReVerificationApplication2017

 20:35 <kenvandine> Anyone here to represent Ubuntu Tunisia

 20:35 <tcarrondo> congrats Venezuela!

 20:35 <x3mboy> Thanks

 20:35 <Naudy> thanks to all

 20:35 <gsilvapt> Keep it up, Venezuela! :)

 20:35 <tiagopolicarpopt> Sorry i am on mobile web, i lost some messenger, svij

 20:36 <svij> tiagopolicarpopt: no worries ;)

 20:36 <tiagopolicarpopt> congrats Venezuela!

 20:36 <gsilvapt> So, nobody from Tunisian LoCo?

 20:37 <kenvandine> their team reports page ends at 2015

 20:37 <kyrofa> This loco does not seem tremendously active, although their application indicates a fairly constant number of events per year, none of their other pages have been updated for years, and I see no website

 20:37 <gsilvapt> My opinion is they are opting for an educating strategy to gain more members which seems plausible and I understand this problem some LoCos often experience. That said, they present an interesting roadmap and with focus on educating new people to Ubuntu and open source software.

 20:38 <svij> I agree to gsilvapt

 20:38 <nhaines> I also agree with gsilvapt.

 20:38 <kenvandine> there has been recent activity on their mailing list

 20:38 <svij> their mailing lists looks aktive too

 20:38 <svij> kenvandine was faster than me :)

 20:39 <gsilvapt> Well, we do not have a representative here but they could use other means of communication

 20:39 <kyrofa> The loco verification page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/TeamVerificationGuidelines) lists a website as an example of an established resource. Does the lack of one here seem concerning?

 20:39 <gsilvapt> Still, they use the mailing list for topics related to the LoCo so I don't know whether the ML is their main form of communication or not

 20:40 <svij> we don't know much about the irc channel though

 20:40 <svij> but I see some of the ubuntu-tn people around in other channels

 20:40 <gsilvapt> The entire sentence says more than that, kyrofa: This requires some evidence that the team has established various resources (website, mailing list, listing of activities on the LoCo Directory etc)

 20:41 <kenvandine> the wiki pages are quite out dated

 20:41 <nhaines> Their Facebook pages seem at least semi-active (I don't use Facebook so I can't tell for sure).

 20:41 <Letozaf_> They have done some presentations in 2017: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Presentations

 20:41 <kyrofa> gsilvapt, yes, I said "an example" :)

 20:42 <gsilvapt> kyrofa, sorry. Wanted to clarify that part a bit as it did not concern me too much. However, it concerns me the fact they do not have their LoCo directory updated or with much activity

 20:42 <kyrofa> From my perspective, I see an application that is up-to-date but nothing else

 20:42 <nhaines> kyrofa: but they have two webpages listed in the application.  :)

 20:42 <kenvandine> yeah

 20:42 <kenvandine> although the mailing list is active

 20:42 <kenvandine> that's something

 20:42 <nhaines> And they have clear plans for the future as well.

 20:43 <svij> yeah, I guess we should advise them to update their pages

 20:43 <gsilvapt> I'd vote positively as they are betting on educating new people. On the other hand, we could advise some general updates to their pages and keep an eye on their activity logs

 20:43 <nhaines> Documenting their work will help their team and others as well.

 20:43 <gsilvapt> True

 20:43 <gsilvapt> Shall we vote?

 20:44 <kenvandine> i wonder if they have meetings?

 20:44 <gsilvapt> kenvandine, according to their LoCo directory, not since 2013 but I hardly doubt this is an updated information

 20:44 <kenvandine> latest pictures is also 2013

 20:44 <kenvandine> but they did renew in 2015

 20:45 <kenvandine> shall we suggest they update the directory and some pages?

 20:45 <gsilvapt> Ok, to be consistent that makes sense

 20:45 <kenvandine> or... just vote to re-verify or not?

 20:45 <nhaines> Yes, I think that's important.  And they seem to know it, according to their mailing list.

 20:46 <kyrofa> Yeah, I think they need to update stuff

 20:46 <svij> they also use facebook, didn't check how active that is

 20:46 <kenvandine> not terribly

 20:46 <kenvandine> some current stuff

 20:46 <kenvandine> #vote Ubuntu Tunisia Two month extension

 20:46 <meetingology> Please vote on: Ubuntu Tunisia Two month extension

 20:46 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 20:46 <kenvandine> #voters kenvandine svij gsilvapt kyrofa Letozaf_ nhaines

 20:46 <meetingology> Current voters: Letozaf_ gsilvapt kenvandine kyrofa nhaines svij

 20:46 <gsilvapt> +1

 20:46 <meetingology> +1 received from gsilvapt

 20:46 <Letozaf_> +1

 20:46 <meetingology> +1 received from Letozaf_

 20:46 <kenvandine> +1

 20:46 <meetingology> +1 received from kenvandine

 20:46 <kyrofa> +1

 20:46 <meetingology> +1 received from kyrofa

 20:47 <svij> +1

 20:47 <meetingology> +1 received from svij

 20:47 <nhaines> +1

 20:47 <meetingology> +1 received from nhaines

 20:47 <kenvandine> #endvote

 20:47 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Ubuntu Tunisia Two month extension

 20:47 <meetingology> Votes for:6 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:47 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:48 <gsilvapt> The next LoCo is my own LoCo. Should I abstain from voting?

 20:48 <kenvandine> #topic Ubuntu Portugal

 20:48 <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PortugalTeam/Re-validationApplication2017

 20:48 <kenvandine> Anyone here to represent Ubuntu Portugal

 20:48 <tcarrondo> here! From Ericeira, Portugal :)

 20:48 <kenvandine> gsilvapt, not sure :)

 20:49 <tcarrondo> hi, all

 20:49 <svij> hey tcarrondo

 20:49 <DiogoC> me to, but tcarrondo is the representative

 20:49 <nhaines> Thanks for being here.  :)

 20:49 <DiogoC> too

 20:49 <svij> familiar faces to the nicknames for me :)

 20:49 <tcarrondo> hi, svij

 20:50 <tiagopolicarpopt> Me too from portugal

 20:50 <tcarrondo> and nhaines

 20:50 <DiogoC> all

 20:50 <DiogoC> :)

 20:50 <kenvandine> great representation!

 20:50 <kenvandine> says allot :)

 20:50 <tcarrondo> I don' know how to mention here...

 20:50 <tcarrondo> my bad

 20:50 <kyrofa> I have a question on the application: what is the difference between events "Organized by the LoCo" and "events where we participated" ?

 20:51 <tcarrondo> I'll answer

 20:51 <tcarrondo> some events we are "just" invited to participate

 20:52 <tcarrondo> and give talks

 20:52 <nhaines> This sounds very humble.  Those still count as events!  :)

 20:52 <tcarrondo> but those events are not organized by the LoCo,

 20:52 <kyrofa> Ah ha-- so these lists need to be added together?

 20:52 <nhaines> And it's a great way to get more exposure and give newer members experience without being overwhelming.

 20:52 <tcarrondo> so we shouldn't get the organization credits for them

 20:53 <kyrofa> Yeah this is great

 20:53 <kenvandine> excellent application

 20:53 <tcarrondo> thanks!

 20:53 <kenvandine> any more questions before we vote?

 20:53 <nhaines> Do you have any specific plans or wishes for the team in 2018?

 20:54 <svij> I hope for an UbuCon Europe 2019 ;)

 20:54 <kyrofa> Indeed. My only suggestion is to double check your wiki page, it looks a tad old. Make sure it's still relevant

 20:54 <kyrofa> No more questions from me

 20:54 <tcarrondo> Ubucon 2019? don't ruin the surpise...

 20:54 <svij> hahaha

 20:54 <nhaines> Haha!

 20:54 <gsilvapt> :D

 20:55 <tcarrondo> wiki page? It should be done! thanks

 20:55 <kenvandine> #vote Ubuntu Portugal

 20:55 <meetingology> Please vote on: Ubuntu Portugal

 20:55 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 20:55 <kenvandine> #voters kenvandine svij gsilvapt kyrofa Letozaf_ nhaines

 20:55 <meetingology> Current voters: Letozaf_ gsilvapt kenvandine kyrofa nhaines svij

 20:55 <kyrofa> gsilvapt, I suggest you obstain, although I suspect it won't matter ;)

 20:55 <kenvandine> +1

 20:55 <meetingology> +1 received from kenvandine

 20:55 <nhaines> +1

 20:55 <meetingology> +1 received from nhaines

 20:55 <svij> +1

 20:55 <meetingology> +1 received from svij

 20:55 <kyrofa> +1

 20:55 <meetingology> +1 received from kyrofa

 20:55 <Letozaf_> +1

 20:55 <meetingology> +1 received from Letozaf_

 20:55 <gsilvapt> 0 as it is my LoCo and this feel more adequate

 20:55 <meetingology> 0 as it is my LoCo and this feel more adequate received from gsilvapt

 20:55 <kenvandine> #endvote

 20:55 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Ubuntu Portugal

 20:55 <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:1

 20:55 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:55 <kenvandine> congrats!

 20:55 <svij> congrats, keep up your good work :)

 20:55 <DiogoC> :)

 20:55 <kenvandine> and thanks for all the great work

 20:55 <nhaines> Congratulations, and keep up the great work!  :D

 20:55 <tcarrondo> :)

 20:55 <kyrofa> Looking great guys, keep it up

 20:55 <DiogoC> thanks

 20:55 <gsilvapt> Thank you guys ::)

 20:55 <Letozaf_> Congrats

 20:55 <tiagopolicarpopt> :)

 20:56 <tcarrondo> thanks!!

 20:56 <kenvandine> #topic SwissTeam

 20:56 <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/ReVerificationApplication2017

 20:56 <kenvandine> Anyone here to represent SwissTeam

 20:56 <tiagopolicarpopt> Thanks

 20:58 <kenvandine> i guess we don't have a SwissTeam representative

 20:58 <gsilvapt> Their information is not very clear. They seem active, but don't have a LoCo Directory nor is that up-to-date

 20:58 <kenvandine> events seem quite lacking

 20:59 <gsilvapt> Or is this a first-time request and thus they don't have a LoCo Directory?

 20:59 <nhaines> It appears to me that they were concerned that they needed to be on the agenda to at least gain more time to finish the application.

 20:59 <kyrofa> Yeah, judging from the Linux Day site they have things going on, but the application seems incomplete

 20:59 <svij> the application also says DRAFT at the top

 20:59 <kyrofa> Heh

 21:00 <kenvandine> huge gap in mailing list traffic

 21:00 <kenvandine> oct 16 to dec 17

 21:00 <kyrofa> Ouch

 21:00 <kenvandine> and dec 17 was about re-verification

 21:00 <kenvandine> sounds like they might be trying to get the loco going again

 21:00 <svij> but swiss is a bit different to other countries, since Germany has a strong community and many people are helping online over there

 21:00 <kyrofa> Yeah, I say give them a two-month extension

 21:01 <nhaines> Yeah, I think things look positive but we need concrete information.  They should have more time to get it to us.  :)

 21:01 <kenvandine> ok

 21:01 <kenvandine> lets vote on that

 21:01 <gsilvapt> shall we vote on that?

 21:01 <svij> yup

 21:01 <kenvandine> #topic SwissTeam Two month extension

 21:01 <kenvandine> whoops

 21:02 <gsilvapt> vote not topic :P

 21:02 <kyrofa> Haha

 21:02 <kenvandine> #vote SwissTeam Two month extension

 21:02 <meetingology> Please vote on: SwissTeam Two month extension

 21:02 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 21:02 <svij> +1

 21:02 <meetingology> +1 received from svij

 21:02 <kyrofa> +1

 21:02 <meetingology> +1 received from kyrofa

 21:02 <kenvandine> #voters kenvandine svij gsilvapt kyrofa Letozaf_ nhaines

 21:02 <meetingology> Current voters: Letozaf_ gsilvapt kenvandine kyrofa nhaines svij

 21:02 <Letozaf_> +1

 21:02 <meetingology> +1 received from Letozaf_

 21:02 <kenvandine> +1

 21:02 <meetingology> +1 received from kenvandine

 21:02 <gsilvapt> +1

 21:02 <meetingology> +1 received from gsilvapt

 21:02 <nhaines> +1 Please continue working on your application and get back to us.  :)

 21:02 <meetingology> +1 Please continue working on your application and get back to us.  :) received from nhaines

 21:02 <kenvandine> #endvote

 21:02 <meetingology> Voting ended on: SwissTeam Two month extension

 21:02 <meetingology> Votes for:6 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 21:02 <meetingology> Motion carried

 21:03 <kenvandine> #topic any other business?

 21:03 <kenvandine> who wants to go update all the expirations?

 21:03 * kyrofa waves, because I have no clue how

 21:04 <nhaines> #vote Who wants to update all the expirations?

 21:04 <kenvandine> great time to learn :)

 21:04 <kyrofa> Exactly!

 21:04 * Letozaf_ me too does not have idea

 21:04 <nhaines> It's actually pretty easy.

 21:04 <kyrofa> Letozaf_ we can split them unless someone else also doesn't know?

 21:04 * nhaines hides /o\

 21:04 <kenvandine> nhaines, we have a voluteer :)

 21:04 <kenvandine> just change the date and enter a comment for why

 21:04 <kenvandine> i can show you on the first one

 21:05 <nhaines> I've done it before.  :)

 21:05 * Letozaf_ ok looks easy

 21:05 <kenvandine> nhaines, for kyrofa :)

 21:05 <kenvandine> shall we confirm a date for our next meeting?

 21:05 <nhaines> Sure.

 21:06 <kyrofa> kenvandine, you do AZ, I'll do Myanmar, Venezuala, and Tunisia, Letozaf_ you can do Portugal and Switzerland. Sound okay?

 21:06 <kenvandine> ok

 21:06 <nhaines> Any questions, just ask in the IRC channel or Telegram group.  :)

 21:06 <Letozaf_> ok

 21:06 <kyrofa> Good deal

 21:06 <kyrofa> Next meeting, Jan 8th, 2000 UTC?

 21:07 <nhaines> Works for me!

 21:07 <kenvandine> yeah

 21:07 <kenvandine> works for me

 21:07 <kyrofa> Anyone not gonna be here?

 21:07 <Letozaf_> ok

 21:07 <svij> yup

 21:07 <kyrofa> Cool

 21:08 <x3mboy> o/

 21:08 <kenvandine> anything else?

 21:08 <MajB> Thanks.  Good meeting.

 21:08 <nhaines> Happy holidays to everyone, of course.  :)  Happy new year in particular!

 21:09 <kenvandine> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
