{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[LoCoTeams|Home]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamList|Teams List]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamJoining|Join a Team]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamHowto|Start a LoCo Team!]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamMentoring|Team Mentoring]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoFAQ|FAQ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamContacts|Contacts]]</nowiki>
|}

== New and Approved LoCo Teams ==

In the !LoCo project there are two types of !LoCo teams:

* ''New Teams'' - Teams that are in the process of getting started and have not yet been officially approved as an Official Ubuntu LoCo team.
* ''Approved Teams'' - Teams that have shown a significant contributions to the Ubuntu Project, and have applied successfully for Approved Status to the !LoCo Council.

 

=== Getting your LoCo team approved ===

This page explains what a team needs to do to move from the ''New Teams'' category to the ''Approved Teams'' category.

=== Are you ready? ===

The first question to ask is if you are ready for approval. Check each of the following points and see if it applies to you:

* ''Resources'' - you should have a mailing list set up, IRC channel on Freenode and have some wiki pages set up on http://wiki.ubuntu.com/. More details on setting these resources up can be found in LoCoTeamHowto.
* ''Membership'' - Do you have members in your group? Are the mailing list and IRC channel resources active?
* ''Roadmap'' - Do you have an idea of what you want to achieve and which projects the group should work on?
* ''Experience'' - What have you done so far? Have you done any advocacy, translations, exhibitions, support or other activities? We recommend you have done at least three activities before you apply for approval.
 
If you have positive answers for the above questions, then you are ready to apply for approval.

=== The process ===

To get approved, the LoCo Council need to have confidence that the team is up and running and performing well. This requires some evidence that the team has established various resources (website, mailing list etc) and is actively working on different things and working well.

To get approved you need to create a wiki page (more on this below) that outlines a number of things to do with the group, and has supporting evidence.

=== Writing your Approval Application wiki page ===

Your application to become an approved team largely rests in the application wiki page - you should call it <yourteam>ApprovalApplication or place it in your LoCo team's sub-pages. You can see an example application at LoCoExampleApplication. This shows you the kind of structure that the page should form. Before we look at the sections, here are some important tips:

* ''Keep to the structure of that page'' - use the same section headings and structure of the LoCoExampleApplication page - this makes it easier to read the page for those of us who consider your application.
* ''Use lots of links and references'' - this is ''essential''. In the Roadmap and Experience sections and elsewhere on the document, you should provide web links to websites, blogs, mailing list archives and such that confirm the points you make on the application. So, as an example, if you have an activity listed in the Experience section, provide some web links to show what you did, or where it was discussed on the mailing list / IRC channel / forums.
* ''Be concise, detailed and clear'' - we don't want to see thousands of words - just list the key points clearly and concisely.

Right, lets look at the different sections and what you need to put in there

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''SECTION'''
| '''DETAILS'''
|-
| Key Details
| Use the bullet point items shown in LoCoExampleApplication and fill in the details for your group.
|-
| Roadmap
| Here you should list the things you want to do with the group. Instead of just listing ideas, it is always good to say who will be working on what items. As such, before you submit your application, talk to your group members and look for volunteers to nominate themselves to work on specific items. This always goes in favour of the group. Again, provide links to web pages and archives where relevant.
|-
| Experience
| This section works in largely the same way as the ''Roadmap'' section, but should list things the group has already done. We recommend the group has done at least three activities before applying for approval. This could be things such as advocating Ubuntu, giving out fliers, exhibiting at conferences, installfests etc. Again, provide links to web pages and archives where relevant.
|}

We recommend the group members work together to refine the page to ensure it is detailed and well written. Again, the page should be concise, detailed and be backed up with plenty of links and references.

=== Submitting your application ===

When the page is complete, add the LoCo to the Locoteams section in LoCoCouncilAgenda. Good luck!

'''Please note - a completed application must be finished and ready at least three days before the next LoCo Council meeting.'''.

If you have any questions, see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoFAQ|FAQ]]</nowiki>, LoCoTeamHowto and ask your questions on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/loco-contacts|loco-contacts mailing list]]</nowiki>.

=== Being Listed as Approved in the LoCo Directory ===
The <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com | LoCo Directory]]</nowiki> is a new community tool to share amongst LoCo Teams. Once your team is approved, you will receive an invitation to join The <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~locoteams-approved | Approved LoCo Launchpad Team ]]</nowiki>. Make sure your team is also a member of The <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~locoteams | The LoCo Teams Group in Launchpad ]]</nowiki>. For more on the LoCo Directory, please check LoCoDirectory.

=== Yearly Review ===

Existing approved teams will need to submit an application for review on a yearly basis, on their approval anniversary date. The purpose of review is to see if LoCos need any help and to make sure LoCos are continuing with their Roadmaps.

The application should be similar to the approval application above, summarising the accomplishments of the past year and plans for the future year.

Every month, LoCo contacts from four LoCos with approaching review dates will be contacted privately and asked to submit applications. If LoCos feel they are prepared for re-approval, they will add their application to the LoCoCouncilAgenda and the LoCo Council will vote on them.

If a contacted LoCo does not feel it can be re-approved, the LoCo will be placed on a watch list for two months, during which the LoCo Council will try to help the LoCo qualify for re-approval. If the LoCo does not qualify in two months, it will no longer be considered an approved LoCo.

Over time, it is not uncommon for the activity of LoCo to wane. Being placed on the watch list or no longer being an approved LoCo should not be seen as a negative. It is an opportunity for a LoCo to find proper leadership, codify future plans, and refocus. 

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
