{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: LoCo Council October Meeting, 15 Oct at 20:00 &mdash; 20:39 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-10-15-20.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== California LoCo Team Re-Verification ====
The discussion about "California LoCo Team Re-Verification" started at 20:01.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/VerificationApplication2013 
** ''Vote:'' California LoCo Team Re-Verification (Carried)

==== Pennsylvania LoCo Team Re-Verification ====
The discussion about "Pennsylvania LoCo Team Re-Verification" started at 20:15.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PennsylvaniaTeam/ReVerificationApplication2013 
** ''Vote:'' Pennsylvania LoCo Team Re-Verification (Carried)

==== General Announcements ====
The discussion about "General Announcements" started at 20:33.

** ''LINK:'' https://twitter.com/LoCoCouncil 

=== Vote results ===

* Pennsylvania LoCo Team Re-Verification
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
* California LoCo Team Re-Verification
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jose (54)
* jedijf (36)
* costales (28)
* skellat (28)
* meetingology (26)
* pleia2 (26)
* SergioMeneses (25)
* jthan (2)
* IdleOne (2)
* phillw (1)
* czajkowski (1)
* waltman (1)
* PabloRubianes (0)

=== Full Log ===

 20:00 <jose> #startmeeting LoCo Council October Meeting

 20:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct 15 20:00:14 2013 UTC.  The chair is jose. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:00 <meetingology> 

 20:00 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:00 <costales> Let's go! :)

 20:00 <jose> #voters costales skellat SergioMeneses PabloRubianes

 20:00 <meetingology> Warning: Nick not in channel: PabloRubianes

 20:00 <meetingology> Current voters: PabloRubianes SergioMeneses costales skellat

 20:00 <jose> #voters costales skellat SergioMeneses PabloRubianes jose

 20:00 <meetingology> Current voters: PabloRubianes SergioMeneses costales jose skellat

 20:00 <jose> #chair costales skellat SergioMeneses PabloRubianes jose

 20:00 <meetingology> Warning: Nick not in channel: PabloRubianes

 20:00 <meetingology> Current chairs: PabloRubianes SergioMeneses costales jose skellat

 20:01 <jose> so, let's check the agenda

 20:01 <phillw> lubuntu meeting will be held on #lubuntu-offtopic, I'll kill the person who double booked the room later!

 20:01 <jose> #topic California LoCo Team Re-Verification

 20:01 <pleia2> o/

 20:01 <jose> pleia2: you're the team contact, right?

 20:01 <pleia2> I am

 20:02 <costales> Hi pleia2 :) Good luck!

 20:02 <pleia2> unfortunately due to timezones it's the middle of a weekday california time so everyone else is work/schooling right now

 20:02 <pleia2> (I'm on my lunch break :))

 20:02 <jedijf> yay pleia2

 20:02 * jedijf has your back

 20:02 <costales> bon appetit!

 20:02 <pleia2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/VerificationApplication2013

 20:03 <jose> checking that now

 20:03 <costales> pleia2: Amazing amount of Ubuntu Hours! It's lovely to see how active you are!

 20:04 <jose> the same I wanted to say, it's great to see that amount of activity

 20:04 <pleia2> we really like ubuntu hours :)

 20:04 <jose> may I ask, how many people show up around those?

 20:04 <pleia2> a lot of us are pretty busy, so it works out well

 20:04 <pleia2> I run the SF one, we tend to have 4-10 each time

 20:04 <costales> How does your team get people involved in running events?

 20:05 <SergioMeneses> hi guys

 20:05 <pleia2> we start folks off by getting them to do ubuntu hours, then recruit them to help out with bigger events like the southern california linux expo where we have ubucon and a booth each year

 20:05 * SergioMeneses hugs pleia2

 20:06 <costales> pleia2: great :)

 20:06 * pleia2 hugs SergioMeneses

 20:06 <SergioMeneses> that is great!

 20:06 <skellat> pleia2: As a minor point, would it be possible to fix California's naming on LP to be in line with the faceted team naming standard for US teams?  See: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto#For_the_United_States

 20:06 <pleia2> skellat: we were told we could keep it since it's legacy

 20:06 <costales> I see a really friendly team in the pictures :)

 20:06 <SergioMeneses> pleia2, I want to know if you have problems in your team or something that you will share with us :)

 20:06 <pleia2> we put it on a lot of our printed materials and things so switching now would be really painful for the team

 20:06 <skellat> pleia2: I can live with that then.

 20:07 <jose> we can make an exception

 20:07 <skellat> We'll need to update our guidelines to take that into account

 20:07 <skellat> It's a truly minor thing though

 20:07 <costales> yes skellat ;)

 20:07 <pleia2> SergioMeneses: not really, always looking for more folks to be active but we do pretty well

 20:07 <jose> any more questions?

 20:07 <skellat> o/

 20:08 <jose> go for it

 20:08 <skellat> pleia2: What can we do as LoCo Council to serve Ubuntu California?  How can we enable you, equip you, or otherwise make life easier for you at this time?  How may we serve you best?

 20:08 <pleia2> skellat: I think we're doing ok :) I know where to find you

 20:09 <jose> should we move on to voting, then?

 20:09 <skellat> I'm agreeable to that.

 20:09 <costales> It's OK for me :)

 20:09 <SergioMeneses> pleia2, we are starting with a new process of verification, do you have comments about it? something to share about your experience working on it?

 20:10 <pleia2> SergioMeneses: it feels identical to reapproval ;)

 20:10 <costales> hahaha

 20:10 <skellat> With luck that will change over time.

 20:10 <pleia2> having the loco team portal helps a ton though, I can just link to those past events instead of spending tons of time on a wiki page, which was alawys very tedios

 20:11 <jose> it's great to know that some teams find the tools useful

 20:11 <jose> anything else?

 20:11 <skellat> pleia2: One of my goals is to stress during these check-ins is that we are here to serve the local communities and to find out what needs are unmet that we can help fill.  I'm not really worried about red tape but making sure everything is equipped for success.

 20:12 <pleia2> I just got a package delivered, my saucy shirt has arrived in time for our release party on thursday! :D

 20:12 <pleia2> skellat: much appreciated, thank you

 20:12 <skellat> jose: I call for a vote

 20:12 <jose> that motion is in order

 20:12 <jose> #vote California LoCo Team Re-Verification

 20:12 <meetingology> Please vote on: California LoCo Team Re-Verification

 20:12 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:13 <skellat> +1

 20:13 <meetingology> +1 received from skellat

 20:13 <costales> +1 Keep your awesome work team!

 20:13 <meetingology> +1 Keep your awesome work team! received from costales

 20:13 <jose> +1 Keep up that activity level, awesome!

 20:13 <meetingology> +1 Keep up that activity level, awesome! received from jose

 20:14 <SergioMeneses> +1 great work

 20:14 <meetingology> +1 great work received from SergioMeneses

 20:14 <jose> #endvote

 20:14 <meetingology> Voting ended on: California LoCo Team Re-Verification

 20:14 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:14 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:14 <pleia2> thanks everyone!

 20:14 <jedijf> congrats ca and pleia2

 20:14 <jose> congratulations! :)

 20:14 <SergioMeneses> congrats guys!

 20:15 <jose> next up is...

 20:15 <costales> Congrats!!! :D

 20:15 <czajkowski> well done :)

 20:15 <SergioMeneses> pleia2, you're right the process is pretty similar but is the best way to get information from our teams and get in touch :)

 20:15 <jose> #topic Pennsylvania LoCo Team Re-Verification

 20:15 <jedijf> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PennsylvaniaTeam/ReVerificationApplication2013

 20:15 <jedijf> hello council

 20:15 <costales> Hi jedijf !

 20:15 <skellat> Good afternoon jedijf!

 20:15 <jose> hey jedijf!

 20:16 <costales> Good luck team! :)

 20:16 <skellat> What end of the Commonwealth are you located in jedijf?

 20:16 <jedijf> Philly side

 20:16 <SergioMeneses> hi ubuntu pennsylvania!

 20:16 <jedijf> southeastern - the only active area - pretty much, since inception

 20:16 <skellat> Okay, I spent some time living in Indiana County working at IUP and attended Clarion University of PA

 20:16 <SergioMeneses> jedijf, \o

 20:17 <pleia2> I was at fosscon with the PA team this summer, they did an awesome job with installs and fixups for folks who came by :) http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/9478617047/in/set-72157635045154436

 20:17 <jedijf> bhavani was there too!

 20:17 <jedijf> he was smitten with pastry

 20:18 <SergioMeneses> jedijf, I saw it

 20:18 * SergioMeneses wants to go

 20:18 <jedijf> come to 2014 - we're working on a venue right now

 20:19 <skellat> jedijf: How is activity doing beyond the southeastern portion of the state?  Any signs of life or prospects to build upon?

 20:19 <skellat> I may be in Ohio but I'm only a short drive away from Erie if you want somebody to visit and speak perhaps

 20:19 <jedijf> skellat: not really, but as i was doing the reverification, i decided that over the next 2 years that roadtrips to LUGs to promote will be needed

 20:20 <skellat> That sounds good

 20:20 <jedijf> skellat: erie lug, last i heard is inactive

 20:20 <skellat> That sounds not so good

 20:20 <jose> so, I'm checking the LoCo Portal right now, and there aren't many events in there, why aren't you using it?

 20:20 <jedijf> jose: noted - also noted when mentioned to CA

 20:21 <jedijf> will add to administriva list

 20:21 <skellat> If it doesn't do what you need, what do you need it to do for you?

 20:21 <jose> or what do you use instead?

 20:21 <SergioMeneses> jedijf, you seem to be a good team but I dont see referents of the events to the locoteam portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/

 20:21 <jedijf> skellat: not that; merely an oversight

 20:21 <jedijf> SergioMeneses: that will be resolved moving forward

 20:22 <SergioMeneses> jedijf, sure! it is not a big deal, an advice

 20:22 <jedijf> the beauty and bain of multiple communication channels

 20:22 <skellat> Okay, wearing my hat as leader for Ubuntu Ohio I have already filed a few wishlist bugs against LoCo Portal myself as I don't like the way it does a few things

 20:22 <jedijf> after i use it, maybe i will do the same!

 20:22 <skellat> I encourage it

 20:23 <jose> it's a pretty useful tool which devs are keen in improving

 20:23 <jedijf> i did use the Ohio script though (member one)

 20:23 <costales> jedijf: Which type of events is working better in your team? Ubuntu Hours, Jams, Installfests...?

 20:23 <costales> :)

 20:23 <jose> or maybe you do better at talks, roundtables, that stuff?

 20:23 <SergioMeneses> before vote, I want to know if you have any problem in your team or doubts, maybe we can help you

 20:23 <SergioMeneses> jedijf, ↑↑↑

 20:23 <jedijf> costales: fosscon is now our big event - given that we've been around so long, in the philly area, we are definitely a brand

 20:24 <costales> jedijf: Great :)

 20:24 <costales> jedijf: Is a lot of work, right?

 20:24 <jedijf> our work with NTR, a computer repurposer, and the local hackerspaces, and the community in general - that's are biggest promotion

 20:25 <costales> I'm sure :D

 20:25 <jedijf> costales: like pleia2 said - more bodies would be awesome

 20:25 <jose> jedijf: have you recently had any problems or inquiries on the team in which we can give a hand with?

 20:25 <skellat> jedijf: How may we serve your community so that you may achieve greater success?

 20:26 <jedijf> one thing, as i mentioned at the bottom of app is if you could pass on any information that you feel we need to get to the community

 20:26 <skellat> I talked to Jono Bacon about that a little at Ohio Linux Fest

 20:26 <jedijf> i can tell by our forums count there are many lurkers - hopefully they come out - but even if not, giving the info is vital

 20:27 <jose> it's something we're clearly working on, but we need to coordinate it a bit to get it done in a good way :)

 20:27 <jedijf> they will come when the time suits them - just want to keep them engaged until then

 20:27 <skellat> Information gets tricky as we have to balance the business interests of Canonical and the wishes of the community

 20:27 <skellat> That is a matter on our agenda to discuss and take up with Mr. Bacon, though

 20:28 <jose> one last thing I wanted to mention

 20:28 <jedijf> this next 2 years my goal is to start Ubu hours and reach out to distant LUGs to create activity in other areas of the state

 20:28 <jedijf> jose: i'm sorry, go ahead

 20:28 <jose> as we've already said on the mailing list and to you, it would be good if we could get the name of the LP team changed to ~ubuntu-us-pa for it to follow the naming standards :)

 20:29 <jedijf> jose: on it!

 20:29 <jedijf> no printed material

 20:29 <costales> jedijf: Great news! :D I think it'd be very helpful

 20:29 <jedijf> so we're good

 20:29 <SergioMeneses> jose, agree

 20:29 <jedijf> yeah, it's even hard to find myself on the list :)

 20:30 <jose> and if you could change the team's email to the mailing list address that'd be good too

 20:30 <jose> just so people can have contact info handy

 20:30 <jedijf> piece of cake

 20:30 <jose> thanks for the cooperation

 20:30 <costales> yes jedijf, thanks :)

 20:31 <SergioMeneses> jedijf, \o/

 20:31 <jose> so, everyone's ready for a vote?

 20:31 <skellat> I call for a vote

 20:31 <SergioMeneses> skellat, agree

 20:31 <costales> I'm ready

 20:31 <jose> #vote Pennsylvania LoCo Team Re-Verification

 20:31 <meetingology> Please vote on: Pennsylvania LoCo Team Re-Verification

 20:31 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:31 <skellat> +1

 20:31 <meetingology> +1 received from skellat

 20:31 <jose> +1

 20:31 <meetingology> +1 received from jose

 20:31 <costales> +1 Keep your amazing work team! :D

 20:31 <meetingology> +1 Keep your amazing work team! :D received from costales

 20:31 <SergioMeneses> +1 good work and good advices

 20:31 <meetingology> +1 good work and good advices received from SergioMeneses

 20:32 <jose> #endvote

 20:32 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Pennsylvania LoCo Team Re-Verification

 20:32 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:32 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:32 <jedijf> thank you council!

 20:32 <jose> congratulations!

 20:32 <costales> Congrats team!!!

 20:32 <costales> Well done!

 20:32 <IdleOne> yay jedijf and PA!

 20:32 <jthan> IdleOne: come back to PA

 20:32 <IdleOne> jthan: not gonna happen but I am there in spirit

 20:32 <pleia2> congrats PA :)

 20:32 <SergioMeneses> congrats jedijf

 20:32 <jedijf> IdleOne: long time bud - thanks

 20:33 <jthan> IdleOne: <3

 20:33 <jose> keep up the good work, we're sure you'll get more people involved with advocacy :)

 20:33 <waltman> Has anyone mentioned yet how awesome the PA ubuntu team is?

 20:33 <jose> #topic General Announcements

 20:33 <SergioMeneses> jedijf, pleia2 remember if you have a feedback for us, please let us know :)

 20:33 <costales> waltman: +1 :)

 20:33 <SergioMeneses> waltman, :)

 20:35 <jose> first of all, we wanted to mention that we're here to help every team

 20:35 <jose> if any of you needs any help, advice, or even have feedback for us just let us know

 20:36 <jose> we're keen to improve ourselves, as well as our relationship with the teams

 20:36 <jose> then, we also wanted you to know that we have just opened a Twitter account, where we will be posting updates

 20:36 <jose> #LINK https://twitter.com/LoCoCouncil

 20:37 <jose> anything else to discuss, costales, SergioMeneses, skellat?

 20:37 <pleia2> fwiw, I'd love to see a blog post about teams that were (re)verified from the council, even if it's as simple as "congrats, here are links to their approval apps"

 20:37 <pleia2> err, verification :)

 20:38 <jose> noted, will definitely do that in a while!

 20:38 <pleia2> I know there are teams doing great work, but I often don't know about it unless I read the logs, which I don't do

 20:38 <jose> (after I poke IS :P )

 20:38 <SergioMeneses> jose, I'm ok

 20:38 <skellat> jose: I have nothing further to dispose of at this meeting.

 20:38 <SergioMeneses> pleia2, we are working on it :D

 20:38 <costales> pleia2: +1! ;) We were talking about that :D

 20:38 <pleia2> great :)

 20:38 <jose> then, that's all for now, folks!

 20:39 <jedijf> pleia2: thinking uwn?

 20:39 <costales> Thanks jose. Great chat management!

 20:39 <jose> :)

 20:39 <pleia2> jedijf: you know me

 20:39 <jedijf> :)

 20:39 <jose> thanks everyone for coming, and congratulations to us-ca and us-pa!

 20:39 <jose> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
