{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<<BR>>

This page is to describe what each bug status means for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-locoteams|ubuntu-locoteams project on Launchpad]]</nowiki>.

* '''New''': Bug has been just filed, no response from the contact/person in charge yet.
* '''Incomplete''': Cycle has ended and a (re-)verification application is not on file. OR Team has expired and a re-verification application is not on file.
* '''Opinion''': Everything that is not a (re-)verification.
* '''Invalid''': Bug is not valid (can be a duplicate or something really invalid).
* '''Won't fix''': Team doesn't exist / bug has been created in vain / team existed but is now closed.
* '''Confirmed''': Bug has been just filed and the contact/person in charge has replied.
* '''Triaged''': (Re-)verification will be discussed in a meeting.
* '''In Progress''': (Re-)verification voting procedure is currently open and the process is being followed on the bug, not on a meeting.
* '''Fix Committed''': Team is (re-)verificated, but its membership to ~locoteams-verified needs to be (re)set.
* '''Fix Released''': Everything has been done and team has been added to ~locoteams-verified, process is done.
