{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Rule number one:''' KISS - Keep It Simple Stupid!

=== Do we really need a bank account? ===
How many times has money from other volunteers needed to pass through your personal bank account? If it isn't a major inconvenience to you at this point in time then it's not a problem. If you are starting to feel that you need a better money management strategy, please continue reading.

=== If you really need a bank account ===

Minimalist structures often suffice. In Belgium and many other
non-US countries, it is possible to open a bank account for an informal
organisation without too much of a formal structure in place. You just
need to clearly convince the bank of a few things with a small written
statement:
* this is a non-profit, not a money laundery
* there is at least some process in place to decide who gets to be in charge of the money
* the people with access to the bank account are not likely to change a lot

In the US you will often need to incorporate with your local state government. In this case we recommend that you complete a registration for a "not for profit" corporation. The costs and currency requirements are often lower.  It also sets you up for the infamous IRS 501c3 exemption should you desire.

=== Transparency earns you trust ===

You need trust from donors and volunteers, so publish _all_ your monetary transactions to the web:
** anonymise this information only where needed
** both cash & bank, incoming & outgoing transactions
** should you need to keep this private, post information on how interested parties can request/review your documentation

If you plan on using a website for transactions, consider working with your <nowiki>[[http://www.bbb.org/|Better Business Bureau]]</nowiki> or equivalent organization.

=== Accepting donations ===

* For some donors, it may be fiscally interesting to directly pay a bill for your LoCoTeam. This has the additional advantage of being easier for you to administer.
* If someone wants to make a really big donation:
** Always try to make a verifiable trail. Anything is better than cash.
** Thank them: in person, on your blog, on the team list.

=== Spending money ===
 
* Draw a very clear line where you want to spend money in the near future. 
* Have a prioritised wishlist of things that would require funding to happen.
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
