{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Creating a LoCo Forum ==

This page is a guide on the different ways to set up a forum for your LoCo team. 

=== Why Use Ubuntu Forums? ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> has offered to host LoCo forums. Ubuntu Forums is a well known forum, is a great looking site, and is very easy to use.  In addition to that, the sheer number of visitors to Ubuntu Forums guarantees your forum will have exposure to people who love Ubuntu, or are just testing the waters.  Ubuntu Forums has been a great recruiting engine for many LoCo teams.

__ '''Important'''__: If your LoCo team already has a forum please do not request one to help avoid confusion, unless you intend to replace your current one.

=== Getting a LoCo Forum on Ubuntu Forums ===
The LoCo forum we setup for you will be managed by you. We will give you certain permissions to maintain your forum. In the event you need to have a user banned please contact one of the forums administrators to facilitate this for you.

'''Forum Permissions Include''':<<BR>>
# Delete/Undelete Posts & Threads
# Stick or Unstick Threads
# Open/Close Threads and posts
# Move threads
# Merge Threads
# Post announcements in your forum
# Edit users posts

Since the LoCo forum will be managed by you for your team, you are welcomed to speak your native language in your forum. Please keep in mind the rest of the ubuntuforums is English only. Also please keep in mind users must follow the official forum guidelines when posting, we try to maintain a friendly environment for everyone.

'''Requesting your LoCo Forum:'''<<BR>>
Please make sure your project is listed on the LoCo team wiki here: LoCoTeamList. Also, make sure you are the registered contact person for this LoCo Team as per the listing on the LoCoTeamList wiki page.

Make a post at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=181]]</nowiki> with your LoCo team name and the following information:

  1. What subdomain prefix do you want. example: (prefix.ubuntuforums.org)
** For <nowiki>[[USTeams]]</nowiki>, please make sure the full state name is in the prefix, and not the two-letter state code.
## What is your LoCo team name
## The forum user(s) (max 2) who will be the moderator for your forum
** If you only add one, and would like to add another later, send a private message to ubuntugeek on the forums.

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
