{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[..-|<< 원본 보기(English)]]</nowiki>
|}

=== 요약  Summary ===

로코의회는, 승인 후 2년이 지나 재-승인이 필요한 로코팀의 확인 작업을 해왔습니다.
재-승인 기준은 <nowiki>[[LoCoGettingApproved|승인 절차 설명서]]</nowiki>에 요약된 승인 기준과 같습니다. 그리고 로코팀 의회 안내문은 <nowiki>[[LoCoCouncil-TeamApprovalGuidelines|로코팀 승인 안내문]]</nowiki>에서 찾아 볼 수 있습니다.

이러한 재-승인 과정을 모두에게 명확히 나타내기 위하여 각 로코팀은 지난 승인받은 날 이후의 모든 행사와 일정을 문서로 유지해야 합니다.

~-The Lo``Co Council has been tasked with identifying Approved Lo``Co teams which were approved over 2 years ago and thus are due for re-approval. The criteria for re approval is the same as for approval which is outlined on the <nowiki>[[LoCoGettingApproved|getting approved instructions]]</nowiki> and the Lo``Co Council guidelines can be found at <nowiki>[[LoCoCouncil-TeamApprovalGuidelines|the team approval guidelines]]</nowiki>.

It should be noted that from the day your Lo``Co is approved, you should continue to document all events and history of your LoCo for this re approval process to make it clear and visible to all.-~

=== 재 승인 절차  Re approval Process ===

재-승인을 위해 로코팀을 확인하고 인정하려 할 때, 아래와 같이 처리합니다.

* 로코의회는 로코 명단에서 2년이상된 로코 팀을 확인합니다.
* 로코의회 의원은 재-승인을 위하여 로코팀의 연락책에서 선발되며, 그가 속한 로코팀은 재-승인 할 수 없습니다.
* 로코의회의 연락책은 재-승인을 위한 로코팀과의 연락을 시도할 것입니다.
** 로코의회는 (1개월로) 명시된 기간동안  (3회 이상) 충분한 횟수로 연락을 취할 것입니다.
** 만약 로코의회가 로코팀으로부터 답변을 못받으면 승인되지 않습니다.
* 로코의회는 다음 번(또는 다른 편한 때의)로코의회 모임에 로코팀 회원의 참석을 요청할 것입니다.
* 모임 동안 로코의회는 로코팀 (처음)승인과 같은 절차에 따라 재-승인 처리할 것입니다.

~-The following process is used when identifying and then qualifying a Lo``Co team for re-approval.-~

* ~-The Lo``Co Council identifies teams which have been approved for more than 2 years, on the LoCo directory-~
* ~-A member of the Lo``Co Council is selected to be the point of contact with the Lo``Co team for re-approval, council members shall not re approve their own LoCo.-~
* ~-The Lo``Co Council point of contact will attempt to contact the Lo``Co team which is up for re-approval-~
** ~-The Lo``Co Council will attempt to contact the Lo``Co team a reasonable number of times (3) over a reasonable period (1 month)-~
** ~-If the Lo``Co Council receives no response from the Lo``Co team then the Lo``Co team will be unapproved-~
* ~-The Lo``Co Council will request that member(s) of the Lo``Co team attend the next (or another convenient) Lo``Co Council meeting-~
* ~-During the meeting the Lo``Co Council will go through the same approval process for re-approvals as they do for Lo``Co team approvals.-~

=== 로코 의회 팀 LoCoCouncil Team ===

재-승인 과정과 관련하여 얘기들을 수 있는 현재 로코의회 의원들입니다.

~-The members of the current Lo``Co Council you will hear from are  regarding this re approval process are-~

* Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
* Alan Pope (popey)
* Jan Claeys (janc)
* Efrain Valles (effie-jayx)
* Christophe Sauthier (huats)
* Chris Crisafulli (itnet7)

=== Re approval List ===

아래는 재-승인을 위해 평가중인 로코팀의 명단입니다.

~-This is the current list of teams that are being assessed for re-approval.-~

수시로 갱신되기 때문에, 오늘 싯점의 정확한 명단은 영어로 된 원본 페이지를 참고하십시오.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[..-|<< 원본 보기(English)]]</nowiki>
|}
아래의 내용은 더이상 유효하지 않습니다.

==== Round 1 ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Approved Date'''
| '''LoCoCouncil Contact'''
| '''Meeting Date'''
| '''Progress'''
| '''Reapproved'''
|-
| Ubuntu El Salvador Team
| 20080605
| Chris Crisafulli (itnet7)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Ecuador Team
| 20080605
| Alan Pope (popey)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Lithuanian Lo``Co Team
| 20080722
| Jan Claeys (janc)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Florida Lo``Co Team
| 20070927
| Christophe Sauthier (huats)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Belgian Local Community Team
| 20061017
| Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
| 
| Emailed 21/1/10 1st contact
| 
|-
| Colorado Ubuntu Local Team
| 20060711
| Efrain Valles (effie-jayx)
| 
| 
| 
|}

==== Round 2 ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Approved Date'''
| '''LoCoCouncil Contact'''
| '''Meeting Date'''
| '''Progress'''
| '''Reapproved'''
|-
| DCTeam Lo``Co
| 
| (TBD)
| Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
| 
| 
|-
| Catalan Lo``Co Team
| 
| (TBD)
| Efrain Valles (effie-jayx)
| 
| 
|-
| Georgia Lo``Co
| 
| (TBD)
| Jan Claeys (janc)
| 
| 
|-
| German Ubuntu Lo``Co Team
| 
| (TBD)
| Christophe Sauthier (huats)
| 
| 
|-
| Indiana Lo``Co Team
| 
| (TBD)
| Chris Crisafulli (itnet7)
| 
| 
|-
| Kurdish Kurmanji Team
| 
| (TBD)
| Alan Pope (popey)
| 
| 
|}

==== Round 3 ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Approved Date'''
| '''LoCoCouncil Contact'''
| '''Meeting Date'''
| '''Progress'''
| '''Reapproved'''
|-
| Pennsylvania - US Lo``Co Team
| 
| (TBD)
| Chris Crisafulli (itnet7)
| 
| 
|-
| Russian Team
| 
| (TBD)
| Christophe Sauthier (huats)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Australian Team
| 
| (TBD)
| Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Austria Lo``Co team
| 
| (TBD)
| Jan Claeys (janc)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Bangladesh
| 
| (TBD)
| Efrain Valles (effie-jayx)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Brazilian Users
| 
| (TBD)
| Alan Pope (popey)
| 
| 
|}

==== Round 4 ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Approved Date'''
| '''LoCoCouncil Contact'''
| '''Meeting Date'''
| '''Progress'''
| '''Reapproved'''
|-
| Ubuntu Canada Team
| 
| (TBD)
| Efrain Valles (effie-jayx)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Chicago Lo``Co Team
| 
| (TBD)
| Chris Crisafulli (itnet7)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Chile
| 
| (TBD)
| Christophe Sauthier (huats)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Colombia
| 
| (TBD)
| Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Croatian Advocates
| 
| (TBD)
| Alan Pope (popey)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Czech Republic
| 
| (TBD)
| Jan Claeys (janc)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu DK
| 
| (TBD)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Finland Team
| 
| (TBD)
| 
| 
| 
|}

