{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by greg-g at 20:01:27 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-03-20-20.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Egypt LoCo Approval
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/ApprovalApplication   (czajkowski, 20:02:51)

  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/ApprovalApplication   (greg-g, 20:03:11)

* AOB

* approval/reapproval process
  ''ACTION:'' SergioMeneses to update LoCo Council wiki pages with updated text  (greg-g, 20:24:19)

  ''ACTION:'' czajkowski to ask dpm for translation help  (greg-g, 20:25:08)

  ''ACTION:'' czajkowski will add the announcement to the Council blog  (greg-g, 20:25:30)

  ''ACTION:'' greg-g to write a quick post re the updated policy document  (greg-g, 20:27:12)

  ''ACTION:'' xdatap1 to separate out the list of Council members to separate page and <<include>> where appropriate  (greg-g, 20:29:44)

Meeting ended at 20:31:48 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* Egypt LoCo Approval
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* SergioMeneses to update LoCo Council wiki pages with updated text
* czajkowski to ask dpm for translation help
* czajkowski will add the announcement to the Council blog
* greg-g to write a quick post re the updated policy document
* xdatap1 to separate out the list of Council members to separate page and <<include>> where appropriate

=== Action items, by person ===

* czajkowski
** czajkowski to ask dpm for translation help
** czajkowski will add the announcement to the Council blog
* greg-g
** greg-g to write a quick post re the updated policy document
* SergioMeneses
** SergioMeneses to update LoCo Council wiki pages with updated text
* xdatap1
** xdatap1 to separate out the list of Council members to separate page and <<include>> where appropriate

=== People present (lines said) ===

* greg-g (57)
* thelinuxer (54)
* czajkowski (37)
* meetingology (19)
* SergioMeneses (17)
* xdatap1 (14)
* itnet7 (6)
* huats (4)
* paultag (3)
* YoBoY (2)
* Menopia (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:01:27 <greg-g> #startmeeting

 20:01:27 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Mar 20 20:01:27 2012 UTC.  The chair is greg-g. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:01:27 <meetingology> 

 20:01:27 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:01:50 <czajkowski> thelinuxer: ping

 20:01:55 <thelinuxer> hi czajkowski

 20:02:03 <greg-g> We only have one thing on the agenda today, and that is the approval of the Egyptian LoCo

 20:02:09 <greg-g> hi thelinuxer

 20:02:12 <czajkowski> anyone else here from the team

 20:02:14 <thelinuxer> hi greg-g

 20:02:20 <huats> hello

 20:02:21 <greg-g> do you mind doing a quick introduction of the Egyptian LoCo?

 20:02:24 <thelinuxer> yes ashams MohamedAlaa98

 20:02:29 <thelinuxer> greg-g: of course

 20:02:30 <greg-g> #topic Egypt LoCo Approval

 20:02:45 <thelinuxer> the team started to be really active almost 2 years ago

 20:02:51 <czajkowski> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/ApprovalApplication

 20:02:53 <SergioMeneses> hi guys

 20:03:03 <thelinuxer> we made our main objective to introduce more people to free software

 20:03:11 <thelinuxer> and we decided that ubuntu was the right way to go

 20:03:11 <greg-g> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/ApprovalApplication

 20:03:21 <thelinuxer> we had several install fests

 20:03:25 <thelinuxer> workshops

 20:03:46 <thelinuxer> and of course we do support on our different channels, IRC, Faceboook ...etc

 20:03:47 <greg-g> there was a choice? :)

 20:03:49 <SergioMeneses> thelinuxer, nice pictures!

 20:03:52 <greg-g> (of Ubuntu vs ???) ;)

 20:04:02 <thelinuxer> SergioMeneses: thanks check out more on facebook

 20:04:12 <czajkowski> lovely application folks well done

 20:04:17 <czajkowski> does make things a lot easier!

 20:04:21 <thelinuxer> czajkowski: thanks

 20:04:25 <thelinuxer> yes we had a choice :)

 20:04:33 <SergioMeneses> they have a good number of ubuntu members

 20:04:33 <thelinuxer> but ubuntu was winning in every way :)

 20:04:49 <itnet7> Very concise, I really enjoyed reading about what the Egypt team has been doing

 20:04:49 <greg-g> thelinuxer: :) I know I know, we all do. I'm not always serious in meetings :)

 20:05:05 <thelinuxer> itnet7: thanks :)

 20:05:38 <thelinuxer> are there any questions ?

 20:05:50 <czajkowski> yup

 20:05:55 <czajkowski> thelinuxer: so tell us how things are done in your tema

 20:05:57 <czajkowski> *team

 20:06:02 <czajkowski> how do you organise events?

 20:06:13 <czajkowski> any issues you've come across and how you've delt with them

 20:06:33 <thelinuxer> yes of course there are always issues with venues

 20:06:49 <thelinuxer> but most of this is solved because we have so many active members in different universities

 20:06:56 <thelinuxer> which is really a good place for our events

 20:07:10 <czajkowski> nods

 20:07:13 <czajkowski> true

 20:07:14 * greg-g nods to issues associated with venues

 20:07:20 <thelinuxer> mostly to organize an event we set a date for it like a week after the release date

 20:07:32 <thelinuxer> then we start to search for an appropriate venues

 20:07:34 * greg-g nods

 20:07:46 <SergioMeneses> thelinuxer, I like the new structure, it's working now?

 20:07:56 <thelinuxer> we start calling for volunteers for the help desk activities and FAQs and giving presentations

 20:08:13 <thelinuxer> we are actually test driving it right now

 20:08:29 <thelinuxer> some bugs have been reported on launchpad

 20:08:35 <thelinuxer> but it's not 100% active

 20:08:42 <thelinuxer> still some rough edges :)

 20:09:02 <SergioMeneses> thelinuxer, ok!...

 20:09:11 <thelinuxer> SergioMeneses: :)

 20:09:20 <czajkowski> you do seem very active my only concern is many members being from unis, will they still be involved once they finish and how to get non uni folks invovled

 20:09:59 <thelinuxer> we are trying our best, but the fact is if we get for students involved then this technology choice would adopted by companies

 20:10:04 <thelinuxer> and hence we can make real change

 20:10:09 <czajkowski> great stuf

 20:10:15 <czajkowski> I've no other questions

 20:10:18 <thelinuxer> we also have a couple of members who has graduated and they are still active

 20:10:24 <xdatap1> thelinuxer, I like the idea of an orientation session. Could you tell us more about it. How do it works? Is it online or face-face activity?

 20:10:25 <itnet7> Definitely true thelinuxer

 20:10:27 <greg-g> very good.

 20:10:44 <thelinuxer> xdatap1: sure

 20:10:48 <czajkowski> I will say I'm not gone on the use of n00b would perfer to see the word new user. but that's my only comment

 20:11:11 <greg-g> #voters czajkowski itnet7 huats greg-g xdatap1

 20:11:11 <meetingology> Current voters: czajkowski greg-g huats itnet7 xdatap1

 20:11:13 <thelinuxer> czajkowski: sure we can think about another geeky term :)

 20:11:16 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, I'm agree

 20:11:20 <greg-g> agreed re "n00b" :)

 20:11:28 <greg-g> alright, I think we ready to vote!

 20:11:32 <xdatap1> greg-g, wait, I asked a question

 20:11:37 <greg-g> ah, yes, please do

 20:11:38 <thelinuxer> xdatap1: the session should includedfull details about how the team works

 20:11:49 <thelinuxer> and what's the different activities people can get involved in

 20:12:04 <thelinuxer> if it's offline then it would be a normal presentation so the new folks would meet the team

 20:12:18 <thelinuxer> and if online we can use IRC, Google+ or whatever platform we choose

 20:12:28 <thelinuxer> )done answering the question :

 20:12:31 <thelinuxer> :)*

 20:12:42 <greg-g> :)

 20:12:54 <xdatap1> thelinuxer, thanks, it's a nice idea, congrats

 20:13:02 <greg-g> any other questions? I don't want to step on anyone's toes. Hard to read people's faces over IRC :)

 20:13:04 <thelinuxer> xdatap1: thank you very much

 20:13:14 <itnet7> good here

 20:13:25 <xdatap1> thelinuxer, last info, just a curiosity

 20:14:05 <thelinuxer> xdatap1: please do

 20:14:13 <xdatap1> thelinuxer, egypt is a very big country. Where are from most of the members? Are them mainly from big cities or do you have people from all around?

 20:14:33 <thelinuxer> i am happy you asked that

 20:14:45 <thelinuxer> our biggest governorates are Alexandria and Cairo

 20:14:55 <thelinuxer> a great number of members are from these 2

 20:15:08 <thelinuxer> but also there is a small governorate called Mansoura

 20:15:21 <thelinuxer> some people from Mansoura joined the team

 20:15:35 <thelinuxer> and one of our very active members is originally from Mansoura

 20:15:41 * xdatap1 checking the map :)

 20:15:55 <thelinuxer> they are planning to start a team there but it hasn't been officially on

 20:16:16 <thelinuxer> and they were the ones who gave us a chance to participate in OSDay in Mansoura

 20:16:36 <xdatap1> cool! Thanks thelinuxer!

 20:16:43 <thelinuxer> xdatap1: yw :)

 20:16:56 <greg-g> awesome

 20:17:00 <xdatap1> greg-g, I'm ready to vote

 20:17:12 <greg-g> alrighty, I think we're all ready then

 20:17:27 <greg-g> #vote Egypt LoCo Approval

 20:17:27 <meetingology> Please vote on: Egypt LoCo Approval

 20:17:27 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:17:46 <greg-g> +1

 20:17:46 <meetingology> +1 received from greg-g

 20:17:48 <itnet7> +1

 20:17:48 <meetingology> +1 received from itnet7

 20:17:52 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:17:59 <xdatap1> +1 keep up the good work

 20:17:59 <meetingology> +1 keep up the good work received from xdatap1

 20:18:07 <czajkowski> +1 well done

 20:18:07 <meetingology> +1 well done received from czajkowski

 20:18:13 <paultag> 20:11 < greg-g> #voters czajkowski itnet7 huats greg-g xdatap1

 20:18:18 <paultag> you missed SergioMeneses

 20:18:20 <huats> +1

 20:18:20 <meetingology> +1 received from huats

 20:18:23 <huats> great work

 20:18:24 <greg-g> whoops!

 20:18:29 <paultag> :)

 20:18:30 <greg-g> #endvote

 20:18:30 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Egypt LoCo Approval

 20:18:30 <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:18:30 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:18:35 <huats> I realy like the  application

 20:18:37 <SergioMeneses> I see

 20:18:39 <thelinuxer> thanks everyone :)

 20:18:41 <xdatap1> congratulation thelinuxer !

 20:18:43 <greg-g> oh well, Egypt still was approved without SergioMeneses' vote :)

 20:18:48 <thelinuxer> huats: that's Menopia's work our designer :)

 20:18:50 <Menopia> thanks everyone :)

 20:18:56 <SergioMeneses> greg-g, :D

 20:19:01 <greg-g> great job thelinuxer and everyone else in the Egypt team

 20:19:10 <itnet7> Awesome job, way to go!!

 20:19:14 <greg-g> SergioMeneses: my apologies, my second faux pas during the meeting ;)

 20:19:20 <thelinuxer> Thanks again I will go spread the news :)

 20:19:25 <czajkowski> well done folks

 20:19:26 <SergioMeneses> thelinuxer, congratulations

 20:19:31 <greg-g> is there any other business for this LoCo Council meeting?

 20:19:36 <SergioMeneses> greg-g, don't worry!

 20:19:36 <czajkowski> and again if you could use another word for n00b like new user that would be best

 20:19:36 <greg-g> #topic AOB

 20:19:43 <thelinuxer> SergioMeneses: thanks :)

 20:19:49 <czajkowski> we have a new wiki page created

 20:19:53 <czajkowski> for approval/re approval process

 20:20:02 <thelinuxer> czajkowski: we will reconsider the names for sure

 20:20:04 <czajkowski> it would be good to get that out there and possibly ask for translations

 20:20:13 <czajkowski> so we need to A) update our wiki page

 20:20:17 <greg-g> #topic approval/reapproval process

 20:20:18 <czajkowski> b) post to loco contacts

 20:20:21 <czajkowski> c) add to a blog

 20:20:24 <czajkowski> d) translate

 20:21:19 <greg-g> alright, who wants to edit the wiki and who can do the announcements?

 20:21:25 <xdatap1> czajkowski, +1 it looks like a good plan

 20:22:09 <czajkowski> it's basically copy n paste from sergio and pop into our wiki

 20:22:13 <SergioMeneses> we have to chage this page too https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/TeamApprovalGuidelines

 20:23:12 <greg-g> so, just that page and this one, right https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval ?

 20:23:30 <greg-g> SergioMeneses: mind updating the wiki sense you have the wiki text, right?

 20:23:36 <czajkowski> yes

 20:23:37 <greg-g> s/sense/since/

 20:23:43 <czajkowski> which does make sense

 20:23:44 <czajkowski> :)

 20:24:19 <greg-g> #action SergioMeneses to update LoCo Council wiki pages with updated text

 20:24:19 * meetingology SergioMeneses to update LoCo Council wiki pages with updated text

 20:24:22 <greg-g> thanks SergioMeneses  ;)

 20:24:33 <SergioMeneses> greg-g, jaja

 20:24:34 <SergioMeneses> oks

 20:24:38 <xdatap1> thanks SergioMeneses  :)

 20:24:50 <czajkowski> once there're done I can ask dpm to get the translations in order

 20:24:53 <greg-g> alright, blogger, anyone want to blog? I can if no one else does

 20:24:59 <greg-g> czajkowski: cool, thanks

 20:25:07 <czajkowski> greg-g: I'll add it to the loco council blog

 20:25:08 <greg-g> #action czajkowski to ask dpm for translation help

 20:25:08 * meetingology czajkowski to ask dpm for translation help

 20:25:17 <czajkowski> once I find my login

 20:25:22 <czajkowski> :)

 20:25:28 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, :D

 20:25:30 <greg-g> #action czajkowski will add the announcement to the Council blog

 20:25:30 * meetingology czajkowski will add the announcement to the Council blog

 20:25:57 <greg-g> czajkowski: do you want me to write a quick "Here's our updated policy..." post you can copy paste?

 20:27:01 <greg-g> "sure"

 20:27:12 <greg-g> #action greg-g to write a quick post re the updated policy document

 20:27:12 * meetingology greg-g to write a quick post re the updated policy document

 20:27:24 <greg-g> I think that's it for that topic

 20:27:27 <greg-g> anything else?

 20:27:37 <YoBoY> can I suggest you to keep the list of the LC members on a separate page to let translator include this list and not "translate it" ? it can help to keep all the page updated

 20:28:11 <greg-g> YoBoY: yeah, not sure why we're listed there, honestly. It might be an <<include>>'d page anyway

 20:28:18 <xdatap1> we can keep them in a separate page and then include it

 20:28:27 <greg-g> (oh, its not)

 20:28:28 <czajkowski> greg-g: sure :)

 20:28:51 <YoBoY> greg-g: there or on other pages. can be usefull on lot of other pages :)

 20:28:58 <SergioMeneses> the list is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil

 20:29:08 <greg-g> xdatap1: mind doing that? making it a separate page that we include where appropriate?

 20:29:21 <xdatap1> I can fix it, no problem

 20:29:27 <greg-g> cool, thanks

 20:29:44 <greg-g> #action xdatap1 to separate out the list of Council members to separate page and <<include>> where appropriate

 20:29:44 * meetingology xdatap1 to separate out the list of Council members to separate page and <<include>> where appropriate

 20:30:00 <greg-g> anything else?

 20:30:46 <greg-g> going once...

 20:30:55 <SergioMeneses> greg-g, continue

 20:31:21 <greg-g> going twice

 20:31:26 <greg-g> going a third time... :)

 20:31:33 <greg-g> alright, thanks everyone for showing up!

 20:31:35 <itnet7> :-)

 20:31:40 <czajkowski> nope all good

 20:31:44 <czajkowski> thanks greg-g

 20:31:46 <greg-g> have a great rest of the day!

 20:31:48 <greg-g> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
