{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The !LoCo Council is currently not established, therefore meetings are paused. New elections are being held. The upcoming !LoCo Council can then decide on a new schedule and will update this page accordingly. 

=== Who Should Attend ===

Members of the !LoCo Council, Teams up for Verification/Re-Verification, !LoCo contact persons or a representative of each !LoCo and anyone who would like to observe or comment on the topics for discussion.

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

Please put a brief statement of the issue to be discussed here, and link to a more detailed description or summary elsewhere in the wiki.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
| Supporting Documentation
|-
| The Council
| Review list of pending active cases
| Not Applicable
|-
| ubuntu-co
| LoCo Team reapproval request for Colombia
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2019| Wiki presentation Colombia 2019]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-US-AZ
| Re-verification
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-VerificationApplication2019| Arizona Team Re-Verification Application 2019]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-ve
| Re-verification
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/Re-VerificationApplication2019| Venezuela Team Re-Verification Application 2019]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-MM
| Re-verification
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MyanmarTeam/VerificationApplication2020 | Myanmar Team Re-Verification Application 2020]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-FR
| Re-verification
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrenchTeam/ReVerificationApplication2020 | French Team Re-Verification Application 2020]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| 
|}

=== LoCoTeams ===

If you want your team considered to be a ''Verified Team'' or going through ''Re-Verification'' see LoCoCouncil/TeamVerificationGuidelines and follow the instructions. Ensure you '''attend the meeting'''.

=== Previous Meetings ===
You can view the previous meetings in this link:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Minutes

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
