{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== LoCo Teams for Approval/Re-Approval ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Country or area
| Wiki page
| Homepage
| Contact
| Date
| Reason
|-
| <nowiki>[[TurkishTeam|Turkey]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[TurkishTeam-ReapprovalApplication|ReApproval Application]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[TurkishTeam|Wiki]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[SerkanCalis|SerkanCalis ]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[Tansel|Tansel]]</nowiki>
| 21-September-2010
| Re-approval
|-
| <nowiki>[[PeruvianTeam|Per√∫]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[PeruvianTeam-ApprovalApplication|Application]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-pe.org|Website]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[xander21c|Michael Garrido]]</nowiki>
| 21-September-2010
| Re-approval
|-
| <nowiki>[[TamilTeam|Tamil Nadu, India]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[TamilTeam-ReapprovalApplication|ReApproval Application]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[TamilTeam|Wiki]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[nagaraja|Nagaraja ]]</nowiki>
| 21-September-2010
| Re-approval
|-
| <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam|Kentucky]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam-ReApprovalApplication|ReApproval Application]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam|Wiki]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[EricLake|Eric Lake (etank) ]]</nowiki>
| 21-September-2010
| Re-approval
|}

=== IRC Logs ===

<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[15:01:50] <czajkowski> just waking to pub
[15:01:55] <popey> hah
[15:02:20] <popey> shall we start with the loco teams?
[15:02:32] <huats> sure popey !
[15:03:24] <czajkowski> ok
[15:03:27] <popey> #topic Turkish LoCo Team reapproval
[15:03:31] <popey> bah
[15:03:39] <popey> i can never drive this thing
[15:03:44] <czajkowski> :)
[15:03:48] <popey> [TOPIC] Turkish LoCo Team reapproval
[15:03:59] <popey> oops
[15:04:03] <popey> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
[15:04:11] <popey> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TurkishTeam/ReapprovalApplication
[15:04:30] <popey> anyone here from Turkish LoCo?
[15:04:34] <bytan> Hi all
[15:04:40] <bytan> I am :)
[15:04:44] <popey> hey bytan
[15:04:57] <huats> hello bytan
[15:05:41] <bytan> hello popey huats
[15:06:04] <popey> ok, lets take some time to look at the application, do any of the loco council have any questions?
[15:06:11] <itnet7> Hey there bytan
[15:06:15] <huats> bytan, can you please talk to us a little more on what you did since your approval ?
[15:06:20] <czajkowski> the wiki application is very bare to be honest
[15:06:40] <huats> because I must say it isn't very explaining it
[15:06:59] <popey> http://sudo.ubuntu-tr.net/ is very smart
[15:07:18] <itnet7> Doesn't appear to be much activity since 2008, at least by looking at the Wiki's and Re-approval page
[15:07:28] * itnet7 goes to look at 
[15:07:40] <itnet7> sudo.ubuntu-tr.net
[15:08:11] <bytan> Yes, thats true, i aggre abt our wiki page. but in shortly, we have created E-zine, SUDO for our users, and a team for that E-zine. We created a team for Turkish Translation and you may see how hard they work on launchpad
[15:09:38] <itnet7> bytan: are any of the ezine's published or translated in other languages?
[15:10:36] <bytan> We have a team for FCM ezine to translate turkish
[15:11:35] <czajkowski> is heartsmagic about?
[15:11:48] <popey> you have an active wiki I see
[15:12:26] <popey> anyone else here for turkey?
[15:12:27] <bytan> Heartsmagic is working now. and I talked to him today, if he could, he would like to come us later
[15:12:50] <bytan> but probablly he cant.
[15:16:09] <popey> bytan: is there any reason it's just you here representing the team?
[15:17:11] <bytan> i am one of the leaders too,
[15:17:12] <bytan> http://forum.ubuntu-tr.net/index.php/topic,12295.0.html
[15:17:43] <huats> bytan, I think the question was more, why are you alone, since you have quite a team...
[15:17:45] <popey> wow
[15:17:55] <popey> thats quite a team structure
[15:19:10] <bytan> why only me? i think i am the only one who is available :)
[15:19:26] <popey> heh, everyone busy translating huh? :D
[15:19:45] <popey> are we ready to vote itnet7 czajkowski huats ?
[15:19:45] <bytan> The last edition of SUDO has published yesterday, thats why they cant come here.
[15:19:53] <czajkowski> aye
[15:19:59] <huats> yep
[15:20:19] <popey> [VOTE] Turkish LoCo Team Re-Approval
[15:20:25] <popey> only loco council vote please
[15:20:26] <popey> +1
[15:20:29] <itnet7> +1
[15:20:33] <czajkowski> -1
[15:20:38] <huats> 0
[15:20:46] <huats> +0
[15:20:52] <popey> [ENDVOTE]
[15:21:00] <popey> hmm, so whats that mean? :)
[15:21:11] <bytan> i wonder? :)
[15:21:19] <popey> thats yes surely, it's positive
[15:21:24] <czajkowski> i'd like to see turkey come back next month with a bit more detail and preferably more people present or we can take it to email
[15:21:28] <popey> <- mathematics fail
[15:21:47] <czajkowski> or does it mean 2 and a pass....
[15:21:56] <huats> bytan, I am clearly pleased by your team work.I am just a bit disapointed by the application that is not presenting your great work :(
[15:22:54] <bytan> i understand that.
[15:23:15] <popey> bytan: can you build up that wiki page with some more detail?
[15:23:33] <popey> and then email the loco council when done and we can disucss over email?
[15:23:51] <bytan> ReapprovalApplication wiki page?
[15:23:54] <popey> yes
[15:24:06] <popey> add detail about the things the loco does, activities?
[15:25:01] <popey> is that okay?
[15:25:01] <bytan> of course, we can do that and we inform you again
[15:25:15] <itnet7> bytan: according to the re-approval wiki it seemed as though you were in pause since like 2008
[15:25:25] <itnet7> and we know that's not the case
[15:25:59] <popey> bytan: just update the wiki with what's been happening in the loco over the last year, and then email loco-council@lists.ubuntu.com and we'll take a look and let you know right away.
[15:26:22] <popey> no need to attend another meeting
[15:26:42] <bytan> i understand what exactly you want, and we will email again
[15:26:51] <popey> magic!
[15:26:51] <czajkowski> thanks
[15:26:52] <popey> thanks!
[15:26:54] <itnet7> Thanks bytan !
[15:27:03] <popey> ok, lets move on to Peru
[15:27:06] <bytan> thanks all
[15:27:22] <popey> [TOPIC] Peru LoCo Approval Application
[15:27:27] <popey> Anyone here from Peru!?
[15:28:51] <huats> popey, I have just pinged nxvl on another channel without answer yet
[15:28:58] <popey> heh, ditto :)
[15:29:12] <popey> ok, lets move on then
[15:29:40] <popey> [TOPIC] Tamil Nadu LoCo Re-Approval Application
[15:29:48] <popey> Anyone from the Tamil Nadu team here?
[15:30:39] <nxvl> here
[15:31:01] <huats> ah nxvl finally !
[15:31:05] <popey> aha
[15:31:24] <nxvl> sorry, was picking my sister from school
[15:31:27] <popey> nxvl: are you / your team ready?
[15:31:34] <huats> popey, may be we can go again to Peru since noone shows up from Tamil Nadu
[15:31:48] <nxvl> i'm just asking michael to join us
[15:31:59] <popey> sure, if they're ready
[15:32:05] <nxvl> he was the one in charge of putting the missing web page together
[15:32:13] <nxvl> since he is in charge of the events
[15:32:14] <popey> [TOPIC] Peru LoCo Approval Application
[15:32:18] <nxvl> which was the part missing last time
[15:32:39] <nxvl> here he is
[15:32:46] <nxvl> xander21c: your audience
[15:32:58] <xander21c> Hi
[15:33:07] <popey> hi
[15:33:18] <popey> can you tell us a bit about what the Peru LoCo has been doing this year?
[15:34:00] <xander21c> Well
[15:34:27] <xander21c> we have participated on many events
[15:34:54] <nxvl> pictures!
[15:35:33] <xander21c> also work on improved colaboration between Ubuntu Peru and other Local communities
[15:35:46] <nxvl> http://picasaweb.google.com/xander21c
[15:36:07] <nxvl> wait, that's outdated
[15:36:25] <nxvl> but you have a couple of end of last year events
[15:36:37] <nxvl> like this one: http://picasaweb.google.com/xander21c/FESOLI2009#
[15:37:25] <popey> do the loco council have any questions?
[15:38:05] <itnet7> xander21c: Has your team done team reports?
[15:38:18] <huats> popey, where is the app link ?
[15:38:23] <popey> oops
[15:38:31] <popey> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PeruvianTeam/ApprovalApplication
[15:38:44] <huats> :)
[15:38:56] <huats> (I was just asking for mootbot)
[15:39:15] <popey> good man
[15:39:29] <huats> xander21c, is it normal that there is nothing under experiences ?
[15:39:59] <xander21c> no
[15:40:01] <huats> xander21c, the wiki page is quite outdated to me (since I know nxvl is a MOTU for almost 2 years)
[15:40:05] <popey> Where does most of the team communication happen? The mailing list seems quite idle.
[15:40:23] <nxvl> huats: 2 years an a month actually
[15:40:41] <nxvl> but we forgot to update that exact part
[15:40:42] <xander21c> actually we are working on the website and other services (list, wiki update, etc)
[15:41:04] <nxvl> wait
[15:41:06] <xander21c> a new website and stuff
[15:41:08] <nxvl> that's the app aplication
[15:41:12] <nxvl> we are on re-aproval
[15:41:41] <nxvl> xander21c: isn't that in a different page?
[15:42:30] <nxvl> oh no that's the page, they forgot to update that part :S
[15:42:45] <nxvl> we also have a second MOTU
[15:42:46] <nxvl> well, had
[15:42:52] <nxvl> not Florida loco steal him from us
[15:42:53] <nxvl> :P
[15:42:56] <itnet7> We stole him
[15:42:56] <nxvl> now*
[15:42:57] <itnet7> :-)
[15:43:20] <nxvl> itnet7: you evil!
[15:43:30] <popey> how come the website is down?
[15:43:58] <nxvl> is it down?
[15:44:06] <nxvl> the wiki is up
[15:44:11] <nxvl> http://www.ubuntu-pe.org/
[15:44:13] <nxvl> it's up
[15:44:16] <nxvl> works here at least
[15:44:22] <xander21c> yes
[15:44:32] <xander21c> was down yesteardy :)
[15:44:40] <popey> Mantenimiento
[15:44:41] <popey> Volveremos pronto!
[15:44:43] <popey> is all I see
[15:44:49] <nxvl> that's weird
[15:44:52] <xander21c> refresh
[15:44:58] <jfalco> working here
[15:45:03] <etank> i see it too
[15:45:04] <popey> ok now
[15:45:06] <popey> how odd
[15:46:13] <nxvl> viperhood have had a couple of issues with the page AFAIK, since canonical doesn't give him enough permissions to edit stuff, i'm assuming he is asking for to much
[15:46:31] <nxvl> and we are moving to a new server soon
[15:46:48] <nxvl> own controled server so he can play a bit more with it
[15:46:56] <popey> sorry, i didnt hget an answer to my question earlier i think
[15:46:59] <nxvl> but he is in classes right now, IIUC
[15:47:01] <popey> 21:40:05 <@popey> Where does most of the team communication happen? The mailing list seems quite idle.
[15:47:17] <nxvl> i didn't saw it
[15:47:27] <nxvl> we have a channel on freenode
[15:47:30] <nxvl> where people come an ask
[15:48:16] <nxvl> in peru there are a lot of ML, and they have a really bad (forgot the word, but people think really bad about MLs)
[15:48:16] <itnet7> nxvl: does the team do team minutes? Or any team reporting?
[15:48:30] <nxvl> not that i'm aware of
[15:48:47] <nxvl> i need to admit i'm to busy lately to be really involved
[15:48:52] <xander21c> popey: usually gets more traffic after a release
[15:48:55] <nxvl> i try to help with what i can, but it's not much
[15:49:18] <nxvl> reputation, the work was reputation!
[15:49:29] <itnet7> the word!
[15:49:33] <itnet7> gotcha!
[15:49:34] <nxvl> yeah, that
[15:49:38] <itnet7> :-)
[15:49:44] <nxvl> it's afternoon
[15:50:16] <nxvl> my brain is tired at this time of the day
[15:50:17] <nxvl> :P
[15:50:29] <popey> ok, time to vote (LoCo Council members only)
[15:50:40] <popey> [VOTE] Approval of Peru LoCo Team.
[15:50:43] <xander21c> itnet7: actually I was working with Dante Diaz (vipehoot) in order to refresh the site, an planning ways to keep everything update
[15:51:03] <huats> +0 since I'd like as for the Turkish team a real application...
[15:51:19] <czajkowski> -1
[15:51:26] <popey> +0
[15:51:32] <itnet7> +0 I would like to some team reporting, I know that the Peru team is very active
[15:51:41] <popey> I too would like to see team reports, and more evidence of activity over the last year.
[15:51:50] <popey> [ENDVOTE]
[15:51:54] <popey> Sorry guys, not this time.
[15:53:06] <popey> ok, last team
[15:53:11] <itnet7> xander21c: it's hard to vote a +1 when you can't see any currrent events documented easily on the Re-Approval page
[15:53:30] <popey> [TOPIC] Kentucky LoCo ReApproval
[15:53:32] <xander21c> don't worry
[15:54:03] * etank is here from Kentucky
[15:54:09] * jkeyes0 is here from Kentucky as well.
[15:54:11] * jfalco too
[15:54:16] <Garon> here from Kentucky as well
[15:54:25] <etank> Hi all. As a team we have been working to communicat about the existance of Linux our local area about the existance of Linux. We have done this through having regular meetings that are open to the public. Our goal is to have beginner level information at each meeting so that we do not talk over anyones head. At the same time we try to have some more advanced topics so the members that have been
[15:54:27] <etank> using Linux for a long time do not get bored. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/ReApprovalApplication
[15:54:58] <itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/ReApprovalApplication
[15:55:05] <etank> should have used the spell check in gedit for that :)
[15:55:07] <itnet7> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/ReApprovalApplication
[15:55:11] <itnet7> SOrry
[15:55:32] <popey> thanks :)
[15:55:58] <popey> Would it be fair to say you're more a LUG than a LoCo?
[15:56:25] <etank> i think so
[15:56:27] * volci is here from kentucky
[15:56:44] <jfalco> Well kinda of, we've merged the LoCo into the lug to ease the admin duties
[15:57:12] <jkeyes0> in the beginning, a majority of our users were using Ubuntu only, but as we've grown, a lot of members use other distros, and we don't want to exclude anyone.
[15:57:31] <etank> we are focused on spreading Linux and the resources that the LoCo provides us helps that effort a great deal
[16:00:43] <itnet7> Does your team do team reports? and archive minutes of LoCo IRC meetings?
[16:00:44] <etank> we spoke to paultag (think that is his proper nick) about being a lug before applying again
[16:00:55] <etank> we do archive our meeting logs
[16:01:05] <etank> but we have not done team reports
[16:01:18] <jfalco> http://bglug.net/meetings/bglug/2010/
[16:01:30] <jfalco> http://bglug.net/irc/irc-meetings/
[16:02:12] <etank> we changed hosting providers not too long ago and have not updated some of the log information
[16:02:13] <jfalco> http://bglug.net/wiki/Main_Page
[16:02:20] <etank> but the majority is available
[16:02:27] * jfalco looks for old logs
[16:02:39] <etank> and some of our old meeting logs are on the ubuntu wiki (or should be)
[16:03:00] <etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/Meetings
[16:03:22] <etank> it was in January of 2009 that we merged into a LUG
[16:03:24] <itnet7> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/Meetings
[16:03:58] <jfalco> MootBot must not like etank
[16:04:01] <etank> we have been working hard to have regular IRL meetings on a monthly basis
[16:04:29] <itnet7> it's the s in https I believe that causes you to require the square bracket LINK
[16:04:30] <etank> we normally have 1 or 2 irc meetings each month as well
[16:05:18] <itnet7> I would like to see all of you put a little more effort into Team Reports. It's important to share with the rest of the community what you are doing
[16:05:50] <itnet7> It doesn't take that long, and I would be happy to help you set up an easy way to manage it thanks to nhandler !
[16:06:07] <jfalco> Hoe bout our blog? http://bglug.net tons of info there
[16:06:14] <etank> itnet7: do the reports get added to the wiki
[16:06:19] <etank> or is it through email?
[16:06:33] <itnet7> etank: it is part of the wiki
[16:06:57] <etank> itnet7: so after regular meetings just update a Team Report?
[16:07:02] <itnet7> I am in your channel I can show you afterwards how the Florida team is doing it
[16:07:14] <etank> that is something that we can do
[16:07:17] <etank> sounds good
[16:07:17] <itnet7> it takes less than 5 minutes
[16:07:22] <itnet7> a month
[16:07:22] <jfalco> cool
[16:07:34] <itnet7> but it's worth it's weight in Gold!
[16:07:43] <czajkowski> team reports are very important!!!!
[16:07:46] <popey> [ACTION] itnet7 to show Kentucky how AWESOME team reports are
[16:07:51] <czajkowski> it makes myself and nhandler happy to see them
[16:08:12] <itnet7> they are included in each month's UWN
[16:08:31] <jfalco> lots of good discussion here too: http://groups.google.com/group/bglug
[16:08:39] <itnet7> do you have any member's in the LoCo that are Ubuntu Members?
[16:08:45] <etank> i am
[16:08:50] <etank> and bkingx is as well
[16:08:52] <itnet7> cool!
[16:08:53] <Garon> I am
[16:08:57] <itnet7> Nice!
[16:08:59] <etank> Garon: really? :)
[16:09:00] <jfalco> me too
[16:09:14] <itnet7> gj jfalco
[16:09:42] <popey> ok, I think we're set to vote..
[16:09:59] <popey> [VOTE] Kentucky Fried LoCo Re-Approval
[16:10:03] <popey> only loco council vote please
[16:10:04] <popey> +1
[16:10:06] <itnet7> +1
[16:10:22] * popey pokes huats and czajkowski 
[16:10:35] <popey> *tension*
[16:10:37] <huats> +1
[16:10:45] <czajkowski> +1
[16:10:50] <popey> \o/
[16:10:51] <popey> nice one
[16:10:53] <czajkowski> sorry lag
[16:10:54] <popey> [ENDVOTE]
[16:10:55] <jfalco> w00t
[16:10:58] <etank> thank you all for your input
[16:10:59] <itnet7> \o/
[16:10:59] <jkeyes0> thanks guys. :)
[16:11:03] <volci> thanks!
[16:11:06] <popey> keep up the great work!
[16:11:09] <volci> we look forward to implementing it :)
[16:11:12] <jfalco> ok got a plane to catch, thanks guys
[16:11:16] <Garon> thanks guys
[16:11:26] <volci> i have another appt to get to myself... bfn!
[16:11:26] <itnet7> bye jfalco ttys
[16:11:52] <popey> nhandler: you about?
[16:14:00] <popey> thats a no
[16:14:29] <czajkowski> short meeeting
[16:14:32] <czajkowski> ish
[16:14:50] <huats> indeed
[16:14:55] <popey> ok, so thats all
[16:15:05] <popey> [TOPIC] AOB?
[16:15:24] <czajkowski> rest of teams need to be done before end of october
[16:15:38] <czajkowski> should we mail them all and process them via mail
[16:15:46] <czajkowski> ones that were unapproved need following up
[16:15:51] <popey> yup
[16:16:14] <popey> czajkowski: you around for a conf call tomorrow evening?
[16:16:21] <popey> and anyone else interested?
[16:16:24] <itnet7> So no one had replied to my e-mail, what is our goal to finish the pending expirations or the original agreed upon list
[16:16:32] <popey> ah, missed that
[16:16:35] <itnet7> what time popey?
[16:16:46] <popey> same time as this meeting?
[16:16:50] <popey> 20:00 UTC?
[16:17:14] <popey> just leave mumble/skype connected and work through this stuff
[16:17:18] <itnet7> uhm, I don't know if I can pull that off, I was only able to make this full meeting as I'm home sick
[16:17:24] <popey> awww
[16:17:30] <itnet7> I can try to leave early
[16:17:31] <popey> get off to bed dude!
[16:17:33] <czajkowski> popey: i am indeed
[16:18:11] <popey> well, if you're on irc/mail we can use that too to keep everyone up to speed
[16:18:16] <czajkowski> ok
[16:18:24] <popey> i just happen to have an empty evening tomorrrow
[16:19:01] <huats> sorry I won't be able tomorrow
[16:19:10] <itnet7> cool, I will try to get off early
[16:19:50] <popey> ok, we'll keep the wiki updated and use the irc channel too
[16:19:55] <popey> just so everyone knows whats happening
[16:19:56] <popey> cool?
[16:20:30] <czajkowski> sure
[16:20:31] <popey> shall we arrange for next meeting in two weeks?
[16:20:37] <czajkowski> yup
[16:20:54] <popey> 5th October 20:00 UTC ?
[16:21:02] <popey> week before release! eek!
[16:21:21] <czajkowski> we;re not having to release anything
[16:21:23] <czajkowski> :)
[16:21:29] <czajkowski> right i need to leave the pub now
[16:21:31] <czajkowski> toodles
[16:21:40] <popey> heh
[16:21:42] <popey> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
