{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
16:01 < czajkowski> #startmeeting
16:01 < MootBot> Meeting started at 15:01. The chair is czajkowski.
16:01 < MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
16:01 < czajkowski> [LNK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
16:01 < czajkowski> tonights agenda, we'll work our way from the top with the agenda items, followed by teams, listed as they are on the wiki
16:02 -!- Ntovar [~yaaic@190.121.239.139] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:02 < czajkowski> so firstly JanC are you about
16:02 -!- tdr112 [~tdr@ks304566.kimsufi.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:02 < czajkowski> [topic] https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2011-February/005233.html
16:02 < MootBot> New Topic:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2011-February/005233.html
16:02 -!- moynihan [~sonny@109.255.55.169] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:03 < czajkowski> well here is the update, Canonical have invested a lot of money in the once off gifts for locoteams who are approved
16:03 < czajkowski> and out over the 70 teams less than half have applied for them
16:03 -!- infoturtle_ [9f866008@gateway/web/freenode/ip.159.134.96.8] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:03 < czajkowski> with that in mind there doesnt seem to be an interest in stuf from the store to be put there
16:03 < JanC> hm...
16:03 < czajkowski> what they have said is the art work will be available and the dimensions of the banners will be made available as it is possible cheaper to purchase in other counteries
16:04 < czajkowski> sorry
16:04 < czajkowski> hope that helps
16:04 < czajkowski> moving on
16:04 < JanC> well, we know we don't have to wait to see what Canonical has to offer then  ;)
16:04 < czajkowski> cjohnston: ping
16:04 < czajkowski> [TOPIC] Uniformity of Team Names
16:04 < MootBot> New Topic:  Uniformity of Team Names
16:05 < JanC> (I think not all approved teams are still active though, etc.)
16:05 < czajkowski> this was brought up at UDS and has been on the back burner for the LC until now.
16:05 < czajkowski> [link] http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/
16:05 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/
16:06 < czajkowski> at present the DISPLAY name here is rather messy looking and we are proposing to standardise this
16:06 < czajkowski> there is a mail in draft by itnet7 and us that will go out to loco contacts this week
16:06 < czajkowski> and we hope to refine it with the help of loco contacts
16:07 < czajkowski> so in the coming months we'd hope to see all the names displayed easier to read and also make it easier to find a team as it'll be named the same across the board
16:07 < czajkowski> again more information will be on this via the loco contacts mailing list and our new Loco council BLOG ! :D
16:07 -!- Captainkrtek [~anon@pdpc/supporter/student/captainkrtek] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:08 < czajkowski> so moving onto approvals as we have a few to get through tonight ! :)
16:08 < itnet7> +1
16:08 < paultag> :)
16:08 < itnet7> for the LC Blog!!
16:08 < czajkowski> [topic] Venezuela Loco Team re approval
16:08 < MootBot> New Topic:  Venezuela Loco Team re approval
16:08 < czajkowski> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/ReApproval2011
16:08 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/ReApproval2011
16:08 < paultag> Stand up, ya'll! Who's here to cheer for Venezuela? :)
16:08 < czajkowski> C3s4r: ping
16:08 < keffie_jayx> o/
16:08 < czajkowski> you're up
16:09 < davidhdz> o/
16:09 < czajkowski> keffie_jayx: ALOHA!!!!
16:09 < C3s4r> czajkowski, Hi all
16:09 < paultag> howdy
16:09 < czajkowski> welcome folks
16:09 < keffie_jayx> czajkowski: :)
16:09 < nejode> o/
16:09 < huats> hey keffie_jayx
16:09 < czajkowski> Nice wiki page folks
16:09 < leogg> hola
16:09 < czajkowski> so easy to read thank you
16:09 < C3s4r> czajkowski, thanks ;)
16:09 < czajkowski> and pictures make me happy :D
16:10 < czajkowski> C3s4r: so care to tell us about your team, how you get things done please ?
16:10 < huats> pics makes all of us happy !
16:11 -!- daubers [~daubers@daubers.plus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:11 < C3s4r> czajkowski, well, actually things are going great, the team has focused on the work of the dissemination of ubuntu in the country.
16:11 < C3s4r> upps
16:11 < C3s4r> czajkowski, sorry for my bad English.
16:11 < czajkowski> C3s4r: don't worry :) really
16:11 < czajkowski> we have leogg :)
16:11 < czajkowski> if you need a help just ask him
16:11 < leogg> :D
16:12 < keffie_jayx> I could also help ;)
16:12 < C3s4r> czajkowski, Ubuntu-ve at the beginning of its activities had little activity, but shortly after, because of the knowledge and responsibility that comes with being a team approved by the Ubuntu community, which is why for 3 years now the community has grown to 200% taking super important roles in the country and also international,
16:12 < czajkowski> C3s4r: so who does your team reports well done! very good
16:12 < leogg> C3s4r, your English is just fine!
16:12 < czajkowski> yes you can see your events have grown over the years
16:12 < czajkowski> well done
16:12 < C3s4r> czajkowski, example was when a member of Ubuntu-ve had the opportunity to participate in the Summit Developert Ubuntu, this fills us with pride that we all have the same opportunity to disseminate and help the Ubuntu project.
16:12 < czajkowski> C3s4r: what as a team do you find the hardest thing for you ?
16:12 < czajkowski> C3s4r: yes I got to meet keffie_jayx he's great!
16:13 < C3s4r> czajkowski, Our participation in local events have been very good, as to have members in every state in our country, covering every corner to publicize our work without discrimination of gender in our LoCo Team has existed since people with disabilities as entrepreneurs girls that live in the Free Software community in Venezuela.
16:13 -!- robbiew [~RobbieWil@99-156-84-159.lightspeed.austtx.sbcglobal.net] has quit [Quit: Peace, Love, and Soul!]
16:13 < keffie_jayx> czajkowski: participating in global events is difficult when a) people do not develop, nor participate in development b) language is a barrier
16:14 < czajkowski> keffie_jayx: ok thanks
16:14 < czajkowski> well it's a great application and I've no other questions to ask
16:14 < leogg> keffie_jayx, but you have some experience with development, eg. turpial?
16:14 < itnet7> The re-approval application really was nice work, and highlighted a lot of what you do, we all appreciate it
16:15 < keffie_jayx> leogg: picking up the ropes, as a team we could be more involved in global jams et all
16:15 -!- robbiew [~RobbieWil@99-156-84-159.lightspeed.austtx.sbcglobal.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:15 < czajkowski> keffie_jayx: so that's an area you'd like to improve on
16:15 < czajkowski> good that you cna highlight that
16:15 < keffie_jayx> leogg: that case of turpial was special, we got to work with the debian folks in venezuela
16:16 < leogg> keffie_jayx, indeed, the language barrier is not easy to overcome though
16:16 < leogg> keffie_jayx, that's great!
16:16 < keffie_jayx> czajkowski: we are already participating in Ubuntu Open Week in spanish and we are cosidering putting together Ubuntu Developer Week in Spanish
16:16  * keffie_jayx keeps fingers crossed
16:16 < czajkowski> well done
16:16 < czajkowski> ok
16:17 < C3s4r> leogg, czajkowski keffie_jayx I have a space to talk and encourage boys to participate in events like the Global Jam
16:17 < czajkowski> itnet7: paultag huats leogg ready to vote folks
16:17 -!- m_3 [~mmm@76.77.152.109] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
16:17 < paultag> I'm settled
16:17 < leogg> C3s4r, nice!
16:17 < leogg> yes, I'm ready
16:17 < czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the re approval of the Venezuela LoCo . Please only council members vote.
16:17 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the re approval of the Venezuela LoCo . Please only council members vote..
16:17 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
16:17 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
16:17 < czajkowski> +1
16:17 < MootBot> +1 received from czajkowski. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
16:17 < leogg> +1
16:17 < MootBot> +1 received from leogg. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
16:17 < czajkowski> well done and keep up the good work
16:17 < huats>  /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
16:17 < itnet7> +1
16:17 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
16:17 < MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 4 for, 0 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
16:18 < leogg> really nice work folks! excelente trabajo!
16:18 < keffie_jayx> me hugs C3s4r czajkowski nejode davidhdz Ntovar itnet7 huats paultag
16:18 < huats> A great +1 for me, please continue to work like this !
16:18 < paultag> +1
16:18 < MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
16:18 < czajkowski> [endvote]
16:18 < MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
16:18 < paultag> yes, well done. Keep it up!
16:18 < keffie_jayx> w00t, yay :)
16:18 < davidhdz> thanks leogg, thanks guys :)
16:18 < czajkowski> [agreed] Venezuela re approved
16:18 < MootBot> AGREED received:  Venezuela re approved
16:18 < itnet7> great job!
16:18 < leogg> davidhdz, thank you!
16:18 < paultag> well done, folks! 'grats!
16:18 < keffie_jayx> viva Venezuela mi patria querida...
16:18 < C3s4r> thanks all, gracias a todos.  :D
16:18 < czajkowski> [TOPIC] Denmark
16:18 < MootBot> New Topic:  Denmark
16:19 < czajkowski> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanishTeam/RepprovalApplication2011
16:19 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanishTeam/RepprovalApplication2011
16:19 < Ntovar> Gerardo
16:19 < czajkowski> laoshi: ping
16:19 < laoshi> o/
16:19 < czajkowski> welcome
16:19 < laoshi> thx
16:19 < czajkowski> thanks for coming
16:19 < sbc> o/
16:19 < AJenbo> 0/
16:19 < kjoller> o/
16:19 < pixiarvai> o/
16:19 < paultag> hey, guys!
16:19 -!- Ntovar [~yaaic@190.121.239.139] has quit [Quit: Yaaic - Yet another Android IRC client - http://www.yaaic.org]
16:20 < itnet7> Wow, hey there everyonne!
16:20 < czajkowski> laoshi: ok, so care to tell us about your team please
16:20 -!- bobbert [~martian_l@124-197-42-208.callplus.net.nz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:20 -!- bobbert [~martian_l@124-197-42-208.callplus.net.nz] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
16:20 < laoshi> at the moment things are moving. the remaking of homepage and forum has been quite a success
16:21 < laoshi> and meetings in person at Aarhus and Copenhagen have become regular
16:21 < czajkowski> laoshi: how do you share out getting things done??
16:21 < laoshi> mainly through mailing-list and irc
16:22 < czajkowski> you mention team irc meetings
16:22 -!- m_3 [~mmm@76.77.152.109] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:22 < czajkowski> I cant see any link to logs of the meetings
16:22 < czajkowski> do you mail these out to the team afterwards?
16:23 < laoshi> yes - but you are right that the logs ought to be on wiki
16:23 < czajkowski> well it says once a month or needs be
16:23 < czajkowski> what do you mean by that ?
16:23 < laoshi> meaning that it can happen more often
16:23 < AJenbo> http://ubuntudanmark.dk/blog/artikler/category/meetings/irc-meeting/
16:23 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntudanmark.dk/blog/artikler/category/meetings/irc-meeting/
16:23 < czajkowski> it's not linked anywhere on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanishTeam/
16:23 < czajkowski> annn ok
16:24 < czajkowski> so you store them on the website
16:24 < czajkowski> ok so you had 2 in 2011 but nothing since 2008 ???
16:25 < AJenbo> We still haven't moved all from the old wiki to the web stie
16:25 < czajkowski> AJenbo: can you show me on the wiki please?
16:25 < sbc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanishTeam/M%C3%B8der
16:25 < AJenbo> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanishTeam/M%C3%B8der
16:25 < sbc> :)
16:25 < AJenbo> beat me to it :)
16:25 -!- lordsystem [~lordsyste@190.204.225.183] has quit [Ping timeout: 244 seconds]
16:25 < leogg> laoshi, I see you have a mentoring project? care to tell us something about that?
16:27 < laoshi> yes. it's quite new. we launched it on the community yesterday. and some 6 or 7 persons have volunteered as mentors
16:27 < laoshi> and we have 1 request for being mentored
16:27 < czajkowski> laoshi: what does being an approved team mean to the team ?
16:28 < laoshi> we have tried to have som categories like translation, support, arrangements etc
16:28 < leogg> laoshi, cool
16:28 < laoshi> it means that we will be able to carry on furthering the use of ubuntu with some autohority
16:29 < czajkowski> laoshi: ok, on http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-dk  with the new policy coming  into place, your team will have to change the display name to Ubuntu denmark loco team just fyi
16:29 < huats> laoshi, being mentored to do what ? be part of the community? development ?
16:29 < czajkowski> laoshi: have you applied for your gift from canonical, ie banner/table cloth ?
16:29 < laoshi> mainly the community
16:30 -!- jacob [jacobirc@ubuntu/member/jacob] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:30 < laoshi> czajkowski, I think I'll have to let sbc answer - the offer came as I was getting into position as loco contact
16:30 < czajkowski> laoshi: ok thanks
16:30 < czajkowski> sbc: ?
16:30 < sbc> sbc: Don
16:30 < pixiarvai> huats,  in the case im will be mentor, and will help him in the support, so he can try more, and still have a "backup"
16:31 < sbc> sbc: Don't think we have. Not that i'm aware anyway.
16:31 < czajkowski> sbc: ok, any reason why, as canonical have put this together for approved teams?
16:32 < sbc> Our previous loco contact left for a year in australia, and there might have been a period of no one knowing if it was their job or not. I personally haven't heard of this offer :)
16:32 < czajkowski> ok
16:32 < czajkowski> sbc: can you talk to huats after this meeting please
16:32 < laoshi> sorry
16:32 < czajkowski> ok, one final question before we vote
16:32 < sbc> czajkowski: will do.
16:32 < czajkowski> do you team reports??
16:33 < sbc> It has properly been quite a while. It is one of those jobs that noone really want's to do, to be honest.
16:34 < czajkowski> sbc: ok while it's not one people want to do
16:34 < laoshi> not to my awareness - but the reapproval application gave me insights into what is happening, and can be modelled after tgat
16:34 < laoshi> that
16:34 < czajkowski> it is important as it shares with the greated community how teams are doing
16:34 < czajkowski> [vote] please vote ont he re approval of the Denmark LoCo. Council members only
16:34 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote ont he re approval of the Denmark LoCo. Council members only.
16:34 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
16:34 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
16:34 < laoshi> and that will be one of my priorities - started
16:34 < czajkowski> +1
16:34 < laoshi> 1 month ago
16:34 < MootBot> +1 received from czajkowski. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
16:34 < czajkowski> please do team reports from now on!
16:34 < laoshi> will do
16:35 < pixiarvai> sure
16:35 < MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 2 for, 0 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
16:35 < itnet7> +1 good work
16:35 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
16:35 < paultag> +1
16:35 < MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
16:35 < leogg> +1
16:35 < MootBot> +1 received from leogg. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
16:35 < czajkowski> [endvote]
16:35 < MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
16:35 < czajkowski> [agreed] re approved Denmark LoCo
16:35 < MootBot> AGREED received:  re approved Denmark LoCo
16:35 < leogg> and +1 on team reports
16:35 < czajkowski> laoshi: but team reports from now on please!
16:36 < laoshi> yes!'
16:36 < itnet7> definitely, we love to hear about what the teams are doing!
16:36 < czajkowski> [TOPIC] Philippines LoCo
16:36 -!- Tonio_ [~Anthony@ip-204-19-34-218.mqdsl.megaquebec.net] has quit [Ping timeout: 255 seconds]
16:36 < MootBot> New Topic:  Philippines LoCo
16:36 < huats> and please ping me tomorrow for the banners !
16:36 < czajkowski> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PhilippineTeam/ApprovalApplication
16:36 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PhilippineTeam/ApprovalApplication
16:36 < czajkowski> zakame: ping
16:36 < zakame> czajkowski: yo
16:36 < zakame> hi all
16:37 < czajkowski> zakame: just you here ?
16:37 < zakame> yeah
16:38 < czajkowski> ok want to tell us about your team please ?
16:40 < czajkowski> zakame: your application is a bit bare.
16:40 < paultag> yeah, esp. with the team history
16:40 -!- joseefrainpb_ [d848859d@gateway/web/freenode/ip.216.72.133.157] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:40 < zakame> yeah, as of late we're organizing our release party at both Manila and Zamboanga
16:40 < paultag> zakame: you've not had a natty event, if I've read this right?
16:41 < czajkowski> paultag: june 24th planned
16:41 < zakame> yeah, we're going to have one this friday
16:41 < paultag> ah, I see it now
16:41 < paultag> humm.
16:41 < paultag> zakame: do you have any photos from teh other events?
16:42 -!- suprengr [~SuperEngi@host86-152-110-35.range86-152.btcentralplus.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["travelling back to my own planet"]
16:42 < zakame> not that I'm aware of.  the current ubuntu-ph.org site lost some data during a transition, many photos
16:43 -!- ntovar [~ntovar@206.49.165.43] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:43 < czajkowski> zakame: your application just isn't showing us activity, how things are done, team reports, what ye do
16:44 < zakame> czajkowski: yeah, we haven't had much activities as of late other than release parties
16:44 < czajkowski> zakame: so 2 events a year?
16:45 < czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the re approval Philippines Loco. Council members only
16:45 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the re approval Philippines Loco. Council members only.
16:45 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
16:45 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
16:45 < czajkowski> +0
16:45 < MootBot> Abstention received from czajkowski. 0 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0
16:45 < paultag> +0 please retry next meeting, after the party
16:45 < MootBot> Abstention received from paultag. 0 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 0
16:45 < zakame> yeah, plus some occassional smaller/local events, like one in bicol
16:45 < czajkowski> I'd like to see how the natty party goes, and maybe we can contine this over on the bug
16:45 < leogg> +0
16:45 < MootBot> Abstention received from leogg. 0 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 0
16:45 < paultag> this next event will really make-or-break it
16:45 < itnet7> +0 as well
16:45 < MootBot> Abstention received from itnet7. 0 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 0
16:45 < czajkowski> zakame: your application just isn't showing this, so we'd like to give you a 2nd chance to get it updated with more information
16:46 < zakame> ok
16:46 < MootBot> Private abstention received. 0 for, 0 against. 5 abstained. Count is now 0
16:46 -!- jdstrand_ is now known as jdstrand
16:46 < czajkowski> [endvote]
16:46 < MootBot> Final result is 0 for, 0 against. 5 abstained. Total: 0
16:46 < czajkowski> [agreed] Philippines to re apply using the bug with an updated wiki page with more content
16:46 < MootBot> AGREED received:  Philippines to re apply using the bug with an updated wiki page with more content
16:47 < czajkowski> [TOPIC] Ireland
16:47 < MootBot> New Topic:  Ireland
16:47 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IrishTeamReApprovalApplication
16:47 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IrishTeamReApprovalApplication
16:47 -!- MaWaLe [~MaWaLe@ubuntu/member/mawale] has quit [Quit: nighty night]
16:47 < czajkowski> for this application I'll not be voting
16:47 < czajkowski> and the others will be doing the questions I'm here to cheer ireland on
16:47 < czajkowski> paultag: huats leogg itnet7 fire away
16:47  * ebel is also here to cheer ireland on
16:47 < czajkowski> ebel: step up
16:47 < czajkowski> o/
16:47 < airurando> go ebel
16:48 < airurando> go Ubuntu Ireland
16:48 < czajkowski> there are a few of us here
16:48 < paultag> just a moment, just reading through :)
16:48 < ebel> ahoy! I'm the PoC for ubuntu-ie and will be fronting the questions.
16:48 < paultag> howdy ebel
16:48 < theirishpenguin> come on ireland! ubuntu-ie!
16:48 < ebel> though there are several ubuntu-ie'ers here now
16:48  * tdr112 is supporting ireland too
16:48 < paultag> ebel: so give us a bit of a feel for your team, please :)
16:48 < jpich> go ireland go :)
16:48 < moylan> yay ebel!
16:48 < paultag> ebel: what are some things you do really well, and what are some things that need work?
16:48 < mokmeister> c'mon ubuntu-ie!
16:49 < ebel> Well, we hold regular monthly irc meeetings
16:49 < ebel> and had regular monthly ubuntu hours in several placves
16:49 < ebel> we have a mailing list, facebook, twitter and identica accounts for communication
16:49 < paultag> team reports look nice
16:49 < ebel> we do regular release parties aswell
16:49 < itnet7> ebel, How does work get distributed among the team?
16:50 < czajkowski> tdr112: does an amazing job on the team reports
16:50 < ebel> We're a quite loosely organised team, we don't have really have commitees or positions of power
16:50 < tdr112> we could do more work on getting ubuntu event going on outside of dublin , we are working on this
16:50 < ebel> when we decide that something needs to be done, people volunteer (or not)
16:50 < ebel> A lot of regular 'grunt' work is has usually been handled by regular.
16:50 < tdr112> over the last two years we have moved from only doing events in dublin to more events all around ireland
16:51 < ebel> e.g. myself or airurando chair irc meetings, tdr112 does the monthly reports
16:51 -!- asoktheintern [~slibuntu@frink.nuigalway.ie] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:51 < czajkowski> we've been lucky getting colleges and hackerspaces on board
16:51 < itnet7> good to hear tdr112 
16:51 < ebel> we're seeing the ubuntu community outside dublin (the capital city with ~25% population) expand
16:52 < airurando> yes colleges and Hackerspaces help us greatly with events and Cd distribution efforts
16:52 < ebel> we're seeing regular events in cork, limerick and galway (the next largest cities)
16:52 < itnet7> ebel, all of you have done a great job! Re-Approval Applications like this really make it easy to see all of the great work and progress!
16:52 < czajkowski> sending cds to the colleges has worked out well
16:52 < leogg> airurando, how do you do the cd distribution thing?
16:52 < ebel> and resources are distributed accordingly. e.g. the loco banner is down in limerick(ish) for an event there
16:53 < infoturtle_> still in limerick
16:53 < ebel> CDs have been distributed all over the country this release and last release.
16:53 < paultag> Now this might be an odd question, but does anyone speak gaelic (and do translation work) ?
16:53 < ebel> infoturtle_: I keep thinking you're in clare! :P
16:53 < asoktheintern> I have done a little irish translation work
16:53 < airurando> leogg we have developed relationships with Colloege Comp Socs and City Hackerspaces.
16:53 < mokmeister> ebel: I'm in Clare
16:53 < czajkowski> paultag: we do have a few people but we strugle to get people to do some, but we get some done each cycle
16:53 < tdr112> paultag: not that many people do
16:53 < leogg> airurando, that's great!
16:53 < airurando> we send some CDs to each following each release
16:53 < paultag> tdr112: yeah, it's not very common these days, from what I've read
16:53 < ebel> paultag: not many people (in ireland) speak irish (aka gaelic)
16:54 < paultag> ebel: aye :)
16:54 -!- AJenbo [~anders@x1-6-00-26-f2-d4-88-e8.k1063.webspeed.dk] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
16:54 < airurando> leogg we hope to develop these links further and possibly have more joint events
16:54 < ebel> however there is some irish translation happening in a hap-hazard way.
16:54 < paultag> What do you see as what you need to work on this next cycle?
16:54 < leogg> airurando, teaming up with colleges is always a good idea!
16:55 < paultag> And, additionally, how does being approved help those goals?
16:55 < airurando> leogg definitely
16:55 < ebel> well to keep going with what we have is important. we want to ensure that there are still ubuntu events happening in ireland and dublin and beyond
16:55 -!- daubers [~daubers@daubers.plus.com] has quit []
16:56 < itnet7> czajkowski: I think we're ready to vote
16:56 < ebel> approval means resources (e.g. cds) that can help spread the world all over the country
16:56 -!- ntovar [~ntovar@206.49.165.43] has quit [Ping timeout: 258 seconds]
16:56 < ebel> aswell as giving us something to aim for
16:56 < paultag> I'm good here
16:56 -!- joseefrainpb_ [d848859d@gateway/web/freenode/ip.216.72.133.157] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
16:56 < huats> good too
16:56 < czajkowski> [vote] Please vote on the re approval of the Irish Loco.  Council members only
16:56 < MootBot> Please vote on:  Please vote on the re approval of the Irish Loco.  Council members only.
16:56 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
16:56 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
16:56 < paultag> czajkowski: +vote time, please?
16:56 < MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 1 for, 0 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
16:56 < paultag> +1, well done. Keep it up
16:56 < czajkowski> +0
16:56 < MootBot> Abstention received from czajkowski. 1 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
16:56 < leogg> +1
16:56 < MootBot> +1 received from leogg. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
16:56 < itnet7> +1
16:56 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
16:56 < paultag> +1
16:56 < MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
16:56 < czajkowski> [endvote]
16:56 < MootBot> Final result is 4 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 4
16:56 < itnet7> Awesome work!!
16:56 < huats> To phrase someone Ihave heard lately : you fucking rock :)
16:57 < paultag> well done :)
16:57 < paultag> +1 huats
16:57 < czajkowski> [agreed] Ireland LoCo re approved
16:57 < MootBot> AGREED received:  Ireland LoCo re approved
16:57 < ebel> :D yay!
16:57 < leogg> keep up the great work Ireland!
16:57 -!- ebel [~rory@unaffiliated/ebel] has quit [Quit: Leaving]
16:57 < infoturtle_> huzzar Ubuntu-IE!!
16:57 < airurando> great stuff
16:57 < czajkowski> whooooooooooo
16:57 < jpich> woohoo :)
16:57 < airurando> thanks so much all
16:57 < huats> terrific work really
16:57 < paultag> 'grats, guys!
16:57 < moylan> cool!
16:57 -!- ebel [~rory@unaffiliated/ebel] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:57 < czajkowski> [topic] Japan LoCo re approval
16:57 < MootBot> New Topic:  Japan LoCo re approval
16:58 < czajkowski> [linkk] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JapaneseTeam/ApprovalApplication
16:58 -!- Jos3P [~JoseP1983@200.90.81.52] has quit [Quit: Ex-Chat]
16:58 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JapaneseTeam/ApprovalApplication
16:58 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JapaneseTeam/ApprovalApplication
16:58 < paultag> who's here? :)
16:58 < czajkowski> jkbys: ping
16:58 < jkbys> hi
16:58 -!- asoktheintern [~slibuntu@frink.nuigalway.ie] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
16:59 -!- leogg [~leogg@ubuntu/member/leogg] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
17:00 < itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JapaneseTeam/TeamReports
17:00 < czajkowski> jkbys: ok care to tell us about your team, is there anyone else here
17:00 < paultag> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JapaneseTeam/TeamReports
17:00 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JapaneseTeam/TeamReports
17:00 < paultag> Wow, solid TRs
17:00  * czajkowski loves team reports
17:00 < czajkowski> makes my life easier!
17:01 < itnet7> jkbys: did the team have an Ubuntu booth at all of those conferences that were listed?
17:01 < jkbys> yes
17:01 < itnet7> Wowzers!
17:01 < paultag> that's rather impressive
17:02 -!- ntovar [~ntovar@206.49.165.43] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:02 < jkbys> and we have seminar sessions
17:02 < itnet7> jkbys: does the team have a good mix of developers, advocates, and other contributors?
17:02 < paultag> jkbys: how's translation work going?
17:02 < paultag> +1 itnet7
17:02 < paultag> let's hear that first :)
17:04 -!- nejode [~nelson@200.44.219.41] has quit [Quit: Saliendo]
17:05 < jkbys> itnet7: I think yes. The number of us is only 10, but many guys help us
17:05 < czajkowski> nice wiki page
17:05 -!- moylan [~moylan@109.76.181.6] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
17:06 < czajkowski> jkbys: how do you get your team motivated ?
17:06 < paultag> jkbys: how's translation work these days?
17:06 -!- chilicuil [~chilicuil@unaffiliated/chilicuil] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:07 < jkbys> paultag: member of https://launchpad.net/~lp-l10n-ja work for translations
17:07 < paultag> jkbys: about how many loco members are a part of that team?
17:07 -!- infoturtle_ [9f866008@gateway/web/freenode/ip.159.134.96.8] has quit [Quit: Page closed]
17:07 < paultag> roughly
17:08 -!- awolfson [~awolfson@nat/canonical/x-gsecipklwvgdvdtb] has quit [Ping timeout: 244 seconds]
17:08 < itnet7> Nice! There's even an online published Ubuntu-Japan Magazine, great work
17:08 -!- ntovar [~ntovar@206.49.165.43] has quit [Quit: WeeChat 0.3.2]
17:08 < huats> Are you able to interact with other LoCos and LUGs ?
17:10 -!- jibel [~j-lalleme@ACaen-151-1-71-3.w86-215.abo.wanadoo.fr] has quit [Ping timeout: 240 seconds]
17:10 < jkbys> paultag: all of JP LoCo members are translation team members
17:10 < paultag> that's what I like to hear :)
17:10 < czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the  reapproval of the Japanese Team re approval. Council members only
17:10 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the  reapproval of the Japanese Team re approval. Council members only.
17:10 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
17:10 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
17:10 < czajkowski> +1
17:10 < MootBot> +1 received from czajkowski. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
17:10 < paultag> +1
17:10 < MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
17:10 < MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 3 for, 0 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
17:10 < czajkowski> nice work
17:10 < paultag> no question, keep it up
17:10 < itnet7> +1
17:10 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
17:11 < czajkowski> [endvote]
17:11 < MootBot> Final result is 4 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 4
17:11 < itnet7> Awesome Job
17:11 < jkbys> thank you
17:11 < czajkowski> [agreed] Japanese Team reapproved
17:11 < MootBot> AGREED received:  Japanese Team reapproved
17:11 < czajkowski> thanks folks
17:11 < czajkowski> well done
17:11 < czajkowski> #endmeeting
17:11 < MootBot> Meeting finished at 16:11.
</pre>
