{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== How to run a LoCo ====

Have you just taken the initiative to start a Ubuntu Local Community, and don't really know what to do next? Take a look here to get some suggestions, tips and experiences from other LoCo members.

==== Suggested activities ====
 
* Attend conferences near you and hand out Ubuntu CDs. See UbuntuAtConferences for more information.
* Carry CDs with you at all times!  
* Organise installfests.
* Collect local success stories (e.g., case studies of organisations that are using Ubuntu) and submit them to Canonical for inclusion in a new website section of success stories.
* Start an UbuntuFriendlyHardwareSuppliers initiative
* Participate in <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki>, 20 September 2008 and help promote free software and Ubuntu!
* Beer drinking
* Barbeque
* Lectures by local and international developers/community members

==== How to recruit people ====
* Talk at LUG meetings.
* Post announcements to local tech group mailing lists that dovetail nicely with the local Ubuntu community.
* Post a free community ad on <nowiki>[[http://craigslist.org|Craigslist]]</nowiki>

==== Tips & Tricks ====

==== What did you do in *your* LoCo, and how did it work out? ====

* [PlLocoGoodies] -- we're starting with it, so I can not say how it worked out yet. :-)
* [BasenPelenPomyslow] -- This is an idea to let people put their ideas into native version of [IdeaPool]. After we get some ideas, we translate it into English and put it back to the [IdeaPool]. Too bad it didn't work out quite good.
* This is what we do in the <nowiki>[[ItalianTeam/Structure|Italian Community]]</nowiki> to organise ourselves :)
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryLoCoObsolete
