{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/loco-django/
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Loco Django Development is a project aimed at defining, customizing and/or developing a Django-based CMS for LoCo teams to use as a website.

=== Release Note ===

Better integration with Launchpad.

=== Rationale ===

Python for LoCo sites!

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

First flesh out the discussion/brainstorming section below, then come up with a design and implementation plan.

=== Implementation ===

''This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:''

==== UI Changes ====

''Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this''

==== Code Changes ====

''Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.''

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

''It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.''

''This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.''

=== Outstanding Issues ===

''This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.''

=== Feature Discussions ===

All are welcome to view the current specs for each of these and provide input. If you have any other ideas for features please add them as well.

* Local Support System - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-SupportSystem|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
** Local Support System Map - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-SupportSystem-Map|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
* Blog/News System - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-BlogNews|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
* User Authentication System - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-Users|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
** Member Roster with contact information - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-Users-MemberRoster|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
** OpenID authentication system - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-Users-OpenID|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
* Calendar Of Events Local & Remote - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-CalendarOfEvents|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
* Flat-Page support - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-FlatPages|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
* Dynamic Navigation - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-Navigation|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
* Mapping Framework - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-MappingFramework|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
** Local Support System Map - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-SupportSystem-Map|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
** Loco Member Locations - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-MappingFramework-Members|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>
** Meeting Spots - <nowiki>[[LoCoDjango-Features-MappingFramework-MeetingSpots|Spec & Discussion]]</nowiki>

=== Discussion ===

Here are some links to related projects and apps.

See also an interesting post by James Bennet on blogs and django:
http://www.b-list.org/weblog/2007/nov/29/django-blog/

* Massachusetts loco website code base: https://launchpad.net/us-ma-loco-site

* pinax: http://pinaxproject.com/ - a collection of re-usable apps, with lots of social networking components

* https://launchpad.net/banjo/
 http://coderseye.com/
 Banjo will be a blog app with CMS features, a modular extension
 system, and all the bells and whistles needed to be a real
 alternative to Mephisto or WordPress.

 multi-blog system, which needs to be easily skinnable
 Atom feeds are implemented - looking for a suitable publishing engine.

* Blogmaker - "a full-featured, production-quality blogging application for Django. It supports trackbacks, ping and comments with moderation and honeypot spam prevention."

 http://blogcosm.com/media/blogmaker/release/README.html

 http://code.google.com/p/blogmaker/

 bzr mirror of the official svn trunk: https://edge.launchpad.net/blogmaker/trunk

* Djog: http://dev.oebfare.com/projects/djog/ - a Django blog app

* Byteflow: http://byteflow.su/

* Luambo multi-user multi-blog: http://svn.luamboblog.org/

* https://launchpad.net/kaleidoscope/
 Kaleidoscope - CMS for Real content
 "A Django CMS for Real Content", but I don't see any code....

* https://launchpad.net/swing42/
 Swing42 is a Django-powered blogging application!
 http://code.google.com/p/swing42/
 [empty?]

* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-nl-website/
** A django app with moinmoin backend for the homepage
** A django app for authentication
** A heavily customized PunBB forum
** A django pastebin with pygments syntax coloring and hashcash spam protection
** A wordpress-mu install for blogs
** A planetplanet blog aggregator
** Several maintenance scripts

* https://launchpad.net/django-forum/
 http://code.google.com/p/django-forum/

* https://launchpad.net/django-xmlrpc/  graham.binns
 http://code.google.com/p/django-xmlrpc

* blog posts (amongst other things) using the MetaWeblog API

* https://launchpad.net/django-survey/
* http://yml.alwaysdata.net/dj_survey/index/

 Username:demo
 Password:demo

* KSS Django - Kinetic Style Sheets. A beautiful AJAX framework.
 http://code.djangoproject.com/wiki/KSSInDjango

  KSS is a javascript framework that aims to allow Ajax development
  without javascript. It uses stylesheets with CSS-compliant syntax to
  setup behaviours in the client and a set of well-defined commands
  that are marshalled back from the server to manipulate the DOM.

  get AJAX features but without losing accesibility.

* https://launchpad.net/kaplan/  Kaplan TODO

* https://launchpad.net/geekgrep/

* https://launchpad.net/loco-drupal/

* Inyoka
 The german Loco-Team had developed a single web application (including portal, forum, wiki, blog and planet) using Python (there  are only a few Django dependencies left, since Django isn't suitable for bigger things). A beta version is running on http://staging.ubuntuusers.de/ and performs well, but some things (mainly the design) are still missing. After the release on http://www.ubuntuusers.de/ we are going to translate it and publish it under the terms of the GPL.
** It's now realeased and used productively on http://www.ubuntuusers.de/. Generalization and Translations will follow.

----
CategorySpec
