{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Agenda from the Meeting:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
|-
| all
| LoCo Team {re}approvals
|}

=== Topics Discussed ===

* LoCo Team {re}approvals
** Ubuntu-RO - Nobody present for application - Council taking it to mailing list instead
** Ubuntu-US-MA - Not re-approved
** Ubuntu-IT - Re-approved
** Ubuntu-FR - Re-approved
** Ubuntu-GR - Re-approved
** Ubuntu-EG - Abstained
** Ubuntu-NL - Abstained

* For those LoCo teams that were not re-approved, or for which the LoCo council could not reach agreement, the council agreed to work with the LoCo teams to help them get re-approved 

<pre>
21:00 < czajkowski> #startmeeting
21:00 < MootBot> Meeting started at 15:00. The chair is czajkowski.
21:00 < MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
21:00 < czajkowski> Aloha folks
21:00 < Seveas> hi czajkowski
21:00 < popey> hey hey
21:00 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
21:00 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
21:00 < popey> what a packed schedule!
21:00 < popey> we need to keep it nice and tight tonight!
21:00 < czajkowski> Tonights agenda  will be in  running order of what is on the agenda linked above
21:01 < czajkowski> indeed
21:01 < huats> so let's start !
21:01 < czajkowski> itnet7: huats popey leogg all ready
21:01 < huats> sure
21:01 < itnet7> yes'm
21:01 < czajkowski> [topic] Romanian Re Approval
21:01 < MootBot> New Topic:  Romanian Re Approval
21:01 < YoBoY> miss paultag
21:01 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RomanianTeam/ApprovalApplication
21:01 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RomanianTeam/ApprovalApplication
21:02 < czajkowski> anyone here for the Romanian LoCo ?
21:02 < popey> anyone here from Romania!?
21:02 < marianvasile> yes, we are
21:02 < marianvasile> unfortunatelly, our leader, AdiRoiban, seems to be catch elswere
21:03 < czajkowski> marianvasile: anyone else where with you ?
21:03 < paultag|remote> sorry im latte
21:04 < marianvasile> I saw DoruHush to be present as well
21:04 < czajkowski> marianvasile: are you able to answer question on the re approval ?
21:04 < huats> I have to say that adi wasn't sure he could attend onight, and they agreed to be here tonight
21:04 < czajkowski> ok
21:04 < czajkowski> [action] LoCo council to take Romanian Application to email
21:04 < MootBot> ACTION received:  LoCo council to take Romanian Application to email
21:05 < czajkowski> [topic] LithuanianTeam Re approval
21:05 < MootBot> New Topic:  LithuanianTeam Re approval
21:05 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LithuanianTeam/ReApprovalApplication
21:05 < sirex`> Lithuanina team leader is here.
21:05 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LithuanianTeam/ReApprovalApplication
21:05 < czajkowski> sirex`: hey there! welcome
21:05 < sirex`> Hi.
21:06 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LithuanianTeam
21:06 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LithuanianTeam
21:06 < czajkowski> sirex`: so care to tell us about your team
21:06 < sirex`> Well in these two years we where active.
21:07 < sirex`> Some key details I wrote to re-approval application.
21:07 < czajkowski> I notice you've not had any meetings in 2010, why is this?
21:08 < czajkowski> you had up till now
21:08 < sirex`> Lithuaniant LoCo is growing and we plant to grow more in future.
21:08 < czajkowski> sirex`: and how do you plan on doing that ?
21:09 < czajkowski> sirex`: are there more here tonight from your team ?
21:09 < sirex`> czajkowski: we have some IRC meetings, but after our previous team leader left us, our loco changed his behaviour.
21:09 < czajkowski> ah ok, what happened?
21:10 < huats> what are the differences in the behaviour?
21:10 < sirex`> We had IRC meetings each month, but it was changed by just activity in forums.
21:11 < huats> sirex`,  so now you have meetings in forums ?
21:11 < huats> do you have url of that ?
21:11 < sirex`> Also we joint AKL (association Open Source for Lithuania).
21:11 < czajkowski> sirex`: do you organise release parties?
21:12 < sirex`> huats: now meetings ar irregual, befor ubuntu releases or other events that we organizing.
21:12 < leogg> sirex`: do you have any minutes of the meetings?
21:13 < sirex`> leogg: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LithuanianTeam/Susitikimai/Sekantis
21:13 < huats> sirex`, I mean your are saying that your IRC meetings are replaced by forum activity, do you track this activity in a dedicated part of the forum ?
21:13 < sirex`> czajkowski: yes, we do.
21:14 < leogg> sirex`: thank you!
21:14 < sirex`> huats: now, thes activities ar untracked and irregular.
21:14 < huats> ok
21:14 < sirex`> czajkowski: photos from release parties: http://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.lt?v=photos
21:14 < czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the re approval of the Lithuania LoCo.  Only Council members vote please.
21:15 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the re approval of the Lithuania LoCo.  Only Council members vote please..
21:15 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
21:15 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
21:15 < paultag|remote> sirex` how does your team take advantage of official loco resource?
21:16 < czajkowski> -1
21:16 < MootBot> -1 received from czajkowski. 0 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1
21:16 < sirex`> paultag|remote: it helped to get official approved one of lithuanian ubuntu mirrors.
21:16 < czajkowski> itnet7: huats popey paultag|remote leogg
21:16 < MootBot> Private -1 vote received. 0 for, 2 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now -2
21:16 < popey> -1 from me, because I'd like to see more activity
21:16 < MootBot> -1 received from popey. 0 for, 3 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -3
21:17 < leogg> I think your team has made a great job so far, but we need to see more recent activity
21:17 < MootBot> Private abstention received. 0 for, 3 against. 1 abstained. Count is now -3
21:17 < leogg> -1
21:17 < MootBot> -1 received from leogg. 0 for, 4 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -4
21:17 < MootBot> Private -1 vote received. 0 for, 5 against, 1 have abstained. Count is now -5
21:17 < huats> -1 I'd like to see something more structured too
21:18 < czajkowski> [endvote]
21:18 < MootBot> Final result is 0 for, 5 against. 1 abstained. Total: -5
21:19 < czajkowski> sirex`: I'm sorry at present we don't feel there is enough activity, perhaps after this meeting we can talk about how we cna help you
21:19 < sirex`> Ok.
21:19 < czajkowski> [action] LocO council to follow up with sirex` and help with some pointers.
21:19 < MootBot> ACTION received:  LocO council to follow up with sirex` and help with some pointers.
21:19 < czajkowski> [topic] Massachusetts Team Re approval
21:19 < MootBot> New Topic:  Massachusetts Team Re approval
21:19 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/ReApproval2010
21:19 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/ReApproval2010
21:20 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam
21:20 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam
21:20 < paultag|remote> no doctormo?
21:20 < czajkowski> hmm no team contact listed
21:20 < paultag|remote> cz- its doc-mo
21:20 < czajkowski> no lp info, mailing list, etc lised
21:20 < czajkowski> paultag|remote: aye I know but still the applicaton is a bit bare
21:21 < huats> I agree, the application don't looks good at all for me
21:21 < czajkowski> anyone else here from the  Ma LoCo ?
21:21 < leogg> no relevant links on the application?
21:21 < czajkowski> 3 links on the Ma appliction
21:21 < paultag|remote> im in the loco
21:21 < paultag|remote> i dont think info was passed on
21:22 < czajkowski> well that's not a great sign now
21:22 < paultag|remote> can we delay one meeting?
21:22 < czajkowski> paultag|remote: itnet7 leogg huats popey shall we take this to the mailing list aslo ?
21:22 < czajkowski> *also
21:22 < paultag|remote> +1
21:22 < popey> yes
21:22 < huats> +1 to me
21:22 < itnet7> Yes
21:22 < leogg> +1
21:22 < popey> I'm sure they do great work
21:22 < popey> its just documenting it :)
21:22 < czajkowski> [action] Massachusetts Team to be done via email
21:22 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Massachusetts Team to be done via email
21:23 < huats> but I really think that we need to stress that is not  a really good behviour
21:23 < czajkowski> [topic] Italy Loco re Approval
21:23 < MootBot> New Topic:  Italy Loco re Approval
21:23 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ItalianTeam/ReApprovalApplication
21:23 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ItalianTeam/ReApprovalApplication
21:23 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ItalianTeam
21:23 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ItalianTeam
21:24 < czajkowski> ok please tell me there is a team contact for this loco present
21:24 < Gwaihir> yep
21:24 < Gwaihir> it's me
21:24 < huats> great Gwaihir
21:24 < Gwaihir> actually, I'm not really the team contact
21:24 < paultag|remote> better then MA already :)
21:24 < czajkowski> it is saying mathew east, hence my confusion
21:25 < itnet7> Hey there Milo!
21:25 < Gwaihir> yes, mdke is, but he is kind of away since a while...
21:25 < Gwaihir> we heard him last week, but then disappeared...
21:25 < czajkowski> Gwaihir: was thrown with your nick :)
21:25 < czajkowski> ok moving on so
21:25 < Gwaihir> he's very busy with work
21:25 < czajkowski> Gwaihir: care to tell us about your loco please
21:25 < Gwaihir> yep
21:26 < czajkowski> Thank you
21:26 < Gwaihir> structure is similar to the international one
21:26 < Gwaihir> we have an Italian Loco Council
21:26 < Gwaihir> that used to be made of members of all the various team
21:26 < Gwaihir> (translation, developers, docs, forum and IRC)
21:26 < czajkowski> nice application for a starters :)
21:27 < Gwaihir> we are kind of active in Italy, even if not that much due to the distance between all the active members
21:27 < Gwaihir> we are scattered all other Italy, and that's not easy even to meet us in person twice a year
21:28 < czajkowski> Gwaihir: how do you share roles out within your team ?
21:28 < Gwaihir> the team is growing, we have new members coming in and joining the various working team
21:28 < Gwaihir> czajkowski, what to you mean with that?
21:28 < huats> Gwaihir, do you have an idea of the current growth ?
21:28 < czajkowski> Gwaihir: how do you share out tasks, things that need to be done with people ?
21:29 < Gwaihir> huats, no real data: we have almost two ubuntu-it members every month for example
21:29 < czajkowski> wow
21:29 < czajkowski> impressive
21:29 < huats> terrific
21:29 < Gwaihir> (ubuntu-it membership is like the ubuntu membership, only for italian people)
21:29 < czajkowski> Gwaihir: can you tell us about that
21:29 < czajkowski> what makes you qualify for it ?
21:29 < Gwaihir> yeah, but people sometime disappear... :(
21:30 < Gwaihir> czajkowski, you need to have done substantial "work" within the Italian community
21:30 < Gwaihir> be it: IRC support, forum support, translations, packagin... whatever
21:30 < Gwaihir> we ask people to track their work on a wiki page we can read
21:30 < popey> I'm impressed with the ISO testing work the IT team has done
21:31 < Gwaihir> and ask to find some people that can vouch form them when they apply
21:31 < popey> http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoTest is impressive stuff
21:31 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoTest is impressive stuff
21:31 < itnet7> ditto!
21:31 < czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the re approval of the Italian LoCo. Only council members vote please
21:31 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the re approval of the Italian LoCo. Only council members vote please.
21:31 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
21:31 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
21:31 < czajkowski> +1
21:31 < MootBot> +1 received from czajkowski. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
21:31 < popey> +1
21:31 < MootBot> +1 received from popey. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
21:31 < itnet7> And everyone I have met on their team have great attitudes toward collaboration,etc.
21:32 < itnet7> +1
21:32 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
21:32 < huats> +1
21:32 < MootBot> +1 received from huats. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
21:32 < leogg> +1
21:32 < czajkowski> easy great application and excellent activity
21:32 < MootBot> +1 received from leogg. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
21:32 < popey> You're doing great work and documenting it well and keeping people motivated
21:32 < popey> great stuff!
21:32 < huats> good work my friend Gwaihir
21:32 < Gwaihir> thanks all! :-)
21:32 < czajkowski> paultag|remote: VOTE
21:32 < paultag|remote> +1
21:32 < MootBot> +1 received from paultag|remote. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
21:32 < czajkowski> [endvote]
21:32 < MootBot> Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6
21:32 < popey> woot
21:33 < paultag|remote> sorrrry!!!
21:33 < popey> great work, keep it up!
21:33 < leogg> really nice work Gwaihir !
21:33 < czajkowski> Whoo congrats
21:33 < Gwaihir> thank you!
21:33 < paultag|remote> grats gw!
21:33 < huats> congrats
21:33 < itnet7> Congrats to your entire team!!! Give Paulo *hugs* :-)
21:33 < czajkowski> [topic] French Team Re Approval
21:33 < MootBot> New Topic:  French Team Re Approval
21:33 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrenchTeam/ApprovalApplication
21:33 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrenchTeam/ApprovalApplication
21:33  * popey mutes huats 
21:33 < YoBoY> lol
21:33 < itnet7> lol
21:33 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrenchTeam
21:33 < kinouchou> :)$
21:33 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrenchTeam
21:33 < huats> :)
21:33 < YoBoY> French team is here :D
21:33 < czajkowski> Ayone here for the french team...
21:33 < huats> Me too I am here
21:34 < leogg> nice application!
21:34 < kinouchou> yes, czajkowski we are here
21:34 < czajkowski> WOW nice appliction
21:34 < paultag|remote> heck yeah leo :)
21:34 < czajkowski> kinouchou: hey!!!
21:34 < itnet7> Very nice application YoBoY !
21:34 < czajkowski> doc is bloody active in -community-team
21:34 < YoBoY> itnet7: thanks i try to put a lot of images :p
21:35 < doctormo> did I miss something?
21:35 < huats> YoBoY, you go on the french presentation ?
21:35 < czajkowski> YoBoY: so care to tell us about your team
21:35 < czajkowski> and how you are so organised
21:35 < YoBoY> yes
21:35  * tshirtman here too
21:35 < YoBoY> Hi
21:35 < YoBoY> The French LocoTeam is a big team with lot of different activities.
21:35 < YoBoY> We have a website, a french (like in french speaking) documentation, a forum, and a planet. Theses sites are all maintened b the french community with members all around the world.
21:35 < YoBoY> We have also a lot of irl activities, you know our parties are great with 5k people when Mark came to see us. We also make French Live CDs, with 9000 CDs produced for the 10.04LTS version and shipped all around the world.
21:35 < YoBoY> We help the Frenchs Ubuntu user groups in France with goodies and promotion. We go every where when we are invited. The last event was a musical event last week for example.
21:35 < YoBoY> ... and much more :p
21:35 < paultag|remote> doctormo: day late, dollar short
21:36 -!- Irssi: #ubuntu-meeting: Total of 189 nicks [0 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 189 normal]
21:36 < YoBoY> the organisation is made with the help of mailing lists, and irc channels
21:36 < kinouchou> hello all
21:37 < tshirtman> (procuded CDS are almost already all sold/distributed)
21:37  * zed is here too (with a bit of lag)
21:37  * poupoul2 too ;)
21:37 < YoBoY> i have listed all the lists and channels on the approval page, you can also see the activity
21:37  * kanor is here
21:37  * SpiNeAkeR too
21:38 < YoBoY> (my team need coffe ^^")
21:38 < popey> I am honestly blown away
21:38 < leogg> YoBoY: this is really impressive!
21:38 < czajkowski> YoBoY: so your team has done very well, how do you think you'll be able to keep this up for the future
21:38 < czajkowski> Do you encounter obsticles?
21:38 < YoBoY> well... yes, we have difficulties some times
21:38 < czajkowski> oh do share
21:39 < paultag|remote> besides finding venues ;)
21:39 < YoBoY> but we always come to a solution
21:39 < leogg> YoBoY: how do you get funds for your activities?
21:40 < YoBoY> for example the last one was our host ubuntu-eu ...
21:40 < YoBoY> we had to migrate all the forum to personnal servers
21:40 < YoBoY> and we have some bugs yet with this migration ^^"
21:40 < YoBoY> leogg: with the sell of goodies and donations
21:41 < YoBoY> yes finding bug venues is difficult :p
21:41 < czajkowski> ok I think we;re ready to vote
21:41 < leogg> YoBoY: nice!
21:41 < czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the re approval of the French LoCo. Only Council members vote.
21:41 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the re approval of the French LoCo. Only Council members vote..
21:41 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
21:41 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
21:41 < popey> +1
21:41 < MootBot> +1 received from popey. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
21:41 < czajkowski> +1
21:41 < MootBot> +1 received from czajkowski. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
21:41 < itnet7> +1
21:41 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
21:41 < popey> easy!
21:41 < leogg> +1
21:41 < MootBot> +1 received from leogg. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
21:41 < popey> keep doing fantastic work!
21:41 < YoBoY> :D
21:41 < kinouchou> :)
21:41 < itnet7> paultag|remote: ?
21:41 < YoBoY> we try our best
21:41 < leogg> really, really impressive!
21:42 < doctormo> YoBoY: Yes, keep making us all jealous ;-)
21:42 < YoBoY> lol
21:42 < YoBoY> sorry :p
21:42 < tshirtman> it's hard to manage such a big community ^^
21:42  * YoBoY hugs doctormo 
21:42 < huats> +0
21:42 < MootBot> Abstention received from huats. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
21:42 < huats> I can't vote :)
21:43 < czajkowski> and paultag|remote did +1
21:43 < czajkowski> +1
21:43 < czajkowski> [endvote]
21:43 < doctormo> +1
21:43 < MootBot> Final result is 4 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 4
21:43 < czajkowski> congrats France
21:43 < doctormo> Odd voting thing
21:43 < YoBoY> thanks :)
21:43 < kinouchou> thanks
21:43 < czajkowski> [action] huats to update the LP with teams Approval/Re approval and non approval date
21:43 < MootBot> ACTION received:  huats to update the LP with teams Approval/Re approval and non approval date
21:43 < czajkowski> huats: I need to give you some work :p
21:43 < huats> czajkowski, sure :)
21:44 < huats> I will
21:44 < popey> yeah, like he hasnt done enough! :)
21:44 < huats> thanks
21:44 < czajkowski> [topic] Greek Team Approval
21:44 < MootBot> New Topic:  Greek Team Approval
21:44 < glogiotatidis> hello everyone
21:44 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GreekTeam/ApprovalApplication2010
21:44 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GreekTeam/ApprovalApplication2010
21:44 < huats> I have no choice since you do that after that vote czajkowski :)
21:44 < itnet7> Hey there glogiotatidis !
21:44 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GreekTeam
21:44 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GreekTeam
21:45 < czajkowski> huats: thanks :)
21:45 < czajkowski> glogiotatidis: hey welcome
21:45 < czajkowski> glogiotatidis: nice appliction
21:45 < glogiotatidis> thank you ;)
21:45 < czajkowski> glogiotatidis: care to tel us about your team
21:46 < glogiotatidis> of course
21:46 < glogiotatidis> This is our second approval, we have been an official team for many years. We have very active foums and mailing lists (counting more than 5500 members in total).
21:46 < glogiotatidis> This year we achieved a full translation of the ubuntu manual and we are very proud of it. Many team members cooperated to achive that. We also translated the ubuntu brochure.
21:46 < glogiotatidis> Another important activity of the community is Ubuntistas, our magazine, inspired by Full Circle. It is (almost) bi-monthly -we have 8 issues in the last 2 years- with original content written by the team members.
21:46 < glogiotatidis> We also participate in the annual FOSSCOMM, a FLOSS conference held by the greek communities with a booth and talks.
21:47 < glogiotatidis> Besides these we hold parties on every release, we maintain a website, a wiki page, we ship cds all around Greece and we have mebers activelly promoting ubuntu and floss in digital and real life.
21:47 < czajkowski> glogiotatidis: impressive, can you tell me a bit more about your magazine the artwork looks great
21:47 < huats> czajkowski, +1
21:47 < glogiotatidis> the artwork is created by the team members
21:48 < glogiotatidis> the whole magazine is organized in our forums
21:48 < glogiotatidis> people are responsible for the editorial, the artwork, the content
21:48 < czajkowski> glogiotatidis: you should tell UWN (ubuntu weekly newsletter) about this
21:48 < glogiotatidis> czajkowski, we will, thnx ;)
21:48 < huats> can you say more about the brochure ? I am sure it would be great to translate it
21:48 < czajkowski> glogiotatidis: are there many more of your team here, I do appreciate not everyone speaks English
21:49  * BlackFate here
21:49 < simosx> hi from the greek team :-)
21:49  * alkisg raises hand
21:49 < h3adl3ss> here too,hi all
21:49 < c7p> hi all
21:49 < czajkowski> ah good stuff welcome
21:49 < BlackFate> and kostkon
21:49 < popey> http://people.ubuntu.com/~dpm/ubuntu-10.04-translation-stats.html
21:49 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.ubuntu.com/~dpm/ubuntu-10.04-translation-stats.html
21:49 < BlackFate> he is shy
21:49 < popey> Greek in the top 20 translations!
21:49 < huats> glogiotatidis, about the brochure ?
21:49 < czajkowski> wow
21:50 < glogiotatidis> Yes pretty active translation team
21:50 < popey> great work
21:50 < c7p> well the brochure started as a translation of a brochure from spreadubuntu and then we worked more on it
21:50 < glogiotatidis> huats, you can find the brochure here http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/el/material/brochure/%CF%86%CF%85%CE%BB%CE%BB%CE%AC%CE%B4%CE%B9%CE%BF-%CF%80%CF%81%CE%BF%CF%8E%CE%B8%CE%B7%CF%83%CE%B7%CF%82-%CF%84%CE%BF%CF%85-ubuntu
21:50 < simosx> we did the remaining ubuntu-specific packages last April.
21:50 < popey> gorgeous url ;)
21:51 < maco> wow....mod_rewrite?
21:51 < Seveas> no, just greek characters
21:51 < huats> gilir, you should try to have an english version
21:51 < Seveas> the http rfc is too ascii-centric :)
21:51 < huats> si that other team can translate it
21:51 < glogiotatidis> popey, erm sorry for that, greek characters in there ;)
21:51 < alkisg> Having greek characters on the url is good for SEO :)
21:51 < popey> :D no need to apologise :)
21:51 < czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the Greek Team Re Approval. Only council members vote
21:51 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the Greek Team Re Approval. Only council members vote.
21:51 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
21:51 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
21:51 < itnet7> +1
21:51 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
21:51 < huats> +1
21:51 < MootBot> +1 received from huats. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
21:51 < czajkowski> +1
21:51 < popey> +1
21:51 < MootBot> +1 received from czajkowski. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
21:51 < MootBot> +1 received from popey. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
21:52 < paultag|remote> +0
21:52 < MootBot> Abstention received from paultag|remote. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
21:52 < leogg> +1
21:52 < MootBot> +1 received from leogg. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
21:52 < paultag|remote> i was afk :)
21:52 < huats> Please continue that way, and share your work with other teams in planet/identi.ca/uwn ....
21:52 < czajkowski> [endvote]
21:52 < MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5
21:52 < czajkowski> Congrats to the Greek Team !
21:52 < czajkowski> well done
21:52 < huats> congrats !
21:52 < popey> congratulations, fantastic work Team Greece!
21:52 < itnet7> Very good job glogiotatidis, congrats to you and your team!
21:52 < simosx> Thanks!
21:52 < glogiotatidis> Thank you everyone ;)
21:52 < kinouchou> congrats
21:52 < czajkowski> Thank you and please do tell the UWN about your great magazine!!
21:52 < huats> Please continue that way, and share your work with other teams in planet/identi.ca/uwn ....
21:53 < czajkowski> [topic] Egypt Team Approval
21:53 < MootBot> New Topic:  Egypt Team Approval
21:53 < glogiotatidis> czajkowski, ok next uwn gets this ;)
21:53 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/ApprovalApplication
21:53 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/ApprovalApplication
21:53 < thelinuxer> here
21:53 < Sensiva> here
21:53 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam
21:53 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam
21:53 < czajkowski> nice detailed applicton
21:53 < czajkowski> makes our job a lot easier :)
21:53 < Sensiva> :D
21:54 < thelinuxer> u should thank Sensiva for this :)
21:54 < czajkowski> Sensiva: very nice
21:54 < Sensiva> I was practicing wiki markup, that's all
21:54 < Sensiva> :p
21:54 < Sensiva> ty thelinuxer czajkowski
21:54 < czajkowski> ok so can you tell us about your team, and how you are organised
21:54 < czajkowski> Do you do monthly reports?
21:54 < thelinuxer> ok
21:55 < thelinuxer> our team started 3 years ago with no much activity
21:55 < thelinuxer> in the last few month we revived the team and started by organizing meeting in coffee shops ..etc
21:55 < thelinuxer> we then tried to organize events but had problems finding venues
21:56 < thelinuxer> lately we are trying to collaborate with other technology groups to help us find venues and to assist them in their events
21:56 < thelinuxer> the structure is simple, everyone owns his ideas
21:56 < thelinuxer> and he has to follow up on people to make sure that the work is done
21:57 < thelinuxer> also we created the website and we will have different roles like moderator, translators ..etc
21:57 < thelinuxer> does this answer ur question ?
21:57 < huats> I am quite surprised : you mention a youtube channel : when I look at it the various videos has been put last week... The blog you mention contains no post...
21:57 < huats> can you explain this ?
21:57 < thelinuxer> yes i can
21:58 < thelinuxer> it's still under development, small bugs here and there
21:58 < thelinuxer> also i am waiting for the approval to user the ubuntu-eg.org domain
21:58 < thelinuxer> the current url is only temp
21:58 < huats> ok
21:59 < czajkowski> can you tell us if you've had any problems in the past and how you've overcome them ?
21:59 < thelinuxer> yes we had a couple of problems
21:59 < Sensiva> video upload was delayed because I didn't have a good upstream to upload until last week
21:59 < czajkowski> thelinuxer: such as ?
21:59 < thelinuxer> we had HardDisk who tried to take credit for the whole team work, he wanted to become an ubuntu member without doing anything
21:59 < thelinuxer> he was banned from the team for that
22:00 < thelinuxer> cause we don't tolerate such actions
22:00 < paultag|cell> ah yes i recall that
22:00 < czajkowski> how long for ?
22:00 < Sensiva> he choosed to leave, and he handed over various accounts after leaving the team
22:01 < thelinuxer> czajkowski: sorry didn't understand the question
22:01 < Sensiva> wordpress, and ubuntueg at youtube
22:01 < czajkowski> is he baned for good, or for a short time?
22:01 < Sensiva> it was supposed to be for short time, but HardDisk choosed to leave the team
22:01 < thelinuxer> well as Sensiva said we gave him a chance to answer people's questions on the mailing list and defend himself
22:01 < leogg> thelinuxer: In your application you have a lot of nice ideas, but I'd like to see more action
22:02 < thelinuxer> leogg: some of the stuff mentioned in the roadmap is already being done
22:02 < czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the Approval of the Egypt LoCo.  Only Council members vote
22:02 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the Approval of the Egypt LoCo.  Only Council members vote.
22:02 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
22:02 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
22:02 < paultag|cell> +1
22:02 < MootBot> +1 received from paultag|cell. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
22:02 < thelinuxer> like P4Y and Ain shams events
22:02 < czajkowski> +0
22:02 < MootBot> Abstention received from czajkowski. 1 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
22:02 < czajkowski> leogg: itnet7 huats popey
22:03 < huats> +0 for me I'd like to see you back here in a few times
22:03 < MootBot> Abstention received from huats. 1 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 1
22:03 < leogg> +0 from me, I'd would like to see more
22:03 < MootBot> Abstention received from leogg. 1 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 1
22:03 < huats> to see your progress
22:03 < popey> +0
22:03 < MootBot> Abstention received from popey. 1 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 1
22:03 < itnet7> +0
22:03 < MootBot> Abstention received from itnet7. 1 for, 0 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 1
22:03 < popey> I agree, I'd like to see some months of activity then get you back to talk about it
22:03 < huats> I am sure you are doing good,but I'd like to see that !
22:03 < czajkowski> [endvote]
22:03 < MootBot> Final result is 1 for, 0 against. 5 abstained. Total: 1
22:03 < thelinuxer> ok gr8 no problem :)
22:03 < czajkowski> [action] council to follow up with the Egypt Team and give them some help
22:03 < MootBot> ACTION received:  council to follow up with the Egypt Team and give them some help
22:03 < thelinuxer> we are here to get guidance
22:03 < Sensiva> Would you please define "How much more" ?
22:04 < paultag|cell> :)
22:04 < czajkowski> thelinuxer: Sensiva this is not a reflection on you, we'd just like to see some more work
22:04 < itnet7> I do think that all of you have done a wonderful job despite your setbacks
22:04 < czajkowski> we'll help you and give you some pointers via email ok
22:04 < Sensiva> czajkowski we totally understand , it was expected :D
22:04 < paultag|cell> some help would  be good  but good job so far
22:04 < czajkowski> Sensiva: thanks
22:04 < leogg> I agree, you're all doing a great work
22:04 < thelinuxer> ok gr8, thanx everyone :)
22:05 < czajkowski> [topic] Dutch Team Re Approval
22:05 < MootBot> New Topic:  Dutch Team Re Approval
22:05 < huats> let's say that wit that vote we are sure to try to help you doing great stuffs
22:05 < Seveas> hello
22:05 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DutchTeamApprovalApplication
22:05 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DutchTeamApprovalApplication
22:05 < huats> hi Seveas
22:05 < SWAT> hi there
22:05 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DutchTeam
22:05 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DutchTeam
22:05 < Seveas> Coming live from a concrete block outside a police station
22:05 < Seveas> Good evening! Myself (Dennis Kaarsemaker) and SWAT (Sebastian Schauenburg) are here representing the dutch locoteam. We are one of the oldest LoCoTeams in the book and have been active since 2004. We have organized release parties for every release since 5.04 and presentations since about the same time. At the moment the LoCo revolves mostly around our forum, but we are planning more international
22:05 < Seveas>  activity. We have our website (www.ubuntu-nl.org), wiki (wiki.ubuntu-nl.org), irc channel (#ubuntu-nl) and mailinglist (ubuntu-nl at lists.ubuntu.com) where we support users and we also have a map of local supportpoints (kaart.ubuntu-nl.org) for even more direct support. Highlights of our team are the 8.04 and 10.04 releaseparties that attracted hundreds of people and were packed with user suppor
22:05 < Seveas> t, presentations and good conversations and that we secured sponsorship from a large ISP and a large hotels website for hosting and hardware. We are currently working on a roadmap to improve ourselves, while decreasing overhead time-investments and increasing motivation. We also have monthly (open and logged) IRC meetings where anybody can put items on the agenda: http://wiki.ubuntu-nl.org/communi
22:05 < Seveas> ty/Meetings
22:06 < czajkowski> wow thanks Seveas :)
22:06 < czajkowski> how goes the frysian team - Ubuntu-fy ?
22:07 < Seveas> it's busy starting, Dooitze is creating pages on ubuntu-fy.org and the forum is seeing some activity
22:07 < SWAT> slow but steady
22:07 < Seveas> we're supporting them by hosting their environment
22:07 < czajkowski> right.
22:08 < czajkowski> Presentations and talks - Between 2004 and 2010, community members of Ubuntu NL have given talks about ubuntu on quite a few occasions. Audiences range from small to large companies, to local LUGs (HCC groups), schools and even hospital staff. Sadly most of these talks have not been recorded or photographed.
22:08 < czajkowski> you mention above but there are no links to any presentations?
22:08 < Seveas> I'm afraid not. I was fairly late with preparing our wikipage and couldn't find any links
22:09 < popey> approval page is a bit lean..
22:09 < huats> Have you any figures on the numbers of people involved in the LoCo ?
22:09 < Seveas> a few dozen
22:09 < huats> and the evolution of that number ?
22:09 < huats> (over the time I mean)
22:10 < czajkowski> As a mostly forum-based community, we do not track membership via launchpad and thus it is unclear how many members we have and who we count as members. As an indication, the forum has 20000+ registered accounts
22:10 < Seveas> we are going through a bit of a rough period where some people on the forum seem hell-bent on killing the atmosphere, but there always have been active people, growing slowly
22:10 < czajkowski> Does that mean your focus is mostly forums and not real life events? or online meetings/reports taking part in the ubuntu community
22:10 < Seveas> recently the artwork team was created, adding half a dozen people
22:10 < Seveas> the focus is mostly on forums and releaseparties
22:11 < Seveas> though Sense is becoming more active internationally and the artwork team is trying to do so too
22:11 < SWAT> and events (but mostly these are smaller)
22:11 < czajkowski> Seveas: do you think your loco is fully aware of the greater Ubuntu communty ?
22:11 < Seveas> czajkowski, no, there is definitely room for improvement there
22:12 < SWAT> there is a huge language barrier, since everything we do (example right here) is in English and a lot of people are not proficient in it
22:12 < czajkowski> I notice sense isn't here and he's rather vocal and very active as a community member. As is Seveas on boards, do you think others in yoru team would benefit from learning more about the community
22:12 < czajkowski> how do you propse to do so if you thinkit would be wise ?
22:13 < czajkowski> SWAT: true, but many people use a translator, and we are as others are very patient with people who don't speak english as their first language
22:13 < Seveas> czajkowski, maybe yes, maybe no. Our activities revolve around local events and dutch support.
22:13 < czajkowski> Seveas: I just don't see that on your appliction....
22:14 < Seveas> I think sense is doing great work keeping tabs on the international community and I hope the artwork team will follow that example. That's where I see opportunities for integration with the global community.
22:14 < leogg> Seveas: Do you have any links to the events? Besides http://www.releaseparty.eu/
22:14 < SWAT> we notice that documentation in our native tongue is very important, since about everyone can understand them. So we're trying to keep that up. Even had a meeting a few hours ago about the manual project
22:14 < czajkowski> SWAT: thats good
22:14 < paultag|remote> what about the council
22:14 < Seveas> leogg, releaseparty.eu is refreshed for every release, that's why it only has one release on there
22:14 < paultag|remote> i heard the nl council quit on one day all together
22:14 < popey> http://people.ubuntu.com/~dpm/ubuntu-10.04-translation-stats.html dutch is looking good there..
22:14 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.ubuntu.com/~dpm/ubuntu-10.04-translation-stats.html dutch is looking good there..
22:15 < paultag|remote> what was that about?
22:15 < jpds> (The nl.archive.u.c guys are awesome).
22:15 < czajkowski> jpds: it's all about the archives with you :)
22:16 < czajkowski> 22:14 < paultag|remote> i heard the nl council quit on one day all together ??
22:16 < czajkowski> can someone answer that ?
22:16 < Seveas> paultag|remote, we have in the past had problems with problematic community members, causing much activity to move to closed parts of the forum. This is causing some disconnection between 'the team' and 'the community'. The council was one attempt to solve that, sadly that failed. We have some way to go there, but we have faced similar problems in the past and survived them.
22:16 < Seveas> czajkowski, I was typing the answer :)
22:17 < czajkowski> Seveas: thanks
22:17 < paultag|remote> whats the plan going forward?
22:17 < czajkowski> ok any more thoughts from the council or from Seveas SWAT ??
22:17 < SWAT> we are trying to find a better way to handle this and they agreed. I talked to a couple of them during one of our events and we have the same mindset
22:17 < Seveas> paultag|remote, that's not quite clear yet. This is a fairly recent development.
22:17 < paultag|remote> OK, ty
22:18 < czajkowski> [vote] Please vote on the re approval of the Dutch LoCo. only Council members vote
22:18 < MootBot> Please vote on:  Please vote on the re approval of the Dutch LoCo. only Council members vote.
22:18 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
22:18 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
22:18 < leogg> I'd like to see the activities better documented
22:18 < popey> agreed
22:19 < popey> +0
22:19 < MootBot> Abstention received from popey. 0 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0
22:19 < czajkowski> I'd like to see more real life events or better documentaion of this happening.
22:19 < leogg> +0
22:19 < itnet7> +0
22:19 < MootBot> Abstention received from itnet7. 0 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 0
22:19 < MootBot> Abstention received from leogg. 0 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 0
22:19 < huats> I have been a bit disapointed by the lack of details on your application
22:19 < paultag|remote> +0
22:19 < MootBot> Abstention received from paultag|remote. 0 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 0
22:19 < czajkowski> +0
22:19 < MootBot> Abstention received from czajkowski. 0 for, 0 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 0
22:19 < huats> +0
22:19 < MootBot> Abstention received from huats. 0 for, 0 against. 6 have abstained. Count is now 0
22:19 < czajkowski> [endvote]
22:19 < MootBot> Final result is 0 for, 0 against. 6 abstained. Total: 0
22:19 < paultag|remote> im not happy but you show good work
22:19 < czajkowski> Ok, at this time we've not been able to decide on your re approval
22:20 < czajkowski> would it be possible to ask you to come back again next month or when there is more detail on your application
22:20 < Seveas> sure
22:20 < SWAT> sure, why not.
22:20 < czajkowski> Thank you
22:20 < czajkowski> I'd appreciate that
22:20 < czajkowski> doctormo: are you free?
22:20 < paultag|remote> thank you :)
22:20 < doctormo> Yes
22:20 < huats> Seveas, SWAT I really think that with a more detailled application everything will be fine
22:20 < itnet7> Same with me
22:21 < czajkowski> [topic] Massachusetts Team Re approval
22:21 < MootBot> New Topic:  Massachusetts Team Re approval
22:21 < czajkowski> [topic] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/ReApproval2010
22:21 < MootBot> New Topic:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/ReApproval2010
22:21 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/ReApproval2010
22:21 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/ReApproval2010
22:21 < paultag|remote> ah yes ma
22:21 < paultag|remote> my homeland :)
22:21 < Seveas> process question: do we stay approved until a decision has been made?
22:21 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam
22:21 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam
22:21 < doctormo> Hello, I'm the offical contact for US-MA, leftyfb is currently a co-chair and he's in this meeting. *wave*
22:22 < paultag|remote> seveas: yes
22:22 < huats> Seveas, yes
22:22 < doctormo> http://ubuntu-massachusetts.com
22:22 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntu-massachusetts.com
22:22 < czajkowski> doctormo: well your re approval appliction is rather lacking
22:22 < doctormo> czajkowski: I'm not here to ask for reaproval, I'm here to ask not to be.
22:23 < huats> doctormo,  ?
22:23 < czajkowski> does your team know about this
22:23 < czajkowski> is this a team decision
22:23 < huats> I think you are doing it the right way :(
22:23 < doctormo> We do events, we use the resources we get from Canonical's shipit and it's all good. But the team is complacent, lazy, disorganised and I'm very unhappy with it.
22:23 < doctormo> My attempt to step down as leader gracefully was met with massive amounts of resistance.
22:23 < huats> doctormo, have you tried to change stuffs ?
22:24 < czajkowski> well that's not very fair, at least you wanted to step down
22:24 < huats> I mean besides steeping down
22:24 < czajkowski> doctormo: can you at least give us some reasons why the team is so disorganised?
22:24 < huats> doctormo, does leftyfb is aware ?
22:24 < huats> since you mention that
22:25 < doctormo> the problem is that there is no one else to fill the spot, the team doesn't have enough members to sustain anything worthwhile. But as the only functioning team in the New England area if we disband then that about wraps it up for Ubuntu.
22:25 < czajkowski> doctormo: ok, see we don't know how many members there are,
22:25 < popey> is it quite a small team relatively?
22:25 < leftyfb> It's a revolving team
22:25 < doctormo> I'd estimate about 12 members, 5 who do things.
22:25 < leftyfb> lots of members have come and gone over the years
22:25 < huats> doctormo, these kind of figures should be on the application
22:25 < popey> wow, thats pretty small
22:25 < doctormo> The Ubuntu Hours have been good actually, for team morale etc.
22:26 < leftyfb> lots of fulltime working people with not much time on their hands
22:26 < czajkowski> yup Ubuntu hours are great, there is little pressure on folks
22:26 < leftyfb> most of the work has been done doctormo, myself and a few others
22:26  * paultag|remote is in ohio
22:26 < popey> would running leaderless be an option?
22:26 < leftyfb> This Ubuntu hour has been a new spark as of late
22:26 < doctormo> But with no team meetings for going on 5 months, it's hard not to throw in the towel, we don't have the resources for this marlarky.
22:26 < czajkowski> *nods*
22:26 < czajkowski> I do understand
22:26 < leftyfb> I don't agree on completely giving up though
22:26 < czajkowski> right but do you need a team leader
22:27 < huats> leftyfb, that was my question
22:27 < popey> czajkowski: not really
22:27 < huats> leftyfb, what is the reaction of the other people involved ?
22:27 < czajkowski> could there just be a launchpad team contact
22:27 < doctormo> leftyfb: I think we should do the hours, do the events we're going to do anyway. But we can't be a 'team' as just a straggle of people.
22:27 < popey> they can run with a point of contact, but have the team semi-autonomous
22:27 < czajkowski> and everyone share roles?
22:27 < czajkowski> popey: that;s what I was getting at, am a slow typer :)
22:27 < paultag|remote> im here to help in person until august
22:28 < paultag|remote> end of august
22:28 < czajkowski> doctormo: do you think us making the team an unapproved loco will change anything ?
22:28 < leftyfb> huats: We don't know what others think since we have been lacking in meetings. IRC meetings have not been very successful. We used to have really good meetings in the past in person but we lost the resources to have those.
22:28 < huats> doctormo, leftyfb when you said to the team that there was a reapproval approching, did you had any reaction ?
22:29 < czajkowski> ok as a solution there would it help for the loco council to possibly idle in your irc channel, we have done for other teams and help
22:29 < leftyfb> The only thing I think being unapproved will change is for us to have even less resources to do the few things we are in fact doing
22:29 < huats> leftyfb, apparently you met for the Ubuntu Hours, have you mention that during these events ?
22:29 < doctormo> leftyfb: I agree, we'll have no shipit, but don't forget we use our own resources for everything else.
22:29 < paultag|remote> i was there huats and it was casually discussed
22:30 < leftyfb> huats: I have been to one Ubuntu hour at which time I had to be on the phone the entire time for a support/personal issue
22:30 < huats> paultag|remote, and the general feeling ?
22:30 < huats> leftyfb, ok
22:30 < leftyfb> czajkowski: what do you mean by idle our IRC channel?
22:30 < leftyfb> I don't think removing resources at this point is going to help anything
22:30 < czajkowski> leftyfb: as in we can join and be there for Q&A and possibly run some sessions on how to get involved
22:31 < paultag|remote> huats lack of urgancy but mosty optimistic because of a recent event that was huge
22:31 < leftyfb> I don't have an immediate solution as I am partially to blame for lack of time in helping run things
22:31 < czajkowski> we've done it for the israel loco
22:31 < popey> it happens leftyfb 
22:31 < doctormo> leftyfb: czajkowski means some folks would stay on in #ubuntu-us-ma to watch and help if needed.
22:31 < doctormo> Although paultag has been there for a while now, without much change.
22:32 < paultag|remote> true.
22:32 < doctormo> If only we didn't have all these bloody universities killing our recruitment.
22:32 < huats> paultag|remote, ok
22:32 < leftyfb> I think our team is full of a lot of very talented and motivated people, but at the same time, very busy in their everyday lives.
22:33 < popey> recruitment drive at unis doctormo ?
22:33 < leftyfb> btw: I just added a missing event to our wiki page
22:33 < popey> summer things to do for students on recess?
22:33 < doctormo> popey: Contacts are hard to find and they frown on advertising without invitation.
22:33 < popey> k
22:34 < popey> talks at computer societies?
22:34 < huats> doctormo, I am very very surprised that you dont get many people in  uiversities indeed
22:34 < czajkowski> [vote] Please vote on the Re Aproval of the Massachusetts Team LoCo.  only council members vote please
22:34 < MootBot> Please vote on:  Please vote on the Re Aproval of the Massachusetts Team LoCo.  only council members vote please.
22:34 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
22:34 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
22:34 < paultag|remote> +0 -- im involved with the loco.
22:34 < MootBot> Abstention received from paultag|remote. 0 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0
22:34 < huats> we are facing this kind of stuff in my city which have a lot of colleges
22:34 < huats> and people are quite involved there
22:35 < popey> -1
22:35 < MootBot> -1 received from popey. 0 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -1
22:35 < czajkowski> -1
22:35 < MootBot> -1 received from czajkowski. 0 for, 2 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -2
22:35 < huats> -1
22:35 < MootBot> -1 received from huats. 0 for, 3 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -3
22:35 < itnet7> -1
22:35 < MootBot> -1 received from itnet7. 0 for, 4 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -4
22:35 < leogg> +0
22:35 < MootBot> Abstention received from leogg. 0 for, 4 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -4
22:35 < popey> I'd like to see the loco council run a recruitment drive and bring in skills from other locos to help -us-ma!
22:35 < czajkowski> [endvote]
22:35 < MootBot> Final result is 0 for, 4 against. 2 abstained. Total: -4
22:36 < czajkowski> Sorry Ma LoCo you've been unsuccessful in your re approval
22:36 < doctormo> czajkowski: Are you a computer?
22:36 < paultag|remote> batt died bbl
22:36 < itnet7> doctormo: lol, you kill me
22:36 < itnet7> :-)
22:36 < popey> heh
22:36 < czajkowski> [action] Popey I'd like to see the loco council run a recruitment drive and bring in skills from other locos to help -us-ma!
22:36 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Popey I'd like to see the loco council run a recruitment drive and bring in skills from other locos to help -us-ma!
22:37 < czajkowski> ok who's turn is it to update wiki with minutes ??
22:37 < popey> doctormo: we'll see what we can do to help, and keep in touch in your loco channel and -community-team
22:37  * popey puts his hands under the desk
22:37 < doctormo> Thanks popey, sounds like a plan.
22:37 < sirex`> czajkowski: is there any chances for Lithuanian LoCo to be Re Approved?
22:37 < czajkowski> [action] czajkowski update  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval
22:37 < MootBot> ACTION received:  czajkowski update  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval
22:38 < czajkowski> itnet7: leogg popey either of ye update the minutes of the meeting ??
22:38 < czajkowski> sirex`: in this meeting ?
22:38 < popey> czajkowski: wilco
22:38 < sirex`> In this meeting our team was not re approved
22:38 < czajkowski> [action] popey update the wiki page with minutes and mail loco contacts mailing list
22:39 < MootBot> ACTION received:  popey update the wiki page with minutes and mail loco contacts mailing list
22:39 < sirex`> I'm asking if such small team in small country has any chances to be approved?
22:39 < czajkowski> sirex`: yes, we're going to mail you afertwards  and help you
22:39 < huats> sirex`, do you mean to get reapproved tonight ? or at the next meting ?
22:39 < czajkowski> it;s not a never it won't happen
22:39 < czajkowski> just not now
22:39 < sirex`> huats: at the next meeting..
22:40 < czajkowski> #endmeeting
</pre>
