{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Working With Other User Groups ==

LoCos are not meant to replace existing GLUGS, but instead to complement them. Here we discuss how LoCoTeams and GLUGs can work together.
== Common Misconceptions ==
=== GLUGs are meatspace ===
LoCo teams tend to be more virtual (national/statewide vs. "local"), but many LoCoTeams do meet regularly.
=== GLUGs are dying ===
GNU+Linux is widely demystified, Internet/forums have taken the need for physical interaction. This is not true for the following reasons:
*** GLUGs do good things in the community.
***** Info Points
***** Software Freedom Day mobilisation of troops to raise awareness
*** GLUGs provide an on-tap resource of local knowledgable technical people
*** GLUGs are not tied to one distro, and can therefore be distro/technology agnostic.

== What GLUGS Are ==

==== GLUGS are "Fellow Travelers" ====

GNU+Linux User Groups are people with an interest in GNU+Linux.  The particular distribution doesn't matter, in fact you will find various distributions represented in a GLUG.  Adding Ubuntu to the mix simply enriches the GLUG, and provides them with a way to reach more people.  As a matter of fact, one may find that when the GLUG members discover that a LoCo Team is interested in working with them, they may also join the LoCo, formally or informally.

==== GLUGS Are A Resource ====

GLUGS have been going on for a long time, and first started with the "hobbyists", the bright people who saw GNU+Linux as a way to control their own computers and as a "way of life".  Many have more experience than the average Ubuntu LoCo Team member.  And since there are more similarities than differences between distributions, can very often help with problems that GNU+Linux users have, regardless of the distribution.  They may also have more information concerning locations for holding Install Fests and Release Parties, and assist in creating Conferences.

==== GLUGS Are Fun ====

The widespread area of the average LoCo is such that it is sometimes difficult to meet other like-minded people and share experiences face to face.  Sure, there's IRC, but it's just not the same thing.  GLUGS, however, have more regular face-to-face meetings, and are generally more local to an area, such as a particular city.  The ability to meet with others that are excited about their operating system and willing to help can extend and expand the GNU+Linux experience for both you and them.

== What LoCoTeams Can Provide ==
*** Providing support to GLUGs e.g.:
**** Speakers at GLUG meetings
**** Ubuntu expertise to assist in GLUG activities
**** Advocate Ubuntu at GLUG meetings
**** Ubuntu specific support
**** Language Translation
**** Converting documentation into local language
**** Rosetta translations
**** wikis and websites e.g. <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.cn/]]</nowiki>
**** CD distribution
**** Release parties
**** Press releases based on the Fridge
**** Outreach programs with local schools
**** Marketing support
**** Establish a generally community aspect within your local area
**** Participate or hold Installfests
**** Add GLUG events to announcements in LoCo Team meetings, such as IRC
**** Add GLUG events to a calendar of events that is available to everyone
== What LoCoTeams Should Not Do ==
** Be seen to be taking over a GLUG or competing with a GLUG
** Drive GLUGs down a single distro (i.e., Ubuntu) path.
** Interfere with the operation of a GLUG.
== Organise GLUG meetings ==
** If you notice more than one GLUG in your closer area (like GLUGs focused on specific distributions), reach out for them and bring them onto one table.
** Though their specific interest might differ, it's great to share knowledge, experience and organise workshops/parties together.
** Try to make this GLUG meetings regularly, it will help to tighten relationships.
** Always try to be modest, even if your team is the biggest compared to the other GLUGs.
== Other Possibilities ==
** GLUGs could be called upon to assist the LoCo in activities.
** There are probably other groups, e.g., local societies etc., that LoCo teams could interact with.

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
